CYCLOPAEDIA 


/ 


BIBLICAL, 

THEOLOGICAL, AND ECCLESIASTICAL 

literature. 


prepared by 


the REV. JOHN M‘€L,INTOCK, D.D., 

r 1 \ 

JAMES STRONG, S.T D. 


Vol. IX — RH-ST. 

PRIVATE LIBRARY 

RICHARD C. HALVlRSCN 


NEW YORK: 

HARPER & BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS, 
franklin square. 

1 sso. 




CYCLOPAEDIA 

OF 

BIBLICAL, 

THEOLOGICAL, AND ECCLESIASTICAL 

literature. 


prepared by 

the REV. JOHN M‘€L,INTOCK, D.D., 
JAMES STRONG, S.T.D. 

Vol. IX— RH-ST. 

PRIVATE LIBRARY 
RICHARD C. HALVERSON 


NEW YORK: 

HARPER & BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS, 

FRANKLIN SQUARE. 

1 38 0 . 


Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1880, by 
HARPER & BROTHERS, 

In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. 


PREFACE TO VOL. IX. 


The design of this work, as stated in the prospectus and successive prefaces, is to 
furnish, not only a complete Bible Dictionary, but a universal reference-book on all 
subjects of religious interest, including non-Christian faiths and characters, and espe- 
cially the biography of deceased persons in public positions in the various churches 
and schools of philosophy and sacred art. In the present volume that plan, as car- 
ried out in its predecessors, has been steadily maintained. The progress has been 
more rapid as the task approaches its completion. Volume X is already well in 
hand, and its appearance may be expected in’ about one year from this time. The 
Supplement, for which much material is even now ready, will immediately follow 
thereafter, bringing up all arrearages from the beginning. The Supplement will 
include everything of value found in the new edition of Herzog’s Real-Encyklopadie 
not already given in this Cyclopaedia. 

The large colored Map of the Peninsula of Sinai, which is folded in a pocket in 
the cover, has been carefully drawn under the immediate eye of the editor, and 
embraces all the latest topographical information, including the observations made 
during his recent visit to that region. 

The following are the names of special contributors (besides the editor and reg- 
ular collaborators) to this volume, as indicated by their initials subscribed to their 
respective articles : 


G. F. C Professor G. F. Comfort, A.M., Ph.D., of the Syracuse University, N. Y. 

el. T. C The Rev. J. T. Crane, D.D., of the Newark Conference. 

W. E. G. . . . The Rev. W. E. Griffis, Schenectady, N. Y. 

D. Y. H The Rev. D. Y. Heisler, Mont Alto, Pa. 

G. F. II Professor G. F. Holmes, LL.D., of the University of Virginia. 

R. II The Rev. R. Hutcheson, A.M., Washington, la. 

I). P. K Professor D. P. Kidder, D.D., of the Drew Theological Seminary, N. J. 

J. P. L The late Professor J. P. Lacroix, Ph.D., of the Ohio Wesleyan University. 

B. P The Rev. B. Pick, Ph.D., Rochester, N. Y. 

N. I* President N. Porter, D.D., LL.D., of Yale College. 

P. S Professor P. Schaff, D.D., LL.D., of the Union Theological Seminary, N. Y. 

A. J. S Professor A. J. Sciiem, A.M., West Hoboken, N. J. 

E. de S Bishop E. de Sciiweinitz, D.D., editor of The Moravian, Bethlehem, Pa, 

J. L. S The Rev. J. L. Sooy, Lexington, Ky. 

J. C. S The Rev. J. C. Stockbridgk, D.D., Providence, R. I. 

W. P. S The Rev. W. P. Strickland, D.D., N. Y. city. 

W. .). R. T. . . The Rev. W. J. R. Taylor, D.D., Newark, N. J. 



LIST OF WOOD-CUTS IN VOL. IX 


Coin of Rhegium Page 

Plan of Rhodes 

Early Coin of Rhodes 

Rib in Oxford Cathedral 

Rib in Westminster Abbey 

Rib in Gloucester Cathedral 

Rib in Thornton Abbey 

Rib in Divinity School, Oxford. . . . 

Rib in Wymingtou 

Kamoa el-IIermel , near Riblah 

Castle of Tiernsteigen 

Ridge-piece in Llan Tysilio 

Martyrs’ Monument at Oxford 

Rings on a Mammy’s Hand 

Ancient Egyptian Finger-rings. . . 
Ancient Assyrian Finger-rings... 

Linked Espousal-ring 

Arab Robbers 

Rococo Ornament 

Roebuck 

Roebuck from Assyrian Monu- 
ments 

Roll and Fillet 

String at Dorchester 

Figure of Roma 

Map of the Roman Empire 

Roman Emperor and Empress 

Roman Orator and Youth 

Exterior of Church at Laach 

The Forum at Rome 

General View of Rome 

The Mamertine Prison 

The Capitoline Wolf 

Rood at Sherborne 

Ancient Egyptian Roof 

Ancient Egyptian House 

King-post Roof 

S ueen-post Roof 

ammer-beam Roof 

Hammer-beam Roof at Dorchester 

Roof at Kidlington 

Roof at Devizes 

Heart-shaped Rosary 

Narcissus tazetta 

Oleander 

Badge of the Tudors 

Rose of Jericho 

Rnbble-work 

House of Rubens 

Stem of an Ancient Ship 

Ruta graveolens 

Figure of Rngiwit 

Ancient Racers 

Cyperiis papyrus 

Eight-ended Cross 

Popoftchiu Teacher 

Popoftchin Monk at Home 

Popoftchin Monk Abroad 

Popoftchiu Nun 

Pomoryan Teacher 

Fedosejoftchiu Teacher 

Skoptzi Dance 

Muscovite Bishop 

Rustic Work 

Spelt 

Convent of Mar Saba 

Diagram of a “Sabbath-day’s Jour- 
ney” 

Coin with Bnst of Poppsea 

Ancient Egyptian Harps 

Brother of the Sacred Heart 

Lady of the Sacred Heart 

Suovetaurilia 

Ancient Egyptian Saddles 

Saffron 

Coin of Salamis 

Map of Salamis 

View of Cape Salmone 

Dead Sea from Ain-Jidy 

Dead Sea from Massada 

Section of the Dead Sea 


2|Oriental Salutation of a Superior 
4 # Page 

4 Oriental Salutation of a Sovereign 

5 Oriental Salutation of a Friend. . . 

5, Samaritan on the Egyptian Monu- 
5j ments 

5 General View of Sebustiyeh 

6'Colounnde at Sebustiyeh 

6 Samaritans at Prayer 

7 Plan of Samaritan Synagogue 

15|Plau of Mount Gerizim 

24 Specimen of Samaritan Pentateuch 

25 Harbor of Samos 

30 Coin of Samos 

31 Map of Samothrace, 


31 Coin of Samothrace 

32 Ancieut Egyptian Sandals 

44 Ancient Assyrian Sandals 

57 Ancient Greek and Roman Sandals 
GO Sanhedrim according to Lamy 

Coin of Sardis 

GO Ruins of Sardis 

67 Sargon in his Chariot 

G7 Figure of Saturn 

GS Cynocephalus — 

88 Ancieut Egyptian Saw 

S9 Ancient Assyrian Saw 

90 Ancient Egyptian Saw in Use 

97 Ancient Greek and Roman Saws.. 

110 Modem Egyptian Wood-sawyers. 

111 Earl’s Barton, Northamptonshire. 

113 Corhampton Church 

119 Sompting Tower 

120 Details of Sompting Tower 

121 Arch at Barnack 

121 Arch at Corhampton 

122 Ancient Roman Steelyard 

122 Ancient Assyrian Scales 

122 Scapular. 

122 Excrescences on the Oak 

123 Coin of Scanrus 

123 Group of Egyptian Sceptres 

12G Ancieut Egyptiau Sceptres 

129 Aucieut Assyriau Sceptre 

129 School Brother 

130 School Sister 

131 Scorpions 

147 Scotia of Baths of Diocletian 

147 Ilubomaximus 

149 Screen of Stanton Harconrt 

150 Parclose Screen at Fyfield 

153 Ancient Egyptian Scribe 

155, Modern Oriental Scribe 

158 Ancient Assyriau Scribes 

173, Modern Oriental Wallet 

174Scro11 Moulding 

174 'Ancient Egyptiau Sculptors 

174 Ancieut Egyptian Sculpture 

174j Scutum Fidei 

175 Scythian Family 

175'Scythian Horseman 

177|Scythhm Footman and General... 

179 Ancient Seals 

ISO Ancient Egyptian Chair 

185|Sectiou of a Moulding 

ISSjSedile at Chesterton 

( Sedile at Lenknm 

199 Road from Antioch to Seleucia 

204 Coin of Seleucia 

211 Ports of Seleucia 

218,Coin of Selencus TV 

219 Antique Bust of Seneca 

231 Cuneiform of Sennacherib 

234 Sennacherib before Lachish 

243 Seal of Sennacherib 

251 (Tablet at Nahr el-Kelb 

252 Corinthiau Tomb at Petra 

257 Plan of Jewish Sepulchre 

262 Plan of Mosque at Hebron 

264, “Tomb of David” 

2G5;“ Tombs of the Prophets” 


I Entrance to “Tombs of the Kings” 

272 Page 

273 Door of “Tombs of the Kings”. .. 

273 Plan of “Tombs of the Kings” 

Plan of “Tombs of the Judges”.. . 
27S Facade of “Tombs of the Judges” 

250 “Tomb of Zechariah” 

251 Section of Stylobate at Khorsabad 

303 Plan of “ Tomb of St. James” 

304 Angle of “Tomb of Absalom” 

305 Modern Syrian Tomb 

307 Oriental Garden Tomb 

310 Oriental Domed Sepulchre 

310 Modem Sheik’s Tomb 

311 Interior of Sepulchre at Tyre 

311 Ground -plaus of Oriental Sepul- 

335 chre.s 

336 Ground -plan of Chnrch of Holy 

33G Sepulchre 

344 “Tomb of Christ” 

355 EasterSepulchre, Stanton St.John’s 

356 Head of Serapis 

35S Coins with Lictors’ Fasces 

370 Xaja haje and Kneph 

372 Xaja tnpudians and Cobra-de-ca- 

3SS 2 )e M° 

3SS The Toxica of Egypt 

3SS Algerine Adder 

3SS Horned Cerastes 

389 Poison-bag and Fang of Cobra 

390 Kneph Agathodmmon 

390 Agathodsemon of the Egyptians.. 

390 Horned Cerastes from the Monti- 

391 ments 

391 Mexican Representation of the 

391 Tempiatiou 

394 Babylonian Representation of the 

394 Temptation 

395 Oriental Serpent-charmers 

399 Set-off’ at Cockington 

400 Shaft in Salisbury Cathedral 

401 Shaker Dance 

401 Shaker Costumes 

401 Coin of Neapolis Palestine 

428 View of Shechem 

428 Map of Shechem 

450 Supposed Kesitah 

451 Broad-tailed Sheep 

463 Oriental Sheepfold of Stone 

463 Sheepcotes near Bushire 

464 Silver Shekel of Simon Maccabmus 
464 Silver Half-shekel of Simon Mac- 

464 cabieus 

464 Copper Shekel ofSimonMaccabteus 
476 Copper Quarter -shekel of Simon 

4S4 Maccabteus 

4S6 Sheep-milking in Egypt 

4S6 Ancient Oriental Shields 

4S9 Ancient Egyptian Phalanx 

4S9 Modern Oriental Shields 

490 Greek Shield 

490 Roman Shields 

492 View of Seilftn 

494 Shiuto Priest 

499 Large Ancient Roman Ship 

504 Large Ancient Egyptian Ship 

504 Modern Levantine Ship 

515 Trireme on a Coin 

515 Assyrian War-galley 

516 Egyptian War-galley 

517 Carthaginiau Fishers’ Net 

527 Ancieut Ship from Pompeii 

530 Ancient Ship from a Sculpture. . . 

531 Large Ancient Egyptian Boat — 

532 Anchor on Coin 

532 Ancient Anchors 

555 St. Paul’s Ship 

556 Cartouches of Shishak 

557 Hieroglyph of Shishak 

55S Profile of Shishak 

55S Acacia of the Desert 


559 

560 
56n 
560 

560 

561 
561 
561 

561 

562 

562 

563 
5G3 
563 


564 

565 

566 
569 
569 
576 

576 

577 

578 
57S 

579 
5S2 
5S2 


5S3 

5S3 

5S6 

597 

609 

610 
611 
630 

633 

634 

639 

640 
642 
642 
646 

646 

646 

646 

666 

673 

673 

674 
674 
674 
6S2 
6S9 

692 

693 
G93 
093 

694 
694 

694 

695 

695 

696 

696 

697 

701 

702 

703 

704 
706 


LIST OF WOOD-CUTS IX VOL. IX. 


vi 

Ancient Assyrian Shoe Page 

Ron i a ii Slioes for Women 

Roman Shoe for a Man 

Roman Half-hoot 

Table of Showbread 

Shrine at Ely Cathedral 

Shriving-pew at Tanfield 

Plan of Ruins at Su<a 

Plan of Palace at Susa 

Restored Capital at Susa 

Plan of Mall at Perscpolis 

Plan of King's Gate at Pcrsepolis. 

Ancient Egyptian Sickles 

St. Sigisnumd 

Signet-ring of Cheops : 

Signet-ring of Horns 

Silk-worm 

Window-sill at Fotheriugay 

“ Pool of Siloam” 

Village of Silwan 

Map of Simeon 

House, etc., of Simon the Tanner. 

Jebal Serbal 

Summit of Jebal Musa 

Ras es-SufsAteh 

Mountains of Sinai 

Sinaitic Inscriptions 

Specimen of the Codex Sinaiticus . . 

Figure of a Siren 

Sistra 

Skew 

Skin-bottles 

Ancient Assyrian Slinger 

Ancient Egyptian Slings 

Coins of Smyrna 

Map of Smyrna 


70S 
70 ^ 
70S 
70S 
Tin 
71 ‘2 
713 
717 
71S 
71S 
Tin 
719 
72S 
734 
730 
737 
740 
740 

743 

744 
749 
756 
765 
765 
770 

772 

773 

774 
7 SI 
7S6 

790 

791 
S0t) 
S09 
>32 
S33 


View of Smyrna Page 

Skiuk 

Crystals of Snow 

Ancient Egyptian Snuffers and 

Pincers. 

Seal of So 

Salt Rocks of Usdum 

Soffit — 

“ Pools of Solomon” 

Tribute from the South 

Seal of the Sonthcottians 

Spandrel in St. Alban’s Church. .. 

Spandrel in Ely Cathedral 

Pet rocossyph us cya neus 

Ancient Assyrian Spearman 

Heads of Ancient Egyptian Jave- 
lins 

Ancient Egyptian Spearmen 

Greek and Roman Spears 

Sper at Walmgate 

View of the Sphinx 

Astragalus tragacantha 

Common Spider. 

Indian Spikenard 

Ancient Egyptians Spinning 

Ancient Egyptian Spindles 

Early English Spires 

Spire at Ringstcad 

Spire at Caythorpe 

Spire Cross 

Assyrian Spitting upon au Enemy 

Splay 

Sponge 

Ancient Egyptian Spoons 

Leaden Spout at Woodford 

Squinch in Canon’s Abbey 


S34|Sqninch in Tong Church ... .Page 

835 Squints at Basely 

S37 Squint at Crawley 

Squint at Bristol 

S3S Storax Plant 

S40 Pastoral Staff of Egbert 

85S Precentor’s Staff 

S59 Ancient Egyptian Stalls 

873 Stalls in Oxford Cathedral 

S95 Stanchion at Warborough 

897 Ancient Egyptian Standards 

905 Ancient Assyrian Standards 

905 Ancient Persian Standards 

909 Ancient Roman Standards 

913 Modern Oriental Standards 

Various Ancient Standards. 

913 Standard at Dorchester 

914 Ancient Assyrian Standard bearer 

915 Lady Stanhope’s Grave 

924 Spot where St.Siephen was Stoned 

926 Early British Stick-book 

927 Stilted Arch 

929 Modern Stocks in India 

932 Drnidicnl Stone in Persia 

933|Cromlcch at Phis Newydd 

934 Stonehenge 

940 Druidical liocking-stone 

940 Ancient Egyptian Store-house... 

941, White Stork 

941 Stork’s Nest 

959 “ Straight Street” in Damascus... 

960 Ancient Egyptian Strainer and La- 

9611 die 

963 Street in Palestine 

965 String in Lincoln Cathedral 

909. Oriental Stringed Instruments... 


970 

970 

970 

970 

976 

977 
977 
9S0 
981 
9S2 

952 

953 
9S3 

953 

954 

955 
9S5 
9S5 
9S7 

1011 

1023 

1028 

1030 

1043 

1044 

1045 
1047 

1049 

1050 

1051 
1055 

1055 

1062 

1063 

1064 


CYCLOPAEDIA 


OF 

BIBLICAL, THEOLOGICAL, AND ECCLESIASTICAL LITERATUBE. 


RH. 


Rhabanus (more properly Rabanus) Maurus, a 
distinguished German theologian and prelate, was born 
of French parents, named Riiban , at Mentz, about 776. 
On the completion of his early studies at Fulda, in Hesse, 
he was there made a deacon in 801 ; and he betook him- 
self to Tours the following year to enjoy the tuition of 
the famous Alcuin, who is said to have surnamed him 
the Moor, from his dark complexion. It is also appar- 
ent from his writings that he had in his youth made a 
pilgrimage to Palestine. In his twenty-fifth year he 
became head of the convent school at Fulda, where his 
successful teaching drew around him many pupils, and 
not a few of the nobility intrusted him with the educa- 
tion of their sons. In 8*22 he was consecrated abbot; 
but he still directed the seminar}’, which supplied many 
able teachers for the Frankish and German churches. 
On a complaint of the monks that his absorption in lit- 
erary pursuits hindered the discharge of his more active 
conventual duties, he retired in 842. lie was, however, 
drawn out of this voluntary seclusion, in 847, by being 
made archbishop of Mentz, whence he is supposed by 
some to have received the epithet of Magnentius. In 
this situation he was the opposer and persecutor of 
Gottschalk (q. v.), who advocated the doctrine of fire- 
destination. Rabanus founded the monastery of Mont 
St. Pierre, and rebuilt that of Klingemunster. In 850 
he showed great devotion in relieving the poor who 
had suffered from a flood. In 852 he presided at a 
council held in his metropolis. lie died Feb. 4, 856. 
1 1 is influence was great among the churches in the 
diffusion of practical piety, and he had several illustri- 
ous disciples. Ilis erudition and general attainments 
were respectable for the age in which he lived, and, as 
a lecturer, he instructed his scholars in general litera- 
ture and science as well as theology. He wrote com- 
mentaries on all the canonical books and many of the 
Apocryphal ones, and left behind him numerous trea- 
tises, sermons, and letters. His Opera Omnia were edited 
by Ilenin and Colvener (Cologne, 1627, 6 vols. fol.). See 
Herzog, Real- Eney Hop. s. v.; Iloefer, Noun. Biog. Gene- 
rale , s. v.; Darling, Cyclop. Bibliog. s. v., and the literature 
there cited ; also, Johann, I)e Vita ac Doctrina Rhab. 
Mauri Magn . (Jen. 1724); Schwarz, De Rabano Manro 
(Heidelb. 1811); Dahl, Leben. u. Schr. cl. Rah. M aur. (Ful- 
da, 1828); Knnstman, Ueb. Ilraban. Maur. (Mainz, 1841). 

Rhabdos ek tes riiizes ('Pdpdog Ik rijc 
a stem out of the root ) is the beginning of one of the 
odes of St. Cosmas, surnamed “ the Melodist,” also “Hie- 
rosolymitanus,” and sometimes “ llieropolites.” Like 
his foster-brother John of Damascus, Cosmas became 
a monk of St. Sabas, and, against his will, was con- 
secrated bishop of Maiuma, near Gaza, by John, pa- 
triarch of Jerusalem, about A.D. 745. He led a holy 
life, and died in good old age about 760. Cosmas was 
the most learned of the Greek poets. lie wrote on 
the Nativity, the Transfiguration, and the Purification, 
and on Gregory Nazianzen. Ilis fondness for types, 
boldness in their application, and love of aggregating 
them make him the Oriental Adam of St. Victor. Ilis 
hymns are much used and praised in the Eastern Church, 
IX.— A 


and he is commemorated on Oct. 14. We subjoin the 
first stanza of this ode in Neale’s translation : 

“Rod of the Root of Jesse, 

Thou, Flower of Mary horn, 

From that thick shady mountain 
Cnm’st glorious forth this morn: 

Of her, i he ever Virgin, 

Incarnate wast thon made, 

The immaterial Essence — 

The God by all obeyed ! 

Glory, Lord, thy servants pay 
To thy wondrous might to-day!” 

Comp. Neale, Hymns of the Eastern Church , p. 127 sq.; 
Miller, Singers and Songs of the Church , p. 16. (II. I’.) 

Rhanatosan hem in axothek (Pavarwttav yph> 
avioSev') is the beginning of the sixth ode by St. Joseph 
of the Stiidium, or the “ Hymnologist” (q. v), of which 
the following stanza is the translation of Neale: 

“ Rain down, ye heav’ns, eternal bliss l 
The chenib-clond to-day 
Bears Jesus where his Father is. 

Along the starry way.” 

See Neale’s Hymns of the Eastern Ch. p. 229 sq. (B. P.) 

Rhea, Samuel Audley, a Presbyterian missionary, 
was born in Pilountville. East. Tenn., Jail. 23, 1827. He 
graduated at t lie University of East Tennessee in 1847, 
after which he entered the Union Theological Seminary, 
New York, at which institution he graduated in 1850, 
and was ordained Feb. 2, 1851. After his ordination he 
was appointed missionary to Gawar. Persia, where he 
labored faithfully for eight years, at the expiration of 
which time he removed to Seir, another part of the Per- 
sian field, where he remained hut a year in consequence 
of declining health. Being advised by his physician to 
return to the United States, he came to his former home, 
and on recovering his health returned to his post. From 
this place he went to Oroomiah, where he labored with 
zeal and success till his death, Sept. 2, 1865. (W. P. S.) 

Rhees, Morgan John (l),a Baptist minister, was 
born in Glamorganshire, W ales, Dec. 8, 1760. He de- 
voted himself at first to teaching; but having studied 
theology in the Baptist College at Bristol, he entered 
the ministry. Ilis liberal views led him to France at 
the beginning of the revolution in that country, hut, dis- 
appointed by its excesses, he came back and began ex- 
pounding his particular views in a quarterly entitled 
The Welsh Treasury. This brought him into some dif- 
ficulties with the authorities, and he emigrated to the 
United States in 1794 as the protector of a Welsh colony. 
Here he travelled through the Southern and M'estern 
states, preaching with remarkable success. Having, in 
connection with Dr. Benjamin Rush, purchased a tract 
of land in Pennsylvania, to which he gave the name of 
Cambria, he planned the capital of the county, which ho 
called Beulah, and settled there with a company of 
Welsh emigrants in 1798. lie remained for several 
years, acting as pastor of the church at Beulah, hut 
finally removed to Somerset, Somerset Co., where he 
died, Sept. 17, 1804. One of his sons was 31. J. Kliees, 
D.D. (q. v.). Ilis earlier productions were published in 
the Welsh language, and but lew of them have been 


IvIIEES 


o 


RHETOR IANS 


translated. lie published a few Orations and Hiscoursts 
in tliis country, which evince great vivacity and elo- 
quence. — Sprague, Annals of the Anter. Pulpit , vi, 341- 

Rhees, Morgan John (2). D.D., a baptist min- 
ister, was born at Somerset, Somerset Co., Pa., t )ct. 25, 
18tl2, lie devoted himself at first to law, began prac- 
ticing in May, 1826, and gave promise of great success 
in that profession; but. directing his attention to the 
study of theology, he acted for a time as temperance 
agent, and was dually ordained Sept, h, 18251, and on 
April 1. 1830. became pastor of the churches at Borden- 
town and Trenton, X. d. Here he was also one of 
the founders of the New Jersey State Convention for 
missionary purposes in 1821b of which he became secre- 
tary, besides being chairman of the executive committee 
of the State Temperance Society, and editing for a time 
the Temperance Reporter . lie closed his connection 
with the church at Bordentown in 1833, retaining that 
at Trenton. In 1810 he also resigned the latter to 
become corresponding secretary of the American bap- 
tist Publication Society, in which position his services 
proved very useful. In 1813 he liecamc pastor of the 
second baptist Church at Wilmington, Del., where lie 
remained until 1850, when he accepted a call from the 
First baptist Church of Williamsburgh, L. I., and here, 
still acting as recording secretary of the Board of the 
Missionary Union and the American and Foreign Bible 
Society, death closed his useful career, Jan. 15, 1853. — 
Sprague, Annuls of the A mer. Pulpit , vi, 780. 


Rhe'gium (PZ/yrou, prob. from ptjyvvpi, alluding 
to the abrupt character of the coast). The mention of 
this Italian town (which was situated on the bruttian 
coast, just at the southern entrance of the Strait of Mes- 
sina) occurs quite incidentally (Acts xxviii, 13) in the 
account of Paul’s voyage from Syracuse to Puteoli, after 
the shipwreck at Malta. But, for two reasons, it is wor- 
thy of careful attention. 13y a curious coincidence the 
tigures on its coins are the very “twin-brothers” which 

gave the name to 
Paul’s ship. See 
Castou and Pol- 
lux, Again, the 
notice of the in- 
termediate posi- 
tion of Rhegium ; 
the waiting there 
for a southerly wind to carry the ship through the strait; 
the run to Puteoli with such a wind within the twentv- 



Coin of Rhegiiim. 


lour hours, are all points of geographical accuracy which 
help us to realize the narrative. As to the history of 
the place, it was originally a Greek colony: it was mis- 
erably destroyed by Dionysius of Syracuse; from Au- 
gustus it received advantages which combined with its 
geographical position in making it important through- 
out ilu» duration of the Roman empire. It was promi- 
nently associated, in the Middle Ages, with the varied 
fortunes of the Greek emperors, the Saracens, ami the 
Romans; and still (he modem IXppio is a town of 10,000 
inhabitants. Its distance across the strait from Messina 


is only about, six miles, and it is well seen from the tele- 
graph station above that Sicilian town. Smith. See 
■ ’onyheare ami Uowmui, A7. Paul, ii, 310: Lewi n, £7. 
Paul, ii, 217 ; Smith, Piet . of Class, tie up. s. v. 


Rhemish Testament, a KomiMi version of the 
New Text., printed at Kheiius. France, in 1582, accom- 
panied with copious notes by Roman Unt indie authors. 
Tills version, like the Doiiay < >1*1 Test., w ith which it ix 
generally bound up. was translated from the Latin Vul- 
gate, See 1 )oi\\ \ BlUl.lv, 


Rhenferd, Jakoii, a German Orientalist, was born 
at Mnldlieim, iu the duchy of Berg, Aug. 15, 1051. The 
son of a Protestant minister, he studied theology at 1 lam, 
Groningen, and at Amsterdam. From 1078 to 1080 he 
was rector of the gymnasium at Franeker, and then re- 
turned to Amsterdam to perfect his knowledge of He- 


brew'. Arabic, and Persian. In 1083 he became professor 
of Oriental languages at Franeker, which position he 
held during the remainder of his life, lie was a man 
of great penetration, sound judgment, and possessed a 
great memory. Rhenferd died Oct. 7, 1712. Of his 
works we mention, lie Antiquitate Uteraruni Juilaica- 
rum (Franeker, 1034): — Obserrat tones ad Boat Jlebrsa 
Xori Testament i (ibid. 17H5-7): — lie A rabarckis Eth- 
narchis ./ udsorum (ibid. 1702): — Rudiment a Grammati- 
cs Harmonics Lxnpuarum flebrsce , Chaldaics , Syriacs, 
et .1 rabies (ibid. 1700). — lloefer, Xo ur. Riop. Gene rule, 
s. v. Besides editing a Syntupma of dissertations by 
different writers, lie Stylo Xori Testaments (1701, 4 to), 
he published several learned dissertations. These have 
been collected and issued in one vol. 4to, with a preface 
by D. Mill, and an “Oratio Funebris” by professor An- 
dala, under the title .lac. Rhenferdi Opera Philolopica , 
liissertatiombus Exquisitissimi A rpnmenti Const antia 
(Traj. Rhen. 1722). Besides discussing such Biblical 
subjects as the style of the Apocalypse, the meaning 
of the phrase 6 a two 6 pkWiov in the Ncw r Test., the 
meaning of several passages in the same, the author 
treats largely on points of Jewish literature and archae- 
ology, and takes up the subject of the Palmyrene and 
Phoenician dialects, and other points of interest to Ori- 
ental scholars. — Kitto. 

Rhe'sa (*P qcu) is a name given in the genealogy 
of Christ (Luke iii, 27) as that of a son of Zwrobabel 
and father of Joanna, being evidently the same with 
Rkpuaiah (q.v.), given in the Old. Test. (1 Chron. iii, 
19-21) as the son ofZerubbabel and father of Hananiah. 
Lord Ilervev fancifully conjectures that Rhesa is no 
person, but merely the title Rush, i. c. “prince,” orig- 
inally attached to the name of Zerubbabel, and gradu- 
ally introduced as an independent name into the ge- 
nealogy (Genealopies, etc., p. 111,114, 356-360). See 
Genealogy of Jesus Ciikist. 

Rhesa, L. Jeijemin, a German doctor and professor 
of theology, was horn June 9, 1777, at Carwitha, near 
Memel. In 1800 he was appointed garrison chaplain at 
Kouigsberg; in 1807 he lectured as privat-docent at 
the university there, and in 1810 w r as appointed ex- 
traordinary professor of theology. From 1812 to 1815 he 
acted as army chaplain, and after 1818 he lectured as 
professor in ordinary and doctor of theology, being at 
the same time a member of t he consistory in Konigs- 
berg. Rhesa died Aug. 30, 1840, leaving some very 
important pamphlets bearing on the Lithuanian version 
of the Scriptures, as, Geschichte der litthauiseken Bibel , 
ein Beitrug zur Relipionspeschichte der nord'tseken Volker 
(Kouigsberg, 1816) : — Philosophisch - kritische Anmerk- 
unpen zur litthauischen Bibel (ibid. 1816-24, 2 parts). 
Besides these, he wrote : lie Prim is, quos dicunt Suct'or. 
Refurmatorib. in Prussia (ibid. 1823) : — and He Primis 
Vestipiis Relip ionis Christ, inter Lithuanos Propapatm 
(ibid. 1819). See Winer, llandb. der theolop. IJterat. i, 
809, 837 ; ii, 731 ; Zuchold, Bibl. Theol. ii, 1061. (B. 1\) 

Rhetorians. An Alexandrian sect of this name is 
mentioned by Philaster as founded by Rhetorius, and 
maintaining the opinion that there was no harm in anv 
heresy whatever (Philast. 1/sr. xci). Augustine re- 
marks that, this seems so absurd that he considers it in- 
credible (Aug. llsr . lxxii). Philaster is the original 
authority for the existence of such a sect, hut Pnedesti- 
nalus speaks of them as if they were not unknown to 
him, adding to Philaster’s statement that thev advo- 
caied Christian fellowship with all who believed in the 
Incarnation (Pnedest. llsr. lxxii). Kven before Phi- 
bister's time Athanasius mentions a person named Rhe- 
torius. whom he accuses of holding the opinion that 
doctrines are of no consequence, and that all heretics 
are right in their own way (Contr. Apollin. ? 6) 
And ai a later date St.John Damascene enumerates the 
yrtomp« X at as the eighty-eighth in his catalogue of 
heresies, who, it seems probable, were “knowledge (or 
theology) haters” ... the sense of being anti-dogmatists 


RHINOCEROS 


3 


RHODES 


who liad arisen from reaction against the subtleties 
of the Gnostics, the Antiochean and the Alexandrian 
schools of theologians, and who are identical with the 
lihetorians of Philaster. — Blunt, Diet, of Sects, s. v. 

Rhinoceros, See Unicoun. 

Rhinsbergers. See Collkgiants. 

Rho, Giacomo, brother of Giovanni, was born at 
Milan, Italy, in 1593. At the age of twenty he joined the 
order of St. Ignatius, and, after being ordained priest, 
he accompanied Nicolas Trigault to China. Being de- 
tained at Macao, he aided in defending the town against 
the Dutch, and in surrounding it with new fortifications 
(1622). He aftenvards penetrated into the province of 
Shan-si, in 1624, where he preached in the native lan- 
guage with fluency. In 1631 he was ordered to Pekin, 
where he was employed, with P. Adam Schall, in draw- 
ing up the imperial calendar. Rho died in China, April 
27, 1638. He left only one work, in Italian — an account 
of his voyage — entitled Lettere della sua Xaviguzione e 
del/e Cose dell ’ Indie (Milan, 1620), but he is said to 
have composed many works in Chinese on religion, 
astronomy, and mathematics. See Kircher, China Ulus - 
trata. — Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Gene rale, s. v. 

Rho, Giovanni, an Italian Jesuit, was born at 
Milan in 1590. In 1606 he was admitted to the Society 
of Jesus, taught rhetoric at Brera, and, after a time, de- 
sired to go as a missionary to India. But his superiors 
refused to grant his request, and he continued during 
his whole life to teach in the different cities of Italy. 
Rho w r as, near the close of his life, made superior of a 
convent at Milan, and finally died at Rome, Nov. 9, 
1662. He left several works, among them, Martyrium 
Trium Beatorum e Soc. Jesu, Pauli J field, Joh. Goto , et 
Jac. Ghisai (Florence, J628): — Interrogutiones A polo- 
geticce (Lyons, 1641) : — and orations on various ecclesi- 
astical subjects. — Hoefer, Xouv. Biog, Gene rale, s. v. 

Rho'da (Pdcb/, Rose), the name of a servant-maid 
who announced Peter’s arrival at the door of Mary’s 
house after his miraculous release from prison (Acts xii, 
J3). A.D. 44. See Poktek. 

Rhodes (‘Pd£o£, rosy), an island in the Mediterra- 
nean, near the coast of Asia Minor, celebrated from the 
remotest antiquity as the seat of commerce, navigation, 
literature, and the arts, but now reduced to a state of 
abject poverty by the devastations of w ar and the tyr- 
anny and rapacity of its Turkish rulers. 

1. Scriptural Xotiees. — The Sept, translators place 
the Rhodians among the children of Javan (Gen. x, 4), 
and in this they are followed by Eusebius, Jerome, and 
Isidore; but Bochart maintains that the Rhodians are 
too modern to have been planted there by any immedi- 
ate son of Javan, and considers that Moses rather in- 
tended the Gauls on the Mediterranean towards the 
mouth of the Rhone, near Marseilles, where there was 
a district called Rhodanusia, and a city of the same 
name. They also render Ezek. xxvii, 15, “children of 
the Rhodians,” instead of, as in the Hebrew, “children 
of Dedan. 5 ’ Calmet considers it probable that here they 
read “children of Redan, or Rodan,” but that in Gen. x, 
4 they read “Dedan,” as in the Hebrew'. In the time 
of the consolidation of the Roman power in the Levant 
we have a notice of Jewish residents in Rhodes (I Mace, 
xv, 23). Paul touched there on his return voyage to 
Syria from the third missionary journey (Acts xxi, l). 
It does not appear that he landed from the ship. The 
day before he' bad been at Cos, an island to the north- 
west; and from Rhodes he proceeded eastwards to Pat- 
ara, in Lycia. It seems, from all the circumstances of 
the narrative, that the wind was blowing from the 
north -w T est, as it very often does in that part of the 
Levant. Two incidents in the life of Herod the Great 
connected with Rhodes are well worthy of mention here. 
When he went to Italy, about the close of the last re- 
publican struggle, he found that the city had suffered 
much from Cassius, and gave liberal sums to restore it 


(Josephus, A nt. xiv, 11,3). Here, also, after the battle 
of Actium, he met Augustus and secured his favor (ibid. 
xv, 6, 6). 

H. History. — Rhodes was an ancient Dorian settle- 
ment made, probably, soon after the conquest of Pelo- 
ponnesus; but in process of time the different races be- 
came fused together and were distinguished for com- 
mercial enterprise. They built the superb city of 
Rhodes at the northern extremity of the island, and thus 
took advantage of the magnificent harbor which the 
earlier settlers had overlooked. After this it prospered 
greatly and passed through various fortunes in a polit- 
ical respect, becoming for a time connected with the 
Carian dynasty, then with the Persian empire, and at a 
later period it became famous for a memorable siege it 
sustained against the arms of Demetrius Poliorcetes, 
from whom it obtained honorable terms of peace. The 
citizens now set themselves to clear the yEgean Sea of 
pirates, an enterprise in w hich they completely succeed- 
ed; and it was to their exertions that merchants owed 
the safety of their ships and the possibility of extend- 
ing their commerce. The mercantile tastes and honor- 
able character of this people procured them the good- 
will of all the civilized world. They possessed in per- 
fection those virtues in which the rest of the Greeks 
w ere so lamentably deficient. They w r ere upright, con- 
scientious, and prudent. While they cultivated trade 
they did not neglect science, literature, and art; and, 
though the time of their prosperity was subsequent to 
the decline of the intellectual supremacy of Greece, the 
Rhodian ;cra was a long and a happy one. The people 
formed an alliance w ith Rome, and maintained through- 
out the Roman period their independence; and, while 
they faithfully kept every article of their treaties, they 
avoided anything like servility. In the time of Anto- 
ninus Pins Rhodes w r as not only free itself, but extend- 
ed the advantages of its free constitution to many of 
the surrounding islands and a considerable district in 
Caria on the opposite coast. Nor w r as Rhodes by any 
means despicable in literary reputation. Cleobulus. 
reckoned among the seven sages, was a Rhodian ; Cal- 
limachus and Apollonius w r ere eminent as poets; and 
eloquence was understood and cherished in Rhodes 
when it w 7 as all but extinct in every other part of 
Greece. Cicero went to study here, and the young Ro- 
man nobles made Rhodes their university as they had 
formerly done with Athens. 

Under Constantine it was the metropolis of the 
“ Province of the Islands.” It was the last place where 
the Christians of the East held out against the advanc- 
ing Saracens; and subsequently it was once more fa- 
mous as the home and fortress of the Knights of St. 
John. The most prominent remains of the city and 
harbor are memorials of those knights. 

In modern times Rhodes has been chiefly celebrated 
as one of the last retreats of this military order, under 
whom it obtained great celebrity by its heroic resist- 
ance to the Turks; but in the time of Soliman the 
Great a capitulation was agreed upon and the island 
w f as finally surrendered to the Turks, under whom it 
has since continued. It is now' governed by a Turkish 
pasha, who exercises despotic sw'av, seizes upon the 
property of the people at his pleasure, and from whose 
vigilant rapacity scarcely anything can be concealed. 
Under this iron rule the inhabitants arc ground to pov- 
erty and the island is becoming rapidly depopulated. 

III. Description and Remains. — Rhodes is immedi- 
ately opposite the high Carian and Lycian headlands 
at the south-west extremity of the peninsula of Asia 
Minor. It is of a triangular form, about forty-four 
leagues in circumference, tw'enty leagues long from 
north to south, and about six broad. In the centre is 
a lofty mountain named Artemira, which commands a 
view 7 of the whole island ; of the elevated coast of Car- 
mania, on the north ; the archipelago, studded with nu- 
merous islands, on the north-west; Mount Ida, veiled in 
clouds, on the south -w'est; and the w 7 ide expanse of 


RHODES 


4 


RHODES 



waters that wash the shores of Africa on the south and 
south-east. It was famed in ancient times and is still 
celebrated for its delightful climate and the fertility of 
its soil. The gardens are filled with delicious fruit, ev- 
ery gale is scented with the most powerful fragrance 
wafted from the groves of orange and citron trees, and 
the numberless aromatic herbs exhale such a profusion 
of the richest odors that the whole atmosphere seems 
impregnated with spicy perfume. It is well watered 
by the river Candura and numerous smaller streams 
and rivulets that spring from the shady sides of Mount 
Artemira. It contains two cities — Rhodes, the capital, 
inhabited chiefly by Turks and a small number of 
Jews; and the ancient Lindus, now reduced to a ham- 
let, peopled by Greeks who are almost all engaged in 
commerce. Besides these there are five villages occu- 
pied by Turks and a small number of Jews, and five 
towns and forty-one villages inhabited by Greeks. The 
whole population was estimated by Savary at 30,500; 
but Turner, a later traveller, estimates them only at 
20,000, of whom 14,000 were Greeks and 6000 Turks, 
with a small mixture of Jews residing chiefly in the 
capital. 

The city of Rhodes is famous for its huge brazen 
statue of Apollo, called Colossus, which stood at the 
month of the harbor, and was so high that ships passed 
in full sail between its legs. It was the work of Chares 
of Lindus, the disciple of Lysippus; its height was one 
hundred and twenty-six feet, and twelve years were oc- 
cupied in its construction. It was thrown down by an 
earthquake in the reign of Ptolemy III, Euergctes, king 
of Kgypt, after having stood fifty-six years. The brass 
of which it was composed was a load for nine hundred 
camels. Its extremities were sustained hy sixty pil- 
lars of marble, and a winding staircase led up to the 
top. whence a view might be obtained of Syria and 
the ships proceeding to Kgypt in a large looking-glass 
suspended to the neck of the statue. There is not a 
single vestige, of this celebrated work of art now re- 
maining. The present antiquities of Rhodes reach no 
further hack than the residence of the Knights of Sr. 
John of Jerusalem. The remains of their flue old for- 


tress. of great size and strength, are still to be seen. 
The cells of the Knights are entire, but the sanctuary 
has been converted by. the Turks into a magazine for 
military stores. The early coins of Rhodes bear the 
conventional rose-flower, with the name of the island, 
on one side, and the head of Apollo, radiated like the 


Early Coin of Rhodes. 

sun, on the other. It was a proverb that the sun shone 
every day in Rhodes. 

See Meursius, De Rhodo (Amst. 1675) ; Coronelli, Isold 
di Rodi (Veil. 1702); Paulsen, Descript io Iikodi (Gotr. 
1818); Rost, Rhodus (Alton. 1823); Menge, Vorgettchichte 
von Rhodus (Cologne, 1827); and especially Rottier, Les 
Monuments de Rhodes (Brussels, 1828) ; Ross, Rtisen mich 
Rhoelos (llalle, 1852); Berg, Die lnsel Rhodus (Bruns- 
wick, 1861). 

Rhodes, Alexandre de, a French missionary, 
was born at Avignon, March 15, 1591. In 1612 he was 
admitted to the Order of Jesuits at Rome, and after long 
solicitation received permission to go to India as a mis- 
sionary. In the spring of 1619 he left Lisbon, but on 
arriving at Goa was detained under various pretexts 
until 1623, when he went on to Macao. He desired to 
penetrate into Japan, and devoted a year to the study of 
the language; but the great severity which was exer- 
cised against Christians obliged him to abandon his 
project, lie went into Cochin-China, and at the end 
of six months began to preach in the native idiom. In 
1627 he passed into Tonquin, and gained the confidence 
of the king; but the jealousy of courtiers destroyed the 
fruits of his labor. An edict was launched against the 
Christian religion, and Rhodes was expelled. lie re* 




RHODES 


5 


RIB 


turned to Macao and remained ten years, teaching and 
travelling through the province of Canton, lie still 
desired to return to Cochin-China, and was again met 
by persecution — this time barely escaping with his life, 
being sentenced to perpetual banishment (1646). On 
his way to Europe he was imprisoned at Java, which 
changed his plan of travel. He embarked for Macas- 
sar, visited Bantam and Savata, and in 1648 travelled 
through the whole kingdom of Persia as well as Armenia, 
and finally left Smyrna for Genoa. The three years 
following he spent quietly at Borne, but his passion for 
travel caused him to start on a second expedition to 
Persia at the head of a new missionary enterprise. lie 
died in that country Nov. 5, 1660. Rhodes’s writings 
are chiefly narratives of travel, and are generally cor- 
rect. We may mention, Relazione di Felici Suceessi della 
Santa Fide nel Regno di Tunchino (Rome, 1650): — Dic- 
tionarium Annamiticum , Lusifanum, et Latinum (ibid. 
1651) : — Sommaire des divers Voyages et Missions Apos- 
toliques du P. A. de Rhodes, etc. (Paris, 1653). See 
Sotovel, Bibl. Script . Soc. Jesu. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. 
Generate, s. v. 

Rhodes, Georges de, brother of Alexandre, was 
born at Avignon in 1597. lie embraced the rule of St. 
Ignatius at Lyons in 1613, taught rhetoric in the Col- 
lege of Notre Dame in that city, and was its director for 
twenty-seven years. He died May 17, 1661. Of his 
writings we have, Disputationes Theologice Scholastics 
(Lyons, 1661, 1671, 1676): — Philosophia Peripaietica 
(ibid. 1671). — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Rhod'ocus ('Po^ocof), a Jew who betrayed the 
plans of his countrymen to Antiochus Eupator. His 
treason was discovered, and he was placed in confine- 
ment (2 Mace, xiii, 21). 

Rhodon. See Rose. 

Rho'dus (1 Macc. xv, 23). See Rhodes. 

Rhoetus, in Greek mythology, (1) was king of the 
Marrubians, a son of Phorcvs, and father to Anehemo- 
lus, of whom Virgil says that he defiled the bed of his 
stepmother Casperia. (2) A centaur present at the wed- 
ding of Pirithous, who was wounded bv Dryas, and fled. 
(3) A giant who was killed by Bacchus. 

Rhopalus, in Greek mythology, was one of the 
numerous sons of Hercules. His son was named Pha?s- 
tus, and built a city in Crete, to which he gave his own 
name. 

Rhythia, in Greek mythology, was a nymph be- 
loved of Apollo, by whom she became the mother of the 
Corvbantes. An ancient town on the north-east coast 
of Crete derives from her its name — Rhytion. 

Riario, Raphael Galeotto, an Italian prelate, 
better known as cardinal Riario, was born at Savona, 
May 3, 1451. He was in great favor with Sixtus IV, 
who raised him to the rank of cardinal in 1477, and after- 
wards conferred upon him several bishoprics and arch- 
bishoprics, together with the abbeys of Monte-Casino 
and Cava. During the fetes which celebrated his ele- 
vation to the cardinalate, Lorenzo de‘ Medici and his son 
were assassinated. The new cardinal did not escape the 
wrath of the Florentines, though he knew nothing of 
the plot, and was obliged to take refuge near the altar 
at which he was officiating. Linder Alexander VI he 
took refuge in France, in his see of Treguier, but returned 
to Italy on the election of Pius III. He afterwards en- 
tered into a conspiracy with cardinal Petrueci against 
Leo X, who generously pardoned his offence. It is said 
that cardinal Riario was the first to introduce theatrical 
representations in Rome, lie died July 7, 1521. See 
Annul. Feel. 1472-84; Panvinio, 1 'it a di Sisto IV; 
infessura, Diario Rom.; Ammanati, Epistola 548 ad 
Fr. Gonzagam, p. 821. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate , 
s. v. 

Rib, in architecture, is a projecting band on a ceil- 
ing, etc. In Middle-age architecture ribs are very ex- 
tensively employed to ornament ceilings, both flat and 



Oxford Cathedral, cir. 1 ISO. 



vaulted ; more especially the latter, when groined. In 
the earliest Norman vaulting the ribs generally consist 
of mere fiat bands cross- 
ing the vault at right 
angles, the groins as 
well as the apex being 
left perfectly plain. As 
the style advances the 
ribs become moulded, 
and are also applied to . . 
the groins, and are Westminster Abbey, eir. 1220. 

sometimes enriched with zigzags and other ornaments 
peculiar to the style, with carved bosses. at the inter- 
sections, as in the 
churches of Ifflev, 
Oxfordshire, and 
Elkstone, Glouces- 
tershire. 

In Early English 
vaulting, and that 
of all subsequent pe- 
riods, the groins are 
invariably covered 
by ribs, and the in- 
tersections are generally ornamented with bosses or 
other decorations, as is the case in the chapter -house 
at Oxford. In the Early English style it is seldom that 
more ribs are used than those which cross the vault at 
right angles (cross -springers) and the (diagonal) ribs 
upon the groins, with sometimes one at the apex. 

In the Decorated style additional ribs are introduced 
between the diagonal and eross-springers following the 
curve of the vault, and frequently also in other parts 
running in different directions, and uniting the whole 
into a kind of net -work, as at Tewkesbury Abbey. 
Gloucestershire. The apex of the vault is almost inva- 
riably occupied by a rib, which is often slightly curved 
upwards between the bosses. When they are numerous, 
it is not unusual to find that the more important ribs 
are of larger size than the others. In this style the 



Gloucester Cathedral, cir. 1320. 



Thornton Abbey, Liu col us hi re, dr. 1420. 


RIB 


6 


RIBAS 


ribs are sometimes ornamented with the characteristic 
ornament, the ball-flower. 

In ordinary Perpendicular vaulting, ribs are applied 
much in the same way as in the preceding style, but 
they are sometimes employed in greater prolusion and 
in more complicated arrangements, by which the effect 
is by no means always improved, as at St. Mary Red- 
cliffe Church, Bristol. In fan-tracery vaulting the ribs 
radiate from the springing of each peudentive, and gen- 
erally become multiplied as they rise upwards, so that 
the whole surface is covered with tracery, which is usu- 
ally enriched with featherings and other decorations. 



Divinity School, Oxford. 

Many churches, and some other ancient buildings, 
have raised ceilings, of wood or plaster, formed on the 
undersides of the timbers of the roof. A few of these, 
which are as old as the Decorated and Early English 
styles, are sparingly ornamented with small ribs; there 
is generally one along the top and others crossing it at 
considerable intervals. Iu some instances the ribs are 
more numerous in both directions, so as to divide the 
surface into rectangular compartments, or panels. 



Wymington, Bedfordshire. 


In the Perpendicular style ceilings of this kind are j 
almost invariably formed in cants, which are divided into 
squares by small ribs with bosses, shields, or tlowers at 
the intersections. Elat ceilings also, which are common 
iu this style, are frequently divided into squares, and 
sometimes into other patterns, by moulded ribs. Iu the 
time of queen Elizabeth and .lames l, ribs were much 
u^ed on plaster ceilings, and were often arranged with 
considerable intricacy: at tliis period the intersections 
were usually either plain, or ornamented with small 
pendants. In some districts the purlins of a roof are 
called ribs. — Parker, Glossary of A rehitecfure , s. v. 

PIP (3 tsf'la, (Jen. ii, *21, 22, a sulr, as often ren- 
dered; Cliald. Dan. vii, 5), the part of Adam taken 
to form his wife (Gen. ut sup.). See 1C vie. 

In the expression “tilth rib” (2 Sam. ii, 211; iii. 27 ; iv, 
6: xx, 10), the original has simply Jiflh chdmesh, 

** lift li part” in lien, xlvii, 26). 

Ribadeneira, Pkimco, a zealous .lesnit, pupil of 
Loyola, and industrious writer, was horn at Toledo, Nov. 
1, 1527. He was sent to Koine while young, and re- 
ceived bv Loyola into his order in 1510, before it had 
been continued by the pope. In 1512 Kilmdcucirn re- 
moved to Paris for further studies in philosophy and 
theology, and three years later to Padua, where he n»m- 
pleted his studies. In 1510 lie became teacher of rhet- 


oric at Palermo. In 1552 he returned to Rome and 
labored effectively for t he instituting of the Collegium 
Germanicum. Loyola sent him to Belgium in 1555, in 
order to promote the interests of Jesuitism, more par- 
ticularly to secure permission of Philip II to introduce 
the order, lie succeeded in his mission, and contributed 
by direct labors as a preacher at Louvain, and by defend- 
ing the order against attacks of the Sorbonne, towards 
the realizing of that project. In 155!) lie was appointed 
propositus of the Collegium Germanicum, and in 1560, 
after having taken the four vows of his order, propositus 
for the province of Tuscany. In 1563 he was commis- 
sary of the order in Sicily, and afterwards assistant to 
the generals Laincz and Francis Borgia, lie attended 
the second general assembly of his order as the repre- 
sentative of Sicily, and the third as the representative 
of Rome, and subsequently was made overseer of all the 
houses of the Jesuits in Rome. Physical sufferings led 
to his return to Spain in 15<si, and to the occupation of 
a writer in behalf of his order as his chief work. He 
was engaged in collecting the materials for a work in- 
tended to describe the services of the Jesuits in Spain 
and India when he died, at Madrid, Oct. 1, 1611. His 
head was found in an uninjured state, it is said, as late 
as 1633. As a thinker, Ribadeneira was characterized 
by credulity; as a writer, by a diffuse storv-telling style 
in the manner of the old legends, whence his name was 
sarcastically transformed into Peter de Badineria, i. c. 
“chatterer.” His works were numerous, and are fully 
given in Zettler’s large Universal- Lexikon. They are 
ascetieal or biographical in nature, though frequently 
devoted specifically to the interests of his order. We 
mention his hires of Ignatius de Loyo- 
la, Borgia, Lainez. and Salmeron : — the 
Flos Sanctorum (transl. into English, 
1669) — all in numerous editions: — the 
Uist.dn Schisme de CAnyleterre (Va- 
lencia, 1588) : — Le Prince Chretien, a 
defence against Machiavelli (Ant.w. 
1597, etc.): — Cataloyus Scriptorum 
Soc. Jesn — a catalogue of Jesuit writ- 
ers, their provinces, colleges, houses, 
etc. (ibid. 1608): also translations from 
Albert t lie Great and Augustine into 
Spanish. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 
See Ai.Kc.vMim. 

Rib'ai (llob.Ribai/', pleadt-r 
[with Jehovah] ; Sept. 'Pi/Iai,' !*///!« i ), 
the father of Ittai, one of David’s mighty men of the 
tribe of Benjamin (2 Sam. xxiii, 29 ; 1 Chron. xi, 31). 
B.C. ante 1020. 

Ribalta, Fuancisco, an eminent Spanish painter, 
was horn at (’astellon de la Plana in 1551. lie studied 
the works of Raphael and Sebastian del Ptombo in Rome, 
and settled in Valencia. Jlis design, color, and compo- 
sition are highly commended. Among his works are a 
hast Supper, a Holy Family , and The Entombment of 
Christ, l ie died in 1628. 

Riband (Numb, xv, 38). See Lack. 

Ribas, Jrvx nn. a Spanish ecclesiastic, was horn at 
Cordova in 1612. He belonged to the Order of Domin- 
icans, and taught for many years in the convent of St. 
Paul at Cordova. His death occurred Nov. 4, 1687. 
Besides sermons and some ascetic treaties, he wrote, 
Sneblo (d Cesar y <i Dios su Chain (1663, fol.): this ap- 
peared under the name of Jose de Zais. Many writers 
have attributed to liihas the, work entitled Teatro ,/esn- 
itico , etc. (Coimbra, 1654. -I to), which hears the name of 
Francisco de la Piedad. This treatise speaks with great 
severity of t lie Jesuits, and was burned by order of rhe 
Inquisition. Ribas denied the authorship of the work, 
lint was known to have written others against the Jesu- 
its, one of which is entitled Jiarrayan bolero. See Erhard, 
Script. Ord. /' nrdicaf .; Goiijct, iu Moreri's Diet. Hist.; 
Peignot, Diet, des I.irres Condamnes, ii, 151 ; Brunet, 


RIBASH 


RIBLAII 


n 



The Kamoa el-Uermel ou the plain of Riblah. 


Manuel du Libraire, — 

Iioefer, Nouv. Bioy. Ge- 
nerate , s. v. 

Ribash. See Isaac 

BEN-SllESUETlI. 

Ribera, Francis- 
co, a Spanish Jesuit and 
commentator, was born 
at Segovia in 1537, and 
was educated at Sala- 
manca. He beeame a 
Jesuit in 1570, and from 
that time was employed 
in interpreting the Scrip- 
tures, tilling the chair of 
professor of divinity in 
the seminary at Sala- 
manca until his death, in 
1591. lie wrote com- 
mentaries on the minor 
prophets, on John (Gos- 
pel and Epistles), Apocalypse, and Epistle to Hebrews; 
also a treatise De Ttmplo , etc. ; and a Life of St. The- 
resa. 

Ribera, Jose, ealled Spaynoletto, a Spanish painter 
and engraver, was born at San-Felipe, Jan. 12, 1588. 
In his youth he was sent to the capital of his native 
province to receive a classical education, but did not 
give himself to that exclusively. Ilis love for art 
gradually drew him away from all else, and he studied 
painting under various masters. It is supposed that his 
peculiar and rather harsh style was gained while under 
the instruction of Michael Angelo Caravaggio at Na- 
ples. Later he went to Rome, to Parma, and other cit- 
ies of Italy, studying and working with diligence. He 
finally settled in Naples, was made court painter, and 
received many favors. In 1630 he was made member 
of the Academy of St. Luke, and in 1644 received from 
the pope the decoration of the Order of Christ. He 
died at Naples in 1656. The works of Ribera deserve 
a place among those of the best engravers and etchers. 
Of bis works in this style may be mentioned, The Mar- 
tyrdom of St. Bartholomew : — Silenns , and a portrait 
of John of Austria. Ilis paintings are numerous; 
in the Louvre is The A duration of the Shepherds, and 
among many in Naples a Deposition from the Cross: 
this is remarkable for a harmony and vigor of tone 
hardly equalled by his other works. See Cean [Ber- 
mudez], Diccionario Historico ; Quillet, Diet, des Pein- 
tres Espagnols ; Caballero, Obserraciones sobra la Pa- 
tria de Ribera (Valencia, 1824, 4to). — Hoefer, Nouv. 
Bioy. Generate , s. v. 

Rib'lah (Ileb. Riblah ', 'rk'2 m \, fertility ; Sept. Af- 
/3 \a$a or B//\a, v. r. P tfiXaSci. 'VafiXadp, 'A^Xad, 
etc.), the name probably of two places. 

1. One of the landmarks on the eastern boundary of 
the land of Israel, as specified by Moses (Numb, xxxiv, 
11). Its position is noted in this passage with much 
precision. • It was between Shepham and the sea of 
Cinnereth, and on the “east side of the spring.” There 
is but one other incidental notice in Scripture tending 
to fix the site of Riblah ; it is said to be “in the land 
of Hamath” (2 Kings xxiii, 33; xxv, 21 ; Jer. lii, 9). 
The land of Hamath lay on the north of the ancient 
kingdom of Damascus. See Hamath. It embraced 
the plain on both sides of the Orontes, extending from 
the eity of Hamath southward to the fountain of the 
Orontes. This position, however, seems inconsistent 
with the preceding, inasmuch as Hazar-enan, the start- 
ing-point from the extreme north of the east border, lay 
at a considerable distance to the east of Hamath (the 
order given being thus: “entrance to Hamath, Zedad, 
Ziphron, Ilazar-enan,” Numb, xxxiv, 8, 9), so that a line 
drawn towards the Sea of Cinnereth (Lake of Tiberias) 
should have gone (one would think) a good deal to the 


east of Riblah; and the Riblah of the boundary-line 
also seems to have been greatly nearer the Galilaean 
lake than the Riblah on the Orontes was, since Riblah 
was the town in the list nearest to the lake. The ren- 
derings of the ancient versions and the Targums only 
serve to confuse the passage. In the Sept, the division 
of the Hebrew words is even mistaken. Thus D 5 12.* 72 
n23’*'!l is rendered d7ro Nf7 rtyaydp \hj\d, joining the 
two first letters of the second word to the first word. 
The Vulg., too, without any authority, inserts the word 
Daphnim; and Jerome affirms that Riblah is identical 
with Antioch {Onomast. s. v. “Reblatha”); In his com- 
mentary on Ezekiel he is still more explicit. He says, 
“From the end, therefore, of the northern side— that is, 
from the temple ( atrio ) Enan — the border extends, ac- 
cording to the book of Numbers, to Sepham, which the 
Hebrews eall Apamia, and from Apamia to Rebla, which 
is now called Antioch of Syria. And that it may be 
known that Rebla means that city which is now the no- 
blest in Ciele-Syria, the words contra jhntevi are added, 

! which, it is manifest, signify Daphne ” {Opera, v. 478, ed. 
j Migne). This singular view appears to be. taken from 
the Targums (Boehart, Opera, i, 431). Some suppose 
that the Daphne here mentioned was the place near the 
. LakeofMerom of which Josephus speaks ( 1 Var, iv, 1,1); 
and that therefore A in may mean one of the fountains 
of the Jordan. With this agrees Parch i, the Jewish trav- 
eller in the 13th and 14th centuries, who expressly di>- 
criminates between the two (see the extracts in Zunz, 
Benjamin, ii, 418), and in our own day J. I). Michaelis 
{Bibel Jur Cnyelehrten ; Suppl. ad Lexica, No. 2313) 
and Bonfrerius, the learned editor of Eusebius's Ono- 
mast icon. So likewise Seliwarz ( Palest . p. 28). But 
Dr. Porter has endeavored to draw the boundarv-line 
in consistency with the position of the Riblah or Ribleh 
above described {B and-boolc for Syria, p. 580) ; and 
Winer, Gesenius, Van de Velde, and others seem to 
have found no difficulty in identifying the Riblah of 
Numbers with that of Jeremiah and the later histor- 
ical books. But Palestine never actually extended thus 
far north, and the arguments of Keil {ad loci) appear 
to us conclusive that another Riblah must there be 
meant south of Mt. Ilermon, perhaps the site afterwards 
called Leshem and Dan, the present Tell el-Kady. See 
Tribe. 

2. Riblah of Hamath lay on the great road between 
Palestine and Babylonia, at which the kings of Baby- 
lonia were accustomed to remain while directing the 
operations of their armies in Palestine and Phoenicia. 
Ilere Nebuchadnezzar waited while the sieges of Jeru- 
salem and of Tyre were conducted by his lieutenants; 
hither were brought to him the wretched king of Ju- 
daea and his sons, and after a time a selection from 
all ranks and conditions of the conquered city, who 
were put to death, doubtless by the horrible torture of 


KICCALTOUN 


8 


RICCI 


impaling, which the Assyrians practiced, ami the long 
lines of r he victims to which arc st ill to he seen on their 
monuments (.ler. xxxix. 5, 0; lii, 9, 10, 20, 27 ; 2 Kings 
xxv, 0, 20, 21). In like manner Pharaoh-necho, after 
his victory over the Babylonians at Carchemish, re- 
turned to Kihlah and summoned Jchnahaz from Jeru- 
salem before liitn (2 Kings xxiii, 33). Kihlah is prob- 
ably mentioned by Ezekiel (vi, 11), though in the pres- 
ent Hebrew text and A. Y. it appears as Diblah or J fib- 
lath (q. v.). 

This Kihlah has no doubt been discovered, still re- 
taining its ancient name, Dibich, on t he right (east) 
bank nfcl-A>y (the t Ironies), upon the great road which 
connects Baalbek and Hums, about thirty-rive miles 
north-east of the former and twenty miles south-west 
of the latter place. It lies about twelve miles east by 
north of its great fountain, which still bears the name 
H-Ain. The advantages of its position for the encamp- 
ment of vast hosts, such as those of Egypt and Baby- 
lon, are enumerated by Dr. Kobinson, wlm visited it in 
1S.V2 ( Jiib. Des. iii, 545). lie describes it as “lying on 
the banks of a mountain stream in the midst of a vast 
and fertile plain yielding the most abundant supplies 
of forage. From this point the roads were open by 
Aleppo and t lie Euphrates to Nineveh, or by Palmyra 
to Babylon . . . by the end of Lebanon and the coast to 
Palestine and Egypt, or through the Bukaa and the 
Jordan valley to the centre of the Holy Land.” It ap- 
pears to have been first alluded to by Buckingham in 
is 1 6 (Arab 'Tribes, p. 481). The most singular object 
in this neighborhood is a monument called Kamoa el- 
l fennel , which stands on a high mound several miles 
farther up the (Ironies than Kihlah (that is, farther 
south), hut distinctly visible from it. It stands on a 
pedestal of t li roe steps, and in the form of two quad- 
rilateral masses rising one above another, the lower or- 
namented with figures of dogs, stags, hunting-instru- 
ments, etc., and terminating in a kind of pyramid, it 
reaches the height of about sixty feet (as given by 
Kobinson), but Van de Velde makes it about twenty 
more (ii, 409). One of tbe corners, the south-west, is 
in a dilapidated state; in other respects it is entire, 
and forms a solid mass of masonry built of large square 
stones. It is known to be of great antiquity; but its 
precise date and object are unknown; and Abtilfeda is 
tin* first writer who is known to have mentioned it. 
Dr. Thomson, who was the lirst to draw attention to it, 
would connect it with the ancient Babylonian dynasty 
(Bib. >S 'acta, May, 1* 17). 

Riccaltoun, Komatr, an eminent divine of the 
Church of Scotland, minister of Hohkirk, was born near 
Jedburgh in 1 (>91, and died 1709. lie wrote, .1 Sober 
Inquiry into (he (J round of the Present Differences in the 
t'lnnch of Scotland (1723, 12mo): — .1 n Inquiry into the 
S/iirit and Tendency of Letters on T heron , etc. (Edin. 

1 7 02, 12mo). After Ii is death, 1771, three volumes of 
his writings were published, edited by Kev. It. Walker: 
vol. i, Pssitys on Human Xatnre, etc. ; vol. ii, Treatise 
on the tienend Plan of fie relation ; vol. iii, Xotes, etc., 
on Galatians. Set* Allihone, Dirt, of fir it, and Amer. 
A u (fairs, s. v. ; Darling, Cyclop. liiblioy. s. v. 

Riccardi, Nt(’roi.o,an Italian theologian. was lmm 
at Henoa in 1585. lie studied iu Spain, joined the Or- 
der of Dominicans, ami in 1013 was chosen to occupy 
the chair of theology at Valladolid, lie soon became 
noted as a preacher, and was called to court. Philip 
II I, charmed with his eloquence, called him a prodigy; 
from this he was familiarly called If Padre Vostro, 
In Kmne his success was equally great; he was iu fa- 
vor with ITbau VII, who made him professor in the 
college of Minerva in 1021, mid in 1029 master of 
the palace, lb* died at Koine, May 30, 1039, As a 
preacher ho was characterized by great passionateness, 
grandeur of imagery, and vigor n( thought. II is writ- 
ings are, Daqiouuim n/i snprn le Utauie di .Vostro Siqnont 
(Koine, 1020,2 vols. fol.) : — Historiir t'oncifii Trident ini 


Pm a cnla tie Synopsis (ibid. 1G27, lGmo), and several mi- 
nor treatises, lie had also gathered materials for sev- 
eral important works, among them a Commentary oil 
the whole Scriptures : — De Christiana Theoloyia, 3 vols. : 
— Adversaria Sacra: — Antiqiuc Lectiones : — besides his 
Sermons. Sec Oldoino, A thena um Liynsticum ; Ery- 
t linens, Pinucotheca ; Eeliard and Quctif, Bibl. Script. 
Ord. Pnedicat. ii, 503; Tiraboschi, Storia della Letter. 
Hal. viii. — lloofer, Xouv. If toy. Gene rale. s. v. 

Riccliini, To mm a so Aoostino, a learned Italian 
ecclesiastic, was born at Cremona iu 1093. At the age 
of fifteen he entered the Dominican order, devoted him- 
self to poetry, and published at Milan several religious 
pieces, lie afterwards taught theology in the principal 
houses of his order in Lombardy, and tilled the office of 
prior at Cremona. Called to Kome in 1740, he became 
iu 1749 secretary of the Congregation of the Index and 
examiner of the bishops. He enjoyed the favor of Ben- 
edict XIV, who often made use of his learning iu liter- 
ary work. In 1759 Kicehini became one of tbe masters 
of the pope's palace. lie died at Kome in 1702. Among 
his numerous works arc, InFunere Benedict! XIII (Kome, 
1730, 4to) : — De Vita Vine. Gotti (ibid. 1742, 8vo) : — Pa- 
tris Monet a' adrersus Cnthnros et Valdenses (ibid. 1743, 
fol.); the lirst edition of this work was accompanied 
with notes and a life of the author: — De Vita et Cult u 
II. Alberti Mllaconiensis (ibid. 178l,8vo): — De Vita ac 
Debus Cardimdis Greyorii Barbidici (ibid. 1701, 4to), 
translated into Italian by Er. Petroui. See Arisi, Cre- 
mona Littenita ; Catalan, De Secret aria S. Conyr. In- 
dicts Lib. II. — lloefcr, Xouv. Bioy. Gene rale, s. v. 

Ricci, Antonio, called liarbelunya, a painter of the 
Neapolitan school, was born at Messina in 1000. He 
went to Kome and studied under Domenichino; in that 
city he left several fine paintings. On his return to his 
native country he executed numerous works which now 
decorate its churches. Among them we mention, the 
Conversion of St. Paul: — an Ascension: — St. Charlis 
Borromeo : — and a very beautiful picture of St. Cecilia 
in a church in Palermo. See Domenici, Vite de ’ Pittvri 
Xapolitani ; Lauzi, Storia Pittorica ; Ticozzi, Dizionu- 
rio ; Guida di Messina ; Mortillaro, Guida di Palermo. 
— lloefcr, Xouv. Bioy. Generate, s. v. 

Ricci, Bartolomeo (1), an Italian scholar, was 
born at Lugo, in Koinagna, in 1190. He studied at Bo- 
logna, Padua, and Venice, and in the last-named city 
had charge of the education of Luigi Cornaro, after- 
wards cardinal. He subsequently taught at Kavcnna. 
II is reputation as instructor gained for him in 1539 the 
position of tutor to Alfonso and Luigi d’ Este, sons of 
I he duke of Ferrara, In 1501 he received from Alfon- 
so letters of nobility with the title of lord ofVendinu. 
Kicci wrote with elegance, but bis style has been criti- 
cised as harsh and unequal. He died in 1509. 11 is 

works have been collected into three volumes, Opera 
(Padua, 1718). See < J. della Casa, Disco r so stdla Vita 
di B. Died, — lloefcr, Xouv. Bioy. Generate, s. v. 

Ricci, Bartolomeo (2), an Italian Jesuit, was 
born at (’astellidardo. lie was master of the novices 
at Nola and at Kome. afterwards provincial of bis order 
in Sicily. He died at Kome, .Inn. 12, 1013. llis works 
arc, 17/o Jesu Christ! e.r Krauyt liorum Coni ext n (Kome, 

11107, 8vo), translated into Italian (ibid. 1009, 4 to): 

'Triumph ns Christ i t'rucijixi (Antwerp, 1008, 4 to) : — Mo- 
nntissuron Pcanyelicu in (Poitiers, 1021, 4 to). See Tira- 
bosrlii, Storia della Litter . Ital. vii. — Iluefer, Xouv. Bioy. 
Gene rale, s. v. 

Ricci, Lorenzo, an Italian Jesuit, was born at 
Florence, Aug. 2, 1703. lie was of a noble family, and 
at a very early age joined tbe Society of Jesus. He 
was employed in various ways, and finally became sec- 
retary-general under Luigi (Vuturione. At tbe death 
of his superior, Kicci was elected to rill bis place, Mav 
21, 1758. But there soon arose those difficulties which 
finally destroyed the order, its members were ban- 


RICCI 


RICCI 


9 


ished from the principal courts of Europe, and Ricci re- | 
ceived from France proposals of reform. To all such 
he replied haughtily that there was nothing to be re- j 
formed in the society, Sint ut sunt , aut non shit. In ! 
January, 1709, several of the states of Europe solicited 
the abolishment of the order from Clement XIII. This 
pope died soon after, and his successor, Clement XIV, 
was also appealed to. lie dually yielded, and on July 
21, 1773, signed an edict which suppressed the entire 
order. Ricci, with his assistants, was transferred to the 
Castle of St. Angelo at Rome, where he died Nov. 24, 
1775. See Carracioli, Vie du P. Ricci; Ch. Sainte-Foi, 
Vie du P. Ricci (2 vols. 12mo); Anti de la Religion . — 
Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Ricci, Matteo, one of the earliest and most suc- 
cessful missionaries of the Romish Church, lie was 
born at Macerata, in Ancona, in 1552, and was early de- 
voted to a clerical life. After a thorough instruction 
in languages and the sciences, he entered the Order of 
Jesuits in 1571. His comprehensive learning, together 
with his shrewdness, led to his being selected some 
years later to undertake the work of re-establishing 
the missions of his Church in China. The Minorite 
Monte Corvino bad founded them so long ago as A.D. 
1294; but the hostility of the resident Nestorian Chris- 
tians, and the opposition of the native religions, Con- 
fucianism, Taoism. and Buddhism, folio wed by the per- 
secutions of the Ming dynasty, had destroyed all the 
fruits of his labors. The Capuchin Caspar de Cruz 
had attempted to reintroduce Christianity into China 
in about A.D. 1522, but without success. Ricci arrived 
with two companions in 1583 and was permitted to set- 
tle at Tsao-King-Fo. Aided by the Jesuit Roger, he 
was even permitted to build a Christian church in the 
immediate vicinity of a Chinese temple. His method 
was to gain the confidence of the people by conforming 
to their manners and prejudices. He assimilated his 
first teachings, for example, to the religious and moral 
tenets of Confucianism; and he constructed a map of 
the world in which lie grouped all other states about 
China as their centre. The Chinese priests were event- 
ually successful, however, in exciting suspicion against 
him, from which he was compelled to flee to the sea- 
port Chow-chu. In 1595 he attempted a visit to Pe- 
kin, but, being considered a Japanese in disguise, he 
was unable to secure a presentation at court. Five 
years later he repeated the undertaking, and was fort- 
unate enough to be selected by the Portuguese as the 
bearer of presents to the emperor; and he so improved 
the opportunity that he was thereafter permitted to 
reside with the other missionaries of his company in 
Pekin itself. Ricci now labored with increased energy 
in his mission. He acquired the respect of the im- 
perial family and of prominent mandarins through his 
mathematical proficiency and through the arts of paint- 
ing ami music. Having given much attention to the 
vernacular, he was able to write a number of books in 
the Chinese language, and to adapt all his sayings and 
writings to the promotion of Christianity. His influ- 
ence extended, in course of time, beyond the precincts 
of the court and the capital, and was felt to the advan- 
tage of his cause in several provinces of the empire. 
The foundations for a durable work appeared to have 
been definitely laid when Ricci died, in 1009. The 
mission immediately felt his loss in the withdrawal of 
the emperor’s favor, and in being obliged to remove 
from the capital for a time. But the services rendered 
by the missionaries to the cause of mathematical sci- 
ence, and even to the State, Were so valuable that they 
were soon permitted to resume their appropriate labors. 
The Jesuits Seliall. Verbiest, Pereira, and others are 
prominent in the subsequent history of Roman Catholic 
missions to China, and the successes realized were large : 
but the entrance of other orders upon this work, e. g. 
the Dominicans and Franciscans, introduced an element 
of discord among the missionaries themselves which 
impaired their usefulness and brought them into dis- 


favor with the Chinese rulers. Incessant persecutions 
followed, extending from 1722 to 1845, which have al- 
most obliterated the traces of the work of Ricci and his 
colleagues. See the art. China in this Cyclopcedia. 
See Trigault, De Christ . Exped. a pud Rinas ex Comm. 
Ricci (Augsburg, 1615, 4to) ; Werthcim, Ricci, in Pletz’s 
Neue theol. Zeitschr. (Vienna, 1833), No. 3 ; Schall, Ite- 
latio de Initio et Progr. Missionis Roc. Jesu apud Chi- 
nenses (Ratisbon, 1672, and with Notes by Mannsegg. 
Vienna, 1834) - ; Du I I aide, Descript, de IEmp.de la Chine 
(Paris, 1736; German, with Mosheim’s introd., Rostock, 
4 vols. 4to) ; Gutzlaff. History of China (Canton, 1833; 
German by Bauer, Quedlinb. 1836, 2 vols.; and with 
continuation by Neumann, Stuttgart, 1847); Wittmann, 
Ilerrlichkcil d. Ki'rche in ihren Missiouen (Augsburg, 
1841, 2 vols.) ; Gesch. d. kathol. Missiouen bis anf unsere 
Zeit (Vienna, 1845) ; Hue, Chines. Reich (Leipsic, 1856, 
2 vols.). Comp. Gieseler, Lehrb. d. Kirchengesch. Ill, ii, 
658 sq. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Ricci, Michael Angelo, a learned Italian ecclesi- 
astic, was born in Rome in 1619. I (e was created a car- 
dinal in 1681, and died in 1683. He was skilled in math- 
ematical sciences, and published at Rome (4to) Exerci- 
tatio Geometrica, which was reprinted in London, and 
annexed to Mercator’s Logarithmotechnia. See Landi, 
Hist. Lit. d' Italic; Fabroni, Vitie Hal. vol. ii. 

Ricci (Lat. Rictus), Paul, was a convert from Ju- 
daism in the 16th century. For a time he was professor 
at Padua, in Italy, when the emperor Maximilian 1 ap- 
pointed him as his physician. Ricci was especially fa- 
mous as a Cabalist, and translated a large portion of Jo- 
seph Gikatilla’s cabalistic work entitled fins 
( The Gates of Light), \\ hich he dedicated to Maximilian, 
and which Reuehlin used very largely. Erasmus was 
his special friend, whom he also defended against Ste- 
phen the Presbyter, who had attacked the Cabala, as can 
be seen from a letter of Erasmus, dated March 10, 1516: 
“ Paul us Ricci ns sic me proximo colloquio rapid t,ut mira 
quredam me sitis habeat cum homine sa?piuset familiari- 
us consereudi sermones.” To his former coreligionists he 
endeavored to prove the truth of Christianity philosoph- 
ically. Living in a time when the Turks were the terror 
of the European nations, he used his influence to bring 
about a union between the Christians against their 
common foe by publishing his In Virulent am hnmanis - 
simamque Turcarum Rabiem, ad Principes, M agist rat ns , 
Populosque Germanue (Augsburg, 1546). Of his nu- 
merous writings we only mention, Rtatera Prndentium, 
a mystical treatise on Moses, the Law, Christ, and the 
Gospels (s.loc. 1532): — Opuscula Varia (printed by Burg- 
frank, Pavia, 1510, and often). See Fiirst, Bib/. Judaica , 
iii, 155; Wolf, Biblioth. Ilebr. i, 966; Jdehcr, Getehrtcn- 
Lexikon, s. v. ; Adams, llist. of the Jews, i, 346; Bayle, 
Dictionnaire, s. v. " Riccio Kalkar, Israel u. die Kirche , 
p. 87 ; Levita, Massoreth ha-M assoreth (ed. Ginsburg), 
p. 9; Griitz, Gesch . d. Jit den , ix, 193 sq.; Pick, Mission 
among the Jars', in the Quar. Rev. (Gettysburg, 1876: 
reprinted in the Jewish I ntelligencer, Loud., Nov. and 
Dee., 1876), p. 368. (B. P.) 

Ricci, Scipione, bishop of Pistojaand Prato, in the 
duchy of Tuscany, was born at Florence Jan. 9, 1741, of 
parents belonging to an ancient and honorable family. 
He was early brought under Jansenistie influence, and 
developed the tendencies so received while pursuing his 
theological studies with the Florentine Benedictines. 
In 1766 he became a priest, and soon afterwards a canon 
and auditor at the nunciature of Florence. In 1775 he 
visited Rome, on the occasion of the enthronement of 
pope Pius VI, and became acquainted with the intrigues 
of the papal court, which sought in vain to secure his 
adhesion. He returned to Florence, and became vicar- 
general to the archbi.shop. in which capacity he intro- 
duced a Jansenist Catechism. In 1780 he was made 
bishop. In connection with duke Leopold of Tuscany, 
he now attempted to carry through reforms similar to 
those effected by Joseph II in the empire of Austria. 


KICCI 


10 KICK 


The inquiries instituted with reference to the state of 
nunneries, etc., revealed scandalous irregularities and 
crimes against morality carried to even unnatural 
lengths; Imt the removal of Leopold to ascend the 
throne of the German empire, soon after the Synod of 
Listoja (q.\\), brought the reformatory career of Kicci 
to a close hy depriving him of his protector. The op- 
position of the populace caused him to resign his bish- 
opric. and the papal bull Auctorem Fidei annulled the 
decrees of the Synod of Pistoja (Aug. 28, 1705). lie 
submitted to t lie papal decision, after a long struggle, in 
1700, was subsequently imprisoned on political grounds, 
and died in 1810. See He Potter, Vie de Sc. de Ricci 
(liruwcls, 1825, 3 vols. ; German, Stuttg. 1 vols.). 
— Herzog, Real- Eucyklop. s. v. 

Ricci, Sebastiano, a painter of t he Venetian 
school, was born at Helium) in 1050. At the age of 
twelve he entered the studio of Cervelli, wlm took him 
to Milan, lie there studied under Lisamlrino, and af- 
terwards went to Hologna. Kecciving the patronage of 
t lie duke of Parma, Kicci was enabled to go to Home to 
study design, lie remained there until HUM, and spent 
several subsequent years in travelling through Europe, 
leaving his pictures in many of the most important 
cities, lie dually settled in Venice, where he remained 
during the rest of his life. lie died in 1734. The paint- 
ings of Kicci are noted for the nobility of the figures, 
grace of attitude, correctness of design, and brilliancy 
of coloring. Nevertheless, lie never seemed able to rid 
his works of a certain disagreeable mannerism. Among 
those in Florence are a St. Charles and St. Gregory Cele- 
brating Mass; at the Museum of Dresden, an Ascension 
and Christ Giving to Peter the Kegs of Paradise. See 
Orlnndi, .1 bbecedario; Lanzi, Storia Rittoricu ; Tieozzi, 
Dizionario; Hcrtohizzi, Guidadi Parma , — lloefer, A ’one. 
Riog. Generate, s. v. 

Ricciarelli, Danibi.k (called Daniel of Volterra), 
a painter and sculptor of the Florentine school, was born 
at Volterra. in Tuscany, in 1500. lie studied design 
under Soduina. and afterwards under Peruzzi at Siena. 
On going to Home, he became a pupil of Pierino del 
Vaga, and assisted bis master in adorning the Vatican 
and other buildings, lie became a friend of Michael 
Angelo, who procured lbr him the patronage of pope 
Paul 111, and continued his work in the Vatican after 
the death of his master Pierino. A great deal of the suc- 
cess <if Kiceiarelli was due to Angelo, who often furnish- 
ed designs for his paintings and gave him valuable ad- 
vice. The Descent from the Cross, considered one of the 
three finest paintings in Koine, owes much of its renown 
to the assistance which Kiceiarelli received from his 
friend. Were this his only work, he would have ranked 
among the greatest of Italian masters, but many of his 
other pictures have a sad lack of expression. On the 
death of Paul II I, Kiceiarelli lost his position as superin- 
tendent of the works of the Vatican, and gave himself 
thenceforth to sculpture, lie modelled the sculptures 
of Michael Angelo in the chapel of St. Lorenzo in Flor- 
ence; and while engaged upon an equestrian statue of 
Henry It of France, he died suddenly, in Infill. In the 
l/mvre is a bas-relief of Christ Placed in the Tomb, at- 
tributed to Kiceiarelli. Among his minor paintings are 
Massacre of the Innocents and Martyrdom of St. Cecilia 
at Florence; at Dresden, a Holy Family (after Michael 
Angelo); and in the Louvre, Dadd Killing Goliath. 
Nee Vasari, 17/e; Lanzi. Storia Rittoricu; Pistolesi, De- 
srrizinne di Roma. lloefer, Sour. Ring. Generali, s. v. 

Riccio, Domenico, a painter of the Venetian 
school, was born at Verona in I KM, After receiving 
the instructions of Giolliuo, he went to Venice to study I 
the works of Giorgione and Titian. lie decorated Mie 
ducal palace at Mantua, and at Verona left many cele- 
brated frescos. He died in I5il7. Among his works are 
Conversion of St. Rani; Marriage of St. Catharine : — 
Resurrection of Lazarus : — The Samaritan , and The Res- 
urrection tf t 'heist. See Kidolti, I ' ite degti / llustri Rittori 


1 'eneti; Beunasnti, Guida di Verona. — lloefer, Xouv. 
Riog. Generate , s. v. 

Riccio, Felice, an Italian painter, son of the pre- 
ceding, was born at Verona in 1540. A pupil of bis 
father, he continued his studies at Florence under Ja- 
copo Ligozzi. Here he acquired an entirely different 
style from that of his father. His Madonnas have much 
grace and delicacy, and he excelled in portrait-painting, 
lie painted many small pictures upon stone. His larger 
paintings arc almost innumerable; among them are.l</o- 
ration of the Magi: — Descent f non the Cross: — St. Lucia 
and St. Catharine: — a colossal St. George, and a fresco on 
the facade of a house at Verona. See Kidolti, 1 7/e degh 1 1- 
lustri Rittori I 'eneti, — lloefer, A our. Ring. Generate, s. v. 

Riccioli, Giovanni Hattista. an Italian astrono- 
mer and Jesuit, was born at Ferrara in 1598, and was 
professor of philosophy, theology, etc., at Hologna and 
Parma. P»v authority of his superiors, he devoted him- 
self to astronomy, that he might confute the Coperniean 
system, which he attempted to do in his Ahnagestum 
Xocunt (1051, 2 vols.). According to his theory, the 
sun, moon. Jupiter, and Saturn revolve around the 
eartli ; while Mercury, Venus, and Mars are satellites of 
the sun. He also published an able treatise on mathe- 
matical geography and hydrography in 1001, and .1 s- 
tronomu r Refonnata in 1005. He died in 1071. See 
Fabroni, Vitie Italornni J)oc. Excel.; Tiraboschi, Storia 
della Let feral ura Jtaliana. — Hoeler, Xouv. Riog. Ge- 
nerate, s. v. 

Rice, Aaron, a Methodist preacher, was a native 
of Green County, Ky. Of his early history ami his con- 
version, little is known. lie became a member of tbe 
Louisville Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church, 
South, and was long esteemed as an able and reputable 
minister, lie died Sept. 9, 1840. — -Minutes oj Annual 
Conf. M. E. Church, South, 1840. 

Rice, David, a Presbyterian minister, was born in 
Hanover Comity, Va., Dee. 20, 1733. lie began his clas- 
sical studies under the Kev. John Todd, and went to New 
Jersey College in 1759, becoming a member of the junior 
class, lie graduated in 1701 ; was licensed to preach by 
the Presbytery of Hanover, Nov., 1702; and was ordain- 
ed and installed pastor of Hanover Church, Va., Dee., 
1703. Giving up this charge, lie afterwards preached 
for about ten years in Medford County, Va., migrating 
to Kentucky in Oct., 1783, where he labored for fifteen 
years. In 1798 he removed to Green County, but did 
not take any pastoral charge. 51 r. Kice assisted in the 
establishment of Hampden Sidney College, was one of 
the trustees of the Transylvania University, and presi- 
dent of the hoard from 1783 to 1787. The following is 
a list of his publications: Essay on Baptism (1789): — 
Lecture on Dirine. Decrees (1791) : — Slavery Inconsistent 
v'ith . lustier , etc. (1793, 12mo): — .la Epistle (1805): — 
Second Epistle (1808) : — Letters and Sermons.— Sprague, 
.4 mails if the . I mer. Pulpit, iii, 24ti. 

Rice, Edward, D.D., an English clergyman, was 
educated at Christ’s Hospital, whence lie was elected 
as an exhibitioner to Trinity College, Cambridge, in 
1813. lie was one of the classical masters of Christ’s 
Hospital in 1820; vicar of Ilorlcv, Surrey, in 1827; 
head-master of Christ’s Hospital in I83t>; and died in 
1853. lie published several sermons: On Liturgies 
(Loud. 1820, 8vo): — On the Coronation of George IV 
(ibid. 1821, 8vo): — Two Sermons on the Romish Church , 
etc. (ibid. 1829, 8vo), See Loud. Gent. Mag. March, 1853. 
j). 310. See Allibone. Diet, of Rrit. and A mer. A nth. 
s. v. ; Darling, t ‘yclop. Rib/ing. s. v. 

Rice, Henry Leffler, a Dutch Keformed minister, 
was the son of Henry and Elizabeth (Letllcr) Kice, ami 
was born in Washington Comity, Ky., June 25, 1795. 
Mis early education was conducted by the Kev. James 
Vance, of Kentucky, who took young Kice for some years 
into his own home. After spending three years in 
Transylvania University, Kv., he was graduated from 


RICE 


II 


RICE 


that institution in the class of 1818. Having early ex- 
perienced the renewing grace of God, in his sixteenth 
rear lie united, by a public profession of his faith, with 
the Presbyterian Church at Corydon, Ind. Immedi- 
ately after leaving t lie university, he entered the theo- 
logical seminary at Princeton, N. J., whence he was 
regularly graduated in three years, after passing through 
the full course of study. He was licensed by the Pres- 
bytery of New Brunswick, Oct. 3, 18*21, and was ordain- 
ed as an evangelist bv the same presbytery, Oct. 2, 
18*2*2. After his ordination he spent two years in mis- 
sion work in new portions of the West, and then return- 
ed to New Jersey, where lie accepted a call to become 
pastor of the Dutch Reformed Church at Spottswood, 
and was installed in September, 18*25. Here he labored 
faithfully and successfully about eight years, until he 
was released by his classis, April 16, 1834, in order that 
he might accept a call to the German Reformed Church 
in Chambersburg, Pa., over which latter charge he was 
installed in May, 1834, and in which he continued until 
his death. While residing in Chambersburg, he be- 
came profoundly interested in the literary and theolog- 
ical institutions of the German Reformed Church lo- 
cated at Mercersburg, and in the fall of 183G he was 
induced to undertake an agency on their behalf, his 
pulpit being supplied, meanwhile, by neighboring min- 
isters. For a considerable time he was president of the 
Board of Trustees of Marshall College at Mercersburg. 
After his removal to Mercersburg he studied the Ger- 
man language, and so thoroughly mastered it as to 
preach occasionally in that tongue to the German peo- 
ple in his vicinity, to their great delight. While pros- 
ecuting the above-mentioned agency with great ener- 
gy and success, he was stricken down by fever, and died 
at Chambersburg, May, 3, 1837. Mr. Rice married, in 
18*21, Miss Gertrude Van Dyke, youngest daughter of 
Matthew Van Dyke, of Mapleton, four miles from Prince- 
ton, N. J. She was a woman of estimable character 
and fervent piety. She died June 9, 1837, about a 
month after her husband. Mr. Rice was a man oflarge 
culture and of extraordinary piety, energy, and influ- 
ence. (W. P. S.) 

Rice, John H. (1), a Presbyterian minister, was 
born at Sharon, N. Y., March 9,1800. He received a 
good academical education, studied theology in Auburn 
Seminary, N. V., was licensed and ordained in 1832, and 
subsequently became pastor of the following churches: 
Cambria, N. Y.; Beamsville and Grimsby, C. W.; Rut- 
land, N.Y.; Barton, C. W.; Grand Haven, Mich.; Gowan- 
da and Sheridan, N.Y.; Wattsburg and Wayne, Pa.; Clv- 
mer, N. Y. ; Middlebrook and Green, Pa. He died in the 
latter place, June 21, 1858. Mr. Rice was at one time an 
agent for the American Tract Society. He was a faith- 
ful laborer and devoted servant of Christ. See Wilson, 
Presb. Ilist. Almanac, 1860, p. 122. (J. L. S.) 

Rice, John H. (2), a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was born in Middle Tennessee, 
Dec. 26, 18*26. He professed religion and joined the 
Methodist Episcopal Church in 1839. He was admit- 
ted on trial into the Arkansas Conference Nov. 9, 1849, 
ordained deacon Nov. 9, 1851, and elder Nov. 20. 1853. 
He continued in active service until 1857, when he lo- 
cated. He joined the Confederate army in 1863, was re- 
admitted into the Arkansas Conference Oct. 21, 1863, 
and appointed chaplain of Colonel Shaver’s regiment, 
lie was killed in a skirmish with United States troops, 
March 25, 18G4. For many years he had been a faith- 
ful minister, an able defender of the doctrines of his 
Church, and a bold dispenser of truth. See Minutes of 
Annual Conferences , M. E. Church , South, 1864, p. 529. 

Rice, John Holt, D.D., a Presbyterian minister, 
was born near New London, Bedford County, Va., Nov. 
28, 1777. He became tutor in Hampden Sidney Col- 
lege, Va., in October, 1796, and on Sept. 12, 1803, was 
licensed to preach. On Sept. 29, 1804, he was ordained 
and installed pastor of the church at Club Creek, still 


retaining his connection with the college until the lat- 
ter end of the year, when he resigned his tutorship and 
removed to a small farm in Charlotte County. Here, 
his salary being insufficient, he also opened a school, 
and thus continued until 1812, when he became pastor 
of Mason’s Hall, Richmond, Ya. In May, 1816, became 
to New York as a representative of the Bible Society of 
Virginia at the formation of the American Bible Socie- 
ty. lie afterwards attended the meeting of the Gen- 
eral Assembly at Philadelphia, where he was often sent 
again as a delegate from his presbytery. He was elect- 
ed president of the College of New Jersey Sept. 26, 
1822, as well as professor in the Union Theological Sem- 
inary in Prince Edward County, Ya., on Nov. 16 of the 
same year: he only accepted the latter and resigned 
his pastoral charge, lie entered upon Ins professor- 
ship Jan. 1, 18*24. In May, 1830, he came to New York, 
where he delivered one of the series of the Murray 
Street Lectures. After this his health gradually de- 
clined until his death, Sept. 3, 1831. Dr. Rice started, 
in 1815, and published for a time the Christian Monitor, 
the first weekly religious newspaper which appeared in 
.Richmond. In January, 1818. he published the first 
number of the Virginia Evangelical and Literary Mag- 
azine, which he continued till 1829. His other writings 
are, a memoir of S. Davies and of Rev. J. B. Taylor; 
also a number of occasional sermons, addresses, and 
pamphlets, among which we will notice his Historical 
and Philosophical Considerations on Religion, addressed 
to James Madison, Esq. (the ex-president), which, after 
being first published as successive articles in the South- 
ern Religious Telegraph in 1830, appeared in a small 
volume in 1832. See Sprague, A nnals of the Amer. 
Pulpit , iv, 325. 

Rice, John Jay, a Presbyterian minister, was the 
son of Gabriel and Phebe (Garrard) Rice, and brother 
of Rev. Nathan L. Rice, I).D. He was born in Garrard 
County, Ivy., Sept. 7, 1804, and received his early educa- 
tion wholly in the country schools in the neighborhood 
of his father’s residence. At the age of fourteen he en- 
tered Centre College at Danville, Ky., but, after staying 
a short time, he returned home. Subsequently he again 
entered Centre College and remained two years, but did 
not graduate. While at college he and his brother 
Nathan were both converted during a glorious revival 
which occurred in Danville. Soon after, having de- 
voted himself to the work of the ministry, he began to 
study theology under Rev. James C. Barnes, a widely 
know'll pastor and preacher of Kentucky, at the same time 
laboring in Mr. Barnes’s and neighboring churches. lie 
w*as licensed by the Transylvania Presbytery, April 2, 
1827, but soon became convinced that he was not so 
well furnished as to make full proof of his ministry, and 
went as a licentiate to Princeton Theological Semina- 
ry, where lie studied two years, 1829-31. While a 
student in the seminary he resided at Dutch Neck, 
about four miles south of Princeton, and statedly sup- 
plied the Church at that place, with frequent help from 
his brother Nathan. The preaching of the two broth- 
ers made a deep impression upon the people of Dutch 
Neck. Many w*ere hopefully converted. The broth- 
ers were regarded with strong affection, and their names 
are held in tender and loving remembrance to this day 
among the people of the region. Having returned to 
Kentucky at the end of his second year in the semina- 
ry, Mr. Rice ivas ordained April 5, 1833, by the Presby- 
tery of Ebenezer, and soon became widely popular as a 
preacher. In the years 1832-34 lie preached as stated 
supply to the Church at Millerslmrg, Ky., and from 
1834-35 at Maysville, Ky. But, alas! the hand of a 
fatal pulmonary disease was soon laid upon the zealous 
and eloquent preacher. After aiding his brother Na- 
than for tivo or three years in editing a religious paper 
wliieli the latter had started, he felt constrained to try 
a milder climate, and went to Florida. There, from Tal- 
lahassee as a centre, he travelled much in Central Flori- 
da, and his soul was aroused at sight of the ignorance 


RICE 


12 


RICE 


of the people and their destitution of Gospel privileges. 
Although sick, he must preach ; and he did preach until 
he had utterly exhausted his remaining strength, lie 
was at length seized with a high congestive fever, and 
died at Quincy, Fla.. Sept. 10. 1810. lie was a bright 
and shining iight. llis abilities were extraordinary. 
11 is pulpit gifts were highly attractive, llis spirit was 
Christ-like, tender, loving, full of zeal. Mr. Mice mar- 
ried. May 5, 18*20, Miss Emily Craig Welsh, of Lincoln, 
Kv., and at his death left only one child, a little daugh- 
ter. who still survives (1878). Had he lived to a good 
old age, Air. Lice would unquestionably have been one 
of the most prominent and illustrious ornaments of the 
American pulpit. (W. l’.S.) 

Rice, Luther, a Baptist minister, was born in 
Xorthborough, Mass., March 25, 1783, graduated at Will- 
iams College in 1810, and immediately entered the 
Congregational Theological Seminary at Andover, lie 
was ordained as a foreign missionary Feb. G, 1812, and 
sailed a few days after for Calcutta; but his views on 
baptism having, in the meantime, undergone a change, 
lie joined the Baptist Church on his arrival there, and 
came back to this country for the purpose of waking up 
the Baptist churches to an effort in behalf of foreign 
missions, lie was the chief motor of the formation of 
the Baptist General Convention in 1814. He after- 
wards became agent of the Columbian College, for the 
establishment of which he had zealously labored, and 
with which he remained connected until his death, 

Sept. 25, 1836 Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit , 

vi. GO 2. 

Rice, Nathan, a Methodist minister, was born 
•Tune 10, 171)2. in Coventry, K. 1. llis mother was a 
member of the Freewill-Baptist Church, and the first 
sermon he heard by a Methodist minister was from Lev. 
William Jewett, lie united with the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church in Lee, Mass., at the age of seventeen 
years. In 1819 he joined the New York Conference, 
and continued in active service until 1854, when, worn 
down with labor, he took a superannuated relation. 
Mr. Bice was a true patriot, an example of simplicity, 
unmurmuring, of a kind and sympathetic nature which 
delighted in the welfare of others. His death, which 
occurred at Washingtonville, N. Y., Feb. 21, 1864, was 
very happy, a fit closing of such a life. — Minutes of An- 
mud Conferences , .1/. K. Church , 1864. 

Rice, Nathan Lewis, D.D., a Presbyterian min- 
ister, was born in Garrard Comity, Ivy., Dec. 29, 1807 ; 
died June 1 1, 1877. To procure funds to enable him to 
obtain an education preparatory to the study of law, he 
taught a school at the early age of sixteen. At the 
age of eighteen he united with the Presbyterian Church, 
lie entered Centre College, Danville, Ivy., in the fall of 
1826, and during a part of Ins course was a teacher of 
Latin in the preparatory department. After remaining 
some years, without graduating heentered upon thestudy 
of theology, and at the close of the year was licensed 
to preach bv the Transylvania Presbytery. Feeling 
the need of a more thorough preparation for the work 
of the ministry, he entered Princeton Theological Sem- 
inary, where, during his course, he became known for 
his large attainments and extraordinary ability. He 
accepted a call to the Presbyterian C’hureh at Bards- 
town. Ivy., and was ordained and installed in 1833. 
The more effectually to counteract the efforts at prose- 
lyting by the Bomaii Galholie college at that place, he 
established an academy for girls, and subsequently one 
for boys, and also founded a newspaper called the HVs/- 
ern Protestant, which was afterwards merged in the 
Presbyterian Herald of Louisville, lie continued in 
this pn-toral relation for eight years, and became, in 
1811, staled supply fort lie Clmrch at Paris, Ky. While 
here he entered into a discussion with Alexander Camp- 
bell, the president of Bethany College, Ya., on the sub- 
ject of baptism. The debate was held in Lexington. 
Kv. The moderators consisted of some of the most 


| eminent lawyers of the state, among whom was Henry 
Clay. This discussion created a wide and intense in- 
i teresl throughout the country, and brought out the full 
power of Dr. Bice as a disputant, and gained for him the 
reputation of being the greatest polemic of the age. 
The debate was written out by the disputants and pub- 
lished in a large octavo volume, which was extensively 
circulated. Soon after, Dr. Bice received a call to the 
Central Presbyterian Church, Cincinnati, O., and enter- 
ed upon his duties as its pastor in 1844. lie was in- 
stalled June 12, 1845. He was in labors more abun- 
dant, and in connection with his work as pastor he wrote 
several volumes, taught classes of candidates for the 
ministry, held a debate with the now archbishop Pur- 
cell of Cincinnati, which was published in a volume, 
also a debate with the Bev. Mr. Filigree of the Univer- 
salist Church of that city. Calls came to him from 
every quarter, so extensive had become bis fame. In 
1853, on the death of Dr. Potts, lie accepted a call to the 
Second Presbyterian Church of St. Louis, Mo., and was 
installed Oet. 9 of the same year. He edited, besides 
his other labors, the St. Louis Presbyterian, and pub- 
lished several books. At the meeting of the General 
Assembly in Nashville, Tenn., in 1855, he was elected 
moderator. In 1858 he accepted a call to the North 
Presbyterian Church, Chicago, 111. The Church was 
small and weak, but under his labors it grew strong and 
flourishing. While there he edited the Presbyterian 
Expositor. In May, 1859, he was elected by the Gen- 
| eral Assembly to the professorship of didactic and po- 
I lemic theology in the North-west 'rheological Seniina- 
[ rv at Chicago, which duties he performed in addition 
i to pastoral work. In 1861 he was called to the Fifth 
i Avenue Church in the city of New York, to succeed 
I)r. J. W. Alexander, deceased. Here his labors proved 
too great for his strength, and he sought release in 1867, 
and retired to a farm near New Brunswick, N. J. Al- 
ter resting a year, he was called to the presidency of 
Westminster College, Mo., where he remained until 
1874, when he was elected to the chair of didactic and 
polemic theology in the theological seminary at Dan- 
ville, Ivy. Here he performed his last earthly labors; 
and at the close of the session in 1877, having become 
! greatly impaired in health, he sought retirement and 
rest at the residence of his brother-in-law in Bracken 
I Comity, Kv., where within the brief space of one month, 

I with a mind full of peace and holy joy, he left earth for 
| heaven. (W. P. S.) 

Rice, Pllineas, D.D.. an eminent Methodist preach- 
er, was born in the State of Vermont in 1786. Having 
been converted when about sixleen years of age, he was 
soon called to publicly exercise his gifts, lie was re- 
ceived on trial in the New York Conference in 1807, 
and was sent to labor as junior preacher on the Gran- 
ville Circuit. The ministry of Dr. Bice extended over 
a period of fiftv-fonr years, and each year during all that 
long period he was returned effective, and received reg- 
ularly his appointment. He labored on circuits sixteen 
years, in stations eleven, and in the presiding elder’s of- 
liee twenty-eight years, excepting the last year, which 
was not completed at the time ol his death. He was a 
member of every General Conference from 1820 to 1856, 
inclusive. lie received the degree of I>,1). from Wes- 
leyan University. Dr. Bice was a marked man in ev- 
ery respect. llis piety was deep, fervent, and abiding, 
and he was eminently a man of prayer. ScrupidouHv 
| punctual, industrious, and sclf-sacri living, he was a wise 
; counsellor and a true friend. He had a natural vein of 
pleasantry, and his conceptions were not iinfrequently 
(piaint, and quaintly expressed. Even when in the pul- 
pit, at times a facetious remark, evidently unpremedi- 
tated, would cause his hearers to smile. These smiles 
were not seldom suddenly followed by tears as the 
preacher passed from one phase of his subject to anoth- 
er. llis pathos and tenderness were strangely blended 
with his wit and humor; and if one could have wished 
that there had been less of the latter qualities, it was 


RICE 


13 


RICHARD 


nevertheless evident that there was in them no bitter- 
ness, no harshness, no undue severity. As an expound- 
er of ecclesiastical law and an administrator of the dis- 
ci plinc Dr. Kice had few equals. During the last months 
of his life he suffered greatly but patiently, and calm- 
ly contemplated the approach of death, which came 
Dec. 4, 1801. See Minutes of the Conferences , Meth. 
Episc. Church , 1862, p. 70. 

Rice, William H., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Shelby County, Ky., July 15, 1827. Mis early 
education was thorough ; his collegiate studies were 
pursued in Wabash College, I ml., and llanover College, 
Ind. He spent one year in the theological seminary at 
New Albany, Ind., was licensed to preach in April, 1853, 
and ordained the same year by Vincennes Presbytery, 
and preached as stated supply for the Church at Hock- 
port, Ind. In 1854 he removed to Texas, in the hope of 
restoring his health by a warmer climate. While there 
he preached for the churches at Palestine and Mound 
Prairie, in the bounds of the Eastern Texas Presbytery. 
In 1858 he resigned his charge, went to Alabama, and 
finally, in 1859, returned to Indiana, where he died, Sept. 
27, 1859. Mr. Kice had a mind that was clear and pen- 
etrating, and his preaching powers were excellent. See 
Wilson, Presb. Hist . Almanac, 1861, p. 106. (J. L. S.) 

Rich, Claudius James, an Oriental traveller, was 
born March 28, 1787. His researches as a pioneer ex- 
plorer of Oriental countries were patient and protracted, 
and, though not able to sink his shafts as deep as Lay- 
ard and other modern explorers, his labors are equally 
worthy of regard. Even as scientists have been sup- 
planted by after-discoveries, so the time may come when 
Wilkinson and Lavard, and Schliemann and Cesnola, 
may be outdone by future explorers. The works of Kich 
are entitled, Memoires sur les Rubies de Babylon (1812) : 
— Narrative of a Residence in Koordistan (1836), He 
died Oct. 5, 1821. (W. P. S.) 

Rich, Edmund, St, (French Saint- Edme), arch- 
bishop of Canterbury, was born in Abingdon, Berkshire, 
about 1190. Haying studied at Oxford, he graduated 
in theology at the University of Paris, and lectured there 
for some time on Scripture. He taught philosophy at 
Oxford from 1219 to 1226, enjoying also a prebend in 
Salisbury. On April 2, 1234, he was consecrated arch- 
bishop of Canterbury, enforcing discipline, by authority 
given by the king, in spite of the opposition of clergy 
and others. Pope Gregory IX appointing Italians to 
vacancies, Edmund deemed this an abuse of the papal 
power, and, about 1239, retired to the Cistercian abbey 
of Pontigny, in France. Being in feeble health, he 
went to Soissy, in Champagne, where he died. He was 
canonized in 1246 by Innocent IV. Among his works 
are, Constitutions, in thirty-six canons, found in Labbe’s 
edition of the Councils: — Speculum Ecclesice, in vol. iii 
of Bibliotheca Patrum, A manuscript Life of St. Ed- 
mund, by his brother Kobert. is preserved in the Bod- 
leian library; another by Bertrand, his secretary, was 
published in Martene’s Thesaurus Anecdotorum. See 
Appletons' Cyclopcedia, s. v. 

Rich, John, a minister of the Methodist Episcopal 
Church, South, was born in Davie County, N. C., Oct. 
10, 1815. His conversion took place in 1837, he was 
licensed to preach in 1839, and was received into the 
North Carolina Conference in 1840. During the suc- 
ceeding ten years of his laborious and useful life he filled 
many of the most important appointments in the con- 
ference with great acceptability. At the conference of 
1850 he was superannuated, and on Oct. 25, 1851, he 
died. His distinguishing traits were clearness and pen- 
etration of thought, childlike simplicity, and unaffected 
pietv. — Minutes of Annual Coif, M, E, Church, South, 
1851, p. 345. 

Rich, Obadiah, an American bibliopole, was born 
in 1783. He published several works bearing on bibli- 
ography, but that for which he was most distinguished 


was the Bibliotheca Americana Nova, lie died Jan. 
20, 1850. (W. P. S.) 

Richard of Armagh — whose real name was Fitz- 
Rulpb, and whose historical name is Armachanus — was 
born in Devonshire, England, or, according to some, at 
Dundalk, in Ireland. He was educated at Oxford 
— first at University and then at Baliol College, lie 
graduated as doctor of divinity, and in 1333 was com- 
missary-general of that university, llis first Church 
promotion was to the chancellorship of the Church of 
Lincoln, July, 1331; he was next made archdeacon of 
Chester, in 1336; and dean of Lichfield, April, 1337. At 
Oxford he opposed the affectation and irregularities of 
the mendicant friars. In 1347 he was advanced to the 
archbishopric of Armagh, and still continued his oppo- 
sition to the friars, who became so incensed at his ex- 
posure of them that they had him cited before Innocent 
VI at Avignon, where he defended his opinions with 
great firmness, but was decided against by the pope. 
He died at Avignon, Nov. 16, 1360, not without suspi- 
cion of poison. He was unquestionably a man of great 
talents and sound judgment. Perhaps his best pane- 
gyric is his being ranked, by some Catholic writers, 
among heretics. He is said by Bale to have translated 
the New Test., by Fox, the whole Bible, into Irish. His 
published works are, Defensio Curatorum adrersus Era - 
tres Mendicantes (Paris, 1496) : — Sennones Quatuor ad 
Crucem (Loud. 1612). 

Richard ok Bury, an English prelate, was born at 
St.Edmimdsburv, Suffolk, in 1281. His family name was 
Richard A nger rille, or A m/a mile. He was educated at 
Oxford, and became tutor to prince Edward (afterwards 
Edward III). Having been sent on a mission to the 
pope, he formed a friendship with Petrarch, and was ap- 
pointed bishop of Durham in 1333. He was made high 
chancellor of England in 1334; treasurer of England in 
1336; co-ambassador to France twice in 1338. lie died 
in 1345. Kichard was a man of great erudition, for his 
day, and a liberal patron of learning, as well as a great 
collector of books, which he devised to a company of 
scholars at Oxford, and which were deposited in a hall 
once occupying the site of Durham (now Trinity) Col- 
lege. For an estimate of his character, see Jnrtin, Re- 
marks on Eccles. Hist, ii, 394. 1 1 is Philobiblon de A more 
Librorum (Cologne, 1473, 4to) was translated into Eng- 
lish (Loud. 1832, 8vo); the American edition was col- 
lated and corrected, with notes, by Samuel Hand (Al- 
bany, 1861, 12mo and 8vo). See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, 
and A vier. A nthors, s. v. 

Richard of Cirencester (so called from his birth- 
place, in Gloucestershire, England) — in Latin Ricardus 
Corinensis — was born in the first half of the 14th 
century. Nothing is known of his family or circum- 
stances. In 1350 he entered the Benedictine monastery 
of St. Peter, Westminster (whence he is sometimes called 
the “Monk of Westminster”), and remained there the 
rest of his life. His leisure was devoted to the study 
of British and Anglo-Saxon history and antiquities. In 
the prosecution of these studies Kichard is said to have 
visited numerous libraries and ecclesiastical establish- 
ments in England, and it is certain that in 1391 he ob- 
tained a license from his abbot to visit Kome. He died 
in 1401 or 1402. 'Flic work to which he owes his celeb- 
rity is his De Situ Britannia ?, a treatise on the ancient 
state of Great Britain. This work was brought to light 
by Dr. Charles J. Bertram, professor of English at Copen- 
hagen (1747), who sent a transcript of it, together with 
a copy of the map, to Dr. Stukely, the celebrated anti- 
quarian. From this transcript Dr. Stukely published 
an analysis of the work, with the itinerary (1757, 4to; 
London, 1809; : — Historia ab Hengista ad Annum 13-18: 
— Tractatus super Symbol inn Jlajus et Minus: — and 
Liber de Oj/iciis Ecclesiasdcis. — Chalmers, Biog. Diet. 
s. v. ; Chambers's Eucyclop. s. v. 

Richard of Devizes was a monk of the priory of 
St. Swithun, at Winchester, in the 12th century, who 


RICIIAKD 


n 


RICHARD 


wrote a history of the first years of the reign of Richard 
I — 1189-92: Chi unicon Jlicardi Divisiensis de Rebus 
( iest is Rica nli Priuii Regis A ngliie (Loml. 1838, 8vo) : — 
also Richard of Cirencester's Description of Britain; 
translated and edited by .1. Giles (Loud. 1841, 8vo) : — 

( ' hronicles of the ( ’ rusades (1848, sm. 8vo). See Wright, 
Diot/. Brit. Lit. etc.; Alii bone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. 
.4 nt hors , s. v. 

Richard of IIexiiam was the first prior of his 
house before 1138. lie compiled a short history of 
the last two years of the reign of Ilenrv I, and of the 
more remarkable events of that of Stephen, and a his- 
tory of the Church of Hexham, 'fanner also attributes 
to him — probably on slender foundation — a history of 
the reign of Ilenrv II. See AUibone, Diet, of Brit, and 
A mer. A ut hors, s. v. ; Chalmers, Bioij. Diet. s. v. 

Richard of Sr. Victor, a celebrated mystic and 
writer of the 12th century, concerning whose life but 
little is known. He was of Scottish extraction, and at 
an early age entered the Augustinian convent of St. 
Victor at Paris, where he became the pupil of the learned 
and pious Hugo (q. v.). lie was made sub-prior of the 
abbey in 1159 and prior in 1102, and in the latter ca- 
pacity contended persistently against the bad adminis- 
tration and the unedifying life of the abbot Ervisius, 
until he effected the removal of the latter from his of- 
fice. Nothing further has been handed down with ref- 
erence to the circumstances of his life, save that he was 
a friend of St. Bernard, and died in 1173. A number 
of writings from his hand have been preserved, divided, 
as respects character, into exegetical, ethical, dogmati- 
cal, and mystical, or contemplative, works. As the ex- 
egesis is little more than mystical allegory, the works 
in which it is contained possess simply historical value; 
but those which deal with other subjects have much 
higher merit, though the mystical element is every- 
where apparent. Of his ethical works, mention is made 
of his tracts, De Statu Tnterioris ffominis : — De Erudi- 
tinue Interioris ffominis: — De. Exterminations Mali et 
Promotione Boni: — De Differentia Peccati Mortalis et 
Venial is. Of his dogmatic writings the following are 
prominent, De Verbo lncnrnato. where, in imitation of 
Augustine, sin is praised as felix culpa , because it ne- 
cessitated the incarnation of Christ: — two books, De 
Kmmanuelc , against the Jews: — and, very particularly, ' 
six books, De Trinitate, with which compare De Tribus 
A ppropriutis Personis in Trinitate. In these works the 
author appears as one of the most skilful dialecticians 
and experienced psychologists of his time. Like his 
master Hugo, he aims to unite knowledge and faith, 
scholasticism and mysticism. He acknowledges the 
right of philosophical inquiry, but insists that for the 
Christian thinker faith is the necessary prerequisite of 
knowledge. This principle governs him in the work 
on the Trinity, which is perhaps the most remarkable 
product of his mind, lie tirst shows that reason proves 
the existence of but one supreme substance, which is 
God. An examination of the divine attributes follows, 
particularly of power and knowledge, and it is argued 
that in their perfection they can belong only to the one 
Absolute Being. The idea of love is then introduced, 
in order to e fleet the transition to the subject of the 
Trinity. As love, like all the attributes of the I)eitv, 
must he perfect, it implies necessarily a plurality of 
Persons. Abstract love (amor) cannot become concrete 
(raritas) without an object upon which it may fasten. 
The Supreme Love can only be expended on a Supreme 
Object; and as it is eternal, its object must be so like- 
wise. But as it is a proof of weakness not to allow so- 
ciety in love, these two Persons, who love each other, 
desire a third Person whom they may love with equal 
fervor. As there 1 can he no inequality in the divine 
nature, these Persons differ simply in tlicir origin — one 
being self-originated, and the others deriving their or- 
igin from him, though in an eternal sense. In his mys- 
tical writings Richard appears as the first to undertake 


a scientific theory of contemplation, on which account 
he bore the name of Magnus Contemplator. He begins 
with a sober psychological analysis, by which he shows 
that reason (ratio) and inclination or will (affect io) are 
the fundamental powers, and that they are aided, the 
former by the imagination, the latter by the senses. 
Reason needs to perceive the forms of visible tilings be- 
fore it can ascend to the contemplation of the invisible, 
and the will needs sensual objects in order to the exer- 
cise of its powers. The human spirit is the retiection 
of the divine, and the recognition of self and the purifi- 
cation of the heart are necessary to an apprehension of 
God, though even then supernatural help and revelation 
are needed. The highest aim of contemplation can only 
be realized per mentis excessum,” caused by the direct 
operation of grace, or brought about bv practice, and 
consisting in a widening ( dilatatio ) of the spirit to 
greater keenness and comprehension, in an elevation 
(sublevatio) by which it is exalted above itself, but re- 
tains its consciousness of external things, or in an alien- 
ation or transport (alienatio) in which such conscious- 
, ness is lost, and a trance -like state ensues, in which 
present and future are seen in visions. This entire 
process of contemplation rests on the idea of love to God, 
and has for its object the recognition of God. There is 
no hint of an absorption into the Divine Being. The 
influence of this theory is seen in the tendency of the 
more distinguished of the scholastics to rate the objects 
of contemplation above those of dialectics from this 
time, and in the more or less complete reproduction of 
the theory itself in the writings of Bonaventura and in 
the mysticism of Gerson. With Richard of St. Victor 
the glory of that school came to an end. The first edi- 
tion of his works appeared in Paris in 1528: reprinted 
at Lyons in 1534; at Cologne in 1G2I. The best edi- 
tion is that of Rouen (1G50, fob). Concerning the MSS. 
of unprinted works, see the Hist. Lit. de la France, xiii, 
48G. See Schmid, M ysticismus d. Mittelalters (Jena, 
1824), p. 308 sq. ; Engelhard, R. von St. Victor v. Joh. 
Ruysbroek (Erlangen. 1838): Liebner. R. a Sto. P. de 
Contempt. Doctrina (Gott. 1837 and 1839, 4to). pt. i, ii; 
Ilelflerich, Chnstl. Myslik (Gotha, 1842), ii, 373 sq. ; 
Noack, Christ l. Mystifc (Konigsb. 1853), i, 91 sq. ; Baur, 
Chnstl. Lehre v. d. Dreieinigkeit , ii, 521 sq. — Herzog, 
Real- Fneyklnp. s. v. 

Richard I, king of England, surnamed C<eur de 
Lion, was the third son of Henry II by his queen, 
Eleanor. He was born at Oxford in September. 1157. 
In the treaty of Montmirail. entered into Jan. G, 1 1 GO, 
between Henry and Louis VII of France, it was stipu- 
lated that the duchy of Aquitaine should be made over 
to Richard, and that he should do homage for it to the 
king of France; also, that he should marry Adelais, 
youngest daughter of Louis. In 1173 Richard joined 
his mother and his brothers Henry and Geoffrey in their 
rebellion against the king. The rebels submitted in 
September, 1174, when two castles in Poitou were allot- 
ted to Richard. In 1 183 a second family feud broke out 
in consequence of Richard refusing to do homage to his 
elder brother, Henry, for the duchy of Aquitaine. In 
this war his father sided with Richard against Henry 
and Geoffrey. It was ended by the death of prince 
Henry, when Richard, actuated probably by jealousy of 
his youngest brother, John, declared himself the liege- 
man of France for his possessions in that country. This 
step led to a war between the king of England and 
Philip of France, in which Richard fought against his 
father. The balance of success being decidedly with 
France, a treaty in accordance with this fact was about 
to be executed, when, by the death of Henry II, on July 
G, 1189, Richard became king of England. He landed 
in his own country on Aug. 15, 1 189, and was crowned in 
Westminster Abbey on Sept. 3 following. In t lie hope 
of gaining salvation, and with the certainty of following 
the occupation which he loved best, he now set out with 
an army to join i lie third Crusade, then about to leave 
Europe. lie united his forees to those of France on the 


RICHARD 


15 


RICH AR DOT 


plains of Vezelav, and the two armies (numbering in all | 
100,000 men) marched together as far as Lyons, where 
they separated, and proceeded by different routes to 
Messina, where they again met. Here Richard be- 
trothed his nephew Arthur to t lie infant daughter of 
Tancred, king of Sicily, with whom he formed a close 
alliance. The Sicilian throne was at that time claimed 
by the emperor Henry VI ; and the alliance with Tan- 
cred, from this cause, afterwards turned out a very un- 
lucky one for Richard. Having settled a difference 
which now arose between him and Hiilip respecting his 
old engagement to Philip’s sister Adelais, the English 
king, on April 7, 1191, sailed from Messina for Cyprus, 
carrying along with him Berengaria, daughter of San- 
cho YJ, king of Navarre, lie had fallen in love with 
this princess, and he married her in the island of Cy- 
prus, where he halted on his way to Palestine. But 
even love did not make him forget his favorite pastime 
of war: he attacked and dethroned Isaac of Cyprus, al- 
leging that he had ill-used the crews of some English 
ships which had been thrown on his coasts. Having 
then presented the island to Guy of Lusignan, he set 
sail on June 4, 1191, and on the 10th of the same month 
he reached the camp of the Crusaders, then assembled 
before the fortress of Acre. The prodigies of personal 
valor which he performed in the Holy Land have made 
the name of Richard the Lion-hearted more famous in 
romance than it is in history. The man was the crea- 
tion and impersonation of his age, and the reader who 
follows his career may perhaps be more interested than 
he would be by the lives of greater men, or by the his- 
tory of a more important period. On Oct. 9, 1192, he 
set out on his return to England. After some wander- 
ings and adventures, he became the captive of the em- 
peror Henry VI. who shut him up in a castle in the 
Tyrol. John, meanwhile, ruled in England, and he and 



Castle of Tienifeteigen, the Prison of King Richard. 

Philip of France had good reasons for wishing that 
Richard should never return to his kingdom. He dis- 
appointed them; not, however, until he had paid a 
heavy ransom, and even, it is said, agreed to hold his 
kingdom as a fief of the empire. On March 13, 1194, 
he found himself once more in England. His brother 
John, who had acted so treacherously towards him, he 
magnanimously forgave, but with Philip of France he 
could not deny himself the pleasure of a war. In the 
contest which followed he was generally victorious, but 
in the end it proved fatal to himself. lie was killed by 
an arrow shot from the castle of Chaluz, which he was 
besieging, on March 20, 1199. If Richard had the vices 
of an unscrupulous man, he had at least the virtues of a 
brave soldier. See Stubbs, Chronicles ami Memorials 
of Richard /, from a MS. in the library of Corpus 
Christi College (1804). — Chambers's Encyclop. s. v. See 
Crusades. 

Richard, Charles-Louis, a French ecclesiastic, 
was born at Blainville sur l’Eau, Lorraine, in April. 
1711. At the age of sixteen he entered the Dominican 
convent at Blainville, and took the vows of that order 


at Nancy. He taught theology at Paris, was made doc- 
tor, and in various ways showed himself the champion 
ol his sect. In 1778 he was obliged to retire to Flan- 
ders in consequence of the part he had taken in a con- 
troversy concerning the marriage of a converted Jew. 
When the Revolution occurred, he went into Belgium, 
and at the time of the second French invasion, in 1794, 
was living at Mods. On account of his great age he 
was unable to flee, and. though he remained some time 
in concealment, was at last discovered, brought before a 
military commission, and sentenced to be shot. The 
sentence was executed on Aug. 16, 1794. His crime was 
that of publishing, before the entrance of the French, a 
treatise entitled Parallele des Juifs qui oni Crucijie 
Jesus-Christ avec les Franca is qui out Execute bur Roi 
(Mods, 1794, 8vo); and not, as Barbier pretends, one 
entitled Des Droits de la Maison d'A ut riche sur la Bel- 
yique (ibid. 1794, 8vo). The works of father Richard 
are numerous; among them are, Dissertation sur la l y os- 
session des Corps et V Infestation des Alai sons par les 
Demons (1740, 8vo): — Bibliotheqne Scicree, etc. (Paris, 
1700, 5 vols. fol.) ; in this work lie was assisted by sev- 
eral other Dominicans; the supplement, bears his name 
and that of Giraud ; a new edition, with additions and 
corrections, appeared early in the present century (ibid. 
1821-27, 29 vols. 8vo) : — Examen du Libelle intitule IJis - 
toire de V Etablissement des Moiues Mendkmts (Avignon, 
17G7-, 12mo) : — Analyse des Conciles Generaux et Darti- 
culiers (Paris, 1772-77, 5 vols. 4to) La Nature en 
Contraste arec la Reliyion et la Raison (ibid. 1773, 8vo) : 
— Annales de la C barite et de la Bievfaisance Chre - 
tienne (ibid. 1785, 2 vols. 12mo) Voltaire de Retour des 
Ombres , etc. (Brussels and Paris, 1770, 12mo) Sermons 
(Paris, 1789, 4 vols. 12mo). lie also wrote many trea- 
tises and brochures, all relative to the civil oath required 
of the priests and the Revolution. See Guillon, Les 
Martyrs de la Eoi ; Carron, Les Confesseurs de la Foi , 
vol. iv; Ami de la Reliyion, 1822, vol. xxx ; Notice in 
vol. i of the new edition of the Bibliotheque Sacree. — 
Hoefer, None. Bioy. Gene rale, s. v. 

Richard, Jean-Pierre, a French preacher, was 
born at Belfort, Feb. 7, 1743. In 1700 he was admitted 
to the Order of Jesuits, and on its dissolution he went 
to Lorraine, where lie superintended the education of 
the nephew of the prince-bishop. About 1780 he re- 
turned to France, and preached in Paris, but did not 
take the oath. In 1805 lie became canon of Notre Dame. 
He died at Paris Sept. 29, 1820. II is Sermons were 
published in 1822 (Paris, 4 vols. 12mo). See FA mi de 
la Reliyion , xxxiv, 05, 77. — Hoefer, Nouv. Bioy. Gene- 
rale, s. v. 

Richardot, Francois, a French prolate, was born 
in 1507 at Morev-Ville-l£gli$e, Franche-Comte. While 
very young he joined the Order of Augustines at Chanip- 
litte, and was sent in 1529 to Tournay to teach theology. 
He afterwards taught in Paris. During his visit to It- 
aly, which occurred a little later, he obtained from the 
pope a release from the vows of his order, with permis- 
sion to wear the secular dress. lie was made canon of 
Besanyon, and in this capacity rendered such ellicient 
service to his bishop that he was made suffragan, with 
the title of bishop of Nicopolis. On Nov. 11, 1501, he 
was installed bishop of Arras, but had scarcely taken 
possession of the see when he obtained from Philip II 
the creation of the University of Douai. He founded 
this institution in 1502, and taught there till his death. 
He was a member of the Council of Trent in 1503, as- 
sisted at the provincial Council of Cambrai in 1505. and 
held several synods. At the taking of Malines by the 
duke of Alba he was made prisoner, but regained his 
liberty a month after. lie died at Arras July 20, 1574. 
Of his writings wc have, Ordonnanees Synodales (Ant- 
werp, 1588, 4to): — Trait e de Controrerse, Sermons , trans- 
lated into Latin by Franyois (Schott, 1008, 8vo) : l A In- 
stitution des Jbisteurs (Arras, 1504. 8vo) : — O raisons 
Fuuebres , of Isabella of France, wife of Philip II. 1 1 is 


RICIIARDOT 


16 


RICHARDS 


works are all remarkable for groat erudition. See Sta- 
pleton, 0 mison Funebrc de Richardot , in bis (Fur res 
(1G20, 4 vols. fob); Valero Andre, Bill. Belyica ; Ga- 
zet, Hist. Fries, des Pays- Has; Gallia Christiana, vol. 
iii ; Dom Bert hod, I7e MSS. de Fr. Rickardot, in the 
Memoires de la Societe Royale d' Arras, p. 170. — Iloefcr, 
Four. Hioy. Generate, s. v. 

Richardot, Jean, a French prelate, was born at 
Arras in the IGth century. His father sent him to the 
best schools in Spain, and his precocity attracting the 
attention of Philip II, he was admitted to the privy 
council of that monarch. While in Flanders, somewhat 
later, he was made ambassador to Clement VIII, and re- 
ceived in 1(502 the bishopric of Arras. He was after- 
wards prior of Mortcau, and in 1G1U was made arch- 
bishop of Cambrai, which office he held till his death, 
Feb. 28, 1G14. See Lc Carpentier, Hist, de Cambrai et 
du Cambresis. — Iloefcr, Four. Hioy. Generate, s. \% 

Richards, Elias Jones, D.IX, a Presbyterian 
minister, was the son of Hugh and Jane Ellis Jones 
Richards, and was born in the valley of the Dee, Eng- 
land, Jan. 14, 1813. While he was yet a child his par- 
ents came to the United States, and settled in the State 
of Xcw York, He was prepared lor college at Bloom- 
field Academy, in the town of Bloomfield, N. J., and 
was graduated at the college of Xcw Jersey at Prince- 
ton in 1834. In early life he gave evidence of conver- 
sion, and at about seventeen years of age united with 
the Brick Church in the city of Xcw York. After 
leaving college he spent one year in teaching as tutor 
in a private family at Fredericksburg, Va. In 1835 he 
entered Princeton Theological Seminary, and passed 
through a full course of three years. He was licensed 
by the Presbytery of New York in 1838, and ordained 
by the same presbytery, sine titulo, in New York city 
in the same year. For one year (1839-40) AI r. Rich- 
ards preached as stated supply to the Presbyterian 
Church at Ann Arbor, Mich. From 1840 to 1842 he was 
pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church at Paterson, 
N. J., and from 1842 to 184G he was pastor of the West- 
ern Presbyterian Church in the city of Philadelphia. 
On Oct. 14, 1840, he was installed as pastor of the First 
Presbyterian Church of Reading, Pa. Here he really 
began the best and greatest work of his life — a work 
which was prosecuted with fidelity, zeal, and persever- 
ance to the end of his life. Dr. Richards was a man of 
great gentleness and amiability of character, yet was 
endowed with unusual tenacity of purpose. As a schol- 
ar, he was far above the average of his profession. As 
a preacher, he was pleasing, attractive, persuasive, log- 
ical, and thoroughly evangelical. As a pastor, he was 
faithful, kind, and dignified. In all the relations of life 
he was lovely ami beloved, and had a strong hold upon 
the affections of those who knew him well. Dr. Rich- 
ards was twice married: the first time to Miss Emily 
Theresa Ward, of Newark, N. J.; the second time to 
Elizabeth F. Smith, of Reading, Pa. After more than 
twenty-live years of active and earnest pastoral labors 
in Reading, lie was attacked by that fright I til malady 
known as Bright's disease of the kidneys, and, after 
much suffering, departed to be with Christ, March 25, 
1872. II is last utterance was, !i Mv faith is in Christ.” 
(W. P. S.) 

Richards, George, D.D., an English divine, was 
Ijorn at Ilalesworth, Suffolk, in 17G9. lie was educated 
at Christ’s Hospital, matriculated at Trinity College, 
Oxford, in 1785, and obtained a scholarship. He was 
made fellow of Oriel College in 1790, vicar of Bampton 
in 179G, and rector of St. Mart in’s-in-the-Fields in 1820. 
lie died in 1837. 1 1 is principal work is The Hi vine Or- 

igin of Prophecy Illustrated and He fended, in a course 
of sermons preached in 1800 (Oxford, 1800, 8vo). He 
also published several Sermons and Poems. Sec Alli- 
bono, Diet. of Brit, and Amer. Authors, s. v. ; Darling, 
Cyclop. Biblioy. s. v. 

Richards, James (1), D.D., a Presbyterian min- 


ister, was born at New Canaan, Conn., Oct. 29, 17G7. 
His early education was limited. Having finally suc- 
ceeded in entering Yale College in 1789, his health soon 
compelled him to leave it; yet, having afterwards gone 
through the academical and theological course with un- 
tiring energy, the corporation of Yale College conferred 
upon him the degree of B.A. in 1794. In 1793 he was 
licensed to preach, and, having been called as pastor by 
t lie Church in Morristown, N. J., he was ordained and 
installed in May, 1797. In 1801 he was made M.A. by 
Princeton College, and in 1805, when but thirty-seven 
years of age, he was chosen moderator of the General 
Assembly of the Presbyterian Church. His ministra- 
tions at Morristown were particularly successful, but 
having in 1809 received a call to the congregation of 
Newark, he accepted it, and removed there. Here his 
influence gradually increased. In 1815 he preached the 
annual sermon before the American Board of Commis- 
sioners for Foreign Missions. The theological seminary 
at Auburn having been established by the Synod of 
Geneva in 1819, he was appointed its professor of the- 
ology in 1820. This he at first declined, but, having 
been re-elected in 1823, he finally accepted, and entered 
upon his duties Oct. 29, 1823, II is rare qualities fitted 
him for this service, and he filled the situation with 
great credit to himself and benefit to others until his 
death, Aug. 2, 1843. Dr. Richards published a number 
of occasional Sermons, A ddi'esses, ami Lectures. After 
his death there were published from his MSS. a volume 
of Lectures on Mental Philosophy and Theology, with a 
sketch of his life by the Rev. Samuel II. Gridley (184G, 
8vo), and some twenty Discourses (1849, 12mo). — 
Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit, \v, 99. See also 
the Mefh. Quar. Rev. Jan. 1850; Plumley, Presbyterian 
Church, p. 371. 

Richards, James (2), a Congregational minister, 
was born at Abington, Mass., Feb. 23, 1784. He grad- 
uated at Williams College, in 1809, entered the ministry 
in 1812, and, having offered himself to the American 
Board, sailed, with eight others, Oct. 23, 1815, for Cey- 
lon. lie was stationed at Batticotta, but, his health 
failing, he went to Cape Town in 1818, and returned 
the next winter, after which he was able to labor a 
year from April, 1820, and died Aug. 3, 1822. — Sprague, 
Annals of the Amer,. Pulpit, ii, 59G. 

Richards, John J., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was born July 1G, 181G. He 
united with the Church in his thirteenth year, and for 
several years filled the office of class-leader, Sunday- 
school teacher, and exhorter. In 1837 he was licensed 
to preach, and admitted on trial in the Georgia Confer- 
ence in 1839, in which connection lie remained until 
1844, when he was transferred to the Florida Conference. 
There he labored until 18G0, when, because of failing 
health, be was superannuated, and held that relation 
until his death — Sept. 4, 1803 — in Madison County, Fla. 
Mr. Richards was a sound and practical preacher, de- 
voting his time and talents to the service of the Church. 
— Minutes of Annual Cotf. M. E. Ch. South, 18(53, p. 4G7. 

Richards, John W., D.D., a Lutheran minister, 
was horn in Reading. Pa., April 18. 1803, and made a 
public profession of religion in his sixteenth year. 1 1 is 
classical studies were pursued chiefly under the instruc- 
tion of Rev. Dr. J. Grier. In 1821 lie commenced the 
study of theology under the direction of his pastor, Dr. 
Mnhlenbnrg, remaining with him until 1824. when the 
Synod of Pennsylvania licensed him to preach, lie re- 
signed his first charge (New Holland, Lancaster Coun- 
ty, Pa.) in 1831, and removed to Trappe, Montgomery 
County. In 183G he accepted a call to Germantown, 
Pa., where lie remained till 1845, when he became pastor 
of St. John’s Church, Easton, Pa. While here he held 
the professorship of German language and literature in 
Lafayette College. In 1851 he took charge of Trinity 
Church, Reading, Pa., ami died Jan. 24. 1851. lie was 
made doctor of divinity by Jefferson College in 1852. 


RICHARDS 


17 


RICHARDS 


He published two SeraioM, and left in IMS. a translation 
of Ihillische Nachrickten , and a History of the. Ameri- 
can Lutheran Church . — Sprague, Annals of the Amer. 
Pulpit , ix, 165. 

Richards, Jonas De Forest, LL.D., a Congre- 
gational minister, was born at Hartford, Yt., Dec. 28, 
1809. After attending a grammar school, he entered 
Dartmouth College, where he graduated in 1836, and 
became tutor in Marietta College, O., where he re- 
mained but a short time, and then entered Lane Theo- 
logical Seminary, at Cincinnati, O. From thence he 
went to New York and entered Union Theological Sem- 
inary, where he remained one year, and then matricu- 
lated at Andover Theological Seminary, where he grad- 
uated in 1840, staying long enough at each of these 
institutions to become acquainted with their policy and 
modes of instruction. On May 28, 1841, he was or- 
dained and installed pastor of a Church in Charlestown, 
N. II. After remaining ten years, his pastoral relation 
was dissolved, and he accepted a call from Chester, Yt., 
where he remained four years as a stated supply. His 
next pastorate was \Yeathersfield, Yt., where he contin- 
ued five years, at the end of which time he removed to 
Monroe, Mich., where he remained without charge for 
three years and returned to AYeathersfield. After re- 
maining one year in this place, he went South, and was 
elected a member of the Alabama Senate, which post he 
occupied four years, in the meantime being elected to a 
professorship in the University of Alabama. lie died 
during his professorship, Dec. 2, 1872. (W. P. S.) 

Richards, Lewis, a Baptist minister, was born in 
1752, in the parish of Llanbadarn Fawr, Cardiganshire, 
South Wales. At the age of nineteen years he made a 
public profession of religion, and joined a society of In- 
dependents and studied for a short time in Lady Hunt- 
ingdon’s College. He then came to America, intending 
to pursue his studies at the Orphan House in Georgia. 
He was ordained in Charleston in 1777, and after trav- 
elling about a year in various parts of South Carolina 
and Georgia he removed to Northampton County, Ya. 
In 1784 he became the pastor of the First Baptist 
Church in Baltimore. lie continued alone in this pas- 
torate till 1815, when Ilev. E. J. Reis was elected eo- 
pasfor. Mr. Richards resigned his charge in 1818, but 
continued a member of the Church until his death, Feb. 
1, 1832. — Sprague, A nnals of the Amer. Pulpit , vi, 201. 

Richards, Robert R., a Methodist preacher, 
joined the Methodist Episcopal Church in Thomaston 
(now city of Rockland), Me., in 1838. Of his birth 
and early life we have no information. In 1841 he was 
admitted into the Maine Conference as a probationer, 
was ordained deacon in 1843, and elder in 1848. For 
twenty-three years he sustained an effective relation in 
the conference, but in 1864 failing health compelled 
him to take a superannuated relation, which relation he 
sustained until Aug. 9, 1866, the date of his death. lie 
was a' man of sound understanding and great persever- 
ance ; as a friend, true and faithful ; as a preacher, clear, 
logical, and instructive. — Minutes of Annual Conf J/. 
E. Church , 1867, p. 138. 

Richards, Thomas T. S., a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, was born in Baltimore, Md., 
Sept. 13, 1834. He professed conversion when in his 
thirteenth year, and in due time entered the ranks of 
the local ministry. In 1864 he was received on trial in 
the East Baltimore Conference, and continued in active 
service until the fall of 1868, when failing health com- 
pelled him to seek relief in rest. In the spring of 1869 
he was transferred to the Baltimore Conference and 
given a supernumerary relation. He died Dec. 26, 1869. 
Mr. Richards was a preacher of creditable abilities, and, 
as a Christian, was ardent and devout. — Minutes of A?i- 
Jiual Conferences, 1870, p. 19. 

Richards, William (1), LL.D., a Baptist minister 
of distinction, was born in 1749, in South Wales. II is 
IX. — B 


early advantages for obtaining an education were very 
limited. At the age of twenty- four he entered the 
academy at Bristol, England, where he remained two 
years. He became pastor of the Church in Lynn, Eng- 
land, July 7, 1776, and continued his residence in that 
place the remainder of his life, about half the time as 
pastor of the Church. He died in 1818. In English 
and Welsh history and in the Welsh language and lit- 
erature Dr. Richards was well versed. He wrote, His- 
tory of Lynn : — .4 Review of Noble's “ Memoirs of the 
Protect ot'al House of Cromwell .-’’—and a J fictionary of 
Welsh and Enylish. At his death he bequeathed his 
library— consisting of not far from 1300 volumes— to 
Brown University. “The library thus bequeathed is in 
many respects valuable ; it contains a considerable num- 
ber of Welsh books, a large collection of works illus- 
trating the history and antiquities of England and 
Wales, besides two or three hundred bound volumes of 
pamphlets, some of them very ancient, rare, and curious. 
The collection is particularly valuable for its treatises on 
civil and religious liberty” (Guild, Manning and Brown 
University , p. 145-147). See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and 
A mer. A uthors, s. v. (J. C. S.) 

Richards, William (2), a Congregational minis- 
ter, was born in Plainfield, Mass.. Aug. 22, 1792. He 
graduated at Williams College in 1819, and in Feb., 1822, 
offered himself to the American Board as a missionary 
to the Sandwich Islands. He was accepted, ordained 
Sept. 12, and sailed on Nov. 19, with two others, and 
four natives of the islands who had been instructed in 
this country. Mr. Richards was stationed at Lahaina, 
on Maui Island, and labored with great success until 
1837, when he came to the United States, but returned 
in 1838, and occupied the posts of king’s counsellor, in- 
terpreter, and chaplain. In 1842 — after the organization 
of an independent government on the islands — he was 
sent as ambassador to England, where he remained three 
years. After his return he lived in Honolulu with the 
king, and died there Dec. 7, 1847. — Sprague, A nnals of 
the Amer. Pulpit , ii, 688. 

Richards, William I., a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, was born in Fulton County, 
N. Y., July 30, 1815. He was converted when nineteen 
years of age, and for several years served as a local 
preacher, but entered the Black River Conference in 
1850. He continued in active service (with the excep- 
tion of one year) until his death — in Clarkson, Monroe 
County, N. Y. — May 22, 1875. lie was a man of piety 
and great usefulness. — Minutes of Annual Conferences , 
1875, p. 137. 

Richards, William K., a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, was born in Tennessee. Aug. 20, 
1816, and in the same year his parents removed to In- 
diana. In 1837 he professed conversion ; he was licensed 
to preach on Aug. 13, 1844; was employed by the pre- 
siding elder in 1851, and the next fall was admitted into 
the Indiana Conference. He labored until a few weeks 
previous to April 6, 1861, the date of his death. lie was 
a good man and a strong preacher. — Minutes of Annual 
Conferences , 1861, p. 197. 

Richards, William Lyman, a native Indian 
missionary, was bom in Lahina, Southern India, Dec. 2, 
1823. He was sent to America to be educated with a 
view to the ministry. He accordingly entered Jefferson 
College, Ya., where he graduated in 1841. Soon after 
he left college he became teacher of a classical school in 
\Yoodington, Ya., where he remained one year, and 
then entered the Union Theological Seminary, where 
he graduated in 1846. He received license to preach at 
the same time, and was ordained to the Gospel ministry 
in Oct., 1847, and sent as a missionary to Full Chau, 
China, at which place he remained until 1851, when, on 
account of declining health, he was released and advised 
to return to the United States for its recovery, but 
died at sea near St. Helena, in the South Atlantic, June 
5 of the same year. (W. P. S.) 


RICHARDSON 


18 


RICHARDSON 


Richardson, Chauncey, a Methodist minister, 
was born in Vermont in 1802. When nineteen years 
of age he professed conversion, and in 182:3 was licensed 
to preach. In 1826 he was received on trial by the 
New England Conference, and in 1832, because of im- 
paired health, was obliged to locate. II is first resi- 
dence in the South was at Tuscuinbia, Ala., where he 
labored to Imild np an educational institution, lie 
was elected president of Rutersville College, Texas, in 
1831), and became a member of the first Annual Confer- 
ence in Texas 1840. lie was also a member of the 
convention held in Louisville, 1845, to organize t lie 
Methodist Episcopal Church, South ; and of its Gen- 
eral Conference in 1850. lie served the Church as 
presiding elder, as editor of the Church paper, the Texas 
Wesleyan Banner, and as conference secretary for sev- 
eral years. lie died April 11, 1852. Air. Richardson 
was 'a good, gifted, trusty man.— Sprague, Annals of 
the A m>'V. Pulpit, vii, 721 ; Minutes of Annual Conf 
M. E. Church , South, 1852, p. 423. 

Richardson, James, D.D., fourth bishop of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church in Canada after the sepa- 
rate organization of 1828. was born at Kingston, Upper 
Canada, Jan. 20, 1701. lie was trained as a sailor on 
the lakes; in the war of 1812-15 he served as a lieuten- 
ant in the provincial marine, and subsequently as prin- 
cipal pilot of the royal fleet. In the capture of the 
fort of Oswego he lost his left arm. At the close of 
the war he settled at Presque Isle, and became magis- 
trate and collector of customs. He was converted in 
1817, and joined tbe Methodist Episcopal Church the 
following year, serving the Church as steward and lo- 
cal preacher. In 1825 he was admitted on trial into 
the Conference, and was ordained deacon at Hamil- 
ton Conference, 1827, but was not ordained cider till 
1830. In 1831 Mr. Kichardson was appointed presid- 
ing elder of the Niagara district, and in 1832 editor 
of The Christian Guardian, lie opposed the union 
with the British Weslevans in 1833, but finally acceded 
to it and accepted appointments under it. But after- 
wards, being dissatisfied, he removed to the United 
States, and was preacher in charge at Auburn. In 1837 
lie returned to Toronto and joined those who continued 
to adhere to Episcopal Methodism. In 1840 he be- 
came agent for the Upper Canada Bible Society, and 
held the office for eleven years. In 1852 he was ap- 
pointed presiding elder, and in 1858, at St. Davids, he 
was elected and consecrated bishop, which office he 
held until his death, in March, 1875. See Simpson. 
Cyclop, of Methodism, s. v. 

Richardson, James J., a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, was born in Tennessee in 1808. 
lie experienced religion in 1822, and in 1827 emigrated 
to Illinois, lie was admitted on trial in the Illinois 
Conference in 1837, and served the Church in active 
work until 1856, when, because of failing health, lie took 
a superannuated relation. In 1851) he became effective, 
but in 1802 he was again superannuated. In 1805 he 
was appointed to Spring Garden Circuit, which he served 
three years, lie then travelled Benton Circuit one 
year, at the close of which the active labor of Ids life 
ceased. His death occurred Sept. 21, 1872, in Marion 
County, III. .Mr. Kichardson was a plain, practical, and 
earnest preacher, and a prudent disciplinarian. — Min- 
utes of Annual Conf 1872, p. 130. 

Richardson, James Monroe, a Presbyterian 
minister, was born in Carroll County, Miss., in 1821). 
He went to Mississippi College, where lie graduated in 
18 ID, and entered the Union 'rheological Seminary and 
passed through the full course, graduating in 1852. lie 
was ordained in 1853, and became a stated supply of 
i be Church at Marion, Miss., where be. remained live 
years, and began tbe profession of teacher in En- 
terprise, Mi vs. In 1800 he supplied the Church at 
blower’s Place, Miss. After this he entered the Con- 


federate army as an officer, and was killed in battle in 
Georgia in 1804. (\V. P. S.) 

Richardson, J. Clark, a Presbyterian minister, 
was born in East Windsor, Conn., in 1822. lie spent 
some time in Vale College, but was compelled lo dis- 
continue because of sickness. Subsequently he passed 
a year, in the double character of pupil and tutor, in 
the University of Knoxville, Tcnn. In 1847 he act- 
ed as colporteur in Kentucky and Tennessee; in 1849 
he was licensed by tbe Presbytery of Tennessee, and 
was associated with James G. Fee as a missionary un- 
til 1800, when lie accepted an invitation to Oramel, 
Alleghany Co., N. V., where he was ordained by Gen- 
esee Valley Presbytery, and where he continued his 
acceptable labors until bis removal to Ossian, N. Y., in 
1805. lie died Sept. 30, 1805. Mr. Kichardson was a 
devoted, self-denying minister of tbe Gospel; in spir- 
it, bumble and retiring; in the maintenance of truth 
and tbe discharge of duty, extremely conscientious. 
See Wilson, Fresh. Gist. A Imanac , I860, p. 222. (J. L. S.) 

Richardson, John, bishop of Ardagh, was a na- 
tive of Chester, England, but took bis degree of D.D. at 
the University of Dublin. Of bis early life we know 
nothing, save that he was appointed preacher to the. 
state in 1601. He was consecrated bishop of Ardagh 
in 1633, and held the archdeanerv of Derry, the rectory 
of Ardstra, anil the vicarage of Granard for a year after. 
In 1641, being in dread of the rebellion which broke 
out in October, he removed to England, and died in 
London, Aug. 11, 1654. He was a man of profound 
learning, well versed in the Scriptures, and skilled in 
sacred chronology. His works are, Choice Observations 
and Explanations upon the Old Testament (1655, fob): — 
Sermon of the Doctrine of Justification (Dublin, 1625, 
4to). He also wrote the “Assembly’s Annotations” on 
Ezekiel. See Harris, Ware ; Lloyd, Memoirs, p. 607. — 
Chalmers, Blog. Did. s. v. 

Richardson, John P., a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, South, was born in Virginia, 
1829, and was admitted into the Memphis Conference 
in 1848 or 1849. After five or six years his health 
failed: he located, studied medicine, and graduated as 
a physician. He was readmitted into the Mississippi 
Conference in 1860. and after a year’s successful labor 
volunteered as a soldier in the Confederate army, re- 
ceiving the appointment of chaplain. At the fall of 
Fort Donaldson, he was taken prisoner and carried to 
Camp Chase, Ohio, where he died, March 4, 1862. Mr. 
Richardson was a superior preacher, a close and inde- 
fatigable minister, and active and zealous as a Chris- 
tian. — Minutes of Annual Conf. M. E. Church , South, 
1862, p. 384. 

Richardson, Lyman, a Presbyterian minister, 
was born in Attleborough, Mass., in 1790. In 180G his 
parents removed to Harford. Pa.; be had at this time 
a fair education, with some knowledge of Latin,’ and in. 
the winter of 1807-8 he taught his first school, which 
employment he continued in subsequent years, lie 
was converted in 1809, and immediately turned his at- 
tention to tbe ministry. A friend secured for him tbe 
position of assistant in the academy at Wilkesbarre, 
Pa., of which bo subsequently became principal; lie re- 
mained there three years, devoting all his spare time 
to bis classical studies, and then returned to Harford, 
Pa., and opened a select school for youths pursuing the 
higher branches of study. He remained at Harford 
three years, during which he studied theology under 
Rev. Ebenezcr Kingsbury, and in 1820 was licensed by 
Susquehanna Presbytery, and soon after entered upon 
his ministry at Louisville, now Franklin, Pa. Subse- 
quently he was ordained as an evangelist, and as such 
he preached at Wyalusing, Pike, and Orwell, Pa.; at 
Windsor, N. V., three years; at Mount Pleasant and 
Bethany, Pa.; and at \\ vsox, Pa. In 1840 he returned 
to Harford, l‘a., to take charge of the academy, then a 


RICHARDSON 


19 


RICHELIEU 


very popular institution. This work suited him exact- 
ly, and lie entered into it with great zeal and success, 
until 1865, when disease and old age induced him to 
give it up. He died Dec. 1, 1867. As a preacher, Mr. 
Richardson was characterized by the power of glowing 
representations of truth and earnest love for souls; as 
a teacher, by kindness of manner and spirit, and by his 
wise counsel. See Wilson, Presb . Ilist. Almanac, 1868, 
p. 225. (J. L. S.) 

Richardson, Manoah, a Methodist preacher, was 
born in Lincoln County, Tenn., June 21, 1814; went to 
Missouri in early life, and settled in Chariton County, 
lie joined the Church in 1831; was licensed to preach 
Jan. 16, 1841 : entered the itinerancy Oct. 16, 1841 ; and 
was ordained deacon Oct. 1, 1843; elder Oct. 7, 1845. 
lie did effective work for six years, when he superan- 
nuated, owing to failing health, and located at the end 
of a year. In 1868 he was readmitted into the Mis- 
souri Conference, and labored until about four weeks 
previous to his death, which occurred in Bloomington, 
Macon Co., Mo., April 18, 1871. lie was a good man 
and a faithful preacher.— Minn tes of Annual Conf.M. 
E. Church , South , 1871, p. 606. 

Richardson, Marvin, D.D., a prominent Meth- 
odist minister, was born in Stephen town, Rensselaer 
Co., N. Y., June 10, 1781), but went, with his parents, in 
early youth to Brooklyn. He professed conversion in 
May, 1806, and united with the Sands Street Methodist 
Episcopal Church in that city. On Oct. 1, 1808, he was 
appointed to fill a vacancy on Croton Circuit, and was 
admitted into the New York Conference in 1809, of 
which he continued to be a member for sixty-seven 
years. He received his regular appointment as an ef- 
fective minister forty-two consecutive years, lie was 
a member of eight successive General Conferences — 
1820-52. Mr. Richardson in his early ministry endured 
the hardship, deprivation, and toil of pioneer life. The 
record, of his life is one of early and deep religious ex- 
perience, of consistent piety, of ardent love to God and 
the Church, of a successful ministry, and at the close a 
record of patient waiting and holy triumph. His last 
words were, “ I have no fear.” lie died at Poughkeep- 
sie, N. Y., June 14, 1876. — Minutes of Annual Conferences 
M. E. Church , 1877, p. 41. 

Richardson, Robert Hugh, a Presbyterian min- 
ister, was born at Liberty, Va., March 13, 1834. After 
receiving a preparatory education, he entered the Union 
Theological Seminary in 1860, and, taking the full 
course, graduated in 1863. lie was appointed — after he 
had been duly licensed by the New York Presbytery — a 
city missionary of New York, and remained in that office 
till he died, Oct. 6, 1863. Though his ministerial life 
was brief, it was not without its usefulness or good 
fruits. (W. P. S.) 

Richardson, William, D.D., an English clergy- 
man, was born in 1698, at Wilshamstead, near Bedford, 
and educated at Westminster and Emmanuel colleges, 
Cambridge. He was appointed curate of St. Olave’s, 
Southwark; and lecturer in 1727. He was collated to 
the prebend of Welton-Bivall, Lincoln, in 1724; was 
made master of Emmanuel College in 1736, and its vice- 
chancellor in 1738, and again in 1769; in 1746 he was 
appointed chaplain to the king. He died in 1775. He 
• published four sermons on The Usefulness and Necessity 
of Revelation (Loud. 1730, 8vo) : — a fifth on Relative 
Holiness (1733). — Hook, Eccles. Biog. s. v. 

Richelieu, Alphonse-Louis du Plessis de, 

called the cardinal of Lyons , elder brother of the great 
French marshal, was born at Paris in 1582. At the age of 
twenty-two he became bishop of Lu^.on, but about 1605 
he resigned the see in favor of his brother Armand. In 
1606 he entered the convent of Grande-Chartreuse, and 
for twenty years led a life of great austerity, lie was 
prior of Bonpas when his brother obliged him to leave 
the cloister to occupy the archbishopric of Aix. In 1628 


he was transferred to Lyons, and was made cardinal by 
Urban VIII, Aug. 21, 1629. Honors were heaped upon 
him, and lie became, successively, grand almoner of 
France in 1632; dean of St. Martin’s of Tours in the 
same year; abbot of St. Victor’s, at Marseilles, and of St. 
Stephen’s, at Caen, in Ki40; of the Chaise-Dicu in 1642; 
and, on the death of his brother, was elected master of 
the Sorbonnc. Meanwhile he was engaged in the work 
of his diocese, and, during the ravages of an epidemic in 
Lyons, was untiring in his efforts to aid the suffering. 
Louis XIII had several times engaged him in ecclesias- 
tical affairs, but after the death of this monarch Riche- 
lieu seldom left Lyons, and gave little attention to the 
court intrigues of the day. He died March 23, 1653. 
In the Imperial Library are to be found letters written 
by Richelieu to Louis XIII and the most illustrious per- 
sons of his court. See Abbe dc Pure, J7e de Richelieu , 
Cardinal de Lyon ; I>u Terns, La Clerge de France , t. iv; 
Aubery, Did. des Cardinaux. — Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Ge- 
nerate, s. v. 

Richelieu, Armand-Jean du Plessis de, a 

noted French ecclesiastic and statesman, was born at 
Paris, Sept. 5, 1585, and was educated for the military 
profession at the College de Navarre. His eldest brother 
resigning the bishopric of Litton, Richelieu decided to 
take holy orders in order to succeed to that office. In 
1607 he was consecrated bishop of Lu^on, and for some 
time devoted himself zealously to the duties of his office. 
At the States-General, 1614, being appointed one of the 
representatives of the clergy, he secured the favor of 
the queen-mother — Marie de Medicis — by an address de- 
livered in the presence of the young king, Louis XI II. 
He was appointed almoner to the queen-mother, and in 
Nov., 1616, entered the council as secretary of state. In 
1617 Mary was banished to Blois, and he followed her 
thither, but was ordered to retire to Avignon. When 
the queen-mother was recalled to the court she rein- 
stated Richelieu in favor, and from that time he grew 
in power. Having strengthened his position by the 
marriage of his niece with the nephew of the duke De 
Luvnes, he received the cardinal’s hat in 1622, re-en- 
tered the state council, and soon after rose to the pre- 
miership. The administration of Richelieu was memora- 
ble for several great measures, of which the first and 
most lasting was that by which the remains of feudal- 
ism were swept away and the absolute authority of the 
sovereign was established. In the pursuit of this ob- 
ject his most powerful adversary was Gaston, the duke 
of Orleans, brother of the king. But Richelieu tri- 
umphed over him, and even the queen -mother was 
obliged to bow before his unbending spirit and to with- 
draw into exile at Cologne. Another enterprise was 
the overthrow of the Huguenots as a political party and 
a rival of the throne of France, lie conducted in per- 
son (1628) the siege of Rochelle, but is said to have se- 
cured for the Huguenot party a certain measure of tol- 
eration, and to have used his success against them with 
moderation. In 1631 Richelieu was raised to the duke- 
dom and peerage. In the external relations of France 
the great object of Richelieu’s measures was the abase- 
ment of Austria. With this view he did not hesitate to 
foment the internal disaffection? of Germany, even al- 
lying himself with the German Protestants, and assisted 
Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden, the great champion of 
Protestantism. He also took part with the disaffected 
Spanish provinces in the Netherlands, and favored the 
Catalonians and Portuguese when they shook off the 
Spanish yoke. At last Austria was humbled, Portugal 
was separated from Spain (1640), French influence pre- 
dominated in Catalonia, England was in full revolution, 
and France quiet and prosperous. His administration 
was again threatened by intrigues at court or treason 
in the camps. Richelieu, however, vindicated his pow- 
er, and in 1642 came into Paris in triumph, carried on 
a litter, escorted by an army, and surrounded bv the 
utmost pomp. Two months afterwards — Dec. 4, 1642 
— he died, and was buried at the Sorbonne, where 


RICHER 


20 


RICHTER 


bis mausoleum (tbe celebrated Girardon’s masterpiece) 
may be seen. Busy with affairs of state, with war 
abroad, and dissension, plots, and treason at borne, 
Bicheiieii nevertheless promoted arts and sciences, found- 
ed tbe Jardin du Boi (now Jardin ties Blames'), also the 
French Academy and tbe royal print ing-office, built the 
Palais Koval, and rebuilt tbe Sorbonne. lie also found 
time to write several works and two plays — Mirame, a 
comedy, ami La Grande Pastorale. lie is regarded as 
tbe author of Me mo ires du Cardinal de Richelieu (first 
published complete by Petitot [Paris, 1823]) Le Tes- 
tament Politique (ITU 4, 2 vols.) and of Le Journal de 
M. le Cardinal de Richelieu (Amst. 1649, ‘2 vols.). 1 1 is 
theological works are, La Defense des Principuux Points 
de la Foi. Catholique, etc. ( 1 G 1 7) : — JJ Instruction dn Chre- 
tien (1619). See Auberv, Me moires du Cardinal de 
Richelieu ( 1 660) ; Jay, llistoire du Ministere de Richelieu ; 
Capeligue, Richelieu et Mazann (1836); Martin, llistoire 
de France ; Michelet, llistoire de France; Violart, llis- 
toire du Ministere de Richelieu ( 1 649) : Cablet, L'A dmin- 
istration cn France sons Richelieu (1861, 2 vols.) ; Bob- 
son. Life of Cardinal Richelieu (1854); Sully. Alemoires; 
Bet/, Memoires. — lloeler, Xouv. Biog. Generate. 

Richer, Eittirxn, a noted defender of tbe liber- 
ties of the Gallican Church against papal absolutism, 
was born, of poor parents, in a village in Champagne in 
1560. lie became doctor in theology in 1590, and for a 
time devoted his energies to pulpit labors; but in 1594 
he was made president of tbe College of Cardinal Le- 
moine. and soon afterwards censor of tbe University of 
Paris, in whose faculty be filled a theological chair. He 
undertook an edition ofGerson's works in 1605, the pub- 
lication of which was defeated by tbe papal nuncio 
Barber ini (subsequently pope Urban VIII). and which 
called forth the violent condemnation of Gersons works 
by Beliarmine. Bicher's defence (A pologia pro J. Ger- 
sonio [1606]) was not published until after his death 
(Leyden, 1671, 4to); but Gerson’s writings appeared in 
1607. Appointed syndic of tbe theological faculty in 
the following year, be opposed the public defence of the 
theses on t lie infallibility of tbe pope; and, in response 
to the recpiest of Nicholas de Verdun, the first president, 
he wrote the book l)e Fcclesiastica et Politica Pot estate, 
in which he developed the idea — always held by the Uni- 
versity of Paris— of the superiority of councils over the 
pope, and of the independence of secular governments 
in temporal things. This book brought on him the rage 
of the ultramontane party. lie was dismissed from the 
university, his teachings were condemned by several 
provincial synods and the papal court, and he was 
prohibited from replying to the charges promulgated 
against him. lie was even apprehended, but again lib- 
erated on the demand of the university. A protracted 
contest with his enemies ensued, in which he was finally 
conquered by cardinal Bicheiieii. He signed a retrac- 
tion at tbe point of the dagger of assassins hired to take 
his life. His death took place in 1631. See Baiilet. La 
1 ’ie d'Fdrn. Richer (Amst. 1715, 12ino). — Herzog, Real- 
Kncyklop. s. v. 

Riches (the rendering in the A. V. of several Heb. 
and Gr. words, especially TrXouror). The wealth 
of a pastoral people, such as the Hebrews in the patri- 
archal age, consisted chiefly in flocks and herds, lienee 
we find it assigned as a cause of the separation of Fsau 
and Jacob that* 4 their riches were more than they might 
dwell together; and the laud wherein they were stran- 
gers coirld not bear them because of their cattle” (Gen. 
xxxvi, 8). It was not until the reign of Solomon that 
the .lews possessed any abundance of the precious met- 
als; ami as the nation never became commercial, its rich 
men must in all ages have been the great land-holders. 
Throughout tin* Fast the holders ofland have ever been 
remarkable for .exacting very disproportionate shares of 
the profit from the actual cultivators of the soil, anti this 
is the reason why we find “the rich” so oltcn and so 
severely denounced in Scripture. Biches is frequent- 


ly used in a metaphorical sense for intellectual endow- 
ments, and for the gifts and graces of God’s llolv Spirit, 
which constitute the treasure to be “laid up in heaven, 
where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where 
thieves do not break through and steal.” 

Richey, Daniel, a Methodist minister, was born in 
New Jersey in 1797, and moved when quite young to tiie 
neighborhood of Cayuga Lake, N. Y. llis connection 
with the travelling ministry began in the Pittsburgh 
Conference, 1829, and continued up to the time of the 
Erie Annual Conference, July, 1845. when he was placed 
in a superannuated relation, which continued until his 
death, March 25, 1855. In point of zeal, integrity, and 
fidelity to duty and principles, he had lew equals. See 
Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1855. 

Richmond, Francis M,, a Methodist preacher, 
was born in Herkimer County, N. Y., in 1803, and emi- 
grated to Indiana in 1817. Although reared under Bap- 
tist influence, he united with the Methodist Episcopal 
Church at the age of twenty-five years. In 1836 he 
was admitted on trial into the travelling connection, 
and, with the exception of a temporary location under 
pressure of domestic circumstances, he labored faithful- 
ly to the close of life. His last appointment was to 
Greenfield Circuit, North Indiana Conference, but, after 
laboring a few months, was smitten down in the prime 
of life, in 1853. lie was a sound theologian, and a 
powerful, practical, and experimental preacher. — Min- 
utes of Annual Conferences , 1853, p. 283. 

Richmond, Legh, an English clergyman, was 
born in Liverpool, Jan. 29, 1772. He graduated at Trin- 
ity College, Cambridge, in 1794, and was ordained in 
1797. He became curate of Brading and Yaverland, in 
tiie Isle of Wight, in 1798, and, in 1805, chaplain to the 
Lock Hospital, London. In the same year be was pre- 
sented to the rectory of Turvey, Bedfordshire, which he 
held until his death, May 8, 1827. Mr. Richmond was 
t he author of several tracts — The Dairyman'' s Daughter , 
The Xegro Servant , The Young Cottager — published sep- 
arately at first, but afterwards (1814) collected into two 
l volumes 12 m o, under the title of Annals of the Poor. 
Of The Dairyman's Daughter four millions of copies, in 
nineteen Languages, had been circulated before 1849. 
lie also edited The Fathers of the English Church (Loud. 
1807-12,8 vols. 8vo), and published Domestic Portrait- 
ure: — Memoirs of his three children (9th ed. Loud. 1861, 
8vo) : — a Missionary Sermon (1809, 8 vo), and a Memoir 
of Miss 11. Sinclair . 

Richmond, Paul C., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Barnard, Vt., where he 
passed his carlv manhood, lie received license to preach 
in March, 1825, and soon after was received on trial into 
tiie New England Conference. After filling several ap- 
pointments in Vermont, he was in 1829 transferred to 
Maine Conference, where he did effective work until 
1855, when failing health compelled him to take a su- 
perannuated relation. He resided in Frysburgh, and 
continued to labor as his strength allowed. He died 
there, May 29, 1875. lie was well versed in Scripture, 
apt in illustration, an able and successful minister. See 
Minutes of Annual Conferences, 1876, p. 87. 

Richter, Aemilius Ludwig, a distinguished 
teacher of jurisprudence in Germany, who rendered es- 
pecially meritorious services in the department of eccle-' 
siastical law. Biehter was horn at Stolpen, near Dres- 
den, on Fob. 15, 1808, and entered Leipsie University in 
1826, After graduating, he became an advocate, and at 
once began to write in the field of ecclesiastical juris- 
prudence ; and he added to these functions those of a 
teacher in the university, at first as a tutor, and subse- 
quently, in 1835, as extraordinary professor. His labors 
were already attracting notice by that time, and ob- 
tained for him the doctorate of laws from the University 
of Gilt t ingen, to which the University of Grcifswald, 
twenty years later, added that of divinity. In 1838, 


RICHTER 


21 


RICIITEF 


Richter was made professor of ecclesiastical and civil 
law in the University of Marburg. Eight years of 
qniet but productive labors were spent in that station, 
and he was then transferred to the High-school at Ber- 
lin, where he entered on a career which made him felt 
throughout Germany within the limits of his chosen 
field. 1 1 is studies were given to the world in numer- 
ous writings, and the conclusions reached by him were 
brought to bear in the administration of the Department 
of Religion, under whose ministry he held various im- 
portant posts; and his thorough learning, and fair yet 
conscientious spirit, gave him a commanding position 
with reference to Church laws and methods of adminis- 
tration, not only in Prussia, but in many other German 
lands. Few laws were passed relating to the churches, 
and few changes in their administration introduced, dur- 
ing the period of his connection with the government, 
in respect to which he did not exert a more or less de- 
termining influence. He died, after a long and severe 
illness, May 8, 1864. 

The attitude of Richter towards the ecclesiastical is- 
sues of his time was largely determined by the principle, 
fundamental in his view, that the jus circa sacra be- 
longs inseparably to the State as a moral power. He 
believed it wise that the State should allow freedom of 
action to the Church within its own appropriate field; 
but insisted that for the regulation of mixed questions, 
for the restraining of ecclesiastical intrusions into the 
secular realm, for the repression of notoriously aggres- 
sive and thoroughly organized religious parties, e. g. the 
Order of the Jesuits; for the protection of the rights of 
one ecclesiastical organization as against the encroach- 
ments of others, etc., the right of sovereignty must be 
retained by the State. He was accordingly opposed to 
the course of the Raumer ministry, which simply ig- 
nored the necessity for restraining the unconstitutional 
demands of the Roman Catholic Church, in consequence 
of which the Jesuits flooded the western provinces of 
Prussia, and formed settlements without corporate titles 
as required by law, and even without coming under any 
kind of legal supervision. He was also opposed to the 
concordats concluded between several states and the 
pope, as being radically wrong. With regard to the 
evangelical churches of Germany, Richter condemned 
the territorial no less than the episcopal system, and fa- 
vored that in which the sovereign prince is endowed 
with authority, while the Church itself is thoroughly 
organized into congregations (not parishes ), presbyter- 
ies, and synods. The merit of Richter as a writer on 
ecclesiastical law consists in his having based his works 
on a wide collection of previously unused material as well 
as that to which reference was ordinarily made, and on 
a profound investigation of all the sources at command, 
and also in the absolute fairness of his spirit. These 
qualities appear as clearly in his works on Roman Cath- 
olic law as elsewhere. His earliest publication, the Cor- 
pus Juris Ccinonici (1833-39), is the best edition of that 
book extant. Other early books are, Beitrdge zur Kennt- 
niss d. kanon. Rechts (Leips. 1834) : — Be Inedit. Decretal '. 
Coll. Lipsiensi (Lips. 1836). In connection with Schulte 
he also published a large edition of the Canones et Be - 
cret. Cone. Tridentini (ibid. 1853). An epochal book in 
its department was his Lehrbuch des katkol. und evangel. 
Kirchenrechts , etc. (Leips. 1842; 6th posthumous ed. 
1865); and similar importance attaches to the collection 
entitled Die evangel. Kirchenordnuvgen d. 16fe« Jahrhnn- 
derts , etc. (Weimar, 1846, 2 vols.). — Herzog, Real-En- 
cyklop . s. v. 

Richter, Christian Friedrich, a German hym- 
nologist, was born at Sorau, in Silesia, Oct. 5, 1676. He 
studied medicine and theology at Halle, and after the 
completion of his studies was appointed by Franeke su- 
perintendent of the academy. After the death of his 
brother, he was also appointed medical attendant of the 
Orphan-house there. In conjunction with his brother, 
Dr. Christian Sigismnnd Richter, he discovered the cele- 
brated Halle medicine, prepared from gold, and called 


essentia dulcis. and which gave a great name to the Or- 
phan-house at Halle. The profits of this medicine he 
devoted to the benefit of the institution. From his 
twentieth year he composed hymns, and thirty-three 
excellent and deeply spiritual Christian hymns are at- 
tributed to him. Knapp, in his IJederschatz , gives four- 
teen of his hymns, some of which have also been trans- 
lated into English, as, Mein S alamo ! dein freundliches 
Regieren , by Dr. Bomberger, in SchaflTs Kirchenfreund , 
ii, 337 (“Jesus my king! thy mild and kind control”); 
Hiiter icird die Nacht der Siinden, in Sacred Lyrics, p. 32 
(“O watchman, will the night of sin”); lJier legt mein 
Sinn ror dir sick nieder , in the Moravian Hymn-book, 
No. 437 (“My soul before thee prostrate lies”) ; Cot(,den 
ich als Liebe kenne, by Cox, in Hymns from the German , 
p. 190 (“O God, whose attributes shine forth in turn”). 
Richter was also the author of a remarkable medical 
treatise on the Crucifixion of Christ. He died October 
5, 1711. See Koch, Geschichte des Kirchenliedes , iv, 296, 
355 sq. ; viii, 246 sq., 297, 434, 515; Miller, Singers and 
Songs of the Church, p. 141 sq.; Jdcher, Gelehrten- Lex- 
ikon, s. v. ; Richter's Leben und Wirken als Arzt, Theo - 
log und Bichter (published by the Haupt-Verein fur 
ehristl. Erbauungsschriften in den preussischen Staaten, 
Berlin, 1865). (B. P.) 

Richter, Henry, an English painter, of German 
extraction, was born in 1772. He resided mostly in 
London, where he died in 1857. His most important 
historical work is Christ restoring Sight to the Blind , 
now in a church at Greenwich, England. See Thomas, 
Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Richter, Johann Heinrich, inspector in the 
missionary institute at Barmen, Germany, under whose 
administration the missions of the Rhenish Missionary 
Society were established, was born at Belleben Dec. 1 1 , 
1799, and entered on the duties of the station in which 
he spent his life May 28, 1827. The Barmen Mission- 
ary Society did not as yet send out missionaries, nor 
even own a house, but a number of young men were 
trained under its direction for work among the hea- 
then. Richter subsequently, aided by liis brother Will- 
iam, became their instructor, and after about eighteen 
months was able to report the readiness of four of his 
pupils to begin their expected labors. The poverty 
of the Barmen association now induced them to invite 
other local societies to aid in forwarding the candidates 
to their foreign fields, and as a result the Rhenish Mis- 
sionary Society was organized. Its first mission was 
among the slaves of the Boers in South Africa, which,, 
in course of time, extended over five stations. Another 
was begun on the island of Borneo in 1834, but failed to 
achieve successful results while Richter lived ; and a 
third, among the Indians of North America, was like- 
wise unsuccessful; but the latter gave rise to a flourish- 
ing mission among the evangelical Germans of Amer- 
ica. Richter’s ardent soul was continually employed in 
devising new means for the extension of Christianity. 
He was incessantly busy with his pen, issuing reports, 
spreading information through the periodical press, ed- 
iting the Monatsberichte d. rhein. M issions- G eseUscha ft, 
etc., and with public appeals in sermons and addresses 
in every section of the land. The institution of a soci- 
ety to preach the Gospel to the Jews was his work, and 
also the establishing of a German mission in China, 
which came to pass but a short time previous to his 
death. Richter was twice married, and became the fa- 
ther of a large family. A brief sickness ended his life 
April 5, 1847. As an author, Richter gave to the world 
a number of works; e. g. Erkldrte Hausbibel, a com- 
mentary on the entire Bible (6 vols.), decidedly ortho- 
dox according to the Lutheran standard, and every- 
where confidently accepting the literal meaning: — 
Evangel, u. romische Kirchenlehre (1844), a polemical 
work: — a Life of Giitzlajf, the Chinese missionary, and 
others. In personal intercourse he was vivacious, stim- 
ulating, witty, and yet dignified. A man of scientific 


RICHTHOFEN" 2: 

culture, he was an accomplished botanist, mineralogist, I 
etc.; but his writings are characterized by freshness of 
statement rather than by depth of thought. — Herzog, 
Rml- Fnvyklop. s. v. 

Richthofen, Charles, Huron von, canon of Bres- j 
lau, was born of evangelical parents Jan. 31, 1 832, in 
J lart wigswaklau, Silesia. In 1838 his father quietly 
joined the Homan Catholic Church, while his mother 
remained lirni in her belief, and the sons, by law, had to 
follow the hither. From 1815 to 185*2 he attended the ( 
Matthias Gymnasium at Breslau, and decided to pre- 
pare himself for the olliee of woods and forests. He en- 
tered the academy at Xeustadt-Kberswalde, and finished 
his course there, but was not satisfied with the step he [ 
had taken. lie decided to study theology, attended 
the theological course at the Breslau University, and 
in I860 received holy orders. In 1869 he was stationed 
at II oh en fried berg, but would not accept the decisions 
of the Vatican Council. The government had appointed 
him canon of Breslau, but bishop Forster, of that city, 
pressed by the chapter, wished to have the canon sign 
a paper, according to which he accepted the Vatican 
decrees. Hichthofen refused to sell his conscience to 
Home, and the bishop excommunicated him in 1873. ! 
He then joined the Old-Catholic party, and acted as 
priest till 1875. But finding no satisfaction or peace of 
conscience and mind even in this party, he joined the 
Lutheran Church at Leipsie, being received by Dr. Ahl- 
feld as member Dec. 11, 1875. He died March 7, 1876, 
in the house of his brother at Berlin. Dr. Besser deliv- 
ered the funeral oration. See Schneider, Theol. Jahr- 
buch, 1877, p. 2*27 sq.; Carl Freiherr von Richthofen , 
friiher Domherr in Breslau , ein Lebensbild ans den kirch- 
lichen Kiimpfen der Geyemcart (Leipsie, 1877) ; Schiirer, 
Thevloyische Literaturzeituny , 1877, p. 616 sq. (B. P.) 

Ricius, Pall. See Hicci. 

Rickards, Samuel, an English clergyman, was 
born in 1795; entered Oriel College, Oxford, in 1811; 
obtained the Xewdigate prize for English verse in 1815, 
and graduated in second-class honors in 1817. He was 
fellow of Oriel College in 1819 to 1823, and vicar of 
Stow, Langtoft, Suffolk, from 1832 until his death, in 
1865. lie was the author of the Christian Householder , 
or Book of Fumily Prayers (1849, 12mo): — Short Ser- 
mons for Family Reading (1849, 8vo) : — several other j 
Prayer-books : — also Reliyious T ructs, etc. See Allibone, 
I Jict. of Brit . and A mer, A uthors , s. v. 

Rickman, Thomas, a distinguished English archi- 
tect, was l>orn at Maidenhead in 1776. Although un- 
settled in early life, he seems always to have had a love 
for architecture, and to have studied it carefully. In 
1808 lie began to give his full attention to it, and wrote 
the Classification of Gothic Styles, which has rendered 
him famous. He afterwards resided in Birmingham, 
and acquired great celebrity by his Gothic churches 
and other structures, lie died in March, 1841. lie is 
well known as an author by his Gothic Architecture , an 
Attempt to JJiscriminate the Styles of Architecture in 
Enyland, etc. (Loud. 1817, 8vo). 'I 1 here is a later and 

better edition by Parker (< txford, 1862, 8vo). See Alli- 
bone, Piet, of Brit, and A mer. A uthors , s. v. 

Riculphus (Fr. Riculfe ), bishop of Soissons, died 
about 902. He entered upon this see between 883 and 
892, and assisted in the council of Verberic in 892 and 
of Kheims in 893. In 900, in the latter city, he con- 
secrated archbishop llerve, and excommunicated the 
murderers of archbishop Foulques. lie made himself 
celebrated by the constitution which he established in 
his church in 88J). This had for its object the correc- 
tion of the ignorance of the clergy, and has been re- 
printed several limes since 1615. It may he found in 
the supplement to the Co nci/es des Guides of Pierre de 
la Laude, and in vol. ix of the Candles of Lahbe. See 
Gallia Christiana ; l/ist. Litter, de la France. — lloefer, 
Four. Bioy. Gene rale, s. V. 


2 KIDDLE 

Rid. See Isaiaii di Tp.ani. 

Riddha, in Arabic mythology, is coincidence with 
the divine will ; one of the live principal virtues which 
swim about on the sea of passions and tribulations. 

Riddle (n**pn, chidah lit. complication, Judg. 
xiv; Ezek. xvii, 2; Sept, aivtypa, 7rpofi\)ipa ; Vulg. 
problem a, projiositio ,■ A. V. elsewhere “dark saying,” 
“dark speech,” “dark sentence,” “hard question;” once 
[Hab. ii, 6] “proverb”). The Hebrew word is derived 
from a root cognate to an Arabic one meaning “to bend 
off,” “ to twist,” and is used for artifice (Dan. viii, 23), a 
proverb (Prov. i, 6), a song (Psa. xlix, 4; lxxviii, 2), 
an oracle (Xumb. xii, 8), a parable (Ezek. xvii, 2), and 
in general any wise or intricate sentence (Psa. xciv, 4; 
Hab. ii, 6, etc.), as well as a riddle in our sense of the 
word (Judg. xiv, 12-19). In these senses we may com- 
pare the phrases arpoipi} \6ywr, arpo<pai 7rapa[3o\uiv 
(Wisil. viii, 8 ; Ecclus. xxxix, 2), and 7r£pnr\oKi) Xoytnv 
(Eurip. J’hcen. 497), and the Latin scirpits, whieh ap- 
pears to have been similarly used (Aul. Cell. Xoct. Att. 
xii, 6). Augustine defines an enigma to be any “ob- 
senra allegoria” ( I)e Trin. xv, 9), and points out, as an 
instance, the passage about the daughter of the horse- 
leech in Prov. xxx, 15, which has been elaborately ex- 
plained by Bellcrmann in a monograph on the subject 
( sEnigmata JJebraica [Erf. 1798]). M any passages, 
although not definitely propounded as riddles, may be 
regarded as such — e. g. Prov. xxvi, 10, a verse in the 
rendering of which every version differs from all others. 
The riddles which the queen of Sheba came to ask of 
Solomon (1 Kings x, 1 ; 2 Chron. ix, 1) were rather 
“ hard questions” referring to profound inquiries. Solo- 
mon is said, however, to have been very fond of the rid- 
dle proper, for Josephus (?1 nt. viii, 5, 3) quotes two pro- 
fane historians (Menander of Ephesus, and Dins) to au- 
thenticate a story that Solomon proposed numerous rid- 
dles to Hiram, for the non-solution of which Hiram was 
obliged to pay a large fine, until he summoned to his as- 
sistance a Tyrian named Abdemon, who not only solved 
the riddles, but propounded others which Solomon was 
himself unable to answer, and consequently in his turn 
incurred the penalty. The word aivtypa occurs only 
once in the New Test. (1 Cor. xiii, 1*2, “ dark!}',” i v 
airty pan; comp. Xumb. xii, 8; Wettstein, X. 7". ii, 158) ; 
but, in the wider meaning of the word, many instances 
of it occur in our Lord’s discourses. Thus Erasmus ap- 
plies the term to Matt, xii, 43-45. In the Apocrypha 
we find (Wisd. xlvii, 15) TrapafioXalg aiviypdno v. 
The object of such implicated meanings is obvious, and 
is well explained by Augustine: “Manifestis pascimur, 
obscuris exercemur ” {De Doct. Christ, ii, 6). The word 
aivtypa, taken in the extensive meaning of its root, 
ulvog, certainly applies to an immense portion of the sa- 
j cred writings — viz. as a narrative or tale, having an ap- 
plication to present circumstances; Odyss. (xiv, 508), a 
fable, bearing moral instruction; Hesiod, Oper. (p. 202), 
which nearly approaches to the nature of a parable [see 
1‘akaule]; a pointed sentence, saying, or proverb 
(Theocritus, xiv, 13). See Prophecy; Proverb. Ac- 
cording to Lennep, the word aivtypa, taken substantive- 
ly, means “ anything obscure.” 

We know that all ancient nations, especially Orien- 
tals, have been fond of riddles (Hosenmiiller, Morgenl. 
in, 08). We find traces of the custom among the Arabs 
(Koran, xxv, 35), and, indeed, several Arabic books of 
I riddles exist — as Ketub el-Alyaz in 1469, and a book of 
riddles solved, called Akd el-Themin. But these are 
rather emblems and devices than what we call riddles, 
although they are very ingenious. The Persians call 
them A/yaz and Muumma (DTIerbelot, s. v. “Algaz”). 
They were also known to the ancient Egyptians (Ja- 
blonski, Pantheon . Egypt, p. 48). They were especially 
used in banquets both by Greeks and Homans (Muller, 
Dor. ii, 392; Athon. x, 457; Pollux, vi, 107 ; Gell.xviii, 
2), and the kind of witticisms adopted may be seen in 


KIDDLE 


23 


RIDDLE 


the literary dinners described by Plato, Xenophon, Athe- 
na?us, Plutarch, and Macrobius (see Zorn, l)e xEitigma- 
tibus Xuptialibus [Lips. 1724]). Some have ground- 
lessly supposed that the proverbs of Solomon, Lemuel, 
and Agur were propounded at feasts, like the parables 
spoken by our Lord on similar occasions (Luke xiv, 7, 
etc.). 

Piddles were generally proposed in verse, like the 
celebrated riddle of Samson, which, however, was prop- 
erly (as Voss points out, Instt. Oratt. iv, 11) no riddle at 
all, because the Philistines did not possess the only clue 
on which the solution could depend. For this reason 
Samson had carefully concealed the fact, even from his 
parents (Judg. xiv, 14, etc.). Other ancient riddles in 
verse are that of the Sphinx, and that which is said to 
have caused the death of Homer by his mortification at 
being unable to solve it (Plutarch, Vit. Horn.'). 

The pleasure of the propoundcr is derived from per- 
plexing his hearers, and theirs from overcoming the dif- 
ficulty, which is usually renewed by their proposing an- 
other enigma. This kind of amusement seems to have 
been resorted to, especially at entertainments, in all ages 
among different nations, and has even been treated as 
an art and reduced to rules. The chief writers on this 
curious subject are Nic. Peusner (. Enigmatogruph .) and 
F. Menestrier. The principal rules laid down for the 
construction of an enigma are the following: that it 
must be obscure, and the more obscure the better, pro- 
vided that the description of the thing, however cov- 
ered and abstract, and in whatever remote or uncommon 
terms, be really correct; and it is essential that the 
thing thus described be well known. Sometimes, and 
especially in a witty enigma, the amusement consists in 
describing a thing by a set of truisms, which tell their 
own meaning, but which confound the hearer through 
his expectation of some deep and difficult meaning. 

Franc. Junius distinguishes between the greater enig- 
ma, where the allegory or obscure intimation is continu- 
ous throughout the passage (as in Ezek. xvii, 2, and in 
such poems as the Syrinx attributed to Theocritus), and 
the lesser enigma or vi raii’iypa, where the difficulty is 
concentrated in the peculiar use of some one word. As 
specimens of the enigmatical style of the former kind in 
the Old Test., Winer points out Prov. xxx, 12-19; Isa. 
xxi, 12. The speech of Lamech to his wives Adah and 
Zillah (Gen. iv, 23, 24) is possibly an enigmatic mode 
of communicating some painful intelligence. In the 
New Test, we may adduce our Lord's discourse with 
Nicodemus (John iii, 3), and with the Jews (vi, 51, 
etc.), where the enigmatical style is adopted for the 
purpose of engaging attention in an unrivalled manner 
(Stuck, Antiq. Conviv. iii, 17). It maybe useful to refer 
to one or two instances of the latter kind, since they are 
very frequently to be found in the Bible, and especially 
in the prophets. Such is the play on the word DZPJS 
(“a portion,” and “Shechem,” the town of Ephraim), in 
Gen. xlviii, 22; on "1^*2 ( matzor , “a fortified city”) 
and ( Mizraim , Egypt), in Mic. vii, 12; on 

(Shaked, u an almond- tree”) and ‘IjT'ir (shakad, “ to 
hasten”), in Jer. i, 11; on ( Dumdh , meaning 

“Edom” and “the land of death”), iii Isa. xxi, 11 ; on 
Sheshach (meaning “ Babylon,” and perhaps “ ar- 
rogance”), in Jer. xxv, 26; li, 41. The description of 
the Messiah under the name of the “ Branch” (^T2, nezer ), 
when considered in regard to the occasion and context, 
may be taken as a specimen of the lesser enigma (see 
Lowth upon the passage). See Nazakite. 

It only remains to notice the single instance of a rid- 
dle occurring in the New Test. — viz. the number of the 
beast. This belongs to a class of riddles very common 
among Egyptian mystics, the Gnostics, some of the. 
fathers, and the Jewish Cabalists. The latter called it 
Gematria (i. e. yemperpia), of which instances may be 
found in Carpzov ( A pp. Crit. p. 542), Iieland (A nt. Ilebr. 
i, 25), and some of the commentators on Kev. xiii, 16- 


18. Thus ll ; n: ( jmchdsh ), “serpent,” is made by the 
Jews one of the names of the Messiah, because its nu- 
merical value is equivalent to rxO'Z ; and the names 
Shushan and Esther are connected together because the 
numerical value of the letters composing them is 661. 
Thus the Mareosians regarded the number 24 as sacred 
from its being the sum of numerical values in the names 
of two quaternions of their reons, and the Gnostics used 
the name Abraxas as an amulet because its letters 
amount numerically to 365. Such idle fancies are not 
infrequent in some of the fathers. Instances occur in 
the mystic explanation by Clem. Alcxaudrinus of the 
number 318 in (ten. xiv, 14, and by Tcrtullian of the 
number 300 (represented by the letter T or a cross') in 
Judg. vii, 6, and similar instances are supplied by the 
Testimonia of the Fseudo- Cyprian. The most exact 
analogies, however, to the enigma on the name of the 
beast are to be found in the so-called Sibylline verses. 
We quote one which is exactly similar to it, the answer 
being found in the name ’L/o-or^ — 888, thus: 1 = 10 + 
ij:=8 + (r = 200 + o=70 + u =400 +£=200 =888. It is 
as follows, and is extremely curious: 

>ife< crapmupopos 2 , i't]To7r o/uo£oi</uevor tv 71 / 

Ttcrtrepa ^xoifjeiTa <p4pei, tu 6' lupoiva Su aurut 
dtccroji' LUJTpa^dXoiv (?), upiSfinv S' oAov t£ovo/u>/vct)* 
oktco 7 «p /uovuSu?, ocriTu? <5eKfi5av titi toi"to<?, 
i'ld' tKarovTudav oktw dmaTOTepon avSptonot? 
ovvo/xa &t)Auxret. 

With examples like this before us, it would be ab- 
surd to doubt that John (not greatly removed in time 
from the Christian forgers of the Sibylline verses) in- 
tended some name as an answer to the number 666. 
The true answer must be settled by the Apocalyptic 
commentators. Most of the fathers supposed, even as 
far back as Irenaeus, the name Aartirog to be indicated. 
A list of the other very numerous solutions, proposed in 
different ages, may be found in Elliott’s Hone Apoca- 
lypticce (iii, 222-234), from which we have quoted sev- 
eral of these instances. — Smith; Ivitto. See Nu.mbei: 
of tiie Beast. 

Riddle, John, D.D., a minister of the Associate 
Reformed Church, was born in Monaghan County, Ire- 
land, in 1758. lie graduated at the University of 
Glasgow April 10, 1782, and entered upon the study of 
theology, under the supervision of John Brown, of Had- 
dington. He was licensed to preach June 14, 1788, and 
was installed pastor of the congregation in Donaghlo- 
nev, County Down, Nov. 18. In this connection he re- 
mained till the spring of 1794, when he came to the 
United States. In August of the same year he was in- 
stalled at Robinson Run as pastor of the united congre- 
gations of Robinson Run and Union, in the vicinity of 
Pittsburgh. After a few years the congregations so in- 
creased that, at his request, he was released from Union, 
and settled for the whole of his time at Robinson Run. 
Here he continued to labor the remainder of his life, 
and died, after a month’s illness, Sept. 4, 1829. I)r. 
Riddle took an active part in the management of the 
affairs of the Associate Reformed Church, which was in 
its infancy when he became a member of it. He was 
among those who opposed the proceedings of the Gen- 
eral Assembly Reformed Synod, and who finally, in 
1820, resolved to constitute themselves into an inde- 
pendent synod, to be known as the “Associate Reformed 
Synod of the West.” He was a close student, argumen- 
tative in his preaching, and an excellent pastor. None 
of the productions of his pen were ever printed, though 
he left behind a large AI S. on the subject of Jleliyious 
Covenanting, which, had he lived a little longer, it is 
thought he would have published. See Sprague, An- 
nals of the Amer. Pulpit , ix, 57. 

Riddle, Joseph Esmond, an English clergy- 
man, of St. Edmund’s Hall, Oxford, was curate of Har- 
row, and subsequently incumbent of St. Philip’s, Leek- 
hampton. Ilis death occurred Aug. 27, 1859. He was 
the author of many works, both theological aud educa- 


RIDDOCH 


24 : 


RIDLEY 


tionnl, among which are, Luther and his Times (Lond. 
1837. 12mn) '.— Ecclesiastical Chronology, or Annals of 
the Christian Church (ibid. 1810, Svo) : — Manual of 
Christian Antiquities (ibid. 1839, 8vo; 2d ed. 1843): — 
Xaturul l fistonj of Infidelity (eight Hampton Lectures; 
1852. 8vo) : — besides Sermons , Manuals , etc.: — also a 
Complete English - Latin and Latin- English Dictionary 
(ibid. 1830, 8vo), of which several editions have been 
published. See Allibone, Did. of Brit, and A mer. A u- 
tkors, s. v. ; Darling, Cyclop. Bibliog. s. v. 

Riddoch, James, a minister of the Episcopal 
Church, Scotland, during the last century, was born at 
Grange, Bamffshire. lie was first minister of a chapel 
at Glasgow, and afterwards became one of the ministers 
of St. Paul’s Chapel, Aberdeen, in 1757, in which charge 
he continued twenty years. His sermons are distin- 
guished for pathos, persuasion, eloquence, and piety, 
lie published Sermons on Several Subjects, etc. (Lond. 
1799, 3 vols. 8vo; a fifth edition was published in 1831, 

2 vols. 8vo). See Darling, Cyclop. Bibliog. s. v. 

Rideout, Uriel, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born in Bowdoin, Me., July 20, 1810. 
lie joined the Maine Conference in 1840, and labored 
until 1849, when he located for the purpose of attending 
the Concord Biblical Institute. He resumed his place 
in conference in 1850, and continued in active service 
until the session of 1808, when he received a supernu- 
merary relation. After an illness of ten days, he died 
at Cape Elizabeth Ferry Aug. 30, 1808. His labors 
were characterized by zeal and discretion, by ability 
and ministerial fidelity. See Minutes of Annual Con- 
ferences, 1809, p. 141. 

Rider (HSii, roleb). It is uncertain at what time, or 
in what place, horses were first used for riding, but there 
is every reason to believe that it was not until a period 
long after their having been employed for draught. In- 
stead of cavalry, the Egyptians and Babylonians, and 
the Greeks of the Homeric age, used war-chariots, the 
drivers of which are in the earlier books of the Old 
Test, called “riders,” as in Miriam’s song of triumph for 
the overthrow of the Egyptian host (Exod. xv). The 
book of Job, however, clearly intimates a “rider,” in 
our acceptation of the word, in the description of the 
chase of the ostrich: “She seorneth the horse and his 
rider” (Job xxxix, 18). White asses were used as 
steeds by the nobles in the land under the Judges, and 
instead of these we find that mules were used in the 
age of the Kings, horses being almost exclusively re- 
served for chariots. The Persians appear to have been 
the first Oriental nation that discovered the superiority 
of a flexible body of cavalry over a cumbrous and un- 
wieldy corps of chariots. Many of their early victories 
may fairly be ascribed to their skill in horsemanship. 

< )u the other hand, the Jewish armies were always defi- 
cient in cavalry', and their alliances with foreign states 
were generally designed to obtain a supply of auxiliary 
horse. It is not one of the least proofs of Solomon’s po- 
litical wisdom that he exerted himself to supply this 
national deficiency. See House. 

Rider, John, an Irish prelate, was born at Carring- 
ton, in Cheshire, about I fit 12, and entered Jesus College, 
Oxford, in 1570, where he took his degree of A.M., and 
continued in the university for some years, teaching 
grammar chietly. He was preferred to the living of 
Watcrstoek. Oxfordshire, in 1580, but resigned it in 
1581. In 1583 he was admitted to that of South Wo- 
kiugdon, which he resigned in 1590. lie was also rector 
of St. Mary Magdalen, Bermondsey, and of Winwiek, in 
Lancashire. He was afterwards archdeacon of Meath, 
in Ireland, dean of St. Patriek’s, Dublin, and in 1012 
bishop of Killaloe. lie died in 1032, and was buried in 
his cathedral. He was much respected for his piety 
anil learning, llis principal work is, A Dictionary, 
English - Latin and Latin -English (Oxf. 1589, 4 to). It 
was the first Latin dictionary in which the English part 


was placed before the Latin part. In addition are given, 
A Letter Concerning the Xews out oj Ireland (Lond. 
1G01, 4to): — Caveat to Irish Catholics (Dublin, 1G02, 
4 to) : — Claim of Antiquity in Behalf of the Protestant 
Religion (Lond. 1608, 4to). See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. ; 
Allibone, Diet, of Biit. and A mer. Authors, s. v. 

Ridge, the upper angle of a roof. It has usually, 
though by no means always, a piece of timber running 
along it, called the ridge-piece, upon which the upper 
ends of the rafters rest; the tiles with which it is cov- 
ered are called ridge-tiles. These are sometimes made 
ornamental, good instances of which are found at Great 
Malvern and Lincoln. — Parker, Glossary of Architecture, 
s. v. See Rib, 



Ridge-piece, Llan Tysilio. 

Ridgley, Thomas, D.D., an eminent English Inde- 
pendent minister, was born in London about 16G7, and 
educated at an academy in Wiltshire. Entering the 
ministry, he was in 1G95 chosen assistant to Mr. Thomas 
Gouge, near the Three Cranes, London, and about four 
years afterwards became his successor. In 1712 he, 
with Mr. John Eames, began to conduct an Independent 
academy in London as divinity tutor. He died March 
27, 1734. llis principal work is, A Body of Divinity , 
an exposition of the Assembly’s Larger Catechism (1731— 
33, 2 vols. fob; new edition, with notes, by John M. 
Wilson, Edinb. 1844, 2 vols. Svo; Lond. 1845, 2 vols. 
Svo; N. Y. 1855, 2 vols. 8vo). He also published Ser- 
mons, etc. (Lond. 1701-25). See Chalmers, Biog. Did . ; 
Allibone, Did. of Brit, and Amer. Authors, s. v. 

Riding Committees were committees of the 
General Assembly sent to supersede a presbytery which 
had refused to ordain a presentee over a reclaiming par- 
ish. The first instance occurred in 1717, when a pres- 
bytery refused to ordain a Mr. John Hay in the parish 
of Peebles, and the General Assembly passed an act 
“appointing certain brethren to correspond with the 
Presbytery of Peebles, and to act and vote in their 
meetings at their next ensuing diet, and thereafter, un- 
til the settlement of Air. John Hay in the parish of 
Peebles be completed, and to concur with them in his 
ordination.” By this device both the opposition of the 
people and the conscientious reluctance of the presby- 
tery were surmounted. The last instance of a settle- 
ment effected by means of a riding committee was that 
of Mr. Watson in the Presbytery of Linlithgow, May 30, 
1751. — Eadie, Eccles. Cyclop, s. v. 

Ridley, Gloucester, D.D., a learned English di- 
vine, was born at sea, on board the Gloucester, an East- 
Indiaman, 1702. lie received his education at Win- 
chester and New College, receiving the degree of B.C.L. 
April 29. 1729. For a great part of his life he had no 
other preferment than the small college living of Wes- 
ton, in Norfolk, and the donative of Poplar, in Middle- 
sex, where he resided. To these his college added, 
some years after, the donative of Romford, in Essex. 
In 17G1 he was presented by archbishop Seeker to a 
golden prebend at Salisbury. He published, Eight Ser- 
mons on the Holy Ghost (1740-41 ; Lond. 1742, Svo; new 
ed. Oxf. 1802, Svo) : — De Syriucurum Novi Foederis 
Versionum Indole atqne Usu Dissertatio, etc. (Lond. 
1761, (to) '.—Life of Xicholas Ridley (17G3, 4to) be- 
sides Letters, etc. See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. ; Hook, Ec- 
cles. Biog. ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. A uth . s. v. 


RIDLEY 


25 RIDLEY 


Ridley, Nicholas, an eminent English prelate 
and martyr, was descended from an ancient family in 
Northumberland, and was born early in the 16th cen- 
tury, in Tynedale, at a place called Wilmontswick. 
He was educated in a grammar school at Newcastle- 
upon-Tyne, and entered Pembroke Hall, Cambridge, 
ahont 1518. Here he was taught Greek by Rich- 
ard Crook, who about that time began to teach it in 
Cambridge. His religious sentiments were those of 
the Romish Church, iu which he had been brought 
up. In 1522 he took the degree of A. Ik, in 1524 was 
chosen fellow of his college, and in 1525 received the 
degree of A.M. Directing his attention to the study 
of divinity, his uncle, Dr. Robert Ridley, who had thus 
far paid for his education, sent him for further improve- 
ment to the Sorbonne at Paris, and thence to Louvain. 
In 1530 he was chosen junior treasurer of his college, 
and at this time paid great attention to the stud}" of 
the Scriptures. For this purpose he used to walk in 
the orchard at Pembroke Hall, and there committed to 
memory almost all the epistles in Greek. The walk is 
still called Ridley’s Walk. In 1533 he was chosen 
senior proctor of the university, and while in that of- 
fice the question of the pope’s supremacy came before 
the university to be examined on the authority of 
Scripture. The decision was that “ the bishop of 
Rome had no more authority and jurisdiction derived 
from God, in this kingdom of England, than any other 
foreign bishop,” and was signed by the vice-chancellor, 
and by Nicholas Ridley and Richard Wilkes, proctors. 
In 1534 he took the degree of B.I)., and was chosen 
chaplain of the university and public reader. In 1537, 
Cranmer, archbishop of Canterbury, appointed him one 
of his chaplains, and as a further mark of his esteem 
collated him, April, 1538, to the vicarage of Herne, in 
Kent. In 1539, when the act of the Six Articles was 
passed, Mr. Ridley bore his testimony against it in the 
pulpit, although he was in no danger from its penal- 
ties; still believing in transubstantiation, unmarried, 
and leaning to the practice of auricular confession, 
although not insisting upon it as necessary to salva- 
tion. In 1540 he went to Cambridge and took the 
degree of D.D., and about the same time was elected 
master of Pembroke Hall, having been also, through 
Cranmer’s influence, appointed chaplain to the king, 
and appointed a prebend in the cathedral of Canter- 
bury. At Canterbury he preached with so much zeal 
against the abuses of popery that the other prebenda- 
ries and preachers of the old learning brought articles 
against him at the archbishop’s visit in 1541, but the 
attempt failed. Gardiner, bishop of Winchester, next 
caused articles to be exhibited against him before the 
justices of the peace in Kent, and afterwards before 
the king and council, charging him with preaching 
against auricular confession and with directing the Te 
Deum to be sung in English. The accusation was re- 
ferred to Cranmer, and immediately crushed by him. 
The greater part of 1545 was spent by Dr. Ridley in 
retirement, and he employed himself in carefully ex- 
amining the truth and evidence of the doctrine of 
transubstantiation, of which he had been an unsus- 
pecting believer. He consulted the Apology of the 
Zwinglians and the writings of Bertram (q. v.), and 
concluded that the doctrine had no foundation, and 
found that Cranmer and Latimer both joined him in 
the same opinion. At the close of the year Cranmer 
gave him the eighth stall in St. Peter’s. Westminster. 
When Edward VI ascended the throne, in 1547, Dr. 
Ridley, being appointed to preach before the king on 
Ash -Wednesday, took that opportunity to discourse 
concerning the abuses of images in churches, and cere- 
monies, particularly the use of holy-water for driving 
away devils. About this time the fellows of Pembroke 
Hall presented Dr. Ridley to the living of Soham, in 
the diocese of Norwich ; but the presentation being dis- 
puted by the bishop, he was admitted to the living by 
command of the king. On Sept. 25 he was conse- 



Martyrs* Monument at Oxford. 


crated bishop of Rochester, and in 1548 was employed 
with Cranmer and others in reforming and compiling 
the Book of Common Prayer. On the suspension of 
bishop Bonner, bishop Ridley was transferred to Lon- 
don, and was installed April, 1550. In 1551 the sweat- 
ing-sickness prevailed in London, and although it was 
fatal to hundreds, yet bishop Ridley remained faithful- 
ly at his post. In June, 1550, the bishop directed that 
the Romish altars should be taken down, and tables 
substituted, in order to take away the belief of the peo- 
ple that an altar was necessary to the celebration of 
the sacrament. He was soon after engaged with Cran- 
mer in drawing up the Forty-two Articles. In 1552 he 
visited his old college at Cambridge, and on his return 
called at Hansdon, to pay his respects to the princess 
Mary. The arrogance, insolence, and bitterness of her 
nature she displayed on this occasion in the insults she 



KIDOLPIIUS 


26 


RIENZO 


offered Ridley. In 1553 the bishop preached before 
Edward VI, and so aroused the benevolence of the 
king that the latter sent to him to inquire how he 
might best put into practice the duties he had so 
strongly enforced. The result was the founding and 
endowment of Christ's, Bartholomew’s, Bridewell, and 
St. Thomas's hospitals. Upon the death of Edward VI, 
Ridley strove to put lady Jane Grey upon the throne; 
but failing, he went to Mary, as was expected of the 
bishop of London, and did her homage. By her com- 
mand he was sent back from Framingham on a lame I 
horse and committed to the Tower, July 26, 1553, to be ' 
proceeded against for heresy. It has been thought 
that bishop Ridley might have recovered the queen’s 
favor by countenancing her proceedings in religion, 
ltat he was too honest to act against his convictions, 
and, after eight months’ imprisonment in the Tower, 
was taken to Oxford, where he was, Oct. 1, 1555, con- 
demned to death for heresy. The evening before his 
execution he supped with some of his friends, showing 
great cheerfulness; and refused the offer of one of them 
to sit up with him, saying, “ I mean to go to bed, and, 
bv God’s will, to sleep as quietly as ever 1 did in my 
life.” The next morning, arrayed in his episcopal hab- 
it, he walked to the place of execution between the 
mayor and one of the aldermen of Oxford. Seeing 
Latimer approach, he ran to meet him, and, embracing 
him. exclaimed, “ Be of good heart, brother, for God 
will either assuage the fury of the flames, or else give 
us strength to endure them.” Going to the stake, they 
both kissed it and prayed earnestly. Refused permis- 
sion to speak unless he recanted, he said, “ Well, so long 
as the breath is in my body, I will never deny my Lord 
Christ and his known truth. God’s will be done in 
me.” Fire was then applied, and after suffering in- 
tensely for a long time Ridley expired. Bishop Ridley, 
in his private life, was a pattern of piety, humility, tem- 
perance, and regularity. The following works are as- 
cribed to him by Anthony Wood: Treatise concerning 
linages: — Brief Declaration of the Lord's Supper (1555 j 
and 1586, 8vo): — .1 Friendly Farewell, written during 
his imprisonment at Oxford (1559, 8vo): — Account of 
the Disputation held at Oxford ( 1 088, 4to) : — A Treatise 
of the Blessed Sacrament. Additions are made by other 
authorities. Many of his letters are in Fox’s Acts and 
Monuments , and in Dr. Gloster’s Life of Bishop Ridley. 

Ridolphus (Ital. Ridnlf), Claudio, a painter of 
the Venetian school, was born at Verona in 1574. He 
was descended from a noble family, and in his youth 
made great progress in his art. lie worked in Verona, 
Urbino, and other cities of Italy. He died in 1644. 
The works of Ridolphus show a purity of design and 
simplicity of composition which are seldom found in 
the works of the Venetian school. Among his best are. 
Presentation of the Virgin at the Temple: — The Assump- 
tion : — a Virgin, and several Saints. See Bumassuti, 
(Jnida di Verona. — 11 odor, A r our. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Riegger, J oseph Anton Stephan von, an em- 
inent teacher of jurisprudence, who was also author, im- 
perial councillor, censor of books, etc., and whose prin- 
cipal field of labor was the University of Freiburg, was 
born at Innspruck, Feb. 13, 1742. lie wrote his first 
work — a review of the works of Plautus and Terence— 
when scarcely fifteen years of age, became master in 
philosophy in 1761, ami in 1764 entered on his first po- 
sition as a teacher in the Theresiauum. During his 
preliminary studies he had published a Bibliotheca Juris 
f'unonici (1761):— an edition of August, Archiep. Tara- 
con. De Emend. Grathmi Dialog!, and a new edition of 
the canonist Cironins, and had also written verses in 
German and Latin. In 1765 he was called to a pro- 
fessorship at Freiburg, and for the first time delivered 
lectures on jurisprudence in the German tongue. His 
promotions were now so rapid that scarcely a year 
passed without bringing to him new honors of this 
kind, and his reputation secured for him the charge of 


repeated government commissions of importance and 
delicacy; but the payment of debts incurred by his fa- 
ther and by an insolvent brother so impaired his fortune 
that a removal from Freiburg became desirable, lie 
became professor of civil law at Prague and government 
councillor of Bohemia, and died Aug. 5, 1795. lie had 
been actively connected with the reform movements of 
his age, and" had given books to the world which ex- 
cited much attention in their time, e. g. one on the 
right of a prince to tax persons of clerical rank. A 
work on the decretals of popes, etc., in which unpub- 
lished MSS. were largely introduced, would have been 
his crowning labor, but an instalment issued under the 
title Bernard! Breviarium Extravagantium (1778) failed 
to secure the sympathy of the public and caused him to 
renounce the undertaking. His numerous writings in 
the departments of belles-lettres, jurisprudence, and 
canon-law are given in Mensel,£e;rzAw* d.v.Jahre 1750- 
1800 rerstot'b. deutsch. Schriftsteller (Leips. 1811), vol. xi ; 
and in Weidlich, Biogr. Nachrichten, etc. (Halle, 1751), 
part ii. See Griinwald, Biographie d. beid. Ritter von 
Riegger (Prague, 1798); Schlichtegroll, Xecrolog auf 
d. Jahr. 1795, 1st half. — Wetzer u. Welte, Kirchen- 
Lex. s. v. 

Riegger, Paul Joseph von, father of J. A. S. 
Riegger (q. \\), and professor of canon-law in the LTni- 
versity of Vienna from 1753 to 1775, was born at Frei- 
burg, June 29, 1705, and received his education in his 
native town. At the age of sixteen years he obtained 
the degree of master in philosophy, and at the age of 
twenty-eight he became doctor of both civil and eccle- 
siastical law. Soon afterwards he was called to the 
chair of jurisprudence and German history at Innspruck, 
where he subsequently attained to the highest honors, 
being twice elected rector and eight times dean of the 
university, frequently acting as its chosen agent in 
transactions with the imperial court, and also serving as 
counsel to the courts of Lower Austria. The empress 
Maria Theresa placed him over the Imperial Theresa 
School and the Academy of Savoyard Knights as teach- 
er of public and canonical law in 1749, and in 1753 he 
became professor of ecclesiastical law in the University 
of Vienna, though retaining the positions he already 
held. His Institutiones Jurisprudent ice Ecclesiasticce (4 
vols.) were generally introduced into the schools of 
Austria. His next preferment was to the posts of im- 
perial councillor and censor of books, and in 1764 to the 
knighthood and to the Bohemian branch of the gov- 
ernment. Many laws relating to the establishing and 
execution of spiritual functions owe their origin to him, 
as does the abolition of trials for magical practices and 
witchcraft, lie is the father of the ecclesiastical sys- 
tem of Austria as subsequently taught in all its schools. 
The liberal influence exerted by him crowded the ultra- 
montane theories out of use, and caused him to be re- 
garded at Rome as an important promoter of reforms in 
the Church. It is said that he was threatened with ex- 
communication in consequence, and that his works were 
placed in the Index. He died Dec, 8, 1775. A list of 
liis works is given in Mcnsel and Weidlich. See Bi- 
ographie d. beid. Ritter von Riegger (Prague, 1798). — 
Wetzer u. Welte, Kirchen-Lex. s. v. 

Rienzo, Cola di (Xicolo di Lorenzo), Rome's 
“last tribune,” was born of humble parentage, in the 
year 1313, at Rome. lie was endowed with an ambi- 
tions and daring spirit, and, as the event proved, with an 
overweening vanity, and he possessed the gift of a fiery 
eloquence. II is first public appearance was in 1343, in 
the character of notary to an embassy of Roman citizens 
sent to greet pope Clement VI and persuade him to re- 
turn to Rome, where the families of Colonna and Ursini 
wore then contending against each other— the power of 
the nobles generally having grown to excessive propor- 
tions — and the oppression of the people and their sinking 
into immorality were keeping equal pace. Rienzo be- 
came acquainted with Petrarch — subsequently his en- 


RIETI 


27 


RIGBY 


thusiastic supporter — while at Avignon, and he there 
received the appointment of papal notary. After his 
return to Home he devoted himself to the work of in- 
flaming the passions of the people through the means 
of popular and patriotic addresses, and with such suc- 
cess that he was proclaimed tribune of Home and clothed 
with dictatorial powers in May, 1347. The pope at flrst 
confirmed Rienzi’s elevation in the hope of securing the 
people and humbling the nobility, and the tribune’s 
good fortune, power, and just administration recom- 
mended him even to princes, e. g. the emperor Lewis 
and the king of Hungary, who sought his friendship; 
but the height he had attained made him dizzy. He 
knighted himself; declared Lome the sovereign of the 
world; commanded the pope and cardinals to return to 
Rome; cited the emperor and the king of Bohemia be- 
fore him in order to restore peace between them; or- 
dered the electors to furnish evidence of their right to 
elect the emperors, etc. Warnings and outbreaks of 
discontented factions failed to restrain him, and pope 
Clement interfered with what was rapidly becoming a 
reign of terror by issuing (Dee. 3, 1347) a bull against 
the tribune. The people immediately forsook Rienzi, 
and he was compelled to flee in disguise from Rome in 
January, 1348. He subsequently returned secretly to 
Rome, but soon went to Prague, where he was appre- 
hended by the emperor Charles IV, who delivered him 
to the pope at Avignon in 1351. Innocent IV soon af- 
terwards became pope, and Rienzi succeeded in disprov- 
ing the charges raised against him of heresy and tyran- 
ny, and even in securing the pope’s favor and confidence. 
In the meantime the conflict ol factions had broken out 
again with fresh fury at Rome, and a papal notary 
named Baroncelli (or Baracelli) had assumed the role 
of tribune. It was seen at Avignon that Rienzi might 
defeat the projects of that agitator, and he was accord- 
ingly attached to the suite of the cardinal iEgidius Al- 
bornoz, to whom was intrusted the pacification of Italy. 
The vacillating populace received him with enthusiasm; 
but no sooner was he in the possession of powder than he 
began once more to abuse it. lie disregarded the hatred 
of the house of Colonna, imposed unwise taxes, and left 
his body-guard unpaid; and when it became apparent 
that his firmness had departed and that his administra- 
tion was undecided and fluctuating, a popular outbreak 
was brought about by some means, Ricnzi’s house was 
burned, and Rienzi hinjself was slain by the people who 
just before had almost worshipped him. The date of 
his death is Oct. 4, 1354 (others, Oct. 7 or 8). The es- 
timates of Rienzi’s life and services differ greatly, some 
(as Sehlosser, Weltgesch.) representing him as a fantas-' 
tieal charlatan, and others finding in him noble traits, 
especially an enthusiasm for republican institutions and 
for justice. Still others deny to him all greatness of 
character, but find an explanation of his career in the 
extraordinary conditions of his time and the circum- 
stances of his life. Nationalism, based on the renewed 
familiarity with the conditions of antiquity, was certain- 
ly the leading element in the rapid drama of his life. 
See Baluzii Vitas Pop . Avenion.; Bzovius, Annul. Eccl. 
ad Ann. 1353, No. 2; Villani, Col. di Rienzo ; Sehlosser, 
Weltgesch. vol. iv, pt. i; Hist. - polit. Blatter , vol. xx; 
Papencordt, Col. di Rienzo u. seine Zeit (Hamb. and 
Gotha, 1841) : and others ; also Bulwer’s novel, Rienzi, 
the Last of the Tribunes. — Wetzer u. Welte, Kirchcn- 
Lex. s. v. 

Rieti, Moses ben-Isaac di, of Perugia , a noted 
Jewish writer, was born in 1388 and died after 1451. 
He was a physician and philosopher of some renown, 
and wrote very elegant verses in Hebrew and Italian. 
He is the author of Zjyv TIHp’S D, a Great Par adiso 
in Terza Rima, with literary and historical notes. It 
consists of two parts, viz. the oblNT pbn and p^n 
bs-'nn, which again are separated into divisions. The 
first part contains in the first division a prayer to God, 
and speaks of the plan, name, division, and grouping of 


the work ; in the second the author treats of theology, 
revelation, the thirteen articles of faith, the phases of phi- 
losophy among Greeks and Hebrews, of the Cabala and 
its study; in the third he treats of the other sciences, the 
liberal arts, etc.; in the fourth he speaks of the intro- 
duction of Porphyry, the ten categories, the commentary 
of Ibn-Roshd, and the philosophical labors of Levi beu- 
Gershon, or Ralbag; in the filth he continues to speak 
of philosophy. The second part, which is composed 
of eight divisions, speaks in the first of Paradise, 
with its patriarchs, prophets, Sanhedrim, the wise 
and pious; the second, which is also entitled HPSn 
IT— *25, is a grand confessional, penitential, and admon- 
itory prayer; in the third, which is called C'nbx T”, 
The City of God , the bright abode of Ezra, Daniel, Ze- 
rubbabel, Zechariah, etc., is described ; in the fourth, 
called rvP2X, the author of the Mishna and his 

work in the domain of the blessed are described; the fifth 
speaks of the chapters of the six orders of the Mishna 
and their contents; the sixth treats of the writings of 
the Tanaim, Amoraim, Saboraim, Geouim, etc., down to 
the author’s own time; the seventh descants upon the 
teachers of the Talmud, the theology of the Midrashim, 
etc.; and, finally, the eighth narrates the exiles of 
the Jews and their sufferings. In the Paradiso , Di 
Rieti excludes Immanuel of Rome (q. v.) from the re- 
gions of the blessed, and he is also said to have repented 
of his own poetry as a waste of time. “This would 
show that he possessed more judgment than those who 
have published this unattractive work as the production 
of the ; Hebrew Dante’” (Stcinschneider). This Dieina 
Commedia was first edited after three MSS., by Jacob 
Goldenthal, with an Italian and Hebrew introduction 
( Vienna, 1851 ). Di Rieti wrote some other works, 
which, however, are yet in MS. See Furst, Bibl.Jud. iii, 
158 sq. ; Bartolocci, Bibl.Rabb. iii, 945 a; Griitz, Gesch. 
d. Judea (Leips. 1875), viii, 148-145; Delitzsch, Gesch. 
d.judischen Poesie, p. 54, 145; Moses Rieti, in the Jew- 
ish Messenger (N. Y.), May 18, 1876. (B. P.) 

Rietschel, Ernst Friedrich August, an eminent 
German sculptor, was born in Pulsnitz, Saxony, Dec. 
15, 1804. He studied under Rauch at Berlin, and in 
Italy. Settling in Dresden, he became professor in 
the Academy of Arts. Among his works are, Mary 
Kneeling over the Dead Body of Christ: — a bust of Lu- 
ther: — the Four Hours of the Day: — colossal statues 
of Goethe and Schiller (at Weimar), and the Christ-angel. 
He died at Dresden in 1861. 

Rietter, Anton, a German Roman Catholic theolo- 
gian, was born at Stadt-am-IIof in 1808. He studied at 
Regensburg and Munich ; was appointed professor of 
moral philosophy at Amberg in 1835, at Regensburg in 
1842, and at Munich in 1852. He died at Stadt-am- 
Hof, Nov. 6, 1866. 1 le wrote, Das Leben, das Wert und 

die Wiirde Jesu Christ i (Regensburg, 1846): — Dev I Veg 
der Liebe (ibid. 1856) :—Der heil. Liebe naturliches Licit t, 
etc. (Munich, 1857) '.—Die Moral des heil. Thomas ron 
A quin (ibid. 1858) : — Breviurium der christlicheu Ethik 
(Regensburg, 1866). (B. P.) 

Rigand, Stephen Jordan, D.D., the eldest son of 
John Francis Rigand, was educated at, and afterwards 
fellow and tutor of, Exeter College, Oxford. He be- 
came second master of Westminster School, and head- 
master of Ipswich School, Suffolk ; mathematical exam- 
iner in 1845, and one of the select preachers of Oxford 
University in 1856. lie was appointed bishop ol An- 
tigua in 1857, and died there, of yellow fever, May 16, 
1859. He published Sermons on the Lord's Prayer 
(Ipswich, 1852, 8vo), and edited vol. i, and published 
vols. i and ii, of the Correspondence of Scientific Men . 
See Allibonc, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. Authors, s. v. 

Rigby, Alfred A., a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
of whose early history nothing is known, lie fought in 
the Union army during the Rebellion, and it was while 
in military service that he connected himself with the 


PJGGEX 


28 


RILEY 


Church. lie was licensed to preach soon after his re- 
turn from the war, and in 1870 was received on trial in 
the Des Moines Conference and appointed to Wheeling 
Circuit, lint overwork and overstudv brought on dis- 
ease, and he died at New Vernon, July 9, 1872. See 
Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1872, p. 103. 

Riggen, John Wesley, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was born in Maryland Aug. 
20, 1794. i 1 is parents migrated to Mason County, Kv., 
and, being poor and in a new country, were unable 
to give him a proper education. In 18 1 G he was con- 
verted, and joined the Methodist Episcopal Church, 
lie commenced as a local preacher in 1823, and in 
1827 was ordained deacon, lie joined the travelling 
connection in 1834, and was ordained elder in 1835. 
lie was a member of the Kentucky Conference until 
his death, Sept. 30, 1815. Sec M mutes of Annual Con- 
ferences, J /. E. Church , South, 1840, p. 56. 

Riggs, Adam S., a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, South, was born in Williamson County, 
Tenn., near Rigg’s Cross Hoads, June 6, 1816, and pro- 
fessed conversion June 19, 1836. He united with the 
Church on the 25th of the same month; was licensed 
to preach Sept. 21, 1839; was received on trial in the 
Tennessee Conference in 1839, and served as an itinerant 
preacher thirty-one years. After an illness of a little 
over three weeks, he died Oct. 29, 1870. Mr. Riggs 
was an able and judicious officer of the Church; a wise 
counsellor; modest, firm, and faithful. lie was honored 
by his brethren, and was chosen several times as a dele- 
gate to the General Conference. See M unites of Annual 
Conferences , M. E. Church , South , 1870, p. 586. 

Riggs, Joseph L., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born at New Providence, N. J., March 19, 1809. He 
graduated at Amherst College, Mass. ; studied theology 
iu Andover Seminary, Mass., and in Princeton The- 
ological Seminary, N. J., and was licensed and or- 
dained Aug. 27, 1815. His fields of labor were, Wells, 
Bradford Co., Pa.; Millorstown, Pa.; Cumberland, 111.; 
and as city missionary in Elmira, N. Y., where he died, 
Aug. 20, 1865. Mr. Higgs was a faithful preacher, and 
he loved the work to which he had devoted himself. 
See Wilson, Presh. 11 ist. Almanac , 1866, p. 223. 

Riglliel Lambo, in Mongol mythology, is the sa- 
cred mountain, in the main identical with the Hindu 
Meru, and varying from it only in minor particulars 
which grow out of the fancy of the worshippers of the 
Lama. 

Right, as an adjective , describes the quality of an ac- 
tion as in conformity with moral law; as a substantive, 
the claim of a person upon others consequent upon the 
equal subjection of all to moral law. A right action 
(rectum) is an action agreeable to our duty, but a man's 
riyht (jus) has a very different meaning. What I have 
a riyht to do, it is the duty of all men not to hinder me 
from doing, and what I have a riyht to demand of any 
mail, it is his duty to perform. A man’s riyht is that 
which is vested in him by society, and because its laws 
may not always be conformable to the supreme rule of 
human action, viz. the Divine Law, the two words may 
often be properly opposed. We may say that a poor 
man has no riyht to relief, but it is riyht that be should 
have it. A rich man has a riyht to destroy the harvest 
of his fields, but to do so would not be riyht. See Flem- 
ing and Krmith, l tint . of Phil. Science, s. v. 

Right, Divine. Sec Juke Diving. 

Righteousness (plLC, cud a, the quality of beiny 
riyht morally). The righteousness of God is the essen- 
tial perfection of his nature, and is frequently used to 
designate his holiness, justice, and faithfulness (Gen. 
xviii, 25; Deut.vi,25; Psn. xxxi, 1; cxix, 137, 142; Isa. 
xlv, 23; xlvi, 13; li,5-8; 1 vi, 1). The righteousness of 
Christ denotes not only his absolute perfection (Isa. li, 
H ; 1 John ii, I ; Acts iii, 14), but is taken for bis perfect 
obedience unto death as the sacrifice for the sin of the 


world (Dan.ix, 24; Rom. iii, 25, 26 ; v, 18, 19; Jer. xxiii, 
6; John i, 29). The righteousness of the law is that 
obedience which the law requires (Rom. iii, 10, 20; viii, 
4). The righteousness of faith is the justification which 
is received by faith (Rom. iii, 21-28; iv, 3-25; v, 1-11; 
x, 6-11 ; 2 Cor. v, 21; Gal. ii, 21). Righteousness is 
sometimes used for uprightness and just dealing be- 
tween man and man (Isa. lx, 17), also for holiness of 
life and conversation (Dan. iv, 27 ; Luke i, 6; Rom. xiv, 
17 ; Eph. v, 9). The saints have a threefold righteous- 
ness: (1.) The righteousness of their persons, as in Christ, 
his merit being imputed to them, and they accepted on 
the account thereof (2 Cor. v, 21 ; Eph. v, 27 ; Isa. xlv, 
24) ; (2.) The righteousness of their principles, being de- 
rived from, and formed according to, the rule of right 
(l’sa. cxix, II); (3.) The righteousness of their lives, 
produced by the sanctifying influence of the Holy Spir- 
it, without which no man shall see the Lord (Ileb. xiii, 
24 ; I Cor. vi, 1 1). See Dickinson, Letters , let. 12 ; With- 
erspoon, Essay on Imputed 1 liyhteousness ; Ilervey, The- 
ron and Aspasio ; Owen, On Justification ; Watts, IForA\<?, 
iii, 532, 8vo ed.; Jenks, On Submission to the Riyht - 
eousness of God. Comp. Justification ; Sanctifica- 
tion. 

Righter, Chester N., an agent of the American 
I»ible Society in the Levant, w as a native of New Jer- 
sey. He graduated at Yale College in 1846; studied at 
New Ilaven and Andover, and afterwards spent a year 
or two in foreign travel for the benefit of his health. He 
sailed for the Levant in 1854, and died at Diarbekir, 
Turkey, in December, 1 856, aged about thirty. Extracts 
from his letters and journals will be found in The Bible 
in the Levant , by Samuel I. Prime. See Allibone, Diet, 
of Brit, and A mer. A uthors, s. v. 

Rigorists, a name given to the Jansenists by their 
adversaries. They made repentance to consist in the 
voluntary sufferings which the transgressor inflicts upon 
himself, in proportion to the nature of his crimes and the 
degree of his guilt. They went so far as to call those 
who had shortened life by excessive abstinence and la- 
bor the sacred victims of repentance, and said that they 
were consumed by the fire of divine love; that their 
conduct was highly meritorious in the sight of God; 
and that by their sufferings they not only appeased the 
wrath of God, but drew down abundant blessings upon 
their friends and upon the Church. See Jansen. 

Rigr, in Norse mythology, Was a name of the god 
Ileimdal , under which he became the ancestor of the four 
ranks of men-servants, peasants, nobles, and princes. 
Two of his descendants likewise bear this name. 

Rig-Veda, the first and principal of the four Vedas. 
See Vei>a. 

Riley, Henry Augustus, a Presbyterian minis- 
ter, W'as born in the city of New York Nov. 21, 1801. 
In 1815 he was sent to the Jesuit College at George- 
town), D.C., but left in 1817, and, under a private tutor 
in Philadelphia, he was prepared for the University of 
Pennsylvania, from which institution he graduated in 
July, 1820. After this he entered the law-oflice of Hor- 
ace Ifinney, Esq., and continued in the study of the law 
until the fall, when a severe attack of illness moved him 
to the study of medicine. To this end he entered a 
private class of Prof. Nathaniel Chapman, M.D., and 
attended medical lectures in the University of Penn- 
sylvania, and graduated from its medical department in 
April, 1825. Returning to his home in New York, he 
entered upon the practice of medicine, and continued for 
about three years. In June, 1828, lie united with the Rut- 
gers {Street Presbyterian Church, then under the pastoral 
care of the Rev. Thomas M‘Auley, D.D., and soon after 
determined to devote his life to the work of preaching 
the Gospel. With this end in view, lie entered Prince- 
ton 'rheological Seminary Feb. 5, 1829, and, after taking 
the full course, graduated in 1832. He was licensed by 
the Presbytery of New York in October of the same 
year, and ordained by the said presbytery in 1835. 


RILEY 


29 


RIMMON 


After his licensure he went to Philadelphia, amt laid 
the foundation of the Third Church of that city in Jan- 
uary, 1833, and labored there until April following. 
From that time until August he supplied the Presbyte- 
rian Church at Mattewan, N. Y., and in April, 1835, 
took charge of the Eighth Avenue Church — now West 
Twenty-third Street Church — in New York city, at 
which time, as above stated, he was ordained. He la- 
bored in this held until January, 1839, when he went to 
Montrose, Pa., and was installed, and there he had a 
long, most useful, and successful pastorate of nearly a 
quarter of a centur}q from which he was released only 
on account of the loss of his voice, which occurred in 
18G3. After his resignation, he resumed for a limited 
time the practice of medicine, and continued to reside in 
Montrose, where he died, March 17, 1878. (W. P. S.) 

Riley, Isaac, a minister of the Presbyterian 
Church, son of H. A. Eilev, was born in the city of New 
York Feb. 2, 1835. After receiving a preparatory edu- 
cation he entered Yale College, and was graduated, 
having written the class poem, lie next entered the 
Union Theological Seminary, and, after graduation, was 
admitted to the ministry. Ilis first pastorate was at 
Middletown, Del., where he labored three years. He 
then accepted a call to Pottsville, Pa., and from there 
went to Newark, where he spent some time as associate 
pastor with his father-in-law, the Rev. Joel Parker, 
liis next pastoral duties were in New York, where for 
seven years he occupied the pulpit of the Thirty-fourth 
Street Church, filling the position with signal ability 
and success. In 1875 he was called to the pastorate of 
the Westminster Church, Buffalo, preaching his first 
sermon on Oct. 20. His work was remarkably fruitful, 
and during his pastorate the Church enjoyed an unin- 
terrupted prosperity. He was a man of very decided 
ability, and in him were united qualities very rarely 
combined in the same individual. His reasoning fac- 
ulty was strong, and so also was his imagination, lie 
was exact and mathematical, and at the same time po- 
etical and rhetorical. All the varied powers of a dis- 
ciplined intellect, and also of a strong emotional nat- 
ure, were imbued with divine love, so that the whole 
man was consecrated to the work of the ministry. He 
wrote carefully and spoke fluently, and the best work 
was what he gave to his people and the public. He 
was one of the most useful men in Buffalo. In his last 
illness he suffered much, but bore it uncomplainingly, 
and sank into the peaceful slumber of death. He died 
at Buffalo Oct. 23, 1878. (W. P. S.) 

Rimah. See Worm. 

Rimmon. See Pomegranate. 

Rim'mon (Heb. Rimmon ', yiEn, a pomegranate, as 
often), the name of an idol, of a man, and also of several 
places; all probably having some allusion to the pome- 
granate, especially the localities, which were doubtless 
so named from the abundance of that fruit, in the vicin- 
ity. (In our account of them, and of those immediately 
following, we largely use the articles in the Dictionaries 
of Kitto and Smith.) See also Rimmon Metiioar: 
Rimmon Parez. 

1.. (Sept. 'P tppctv.) A deity worshipped by the Syr- 
ians of Damascus, where there was a temple or house of 
Rimmon (2 Kings v, 18). Traces of the name of this 
god appear also in the proper names Hadadrimmon 
and Tabrimmon, but its signification is doubtful. Se- 
rarius, quoted by Selden (l)e Dis Syris, ii, 10), refers it 
to the ileb. rimmon , a pomegranate, a fruit sacred to 
Venus, who is thus the deity worshipped under this 
title (comp. Pomona, from pomum). Ursinus (Arbore- 
tum Pill. cap. 32, 7) explains Rimmon as the pome- 
granate, the emblem of the fertilizing principle of nat- 
ure, the personified natvra naturalist , a symbol of fre- 
quent occurrence in the old religions (Biihr, Symbol i/e, 
ii, 122). If this be the true origin of the name, it pre- 
sents us with a relic of the ancient tree-worship of the 
East, which we know prevailed in Palestine. But 


Selden rejects this derivation, and proposes instead 
that Rimmon is from the root rum, “to be high,” 
and signifies “ most high like the Phoenician Klium, 
and the Hebrew yp'b?. llcsychius gives ‘P apuQ, 6 
vxpio toq S’foc- Clerieus, Vitringa, Rosenm idler, and 
Gesenius were of the same opinion. Movers {P/ton. i, 
196, etc.) regards Rimmon as the abbreviated form of 
Hadadrimmon (as Poor for Baal-Peor), Hadad being 
the sun-god of the Syrians. Combining this with the 
pomegranate, which was his symbol, Hadadrimmon 
would then be the sun-god of the late summer, who 
ripens the pomegranate and other fruits, and, after in- 
fusing into them his productive power, dies, and is 
mourned with “the mourning of Hadadrimmon in the 
valley of Megiddon” (Zech. xii, 11). 

2 . (Sept. 'P Efifuov.) A Benjamite of Beeroth, and 
the father of Rechab and Baanah, the murderers of lsh- 
bosheth (2 Sam. iv, 2, 5, 9). B.C. ante 1053. 

3 . (Sept. 'Pefifnbv v. r. ' EjO^uoB’, etc.) A town in 
the southern portion of Judah (Josh, xv, 32), allotted 
to Simeon (xix, 7; 1 Chron. iv, 32: in the former of 
these two passages it is inaccurately given in the A. V. 
as “ Remmon”). In each of the above lists the name 
succeeds that of Ain, also one of the cities of Judah and 
Simeon. In the catalogue of the places reoccupied by 
the Jews after the return from Babylon (Neh. xi, 29) 
the two are joined, and inaccurately appear in the A. V. 
as “En-Rimmon” (q. v.). It is grouped with Ziklag 
and Beersheba, and must consequently liave been situ- 
ated near the southern border of the tribe. Rimmon 
would appear to have stood towards the western ex- 
tremity of Simeon, and thus south of the plain of Phi- 
listia; for Joshua, in enumerating “ the uttermost cities 
of the tribe of the children of Judah,” begins at the 
coast of Edom on the cast, and Rimmon is the last of 
twenty-nine, and therefore must have been near the 
western extremity. The only other notice of it in the 
Bible is in the prophecies of Zechariah : “All the land 
shall be turned as a plain, from Geba to Rimmon, south 
of Jerusalem” (xiv, 10). "Hie land referred to is the 
kingdom of Judah ; Geba lay on the northern and Rim- 
mon on the southern border. Though both Eusebius 
and Jerome mention Rimmon, their notices are so con- 
fused, and even contradictory, that they evidently knew 
nothing of it. They appear to have confounded three 
towns of the same name. In one place Jerome calls it 
a town “of Simeon or Judah;” and yet he locates it 
“fifteen miles north of Jerusalem.” In the very next 
notice he writes, “Remmon, m tribu Simeonis, vel Za- 
bulon” ( Onomast . s. v. “Remmon”). Under the name 
K remmon (’Epqu/Swi', Onomast. s. v.) both Eusebius and 
Jerome appear to give a more accurate account of the 
site of this city. They state that it is a “very large 
village” ( Vicks praegrandis'), sixteen miles south of Eleu- 
theropolis. This was no doubt pretty nearly its true 
position (see Reland, Palcest. p. 973). About thirteen 
miles south of Eleutheropolis (now Beit Jibrin) is a ru- 
ined village called Khnrhet XJm er-Rumanim (“Mother 
of Pomegranates”), which in all probability marks the 
site, as it bears the name, of Rimmon of Simeon. On 
the top of the hill there are the foundations of an im- 
portant square building of large well-dressed stones, 
and lower down there are the bases of three columns 
in situ (Quar. Statement of “Pal. Explor. Fund,” Jan. 
1878, p. 13). A short distance (about a mile) south of 
it are two tells, both of Avhich are covered with ruins; 
and between them, in the valley, is “a copious hum- 
tain, filling a large ancient reservoir, which for miles 
around is the chief watering-place of the Bedouin of 
this region” (Van de Velde, Memoir, p. 344). As foun- 
tains are extremely rare in this southern district, it 
seems probable that this one may have given the name 
of Ain to the ancient town on the adjoining tell; and 
the proximity of Ain and Rimmon led to their being 
always grouped together. 

4 . (Ileb. Rimmono', 1 hi* pomegranate ; Sept. i) 


30 


KING 


RIMMON METIIOAR 


'Vfftfuov.) A city of Zebulun belonging to the Merar- 
ite Levites (1 Chron. vi, 77). There is great discrep- 
ancy between the list in which it oeeurs and the paral- 
lel catalogue of Josh. xxi. The former contains two 
names in place of the four of the latter, and neither of 
them the same. lint it is not impossible that Dimnaii 
(Josh.xxi.35) may have been originally Rimmon, as the 
1) anil K in Hebrew are notoriously easy to confound. 
At any rate there is no reason for supposing that Kim- 
mono is not identical with Kimmon of Zebulun (xix, 13), 
in the A. V. licmmon-methoar (q. v.). The redundant 
letter was probably transferred, in copying, from the 
succeeding word— at an early date, since all the MSS. 
appear to exhibit it, as does also the Targum of Joseph. 

5. Tiie Rock Kimmon (Heb. Sela ha- Rimmon, 
[also without the article] fbo ; Sept, j) 7rirpa 
tou 'Vtf.if.uu v; Josephus, i rtrpa ‘P oa; Vulg. petra cu- 1 
jus vucabulum est Remmon ,• pdra Remmon ), a cliff 
(such seems rather the force of the Hebrew word sela) 
or inaccessible natural fastness, in which the six hun- 
dred Bcnjamites who escaped the slaughter of Gibeah 
took refuge, and maintained themselves for four months 
until released by the act of the general body of the 
tribes (Judg. xx, 45, 47; xxi, 13). It is described as 
in the “wilderness” ( mulbtir ), that is, the wild, uncul- 
tivated (though not unproductive) country which lies 
on the east of the central highlands of Benjamin, on 
which Gibeah was situated — between them and the 
Jordan valley. This is doubtless the Kimmon which 
Eusebius and Jerome mention, locating it fifteen miles 
north of Jerusalem ( Onomust . s. v. “llemmon”). About 
ten miles north of Jerusalem, and nearly four east of 
Bethel, is a very conspicuous white limestone tell, rising 
like a cone above the neighboring hill-tops, and over- 
looking the whole wilderness down to the Jordan val- 
ley. Upon it stands a large modern village called Rum- 
man. This is unquestionably the “Rock Rimmon” on 
which the Benjanntes took refuge. It is admirably 
adapted for the purpose. A deep and wild ravine cuts 
oil the approach from the south, and others skirt its 
western ami northern sides, rendering it a natural for- 
tress of great strength. The sides of the tell are steep, 
bare, and rocky, and could be defended by a few reso- 
lute men against a host. The top is rounded, affording 
ample space for the refugees, while along the sides are 
some large caverns (Robinson, Rib. Res. iii, 290; Van 
de Velde, Memoir, p. 344; Porter, Handbook', p. 217; 
Schwarz, Palest, p. 129). 

Rim'mon Metho'ar (Heb. Rimmon ' ham-Mc- 
thoiir ', "pEH, i. e. Rimmon the extensive Sept. 

'Vtpfuovad Ma^opoo^d v. r. *P epfuovitfi paSapift ; 
Vulg. Remmon, Amthar; A. V. “ Kemmon-mcthoar”), a 
place which formed one of the landmarks of the east- 
ern boundary of the territory of Zebulun (Josh, xix, 
13 only). It occurs between Eth-Katsin and Neah. 
Met hour does not really form a part of the name, but 
is the Paul of -XH, to stretch , and should be translated 


Junius and Tremellius, and Luther. Symmaehus ren- 
dered *ixr*cn. a descriptive epithet attached to Rim- 
mon, “Rimmon the Renowned” (Rosenmuller, ad loc.). 
This Rimmon does not appear to have been known to 
Eusebius and Jerome, but it is mentioned by the early 
traveller Parclii, who says that it is called Rumuneh, and 
stands an hour south of Sepphoris (Zunz. Benjamin , ii, 
433). If for south we read north, this is in close agree- 
ment with the statements of Robinson (Bib. Res. iii, 110) 
and Van de Velde (Memoir, p.344), who place Rummdneh 
on the south border of the plain of Buttauf, three miles 
north-northeast of Seffurieh (comp. Pococke, True. ii,G2 ; 
Thomson, Land and Book, ii, P23 ; De Sauley, Bead 
Sea, i, 69). 

Rimmon is not improbably identical with the Levit- 
ical city which in Josh, xxi, 35 appears in the form of 
Dininah, and again, in the parallel lists of Chronicles (1 
Chron. vi, 77) as Rimmono (A. V. “Rimmon”). 

Rim'mon Fa'rez (Heb. Rimmon ' Pe'retz, 

[in pause, Pa'iets, pomegranate of the 

breach, so called probably from some local configura- 
tion; Sept. ‘P tfifuov <&apto), the second-named station 
of the Israelites in the desert after leaving Hazeroth, 
and located between Rithmah and Libnah (Numb.xxxiii, 
20). It was somewhere in the northern interior of the 
Desert et-Tih, west of Kadesh-Barnca. See Exode. 

Rill, in Norse mythology, was the name of one of the 
rivers of hell. 

Rinaldi, Odoric, a learned Italian ecclesiastical 
historian of the 17th century, was a native of Treviso, 
and was educated at Parma by the Jesuits, lie became 
an Oratorian at Rome in 1618. After the death of car- 
dinal Baronius (who was also a member of the Congre- 
gation of the Oratory), Rinaldi wrote a continuation of 
his Ecclesiastical Annals from 1198 (where the former 
left off) to 1564, when the Council of Trent was dissolved. 
Rinaldi's addition to the work consists of ten large folio 
volumes, published at different periods from 1646 to 
1677. Rinaldi was also the author of a sufficiently copi- 
ous abridgment in Italian of the whole Annals, compiled 
by Baronius and himself.— Chalmers, Biog.Bict. ; llook, 

! Eccles. Bing. s. v. 

Rillda, in Norse mythology, was one of Odin’s wives, 
the mother of Wali, who became so strong in a single 
I night that he was able to slay Hoeder, the murderer of 
Balder. 

Ring (usually P3.*2I3, tabba'ath; Sdfcrv\o£. ocea- 
| sionallv b^b*, galif, a circlet for the fingers, Esth. i. 6; 
Cant, v, 14. 23, gab, a rim of a wheel, Ezek. i, 18). 
The ring was regarded as an indispensable article of a 
Hebrew’s attire, inasmuch as it contained his signet, and 
even owed its name to this circumstance, the term tab- 
bdath being derived from a root signifying “to impress 
a seal.” It was hence the symbol of authority, and as 
such was presented by Pharaoh to Joseph (Gen. xli,42), 
by Ahasuerus to Daman (Esth. iii, 10), by Antiochus to 


accordingly (as in the margin of the 
A. V.) — “Kimmon which reaches to 
Neah.” The object of the saered 
writer is to describe as minutely as 
possible the exact course of the bor- 
der-line. This is the judgment of 
( ieseuius, Thesaur. col. 1 292 a ; Rudi- 
ger, ibid. 1191 a; Fiirst, Uandtrb. ii, 
512 a ; and Bunsen, as well as of the 
ancient Jewish commentator Kashi, 
who quotes as his authority the 
Targum of Jonathan, the text of 
which has, however, been subse- 
quently altered, since in its present 
state it agrees with the A.V. in not 
translating the word. The latter 
course is taken bv the Sept, and 
Vulg. as above, and by the Peshito, 



RING 


31 


RING 


Philip (1 Macc. vi, 15), and by the father to the prodi- 
gal son in the parable (Luke xv, 22). It was treasured 
accordingly, and became a proverbial expression for a 
most valued object (der. xxii, 24 ; llagg. ii, 23 ; Ecdus. 
xlix, 11). Such rings were worn not only by men, but 
by women (Isa. iii, 21; Mishna, tSabb. 0, §3), and arc 
enumerated among the articles presented bv men . and 
women for the service of the tabernacle (Exod. xxxv, 
22). The signet-ring was worn on the right hand (Jer. 
Inc. cit.). We may conclude, from Exod. xxviii, 1 1 , that 
the rings contained a stone engraven with a device, or 
with the owner’s name. — Smith. See Ornament. 

The ancient Egyptians wore many rings, sometimes 
two and three on the same finger. The left was consid- 
ered the hand peculiarly privileged to bear those orna- 
ments; and it is remarkable that its third finger was dec- 
orated with a greater number than any other, and was 
considered by them, as by us, par excellence the ring 
ringer, though there is no evidence of its having been so 
honored at the marriage ceremony. They even wore a 
ring on the thumb. Some rings were very simple ; oth- 
ers were made with a scarabauis, or an engraved stone; 
and they were occasionally in the form of a shell, a knot, 
a snake, or some fancy device. They were mostly of 
gold, and this metal seems to have always been preferred 
to silver for rings. Silver rings, however, are occasion- 
ally met with. Bronze was seldom used for rings, though 
frequently for signets. Some have been discovered of 
brass and iron (the latter of a Roman time) ; but ivory 
and blue porcelain were the materials of which those 
worn by the lower classes were usually made. The 


1 2 3 4 5 



Ancient Egyptian Finger-rings. 

1, a gold ring; 2, the engraved fare of it ; 3, gold ring with two asps ; 4, 5, 
rings of porcelain or blue glazed pottery. 


scara barns was the favorite form for rings; in some the 
stone, flat on both faces, turned on pins, like many of 
our seals at the present day, and the ring itself was 
hound round at each end, where it was inserted into the 
stone, with gold wire. This was common not only to 
rings, but to signets, and was intended for ornament 
as well as security. Numerous specimens of Egyptian 
rings have been discovered, most of them made of gold, 
very massive, and containing either a scarabieus or an 
engraved stone (Wilkinson, .4 nc. Egypt, ii, 337). The 
ancient Assyrians seem to have been equally fond of 
similar ornaments. The same profusion was exhibited 
also by the Greeks and Romans, particularly by men 



Ancient Assyrian Finger- rings (now in the British Mu- 
seum). 1, of glass; 2, of bronze. 

(Smith, Diet, of Antiq. s. v. “Rings”). It appears also 
to have prevailed among the Jews of the apostolic age; 
for in Janies ii, 2. a rich man is described as xpovoSaKTV- 
\toc, meaning not simply “with a gold ring,” as in the 
A. V., but “golden-ringed” (like the \pv<r6xeip, “gold- 
en-handed,” of Lucian, Tinion , 20), implying equally well 
the presence of several gold rings. See Jewel. 

The principal information we have about ancient 
rings is derived from Pliny, lie says that. Alexander 
the Great sealed all important documents in Europe 
with his own ring, and in Asia with that of Darius. He 
states that the Romans derived the custom of wearing 
rings from the Sabines, and they from the Greeks; 
hence there occurs no mention of Roman rings earlier 


than the reign of Numa Pompilius. The rings then 
worn were generally of iron, and sometimes engraved. 
In process of time silver rings were adopted by free citi- 
zens, and those of iron were abandoned to slaves. Gold 
rings could, in the earlier ages of the republic, only be 
worn by senators; and even in their case the use of the 
gold ring was to be confined to public occasions. Ma- 
rius, in bis third consulate, is said to have worn one 
habitually; but if this account be correct, it must have 
been a ring of some special kind, for more than a cen- 
tury earlier the equestrian order had the privilege of 
wearing gold rings, since Hannibal, after the battle of 
Cannae, sent as a trophy to Carthage three bushels of 
gold rings, taken from the lingers of the Roman knights 
slain in the battle. It is clear that the equestrian ring 
was not allowed to be indiscriminately worn, for Horace 
informs us that he did so himself by t lie express permis- 
sion of Augustus (Horace, aS 'at. II, vii, 54). It may be 
that the passage in James’s epistle refers to the eques- 
trian ring as a token of Roman rank. The ring was 
generally worn on the fourth finger of the left hand, and 
Aulus Gellius gives as a reason for this that there is a 
vein from that finger running directly to the heart. To 
wear rings on the right hand was regarded as a mark 
of effeminacy, but they were not un frequently worn in 
considerable numbers on the left. This was a practice 
among men of fashion at Rome (Martial, Epirj. xi, GO), 
as it had been at Athens so far back as the age of Aris- 
tophanes (Aristoph. Xubes). Lampridius informs us that 
Heliogabalus, whose fingers were always covered with 
rings, never wore the same twice; and a part of the fop- 
pery of the age consisted in having rings of different 
weights for summer and winter. Wedding-rings, often of 
large size, were in use among the Jews, and from them 
Christians have borrowed the practice; and the ring has 
from a very early period formed a part of the episcopal 
costume, as indicating that the bishop was wedded to 
his Church. So long ago as the Council of Toledo (A.D. 
633), a deposed bishop was restored by returning to him 
his episcopal ring. — Fairbairn. See Signet. 

RING (in Attire). The practice of wearing rings 
has been widely prevalent, in different countries and at 
different periods. They have been used to decorate 
the arms, legs, feet, toes, fingers, nose, and ears. The 
most general and most distinguished use of rings is on 
the finger. In ancient times the ring was a symbol 
of authority, and power was delegated by means of it. 
Finger-rings are alluded to in the books of Genesis and 
Exodus; Herodotus mentions that the Babylonians 
wore them; and from Asia they were probably intro- 
duced into Greece, doubtless subsequent to Homer’s time, 
as he makes no mention of them. Rings worn in early 
times were not purely ornamental, but had their use as 
signet- rings. The devices in the earlier rings were 
probably cut in the gold ; but at a later period the 
Greeks came to have rings set with precious stones. 
Among the Romans the signs engraved on rings were 
very various, including portraits of friends or ancestors 
and subjects connected with mythology or religion. 
Rings entered into the groundwork of many Oriental 
superstitions, as in the legend of Solomon’s ring, which, 
among its other marvels, sealed up the refractory Jinn 
in jars and cast them into the lied Sea. The Greeks 
mention various rings endowed with magic power, as 
that of Gy ges, which rendered him invisible when its 
stone was turned inwards; and the ring of I’olv crates, 
which was flung into the sea to propitiate Nemesis and 
found by its owner inside a fish. Wedding and other 
rings have been thought to possess curative powers. 
Sometimes they owed their virtue to the stones with 
which they were set; thus diamond was believed to 
be an antidote against poison, etc. The Gnostics en- 
graved ring gems with mystic symbols, names, mono- 
grams, and legends. In early times the names of Jesus, 
Mary, and Joseph on rings were deemed to be preserva- 
tives against the plague. 

The early Christians adopted the use of rings, being 



RING 


32 


RING 


at first simple circles of ivory, bronze, iron, or some oth- 
er cheap material. Many of them were adorned with 
symbols connected with their faith, such as the cross, 
the monogram of Christ, the dove, anchor, ship, palm- 
branch, etc.; others had simple religious phrases, among 
the most common of which was I 'iras in Deo or Spes 
in Deo. Kings to be used as seal-rings alone were fitted 
with a plate of metal, often of the form of the bottom 
of a sandal or of the human foot, this, according to an- 
cient tradition, being the symbol of possession. Among 
the rings found in the catacombs are some with a key, 
and some with both a key and a seal, the latter for both 
locking and sealing a casket. See Appletons ’ Cyclop . 
s. v. ; Chambers's Encyclop. s. v. ; Gardner, Faiths of the 
World, s. v. 

RING (in Espousals). In early times it was custom- 
ary for the man, together with other espousal gifts, to 
give the woman a ring as a further token and testimo- 
nial of the contract. This ceremony was used by the 
Homans before the introduction of Christianity, and in 
some measure admitted by the Jews, whence it was 
adopted among the Christian rites of espousal without 
any opposition. That the ring was used in espousals, 
and not in the solemnity of marriage itself, seems evi- 
dent from the account given by pope Nicholas, A.I). 
860 ( Xicol . Eespons. ad Consult a Dulyarorum, Cone. t. 
viii, p. 517). “ In the espousals,” says he, “ the man first 

presents the woman with the arree, or espousal gifts; 
and among these he puts a ring upon her finger,” etc. 
St. Ambrose (Ep. 34) and Tcrtullian (Apol. cap. 6) also 
speak of the annulus pronubus, or ring of espousal. Pliny 
mentions an iron ring as worn by a person betrothed. 
In the ancient Greek Church a special ceremony was 
observed in presenting the ring. With a golden ring 
the priest made the sign of the cross upon the head of 
the bridegroom, and then placed it upon the finger of 
his right hand, thrice repeating these words: “This 
servant of the Lord espouses this handmaid of the Lord, 
in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the 
Holy Ghost, both now and forever, world without end, 
Amen.” In like manner and with the same form of 
words he presents the bride with a silver ring. The 
groomsman then changes the rings while the priest, in 
a long prayer, sets forth the import of the rings; after 
which the whole is closed with a prescribed form of 
prayer. The Gimmel , or betrothal-ring, was used in later 



The Gimmel , or Linked Espousal-ring. 


times. The upper figure shows the three parts brought 
together; the lower figure, the parts separately. In 
Iceland the ceremony of betrothal used to he accompa- 
nied hv the bridegroom passing his four lingers and 
thumb through a large ring anil iu this maimer receiv- 
ing the hand of the bride (liingham, Christ. Antiq. xxii, 
35; Gardner, Faiths of the World, s. v. ; Chambers's En- 
cyrlop. s. v.). 


PING (in Investitures). A ring was anciently given 
to bishops on their consecration with these words: 
“Accipc auiiulum discrotionis et honoris, tidei signuni,” 
etc. The. ring was emblematical of his espousal to 
the Church, iu imitation of the ancient ceremony of 


presenting a ring on the espousal of parties in marriage. 
It was called the ring of his espousals, annulus sponsa- 
litius pronubus, and sometimes annulus palatii. The 
ring was formerly worn on the middle linger of the 
right hand, as indicative of silence anil discretion in 
communicating the mysteries, in giving the benedic- 
tion, but was shifted to the annular finger in celebrat- 
ing mass. The ring is mentioned by the Councils of 
Orleans, 511; Home, 610; fourth of Toledo, 633 ; Ilinc- 
mar of Hheims, Isidore of Seville, and the sacramenta- 
ries of Gelasius and Gregory the Great, 590. These 
rings usually had monograms (siylee), or engraved sub- 
jects. and were used as signets till the 11th century in 
official correspondence, and for sealing a neophyte’s 
confession of laith, and, by pope Sergius’s order (687- 
701), for sealing the font from the beginning of Lent to 
Easter-evc in France and Spain. They were, in conse- 
quence, sometimes called church rings. Every bishop 
had also a jewelled pontifical ring. This ring repre- 
sented fidelity to Christ; the duty of sealing and re- 
vealing; and, lastly, the gifts of the Holy Spirit. The 
best rings of suffragans at their decease were the per- 
quisite of the primate, and, in the vacancy of the archi- 
episcopal chair, of the crown. Priests, as friends only 
of the bridegroom, did not wear rings (Coleman, Christ . 
Antiq. ; Walcott, Sacred Archceol. s. v.). 

RING ( in Matrimony). Originally the gift of the 
ring was made at the time of espousal, and not at the 
solemnization of marriage. Calroer (Ritual. Eccles.') 
traces the origin of the marriage ring to the 10th cen- 
tury. He supposes it to have been introduced in imi- 
tation of the ring worn by bishops, and to have been 
regarded as a kind of phylactery, or charm. According 
to Home, the delivery of the ring by the husband to the 
wife indicated that she was admitted into liis confi- 
dence. Another explanation is that the ring symbol- 
izes eternity and constancy; and it has been alleged 
that the left hand was chosen to denote the wife’s sub- 
jection to her husband, and the third finger because it 
thereby pressed a vein which was supposed to commu- 
nicate directly with the heart (Riddle, Christ. Antiq. vii, 
1 ; Chambers's Encyclop. s. v.). See Ring (in Espousals'). 

RING, The Decade, a modern substitute for the ros- 
ary during the existence of the penal laws, being more 
easily concealed. It has on it ten knobs, on eaeh of 
which, as it passed under the fingers, an Ave was said, 
and on the eleventh, which is distinguished by a cross, 
a Paternoster. — Walcott. Sacred Archceol. s. v. 

RING, Fisherman’s, is that worn by the pope as the 
descendant of Peter, with an engraving of Peter casting 
his net. 

Ring, Melchior, a prominent Anabaptist leader in 
the landgravate of Hesse in the period of the Reforma- 
tion, was at iirst a school-teacher and chaplain at Hers- 
feld. Having become a zealous disciple of Thomas 
Miinzer (q. v.), lie appeared in Sweden in 1524 in com- 
pany with INI. Hoffmann and Knipperdolling (q.v.), and 
by the fanaticism of his sermons excited a riot in Stock- 
holm against images, which he justified as being the 
work of the Spirit of God. Towards the close of 1524 
lie returned to Germany in order to participate as a 
loader in the Peasants’ War; and, after the bloody catas- 
trophe at Frankenhansen, lie tied to Switzerland, whore 
be found a fruitful soil and a cordial reception. A mur- 
der committed by one of bis adherents, professedly iu 
obedience to the inspiration of God, obliged Ring, in 
1527, to tlee to the neighborhood of bis early borne. 
He now became a peripatetic preacher, made the teach- 
ing of Luther the subject of bitter attack, characterized 
the evangelical preachers as the expounders of a cor- 
rupt and dead faith, and by such means secured a large 
following. Disputations held with him failed to con- 
vince, and a threat of expatriation failed to alarm him. 
He eventually lied to East Friesland, which had be- 
come a rallying -place for Anabaptists generally, and 
while there employed every method to inspire his fol- 


RIXGGLI 


33 


RIPHATH 


lowers with a fanatical contempt for Scripture and the 
Lord’s supper. It was difficult to restrain the fanatical 
tendencies thus implanted in the populace; but the Lu- 
therans finally secured a preponderating influence, and 
King was compelled to flee once more. He labored in 
his characteristic method in Hesse and Saxony and met 
with some success, but was repeatedly imprisoned, lie 
would seem to have died ill connection with the Mun- 
ster revolt. The teaching of King may be briefly 
stated as follows. Original sin involves no condemna- 
tion for persons of immature mind, etc. The curse in 
Gen. iii imposes spiritual death only, consequently death 
does not come to children on account of sin. Infant 
baptism is blasphemous, and cannot be justified on 
scriptural grounds. Christ is not God according to his 
nature, and does not derive human nature from Mary. 
He died and suffered, not for purposes of redemption 
and forgiveness of sins, but. simply as an example and 
type; and they who would profit bv his work must fol- 
low him with like works and sufferings. Christ’s body 
and blood are not present in the sacrament. Man has 
the ability by nature to prepare himself to believe and 
come to the Spirit of God. See Krohn, Gesch.d.fanat. 
u.enthus. Wiedertaufer, etc. (Leips. 1758); Mittheilung- 
en aus d. prot . Sektengesch . in Hessen , in Niedner’s 
Zeitschr.f d. hist. Theologie , 1858, p. 541-553, and 18G0, 
p. *272 sq. — Herzog, Real- Encyklop. s. v. 

Ringgli, Gotthard, an excellent Swiss artist, was 
born at Zurich, Jan. 27. 1575. Of his early life, educa- 
tion, and progress we are not informed, l ie was chosen 
by the magistracy of Berne to decorate with paintings 
of large size the senate-house and minster of that me- 
tropolis, and had the freedom of the city conferred on 
him. For the public library of Zurich he painted the 
arms of the state and its dependencies, supported by 
Keligion and Liberty. Death lies at the feet of Re- 
ligion, but to the usual allegorical implements in her 
hands he added a bridle, to distinguish her from Fanat- 
icism and Superstition. One of the most remarkable 
of his easel pictures, in the house of Werdm filler, is Job 
Listening to his Wife's Invectives . Perhaps his most 
valuable remains are designs, generally drawn with a 
pen and washed with India- ink. Among these are 
Our Saviour's Burial: — Susannah with the Elders: — 
Faith Sheltered from Persecution. He died in IG35. — 
Chalmers, Biog . Diet. s. v. 

Ringoraldt, Bartholomew, a German hymnolo- 
gist, born at Frankfort-on-the-Oder in 1530, was preach- 
er at Langenberg, in Neumark; but his principal fame 
was achieved as a writer of spiritual hymns, some of 
which are still in common use (e. g. Es ist. geicisslich an 
der Zeit). His writings other than hymns are nearly 
all lost from sight. lie believed that the end of the 
world was near, and had even calculated its date to fall 
in the year 1G84; and his first book, Die lautere Wahr- 
heit (1585), expresses his yearning for the eternal world 
and warns against the condemnation of hell; while his 
second book, Christliche Warming des treuen Eckert 
(Frankfort-on-the-Oder, 1588), serves as a guide to the 
mysteries of heaven and hell, which places Eckert trav- 
erses in a trance. See Koch, Gesch. d. deutsch. Kirchen- 
liedes , 2d ed. i, 15G sq.; Langbecker, Das deutsch-evang. 
Kirchenlied (1830), p. 201 sq.; Ydrkel, Ehrengeddchtniss 
evang. Glaubenshelden u. Sanger (1830). ii, 08; Wende- 
bourg, B. Ringoraldt' s geistl. Lieder, etc. — Herzog, Iteal- 
Encyklop. s. v. 

Ring-streaked is the rendering of the English 
Version (“ ring-straked”) of the Ileb. IpP, akud (Gen. 
xxx ; xxxi), as applied to the parti -colored rams of 
Jacob’s flock. The Hebrew word literally means band- 
ed, or striped, and seems to refer especially to a varie- 
gation of color in the feet (Symmachus \tmco7roCec, 
Saadias similarly). 

Rinkart, Martin, preacher and archdeacon at Ei- 
lenburg, in Saxon v, was born there, xYpril 23, 1586. II is 
IX.-C 


official life began at Leipsie, where he obtained the 
master’s degree, and at Eislebcn and Endeborn, where 
he first engaged in the dudes of the ministry of the 
Word. His pastorate in his native town extended over 
thirty-two years, and covered the entire period of the 
Thirty Years’ War. It is related that a forced contri- 
bution of 30,000 thalers having been demanded from 
the town, Rinkart held a prayer- meeting on Feb. 21, 
1639, to invoke God’s help in the emergency, with the 
result that the sum demanded was reduced to 8000 fior- 
ins, then to 4000, and finally to 2000. Pastor Rinkart 
was also a poet, and wrote hymns which are sung in the 
churches of Germany to-day, and are worthy of note 
because of their jubilant spirit, e. g. Xun danket A lie 
Gott, etc. Of his writings in other departments, though 
they were once numerous, but few have been preserved, 
and they contain nothing that possesses importance at 
this day. He died Dec. 8, 1649. See Plato, M. Martin 
Rinkart, etc. (Leips. 1830) ; Ydrkel, Ehrengeddchtniss 
evang. Glaubenshelden u. Sanger (ibid. 1830), ii, 21 sq., 
127 sq.; Koch, Gesch. d. deutsch. Kirchenliedes, 2d ed. 
i, 144 sq. ; iv, 5G7 sq. — Herzog, Real- Encyklop. s. v. 

Rin'nah (Hob. Rinnah ' , n3^i, a shout ; Sept. 'Pan- 
vtbv v. r. 'Avct), a son of Shimon, of the tribe of Judah 
(1 Chron. iv, 20). B.C. prob. ante 1618. 

Riper Years. In one of the offices for baptism, 
this phrase is used to designate those who are beyond 
the age of children and “able to answer for themselves.” 
This definition is not only that given by the Church, 
but- is implied in the words themselves, which embrace 
both adults and those in age between the latter and 
children. In the ordinal this and kindred terms are 
used, as in the exhortation of priests, *■ that by daily 
reading and weighing the Scriptures ye may wax riper 
and stronger in yonr ministry.” — Staunton, Church 
Diet. s. v. 

Riphaeus, in Greek mythology, was the largest of 
the centaurs, whose monstrous head towered far above 
the tallest trees of the forest. He was killed by The- 
seus while present at the marriage of Pirithous. 

Ri'pkath (Ileb. Riphath', perhaps spoken; 

Sept. 'P apaS v. r. *P <0a£ ; Vulg. Riphath), the second 
son of Gomer and the brother of Ashkenaz and Togar- 
mah (Gen. x, 3). B.C. cir. 2450. The Hebrew text in 
1 Chron. i, 6 gives the form Diphath (q. v.); but this 
arises out of a clerical error similar to that which gives 
the forms Rodanim and II ad ad for Dodanim and lladar 
(vers. 7, 50; Gen. xxxvi, 39). The name Riphath oc- 
curs only in the genealogical table, and hence there is 
little to guide us to the locality which it indicates. 
The name itself has been variously identified with that 
of the Rhiptean Mountains (Knobel) ; the river Rhebas, 
in Bithynia (Bochart); the Uhibii, a people living east- 
ward of the Caspian Sea (Schulthess); and the Riphaeans 
the ancient name of the Paphlagonians (Joseph. Ant. i, 
6, 1). This last view is certainly favored by the con- 
tiguity of Ashkenaz and Togarmah. The weight of 
opinion is, however, in favor of the Rhiptean Mountains, 
which Knobel ( 1 'biker t. p. 44) identifies etymologically 
and geographically with the Carpathian range in the 
north-east of Dacia. The attempt of that writer to 
identify Riphath with the Celts or Gauls is evidently 
based on the assumption that so important a race ought 
to be mentioned in the table, and that there is no other 
name to apply to them; but we have no evidence that 
the Gauls were for any lengthened period settled in the 
neighborhood of the Carpathian range. The Rhipiean 
Mountains themselves existed more in the imagination 
of the Greeks than in reality; and if the received ctv- 
mology of that name (from ptnat, “blasts”) be correct, 
the coincidence in sound with Riphath is merely acci- 
dental, and no connection can be held to exist between 
the names. The later geographers, Ptolemy (iii, 5, § 15, 
19) and others, placed the Khipsvan range where no 
range really exists, viz. about the elevated ground that 


KIPIDIUM 


34 


RIPLEY 


separates the basins of the Euxine and Baltic seas.— 
Smith. See Ethnology. 

Ripidium (Gr.pt7n'fror, a belloirs) was a fan made 
of parchment, peacocks’ feathers, or linen, and was used 
in the ancient churches to drive away all such insects 
as might drop into the cups or infest the altar. The 
author of the Fasti Siculi or Chromcum Alexandrinum 
(p. .*92), calls them npia pnrKta, and reckons them 
among the holy utensils of the altar which were laid 
up among the rest in the scenophylacium,or vestry of 
the church. Suicer thinks that in most of the writ- 
ings the word ripidut signifies one of their holy ves- 
sels, a basket or the like, in which they used to carry 
the sacred elements to and from the altar. In the 
liturgies of Chrysostom and Basil it is taken in the 
common sense of Greek authors, and it is used in the 
Constitutions for a fan to blow with : for in Chrysos- 
tom’s liturgy the deacon is to ventilate, or blow over, 
the elements with a fan ; or, if there be no fan, then to 
do it with the covering of the cup.— Bingham, Christ. 
A ntiq. viii, G, 21 ; xv, 3, 6. 

Ripley, Ezra, a Unitarian minister, was born at 
Woodstock, Conn., May 1, 1751. He followed farming 
until he was sixteen, when he began to study, and was 
admitted into Harvard College, July, 1772. After his 
graduation he taught in Plymouth, and studied theolo- 
gy under Rev, Jason Haven, of Dedham. He was or- 
dained pastor of the Church in Concord, Mass., Nov. 7, 
1778. He was honored with the degree of D.D. in 1816. 
Dr. Ripley was an ardent advocate of the temperance 
cause, and was a member of the old Massachusetts So- 
ciety for the Suppression of Intemperance. His death 
took place Sept. 18, 1841. His publications are Ser- 
? nous and Charges (1791-1829) : — History of the Con- 
cord Fight (1827). See Sprague, Annuls of the Amtr . 
Pulpit , viii, 112. 

Ripley, Henry Jones, D.D., a distinguished 
Baptist divine and Biblical scholar, was horn in Boston, 
Jan. 28, 1798. He entered Harvard University, a med- 
al scholar from the Boston Latin School, at the early 
age of fourteen, and graduated with the class of 1816. 
lie took the full course of theological study at Andover, 
where he graduated in 1819. He was ordained as an 
evangelist Nov. 7, 1819, and spent some time in Georgia, 
devoting himself especially to the religions welfare of 
the colored people in the section of the state where he 
labored. The length of his ministerial service at the 
South was not far from seven years, 1819-1826. One 
year during this period he spent in Eastport,Me. Soon 
after the founding of the Newton Theological Institu- 
tion, Dr. Ripley was elected, in 1826. professor of Bib- 
lical literature and pastoral duties, which office he held 
until 1832, when the election of another officer allowed 
him to direct his whole attention to Biblical interpre- 
tation. In 1839 he was transferred to the chair of 
sacred rhetoric and pastoral duties, which position he 
occupied with ability for seventeen years. The last 
three years of his connection with the institution he 
was associate professor of Biblical literature. After a 
service of thirty-four years, he resigned his professor- 
ship. After his resignation lie was occupied some five 
years in literary work, and for a time was engaged in 
evangelical labors among the freedmen of Georgia. 
Returning to the institution at Newton, he accepted an 
appointment as librarian, which position he held during 
the remainder of his life. He died at Newton Centre, 
Mass., May 21, 1875. Prof. Ripley made diligent use of 
his pen during his life. He published quite a number 
of carefully prepared articles in the American Baptist 
Magazine , the Christian Review, ami the Bibliotheca Fa- 
era. lie was also the author of the following works: 
Memoir of Her. Thomas S. ! 1 'inn : — Christian Baptism. 
an examination of Prof. Stuart’s essay on the mode of 
baptism: — Notes on the Four Gospels: — Notes on the 
A cts of the A postlcs : — Notes on the Fpistle to the Ro- 
mans: — Notes on the Fpistle to the Hebrews, with new 


translation : — Sacred Rhetoric, composition and delivery 
of sermons : — Exclusiveness of the Baptists, a review of 
Rev. A Barnes’s pamphlet on exclusivism : — Church 
Polity, a. treatise on Christian churches and the Chris- 
tian ministry. He prepared also an edition of Camp- 
bell's Lectures on Systematic Theology, and edited the 
Karen Apostle by Rev. Francis Mason. See Stearns, 
Hovev, and Clarke, Funeral A ddresses. (J. C. S.) 

Ripley, Hezekiah, D.D., a Congregational min- 
ister, was born at Windham, Conn., Feb. 3 (O. S.), 1743. 
He graduated at Yale College in 1763, and was ordained, 
Feb. 11, 1767, pastor at Green’s Farms, where he labored 
until his death, December, 1831. He was made a mem- 
ber of Yale College Corporation in 1790, and remained 
such for twenty-seven years. See Sprague, Annals of 
the A mer. Pulpit, i, 647. 

Ripley, John Bingham, a Presbyterian minis- 
ter, was born in Ellsworth township, Mahoning Co., 0., 
April 18, 1824. He was converted when eighteen years 
of age; graduated at Jefferson College, Pa., in 1846, and 
at the Theological Seminary at Prineeton,N. J., in 1850. 
His labors in the ministry began in Burlington, N. J., 
where he was invited to settle, but did not do so. He 
subsequently accepted an agency from the American 
and Foreign Christian Union, and labored in Ohio and 
Michigan. He was ordained and installed bv the Phil- 
adelphia Presbytery as pastor of the Mariners’ Church, 
Philadelphia, in 1854, and here he continued to labor 
until his death, March, 1862. This was a very inter- 
esting charge. The sailors were his friends, and noth- 
ing that he could do for them by the instrumentality 
of books, visits, letters of entreaty, and prayer was ever 
omitted. He sought the mariner at the tavern, the 
cellar, the refectory, the boarding-house, the sailors’ 
home, and on board of ship. Besides many articles 
in the religious press, he was the author of several 
works, viz.: Thoughts for the Forecastle: — Seven Dia- 
monds: — Plain Words for Young Men, besides several 
Tracts. See Wilson, Pi'esb. Hist. A Imanac, 1863, p. 200. 
(J.L.S.) 

Ripley, Lincoln, a Congregational minister, was 
born at Woodstock, Conn., in 1761. Late in life he en- 
tered Dartmouth College, where he graduated in 1796. 
He soon after entered the ministry and settled at Wa- 
terford, Me., then a wilderness. His life was identified 
with the early history of the Church and town of Wa- 
terford. He severed his connection with that Church 
in 1821, and died July 14, 1858. See A mer. Cong. Year- 
book, 1859, p. 128. 

Ripley, Samuel, son of Ezra, was born in Con- 
cord, Mass.. March 11, 1783, and graduated from Cam- 
bridge in 1804. He was ordained, Nov. 22, 1809, pastor 
of the Church at Waltham. After the death of Rev. 
B. Whitman, it was proposed to unite the two Unitarian 
societies; but Mr. Ripley, thinking it too great a bur- 
den, resigned shortly before (Oct. 27, 1841), and soon 
after took the pastoral charge of the Unitarian Church 
in Lincoln. In 1*46 he removed to Concord, where he 
died, Nov. 24, 1847. See Sprague, Annals of the A mer. 
Pulpit, viii, 116. 

Ripley, Thomas B., a Baptist minister, and 
brother of Dr. II. J. Ripley, was born in Boston Nov. 
20, 1795, and was a graduate of Brown University, in 
the class of 1814. lie studied theology with the Rev. 
Dr. Staughton, of Philadelphia, and was ordained as pas- 
tor of the First Baptist Church in Portland, Me., July 24, 
1816, where he remained till March, 1828. He removed 
to Bangor, Me., and was pastor of the First Baptist 
Church in that city from Sept. 10, 1829, until, in 1834, 
lie resigned. After supplying two churches for a time, 
he removed to Tennessee, teaching and preaching in 
several places in that state, and performing ministerial 
service at Holly Springs. Miss. He returned to Port- 
land, Me., in 1852, and acted as city missionary for sev- 
eral years. He died May 4, 1876. (J, C. S.) 


RIPPOX 


35 


RITE 


Rippon, John, D.D., an English Iiaptist minister 
of distinction, was bom in Tiverton, Devonshire, in 
1751, and was the son of a Baptist minister. He pur- 
sued his studies at Bristol, and for many years was the 
successor of the Rev. Dr. Gill in the pastorate of the 
Baptist Church on Grange Road, Southwark. The tes- 
timony of Dr. Rippon with regard to the stand taken 
by the Baptist ministers of London and vicinity in the 
War of the Revolution is interesting. “I believe,” he 
remarks, in a letter to Pres. Manning, of Brown Uni- 
versity, dated May 1, 1784, “all our Baptist ministers 
in town except two, and most of our brethren in the 
country, were on the side of the Americans in the late 
dispute. But sorry, very sorry, were we when we heard 
that the college was a hospital, and the meeting-houses 
were forsaken, and occupied for civil or martial pur- 
poses. We wept when the thirsty plains drank the 
blood of your departed heroes, and the shout of a king 
was among us when your well -fought battles were 
crowned with victory. And to this hour we believe 
that the independence of America will for a while se- 
cure the liberty of this country, but that if the conti- 
nent had been reduced, Britain would not long have 
been free.” Dr. Rippon died in I83G. (J. C. S.) 

Ripundshaya, in Hindu mythology, was a myth- 
ical king, in whose reign great religious changes are 
said to have been brought about. It would seem that 
Buddhism took root, and under his protection spread 
throughout all India. 

Risabha, in Hindi! mythology, was the oldest of 
the twenty-three Buddhas who have appeared in India, 
belonging to the race of king Ikswara. He is frequently 
represented as an ox, though more generally as a man 
with the head of an ox, or as a man with horns. The 
ox, as a symbol of wisdom, is peculiar to him, and always 
accompanies him, even when he is simply represented 
on the altar by a variously colored head. — Vollmer, 
Wurterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Risco, Manuel, a learned Spanish ecclesiastic of 
the Augustinian Order, was bom at Ilaro about 1730, 
and died about the close of the century. He acquired 
such reputation for knowledge in ecclesiastical history 
that he was appointed by the king, Charles III, to con- 
tinue the history of which Florez published 29 vols. 4to. 
To these he added six volumes, written with equal abil- 
ity and liberality of sentiment. The work was entitled 
Espciila Sagrada. See Chalmers, Blog. Diet . s. v. 

Rishis, in Hindi! mythology, are ten sons of Brah- 
ma, who are infinitely wise and pious, and thus resem- 
ble the gods, with whom they share the power to create 
men and gods. All things owe their existence imme- 
diately to these Rishis in common with the gods, and 
they are accordingly termed the ten ancestors, or lords, 
of all created beings. Their names are Daksha, Pu- 
lastva, Agni, Wasishta, Atri, Maritshi, Brigu, Narada, 
Pulagen, and Kratu. The seven Menus — Suagarabha- 
ra, Svaroshisha, Anttami, Tamasa, Eaivatta, Chakshu- 
sha, and Vaivasvata — are sometimes classed with the 
Rishis. — Vollmer, 1 Vorterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Rishton, Edward, a Roman Catholic writer, was 
born in Lancashire, and died in 1586 at Louvain of the 
plague. He published Synopsis Rerum Ecclesiastical 
rum ad A nnum Christi 1577, and a Profession of Faith. 
He was the first publisher of Nicholas Sanders’s De Ori- 
gine et Progressu Schismatis Anglicani (1585, 8vo), to 
which he added a third part ; and a fourth part, by way 
of appendix, appeared in 1628. See Allibone, Diet, of 
Brit, and Amer. A uthoi's, s. v. 

Rising in the Air, the name of a belief (prevalent 
in the Middle Ages) that the bodies of holy persons 
were sometimes lifted up and suspended in the air dur- 
ing the continuance of a religious ecstasy. Calmet 
states in hiswork on apparitions that this singular phe- 
nomenon might be produced by the fervor of the Holy 
Spirit, by the ministry of good angels, or by a miracu- 


lous favor of God, who desired thus to honor his ser- 
vants in the eyes of men. Numerous instances arc re- 
corded in the Acta Sanctorum , and their relation ac- 
counts for the frequency with which representations of 
saints are exhibited in an aerial position in medieval 
paintings, etc. This belief falls in with one of the al- 
leged phenomena of modern spiritualism. — Chambers's 
Encyclop. s. v. 

Risler, Jeremiah, a distinguished bishop and writer 
of the Moravian Church, was born at Muhlhauscn, in 
Upper Alsace, Nov. 9, 1720. lie was a graduate of the 
University of Basel, and entered the ministry of the 
Reformed Church, laboring at Liibeck and St. Peters- 
burg, from 1744 to 1760. In the latter year he joined 
the Moravian Church, and took charge of a parish at 
Neuwied, on the Rhine, where he remained for twenty- 
five years. In 1782 he was consecrated to the episco- 
pacy, and in 1786 was elected to the executive board 
of the Unitas Fratrum , known as the Unity’s Elders’ 
Conference, of which body he continued a member until 
his death. His ministerial career embraced a period of 
sixty-six years, fifty of which he devoted to the Mora- 
vian Church. He was a zealous servant of Christ, an 
eloquent preacher, and a faithful overseer of the flock. 
He died at Bcrthelsdorf, Saxony, Aug. 23, 1811. The 
following are his principal works: A French Transla- 
tion of Zinzendorfs Discourses, and a new edition of 
the French Ilymnal of the Church (1785): — La Sainfe 
Doctrine (1769), translated into German and English : — 
Historischer Auszug aus den Biichem des A. T. (1794): 

Leben von A. G. Sjmngenberg (1794): — Spangenberg's 
Reden an die Kinder , two collections (1792 arid 1797): 
— Zinzendorf's Gedunken iiber verschiedene evangelische 
Walirheiten (1800): — Betrachtungen der Weisheit Gottes 
im deni Kreuzestod Jesu: — and three volumes of Er- 
zdhlungen aus der Briide?'geschichte. (E. de S.) 

Risley, Asiiabel Linn, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Bullitt County, Ky., 
Feb. 14, 1804. He united with the Church Sept. 5, 
1825, although he did not find peace until the 1 1th of 
the same month. He was licensed to preach July 27, 
1827, and entered the itinerant ministry Sept. 16, 1827. 
He labored in the Kentucky, Rock River, and Southern 
Illinois Conference until 1866, when he took a superan- 
nuated relation, and removed to Lebanon, where lie re- 
mained until the time of his death, Aug. 24, 1874. See 
Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1874, p. 126. 

Ris'sah (Heb. Rissah', a ruin; Sept. 'Peered 
v. r. dv and Atood), the twentieth station of the 
Hebrews in the desert (Numb, xxxiii, 21, 22). It lies, 
as there given, between Libnah and Kehelathah, and 
has been considered identical with Rasa in the Peuting. 
I finer,, thirty-two Roman miles from Ailah (Elah), and 
203 miles south of Jerusalem, distinct, however, from 
the ' Pi} go a of Josephus (Ant. xiv, 15, 2). See Exode. 

Ristubgrad, in Norse mythology, was a pentagon 
known as Druid’s-foot or pentagram. It was a sacred 
symbol among the ancient Celts and Germans. 

Risus, in Roman mythology, i. e. laughter, is said 
to have been venerated as a deity by several tribes of 
Italy. 

Rite (Lat. Titus') is, in general, an external sign or 
action employed in religions services, and designed 
either to express or to incite a corresponding internal 
religions feeling. Such are, for instance, the uplifting or 
outstretching of the hands in prayer, the imposition of 
hands, etc. The name rite is sometimes used to signify 
the aggregate of all the ceremonies used in a particular 
religious office, as a “ rite of baptism” or of the eucha- 
rist. In a still wider sense, it is used of the whole body 
of distinctive ceremonial, including the liturgy employ- 
ed by a particular community of Christians. In this 
way we speak of the “ Roman rite,” the “ Greek rite,” 
or the “ Slavonic rite.” — Chambers's Encyclop . s. v. See 
Ceremony. 


RITES OF BAPTISM 


3G 


RITUAL 


Rites of Baptism. See Baptism, Ceremonies of. 

Rites, Congregation of, the name of a committee 
of cardinals in the Roman Catholic Church, founded by 
pope Sixtus V. It Mas originally composed of six car- 
dinals, with a number of secretaries and consnlters. The 
reigning pope decides the number of members. In 1875 
it comprised seventeen cardinals, twenty-five consumers, 
and eleven otlicials, including secretary, promoters of 
the faith, assessors, and masters of ceremonies. The 
matters of which it has cognizance are the liturgy, the 
rites of the administration of the sacraments, the ru- 
brics of the missal and breviary, the ceremonial of the 
Church in all public functions, and the proceedings in 
the beatification and canonization of saints. The con- 
gregation meets once a month at the residence of the 
prefect, who is always the senior cardinal of the board. 
See A ppletons ’ New Amer. Cyclop, s. v. 

Rith'mall (Heb. Rithmah'. iT^rfl, heath; Sept. 
TrtS’a/ia), the seventeenth station of the Hebrews in 
the wilderness (Numb, xxxiii, 18, 19). About half a 
day’s journey south from Wady Kiseima (see Azmon) 
is found a valley called Wady Rithimath, or Wady Abu- 
Retemat. Rot hem literally is a broom -bush; hence 
Rithmah , the region of the brush or heath , and near this 
w ady the broom -bushes are abundant. So Schwarz 
{Palest, p. 212), who identifies Rithmah with Kerdesh- 
Barnea. It probably lay immediately west of that place. 
See Exode. 

Ritschl, Georg Karl Benjamin, an eminent 
minister of the evangelical Church of Prussia, was born 
Nov. 1, 1783, at Erfurt. He studied theology at Erfurt 
and Jena, was licensed to preach in 1802, and came to 
Berlin in 1804. serving first as a private tutor, next as 
an adjunct professor in a gymnasium, and finally as a 
preacher in St. Mary’s Church. Eighteen years w r ere 
given to the duties of that station, during which he 
approved himself both as a pulpit speaker and an in- 
f-tructor of the young. In 1816, Ritschl w’as made a 
member of the consistory having supervision over 
Brandenburg, and distinguished himself in the conduct 
of the examination of candidates for the ministry to a 
degree that secured for him the title of doctor of divin- 
ity. He also aided in the preparation of the Berliner 
(iesangbuch of 1829, a task for which he w'as qualified 
by the possession of musical talent and thorough musi- 
cal culture. In August, 1827, Ritschl w T as appointed 
bishop of the evangelical Church and general superin- 
tendent of Pomerania, etc., and in the spring of the fol- 
lowing year he entered on the duties of his high station. 
The plan of union in the Prussian evangelical Church 
was successfully introduced during his administration, 
and the visitations devolved on the superintendencv 
were so efficiently performed that he sustained direct 
and personal relations with the entire clergy of the prov- 
ince, and w’as acquainted with the character of each in- 
dividual in its membership. Having reached the age 
of seventy years, and having completed a public career 
of half a century, Ritschl resigned his position in 1854. 
Jle was, however, constituted an honorary member of 
the Supreme Ecclesiastical Council of Prussia, and thus 
induced to give his thought and labors to the Church 
down to the close of his life. Jle died June 18, 1858. — - 
Herzog. Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Rittangelius, or Rithangel, John Stephen, a 
German writer of the 17th century, was a native of Foreh- 
heim, in the bishopric of Bamberg, and is said bj’ some 
writers to have been born a Jew; but others assert that 
be was first a Roman Catholic, then a Jew, and lastly a 
Lutheran. This, however, is certain — that he published 
several books containing Judaical learning, was professor 
of Oriental languages in the Academy of Kbnigsberg, 
and died about 1652. His works are, Commentary on 
Jezirah (Amsterd. 1642, *1 to) : — De Veritate Rdigionis 
Christiania (Franeker, 1699) : — Libra Ycritutis (1698): 
— Letters: — German Translation of Prayers used by \ 


Jeics in their Synagogues, etc. Rittangelius maintained 
this paradox, that the New' Testament contains noth- 
ing but what was taken from the Jewish antiquities. 
See Chalmers, Biog. Bid. s. v. 

Ritter, Erasmus, a Bavarian, the Reformer of 
Schaffhausen, lived in the middle of the 16th century, 
lie w'as at first opposed to the Reformation, and, being 
possessed of oratorical talents, was invited to Schaff- 
hausen in 1522 to confront Seb. Hofineister (q. v.) : but 
being led to study the Scriptures in the progress of bis 
work, he was converted, and at once entered on the 
work of strengthening the evangelical cause. 'He dis- 
played great prudence and moderation, but nevertheless 
his Zw’inglian principles involved him in angry disputes 
with Burgauer (1528 sq. ), the successor of Hofmeister, 
in consequence of w’hieh it was found advisable to dis- 
miss both the controversialists. Ritter went to Berne, 
where new troubles awaited him. The condition of his 
later life is not known, lie married in 1529 the sister 
of the abbot of All-Saints in Schaffhausen. and was long 
in steady correspondence with Zw’ingli. — Herzog, Real- 
Encyklop. s. v. 

Ritter, Joseph Ignaz, a Roman Catholic divine, 
was born at Schw einitz, in Silesia, April 12, 1787. In 
1811 he received his first orders; in 1813 he was chap- 
lain at Grottkau; in 1818 at Berlin; and from thence 
he was called, in 1823, as ordinary professor of theology 
to Bonn. In 1830 he w’as created doctor of divinity 
and appointed professor of theology and member of the 
chapter at Breslau, and advanced in 1846 as cathedral 
dean, which position he occupied till his. death, Jan. 5, 
1857. He wrote, Manual of Church History (5th ed. 
Bonn, 1854, 2 vols.) : — Iremkon. or Letters for Pro- 
moting Peace and Concord between Church and State 
(Leips. 1840) : — History of the Breslau Diocese (Breslau, 
1845) -.—Popular Lectures on the History of the Church 
in the First Four Centuries ( Paderborn, 1849): — On 
Bunsen and Stahl (Breslau, 1856, etc.). See Zuehold, 
Bibliotheca Tlieologica , ii, 1073; Winer, Ifandbuch iler 
theol. Literal ur , i, 543, 586, 598, 607, 887 ; ii, 736; Sup- 
plement, p. 156, 296; Nieduer, Kirch engeschichte, p. 864. 
(B. P.) 

Ritter, Karl, an eminent German geographer, was 
born Aug. 7, 1779, in Quedlinburg, Prussia. He stud- 
ied at Halle, and after travelling in Switzerland, France, 
and Italy, w’as appointed professor extraordinary of ge- 
ography at the University of Berlin in 1820. He was 
also director of studies of the military school. Ritter 
was the founder of general comparative geography, and 
exercised a decisive influence on its study, remodelling 
the w’hole science, and attracting general attention to 
its problems and results. He died at Berlin, Sept. 25, 
1859. 11 is chief works are, Die Erdkunde im Yerhrilt- 

nisse zur Natur nnd Geschichte des Menschen (Berlin, 
1822-54, 17 vols. [19 pts.]) : — Europa, ein geogruphisch- 
historisch-statistisches Gemdlde (Frankfort, 1 807, 2 vols.) : 
— Die Stupas , oder die architect. Monument e , etc. (Ber- 
lin, 1838): — Die Colonisinmg von Neu-Zealand (ibid. 
1842): — Blick anf das Nilquelland (ibid. 1844): — Der 
Jordan nnd die Beschijfung des Todten M ceres ( ibid. 
1850) : — Ein Blick auf Palastina mid die christliche Be- 
volkerung (ibid. 1852). Parts of his works have been 
translated into English by Gage: Comparative Geogra- 
phy (Edinb. 1865), and The Comparative Geography of 
Palestine and the Sinaitic Peninsula (ibid. 1866. 4 vols.). 
See Gage, Life of Karl Ritter , in the For. Quar. Rev. 
Oct. 1837; lloefcr, None. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Ritli, the seasons of the Hindus, which are six in 
number — two summers, two springs, and two winters. 
Their names are Sisar, the season of dew; Himant , of 
cold; of bloom ; Grishna, of heat ; Wtrsa, of 

rain; and Sarat, of thaw. 

Ritual (from ritvs, a ceremony) has been defined as 
“the external body of words and action by 'which wor- 
ship is expressed and exhibited before God and man;” 
also “the book containing the particular ordinances of 


RITUAL 


37 


RITUALISM 


any single Church.” The necessity of ritual, whether 
of a more or less elaborate kind, may be supported (1) 
on historical grounds. Its traces may be found in all 
ages; and every form of religion, true or false — Chris- 
tianity, Mohammedanism, Buddhism, and the different 
forms of idolatry — has had a ritual of its own. (2) 
On internal grounds. From the twofold constitution 
of man as body and spirit. As long as the body is 
an essential element of man. so long, it is urged, will 
ritual be a necessary feature in his worship. Objection 
is made that the Jewish system of external observances, 
and, by inference, all worship of a similar kind, was 
abolished by our Lord when lie said, “Cod is a Spirit, 
and they that worship him must worship him in spirit 
and in truth” (John iv, 24); and that all attempts to re- 
introduce a system of ritual arc a violation of the genius 
and intention of the Founder of Christianity. This was 
the basis of the teaching of George Fox (A.D. 1647). 
But it appears, from Christ’s own conduct in the insti- 
tution of baptism and the Lord’s supper, and those re- 
corded acts of worship (Luke xviii, 13; xxi, 2, 3; xxii, 
4) which secured his sanction or approval, that the real 
object of his animadversion was a permanent external 
worship from which the heart and affections were ab- 
sent. The special objects of Christian ritual are (1) to 
impart the historic truths of religion. By the various 
festivals (e. g. Easter, Whit-Sunday) of the Church and 
their attendant ceremonies, Christians have their at- 
tention drawn to the divine origin of their religion. 
(2) A constant witness to moral and doctrinal truth. 
Thus baptism shows the corruption of human nature 
and the necessity of purity, anti is a symbol of the in- 
ward “washing of regeneration.” Mosheim ( Eccles . 
Hist. [Amer. ed.] i, 84) states that Christ only “estab- 
lished two rites, which it is not lawftd either to change 
or abrogate, viz. baptism and the Lord's supper ,” and 
infers from this that “ceremonies are not essential to 
the religion of Christ, and that the whole business of 
them is left by him to the discretion and free choice of 
Christians.” In the 2d century ceremonies were much 
increased, for which Mosheim (i, 132) assigns the fol- 
lowing reasons: (1) To conciliate the Jews and pagans; 
(2) to rebut the charge of atheism made against the 
Christians, because they had not the external parapher- 
nalia of religion; (3) imitation of language in the New 
Test., such as terms borrowed from the Jewish laws. 
The bishops were first innocently called kigk-pi’iests, 
the presbyters priests, etc. These titles were abused by 
those to whom they were given, who claimed that they 
hail the same rank and dignity, and possessed the same 
rights and privileges, with those who bore them under 
the Jewish dispensation. Hence the splendid garments, 
and many other things. (4) Among the Greeks and 
other people of the East nothing was considered more 
sacred than the Mysteries. This circumstance led the 
Christians, in order to impart dignity to their religion, to 
claim similar mysteries. Without discussing the gen- 
eral subject further, we present the rituals of the vari- 
ous prominent Christian churches. 

1. Church of Rome. — The ceremonial of the offices of 
the Roman Church administered by bishops is contained 
in the books entitled Pontificate and Ceremoniale Episco - 
porum. The priestly offices are detailed in the Ritual. 
In its present form it dates from the Council of Trent, 
which directed a revision of all the different rituals 
then extant. An authoritative edition was published 
by Raul V in 1614, which has been frequently reprinted, 
and of which a revision was issued by Benedict XIV. 
Besides the Roman Ritual, there arc many diocesan 
rituals, some of which are of much historical interest. 
The most approved commentary on the Roman Ritual 
is that of Barrufaldo (Florence, 1847, 2 vols.). See 
Breviary; Missal; Rituale Romaxum. 

2. English Church. — Originally each bishop had the 
power to form his own liturgy, and to regulate its at- 
tendant ritual, provided that the essential features of 
Christian worship were retained, and that nothing com- 


manded in Scripture or derived from apostolic times 
was omitted. St. Basil (A.D. 329-379) composed a lit- 
urgy for the Church of Gesarea, which received the 
sanction of its bishop, Eusebius (Greg. Naz. Ornt. 20). 
As a consequence, great variety existed, with a tendency 
to increase. Two early hut unsuccessful attempts were 
made to introduce a uniformity of worship throughout 
England. The Council of Cloveshoe (A.D. 747) recom- 
mended the adoption of (he Roman liturgy to all tlu» 
English dioceses, but its recommendation was never 
more than partially carried out. In 1085 St. Osmund 
compiled the Sarum Breviary and Missal, which ob- 
tained a wide circulation, but were never universally 
accepted to the exclusion of those previously existing. 
It was, in a great measure, to remedy the inconven- 
iences resulting from this variety that the First Book 
of Common Braver, compiled bv a committee of Convo- 
cation (first appointed in A.D. 1542). was issued in the 
second year of king Edward VI (A.D. 1519). This 
book, after receiving various additions and alterations in 
A.D. 1552, 1560, 1604, and 1662, is still the guide of the 
English Church in all matters connected with the per- 
formance of divine service and ritual. See Common 
Prayer, Book of. 

3. Greek Church. — In the Greek Clmreh, as in the 
other Eastern communions, the ritual forms part of the 
general collection (which contains also the eucharistio 
service) entitled Eucuolooton (q. v.). 

4. The Methodist Churches. — The ritual of these 
churches embraces directions for public worship, for the 
administration of baptism and the Lord's supper, for sol- 
emnizing matrimony, burial of the dead, reception of 
members, laying corner-stones, dedication of churches, 
consecration of bishops, and ordination of deacons and 
elders. The chief part of this ritual was prepared by 
Mr. Wesley, and was adopted by the General Confer- 
ence of 1784. Methodists do not believe that any pre- 
cise form of ritual is essential, but that, as far as prac- 
ticable, a uniform system should be adopted for the sake 
of propriety and order. See Blunt, Diet. ofTheol. ; Cham- < 
bers's Encyclop. ; Simpson, Cyclop, of Methodism , s. v. ; 
Mosheim, Church flist.v ol. i: Barnum, Romanism. 

Ritual Choir. The part of the church actually 
used for the choir, and distinct from the architectural or 
constructional choir. — Walcott, Mac. A rchceol. s. v. 

Rituale Romaxum. Various rituals ( ordines Ro- 
7 mud) had been issued from time to time in behalf of 
the worship of the Roman Catholic Church [see Okih> 
Romaxus]; but the later popes, since the Council of 
Trent (comp. sess. xxv, De Indice Librarian ) were con- 
cerned to promote ecclesiastical unity by introducing a 
common ritual. Pius V accordingly published the Hre- 
vinrium and the Mis side Romanian, and Clement VII l 
the Pontificate and Ceremoniale (see the respective arti- 
cles); and Raul V followed their example by causing 
certain cardinals to compile a now service-book from 
several of the older rituals, especially that of car- 
dinal Julius Antonins ( Sanctie JSererintv), which was 
issued under the title Rituale Romanian , June 16, 1614, 
and its use made obligatory. It contains the sacra- 
ments to be administered by priests, sacrament alia, pro- 
cessions, forms for use in records of the Church, etc. 
Other service-hooks gradually gave way before it in the 
general use of the Church, though special books were 
still prepared, particularly, for use in the churches of the 
city of Rome. See Catalani, tiacrarum Cie re mania rum, 
etc. (Rome, 1750, 2 vols. fol.). — Herzog, Real-Ency- 
klop. s. v. 

Ritualism, a term popularly applied to a move- 
ment in the Church of England, and in the Protestant 
Episcopal Church. The revival of ecclesiastical learn- 
ing, which was so conspicuous a feature of the Tracfa- 
rian (q. v.) movement, necessarily made the clergy bet- 
ter acquainted with the primitive liturgies, and with 
the ancient service-books of the Church of England. 
This study of ccclesiology, as the science came to be 


RITUALISM 


38 


RIVER 


called, was soon brought to bear upon the restoration of 
old churches and the construction of new ones, as well 
as upon the service of the Church. There was also the 
feeling that prayer, praise, and the holy eucharist are 
ottered to God, as well as used for the spiritual advan- 
tage of man. It was under such circumstances, and 
under such influences, that “Ritualism” took its rise. 

The principles of Ritualism, according to its advocates, 
are three. They say, in the first place, that it rests on 
the declaration of the Convocation of Canterbury (1571), 

“ that preachers should, in the first place, be careful 
never to teach anything from the pulpit, to be relig- 
iously held and believed by the people, but what is 
agreeable to the doctrine of the Old and New Testa- 
ments, and collected out of that very doctrine by the 
catholic fathers and ancient bishops.” This was thought 
to establish the doctrinal identity of the Church of 
England with the primitive Church. Consequently 
the apostolic episcopate and sacramental grace are spe- 
cially insisted on, baptismal regeneration is strenuously 
asserted, and the holy eucharist has been made the cen- 
tral object of teaching and the highest object of wor- 
ship. The voluntary use of private confession and 
absolution as a preparation for the reception of the 
holy communion has also made considerable progress. 
The second great principle of the Ritualist is stated 
in the thirtieth canon : “So far was it from the purpose 
of the Church of England to forsake and reject the 
churches of Italy, France, Spain, and Germany, or any 
such-like churches, in all tilings which they held and 
practiced, that, as the apology of the Church of England 
confesseth, it doth with reverence retain those ceremo- 
nies which do neither endamage the Church of God nor 
offend the minds of sober men.” This principle, it is 
alleged, establishes the fraternal readiness of the Church 
of England for visible union with other branches of the 
apostolic Church, and the Ritualists assert a willing- 
ness to do any and every thing lawful to approximate 
towards the Continental Church. The third principle 
is found in the Ornaments Rubric: “The chancels shall 
remain as they have done in times past . . . that such 
ornaments of the church and of the ministers thereof, 
at all times of their ministration, shall be retained and 
be in use as they were in this Church of England, by 
the authority of Parliament, in the second year of the 
reign of king Edward TI.” This was interpreted to 
mean that the chancels, vestments, ornaments of the 
church and ministers, should be the same as before the 
Reformation. This principle was fully developed at 
several churches in London, Oxford, Leeds, and else- 
where. Depending upon the above-mentioned princi- 
ples, there are six chief points insisted upon bv the 
Ritualists: l, the eastward position of the celebrant in 
the sacrament of the holy communion, with his back to 
the people; 2, the eucharistic vestments; 3, lights, 
burning at the time of celebration; 4, incense; 5, the 
mixed chalice, a little water being mixed with the 
wine ; (1, unleavened (or wafer) bread. The Directorium 
Anylicanum, being a manual of directions for the right 
celebration of a holy communion, for the saying of 
matins and evensong, and for the performance of other 
rites and ceremonies of the Church, according to an- 
cient uses of the Church of England, by the Rev. John 
Purchas. was published in 1«5«. A full development 
of ritualistic usages on the principle thus indicated was 
established at St. Alban’s Church, llolborn, and at a 
later date at a Rrighton chapel, of which Mr. Purchas 
became incumbent. The ceremonial of divine service 
was raised to a much higher standard than had been 
contemplated by the older school of Ritualists, and pro- 
voked opposition from them, for it was chiefly copied 
from modern Continental customs, and was much mixed 
up with a sentimentalism about candles and flowers, as 
well as with an excessive minuteness in regard to post- ! 
ures and gestures, which made it easy to charge the 
school with trifling and want of manliness. 

There have been a number of legal cases arising out I 


of the teaching and practices of the Ritualists. The 
Church of Barnabas, Pimlico, was opened in 1850 for 
the purpose of carrying out completely and honestly 
the principles of Ritualism. This led to litigation, 
which ultimately brought both advocates and opponents 
before the Privy Council in 1857. The council consid- 
ered some portions of the furniture of the church to be 
nnsanetioned by the existing law, but the principle 
then contended for by the Ritualists was affirmed by 
their interpretation of the Ornaments Rubric, respect- 
ing the various forms of which they decided that “ they 
all obviously mean the same thing, that the same dresses 
and the same utensils or articles which were used under 
the First Prayer-book of Edward VI may still be used.” 
This decision left the Ritualists in possession of the field. 
Suits were also instituted against Mr. Mackonochie, 
vicar of St. Alban’s, and Mr. Purchas, incumbent of St. 
James’s Chapel, Brighton, which were carried up to the 
Privy Council, and all the six above-mentioned usages, 
and some others, were condemned. Of more importance 
than these cases was that of the Rev. W. J. E. Bennett, 
vicar of Frome, who published a sermon in which he 
taught “the real and actual presence of our Lord, under 
the form of bread and wine, upon the altars of our 
churches.” The Court of Arches, through Sir Robert 
Phillimore, decided in Mr. Bennett’s favor, and the ap- 
peal to the judicial committee of the Privy Council was 
dismissed by them (1872). In 1867 a royal commission 
was appointed “to inquire into and report upon differ- 
ent practices which had arisen, and varying interpreta- 
tions which were put upon the rubrics, orders,” etc.; 
also to reconstruct the tables of lessons used at morning 
and evening prayer. Its reconstructed lectionarv was 
authorized for use by Parliament and Convocation 
(1871). The Ritualists have paid great attention to the 
study of the liturgies and rituals of all ages, and to that 
of hymnology. They have encouraged the revival of 
religious orders, and have communities of women de- 
voted to labor in hospitals and like institutions. The 
ritualistic movement of England has received more or 
less sympathy in the United States, but with much less 
development of detail. In 1874 a general canon was 
passed, which was regarded as a nearly unanimous ex- 
pression of opinion unfavorable to ritualistic extremes, 
but no occasion has arisen for putting it in force. See 
Appletons ’ Cyclop . ; Blunt, Diet, of Sects , s. v. Comp. 
Oxford Tracts. 

Ritualist. See Ritualism. 

Ritzema, Johannes, one of the leading ministers 
of the Reformed (Dutch) Church during the last cen- 
tury. He was born in Holland, 1710, and thoroughly 
educated in that country. He was pastor of the Col- 
legiate Reformed (Dutch) Church in New York from 
1744 to 1784. His sermons were “of a high order.” 
He is represented as a man of great prudence, and of 
most estimable character in the Church and in the 
community. Although at first he was regarded as “a 
conservative coetus man” in the great controversy 
which rent the Church, he soon, with his colleague 
Rev. Lambertus De Ronde, went over to the Conferen- 
ce and became an active partisan with those who op- 
posed the ordination of ministers in this country. Ilis 
consistory remained neutral. He wrote several pam- 
phlets in opposition to Rev. John Leydt, who favored 
independence. During the Revolutionary war, he and 
j De Ronde were compelled to leave the city, and re- 
mained in their old age in their places of exile. His 
! last four years (1784-88) were spent at Kimlerhook, 
N. Y. lie was a trustee of Kings, now Columbia Col- 
lege, N. Y. ; and at one time, when it was proposed to 
establish a divinity professorship in that institution, he 
was prominently named for that office by his friends. 
See De Witt, Historical Discourse; Gunn, Life of 
J. II. Livinqston ; Corwin, Manual of the Reformed 
Church. (W.J.R.T.) 

River. Iu the sense in which we employ the word, 


RIYEI 


39 


RIVER 


viz. for a perennial stream of considerable size, a river 
is a much rarer object in the East than in the West. 
See Water. The majority of the inhabitants of Pal- 
estine at the present day have probably never seen one. 
With the exception of the Jordan and the Litany, the 
streams of the IIolv Land are either entirely dried up 
in the summer months, and converted into hot lanes of 
glaring stones, or else reduced to very small streamlets 
deeply sunk in a narrow bed, and concealed from view 
by a dense growth of shrubs. The cause of this is two- 
fold : on the one hand, the hilly nature of the country 
— a central mass of highland descending on each side 
to a lower level — and on the other the extreme heat of 
the climate during the summer. There is little doubt 
that in ancient times the country was more wooded 
than it now is, and that, in consequence, the evapora- 
tion was less, and the streams more frequent ; yet this 
cannot have made any very material difference in the 
porrhanencc of the water in the thousands of valleys 
which divide the hills of Palestine. 

“ River” is the rendering in the A. V. of seven distinct 
Hebrew words. These are not synonymous. Most of 
them have definite significations, and were used by the 
sacred writers to set forth certain physical peculiarities. 
When these are overlooked, the full force and meaning 
of the Scriptures cannot be understood; and important 
points of physical geography and topography fail to be 
apprehended. 

1. (or ^3X), nbdl , used only in three passages 

of Daniel (viii, 2, 3, 6). “ I was by the river of Ulai.” 

It comes from the root which, like the correspond- 
ing Arabic, signifies to flow copiously . Its derivative, 

is the Hebrew term for deluge. 

2. p*Si<, aphik , from pEX, to hold or restrain. It 
thus comes to signify “a channel,” from the fact of its 
“holding” or “restraining” within its banks a river. 
It is said in 2 Sam. xxii, 16, “The channels of the sea 
appeared, the foundations of the world were discovered” 
(comp. Psa. xviii, 15). The psalmist gives it very appro- 
priately to the glens of the Negeb (south), which are 
dry during a great part of the year: “Turn again our 
captivity, O Lord, as the channels in the Negeb.” The 
beauty of this passage is marred by the present trans- 
lation, “streams in the south” (Psa. cxxvi, 4). The 
word is rightly translated “ channels” in Isa. viii, 7. It 
ought to be rendered in the same way in Ezek. xxxii, 
6: “And the channels (rivers) shall be full of thee.” 
But the most striking example of a wrong rendering 
is in Joel iii, 18: “And all the rivers of Judah shall 
flow with waters.” See Aphik. 

3. (or 350), yeor, is an Egyptian word, which 
is applied originally, and almost exclusively, to the river 
Nile, and, in the plural, to the canals by which the Nile 
water was distributed throughout Egypt, or to streams 
having a connection with that country. It properly 
denotes a fosse or river (it was expressed by ioro in 
the dialect of Memphis, and by iero in that of Thebes, 
while it appears as ior in the Rosetta inscription). It 
was introduced into the Hebrew language by Moses, 
and is used more frequently in the Pentateuch than in 
all the rest of the Bible. As employed by him it has 
the definiteness of a proper name. Thus, “ Pharaoh 
stood by the river ” (Gen. xli, 1 ; comp. ver. 2, 3, 17, etc.) : 
“ Every son that is born ye shall cast into the river ” 
(Exod. i, 22). The Nile was emphatically the river of 
Egypt. Subsequent writers, when speaking of the riv- 
er of Egypt, generally borrow the same word (Isa. vii, 
18; xix, 6; Jer. xlvi, 7 ; Ezek. xxix, 3; Amos viii, 8, 
etc.). In a few places it is employed to denote a large 
and mighty river, not like the rivulets or winter torrents 
of Palestine. Thus in Isa. xxiii, 10: “Pass through the 
land as a river , O daughter of Tarshish” (comp, xxxiii, 
21). The usual rendering of this word in the A. V. is 
“river;” but it is translated “streams” in Isa. xxxiii, 
21 ; “ flood” in Jer. xlvi, 7, 8; Amos viii, 8, etc,; and 


“ brooks” in Isa. xix, G, 7,8, where reference is manifest- 
ly made to the “canals” which convey the water of the 
Nile to different parts of Egypt. See Nile. 

4. yubdl, is found only in Jer. xvii, 8: “lie 
shall be as a tree . . . that spreadeth out her roots by 
the river." The word is radically identical with 
(No. 1), and its meaning is the same. 

5. ^"3, nahdr, from the root IPlS, which signifies 
to flow; and it may be regarded as the proper Hebrew 
equivalent for our word river. The cognate Arabic 
nahr has the same meaning, in which language also, as 
in Hebrew, it includes canals, as the “ Maharawan of 
Khuzistan;” and the Scripture must mean the Euphrates 
and its canals, where it speaks of “the rivers (n aharoth) 
of Babylon” (Psa. cxxxvii, 1). It is always applied to 
a perennial stream. It is possibly used of the Jordan 
in Psa. lxvi, 6; lxxiv, 15; of the great Mesopotamian 
and Egyptian rivers generally in Gen. ii, 10; Exod. vii, 
19; 2 Kings xvii, 6; Ezek. iii, 15, etc. It is often fol- 
lowed by the genitives of countries, as “the river of 
Egypt” (Gen. xv, 18), that is, the Nile; “ the river of 
Gozan” (2 Kings xvii, 6) ; “ the rivers of Ethiopia” (Isa. 
xviii, 1); “the rivers of Damascus” (2 Kings v, 12). 
With the article, ‘"iPill, han-nciltdr, the word is applied 
emphatically to the Euphrates; thus in Gen. xxxi, 21, 
“He rose up, and passed over the river;" and Exod. 
xxiii, 31, “ I will set thv bounds . . . from the desert 
unto the river " (Numb. xxiv. 6; 2 Sam. x, 16, etc.). 
The Euphrates is also called “ the great river " (Gen. 
xv, 18; Dent, i, 7, etc.). In one passage this word, 
without the article, evidently signifies the Nile (Isa. 
xix, 5); though in poetry, when thus used, the Eu- 
phrates is meant (vii, 20; Psa. Ixxii, 8; Zecli. ix, 10). 
In a few passages the word is translated “ flood” (Josh, 
xxiv, 2; Job xiv, 11; Psa. lxvi, 6); but with a few 
exceptions (Josh, i, 4; xxiv, 2, 14, 15; Isa. lix, 19; 
Ezek. xxxi, 15), nahdr is uniformly rendered “river” 
in our version, and accurately, since it is never applied 
to the fleeting fngitive torrents of Palestine. See To- 
pographical Terms. 

6. bnD , nuchal, is derived from the root ?n3, which 
signifies to receive or to possess. Its usual meaning is a 
valley, probably from the fact of its receiving the sur- 
face-water after rains, and affording a bed for a stream. 
Sometimes it is applied to a valley or glen, apart alto- 
gether from the idea of a stream. Thus in Gen. xxvi, 
17, Abraham “pitched his tent in the valley of Gerar.” 
As many of the valleys of Palestine were the beds of 
winter streams, the word was sometimes applied to the 
stream itself, as in Lev. xi, 9, 10; the “valley,” the 
“brook,” and the “river” Zered (Numb, xxi, 12; Deut. 
ii, 13; Amos vi, 14); the “brook” and the “river” of 
Jabbok (Gen. xxxii, 23; Deut. ii, 37), of Kishon (Judg. 
iv, 7; 1 Kings xviii, 40). Comp, also Deut. iii, 16, etc. 
Jerome, in his Qmestiones in Genesim, xxvi, 19, draws 
the following curious distinction between a valley and 
a torrent: “ Et hie pro valle torrens scriptus est, min- 
quam enim in valle invenitur puteus aquae viva?.” 
Sometimes, however, the rendering is incorrect, and 
conveys a -very wrong impression. In Numb, xiii, 23 
“the brook Eshcol” should manifestly be “the valley 
of Eshcol;” and in Dent, iii, 16 the same word is ren- 
dered in two ways — “ unto the river Arnon half the rally" 
(comp. Josh, xii, 2). Again, in Josh, xiii, 6 the snored 
writer is represented as speaking of “a city that is in 
the midst of the river;" it means, of course, valley (comp. 
2 Sam. xxiv, 5). Frequent mention is made of the 
“brook Kid ron” (2 Kings xxiii, 6, 12; 2 Cliron. xv, 16; 
xxix. 16; xxx, 14); but valley is the true meaning. 
In Psa. lxxviii, 20 is the following: “lie smote the 
rock, that the waters gushed out, and the streams over- 
flowed.” 

Neither of these words expresses the thing intended ; 
but the term “brook” is peculiarly unhappy, since the 
pastoral idea which it conveys is quite at variance with 


RIVEI 


40 


RIVEI 


the general character of the wadys of Palestine. Many | 
of these are deep abrupt chasms or rents in the solid 
rock of the hills, and have a savage, gloomy aspect, far \ 
removed from that of an ordinary brook. For example, ' 
the Anion forces its way through a ravine several hun- 
dred feet deep and about two miles wide across the top. 
The W'aclv Zcrka. probably the Jabbok. which Jacob 
was so anxious to interpose between his family and 
Esau, is equally unlike the quiet “meadowy brook” 
with which we are familiar. And those which are not 
so abrupt and savage are in their width, their irregu- 
larity. their forlorn arid look when the torrent has sub- 
sided, utterly unlike “ brooks.” Unfortunately, our lan- 
guage does not contain any single word which has both 
the meanings of the Hebrew ndchal and its Arabic 
equivalent wadi/, which can be used at once for a dry 
valley and for the stream which occasionally flows 
through it. Ainsworth, in his Annotations (on Numb, 
xiii, 23), says that “bourne” lias both meanings; but 
“bourne” is now obsolete in English, though still in use 
in Scotland, where, owing to the mountainous nature 
of the country, the “ burns” partake of the nature of the 
wadys of Palestine in the irregularity of t heir flow. 
Burton ( Geog . Journ, xxiv, 200) adopts the Italian 
Jiumana. Others have proposed the Indian term nul- 
lah . The double application of the Hebrew ndchal is 
evident in I Kings xvii, 3, where Elijah is commanded 
to hide himself in (not by) the ndchal Cherith, and to 
drink of the ndchal. This word is also translated 
“flood” in 2 Sam. xxii, 5; Job xxviii, 4, etc. See 
Block. 

The frequent use of the word ndchal in Scripture, 
and the clear distinction drawn between it and nahdr 
by the sacred writers, are indicative of the physical 
character of Palestine — “a land of hills and valleys a 
land in which nearly all the valleys arc dry in summer, 
and the beds of torrents during the winter rains. The 
Arabic word wady is the modem equivalent of the He- 
brew ndchal . It means a valley, glen, or ravine of any 
kind, whether the bed of a perennial stream or of a 
winter torrent, or permanently dry. Like its Hebrew' 
equivalent, it is also sometimes applied to the river or 
stream which flows in the valley; but not so commonly 
as ndchal. In reading the Hebrew Scriptures the con- 
text alone enables us to decide the meaning attached 
by the writer in each passage to the word ndchal. In 
a few' instances it appears to be used in two senses in 
the very same sentence (comp. 1 Kings xvii, 3-7, etc.). 
See a picturesque allusion to such brooks in Job vi, 15. 
When the word stands alone it seems to denote a mere 
winter torrent, a permanent stream being indicated by 
the addition of the word “jr-X, “perennial,” as in Psa. 
Ixxiv, 15; Dent, xxxi, 4; Amos v, 24. See Valley. 

A few’ brooks are specially designated (in addition to 
the above), as the Brook of Willows (Isa. xv. 7 ), a 
stream on the east of the Dead Sea, probably the pres- 
ent Wady el-Ahsy, which descends from the eastern 
mountains and enters the eastern end of the Dead Sea; 
the Bcsor {the cold), a torrent emptying itself into the 
Mediterranean near Gaza (I Sam. xxx. 9, 10, 21) ; and 
the Kanah, a stream on the borders of Ephraim and 
Manasseh (Josh, xvi, IS; xvii, 9). “The brook of 
Egypt,” mentioned in Numb, xxxiv. 5; Josh. xv. 4. 47 ; 
1 Kings viii, 65; 2 Kings xxiv, 7; Isa. xxvii, 12, which 
is also called simply “the brook” (Ezek. xlvii, 19; xlviii, 
2S), and described as on the confines of Palestine and 
Egypt, is unquestionably tlie Wady el-Arish, near the 
village of that name, which was anciently called Rhi- 
liocorura. The “ river (year) of Egypt” is, however, 
the Nile; and it is unfortunate that the tw'o are not so 
well distinguished in the A.V. as in the original. Oth- 
er examples are the valley of Gerar (Gen. xxvi, 17) 
and the valley of Sorck (Jude, xvi, 4), so called proba- 
bly from its vineyards, which Eusebius and Jerome place 
north of Eleuthcropolij and near to Zorab. The valley 
of Sliittim (“acacias”) was in Moab, on the borders of 


Palestine (Joel iv, IS ; comp. Numb, xxv, 1 ; Josh, ii, 1 ; 
iii, 1 ; Mic. vi, 5). — Kitto. See each name in its place. 

7. 3i53, peleg. The root of this word appears to be 
the same as that of <p\Lo, <p\vio, fleo, fluo, /duo, and the 
English flow ; its meaning is “to gush” or “flow’ over.” 
Peleg is equivalent to the Arabic pah/, “a stream,” and 
is ahvavs given to something flowing. Thus in Job 
xxix, 6, “The rock poured me out rivers of oil;” and 
Lam. iii, 48, “Mine eye runneth down with rivers of 
w'atcr.” In the Bible it is used ten times, and is trans- 
lated “rivers,” except in Psa. xlvi, 4, where it is ren- 
dered “streams,” and in Judg. v, 15, 16, “divisions,” 
where the allusion is probably to the artificial streams 
with which the pastoral anti agricultural country of 
Reuben was irrigated (Ewald, Dichter, i, 129; Gesen. 
Thesaur. col. 1103 5); or perhaps to the gullies that in- 
tersect that high table-land. — Kitto; Smith. See Moms. 

8. What is commonly rendered “conduit” (2 Kings 

xviii, 17 ; xx, 20; Isa. vii, 3; xxxvi, 2). once a “ w ater- 
course” (Job xxviii, 25), is in one verse transformed 
into “little rivers,” but with “conduits” on the margin 
(Ezek. xxxi, 4). The w'ord is tealah , and means 

simply a channel or conduit for the conveying of rain 
or water of any sort. See Conduit. 

Rivers were worshipped by many nations of antiq- 
uity (Spanheim, on Callim. Apol. 112; Cerer. 14; Voss, 
Idololat . ii.79 sq.), and especially in the East. Comp. 
Herod, i, 138 ; Strabo, xv, 732 ; Arnob. Adv. Gent. vi. 1 1. 
On the Persians, see Heliodor. JEth. ix, 9; so the Egyp- 
tians. Some trace of the reverence for them so gen- 
erally felt has been supposed by some to have existed 
among the idolatrous Hebrews (from Isa. 1 vii, 6; Bos- 
seck, De Cultu Flumiimm [Lips. 1740]; Van Speren, in 
Bihlioth. Hag. IV, i, 81 sq.), but without ground (see 
Rosenmiiller and Gesen. in Jes. ad loc.). — Winer. The 
principal rivers mentioned in the Bible are the Eu- 
phrates, the Nile, and the Jordan (see eaeli). See Swe- 
die, Lakes and Rivers of the Bible (Loud. I8G4). See 
Palestine. 

RIVER OF EGYPT. This term occurs eight times 
in the Old Test. (Gen. xv, 18; Numb, xxxiv. 5; Josh, 
xv, 4, 47; 1 Kings viii, 05; 2 Kings xxiv, 7 ; Isa. xxvii, 
12, in the last passage translated “the stream of Egypt”). 
In the first of these the word translated river is “PI 5, 
nahdr, while in all the others it is blj3, ndchal. The 
preceding remarks on these two terms, and the clear 
distinction drawn between them by the sacred writers, 
will show' that in the above passages they can scarcely 
be regarded as identical in meaning, and that in all 
probability Nehdr Mitzrdyim is to be regarded as dis- 
tinct from Ndchal Mitzrdyim. To determine this point, 
it will be necessary to examine critically the several 
passages in which the words occur, and the light that 
may be throw’ll upon them by parallels. Geographi- 
cally, the question is of importance, as determining the 
southern border of “the land of promise” and of "the 
land of possession.” 

I. Nehdr Mitzrdyim (C^-£*2 “P3, “The river of 
Egypt”). The land which the Lord gave in covenant 
promise to Abraham is thus described in Gen. xv, 18: 
“ Unto thy seed have 1 given this land, from the river 
of Egypt unto the great river, the river Euphrates.” 
The Sept, renders the phrase, otto too TroTcipov Aiyvrr- 
rov; and the Vnlg., a fluvio sEgypti . The word “P!3. 
as has been stated, like tzo to/ioq and flurius, means 
river. But the Nile is the only river of Egypt, and 
hence it is natural to conclude that the Nile is meant, 
and here — as the western border of the promised land, of 
which the eastern border was the Euphrates — the Pclu- 
siac or easternmost branch. So it is understood by most 
commentators (Kalisch, Pelitzscli, etc., ad loc.). It is 
true the extent of territory thus defined was never actu- 
ally occupied by the seed of Abraham; nor was it pos- 
sessed except, perhaps, during the reigns of David and 
Solomon. See Palestine. 


RIVER 


41 


RIVET 


2. Nuchal Mitzrdyini ( bni) occurs seven times 
in the Bible. In six of these the A. Y. translates “ riv- 
er,” and in one “stream” (Isa. xxvii, 12). The Sept, 
has \6fjudppoociit Numb. xxxiv,5; Josh. xv, 47; 2 Kings 
xxiv, 7 ; and 2 Chron. vii, 8; <pdpay% in Josh, xv, 4; 
7ror«jtioC iii I Kings viii,G5; and 'VwoKopovpiov in Isa. 
xxvii, 12. The Yulg. has virus in 1 Kings viii, 65 and 
2 Kings xxiv, 7, but torrens in the others. The proper 
meaning of ndchal is “ valley,” though it is sometimes, 
as has been stated (see above), applied to the winter 
streams of Palestine. It could not with any propriety 
be applied to a large permanent river like the Nile. 
What, therefore, do the sacred writers mean by Ndchal 
Mitzruyim ? 

In describing to Moses the land of Canaan, which 
the Israelites were about to enter and possess, the Lord 
stated that the southern boundary should extend from 
Kadesh-Barnea to 11 the river' of Egypt," or more cor- 
rectly “the wady (valley) of Egypt” (Numb, xxxiv, 5). 
After the conquest, the southern border of Judah ex- 
tended to the same points (Josh, xv, 4, 47). The coun- 
try over which the Israelites had spread in the time 
of Solomon was “from the entering-in of Hamath unto 
the river of Egypt" (l Kings viii, G5; 2 Chron. vii, 8). 
In all these passages it will be observed that the coun- 
try described is much smaller than that given in cove- 
nant-promise to Abraham, extending only on the north 
as far as the entrance of Hamath. This has already 
been explained in the article Palestine. 

Two other passages in which the term is employed 
are more difficult. In 2 Kings xxiv, “ the river of 
Egypt” is mentioned as the proper boundary of that 
country; and it is said of the king of Babylon, that he 
had taken "from the river of Egypt to the river Eu- 
phrates all that pertained to the king of Egypt.” The 
expression nearly resembles that in Gen. xv, 18, where 
the river Nile is meant (see above). A similar form is 
used bv Isaiah (xxvii, 12); and there the Sept, has 
rendered Ndchal Mitzrdyini by Rhinocnrura , which 
was the name of a town now called el-Arish. If this 
be correct, then Ndchal Mitzruyim must be identitied 
with Wady el-Arish, a valley and small winter stream 
which falls into the Mediterranean near this town. 
This is the view adopted by most of the old commenta- 
tors (see in Gesenius, Thesaur . p. 872; Belaud, Palsst. 
p. 969, and authorities there cited). Jerome states that 
Iihinocorura was situated on the borders of Palestine 
and Egypt, and that the “river ( torrens ) of Egypt” was 
near it ( Comment . ad Jes. xix et xxvii; ad Amos vi). 
Ancient geographers and historians describe Egypt as 
extending to this city (Eusebius. Onomast. s. v. ; Died. 
Sic. i, GO; Strabo, xvi, p. 780; Behind, p. 286). This 
torrent, or valley, derived its notoriety from being the 
boundary of two great countries; and hence in Ezek. 
xlvii, 19 and xlviii, 28 it is called emphatically “ the 
valley ” (A. V. “ the river”). 

There is nothing, therefore, in any of the passages of 
Scripture in which this term occurs, nor in the geo- 
graphical notices in other passages, nor is there any- 
thing in the old geographers or historians tending to 
identify Ndchal Mitzrdyini with the Nile. This ap- 
pears more clearly when the proper distinction is drawn 
between the country given in covenant promise to Abra- 
ham, and that actually allotted to the Israelites (Bo- 
chart, Opera , i, G2). 

It may be inferred that the first, term, Nehdr Mitz- 
rdyim, ought to be translated “the river of Egypt;” 
and that it was the designation of the Nile in Abra- 
ham’s time, before the Egyptian word year became 
known. The other term, Ndchal Mitzruyim, might be 
rendered “torrent, or wady, of Egypt.” It was applied 
to Wady el-Artsh, which acquired its importance and 
notoriety from the fact of its marking the boundary be- 
tween Palestine and Egypt. — Kit to. See Egypt, 
Brook of. 

River Brethren, a sect deriving their origin from 


the Mennonites. A revival of religion occurred during 
the Revolutionary war in Lancaster Co., Pa., and a 
number of Germans being converted, some of them as- 
sociated with United Brethren, and others were organ- 
ized into a body called the River Brethren. The name 
is applied to them partly from the locality in which they 
were first found — near the .Susquehanna and Conestoga 
— and chiefiv from their baptizing only in rivers. 
They now extend into Ohio, Canada, and elsewhere. 
They recognise three orders of clergy — bishops, elders, 
and deacons, l'heir preachers — generally uneducated 
men, engaged in secular pursuits during the week, and 
receiving no salary for services — are chosen by votes, 
and in case of a tie they have recourse to the lot. l'heir 
services are generally in the German language, and held 
in private houses. This denomination reject infant bap- 
tism, and baptize adults by trine immersion. They hold 
to feet-washiug, baptism, the Lord’s supper, and com- 
munion (love -feast), and wear their beards unshorn. 
They have never published a confession of faith. They 
are opposed to war, and cannot therefore, serve in the 
army. — Gardner, Faiths of the 1 V arid, s. v. ; Porter, Hand- 
book of Religions, s. v. 

Rivet, Andre, a celebrated French Protestant the- 
ologian, was born at Saint -Maxent. Aug. 5, 1578. He 
studied theology at the Academy of Orthez under Lam- 
bert Daneau. and afterwards at La Bochelle under Bo- 
tan. He was ordained in 1595, and went to Thouars as 
chaplain to the duke de la Tremoille. After the death 
of his patron he remained in Thouars, and his reputation 
as a preacher and theologian steadily increased. In 
1G20 he was called to the chair of theology in the Uni- 
versity of Leyden. He married, in 1621, the sister of 
the celebrated Pierre du Moulin, and while in England 
received a fellowship at Oxford. The Synod of Castres 
endeavored to persuade Rivet to return to France and 
devote his talents to the work of building up the Prot- 
estant Church in his native country, but nothing could 
induce him to leave Holland. He received from prinee 
Frederick Henry a most distinguished mark of esteem, 
being chosen tutor and adviser for the young prince 
William. In 1632 he left Leyden to become director of 
the College of Orange, at Breda. Here he remained till 
his death, which occurred Jan. 7, 1651. Rivet was a 
firm Calvinist, and always ready to combat any of the 
foes of orthodoxy. lie left a great number of works, a 
complete list of which may be found in La France 
Protestante. Among the most important are, Comment, 
in Iloseam (Leyden. 1625, 4to) : — Catholicns Orthodoxns, 
etc. (ibid. 1630, 2 vols. 8vo) : — Isagoge, sen Introducfio 
Generalis ad /Script n ram /Sacrum (ibid. 1627, 4to) : — 
Theologicce et /Scholastics Exercitationes in Genesirn 
(ibid. 1633, 4to) : — Commentarii in Libnnn Secundum 
Mosis (ibid. 1634, 4to). Tbe-theological works of Rivet 
have been published in three volumes {Opera Thcologica 
[Rotterdam, 1651 -GO, fol.]).— Hoefer, None. Biog. Ge- 
nerate, s. v. 

Rivet (de la Grange), Antoine, a learned 
French Benedictine, was born at Confolens in 1683. 
He opposed the bull Vnigenitus uttered by Clement 
XI, for which he was punished by confinement in the 
monastery at Mans. Ilis death occurred in 1749. He 
projected a great work entitled The Literary History of 
France , of which he composed nine volumes (1733-50), 
and which was continued by Clemencet and others. 

Rivet (de Ciiampveunon), Guillaume, brother 
of Andre, was born at Saint-Maxent, May 2, 1580. He 
was ordained in 1601, and was pastor of the church at 
Saillebonrg. Ho was member of various synods, and 
assisted at the political assembly of Sauniur. He died 
in 1651. Rivet was a man of great prudence; and 
though his learning was not so extensive as that of his 
brother, his mind was fully as clear and forcible. Of 
his writings we mention, Libertutis Ecclesiastics 1)<- 
fensio (Geneva, 1625, 8vo) : — I)e la Defense ties Droits 
de Bicu (Saumur, 1634, 8vo) 1 ’indicia Evangelics de 


RIXA 


42 


ROAD 


Justifications (Amst. 1G48, 4to). These works are very I 
rarefy to be found.— Hoofer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. ^ 

Rixa, i. e. strife, in Roman mythology, is the same 
as the Greek Eris, the goddess of discord. 

Riz'pah (llcb. Bitspah', a lice coal, as in 

Isa. vi,6; Sept. 'Feotya v. r. 'Pf00«3; Joseph us,* Pa/ atya 
[.In/, vii, 1,4]), a concubine of king Saul, and mother 
of two of his sons, Armoni and Mephibosheth. B.C. cir. 
1080. Like many others of the prominent female char- 
acters of the Old Test. — Ruth, Kahab, Jezebel, etc. — 
liizpah would seem to have been a foreigner, a Hivite, 
descended from one of the ancient worthies of that na- 
tion, Ajah or Aiah, son of Zibeon, whose name and fame 
are preserved in the Ishmaelitish record of Gen. xxxvi. 
After the deatli of Saul and the occupation of the coun- 
try west of the Jordan by the Philistines, Rizpah ac- 
companied the other inmates of the royal family to their 
new residence at jMahanaim; and it is here that her 
name is first introduced to ns as the subject of an accu- 
sation levelled at Abner by Ishbosheth (2 Sam. iii, 7) — 
a piece of spite which led first to Abner’s death through 
Joab’s treachery, and ultimately to the murder of Ish- 
bosheth himself. The accusation, whether true or false 
— and from Abner’s vehement denial we should natural- 
ly conclude that it was false — involved more than meets 
the ear of a modern and English reader; for among 
the Israelites it was considered “as a step to the throne 
to have connection with the widow or the mistress of 
the deceased king” (see JMichaelis, Lairs of Moses, art. 
54). We hear nothing more of Rizpah till the tragic 
story which has made her one of the most familiar ob- 
jects to young and old in the whole Bible (2 Sam. xxi, 
8-11). Every one can appreciate the love ami endur- 
ance with which the mother watched over the bodies 
of her two sons and her five relatives, to save them 
from an indignity peculiarly painful to the whole of 
the ancient world (see Psa. lxxix, 2; Homer, II. i, 4,5, 
etc.). But it is questionable whether the ordinary con- 
ception of the scene is accurate. The seven victims 
were not, as the A. V. implies, “hung;” they were cruci- 
fied. The seven crosses were planted in the rock on the 
top of the sacred hill of Gibeah — the hill which, though 
not Saul’s native place, was, through his long residence 
there, so identified with him as to retain his name to the 
latest existence of the Jewish nation (1 Sam. xi, 4, etc.; 
and see Josephus, War, v, 2, 1). The whole or part of 
this hill seems at the time of this occurrence to have 
been in some special manner dedicated to Jehovah, pos- 
sibly the spot on which Ahiah the priest had deposited 
the ark when he took refuge in Gibeah during the Phi- 
listine war (1 Sam. xiv, 18). The victims were sacrificed 
at the beginning of barley-harvest — the sacred and fes- 
tal time of the Passover — and in the full blaze of the 
summer sun they hung till the fall of the periodical rain 
in ( Ictobcr. During the whole of that time Rizpah re- 
mained at the foot of the crosses on which the bodies of 
her sons were exposed — the mater dolorosa, if the ex- 
pression may be allowed, of the ancient dispensation. 
She had no tent to shelter her from the scorching sun 
which beats on that open spot all day, or from the drench- 
ing dews at night, but she spread on the rocky floor the 
thick mourning garment of black sackcloth which as a 
widow she wore, and crouching there she watched that 
neither vulture nor jackal should molest the bodies. — 
Smith. 

Road occurs but once in the A. V. of the Bible, viz. 
in 1 Sam. xxvii, 10, where it is used iu the sense of 
“raid” or “inroad,” the Hebrew word (-’jD) being 
elsewhere (e. g. ver. 8; xxiii, 27 ; xxx, 1,14, etc.) ren- 
dered “invade” and “invasion.” A road in the sense 
which we now attach to the term is expressed in the 
A. V. by “ way” and “ path,” for which the most gener- 
al words in the original are ““ TJ, ococ. 

In the East, where travelling is performed mostlv on 
some beast of burden, certain tracks were at a very "ear- 


ly period customarily pursued; and that the rather as 
from remote ages commerce aud travelling went on by 
means of caravans, under a certain discipline, and af- 
fording mutual protection in their passage from city to 
city and from land to land. Now, wherever such a 
band of men and animals had once passed they would 
form a track, which, especially in countries where it is 
easy for the traveller to miss his way, subsequent cara- 
vans or individuals would naturally follow ; and the 
rather inasmuch as the original route was not taken ar- 
bitrarily, but because it led to the first cities in each 
particular district of country. Thus at a very early 
period were there marked out on the surface of the 
globe lines of intercommunication running from land 
to land, and in some sort binding distant nations to- 
gether. These, in the earliest times, lay in the direc- 
tion of east and west, that being the line, on which the 
trade and the civilization of the earth first ran. The 
purposes of war seem, however, to have furnished the 
first inducement to the formation of made, or artificial, 
roads. War, we know, afforded to the Romans the mo- 
tive under which they formed their roads; and doubt- 
less they formed them not only to facilitate conquest 
but also to insure the holding of the lands they had 
subdued; and the remains of their roads show us with 
what skill they laid out a country aud formed lines of 
communication. 

From the nature of the soil in the Holy Land, the 
roads must have been sometimes mountainous and 
rock}", sometimes level and sandy. The former were 
the most difficult, and in the rainy season the torrents 
made them dangerous (Schulz, Leitnng , v, 350). Yet 
the}" had a firmness which was important, since little 
was known of road-making in the East. (The ancient 
Indians [Hindus'] must be excepted, according to the 
accounts of trustworthy historians; see Strabo, xv, 689, 
and the remains of ancient artificial roads which are 
still extant [see Von Bohlen, Indien, ii, 199 sq.]. The 
Persians may have learned the art from India.) In 
Dent, xix, 3 (comp. Mishna, Maccoth, ii, 5) it seems that 
the minds of the Israelites were early fam diarized with 
the idea, “Thou shalt prepare thee a way . . . that 
every slayer mav flee thither;” and Qther passages, 
when taken in connection with it, seem to prove that 
to some extent artificial roads were known to the He- 
brews in the commencement of their commonwealth. 
In Isa. xl,3 are these words: “Prepare ye the way of 
the Lord, make straight in the desert a highway for 
our God. Every valley shall be exalted, and every 
mountain and hill shall be made low ; and the crooked 
shall be made straight, and the rough places plain.” 
Nor is the imagery unusual (comp. Isa. xi, 1C ; xix, 23 ; 
xxxiii, 8; xxxv, 8; xlix, 11; lxii, 10). In I Sam. vi, 
12 we read: “The kine went along the highway, low- 
ing as they went, and turned not aside to the right 
hand or to the left.” In Numbers also (xx, 17) : “We 
will go by the king’s highway,” etc. (xxi, 22; Dent, ii, 
27 ; Lev. xx vi, 22). Indeed, it is highly probable that 
the Hebrews had become acquainted with roads during 
their sojourn in Egypt, where, in the Delta especially, 
the nature of the country would require roads and high- 
ways to be thrown up and maintained. Josephus (.4«/. 
viii, 7, 4) expressly says, “ Solomon did not neglect the 
care of the ways, but he laid a causeway of black .stone 
(basalt) along the roads that led to Jerusalem, both to 
render them easy for travellers and to manifest the 
grandeur of his riches.” (See the Mishna, Maccoth.) 
To the Romans, however, Palestine was greatly indebt- 
ed for its roads. On this subject Ileland (Palcestitia) 
has supplied useful information. In the East general- 
ly, and in Palestine in particular, the Romans formed 
roads and set up mile-stones in imitation of what they 
had done in Italy. Eusebius, in his Onomusticon, fre- 
quently alludes to their existence in Palestine. To the 
present day traces of these roads and fragments of the 
mile-stones remain. 

1. The first road in Palestine which we mention ran 


ROAD 


43 


ROAD 


from Ptolemais, on the coast of the Mediterranean, to 
Damascus. This road remains to the present day. Be- 
ginning at Ptolemais (Acco), it ran eastward to Naza- 
reth, and, continuing south and east, passed the plain of 
Esdraelon on the north; after which, turning north and 
east, it came to Tiberias, where, running along the Sea 
of Galilee, it reached Capernaum, and, having passed 
the Jordan somewhat above the last place, it went over 
a spur of the Anti-Libanus (Jebel Ileish), and, keeping 
straight forward east by north, caine to Damascus. 
This road was used for the purposes both of trade and 
war. In the history of the Crusades it bears the name 
of Via Maris. It connected Europe with the interior 
of Asia. Troops coming from Asia over the Euphrates 
passed along this way into the heart of Palestine. Un- 
der the Homans it was a productive source of income. 
It was on this road, not far from Capernaum, that Jesus 
saw Matthew sitting “at the receipt of custom” and 
gave him his call to the apostleship. (See, in general, 
Hitter, Erdkunde, ii, 379 sq.) 

2. Another road passed along the Mediterranean coast 
southward into Egypt. Beginning at Ptolemais, it ran 
first to Ctesarea, thence to Diospolis, and so.on through 
Ascalon and Gaza down into Egypt. (Comp. Josephus, 
War, iv, 11, 5; Ant. xiv, 8, 1; Pliny, vi, 33; Arrian, 
A lex. iii, 1. See Appian, Cir. v, 52. The stations are 
given as above, rather differently from Josephus, in 
Antonin. Ithver. p. 149.) This was also an important 
line of communication, passing as it did through cities 
of great importance, running along the coast and ex- 
tending to Egypt. A glance at the map will show how 
important it was for trade by land and by sea as well 
as for the passage of troops. A branch of this road con- 
nected the sea with the metropolis, leading from the 
same Caesarea through Diospolis to Jerusalem. Down 
this branch Paul was sent on his way to Felix (Acts 
xxiii,23,26; comp. Josephus, lFhr,iv,8, 1 ; Jerome, A)?. 
108). The band went through Antipatris, and thence 
on to Caesarea. 

3. A third line of road connected Galilee with Juda?a, 
running through the intervening Samaria (Luke xvii, 
11; John iv, 4; Josephus, Ant. xx, 6, 1; Life, § 52). 
The journey took three days. Passing along the plain 
of Esdraelon, the traveller entered Samaria at Giiuea 
(Jenin) and was thence conducted to Samaria (Sebaste), 
thence to Shechem (Nablus), whence a good day’s trav- 
el brought him to Jerusalem. This last part of the 
journey (comp. Isa. x, 28 sq.) has been described by 
Maundrell ( Journey , p.85 sq.). 

In the time of the Romans there was also a road from 
Jerusalem to the lake Gennesareth through Shechem 
and Scythopolis. The same road sent a branch off at 
Scythopolis in a westerly direction through Esdraelon 
to Gesarea; and another branch across the Jordan to 
Gadara, on to Damascus, along which line of country 
there still lies a road, southward of the Sea of Galilee, 
to the same celebrated city (see H eland, Pahest. p. 41 G; 
I tin. Ilieros. p. 585 sq.; also Antonin. Itiner. p. 198). 
This road was even traversed by armies (Josephus, Ant. 
xiv, 3, 4). 

4. There were three chief roads running from Jerusa- 
lem. One passed in a north-easterly direction over the 
Mount of Olives, by Bethany, through openings in hills 
and winding ways on to Jericho (Matt, xx, 29; xxi, 1 ; 
Luke x, 30 sq. ; xix, 1, 28 sq.; comp. Enssegger, Reis. 
iii, 102 sq.), near which the Jordan was passed when 
travellers took their way to the north if they wished to 
pass through Penea, which was the road the Galilean 
Jews, in coming to and returning from the festivals in 
the capital, were accustomed to take, thus avoiding the 
unfriendly territory of Samaria; or travellers turned 
their faces towards the south if they intended to go 
towards the Dead Sea. This road was followed by the 
Israelites when they directed their steps towards Ca- 
naan. Through Perrea the Syrian and Assyrian armies 
made their hostile advances on Israel (2 Kings viii, 28; 
ix, 14 ; x, 32 sq. ; 1 Chron. v, 2G). 


A second road led from Jerusalem southward to 
Hebron, between mountains, through pleasant valleys 
(Eussegger,/?m.iii, 78), whence travellers went through 
the wilderness of Jiuhea to Aila, as the remains of a 
Homan road still show; or they might take a westerly 
direction on to Gaza, a way which is still pursued and 
is of two days’ duration (Crome, Paliist. i, 97 sq.). The 
ordinary way from Jerusalem to Gaza appears, in the 
Homan period, to have lain through Eleutheropolis and 
Ascalon. From Gaza through Hhinocorura and Pclu- 
sium was the nearest road down into Egypt from Je- 
rusalem (Josephus, Ant. xiv, 14, 2). Along this road 
many thousand prisoners, made by Vespasian in his 
capture of Jerusalem, were sent to Alexandria in order 
to be shipped for Home. Of these two roads from Jeru- 
salem to Gaza one went westward by Hamlah and As- 
calon, the other southward by Hebron. This last road 
Eaumer ( Paliist . p. 191 ; see also \ns Beit rage, published 
after Robinson’s work on Palestine — namely, in 1843 — 
correcting or confirming the views given in his Pulds - 
tina, 1838) is of opinion was that which was taken by 
Philip (Acts viii, 26 sq.), partly because tradition states 
that the eunuch was baptized in the vicinity of He- 
bron, and this road from Jerusalem to Hebron runs 
through the “desert” Thekoa (Tlieeua) in the Onomas- 
ticon. And here he finds the reason of the angel’s com- 
mand to go “towards the south” — for Hebron lay south 
of Jerusalem — whereas but for this direction Philip 
might have gone westward by Hamlah. Robinson, ad- 
mitting that there is a road from Jerusalem to Hebron, 
maintains (i, 320; ii, 640) that Philip went by a third 
road, 'which led down Wady Musurr to Betogabra (Eleu- 
theropolis), and thinks that he has found at Tell el-Ilasy 
the spot where the eunuch received baptism. But, says 
Haumer (Beitrage, p. 41), this road ran in a south-west- 
erly direction, and Philip was commanded to go towards 
the south, for which purpose he must have gone by 
Hebron. Raumer then proceeds to confirm his origi- 
nal position. Jerome, in his Life of Paula, testifies that 
a road from Jerusalem to Gaza went through llebron. 
Paula travelled from Jerusalem to Bethlehem, which 
lay south of the city: “When she reached Bethlehem, 
she quickened the pace of her horse and took the old 
road which leads to Gaza.” This road conducted to 
Betlisur (a little north of Hebron), “where,” says Je- 
rome, “while he read the Scriptures, the eunuch found 
the Gospel fountain.” “This,” adds Haumer, “is the 
same Bethsur of which Jerome, in the Onomasticon , 
says , 1 As you go from vElia to Hebron, at the twentieth 
mile-stone, you meet Bethsoron,near which, at the foot 
of a mountain, is a fountain bubbling out of the soil. 
The Acts of the Apostles state that the chamberlain of 
queen Candace was baptized in it by Philip.’ From 
Bethsur Paula proceeded to Hebron. The Itinerarhun 
Hierosolymitunum (of the year 333) mentions Beth- 
sur as the place where the baptism was performed.” 
Haumer concludes by remarking: “Robinson rightly 
rejects tradition when it contradicts the Sacred Script- 
ures, but he must also reject those pretended scientific 
theories which contradict Holy Writ. Such hypothe- 
ses may easily become the groundwork of scientific le- 
gends. To fix the baptismal place of the chamberlain at 
Tell el-llasy contradicts the Scripture; but Bethsur, 
which has from the earliest ages been so accounted, 
agrees with the passage in the Acts of the Apostles.” 

There only remains for us to mention what Winer 
reckons the third of the three great roads which ran 
from Jerusalem; this third road went to the Mediter- 
ranean at Joppa (Jaffa), a way which, from the time of 
the Crusades, has been taken by pilgrims proceeding to 
the holy city from Egypt and from Europe. Its prin- 
cipal station, Kamleb, seems to have been founded by 
the Saracens. See De Wette, A rchaologie ; Scholz, 
A rch iiologie ; 1 1 eeren , I then, i , 746 ; Ritter, Prill: unde ; 
Crome, Palastina, i, 8; Burckliardt, Syria, ii, 517 ; Ro- 
senmiiller, A Iterth. II, ii, 338 ; Haumer, Beitriiye , p. 30 sq. ; 
also the articles Geogkaiuiy; Palestine. 


hoax 


44 


ROBBIA 


Roan, John, a Presbyterian minister, was born in Ire- 
land about 1716. and was brought up a weaver. He came 
to the United States in his youth, studied at t lie New 
College, and was licensed to preach by the “New Side” 
Presbytery of Newcastle. As early as 1741 be taught 
in a grammar-school on the Neshaminv, and in 1744 
was sent by his presbytery on a missionary tour in Vir- 
ginia. lie inveighed so strongly against the clergy 
of the Established Church that charges were brought 
against him, before the grand jury, of proselytism and 
of blasphemy. Mr. Roan returned to Pennsylvania be- 
fore the court met; but when the trial came on*, Oct. 19, 
the indictment was dropped. In 1745 Mr. lioan was 
settled over the united congregations of Paxton, Derry, 
and Mountjoy, and continued to labor among them un- 
til his death, Oct. 3, 1775. See Sprague, Annuls of the 
A men Pulpit , iii, 1*29. 

Roast. The oldest, and still the usual, form of dress- 
ing meat in the East is by roasting it (Jahn, 1, ii, 193 sq.) ; 
boiling is a process which marks some antecedent prog- 
ress in civilization, and many nations are ignorant of it 
at the present day. The culinary preparations of the 
patriarchs were the most simple that could well be im- 
agined: the animal was killed at the moment that the 
flesh was required, and the joints, after some part bad 
been selected for sacrifice, were then roasted or broiled 
over the glowing embers of a wood-fire. Roasting is 
mentioned but casually in the Iiible, and is called in 
ITeb. Isaiah', (1 Sam. ii, 15; Isa. xliv, 16). A 
roast is called tsali ^22 (Exod. xii, 8 sq. ; Isa. loc. cit. 
Comp. Arvieux, Voyage, iii, 233). See Cook. 

Rob. I. The following are the TIeb. and Gr. words 
rendered by this and its derivatives in the A. V. : 

1. Hob: (1) 1T2 (Sept. 6iap7ra^oj ; Yulg. depopulor) ; 

(2) ( itfpaiptuj ; violenter aufero ) ; (3) “ return,” 

“repeat;” hence in Pi. to surround, circumvent (Psa.cxix, 
61 ; TnpnrXaici'irar, circu mplecti ) , usually affirm, reiterate 
assertions (Gesen. Thesaur. p. 997); (4) “cover,” 
“hide” (7rrEpmZio; ojjlyo [Gesen. Thesaur. p. 1190]); 
(5) nD'j (ciapTTuZ,o) ; (Unpin); (6) OO’J, same as last 
( 7 zpovopdao; depreedor ); (7) {kXstttlo ; furor ; A. 
V. “steal”) ; (8) avXaio, to strip. See Stealing. 

2. Robber: (I) tP3, pqrt. from 1T2, “rob” {Trpovo- 

pzv wp; vustans ) ; (2) part, of y^-3, “break” 

(Xoi/mc; latro); Mic. ii, 13, “breaker;” (3) 0*VS2, 
Job xviii, 9 (ocipoj)'Ttr ; sit is. Targum, with A. V., has 
“robbers;” but it is most commonly rendered as Sept. 
Job v, 5, sitientes); (4) TTJ ( XtjcrrijC ; latro), from 

“waste;” (5) ( ifjpoQ ; deripiens ; A. V. 

“spoiler”); (6) (Afar^t; ; fur; A. V. “ thief ”) ; 
(7) Xyatrrifc. Sec Thief. 

3. Rubbery : (1) Via {apirayy. apiraypara ; rapines) ; 
(-) from p^s, “break” (a C act a ; dilaceratio) ; (3) 
“I-, from YTL‘, “waste” {aX&po^ ; r a pints ) ; (4) 
(Trpovopi) ; prtvda; A.V.“prey,” “spoil;” (5) dpiraypog. 
See Theft. 

1 1. Whether in the larger souse of plunder or the more 
limited sense of theft systematically organized, robbery 
lias ever been one of the principal employments of the 
nomad tribes of the East. From the time of Isbmacl 
to the present day, the Iiodouin has been a “wild man” 
and a robber by trade; and to carryout bis objects suc- 
cessfully, so far from being esteemed disgraceful, is re- 
garded as in the highest degree creditable (Gen. xvi, 12; 
Burckhardt, Xotes on lied, i, 137, 157). An instance of 
an enterprise of a truly Bedouin character, but distin- 
guished by the exceptional features belonging to its 
principal actor, is seen in l lie night foray of David (1 
Sam. xxvi, 6 12), with which, also, wo may fairly com- 
pare Homer, 11. K. 201, etc. Predatory inroads on a 
large scale an? seen in the incursions of the Saba-ans and 
Chahkeaus on the property of Job (Job i, 15, 17), the re- 



Arab Robbers. 


venge coupled with plunder of Simeon and Levi (Gen. 
xxxiv, 28, 29), the reprisals of the Hebrews upon the 
Midianites (Numb, xxxi, 32-54), and the frequent and 
often prolonged invasions of “spoilers” upon the Israel- 
ites, together with their reprisals, during the period of 
the Judges and Kings (Judg. ii, 14 ; vi, 3, 4; 1 Sam. xi, 
xv ; 2 Sam. viii, x ; 2 Kings v. 2 ; l Chron. v, 10, 18-22). 
Individual instances, indicating an unsettled state of the 
country during the same period, are seen in the “liers- 
in-wait” of the men of Shechem (Judg. ix, 25), and the 
mountain retreats of David in the cave of Adullam, the 
hill of Hachilah, and the wilderness of Maon, and his 
abode in Ziklag invaded and plundered in like manner 
by the Amalekites (1 Sam. xxii, 1,2; xxiii, 19-25; xxvi, 
1; xxvii,6-l0; xxx, 1). See Wait, Liek-in-. 

Similar disorder in the country, complained of more 
than once by the prophets (Hos. iv, 2 ; vi, 9 ; Mic. ii, 8), 
continued more or less through Maccabiean down to Bo- 
man times, favored by the corrupt administration of 
some of the Roman governors in accepting money in 
redemption of punishment, produced those formidable 
bands of robbers so easily collected ami with so much 
difficulty subdued who found shelter in the caves of 
Palestine and Syria, and who infested the country, even 
in the time of our Lord, almost to t he very gates of Je- 
rusalem (Luke x, 30; Acts v, 36, 37 ; xxi, 38). See Ba- 
rabbas; Cave; Judas of Galilee. In the later his- 
tory, also, of the country the robbers, or sicarii, together 
with their leader, John of Gischala, played a conspicu- 
ous part (Josephus, War, iv, 2, 1 ; 3, 4; 7, 2). — Smith. 
In Asia Minor, likewise, the native tribes gave the Bo- 
man government much trouble, so that the roads were 
often unsafe for travellers (2 Cor. xi, 26). See Spoil. 

BOBBER of Churches (KpocmXoc, Acts xix, 37). 
Sacrilege took mail}'’ forms in antiquity (1 Mace. vi). 
The plundering of heathen temples was indirectly for- 
bidden to the Jews (Dent, vii, 25; Josephus, Ant. iv, 8, 
10). The Roman law held it as a sacrilege to he pun- 
ished by forfeiture of goods, to steal the holv books of 
the Jews or their money out of places of worship {ibid. 
xvi, 6, 2). — Winer. See Sacrilege. 

Robber Council of Ephesus. See Ephesus, 
Robber Council of. 

Robbia, Andrea della, an Italian sculptor and 
nephew of Luca, was born at. Florence in 1444, and 
died in 1527. He worked both in marble and terra- 
I cotta, and his productions may be found in many Ital- 
ian cities. There are three in the Louvre, The Virgin 
Adoring the Infant Jesus, a head of St. A nn. and Christ 
Healing a Sick Man. — 1 loefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Robbia, Luca della, an Italian sculptor, was bom 
at Florence in 1388. I) is first instructor was a gold- 
smith named Leonardo, from whom he learned to model 
in wax; but as soon as be bad gained some proficiency, 
be gave himself wholly to sculpture. So groat was his 
progress that at the age of fifteen he was employed to 
design the bas-reliefs for a tomb at Rimini. Similar 
work at Florence occupied him for several years, but lie 


ROBBIN 


43 


ROBERT 


found that the compensation he received was in noway 
adequate, as the works required great skill and much 
time, lie therefore turned his attention to working in 
terra-cotta. He invented a peculiar enamel, composed 
of tin, antimony, and other minerals, by which, after 
baking, this material was rendered more durable. He 
afterwards found that his bas-reliels cotdd be colored, 
and this improvement rendered him famous throughout 
Europe. The demand for his work was universal, and 
to supply it, Luca employed his brothers to aid him. 
Their subjects in bas-reliefs, plaques, and other forms 
were principally religious, as, an Annunciation, in the 
Academy of Fine Arts at Florence, and a very beautiful 
medallion in the Louvre, The Virgin Adoring the Infant 
Jesus . lie also decorated many churches and tombs. 
Robbia died at Florence in 1463. See Vasari, Baldi- 
nucci, and Barbet di Jouy [H.], Della Robbia, etc. — 
Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Robbin, Alvin, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born in Coeyman’s, N. Y., July 5, 1816. 
He was converted at a camp-meeting in New Baltimore, 
N. Y., in 1832, and in 1841 was received on trial in the 
Black River Conference, within the bounds of which he 
labored for ten years. In 1851 he was transferred to 
the Troy Conference, received a supernumerary relation 
in 1870, and made his home in Osseo, Mich., where he 
died, April 10, 1874. See Minutes of Annual Confer- 
ences, 1874, p. 66. 

Robbins, Ammi Ruhamah, a Congregational 
minister, was born at Branford, Conn., in September, 
1740. lie was fitted for college by his father, and was 
first entered at Nassau Hall, but was transferred to Yale 
at the beginning of his sophomore year. He gradu- 
ated in 1760, and spent some time in teaching at Plym- 
outh, Mass., and then engaged in the study of theology 
under Dr. Bellamy ; was licensed by the Litchfield As- 
sociation, and ordained at Norfolk, Oct. 28, 1761. When 
the Revolution came on, he enlisted as a chaplain, join- 
ing general Schuyler’s brigade (March, 1776), and went 
to Canada, whence he returned in ill-health after an 
absence of nearly half a year. He continued labor- 
ing in his Church with great fidelity, at the same time 
fitting young men for college, until May, 1813, when a 
cancer began to develop, which rapidly carried him to 
the grave. He published A n Ordination Sermon (1772) : 
— Election Sermon (1789): — A Half-Century Sermon 
(1811). See Sprague, A nnals of the A mer. Pulpit, i, 369. 

Robbins, Chandler, D.D., a Congregational min- 
ister, was born at Branford, Conn., Aug. 24, 1738. He 
graduated at Yale College in 1756, studied under Dr. 
Bellamy, and was ordained Jan. 30, 1760, pastor at Plym- 
outh, Mass., where he continued until bis death, June 30, 
1799. He was made D.D. by the University of Edin- 
burgh in 1793. His publications were, A Reply to John 
Cotton's Essays on Baptism (1773 ) : — Some Brief Re- 
marks on a Piece Published by John Cotton , Esq. (1774) : 
— An Address at Plymouth to the Inhabitants Assembled 
to Celebrate the Victories of the French Republic over 
their Invaders (1793), and a few occasional Sermons. 
See Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit, i, 573. 

Robbins, Onesiphorus, a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, was born in Harvard, Mass., 
Aug. 19, 1792. He was converted in South Carolina at 
the age of twenty-six, was licensed to preach in 1825, 
and in 1826 was received into the New England Con- 
ference. In 1841 the Providence Conference was set off, 
and he became one of its members. lie continued in 
active service until 1850, when he was returned super- 
annuated, and so continued until his death, which took 
place in Woodstock, Conn., April 9, 1872. Mr. Robbins 
was a man of retiring habits and slow of speech — a clear 
and strong thinker, and excelling as a pastor. See Min- 
utes of Annual Conferences , 1873, p. 39. 

Robbins, Philemon, a Congregational minister, 
was a native of Charlestown, Mass. He was graduated 


at Harvard College in 1729, and settled in Branford, 
Conn., Feb. 7, 1732. About 1740 the Legislature of 
Connecticut, with a view to arrest the progress of New- 
Lightism. passed a law forbidding any minister to preach 
within the limits of any other minister’s parish. The 
people of Wallingford applied to Mr. Robbins to hold 
meetings for them. lie consented, was arraigned bv 
the Consociation, and formally deposed. The mass of 
his congregation adhered to him, and he continued to 
preach. There was some interference of the civil au- 
thority, but he pleaded his case so well before the Legis- 
lature that his penalty was remitted, lie died Aug. 13, 
1781. His publications are, A Plain Narrative of the 
Proceedings of the Her. Association and Consociation of 
New Haven, etc. (1743): — Ordination Sermons (1760- 
61). See Sprague, A muds of the A mer. Pulpit , i, 367. 

Robbins, Royal, a Congregational minister, was 
born at Wethersfield, Conn., in 1787, graduated at Yale 
College, and settled in the ministry at Kensington, a 
parish of Berlin, Conn., in 1816. lie continued to hold 
this post until his death, in 1861. His works are, The 
World Displayed ; Outlines of Ancient and Modern His- 
tory (last ed. Hartford, 1851, 2 vols. in 1). lie was also 
the author of History of American Contributions to the 
English Language, etc. (ibid. 1837, 12mo), besides several 
Sermons and articles fur periodicals. See Alliboue, Diet, 
of Brit, and A mer. A uthors, s. v. 

Robbins, Thomas, D.D., secretary and librarian 
to, and benefactor of. the Connecticut Historical Society, 
was a native of Norfolk, Conn. He graduated at Yale 
College in 1796, was minister at East Windsor, 1809-27, 
of Stratford, 1830-31, and subsequently at Mattapoisett 
and Rochester, Mass. He died in 1856. He published, 
Historical View of the First Planters of New England 
(Hartford, 1815, 12mo), also a number of Sermons. See 
Alliboue, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. A uthors , s. v. 

Robe (the rendering of several Ileb. and Or. words, 
but especially of meiT, aroXy)), a long garment 

with fringed or flowered borders, usually white, though 
sometimes purple, and worn by the great as a mark of 
distinction (Luke xv, 22 ; xx, 46). The ancient Assyr- 
ians and Babylonians were celebrated for their manu- 
factures of beautiful garments of divers colors (Josh, vii, 
21 ; Ezek. xxvii. 24). Their splendid robes appear to 
have been embroidered with figures of animals and flow- 
ers. According to Plutarch, Cato received as a legacy 
a Babylonian garment, and sold it because it was too 
costly for a citizen to wear. Some suppose that a sa- 
cred robe was preserved from early times, and handed 
down among the patriarchs as a badge of the birth- 
right, and that “the goodly raiment” which Rebekah 
put upon Jacob was the birthright robe. This view is 
given in the Targum of Jonathan on Gen. xxvii, 15: 
“ And Rebekah took the desirable robes of her c*lder son 
Esau, which had belonged to Adam the first parent.” 
The coat of Joseph, the possession of which excited the 
envy of bis brethren, is thus regarded, like the good rai- 
ment of Jacob, as a badge of the birthright, which, we 
are expressly taught, having been forfeited by Reuben, 
was transferred to Joseph (xxxvii, 3; 1 Chron. v, 1). 
The robe appears also to have been, among the Hebrews, 
a species of vestment appropriated to the sacerdotal office, 
the holy garment. It was made entirely of blue, woven 
throughout, and oil which neither knife nor needle was 
to be used ; on the lower border was a row of artificial 
pomegranates and golden bells, alternating with each 
other (Exod. xxviii, 2, 4, 31-33). The robes of Aaron 
symbolized the dignity and glory of our great high- 
priest, “the heir of the whole creation” (Rev. iii, 4, 5; 
vi, 9-11 ; vii, 9-14). See Dkkss. 

ROBE, Ecclesiastical. See Robes. 

Robert (Abbe), a French historian, was horn near 
Rlieims, about 1055. He was educated in the Abbey of 
St. Remi at Rheims, and in 1095 became its abbot; but 
on account of a dispute with the abbot of Maunoutiers, 


ROBERT 


46 


ROBERT 


retired to the Priorv of St.Oricle de Senuc, where he re- 
mained till he joined the Crusaders in 1096. On his re- 
turn from Palestine, the Council of Poitiers (Nov. 23, 
1100) declared his deposition from Bheims unjust and 
his life irreproachable; but he was not reinstated, and 
remained at Senuc. He was accused of maladministra- 
tion, and Calixtus II deprived him of his office (April 
16, 1121). He died at Senuc Aug. 23, 1122. He left 
two works, entitled Ilistoria Hierosolymitana Libris 
VI II Explicata (Cologne, 1470-74; Basle, 1533): — and 
La Chronique et Uistoire faite par le R. P. en Dieu Tur- 
pin. etc. (Paris, 1527). See Rivet, /list. Litter, de la 
France; Gallia Christiana . — Iloefer, Xouv. Biog . Gene- 
rale, s. v. 

Robert {St.), founder of the Order of Citeaux, was 
born at Champagne in 1018. At the age of fifteen he 
entered the Convent of Moutier-la-Celle, near Troyes, 
of which he afterwards became prior. Later he was ab- 
bot of St. Michel de Tonnerre; and while prior of St. 
Avrul de Provins, Alexander II ordered him to take 
charge of the hermits of Colan. Finding this solitude 
very unhealthful, Robert conducted the recluses to the 
desert of Alolesne, where in 1075 he founded a convent 
in honor of the Virgin. The laxity of discipline and 
decline of piety, however, caused him to leave Alolesne, 
with twenty companions, and establish himself at Ci- 
teaux, near Dijon. In 1098 he erected a monastery, 
and was its first abbot. lie was recalled to Molesne, 
and succeeded in reviving the spirit of asceticism. He 
died March 21, 1110. Sermons , Letters , and a Chronicle 
of Citeaux are attributed to Robert. His festival is cel- 
ebrated April 29. — Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Robert of Bavaria; of Deutz. See Rupert. 

Robert of Geneva, anti pope against Urban VI 
and Boniface IX, was the son of count Amadeus of 
Geneva. He was chosen by the French cardinals, 
who asserted that the election in Rome at which 
Urban VI was successful had not been free, and he 
reigned at Avignon under the title of Clement VII 
from Sept. 21, 1378, to Sept. 26, 1394. He was recog- 
nised by France, Naples, Castile, Aragon, Navarre, Scot- 
land, Lorraine, and Cyprus, while the other nations of 
Europe preferred the claims of Urban. This schism 
in the Church gave rise to serious complications in the 
intercourse of nations. The popes anathematized each 
other, and Urban especially caused a crusade against 
France and his rival to be preached in England, and had 
the death-penalty inflicted on a number of the cardinals 
who had conspired to dethrone him. The election of 
Boniface IX in 1389 protracted the schism in all its bit- 
terness, until the Sorbonne decided that both popes 
ought to resign, and that a compromise should be ef- 
fected by means of arbitrators or a council of the Church. 
Clement was so affected by this decision that he died 
of apoplexy (Sept. 26, 1394). The peace desired was 
not, however, finally reached until 1428. — Wetzer it. 
AVelte, Kirch en-Lcxikon, s. v. 

Robert of Gloucester, an English chronicler, 
lived in the latter half of the 13th century. He was a 
monk in the Abbey of Gloucester, and does not appear 
to have lived long after 1265. lie composed a rhymed 
chronicle of more than ten thousand verses, written in 
Anglo-Saxon, containing the history of England from 
the time of the Romans till Edward I. It is a philo- 
logical curiosity, but is full of the most absurd fables. 
It was published entire by Ilearne (Oxford, 1724, 2 
vols.). and reprinted in 1810. — Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. Ge- 
ne rale, s. v. 

Robert of Lincoln. See Grosseteste. 

Robert or Mklun, an English theologian, was 
probably born in the latter part of the 11th century. 
But little is known of his life. I)u Boulay supposes 
that he taught for some time in Baris, and then went to 
Melon to pursue the same vocation. At any rate, one 
of his pupils — John of Salisbury— reports that he taught 


physics in the former city, and afterwards devoted him- 
self to theology. lie died Feb. 28, 1167. His principal 
treatise is entitled Samma Theologian, fragments only of 
which have been published. It contains very valuable 
matter on the origin of scholastic theology. One other 
work is attributed to Robert, Quanstiones de Epistolis 
Pauli. See Hist. Litter, de la France; Du Boulay, 
Hist. Univers. Par. — Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Robert le Poule, or Kobertus Pallus, chancel- 
lor of the Church of Rome, flourished about 1150. He 
was perhaps archdeacon of Rochester, and certainly a 
distinguished lecturer on the Scriptures at Oxford. He 
was the author of Sentential, or Libri Sententiaruin, or 
Sententue de Trinitate (in MS. in the British Museum) : 
— twenty Sermons: — probably a treatise Super Doc- 
torum IKctis: — and two or three other works (late edi- 
tion by Hugo Mathout, Paris, 1655, fol.). See Allibone, 
Diet, of Brit, and Amer. A uth. s. v. 

Robert, Christopher R., an eminent Presbyte- 
rian layman, was born in 1801, near Moriches, L. I. He 
was engaged for the greater part of his life in mercan- 
tile pursuits, but early took a warm and active interest 
in the religious and philanthropic enterprises which have- 
marked the present century. He contributed largely in 
organizing and supporting several of the churches in 
New York city. He founded the German Presbyterian 
Church in Rivington Street, and sustained its pastoral 
work for many years at an annual expense of $2000. 
Taking a deep interest in the education of young men 
for the ministry, he assumed for many years the entire 
expense of a number of students at Auburn and other 
theological seminaries. While on a visit to Illinois in 
1829, which at that time was one of the extreme West- 
ern states, he became deeply impressed with the im- 
portance of home missionary work in those regions, and 
became a large contributor to the funds of the Home 
Missionary Society, of which he was treasurer for a num- 
ber of years, conducting all its financial business with- 
out fee or reward. Near the close of our late civil war 
he visited Tennessee, and with his own funds purchased 
a tract of land on Lookout Mountain, and established a 
college for the education of young men for the ministry 
in the South, having special reference to the wants of 
the colored race. In 1864 Mr. Robert made an exten- 
sive tolir in the East, and while at Constantinople was 
so deeply impressed with the educational wants of the 
Turkish empire that he resolved on founding a college 
at that place. To this end he took into his counsel 
that eminent missionary the Rev. Cyrus Hamlin, D.D., 
then a resident of Constantinople, whom he appointed 
president of the college, and to whom he intrusted the 
great work of laying its foundations. For years the 
Turkish government, true to its narrow-minded and 
bigoted policy, placed every obstacle in the way of the 
enterprise, refusing to give its sanction to the purchase 
of a site for the buildings. Dr. Hamlin, not to be 
daunted, pressed his way through all the difficulties, 
finally ‘purchased the ground, erected the buildings, and 
placed the enterprise on a firm foundation at a cost to 
Air. Robert of $200,000. Contrary to his desire and ex- 
pressed wishes, the college was called after his name. 
During the recent war in the empire, the revenue of the 
college having been diminished, Mr. Robert supplied the 
deficiency, amounting to $25,000 a year, from his own 
resources. Largely as Air. Robert's efforts were put forth 
in building up tin? cause of Christ, they did not consist 
merely of munificent contributions of money, but from 
the time of his conversion he was personally engaged in 
every good work, actively and earnestly seeking to pro- 
mote the spirituality of the Church and the conversion 
of his fellow - men. Being deeply affected with the 
worldliness and want of spirituality witnessed among 
professors of religion, he prepared with his own hand a 
letter to Christians on the subject, and had it published 
in pamphlet form and circulated by the thousand. 
Earh' in June, 1878, he left bis home to seek the re- 


ROBERT 


47 


ROBERTS 


newal of his health in one of the valleys of Switzerland, 
whose sanitary climate he had before enjoyed. lie was 
returning much improved, but only lived to reach Paris, 
where he died Oct. 27 of the same year. The will of 
Mr. Robert provides that at the death of his wife a 
large part of his property shall inure to the benefit of 
the college at Constantinople. (W. P. S.) 

Robert, Claude, a French ecclesiastical writer, 
was born at Chesley in 15C4 or 1505. He studied at 
the College of Paris, and became preceptor of the son of 
Benigne Fremyot. After the education of his pupil was 
completed and he was made bishop of Bonrges, Robert 
continued .to aid him in the administration of his dio- 
cese. He filled the same office under the bishop of 
Chalons-sur-Saone. This prelate rewarded his precep- 
tor by making him archdeacon and his grand vicar, 
lie died at Chalons-sur-Saone, May 10, 1637. He left, 
besides three Latin treatises, the Gallia Christiana 
(Paris, 1620), with a geographical chart. This work, 
the result of thirty years’ labor, is an ecclesiastical 
history of all the dioceses of France from their origin 
to the 17th century. The documents which he had 
collected for a second edition were given into the hands 
of Scevole and Louis de Sainte-Marthe, and the book 
was published with many additions in 1656. A third 
edition was undertaken by the Benedictines of Saint- 
Manr in 1715, and remained unfinished at the thirteenth 
volume. It was continued in 1856 by M. B. Haureau. 
See Gallia Christiana; Perry, 1 list, tie Chalons-sur- 
Saone ; Socard, Notice Hist, stir Claude Robert ; Fouque, 
Du Gallia Christiana et de ses Auteurs. — lloefer, Nour. 
Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Roberti, John, a learned and laborious Jesuit, was 
born at Hubert, in the Ardennes, in 1569. lie studied 
at Liege and Cologne, and became professor of theology 
at Douay and other colleges, gaining a great reputation. 
He died at Namur in 1651. II is published work is en- 
titled Mysticce Ezechielis Quadrigae, id est , l V Evaugelia 
Jlistoriurum et Temporum serie Vinculata (Greek and 
Latin, Mogul) 1. 1615). 

Robertines, an English order of eremites, founded 
by Robert of Knaresborotigh about 1 169. — Walcott, Sac. 
Archceol. s. v. 

Roberts, Charles Dillard, a Presbyterian min- 
ister, was born at Danville, Va., Feb. 15, 1838. He pur- 
sued his studies at Louisburg, Va., and subsequently, 
under the Rev. * James H. Leps, at Parkersburg, Va., 
where, at the age of eighteen, he united with the 
Church. Soon thereafter he entered Princeton College, 
and, after graduation, entered the Theological Seminary 
in 1862, whence he graduated after a three years’ course. 
He was licensed by the Presbytery of Elizabethtown, 
N. J., Jan. 10, 1865, and in April following was ordained 
at Rahway by the same presbytery as an evangelist for 
Western Virginia. He labored about a year and a half 
at Grafton, in that state, in connection with the Board 
of Domestic Missions. After serving a Church at Rid- 
ley, near Philadelphia, Mr. Roberts went to Plattsmouth, 
Neb., where he joined the Presbytery of Missouri, and 
labored as a stated supply until 1869. Thence he went to 
Smart ville, Yuba Co., Cal., and became a member of the 
Presbytery of Stockton, which, after the reunion, was 
merged in that of Sacramento. After preaching a year 
or two at Smartville, he became a stated supply at 
Elko, Nev., where he remained until his death, which 
occurred at the former place Oct. 12, 1875. lie was held 
in high esteem by all wdio knew' him as an earnest, la- 
borious, self-denving missionary in the frontier fields of 
the Church. (W. P. S.) 

Roberts, David, a British artist, w'as born at 
Stoekbridge, near Edinburgh, Oct. 24, 1796. He w r as 
apprenticed as a house-painter in his native place, but, 
going to London in 1822, he found employment as a 
scene-painter for Drury Lane Theatre. In 1832-33 he 
went to Spain, and in 1838-9 made a tour through 


Syria. Egypt, and other Eastern countries. In 1811 he 
w'as elected a member of the Royal Academy. Mr. Rob- 
erts died in London, Nov. 25, 1864. Among his paint- 
ings are, Ruins of the Great Temple of Karnak: — Jeru- 
salem from the J fount of Olives: — Interior of the Cathe- 
dral at Burgos: — Chancel of the Collegiate Church of 
St. Paul , Antwerp. Among his books, the following 
are the principal : Picturesque Views in Spain and 
Morocco (Loud. 1835-38): — The Holy Land , Egypt , 
Nubia, A rabia, etc. ( 1842-48, 4 vols. fol.). See Alli- 
bone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Authors, s. v. ; Apple- 
tons’ Cyclop, s. v. 

Roberts, Francis, a Puritan divine, the son of 
Henry Roberts, of Aslake, Yorkshire, was born in that 
county in 1609. lie entered a student of Trinity Col- 
lege, Oxford, in 1625, completing his studies and being 
ordained in 1632. On the breaking-out of the Rebellion 
he went to London, took the covenant, and was ap- 
pointed minister of St. Augustine’s, Watling Street, in 
room of Ephraim Udal, ejected for his loyalty. In 1649 
he was presented to the rectory of Wrington, Somerset- 
shire, by lord Capel. At the Restoration he conformed, 
and in 1672 went to Ireland as chaplain to lord Capel, 
and while there received the degree of D.I). He died 
at Wrington in 1675. 1 1 is principal work is Claris 

Bibliorum (Loud, and Edinb. 1649, 2 vols. 8vo; 4th cd. 
1675, fob): — also, Synopsis of Theology (1644, fob): — 
Believer's Evidence for Eternal Life (1649, 1655, 8vo) : 
— Communicant Instructed (1651, 8vo). • See Chalmers, 
Biog. l)ict.; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Au- 
thors, s. v. 

Roberts, John L., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born at Strafford, Vt., March 18, 
1818. He w r as converted and united with the Church 
in 1845, joining the Vermont Conference in 1849. In 
this conference he continued to labor until October, 
1862, when he became chaplain of the Fourth Regiment 
Vermont Volunteers. In 1866 he took a supernumerary 
relation to the Troy Conference, and took up his resi- 
dence in Washington, D. C., filling several important 
government offices, lie died at Ocean Grove, N. J., 
June 24, 1873. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 
1874, p. 70. 

Roberts, John Wright, missionary bishop of 
the Methodist Episcopal Church for Africa, w'as born of 
• colored parents at Petersburg, Va., and was converted 
and joined the Church while in the United States. He 
early emigrated to Liberia, where he w'as admitted 
among the missionaries. The Liberia Conference elect- 
ed him to elder’s orders in 1841, and in the same year 
he came to the United States and was ordained. In 
1866 he w r as elected to the office of missionary bishop, 
and w r as ordained in St. Paul’s Methodist Episcopal 
Church, New York, June 20, 1866. He left for Liberia 
June 25. From that time on he labored faithfully for 
the edification and enlargement of the Church in the 
republic of Liberia and the adjacent territory. He died 
Jan. 30, 1875. Bishop Roberts was endowed with ex- 
cellent mental gifts, which, under the circumstances of 
his early condition, w’ere exceedingly w r ell trained. He 
w’as a gentleman by nature and culture, a Christian in 
faith and life. See Simpson, Cyclop, of Methodism, s. v. 

Roberts, Joseph, a missionary’ to India, who 
went out to that country in 1818, under the patronage 
of the Wesleyan Missionary Society. After nearly four- 
teen years’ residence among the llindfis, he returned to 
England, and gave to the public Oriental Illustrations 
of the Sacred Scriptures, collected from the Customs, 
Manners, Rites, Superstitions, etc., of the Hindus, and 
noted on the spot by himself (Loud. 1835, 1844, 8vo), 
The w r ork was published under the patronage of the 
Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland, of 
which tbe author was a corresponding member. His 
Illustrations are arranged in the order of the hooks, 
chapters, and verses of the Bible, and contain satisfac- 


ROBERTS 


48 


ROBERTSON 


tory explanations of many doubtful or obscure passages. 
See most of these in Hush’s Scripture Illustrations. 

Roberts, Palmer, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born March 15, 1780, and was 
converted in September, 1804. He commenced travel- 
ling under the presiding elder in 1810, and joined the 
East Genesee Conference in 1811. He located in 1834, 
but was readmitted to conference in 1837. In 1830 he 
was supernumerary, and since about that time was su- 
perannuated until his death, at Seneca Falls, N. V., 
April 19, 1858. Sec Minutes of Annual Conferences , 
1858, p. ‘207. 

Roberts, Peter, a clergyman of the Church of 
England, was a native of North Wales, and was edu- 
cated at Trinity College, Dublin. On entering into 
orders he became rector of llalkin, Flintshire, where he 
died in 1819. Among his works are, Observations on 
Christian Morality (Lond. 1790, 8vo) : — Christianity 
I 'indicated against Yolney (ibid. 1800, Svo) : — Harmony 
of the Epistles (ibid. 1800, 4to) :— Manual of Prophecy 
(ibid. 1818, 8vo) : — Review of the Policy , etc., of the 
Church of Rome (ibid. 1809, 8vo). See Allibone, Diet, 
of Brit, and A mer. A uthors, s. v. ; Darling, Cyclop. 
Biblioy. s. v. 

Roberts, Robert, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Lincolnshire, England, 
in 1832. He experienced religion at the age of til teen 
years, and at eighteen became a local preacher, and four 
months after a travelling preacher, among the Primi- 
tive Methodists. He travelled four years until received 
into full connection, and then came to the United States, 
lie was received into the New York East Conference as 
a probationer in 185G. II is last appointment was Cook 
Street, Brooklyn, in which he died, January, 18G5, after 
an illness of two weeks. See Minutes of Annual Con- 
ferences , 1865, p. 82. 

Roberts, Robert Richford, bishop of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, was born in Frederick County, 
Md., Aug. 2, 1778. He removed while a child to Lig- 
onier Valley, Pa., and was converted when he was 
about fifteen years old. He was admitted on trial in 
the Baltimore Conference in 1802, and was ordained 
deacon in 1804. He was soon placed in charge of im- 
portant stations in Baltimore, Alexandria, Georgetown, 
and Philadelphia. In 1815 he was appointed presiding 
elder of Schuylkill district, embracing the city of Phila- 
delphia; and owing to the death of bishop Asbury, he 
was elected to preside over the Philadelphia Conference 
in the spring of 181 G. At the following session of the 
General Conference (May, 18 1G) he was elected to the 
office of bishop, being the first married man in America 
who filled that position, lie made his first residence in 
Chenango (now Mercer) County, Pa., but in 1819 set- 
tled in Lawrence County, Ind. The record of his last 
year’s service will serve to give an idea of the extent of 
his labors \\ r hile bishop. In that year he preached in 
six di Horen t states and among four Indian tribes in the 
West, presided at four annual conferences, and travelled 
nearly 5500 miles. In the spring of 1843 his disease, 
the asthma, greatly increased upon him, and he died 
March 2G. His body was buried on his own farm, but 
in January, 1811, in pursuance of a resolution of the 
Indiana Conference, it was removed to Green Castle. 
Bishop Morris writes of him : He possessed by nature 
the elements of an orator — an imposing person, a clear 
and logical mind, a ready utterance, a full-toned, melo- 
dious voice. ... lie was always patient and pleasant; 
above all, unpretending.” See Simpson, Cyclop, of Met h- 
odism , s. v. ; Sprague, A totals of the A mer. Pulpit , vii, 387. 

Roberts, Thomas W., a Presbyterian minister, 
was born in Montgomeryshire, North Wales, Oct. 10, 
1830. 1 1 is early education was good, and bis parents 

emigrating to the United States, he graduated at the 
Theological Seminary at Auburn, N. Y., and was licensed 
and ordained at New York Mills Nov. 14, 1856. He ex- 


ercised his gifts as a minister among the Welsh Con- 
gregationalists until I860, when he joined the Cayuga 
Presbytery, with a view of laboring within the bounds 
of that presbytery; and it was while travelling in be- 
half of his mission that he was injured on the New York 
and Erie Kail road, and died soon after (Sept. 2G, 18G0). 
Mr. Roberts was a humble, unassuming man, and a de- 
voted, energetic minister of the Gospel. See Wilson, 
Presb. Hist. Almanac , 18G2, p. 191. (J. L. S.) 

Roberts, William Hayward, D.D., a clergy- 
man of the Church of England, was born in 1745, and 
educated at Eton and King’s College, Cambridge. He 
was for some time undermaster at Eton, became prov- 
ost of King’s College in 1781, chaplain to the king, and 
reetor of Farnham Koval, Bucks, and died in 1791. His 
works are, Poetical Essay (Lond. 1771, 4to): — Judah 
Restored, a poem in six books (ibid. 1774, 2 vols. 8vo) : 
— besides other Poems, Sermons, e tc. See Allibone, Diet . 
of Brit, and A mer. A uth. s. v. 

Robertson, Frederick William, an English 
clergyman, was born in London, Feb. 3, 1816. At the 
age of nine he was sent to a grammar-school in Bever- 
ley, Yorkshire, where he remained a few years, and then 
accompanied his parents to the Continent. In 1832 he 
entered the Edinburgh Academy, and the next year 
proceeded to the Edinburgh University. He was orig- 
inally designed for the bar, but the study of law did not 
please him, and he would gladly have been a soldier. 
Certain difficulties intervening in the way of obtaining 
a commission, Mr. Robertson entered Brasenose College, 
Oxford (1836), to study for the Church. The purity 
of his life and the depth of his religious feeling prepared 
him to enter upon this new career without regret. His 
first appointment was to the curacy of St. Maurice and 
St. Mary Calendar; but his health failed in the course 
of a year, and he was compelled to visit the Continent. 
On his return to England, he was for a time curate to 
the incumbent of Christ Church, Cheltenham. In the 
beginning of 1847 he removed to St. Ebbes, Oxford, and 
was just attracting the notice of the undergraduates, 
when he was offered the incumbency of Trinity Chapel, 
Brighton. Here his eloquence and originality always 
attracted large and intellectual audiences. He was ac- 
cused of not being very orthodox in his belief and teach- 
ing. This is supposed to have hastened his death, which 
took place Aug. 15, 1853. He was the author of Lect- 
ures and A ddresses on Literary and Social Topics (Lond. 
1858, 1861): — Expository Lectures on Corinthians (ibid. 
1859): — Sermons, four series (1855-63; new ed., with 
Memoir, Boston, 1870, 2 vols.). His Life and Letters 
have been edited by S. A. Brooke (1865, 2 vols.). See 
Chambers's Encyclop. s. v.; A ppletons' Cyclop, s. v. ; Meth. 
Quar . Rev. Oct. 1866; Boston Rev. July, 1866. 

Robertson, James (of Ellon), D.D.,a minister of 
the Established Church, Scotland, was born in Pitsligo, 
a parish in the north of Aberdeenshire, in 1803. He 
graduated in due time at Marisehal College, Aberdeen, 
and afterwards served as private tutor, as parish school- 
master in his own parish, and eventually as head-master 
of a hospital in Aberdeen for the education of boys. In 
1832 he was appointed minister of the parish of Ellon, 
where he remained until 1843, caring for his parish with 
assiduity and thoroughness. In the great controversy 
in the Scottish Kirk he was an earnest and indefatigable 
"■ Moderate,” opposed to the Veto Act and to Drs. Chal- 
mers, Candlisli, Cunningham, and the other Non-inlru- 
sionists. When these withdrew in the great secession 
of the Free Church, it was natural that Mr. Robertson 
shonld -be designated to occupy some one of the posts 
they left empty. In 1843— the year of the disruption — 
Dr. Robertson became professor of divinity and Church 
history in the University of Edinburgh. He was one 
of the central minds of the Established Church, and 
toiled indefatigahly in a great endowment scheme — a 
kind of adaptation or revival of the Church-extension 
I scheme of Dr. Chalmers, lie died in Edinburgh, Dec. 


ROBERTSOX 


49 


ROBERTSOX 


2, 1 SCO. He published pamphlets on The Moderate Side 
o f the Scotch Church Controversy. See Allibone, Dicl. 
of Brit, and Ainer. Auth. s. v.; (Jharteris, Life of Rob- 
ertson (Edinb. 1863, 8vo); The Reader , May 9, 1*863. 

Robertson, John Jay, a Presbyterian minister, 
was born in Washington, Ga., in 1822. lie graduated 
at the University of East Tennessee in 1845, entered the 
Union Theological Seminary in 1846, and graduated in 
1848. lie was ordained in 1850, and tilled the pulpit 
of the Presbyterian Church at Maryville, Teun., as a 
stated supply. In the years 1851-52 he was professor 
in the Maryville College, and from the last date until 
1862 he was chaplain in the Confederate army. From 
1862 to 1865 he was a stated supply of the church in 
Rogersville, Tenn. lie died, in August, 1866, while in 
that relation. (W. P. S.) 

Robertson, Joseph, a learned English divine, 
was born at Knipe, Westmoreland Co., Aug. 28, 1726. 
He entered Queen’s College, Oxford, in 1746, where he 
took his degree of arts. Receiving orders, he was for 
some time curate to Dr. Sykes at Rayleigh, and in 1758 
received the living of llerriard, Hampshire. In 1770 
he became rector of Sutton, in Essex, and in 1779 he 
was presented to the living of Horncastle, in Lincoln- 
shire. He died Jan. 19, 1802. Among his principal 
publications are, a tract on Culinary Poisons (Lond. 

1781) : — Introduction to Study of Polite Literature (ibid. 

1782) : — Education of Youny Ladies (ibid. 1798, Svo). 
Resides other miscellaneous works, lie contributed to 
The Critical Review from August, 1764, to September, 
1785, over 2620 criticisms on theological, classical, po- 
etical, and miscellaneous publications. See Chalmers, 
I'iofj. Diet. s. v. ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. 
A nth. s. v. 

Robertson, Wesley, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in New Providence, N. J. 
lie was converted in 1828, and united with the Church. 
In 1834 he received license as a local preacher, and in 
1836 was received on probation in the Philadelphia Con- 
ference. He labored with great acceptability, being in- 
strumental in the conversion of large numbers and suc- 
cessful in the building of churches. In the spring of 
1857 he took a supernumerary relation, and made New- 
ark his residence, where he remained until August, 1864. 
He then went to Jacksonville, Fla., to labor under the 
direction of the Christian Commission, where lie died 
Nov. 2, 1864. See Minutes of Annual Conf 1865, p. 49. 

Robertson, William, D.D., often called Princi- 
pal Robertson, a celebrated Scottish historian, was born 
at Rorthwick, county of Mid-Lothian, Scotland, Sept. 19, 
1721. His father, the Rev. William Robertson, was 
minister at Rorthwick when his son was born, and af- 
terwards at the Grey Friars’ Church, Edinburgh. After 
a preparatory course at the school of Dalkeith, and when 
only twelve years of age, young Robertson obtained ad- 
mission into the University of Edinburgh, where his 
subsequent progress in learning was rapid, in proportion 
to the astonishing acquirements of his childhood. In 
1741, before he was twenty years old, he was licensed 
bv the Presbytery of Edinburgh to preach; in 1743 he 
was appointed minister of Gladsmuir, in Haddington- 
shire, where he acquired a high reputation as an elo- 
quent pulpit orator; in 1751 he married, and soon after 
became leader of the Moderate party in the Church of 
Scotland, in which capacity he is said to have evinced 
in the General Assembly a readiness and eloquence in 
debate which his friend Gibbon might have envied in 
the House of Commons. In 1759 he tirst became known 
as a historian by the publication of his History of Scot- 
land, which benefited his fortune to the extent of £600, 
and his fame was by one effort placed on an imperisha- 
ble basis. No first work was ever more successful. It 
was extolled by Hume, Rurke, and other eminent crit- 
ics. About the same time lie removed to Edinburgh, 
and became chaplain of Stirling Castle; in 1761 he was 
nominated one of the king’s chaplains-in-ordinary for 
IX.— D 


Scotland; in 1762 he was elected principal of the Uni- 
versity of Edinburgh, and in 1764 was made historiog- 
rapher for Scotland, with a salary of £200 per annum. 
Stimulated by such success, as well as by an ardent de- 
votion to literature, lie continued his studies, and in 
1769 produced his History of the Reir/n of Charles U, 
which raised his then increasing reputation still higher, 
and which is considered his capital work. The intro- 
ductory part consists of an able sketch of the political 
and social state of Europe at the time of the accession 
of Charles V, a most important period, which forms the 
connection between the Middle Ages and the history 
of modern European society and politics. In 1777 lie 
published his History of America, which was followed 
in 1788 by Additions and Corrections to the former Edi- 
tions; and in 1791 he published his Historical Disqui- 
sition concermny the Kitoirledye which the Ancients had 
of India, a slight work, to which lie had been led by 
major Rennel’s Memoir of a Map of Hindustan. After 
spending a life of equal piety, usefulness, and honor, he 
died, June 11, 1793. 1 1 is remains were followed to their 

resting-place in Grey Friars’ Church-yard by a large 
concourse of the most illustrious magnates of the king- 
dom, the famous professors of the ancient university, 
the chiefs of the learned professions, and by many pri- 
vate citizens— all anxious to testify their respect to the 
memory of one whose intellectual productions cast so 
bright. a lustre on the record of Scottish letters. **A 
month or two previous to his decease he was removed 
to Grange House, near Edinburgh, where his friend 
Dugald Stewart enjoyed those visits which, fortunately 
for the world, led to the composition of that charming 
memoir of the principal which has been so often praised 
and so seldom equalled.” Dr. Robertson was a man of 
dignified and pure personal habits. His conduct as a 
Christian minister, as a member of society, as a re- 
lation, and as a friend was wholly without a stain. 
Lord Ilrougham, a relative of his. in his Lives of the 
Men of Letters of the Time of Georye III, says, “ 1 1 is 
affections w'ere warm ; they were ever under control, 
and therefore equal and steady. His conversation was 
cheerful, and it was varied. Vast information, copious 
anecdote, perfect appositeness of illustration — narration 
or description wdiolly free from pedantry or stiffness, 
but as felicitous and as striking as might be expected 
from such a master — great liveliness, and often wit. and 
often humor, w ith a full disposition to enjoy the merri- 
ment of the hour, but in the most scrupulous absence of 
everything like coarseness of any description — these 
formed the staples of his talk.” Most of the works of 
Dr. Robertson relate to that important period when the 
countries of Europe wore beginning to form constitu- 
tions and act upon the political systems which were for 
centuries preserved. Ilis style is elegant, clear, and 
vigorous, with occasional passages of great beauty. It 
seems to have completely surprised his contemporaries; 
and Horace Walpole, in a letter to the author, expresses 
the feeling with his usual point and vivacity: “But 
could I suspect that a man I believe much younger, and 
whose dialect I scarce understood, and who came to me 
with all the diffidence and modesty of a very middling 
author, and who, I was told, had passed his life in a 
small living near Edinburgh — could I then suspect that 
he had not only written what all the world now r allows 
to be the best modern history, but. that he had written 
it in the purest English, and with as much seeming 
knowledge of men and courts as if he had passed all his 
life in important embassies?” Gibbon also lias borne 
ample testimony to his style. In his Memoirs (ch. v), 
he says: “The perfect composition, the nervous lan- 
guage, the well-turned periods, of Dr. Robertson in- 
tiamed me to the ambitious hope that I might one day 
tread in his footsteps; the calm philosophy, the care- 
less, inimitable beauties, of bis friend and rival Hume 
often forced me to close the volume with a mixed sen- 
sation of delight and despair.” Robertson is more uni- 
form and measured than Hume. He has few’ salient 


ROBES 


50 


ROBINSON 


points, and no careless beauties. Of grandeur or dig- 
nity there is no deficiency; and when the subject awak- 
ens a train of lofty or philosophical ideas, the manner 
of the historian is in fine accordance with his matter. 
When he sums up the character of a sovereign, or traces 
the progress of society and the influence of laws and 
government, we recognise the mind and language of a 
master of historical composition. There have been, 
however, various criticisms as to his accuracy in details 
of fact — the research and import of his histories. We 
quote from a single critic: “ In plain terms, Dr. Robert- 
son appears to have studied grace and dignity more 
than usefulness. Me has chosen those features of every 
figure which he could best paint, rather than those 
which were most worthy of the pencil. The charms of 
Robertson’s style, and the full flow of his narration, 
which is always sufficiently minute for ordinary read- 
ers. will render his works immortal in the hands of the 
bulk of mankind. But the scientific reader requires 
something more than periods which fill his ear, and 
general statements which gratify by amusing; he even 
requires more than a general text-book — a happy ar- 
rangement of intricate subjects, which may enable him 
to pursue them in their details. When we repair to the 
works of Robertson for the purpose of finding facts, we 
are instantly carried away by the stream of bis narra- 
tive, and forget the purpose of our errand to the foun- 
tain. As soon as we can stop ourselves, we discover 
that our search has been vain, and that we must apply 
to those sources from which he drew and culled his sup- 
plies” (Dr. Thomas Brown, in the Edinb. Rev. April, 
1803, p. 240, 241). See Brougham, Lives of Men of 
Letters , etc. (ed. 1855), p. 20(5, 280-283 ; Dugald Stew- 
art, Account of the Life and 1 Vritings of Robertson 
(1801 and 1802); Cockburn, Memorials of his Time ; 
Snard, Notice sur la Vie et les Ecrits de J)r. Robertson; 
Memoirs of Adam Smith, B r . Robertson , and Thomas 
Reid (1811); Chambers, Bing. Did. of Eminent Scots - 
men; Alii bone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. Authors; 
Mackintosh, Journal, July 13 and 16, 1811; id. Life , 
vol. i, ch. ii; vol. v; Chalmers, Biog. Diet.; Macaulay, 
Life of Johnson, in the Encyc. Britan. (8th ed.) ; Eu- 
rope during the Middle Ages; Lardner’s Cyclop, i, 278, 
280; Gentleman's Mag. 1836, ii, 19; 1846, i, 227, n. ; 
1847, ii, 3, 4, n. ; Maitland, Dark Ages , p. 10, 13, 25, 52; 
Gibbon, Decline and Fall , ch. xiii, n.; ch. xxxi, xlix, 
Iviii, lxi ; also Miscell. JKo?-A*s (ed. 1837), p. 373; Green. 
Diary of a Lover of Literature (1810, 4to), p. 18, 19; 
Alison, Blackwood's Mag. Dec. 1844; Smyth. Lectures 
on Modern History, lect. i-iv, vii-ix, xi ; Humboldt, 
Researches in America , ii. 248; Southey, llist. of Bra- 
zil, i, 639; For. Qnar. Rev. No. xvii, p. 108-1 10; Irving, 
Life and Voyages of Columbus (ed. 1850), iii, 364, 419; 
Prescott, Conquest of Mexico , vol. i. pref. vi, p. 37, 103, 
320, 333, 335, 348, 365, 376 ; ii, 64, 95, 112, 203, 204, 222 ; 
iii, 304, n., 379; id. Conquest of Peru, vol. i, pref. xii, p. 
17,338, 423; id. Ferdinand and Isabella, iii, 409; Lond. 1 
Quar. Rev. Dec. 1843, p. 187, 188; Sept. 1847, p. 317, 
318; xii, 369, 370; lxxvi, 91-97; Lond. A thenceum, 
1843, p. 973, 1005; English Cyclop, s. v. ; North A mer. 
Rev. Oct, US 17, p. 370, 371; lxi, 405-410; Ixxxvi, 347; 
Walpole, Letter to the Countess of Ossnry , Nov. 23, 1791 ; 
id. Letters (etl. 1861), ix, 361 ; Schlegel, Lectures on the 
Hist, of Literature (Engl. trails!.), lect. xiv; Sehloss- 
er, Hist, of the 18 th Century, p. 664, 917, supra; Shaw, 
Outlines of English Literature, ch. xv; Edinb. Rev. ii, 
245; 1 vi, 220; Meuselius, Bibliotheca Historicu; Beau- 
ties of Dr. Robertson (N. V. 1810, 8vo); De Chastellux, : 
Essays (Bond. 1790, 2 vols. 8vo); Illustrious Biog. (Ed- 
inb. 1808, l2mo); Croker, Bos mil's Life of Johnson, 
years 1756, 1767, 1768, 1772-74, 1777-79, 1781, 1784; 
Disraeli, M isadl. of Literature (ed. 1855), p. 466. (J. L. S.) 

Robes, a term denoting, in general, the ecclesiasti- 
cal garments worn by the clergy when performing the 
offices of the Church. More strictly it applies to the 
black gown and the dress worn bv a bishop. In early 
times this badge was so essential that writers often use 


the robe to denote both the person and the office of the 
bishop. It was at first worn by all bishops, but after- 
wards became the distinctive badge of archbishops, metro- 
politans, and patriarchs. Tradition narrates that Mark 
the evangelist, as bishop of Alexandria, first assumed 
the robe and left it for his followers. Nothing is known 
of the form and quality of the robe in the first centuries, 
save that it was a seamless garment made of white lin- 
en, and hung loosely from the shoulders. It was made 
afterwards of woollen. In the 12th century it was made 
of white woollen, having a circular gathering on the 
shoulders and two scarfs hanging over it behind and 
before. On the left side it was double, and single on 
the right. Previous to the 8th century it had also four 
purple crosses upon it, one before and behind, and one 
on either side. It was fastened by three golden pins. 
The robe itself was styled tto X varavpiou. See Cole- 
man, Christ. Antiq. p. 83. 

Roblgus, in Roman mythology, was a deity who 
averted mildew from growing harvests, and was vene- 
rated by the rustic population. 

Robing-room, a room attached to a church for the 
keeping of the vestments and sacred vessels, called also 
Vestry (q. v.). 

Robins, Sanderson, an English clergyman, was 
rector of St. James’s Church, Dover, afterwards vicar of 
St. Peter’s, in the isle of Thanet, and rural dean. lie 
lied in 1862. His principal works are, The Church 
Schoolmaster (Lond. 1850, 12mo): — Argument for the 
Royal Supremacy (ibid. 1851, 8 vo) : — Evidence of Script- 
ure against the Claims of the Romish Church (ibid. 
1853, 1854, 8vo): — The Whole Evidence against the De- 
vices of the Romish Church (ibid. 1858, 8vo): — A De- 
fence of the Faith (ibid. 1861, 8vo). See Allibone, Diet . 
of Brit, and A mer . A uthors, s. v. 

Robinson, Benjamin, a learned Presbyterian 
minister, was born at Derby, England, in 1666. He be- 
came pastor at Findern. Derbyshire, in 1688, from which 
place be removed to Hungerford, Berkshire. He was 
settled at Little St. Helen’s, London, in 1700, and died 
in 1724. He wrote, A Review' of the Causes of Liturgies, 
etc. (Lond. 1710, 8vo) : — Letter to Thomas Bennet in De- 
fence of the Review (ibid. 1710, 8vo). See Allibone, Diet, 
of Brit, and A mer, A uth. s. v. ; Darling, Cyclop . Bibliog. 
s. v. 

Robinson, Charles G-., a minister of the Metho- 
dist Episcopal Church, was born in Newville, N. Y., in 
1822, and when nineteen years of age was converted. 
Although early impressed that it was his duty to preach, 
he endeavored by diligent attention to other duties to 
pacify his conscience. At length lie yielded, and was 
received on trial in the Oneida Conference in 1852. lie 
was ordained deacon in 1854, and elder in 1856; but the 
condition of his health forbade active service, and, tak- 
ing a supernumerary relation, be went in October, 1856, 
to Mansfield, O., where bis parents resided, and failing 
rapidly, died on the 24th of the same month. — See Min- 
utes of A nnual Conferences, 1857, p. 293. 

Robinson, David, a Presbyterian minister, was, 
born in Croppuck Township, Washington Co., Pa., about' 
the year 1808. He graduated at Washington College, 
studied theology in the Western Seminary, Allegheny 
City, was licensed by Washington Presbytery in 1841, 
and ordained and installed as pastor of Mill Creek 
Chnrch, Hookstown, April 19, 1842. This relation ex- 
isted until 1854, when it was dissolved, and in 1856 he 
joined New Lisbon Presbytery and was installed pastor 
of Madison Church, at Calcutta, O., where he remained 
until 1858, when he returned to Hookstown, Pa., where 
he died, March 17, 1861. See Wilson, Pi'esb. Hist. Al- 
manac, 1862, p. 117. (J. L. S.) 

Robinson, Edward, D.D., LL.D., the most Ger- 
man among English-speaking scholars, whose classical 
and invaluable work on Palestine has made his name 


ROBINSON 


51 


ROBINSON 


as well known in Germany and England as in his na- 
tive land, was of Puritan descent, and inherited the pie- 
ty, energy, love of liberty, and high moral principle of 
the settlers of New England. lie was the son of a 
Congregational minister, was born at Southington, Conn., 
April 10, 1794, and from 1812 to 1810 attended Hamilton 
College at Clinton, N. V., where he distinguished him- 
self chietiy in mathematics and the ancient languages, 
and was at the head of his class. In the fall of 1817, 
after studying law for some time at Hudson, N. Y., lie 
was called to a tutorship at Hamilton College and 
accepted. A year later he married Eliza Kirkland, 
daughter of the Pev. Samuel Kirkland, known as mis- 
sionary to the Oneidas. Though somewhat older than 
her husband, she was a woman of uncommon intellect 
and cultivation, and very attractive in appearance. She 
died, however, within a year after her marriage. Mr. 
Robinson remained at Clinton until 1821, when be went 
to Andover, Mass., to publish an edition of eleven hooks 
of the Iliad, with notes and a Latin introduction, which 
appeared in 1822. This stay at Andover, however, des- 
tined him to the service of theology and the Church. 
He entered into intimate relations with Prof. Moses 
Stuart, the patriarch of Biblical scholarship in America, 
and became assistant professor of the Hebrew language 
and literature at the Andover Theological Seminary 
(1823-20). He assisted Prof. Stuart in preparing the sec- 
ond edition of his Hebrew Grammar (which was found- 
ed on that of Gesenius), and in the translation of Winer’s 
Grammar of the New Testament Greek (1825). At the 
same time he prepared alone a translation of Wahl’s 
Claris Philologica Novi Testament i (Andover. 1825), 
which, in later editions, grew to be a much more im- 
portant, independent work. These labors determined 
his future career, as well as the whole character of mod- 
ern excgetical theology in America, of which Stuart 
and Robinson must be considered the founders and rep- 
resentatives. Stuart was brilliant and enthusiastic; 
Robinson, calm, sober, and critical ; the former fresher 
and more animating, the latter more thorough and 
scholarly. The school of exegesis originated by them 
consists in an independent elaborating of the results of 
modern German investigation on the basis of Anglo- 
American orthodoxy and practical piety. By this proc- 
ess many excrescences and extravagances of German 
research were done away with, but at the same time 
the old Puritan severity was largely modified. Since 
then it has become a necessity for every American the- 
ologian who woidd keep up with the times to make 
himself thoroughly acquainted with the German lan- 
guage and literature; and this necessity will long con- 
tinue to exist, even after most of the classical works of 
German theology have been made accessible to the An- 
glo-American literary world by translations. 

In the year 1826, Robinson, then thirty-two years of 
age, undertook a voyage to Europe in order there to 
complete his theological education at the fountain- 
heads of German learning and research. lie spent his 
time chiefly at the universities of Gottingen, Halle, and 
Berlin, and became, in point of persevering industry, a 
German among Germans, lie was particularly inti- 
mate with Gesenius, Tholuck, and Rddiger in Halle, 
and with Neander and Ritter in Berlin. To the cele- 
brated Berlin geographer, who elevated geography to 
the dignity of a science, constituting it the indispensa- 
ble companion of ethnography and history, and who 
united with depth of learning sincere piety and a child- 
like faith, he was allied during his whole life by the 
closest bonds of esteem and affection, which were fully 
reciprocated by Ritter. lie considered Ritter, as be as- 
sured the writer of this article oil presenting, in 1844, 
a letter of introduction from him, the greatest man of 
his time. In 1828 he was married in Halle to Tlie- 
rese Alberti ne Luise, youngest daughter of L. A. von 
Jacob, professor of philosophy and political science at 
the University of Halle, a highly gifted lady of thor- 
ough culture, who has acquired, under the nom deplume 


of Talvj,a well-merited reputation as a writer, and who, 
with German love and fidelity, was a true helpmeet to 
her American husband, in his literary labors, until he 
died. 

After his return to America in 1830, Robinson was 
appointed professor extraordinary of Biblical literature 
and librarian at the Theological Seminary in Andover. 
Soon after, in 1831, he founded and edited a learned 
theological quarterly, the Biblical Repository, which 
subsequently (in 1851) was united with the Biblioth - 
ca Sacra, founded in 1844, and edited by himself 
in conjunction with the Andover professors Edwards 
and Park, and as such still exists. This flourishing pe- 
riodical contained in its first volumes, besides valuable 
independent articles, particularly by Robinson and Stu- 
art, many translations and reviews of German works, 
and was thus a means "of transferring the best results 
of foreign biblical and theological research to American 
soil. In the year 1832 Robinson published an improved 
and enlarged edition of Calmet’s Dictionary of the Bible , 
which proved very successful. A year later he issued 
a smaller Dictionary of the Bible , for popular use, of 
which thousands of copies were spread abroad through 
the American Tract Society. At the same time he 
published in Halle a translation, by himself, of Butt- 
mann’s Greek Grammar, which has since then repeated- 
ly reappeared in new and improved editions, and was, 
and is still, largely used as a text- book in American 
colleges. 

These severe labors, in connection with bis daily du- 
ties as instructor, undermined his health, and forced him, 
in 1833, to resign his position. He removed to Boston, 
and there devoted himself to his studies. In 1834 he 
published a revised edition of Newcome’s Greek Har- 
mony of the Gospels , which was far superior to the ear- 
lier editions, and a valuable contribution to the literature 
on Gospel harmony. It was based on Knapp’s text of 
the New Test., and did not possess the advantages of 
the later researches of Lachmann, Tischendorf, Alford, 
and Tregelles in the field of textual criticism. At the 
same time Robinson completed an English transla- 
tion of Gcsenius’s Hebrew - Latin Lexicon, which first 
appeared in 1836, met a great want, and contributed 
much to the advancement of the study of Hebrew in 
America. The second and later editions were enriched 
by many additions from the Thesaurus of Gesenius. 
The most important fruit, however, of this season of 
leisure in Boston was the preparation of an indepen- 
dent Greek and English Lexicon of the New Test., which 
at once took the place of the author’s translation of 
Wahl’s Claris. He made frequent 'use of his predeces- 
sors — Bruder, Schleussner, Wahl. Bret schneider, and all 
exegetic sources of importance; and, in the later edi- 
tions particularly, of the commentaries of De Wette 
and Meyer, which he preferred on account of their 
great philological advantages and concise brevity, 
without, however, allowing them to disturb his Amer- 
ican orthodoxy in any important point. This ex- 
tremely valuable and sterling work first appeared in 
1836, and was at once welcomed as the best English 
lexicon of the New Test., and reprinted in three differ- 
ent editions in England. A new edition, greatly im- 
proved and, in part, entirely altered, appeared in 1850, 
and made it the first work of its kind to the present time. 
It is likewise an almost complete concordance, and en- 
ables the student to nearly dispense with Bruder. This 
work is a monument of labor and industry. Its motto 
is, “ Dies diem docct,” and “ Nulla dies sine linea.” r I he 
exegetical point of view of the author belongs to the 
historico-grammatical school founded by \\ iner, so far 
as it agrees with a stricter conception of inspiration and 
a decidedly Protestant-orthodox acceptation of all im- 
portant doctrines. He kept equally aloof from ration- 
alism and from mysticism, and was a progressive super- 
natnralist. 

In the year 1837, Prof. Robinson received a call as 
professor of Biblical literature to the Union Theological 


ROBINSON 


52 


ROBINSON 


Seminary of New York, a Presbyterian institution re- 
cently founded, which since then, and chietiv through 
Prof. Robinson, lias risen to the first rank of theological 
seminaries in America, and stands side by side with An- 
dover and Princeton ; and which, bv his efforts, was en- 
riched, at an early day, by the Van Ess library and other 
literary treasures. He accepted the call on condition 
of his being permitted to devote some years (at his own 
expense) to the investigation of the Holy Laud on the 
spot itself before entering upon his duties. On July 17, 
1837 , he sailed for Europe with his family, left the latter 
in Germany, and travelled by way of Athens and Egypt 
to Palestine. In conjunction with the Rev. Eli Smith, 
a highly esteemed missionary of the American Board, 
who was an accomplished Arabic scholar, he explored, 
with the acute judgment of a critical scholar and the 
devout heart of a believer in the Bible, all the impor- 
tant places of the Holy Land. In October, 1838, he re- 
turned to Berlin, after having been detained at Vienna' 
by a severe illness, contracted during his travels, which 
nearly proved fatal. The two following years, spent in 
the metropolis of Herman science in the preparation of 
his Biblical Researches in Palestine , were among the hap- 
piest of his life. This pioneer work, which since then 
has been consulted and quoted on all questions of Bibli- 
cal geography and topography by all the scholars of 
America. England, and Germany, appeared simultane- 
ously in America and England in the original, and in 
Germany in a translation revised by Mrs. Robinson, in 
1841. and secured the immortality of the author’s name, 
placing him, in Biblical geography, in the same rank 
with Bochart, Reland, Ritter, Raumer, and Burckhardt; 
as in Biblical philology he stands side by side with 
Wahl, Gesenius, and Winer. The Biblical Researches 
are based throughout on personal inspection and inves- 
tigation by the aid of the telescope, compass, and meas- 
uring-tape; on keen observation, strict regard to truth, 
and sound and wholly independent judgment, which 
allowed itself to be dazzled by no medueval traditions 
or venerable monkish legends, but was guided by the 
principle, *• Prima historic lex est, ne quid falsi dicere 
audeat, ne quid veri non audeat.” Though necessarily 
dry in many details, his simple and massive style rises 
at times to true eloquence. The work was immediate- 
ly received with great favor in Germany, England, and 
America, and still continues to be quoted as the first au- 
thority in its department. We give as examples three 
criticisms upon it. 

Ritter says of it (Die Erdkunde vonAsien, viii, div. ii,73): 

“The union of the acutest observation of topographic 
and local conditions, like that of Burckhardt, with much 
preparatory study, particularly the erudite study of the 
Bible, and of philological aud’historicnl criticism as well 
as that of the language of the country by the author’s trav- 
elling companion, the Rev. Eli Smith (whom a residence 
of many years in Syria as a missionary had made practi- 
cally at home there), distinguish this work, which is car- 
ried through in the most conscientious manner and with 
great vigor of body and of mind, from all former ones of 
its kind, whereby t lie scien title tr'eatment of the subject 
has only now gained firm ground upon which the future 
will he able to build up with more success than the past. 
The competent Olshausen remarks that no previous work 
has brought to light a richer fund of new and important 
researches on Palestine. The admirable principles of in- 
vestitration developed and acted up to therein will remain 
a guiding-star for all future travellers who would under- 
take to contribute to the investigation of Biblical antiquity 
in ilie Holy Land itself, wherefore the work marks a new 
sera in Biblical geography.” 

The committee of the Palestine Exploration Fund, in 
its publication (Jnr 11 or/: in Palestine (Loud. 1873), p.7, 
expresses itself as follows: 

“The first real impulse, because the first successful im- 
pulse, towards scientific examination of the Holy Land, is 
due to the American traveller Dr. Robinson, ile it was 
who first conceived the idea of making a work on Biblical 
geography to be bused not on the accounts of others, but 
on bis own observations and discoveries. He tilted him- 
self for his ambition- undertaking bv the special studies 
of fifteen years, mastering i he whole literature of the sub- 
ject, and, above all. clearing the way for his own research- 
es by noticing the deficiencies and weak points of his pred- 


ecessors. . . . We shall not go into the question here of 
his theories and his reconstruction oft he old city, on which 
he has had both followers and opponents. Let it, how- 
ever, be distinctly remembered that Dr. Robinson is the 
first of scientific travellers. His travels took him over a 
very large extent of ground, covering a large part of the 
whole country from Sinai north; and his books are still, 
after thirty years, the most valnahle works which we pos- 
sess on the geography of Palestine.” 

Dean Stanley (A ddresses and Sermons delivered in the 
United States, October, 1878, p. 20) says: 

“Dr. Robinson, 1 believe it is not too much to say, was 
the first person who ever saw Palestine with his eyes open 
as to what he ought to see. Hundreds and thousands of 
travellers had visited Palestine before — pilgrims, seekers 
after pleasure, even scientific travellers— but there was no 
person before bis time who had come to visit that sacred 
country with all the appliances ready beforehand which 
were necessary to enable him to understand what he saw ; 
and he also was the first person who came there with an 
eye capable of observing, and a hand capable of recording, 
all that with these appliances he brought before bis vision .” 

The Royal Geographical Society of London awarded to 
the author, in 1842, their Patron’s Gold Medal; in the 
same year the University of Halle conferred upon him 
the degree of D.D. ; and Yale College, in 1844, that of 
LL.D. 

On bis return to America, in 1840, Dr. Robinson de- 
voted himself to his labors in the Union Theological 
Seminary, at the same time not neglecting his literary 
work. He wrote numerous articles and essays, revised 
his former works for new editions, and in 1845 published 
a new and independent Greek Harmony of the Gospels, 
with notes of his own, which, with other important 
changes, made it far superior to any former work of the 
kind and won it general acknowledgment. This was 
followed in 1840 by an English Harmony, with the notes 
adapted for popular use. 

In 1851 Dr. Robinson made a second visit to Germany 
and Palestine, in which be included Damascus. The 
valuable results of his new investigations were laid down 
in an improved and enlarged edition of his Biblical Re- 
searches, in 1856, which was at the same time published 
in Germany with a translation of the additional matter 
by Mrs. Robinson. Nevertheless, this invaluable work 
was, in the eyes of Dr. Robinson, merely a preparation 
for a complete physical, historical, and topographical 
geography of the Holy Land, which he considered the 
chief labor of Ids life. Unfortunately, he was not per- 
mitted to finish it; only the first part, the Physical Ge- 
ography of Palestine, was fully prepared in manuscript, 
and his faithful helpmeet translated it into German after 
his death, and published it in both languages in 1865. 
Repeated attacks of illness undermined his constitution, 
and an incurable disease of the eyes obliged him, in the 
year 1861, to lay down his pen. In May, 1862, he set 
out on his fifth and last voyage to Europe, in order to 
consult the celebrated oculist Dr. von Griife, in Berlin, 
who, however, could promise him no permanent cure. 
Nevertheless, he greatly enjoyed the intercourse, with 
his learned friends in Ilalle and Berlin, and refreshed 
bis soul once more by a clouded view of the Swiss Alps. 
On his return in November of the same year, he re- 
sumed bis usual duties at the Union Theological Semi- 
nary, but was forced to cease with the Christmas va- 
cation. After a short illness, he died in the bosom of 
his family, Jan. 27, 1863, universally esteemed and la- 
mented, most so by his wife, son, and daughter, his col- 
leagues, and a large number of students in the seminary, 
the learned ornament and crown of which lie had been 
for a quarter of a century. 

I)r. Robinson was a man of athletic form and imposing 
figure, though somewhat bent in later years; of strong, 
sound good sense; reserved and dry, though, when in the 
society of bis learned brethren, often very entertaining 
and with a strong sense of humor. Ile was thorough 
and indefatigable in his investigations, somewhat scep- 
tical by nature, but bowing in reverence to God’s revela- 
tion; outwardly cold, but warm inwardly; of great kind- 
ness of heart and tender sympathy; a plain, serious, solid, 
I thoroughly honorable character; and a pious, orthodox; 


ROBINSON 


53 


ROBINSON 


evangelical Christian. Though a dangerous opponent 
when attacked, he was a lover of peace, avoided theo- 
logical controversy, and adhered strictly to his task in 
life, which lie accomplished faithfully, lie is the most 
distinguished Biblical theologian whom America has 
brought forth, and one of the most distinguished of t lie 
10th century. II is Harmony of the Gospels, his popular 
Dictionary of the Bible (published by the Amer. Tract 
Society), his Greek and English Lexicon of the Sew Test ., 
his Hebrew and English Lexicon based on Gesenius, and, 
above all, his Biblical Researches in Palestine , belong to 
the most useful works of modern Protestant theology, 
and will long continue to exert their influence, under 
the blessing of God, particularly in America. 

Sources. — Next to the works quoted above in chron- 
ological order, particular reference is had to two excel- 
lent addresses by his two colleagues in the Union Theo- 
logical Seminary — Profs. Henry B. Smith and Boswell 
1). Hitchcock — which appeared soon alter his death un- 
der the title The Life , 1 1 'citings, and Character if Ed- 
ward Robinson, D.D., LL.I)., read before the N. Y. His- 
torical Society, published by request of the Society (N. V. 
1863). Dr. Hitchcock’s address gives, at the same time, 
a thoroughly trustworthy biographical sketch, partly 
founded on the communications of the family. See also 
the noble tribute which dean Stanley of Westminster paid 
to I>r. Bobinson in an address before tin* students of tbe 
Union Theological Seminary, New York, Oct. 29, 1878, 
published in his Addresses and Sermons delivered dur- 
ing a Visit to the United States and Canada (Bond, and 
N. Y. 1879, pp. 23-34). 11c holds him up as the noblest 

specimen of an American scholar. The original MS. of 
Bobinson’s Biblical Researches and a part of his library 
are in possession of tbe Union Theological Seminary in 
New York. (P. S.) 

Robinson, George C., a Methodist Episcopal 
minister, was born at Hart wick, near Cooperstown, N. Y., 
Aug. 9, 1833, and was educated lirst at the village acad- 
emy in Wcllsboro, Pa.; next at Lima, N. Y. ; and finally 
graduated with distinction at Yale College in 1856, lie 
then studied at the Union Theological Seminary, New 
York, till the spring of 1857, when he entered the New 
York East Conference and took charge of the First 
Place M. E. Church, Brooklyn, N. Y. He was transfer- 
red in 1859 to the Cincinnati Conference, and served the 
Union Chapel in Cincinnati; but his declining health 
induced his generous society to send him to Europe in 
1860. In Germany he studied thoroughly the latest 
results of theological inquiry and became master of the 
best learning of its evangelical teachers, enjoying the 
personal friendship and admiration of professors Tho- 
luck, Jacobi, etc. He extended his travels through 
France and Italy, and returned to the United States in 
June, 1862, with rich acquisitions of knowledge and im- 
proved health. But his frail constitution soon yielded 
again to our precarious climate, and, alter a persistent 
conflict with pulmonary disease, he fell at last, greatly 
lamented, Sept. 21, 1863. Although so young, lie had 
laid the broadest and deepest foundation for the future. 
To the Latin, Greek, German, French, and Italian lan- 
guages he had added a knowledge of the Hebrew, Syri- 
ac, and Chaldee. He was familiar even with much of 
the literature of these languages — especially of the Ger- 
man. Several erudite and critical articles on the pres- 
ent state of opinion and criticism in Germany respect- 
ing the Pentateuch were given by him in the periodi- 
cal journals. To great geniality of disposition he add- 
ed remarkable strength of intellect. Originality mark- 
ed the whole structure of his mind, and it amounted to 
genius. A brief conversation could not fail to convince 
the hearer that he was not only capable of original and 
precious thought on almost any subject susceptible of 
it. but that this power was spontaneous to his affluent 
mind. His preaching was characterized by it remark- 
ably; and thus presented a singular fascination, espe- 
cially to thoughtful hearers. 11 is congregation at Union 
Chapel in Cincinnati established “The Bobinson Mis- 


sion” in his memory. Sec Record of the Vale Class of 
1856, p. 60 sip ; The (N. Y.) Methodist, Oct. 3, 1863. 

Robinson, George Marshall, a Baptist minis- 
ter, was horn in Bucktield, Me., July 13, 1821. He was 
a graduate of Waterville College in the class of 1850. 
He studied theology at Newton, and was ordained pas- 
tor of the Church in Sidney, Ale., in the summer of 1853. 
Du leaving Sidney in 1854, lie preached in several 
churches, ehiellv as a temporary supply, the state of his 
health not allowing him to take a regular pastorate. 
For several years before his death he gave up preach- 
ing entirely, and was engaged in business, lie died at 
Livermore,* Me., April 29, 1873. (J. C. S.) 

Robinson, Hastings, D.D., an English clergy- 
man, was born in 1793, graduated at Cambridge as six- 
teenth wrangler in 1815, and was fellow of St. Joint’s 
College from 1816 to 1827. lie then took the college 
living of Great Warley, Essex. In 1821 he was ap- 
pointed assistant tutor of his college, iu 1823 Whitehall 
preacher, and in 1836 select preacher before the univer- 
sity, honorary canon of Rochester, and rural dean, llis 
death took place May 18, 1866. He published Ettripi - 
dis Electro, Gr. emendat'd et Amiotatiunibns (Loud, roy- 
al 8vo) : — llpo&ii; rwv ’A7ro<7T<>\ior, A eta A postidorum 
(Cambridge, 1824, 8vo). See Allibone, Diet, if Brit, and 
.4 mer . A uthors, s. v. 

Robinson, Hugh, D.D., an English clergyman, 
was born in St. Mary's parish, in the county of Anglesea. 
He was educated at Winchester School, was admitted a 
probationer fellow of New College, Oxford, in 1603, and 
perpetual fellow in 1605. He completed bis master’s 
degree in 1611, and about three years alur became 
chief master of Winchester School. He was after- 
wards archdeacon of Winchester, canon of Wells, and 
archdeacon of Gloucester. Having sided with the par- 
ty” that was reducing the Church to the Presbyterian 
form, he lost the advantages of his canonrv and arch- 
deaconry, but obtained the rectory of Hinton, near Win- 
chester. lie died March 30, 1655, and was buried in 
St. Gilcs-in-the-Fields, London. He wrote for the use 
of Winchester School, Preces ; Grammatical is qtue- 
dam; Antiques IJistoriie Synopsis (Oxford. 1816, 8vo). 
printed together: — Schohe II Jnfoniensis Phrases La - 
time (Lon d. 1654 and 1664): — Ammles Mnndi Unirer- 
sales, etc. (ibid. 1 677, Ibl.). See Chalmers, Blog. Diet. s. v. 

Robinson, Isaac, D.D., a Congregational minis- 
ter, was born at Hudson, N. II., iu August, 1779. Hav- 
ing studied under his own minister, he commenced a 
course of classical and theological study with Bev. Becd 
Paige, of Hancock, lie received a call to become pas- 
tor of the Church in Stoddard. Aug. 30, 1802, and, hav- 
ing accepted it, was ordained Jan. 5, 1803. Here he 
remained until the close of his ministry and life. Mr. 
Bobinson continued to labor with vigor until with- 
in a few weeks of his death, which occurred July 9, 
1854. lie published, about 1809, a pamphlet in oppo- 
sition to Universalism, a sermon on the Supreme Divin- 
ity of Jesus Christ, and others. See Sprague, A muds of 
the A mer. Pulpit, ii, 163. 

Robinson, John (O, pastor of the “Pilgrim Fa- 
thers” of New England, was horn in 1575. The Inde- 
pendents, as they were called, had their origin in a pro- 
test, not against popish intolerance and persecution, but 
against Protestant usurpation and bigotry connected 
with a persecution equal in atrocity to the darkest pe- 
riod of papal domination; not in the dark ages, but in 
the bright and golden age of Henry Till and good 
queen Bess. While renouncing the supremacy of the 
pope and his title to headship in the Church of Christ, 
the king assumed ecclesiastical supremacy, and the 
change was from priestcraft to kingcraft, both eternally 
incompatible with the teachings of Christ. A little 
hand whose consciences no chains could bind, and whose 
judgments no sophisms could pervert, rose up and mild- 
ly, but firmly, protested against such infringement of 
the rights of conscience and private judgment, and, 


ROBINSON 


54 


ROBINSON 


rather than submit to the same, suffered imprisonment, 
torture, and death. An attempt was made in 1602 to 
seek refuge in Holland, but the vile treachery on the 
part of the captain of the ship on which they were em- 
barked prevented. The next year, Robinson, the pas- 
tor of the little dock, made another effort; but they 
were again thwarted by untoward providences. Final- 
ly, a company arrived at Leyden in 1608. The Church 
was enlarged by additions mostly from English exiles, 
ami numbered more than three hundred. Robinson 
was greatly respected by the clergy of Leyden, and also 
by the professors in the university. He gave proof not 
only of his piety, but of his scholarship. The Church 
was not allowed to rest in quiet in this asylum of con- 
science, but was pursued by the prelatic rage of the 
bigoted Laud. Holland was not allowed by Providence 
to be their rest, and they turned their thoughts across 
the ocean to the New World, where they might enjoy 
freedom to worship God in a heathen land. An appeal 
was made to king James as to whether they would be 
granted liberty of conscience in America. They made 
a full statement of their religious principles, keeping 
nothing back. The king promised to connive as to 
their religious principles and practices, but could not 
grant them toleration under the great seal. 

In the beginning of the year 1620 they kept a day 
of solemn fasting and prayer; Robinson delivered a dis- 
course from 1 Sam. xxiii, 3-4. It was decided that part 
of the Church should emigrate and prepare the way, 
and the remainder follow when their pastor could go 
with them; but many could not get ready, and had to 
remain. Mr. Brewster, a ruling elder, was appointed to 
go as a leader. They were constituted as much an ab- 
solute Church as the portion that remained. In July 
they held another season of prayer, and the pastor 
preached from Ezra viii, 21. On June 21 they left 
Leyden to embark at Delftshaven, and went on board 
ship the day after they arrived. All having assembled 
on deck, their beloved founder knelt and poured out 
his soul to God in prayer for the divine protection. 
They believed thoroughly not only in a general, but a 
special, providence, extending to the minutest events. 
The proceeds of their estates were put into a common 
stock, and, with the assistance of the merchants to whom 
they mortgaged their labor and trade for seven years, two 
vessels were provided — the Speedwell, of sixty tons, and 
the Mayflower, of one hundred and eighty tons. They 
expended seven thousand pounds in provisions and stores. 
The ships, carrying one hundred and twenty passen- 
gers, sailed from Southampton on Aug. 5, 1620. The 
Speedwell, proving leaky, had to put into port at Dart- 
mouth for repairs. On Aug. 21 they put to sea again, 
and by still another providential interference, both ships 
proving unseaworthv, they were obliged to put back to 
Plymouth. About twenty left the Speedwell, and, tak- 
ing with them their provisions, went on shore; the re- 
mainder, one hundred and one in number, went on board 
the Mayflower, aiu\ the shores of England were lost sight 
of forever. The company had entered into a solemn 
covenant to be faithful to God and each other. But lit- 
tle remarkable occurred during the voyage. There was 
one death, ami one birth— a son of Stephen Hopkins, 
who was named Oceanus. On Nov. 9 they caught sight 
oi the sandy cliffs of Cape Cod, and the next day enter- 
ed the harbor. Before going ashore, they founded a 
democratic government, and elected John Carver to 
serve one year as governor of the colony. They named 
the place Plymouth. The lirst religious service held 
ou laud was mi Dec. 31. Robinson "had charged them 
to *• follow him only so far as he followed Christ.” They 
were faithful to the charge— a noble band of God-fear- 
ing and God-loving men; and they left unchanged to 
posterity 

“ What here they found — 

Freedom to worship God.” 

The only book of Robinson’s writing was entitled Jus- 
tification of Separation from the Church of England, 


published in 1851. He died March 11, 1G25. See Alli- 
bone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. A tithors, s. v. ; Chalmers, 
Bioy. Did. s. v. ; Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit , 
i, 1. (W. P.S.) 

Robinson, John (2), bishop of London, was born 
at Cleasbv, Yorkshire, in 1650, and was educated at Ori- 
el College, Oxford. He was chaplain to the English 
ambassador to Sweden in 1683, and subsequently am- 
bassador there himself. He returned to England in 
1708, in 1710 became bishop of Bristol, and in 1714 was 
transferred to Loudon. He was minister plenipotenti- 
ary at the Treaty of Utrecht, and one of the commis- 
sioners for finishing St. Paul’s Cathedral. He died in 
1723. He published,. 1« Account of Sweden (3d ed. 1717, 
8vo): — Sermon on Beneflts, etc., of Christ's Kingdom 
(Loud. 1714, 8vo), and others. See Allibone, Diet, of 
Brit, and Amer. Auih. s. v. ; Darling, Cyclop. Bibliog. 
s. v. 

Robinson, John (3), D.D., a Presbyterian minis- 
ter, was born in Mecklenburg County, N.C., Jan. 8, 1768. 
His college course was pursued at Winnsborough, S. C. 
He studied under the care of the Orange Presbytery, 
was licensed to preach April 4, 1793, and was by the 
presbytery directed to visit Dnpin County, where lie re- 
mained seven years. In 1800 he became minister of 
the Church in Fayetteville, but removed in 1801 to Pop- 
lar Tent. In 1806 he was induced to return to Fayette- 
ville, where he resumed pastoral labors and his classical 
school. In December, 1818, he returned to Poplar Tent, 
where he passed the rest of his life, dying Dec. 14, 1843. 
Dr. Robinson was a man of consistent and elevated pi- 
ety, large benevolence, firmness of purpose, courage, and 
punctuality. He published a Eulogy on Washington. 
See Sprague, A nnals of the Amer. Pulpit, iv, 113. 

Robinson, John (4), D.D., an English clergyman, 
was graduated at Christ College, Cambridge, and was 
minister of Ravenstondale, Westmoreland, and master of 
the free grammar-school there. He published, a Theo- 
logical, Biblical, and Ecclesiastical Dictionary (Loud. 
1815, 8vo) : — The Proper Xames of the Bible (ibid. 1804, 
12mo) : — besides a number of works for schools. See Al- 
libone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Authors , s. v. ; Darling, 
Cyclop. Bibliog. s. v. 

Robinson, John (5), a minister of the Methodist 
Episeopal Church, was born in County Wicklow, Ireland, 
Aug. 14, 1801. He was converted in his fourteenth year, 
and came to the United States in 1818, uniting soon after 
with the Church in Fish kill, N. Y. In 1823 he moved 
with his parents to South Sod us, Wavne Co., where he la- 
bored, with a great revival as a result. After working un- 
der the presiding elder for two years, he was in 1832 re- 
ceived on trial as an ordained deacon in the Genesee 
Conference. In this and in the East Genesee Confer- 
ence he labored a short time previous to his death, in 
Starkey, Yates Co., Jan. 9, 1868. See Minutes of Annual 
Conferences, 1868, p. 155. 

Robinson, Jonathan N., a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episeopal Church, was born in Suffolk County, Long 
Island, N. Y„ Sept. 27, 1816. He joined the Church 
April 10, 1838, was licensed to preach March 14, 1840, 
and after a course of preparatory study was received on 
trial in the New York Conference, June 16, 1844. He 
went to his last charge in 1853, was attacked with hem- 
orrhage of the lungs, which became so aggravated that 
he died, Nov. 6, 1858. See Minutes of Annual Confer- 
ences, 1859, p. 153. . 

Robinson, Moses, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Burlington, Yt., April 26, 1815. 1 1 is parents 

were poor, and he was dependent upon his own exer- 
tions to gain an education. He graduated at Middle- 
hurv College in 1839, studied theology in Union Semi- 
nary, New York city, was licensed by New York Third 
Presbytery in 1842, and was ordained by Salem Presby- 
tery in 1843 as pastor of the church at Washington, Ind. 
He labored subsequently at Wadsworth, O., then at 


KOBIXSOX 


55 


ROBIXSOX 


Enosburg, Yt., and for the last ten years of his life at 
Steamboat Ruck, la. He died Aug. 31, 1865. See Wil- 
son, Presb. Hist. Almanac, 1866, p. 223. (J. L. S.) 

Robinson, Ralph, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Scotland, Windham Co., Conn., March 12, 1780. 
1 1 is father and family removed to Dorset, Vt., where Ralph 
spent the earlier part of his life at agricult ure. He pur- 
sued his preparatory studies under the care of Rev. Will- 
iam Jackson, of Dorset, paying his board and tuition by 
his labor; graduated at Middleburv College in 1808; stud- 
ied theology with Rev. Holland Weeks, of Pittsford ; was 
licensed to preach by the Rutland Association in 1809, 
and for about a year acted as home missionary, preach- 
ing in Malone, N. Y., and in two or three towns in Ver- 
mont. In 1810 he was ordained and installed as pastor 
of two churches, viz. the Congregational Church in 
Granville, Yt., and the First Congregational Church in 
Hartford, N. V. In 1822 he was settled as pastor of the 
Congregational Church, Marshal, Oneida Co.; in 1828 
of the Church in New Haven ; in 1830 of the Church in 
Pulaski, where he remained sixteen years; in 1846 he 
returned to the New Haven Church and remained seven 
years; in 1854 he went to the Church in East Mexico, 
and in 1858 to the Presbyterian Church in Constantia. 
Thus we have fifty years of uninterrupted ministerial 
labor — a life itself, which, from its nature, must have 
made a mark for eternity on hundreds of souls. lie 
died May 14, 1863. Air. Pobinson was an intelligent 
and earnest preacher and defender of the New England 
or Edwardian theology, a pioneer in temperance and 
anti-slavery reform, and an earnest promoter of all the 
benevolent causes of the Church. See Wilson, Presb. 
Hist. Almanac , 1864, p. 317; also The Congregational 
Quarterly , Boston, July, 1863; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, 
and Amer. Authors, s. v. ; Darling, Cyclop. Bibliog. s. v. 
(J. L. S.) 

Robinson, Richard, archbishop of Armagh and 
lord Rokebv, was born in the North Biding of York- 
shire, England, in 1709. He was educated at West- 
minster School and Christ Church, Oxford, where he 
took his master’s degree in 1733. Dr. Blackburn, arch- 
bishop of York, appointed him his chaplain, and collated 
him first to Elton, Yorkshire, and next to prebend of 
Grindal, Cathedral of York. In 1751 he went to Ire- 
land, and was promoted to the bishopric of Killala in 
the same year. In 1759 he was translated to the united 
sees of Leighlin and Ferns, and in 1761 to Kildare. In 
1765 he was advanced to the primacy of Armagh, and 
made lord-almoner and vice-chancellor of the Univer- 
sity of Dublin. He was created baron Rokeby of Ar- 
magh in February, 1777, and in 1783 he was appointed 
prelate to the Order of St. Patrick. He succeeded to 
the title of baronet upon the death of Sir William, his 
brother, in 1785. Bishop Robinson died at Clifton, near 
Bristol, in October, 1794. He was very watchful over 
the legal rights of the Church in Ireland. The acts of the 
11th and 12th of the then reigning sovereign, securing to 
bishops and ecclesiastical persons repayment for expen- 
ditures in purchasing anti building glebes and houses, 
originated with him. See Chalmers, Biog. Did. s. v. 

Robinson, Robert, a distinguished minister of 
the Baptist denomination in England, was born at Swaff- 
ham, Norfolk, Jan. 8, 1735. In 1749 he was apprenticed 
to a hair-dresser in London. Becoming a hopeful Chris- 
tian under the preaching of Whitefiehl, his master re- 
leased him from his indentures, and he returned to his 
native county and began to preach as a Calvinistic 
Methodist. He soon joined the Baptists, and in 1759 
became pastor of the Baptist Church in Cambridge, 
wdiere he was very popular with all classes of people. 
Enjoying peculiar facilities for study at Cambridge, he 
improved every opportunity to add to his store of knowl- 
edge. He was a fine linguist, and easily learned both 
the ancient and modern languages. Between the years 
1770 and 1782 he prepared and published a truncation 
of Saurin's Sermons . He also published in 1776 A Plea 


for the Divinity of Our Lord Jesus Christ, in a Pastoral 
Letter Addressed to a Congregation of Protestant Dis- 
senters at Cambridge. It is said that this “ Plea excited 
the most singular attention, and the highest dignitaries 
of the Church of England pronounced that it was the 
best defence of the divinity of Christ that had ever 
been published. He was invited to become a clergy- 
man o( the Establishment, to which, however, lie re- 
fused to listen.” Robinson was the author of several 
other works which, in their day, enjoyed a good degree 
of popularity. Among them was a translation of the 
celebrated essay of Claude, On the Composition of a Mer- 
man, and an elaborate work on which he spent years of 
labor — History of Baptism. Close and long-continued 
application to study at length produced its effect on 
his constitution, anil he died June 9, 1790. Although 
he was thought at one time to lean somewhat towards 
Socinianism, he never lost the affection and confidence 
of his Church in Cambridge. See Dyer, Robinsons 
Life and Writings (Bond. 1796, 4to) ; Flower, Robin- 
son's Miscellaneous 1 1 T orks, etc.; also the Annual Re- 
view, 1805, p. 464; Eclectic Review, September, 1*61; 
Allibone, Did. of Brit, and A mer. A uthors, s. v. ; Dar- 
ling, Cyclop. Bibliog. s. v. (J. C. S.) 

Robinson, Thomas (1), an English clergyman, was 
born at Wakefield, in the county of York, Aug. 29, 1749. 
lie was educated at the grammar-school of his native 
place, the governors of which, when it was determined 
to send him to the university, unanimously agreed to 
allow him a double exhibition (pension). He was ad- 
mitted a sizar into Trinity College, Cambridge, in Octo- 
ber, 1768, In 1772 he was elected fellow r of the college, 
and soon after presented to the curacies ofWitcham and 
Witchford. About two years afterwards be accepted 
the curacy of St. Martin’s in Leicester, was chosen after- 
noon lecturer of All-Saints’, and in 1774 chaplain to t he 
Infirmary. In 1778 he w r as appointed weekly lecturer 
of St. Mary’s, Leicester, and in the same year was pre- 
sented to the living of this church. Mr. Robinsou died 
of apoplexy, March 24, 1813, after preaching thirty- 
nine years in Leicester. Among his works are, Script- 
ure Characters (Lonil. 1789, 12mo; last ed. I860, 8vo): 
— The Christian System Unfolded (ibid. 1805. 3 vols. 
8vo; last ed. 1848, 8vo): — Prophecies of the Messiah 
(ibid. 1812-25, 8vo) : — besides A ddresses, etc. See Alli- 
bone, Did. of Brit, and A mer. .4 uthors , s. v. 

Robinson, Thomas (2), an English clergyman, 
was born about the middle of the last century, ami be- 
came rector of Kuan Minor -and vicar of St. Hilary, 
Connvall. lie died in 1814. He w'as the author of, 
A Few Plain Reasons for the Belief of a Christian 
(1800, 8vo) : — Inquiry into the Xature , Necessity, and 
Evidences of Revealed Religion (1803, 8 vo). 

Robinson, William (1), a Presbyterian minister, 
was born near Carlisle, England, in the beginning of the 
18th century. Having plunged into the dissipations of 
London, he was ashamed to return to his father, and re- 
solved to seek his fortune in America. On his arrival, 
he began to teach school in Hopewell, N. J.. living the 
life of a correct and sober man. Soon after his conver- 
sion, he determined to enter the ministry, and pursued 
his studies at the Log College. He was received under 
the care of the New Brunswick Presbytery on April 1, 
1740, and was licensed to preach May 27 following. On 
Aug. 14, 1741, he was ordained in New Brunswick sine 
titulo. Until 1746 he labored as missionary in Virginia, 
and on March 19 was dismissed from the Presbytery of 
New Brunswick to that of New Castle, with a view' of his 
becoming pastor of the congregation at St. George’s, 
Del. But in April following, before he had been in- 
stalled, his death occurred. There remains little doc- 
umentary testimony concerning him; but there is a 
uniform tradition that he was an eminently devout and 
benevolent man, and one of the most vigorous and ef- 
fective preachers of his day. See Sprague, A muds of 
the A mer. Pulpit , iii, 92. 


ROBINSON" 


56 ROCHET 


Robinson, William (2), a Congregational min- 
ister, anti father of Dr. E. Robinson, was born at Leb- 
anon, Conn., Aug. 1 5, 1754. lie was littetl for college in 
the school of Mr. Tisdale in Lebanon, entered the soph- 
omore class in Vale College in 1770, and graduated 
in 1773. In 1775 he returned to New Ilaven to study 
theology, united with the Church in Vale College, May 
5, 1770, and was licensed to preach May 29. In the 
summer of 1778, Mr. Uobinson was chosen to a tutorship 
in Vale College, and held that office one year, preaching 
in the towns adjacent. He was invited in December, 
1778. to settle in Southington, which call he accepted, 
hut was not ordained until June 13, 1780. So limited was 
his income that he was obliged to devote considerable 
of his time to agricultural pursuits. lie was retired 
from active duties in September, 1820, after a ministry 
of forty-one years and two months, and died in 1825 
on the anniversary of his birth. See Sprague, Annals 
of (he A mer . Pulpit , ii, 131. 

Robinson, William S., a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, was born in Harrison County, 
Ky., in 1825. lie joined the Church in his eighteenth 
year, was licensed to preach in August, 1851, and was 
received on trial in the North Indiana Conference in 
1852. In 1854 he was admitted into full membership, 
but was obliged to give up his work in May, and on 
July 11, 1855, he died. See Minutes of Annual Confer- 
ences , 1855, p. 619. 

Rob'oam (*P opod}.i), the Greek form (Ecclus. xlvii, 
23 ; Matt, i, 7) of the name of king Uehoboam (q. v.). 

Roc. See Uok. 

Rocaberti, Juan Tobias de, a Spanish prelate, 
was born at Perelada, Catalonia, March 4, 1627. While 
very young, he took the habit of St. Dominic at the 
Convent of Gerona, but later removed to that of Valen- 
cia. In 1666 he was provincial of Aragon, was elected 
general of the order in 1670, and in 1676 was nomi- 
nated archbishop of Valencia by Charles II. This 
prince twice made him viceroy of that province, and in 
1695 gave him the title of “ grand inquisitor of the 
faith.” lie died at Madrid June 13, 1 69.9. The fol- 
lowing are his principal works: Alimento Espintual, 
Cutidiano Exercwio de Meditnciones (Barcelona, 1668) ■ 
— Teologiu Mistica (ibid. 1699): — De Romani Pont if cis 
A uctontate (Valencia, 1691-94). The last-named work, 
though held in great esteem in Spain and Italy, was not 
so regarded in France, where it was considered contrary 
to the doctrines of the fathers, and the Parliament of 
Paris forbade its sale in 1695. Iiocaberti also collected 
and printed at his own expense all the works which up- 
held the pontifical authority and infallibility. This col- 
lection is entitled Bibliotheca Pontijicia Maxima (Borne, 
1695-99). As general of his order, he edited the works 
ofscveral Dominicans which had never before appeared. 
See Antonio, llibl. JJispana Nova. — lloefer, Nouv. Biog. 
Generate, s. v. 

Rocca, Axgiolo. a learned Italian prelate, was born 
in Bocea Contrada, Naples, in 1545. In 1552 he took the 
habit among the Hermits of St. Augustine, and afterwards 
continued his studies at Borne, Venice, Perugia, and Pad- 
ua, receiving t he title of doctor of divinity at the Universi- 
ty of Padua in September, 1577. In 1579,Fivizani, vicar- 
gencral of the Augusliiiiaus, invited him to become his 
secretary. Pope Sixtus V placed him in the Vatican in 
1585, and confided to bis superintendence those editions 
of the Bible, the councils, and the fathers issued from 
the apostolical press during his pontificate. In 1595 
Clement Will made him apostolical sacristan and titular 
bishop ofTagasto, in Numidia. He presented liis large 
and excellent library to the Augustinian monastery at 
Borne (Oct. 23, 1614), on condition that it should always 
be open to the public, lie died April 8, 1620. Among 
his works are, Bibliotheca Apostolica Vaticana : — Bi- 
Uioihecu Theologica et Script uralis : — Nottv in Novum 
Trstanu ntum : — De Pntientia : — De Cometis: — Obsercu- 
t tones in 17 Libras Elegantiarum, etc. : and Obscrva- 


tiones de Lingua Latina, etc. (1719, printed together, 
2 vols. fob). 

Roch, Sr., a wonder-worker of the Bomish Church, 
respecting whom there is evidence to show that he was 
born at Montpellier, about A.D. 1295; that he visited 
the towns of Italy during an epidemic to nurse the sick, 
and effected cures by the might of his prayers; that he 
subsequently returned to his native city, and was there 
imprisoned during several years on t lie charge of being 
a spy; and that he died in 1327. It is said that while 
himself sick of the plague, and lying in a hovel in the 
neighborhood of Piacenza, he was saved from starvation 
by a hound, who brought him bread frum time to time. 
The stories of his descent from a royal stock and of his 
having attained the eardinalate are wholly fabulous. 
Various miracles are said to have been wrought by him 
after Ids death. A plague which broke out at Costnitz 
during the sessions of a council was stilled by invoking 
the aid of “the blessed confessor and physician Boehns.” 
It is said that his body was stolen in 1485 and brought 
to Venice; but Montpellier, Turin, Antwerp, and other 
towns boast that they possess genuine relics of St. Roch, 
and churches and chapels bearing his name are found in 
all the important towns of Roman Catholic Europe. A 
Confraternitas S. Roch * , a Morbo Epidemics, Liberatoris , 
has existed in Rome since the close of the loth century, 
and was endowed with rich privileges and exemptions by 
popes Alexander VI, Leo X, and Pius IV ; and associa- 
tions bearing similar names were formed at Bologna, 
Venice, Turin, Arles, and Antwerp — one having been 
founded in the place last named so late as 1685. St. 
Roch is commemorated Aug. 16. See Acta Sanctorum, 
Aug. iii, 380-414. — Herzog, Real-Encyldop. s. v. 

Rochechouart (Moutemaiit), Marie Made- 
laine Gaijrikele de, abbess of Fontevrault, was born 
in 1645. The daughter of the duke of Mortemart. she 
was possessed of a great degree of the beauty which 
rendered her sister, Madame de Montespan, so famous. 
At the age of twenty she took the veil at Bois, and in 
1670 became abbess and superior of the Order of Fonte- 
vrault. She was well read, and conversant with the 
literature of the Italian, Spanish, Greek, and Latin lan- 
guages, as well as of her own. After her death, which 
occurred Aug. 15, 1704, there were found among her 
papers several dissertations on piety, morals, and criti- 
cism. One is entitled Question sur la Politesse , which 
may be found in the Recueil de Divers Ecrits , by Saint - 
Hyacinthe (Brussels, 1736). See Gallia Christiana . — 
lloefer, Nouv . Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Rocheniore, Pierre Joseph, was bishop of Mont- 
pellier in 1802. lie refused to exercise his ecclesiastical 
functions in order to avoid leaving Nismes, where he was 
vi ear-general. He died in 1811. 

Rochet, a linen garment worn by bishops under 
the ehimere (q. v.). The word appears first about the 
13th century, being called setreos at Cambrai and saroht 
by John of Liege. The Council of Buda (1279) men- 
tions it as the white caniisia , or rosetta , worn under the 
cuppa , or mantle, when walking or riding. Between 
1305 and 1377 the popes introduced it at Avignon, but 
it was of far earlier date, having been in common use in 
the 7th century, and identified with the linen prescribed 
by the Ordo Romanus. In the following ages the bish- 
ops were obliged by the canon law to wear their rochet 
whenever they appeared in public; and this practice 
was long kept up in England, but has been abandoned 
since the Reformation, except in Parliament and in 
Convocation, over the scarlet habit. Secular prelatie 
prothonotaries, and canons who had the right to use it, 
put it on over the vest is talaris before robing for mass. 
The rubric of the First Common-Prayer Book of Edward 
VI prescribes that the bishop shall wear the rochet at 
communion. The rochet, according to Lyndwood, was 
sleeveless, and worn by the server to the priest, and by 
the latter in baptizing. The chief difference between this 
garment and the surplice was that its sleeves were nar- 


ROCHUS 


57 


ROD 


rower than those of the latter. The modern full sleeve 
is not earlier than the time of bishop Overall. Before 
and after the Reformation, till Elizabeth’s time, the 
rochet was always of scarlet silk, but bishop Hooper 
changed it for a eliimere of black satin. Bale describes 
the clergy wearing white rochets of raines (linen of 
Rennes or Bheims), or tine linen cloth. — Walcott, Sac. 
A rcficeol. ; Hook, Church Did.; Eden, TJteol. Diet.; 
Gardner, Faiths of the World , s. v. See Ornaments. 

Rochus, a carver of San Lucar, Spain, whose princi- 
pal business was to make images of saints and other 
popish idols. Convinced of the errors of Romanism, he 
embraced the Protestant faith, and followed the busi- 
ness of seal-engraver only. An image of the Virgin 
had been retained as a sign, and a papal inquisitor pass- 
ing asked him if he would sell it, and the price. Ro- 
chus gave the price, and the inquisitor offered him half 
the money; upon which Rochus replied, “I had rather 
break it in pieces than take such a trifle.” “Break it 
in pieces if you dare.” said the inquisitor. Rochus took 
a chisel and cut off the nose of the image, for which of- 
fence he was burned. 

Rock (properly S'bo, or “i!|2£, 7 rirpa). Palestine is 
a mountainous and stony country, abounding in caves 
and fastnesses where the inhabitants sought shelter 
from sudden invasions of enemies, and where bands of 
robbers frequently formed their dens. Thus when the 
Benjamites were overcome, they secured themselves in 
the rock Rimmon, and David hid himself from Saul in 
the caves of Adullam, Engedi, and Maon. These ra- 
vines furnish a great number of defensible positions, 
which have been the scene of many deadly struggles, 
from the days of the Canaanites down to the present 
hour. The prevailing rock is a dark -gray limestone, 
which, though it has a most saddening aspect of bar- 
renness and desolation, is very susceptible of cultiva- 
tion, being easily worked into terraces, which give sup- 
port to the soil, and facilitate the fertilizing process of 
irrigation. Travellers who now visit the land are dis- 
posed, at the first view, to doubt the ancient accounts 
of its fertility; they can scarcely bring themselves to 
believe that these barren wastes were the promised 
land “flowing with milk and honey;” but a more at- 
tentive examination of the country affords- abundant 
evidence that its present sterility is owing to the nature 
of its government, which, affording no security either 
for life or property, prevents the husbandman from till- 
ing the soil when he is uncertain whether he shall reap 
its fruits. Indeed, it may be generally said that a coun- 
try of limestone rock will be found one of the best in 
rewarding the labor of cultivation, and one of the worst 
in spontaneous produce. See Cave; Hill. 

Itock is frequently used in Scripture in a figurative 
sense of the ancestor of a nation, the quarry whence 
it was derived (Isa. li, 1 ). It is also used in a meta- 
phorical sense of God, as the “ Rock,” i. e. the strength 
and refuge of his people (I)eut. xxxii, 4; 2 Sam. xxiii, 
3; Psa. xviii, 2). The rock from which the Hebrews 
were supplied with, water in the desert was a figure or 
type of Christ (I Cor. x, 4). So the term rock is used 
of the grand doctrine of Christ’s eternal supremacy, 
which is the foundation of the Christian system (Matt, 
xv i, 18). See Stone.' 

Rock, Daniel, a learned Roman Catholic, was born 
at Liverpool, England, in 1 71)0, and educated at Old Hall, 
Herts, and in the English College, Rome. After serving 
the mission in London for two years, he became domestic 
chaplain to the earl of Shrewsbury, and in 1840 took 
charge of the Church at Buckland, Berks, which he re- 
signed in 1854. On the reintroduction into England 
of the Roman hierarchy (1852), he was one among those 
first made canons of Southwark. He died Nov. 28, 1871. 
Rock published, Hieruryia, or the. Holy Sacrifice of the 
M<tss (Loud. 1833, 2 vois. 8vo; 2d ed. 1850, 8vo ) : — The 
Church of our Fathers , etc. (vol. i, ii, ibid. 1840, 8vo; 
vol. iii, 1853-54): — Transubstantiativn Vindicated: — 


The Mystic Crown of .Vary ; also minor publications. 
See Aliibonc, J)ict. of Brit, and Amer. Authors, s. v. ; 
Darling, Cyclop. Biblioy. s. v. 

Rockwood, LrniM Burton, a Congregational 
minister, was born at Wilton, N. II., April 8, 1816. He 
graduated at Dartmouth College in 1830, and entered 
the Andover Theological Seminary, where be remained 
two years, and then entered the Union Theological 
Seminary, where he also remained two years, graduating 
in 1843. He was ordained to the Gospel ministry in 
1845, and became the financial agent of Union Theolog- 
ical Seminary. He was called to the pastorate of the 
Congregational Church at Rocky Hill, Conn., in 1850, 
and continued in charge of the same until 1858, when 
he accepted the position of district secretary of the 
American Tract Society of New York, and subsequently 
of that of Boston, Mass. He died while engaged in this 
work, May 7, 1872. (W. P. S.) 

Rococo, a name given to the very debased stvle 
of architecture and decoration which succeeded the first 
revival of Italian architecture. It is ornamental design 
run mad, without principle or taste. This style pre- 
vailed in Germany and Belgium during last century, 
and in France during the time of Henry IV. The fol- 
lowing figure is an example from an altar in the Church 
of St. James, Antwerp. 



Rod stands in the A. V. as the representative of sev- 
eral different Hebrew words, and consequently lias va- 
rious significations in the Scriptures pph, choter, a 
shoot, Prov. xiv, 3; Isa. xi, 1; makkcl, a Uciy, 

Gen. xxx, 37-39, 41 ; xxxii, 10; Exod. xii, II ; Numb, 
xxii, 27; 1 Sam. xvii, 40, 43; Jer. i. 11; xlviii. 17; 
Ezek. xxxix, 9; Hos. iv, 12; Zcch. xi, 7, 10, 14; else- 
where Flpp, watt eh. a stick, especially for walking or 
smiting, or 133*5, shebet, the baton of office; paficoc). 
It signifies a wand or walking- staff : as Moses’ rod 
(Exod. iv, 2, 4). Aaron’s rod (vil, 9), Jonathan’s rod 
(1 Sam. xiv, 27). The rods of Moses and Aaron were 
the visible means chosen hv the Almighty for the in- 
strument of his wonders in Egypt, at the Red Sea, and 
in the wilderness. The rod of Moses is sometimes called 
“the rod of God” (Exod. iv, 20; vii, 9. 12, 19, 20; viii, 
5, 17; ix, 23; x. 13). Aaron’s rods, which miraculously 
blossomed and brought forth almonds, was laid lip as a 
memorial in the holy place (Numb, xvii, 8, 10; 11 eh. 
ix, 4). As the wonders wrought by the instrumental- 
itv of Moses’ and Aaron’s rods attracted the attention ol 
neighboring nations, it is not extraordinary if, in course 
of time, these personages were interwoven with mythol- 
ogy (see Willcmer, De Baculo Masts [A itch. 1(>80J). 
It has been plausibly conjectured that Aaron’s rod, 
which in its serpent state devoured the serpent-rods ol 
the Egyptian magicians, was the prototype ol the cadu- 
cous, or wonder-working rod of Mercury, which was fig- 


RODANIM 


58 


RODGERS 


ured as entwined with two serpents. Aaron’s rod was 
caused to blossom miraculously and bring forth almonds 
(Numb, xvii, 8) to show (bid’s election for the priest- 
hood. Parkhurst thinks that the rods of the chiefs 
among the Israelites were of the almond-tree, to denote 
vigilance, that being an early tree, flowering before all 
others. The shepherd’s staff' is called “ a rod and the 
tithe of the herd, or of the flock, was to be taken from 
“ whatsoever passed under the rod,” i. e. from whatso- 
ever required the shepherd’s care (xxvii, 32 ; Jer. 
xxxiii, 13; Ezek. xx, 37; Mie. vii, 14). The term 
“rod” also means a shoot or branch of a tree, and in this 
sense is applied figuratively to Christ as a descendant 
of Jesse (Isa. xi, I). “Rod” is used to designate the 
tribes of Israel as springing from one root (Psa. Ixxiv, 
2; Jer. x, 16). It is used as the symbol of power and 
authority (Psa. ii, 9: exx, 2; exxv, 3; Jer. xlviii, 17; 
Ezek. xix, 11 ; Rev. ii, 27); of that which supports and 
strengthens, a stay or staff' (Psa. xxiii, 4; Isa. iii, 1; 
Ezek. xxix, G); and of the afflictions with which God 
disciplines his people (Job ix, 34; Heb. xii, G, 7). (See 
Cooper. Hist, of the Rod in all Countries and Ages [2d 
ed. Loud. 1877].) See Sceptre; Staff. 

A peculiar use of rods is afforded in the instance of 
those of poplar and hazel (more properly the wild al- 
mond) which Jacob partially peeled, and set in the wa- 
ter where Laban’s cattle drank, and by looking at which 
they brought forth speckled and ring-streaked young. 
Commentators are not agreed as to the effect thus pro- 
duced: whether it was natural or miraculous; whether 
the sight of the rods had naturally such an effect on the 
animals' perceptions as to influence the markings of 
their offspring, in t he manner that children often re- 
ceive marks before birth, from some object that has im- 
pressed itself on the mother’s mind, or whether it was 
a special operation of God in Jacob’s favor, which, in 
fact, seems clearly intimated in Gen. xxxi, 10, 12. where 
Jacob declares himself to have been guided on this sub- 
ject by God in a dream. The Latin fathers considered 
the ease as natural, the Greek as miraculous, which is 
also the prevailing opinion of modern commentators, 
who consider it very doubtful whether the same cause 
(the use of variegated rods) would now certainly pro- 
duce the same effects. See Poplar. 

Rkabdomancg , or divining by rods, became a common 
superstition or idolatrous custom among the Jews, aris- 
ing, doubtlessly, from the ideas of supernatural agency 
attached to the rods of Moses and Aaron. It is alluded 
to in Hos. iv, 12: “My people ask counsel at their 
stocks, and their staff' deeiareth unto them.” It was 
performed, first, by inscribing certain characters on 
small rods, ami then drawing them, like lots, out of a 
vessel : secondly, by measuring the rod in spans, anti 
saying, alternately, words expressing a negative and an 
affirmative, and then determining, according to the last 
span, whether negative or affirmative, to do the intended 
action or not; thirdly, by erecting two sticks, repeating 
a charm, and then determining by certain rules, accord- 
ing as the sticks fell backward or forward, to the right 
or to the left. See Divination. 

Rodanim. See Dodaniji. 

Rodburne. See Rcmiorne. 

Rodgers, Ebenezer, a Baptist minister, was born 
March 1G, 1<«S8, in the Minina valley, Monmouthshire, 
England, lie studied with the Rev. Samuel Kilpin of 
Leominster, Herefordshire, for two years, and was then 
admitted into the Baptist College at Stepney, London, 
where he spent four years. Soon after the completion 
of his studies, he came to America on secular business, 
intending to return in a few months, lie was persuaded 
by some of his friends to visit the State (then Terri- 
tory) of Missouri, and for a time reliiuptished his pur- 
pose of. returning to his native land. A Baptist church 
was soon formed at Chariton, about 175 miles west of St. 
Louis, and Mr. Rodgers was ordained its pastor, though 
he did not confine his labors to this one locality. He 


engaged in teaching in order to defray expenses of liv- 
ing. This itinerant life continued for about sixteen 
years, during which he assisted in the organization of 
about fifty churches. In 1832 he visited Wales, and in 
1834 became pastor of the churches in Alton and Upper 
Alton, 111., but after a year gave his undivided service 
to the latter. He then resigned, but immediately be- 
came pastor of two or three other churches. He contin- 
ued preaching and acting as trustee of Shurtleff College 
until his death, May 25, 1854. See Sprague, .4 nnals of 
the A mer . Pulpit , vi, G81. 

Rodgers, James, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Roxburghshire, in the South of Scotland, in 
1785. His parents were in humble circumstances, and 
his education was limited to that which could be ac- 
quired in the common school, lie owed much to his 
early religious training, and in childhood he had been 
so thoroughly drilled in the doctrines of the Shorter 
Catechism that in later years, planted on this founda- 
tion, he stood unmoved amid hosts of heresies. He 
dated his conversion from his fourteenth year. In 1819 
he emigrated to this country, and settled in the then 
new colony of Hammond, St. Lawrence Co., N. Y. lie 
was licensed 31 arch 23, 1823, and ordained as an evan- 
gelist June 9, 1824. For a number of years he contin- 
ued to labor in Hammond and some of the adjoining 
churches. He also gave a partial supply to a church in 
the township of Oswegatchie, where he finally settled as 
stated supply in 1827, and was installed as the regular 
pastor May 13, 1839. In 1848 failing health rendered 
regular labor impossible, and lie resigned this charge, 
although he continued to labor for short periods in other 
fields. He died Aug. 20, 18G3. 31 r. Rodgers was a re- 

markable man, and he proved himself an efficient and 
successful workman. Ilis pulpit services were charac- 
terized by rich scriptural knowledge, great earnestness, 
and deep spirituality. See Wilson, Presb. Hist . A hnanac , 
18G5, p. 114. (J. L. S.) 

Rodgers, John, D.D.,a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Boston, Aug. 5, 1727. After studying theology, 
he was licensed by the Presbytery of New castle in Oc- 
tober, 1747. After this he went to Virginia, but not be- 
ing permitted to preach there, he went to Maryland, 
and early in 1748 returned to Pennsylvania, where on 
March 1G, 1749, he was installed pastor of the congrega- 
tion of St. George, where his ministrations proved very 
acceptable. In 1754 he spent some months in Virginia 
as substitute of Rev. Samuel Davies during the latter’s 
absence in England. In 1762 he was himself appointed 
by the Synod of New York and Philadelphia to visit 
England to solicit subscriptions to a fund for the benefit 
of the Presbyterian ministry, but family reasons obliged 
him to decline. In 1765 he was elected one of the trus- 
tees of the College of New Jersey, which office he re- 
signed in 1807. In I7G5 he dissolved his relation with 
the Church of St. George, and became pastor of a con- 
gregation in New York. In I7G8 he was made doctor 
of divinity by the University of Edinburgh. During 
the Revolutionary war he showed himself devoted to 
the cause of his country, and was several times consult- 
ed by Washington. In May, 1776, he removed with 
his family to Greenfield, Conn.,* but being appointed 
chaplain to general Heath’s brigade on York Island, he 
at once entered upon his duties. He was obliged to re- 
sign in November of the same year, however, business 
calling him to Georgia. On his return, in April, 1777, 
he was appointed chaplain of the New York Stare Con- 
vention in session at Esopns, and afterwards served the 
Council of Safety in the same capacity, as well as the 
first Legislature of the State under the new constitution. 
In 1780 he removed to Danbury, Conn., and in 1782 
accepted a call from the church of Lamington, N. J., 
when, in 1783, the close of the war permitted him to re- 
turn to New York, where he resinned his former connec- 
tion, with the aid of an assistant after April, 1785. 
Shortly after, he was appointed vice -chancellor of 


RODGERS 


59 


ROE 


the Board of Regents of the University of New York, 1 
and in 1789 he was chosen moderator of the General 
Assembly at Philadelphia. In 1809 his health became 
greatly impaired, and he died IMay 7, 1811. Besides 
some miscellaneous articles in connection with the Epis- 
copal controversy, and several Sermons in the A merican 
Preacher , Dr. Rodgers published .1 Sermon before a 
Masonic Lodge , at Stockbridge, Mass. (1779): — A Na- 
tional Thanksgiving Sermon (1783): — A Sermon on the 
Death of Dr. Witherspoon (1794) : — and .1 Sermon at 
the Opening of the Cedar Street Church (1808). See 
Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit, iii, 154. 

Rodgers. Ravaud Kearney, D.D., a Presbyte- 
rian minister, was born in New York, Nov. 3, 1796. He 
was the son of John II. B. Rodgers, M.D., surgeon in the 
Revolutionary army, practicing physician, and professor 
in the medical department of Columbia College, New 
York city. His grandfather, John llodgers, D. I)., was 
minister of the First Church, in New York, founder of 
the Brick Church, and the first moderator of the Gen- 
eral Assembly in 1789. In the year 1815 Ravaud K. 
graduated at Frinceton College, and in 1818 he grad- 
uated at the Princeton Theological Seminary. In 1820 
he was ordained and installed pastor of the Sandy Hill 
and Glenn’s Falls Fresbyterian churches, N. Y. He re- 
mained ten years in that field, lie was an ardent, no- 
ble, earnest young preacher, and associated with Drs. 
Bullions, Proudfit, Prime, and others in the Bible cause, 
education, and all great works of social improvement 
and philanthropy. With a voice of trumpet power and 
glowing eloquence, he was a favorite at all great public 
meetings and anniversaries, and a leader in every good 
work. Genial, warm-hearted, and generous, he was a 
general favorite. In the year 1830 he received a call 
i'rom the Presbyterian Church at Bound Brook, N.J., 
and, accepting the same, was installed pastor; and at 
that place, and in the Synod and the State of New Jer- 
sey, he left the impress of a pure and useful life. No 
minister of that State was more generally known or 
more universally respected. On all social occasions his 
presence was indispensable as the most agreeable and 
entertaining of men. As a member and officer of eccle- 
siastical bodies — whether General Assembly, Synod, or 
Presbytery — his great excellence of character and pe- 
culiar executive ability were illustrated. For a long 
time he was stated clerk of the New Jersey Synod, and 
a more faithful, popular, and accomplished servant never 
filled that office. His assiduity in the discharge of 
official duty, his punctuality in attendance, his perfect 
knowledge of the law and practice of the Church, and 
his clear, incisive, and able exposition of the constitu- 
tion, which was always at his command, rendered him 
an authority in the courts of the Church. He was a 
model pastor, knowing all his people and their families. 
He called his own sheep by name; he carried them in 
his heart, and went about among them to do them good, 
for he was their trusted counsellor and confidential 
friend. He entered his pulpit with sermons thoroughly 
prepared, which he delivered with energy, life, and pow- 
er. Even down to old age he was strong in the work 
of the ministry, and at seventy-five could outwork many 
of his younger brethren. As he drew near to fourscore, 
he resigned his pastoral charge, which he had held un- 
broken for forty -five years. In 1874 he removed to 
Athens, Ga., where in the home of his daughter he spent 
the calm and beautiful evening of a long, laborious, and 
honored life. He was a philosopher as well as a Chris- 
tian, the divine presence being as real to him as the 
light of the sun; and living in that light, he was as 
ready tod ie as to live; for, “whether living or dying, he 
was the Lord’s.” He died at Athens, Ga., Jan. 13, 1879. 
(\Y. P.S.) 

Rodigast, Samuel, rector of the gymnasium of the 
Gray Convent in Berlin from 1698 to 1708, and previous- 
ly adjunct professor in the University of Jena. He was 
intimate!}" acquainted with Philip J. Spener to the time 


of his death, in 1705. His claim to recognition in this 
place lies in his having composed the hymn IPos Gott 
thut , das ist wohlgethan (1675), which has become a 
classic, and is used wherever the German tongue is 
known. It was a favorite with Frederick William III 
of Prussia, and was rendered on the occasion of his 
funeral, June II, 1840. — Herzog, Real- Envy klop. s. v. 

Rodiger, Emil, doctor and professor of the Oriental 
languages at the University of Berlin, was born Oct. 13, 
1801, at Sangerhauscn. In 1821 he left the gymnasium 
at Halle, and entered the university for the study of 
theology and philology. In 1828 he commenced his 
lectures; in 1830 he was made extraordinary, and in 
1835 ordinary, professor of Oriental languages. In 1860 
he was called to Berlin, where he died, June 15, 1874. 
He was one of the first editors of the Zeitschrift der 
deutschen morgenldmlischeu Cesellsehaft , which review 
also contains a great many of his articles pertaining to 
Oriental literature. He wrote, Commentation quo Vul- 
gata Opinio de Interpret tins Arab. Libr. U. 7'. I/istor. 
Hefut. (Halle, 1828): — Chrestom. Syr. c. Gloss. (ibid. 
1838): — De Origine et Indole A rabiae Librarian V.T. 
Ilistoricorum Interpretation is Libri Duo (ibid. 1829). 
But his main work is his continuation of Gesenius’s 
great Xovus Thesaurus Philolog.-criticus Lingme I lehr, et 
Chald. U. T. (Lips. 1853). He also edited several edi- 
tions of bis Teacher's Hebrew Grammar. See Lite- 
rarischer Ihindweiser. 1874, p. 236: Schneider, Theolo - 
gisches Jahrbuch , 1875, p. 375 sq. ; Winer, Theologisches 
IJandbuch, i, 58; ii, 737 ; Fiirst, Bibliotheca Judaica, iii, 
162; Steinschneider, Bibliographisches Ilandbnch , p. 52 
sq. ; and Index to vol. i-xxx of the Zeitschrift der 
deutschen morgenl. Gesellschaft . (B. P.) 

Rodon. See Derodon. 

Rodriguez, Girao, called Father Jodo , a Portu- 
guese missionary, was born near Lisbon in 1559. He 
entered the Jesuit order in 1576, and in 1583 went to 
Japan, where he gave himself to the study of the lan- 
guage. He soon spoke the dialect of Nagasaki w r ith 
fluency, received the protection of the government, and 
consequently escaped the persecutions to which the oth- 
er missionaries were subjected. He returned to Europe 
late in life, and died in 1633. His principal work was 
printed at Nagasaki, and was entitled A rte da Lingua 
do Japdo (1604). It was translated into French by 
Landresse and annotated by Remusat (1825). Rodriguez 
also wrote letters on the persecutions to which Chris- 
tians were subjected in Japan, entitled Cartas Annuas 
de Nangazachi dos Annos 1604 e 1605, trails!, into Latin 
(Antw. 1611-12) and into Italian (1808-10) Annuas 
de 1609 e 1610 (Rome, 1615). Some smaller works of 
Rodriguez appeared at Rome in 1615 and 1632. See 
Antonio, Bibl. I/ispana ; Pages, Bibliogr. Japonaise . — 
Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Roe is properly the rendering in the A. V. of 
tsebiyah (Cant, iv, 5; vii, 3), which is the fem. of ^322, 
tsebi, the Roe -buck (so called from its beauty, Dent, xii, 
15, 22; xiv, 5; xv, 22; 1 Kings iv, 23; elsewhere im- 
properly “roe,” 2 Sam. ii, 18; 1 Chron. xii, 8; Rrov. vi, 
5; Cant, ii, 7, 9, 17; iii, 5; viii, 14; Isa. xiii, 11; “beau- 
ty,” 2 Sam. i, 19). These are the masculine and femi- 
nine appellations of an antciope, which was considered 
the very impersonation of beauty; and so, in the later 
Hebrew Scriptures, i. e. from Isaiah downward, it is al- 
ways used in an abstract sense, and is rendered bv such 
terms as “ glory,” “ beauty,” “ ornament,” “ delight,” etc. 
The word was not only found in the various Araimean 
dialects of Western Asia, but has spread to nations where 
we should have-little expected to tint! it, as those ol the 
extreme south of Africa. Thus the elegant springbok 
of the Cape Colony (/l ntilope eu chore), an animal nearly 
allied to the gazeiles of Asia, is named tsebi by the Be- 
chnanas, and tesbe by the Caifrcs. The Sept, generally 
renders the word by Sopicdc ; and this is given in the 
New Test, as the Greek equivalent of the Syriac tubithu 


ROE 


GO 


ROE 


(Acts ix, 3G). which is but the feminine form with the 
ts softened to t by the dropping of the sibilant. 

The animal in question is the doreas gazelle of the 
modern Orientals {Antilope doreas), the most abundant 
of all the ruminants inhabiting Palestine and its vicin- 
ity in a state of freedom. It appears to be replaced in 
the surrounding regions by what some naturalists con- 
sider as distinct, though closely allied, species, and oth- 
ers are disposed to view as only local varieties of the 
same. Thus in Asia Minor, extending southward into 
Syria and eastward into Central Asia, there is the ahu 
(A nt Hope subgutturosa), with rather stouterhorus than the 



Kncbuck ( Antilope dor can). 


gazelle ; in Western India the kalsepi (.1 . Henrietta , Sykes; 
A. com , II. Smith), closely like the gazelle, but higher 
on the limbs, with the tail entirely black, and scarcely 
gregarious; all along the eastern shore of the lied Sea 
lives the ariel gazelle (-1. Arabian), scarcely to be dis- 
tinguished from A . doreas except by being somewhat 
darker in color, and usually a little slighter in form. On 
the continent of Africa we have, in the north of Abys- 
sinia, the A . Sitmmerinyii of liiippel, an animal consid- 
erably larger than the gazelle, with boldly Iv rate horns, 
and associating in pairs; on the western side of the 
desert, the kevel (d . ke cello), nearer the gazelle, but 
with the horns compressed, more annulated, and lyrate; 
and, finally, in the southern half of the continent, the 
springbok (A.enchore) and the blessbok (A. pygargtt), 
large species with lyrate horns, and the sides and flanks 
marked with conspicuous dark bands, which enclose a 
white patch on t ho buttocks. These merge into anoth- 
er group, chiefly inhabiting North Africa, containing the 
mhorr and the addra. See Pycjauc. Of all these spe- 
cies the tsebi properly includes only the A. doreas and 
.1 . I rabira; and in all probability these were not dis- 
tinguished, but supposed. Stanley (Pyr. and Palest, p. 
207 ) says that the signification of the word Ajalon, the 
valley “of slags,” is still justified by “ the gazelles which 
the peasants hunt on its mountain slopes.” Thomson 
( Land and Pool:, i, 2 32) says that the mountains of 
Naphtali ‘‘abound in gazelles to this day.” See Ante- 
lope. 

So elegant is the form, so light and slender the limbs, 
so graceful the movements, so shv and timid the dispo- 
sition, of the gazelle that the Oriental genius lias ever 
delighted to make it the representative of female love- 
liness. The eye in particular is large, soft, liquid, lan- 
guishing, and of the deepest black — qualities which are 
so admired in the eyes of an Oriental woman that to 
say “she has the eyes of a gazelle” is the most flatter- 
ing compliment that can bo paid to beauty. The poetry 
of the Arabs and Persians is full of such allusions, while 
the lightness and lleetness of the creature afford similes 
bv which to illustrate the activity and grace of the 
youthful mail. David, in Ids exquisite elegy on the 
death of Saul and Jonathan, calls his friend “the gazelle 


of Israel” (2 Sam. i, 19) ; and in the Song of Songs the 
comparison is frequently interchanged between the bride- 
groom and the bride. What can be more exquisite than 
the compound simile in ch. iv, 5? Ashael, the broth* r 
of Joab, was “as light of foot ns one of the gazelles in 
the field” (2 Sam. ii, 18); and the Gadites who gathered 
to David in the wilderness were “men of might, . . . 
whose faces were like the faces of lions, and who were 
as swift as gazelles upon the mountains” (1 Chron. xii, 
8). The gentle Tabitha of Joppa, the loving and be- 
loved (Acts ix, 3G), was doubtless so named because 
of her beauty, real or fancied. The gazelle was per- 
mitted to be eaten Uv the law of Moses, as it is a 
typical ruminant. It seems to have even been a 
standard of lawful and proper food — “Thou mavest 
eat flesh, . . . even as the gazelle ... is eaten” (Deut. 
xii, 15, 22). Whereas hitherto they had eaten the 
flesh of their flocks and herds only on occasions of 
these being offered in sacrifice, now that they were 
about to become a settled and an agricultural people, 
they might kill and eat their domestic animals with- 
out any such restriction, as freely as they had been ac- 
customed to eat the gazelles which they took in hunting, 
ft is probable that this animal formed a considerable por- 
tion of the animal food of the Hebrews, not only in their 
desert wanderings, but before and after their captivity in 
Egypt. The venison which Isaac loved, and which Esau 
took with his quiver and his bow, and which could not 
be distinguished from kid when this latter was suitably 
dressed (Gen. xxvii), was doubtless the flesh of the ga- 
zelle. To this day. the valley of Gerar and the plains 
of Heersheba are the haunts of vast flocks of these agile 
creatures, and still the pastoral Arabs hunt them there 
and make savory meat. See Gazelle. 

The paintings of ancient Egypt present ns with nu- 
merous examples of gazelle-hunting. Sometimes a bat- 
tue is depicted, in which all the game of the country is 
driven before the hounds. In such scenes the great 
predominance given to the gazelle shows how large a 
proportion this animal bore to other quarry. Some- 
times the capture of the wild animal alive was the ob- 
ject desired; in this case it was either trapped or snared 
in some way, or shot, with blunt-headed arrows, and the 
hunter is seen leading home the gentle gazelle by the 
horns. Occasionally, too, this was accomplished by 
throwing the lasso, as wild horses are now taken on 
the South American pampas. Large herds of gazelles 
were kept by the Egyptian land-holders in their parks 
and preserves, like deer with ns. Frequently, however, 
the hounds, which were held two or three in leash, were 
loosed after the fleet-footed antelope, and pulled it down 
hv sheer running, the hunter running on font, which 
implies that the course could not have been long. At 
present, however, though large herds of gazelles are 
common enough, and the sport of chasing them is as 
keenly relished as ever, no breed of dogs cultivated in 
the East has a chance of bringing one down in a fair 
open run. They are hunted by the Arabs with a falcon 
and a greyhound. The repeated attacks of the bird upon 



Eoebtick (from the Assyrian Sculptures, British Museum), 


ROE 


Cl ROGATION DAYS 


the head of the animal so bewilder it that it falls an easy 1 
prey to the greyhound, which is trained to watch the ' 
tlight of the falcon. Many of these antelopes are also 
taken in pitfalls, into which they are driven by the I 
shouts of the hunters. (Sec Addison, Damascus and ) 
Palmyra , ii, 340 ; Kitto, Phys, Hist . of Palest, p. 392 ; i 
and Burckhardt, Notes, p. 220.) The group of ante- \ 
lopes to which this article is devoted, genericallv named 
Gazella by some naturalists, is thus characterized: the 
horns, which are permanent, and present in both sexes, 
are lyrate, with solid bony cores. The lachrymal sinus- 
es are distinct and movable,- the interdigital pits and 
inguinal pores are large. The ^necs arc generally fur- 
nished with tufts of hair. A dark streak runs through 
the eye. The inside of the ear is marked with lines, oc- 
casioned by the alternation of hands of white hair; the 
color of the sides and Hanks, some hue of warm brown, 
is separated from the white of the belly by a dark line. 
The nose is sheep-like. — Fairbairn. See Tristram, Nat. 
Hist, of the Bible , p. 127 sip; Bible Educator , ii, 135. 
See Deeu. 

In Prow v, 19, the word Roe represents the IIeb.y««- 
lah', properly the female ibex or youny she-yoat ; 

here used as an epithet for a lovely woman (Bochart, 
Hieroz. i, 899; Gesen. Thesaur. s. v. See Goat. 

Youno Roe in the Song of Solomon (iv. 5) stands 
for the Ileb. o'pher , "iE~ (from the root aphar', “■£!*, 
to be ickitish ), the Arabic alyophro , which denotes the 
calf or fawn of a stag {ail). It occurs in no other book 
of Scripture, is unknown in the Syriac and Chaldee, and 
appears to be only a poetical application of a term more 
strictly belonging to fawn-like animals; for in the above 
passage it is applied to couples feeding in a bed of lil- 
ies — indications not descriptive of young goats or stags, 
but quite applicable to the Antilopine groups which are 
characterized in Griffith’s Cuvier, in subgenus X Cephal- 
ophus, and in XI Neotvayns , both furnishing species of 
exceeding delicacy and graceful diminutive structures, 
several of which habitually feed in pairs among shrubs 
and geraniums on the hilly plains of Africa. And as they 
have always been,- and still are, in request among the 
wealthy in w'arm climates for domestication, we may 
conjecture that a species designated by the name of 
Ophcr ("IE", perhaps alluding to " n S’’N, Ophir, or even 
Africa) was to be found in the parks or royal gardens 
of a sovereign so interested in natural history as Solo- 
mon was, and from the sovereign’s own observation be- 
came alluded to in the truly apposite imagery of his 
poetical diction (Cant, iv, 12). Among the species in 
question, in which both male and female are exceeding- 
ly similar, and which might have reached him by sea or 
by caravan, w r e may reckon Cephalophus Gritnmia , C. 
perpusilla, C. philantnmba , all marked by a small black 
tuft of hair between their very short horns; as also the 
Neotruyus pyymea , or guevei, the smallest of cloven- 
footed animals; and the madolka, with speckled legs; all 
these species being natives of Central Africa, and from 
time immemorial brought by caravans from the interior 
for sale or presents. — Kitto. See Hind. 

Hoe, Azel, D.D., a Presbyterian minister, was born 
at Setauket, Long Island, N. Y., Feb. 20, 1738. lie was 
graduated at the College of New Jersey in 1750, and 
studied theology under Rev. Caleb Smith, of Newark 
Mountains (now Orange), N. J. He w’as licensed to 
preach by the New York Presbytery in 1759 (or 1760), 
and was ordained sine titulo by the same presbytery 
about, two years after. In the autumn of 1703 he w T as 
installed pastor at Woodbridge, N. J. During the Revo- 
lution he proved himself an earnest friend of the colo- 
nies. Mr. Roe was trustee of the College of New Jersey 
for twenty-nine years (1778-1807), a member of the first 
General Assembly in 1789, and moderator of that body 
in 1802. lie was made doctor of divinity by Yale Col- 
lege in 1800. He died of an affection of the throat, 


Dec. 2, 1815. See Sprague, Annals of the A mer. Pulpit, 
iii, 232. 

Roe, Charles A., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was converted at an early age, and 
received his license to preach when about twenty-three 
years old. In 1853 he was received on probation in the 
Rock River Conference, in which he labored until the 
conference of 1857 granted him a superannuated rela- 
tion, which he sustained until his death by consump- 
tion, Sept. 27, 1859. See Minutes of . I tinual Conf. 1860, 
p. 330. 

Roebuck, See Roe. 

Roebuck, J. II., a minister of the Wesleyan Meth- 
odist Association, was born in Leeds, England, Feb. 14, 
1816. He was awakened at about the age of tifteen 
years, and when nineteen years of age he was appointed 
to the Sheffield circuit. While laboring in Manchester 
he had a public debate with Robert Owen, the founder 
of socialism, in which he showed great skill. Removing 
to Glasgow, he still continued his services against. Owen- 
ism, and was very successful in his ministerial labors. 
He died Dec. 20, 1840, of disease of the throat, lie con- 
ducted for a time The Temjierance Journal. Sec Simp- 
son, Cyclop, of Methodism, s. v. 

Roeh. See IIaeoeil 

Roell, II human Alexander, a celebrated Protes- 
tant divine, was born in 1653 at Doelberg, Westphalia. 
He studied first, at Unna and then at Utrecht, but upon 
the breaking-out of the war he was obliged to go to 
Gottingen. This place becoming unsafe, he returned to 
Germany, studied at Marburg, and afterwards at Hei- 
delberg. He then went to Basel and Zurich, and in 
1676 lie again visited the United Provinces, spending 
two years at the universities of Utrecht and Leyden. 
He became chaplain to Elizabeth, abbess of llervorden, 
and held that position until her death in 1680, w hen he 
v r as appointed preacher to Albert ine. princess of Orange. 
In 1686 he w r as elected professor of divinity at the Uni- 
versity of Franeker, and in June, 1704, was appointed to 
the divinity chair of Utrecht, which he retained with 
great reputation until his death, July 12, 1718, Among 
his publications are, Commentarius in Principium Epis - 
tolce Pauli ad Ephesos (Utrecht, 1715, 4to): — a C’«»- 
tin nation, with An Exeyesis on Colossians (ibid. 1731, 
4to): — Explica tio Catecheseos JJeulelberyensis (ibid. 
1728): — Exeyesis in Psalmum Ixxxix (Duisburg, 1728, 
8vo) : — Gulichii Analysis ef Compendium Librorum Pro- 
phet icorum, etc. (Amherst, 1683, 4to): — 0 ratio Inauyu - 
ralis de Reliyione Rutionali. See Chalmers, Bioy . Diet. 
s. v. ; Hook, Eccles. Bioy . s. v. 

Roeska, in Norse, mythology, was the sister of Thi- 
alfe and servant of Thor. 

Rogatiani, one of the numerous sects into which 
Donatism subdivided itself. They took their name from 
their leader, Rogatn«, and nourished in Mauritania Cie- 
sariensis (A. D. 372-373). 

Rogation Days (Lat. royare, to beseech) are the 



of Vienna, upon the prospect of some particular calami- 
ties that threatened his diocese, appointed that extraor- 
dinary prayers and supplications should be offered up with 
fasting to God fur averting those impending evils upon 
the above-mentioned days; from which supplications 
(called by the Greeks litanies, by the Latins royations) 
these days have ever since been called Royation days. 
The calamity referred to was a terrible fire which raged 
in the city of Vienne, Dauphiny, and which suddenly 
went out in answ’or to the prayers of the bishop. 4 he 
same result followed his supplications on the occurrence 
of a second great lire. Such is the assumed miracle 
(Thompson, Philos, of Mayic, ii, 291). At the time of 
the Reformation these days were continued for the pur- 
pose of retaining the perambulation (q. v.) of the cir- 
cuits of parishes. In t lie Church of England it has 


62 


ROGERS 


ROGATION SUNDAY 

been thonght fit to continue the observance of these 
days as private fasts. There is no otfice, or order of 
prayer, or even a single collect, appointed tor the Roga- 
tion days in the Prayer-book; but there is a homily 
appointed for Ilogation week, which is divided into four 
parts, the first three to be used on the three Rogation 
days, and the fourth on the day when the parish make 
their procession. The days were called in Anglo-Saxon 
gang daegas ; the old form of the name, “ gang days,” still 
lingering in the north of England. There was considera- 
ble opposition to the observance of rogations during the 
fifty days between Easter and Pentecost — a time which 
was one continued festival in the early Church. The 
Eastern Church does not keep Eogationtide, and even 
drops the fasts of Wednesday and Friday during the 
fifty days. See Bingham, Christian Antiq. xxi, 2, 8; 
Blunt, Diet, of Theol, s. v.; Eden, Theol. Diet, s. v.; 
Hook, Church Diet, s. v. 

Rogation Sunday, the Sunday immediately pre- 
ceding Rogation days (q. v.). 

Rogation Week, the next week but one before 
Whit-Sunday. See Rogation Days. 

Rogda, in Slavic mythology, was a Russian hero 
who slew the serpent’s son Tngarin of Bulgaria, in- 
vincible to any person born of a woman. Tngarin in- 
tended to challenge the prince Vladimir to mortal com- 
bat because he had married Lepa, daughter of the king 
of the Bulgarians, against her father’s will, and Lepa 
made known the secret of Tugarin’s invulnerability to 
hor husband. Rogda, who had been taken from his 
mother’s womb by means of an incision made after her 
death, went forth and successfully encountered the gi- 
ant. — Vollmer, 1 Vdrterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Rogel. See En-rogkl. 

Ro'gelim (Heb. Rogelim', CyYs, Deciders , i. e. 
fullers; Sept. ’PajyeXXt)/), a place in Gilead, the resi- 
dence of Barzillai (2 Sam. xvii, 27 ; xix, 31). It is pos- 
sibly the present Ajhin, the principal village of Jebel 
Ajlun, on a wady of the same name, between Jerash 
and ed-Deir (Jabesh-Gilead). 

Roger of Hexham. See Richard. 

Roger of Hoveden, an English historian and pro- 
fessor of theology, was born in Yorkshire, and lived be- 
yond 1204, but the exact periods of his birth and death 
are not known, lie is said to have been employed by 
Henry 11 in confidential services, such as visiting mon- 
asteries. lie was by profession a lawyer, but was in 
the Church, and also a professor of theology at Oxford. 
After Henry’s death he applied himself diligently to the 
writing of history, and composed annals from 731, where 
Bede left off. to 1202, the third year of king John. These 
annals were first published by Saville among the Histo- 
rici A nglici (1 505 ; reprinted, F ranklbrt, 1 601 , fob). Yos- 
sius says that he wrote also a history of the Northum- 
brian kings and a life of Thomas a Becket. See Chal- 
mers, Ding. Diet, s. v. “ Hoveden.” 

Roger of Wendovkr, an ancient English historian, 
of whom little is known, embraced the monastic life in 
the Abbey of St. Alban’s, and died May 6, 1237. lie 
published Jlogeri de Wendover Chronica , sire Flores 
Ilistoriarum (formerly ascribed to Matthew Baris), 
translated from the Latin by J. A. Giles (Lond. 1849, 2 
vols. 8vo). See Allibone, Diet, of Brit. and Amer. Au- 
thors, s. v.; Darling, Cyclop. Bibliog. s. v. 

Roger, Abraham, a Protestant minister, who em- 
barked for the East Indies about 1G40, and was pastor 
at the Dutch factory, Palicat, on the Coromandel coast, 
for ten years, lie died about 1670. From the inter- 
course he had with the Brahmins he has given a valu- 
able account of their religion and customs — La Vraye 
Representation de la Religion des lira mines (Amherst, 
1670, 4to). See Darling, Cgclop. Bibliog. s. v. 

Rogereens, so called from John Rogers, their chief 
leader. They appeared in New England about 1677. 


The principal distinguishing tenet of this denomination 
was, that worship performed the first day of the week 
was a species of idolatry which they ought to oppose. 
In consequence of this they used a variety of measures 
to disturb those who were assembled for public worship 
on the Lord’s day. — Buck, Theol, Diet. s. v. 

Rogers, Daniel, a "Puritan divine, was born in 
1573, and was educated at Christ’s College, Cambridge, 
of which he was chosen fellow. He became minister 
of llaversham, Buckinghamshire, and afterwards of 
Weathersfield, Essex. His death took place in 1652. 
II is publications arc : David's Cost (Lond. 1619, 8vo) : — 
Practical Catechism (ibid. 1633, 4to; 1640): — Baptism 
and the Lord's Supper (3d ed. ibid. 1635, 4to; again, 
1036): — Matrimonial Honor (ibid. lG42,4to): — Xaumnn 
the Syrian (lectures on 2 Kings v, 9-15) (ibid. 1042- 
50, fol.) : — Prediction concerning King Charles I and 
Archbishop Laud (ibid. 1692). See Allibone, Diet . of 
Brit, and A mer. A uthors, s. v. ; Darling, Cgclop. Bibli- 
og. s. v. 

Rogers, Elymas P., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Madison, Conn., Feb. 10, 1815. Though reared 
in humble life, he had devoted Christian parents; they 
being poor, however, and unable to support their large 
family, when nine years of age he was sent to live with 
strangers, and, being the only colored boy in the neigh- 
borhood, was looked down upon by those who were 
prejudiced against his race. His meagre advantages 
for gaining an education were thereby lessened and his 
difficulties increased. He returned home in his fifteenth 
year, and labored with his father until he accepted a 
situation in the family of major Caldwell, of Hartford, 
Conn., who wanted a person" who would work for his 
board and have an opportunity of going to school. In 
1833 he became a communicant of the Talcott Street 
congregation in Hartford, Conn. Now he determined 
to study for the ministry, and in 1836 entered the Oneida 
Institute in Whitesborough, N.Y., where he remained five 
years, teaching for his support during the winter, and 
studying for the ministry during the other portions of 
the year, until he graduated in 1841. He immediately 
removed to Trenton, N. J., as principal of the public 
school for colored children, and there he continued the 
study of theology under the care of the late Rev. Dr. 
Eli F. Cooley and the Rev. Dr. John Hall, lie was li- 
censed by New Brunswick Presbytery Feb. 7, 1844, and 
in 1845 was ordained and installed as pastor of the 
Witherspoon Street Church, Princeton, N. J. Jn 1846 
he became pastor of the Plane Street Church, Newark, 
N. J., where he continued to preach until Nov. 5, I860, 
when he went to Africa, with the object of travelling in 
the interests of the African Civilization Society, and 
while engaged in this work, died at Cape Palmas, Jan. 
20, 1861. Mr. Rogers was a man of fine gifts, and re- 
markable poetic talent. Dr. Maclean, ex-president of 
the College of New Jersey, says of him, “This truly 
good man ought to be held in respect by all who have 
any regard for simple and unaffected piety. My esti- 
mate of his character was a high one.” He wrote a 
large number of temperance hymns and two poems, one, 
The Repeal of the Missouri Compromise Considered ; the 
other, on The Fugitive - Slave Law. lie published a 
Thanksgiving Sermon, and Dangers and Duties of Men 
of Business (Pliila. 1835, 8vo). See Wilson, Presb. Hist. 
Almanac, 1862, p. 191. (J. L. S.) 

Rogers, Ezekiel, a Congregational minister, was 
born at Weathersfield, Essex, England, in 1590. lie 
took the degree of B.A. at Benet College in 1604, and 
that of M.A. at Christ’s College in 1608, becoming the 
chaplain of Sir Francis Barrington at Hat field, Essex. 
After five or six years, Sir Francis bestowed upon him 
the benefice of Rowley, Yorkshire, where he exercised 
his ministry for about twenty years, when he was si- 
lenced for nonconformity, though he was allowed the 
profits of his living for two years longer, and the privi- 
lege of nominating his successor. Restless under the 


ROGERS 


63 


ROGERS 


restraints upon his liberty, Mr. Rogers came to America 
in 1638, where lie commenced a new settlement in April, 
1039, and was ordained in the following December. lie 
continued to labor in this parish until his death, Jan. 23, 
1000. Mr. Rogers gave his library to Harvard College, 
and his house and lands to the town of Rowley for the 
support of the Gospel. See Sprague, Annuls of the 
Amen Pulpit , i, 120. 

Rogers, George, an English clergyman, was horn 
in 1741, and was for more than fifty years rector of 
Sproughton, near Ipswich. He published a Sermon 
(1790, 8vo) : — Five Sermons (1818. l2mo); and edited, 
with a memoir, the Sermons of Rev. Edward Evanson 
(1800,2 vols. 8vo). See Gentleman's Mag. 1830, i, 555: 
Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. A uthors, s. v. 

Rogers, George W. T., a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, was born in Ilolderness, N. H.. 
Feb. 2, 1812, and was converted March, 1830, joining the 
Church in 1832. He preached his first sermon as local 
preacher in 1838, and, after preparation, entered the reg- 
ular work in 1843. In 1804 he became supernumerary, 
in 1865 effective, in 1807 superannuated, and died at the 
house of his son in Salem the next year. See Minutes 
of Annual Conferences , 1809, p. 104. 

Rogers, Hester Ann, an eminent saint in the 
early annals of Methodism, was born in Macclesfield, 
England, in 1756. Her father, a pious man, died when 
she was but nine years old, and his peaceful end made 
an indelible impression upon ber mind. She was at first 
greatly prejudiced against the Methodists; but her in- 
terest in them was aroused by hearing one of their 
preachers, and. although her mother threatened to turn 
her out of doors in consequence, deepened, until, on a 
visit of Mr. Wesley to her native place in her twentieth 
year, she fully joined them. Her maiden name was 
Roe, and in 1784 Wesley promoted her marriage with 
James Rogers, one of his most effective preachers, with 
whom she lived happily, occupied in all evangelical la- 
bors, until her death, in 1794, soon after the birth of her 
fifth child. She was a model of Christian purity and 
zeal, filling the office of female class-leader, and often 
addressing public congregations with remarkable pa- 
thos and power. For twenty years she had been a wit- 
ness of the experience of perfect love. Her Journal 
has been published, also her Life, as a part of Methodist 
literature. See also Stevens, Women of Methodism, p. 
98 sq. ; Simpson, Cyclop, of Methodism, s. v. 

Rogers, Isaiah P. t a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was converted in the autumn of 1840, 
and soon after joined the Church. In July, 1840, he 
was received on trial in the Maine Conference; and when 
the conference was divided, August, 1848, lie became a 
member of the East Maine Conference. He was super- 
annuated June 20, 1849, and held that relation until his 
death, at Renton, Me., June 20, 1852. See Minutes of 
Annual Conferences, 1852, p. 80. 

Rogers, John (I), an English divine and martyr, 
was born about 1500. lie was educated at Cambridge, 
where he entered holy orders, and was appointed chap- 
lain to the English factory at Antwerp, where he re- 
mained several years. There he met Tyndale and Cov- 
erdale, through whom he was led to renounce poperv. 
He married at Antwerp, and became pastor of a congre- 
gation at Wittenberg, which office he retained until the 
accession of Edward VI. In 1548 he returned to Eng- 
land, invited by bishop Ridley, and was presented with 
the rectory of St. Margaret Moyses and the vicarage of 
St. Sepulchre’s, both in London, May 10, 1550. Bishop 
Ridley made him a prebendary of St. Raufs, St. Pan- 
eras, and rector of Chigwell, Aug. 24, 1551, and, later, 
divinity -reader. On the Sunday after the entry ol 
queen Mary into London (Thursday, Aug. 3, 1553), he 
denounced Romanism at St. Raufs Cross, urging the 
people to continue steadfast in the doctrines taught in 
king Edward’s day. For this he was summoned before 
the privy council, but defended himself so ably that he 


was released. On Aug. 18 he was ordered to remain a 
prisoner in his own house at St. Raufs, from which he 
refused to make his escape, though frequently urged. 
After six months he was removed to Newgate, where 
his confinement was aggravated by every species of 
severity. In January, 1555, he was tried before Gardi- 
ner, bishop of Winchester, and condemned to be burned 
at Smithtield, Feb. 4, which sentence he bore with great 
constancy and patience. He translated from Meltmc- 
thon, A Weighing and Considering of the Interim (Loud. 
1548, 10mo); and was compiler of the first authorized 
English Bible prepared from Ty lid ale’s MSS., Cover- 
dale’s translation, published under the assumed name 
of Thomas Matthew : The Byhle, in which is contained 
the Olde and Neire Testaments, etc., by Thomas Matthew 
(1537, fol.). It was printed by Grafton and Whitchurch, 
and copies are in the British Museum, Lambeth, Bod- 
leian, St. Raufs, and other libraries. During bis im- 
prisonment, be wrote an account of his examinations, 
and also other papers, which were providentially pre- 
served, and have been transmitted to the present time. 
They may be found in Fox’s Murfyrology, p. 415. Sec 
Chester, Life of Rogers (Loud. 1861, 8 vo) ; Strype, Crun- 
mer; British Reformers, \ ol. ix; also Allibone, Diet, of 
Brit, and Amer. A id hors. s. v. 

Rogers, John (2), an English divine, was born 
probably in 1565, and is supposed to have been a grand- 
son of the preceding. He was minister of Chacomb, 
Northamptonshire, from 1587 to 1620, the year of his 
death. His published work is a Discourse on Christian 
Watchfulness, etc. (Lond. 1620, 8vo). See Allibone, 
Diet, of Brit, and A mer. A idkors, s. v. 

Rogers, John (3), an English Puritan divine, was 
educated at Cambridge, lie became vicar of llemming- 
hnm iu 1592, minister of Haverhill in 1603, and was af- 
terwards minister of Dedham, Essex, where he died in 
1030. His works are : Sixty Memorials of a Godly Life : 
— Treatise of Love: — Doctrine of Faith (Lond. 2d ed. 
1027 ; 0th ed. 1034, l2mo) : — Exposition of First Epistle 
of Peter (ibid. 1050, fob). See Allibone, Diet . of Brit, 
and Amer. Authors , s. v. ; Darling, Cyclopedia Biblio- 
graphica, s. v. 

Rogers, John (4), a Congregational preacher, was 
born probably at Assington, England, and came with 
his father to New England in 1030. He was graduated 
at Harvard College in 1049, having studied medicine 
and theology. He was invited to preach at Ipswich in 
1656, where he remained until he became president of 
Harvard College, August, 1083. He died July 2, 1084. 
See Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit , i, 147. 

Rogers, John (5), a Congregational minister, and 
son of the preceding, was born July 7, 1000, was grad- 
uated at Harvard College in 1084, was ordained at Ips- 
wich, Oct. 12, 1092, and died Dec. 12, 1745. His works 
are: Death the Wages of Sin (1701).- — Election Sermon 
(1700) : — Sermon on the Death of J. Appleton (1739). See 
Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. A uthors, s. v. ; Sprague, 
Annuls of the Amer. Pulpit, i, 147. 

Rogers, John (6), D.D., an English divine, was 
born at Ensham, Oxfordshire, in 1679, was educated at 
New College school, Oxford, and in 1093 was elected 
scholar of Corpus Christ i College. After taking his de- 
gree in arts and entering orders, he waited for a fellow- 
ship, which he secured in 1700, hut in the meantime 
had become vicar of Rockland, Berkshire, lie took 
the degree of B.l). in 1710, was made lecturer of St. 
Clement’s Danes in 1712, afterwards becoming lecturer 
of the united parishes of Christ Church and St. Leon- 
ard’s, Foster Lane. In 17 Hi he became rector of Wring- 
ton, Somersetshire; prebend of Wells in 1718; subdean 
of the same in 1721 ; chaplain to George II, then prince 
of Wales; and vicar of St. Giles's, Cripplcgate, London, 
October, 1728. lie died May 1, 1729. lie wrote, The 
Visible and Divisible Church of Christ (2d ed. Lond. 1719, 
8vo) : — Necessity of Divine Revelation (1727, 8 vo) : — 
Sermons (4 vols. 8vo). See Allibone, Diet, oj Brit, and 


ROH 


ROGERS 04 


.-I mer. Authors, s. v. ; Chalmers, Bioy. Diet. s. v. ; Dar- 
ling, Cyclop. Biblioy. s. v. 

Rogers, Joseph, a Presbyterian minister, was born 
in Wiveliscombe, Somersetshire, England, June 11, 1815. 
lie emigrated to the United States at an early age, and 
settled in New York city. He was converted when about 
twenty-two years old, pursued bis preparatory studies 
under 1 >r. Owen, of New York city, graduated at Prince- 
ton College in 1845, and at the Theological Seminary at 
Princeton in IS 18, and was licensed to preach the same 
year by the Presbytery of New York. Alter leaving 
the seminary, he labored at May’s Landing and Pleasant 
Mills, Atlantic Co., X. J„ in the employment of the Board 
of Domestic Missions, until 1850. when he received an 
appointment to the Church of Bound Prairie, la., over 
which he was installed pastor in 1851. In 1853, because 
of failing health, he returned Last, and spent the suc- 
ceeding four years in preaching and teaching in Attle- 
boro’, Pa. ; Bridgeton, N. .1. ; the vicinity of Fredericks- 
burg. Va.: and at Newtown, Pa. In 1857 he received a 
call to, and was installed pastor of, the churches of King- 
wood and French town, N. J., where he continued to la- 
bor till his death, Aug. ‘20, 1803. Air. Rogers was a dili- 
gent student, a ripe scholar, and of tine attainments in 
the different branches of a liberal education, especially 
in the Greek language and English literature. As a 
preacher he was naturally eloquent. See Wilson, Presb. 
JJist. Almanac , 1804, p. 192. (J. L. S.) 

Rogers, Lorenzo, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Orange County, Yt., 
March 12, 1804, and was converted in 1828. He enter- 
ed the ministry in 1834, was superannuated by the Erie 
Conference in 1854, and died in Cleveland, O., Feb. 17, 
1 8iJ5. He was greatly influential in winning men to 
Christ. See Minutes of A nnual Conferences, 1865, p. 131 . 

Rogers, Nathaniel, a Congregational minister, 
was born at Haverhill, Suffolk, England, in 1598. He 
was educated at Emmanuel College, Cambridge, and, 
after serving for two years as a domestic chaplain, be- 
came Dr. Barkham’s assistant at Bucking, Essex, where 
he remained for five years; and obtaining the living of 
Assington, Suffolk, he continued there until.! une 1,1636, 
when he sailed for New England, and arrived Nov. 16. He 
was ordained, Feb. 20, 1638, pastor at Ipswich ; and died 
July 3, 1655. He published, A Letter to the Hon. House 
of Commons at Westminster on the Subject of Reformation 
(1643). See Sprague, .1 nnals of the A mer. Pulpit , i, 87. 

Rogers, Nehemiah, an English divine (said by 
some to have been a great-grandson of John Rogers the 
martyr), was born in 1594. He was minister of Dod- 
dinghurst, Essex, and died in 1660. He published, Ex- 
positions of the Parables (1620-62) : — Exposition of St. 
Luke x, 5-1 1 (1658, 4to), and other works. 

Rogers, Thomas (1), an English divine, was a na- 
tive of Chelsea, and entered Christ Church in 1568. He 
was A.M. in 1576; chaplain to Bancroft, bishop of Lon- 
don, and in 1581 rector of 1 loringer, Suffolk, where he was 
held in great esteem. lie died Feb. 22, 1(516. Among his 
many works arc, The Anatomic of the M hide (Loud. 1576, 
Hvo) : — Of the End of the World (ibid. 1577, 4to; 1582, 
1583, 8vo): — The Enylish Creet/e (ibid. 1579, fob): — ,1 
Soldi' it Chain 'Taken out of the Rich Treasure-house of 
the Psalms of J Jar id (ibid. 1579,1587, 12 mo) : — Historical 
Jtialoyue touch iny A ntichrist and Popery , etc. (ibid. 1589, 
8vo) : - besides Sermons , etc. See Allibonc, Piet, of Brit, 
aiol . 1 mer. A uthors , s. v.; Darling, Cyclop. Biblioy. s. v. 

Rogers, Thomas (2), an English clergyman, was 
born in Warwickshire, Dec. 27, 1660, ami was educated 
at the free school there. In Lent term, 1675. he entered 
Trinity College, Oxford, but soon after removed to Hart 
Hall, where be took the degree of A.M. and entered holy 
orders. In July, 1689, he became rector of Slapton, near 
I’owcester, Northamptonshire. lie died of small-pox, 
while on a visit to London, June 8, 1694. and was buried 
at St. Saviour’s, Southwark. 1 1 is writings were mostly 


poetical and published anonymously, and were not at all 
becoming his character as a clergyman. We mention 
only, Lux Occidental is, or Providence Displayed in the 
Coronation of King William, etc. (Loud. 1(589): — The 
Loyal and Impartial Satyrist (ibid. 1693, 4to) : — .4 True 
Protestant Bridle (ibid. 1694, 4to) : — Commonwealth Un- 
masked. See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A met'. Au- 
thors, s. v. ; Chalmers, Bioy. Diet. s. v. 

Rogers, Timothy (l),an English clergyman, was 
born in 1589, became preacher of Essex, and died in 1650. 
lie wrote. Righteous Man's Evidences (Lond. 1619, Hvo; 
12th ed. 1637): — Roman Eucharist (ibid. 1621, 4to; 1631, 
24mo): — Good Xeivs from Heaven: — A Faithful Friend 
True to the Soul: — Christian's Jewel of Faith. See 
Chester, John Royers (1861), p. 275; also Allibone, Diet, 
of Brit, and A mer. Authors, s. v. ; Darling, Cyclop. Bi- 
blioy. s. v. 

Rogers, Timothy (2), a Dissenting minister, was 
born at Barnard Castle, Durham. England, about 1660. 
He was educated at one of the Scotch universities, be- 
came evening lecturer at a chapel in Crosby Square, 
London, and afterwards one of the ministers of a Dis- 
senting congregation in Old Jewry, which office be re- 
signed in 1707. lie died in 1729. Among his works 
we notice, Practical Discourses (Lond. 1690, 8vo) : — Dis- 
course concerning Trouble of Mind and the Disease of 
Melancholy (ibid. 1691). See Allibone, Diet, of Brit . 
and A met'. A uthors, s. v. ; Darling, Cyclop. Biblioy. s. v. 

Rogers, William, D.D.. a Baptist minister, was 
born at Newport, R. L, July 22, 1751. He entered the 
Rhode Island College in 1765, and was licensed to preach 
in August, 1771. In May following he was ordained 
pastor of the Baptist Church ill Philadelphia. In 1776 
he became chaplain of the army of Pennsylvania, and 
from 1778 to 1781 he served as brigade chaplain in the 
Continental army. In March, 1789, he was appointed 
professor of English and oratory in the College anil 
Academy of Philadelphia, and in April, 1792, was elect- 
ed to the same office in the University of Pennsylvania. 
He was made D.D. by the latter institution in 1790, hav- 
ing previously received the degree of A.M. from Yale 
College in 1780, and from the College of New Jersey in 
1786. From April, 1803. to February, 1805, he also act- 
ed as pastor of the First Baptist Church in Philadelphia. 
In January, 1812, he resigned his professorship and re- 
ceived a call from the Church in Newark, N. J., but 
finally declined it. In 1816 and 1817 he became a mem- 
ber of the General Assembly of the State of Pennsylva- 
nia. The latter years of bis life were spent in retire- 
ment. He died April 7, 1824. Dr. Rogers published 
a number of sermons, letters, essays, etc. See Sprague, 
Annals of the A mer. Pulpit, vi, 145. 

Rogers, William Matticks, a Congregational 
minister, was born on the island of Alderney, Sept. 10, 
1806. II is name was Samuel M. Ellen Kittle, which 
was changed to Rogers after he became a preacher. 
When ten years of age he was brought to the United 
States, and lived with his unele, Capt. W. M. Rogers, 
at Dorchester. He graduated at Harvard College in 
1827, studied theology at the Andover Seminary, be- 
came pastor of the Evangelical Congregational Church, 
Townsend, Mass., where he remained five years, and 
was installed, Aug. 6, 1835, pastor of the Franklin Street 
Church, Boston, and died Aug. 11, 1851. He published 
An Address at the Dedication of the Neio Hall of Brad- 
ford Academy (1841), and a couple of occasional ser- 
mons. See Sprague, A muds of the A mer. Pulpit , ii, 730. 

Roll, Petek, a famous Roman Catholic missionary, 
was born in 1811 at Aven, in the canton Valais, in Swit- 
zerland. When eighteen years of age, he entered the 
Society of Jesus, and after completing his philosophical 
and theological studies at Fribourg he was appointed 
professor of dogmatics at the Seminary of Lucerne. 
Having received holy orders in 1840, he went to France, 
where lie remained one year, at Notre Dame d’Av. lie 


ROHAN 


05 


noun 


returned to Fribourg, where he lectured on dogmatics; 
and in J847 he was appointed to a professorship at Lu- 
cerne, which lie held only for a short time, being obliged 
to leave the country, lie now went from place to place 
as a missionary preacher, rinding everywhere a large 
congregation eager to listen to his powerful oratory. In 
1856 he occupied the theological chair at Paderborn and 
Maria-Laaeh, arid in 1800 he represented the bishop of 
Paderborn at the provincial council at Cologne. In 1800 
he again resumed preaching, and in 1809 he accom- 
panied the bishop of Paderborn to the Vatiean council at 
Pome. He died May 17, 1872. He wrote, Die Grund - 
in'ihiimer unserer Zeit (Fribourg, 1805): — Das alte 
Lied: der Z week heiligt die Mittel (ibid. 1809, ete.). See 
Regensburger Conversations- Lex ikon, s. v. ; Literarischer 
Ilandweiser , 1872, p. 212. (B. P.) 

Rohan, Armand de, called the Cardinal de Sou- 
bise, grand-nephew of Gaston, was born at Paris. Dee. 1, 
1717. In 1730 he beeame abbe of St. Epore, and in 1737 
abbe of Lure and Murback. March 21, 1739, he was 
elected rector of the faculty of arts at Paris, and in 1741 
he was made doctor of the Sorbonne and member of the 
French Aeademy. Cardinal Pohan procured his ap- 
pointment as his own coadjutor, with the title of bishop 
of Ptolemais. Benedict XIV created him cardinal April 
10, 1747, when he took the title of Cardinal de Soubise, 
to distinguish himself from his grand-uncle; but he 
never went to Rome to receive the cardinal’s hat. At 
the death of cardinal Rohan, he succeeded him in the 
see of Strasburg and in the office of grand almoner. He 
died at Saverne June 28, 175G. This prelate was dis- 
tinguished for his charity, zeal, and sweet and simple 
manner. — Hoefer, 1 Nouv. Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Rohan, Armand - Gaston - Maximilien de, 

Cardinal , was born at Paris, June 20, 1674. In 1090 
he was canon of Strasburg, and in 1701 was chosen co- 
adjutor of the prince-bishop Egon of Furstenberg, with 
the title of bishop of Tiberias in partibus. After the 
death of his superior he was titulary of the diocese, in 
1712 became cardinal, and grand almoner in 1713. lie 
held several rich abbeys, and, without an)* literary quali- 
fications whatever, was elected member of the Freneh 
Aeademy. He was also master of t he Sorbonne. By vi r- 
tue of his birth, fortune, and high office, he took an im- 
portant part in the negotiations for pcaee in the Church 
of France which occupied the latter part of the reign of 
Louis XIV; and his connection with father Tellier, eon- 
fessor to the king, and with the cardinal de Bissv, bish- 
op of Meaux, made him one of the chiefs of the Molinist 
party. In the assembly of the clergy of 1713 he used 
all possible means to gain their acceptance of the papal 
hull Unigenitns , and gained his cause during the next 
year. During the regency he endeavored to bring 
about a reconciliation among the bishops, and per- 
suaded forty to sign an accommodation, which ended 
their quarrels. II is library was one of the greatest in 
Franee, and was under the charge of the learned abbe 
Oliva. Cardinal Rohan died at Paris July 19, 1749. 
The only work of any account whieh he left is Rituale 
Argentinense (Strasburg, 1742). See Gallia Christiana. 
— Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Rohan, Armand J ules de, archbishop of Rheims, 
was born at Paris, Feb. 10, 1095. At an early age he en- 
tered the chapter of Strasburg, received in 1715 the ab- 
bey of Gard, and in 1730 that of Gorze. As the con- 
clavist of cardinal Rohan, he assisted in the election of 
Innoeent XIII, and was afterwards made bishop of 
Rheims (May 22, 1722). He was very active in favor 
of the bull Unigenitns. After consecrating Louis XV, 
he took a seat in Parliament as the first ecclesiastical 
peer, and gradually gave over the care of his diocese to 
vicars under the title of bishops in partibus. He died 
at Saverne Aug. 28, 1762. lie published Breviarium 
Remense (Charleville, 1759). — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Gene- 
rale , s. v. 

Rohan, Ferdinand -Maximilien-Meriadec, 
IX. — E 


Prince of Gnemene, brother of Louis, was born at Paris, 
Nov. 7, 1738. lie studied at the Sorbonne, was prior 
of the faculty of theology, and received the degree 
of doetor. lie was grand provost of the chapter of 
Strasburg and abbe of Mouzou, when in 1759 Louis XV 
gave him the archbishopric of Bordeaux. In 1781 lie 
was transferred to the diocese of Cambrai, in 1790 was 
made regent of the principality of Liege, and took the 
civil oath. lie returned to Cambrai in 1791, where he 
remained until 1801, when he resigned the archbishop- 
ric and became grand almoner to the empress Jose- 
phine. He died at Paris Oct. 30, 1813.— Hoefer, Xoitv. 
Biog. Gene rale, s. v. 

Rohan, Louis-Rene-Edouard, Prince of Gue- 
mene,sx French prelate, was horn at Paris, Sept. 25, 1734. 
His education was earned on at the College of Plessis and 
the Seminary of Saint-Magloire. In 1700 he was elect- 
ed coadjutor to his unele, the bishop of Strasburg, with 
the title of bishop of Canopus in partibus, in which po- 
sition he showed more love for pleasure than zeal in re- 
ligions exercises. Made member of the Freneh Acad- 
emy in 1761 , he was in 1772 sent as ambassador to Vien- 
na. Here he was at first received with great favor, hut 
by his extravagant mode of life and interference in 
political affairs he fell under the displeasure of Maria 
Theresa, and at her request was recalled to France in 
1774. After his return he was appointed grand almo- 
ner, in 1778 was made cardinal, and later master of the 
Sorbonne and bishop of Strasburg. In addition to these 
honors, he held several rich abbeys, hut his large fortune 
was not in any way adequate to his scandalous luxury. 
In 1785 he was arrested and imprisoned in the Bastile 
for the part he had taken in the affair of the diamond 
neeklace, which so gravely compromised Marie Antoi- 
nette. The friends of Rohan were indignant at the 
government, the clergy protested against his imprison- 
ment, and at his trial he was finally .acquitted, without 
even an expression of blame for his evident miseonduet. 
But he could not recover from the disgrace of his dis- 
missal from court, and retired to his diocese of Stras- 
burg, where he lived in comparative quiet for a few 
years. In 1789 he was deputy of the clergy of Ilagenau 
to the States-general, but, being accused of disloyal con- 
duct, resigned his seat. In order to be out of the juris- 
diction of the French government, he retired to a part 
of his diocese beyond the Rhine, and finally, in 1801, in 
consequence of the concordat, resigned the bishopric of 
Strasburg entirely. He died at Ettenheim, Feb. 17, 
1803. The cardinal de Rohan was a man of fine ap- 
pearance and agreeable manners. It is not to be denied 
that he had a fine mind and great amiability, but he 
possessed no judgment, put no cheek upon his passions 
or conduct, and was weak and easily led by favorites. 
See Memoire de l' Abbe Georgel; Levis, Souvenirs . — 
Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Roh'gah (Heb. Rohgah also written 
clamor; Sept. ‘Pooyd v. r. Qvpaoya), the second named 
of the four sons of Sliamer, of the tribe of Asher (1 Cliron. 
vii, 34), and fifth in descent from that patriarch. B.C. 
perhaps cir. 1658. 

Rohini, in Hindi! mythology, is the name of one 
of the daughters of Daksha, said to be the favorite 
wife of Chandra, (or the Moon, which in Sanserif, as in 
German, is masculine). She is the bright star of tin* 
Bull’s eye, called in Arabic Aldcharan (or A1 DabarAn). 
Other stars regarded as the sisters of Rohini are also 
numbered among the wives of Chandra. 

Rohr, Johann Friedrich, a prominent rationalist, 
was born July 30. 1777, at Rossbaclqon the Saale,of hum- 
ble parents, and early displayed mental qualities which 
induced his friends to provide him with opportunities for 
study. lie was thus enabled to enter Leipsic Universi- 
ty as a student of theology, and while there attended 
the lectures of Platner and Keil, and employed his mind 
in the examination of Kant’s philosophy. Rein hard 
examined him for ministerial license, and recommended 


KOIIR 


6G 


ROLF 


him as assistant preacher to the University Church. 
Transferred in 1802 to Pforta, he engaged in the study 
of modern languages, particularly English, and publish- 
ed a tabular view of English pronunciation (1803). Un- 
pleasant relations with his colleagues led to his removal 
in the following year (1804). lie next became pastor 
at Ostrau, near Zeitz, and remained in that station dur- 
ing sixteen years, at the end of which period he was 
called to be* chief minister at Weimar; and Co that 
position the government added the dignities of court 
preacher, ecclesiastical councillor, and general superin- 
tendent for the principality of Weimar, his duties, in 
addition to those connected with his relation to his par- 
ish, including general visitations, examinations, inspec- 
tion of the Weimar Gymnasium, and the filling of ap- 
pointments. He held these positions from 1820 to 1848. 
when he died. 

Rohr’s historical significance grows out of the energy 
with w hich he asserted the theological position of vul- 
gar rationalism. His views were for the first time pre- 
sented in a connected scheme in Briefe iiber den Ratio- 
nalismus, etc. (Zeitz. 1813), whose train of ideas may be 
summarized as follows: Religious truth may be ascer- 
tained from revelation or from reason, the latter term 
denoting the natural, not cultured, judgment of the 
mind. If such truth is grounded on reason, the system 
of rationalism or naturalism will result, which is the 
only tenable system. This rationalism rejects all relig- 
ious teachings which have not universal authority and 
a strict adaptation to moral ends; for the ultimate end 
of religion is a pure morality. There is in Christianity 
a theology or doctrine respecting God, and an anthro- 
pology or doctrine respecting man in his intelligent and 
moral nature, and also in his sensuality and consecpient 
depravity; but it does not properly include a Christol- 
ogv, since opinions respecting the first expounder of a 
universal religion can form no part of that religion. 
Stripped of all additions to his personality made by the 
evangelists, Christ is simply a man, though the greatest, 
and even a unique, man. A subsequent work, entitled 
Gruwl- und Glaubenssatze d. evang.-prot. Kircke (1832), 
was intended to unite the Church for its protection 
against its Roman Catholic, and still more against its 
pietistic, adversaries, and to that end w r as sent to a num- 
ber of theological faculties for their approval. The ef- 
fort failed, however, even Rohr’s fellow-rationalists re- 
fusing to endorse his purpose. In the second and third 
editions (1834, 1844), he gave a summary of the essen- 
tial teachings of the Gospel in specifically Christian lan- 
guage. There is a true God, who is proclaimed to us 
bv Jesus Christ, the only begotten Son, and who de- 
serves otir profound veneration because of his perfec- 
tions. This veneration can be truly rendered only by 
the cultivation of a sincerely virtuous character and life, 
and for this work we may hope for the aid of the Divine 
Spirit. As God’s children, we may confidently look for 
his help in earthly troubles, and in the consciousness of 
moral weakness and umvorthiness w'e may look for grace 
and mercy through Christ; while in death we may be 
assured of undying continuance and a letter, retributive 
life. 

It is needless to add that throughout his official life 
Rohr was engaged in controversy with the orthodox 
theologians of his time, e. g. Rcinhard, Harms, Hahn, 
Hongsteuberg, Sartorius, etc., whom he accused of lit- 
eralism, want of progressiveness, and similar offences, 
lie w'as utterly incapable of appreciating the aims of 
such spirits as Schleiermacher, Twesten, etc., in the di- 
rection of a higher development within the limits of 
Erotestant freedom; and in consequence of this inca- 
pacity, he blundered into a dispute with llase on the oc- 
casion of the appearance of the Hutterus Redivivus writ- 
ten by the latter, which llase ended by clearly demon- 
strating that the “rationalism of sound reason” is utter- 
ly unscientific and lias no regard for the facts of history. 
His peculiar views and tempers are retlected also in his 
sermons, 'flic moral element predominates, of course, 


and the supernatural is reduced to natural proportions. 
His Christolugisehe Predigten (Weimar, 1831, 1837) 
are not Christological in character, exhibiting Jesus 
simply as “the pattern and example of true culture,” 
etc. His casual sermons, however, sometimes present 
all the characteristics of truly religious discourse. His 
published homiletical works are very numerous. 

In addition to the works already mentioned, we no- 
tice the Kritische Prediger-Bibliothek , w'hich under va- 
rious names he edited from 1810 to 1848: — Paldstina 
zvr Zeit Jesu (Zeitz, 1810; 8th ed. 1845): — Luther's 
Leben u. Wirken (ibid. 1817; 2d ed. 1828): — Die gate 
Sache d. Protestantismus (Leips. 1842), and others. — 
Herzog, Real-Encyklop. vols. xiii and xx, s. v. 

Rohumon, the great serpent, an idol of the Carib- 
beans. 

Ro'imus (Puifiog), a Jew w r ho returned to Jerusa- 
lem from Babylon with Zerubbabel (1 Esdr. v, 8); evi- 
dently the Rehum (q. v.) of the Heb. texts (Ezra ii, 2; 
Neh. vii, 7). 

Rok, or Roc, in Persian mythology, was an im- 
mense bird, so large that it bore elephants to its young 
in the nest. An egg of this monster once fell from its 
nest on the Albordshi, and with its fluid overflowed 
thirty-six towns and villages. Legends resembling this 
fable are met with everywhere; but it is remarkable 
that the inhabitants of Greenland are said to make use 
of very powerful bows, each formed of two claws of some 
gigantic bird, which are often found in the ice. It 
would accordingly seem that not everything said with 
regard to the rok is fable. There have been mammalia 
and amphibia whose size far exceeded that of any sim- 
ilar animals of our a?ra; and there may, in like manner, 
have been birds which could as readily bear away a 
camel as the condor can a voting llama. — Vollmer, Wor- 
terb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Roland, in Frankish legends, was a celebrated hero 
belonging to the circle of Charlemagne’s paladins. He 
was of enormous size, and so strong that he could pull 
up the tallest pine by the roots, and use it as a walking- 
stick and club. His sword split a block of marble with- 
out injuring its edge. The numerous Roland columns 
found in the towns of North Germany are said to have 
been erected by Charlemagne in honor of this hero; but 
they are probably of much later origin, and served to 
designate the place where justice was administered in 
the emperor’s name, so that they were in some sense his 
representatives. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Roldan, Luisa, daughter of the following, was 
born in 1G54, and became a distinguished artist. She 
assisted her father in many of his works, was pensioned 
by Philip IV, and confided with much of the work upon 
the Escurial. Her principal productions are the statues 
of Mater Dolorosa, John the Evangelist , and St. Thomas . 
She died at Madrid in December, 1704. 

Roldan, Pedro, a Spanish sculptor, was born in 
1624 at Seville. He studied at Rome, where he w'as a 
member of the Academy of St. Luke. Roldan executed 
a great number of works in Madrid and at Seville, the 
best of which is a Christ on the Cross, lie died in 1700. 

Rolf, in Norse mythology, was one of the most cele- 
brated kings of Denmark, who was induced to adopt the 
surname Kraki by the following occurrence. A poor 
youth named Voeggur went to the palace and looked 
steadily at the king, until asked why he gazed so long, 
when he responded that he had heard that Rolf was the 
greatest man in Northland, but that he found the throne 
occupied by a Kraki (diminutive wight). Rolf re- 
sponded, “Thou hast given me a name, now give me a 
present” (which always accompanied the bestowal of a 
name). Voeggur declared that he had nothing to give. 
“Then,” said Rolf, “I, who have possessions, will give 
a present,” and he handed over a ring of gold, on re- 
ceiving which Voeggur joyfully exclaimed, “ Lord, I will 
avenge thee should any come near to thee in malice!” 


ROLIN 


67 


ROLLER 


The king’s reply to this — “Yoeggur is pleased with a 
little matter” — became proverbial. The armies of Rolf 
Kraki were celebrated, especially the twelve Berserkers 
(according to others, eleven, himself being the twelfth), 
whom he once sent to assist his stepfather Adds, king 
of Sweden, against Ali, king of Norway. After gaining 
the victory, Adils refused to give the promised reward 
to either the Berserkers or king Holf. The latter, ac- 
companied by the Berserkers, accordingly visited the 
court of Adils and reminded him of his pledge. Adils 
invited the guests to a friendly banquet in the largest 
hall of his palace, in the centre of which he caused an 
immense tire to be built, and then reminded Rolf and 
the Berserkers that they had vowed never to flee from 
either tire or water. The tire eventually seized Rolfs 
clothing, on which he rose, threw his shield into the 
dames, and passed through them with his companions, 
while he exclaimed, “ fie, surely, does not dread the 
fire who voluntarily rushes into it!” fie then seized 
the servants who had kindled the tire and threw them 
into it, and emphatically demanded his pay. He ob- 
tained the ring Sviagris and a mighty horn tilled with 
gold, and departed; but Adils rapidly assembled his 
warriors and followed in pursuit. To distract his pur- 
suers, Rolf, having reached the heath of Fyriswall, scat- 
tered pieces of gold over the ground, and so actually 
delayed the pursuit; and when Adils approached him, 
he threw down the costly ring also. Adils dismounted 
from his horse to get the ring, and at this moment Rolf 
inflicted on the rear of his person a shameful wound, as 
he cried, “I have bent like a hog the richest man in 
Sweden.” He then picked up the ring himself, and 
while the king’s wound was bound up by his followers, 
succeeded in gaining the ships with his treasure and his 
mother, and returned to Denmark. From this incident 
gold was called Fyriswall seed, or Kraki’s seed. — Yoll- 
mer, Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Rolin, Jean, Cardinal , was born in 1408, At twen- 
ty-two he was canon and archdeacon. In 1431 he be- 
came bishop of Chalons, which see he exchanged in 
143G for that of Autun. lie obtained the purple in 
1449, and continued to add to the number of his bene- 
fices and lived in luxury. He gained possession by 
fraudulent means of the abbey of St. Martin at Autun 
in 1451, built the cathedral in that place and also the 
one at Chalons, both of which he enriched with works 
of art. He was confessor to the dauphin, afterwards 
Louis XI. He died at Auxerre July 1, 1483. See Fer- 
ry, Hist . de Chalons . — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Roll (iTbAtt, megillah' ; Sept. Ke<pa\tg: but in Ezra 
vi, 1, the Chaki. ^20, sephdr , a book , as elsewhere ren- 
dered: in Isa. viii, 1, gillayon, a tablet, once of a 

mirror, iii, 23). A book in ancient times consisted of a 
single long strip of paper or parchment, which was usu- 
ally kept rolled up on a stick, and was unrolled when a 
person wished to read it. See Book. Hence arose the 
term megillah, from galdl, “to roll,” strictly answering 
to the Latin volumen, whence comes our volume; hence 
also the expressions, “to spread” and “roll together” 
(in Heb. b’nQ [2 Kings xix, 14] and bb [Isa. xxxiv, 
4] : in Gr. dvairTvaativ and Trrvaauv [Lukeiv, 17, 20]), 
instead of “to open” and “to shut” a book. The full 
expression for a book was “a roll of writing,” or “a roll 
of a book” (Jer. xxxvi, 2; Psa. xl, 7 ; Ezek. ii, 9), but 
occasionally “roll” stands by itself (Zech. v, 1, 2; Ezra 
vi, 2). The KttyaXte; of the Sept, originally referred to 
the ornamental knob (the umbilicus of the Latins) at 
the top of the stick or cylinder round which the roll 
was wound. The use of the term megillah implies, of 
course, the existence of a soft and pliant material : what 
this material was in the Old-Test, period we are not in- 
formed; but, as a knife was required for its destruction 
(Jer. xxxvi, 23), we infer that it was parchment. The 
roll was usually written on one side only (Mishna, Erub. 
10, § 3), and hence the particular notice of one that was 


“written within and without” (Ezek. ii, 10). The writ- 
ing was arranged in columns, resembling a door in 
shape, and hence deriving their Hebrew name (rirb'n, 
leaves'), just as “column,” from its resemblance to a co- 
lumna, or pillar. It has been asserted that the term 
megillah does not occur before the 7th century B.C., be- 
ing first used bv Jeremiah (Hitzig, in Jer. xxxvi, 2); 
and the conclusion has been drawn that the use of such 
materials as parchment was not known until that period 
(Ewald, Gesch. i, 71, note; Gesenius, Thesaur . p. 289). 
This is to assume, perhaps too confidently, a late date 
for the composition of Psa. xl, and to ignore the collat- 
eral evidence arising out of the expression “roll to- 
gether” used by Isaiah (xxxiv, 4), and also out of the 
probable reference to the Pentateuch in Psa. xl, 7, “the 
roll of the book,” a copy of which was deposited by the 
side of the ark (Dent, xxxi, 26).— Smith. The book 
of Esther is specially designated by the Hebrew term 
Megillah . See Megillotii. 

Roll-moulding. This term has been popularly, 
but very incorrectly, given to a moulding much used in 
Decorated and late Early English work, especially in 
strings and dripstones. Its varieties are numerous, and 
though some of them bear resemblance to a roll of 
parchment, others are very different. Some of these 
varieties, in which the square fillet is more decidedly 
marked, have been called the “roll and fillet moulding.” 
It is sometimes called the sci'oll-moulding , from its re- 
semblance to a scroll of paper or parchment with the 
edge overlapping. The name of roll-moulding is often 
applied to the common round, or bowtell. — Parker, Glos- 
sary of Architecture, s. v. 



Roll and Fillet. String, Dorchester, Oxfordshire. 


Rolle, Joitann Heinrich, a German composer of 
church music, was born at Quedlinburg in 1718. lie 
was the successor of his father as director of music at 
Magdeburg in 1752. lie died in 1785. Among his 
principal works are the oratorios Death of Abel and 
Abraham on Mount Moriah. 

Roller (Ezek. xxx, 21), chittul, ^Fin, a bandage, 
so called from being terapped around a broken limb to 
keep the fractured parts in place till healed. So Rosen- 
miiller explains the figure (Scholia, ad loc.). The roller, 
in surgery, is a long fillet or strip of muslin or other 
webbing rolled upon itself in a cylindrical form, em- 
ployed to give mechanical support in many of the dis- 
eases and injuries to which the human body is liable. 
In the case of a broken arm, the surgeon brings the 
fragments of the bone together in normal position, and 
next places the limb in splints or stays lined with cot- 
ton, wool, or other soft material, to protect the flesh 
against unequal pressure, and then secures the whole 
by firmly winding the roller round and round the limb 
over the stays, so as to maintain the broken ends of the 
bone in coaptation until the process of ossilic reunion is 
completed. The familiar manner of this incidental ref- 
erence shows that the practice of the present enlight- 
ened surgery was known to the profession in the days 
of Ezekiel. The name used to designate this bandage 
not only implies the form giving the greatest facility to 


ROLLIX 


68 


ROMAIC VERSION 


its ready application, but is the very word which scien- 
tific works of the present day employ to express the same 
thing. The object of this revelation, as it would seem, 
was not to impart information respecting the special con- 
trivances of the healing art, but to present to the mind of 
the prophet the great prospective fact that the predict- 
ed disability of Pharaoh would be permanent, as one of 
the essentials to restorative treatment would be wanting. 

Rollill, Chari.es, a French historian, who formerly 
enjoyed, if he did not merit, an extensive popularity, 
was the son of a cutler, and was born in Paris, Jan. 30, 
1661. He studied at the College du Plessis, where, in 
1683. he became assistant to the professor of rhetoric, 
and four years later obtained the chair for himself. In 
1(18* he was called to the chair of eloquence at the Col- 
lege lfoval de France, and for some ten years he dis- 
charged the duties of his office with remarkable zeal 
and success. In 1694 he was chosen rector of the Uni- 
versity of Paris, a dignity which he held for two years, 
and signalized his brief tenure of office by many useful 
reforms, both in regard to discipline and study, and by 
his warm defence of the privileges of the university. 
11 is efforts to revive the study of Greek, then falling 
back into neglect, were particularly creditable to him, 
although his career as rector constitutes perhaps his 
best claim to the regard of posterity, and has certain- 
ly left a more permanent impression than his writ- 
ings, for its influence is perceptible even to the present 
day. In 1699 he was appointed coadjutor to the princi- 
pal of the College of Beauvais; but was removed from 
this situation in 17P2 through the machinations of the 
Jesuits, for Rollin was a strenuous Jansenist. For the 
next three years he devoted himself exclusively to learn- 
ed study, the fruit of which was his edition of Quintilian 
(Paris, 1715, 2 vols.). In 1720 he was re-elected rector of 
the university, and in the same year published his Trait 6 
des Etudes, which M.Villemain has pronounced “a mon- 
ument of good sense and taste,” and which is justly re- 
garded as his best literary performance, for his Histoire 
Ancienne (ibid. 1730-38,12 vols.), though long prodig- 
iously popular, and translated into several languages 
(the English among others), is feeble in its philosophy, 
jejune in its criticism, and often inaccurate in its narra- 
tive. Nevertheless, to multitudes both in this country 
and in France it has formed the introduction to the 
study of ancient histon r . Frederick the Great, then the 
prince royal of Prussia, among other princely notabil- 
ities, wrote to compliment the author, and opened up a 
correspondence with him. In 1738 Rollin published his 
llistoire Rumaine (ibid. 9 vols.), a much inferior work, 
now almost forgotten. He died Sept. 14, 1741.— Cham- 
bers's Encydop. s. v. 

Rolling-tiling, bsbs, yalyaV, Job xvii, 13; ren- 
dered by the A. V. “wheel” in Psa. lxxxiii, 13. Gese- 
nius ( Thesaur . s. v.) prefers chaff, stubble, in both pas- 
sages. The same word is used for u-keel (q. v.) in Isa. v, 
28 ; Ezek. x, 2, 6 ; xxiii, 24 , and lor whirlwind (q. v.) 
Psa. Ixxvii, 19 (“heaven”); Ezek. x, 13 (“wheel”). 
There is, however, a wild artichoke (Arab, ukktib ) in 
Palestine which the Arabs chew with relish, and which 
in growing throws out branches of equal size and length 
in all directions, forming a globe a foot or more in di- 
ameter. In the autumn this becomes dry and light, 
breaks oft' at the ground, and flies before the wind. 
Thousands of them leap and roll over the plain, and 
often disturb travellers and their horses. This plant is 
thought by Thomson to correspond better with the yaL 
yaV of Isaiah and the Psalmist than anything before 
suggested (Land and Hook , ii, 357 sq.). Some (Smith, 
Bible Plants [Loud. 1877 J) have held the gulyuV to be 
the so-called “Jericho rose” ( A nastatica llieridiunti - 
no), a small, ligneous, cruciform plant, which has the sin- 
gular property of reviving and expanding when placed 
in water. In the summer it dries up into a ball, which 
might readily roll before the wind, except that it is held 
fast to the earth by its strong tap-root. 


Rollock, Robert, first principal of the College of 
Edinburgh, was born in 1555 in the vicinity of Sterling, 
Scotland. From the school at Sterling he went to the 
University of St. Andrew’s, and became a student of St. 
Salvator’s College. As soon as he had taken his degree 
he was chosen professor of philosophy, and began to 
read lectures in his own college. He left St. Andrew’s 
in 1583, having been cbosen in 1582 to be the principal 
and professor of divinity of the new Edinburgh Univer- 
sity. In 1593 he with others was appointed by Parlia- 
ment to confer with the popish lords. In 1595 he was 
appointed one of the visitors of the colleges, and in 1597 
was chosen moderator of the General Assembly. He 
died at Edinburgh, Feb. 28, 1598. His only English 
work is, Certain Sermons on Several Places of St. Paul's 
Epistles (Edinb. 1597. 8vo). The rest of his works are 
in Latin — commentaries on Daniel, St. John’s Gospel, 
Psalms, and on most of the epistles. He also published 
Prolegomena in Primum Libruni Qnee.s. The. Bezte : — 
Tractatus de Vocafione Efficaci (Edinb. 1597) : — Quces- 
tiones et Responsiones Aliquot de Feeder e Dei , etc. (ibid. 
1596, 8vo) : — Tractatus Brevis de Procidentia Dei: — and 
Tractatus de Excommunicatione (Loud. 1604; Geneva, 
1602, 8vo). See Adam [Melchior], Life of Rollock (sup- 
plement to Encyclop. Brit.')', Spottiswood, 1 list. Book , 
vi; Chalmers, Bioy. Diet. s. v. ; AUibone, Diet, of Brit, 
and A mer. A uthors , s. v. 

Roma, the personification of the city of Rome, and 
as such called Dea Roma. She was represented clad in 
a long robe, and with 
a helmet, in a sitting 
posture, strongly re- 
sembling t lie figures 
of the Greek Athena. 

She was in reality the 
genius of the city of 
Rome, and was wor- 
shipped as such from 
early times, though 
no temple was erect- 
ed to her till the time 
of Augustus. After 
this their number in- 
creased throughout the empire. 

Bioy. and Mythol. s. v. 

Romaic (or Modern Greek) Version. Romaic, 
or Modern Greek, is the vernacular language of about 
2,000,000 descendants of the ancient Greeks dispersed 
throughout the Turkish empire, as well as of the inhabi- 
tants of the modern kingdom of Greece. In this vernacu- 
lar several versions of the New Test, exist. The earliest 
was printed at Geneva in 1638, in parallel columns with 
the inspired text, and was executed by Maximus Calliergi 
(or Calliopoli, as he is sometimes called), at the solicita- 
tion of Haga, the ambassador of the then United Prov- 
inces of Constantinople. This translation, which is re- 
markable for its close and literal adherence to the Greek 
original text, is preceded by two prefaces, one by the 
translator, and the other by Cyrillus Eucaris, patriarch 
of Constantinople. This edition, which had the title 
H Kan’?) Ai aSijKi) to? Kvpiov ijptbv T/jtrof' Xparrov, 
CiyXwTTOc , eV y dvrnrpo(T<'o7riog tots Stiov 7 rpm-orv- 
7rov Kai i) cnrapuWuKTMQ ekeivov eiq a 7r\i)v Sid- 
Xektov did to? paKapiTOV Kvpiov Ma£i gov KaAXtou- 
itoXItov yEvopiri] pkT(aj>pa<n g apa irviribSijaar. "Ktfi 
XHHAAAH 1 1 1. was reprinted with corrections in 1703 
in London by the Society for Propagating the Gospel in 
Foreign Parts, and another edition was issued by the 
same soeicty'in 1705. A reprint of this version, in 12 mo, 
was published at Halle, in 1710, at the expense of So- 
phia Louisa, queen of Prussia, under the title, 'H Kan t) 
AiaSput] to v Kvpiov Kai Swrz/por; jjpiov ’\t](TO? Xpia- 
tov , tovt tmo to Snor dp\(-TV7rov tcai >) aurov gerd- 
<ppaaig eIq Kotvijv SioXektov. Merd 7 rdayg hripEXeiag 
FiopSM&h'Ta, Kai vEioari pETaTV7ro$h'Ta Ev"AXa Tijg 
SaZoriag, tv rip ’Y mraypafftnp OppavoTpopEiov. *Em 



See Smith, Diet, of 


ROMAIC VERSION 


G9 


ROMAN ART 


«7rt> rgg IvaapKov OtKoropiag rov K vptov icai Swri}- 
pog ifpdiv ’hjaoii Xptorov a. \p'. i. From this edition 
the British and Foreign Bible Society published an im- 
pression, under the superintendence of the Kev. J. F. 
Usko, in 1808, with the ancient and modern Greek in 
parallel columns. As this edition was very favorably 
received, another was published in 1812. A strict and 
thorough revision of the text being deemed necessary, 
the archimandrite llilarion (subsequently archbishop of 
Ternovo), with two assistants, was accordingly appoint- 
ed, in 1810, to execute a new version of the entire Script- 
ures. In 1827 Hilarion’s version of the New Test, was 
completed, and was printed at the national printing- 
office in the patriarchate, under the eye of the Greek 
Church. This version, although faithful and accurate 
as a translation, is considered rather stiff*. About the 
same time, llilarion completed his translation of the Old 
Test, from the Sept., which, in 1829, was submitted to 
the committee of the British and Foreign Bible Society. 
After mature deliberation, it was concluded to circulate 
a version prepared from the Hebrew text itself, rather 
than a mere translation of a translation. The Kev, II. 
D. Beeves was therefore appointed to reside in Corfu, 
where, with the assistance of natives, he commenced a 
translation of the Hebrew Scriptures into Modern Greek. 
In conjunction with the Rev. J. Lowndes (an agent of 
the London Missionary Society), he engaged the ser- 
vices of Profs. Banibas and Tipaldo, to which, for a 
short period, were added those of Prof. Joannides. In 
the fifty-first report (1855) Mr. Lowndes wrote thus: 
“The first edition of the Old Test, was printed in Eng- 
land in 1840. Select parts had been published previ- 
ously, as the work advanced. The New Test, followed, 
and was printed at Athens in 1844. It was not long 
before it was considered desirable that the whole should 
be submitted to a general revision, with the view of 
having the Old and New Tests, printed in one uniform 
volume; and Mr. Leeves, Prof. Banibas, and Mr. Ni- 
colaides, a native of Philadelphia, undertook to do it. 
In 1845 Mr. Leeves was removed from the land of the 
living, and in that year I was appointed agent of the 
British and Foreign Bible Society. In 1846 I went to 
Athens to carry on the work of revision that had been 
just commenced, and between that year and 1850, at 
different times. Prof. Bambas, Mr. Nicolaitles, and my- 
self went over the whole of the Old and New Tests. 
Editions of the Old Test, were printed again in England 
in 1849 and 1850. succeeded by a new edition of the New 
Test, in 1851, when the whole Bible was prepared for 
dissemination in one uniform volume for the first time.” 
From that time on several issues of the Bible in Modern 
Greek were made, making a total up to March 30, 1878, 
of 446,435. That there is a great demand for the Word 
of God may be seen from the fact that, according to the 
seventy-fourth report (1878), the British and Foreign 
Bible Society has decided to print a portable edition of 
6000 copies of the reference Bible in Modern Greek, for 
which edition Dr. Sauerwein is arranging the poetical 
parts in accordance with the Bible Society’s paragraph 
English Bible. Having before us the latest edition of 
the New Test, with the title *H Kain) A rov 
Kvpiov Kai Xiorqpog y)pwv ’hjoou Xpurrou, 7 rapet- 
(ppctoStioa Ik rou ‘EW/jpucou. Kara rijv tv ’ABqi'aig 
tK^oatv rov 1855-1874, we will give a specimen from 
the Gospel of St.John (i, 1, 2) of the three versions, 
that the reader may judge for himself as to the value 
of each : 

Calliopolitan. 

1. Ei? t)]V upxh? fJTOV O A0709, 

K at 6 A07 or rirov fie t« Seoi/, 
kcu S’eo? r\rov 6 \070c. 

2. ’Etouto? i]rov els tJjv upxqv fie tu Seoi/. 

Hilarion. 

1. ’Att’ apX^Jf »|tov o A070P, 

Kui 6 A6705 rjTov ofiov fie rov S'eoi', 

KaJ 6 A0709 f|Toy J&eor. 

2. Auto? t)rov utt’ upX’i? ofiov fie rov S’eov. 


Bible Society's Version . 

1 . ’Ev upXU »’|TO b A070?, 

Kilt O A0709 i)TO TV up 11 Tip Seipt 

Kui 5eo? i)To 6 A070?. 

2. ()£>Tor r)TO Iv upx if irapu r <p Seif. 

See The Bible of Every Land, and the Annual Reports 
of the British and Foreign Bible Society. (B. P.) 

Romaine, William, an English divine and writer, 
was born at Hartlepool, county of Durham, Sept. 25, 
1714, and was the son of a French Protestant who took 
refuge in England upon the revocation of the Edict of 
Nantes. Romaine attended school at Houghton -le- 
Spring for seven years, and then entered Hertford Col- 
lege, Oxford, in 1730 (or 1731), and thence removed to 
Christ Church, lie took his degree of A.M. Oct. 15, 1737, 
having been ordained deacon the year before, lie be- 
came curate of Loe Treiichard, Devonshire, in 1737 ; was 
ordained priest in 1738, and the same year curate of Ban- 
stead and Horton, Middlesex. In 1741 Daniel Lambert, 
lord-mayor of London, appointed him chaplain. In 1748 
he became lecturer of St. George’s, Botolph Lane, and 
St. Botolph’s, Billingsgate; and in the following year 
(1749) lecturer of St. Dustan’s-in-the- West, which po- 
sition he held until his death. In 1750 he was appoint- 
ed assistant morning preacher at St. George’s, Hanover 
Square, and continued until 1756; in 1752 professor of 
astronomy in Gresham College; curate and morning 
preacli.er at St. Olave’s, Southwark, in 1756-1759; morn- 
ing preacher at St. Bartholomew the Great, near West 
Smithfield, 1759, for nearly two years; chosen rector of 
St. Andrew Wardrobe, and St. Ann’s, Blackfriars, 1764, 
an election which was disputed, but confirmed by the 
Court of Chancery in 1766. In the duties of this office 
he continued faithfully employed until his death, July 
26, 1795. Komaine’s best-known works are, Practical 
Commentaries on Psalm evii (Loud. 1747) : — The Lord our 
Righteousness , two sermons (ibid. 1757, 8vo) : — Twelve 
Sermons on Solomon’s Song (ibid. 1758-59, 8vo): — 7 'he 
Life of Faith (ibid. 1763): — Scripture Doctrine of the 
Sacrament of the Lord's Supper (ibid. 1765): — l Putt' of 
Faith (ibid. 1771, 2 vols.): — Essay on Psalmody (ibid. 
1775). See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. A uthors , 
s. v. ; Darling. Cyclop. Bibliog. s. v. 

Romam'ti-e'zer (Ileb. id. [for Romamti' E'zer\ 
“it 2 or heights of help; Sept. 

'P ujptpSitZtp, v. r. 'P (optrSitZtp, 'VioptSpuZtp), the 
tenth named of the fourteen sons of Heraan, the king’s 
seer in the time of David. He was chief of the twenty- 
fourth section of the singers, and his family, consisting 
of twelve persons, were among those engaged in the 
music of the tabernacle service (L Chron. xxv, 4, 31). 
B.C. cir. 1014. 

Roman (‘Pw/<atoi), a citizen of the Roman empire 
(q. v.) (1 Macc. viii, l‘ 23-29; xii, 16; xiv,40; xv, 16; 
2 Macc. viii, 10, 36; xi, 34; John xi, 48; Acts ii, 10; 
xvi, 21, 37, 38 ; xxii, 25-29; xxiii, 27 ; xxv, 16; xxviii, 
17). Such persons, wherever born, were entitled to 
special privileges. See Citizenship. 

Roman Art. The ancient Romans were charac- 
terized by a strong practical feeling. They had im- 
mense organizing, governing power; but they had lit- 
tle of that fine aesthetic sensitiveness which is necessa- 
ry as the foundation of an indigenous, native art with a 
people. Still, the position of Rome with reference to 
the general history of art is very important. It is mar- 
vellous, indeed, that a people who seemed originally to 
have had so little native talent for art should have be- 
come the most extensive patrons of art in all history. 
The inability of the Roman people to originate works 
of high art was recognised by their own writers. Vir- 
gil wrote : “ To others it is granted to give life to mar- 
ble and to lend breath to bronze, but the art of Borne 
is to govern nations, to conquer the proud, and to spare 
the weak.” The Romans may be compared to rich 
people in our day who desire to possess works of art 
without knowing how to appreciate or understand them, 


ROMAN ART 


10 


ROMAN ART 


or who wish to use them as a means of displaying their 
ostentatious luxury. The presence of works of high 
art also created a proud rivalry among the aristocratic 
and wealthy which is altogether distinct from the pat- 
ronage to art which comes from native, artistic impulse. 
During the first two hundred and fifty years of her 
existence. Rome might be considered as an Etruscan 
city, so fully did the Etruscan spirit prevail in all her 
temples and other works of art. During the first two 
centuries of the republic, almost no works of art were 
executed within this great capital, though the names 
of a few Greek artists in Rome are recorded as early as 
five hundred years before Christ. 

With the conquest of Carthage first, followed by the 
conquest of Greece and Eg^’pt, a new epoch was open- 
ed in the artistic life of the Roman people. Rome now 
became the great storehouse of the art treasures of the 
entire world. Greece especially was despoiled to en- 
rich the private palaces and majestic public buildings 
of the great metropolis. With this gathering of the art 
treasures of the world into the great capital commences 
what may with propriety be called the beginning of the 
development of a true Roman art. The chief develop- 
ment of Roman art lay in the department of architect- 
ure. Profusely as painting and sculpture were employed 
in ornamenting public and private buildings of all grades, 
both in Rome itself and in all the remotest cities of the 
vast empire, these arts were practiced exclusively by 
Greek sculptors and painters. The great majority of 
architects, also, in the Roman dominions were Greeks, 
though their work was characterized by Roman ele- 
ments and was executed in the Roman spirit. 

The Romans used both stone and brick with extraor- 
dinary skill in their buildings. These materials were 
employed with great ingenuity and variety, both with 
and without mortar. The Romans adopted from the 
Etruscans the round arch and its consequence, the round 
vault. Arching and vaulting are the chief character- 
istics of Roman architecture. By using these they were 
able to erect massive and lofty structures of pleasing 
lightness and with economy of material. Indeed, with- 
out the arch Roman architecture would not have had 
an existence. By the use of the arch and the vault 
Roman architecture has given rise to the Byzantine 
style, and, through this, has inspired all subsequent 
architecture. Through the arch Roman architecture 
forms the connecting-link and the transition medium 
from the art of antiquity to the art of mediaeval and 
modern times. The Romans used the vault as the tran- 
sition to the dome, and thus, through half-domes, to the 
light and airy architecture of the Byzantines. They 
also built circular temples, which, originally at least, 
were more usually consecrated to Vesta, with a simple 
circular cell, surmounted by a dome, as in the Pantheon. 
From the traditions of their early Etruscan neigh- 
bors they preferred the square cell to the Greek rec- 
tangular oblong cell in their rectangular temples. Es- 
pecially was this the case in Rome itself. The temples 
they built in other parts of the empire, especially in 
Greece and the former Greek colonies, were built after 
the plan of Greek originals; but these were decorated 
after the modified Greek manner, which the Romans 
adopted at the metropolis. 

The Romans greatly modified all the styles of Greek 
architecture. To the Doric they added the Tuscan base. 
This gave the order much wider adaptability to the 
uses fur which the Romans wished to employ the style; 
that is, in forming colonnades and pilasters to many 
kinds of buildings, whether circular, elliptical, or rectan- 
gular. They were less fortunate in the modification of 
the Ionic order, which they adopted from a single known 
Greek original, making volutes face all four sides of the 
capital. As half-columns or pilasters this modification 
was more fortunate. The Ionic order was only used bv 
them as an intermediate style, in the second story of 
buildings, never in temples or other buildings a single 
story in height. The Corinthian order, which had 


hardly obtained its full capacity of development under 
the Greeks, was most happily used by the Romans. The 
Ionic volute, in a modified form, was introduced in the 
midst of the Acanthus. Thus was taken the first step 
to the complete union of the Ionic and Corinthian styles 
in the so-called composite order, which is the most 
characteristic and original decorative feature in Roman 
architecture, though it was doubtless elaborated by the 
hands of Greek workmen under the Romairrule. The 
capitals of columns and the entablatures were often 
covered with an amount of elaborate decoration which 
finally became overpowering, and almost destructive of 
good architectural effect. See Order. 

In considering the classes of buildings erected by the 
Romans, the student of Egyptian or Greek art is sur- 
prised at the small number of temples constructed by 
the Romans in comparison with other edifices. The no- 
blest monument of Roman architecture is the Pantheon, 
which is preserved almost in its entirety. Of other 
famous temples, as that of Jupiter Capitolinas, there 
are now no remains. The most magnificent temple 
built under the Roman dominion was that of Jupiter 
Olympus at Athens. The temples at Palmyra and 
Baalbec surprise by their size and the magnitude of the 
blocks of stone used in their erection, but in architect- 
ural elegance and purity they are very defective. 

Of buildings of civil architecture the forum may first 
be considered. The forum was used, as by the Greeks, 
as a place for marketing, for assembling the people for 
the transaction of public business, for the election of 
officers, and for other purposes. The forum was sur- 
rounded by colonnades. These were frequently richly 
decorated. Besides the original Roman forum, various 
emperors laid out others, which served similar purposes. 
In the further development of the public life, the trans- 
action of a portion of public affairs was transferred to 
special buildings, of which the basilicas are the most 
important. In the basilicas were held the courts 
of justice and the exchange for merchants; finally 
shops and libraries were added, and the basilicas al- 
most served the varied purposes of the forums. The 
basilicas were generally rectangular and oblong in shape, 
though some were nearly square and were vaulted. 
The oblong basilicas usually had a round apsis at one 
end. These two forms furnished the starting-points 
for the two great early styles of Christian architecture 
— the oblong, for the so-called basilican churches in 
Italy; and the vaulted ones, for the Byzantine style iri 
Constantinople. Thus we find in the Roman basilica 
the most important specific connecting- link between 
classical and Christian architecture. See Basilica. 

Triumphal arches form a most important feature of 
Roman architecture. They were very stately in form 
and costly in execution. This use of the arch they 
had doubtless derived from the Etruscans. The most 
important arches to signalize victories are those of 
Septimus Severus, Titus, and Constantine. The arch 
of Titus has peculiar interest to Christians, inasmuch 
as upon a bas-relief on the inside of the arch are cut 
models of the seven-branched candlestick and other ves- 
sels of the Temple service which Titus carried with him 
to Rome after his conquest of Jerusalem. Arches were 
erected in many cities to commemorate also the erec- 
tion of public works of great extent by the emperors or 
other public officials. See Arch. 

Originally, the Roman theatres, like those of Greece, 
were semicircular in form. But, while the Greek the- 
atres were cut in the solid rock on the side of some 
lofty hill with a beautiful landscape for the scene, the 
Roman theatre was built up, like other edifices, in the 
midst of the most populous cities, and t he walls were 
decorated with colonnades, with vaulted arcades leading 
through the different stories to the seats. Theatres of 
vast size were built in Rome and in many provincial 
cities. The best preserved is at Orange, in France. 
But the amphitheatre was the specially characteristic 
form of theatre-building with the Romans. This was 


ROMAN ART 


built of vast size in even the most distant provincial 
cities. The largest are the Colosseum at Rome and the 
amphitheatres at Capua, Verona, Tola, Nismes, and Con- 
stantine in Africa. It is estimated that the Colosseum 
could contain over sixty thousand spectators. In its 
arena gladiatorial sports of the most cruel character 
took place, and by their ferocity hastened the deprava- 
tion of manners and morals which largely caused the 
downfall of the empire. See Theatre. 

The public baths form another characteristic feature 
in Roman architecture. These were laid out upon a 
scale of immense grandeur. The baths of Caracalla 
covered thirty- six acres. The vast edifices in this 
structure were highly decorated, and contained almost 
innumerable works of sculpture and painting. Several 
thousand bathers could be accommodated at one time. 
Elegant halls were also provided for reading, conversa- 
tion, music, boxing, and other lighter games of various 
sorts. Other baths of vast size were built by various 
emperors, as Diocletian, Agrippa, Titus, and Vespasian. 
See Bathe. 

The arch was most successfully applied to the erec- 
tion of bridges and aqueducts. Many of these were 
erected with surprising boldness, and of a size and 
length to excite the wonder of the modern beholder. 
Though frequently without much architectural decora- 
tion, the aqueducts generally have graceful outlines, 
and by their long lines, as they sw'eep for miles over 
the plain, mark the power of the people v’ho ruled the 
w'orld. See Bridge. 

The lack of perfect artistic taste w'as manifested by 
the Romans in the erection of columns of victory, which 
received long sculptured portrayals of the achievements 
of victors. As the sculpture is thus placed utterly out 
of the reach of the eye, its effect is lost upon the be- 
holder. See Column. 

The history of the Roman domestic residence is to 
be traced in the progress of Roman luxury. In the ear- 
ly career of the state, private houses were extremely 
simple. During the empire, all the luxurious richness 
of decoration that wealth and art could supply w'as 
employed in adorning the houses of the wealthy. Good 
taste was soon overw helmed in costly decoration. The 
houses in the provincial city of Pompeii indicate w r hat 
may have been the luxurious decoration of the capital. 
Even greater profligate expenditures w'ere made upon 
the villas of the rich on beautiful mountain-sides or by 
the coasts of the sea. See House. The palaces of the 
emperors presented the climax of luxurious domestic 
architecture. These palaces, especially in provincial 
summer resorts, were built on an immense scale, and 
were rather a vast group of edifices wfithin a fortified 
enclosure, all laid out and decorated with the fullest 
luxury of the period. Two of the most famous of these 
imperial palaces w'ere that of Diocletian at Spalatro, 
and that of Adrian at Tivoli. See Palace. 

The tumular architecture of the Romans is very strik- 
ing, both with reference to the number and the style of 
the monuments. Of the tombs of the kingly period, 
there remain only the monuments attributed to the 
Curiatii. Of the republic, there remain only the tomb 
and sarcophagus of Scipio. The tombs of the period 
of the empire seem to have been decidedly of Etruscan 
style, both in shape and construction. The earliest of 
these is that of Cecilia Metella, on the Appian Way; 
but the grandest and most splendid was that of Adrian, 
now known as the Castle St. Angelo. The basement 
was three hundred and forty feet square; the height to 
the pine cone on the summit was three hundred feet. It 
was decorated with an immense number of statues. 
The building called the tomb of Santa Helena, mother 
of Constantine, show's how the feeling for interior dec- 
oration had in that period displaced the earlier feeling 
for exterior decoration in all classes of structures. Par- 
allel to these tombs erected above the ground are the 
columbaria, or underground tombs, w ith niches for con- 
taining a number of cinerary urns. In general struet- 


1 ROMAN CATHOLIC CIIURCII 

ure, these have their antitype in the subterranean 
tombs, or catacombs, of the Etruscans. Many of these 
columbaria are exquisitely decorated with arabesques 
of stucco, which have been the delight of mediaeval and 
modern artists. Tumular monuments of more slender 
upright form, often with highly appropriate architect- 
ural decoration, and evidently with a marked Greek 
impress, are found in a few provincial cities in the north 
and west of the empire. But in Cyrene in Africa and 
in Petra in Arabia are found a large number of elabo- 
rate and imposing tombs. Those at Petra are deeply 
cut in the rock, like many Egyptian tombs, but with 
elaborate Corinthian decorations. Of this same Roman 
period are a large number of tombs in Palestine, Meso- 
potamia, and other countries in the Orient. See Tomr. 

The catacombs of the Etruscans were imitated bv 
the Jew's and Christians in Rome, as these classes, like 
the Etruscans, did not burn their dead. But the Ro- 
mans themselves, so far as is know'll, did not imitate 
fully the Etruscan catacombs for their own dead. See 
Catacomb. 

The Romans invented almost no original sculpture, 
but they brought from the conquered cities and colonies 
of Greece countless statues of the first rank. They also 
had marble copies of many masterpieces made for the 
deeoration of their baths, forums, circuses, palaces, and 
tombs. See Sculpture. 

Painting, both in tempera and in mosaic, they em- 
ployed very extensively in decorating the floors ami 
w'alls of the interiors of all rooms, even of those of shops 
and smaller houses. See Painting. 

The objects of daily use of every kind, even down to 
the utensils of the kitchen or the shop, w’ere richly dec- 
orated. Artistic decoration had become a necessity in 
all material objects. But, withal, it is remarkable that 
they should have depended upon foreign w’orkmen to 
supply them with all their artistic objects, both large 
and small. See Rome. 

In more ways than can be traced, the art of Rome, or 
rather the art in Rome, furnished the channel for the 
transmission of the art of classical antiquity, in modi- 
fied forms, to mediaeval Christianity. See Romanesque 
Art. (G. F. C.) 

Roman Catholic Church, the name usually 
given to that organization of Christians which recog- 
nises the Roman pope as its visible head and is in ec- 
clesiastical communion with him. The name may be 
found in a number of Roman Catholic w'riters, and is 
generally used in the constitution of those states in 
which the Roman Catholic Church is designated as 
one of the recognised or tolerated State churches. It 
is, how'ever, not the official name used by the authori- 
ties of the Church — who rather dislike it, and sub- 
stitute for it the name “Catholic” or “Holy Cath- 
olic” Church. The name “ Roman Church” is applied, 
in the language of the Church, to the Church or di- 
oeese of the bishop of Rome. The views which the 
members of the Roman Catholic Church, on the one 
hand, and all other Christians, on the other, take of the 
doctrine and the history of this Church w idely and ir- 
reconcilably differ. To the former, t he Church is the 
only form of Christianity that was founded by Christ; 
all other denominations of Christians are looked upon as 
deviations from genuine Christianity, and the history 
of the Church is to the Roman Catholic identical with 
the progress and development of Christianity. All oth- 
er Christians agree in viewing the doctrinal system of 
Rome as abounding in erroneous and antichrist ian ad- 
mixtures to the Christianity of the Bible, and its his- 
tory as the gradual growth of a central and absolute 
pow-er, which is without a scriptural basis, and prefers 
and enforces claims for which there is no w arrant what- 
ever in the teaching of Christ or the words of the Bible. 

I. History . — The Catholic historian begins the his- 
tory of his Church with the life of the Lord Jesus 
Christ. While living on this earth, he gathered around 
him those wdio were to rule t lie Church after his aseeu- 


ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 12 ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 


sioii. He provided for a complete organization of the 
Church by designating Peter as its head. The founda- 
tion of the Church was externally completed on the day 
of Pentecost by the effusion of the Holy Spirit. Sev- 
eral Church fathers have called this day the birthday 
of the Christian Church; accordingly the Catholic his- 
torian claims it as t lie actual beginning of the Catholic 
Church. Many of the traditions and legends which 
formerly embellished the histories of the early Catholic 
Church have now been quite generally abandoned by 
Catholic writers: they continue, however, to insist that 
the Scriptures in many places attest the supremacy of 
Peter as t he first among the apostles and the head of 
the Church. While admitting and lamenting the in- 
sufficiency of authentic information on the early history 
of the Church, Catholic writers emphatically defend, in 
opposition to modern criticism, a Human episcopate of 
the apostle Peter, the exercise of suprematial powers by 
several bishops of Home in the first three centuries, and 
the actual acquiescence of the Church in the Roman de- 
cisions. The pictures of the early Christian congrega- 
tions, as they are drawn by Catholic writers, bear but. 
little resemblance to the Roman Catholic Church of the 
present day; but it is contended that all that was sub- 
sequently developed in the Catholic system existed as a 
germ in the primitive Church, and that modern criti- 
cism has been unable to prove any irreconcilable differ- 
ence between the creed of the early Church and the 
Roman Catholic Church as it now exists. 

The growth of an “Old Catholic Church” with an 
episcopal constitution in the 2d and following centu- 
ries is generally recognised by Church historians. It 
is also quite generally admitted that the bishops of 
Rome, the imperial city of the West, successfully claimed 
a greater and greater influence; but only Roman Cath- 
olics defend these claims as the exercise of a divine 
right, while all other writers look upon them as the 
gradual development of a usurpation which was attend- 
ed by the most dangerous results. Christianity, in the 
meanwhile, spread rapidly through all the parts of the 
Roman world-empire, and, by the conversion of the em- 
peror Constantine, entered into the novel position of the 
ruling Church. The transfer of the imperial residence 
to Constantinople led to a rivalry between the bishops 
of Rome and Constantinople, which gradually became 
fatal to the unity of the Church. The bishops of Rome 
steadily enlarged their predominant influence in the 
whole of Western Europe, and rapidly increased their 
power by the conversion of the Germanic tribes, which 
gradually grew up to he the most powerful nations of 
the Christian world. The establishment of the tem- 
poral power at the close of the 8th century gave to the 
popes of Rome both greater influence and greater pres- 
tige, and enabled them to gradually convert the episco- 
pal into a papal Church. The pontificate of Hildebrand, 
who succeeded to the papal throne in 1073 under the 
name of Gregory VII, completed the papal system and the 
Roman Catholic Church in their most essential features. 
Even before his election a's pope, he had prevailed upon 
his immediate predecessors, as their most influential 
adviser, to make the election of popes in future wholly 
independent of secular influence, and thus to secure a 
continuity of pontiffs whose sole aim would be the prog- 
ress and complete victory of the Church, not only over 
all other ecclesiastical and religious organizations, but 
also over all temporal governments. Under his influ- 
ence, a council held at Home in 1U59 had decreed that 
the pope was to he only elected by the cardinals. After 
lie had ascended the papal throne himself, he enforced 
in 1074 the priestly celibacy, and took the final step for 
emancipating the Church from the State by forbidding 
bishops and abbots, through a synod held at Rome 
(1075), to accept the, investiture from secular govern- 
ments. For nearly fifty years this prohibition remained 
the subject of a violent controversy between the pope 
and the secular princes, and though it was finally set- 
tled by a compromise (1122), it secured to the pope a 


genera] recognition of the important right of confirming 
the election of all the bishops. One of the leading feat- 
ures of the Roman Catholic system — the absolute su- 
premacy of tbe pope as vicar of Jesus Christ and head 
of the Church in ail ecclesiastical affairs — is largely due 
to the influences proceeding from Gregory VII and his 
successors. The fundamental idea of Gregory VII, how- 
ever, was never fully carried out. He had clearly con- 
ceived the plan of converting the Roman Catholic 
Church into a universal theocracy, with the pope at its 
head as sole sovereign in temporal affairs as well as 
spiritual. According to this view, all states of the 
Christian name were to be bound together in the unity 
of the papal theocracy as members of one body. The 
princes receive their consecration and divine sanction 
through the ecclesiastical power; they are appointed 
“by the grace of God;” but tbe Church mediates be- 
tween them and God. Royalty sustains to the papacy 
the same relation as the moon to the sun, receiving from 
it its light and its heat. The divine authority with 
which secular powers are clothed by the Church can 
therefore be again withdrawn by the Church when the 
secular powers misuse it. With the withdrawal of this 
authority ceases also the liability of the subjects to obe- 
dience. The gigantic efforts made by the mediaeval 
popes, from Gregory VI 1 to Boniface VIII, to enforce 
these views till some of the most interesting pages of 
the history of the Middle Ages. By the semi-military 
organization of the religious orders, the popes had a well- 
disciplined and trustworthy corps of officers at their dis- 
posal. who frequently fought their battles even when 
bishops ceased to side with them. The Crusades, though 
in the first place aiming at the deliverance of the holy 
sepulchre, repeatedly supplied the popes with a willing 
army for coereing hostile princes. None of the suc- 
cessors of Gregory attained so great a power and came 
so near realizing the establishment of the papal theocra- 
cy as Innocent III. In the struggle against his succes- 
sors, the noble house of Hohenstaufen perished; but soon 
the kings of France checked the theocratic aspirations 
of the popes, and the imprisonment of Boniface VIII 
by the French made a breach in the theocratic edifice 
reared by Gregory VII and bis successors which has never 
been repaired. The right to depose princes and release 
their subjects from the oath of allegiance was not ex- 
pressly disowned by tbe popes, but it ceased to involve 
any practical danger, and was clearly repudiated by the 
Church. The transfer of the papal residence, which 
made the popes disgracefully dependent upon the French 
kings, and, still more, the papal schism, during which 
two, or at times three, popes hurled against each other 
t he most terrible anathemas, undermined to a large ex- 
tent the respect which Catholic countries had thus far 
had for the papal authority; and rapidly diffused the 
belief that the Church was pervaded by corruption, and 
that it needed a thorough reformation in its head and 
members. Such a reformation was sincerely attempted 
by the great councils of Pisa, Constance, and Basle, 
which not only endeavored to eradicate many flagrant 
abuses in the practical life of the Church, but to reduce 
the constitution of the Church from a papal absolutism 
to an episcopal constitutionalism by expressly declaring 
the superiority of a general council over the pope. The 
success of this scheme would have shaped the subse- 
quent development of the Roman Catholic Church very 
different from what it has been; but the astuteness of 
the popes knew how to thwart the manifest reformatory 
desires of the majority of the bishops, to stifle the cries 
for a Church reformation, and to reimpose upon a reluc- 
tant Church the papal authority, at least in matters of 
an ecclesiastical nature. 

While Western Europe became politically reorgan- 
ized under Teutonic leadership, and ecclesiastically cen- 
tralized as the Roman Catholic Church under the lead- 
ership of the bishops of Pome, the Eastern churches re- 
tained substantially the constitution of the Old Catholic 
Church of the early centuries. The Council of Nice rec- 


ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCII 73 ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 


ognised the higher authority of the metropolitan bish- 
ops of Rome, Antioch, and Alexandria. This higher 
authority was subsequently expressed in the title “pa- 
triarch.” Later, the bishops of Constantinople and Je- 
rusalem were added to the number of patriarchs, and 
the growing importance of the city of Constantinople 
gradually made the bishop of the city the first among 
the Eastern patriarchs, a distinction whieh was express- 
ly sanctioned by the Concilium Quinisextum of 092. The 
Church of those times was greatly agitated by contro- 
versies relating to the Person and Work of Christ.. 
East and West united in the wish to preserve the doc- 
trinal unity of the Church on those important, subjects; 
and oecumenical councils, in whieh both sections were 
represented, defined the creed of the Church and ex- 
pelled the dissenters from her communion. Whether 
at these councils any prerogative, honorary or other- 
wise, was conceded to the patriarchs of Rome continues 
to be a subject of theological controversy; but even Ro- 
man Catholic writers do not claim that the bishops of 
Rome can be proved to have asserted any superior juris- 
diction in any of the other patriarchal dioceses. Grad- 
ually some different views sprang up between the East 
and West relating to questions of constitution, doetrine, 
and worship. The most important of these controver- 
sies was that relating to the procession of the llolv 
Ghost. See Filioquk. In the course of the 9th cen- 
tury the controversy grew into a serious dissension, and 
in the course of the 11th it led to a formal and perma- 
nent sehism. Many attempts at reconciliation and re- 
union have since been made, but they were either un- 
successful, or, if successful for a time, without duration. 
See Greek: Church. 

In Western Europe, the Roman Catholic Church re- 
tained her unity until the lGth century. The leaders 
of that reformatory party which controlled the councils 
of Pisa, Constance, and Basle were anxious not to dis- 
turb the unity of the Church, and co-operated in the 
condemnation of men like Wyeliffe and Huss, who 
wanted first of all a scriptural reformation of the doc- 
trine, and who showed no concern about external unity 
if it stood in t he way of a doctrinal reformation. At the 
beginning of the 16th century, the stilled clamors for a 
radical revision of the doctrine of the corrupt Church 
and the restoration of a pure seriptural doctrine burst 
irresistibly forth in the German and Swiss reformation. 
See Reformation. The whole of England, Scotland, 
Holland, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, and large portions 
of Germany and Switzerland, permanently severed their 
connection with the Roman Catholic Chureh. The 
Church rallied, from a sense of self-preservation, for 
extraordinary conservative, and recuperative efforts. 
Although the Council of Trent (1545-63) did not suc- 
ceed in bringing back the seceders, it exerted an im- 
portant normative influence upon the subsequent his- 
tory of the Roman Church. While it reasserted, in op- 
position to the Protestants, those doctrines which had 
been developed by the mediaeval theologians, and pro- 
mulgated them as parts of the Chureh doetrine, and 
thus made a return of those who regarded many Roman 
Catholic doetrines as an apostasy from pure Biblical 
Christianity impossible, it issued, on the other hand, 
decrees for the reformation of the constitution and dis- 
cipline of the Church, whieh retained within its pale 
large numbers who, though favoring a purification of 
the Chureh, laid also great stress upon the preservation 
of its unity and its unbroken historical connection with 
the apostolic age. For the vast territories lost in Eu- 
rope, the Church received some compensation in the 
New World, where the monastic orders, conjointly with 
the Spanish government, subjected the larger portion 
of the native population to the Church, and fully se- 
cured the permanent ascendency of Roman Catholicism. 
The desire to concentrate the energy of the ablest men 
within the Chureh for an effectual arrest of a further 
advanee of Protestantism led to the peculiar organiza- 
tion of the Order of the Jesuits, which plays a prouii- 


I nent part in the subsequent history of the Church. By 
dint of its extraordinary efforts, it not only checked the 
j further progress of Protestantism in a number of coun- 
tries, but. recovered some that already appeared to be 
| lost. Within the Chureh its influence was no less re- 
markable, and it succeeded, like no other community of 
men before, in strengthening and enlarging, in opposi- 
tion to the adherents of the episcopalian system, and 
especially to the Galileans, the absolute authority of the 
popes. The rejection by the popes of doctrinal opin- 
ions designated as heretical repeatedly called forth very 
exciting dogmatical controversies, which in one case led 
to the organization ofa separate ecclesiastical communi- 
ty, the so-called Jansenists, or Old Catholics of Holland, 
who recognised the authority of the pope as the head 
of the Church, but denied the infallibility of bis dog- 
matical decisions, and consequently their obligation to 
yield to them an unconditional submission. In the sec- 
ond halfof the 18th century, extraordinary tempestscame 
down upon the Church. In France and other countries 
of Southern Europe, an antieliristian literature under- 
mined, in the educated classes of the population, not. only 
the attachment to the Church, but a belief in Chris- 
tianity. The Bourbons of Spain, Portugal, and France, 
under the influence of freethinking statesmen, foreed a 
pliant pope who had been eleeted by their influence to 
abolish the Order of the Jesuits, in their opinion the 
strongest bulwark of the Chureh against the advanee of 
a new, freethinking ivra. In Germany, the episcopal 
electors of the empire united with the emperor Joseph 
II on a plan to establish a National German Catholic 
Church, which was to be almost independent of Rome. 
The Freneh Revolution took from the pope his tempo- 
ral possessions, confiscated the property of the Church, 
and for a time decreed the abolition of Christianity. 
Napoleon desired to secure the co-operation of the 
Chureh for the execution of his ambitious schemes and 
the confirmation of liis power and his dynasty, lie 
concluded in 1801 with the pope a concordat, whieh 
was to restore to the pope his temporal possessions and 
his ecclesiastical powers; but as a complete agreement 
was not arrived at, Napoleon once more (1808) occupied 
the States of the Church, and declared the “donation of 
his predecessor Charlemagne” revoked. When he was 
thereupon excommunicated, he imprisoned the pope, 
and for several years deprived the Church of her head. 
In 1814 the allied prinees of Europe restored the tempo- 
ral power of the pope, and Bins VII was enabled to re- 
sume the full functions of the papacy as they were exer- 
cised before the French Revolution. An agreement, how- 
ever, between the pope and the prinees assembled at the 
Congress of Vienna was not attained, and the pope en- 
tered through his legate a protest against the work of 
the congress. In 1816 the Order of the Jesuits was re- 
stored for the whole Chureh, and soon displayed again, 
as in former times, an extraordinary activity for strength- 
ening and enlarging the papal authority in opposition 
to episcopal and liberal tendencies still manifesting 
themselves within the Chureh, as well as to the legis- 
lation of the secular governments. The growth of the 
liberal and revolutionary party in most of the European 
countries, which aimed at either curtailing or wholly 
abolishing the power of the princes, was not only very 
distasteful to the Roman Catholic Church, but led in 
most countries to vehement conflicts, especially in re- 
gard to the public schools. In Italy, the national ten- 
dencies for a political union led to the establishment of 
a united kingdom of Italy, to which the larger portion 
of the States of the Church was annexed in 1860, and 
the remainder, including the city of Rome, in 1870. 
Though not a few Catholics, including even some of the 
most prominent members of the Order of tbe Jesuits, 
were inclined to look upon the destruction of the tem- 
poral power of the popes as favorable to the spiritual in- 
terests of the Church, the pope (Pius IN) pronounced 
an excommunication against the king of Italy and all 
I statesmen who had aided in the conquest of the Papal 


ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 74 ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 


States. The successor of Pius (Leo XIII), though be- 
lieved to be more mildly disposed, has not yet receded 
from the standpoint of his predecessor. The pontificate 
of Pius IX became of exceeding importance in the inner 
history of the Catholic Church. The promulgation of 
the doctrine of the immaculate conception of the Vir- 
gin Mary, and of a syllabus which characterized a 
number of doctrines and views commonly held in civil- 
ized countries as heretical or erroneous, indicated a de- 
termination on the part of the pope and his advisers to 
force a belief in, and submission to, the extreme theories 
concerning the papal authority upon the entire Catho- 
lic Church. This victory of the extremest papal party 
within the Catholic Church became complete when, in 
1870, the Vatican Council proclaimed the infallibility 
of the doctrinal decisions of the pope as a tenet of the 
Catholic Church. A considerable number of bishops, 
chiefly from Germany, Austria, and France, made a de- 
termined opposition to the adoption of the new doctrine, 
chiefly on the ground of its being inopportune. After 
its adoption by the council, however, the opposing bish- 
ops gradually submitted to the demand of the pope to 
have the doctrine promulgated in their dioceses. Sev- 
eral did so with undisguised reluctance ; some (as bish- 
op Beckmann of Osnabriick) were said by their inti- 
mate friends to have secretly remained opponents of the 
innovation even on their death-bed; but externally all 
yielded, and not one of the bishops separated from the 
Church in consccpieuce of the great change which had 
been made by the Vatican Council. The lower clergy 
quite generally followed the example of the bishops. A 
number of professors of Catholic theology at the German 
universities continued, however, to refuse their submis- 
sion, and were therefore excommunicated. As many 
thousands of laymen sympathized with them, the neces- 
sity of providing for their religious wants gradually led 
to the organization of “Old Catholic” congregations in 
Germany, Switzerland, and Austria, and even the elec- 
tion of Old Catholic bishops in Germany and Switzer- 
land. In France, a distinguished pulpit orator, father 
Ilyacinthe, has been active in the interest of Old Ca- 
tholicism, but thus far (1879) without effecting any or- 
ganization. In Italy, the friends of an Old Catholic 
reformation have a secret organization, with a bishop 
elect at its head. The numerical strength which the 
Old Catholic Church had attained after eight years of 
hard and incessant labors was far from meeting the ex- 
pectations of its founders. The total number of the 
population which expressly and formally severed their 
connection with what was called, by the Old Cath- 
olics, the Vatican Church did not exceed 200,000 per- 
sons, an insignificant number if compared with the 200,- 
000,000 who remain nominally connected with Rome. 
But the reluctance of the bulk of the Catholic popula- 
tion to sever their nominal connection with the Church 
of their ancestors cannot be taken as a proof that the 
Catholic Church retains its control over the nations 
which refused to separate from her in the 16th century. 
The history of the Catholic nations during the last cen- 
tury furnishes, on the contrary, ample proof that the 
influence of the national Church in all these countries 
has to a very large extent been undermined. In Spain 
the Cortes frequently defied the authority of the Church. 
In 1835 nearly all the convents were abolished, and only 
a few of them have ever been restored. In 1837 the 
Cortes abolished tithes and confiscated the entire prop- 
erty of the Church. In 1840, during the provisional 
regency of Espartero, the papal nuncio was expelled 
from the country; and in 1811 the union of the Span- 
ish Church with Home was declared to have ceased. 
Repeatedly the Cortes decided in favor of religious 
toleration, especially during the short time when Spain 
was a republic. King Amadeo I, and still more Al- 
plionsn XII (since 1871), deemed it expedient to seek 
a reconciliation with the pope; but even they have 
been unable to grant all * lie demands of the Church. — 
Portugal has been, almost without interruption, at va- 


riance with the claims of the popes. All the religious 
orders of men, and nearly all those for women, have been 
suppressed. In the Cortes a liberal, anti-Roman party is 
invariably in the ascendency; even the majority of the 
priests and bishops sympathize more with the govern- 
ment than with the pope, and up to the end of 1878 
the government had forbidden and prevented the 
promulgation of the doctrine of papal infallibility.— In 
France the revolution of 1830 not only expelled the 
Bourbons from the throne, but stripped, to a large ex- 
tent, the Church of its political power. According to 
the new constitution, the Roman Catholic Church was 
no longer the religion of the State, but only of the ma- 
jority of Frenchmen. 'The affairs of the nation were 
for many years conducted by a Protestant prime minis- 
ter, Guizot. Napoleon III endeavored to strengthen his 
dynasty by making extensive concessions to the hie- 
rarchy; and even after the establishment of the republic 
in 1871, the majority of the Legislative Assembly and one 
of the presidents of the republic (MacMahon) favored 
the Catholic restoration in order to check the confirma- 
tion and advance of republican principles; but in 1879 
the success of the Republican party at the general elec- 
tion, in spite of its denunciation by all the bishops, 
placed the government of the country in the hands of 
statesmen who are fully determined to annihilate the 
influence of the Catholic priesthood upon the govern- 
ment of France and upon the education of the rising 
generation. — In the little kingdom of Belgium, which, in 
1830, established its independence of Holland, the Cath- 
olic Church has, on the whole, exercised a greater in- 
fluence upon legislation than in any other country of 
Europe; but, notwithstanding the immense power of 
the Church, the liberal party, which is in open and bit- 
ter enniitv to the Church, secured at the general elec- 
tion in 1878 a majority in both chambers, and has 
since prepared a law on public education which will 
exclude the influence of the Church. — In A ustria the 
close alliance between the absolute government and 
the popes for the suppression of all liberal tenden- 
cies was terminated by the introduction of a constitu- 
tional form of government in 1848. An attempt which 
was made in 1855 to re-establish this alliance by a new 
Austrian concordat, which gave to the Catholic bishops 
a far-reaching influence upon public affairs, was of short 
duration. The re-establishment of a parliamentary gov- 
ernment has shown that the majority of both houses 
are adverse to the continuance of Church influence upon 
public affairs, and that they uphold the principles of re- 
ligious toleration and of State education. — Italy has, like 
Spain and Portugal, expelled the religious orders and 
conliscated the property of the Church ; it has fully sec- 
ularized public instruction, and, more than any other 
government of the world, it is impelled to reject the 
claims of the Church, because these claims involve the 
destruction of Italian unity. — Among the states of Span- 
ish and Portuguese America there is not one which has 
not hail, from time to time, its conflicts with pope and 
bishops. The progress of religious toleration and of a 
secular school system, after the Protestant models of 
Germany and the United States, and in opposition to 
the bishops, proves that the Church has ceased to have 
a firm hold on any of these states. See Old Cath- 
olics. 

In the Protestant countries of Europe the Roman 
Catholic Church has been greatly benefited since the 
beginning of the 19th century by the progress of relig- 
ious toleration. The laws impeding the free exercise 
of the Roman Catholic form of worship, or its self-gov- 
ernment, were quite generally repealed, or fell, at least, 
into disuse. Thus congregations were reorganized in 
Sweden , Norway , and Denmark, where the Church had 
been almost extinct since the 16th century, ami vicars 
apostolic were appointed as an initial step towards the 
reconstruction of dioceses. — In Holland , where the 
Church had been for two hundred years without a hie- 
rarchical organization, although it had not ceased to 


ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 75 ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 


have a considerable Catholic population, the constitu- 
tion of 1848 proclaimed the principle of religious liberty. 
Thus even the Jesuits were allowed to return, and in 
1853 the Catholic hierarchy was re-established by the 
erection of one archbishopric and four bishoprics. — In 
Great Britain the government had to yield, in 1829, to 
the agitation of the Irish Catholics for equal political 
rights, and to open both houses of Parliament to its 
Catholic subjects. This was followed by the restoration 
of the Catholic hierarchy in 1850, in which year pope 
Pius IX divided the kingdom into one archbishopric 
and twelve bishoprics. The ancient hierarchy of the 
Roman Catholic Church had become extinct in 1585, by 
the death of bishop Gold well of St. Asaph. In Scot- 
land, when the ancient hierarchy had become extinct 
by the death of archbishop Betoun of Glasgow, in 1601, 
the hierarchy was established by pope Leo XIII, who 
in 1878 established two archbishoprics and four bishop- 
rics. As Ireland at the time of the Catholic emancipa- 
tion numbered alone seven millions of Roman Catholics, 
and a tide of Irish emigration tilled the cities of Eng- 
land and Scotland with a large Catholic population, 
the Catholic Church appeared at home and abroad as a 
great power; and the number of churches, of priests, 
and Catholic institutions rapidly increased. The indig- 
nation felt among Protestants at this revival of the 
Church of Rome induced Parliament, in 1851, to adopt 
a resolution declaring all papal edicts, and all jurisdic- 
tions, ranks, or titles created by them, null and void ; 
and fining every person who, without legal authority, 
accepted any ecclesiastical title derived from the name 
of any place in the kingdom. Rut the new Catholic 
bishops knew how to evade the laws; and the liberal 
tendency of English legislation gave to the Roman 
Catholics a position which even Roman Catholic writ- 
ers have often praised as the most favorable in Europe. 
The hopes awakened by this restoration for the future 
of Roman Catholicism in England were greatly strength- 
ened bv a movement within the Established Church of 
England, which aimed at a revival of the Catholic ele- 
ments of this Church. Under the leadership of Pusey 
and Newman, this movement — sometimes called the Ox- 
ford movement because it had its chief centre in Oxford 
— gradually developed tendencies to Roman Catholicism 
and led a considerable number of graduates of English 
universities over to the Church of Rome. Among the 
new Catholics were many men of great reputation, in- 
fiuence, and wealth. The most prominent were, Dr. 
Henry Newman, one of the leaders of the movement, 
who, as superior of the religious order of the Oratorians 
(consisting almost wholly of former members of the An- 
glican Church), as rector of the Catholic University of 
Dublin, and by a number of literary works, displayed a 
great activity for the Roman Catholic Church, and, as 
a reward for his services, was raised, in 1879, to the car- 
dinalate; archbishop Manning of Westminster, created 
cardinal in 1875; the marquis of Bute, one of the rich- 
est noblemen of the United Kingdom; the marquis of 
Ripon, a prominent English statesman and member of 
the Privy Council. The number of Anglican clergy- 
men, members of the nobility, and literary persons who, 
since the beginning of the Oxford movement, have join- 
ed the Roman Catholic Church exceeds one thousand. 
By these accessions the Church has received a higher 
social standing and a greater influence upon English 
society than it had before. This is especially apparent 
in the colonies, where the government recognises the 
power of the Catholic bishops and missionaries to co- 
operate for the confirmation of the English rule, and is 
willing to secure this co-operation by favors and con- 
cessions. It is, however, a noteworthy fact that, in 
spite of all the accessions to the Church from the high- 
er ranks of English society, the total Catholic popula- 
tion shows not only no notable progress, but the esti- 
mates by the most careful statisticians give even lower 
figures for it than were assumed some ten years ago. 
This would indicate that the losses sustained by the 


Church, especially among the lower classes of the pop- 
ulation, must, at least, equal in number the gains. 

On the other hand, the territorial rearrangement of Ger- 
many by the Congress of Vienna placed nearly all the Ger- 
manCatholics, except those of Austria and Bavaria, under 
Protestant governments. The great wars of 18G6 and 1870 
severed the connection between Catholic Austria and the 
German Catholics, and placed Protestant Prussia and a 
Protestant emperor at the head of the German nation- 
ality. The laws of all the German states place the Ro- 
man Catholics on a level with Protestants; but diver- 
gent opinions on the limits of the ecclesiastical and the 
secular powers have repeatedly led to fierce conflicts be- 
tween the Church and the German governments, espe- 
cially Prussia. The two Prussian archbishops of Co- 
logne and Posen were imprisoned in 1837, and kept 
prisoners until 1840, for refusing obedience to royal or- 
dinances concerning mixed marriages. A new conflict 
began in 1872, which occupies a prominent place in the 
modern history of Roman Catholicism, under the name 
Kulturkampf, and was not yet ended at the beginning 
of 1879. The Prussian government, alarmed at the in- 
crease of power which the Vatican Council had placed 
in the hands of the pope, deemed it necessary to divest 
the bishops of the influence which they had thus far 
exerted upon the national schools; to check the abso- 
lute control of the lower clergy by the bishops; and to 
extend, the jurisdiction of the State over both bishops 
and lower clergy. The bishops regarded some of the 
laws adopted in Prussia for this purpose as inconsistent 
with their duties towards the Church, and refused to 
submit to them. In consequence of the conflicts which 
were caused by this attitude of the bishops, a number 
of the Prussian bishops were deposed from their sees; 
and several other secs which became vacant by the 
death of their occupants could not be filled on account 
of the insuperable disagreement between the Prussian 
government and the pope. At the beginning of 1879, 
of the twelve archbishoprics and bishoprics of Prussia, 
only two were actually filled. During the progress of 
this conflict, the bulk of the Catholic population of Ger- 
many showed a marked sympathy with the bishops; 
and the universal suffrage which has been adopted in 
Germany for the elections to the Reichstag yielded in 
no country of the world so compact a host of ultramon- 
tane deputies as in Germany. Thus the Catholic dis- 
tricts of Germany came to be looked upon as a bulwark 
of the Roman Catholic Church in general. Previously 
the German Church had won within the Catholic Church 
a great prestige for superiority in the province of liter- 
ature ; and not a few of its literary productions had been 
translated into the languages of most of the other Cath- 
olic nations. The elevation of Dr. Hergenrdther, a uni- 
versity professor, to the cardinalate by pope Leo XIII, 
in April, 1879, was regarded as an encouraging tribute 
to the science of Catholic Germany by the head of the. 
Church. — The Roman Catholic Church has suffered 
the greatest numerical losses in Russia. At the second 
partition of Poland, in 1793, nearly all the dioceses ol 
the United Greeks in the former Polish empire were 
incorporated with Russia. The empress Catharine II 
made incessant efforts to reunite the United Greeks 
(who, during the Polish rule, had been induced to rec- 
ognise the supremacy of the pope) with the Orthodox 
Greek Church ; and it is said that, during her reign, no 
no less than seven millions of United Greeks separated 
from Rome. No exertions to this end were made by 
the emperors Paul I and Alexander I; but Nicholas I 
and Alexander II followed in the footsteps of Catha- 
rine. In 1839, 3 bishops and 1305 priests, representing a 
population of more than 2,000,000, declared, at a synod 
held at Plock, in favor of reunion with the Russian 
State Church. After this only one United Greek dio- 
cese remained (Chelm), with a population of 250,000, 
nearly all of whom, in the years 1877 and 1878, likewise 
joined the Russian Church. As the Russian government 
forbids secession from the State Church to any other 


ROMAN CATHOLIC CIIURCII 7 

religious denomination, a return of the United Greeks 
to the communion of Home is for the present impossi- 
ble. Homan Catholic writers unanimously assert that 
measures of the utmost severity and cruelty have been 
resorted to to bring about this separation from Home; 
and their statements are fully continued by nearly all 
writers who are not Russians. — In the United States of 
America the Homan Catholic Church enjoys a degree 
of independence which it has hardly ever possessed in 
any other country. Owing to the rapid increase of the 
population in general, and to the large influx of immi- 
grants, it has already attained a high rank among the 
national divisions of the Homan Catholic Church. See 
Homan Catholic Church in the United States. 

The missionary labors of the Catholic Church in 
non-Christian countries received a great impulse by the 
foundation of the Order of the Jesuits. The latter sent 
out a larger number of missionaries than any other re- 
ligions order has done before or after its foundation. 
In some countries of Eastern Asia the Catholic missions 
appeared, at times, to become a complete success. In 
Japan the Church embraced, at one time, more than 
200,000 Christians, and counted among her adherents 
several princes. In China the Jesuits obtained a great 
influence at the courts of several emperors, and the per- 
mission to establish missions throughout the empire. 
In l lindostan , Corea , Anam, and other countries, numer- 
ous congregations M ere collected, and many natives be- 
came priests and members of religious orders. Many 
of these missions have had to suffer bloody persecutions; 
bin most of them have survived, though in a crippled 
form and with reduced numbers, to the present day. 
Pope Gregory XV established for the chief and central 
direction of the Catholic missions, in all parts of the 
M'orld, the Congregatio de Propaganda Fide, which 
consisted of 15 cardinals, 3 prelates, and I secretary. 
Pope Urban VIII connected with this institution, in 
1027, a seminary for the training of foreign missiona- 
ries (Collegium Urbanum de Propaganda Fide), which 
still exists, and has always been famous for the large 
number of nationalities represented among its pupils, 
besides the seminary of the Propaganda, the Homan 
Catholic Church has seminaries specially devoted to 
the education of foreign missionaries at Paris, Lyons, 
and in several other places; and at present most of the 
religious orders educate some of their members in their 
own institutions for the missionary service. For the 
financial support of the Catholic missions, a central So- 
ciety for the Propagation of the Faith was established 
in 1822 at Lyons, which has of late had an annual 
income of about 5.000,000 francs. This society has 
branches in nearly all countries of the world ; only Aus- 
tria and Bavaria have preferred to establish their own 
societies for the support of foreign missions. A chil- 
dren’s missionary society, called the “ Society of the 
llolv Childhood of Jesus,” devotes its revenue chiefly 
to the efforts for the baptism and Catholic education 
of pagan children. It has branches in all countries. 
It is admitted by all Catholic writers that the sums an- 
nually contributed for the support of the Catholic mis- 
sionaries fall far below the aggregate annual income of 
the Protestant missionary societies. 

11. JJoetrines. — As the Homan Catholic Church agrees 
with the Greek and the Protestant, churches in regard- 
ing the Holy Scriptures as divinely inspired, and as an 
authority in matters of faith and morals, she holds 
many points of Christian belief in common with these 
large divisions of the Christian Church. Conjointly 
with them, she believes in t lie unity of divine essence, 
the Trinity of the divine persons (Father, Son, and Holy 
Ghost), and the creation of the world by the will of God 
out of nothing for his glory and the happiness of his 
creatures. Among other points of belief which are 
common to the Homan Catholic, Greek, and Evangel- 
ical Protestant churches are the following: the original 
innocence of man; his fall in Adam, anil redemption by 
Christ; the incarnation of the Eternal Logos and Second 


6 ROMAN CATHOLIC CIIURCII 

Person in the Holy Trinity; the divine human consti- 
tution of the Person Christ. In regard to the proces- 
sion of the Holy Ghost, the Homan Catholic Church 
has added to the Nieene Creed the “Filioque” (“and 
from the Son”), and accordingly believes that the Holy 
Ghost proceeds from the Father and the Soil ; while the 
Greek Church believes, in strict accordance with the 
original Nieene Creed, that the Holy Ghost proceeds 
from the Father only. The Roman Catholic Church 
holds, in common with the Greek, but in opposition 
to evangelical Protestants, the following doctrines: 
The authority of ecclesiastical tradition as a joint 
rule of faith wit h the Scriptures; the veneration of the 
Virgin Mary, the saints, their pictures and relics; the 
infallibility of the Church; justification by faith and 
M-orks as joiyt conditions; the seven sacraments or 
mysteries ; baptismal regeneration, and the necessity 
of water baptism for salvation; priestly absolution by 
divine authority; transubstantiation and the adoration 
of the consecrated elements; the sacrifice of the mass 
for the living and the dead; prayers for the departed. 
The infallibility of the Church ivas formerly lodged by 
the Roman Catholic Church in the general councils 
conjointly with the pope, but since 1870 also in all the 
doctrinal decisions of the popes; by the Greek Church 
it is attributed to the seven oecumenical councils, and 
the patriarchal oligarchy as a whole. The immaculate 
conception of the Virgin Mary, which was proclaimed 
as a dogma by the pope in 1854, is rejected by the 
Greek Church as blasphemous, although it practices 
the veneration of the Virgin no less than the Roman 
Catholic. In regard to the Holy Scriptures, the Roman 
Catholic Church includes in its canon the Apocrypha 
of the Old Test., which are excluded from the Protes- 
tant canon. The Latin (Vulgate) translation of the 
Bible is placed on a par with the Hebrew and Greek 
Scriptures, while Protestantism claims divine authority 
only lbr the original Seriptures of the inspired authors. 
As regards the popular use and circulation of the llible, 
the Roman Catholic Church has generally discouraged 
the reading of unannotated Bibles in the native tongues, 
and commanded her members to seek on this subject 
the previous advice of their pastors and spiritual guides. 

With regard to the unity of the Church, the Ro- 
man Catholic Church teaches that Christ founded one, 
and only one, infallible visible Church which was to 
represent him on earth as the teacher of religious truth, 
and to which, therefore, all men ought to submit. The 
Roman Catholic Church claims to be this communion, 
and therefore asserts that outside of her there is no 
salvation (“extra ecclesiam nulla sains”). She does 
not admit the Protestant distinction between a visible 
and invisible Church, but demands that all should be- 
long to the visible Church. She admits, hov r ever, that 
there may be cases when insurmountable difficulties 
prevent persons from joining her communion, and when 
God will save them though they have not been for- 
mally received into her pale. As there is, in the opinion 
of the Church, only one Church and one baptism, all 
persons, children or adult, to whom the ordinance of 
baptism is administered in due form are thereby re- 
ceived into the Catholic Church. The children of 
Protestants and other non-Catholies are therefore re- 
garded as belonging to the Catholic Church until they 
cut themselves loose from it by their own erroneous 
belief. 

In regard to the future life, the Roman Catholic 
Church admits a temporary middle place and state 
(lasting until the final judgment) between heaven and 
hell, for the purification of imperfect Christians, which 
may be advanced by prayers and masses in their be- 
half. The centre of Catholic worship is the mass, 
which the Church holds t6 be an actual, though un- 
bloody, repetition of Christ’s sacrifice on the cross, by 
the priests, for the sins of the living and the dead. It 
is offered, as a rule, daily by every priest. To the laity 
the eucharist is now administered in only one kind, the 


ROMAN CATHOLIC CIIURCII 77 ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 


bread, the Church believing that Christ is wholly pres- 
ent in the consecrated bread as well as in the wine, and 
that therefore the reception of one kind is fully suffi- 
cient. 

An important difference between Roman Catholic 
and Protestant ethics exists in the doctrine of good 
works, the Roman Catholic Church believing that 
works of supererogation, which are not commanded, but 
recommended (consilia ev angelica), with corresponding 
extra merits, constitute a treasury at the disposal of 
the pope for the dispensation of indulgences. These 
indulgences are transferable to the souls in purgatory. 

As the Church is the plenipotentiary and infallible 
representative of Christ, her commandments arc no less 
binding upon the faithful than the divine command- 
ments recorded in the Scriptures. Among the com- 
mandments given by the Church are the duty of the 
faithful to go once a year to confession, to receive once 
a year the eucharist, and to attend mass on every Sun- 
day and holiday. Upon her clergy the Church has 
imposed the duty of celibacy; as this, however, is not 
a part of Church doctrine, the priests of those of the 
Eastern churches which recognise the supremacy of the 
pope are allowed to marry. 

Paintings and images are quite commonly used in 
Catholic churches as fitting ornaments, and as objects 
calculated to excite and keep alive feelings of devo- 
tion. The crucifix may be mentioned as the principal 
among them. A number of ceremonies and vestments 
are used in the celebration of divine worship. They are 
intended to give a peculiar dignity to the sacred mys- 
teries of religion; to raise the mind of the beholder to 
heavenly things by their various and appropriate im- 
port ; to instruct the ignorant and keep alive attention ; 
to give to the ministers of religion a respect for them- 
selves and for the awful rites in which they officiate. 

In the celebration of the mass and other services of 
the Church, the Latin language is used. The Church 
cherishes it as a bond of union which connects the 
churches of the present with each other, as well as with 
the primitive apostolic Church of Home. For the use 
of the people, translations into the vernacular languages 
are made, and are in common use. The Eastern church- 
es which have entered into a corporate union with 
Home are allowed to retain at divine service the use 
of their old liturgical languages. Latin is also the lan- 
guage of the Rreviary, which contains the prayers anil 
religious readings prescribed by the Church for the 
daily devotional exercises of the priests. 

III. Constitution. — The Homan Catholic Church be- 
lieves in a special priesthood in which all the offices of 
the Church are vested. The powers conferred upon 
the priesthood are twofold — the priestly power, potest as 
ordinis , and the governing power, potestas jurisdictio- 
nis. The former is vested in its fulness in the bishops, 
who alone have the right to provide for the continua- 
tion of the hierarchy by means of ordination. Subordi- 
nate to the bishop are the orders of priest and deacon. 
These two orders, together with that of bishop, con- 
stitute the ordines majores , and Form the keystone 
of the entire hierarchy. Several minor orders, ordines 
minor es, the number of which has varied, are pre- 
paratory steps for the entrance into the hierarchy, 
and are no longer of any practical significance. The 
governing power is possessed in its fulness by the 
pope, who alone has apostolic authority, and may ex- 
ercise it in any part of the Church. The bishop has 
governing power only over one diocese, and, according 
to the present Church law, can practically exercise it 
only with the sanction of the pope. A number of epis- 
copal dioceses are commonly united in an ecclesiastical 
province, the head bishop of which bears the title of 
archbishop, presides at the provincial councils, but oth- 
wise interferes but rarely and only in special cases in 
the administration of the suffragan dioceses. If a coun- 
try has more than one ecclesiastical province, one of 
the archbishops has frequently the title of primate, and 


as such ranks the other archbishops and presides at 
national councils. As all the Eastern patriarchates have 
severed their connection with Home, the name patriarch 
has totally lost the signification it had in the early 
Church. It is an honorary title which confers no de- 
gree of jurisdiction superior to that of archbishop or 
primate. The Church has at present, besides the pope, 
twelve patriarchs— namely, four of Antioch (for the Lat- 
in, Greek, Syrian, and Maronitc rites respectively), and 
one eachofConstantinoplc, Alexandria, Jerusalem, Haby- 
lon (of the Chaldiean rite), Cilicia (of the Armenian rite), 
the East Indies, Lisbon, and Venice. Those fragments 
of Eastern churches which in course of time had entered 
into a corporate union, with the privilege of retaining 
the use of their ancient liturgical languages, the mar- 
riage of priests, and other ancient customs, are techni- 
cally designated as the Eastern or Oriental rite, in op- 
position to the Latin rite. 

For the purpose of deliberating and legislating on 
ecclesiastical affairs, a system of councils or synods has 
gradually been developed, consisting of oecumenical, 
national, provincial, and diocesan synods. (Ecumen- 
ical councils are such as represent the entire Church, 
and to which now all the ordained bishops of the Church 
are invited. The Church now numbers twenty of these 
councils, the latest of which— the Vatican Council— was 
held from Dec. 8, 1800, to Oct. 20, 1870. (For a list of 
the first nineteen, see Councils.) Up to the Vatican 
Council, large portions of the Church, including many 
bishops and provincial synods, have asserted the supe- 
riority of an oecumenical council over the pope. After 
the proclamation of the infallibility of the pope, it is no 
longer possible for any Roman Catholic to claim for an 
oecumenical council any kind of superiority. A nation- 
al council is one consisting of all the archbishops and 
bishops of a country, under the presidency of the primate. 
The Church law makes no provision for t heir regular 
periodicity, and they have generally been convoked for 
some special reason. Provincial synods are meetings 
of the bishops of an ecclesiastical province under the 
presidency of the metropolitan or archbishop. Diocesan 
synods are meetings of the clergy of a diocese under the 
presidency of the bishop. The (Ecumenical Council of 
Trent desired to introduce these two classes of synods 
to a larger extent than had been the case before into 
the regular organism of the Church, and therefore pro- 
vided that a provincial synod was to be held every third 
year in each ecclesiastical province, and a diocesan synod 
annually in each diocese. This provision, however, has 
been carried out but very imperfectly, and in the 18tli 
century the diocesan synods fell into disuse in every 
country of Europe except Italy. 

The pope is assisted in the government of the uni- 
versal Church by the college of cardinals, which is di- 
vided into cardinal bishops, cardinal priests, and car- 
dinal deacons. The bishops of every grade are. in a 
similar manner, aided in the government of their dio- 
ceses by a chapter, and frequently by an assistant bish- 
op. The diocese is divided into parishes, a number of 
which is generally united into a deanery, at the head 
of which is a dean. The papal almanac (La Gerurvhia 
Cattolica) for 1878 publishes the following summary of 
the Catholic hierarchy: The full number of the mem- 
bers of the college of cardinals is 73 ; namely, 6 cardinal 
bishops, 51 cardinal priests, and 10 cardinal deacons. Of 
patriarchal sees there are 12, 7 of which belong to the 
Latin and 5 to the Oriental rite. The number of archi- 
episcopal sees in December, 1877, was 172, of which 151 
belonged to the Latin and the remainder to several Ori- 
ental rites. Of the Latin archbishops, 13 were imme- 
diately subject to the Holy See, and 138 were connected 
with ecclesiastical provinces. Of the Oriental arch- 
bishoprics, 1 Armenian, 1 Graeco- Roumanian, and 1 
Graeco-Rut lien inn arc at the head of ecclesiastical prov- 
inces; 4 Graeco-Meichite, 4 Syrian, 5 Svro-Ohaldiean, 
5 Syro-Maronite arc subject to the patriarchs of the 
several rites. Of episcopal dioceses there were 7 Iff, of 


ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 78 ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 


which 664 belonged to the Latin and 55 to several 
Oriental rites. If we add the six suburban sees of the 
cardinal bishops, the total number of episcopal secs 
would be 725, of which 670 belong to the Latin rite. 
Immediately subject to the Holy See are 87 Latin 
and 4 Eastern (3 Graeco -Ruthenian, 1 Graeco- Bulga- 
rian) bishops; 577 Latin sees and 8 Oriental (1 Ar- 
menian, 3 Graeco-Roumanian, and 4 Graeco-Ruthcnian) 
were suffragans in ecclesiastical provinces; 43 Oriental 
bishops ( 16 Armenian. 9 Gneco-Melchite,-8 Syrian, 7 
Syro-Chaldaean, and 3 Syro-Maronite) were subjects to 
the patriarchs of the several rites. There were also 18 
sees not connected with a diocese ( [nullius diceceseos ) ; 
their occupants are 12 abbots, 1 archabbot, l archiman- 
drite, 1 archpriest, 1 provost, and 2 prelates. 

Where it is found impracticable to establish dioceses 
in accordance with the provisions of the canonical law, 
vicars apostolic are appointed in place of bishops. They 
are placed under the immediate supervision of the Con- 
gregation of Propaganda, which is charged with a gen- 
eral superintendence of missionary districts. Besides 
vicars apostolic, the pope appoints for the superintend- 
ence of churches in non-Catholic countries apostolic 
delegates and apostolical prefects, both of whom are 
likewise placed under the Congregation of Propaganda. 
The aggregate of delegates, vicars, and prefects was (in 
187S) 154, making a total of 1148 hierarchical titles. 
The total number of dignitaries composing the Catholic 
hierarchy, inclusive of the assistant bishops, was 1198. 
The Catholic hierarchy received a very large increase 
during the pontificate of Pius IX. The number of 
bishoprics raised to the rank of archbishoprics was 
24; number of archbishoprics created, 5; number of 
bishoprics created, 132 ; of sees, nullius diceceseos, 3 ; of 
apostolic delegations, 3; of vicariates apostolic, 33; of 
prefects apostolic, 15; total, 215 hierarchical titles. 

A large proportion of the new episcopal and archiepis- 
copal sees belong to English-speaking countries. The 


to this the 63 archbishops and bishops holding office in 
the United States, the total number of episcopal digni- 
taries in the English-speaking world at the beginning 
of 1879 was 189, being about one sixth of the entire 
Catholic hierarchy of the world. The steady advance 
of British dominion in all parts of the world, and the 
rapid development of the United States, Australia, Brit- 
ish North America, and other English-speaking terri- 
tories, cannot fail to increase rapidly the numerical 
strength of the English-speaking bishops in the Roman 
Catholic hierarchy. 

An important element in the Catholic hierarchy is 
the religious associations, orders of men and women 
whose members live together in convents. They are 
very numerous and have various organizations. They 
are more or less exempt from the jurisdiction of the 
bishops, and placed under the special jurisdiction of their 
ow n superiors, most of whom reside in Rome. While 
the aim of the oldest of these communities was the at- 
tainment, by retirement from the world, of a higher re- 
ligious perfection, they have in the course of time re- 
garded an active participation in the ministrations of 
the clergy as an important part of their duties. Their 
strict organization has especially enabled them to take 
the lead in the direction of the foreign missions of the 
Church, and display a remarkable activity in the prov- 
ince of education. Most of the popes have valued their 
services very highly, and conferred upon them exten- 
sive privileges. 

IV. Statistics. — The Roman Catholic Church still 
continues to be by far the most numerous branch of 
Christianity. The following table gives an estimate 
of the Roman Catholic population of each of the large 
divisions of the world, and of the relation of Roman 
Catholics to the total population, the Eastern churches, 
and the Protestant churches, including in the last di- 
vision all Christians not belonging to either the Roman 
Catholic or the Eastern churches: 



Population. 

Roman 

Catholic. 

Protestant. 

Eastern 

Churches. 

America, North 

America, South 

Europe 

59,000,000 

27,000,000 

312,500,000 

831.000. 000 

205.000. 00(1 
4,500,000 

23.000. 000 

25.000. 000 
149,000,000 

9.400.000 

2.200.000 
600,000 

35,009,900 

400.000 
74,600,000 

609.000 
1,100,000 
2.009,000 

75,000,000 

9.500.000 

3.500.000 

Asia (including the Indian Archipelago) 

Africa 

Australia and Polynesia 

Total 

1,439,000,000 

209,200,000 

113,700,0 U 0 

SS , 000,009 


hierarchy of .England and Wales, as restored Sept. 29, 
1850, by letters apostolic of Pins IX, comprises the prov- 
ince of Westminster, consisting of the archiepiscopal see 
of Westminster and twelve suffragans. In the United 
States 34 new episcopal sees were established during 
the pontificate of Pins, and 10 sees raised to archbish- 
oprics. The first addition made by pope Leo XIII to 
the Catholic hierarchy was the restoration of the hie- 
rarchy of Scotland on March 4, 1878. It comprises the 
archiepiscopal see of Glasgow 7 , which is without suffra- 
gan sees, and the province of St. Andrew’s and Edin- 
burgh, v'hich consists of the archiepiscopal see of St. An- 
drew’s and Edinburgh, with four suffragan sees. At the 
beginning of 1879 the British empire had 14 archbish- 
ops, 76 bishops, 33 vicars apostolic, and 7 prefects apos- 
tolic. Of the archbishoprics, 1 w r as in England, 2 in 
Scotland, 4 in Ireland, 4 in British North America, 1 in 
the West Indies, 2 in Australia; of the bishoprics, 12 in 
England, 4 in Scotland, 21 in Ireland, 2 in the European 
colonies, 1 in Africa, 18 in North America, 1 in the West 
Indies, 11 in Australia, 3 in New Zealand ; of the vicari- 
ates apostolic, tvvo thirds are in the Asiatic possessions. 
Most of these vicariates are at present held by archbish- 
ops and bishops who take their title from their see in 
partibus infiddinm. Including eight coadjutors or aux- 
iliary bishops, the total number of archbishops and bish- 
ops holding office in the British empire at the beginning 
of 1879 w r as 123, a larger number than is at present 
found in any other country except only Italy. Adding 


It will be seen from the above table that the total num- 
ber of Roman Catholics still exceeds the aggregate 
number of all other Christians. Among the large con- 
tinents, South America is almost exclusively Catholic, 
only tw r o territories (British and Dutch Guiana), togeth- 
er with the Falkland Islands, being under Protestant 
governments. Many of the other countries are gradu- 
ally receiving a Protestant population by immigration. 
The largest number of immigrants is found in Brazil; 
a smaller number in Chili and the Argentine Confeder- 
ation. In Europe, the Roman Catholics are about one 
half of the total population ; they are increasing at a 
slower ratio than the Protestants and the Eastern 
churches, because in some of the largest Catholic coun- 
tries, as France and Spain, the natural increase of the 
population is slower than in most countries of Europe. 
In North America, which very rapidly rises in the scale 
of continents, Roman Catholicism is in a decided minor- 
ity, although in Mexico and Central America nearly 
the entire population is still connected w-ith it. The 
same is the case with Australia, where the total popu- 
lation increases with still greater rapidity than in North 
America, and w here the Roman Catholics are a decided 
minority in each of the colonies. A continuance of the 
rapid increase of the population of North America and 
Australia, together with a continuance of tho numerical 
proportion between Protestants and Catholics, would 
materially change the relative position of both in the 
list of the prominent religions of the Avorld. Outside 


ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 79 ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 


of Europe, America, and Australia, the Roman Catholic 
Church predominates in the Spanish, Portuguese, and 
French colonies, the most populous of which, the Philip- 
pine Islands, have a Catholic population now estimated 
at about 6,000,000. In Western Asia, one entire East- 
ern communion, the Maronites, and fragments, more or 
less considerable, of all the others, have connected them- 
selves with the Church of Pome. In Hindustan, Anam, 
and China, an aggregate population of about 2,000,000 
has for several hundred years adhered to that Church, in 
spite of repeated and bloody persecutions; and even in 
Japan under the new oera of religious toleration which 
has been opened by the establishment of intercourse 
with the Christian nations of Europe and America, 
descendants of the former Catholics to the number of 
about 20,000 have openly declared themselves as still 
attached to the Church. Though this Church continues 
to make some progress in all her mission fields, no con- 
quests have been made in the 19th century equal to 
the success of the Jesuit missionaries in Eastern Asia 
in the 16th and 17th centuries, or to that of the Prot- 
estant missionaries in the 19th century in Madagascar. 
It is a noteworthy fact that the Latin nations of Europe 
and America are almost a unit in their adhesion to t lie 
Roman Catholic Church. The Reformation having 
been suppressed in the 16th century by force in all the 
Latin countries, the Waldenses in Italy, and some of 
the French-speaking cantons of Switzerland, with a few 
hundred thousand Reformed Frenchmen, were, at the 
beginning of the 1 9th century, the only dissenters from 
Rome in Latin Europe and America. The introduction 
of religious toleration begins to make notable inroads 
upon the religious uniformity of some of these coun- 
tries. Thus, the number of native Protestants was in 
1878 estimated in Spain at 12,000, in Mexico at 12,000; 
Italy had 170 new evangelical congregations and 1 1 L 
stations; and in France and Belgium a number of prom- 
inent men advised the liberal Catholics to sever their 
connection with Rome, and, even if they were not pre- 
pared to embrace fully the doctrines of one of the Prot- 
estant churches, to inscribe themselves in the civil 
registers as Protestants. The principality of Roumania, 
which became an entirely independent state in 1878,also 
speaks a language chiefly of Latin origin, and is, there- 
fore, sometimes classed with the Latin nations. Of its 
population, no more than one per cent, belongs to the Ro- 
man Catholic Church. With the restoration of the Ger- 
man empire under Protestant rule, the Roman Catholic 
Church lias almost wholly lost any controlling influence 
upon the Teutonic nations. Great Britain, with a number 
of inchoate colonial states, Germany, Sweden, Norway, 
Denmark, and Holland, are an unbroken phalanx of Prot- 
estant states. The government of polyglot Austria can 
hardly be called any longer Teutonic. In Belgium, a 
Teutonic nationality is united with a Latin into one 
state, which nominally is wholly Catholic, though it is 
now, like Austria, Italy, Portugal, and many other nom- 
inally Catholic states, under a liberal administration, 
which is in open conflict with the demands of the 
Catholic hierarchies. Of the Slavic nationalities, sev- 
eral, like the Poles and Czechs, are predominantly Ro- 
man Catholic; but there is now no Catholic Slavic state. 
The governments of ail the Slavic states — Russia, Ser- 
via, Montenegro, and Bulgaria — belong to the Orthodox 
Eastern Church. To the same Church belongs nearly 
the entire population of the kingdom of Greece, in which 
the Roman Catholic Church numbers a population of 
only P2,000 souls, or less than one per cent. — The Roman 
Catholics constitute a majority in only six entirely in- 
dependent states of Europe, viz. Portugal, Spain, Italy, 
France, Belgium, and the Austro-Hungarian monarchy. 
In the last-named state the Roman Catholics constitute, 
among the inhabitants of Austria proper, 92 per cent., 
and in the lands of the Hungarian crown 59 per cent. 
In France they are 98, and in each of the four other 
states more than 99 per cent. In North and South 
America the Roman Catholics are a majority in Mexico, 


1 the five states of Central America, in Brazil, and the 
nine republics of South America, constituting in each 
of these sixteen states more than 99 per cent. 

V. Literature . — As the Roman Catholic Church is 
indissolubly connected with the history of the Chris- 
tian religion, the manuals of Church history are the 
principal sources of information on its history. The 
most important works of this class have been enu- 
merated in the article Church History. The Creeds 
of the Roman Catholic Church may he found in Danz, 
Lihri Symboliei Ecelesiee Romano - Catholicce (Weimar, 
1835); Streitwolf and Klencr, Lihri Symbol ici Ecclesite 
Cat holme, Conjuncti atque Xotis Prolcyomenis Indici- 
busque Instrvcti (Gbtt. 1838,2 vols., which contains the 
Cone. 7Y5/.,the Profes.no Fidei Trulentina , and the Cate- 
chismus Romanies) ; Denzinger, Enchiridion Symbolorum 
et J.kfinitionum quiz de Rebus Fidei et J forum a Conciliis 
(Ecumenicis et Snmmis Pontijicibus Manarunt (4th ed. 
WJirzb. 1865, which includes the definition of the immacu- 
late conception of the Virgin Mary [ 1854], and the Pa- 
pal Syllabus [1804]); Schaff, Creeds of Christendom 
(N. Y. 1877; vol. ii includes all the Latin creeds from 
the Confession of Peter to the Vatican decrees). Bel- 
larmin’s Disputationes, Bossuet’s Exposition, Mb bier’s 
Symbolik, and Perrone’s Pnelediones Theoloejicce are re- 
garded as the ablest Roman Catholic expositions of 
the Roman Catholic system. Among Protestant exposi- 
tions of the Roman Catholic doctrines, the most notable 
are the Symboliks of Marheineke, Kolliier, and Baier, and 
Hase’s Jlandbuch der protest ant ischen Polemih (3d ed. 
Leips. 1871). A full account of the constitution of the 
Roman Catholic Church is given in the manuals of 
Church law. Among the best works on this subject 
are Schulte, Lehrbuch des kathol. Kirchenrechts (3d ed. 
1873); and Richter, Lehrbuch des kathol. u. evangel . 
Kirchenrechts (18 77, 8th ed. by Dove). The largest 
work on the statistics of the Roman Catholic Church is 
Neher, Kirehliche Geographic mid Statistik (1864-68, 
3 vols.), containing Europe and America. A complete 
list of the Roman hierarchy is annually published at 
Rome under the title La Gerarchiu Cattolica. (A. J.S.) 

ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH in the United 
States. — I. Oriejin and Progress. — l. As the discovery 
of America by Columbus occurred a quarter of a century 
before the first public appearance of Luther, the Roman 
Catholic Church was the first to occupy the newly discov- 
ered world. The attachment of Columbus to his Church 
was so strong that efforts have recently been made, though 
wit bout success, to obtain from the pope his canonization. 
Many of the following explorers were equally fervid in 
their faith. Ojeda, who in 1510 settled the Isthmus of 
Darien, is said by Catholic historians to have been as 
' pious as a monk. Balboa, governor of Darien, who in 
J5I3 discovered the Pacific Ocean; Magellan, who first 
j raised the cross on the most southern cape of America 
! (1521); Cartier, the discoverer of Canada (1534) : Cham- 
plain, the first governor of Canada; La Salle, the pio- 
neer navigator of the Great Lakes — are all praised for 
their piety. The Upper Mississippi was discovered by 
the Jesuit Marquette. For more than a hundred years 
(1492-1607) no permanent settlement was made by 
Protestants in the Ne.w World. The few attempts 
which had previously been made by French Huguenots 
in South Carolina and Florida, and by the English on 
Roanoke Island (1585 and 1587), had failed. The Span- 
iards, in the meanwhile, not only laid the foundation 
of Catholic colonial empires throughout South America, 
Mexico, and Central America, but they also formed 
settlements in territory now belonging to the United 
States, the oldest of which, St. Augustine, was founded 
in 1565. 

Nearly forty years before, in 1528, the first. Catholic 
missionaries set foot within our present territory, form- 
ing part of the expedition of Narvaez to Florida. One 
of their number, John Juarez, had been appointed by 
the pope bishop of Florida. Bishop Juarez, and one 
of his companions, John of Palos, perished probably in 


ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH, 80 ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 


the same year, either of hunger or at the hand of the 
Indians. In 1 540 a Dominican friar, Louis Cancer, was 
slain bv an Indian of Florida after he had barely landed. 
The tirst Catholic Church was erected in St. Augus- 
tine, soon after the foundation of the town by Melen- 
dez; and from this centre many Franciscan, Dominican, 
and Jesuit missionaries began to labor among the In- 
dians of Florida, Alabama, Georgia, and Carolina. The 
most celebrated religious establishment of these mis- 
sions was the Franciscan monastery of St. Helena at St. 
Augustine. The missions began to grow until the ces- 
sion of Florida by Spain to England in 1763, which 
proved a fatal check, and gradually led to the entire de- 
struction of the mission, which at the beginning of the 
Revolutionary War had become entirely extinct. 

The tirst Catholic missionaries in New Mexico were 
two Franciscan monks, father Fadilla and brother John 
of the Cross, who accompanied in 1542 the exploring 
expedition of Coronado. They began to preach in two 
Indian towns, but both soon perished. Three other 
Franciscans, who in 1581 erected a new mission, shared 
the same fate. The foundation of Santa Fe, in 1582, 
the second oldest city of the United States, laid the firm 
foundation of the Catholic Church at the headwaters 
of the Rio Grande, where gradually whole tribes em- 
braced the Catholic religion. Texas was visited as 
early as 1544 by a Franciscan missionary, father de 
Olmos, but the real foundation of the Texan missions, 
which gradually became very extensive, was laid in 
1688 by fourteen Franciscan priests and seven lay 
brothers. 

The first Catholic mission of California was begun in 
1601 by a band of Franciscan monks; but the real found- 
er of the Church in that state was father Juniper Serra. 
an Italian Franciscan, who in 1769 established the first | 
mission in San Diego, and in 1776, a few days before 
the declaration of tbe independence of the United 
States (June 27), founded the city of San Francisco. 
In 1570, father Segura and eight other Jesuit fathers 
landed in Chesapeake Bay, Maryland, with the son of 
ail Indian chief whom Spanish navigators had brought 
away with them from that region, and who had re- 
ceived a good education in Spain. All of them were 
treacherously murdered at the instigation of this Indian 
youth. Sixty-four years later, in 1634, two English 
Jesuits, fathers Andrew White ami John Altham, who 
accompanied Lord Baltimore, resumed the missionary 
labors among the Maryland Indians, and in 1639 they 
reported that many tribes had been visited, numerous 
converts made, and four permanent stations established. 

The lirst Catholic chapel in New England was reared 
by French missionaries on Neutral Island, in Schoodie 
River, Maine, in 1609, eleven years before the founda- 
tion of Plymouth. In 1612. a new mission was estab- 
lished on Mount Desert Island, hut. it was soon after 
destroyed by the English. In 1646, father Druillettes, a 
Jesuit, who lias been called by Catholic historians the 
apostle of Maine, established a mission on the Upper 
Kennebec, which gradually succeeded in converting the 
entire tribe of the Abnakis. The cession of Canada by 
tbe French to the English in 1763 interrupted for some 
time the Catholic mission among the Abnakis; but after 
the Revolutionary War it was reorganized, and has 
since then continued to exist until the present day. 

The first Catholic missionary among the Indians in the 
State of New York was father Jogues, a Canadian Jes- 
uit. He attempted in 1646 to found a mission among 
the Mohawks, and was massacred in the village of 
Caughnawaga (now Schenectady). The first Catholic 
church was established in November, 1655, among the 
Onondagas, on the site of the present city of Syracuse; 
but three years later the missionaries barely escaped 
with their lives from a plot to destroy them. 'File close 
of a bloody war between France and tbe Five Nations 
in 1666 led to the re-establishment of the old missions, 
and to the foundation of new ones among the Oiiomla- 
gas, Senecas, Cayugas, Oncidas, and Mohawks. In 1668 


the cross, as a Catholic historian says, “ towered over 
every village from the Hudson to Lake Erie,” and the 
Mohawks especially “became firmly attached to the 
Church;” but the recognition by France of the English 
claims to the State of New York, in the treaty of 
Utrecht, 1713, was the death-knell of the Catholic mis- 
sions among the Indians of New York. Among the In- 
dians of Vermont mass was said for the first time in 1615. 

The regions along the Great Lakes, in the present 
states of Michigan and Wisconsin, were first visited by 
Canadian Jesuits in 1641. The field proved ungrate- 
ful, and the missions terminated when the French gov- 
ernment suppressed the houses of Jesuits and confis- 
cated their property. All along the banks of the Mis- 
sissippi, the shores of which were discovered by Mar- 
quette in 1673, the Jesuits preached and established 
missions. Among the Indians converted by them was 
Chicago, the chief of the Illinois. With the suppres- 
sion of the Order of the Jesuits and the increase of 
English power, the Catholic missions among the Indians 
generally disappeared from the Gulf of St. Lawrence to 
the Gulf of Mexico. After the establishment of the in- 
dependence of the United States, some of the Indian 
missions were gradually re-established, but their prog- 
ress was slow. Iu 1833 the bishops of the United States 
assembled at the Council of Baltimore confided the 
Indian missions in the United States to the Jesuits. 
Catholic historians complain (Murray, Popular Ilist. 
etc., p. 343) that “the Catholics of the United States 
have shown little interest in the Indian missions, and 
done little to cheer and support the missionaries.” The 
latter had to look to Europe for the necessary means. 
The most famous among the Jesuit, missionaries of the 
19th century was father De Smet,a Belgian, who is com- 
pared by the historians of his Church to Francis Xavier, 
and is said “ to have opened heaven to over 100,000 In- 
dians.” 

2. The proper history of the Catholic Church in the 
English colonies begins with the immigration of Leon- 
ard Calvert, second son of Lord Baltimore, and about 
j 200 English and Irish Catholics, into Maryland. Lord 
I Baltimore, who had left the Anglican communion for 
the Church of Rome, had received (June 20, 1632) from 
king Charles I the grant of a large tract of land lying 
! north of the Potomac, for founding a Catholic colony in 
the New World as a refuge from persecution. The 
charter drawn up by him guaranteed liberty of worship 
to all Christians, and secured a voice to all freemen in 
making the laws. He died soon after the charter had 
received the royal sanction, and his eldest son, Cecil 
Calvert, second Lord Baltimore, commissioned his broth- 
er Leonard Calvert to carry out their father’s design, 
and appointed him governor of the new colony. Leonard 
Calvert, with his colonists, landed in 1634, and in the 
same year the city of St. Mary was founded. The 
colonists were accompanied by two Jesuits, who were 
soon followed by several more Jesuits and Capuchins. 
A civil contest between the new colonists, on the one 
hand, and Captain William Clayborne, who with a party 
of men from Virginia had settled, in 1631, on Kent Island, 
J Chesapeake Bay, and a company of Puritans who had 
j settled in Maryland in 1642, on the other hand, resulted 
in favor of Clayborne and the Puritans, who made 
themselves complete masters of the province. There- 
upon the Catholics were in 1644 deprived of equal 
rights, but these were restored in 1646. In 1649 the 
General Assembly of Maryland, composed of eleven 
Catholics and three Protestants, passed the Toleration 
Act, which enacted that no person believing in Jesus 
Christ should he molested in the free exercise of his re- 
ligion. The Toleration Act. was repealed in 1654 by an 
assembly in which the Puritans had a majority, and 
which denied the protection of the law to the Catho- 
lics; but in 1660 the new king, Charles IT, restored Lord 
Baltimore to bis rights as proprietor, and thus the Cath- 
olics received back their rights. In 1692, after the ex- 
pulsion of James II, an Anglican governor was sent to 


ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCII 81 ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 


Maryland, and in 1704 a law was passed to prevent “ the 
increase of popery.” The stringent provisions ol this 
act remained in force until the Revolution ; only the 
first provision, which forbade bishops and priests to say 
mass or exercise their ministry, was so far modified 
that “ Catholics were permitted to hear mass in their 
own families and on their own grounds.” 

The colony of Pennsylvania was founded by Penn on the 
basis of religious toleration, and the Catholic immigrants 
from Ireland and Germany were allowed to live in com- 
parative peace, but their creed was regarded with con- 
tempt. In the Dutch colony of New Netherlands, Protes- 
tantism was declared to be the religion of the State, but 
actually the few Catholics appear not to have been 
troubled. In 16G4 the colony passed into the hands of 
the Catholic duke of York, afterwards James II, and its 
name was changed to New York. In 1083 the colony 
received a Catholic governor, colonel Thomas Dongan ; 
and in the same year the first legislative assembly of 
the colony granted, like Maryland, religious liberty to 
all “professing faith in God by Jesus Christ.” After 
the expulsion of James, another assembly in 1091 re- 
pealed the Toleration Act of 1083, and passed stringent 
laws against the Catholics. In 1090 only seven Cath- 
olic families were found on Manhattan Island. New 
laws of extreme severity were passed against Catholics 
in 1700, 1701, and 1702; and at the beginning of the 
Revolutionary War the Catholic Church was almost 
unknown in New York, and the few Catholic inhabi- 
tants of New York city had to go to Philadelphia to re- 
ceive the sacraments. The laws of the New England 
colonies, of Virginia, the Carolinas, and Georgia, re- 
tained rigid penal laws against Roman Catholics on 
their statute-books. At the beginning of the Revolu- 
tionary War, out of the 3,000,000 inhabitants in the 
American colonies, only about 25,000 were Roman Cath- 
olics, of whom 15,000 lived in Maryland. There were 
about twenty-five priests and about twice as many con- 
gregations. 

3. On the eve of the War of Independence, the Con- 
tinental Congress of Philadelphia, in 1774, pronounced 
for the broadest toleration. In 1770 the Catholics of 
Maryland were fully emancipated, owing largely to the 
influence of Charles Carroll, one of the signers of the 
Declaration of Independence. The other twelve orig- 
inal states, one after another, granted the Catholics lib- 
erty of conscience, the right to build churches and wor- 
ship as they pleased; but full and unreserved equality 
of civil and political rights was withheld from them in 
some of the states much longer. The Federal Consti- 
tution, adopted in 1787, provides in art. vi, sec. 3: “No 
religious test shall ever be required as a qualification 
for any office or trust under the United States.” Among 
the framers and signers of this Constitution were two 
Catholics — Daniel Carroll, of Maryland, and Thomas 
Fitzsimmons, of Pennsylvania. The right thus obtain- 
ed was further secured by the enactment of the first ar- 
ticle of the amendments to the Constitution, which de- 
clares “ that Congress shall make no law respecting an 
establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exer- 
cise thereof.” 

Until the close of the Revolutionary War, the Cath- 
olics of the United States were under the jurisdic- 
tion of the vicar apostolic of the district of Lon- 
don, England, who, during the whole of the war, held 
no kind of intercourse with the American churches. 
After the establishment of the independence of the 
United States, the clergy of Maryland and Pennsylvania 
were naturally impressed with the importance of hav- 
ing an American superior for American churches, and 
they asked the pope to allow the clergy to elect a supe- 
rior, subject to the approbation and confirmation of the 
pope. In reply to the request, the pope, after consult- 
ing Benjamin Franklin through the nuncio in Paris, 
appointed in 1784 the Rev. Dr. Carroll prefect apostolic, 
with many of the powers of a bishop. In view of the 
extraordinary difficulties which the new prefect en- 
IX. — F 


countered from the vastness of his territory, and also 
from the insubordination of several priests and a part 
of the laity, it was soon deemed necessary to apply to 
Rome for a bishop. The request was granted, with the 
privilege of selecting the candidate and of locating the 
new see. Accordingly, Dr. Carroll was elected bishop, 
and Baltimore chosen as his see. On Aug. 15, 1790. Dr. 
Carroll was consecrated bishop in England, 'flic num- 
ber of Catholics at this time was estimated by Dr. Car- 
roll himself at about 30,000, in a total population of 

3.200.000. Of these. 10,000 lived in Maryland, 7000 
in Pennsylvania, 3000 at Detroit and Vincennes, 2500 in 
Illinois, and in all the other states there were not more 
than about 1500. The arrival, between 1791 and 1799, 
of twenty-three French priests who lied from France in 
consequence of the Revolution, enabled bishop Carroll 
to extend and partly consolidate his vast diocese. Many 
of the immigrant priests were men of considerable abil- 
ity; and six of them— Flaget, Cheverus, Dubois, David, 
Dubourg, and Mare'ehal — afterwards became bishops. 
Another important addition to the ranks of the priests 
was made in 1795 by the consecration of the young 
Russian prince Demetrius Augustine Gallitzin, who dis- 
played great and successful activity for the extension 
of the Catholic Church in Western Pennsylvania. In 
1787, the first priest appeared in Kentucky; in 1789, 
the first church was commenced in Charleston, S. C.; 
in 1803, the first church was consecrated in Boston. 
Several missionaries began to penetrate into the al- 
most trackless wilds of Indiana. Ohio, and Michigan. 
Soon after the dawn of the 19tli century, the great 
tide of immigration from the Old World began to set 
in, and as a large portion of it came from Catholic 
Ireland, the Catholic Church in the United States in- 
creased very rapidly in number. The city of New 
York, which had in 1790 a Catholic population of about 
100, numbered 14,000 Catholics in 1807. At the same 
time there were about 70 priests and 80 churches in the 
United States, with a Catholic population of probably 

150.000. 

With the external expansion, the progress of internal 
organization keptpace. In Nov., 1791, bishop Carroll con- 
vened the first diocesan synod in Baltimore, which was 
attended by 22 clergymen. In 1800 father Leonard Neale 
was appointed his coadjutor, with the title of bishop of 
Gortvna inpartibns. In 1808 Baltimore was raised to the 
rank of a metropolitan see, with four suffragan bishop- 
rics — New York, Philadelphia, Boston, and Bardstown 
(this see was in 1842 transferred to Louisville). The 
purchase of Louisiana from France in 1803 added to the 
American Church a new diocese, New Orleans, which 
had been erected in 1793. As the see was vacant at 
the time of the purchase, Dr. Carroll was directed by 
Pius VII to administer its ecclesiastical affairs, lie ac- 
cordingly appointed a vicar-general, but the conten- 
tions which arose on the subject of jurisdiction led to 
protracted discords. Archbishop Carroll died Dec. 3, 
1815, the last years of his episcopate having been mark- 
ed by the continuance of a very rapid increase of the 
Catholic population, which at this time was estimated 
at 200,000. A number of religious orders, especially 
Jesuits, Sulpitians, Augustinians, Dominicans, and Car- 
melites, not only swelled the numbers of the clergy, but 
established a number of Catholic institutions of learn- 
ing. Archbishop Carroll was succeeded by Dr. Ambrose 
Mareehal, after whose death, in 1828, Dr. James V hit- 
field became archbishop. Yielding to the urgent advice 
of the learned bishop of Charleston, Dr. England, arch- 
bishop Whitfield in 1829 assembled the first provincial 
council of Baltimore. Several new episcopal sees had 
in the meanwhile been established, and the provincial 
council was attended by the bishops of Charleston, 
Bardstown, Cincinnati, Boston, and St. Louis. As all 
the bishops had at this time numerous conflicts with 
the lay trustees, who claimed the right of electing t lie 
priests and administering the Church property, the 
council passed two decrees against the abuse of power 


It 031 AX CATHOLIC CHURCH 82 ROMAN CATHOLIC CHUHCII 


by lay trustees. Another decree strongly recommended 
the establishment of a society for the diffusion of good 
books. The Catholic population of the United iStates 
was estimated by the assembled fathers at 500,000, the 
rapid increase being chiedv due to the stream of immi- 
gration from Ireland. The second provincial council 
of Haiti more, in 1833, was composed of ten prelates, and 
directed that the Indian tribes of the Far West and the 
Catholic negroes of Liberia should be confided to the 
care of the Jesuits. The mission of Liberia, which was 
begun in 1842, proved a complete failure, and was aban- 
doned in 1845. At the date of the second council the 
Church consisted of 12 dioceses, with 308 priests, of 
whom 72 were Americans, 91 Irish, 73 French, 17 Ital- 
ians, 39 Belgians and Germans, some English and Span- 
ish, and 1 Pole. Archbishop Whitfield died in 1834, 
and was succeeded by Samuel Eccleston. During his 
administration five more provincial councils were held in 
Baltimore, in the years 1837, 1840, 1843, 1846, and 1849. 
Most of these councils recommended the erection of new 
episcopal sees, the number of which, therefore, received 
a large increase. While there were only sixteen in 1840, 
they numbered twenty-seven in 1850. The council of 
1840 also recommended the formation of Catholic tem- 
perance societies; that of 1846 chose “ the Most Bless- 
ed Virgin, conceived without sin, as the patroness of 
the United States; 1 ’ and that of 1849, which was attend- 
ed by twenty-five bishops, asked the pope for the defi- 
nition of the immaculate conception as a doctrine of 
the Catholic Church, a request which a few years later 
was complied with by pope Fius IX. 

Many dioceses during this period were greatly troubled 
by conflicts between the bishops and the lay trustees of 
the churches. The latter were often unwilling to abandon 
the control of the churches which had been built by the 
contributions of the faithful, and the bishops were in- 
flexible in claiming the sole control over the entire 
Church property of their dioceses. Repeatedly priests 
and congregations were excommunicated. Sometimes 
excommunicated priests defied for years the authority 
of the bishops; but finally the bishops carried their 
point, and the trustee system was completely crushed 
out, chiefly through the efforts of John Hughes, bishop 
of New York. The steady progress of Roman Catholi- 
cism, which the majority of Americans continued to re- 
gard as a form of ecclesiastical despotism, irreconcilable 
with, and therefore dangerous to, the free political in- 
stitutions of the country, led. from 1834 to 1844, in sev- 
eral cities to popular outbursts of Protestant indigna- 
tion, and even to unlawful attacks upon Catholic church 
edifices and monasteries. 

The immense influx of Catholic immigrants from 
Ireland and Germany during the decade from 1840 
to 1850, which annually added more than 200,000 
Catholics to the population of the country, and the 
great industrial advantages which the people gener- 
ally derived from the more rapid development of the 
resources of the country, gradually softened the pop- 
ular feeling with regard to a religious system which 
had so long been an object of intense aversion. The 
spread of the Roman Catholic Church in consequence 
of immigration was most rapid in the Middle Atlantic 
and the Western States, which could offer to immigrants 
the best prospects of material success. The Southern 
States, with their negro-labor system, offered the least 
inducement to immigrants, and consequently received 
the smallest increase of Catholic population. In 1846 
Oregon City was raised to the rank of a metropolitan 
see; in 1847, St. Louis; in 1850, New Orleans, New York, 
and Cincinnati. Thus in 1850 the Catholic Church bad 
6 archbishoprics, with 27 episcopal sees, 1800 priests, 
1073 churches, 600 stations, 29 ecclesiastical institutions, 
17 colleges, and 91 female academies. The Catholic 
population, which had received a large increase not 
only by the continuance of immigration, but bv the ces- 
sion of California and New Mexico to the United States, 
was estimated at 3,500,000. 


In May, 1852, archbishop Kenrick of Baltimore, 
who had succeeded in 1851 archbishop Eccleston, pre- 
sided over the first plenary or national council of the 
United States. It was composed of six archbishops 
and twenty-six bishops, and, besides proposing to the 
pope the creation of several new dioceses, it strongly 
urged the necessity of establishing Catholic schools, 
and solemnly condemned secret societies, especially 
the Freemasons. In 1858 the pope conferred the 
rank of primacy on the see of Baltimore. Arch- 
bishop Kenrick died in 1864, and was succeeded by 
Dr. Spalding, formerly bishop of Louisville. In 1866 
the second plenary council was held in Baltimore. It 
was presided over by archbishop Spalding, and seven 
archbishops, thirty-eight bishops, three mitred abbots, 
and over one hundred and twenty theologians took 
part in the deliberations. The council expressed a wish 
lor the establishment of a Catholic university. The 
Vatican Council, which began in 1869, was attended by 
forty-nine prelates of the United States. Only a few 
of them were opposed to the promulgation of papal in- 
fallibility as a doctrine of the Catholic Church, and all 
readily aeqniesced in the decision of the council. The 
Old Catholic movement in some countries of Europe 
found no echo in the United States. Archbishop Spal- 
ding of Baltimore died in 1872, and was succeeded by 
James Roosevelt Baylev. bishop of Newark. In 1875 
archbishop McCloskev of New York was raised to the 
dignity of the cardinalate, and the dioceses of Boston, 
Philadelphia, Milwaukee, and Santa Fe were raised to 
the rank of metropolitan sees. Thus the number of arch- 
bishoprics in the United States rose to eleven. After 
the death of archbishop Baylev, in October, 1877, bishop 
James Gibbons of Richmond was appointed archbishop 
of Baltimore. The number of episcopal dioceses in 1879 
was 49; of vicariates apostolic, 7 ; of prefectures apos- 
tolic, 1. The total number of dioceses (including arch- 
dioceses, vicariates apostolic, and prefectures apostolic) 
was 68. Many of the dioceses have a large Roman 
Catholic population. Sadlier’s Catholic Directory for 
1879 claims, according to reports furnished by the bish- 
ops for each of the following dioceses, a Catholic popu- 
lation exceeding 200,000: Baltimore, 300,000 ; Boston, 
310,000; Cincinnati, 200,000 ; New Orleans, 250,000; 
New Y r ork, 600,000 ; Albany, 200,000 ; Brooklyn, 200,000 ; 
Philadelphia, 275,000 ; St. Louis, 250,000 ; Chicago, 
230,000. The number of priests in 1876 was 5074; that 
of churches, 5046 ; that of stations, 1482. 

II. The religions orders of men and women which 
have been since the beginning of the 19th century the 
object of hostile legislation in nearly every country of 
Europe, have never been legally interfered with in the 
United States. Consequently, their history shows a 
steady increase of number; and they have grown all 
the more rapidly, as the expulsion of many orders from 
European countries and the urgent applications of the 
American bishops, who have always been, and still are, 
in need of more missionaries, have frequently induced 
large numbers of European nuns and monks to settle in 
the United States. In 1877 there were, according to 
Murray’s Popular History of the Catholic Church in the 
United States (N. Y. 1877), twenty-seven different re- 
ligions orders of men in the United States. Three of 
these (the Franciscans, Dominicans, and Jesuits) worked 
as early as the 16th century among the Indians; the 
Augustinians and Sulpitians founded their first estab- 
lishments in 1790 and 1791. The Trappists followed in 
1805, the Priests of the Mission in 1816, the Redemp- 
torists in 1832. Eight religious orders established them- 
selves between 1840 and 1850, and eleven between 1850 
and 1877. One of the orders, the Paidists, arose in the 
United States, opening its first house in New York in 
1858. Among the orders which have the largest num- 
ber of members and houses are the Jesuits, with 30 
houses and 750 members; the Christian Brothers, with 
49 houses and 700 members; the Augustinians, with 13 
houses and 60 members; the Priests of the Mission, 


ROMAN CATHOLIC CIIURCII 83 ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 


with 13 houses and 142 members; the Benedictines, 
with 12 houses and 300 members; the Brothers of 
Mary. In all, there are about 200 establishments of 
religious orders of men, with more than 3000 mem- 
bers. The religious orders of women are much more 
numerous than those for men. In all, there are forty- 
four religious orders of women, four of which (the Sis- 
rers of Charity, the Sisters of St. Joseph, the Sisters of 
Mercy, and the School Sisters of Notre Dame) have 
each more than one thousand members. 

III. Educational Establishments. — As the Catholic 
Church is opposed to the principle of undenominational 
schools which prevails in all the states of the Union, 
strenuous endeavors have been made to gather the 
children of Catholic parents into parochial schools. The 
first council of Baltimore, held in 1829, expressed the 
wish that schools should be established where youth 
might imbibe principles of faith and morality along with 
human knowledge. The second plenary council of 
Baltimore warmly appealed to pastors and people to 
establish Catholic schools where the Catholic faith 
might be taught as a science. The bishops, according- 
ly, have endeavored to provide not only for the estab- 
lishment of colleges, seminaries, and academies, which, 
as with other religions denominations, have a secta- 
rian character, but to connect as much as possible with 
every parish church a Catholic parochial school. The 
number of schools of this character is at the present 
time very large, and in some of the older and more pop- 
ulous dioceses nearly every church has its parochial 
school. The number of Catholic schools in 1877 ex- 
ceeded 1700, and the number of children educated in 
them was over 500,000. The teachers are to a large 
extent supplied by the religious orders. Though the 
expenses for supporting these schools are comparatively 
small, the aggregate amount which has annually to be 
raised by voluntary contributions is felt as a heavy bur- 
den, and incessant efforts are made, therefore, to obtain 
a part of the common-school fund of the states for the 
support of schools of a strictly Catholic character. Only 
in a few exceptional cases have these efforts been suc- 
cessful; as a general rule, the claims of the Church 
have been uncompromisingly rejected. 

The number of Catholic female academies has grown 
with great rapidity. Towards the close of the last cen- 
tury, the Clarist Nuns, during a brief stay in America, 
opened a school at Georgetown, D.C., which subsequent- 
ly passed into the hands of the Visitation Nuns, and 
grew into a flourishing academy which dates its founda- 
tion from 1799. The purchase of Louisiana from France 
gave to the Catholic Church of the United States an 
Ursuline academy at New Orleans, with 170 pupils. 
The foundation of St. Joseph’s Academy at Emmetts- 
burg, Md., in 1809, by mother Seton, marks an epoch in 
the history of Catholic education for young American 
women. In 1812 the Loretto Nuns of Kentucky entered 
the field; in 1818 the Ursuline Convent was opened at 
Boston, and the Ladies of the Sacred Heart began their 
labors at the South. The Sisters of St. Joseph founded 
their first establishment in 183G ; the Sisters of Notre 
Dame, in 1840; the Sisters of the Iloly Cross and the 
Sisters of Providence, in 1841 ; the School Sisters of 
Notre Dame (founded by Peter Fourier), in 1847. Oth- 
er orders followed, and in 1877 the number of Catholic 
female academies exceeded 400, the best and most 
widely known of which were under the direction of the 
Ladies of the Sacred Heart, the Sisters of Charity, the 
Visitation Nuns, the Ursulines, the Sisters of St. Joseph, 
the Sisters of Mercy, the Sisters of the Holy Cross, the 
Sisters of Notre Dame, and the Sisters of Providence. 
It is maintained that in not a few of the convent board- 
ing-schools one third, and in some cases even one half, 
of the pupils are Protestant and other non-Catholic 
young ladies. 

In the 17th century an attempt to found a Catholic 
college in New York was made by three Jesuits during 
governor Dongan’s term of office, but it did not find suf- 


ficient support. Several years after the Devolution, 
bishop Carroll founded Georgetown College. Some time 
later, St. Mary’s College, Baltimore, was established. It 
was chartered in 1805. Mount St. Mary’s, Kmmettsburg, 
stands next in point of age. In 1878 there were in the 
United States seventy-eight Catholic colleges and sem- 
inaries with power to confer degrees. Among the 
largest colleges are St.John’s College, Fordham, N. Y. ; 
the University of Georgetown, D. C., with a literary, a 
medical, and a law department of forty professors, a libra- 
ry of 30,000 volumes, an astronomical observatory, a 
conservatory of plants, and cabinets; Mount Si. Mary’s 
College, Emmettsburg, Aid. ; St. Louis University, Sr. 
Louis, Mo. ; St. Joseph’s College, Alabama ; St. Xavier’s 
College, Cincinnati, O.; the College of the Iloly Cross, 
Worcester, Mass.; the College of St. Francis Xavier, 
New York ; and Santa Clara College, California. 

The first theological seminary in the United States 
was opened in 1791 in Baltimore. Mount St. Mary’s 
Seminary, Emmettsburg, was founded in 1809; St. Jo- 
seph’s Seminary, near Bardstown, Ky., in 1811. In 1878 
there were 23 theological seminaries, with about 1300 
ecclesiastical students. 

Catholic normal schools have been established at St. 
Francis, Wis., and at Baltimore, Md. The following 
table gives the number of higher Catholic schools, and 
the number of pupils of parochial schools, in each of the 
ecclesiastical provinces : 


Ecclesiastical Provinces. 

Higher Schools. 

Pupils in Catholic 
Parish Schools. 

1. Baltimore 

59 

lS/mo 

2. Boston 

43 

30,000 

3. Cincinnati 

111 

SO, 000 

4. Milwaukee 

27 

3S,000 

5. New Orleans 

82 

12,000 

6. New York 

122 

80,000 

7. Oregon Cily 

14 

? 

S. Philadelphia 

68 

43,000 

9. St. Louis 

88 

68,000 

10. San Francisco ..... 

24 

? 

11. Santa Fe 

10 

? 

Total 

G48 “ 

about 500,000 


IV. Statistics . — Owing to the large influx of Catholics 
from Ireland and Germany, and the acquisition of large 
Catholic territories from France and Mexico, the Roman 
Catholic population of the United States has increased 
at a much more rapid rate than the total population 
of the United States. The following table, giving the 
estimated Roman Catholic and the total population of 
the United States at different periods of our history, is 
instructive : 


Year. 

Total Population. 

Roman Catholic 
Population. 

Fractional Part 
of Total Population 
Formed l»y 
Roman Catholics. 

1776 

3,000,0110 

25,000 

_.1_ 

1 20 

1790 

3,200,000 

30,000 

1 

Ti> 7 

1800 

5,300,000 

100,000 

l 

5 a 

1810 

7,200,000 

150,000 

4S 

1S20 

9,600,000 

300,000 

1 

3*2 

1830 

13,000,000 

600,000 

1 

21 

1840 

17.000,000 

1,500,000 

1 

1 1 

1850 

23,300,000 

3,500,000 

1 

7 

I860 

31,500,000 

4,500,000 


1S7G 

40,000,000 

6,500.000 

1 


It is the unanimous opinion of the foremost Catholic 
writers on the history of the Catholic Church in the 
United States that their Church has suffered from its 
first organization to the present time very large losses; 
and that though many accessions have been received 
from other religious denominations, the losses by far 
exceed the gains. Bishop England of Charleston re- 
marked in 1830: “We ought, if there were no loss, to 
have five millions of Catholics; and as we have less 
than one million and a quarter, there must be a loss of 
three millions and a quarter at least. We may unhes- 



ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 84 ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 


itatingly assert that the Catholic Church has within 
the last fifty years (1786-1836) lost millions of mem- 
bers in the United States.” Bishop Spalding of Peoria 
(in his Life of Archbishop Spa l Jim/') likewise states: 
“To confine ourselves to the period in which the hier- 
archy has been in existence (1790-1870), we have lost 
in numbers far more than we have gained, if I may ex- 
press an opinion beyond all doubt.” The same opinion 
is often and forcibly expressed by Dr. O. Brownson and 
other prominent Catholic w riters. Some of the writers 
referred to (as bishop Spalding) console themselves with 
the hope “that the number of those who are here lost 
to the faith is, in proportion to the Catholic population 
of the country, continually decreasing, while the num- 
ber of converts each year grow r s larger.” From some 
dioceses accessions are reported to the Church of per- 
sons born of non-Catholic parents which are larger than 
those reported from any other country save England. 
Archbishop Spalding of Baltimore claimed that of 
22/209 persons confirmed bv him in five years, 2752 were 
“ converts.” Bishop Gibbons of Richmond (now arch- 
bishop of Baltimore) claimed that 14 per cent, of those 
who were confirmed by him since he came to the dio- 
cese of Richmond were “converts,” and in North Caro- 
lina 35 per cent. A comparatively large number of 
men who have attained great prominence in the his- 
tory of the Roman Catholic Church have entered that 
Church as adults, and as scceders from other religious 
communions. Among these men are archbishops Bay- 
ley of Baltimore, and Wood of Philadelphia; bishops 
Rosecranz of Columbus, and Wadhams of Ogdensburg; 
father Hecker, the superior of the Paulists; Dr. Ives, a 
bishop of the Protestant Episcopal Church ; Dr. O. Browm- 
son ; and mother Seton, the foundress of the Sisters of 
Charity. 

The following tables give the lists of the archbishop- 
rics, bishoprics, and vicariates apostolic, with the num- 
ber of priests, churches, ami members in each, the year 
of their foundation and their territorial extent. Thus 
it not only presents a summary of the Church at the be- 
ginning of 1879, but it exhibits its gradual growth and 
its comparative strength in different parts of the Union : 


1. Ecclesiastical Province of Baltimore. 



Estab- 

lished. 

Priests. ^ 

Churches. 

Roman 

Catholics. 

1. Baltimore 

1789 

258 

127 

300,000 

(Archbishopric, 1808.) 





2. Charleston 

1S20 

1G 

15 

10,000 

3. Richmond 

1821 

27 

22 

18,000 

4. Savanuah 

1S50 

27 

25 

25,000 

5. St. Augustine 

1870 

10 

20 

10,000 

G. Wheeling 

1850 

30 

03 

18.000 

7. Wilmington (Del.) . . . 

18GS 

16 

25 

14,000 

S. North Carolina (V. A.) 

1SGS 

7 

13 

1,700 

Total 

391 

310 

390,700 


2. Eoclesiastical Province of Boston. 



Estab- 

lished. 

Priests. 

1 

Churches. 

Roman 

Catholics. 

1. Boston 

1808 

213 

137 

310,000 

(Archbishopric, 1875.) 





2. Burlingtou 

1853 

32 

65 

35,000 

3. Hartford 

1^44 

100 

93 

150,000 

4. Portland 

1855 

05 

77 

SO, 000 

5. Providence 

1872 

88 

62 

136,000 

6. Springfield 

1871 

98 

86 

150.000 

Total 

59G 

520 

861,000 


3. Eoclesiastioal Province of Cincinnati. 



Estab- 

lished. 

Priests. 

Churches. 

Roman 

Catholics. 

1. Cincinnati 

1S22 

168 

197 

200,000 

(Archbishopric, 1833.) 





2. Cleveland 

1847 

159 

197 

125.000 

3. Columbus 

1868 

59 

77 

00,000 

4. Covington 

1S53 

56 

52 

40,000 

5. Detroit 

1.832 

127 

194 

175,000 

6. Fort Wayne 

1857 

97 

112 

80,000 

7. Louisville 

ISOS 

121 

102 

150,000 

8. Vincennes 

1834 

122 

154 

85,000 

Total 

909 

| 1085 

915,000 


4. Ecolkbtabtioal Province of Milwaukee. 



Estab- 

lished. 

Priests. 

Churches. 

Roman 

Catholics. 

1. Mihvankee 

(Archbishopric, 1844.) 

2. Green Bay 

3. La Crosse 

4. Marquette 

and Sant Sainte Marie. 

5. St. Paul 

6. Northern Minnesota \ 

(V. A.) f 

1S44 

18GS 

1868 

1.857 

1805 

1858 

1S75 

228 

73 

48 

19 

ios 

44 

260 

109 

94 

2S 

ios 

42 

195.000 

65.000 

46.000 

24.000 

115.000 
IS, 500 

Total 

520. 

701 

463,500 


5. Ecclesiastical Province of New t Orleans. 



Estab- 

lished. 

Priests. 

Churches. 

Roman 

Catholics. 

1. New Orleans 

1793 

162 

94 

250,000 

(Archbishopric, 1870.) 





2. Galveston 

1S47 

41 

35 

25,000 

3. Little Rock 

1S43 

16 

23 

4,000 

14. Mobile 

1824 

35 

26 

6,000 

5. Natchez 

1S37 

25 

41 

12,500 

6. Natchitoches 

1S53 

15 

17 

30,000 

7. San Antonio 

1S74 

37 

47 

45,000 

S. Brownsville (V. A.).. 

1874 

22 

10 

30,000 

Total 

353 

293 

402,500 


6. Ecclesiastical Proyinoe of New York. 



Estab- 

lished. 

Priests. 

Churches. 

Roman 

Catholics. 

1. New York 

1S08 

250 

150 

600,000 

(Archbishopric, 1850.) 





2. Albany 

1847 

163 

164 

200,000 

3. Brooklyn 

1853 

135 

79 

200,000 

4. Buffalo 

1S47 

150 

135 

109,000 

5. Nevrark 

1853 

17S 

134 

100,000 

6. Ogdensburg 

1872 

53 

81 

58,000 

7. Rochester 

1S6S 

60 

79 

65,000 

Total 

989 ; 

| 822 

1,323,009 


7. Eoclesiastioal Province of Oregon. 



Estab- 

lished. 

Priests. 

Churches. 

Roman 

Catholics. 

1. Oregou 

1840 

23 

22 

20,000 

(Archbishopric, 1845.) 





2. Nesquaiiy 

1S50 

15 

23 

11,500 

3. Idaho (V. A.) 

1S6S 

13 

14 

5,650 

Total 

51 

59 

37,150 


8. Ecclesiastical Province of Philadelphia. 



Estab- 

lished. 

Priests. 

Churches. 

Roman 

Catholics. 

1. Philadelphia 

(Archbishopric, 1875.) 

1809 

232 

128 

275,090 

2. Erie 

1S53 

61 

81 

45,000 

3. Harrisburg 

1S68 

100 

93 

150,000 

4. Pittsburgh 

and Allegheny 

1843 

1876 

1S4 

130 

125,000 

5. Scranton 

1808 

*57 

*70 

50,000 

Total 


634 

502 

645,000 


9. Eoclesiastioal Province of St. Louis. 



Estab- 

lished. 

Priests. 

Churches. 

Roman 

Catholics. 

1. St. Louis 

1S26 

250 

207 

250,000 

(Archbishopric, 1847.) 





2. Alton 

1S57 

140 

165 

100,000 

3. Chicago 

1844 

204 

194 

230,000 

4. Dnbuque 

1S37 

1S9 

155 

120,900 

5. Leaven w'orth 

1S77 

69 

104 

70,000 

6. Nashville 

1837 

27 

29 

10,000 

7. Peoria 

1877 

60 

93 

60,900 

S. St. Joseph 

1S68 

26 

30 

18,000 

9. Nebraska (V. A.) 

1859 

54 

59 

39,009 

Total 

1919 

1036 

S97,000 


10. Ecoi.esiastioal Province of San Francisoo. 



Estab- 

lished. 

Priests. 

Churches. 

Roman 

Catholics. 

1. San Francisco 

(Archbishopric, 1853.) 

2. Grass Valley 

3. Monterey and Los i 

Angeles ) 

' P>53 

186S 

1S50 

128 

31 

38 

103 

35 

35 

ISO, 000 

14.000 

24.000 

Total 

197 | 173 

218,000 


ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 85 


ROMAN EMPIRE 


11. Ecclesiastical. Province of Santa Fe. 



Estab- 

lished. 

Priests. 

Churches. 

Roman 

Catholics. 

l. Sauta Fe 

1850 

52 

29 

109,000 

(Archbishopric, 1875.) 

2. Arizona (V. A.) 

1869 

14 

18 

30,000 

■i. Colorado (V. A.) 

IStiS 

21 

41 

20,000 

3,7S0 

4. Iudiau Territory (P. > 
A.) f 

1S76 

4 

Total 

91 

SS 

162,780 



V. Periodicals . — The Shamrock , an Irish-American 
paper established in New York in 1815, and edited by 
Thomas O’Conor, father of the distinguished jurist 
Charles O'Conor, is named as the first American jour- 
nal to which the term Catholic may be applied, as it 
incidentally defended Catholic as well as Irish inter- 
ests. The real founder of Catholic journalism in Amer- 
ica was bishop England of Charleston, who in 1822 
established the United States Catholic Miscellany at 
Charleston, S. C. It was discontinued in 1861. Among 
the Catholic journals still (1879) existing, the Catholic 
Telegraph of Cincinnati, established in 1831, and the 
rilot of Boston, established in 1837, are the oldest. 
Since then the number has been largely increased. 
Among the weekly organs of the Church, besides those 
already named, the Freeman's Journal of New York, ed- 
ited by James A. McMaster, ami the Tablet , likewise of 
New York (which has counted among its frequent con- 
tributors Dr. O. llrownson, Mrs. J. Sadlier, and Dr. J. V. 
Huntington), are best known. The Catholic World of 
New York, established in 1865 by I. T. Hecker, the 
founder of the Order of the Paulists, stands at the head 
of the magazines in age and rank. When Dr.O. Brown- 
son, a journalist of considerable note, became in 1844 a 
Roman Catholic, he of course turned the service of the 
periodical edited by him to the defence of the Catholic 
Church, and thus gave to the Romanists of the United 
States their first Quarterly Review. Brotvnso?i's Review 
was suspended in 1864, revived in 1873, but finally dis- 
continued a short time before the author’s death. It 
was succeeded by the American Catholic Quarterly Re- 
view >, established in Philadelphia in 1876, and edited by 
Dr. James A. Corcoran. Among the daily papers of the 
United States the Roman Catholic Church is feebly rep- 
resented. Murray, in his Popular History of the Cath- 
olic Church in the United States (5th ed. 1877, p. 553), 
says, “There is not a daily paper in the United States 
fit for a Catholic child to read.” This remark, how- 
ever, can only be applied to the daily papers published 
in the English language; for the German Catholics had 
at the same time rive daily papers, expressly established 
for the defence of Catholic interests and fully under 
Catholic control. The Weltrundschua iiber die kathol. 
Presse (“ Review of the Catholic Press of the World,” 
Wurzburg, 1878) enumerates 109 Roman Catholic pa- 
pers of the United States, of which 36 were published 
in German, 2 in German as well as in English, 3 in 
French, 2 in Polish, 1 in Bohemian, and the others in 
English. 

VI. Literature. — The principal works on the history 
of the Roman Catholic Church in the United States 
are the following: De Courcy, Catholic Church in the 
United States (transl. by Shea) ; M‘Gee, Catholic Hist, 
of North America; Shea, Hist, of the Catholic Missions 
in the United States ; Murray, Popular Hist, of the Cath- 
olic Church in the United States (5th ed. 1877) , Clarke, 
Lives of the Deceased Bishops of the Catholic Church in 
the United States (2 vols.) ; Bay ley, Sketch of the Cath- 
olic Church on New York Island ; Fit ton, Hist, of the 
Church in Neiv Euyland ; Finotti, Biblioyraphiu Cath- 
olica Americana; O’Connell, Catholicity in the Caroli- 
nas and Georgia (N. Y. 1879) ; Murray, Catholic Educa- 
tion in the United States (1879); Neher, Kirchliche Geo- 
graphic und Statist ik von A merika (Katisbon, 1868). The 
latest statistics from official reports of the bishops are 
annually published in Sadlier’s Catholic Ltiredory, Al- 
manac, and Onto (New York). (A. J, S.) 


Roman Catholic Emancipation (or Relief) 
Acts. After the Reformation, both in England and in 
Scotland, Roman Catholics were subjected to many legal 
penal regulations and restrictions. As late as 1780, the 
law of England — which, however, was not always rigid- 
ly enforced — made it felony in a foreign Roman Cath- 
olic priest and high-treason in a native to teach the 
doctrines or perform the rites of his Church. Roman 
Catholics could not acquire land by purchase. If edu- 
cated abroad in the Roman Catholic faith, they were 
declared incapable of succeeding to real property, which 
went to the next Protestant heir. A son or other 
nearest relation being a Protestant was empowered 
to take possession of the estate of his Roman Catholic 
father or other kinsman during his life. A Roman 
Catholic could not be guardian even of Roman Catholic 
children, he was excluded from the legal profession, 
and it was a capital offence for a Roman Catholic priest 
to celebrate a marriage between a Protestant and a Ro- 
man Catholic. In 1780 it was proposed to repeal some 
of the severest disqualifications in the case of those who 
would submit to the following test. This test included 
an oath of allegiance to the sovereign, an abjuration of 
the Pretender, and a declaration of disbelief in the sev- 
eral doctrines that it is lawful to put heretics to death, 
that no faith is to be kept with heretics, that princes 
may be deposed or put to death, and that the pope is 
entitled to any temporal jurisdiction within the realm. 
This bili eventually passed into law in England. In 
1791 a bill was passed affording further relief to such 
Roman Catholics as would sign a protest against the 
temporal power of the pope and his authority to release 
from civil obligations. In the following- year, by the 
statute 33 Geo. Ill, c. 44, the severest of the penal re- 
strictions were removed from the Scottish Roman Cath- 
olics upon taking a prescribed oath ami declaration. 
The agitation in Ireland caused by these restrictions led 
to the Irish rebellion of 1798, while the union of 1800 
was brought about by means of pledges regarding the 
removal of the disabilities in question. The agitation 
upon the subject increased , and at last the duke of Wel- 
lington was brought to the conviction that the securitv 
of the empire would he imperilled by further resistance 
of the Roman Catholic claims, and in 1829 a measure 
was introduced by the duke’s ministry for Catholic 
emancipation. An act having been first passed for the 
suppression of the Roman Catholic Asssociation — which 
had already voted its own dissolution — the celebrated 
Roman Catholic Relief Bill was introduced by Air. Feel 
in the House of Commons on March 5, and, passing both 
houses, received the royal assent April 13. By this 
act ( 10 Geo. IV, c. 7) an oath is substituted for the 
oaths of allegiance, supremacy, and abjuration, on taking 
which Roman Catholics may sit or vote in either house 
of Parliament, and be admitted to most offices from which 
they were formerly excluded. Restrictions which ex- 
isted on Roman Catholic bequests were removed by 
2 and 3 Will. IV, c. 115, as regards Great Britain, and by 
7 and 8 Viet. c. GO, with relation to Ireland. Later acts 
abolished a few minor disabilities. See Chambers's En- 
cyclop. s. v. 

Roman Empire, the government of the Romans 
as conducted by the emperors, of whom Augustus was 
the first. The history of the Roman Empire, properly 
so called, extends over a period of rather more than live 
hundred years, viz. from the battle of Actium, 15.C. 31, 
when Augustus became ruler of the Roman world, to 
the abdication of Augustulus, A.D. 476. The empire, 
however, in the sense of the dominion of Rome over a 
large number of conquered nations, was in full force and 
had reached wide limits some time before the monarchy 
of Augustus was established. The notices of Roman his- 
tory which occur in the Bible are confined to the lat>t 
century and a half of the commonwealth and the fir>t 
century of the imperial monarchy. But in order to ap- 
preciate these, some particulars of the condition of the 
Roman state is necessary. We have not, however, the 


ROMAN EMPIRE 


86 


ROMAN EMPIRE 


intention of entering into an account of the rise, prog- 
ress, state, and decline of the Roman power, but merely 
to set forth a few of the more essential facts, speaking a 
little less briefly of the relations formed and sustained 
between the Romans and the Jews. This we chiefly 
take from the dictionaries of Kitto and Smith. For a 
description of the capital city, see Rome. 

I. History. — The foundations of Rome lie in an ob- 
scurity from which the criticism of Niebuhr has done 
little more than remove the legendary charm. Three 
tribes, however, according to the oldest account, formed 
the earliest population — namely, the Ramuenses (prob- 
ably Romanenses, still further abbreviated into Ram- 
nes), the Titienses (shortened into Titles, from Titus 
Tatius, their head), and the Luceres (probably an Etrus- 
can horde, who migrated to Rome from Solonium, under 
Lucumo). In order to increase his population, and with ( 
a view to that conquest which he afterwards achieved, 
and which was only a small prelude to the immense do- 
minion subsequently acquired, Romulus opened in Rome 
an asylum, inviting thereto those who, for whatever 
cause, fled from the neighboring cities. To Rome ac- 
eordingty there flocked the discontented, the guilty, the 
banished, and the aspiring, freemen and slaves. Thus 
were laid the foundations of the future mistress of the 
world, according to the ordinary reckoning, B.C. 753, 
the number of inhabitants at the first not exceeding, it 
is supposed, four thousand souls. What it arose to in 
the period of its greatest extent we have not the means 
of ascertaining. (See below.) 

Though the date of the foundation of Rome coin- 
cides nearly with the beginning of the reign of Pckah 
in Israel, it was not till the beginning of the 2d century 
B.C. that the Romans had leisure to interfere in the af- 
fairs of the East. When, however, the power of Car- 
thage had been effectually broken at Zama, B.C. 202, 
Roman arms and intrigues soon made themselves felt 
throughout Macedonia, Greece, and Asia Minor. The 
first historic mention of Rome in the Bible is 1 Macc. i, 
10, where it is stated that there arose “a wicked .root, 
Antiochus, surnamed Epiphanes, son of Antiochus the 
king, who had been an hostage at Rome.” About the 
year B.C. 1G1, when Judas Maeeabams heard of the de- 
feat of Philip, Terseus, and Antiochus, and of the great 
fame of the Romans, he sent an embassy to them to 
solicit an alliance, and to obtain protection against the 
Syrian government (1 Mace, viii, 1 sq. ; comp. 2 Macc. 
xi,34; Josephus, A nt. xii, 10,6; Justin, xxxvi, 3). The 
ambassadors were graciously received, and Demetrius 
was ordered to desist from harassing the Jews ; but be- 
fore the answer arrived Judas was slain, having valiant- 
ly engaged the whole army of Bacchides sent by Deme- 
trius into Judsea (1 Macc. xi, 1-18; Josephus, Ant. xii, 
11,1). In B.C. 143, Jonathan renewed the alliance with 
the Romans (1 Macc. xii, 1-4, 1G; Josephus, A nt. xiii, 
5,8), the embassy being admitted before the senate (to 
fiovXtvn'ipiov'), and on his death, the same year, his 
brother Simon, who succeeded him, sent also to Rome 
to again seek a renewal of friendship. The Romans 
readily acceded to his request, and the valiant deeds of 
Simon and his predecessors were engraved on tables of 
brass. Shortly afterwards, Simon sent Numenius to 
Rome with a great shield of gold, of a thousand pounds’ 
weight, to confirm the league with them. The senate 
at once consented to its re-establish ment, and recog- 
nised him as high-priest and prince of Judaea. The 
tables of brass on which the league was written were 
set up in the Temple (1 Macc. xi v, 17 sq.; Josephus, A nt. 
xiii, 7,3). Lucius, the consul of the Romans, wrote to 
several kings and nations requesting them to assist the 
Jews (1 Macc. xv, 16-23). See Lrcius. Ilyrcanus, the 
successor of Maecabicus, again sent (in B.C. 129) an em- 
bassy to Rome, which was favorably received, confirm- 
ing the alliance already concluded (Josephus, A nt. xiii, 
9, 2). In the year B.C. GG, Pompe} r arrived in the East 
to take command of the Roman armies, and sent his 
general, Scaurus, to Syria. While at Damascus, the 


latter received an offer of 400 talents from Aristo- 
bulus and Ilyrcanus, who were both fighting for the 
kingdom, each one wishing to be aided. Scaurus ac- 
cepted the oiler of Aristobulus, and ordered Aretas, who 
was assisting Hyrcanus, to withdraw his forces, or he 
would be declared an enemy to the Romans (ibid. 
xiv, 2, 3). The following year Pompey eame into 
Syria, and deprived Antiochus XIII (Asiaticus) of his 
kingdom, reducing it to a Roman province. Ambassa- 
dors were sent to Pompey from the rival princes, and 
in B.C. 64, when Pompe}" returned to Damascus from 
Asia Minor, their respective causes were heard by him. 
Notwithstanding the prejudices of the people in favor 
of Aristobulus, Pompey, perceiving the weakness of 
character and imbecility of Hyrcanus, seemed to in- 
cline towards the latter, knowing that it was better to 
have a weak man under the Roman control. He, how- 
ever, left the matter undecided, and Aristobulus, seeing 
that his case was lost, withdrew to make preparations 
for defence ( ibid, xiv, 2, 3). Pompey then occupied 
himself in reducing the forces of Aretas, and after- 
wards marched against Aristobulus, who fled to Jeru- 
salem. Aristobulus, on his approach, met him, and of- 
fered him a large sum of money, ami Pompey sent Ga- 
binius to receive it ; but on his arrival at Jerusalem he 
found the gates closed. Aristobulus was then thrown 
into prison, and Pompey marched to Jerusalem. Hyr- 
canus opened the gates to him, while the party of Aris- 
tobulus, including the priests, shut themselves up in the 
Temple and withstood a siege of three months. Pom- 
pey, observing that the Jews did not work on the sev- 
enth day, gained material advantage, and at last took 
the place by assault, killing, according to Josephus, as 
many as 12,000 persons, even desecrating the Temple by 
entering the holy of holies (comp. Tacitus, Hist, v, 9), 
though he did not touch any of the treasures, Hyrca- 
nus was then appointed high-priest and governor of 
the country, but was forbidden to wear a diadem (comp. 
Josephus, A nt. xx, 10). Tribute was also exacted of 
him, and Pompey took Aristobulus and his two sons, 
Alexander and Antigonus, prisoners to Rome, whence 
they subsequently escaped ( ibid, xiv, 3, 2; 4, 2; 3, 4; 
I For, i, 7, 6 ; Strabo, xvi, p. 7G3). 

The restoration of Hyrcanus was, however, merely 
nominal, as the Idumiean Antipater, an active friend 
of the Romans, was placed over him as governor of 
Judaea. “No\v began the struggle which was destined 
to continue with little intermission for nearly two hun- 
dred years. It was nourished by feelings of the dead- 
liest animosity on both sides; it was signalized by the 
most frightful examples of barbarity, in which each of 
the contending parties strove to outdo the other; but 
it was directed by a controlling Providence to a bene- 
ficial consummation, in the destruction of the Jewish 
nationality, and the dispersion throughout the world of 
the Christian communities.” (See Merivale, Romans 
under the Empire [Loud. 1865, 8 vols. 8voJ, vol. iii, ch. 
xxix, where the events of the period are admirably 
summed up). In the year B.C. 57, Alexander, the el- 
dest son of Aristobulus, escaped from Pompey, and took 
up arms in Judaea. Hyrcanus upon this applied for 
assistance to Gabinius, the Roman proconsul of Syria, 
who thereupon sent Mark Antony with a large force 
into Judaea. Antony, being joined by Antipatcr with 
the forces of Ilyrcanus. defeated Alexander, and com- 
pelled him to fly to Alexandrium. Gabinius soon after 
arrived, and, through the mediation of the mother of Al- 
exander, made peace with him and allowed him to de- 
part. After these matters were settled, Gabinius went 
to Jerusalem, and there committed the care of the Tem- 
ple to Hyrcanus, thus changing the government from a 
monarchy to an aristocracy. At the same time, he in- 
stituted five councils (aviddpta) instead of the two 
sanhedrims which had existed in every city, and he 
distributed these five among five cities. These were 
Jerusalem, Gadara, Amathus, Jericho, and Sepphoris, in 
Galilee (Josephus, A nt. xiv, 5, 4). In B.C. 54 Gabinius 


ROMAN EMPIRE 


87 


ROMAN EMPIRE 


was superseded in the government of Syria by Crassus, 
who plundered the Temple of about 10,000 talents, not- 
withstanding that a beam of gold of immense value 
had been given him, on condition that lie would touch 
nothing else in the Temple {ibid, xiv, 7, 1). All this 
time Antipater was gaining influence with the Ho- 
mans; and after the death of Pompev, in 15.0. 48, he 
was very useful to Julius Caesar in his war against 
Egypt. In return for this, lie made Antipatcr procu- 
rator of Judaea, gave him the privilege of a citizen of 
Home, and freedom from taxes everywhere, llyrca- 
nus also was continued in the priesthood and eth- 
narchv, the claims of Antigomis, the only surviving 
son of Aristobulus, being set aside, and thus the aristo- 
cratical constitution of Gabiuius was abolished ( ibid. 
xiv). The ascendency and prosperity of Antipater 
were now insured. At this period he had four sons. 
Two of them, Phasael and Herod, were holding impor- 
tant posts, the former being governor of Jerusalem, and 
the latter governor of Galilee. Finally. An: ipater’s son, 
Herod the Great, was made king by Antony’s interest, 
B.C. 40, and confirmed in the kingdom by Augustus, 
B.C. 30 ( ibid, xiv, 14 ; xv, 6). The Jews, however, 
were all this time tributaries of Rome, and their princes 
in reality were mere Homan procurators. Julius Ciesar 
is said to have exacted from them a fourth part of their 
agricultural produce in addition to the tithe paid to 
Hyrcanus {ibid, xiv, 10, 6). Homan soldiers were quar- 
tered at Jerusalem in Herod’s time to support him in 
his authority {ibid, xv, 8, 7). Tribute was paid to Home, 
and an oath of allegiance to the emperor as well as to 
Herod appears to have been taken by the people {ibid. 
xvii, 2, 2). On the banishment of Archelaus, A.D. 6, 
Judaia became a mere appendage of the province of 
Syria, and was governed by a Homan procurator, who 
resided at Caesarea. Galilee and the adjoining districts 
were still left under the government of Ilcrod’s sons 
and other petty princes, whose dominions and titles 
were changed from time to time by successive emper- 
ors. See Herod. 

The Jewish people, being at last worn out with the 
disputes and cruelties of the Herods, sent a mission to 
Home, begging that Judaea might be made a Roman 
province. In the year A.D. 6, Archelaus was banished, 
and Judaea put under the government of Home. The 
first procurator appointed was Coponius, who accom- 
panied Cyrenius (the Greek form of the Homan name 
Quirimts ) into Syria. The latter had been sent to take 
an account of their substance, and to make a census or 
ctTroypdipi) [sec Chronology; Cyrenifs] of the in- 
habitants of Judaea (Luke ii, 1; Josephus, Ant. xvii, 
13, 5; xviii, 1, 1; War, ii, 8, 1). In A.D. 9 Coponius 
was succeeded by Marcus Ambivius, who remained at 
the head of the government till A.D. 12, and was then 
replaced by Annins Rufus. On the accession of Tibe- 
rius, Valerius Gratus was made procurator, a post he 
filled for eleven years, and was succeeded (A.D. 26) by 
Pontius Pilate (Josephus,/!^, xviii, 2, 2), who entered 
Jerusalem with the military ensigns. on which M-ere the 
effigies of the emperor. The Jewish law forbids the mak- 
ing of images, and a great tumult arose, and shortly Ti- 
berius ordered him to withdraw them {ibid, xviii, 3, 1 ; 
War, ii, 9, 3). Pilate tyrannically governed the Jews 
till A.D. 36; and at last, owing to continual complaints, 
was ordered by Vitellius, the president of Syria, to pro- 
ceed to Home to give an account of his administration. 
Tiberius died before he arrived, and he put an end to 
his life at the commencement of the reign of Cains (Ca- 
ligula) (Josephus, Ant. xviii, 3, 1-3 ; 4, 1 ; War, ii, 9, 2 ; 
Euseb. If. E. ii, 7). It was during his administration 
that our Lord was condemned and crucified (Matt, xxvii ; 
Mark xv; Luke iii, 1; xxiii ; John xviii, xix). On 
Pilate’s departure, Marullus was appointed over Juda?a 
by Vitellius (Josephus, A nt. xviii, 4, 2). The new em- 
peror, Cains, however, superseded him, and appointed 
Marcellus procurator of Judaea {ibid, xviii, 6, 10). In 
A.D. 40 Vitellius was recalled, and Pctroniussentas presi- 


dent of Syria, with orders from Cains to set up his statue 
in the Temple. This insult caused the whole nation to 
rise. The intercession of Agrippa, and ultimately the 
death of the tyrant, prevented this order from ever be- 
ing executed {ibid, xviii ; lUur, ii, 10; Philo, Leg. ad 
Caium , 26). In the Acts it is recorded that the church- 
es had rest through all Jmkea, Galilee, and Samaria (ix, 
31), doubtless owing to the impious attempt of Caligula 
(Josephus, Ant. xviii, 8, 2-9). Under Claudius, who 
succeeded to the throne in A.D. 41. the dews had some 
peace. Agrippa I was nominally king from that period 
to A.D. 44, when he died, leaving otic son, Claudius 
wished to allow the young Agrippa to rule his father’s 
kingdom, but, evidently by persuasion, sent a Homan 
procurator to govern the province (Tacit. Hist, v, 9). 
Cuspius Fadus was the first appointed (Josephus, An*. 

xix, 9, 2: xx, 5, 1), A.D. 45. It was under his adminis- 
tration that a movement of the whole Jewish people 
broke forth, in consequence of the sacred vestments be- 
ing placed under his charge. Longinus, the governor 
of Syria, interfered, an embassy was sent to Home, and 
the matter ended in the Jews being permitted to retain 
these vestments under their care. Judaea was cleared 
of robbers by the care and providence of Fadus {ibid. 

xx, 1, 1, 2). He was succeeded by Tiberius Alexander, 
a renegade Jew, and nephew of Philo {ibid, xx, 5, 2; 
War, ii, 11, 6). In A.D. 49 Tiberius was recalled, and 
Ventidi-us Cumanus appointed in his stead. During his 
government a fearful tumult ensued, which would have 
spread far and wide had not Quadratic, the governor 
of Syria, interfered. The. matter ended in the banish- 
ment of Cumanus and the appointment of Felix, the 
brother of Pallas, the favorite of Claudius, as procu- 
rator {Ant. xx, 6; 7, 1 ; War, ii, 12: comp. Tacit. 
Ann. xii, 54). Felix was procurator A.D. 53-55. Of 
his government Tacitus speaks: “Per omnem saevitiam 
ac libidinem jus regitim servili ingenio exercuit” {/list. 
v, 9), and his corruptness is shown by his expecting to 
receive money from St. Paul (Acts xxiv, 26). lie had 
induced Drusilla, the daughter of Agrippa I. to live with 
him. She was with him when Paul preached “of right- 
eousness, temperance, and judgment to come” (ver. 25). 
Felix, however, did some good services while he was iu 
power; for, the country being infested with robbers and 
impostors, he cleared several parts of it. He also drove 
out the Egyptian impostor (comp. Acts xxi,38). These 
are, doubtless, the very worthy deeds alluded to bv 
Tertnllus (xxiv, 2). Hearing ill-will against Jonathan, 
the high-priest, Felix had him barbarously murdered. 
By treachery, also, he put to death Eleazar, the captain 
of a company of robbers (Josephus, A nt. xx, 8, 5). At 
last his misgovernment caused his recall, and Porcius 
Festus succeeded. His government seems to have been 
milder ( ibid, xxi, 8, 9; War, ii, 14, 1). lie heard 
Paul with king Agrippa at Caesarea (Acts xxv, xxvi). 
Festus died after two years. lie was succeeded by Al- 
binus, a bad and cruel man, who, on hearing that Ges- 
sius Florns was coming to succeed him, brought out 
all the prisoners who seemed most worthy of death, 
and put them to death, and at the same time released 
many of them, but only on receiving a bribe (Jose- 
phus, Ant. xx, 9, 5; War, ii, 14, 1). lie was recalled 
in A.D. 65, and Gessius Floras appointed in his stead. 
He was the last and the worst of the Homan procura- 
tors {Ant. xx, 9, 1 ; 11, 1 ; lP«r, ii, 14, 1). Josephus 
does not hesitate to accuse him of the most flagrant 
and horrid crimes {Ant. xx, 11,1; War. loe. cit.); and 
even Tacitus says that the Jewish patience could en- 
dure the yoke no longer — “duravit patientia Judseis 
usque ad Gessium Flora m” {Hist, v, 10). In A.D. 66, 
Cestius Gallus. the pra?fect of Syria, found it necessary 
to march a powerful army into Palestine. lie was, how- 
ever, defeated with great loss, and immediately sent 
word to Xero, laving the whole blame on Floras — Flo- 
rus, likewise, laying the blame on him. He soon after- 
wards died, as some have supposed, from chagrin or dis- 
appointment (Josephus, War, ii, 19; Sueton. Vesp. 4; 


ROMAN EMPIRE 


88 


ROMAN EMPIRE 


Tacit. Hist, v, 10). See Governor. The following 
year Nero sent Vespasian into Judaea (Josephus, War, 
iii, 1. *2). (Accounts of the war and siege of Jerusalem 
will be found in the article Jerusalem.) In G8, Nero 
died; Galba, Otho, and Vitellius followed in quick suc- 
cession ; and Vespasian himself was elected emperor by 
the legions in Judaea. In A.D. 70, Titus was sent by 
his father to conduct the war; and after a four months’ 
siege Jerusalem was taken. Josephus states that 1,100,- 
000 were killed during the siege (ibid, x i, 9, 3), that 
several were allowed to depart, and an immense num- 
ber sold to the army and carried captive. These num- 
bers are of course exaggerated See Luke xxi, 24. 

Under Trajan the Jews again broke out into open 
revolt, and the disturbances continued under Hadrian. 
At last, A.I). 131, one Bar-cocheba, the son of a stai', was 
placed at the head of the Jews. Several times the Ro- 
man arms were defeated; but Julius Severus, by reduc- 
ing their fortresses one by one, finally defeated him in 
A.D. 135. Dion Cassius says that 580,000 Jewish peo- 
ple were slain in these battles (lxix, 14). This state- 
ment is as extravagant as that of Josephus ( at sup.). 

In A.D. 136 the emperor Hadrian founded a new city, 
under the name of iElia Capitolina, to which he gave 
the privileges of a colon)". None but Christians and 
pagans were allowed to enter (Dion Cass, lxix, 12; 
comp. Gibbon). 

The New Test, history falls within the reigns of 
Augustus, Tiberius, Caligula, Claudius, and Nero. Only 
Augustus (Luke ii, 1), Tiberius (iii, l),and Claudius (Acts 
xi, 28; xviii, 2) are mentioned; but Nero is alluded to 
in the Acts from ch. xxv to the end, and in Phil, iv, 22. 
The Roman emperor in the New Test, is usually called 
Caesar (Acts xxv, 10, 11, 12, 21), though sometimes Au- 
gustus (fefiaaroQ, ver. 21, 25), and once Lord (o Kvptog, 
ver. 26). Wc thus find many characteristics of the Ro- 
man rule constantly before us in the New Test.: we 
hear of Cfesar the sole king (John xix, 15) of Cvrenins, 
“governor of Syria” (Luke ii, 2); of Pontius Pilate, 
Felix, and Festus, the “governors,” i. c. procurators, of 
Judaea; of the “tetrarchs” Herod, Philip, and Lysanias 
(iii, 1); of “king Agrippa” (Acts xxv, 13); of Roman 
soldiers, legions, centurions, publicans; of the tribute- 
money (Matt, xxii, 19) ; the taxing of “ the whole world” 


(Luke ii, 1) ; Italian and Augustan cohorts (Acts x, 1; 
xxvii, 1) ; the appeal to Caesar (xxv, 11). ’ Several no- 
tices of the provincial administration of the Romans and 
the condition of provincial cities occur in the narrative 
of Paul’s journeys (xiii, 7; xviii, 12; xvi, 12, 35, 38; 
xix, 38). See J udjea. 

II. Extent of the Empire. — Cicero’s description of the 
Greek states and colonies as a “ fringe on the skirts of 
barbarism” (Cicero, De Rep. ii, 4) has been well applied 
to the Roman dominions before the conquests of Pom- 
pev and Caesar (Merivale, Rom. Empire , iv, 409). The 
Roman empire was still confined to a narrow strip en- 
circling the Mediterranean Sea. Pompey added Asia 
Minor and Syria; Caesar added Gaul. The generals of 
Augustus overran the north-west portion of Spain and 
the country between the Alps and the Danube. The 
boundaries of the empire were now, the Atlantic on the 
west; the Euphrates on the east; the deserts of Africa, 
the cataracts of the Nile, and the Arabian deserts on the 
south; the British Channel, the Rhine, the Danube, and 
the Black Sea on the north. The only subsequent con- 
quests of importance were those of Britain by Claudius, 
and of Dacia by Trajan. The only independent pow- 
ers of importance were the Parthians on the east and 
the Germans on the north. 

The population of the empire in the time of Augustus 
has been calculated at 85,000,000 (Merivale, Rom. Em - 
pire, iv, 442-450). Gibbon, speaking of the time of Clau- 
dius, puts the population at 120,000,000 ( Decline and Fall , 
ch. ii). Count Franz de Champagny adopts the same 
number for the reign of Nero (Zes Cesars , ii, 42S). All 
these estimates are confessedly somewhat uncertain and 
conjectural. 

This large population was controlled, in the time of 
Tiberius, by an army of twenty-five legions, exclusive 
of the praetorian guards and other cohorts in the capital. 
The soldiers who composed the legions may be reckoned 
in round numbers at 170,000 men. If we add to these 
an equal number of auxiliaries (Tacit. Ann. iv, 5), we 
have a total force of 340,000 men. The praetorian guards 
may be reckoned at 10,000 (Dion Cass. Iv. 24). The oth- 
er cohorts v’ould swell the garrison at Rome to 15,000 
or 16,000 men. For the number and stations of the le- 
gions in the time of Tiberius, comp. Tacit. Ann. iv, 5. 



ROMAN EMPIRE 


89 


ROMAN EMPIRE 


The navy may have contained about 21,000 men ( Les 
Cesars , ii, 429; comp. Merivale, iii, 534). The legion, 
as appears from what has been said, must have been 
“more like a brigade than a regiment,” consisting, as it 
did, of more than G000 infantry with cavalry attached 
(Conybcare and Howson, ii, 285). 

III. Home Rule. — The Homan government was at 
first kingly. Romulus, the first monarch, was probably 
succeeded by six others, during a period of two hundred 
and fortv-four years, till in the year B.C. 509 kingly 
government was abolished when in the hands of Tar- 
quinius Superbus, in consequence of his arrogant and 
oppressive despotism. A consular form of government 
succeeded, which was at the first of an essentially aris- 
tocratic character, but was compelled to give way by 
degrees to popular influence, till men of plebeian origin 
made their way to the highest offices and first honors 
in the State, when the government became an oligar- 
chy; then fell into anarchy, from which it was rescued 
by the strong hand of Octavius Cajsar, who became sole 
master of the world by defeating Antony at Actium on 
Sept. 2, A.U. 723 (B.C.3I),though it was not tilt the year 
725 that the senate named Octavius Imperator, nor tilt 
the year 727 that he received the sacred title of Augus- 
tus 1. When Augustus became sole ruler of the Roman 
world, he was in theory simply the first citizen of the 
republic, intrusted with temporary powers to settle the 
disorders of the State. Tacitus says that lie was nei- 
ther king nor dictator, but “prince” (Ann. i, 9), a title 
implying no civil authority, but simply the position of 
chief member of the senate (pt'inceps senatus ). The old 
magistracies were retained, but the various powers and 
prerogatives of each were conferred upon Augustus, so 
that while others commonly bore the chief official titles, 
Augustus had the supreme control of every department 
of the State — above all, he was the emperor (imperator'). 
This word, used originally to designate any one intrust- 
ed with the imperiuniy or full military authority over a 
Homan army, acquired a new significance when adopted 
as a permanent title by Julius Caesar. By his use of it 
as a constant prefix to his name in the city and in the 
camp he openly asserted a paramount military authori- 
ty over the State. Augustus, b} r resuming it, plainly 
indicated, in spite of much artful concealment, the real 
basis on which his power rested — viz. the support of 
the army (Merivale. Rom. Empire , vol. iii). In the New 
Test, the emperor is commonly designated by the family 
name “Ca?sar,”or the dignified and almost sacred title 
“Augustus” (for its meaning, comp. Ovid, Fasti , i, 609). 
Tiberius is called by implication i)yeptbv in Luke iii, 1, 
a title applied in the New Test, to Cvrenius, Pilate, and 
others. Notwithstanding the despotic character of the 
government, the Homans seem to have shrunk from 
speaking of their ruler under his military title (see 
Merivale, Rom. Empire , iii, 452, and note) or any other 
avowedly despotic appellation. The use of the word 
o Kvpiog, dominus. “ my lord,” in Acts xxv, 2G, marks 
the progress of Roman servility between the time of 
Augustus and Nero. Augustus and Tiberius refused 
this title. Caligula first bore it (see Alford’s note in 
loe. c it.; Ovid, Fasti , ii, 142). The term fiamXevc, 
“king,” in John xix, 15; 1 Pet. ii, 17, cannot be closely 
pressed. 

The empire was nominally elective (Tacit. Ann. xiii, 
4), but practically it passed by adoption (see Galba’s 
speech in Tacit. Ilist. i, 15); and till Nero’s time a sort 
of hereditary right seemed to be recognised. The dan- 
gers inherent in a military government were, on the 
whole, successfully averted till the death of Pertiuax, 
A.D. 193 (Gibbon, iii, 80); but outbreaks of military 
violence were not wanting in this earlier period (comp. 
Wenck’s note on Gibbon, loc. cit.). The army was sys- 
tematically bribed by donatives at the commencement 
of each reign, and the mob of the capital continually 
fed and amused at the expense of the provinces. We 
are reminded of the insolence and avarice of the soldiers 
in Luke iii, 14. The reigns of Caligula, Nero, and Do- 



Romau Emperor aud Empress. 


mitian show that an emperor might shed the noblest 
blood with impunity, so long as he abstained from of- 
fending the soldiery and the populace. 

IV. Foreign Dependencies. — The subjugated countries 
that lay beyond the limits of Italy were designated by 
the general name of provinces. The first provisions 
necessary on the conquest of a country by the Homan 
arms were made with a view to secure the possession 
by the victorious general, in virtue of the power and 
authority (impeiium) intrusted to him by the govern- 
ment at home. Accordingly the earliest object of at- 
tention was the ordering of the military power, and the 
procuring of suitable resources for subsisting the troops. 
These arrangements, however, were made not without 
a regard to the pacific relations into which the conquer- 
ors and the conquered had mutually entered. Acting 
on the principle that all unnecessary evil was gratuitous 
folly, the general availed himself of the aid afforded by 
existing institutions, aud only ventured to give dis- 
pleasure by establishing new ones in cases where the 
laws and customs of a country were insufficient for his 
purposes. The civil government was, however, recog- 
nised, modified, or remodelled by the conqueror, provi- 
sionally, and only until the Homan senate had made its 
behests known. Ordiuarily, however, the general who 
had conquered the province constituted its government, 
in virtue of a law or decree of the senate in which the 
constitution (forma pro vinciee) was set forth and estab- 
lished, or the provisional appoint ments already made 
were sanctioned and confirmed. In order to complete 
these structural arrangements, the general received spe- 
cial aid from ten senators appointed for the purpose, 
whose counsel he was obliged to make use of. In thus 
reforming the legal and social life of a province, the con- 
querors had the good sense to act, in general, with pru- 
dence and mildness, having regard in their appoint- 
ments to local peculiarities and existing institutions, so 
far as the intended adjunction to the Homan power per- 
mitted, in order to avoid giving the provincials provo- 
cation for opposing their new masters. Under ordinary 
circumstances the government of the provinces was con- 
ducted by authorities sent for the purpose from Home. 
Sometimes, however, as we have seen, petty sovereigns 
were left in possession of a nominal independence on the 
borders, or within the natural limits, of the province. 
Such a system was useful for rewarding an ally, for em- 
ploying a busy ruler, for gradually accustoming a stub- 
born people to the yoke of dependence. There were 
differences, too, in the political condition of cities within 
the provinces. Some were free cities, i. e. were govern- 
ed by their own magistrates, and were exempted from 
occupation by a Roman garrison. Such were Tarsus, 
Antioch in Syria, Athens, Ephesus, Thessalonica. See 



ROMAN EMPIRE 


90 


ROMAN EMPIRE 


the notices of the “politarchs” and “demos” at Thessa- 
lonica (Acts xvii, 5-8); also the “town-clerk” and the 
assembly at Ephesus (xix, 35, 89 [Conybeare and How- 
son, Life of St. Pitul, i, 357 ; ii, 79]). Occasionally, but 
rarely, free cities were exempted from taxation. Other 
cities were “colonies,” i. e. communities of Roman citi- 
zens transplanted, like garrisons of the imperial city, 
into a foreign land. Such was Philippi (Acts xvi, 12). 
Such, too, were Corinth, Troas, the Pisidian Antioch. 
The inhabitants were, for the most part, Romans (ver. 21), 
and their magistrates delighted in the Roman title of 
Pnetor (<rrp«rj/yo£), and in the attendance of lictors 
(pa/itWyoi), Acts xvi, 35 (Conybeare and Howson, i, 
315). See Colony. 

Augustus divided the provinces into two classes — (1) 
Imperial; (2) Senatorial — retaining in his own hands, 
for obvious reasons, those provinces where the presence 
of a large military force was necessary, and committing 
the peaceful and unarmed provinces to the senate. The 
imperial provinces, at first, were Gaul, Lusitania, Syria, 
Phoenicia, Cilicia. Cyprus, and /Egypt. The senatorial 
provinces were Africa, Numidia, Asia, Achaea and Epi- 
rus, Dalmatia, Macedonia, Sicily, Crete and Cyrene, Bi- 
thynia and Pontus, Sardinia, Baitica (Dion Cass, liii, 12). 
Cyprus and Gallia Narbonensis were subsequently given 
up by Augustus, who in turn received Dalmatia from 
the senate. Many other changes were made afterwards. 
The governors of those provinces which were assigned 
to the senate were called proconsuls (avSvTrctToi, depu- 
ties; A. V. Acts xiii, 7; xviii, 12; xix, 38), whatever 
their previous office may have been (Dion. Cass, liii, 13). 
The imperial provinces, on the other hand, were gov- 
erned by a Legatus (7rptffj3vTi)g) or propraetor (dun- 
CTparpyog), even if the officer appointed had been con- 
sul. The minor districts of the imperial provinces were 
governed by a procurator ( iiriTpoTroQ , Dion Cass, liii, 
15, “steward,” Matt, xx, 8). Augustus brought all the 
procurators under his control (Dion Cass, liii, 32). Un- 
der the republic they had managed the affairs of pri- 
vate citizens, but under the empire they discharged the 
duties performed by the quaestors in the senatorial prov- 
inces. They controlled the revenne and collected the 
taxes, and their power extended from these matters to 
justice and administration (Tacit. Hist A, 11). The proc- 
urators of Judaea seem to have been under the control 
of the proconsul of Syria, as Quadratus condemned the 
indiscretion of the procurator Cumanns (Josephus, A nt. 
xx, G, 3; Tacit. Ann. xii, 54). They are called “gov- 
ernors” (iiytpovtg) in the New Test. The verb i)ytpo~ 
vsvm is employed in Luke ii, 2 to show the nature of 
the govern ment of Quirinus over Syria. Asia and Achaia 
were assigned to the senate, and in each case the title 
of the governor in the Acts is proconsul (avSinrciTog, 
xviii, 12; xix, 38). Dion Cass, (liii, 12) informs us that 
Cyprus was retained by the emperor; but Sergius Pau- 
lus is called in the Acts (xiii, 7) “ proconsul.” This is 
quite correct, as Dion adds that Augustus restored Cy- 
prus to the senate in exchange for another district of 
the empire. Coins and inscriptions of Cyprus also bear 
the title “proconsul” (comp. Conybeare and Howson, 
Life of St. Paul , i, 173 sq.; Akerman, Num. III. of New 
Test. p. 41). See Proconsul. 

The government of the senatorial provinces lay be- 
tween the consuls, for whom, after they had completed 
their consular office, two provinces were appointed; the 
other provinces were allotted to the pnvtors. Sueto- 
nius adds (Octav. 47) that Augustus sometimes made 
changes in this arrangement. Quiestors, chosen by lot 
out of those who were named for the year, went with 
the proconsuls into the provinces of the senate. Into 
the provinces of the emperor, legali, or lieutenants, 
were sent, with propraetorial power, to act as representa- 
tives of their master: they wore the sword as an index 
of military authority, and had power of life and death 
over the soldiers — two distinctions which were not 
granted to the proconsuls, or governors of the senato- 
rial provinces. The imperial lieutenants remained many 


years in the provinces; until, indeed, it pleased the em- 
peror to recall them. Quaestors were not sent into the 
imperial provinces, but their place was supplied by 
“ procurators, ” called at a later period “rationales,” 
who were generally taken from the equestrian order. 
They raised the revenne for the imperial treasury, and 
discharged the office of paymaster of the army. There 
was also in the senatorial provinces a procurator, who 
raised the income intended, not for the treasury, but for 
the emperor’s privy purse: the smaller provinces, like 
Judaea, which belonged to Syria, were altogether gov- 
erned by such. See Procurator. 

The proconsuls, proprietors, and proprietorial lieuten- 
ants, when about to proceed into their several provinces, 
received instructions for their guidance from the em- 
peror; and in cases in which these were found insuffi- 
cient, they were to apply for special directions to the 
imperial head of the State. A specimen of such appli- 
cation may be found in Pliny’s letter to Trajan, with 
the emperor’s rescript, regarding the condnct which was 
to be observed towards the already numerous and rap- 
idly growing sect of Christians. The administration 
of justice, so far as it did not belong to the province it- 
self, was in the governor or lieutenants assembled in a 
conventus; an appeal lay from this court to the pro- 
consul, and from him to Ciesar. Criminal justice was 
wholly in the hands of the local governor, and extended 
not only over the provincials, but the Roman citizens as 
well : in important cases the governors applied for a de- 
cision to the emperor. The procurator sometimes had 
the power of life and death, as in the case of Pontius 
Pilate (Tacitus, Ann. xv, 44). See Province. 



The procurator of Judaea resided principally at Caesa- 
rea, and the military forces were generally stationed 
there (Josephus, Ant. xviii, 3, 1). During the Passover 
the troops were stationed at Jerusalem, in order to pre- 
vent any insurrection from the multitude of visitors at 
that festival (Acts xxi, 31; xxii, 24; xxiii, 23; Jose- 
phus, Ant. xx, 5, 3). The troops consisted of infantry 
and cavalry (Acts xxiii, 23), and were commanded by 
tribunes (^iXtdp^ot, ver. 17) and centurions (Ksvrvpiui- 
vtg, Mark xv, 39, 44, 45; iicaronrapxoi , Matt, viii, 5; 
xxvii, 54; Acts x, 1, 22). The former were at the head 
of the cohorts ((nrelpat), and the latter at the head of 
the centuria. of which two made a maniple. See Army. 
It was the duty of the soldiers to execute the sentence 
of death and to keep guard over the prisoners (Matt, 
xxvii, 27 sq. ; John xix, 23 sq.; comp. Acts xxii, 25), 
and the garments of those who were executed became 
their perquisite (John xix, 23). They also guarded the 
prisoners (Acts xxiii, 23; xxvii, 31). In Acts x, 1 men- 
tion is made of the Italian band at Caesarea. This was 
probably a cohort serving in Syria composed of natives 
of Italy, and called TraAuci) to distinguish it from those 


ROMAN EMPIRE 


91 


which consisted of troops raised in Syria (Josephus, Ant. | 
xiv, 15, 10; War , i, 17, 1), as we know from (iruter 
{Inscr. ececxxxiv, 1) that Italian cohorts were serving 
in Syria. The Stteijo?; 2e/3«<xr?; (Acts xxvii, 1) could 
not well be a cohors Augusta , for no legions were in 
Syria or Judaea bearing that title, nor could it be the 
band levied from Samaria (VA?; tTnrtojv KaXovpha] 2e- 
fiaffTTjvm', Josephus, Ant. xix, 9, 2; xx, G, 1 ; War, ii, 
12, 5). Wieseler suggests that it was the A ugustani 
mentioned by Tacitus {Ann. xiv, 15) and Suetonius 
(Aero, 20, 25). The first levying of this band by Au- 
gustus is recorded by Dion Cassius (xiv, 12). 

The provinces were heavily taxed for the benefit of 
Rome and her citizens. In old times the Roman reve- 
nues were raised mainly from three sources: 1, the do- 
main lands; 2, a direct tax (tributum) levied upon ev- 
ery citizen ; 3, from customs, tolls, harbor duties, ete. 
The agrarian law of Julius Ciesar is said to have extin- 
guished the first source of revenue (Cicero, Ad Att. ii, 
xvi ; Dureau de la Malle, ii, 430). Roman citizens had 
ceased to pay direct taxes sinee the conquest of Mace- 
donia, B.C. 167 (Cicero, De Off. ii, 22; Plutarch, JEmil. 
Paul. 38), exeept in extraordinary emergencies. The 
main part of the Roman revenue was now drawn from 
the provinces by a direct tax (f apaoQ, (popog, Matt, 
xxii, 17; Luke xx, 22), amounting probably to from 
five to seven per cent, on the estimated produce of the 
soil (Dureau de la Malle, ii, 418). The indirect taxes, 
too {rtXrj, vectigalia, Matt, xvii, 25 ; Dureau de la Malle, 
ii, 449), appear to have been very heavy (ibid, ii, 448, 
452). Augustus, on coming to the empire, found the 
regular sourees of revenue impaired, while his expenses 
must have been very great. To say nothing of the pay 
of the army, he is said to have supported no less than 
200,000 citizens in idleness by the miserable system of 
public gratuities. Hence the necessity of a eareful val- 
uation of the property of the whole empire, which ap- 
pears to have been made more than once in his reign. 
See Census. Augustus appears to have raised both the 
direct and indirect taxes (ibid, ii, 433, 448). 

The provinces are said to have been better governed 
under the empire than under the commonwealth, and 
those of the emperor better than those of the senate 
(Tacitus, Ann. i, 76; iv, 6; Dion, liii, 14). Two impor- 
tant changes .were introduced under the empire. The 
governors received a fixed pay, and the term of their 
command was prolonged (Josephus, Ant. xviii, 6, 5). 
But the old mode of levying taxes seems to have been 
continued. The companies who farmed the taxes, con- 
sisting generally of knights, paid a certain sum into 
the Roman treasury, and proceeded to wring what they 
could from the provincials, often with the eonnivance 
and support of the provincial governor. The work w r as 
done chiefly by underlings of the lowest class {porti- 
tores ). These are the publicans (q.v.) of the New Test. 

On the whole, it seems doubtful whether the wrongs 
of the provinces ean have been materially alleviated 
under the imperial government. It is not likely that 
such rulers as Caligula and Nero would be scrupulous 
about the means used for replenishing their treasury. 
The stories related even of the reign of Augustus show 
how slight were the cheeks on the tyranny of provincial 
governors. See the story of Lieinius in Gaul (Smith, 
Diet, of Gr. and Rom. Biog. s. v.), and that of the Dal- 
matian ehief (Dion, lv). The sufferings of Paul, pro- 
tected as he was, to a certain extent, by his Roman cit- 
izenship, show plainly how little a provincial had to 
hope from the justice of a Roman governor. 

Y. Roman Citizenship. — Seeing how great the privi- 
leges of a Roman citizen were, the eagerness with which 
it was sought, and the earnestness with which it was 
pleaded in case of any unjust treatment, is not to be 
wondered at. The freedom of Rome was often obtained 
by purchase for great sums (Aets xxii, 28), though at 
the time of Claudius it is said that it beeamc so cheap 
that it might be bought for a little broken glass (Dion 
Cass, lx, 17). A citizen under the republic could in 


ROMAN EMPIRE 

criminal cases, if he were so minded, appeal from the 
magistrates to the people, for without the acquiescence 
of the whole Roman people no man could be put to death 
(Cicero, Tusc. Quirst. 4, 1 ; In Yerr. 54, 57). At the 
commencement of the imperial period it was, however, 
necessary that the appeal should be made to the em- 
peror, -who had assumed the privilege of final adjudica- 
tion. It was thus that Paul, when being tried before 
Festus, “appealed unto Ciesar” (Acts xxv, 11; xxvi, 
32), fulfilling our Lord’s words that he should “bear 
witness also at Rome” (xxiii, 11 ; xxvii, 23; xxviii, 14, 
16, 17; 2 'Pirn, i, 17 ; iv, 17). The scourging of a Roman 
eitizen was contrary to the law, and Paul, by the asser- 
tion of his Roman citizenship, prevented Claudius Lysi- 
as from ordering him to be scourged (Aets xxii, 26-29; 
xxiii, 27). At an earlier period Paul and Silas had 
been scourged (xvi, 37), and two Roman laws thereby 
violated {Lex Valeria, B.C. 508; Lex Porcia, B.C. 300). 
They were also illegally treated, being “uneondemned” 
(Cicero, Yerr. i, 9; Tacitus, Hist, i, 6). See Sigonius. 
De Antiquo Jure Civ. Rom. (Paris, 1572); also in Gnevii 
Thesaurus, vol. i; Spanheim, Orbis Rom. (Loud. 1703); 
Cellarii Dissertatt. p. 715 sq.; Fabrieius, Bibliograpk. 
Antiq. p. 724 sq. See Citizenship. 

\\. Religious Toleration. — The treatment that the 
Jews received at the hands of the Romans was at times 
very moderate. Under Julius Cassar they were not for- 
bidden to live according to their customs even in Rome 
itself (Josephus, Ant. xiv, 10, 8;, and Augustus ordered 
that they should have full freedom of worship, hold 
their assemblies, and make gifts to their Temple; they 
w’ere even admitted with the citizens to a share in the 
largesses of corn (Philo, A d Cai. p. 1015; eomp. Horace, 
Sat. i, 9, 69) ; and when it fell upon the Sabbath day, 
Augustus allowed it to be put off to the next day. They 
were also exempted from military service on account of 
their religious prejudices (Josephus, Ant. xiv, 10, 11-19; 
xvi, 6; eomp. xix, 5, 3). Suetonius {Cces. 84) records 
that the Jew’s w r ere in great grief at the death of Au- 
gustus. Tiberius and Claudius banished them from 
Rome, the latter on account of tumults caused by a cer- 
tain Chrestns (Tacitus, Ann. ii, 85; Suetonius, Tib. 36; 
eomp. Josephus, Ant. xviii, 3, 5; Suetonius, Claud. 25; 
Aets xviii, 2); but the expulsion by Claudius is contra- 
dicted by Dion Cassius (lx, 6), and a few years after 
the Jew's were again at Rome in great numbers (Acts 
xxviii, 17 sq.). The interference of the Roman gov- 
ernment w’as confined to keeping peaee at the great fes- 
tivals at Jerusalem; for w'hich purpose a guard was 
stationed in the fortress of Antonia, overlooking the 
city (xxii, 24). The administration of religious cere- 
monies w’as committed to the high-priest and Sanhe- 
: drim ; civil and criminal jurisprudence was retained by 
them, and they w r ere allowed to pass the sentence of 
condemnation, but its execution depended upon the 
procurator (Josephus, Ant. xx, 9, 1 ; Mark xiv, 53-55, 
62-65). They were also permitted to infliet lesser 
punishments, especially for infractions of the Mosaic 
law r ; but the power of life and death was taken from 
them (John xviii, 31). (See Alford’s note on this pas- 
sage, and Biscoe On the Acts , p. 134-167.) The ston- 
ing of Stephen probably took place during a tumult, 
and not with the sanction of the procurator (Acts vii, 
28). Even beyond the borders of Palestine the Jews 
exercised among themselves the civil jurisdiction ac- 
cording to their laws. Josephus {Ant. xiv, 10, 17) giv< s 
a Roman decree to the city of Sardis sanctioning this 
privilege. 

The Romans could not remain masters of the country 
so long without leaving many traces of their occupa- 
tion : the Latin language became known, the imperial 
weights and measures as w’ell as modes of reckoning 
time were adopted, many Latinisms passed into common 
use (occasionally met with in the New Test.), and judi- 
cial proceedings w'erc conducted in that language. Yet 
Latin literature never exercised the same influence on 
the Jewish mind which the Greek philosoph}' did, of 


ROMAN EMPIRE 92 ROMAN EMPIRE, TIIE IIOLY 


which we have the most remarkable example in the 
Jewish school of Alexandria. Indeed, the Romans care- 
fully abstained from forcing their own language upon 
the inhabitants of the countries they conquered, though 
the strictness with which every oilicial act, even to the 
farthest limits of the empire, was carried out in the Ro- 
man language was never relaxed, but the edicts were 
generally translated into Greek (Josephus, Ant. xiv, 10, 
*2). The better -educated Romans undoubtedly spoke 
Greek. The inscription on the cross was written in 
Hebrew, Roman, and Greek (Luke xxiii, 38; John xix, 
20); the Hebrew lor the common people, the Latin, the 
oilicial language, and the Greek, that usually spoken 
(Alford, ad loc.). All the official inscriptions put up by 
the Romans were called tituli (comp. Suetonius, In Ca- 
lif). 34; In I)om. 10); and John (loc. cit.) uses the same 
expression (typaipe rirXor). 

The freedom of religious worship enjoyed by the na- 
tions subject to Rome was remarkably great, though 
foreign religions were not allowed to be introduced 
among the Romans (Livy xxxix, 16) ; and it is recorded 
by Dion Cassius (lii, 36) that Maecenas advised Augus- 
tus not to permit such innovations, as they would only 
tend to destroy the monarchy. This rule was strictly 
maintained by all his successors. Judaism was an ex- 
ception, though, as we have seen, the Jews were some- 
times expelled from Rome. 

VI I. The condition of the Roman empire at the time 
when Christianity appeared has often been dwelt upon, 
as affording obvious illustrations of Paul’s expression 
that the “ fulness of time had come” (Gal. iv, 4). The 
general peace within the limits of the empire, the for- 
mation of military roads, the suppression of piracy, the 
march of the legions, the voyages of the corn-fleets, the 
general increase of traffic, the spread of the Latin lan- 
guage in the West as Greek had already spread in the 
Kast, the external unity of the empire, offered facilities 
hitherto unknown for the spread of a world-wide relig- 
ion. The tendency, too, of a despotism like that of the 
Roman empire to reduce all its subjects to a dead level 
was a powerful instrument in breaking down the pride 
of privileged races and national religions, and familiar- 
izing men with the truth that “God hath made of one 
blood all nations on the face of the earth” (Acts xvii, 
24, 26). Rut still more striking than this outward 
preparation for the diffusion of the Gospel was the ap- 
pearance of a deep and wide-spread corruption which 
seemed to defy any human remedy. It would be easy 
to accumulate proofs of the moral and political degra- 
dation of the Romans under the empire. It is needless 
to do more than allude to the corruption, the cruelty, 
the sensuality, the monstrous and unnatural wickedness 
of the period as revealed in the. heathen historians and 
satirists. “Viewed as a national or political history,” 
says the great historian of Rome, “the history of the 
Roman empire is sad and discouraging in the last de- 
gree. We see that things hail come to a point at which 
no earthly power could afford any help; we now have 
the development of dead powers instead of that of a vi- 
tal energy” (Niebuhr, Led. v, 194). Notwithstanding 
the outward appearance of peace, unity, and reviving 
prosperity, the general condition of the people must 
have been one of great misery. To say nothing of the 
fact that probably one half of the population consisted 
of slaves, the great inequality of wealth at a time when 
a whole province could be owned by six landowners, 
the absence of any middle class, the utter want of any 
institutions for alleviating distress, such as arc found in 
all Christian countries, the inhuman tone of feeling and 
practice generally prevailing, forbid us to think favora- 
bly of the happiness of the world in the famous Augus- 
tan age. We must remember that “there were no pub- 
lic hospitals, no institutions for the relief of the infirm 
and poor, no societies for the improvement of the con- 
dition of mankind from motives of charity. Nothing 
was done to promote the instruction of the lower classes, 
nothing to mitigate the miseries of domestic slavery. 


Charity and general philanthropy were so little regarded 
as duties that it requires a very extensive acquaintance 
with the literature of the times to find any allusion to 
them” (Arnold, Later Roman Commonwealth, ii, 398). 
If we add to this that there was probably not a single 
religion, except the Jewish, which was felt by the more 
enlightened part of its professors to be real, we may 
form some notion of the world which Christianity had 
to reform and purify. 

Notwithstanding the attempts of Augustus to stop all 
tendencies to corruption by punishing immorality, it 
was chiefly immorality that undermined the empire. 
With a high civilization, a flourishing commerce, and 
general outward refinement was associated a terrible 
depravity of morals. Yet the prosperous state of the 
empire was confessed by the provinces as well as the 
Romans. “ They acknowledged that the true principles 
of social life, laws, agriculture, and science, which had 
been first invented by the wisdom of Athens, were now 
firmly established by the power of Rome, under whose 
auspicious influence the fiercest barbarians were united 
by an equal government and common language” (Gib- 
bon, cli. ii). The cruelties and exactions of the provin- 
cial magistrates were suppressed by Augustus and Ti- 
berius (Tacitus, Ann. iv, 6). Roads were constructed 
and commerce increased, but all of no avail. Society 
would not be reformed, and Paul draws a striking pict- 
ure of the corruption of the age (Rom. i, 14-23). But 
the spirit of Christianity was floating in the atmosphere, 
and “ the wisdom of providence was preparing a knowl- 
edge which struck root as deeply as the literature of 
the Augustan age had been scattered superficially”* (Ar- 
nold, loc. cit.). 

The Roman empire terminated with the anarchy 
which followed the murder of Justinian II, the last sov- 
ereign of the family of Ileraclius; and Leo III, or the 
Isaurian, must be ranked as the first Byzantine monarch 
(Finlay, Greece under the Romans , p. 433). 

The chief prophetic notices of the Roman empire are 
found in the book of Daniel, especially in xi, 30-40, and 
in ii, 40; vii, 7, 17-19, according to the common inter- 
pretation of the “fourth kingdom” (comp. 2 Esdr. xi, 1). 
See Daniel. According to some interpreters the Ro- 
mans are intended in Deut. xxviii, 49-57. For the 
mystical notices of Rome in the Revelation, comp. Rome, 

On the general subject of this article, consult Eschen- 
berg, Classical Manual , § “ Roman Antiquities” (Lond. 
1844); Ruperti, llandbuch der romisch. Alterthiimer 
(Hanover, 1841, 2 vols. 8vo); Maillott and Martin, Re - 
cherches sur les Costutnes , les Moeurs, etc., des Anciens 
Peuples. See also Unger, Sitten und Gebrduche der 
Romer (Vienna, 1805) ; Arnold,//*^, of Rome. Much 
information may be found by the English reader on the 
state of manners in the first centuries after Christ in the 
following fictions: Lockhart, Valerius; Eulwer, Pom - 
peii; Ware, Palmyra; and in Milrnan, Ilist. of Latin 
Christianity . But especially consult Merivale, Hist, of 
the Roman Empire (Lond. 1864, 8vo). 

ROMAN EMPIRE, The Holy, is the designation 
familiarly given to the mediaeval and modern Roman 
Empire of the West, and especially to that empire after 
the imperial sceptre had passed into the hands of Ger- 
man sovereigns. For a whole millennium — from the 
coronation of Charlemagne to the abdication of Francis 
of Austria — the Roman empire occupied in Western 
Europe the first place, in dignity and prestige, of all 
secular governments. Though its actual power had 
continually fluctuated, and its influence on the affairs 
of the world had rapidly waned after the retirement of 
Charles V, it remained an imposing memorial of ancient 
grandeur and dominion, and was honored as a “clarnm 
et venerabile liomen.” “Heir of the universal sway of 
Rome, the holder of it claimed to be the suzerain of all 
earthly kings. First and oldest of European dignities, 
its very name had a sound of dignity.” 

Passing over the widely extended and thoroughly 
organized empire of Charlemagne, and the rapid decay 


ROMAN EMPIRE, THE HOLY 93 ROMAN EMPIRE. TIIE HOLY 


of eminence and power, under his successors of the Car- 
Iovingian line, and confining attention to the Germanic 
dynasties, the Holy Roman Empire maintained a lofty 
and potent ascendency over all kings and temporal rul- 
ers in the West for three centuries, extending from the 
first Otho, the Great, to the death of that “stupor mundi,” 
the dazzling, energetic, and lordly Frederick II. Dur- 
ing this long and agitated period, the empire and the 
papacy marched abreast in constant discord and furious 
contention; the one acknowledged to be supreme in the 
secular order, the other reverenced as supreme in the 
spiritual order. The rivalries, the jealousies, the ani- 
mosities, the virulent antagonisms, of these transcendent 
sovereignties — each endeavoring to secure its own posi- 
tion and predominancy by the depression of the other — 
filled the centuries with strife, with acrimonies, and with 
perplexities worse than the bloody warfare which they 
engendered. For one brief interval in the subsequent 
ages, after long and dreary eclipse, the Holy Roman 
Empire, under an emperor of the house of llapsburg, 
threatened to regain a more arrogant control, a vaster 
domain, a more solitary domination, than it had pos- 
sessed under the first Ciesars or had claimed under the 
first Constantine. lint Charles V, the most powerful of 
emperors since Charlemagne, was the last of emperors 
crowned in Italy. He was frustrated of the dreams 
that had been nursed for him by both his grandfathers, 
and that had been eagerly cherished by himself through- 
out a long and busy reign. His energies were engross- 
ed and wasted, his enormous resources consumed, and 
his authority paralyzed by discords in his numerous 
scattered kingdoms and principalities, and by the divi- 
sions and civil wars produced by the Protestant Refor- 
mation, and favoring its extension. Worn out and baf- 
fled, he renounced his thrones in despair. He retired — 
shattered in health, in spirit, and in confidence, to fritter 
away the last months of a grand existence — amid the 
lovely scenery around the monastery of J uste. Thence- 
forward the empire continued to wane and shrivel up, 
till finally extinguished by the conquests and confeder- 
ations of the emperor Napoleon. 

An institution of such long duration, of such splendid 
pretensions, of such intimate association with the eccle- 
siastical system of Christendom, of such profound influ- 
ence upon both the temporal and the spiritual fortunes 
of humanity — an institution which transmitted the con- 
summate result of all ancient civilization almost to our 
own day — merits careful appreciation, and requires it 
the more urgently because its name has already ceased 
to he familiar, and because its fortunes and vicissitudes 
are often slighted as the vanished “phantoms of forgot- 
ten rule.” 

I. Origin of the Name . — The name of The Holy Ro- 
man Empire cannot be distinctly traced in either its 
origin or its application. It is obscurely involved in 
the institution of the empire throughout all the phases 
of its existence. It may readily be discerned in pagan 
Rome. It is implied in the constitution of the reanimat- 
ed Empire of the West. In more modern times it fre- 
quently appears in treaties and imperial documents, in 
diplomatic papers, and in the official transactions of the 
imperial chancery, llut it was never of obligatory or 
habitual employment. It does not occur in the Act of 
Abdication of Francis I in 1800, nor in the earlier Prag- 
matic. which paved the way for the abdication and pre- 
scribed his official titles as emperor elect. It has not 
been found in any of the numerous chronicles, specially 
examined for the present inquiry, which record the cor- 
onations from Charlemagne to Rodolph of llapsburg. 
It has not been detected by us in the capitularies and 
edicts, nor in the Libri Fevdornm. There is nothing 
on the subject in Pfeffel’s A brege Chronologiqve , not- 
withstanding the well-merited commendations bestow- 
ed by Gibbon upon that painstaking and useful treatise. 
There is no explanation in Muratori nor in Gibbon. It 
would be vain, of course, to expect the solution of any 
real difficulty from The Middle Ages of the superficial 


and blundering ITallam. It is strange, however, that 
no elucidation of its origin and use is given by Bryce in 
his work specifically entitled The Holy Roman Empire, 
All these European writers had ready access to authen- 
tic sources of information which are usually beyond the 
reach of inquirers in America. 

The interpretation of the name is not far to seek, 
though a long, elaborate, and dubious research would 
be required to determine the times, conditions, and cir- 
cumstances of its ordinary employment, if there ever was 
any fixed ride on the subject. The city of Rome and the 
imperium Romanian were always regarded as sacrosanct, 
even under the republic. The argumentation of Augus- 
tine, in his memorable treatise Zte Cidtate Dei, revolves 
mainly upon the pagan allegation of the intimate de- 
pendence of Rome on the guidance of her gods. Under 
the empire, the city was fervently adored as diva Roma , 
urbs divina , and the sacred fire was kept ever burning 
in her honor. Such a perpetual fire was maintained in 
the imperial palace. Julius Ciesar was Pontifex Maxi- 
mus, holding the holiest of offices at the time of his as- 
sassination, and had been chief of the religion many 
years previously. On his murder, he was deified, and 
became Dims Jn lilts. On the death of Lepidus, Augus- 
tus united the office of Pontifex Maximus to his other 
titles. He, too, was deified. Subsequent emperors re- 
tained the pontificate, and many were worshipped as 
Did while still alive. The pontificate was held even 
by Christian princes; and the epithet “sacred” was ap- 
plied in both the Latin and the Greek vocabulary of 
the court to their persons, their families, their functions, 
their ministers, and all their surroundings. This prac- 
tice was not weakened by the establishment of Chris- 
tianity as the religion of the state. Comes saeri cubi- 
culi, sued fisci, sacrurum largitionnm, saeri palatii, etc., 
were regular offices under the constitution of Constan- 
tine. We find even “the sacred inkstand” and “the 
sacred ink.” It should be remembered, too, that the 
“tribunieia potestas,” which was one of the principal 
constituents of imperial authority, had always been “sa- 
crosanct” (Liv. IV, iii, 6, et Not. Var. ad xxvii, xxxviii, 
8, ed. Drakenborch). The organization and ceremonial 
of the old Roman empire were habitually adopted or 
travestied by the barbarian kingdoms (see Cassiodor. 
Epp. For.) before they were repeated by the Western 
emperors. In the attestation of the A eta de Pace Con - 
stantiee , 1183, of Frederick Barbarossa, the notary signs 
himself, “ Ego Odelinus, saeri palatii notarius,” in exact 
correspondence with the language of Justinian in the 
confirmation of the code: “Vir gloriosissimus, qiuvstor 
saeri palatii nostri. . . .” Hence it is not surprising to 
find in the West, as in the East, the phrase “sanctus Im- 
perator,” though it does not become one of the formal 
titles. 

When Charlemagne received the imperial crown at 
Rome on Christmas-dav, 800, he received it with all the 
attributes of the imperial sovereignty of Rome. The 
sanctity of the office, derived from the several confluent 
tendencies which have been specified, was not the least 
marked of these attributes. This sanctity was further 
heightened by the circumstances and the purposes of 
his appointment, and by the relations of himself and his 
family to the orthodox Christianity of the West. One 
of his highest duties and honors was to be the “advo- 
catus ecelesia?,” the protector of the pope against domes- 
tic and foreign enemies — the temporal sovereign of the 
Christian faith and of Christendom. He was solemnly 
anointed. It is stated by a late chronicler that he was 
hailed, in the acclamations of the people, as “ a Deo coro- 
nato.” So Justinian had declared: “Dcoauctore nostrum 
gubernante imperium” ( De Coneejit. Dig. § 1). When 
Otho I was crowned in 9t>2, the pope conveyed the dig- 
nity “benedictione et consecratione.” It is a mistake to 
suppose that when Charles merged the patriciate in the 
empire, he took merely a title of higher dignity. It is 
an equal mistake to suppose that he only revived or re- 
newed the long-dormant Empire of the West. lie was 


ROMAN EMPIRE, THE HOLY 94 KOREAN EMPIRE, THE HOLY 


crowned sole emperor of the Roman world at the time 
of a supposed vacancy of the imperial throne, which had 
always been deemed elective, and of exclusively mascu- 
line tenure: “Quia niulier exccecato imperatore Con- 
stantino tilio suo imperabat” (Sigcbert Gemblacensis, 
ad ami. ; comp. Palgrave, English Commonwealth , p. 489- 
493. who long preceded Fustel de Coulanges \_Rtv. dts 
Deux A/ondes , Jan. 1, 1870]). 

The expediency, the propriety, or the necessity of 
this transference of the empire from the East to the 
West, though in three years restricted to the revival of 
the Western Empire, sufficed for the resurrection of the 
latter empire and for the distinct constitution of the 
Christendom ( Christi dominium ) of Western Europe. 
The epithet of “holy” does not seem to have been at- 
tached formally to either empire at this time, though 
probably in use. The title of the emperor, in the West 
as in the East, continued to be “lmperator Komanus, 
semper Augustus.” But. the idea of sanctity under the 
setting, as under the rising, sun seems to have been ever 
present to the minds of men. Hence the designation 
“lmperator sanctus” is found in the Edict of Verona, 
Oct. 29, 9G7, of Otho I, Imp.; and his son Otho 11, 
Ilex (Rertz, Mon. Hist. Germ, iv, 33). It was not until 
after the thorough feudalization of the empire under 
the Germanic successors of the Carlovingians, and the 
bitter conflicts and inveterate rivalries of emperors and 
popes, that the sanctity of the empire needed to be prom- 
inently asserted as the counterpart, and counterpoise of 
the sanctity of the papal throne. But pagan and Chris- 
tian, Eastern and Western, habits and associations had 
combined to invest emperor and empire with an air of 
recognised holiness. These influences and tendencies 
were preserved and augmented by the circumstances 
attendant on Charlemagne’s coronation, and were in- 
creased by the ideal character which the empire sub- 
sequently assumed. 

II. Theory of the Holy Roman Empire. — There would 
be manifest impropriety in entering here into the con- 
sideration of the constitution or the history of the sec- 
ond Western empire. But the theory of the empire, its 
great contention with the papacy, and the grave conse- 
quences thence resulting to the ecclesiastical and relig- 
ious fortunes of Europe are apposite, and even indis- 
pensable, to the present Cyclopcedia. The notices, how- 
ever, must inevitably be both brief and jejune. 

The significance of great historical events and insti- 
tutions does not reveal itself till they have passed away 
or declined. It must be gathered by retrospection from 
the consequences — not expected from contemporaneous 
appreciation. Charlemagne was constituted emperor 
by the implied election of the Roman people, and by the 
consecration of the pope, as the ruler of the Christian 
world; as the official defender of the Church; as the 
upholder of orthodox Christianity against heresy and 
schism ; as the champion of the faith and of the faithful 
against the infidel and the barbarian; as the patron, 
promoter, and guardian of missionary enterprise for the 
.conversion of the heathen. In this character he was 
not merely the first among temporal princes, but su- 
preme over them all. lie was clothed with a religious 
character in order to act as the carnal instrument of the 
spiritual and ecclesiastical authority. He was chief of 
Christendom to preserve the Christian society from in- 
testine disorders and external perils. lie was head of 
the temporal order, but with distinct spiritual attribu- 
tions. The pope was head of the spiritual order, but 
with some temporal jurisdiction, by the grant of Pepin 
and the confirmation of Charlemagne. Each, in his 
sphere, was the vicegerent of Heaven for the govern- 
ment and guidance of the world. This is very cogently 
presented bv Bryce: “Thus does the emperor answer 
in every point to his antitype, the pope, his power be- 
ing yet of a lower rank, created on the analogy of the 
papal, as the papal itself had been modelled after the 
empire. The parallel holds good even in its details; 
for just as w r e have seen the churchman assuming the 


erowm and robes of the secular prince, so now did he ar- 
ray the emperor in his own ecclesiastical vestments — 
the stole and the dalmatic; gave him a clerical as well 
as a sacred character; removed his office from all nar- 
row' associations of birth and country; inaugurated him 
by rites, every one of wdiich w r as meant to symbolize 
and enjoin duties in their essence religious” (JThe Holy 
Roman Empire , vii, 106-1 16). 

It must, indeed, have been very evident, or must have 
been recognised by an instinct more profound than evi- 
dence, that the preservation of civilization ; the protec- 
tion of society against Saracen, Saxon, etc.; the perpet- 
uation of Christian faith; the maintenance of religious 
order and civil discipline, of morality and culture among 
the nations, of unity in the brotherhood of faith, of tran- 
quillity throughout the Christian realm — required, amid 
the still rampant paganism and the internal and exter- 
nal dangers of the time, that there should be consolida- 
tion of Christian government ; that there should also be 
union between the temporal and spiritual authorities; 
and that agreement and harmony should prevail between 
the two orders of rule. This w r as exemplified by the 
coronation of the emperor in Rome by the pope, by 
the assent of the emperor to the election of the pope. 
It is equally evident that these tw T o powers — each in 
some sort supreme, yet each, also, in some sort subordi- 
nate to the other — would decline into jealousies and dis- 
cords and furious antagonisms wffien the great dangers 
which enforced their union had been mitigated or re- 
moved, and w hen causes of difference, which w f ere sure 
to arise, should eventually arise. 

The splendid dreams of humanity are visions of the 
night which are dissipated by the realities of the day. 
It was a magnificent, but never realized, conception that 
as there should be “one Lord, one faith, one baptism,” 
so there should be a single Christendom, with one ad- 
ministrator of spiritual interests and one governor of 
temporal society, that all nations might be one realm of 
Christianity and all Christians might be secured by the 
combined might of all, under the guidance and disposi- 
tion of one secular control. It was a brilliant dream. 
It has left but the cloud behind. It may afford a hope 
or a promise of accomplishment in very dissimilar form 
in future centuries. For brief periods there w r as a re- 
mote approximation to its achievement. For long pe- 
riods it was frustrated and often, perhaps, forgotten 
(“ breves et infaustos populi Romani amores”). 

111. Relations of the “ Holy Roman Empire ” to the 
11 Holy Roman Church .” — The Holy Roman Empire 
lasted for more than a thousand years. Its eminence 
and its relations to the papacy changed variously and 
greatly during this long lapse of time. Pfeffel,who is 
occupied with the history of Germany rather than with 
that of the empire, divides the former into nine periods, 
beginning w’ith Sigovesus A.D. 600, and ending with 
the extinction of the male line of Hapsburg in 1740. 
Six of these periods must be left unnoticed for various 
reasons, which there is not room to state. The fourth, 
or Carlovingian, period has, indeed, been considered more 
fully than our space would justify. The great struggle 
between the emperor and the pope took place during 
the filth, sixth, and seventh periods, under the Saxon, 
Franconian, and Suabian houses (962-1254); and from 
this struggle issued the religious and political complica- 
tions of modern Europe and of the modern world. To 
these periods, then, attention will have to be confined, 
and to them it can be but inadequately directed. 

When Otho I w r as crowmed at Rome in 962, he was in 
a position which permitted, and almost necessitated, the 
revival of the imperial pretensions, which had long been 
dormant, while that supreme dignity was squabbled 
over by Burgundian or other princes. There w r as 
occasion for the coercion of a strong hand, external to 
Rome and free from papal affiliations. For three quar- 
ters of a century the papacy had been the spoil of fac- 
tions, and had been held by the nominees, tools, or sci- 
ons of turbulent nobles and depraved women. It was 


ROMAN EMPIRE, THE IIOLY 95 ROMAN EMPIRE, THE HOLY 


the age of Alberic and Marozia. and of that late fiction 
papissa Joanna. The interposition of some foreign con- 
trol was imperatively required. The treachery of John 
VIII necessitated the assumption by Otho of the right 
to regulate papal elections, and the imposition of an oath 
upon the cardinals and the ltoman people to admit the 
imperial supremacy. This was manifestly a usurpation 
by the secular authority, but the state of affairs demand- 
ed it. Naturally, as good order increased in the Church 
aud the sense of spiritual duties and responsibilities re- 
vived, this subordination was impatiently borne; and a 
steady effort, ultimately successful under Gregory VI I, 
was made to render the Church independent of the em- 
pire, and superior to it in dignity as in sanctity. Here, 
then, was a wager of battle, not likely to be forgotten or 
neglected by either party, which led to the humiliation 
of Henry IV at Canossa, and to the exile of Gregory VII. 

While Henry was yet a child, and after Hildebrand 
had acquired predominance in the Homan curia, though 
not yet pope, Alexander II had been induced to issue a 
decree against the lay investiture of clerical benefici- 
aries. The decree was renewed by Hildebrand as pope, 
and became the chief ground of controversy with the 
empire after Gregory’s death. The quarrel was not 
closed in Germany till the Diet of Worms in 1122, and in 
England till after the assassination of Thomas a Beeket. 
It broke out afresh between Germany and the pope, but 
was merged in other contentious. The principles in- 
volved in the question merited the zeal and energy dis- 
played on either side, but did not justify the spiritual or 
secular pretensions advanced or the procedures employ- 
ed. Ambition, jealousy, and passion soon dominated 
over the war of parties. 

The question, simply stated, was whether the Church 
or the empire — the ecclesiastical or the secular authori- 
ty — should have the right of conferring ecclesiastical 
benefices. It would require an extended exposition of 
the political, social, and religious constitution of those 
times to furnish any satisfactory exhibition of the sig- 
nificance anil bearings of this dispute. Such knowledge 
must be sought in the pontifical and imperial histories; 
the leading topics alone can be indicated here. The 
feudal system was in full vigor. Even the Church was 
feudalized. Society was moulded into a regular hie- 
rarchy of gradations from the low est vassal to emperor 
and pope. The political and the ecclesiastical organiza- 
tions were arranged on parallel lines. The political and 
the social system would be broken and rendered impo- 
tent by permitting the interference of an extrinsic pow- 
er, in the bestowal of dignities, honors, and commands. 
If these were conferred bv the pope or by his deputies, 
the occupants would be withdrawn from their allegiance 
to their temporal head and from their obligations to the 
State. But the experience of the age proved that if 
these appointments w r ere received from the empire or 
secular government, they would be granted and sought 
for worldly motives and selfish considerations; would be 
lavished upon feudal nobles and their relatives; would 
be used for private feuds and temporal purposes; and 
would be severed from the due services of religion. 
Archbishoprics and bishoprics, abbacies and eanonries, 
with their rich domains, would be grasped by warlike, 
rapacious, corrupt, and truculent barons w ho would scorn 
their religious vocation and the cure of souls. This is 
proved by the aspect of the Church in every country, 
and even in Rome, under the later Carlovingians and the 
earlier Germanic emperors. Neither of the co-ordinate 
] towers could yield the point in issue without grave peril 
to itself and graver peril to society. The basis of set- 
tlement, which afforded a temporary or apparent solu- 
tion of the problem, was very plausible, but could not 
be satisfactory in practice to either contestant. The 
settlement w r as that ecclesiastical dignities and offices 
should be conferred by the Church by delivery of the 
ring and crosier, and that the temporalities attached 
thereto should be bestow'ed by the sovereign per seep - 
trum . That this arrangement coulu not secure peace 


is demonstrated by the quarrel between Henry II and 
Thomas :i Becket. 

The vast importance of the dispute will appear more 
manifest if it be presented in its most abstract form: 
Should the clergy be dependent upon the State? in the 
condition of society at that time — still semi-pagan and 
more than semi-barbarous— morality, religion, civiliza- 
tion, and Christianity would have been ruined by being 
sacrificed to the worldly appetencies of princes and sub- 
jects; the reign ol violence and blood would have been 
unchecked; the heathen invaders of the empire bad 
been with patient ellbrt brought into subjection to a 
higher law than force; the work of centuries would 
have been undone by the subjugation of the spiritual 
authority which alone enforced moral restraints. Should 
Church dignitaries be released from all subordination to 
the State and depend solely upon the head of the 
Church? I hen would ensue chronic discord between 
the supreme regulators of society; utter impotence of 
the secular authority for the protection of the nations 
or for the maintenance of order; the. most unrestrained 
license in the high places of the Church; neglect of 
Christian sentiment, precepts, duties; luxury, sensuali- 
ty, and rottenness; with arrogant tyranny over thought 
and feeling on the part of the ruling caste; and with 
the abject servility of superstition and ignorance on the 
part of the laity, who would be lewd in every sense of 
the word. The question, in its ultimate tendency, was 
whether Christendom should be subjected to the tyran- 
ny of the sword or to the tyranny of the crosier. This 
w T as the dilemma. Its character is illustrated by the 
whole history of Europe from the 9th century to the 
15th. See Investitures. 

The war between the two supreme powers w r as inev- 
itable; it w’as even necessary. The question could not 
be settled without war; it could not be settled by war; 
but the bitter and long-continued contention prevented 
either power from becoming absolute, and finally para- 
lyzed both. The conflict about investitures broke out 
afresh, as has been said, but soon ehanged its form. 
Under the Suabian emperors it was complicated with 
the resistance of the Lombard League to the empire; 
still later, with the effort of the popes to exclude the 
imperial supremacy from Italy, or, at least, to restrict it 
to the valley of the Bo. Hence sprang the savage strife 
of Guelphs and Ghibellines, which extended its perni- 
cious influence beyond the period i f the Renaissance. 
But the second act of the great drama ended with the 
Council of Lyons in 1245, and with the death of Freder- 
ick II in 1250, leaving the papacy ostensibly possessed 
of resistless dominion, the empire crushed, shattered, 
mangled; introducing, at the same time, chronic w r ars 
into Italy, and anarchy and divisions into Germany, 
from which that great country has not yet recovered. 
Into the instructive details of these mighty and ominous 
transactions there is no time to enter. A few words on 
the effects of the struggle must terminate these sum- 
mary and inadequate remarks. 

IV. Consequences of the Strife between the Church and 
the Empire. — The disastrous issues of this unseemly con- 
tention w’ere immediate, continuous, and progressive. 
None but the most prominent can be specified now, and 
they must be noted without being discussed. The dead- 
ly duel was ruinous to both combatants. It weakened 
fatally both the papacy and the empire; but it prevent- 
ed the permanent predominance of either. It frustrated 
any harmonious agreement for the joint direction of the 
growing Christian community. It precluded the estab- 
lishment of wholesome reciprocal restraint over the spir- 
itual and the temporal authority. The imperial su- 
premacy over the nations ceased to be anything more 
than a hollow pretence. The imperial control even 
over the Germanic principalities and municipalities was 
almost annihilated. There was neither unity nor union. 
The capacity of the empire to shield Christendom from 
attack w*as sacrificed. The proof of this was given by 
the great Mongol invasion, by the Ottoman couquest of 


ROMANESE VERSION 


ROMAN EMPIRE, THE HOLY 96 


Constantinople, by the fearful ravage and encroachment 
of the Turkish sultans. Germany was thrown into 
chronic convulsions and feudal anarchy till the acces- 
sion of Rodolph of llapsburg. These discords, which 
consumed the strength and divided the energies of the 
country, descended to the held of Sadowa. They have 
not been buried by the coronation at Versailles. Italy 
was lacerated and corroded by unceasing wars, under Iio- 
henstauffen, Angevin, Arragonese, and Bourbon prinees. 
City was arrayed against city, family against family, 
kinsman against kinsman. Lawlessness, rapine, mur- 
der, treachery, and the licentious usurpations and tyran- 
nies of chiefs of Condottieri were domesticated through- 
out the beautiful peninsula. 

The Church, though triumphant, was more disastrous- 
ly injured: it was smitten in the house of its friends. 
There was a separate life in the bruised and dissevered 
members of the imperial system. They might recom- 
bine in altered relations, or be refashioned as distinct 
entities. Such change was incompatible with ecclesi- 
astical unity or pontifical supremacy. 

The papacy seemed to have asserted and assured its 
absolute dominion at the Council of Lyons. It was de- 
luded. It lost, with the excommunication and death 
of its imperial opponent, prestige, influence, and respect. 
It fell into imbecility and corruption. The flight of 
Innocent IV from Rome was the prelude to the Baby- 
lonish captivity, and to the French pontificate at Avi- 
gnon. This, again, generated the Great Schism, with 
the consequent alienation of the nations, especially of 
England and Germany, which had little share in the 
ecclesiastical spoils. As early as 1 137, the emperor Lo- 
thaire II had overawed pope Innocent II by declaring 
that in case of the pope’s continued opposition, “Impe- 
ritim ab illo die et deinceps scissura a pontificio omnibus 
modis scireL” Twenty-four years afterwards — at the 
Council of Toulouse, held to decide between Alexander 
III and the anti-pope Victor — a party, favorable to nei- 
ther, boldly proposed to “ avail themselves of the present 
opportunity to shake off the yoke of the Roman Church.” 
The great councils of the 15th century — Pisa, Constance, 
Basle, Ferrara, Florence — still further undermined the 
pontifical supremacy; and the last resulted in the final 
severance of the Greek and Latin churches, which ren- 
dered ecclesiastical unity impossible; and in the over- 
throw of Constantinople and the Byzantine empire. 

.During the two centuries of imperial impotence, ava- 
rice, vice, crime, tyranny, extortion, sensuality, had per- 
meated the ecclesiastical hierarchy in all lands, render- 
ing certain and necessary the religious reformation so 
often demanded, so earnestly required b} r the Council 
of Constance, so hopelessly sought within the pontifical 
fold. 

The great revolutions of society are never due to a 
single cause, nor to a brief catalogue of causes. Many 
tendencies combine, in most complex and shifting modes, 
to determine the result; yet, certainly, the conflict be- 
tween the Holy Roman Empire and the Holy Roman 
Church contributed most potently to the disintegration 
of both, to the dissipation of the wondrous mediaeval 
dream, and to the religious and political constitution 
of our modern civilization. 

V. Literature. — It would be absurd to present any 
apparatus bibliographicus for a subject such as The 
Holy Roman Empire, the literature of which embraces 
all the chronieles, all the secular and ecclesiastical his- 
torians. all the scholastic and diplomatic documents rel- 
ative to the constitution and relation of Church and 
.State for many centuries. It may suffice to mention 
some of the lighter and more accessible treatises which 
discuss important parts of the subject: Pfeffel, A brege 
Chronohf/ique tie VlUstoire et tin Droit Public tV A llc- 
may ne (Paris, 1776, 2 vols. 4to); Putter, I) issertationes 
de Install ratione Rom. Imperii; Butler, Notes on the 
Chief Rerolutions of the States composing the Empire of 
Charlemagne (Loud. 1807, 8vo) ; Lehneron, Inst. Merov. 
et Carlovinyiennes (Paris, 1843, 2 vols.); Milman, Hist. 


Latin Christianity; Greenwood, Cathedra Petri; Bryce, 
The Holy Roman Empire (4th ed. Loud. 1873) ; Waitz, 
Deutsche Kaiser von Karl dem Grossen, etc. ; Dbllinger, 
Das Kaisertkum Kitrht des Grossen , etc.; Holler, 
Kaiserthnm und Papstthum; Moser , Romische Kayser . 
(G. F. II.) 

Roman Manner, the custom of building church- 
es of stone, spoken of in 675, when Benedict Biscop, ab- 
bot of Wearmouth, went to France to engage masons. 
It was about the same time called the Galilean mode . — 
Walcott, Sac. A rchceol. s. v. 

Romanelli, Giovanni Francesco, a painter of the 
Roman school, was born at Viterbo in 1617. Ilis first 
master was Domenichino,but his style was chiefly gained 
from Pietro di Cortona, under whom he afterwards stud- 
ied, Later he adopted a maimer more his own and less 
imposing, but more soft and pleasant. It is in this 
style that his best works are executed, as The Descent 
from the Cross in St. Ambrose’s at Rome. Romanelli 
was employed by cardinal Barberini in the decoration 
of his palace, and also by Mazarin. He died in 1663. 
His works are very uumerons in Rome, and are all on 
religious or mythological subjects. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. 
Generate , s. v. 

Romanes, Francis, a convert from Romanism, was 
a native of Spain, but afterwards became a resident of 
Bremen, where he transacted business for Antwerp mer- 
chants. When convinced of the errors of papacy, he re- 
signed his agency, informed his employers of the change 
in his religious belief, and devoted himself to the service 
of religion. While in Spain laboring for the conversion 
of his parents, he was informed against hv his former 
employers, arrested, and after imprisonment was burned. 
In this torture, as long as he was able to speak, he con- 
tinued to repeat the 7 th Psalm. See Fox, Book of M ar - 
tyrs. 

Romanese (Romonsch, or Upper and Lower 
Engaiiink) Version of the Scriptures. This ver- 
sion is used in the Grisons, anciently a part of Rluetia, 
and constituting the south-eastern angle of Switzerland. 
The mountainous parts of this canton are inhabited by 
t lie little Romanese nation. The Engadine, or valley 
of the Inn, on the borders of the Tyrol, is inhabited by 
a section of this people, to whom a Romanese dialect 
called Clinrwelsche is the vernacular. The other Ro- 
manese dialect is called Ladiniche, and is spoken in the 
valley of the Rhine, on the confines of Italy. Both these 
dialects being derived from the Latin tongue, they pre- 
serve to this day the most striking characteristics of the 
Romance languages. The New Testament was printed 
in the former of these dialects in 1560 in the translation 
of Jacob Biffrnn, and the whole Bible in 1679, prepared 
by Jac. Ant. Vulpio and others. In the latter, the Bible 
was published in 1718 under the title La S. Bibla quel 
ei: Tut la Soinchia Scarf ira, ner tuts its Cudischs d' ilg 
Vetler a Nief Testament, cum ils Cudischs A pocryphs 
Messa gin Ent ilg Languaig Rumonsch da la Ligia 
Grischa Tras Anschins su indents d' ilg Plaid da Deus 
d ’ ils renerands Colloquis sua-a sut il Guault. cum Pnn- 
legio (illustrissimonim I). D. Rhadorum. Asquitschada 
en Coira tras Andrea Pfeifer, stampadur, En ilg On da 
Christi MDCCXV1II, fol. Coire, 1718). These editions, 
including an earlier one, by J. Gritti, of 1640, were all 
printed in the Grisons; but they were soon exhausted, 
and at the beginning of the present century a copy was 
scarcely attainable. A company of Christians at Basle, 
therefore, projected an edition for the use of these moun- 
taineers, and under the auspices of the Basle Bible So- 
ciety, and with the aid of the British and Foreign Bible 
Society, the New Testament in Churwelsehe left the 
press in 1810. But when the poor Ladins heard what 
a treasure their neighbors on the Tyrolese frontier had 
got, they expressed a very strong desire to have the 
same in their dialect. The Bible societies of London 
and Basle promptly consented to grant them this boon, 
and in 1812 an edition of two thousand copies of the New 


ROMANESQUE ART 97 ROMANESQUE ART 


Testament in Ladiniche had left the press under the 
title II Nouf Testament da nos Segner Jesu Christo 
(tradiit in Rumansch d’ Engadina Bassa. Stampa in 
Basel da F. Schneider, 1812). Several subsequent edi- 
tions of the New and Old Testament have been issued 
by the Basle Society, aided by the English Society, in 
both dialects. Thus, Biblia o vero la Soinchia Scritiira 
del velg Testament (Sun cuosti dellas beneticentas So- 
cietas Biblicasda London et Basel e tras Direetiun della 
Societa Biblica in Coira promoviida all stampa. Coira, 
1815. Stampa da Bernard Otto); Ilg nieo Testament. 
Editiun nova , revedida a corregida , tout esco pusseivel, 
suenter ilg original Grec (da Otto Carisch, a squitschada 
a cust da las Societads Biblicas da Quera a da Basel. 
Qera, Stamparia da Pargatzi a Felix. 1856); II nouv 
Testamaint , tradiit nel dialect Roumauntsch d'Engiudina 
(ota tres J. Menni. Coira, 1861). See lieiiss, in Herzog’s 
Real-Encyklop. s. v. “Romanische Bi belli bersetz ungen 
id. Geschichte der Heiligen Schriften Neuen Testaments 
(Brunswick, 1874), § 480; Theologisches Universal- 
Lexikon, s. v. “ Romanische Bibeliibersotzungen The 
Bible of Every Land , p. 287 sq. ; Bibliotheca Biblica 
(Braunschw. 1752), p. 174; Zuchold, Bibliotheca Theo- 
logica, i, 139 ; ii, 1310, 1315. (B. P.) 

Romanesque Art. Some writers apply the term 
“Romanesque” to the period of Christian art in Italy 
and Western Europe which extended from the 3d to 
the 10th century; but it is more usually applied to the 
period extending from the 9th to the 12th or 13th cen- 
tury. Until the 9th century Christian art, especially 
architecture, had flowed in two main streams, which in 
locality and in characteristics were quite distinct from 
each other. The one is usually called the Basilican style 
[see Basilica], which had its origin in Rome; the oth- 
er is called the Byzantine style, which had its origin in 
Constantinople. See Architecture. 

In the very active period of church erection which 
existed in Central and Western Europe from the 9th to 
the Pith century, the basilican and Byzantine styles 
were in a sense forced into a new style, Avhich took on 
certain characteristics of these former styles, but which 
had many very marked original features. 

The general ground-plan of the later basilicas, that 


of the Latin cross, was retained. For the convenience 
of the officiating clergy, a semicircular apsis, or choir, 
was placed at the farther end of the main nave and at 
the end of each arm of the transept. From this general 
typical ground-plan there were many variations, which 
were chiefly caused by the disconnected times and plans 
by which the different parts of the edifices were erected. 

The round arch is a distinctive feature of the Roman- 
esque style, which is termed, indeed, by many writers 
the Round-Arch style, in distinction from its successor 
the Pointed-Arch, or Gothic, style. See Gothic Ar- 
chitecture. The round arch was inherited from both 
the basilican and the Byzantine style. During the lat- 
ter part of the Romanesque period, the pointed arch be- 
gan to be used in parts of the openings, and, indeed, in 
a few cases was almost entirely adopted: but the other 
features of these edifices mark them as distinctively Ro- 
manesque. The method of covering enclosed spaces bv 
vaulting differed greatly from that in the preceding 
styles, and forms one of the most prominent features in 
this style. 

During the early Romanesque period, especially in 
Italy, the campanile, or bell-tower, was built separate 
from the church, as in the leaning tower of Pisa; but 
later it was attached to the church edifice. Indeed, the 
single tower was expanded into a system of towers sur- 
mounted by spires, producing a balancing of parts around 
the entire structure. The towers were in many cases 
flanked by small turrets, which produced beautiful and 
picturesque effects. In many cases a lofty tower with 
turrets rose over the intersection of the transept and 
the nave. In the Cathedral of Bamberg four lofty tow- 
ers rose, two on each side of the nave. 

One of the most attractive features of the Romanesque 
architecture is the introduction of delicately formed ar- 
cades in various places on the exterior, where they pro- 
duce pleasing effects, as under the cornices of the choirs, 
or apsides, or on the main facade. These arcades 
sometimes rose, like steps, up along the lines of the 
roof. Sometimes they were placed in successive tiers 
up the entire height of the facade, or even up the en- 
tire height of the campanile, as in the cathedrals of 
Lucca and Pisa. 

The portals of churches were often flanked 
by greatly variegated and deeply set clusters of 
columns. These were surmounted by capitals, 
and the same or similar clustered lines were 
carried in an arch over t he doorway. In a few 
cases the inner lines over the doorway were 
thrown in round arches, while the arches grad- 
ually changed to pointed ones. These clustered 
arches were, in the Gothic style, replaced by 
rows of angels. The courts of cloisters were 
frequently surrounded by arcades of exquisite 
beauty, the columns usually being double, no 
two being alike, and more frequently one col- 
umn being twisted. Clustered columns were 
also introduced in the interiors of churches. In- 
deed, the entire Romanesque architecture is 
marked by a rather too exuberant fancy, va- 
riety being considered necessary or desirable, 
even when more harmony could be secured by 
less varied types of decoration. 

The capitals of pillars were manifestly mod- 
elled upon the type of the late Roman-Corinthi- 
an or the Composite capital; but independence 
of motive was soon manifested, and great varie- 
ty was introduced in the capitals, which were 
generally managed in excellent harmony with 
the lines of the new style. Many new plant 
forms were conventionalized, and the founda- 
tion was laid for the subsequent luxurious Goth- 
ic foliation. Animal forms, both realistic and 
imaginary, were frequently introduced in the 
midst of plant forms or alone, in the capitals of 
pillars and elsewhere. These not nufroqweiit- 
ly represented ogres and other hideous beasts, 




ROMANIC VERSIONS 


98 


ROMANIC VERSIONS 


which were to frighten hypocrites and the wicked from 
entering the house of God, the precursors of the gar- 
goyles of the Gothic. Not unfrequentlv the chief col- 
umns of portals rested on the backs of lions or mas- 
sive dogs, typifying the strength and defences of the 
Church. 

In truth and consistency of architectural character, 
the Romanesque style, in its best examples, takes very 
high rank among the historic styles. It is the only one 
of the great styles in history which did not pass into 
decadence through the perversion of architectural feat- 
ures or principles. It was cut* off in t lie height of its 
career by its successor the Gothic— the pointed dis- 
placing the round arch, with all its entire new type of 
decoration. The tinest examples of the Komanesque 
style are: in Italy, the cathedrals of Pisa, Lucca, Par- 
ma. Vercelli ; in France, those of Avignon, Toulouse, 
Baveux, Clermont, Perigueux, St. -Etienne, and other 
churches in Caen; in Germany, those of Worms, Bonn, 
Speyer, Treves, llildesheim, and Bamberg; in Eng- 
land, those of Peterborough, Waltham, and Winchester. 
Many of the finest effects in this style are found in de- 
tached fragments, which were made in churches that 
were not finished until this style had been superseded 
by the Gothic. 

During the Romanesque period there was some activ- 
ity in sculpture. The chief w orks in this branch of art 
were in ivory. Many of them are extremely interest- 
ing from the fact that they show' an earnest spirit, 
though with much naiveness and almost crudeness of 
execution. In painting, the chief works were in minia- 
ture, in the decoration of missals, and other MS. books 
of devotion. In France, more especially, many impor- 
tant compositions were executed in fresco, after the 
style current in the Orient, and probably done bv Byz- 
antine artists. See Liibke, /fist, of Art ; Kugler, Gesck. 
der Baukunst ; id. Gesch. der Malerei ; Schnaase, Gesch. 
der Kiinste ; Fergnsson, Hist, of Architecture; Rosen- 
garten, Hand-book of Architectural Styles. (G. F. C.) 

Romanic Versions of the Holy Scriptures. 
Under this head w*e mention — 

1. The French Versions. — As these versions have al- 
ready been treated in this Cyclopaedia s. v. French 
Versions, w r e add the following as supplement. Ar- 
thur Dinaux has the merit of having pointed towards 
the first translator of the Bible, viz. Herman de Valen- 
ciennes, born about 1100. He was a priest and canon, 
and his version, free as it is for the greater part, w’as of 
the greatest importance for that time. He undertook 
it under the protection of the empress Mathilde, wife of 
the German emperor Henry V, and (laughter of Henry 
I of England. His Genesis is preserved in the Har- 
leian Library, IMS. 222, and his Lirre de la Bible , or 
Ilistoire de VAncien et du Nouveau Testament en Fers, 
in the Imperial Library, IMS. 7986. The assertion made 
by A. Paulin Paris, in his Manuscrits Frangais de la 
Bibliotheque du Roi , that before the year 1170 no trans- 
lation of any note had been made, and that Etienne de 
llansa, or d’Ansa, of Lyons, was the first who undertook 
a work of this kind, has been proved erroneous by 
Arthur Dinaux; yet Paulin refers to Le Long and 
to a letter written by pope Innocent III to the. bish- 
op of Metz, published by Bnlnze, and translated into 
French by Le Roux de Lincy in his Introduction to the 
Ancienne Traduction des Quutre J Acres de Roi (Paris, 
1811). Although Herman de Valenciennes must be re- 
garded as the first translator, the merits of Etienne de 
Hansa, who undertook a translation at the request of 
Peter Valdo, are not diminished thereby in the least. 
Etienne’s translation, preserved in MS. 7268 *- 2 *, and 
belonging to the first half of the 13th century, is a work 
of great value concerning the language and the letters. 
A. Paulin Paris saw' many copies of that MS., which 
in part must be regarded as a revision. A version ol 
this kind belongs to the beginning of the 14th centurv, 
and to judge from its style, it must have been made in 
England. This version we find in MS. 6701, and the 


following specimen will best illustrate the difference be- 
tween the translation of 1170 (7268 2 - 2 *) and the version 
from the beginning of the 14th century (6701) : 

MS. 72GS2.2. | MS. 6701. 

Mesli serpen z estoitli plus Mes le serpent estoit plus 
voiseus de Unites les choses coiut de tottes choses te 
qtii out ame et que Dame terre qne Dieu fist, leqnel dit 
Dex* avoir Vet. Etildistala a la femme: Por quei vous 
feme: Por quoi vous a Dex comaunda Dieu que vous ne 
commande que vos ne men- , mengeasses de cheicun fust 
giez pas de tous les fuz de j de paradis. 
paradis (Gen. iii, 1). 

With regard to the translation of 1170, we only mention 
that Innocent III, not knowing its source, subjected it 
about the year 1200 to the censor, and many writers of 
the 13th century believed it to be a pernicious book. 
Its language bears the original Romanic stamp, and re- 
minds one of the modern French. But it is striking 
that the translator, Etienne de Hansa, should be from 
Lyons. We may suppose that the northern French 
stamp of the translation of 1 170, as we find it in the MS. 
7268 2 - 2 -, for the greater part belongs to the copyist. A. 
Paulin Paris conjectures that the language of the MS. 
is the same as that which w T as used at Rheims or Sens 
in the 13th century. The translation of 1170 is know'll 
as that of the “ Bible des Pauvres.” Le Roux de Lincy 
pronounces the translation of the MS. 7268 2 - 2 * an ex- 
cellent one, although he believes it to have been made 
in the 13th century at the request of Louis the Saint. 
Etienne de Hansa’s work is the more remarkable as it 
can be called with certainty the first which gives a cor- 
rect and literal translation of the w hole Bible. The MS. 
681 8 2 contains a second literal translation, the author of 
which, according to the investigations of scholars, es- 
pecially of Aime Champollion, is said to have been 
Raoul de Presles. Le Roux de Lincy acquaints us also 
w'ith translations of single parts of the Bible, the re- 
daction of which he puts in the 12th century, w r hile the 
MSS. belong to the 13th century. As such he mentions: 

1. Les Qnatres Livres du Rois ; a MS. of which is in the 
Biblot heque Mazarin. 

2. Les Psaumes; IMS. 1152 bis Supplement Francois, 278 
Latin , 7SS7 fonds Frangais. 

3. UAjioeahjjtse.; MS. 7013. 

An ancient French translation of single psalms is given 
by Karl Bartsch in his Chrestomathie de VAncien Fran- 
j'«w(1872), according to Fr. Michel’s Libri Psalmorum Ver- 
sio Atttiqua Gullica. 

The catalogue of A. Paulin Paris, Manuscrits Frang. 
de la Bibl. du Roi, contains also the following list of 
translations and comments: 

1. Ilistoire de VAncien et du Nouveau Testament, en Yers 
Monorimes; MS. 72CS2- 

2. Traduction en Vers de la Bible ; MS. 72GS3.3. 

3. liistoire de VAncien Testament; MS. 7268 -i.a. 

4. Traduction en Eery du Psaume Latin “Domiue, ne iu 
furore.” 

5. Traduction des Psaumes; MS. 7295 5 . 5 . 

6 . Comrnentaires sur les Psaumes, trad . d'un Aneien Tcxte 
Latin ; MS. 7295 3. 

7. Raisons de la Composition de Chaeun des Psaumes ; par 
Jehan de Blois; MS. 7295 5.5. 

S. Commentaire Perpetncl sur les Psaumes; MS. 7295 

9. Exposition du Psaume Latin “Miserere mei Deus.” 

According to Griisse,tw’o Augustinian monks, Jiilien Ma- 
cho and Pierre Farget, translated a Latin Bible into the 
Romanic. A poetical version of the Bible, belonging to 
the 14th century, w r as left by Mace of Charite-sur- Loire, 
and in MS. 6818 3 an original copy of the Bible des Pau- 
vres is preserved. 

We give on the following page some specimens of 
different translations. The MSS. 7268 2 - 2 - and 6818 3 
arc copies of one text, w hich differ only in non-essen- 
tials, while the MS. 6818 2 forms the basis of a separate 
version. In this supplementary article we have largely 
depended on StriimpeH’s Ersten B i be l u be rse tzunyen der 
Franzosen (Brunswick, 1872), who also gives the fol- 
lowing specimens; for the rest belonging to the French 
versions we refer to the art. in loco . 


* Dame Dex menus “ Lord God.” Dame is from the Latin 
domuius, and Dex (deus) is the aucieut form for Dieiu 


ROMANIC VERSIONS 99 ROMANIC VERSIONS 


Juxtaposition of Texts (aooortunq to A. Paulin Paris). 


MS. 726S2.2. 

Bible des Pauvres. 

MS. 6701. 

MS. 6S1S 2. 

MS. GS1S3. 

(1170.) 

Anglo-Norman Copy, 

Raoul de Presles. 

Bible dee Pauvres. 

Copy of the 13lh Century. 

(1350.) 

(1375.) 

Copy of Ibe I4lh Century. 


Mes li serpenz estoit li plus 
volseus de toutes les choses 
qui ontameetque DameDex 
avoit fet. Etil dist &lu feme: 
Por quoi vous a Dex com- 
mando qne vos ne mengiez 
pas de tous les fuz de para- 
dis. 


Genese, 

Mes le serpent estoit plus 
quoint de tottes a 1 me les 
choses de terre que Dieu list. 
Le quel dist a la femme : Por 
qnei vous comaunda Dieu 
qne vous ne meugeasses de 
cheicuu fust de paradis. 


Or est vray que le serpent 
estoit le plus decevant de 
tontes les bestes, lequel s’a- 
dressa a la femme qui estoit 
de plus fraile sexe et ly disit : 
Pour qnoy vous a Dieu com- 
mand^ qne vous ne mengiez 
de tous les fruits de Paradis. 


Is wanting. 


Hois, liv. i, ch. iii. 

Samuel lienfesamenistroit [ Et Samuel l’enfant minis- 1 Samuel doncqnes admenis- 
a Dame-Den devant Ilely et tra a Nostre Seignor devaunt troit a Nostre Seigneur de- 
la parole Dame - Den estoit Ilely et la parole Nostre vant Ilely et la parole de N. 
precieuse Eu cel teus n’estoit | Seignor estoit preciouse. — S. estoit precieuse, ne n’es- 
pas vision aperte. j A ces jours n’estoit visioun toil point en ce temps de vi- 

japerte. | siou manifeste. 


Is wanting. 


Cil qui estoit neant sages 
dist en son ctier Dex n’est 
pas. — II sont corrompn et 
sont fet abhominable. II 
n’est qui face bien de si a 
uu seal. 


Psctnme X///(“ Dixit insipieus in corde suo”). 

Ly nient sage dist en son I Le fol dit en son euer Dien 
quer: Iln’y ad Deu. Cil sont n’est pas. Ils sont eorrom- 
corruptz et faitz sont abho- 1 pus et sont fais abhomina- 
minables — En lour est rnlies, bles en leurs estndes, il n’est 
il n’y ad mil qui fait bien. II qui face bien jusqnes a ung 
n’y ad nul desques a nn. | seal. 


Cil quiestoit noient sage 
dist en son cuer Dieux n’est 
pas. Ilz sont corrompnz et 
letir feit abhominable, i I n’est 
qui face bien dc si s\ uu seul. 


Lors monta Jhesns en la 
liaeele. Ce est en la petite 
nef. Et passa lamer. Et vint 
en sa cite. Ce est en Naza- 
reth. — Lors il aporterent il a 
enrer i paralitique gisaut en 
son lit. 


Evangile Saint- Mathieu, ch. ix. 
Is wanting. 


Et cil avaunt passannt vvnt 
en lour citee. Et cil ly offri- 
rent uu paralyticz gisaut en 
nn lyt. 


Is wanting. 


Is wanting. 


Le Debut du Premier Psaume. 

MS. 726S2. 2. 

Bible des Pauvres. 

(1170.) 

Copy of the 13lh Century. 

MS. 6S183. 

Bible des Pauvres. 

Copy of the 14th Century. 

MS. 6S18 2 . 

Raoul de Prtsles. 

(1375.) 

Geai ma fiance en Nostre Seignor. 
Comment elites vos a m’ame trespasse 
en la montaigne comme moinel.— Por 
ce vez ci les peclieors qui onttemlu lor 
arc et out appareillie lor saietes en lor 
coiore que il saietent cels qui out cuer 
droiturier eu lieu oscur. 

J’ai ma fiance en Nostre S. Comant 
dites vous a m’ame trespasse en la 
montaigne moysnel.— Pour ce vees ci 
les peehenrs qui out tendu leurs ars 
et out appnreillies lenrs saietes pour 
conrre qu’il saietent ceulx qui out cuer 
droiturier eu lieu obscur. 

J’ay ma fiance en Nostre Seigneur. 
Comment dictez vous a nion ante tres- 
passe la montaigne comme nn moinel. 
Car vecy les peehenrs qui out tendu 
leur arc et out appareillie leurs saiectes 
et leur tarqnois ties forts ad ce qn’il 
saietent en lieu oecnr ceux qui out cuer 
droiturier. 


In conclusion, wc will only mention, from the seven- 
ty-third annual report of the British and Foreign Bible 
Society (1877), that “ several new versions of the Script- 
ures in French have been urged on the committee, but 
they did not sec their way to the adoption of any of 
them ; they hope, however, that the present activity in 
Bible translating and revision may lead to the produc- 
tion of a version more accurate, and more acceptable to 
the French than any which they now possess.” 

2. Italian Versions. — See that art. in this Cyclopaedia. 
We will only add an edition of the Hebrew Pentateuch 
with an Italian translation by S. D. Luzzatto, Il Penta- 
teucho colie Ilaftarot volgarizzato (Trieste, 1858-GO, 5 
vols.) : — Job (with an Italian translation) (Livorno, 
1844); and II Prof eta Isaia volgarizzato e commentato 
ad uso degV Israeliti (Padova, 1855-67). 

3. Portuguese Versions (q. v.). 

4. Spanish Versions. — It is very difficult to decide at 
what time the first Spanish version was made. If we 
may believe tradition, the oldest version would belong 
to the 13th century, made at the request of Alphonso of 
Castile and John of Leon. But as there is no confirma- 
tion of this statement, we must depend on the different 
data which wc find in the printed editions themselves; 
and it is a remarkable fact that the versions were made 
either by Jews or Protestants. 

(a) First in chronological order we mention El Nuevo 
Testamenfo de nuesiro Iledemptor y SaluadorJesu Christo, 
traduzido de Grigo en lengua. Castellana por Francisco de 
Enzinas, dedicado a la Cesarea Magestad (En Anberes 
[i. e. Antwerp], Anno 1543, 8vo). Of this edition, which 
is also published bv the British and Foreign Bible Soci- 
ety, we have no notice except what we find in Simon’s 
Nouvelles Obsei'vations sur le Texte et les Versions du Nou- 


veau Testament , ii, 151, where we are told that, in the ded- 
ication, different reasons are given for and against the 
usefulness of translations of the Bible. “ I do not,” says 
the translator, “condemn those who are of another opin- 
ion, but I believe such versions, when made by judicious 
and conscientious men, to be useful.” He then speaks 
of the cause for this translation. Gamaliel, he says, pro- 
nounced that if Christianity be of God. men cannot over- 
throw it; but if it be of men, it will soon conic to naught; 
and addressing the emperor Charles V, he says, “The 
controversy about the translations of the Bible has al- 
ready lasted for about twenty years. All measures to 
prevent them are in vain: on the contrary, their num- 
ber has increased among the Christians, and Gamaliel’s 
judgment, seems to be fulfilled.” 

The version of Enzinas is made from the Greek. Such 
words as “ gospel,” “ scribe.” “ testament,” etc., are retain- 
ed. For the greater part he follows Erasmus's transla- 
tion, e. g. John i, I : En elprincipio era la palabra.y la 
pahibru estava con l)ios,y Dios era lapalabra. Where 
a word is ambiguous he puts the Greek in the margin ; 
thus he puts the word \6yoc three times to palabra. 
He has no annotations excepting such as explain meas- 
ures, coins, etc., thus: Matt, xviii, 24, Diez mille talent os 
(Note : “ Cada talcndo vale 600 ducados,” i. c. each tal- 
ent is worth 600 ducats) ; ibid. ver. 28, cient dineros 
(Note: “Cada dinero vale casi 30 maravedis,” i. e. each 
denarius is worth 30 maravedis). Very seldom he has 
an addition, and yet his translation is intelligible even 
to the unlearned. Sometimes, in spite of all care, he 
translates rather according to the sense than to the word 
of the text; e. g. Rom. i, 28, 7 rapidioKtv avrovg b 
Vulg. tradulit illos Deus; the translation of irapiouKtv 
is “ permitio caer,” i. c. lie suffered them to fall. 


ROMANIC VERSIONS 


100 


ROMANIC VERSIONS 


(b) Next in chronological order is Biblki en Lengua Es- 
panola, traduzida palabra por palabra de la verdad He- 
brayca,por mug excelentes Letrados. Vista y examinada 
por el ojjicio de la Diquisicion. Con Privilegio del Illus- 
trissimo Senor Duque de Ferrara (En Ferrara, 5313 [i. e. 
1553]). At the end we read, “ A gloria y loor de nuestro 
Sennor se acabo la presente Biblia en lengua Espannola 
traduzida de la verdadera origcn Ilebravca por muy ex- 
cellentesletrados: con yndustriaydiligentia de Abraham 
Usque, Portngues: Estampata en Ferrara a costa y de- 
spesa de Yom Tob Atias, hijo de Levi Atias Espannol : 
en 14. de Adar de 5313.” In some copies wc read at the 
end, “Con vndustria v diligencia de Duarto Pinel, Por- 
t.ngues : estampata en Ferrara a costa y despesa de Ge- 
ronymo de Vargas, Espannol, en primero de Marzo de 
1553.” These copies were made for the use of Chris- 
tians. That the Spanish translation of the Pentateuch 
is the same as that printed six years before in the so- 
called “Constantinople Polyglot-Pentateuch” has been 
proved beyond a shadow of doubt by Le Long, who also 
supposes that the Spanish translation, of which the Pen- 
tateuch only was printed at Constantinople, while the 
whole was published at Ferrara, had been in use before 
the expulsion of the Jews from Spain in 1492, and that 
the Jewish exiles brought it to Constantinople. The ti- 
tle is followed'by (1) an index of Ilaphtarhas; (2) an in- 
dex of the order of books among Jews and Christians ; (3) 
an index and short synopsis of the chapters of the Old 
Test.; (4) an index of the judges, prophets, and high- 
priests of the Jewish people, together with a short chro- 
nology from Adam to the 452d year after the destruction 
of the Temple according to the Seder Olam (a Jewish 
chronology) ; (5) a lectionary for each day, in order to 
read the Old Test, in one year. The translation in the 
Ferrara edition is in two columns, and the editors or pub- 
lishers were so conscientious as to indicate passages con- 
cerning which they were doubtful as to the correct trans- 
lation bv a star (*). Where the Hebrew reads Jehovah , 
an .A. with two dots is placed. The verses are not given 
in the text, but at the end of each book their number is 
given. The order of the book is, the Pentateuch, Joshua, 
Judges, Samuel, Kings, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Ho- 
sea to Malachi, Psalms (divided into five books), Prov- 
erbs, Job, Daniel, Ezra, Nehemiah, Chronicles, Song of 
Songs, Iiuth, Lamentations, Ecclesiastes, Esther. The 
translation, which follows the Hebrew very closely, is in 
that ancient Spanish which was used at that time in 
the synagogue. 

A reprint of this translation was published at Amster- 
dim in the year 1611, also in folio, then in 1630, with 
the only change that the stars of the first edition are 
omitted in many places. According to the Catalogue 
des Liores Imprimes de la. Bibliotheque du Roi de France , 
i, 14, No. 201, this edition was edited by Manasseh 
ben-Israel, as can also be seen from some copies, where 
we read, A loor y gloria del Dio fue reformada por 
Menasseh ben-Israel (a. 15. de Sebath 1630). 

Another somewhat revised and altered edition is the 
Biblia en lengua Espannola. Traduzida jmlabra por 
palabra de la verdad Hebrayca , por muy excelentes Le- 
trados. 1 "is fa e exam inada por el ojjicio de la lnquisicion. 
Con Privilegio del Illustrissimo Sennor Duque de Fer- 
rara, y aora de nuevo corregida en casa di Joseph Athias, 
v por su orden impressa (En Amsterdam, Anno 5421 
[1661], large 8vo, 1325 pp.). This edition is indeed an 
improvement upon the former; many corrections are 
made, obsolete expressions are removed and more in- 
telligible ones introduced; besides, it is more convenient 
for use than the former editions in folio. The verses 
are numbered in the margin. 

(c) El Testamento Nuevo de Nuestro Senor Salvador 
Jesu Christo nueva e fielmento traduzida del Original 
Griego en Romance Castellano. En Venecia, en casa de 
Juan ( Philadelpho. M.D.LVL 8vo). The anonymous 
translator follows the original Greek; here and there 
words are added for the better understanding. 

(d) A Spanish Translation of the Prophets Isaiah and 


Jeremiah ( Thessalonica, 1569), by Joseph ben -Isaac 
ben-Joseph Jabetz. From the lengthy title (which we 
do not give in full) we see that the editor intended to 
translate the whole of the Old Test., and that he com- 
menced with the later prophets. But only Isaiah and 
Jeremiah were translated, as can be seen from Wolf 
(Bibl. Heb. iv, 137), who had a copy of this translation, 
which mostly follows that of Ferrara. 

(e) La Biblia , que es, los Sacros Libros del Viejo y Nue- 
vo Testamento , Trasladada en Espannol. *21 

cViS‘b La Palabra del Dios nostro permanece 

para siempre, Isa. xl. M.D.LXIX. On the last page we 
read “Anno del Sennor M.D.LXIX. en Septembre,” large 
4to. No name of the translator and no place of publica- 
tion is given. It was probably published at Basle by 
Thomas Guarinus, which is not only evident from the 
signs of that printer found in the title-page, but also 
from a written postscript in the copy of this translation 
preserved in the library of the Basle University. From 
this notice we also see that Cassiodoro de Reyna, of Se- 
ville, was the translator of th'rs Bible, and this is also cor- 
roborated by another copy of this translation found in the 
library at Frankfort -on -the -Main (Clement, Biblioth. 
Curieuse , iii, 453). The translation is preceded by 30 
pages containing the principles which guided the trans- 
lator — that, although he held the Vulgate in high esteem, 
yet he could not always follow it, but perused as many 
translations as he could find, especially that of Pagninus, 
which he followed for the most part. The Apocryphal 
books of the Old Test, are also translated : sometimes 
additions are inserted in the text and put in brackets 
for a better understanding, and short glosses are found 
in the margin. The New Test, of this translation was 
also republished by Hutter in his Polyglot (1599). An- 
other edition with some slight changes was published 
by Ricardo del Campo (1596, 8vo), and an entirely re- 
vised edition of Reyna’s translation is La Biblia : que 
es , los Sacros Libros del Viejo y Nuevo Testamento ; se- 
gunda edicion, 7'evista y conferida con los Textos Hebi'cos 
y G riegos, y con diversas translaciones , per Cvpriauo de 
Valera. En Amsterdam, en casa de Lorenzo Jacobi 
(1602, fob). The title is followed by two prefaces, one 
of Valera, the other of Revna. In the first preface the 
editor tells us that of Reyna’s edition 2600 copies were 
printed, and all were sold. This was the reason for a 
new revision and edition. Valera’s edition is also pub- 
lished by the British and Foreign Bible Society. The 
New Test, of Valera’s translation was also published 
separately in the year 1625, with the title, El Nuevo Tes - 
t ament a, que es los Escriptos Evangelicos y A postolicos, 
revisto y conferido con el Texto Griego por Cypriano de 
Valera : en Amsterdam (1625, 8vo). 

(f) Ilumas de Parasioth y Aftharoih , traduzido pa - 
labra por palabra de la verdad Hebraica en Espannhol 
(1627). This is Manasseh ben-Israel’s translation of the 
Pentateuch, of which a second enlarged and revised edi- 
tion was published in 1655. 

ifj) COT bn trip Las Alabangas de Santidad. Tra- 
ducion de los Psalmos de David. . . . Por el Haham Yab- 
acob Yelmda, Leon Hebreo. . . . En Amsterdam (1671). 
This is .Judah Leon’s translation of the Psalms, with 
notes aud introductions. 

{K) Franco Serrano’s translation of the Pentateuch, or 
Los cinco Libros de la sacra Ley , interpretados en Lengua 
Espannola. . . . En Amsterdam, en casa de Mosseh ben- 
I)ias (1695, 4to). The translator was Joseph Franco 
Serrano, teacher of Hebrew at the school of the Spanish 
Jews in Amsterdam. The translation is made with 
great diligence and care. 

(i) Acosta’s translation of the historical books, or 
Conjecturas sagradas sobre los Prophetas primores , co - 
legidos de los mas celebres expositores. . . . En Leyden, 
en casa dc Thomas van Geel (Anno 1711, 4to). This 
translation contains Joshua, Judges, Samuel, and Kings. 
To each verse a paraphrase is added in place of a com- 
mentary. 


ROMANISM 


101 


ROMANS 


(£) Biblia en dos Colunas Ilebr. y Espan. Amster- 
dam, en casa y a costa de Joseph Jacob, y Abraham de 
Salmon Proops (Anno 17G2, fol.). This is, according 
to Le Long, an “editio optima, splendida et icstimata.” 
It was not until the end of the 18th century that a Ro- 
man Catholic divine undertook to give his Spanish 
countrymen a new translation, together with the Latin 
and a commentary. The author of this Bible -work 
(which was published at Madrid, 1794, in 19 parts) was 
Phil. Scio de S. Miguel. The translation of Seio has 
also been adopted by the British and Foreign Bible So- 
ciety, which prints it since 1828. The latest transla- 
tion of the New Test, is that by the bishop of Astorga, 
Fel. de Torres Amat (Madrid, 1837). 

5. Besides these translations, we may also mention, 
under the head of Romanic versions, the New Test., the 
Pentateuch and Psalms in Catalan, published by the 
British and Foreign Bible Society for the provinces of 
Catalonia and Valencia. See Kosenmiiller, Ihtndbuch 
der biblisclien Liter at nr, iv, 2G8 sq. ; Le Long, Bibl. Sac. 

i, 180 sq. ; Simon [Richard], Hist. Crit. du V. T. liv. ii, 
ch. xix, p. 311 ; Wolf, Bibl. Jleb. iv, 137 ; Baumgarten, 
Nachrichten von merhvii religen Bucher n, ix, 204 sq. ; the 
art.“Romanisclie Bibelubersetzimgen”in Herzog’s Real- 
Encyklop. ; Reuss, Gesch. der heil. Schriften des X. Test. 
(5th ed. Brunswick, 1874), p. 217, 229 ; Biblioili. Bib. (ibid. 
1752), p. 161 sq. ; Index Biblioruni (1 Lake), p. 41 . (B. P.) 

Romanism is the system of Church government 
which makes the pope the one head and centre of 
Christendom, with those doctrines and practices which 
arc erroneously maintained as subsidiary to that head- 
ship. Thus the dogmas of papal infallibility, of tem- 
poral sovereignty, of the immaculate conception of the 
Blessed Virgin, of the seven sacraments, the celibacy of 
the clergy, and the system of indulgences are peculiar 
to the Church of Rome, and are known as supports of 
the papal power. They are therefore considered as 
parts of Romanism. 

Again, Romanism may be used to describe the char- 
acter of Latin Christianity, as distinguished from Teu- 
tonic Christianity. The former has a stricter sacer- 
dotalism, more direction to the conscience, and in its 
subjects more implicit obedience, greater trustfulness, 
less of private judgment and of freedom, an inferior 
sense of personal responsibility, and (perhaps it must be 
added) a less keen sense of truth. There are also a more 
rigid ecclesiasticism, maintained by a celibate clergy 
subject to a foreign spiritual head ; a fuller ritual ; and a 
statelier ceremonial. This assumption of power, upon 
the one hand, and submission to it, on the other, ne- 
cessitate the keeping of the people in a state of igno- 
rance, and we therefore find Romanism to be the foe of 
intelligence, of free thought, free speech, and free action. 
It is a system craftily devised for the usurpation by the 
few of the rights of the many. See Bib. Sacra , i, 139 ; 

ii, 451, 757; viii, G4; xix, 432; Blunt, Theol. Diet.; 
Elliott, Delineation of Romanism; llagcnbach, Ilist. of 
Doctrines; Marriott, Testimony of the Catacombs; Meth. 
Qnar. Rev. Oct. 1854; April, 1855, 185G ; Jan. 1877; 
Palmer, Errors of Romanism ; Whately, Essays on Ro- 
manism. See Popery. 

Romann, Albrecht Nathanael, a convert from 
Judaism and missionary among the Jews, was born 
Nov. 3, 1819, at Kobvlin, in the grand-duchy of Posen. 
He was educated in the school at llawicz, afterwards at 
Lissa, and then at Breslau, where he also had the ad- 
vantage of attending the lectures at the university. In 
the latter place he fell in with the so-called Reform 
party, and became a most zealous pupil of the late cele- 
brated rabbi Dr. Geiger, who was then flourishing at 
Breslau. At the age of twenty-four he was appoint- 
ed teacher in a Jewish industrial school in that city. 
Having exchanged his strict rabbinical orthodoxy for 
the hollowness of Reform Judaism, he was in a state — 
unsatisfied, perplexed, and longing for something bet- 
ter and more substantial — from which he was relieved 


through the acquaintance with Tcichler and Caro, mis- 
sionaries of the Berlin Society, and especially with Mr. 
Cerf, of the Scotch Society. Although at first vehe- 
mently opposing them, he finally submitted to his con- 
viction, and on Nov. 28, 1847, lie was baptized in the 
Reformed Church by the Rev. Consistorialrath Wack- 
ier, Mr. Cerf, Prof. Dr. Oehler, and the general superin- 
tendent Dr. Hahn being his sponsors. He now resolved 
to qualify himself as a Christian schoolmaster, and to ef- 
fect this the Rev. C. Richter kindly received him into his 
own house at Rankam ; and after having passed his ex- 
amination at the seminary in Breslau, he obtained a 
situation as schoolmaster in Zicgenhals, near Neisse, in 
Silesia. In the year 1851 he was appointed assistant to 
the Rev. J. C. Hartmann, senior missionary of the Lon- 
don Society at Breslau. 11 is time of probation being 
over, he was admitted to the society’s college at Lon- 
don for further instruction in divinity and the English 
language, and returned in 1854 as a missionary to Bres- 
lau. In 18G8 he was removed to Berlin to take charge 
of the mission there by the side of Prof. Dr. Cassel. 
For three years he was allowed to carry on the work of 
his Master in that city, and died Aug. 15, 1871. See 
Jewish Intelligencer , 1871, p. 247 sq. ; Dibre Emeth, oder 
Stimmen der Wahrheit, 1871, p. 1G1 sq. (B. P.) 

Romano, Giovanni Battista, a convert from 
Judaism, w r as a native of Alexandria, and flourished in 
the 16th' century, llis grandfather was the famous 
Elias Levita (q. v.), who instructed him while in Ger- 
many. He then went to Italy, and in Venice he tried 
to bring his brother back into the fold of the syna- 
gogue, in which he did not succeed ; on the contrary, 
he became himself a convert to Christianity, and was 
baptized in 1551. For a long time he was professor of 
Hebrew and Arabic in Rome. In 1561. pope Pius IV 
sent him to the patriarch of the Copts, together with 
Roderick, a member of his order. He translated Giov. 
Bruno’s catechism, which was written against the Ori- 
ental heretics, into three Shemitic languages, and trans- 
lated into Arabic the decrees of the Council of Trent, 
for the sake of having them circulated in the East. 
He died at Rome, March 3, 1580. See Delitzsch, Knnst , 
Wissenschaft u. Judenthum, p. 291 sq.; Phil. Alegambe, 
De Scriptor. Soc. Jesu , p. 225 sq. ; R. Simon, Bibl. Se- 
lect a, i, 148 ; Griitz, Gesch. d. Juden , ix, 356. (B. P.) 

Romano, J ehudah Leone, ben-Moses, of Rome , 
was born about the year 1292. He was the teacher of 
king Robert of Naples, whom he instructed in the lan- 
guages of the Bible, lie tvas very well acquainted 
with scholastic literature, and translated the philosoph- 
ical writings of Albertos Magnus, Thomas Aquinas, and 
others for his coreligionists. He also wrote Elucidations 
on passages of the Bible from a philosophical stand- 
point, excerpts of which have been published in Im- 
manuel of Rome’s Commentary on Proverbs ( Naples, 
1486). The date of Romano’s death is not known. Most 
of his writings arc still in MS. in Rome, Florence, Paris, 
Munich, Oxford, and London. See Fiirst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 
165 sq. ; Delitzsch, Kunst, Wissenschaft ii. Judenthum, 
p. 257 ; De Rossi, Dizionario Stofico deyli A utori Ehrei , 
p.277 (Gcrm.transl.) ; Criitz, Gesch.d. Juden (Leips. 1873), 
vii, 298 sq.; more especially Zunz, Jehuda b.-Moses Ro- 
mano , reprinted in Geiger’s Wissenscheftl.Zeitschr.fi/' 
jud. Theole/gie (Fraukfort-on-the-Maine, 1836), ii, 321- 
330; and Steinschneider, Giuda Romano, Notizia os- 
tratta del giorn. Romano II Buonarotti, Gennaio, 1870 
(Roma, 1870), mentioned in Kayserling’s Bibliothek jii- 
discher Kanzelredner , ii, Beilage, p. 14 sq. (B. P.) 

Romans, Epistle to the. This is naturally 
placed first among the epistles in the New Test., both 
on account of its comparative length and its impor- 
tance. It claims our interest more than the other di- 
dactic epistles of Paul, because it is more systematic, 
and because it explains especially that truth which 
subsequently became the principle of the Reformation, 
viz. righteousness through faith. ( In the following 


ROMANS, EPISTLE TO TIIE 102 ROMANS, EPISTLE TO THE 


account we largely adopt the articles in the diction- 
aries of Kitto and Smith.) 

I. Authorship . — Internal evidence is so strongly in 
favor of the genuineness of the Epistle to the Romans 
that it has never been seriously questioned. Even the 
sweeping criticism of Baur did not go beyond condemn- 
ing the last two chapters as spurious. But while the 
epistle bears in itself the strongest proofs of its Pauline 
authorship, the external testimony in its favor is not 
inconsiderable. The reference to Kom. ii, 4 in 2 Pet. 

iii, 15 is indeed more than doubtful. In the Epistle of 
James, again (ii, 14), there is an allusion to perversions 
of Paul’s language and doctrine which has several 
points of contact with the Epistle to the Romans; but 
this may perhaps be explained by the oral rather than 
the written teaching of the apostle, as the dates seem 
to require. It is not the practice of the apostolic fa- 
thers to cite the New-Test, writers by name, but marked 
passages from the Romans are found imbedded in the 
epistles of Clement and Polycarp (Rom. i, 29-32 in Clem. 
Cor. xxxr, and Rom. xiv, 10, 12, in Polyc. Phil. vi). 
It seems also to have been directly cited by the elder 
quoted in Irenneus (iv, 27, 2, “ ideo Paulum dixisse;” 
comp. Rom. xi, 21,17), and is alluded to by the writer of 
the Epistle to Diognetus (c. ix; comp. Rom. iii, 21 fol. ; 
v, 20), and by Justin Martyr {Dial. c. 23; comp. Rom. 

iv, 10, 1 1, and in other passages). The title of Melito’s 
treatise On the Flearing of Faith seems to be an allu- 
sion to this epistle (see, however, Gal. iii, 2, 3). It has 
a place, moreover, in the Muratorian Canon and in the 
Syriac and Old -Latin versions. Nor have we the 
testimony of orthodox writers alone. The epistle was 
commonly quoted as an authority by the heretics of 
the subapostolic age: by the Ophites (Hippol. Adv. liter. 
p. 99; comp. Rom. i, 20-2G), by Basilides {ibid, p.238; 
comp. Rom. viii, 19, 22, and v, 13, 14), by Valentinus 
{ibid. p. 195; comp. Rom. viii, 11), by the Valentinians 
lleracleon and Pfolemanis (Westcott, On the Canon , 
p. 335, 340), and perhaps also by Tatian {Oral. c. iv; 
comp. Rom. i, 20), besides being included in Marcion’s 
Canon. In the latter part of the 2d century the evi- 
dence in its favor is still fuller. It is obviously alluded 
to in the letter of the churches of Vienne and Lyons 
(Euseb. FI. K. v, 1; comp. Rom. viii, 18), and by Athe- 
nagoras (p. 13 ; comp. Rom. xii, l ; p. 37 ; comp. Rom. i, 
24) and Thcophilus of Antioch (Ad A titol. p. 79; comp. 
Rom. ii, G fol.; p. 12G; comp. Rom. xiii, 7, 8); and is 
quoted frequently and by name by Iremeus, Tertullian, 
and Clement of Alexandria ( see Kirchholer, Quellen, 
p. 198, and especially Westcott, On the Canon, passim). 

II. Integrity. — This has not been so unanimously 
admitted as the genuineness. With the exception of 
Marcion’s authorities, indeed, who probably tampered 
with the manuscripts of the epistles as he did with 
those of the gospels, and who considered the last two 
chapters of this epistle spurious, all the manuscripts 
and versions contain the epistle as we have it: it is in 
modern times that doubts have been thrown upon the 
authenticity of the concluding portion. By Heumauu 
the epistle was considered to have originally ended with 
ch. xi; ch. xii-xv being a distinct production, though 
likewise addressed to the Romans, and ch. xvi a sort 
of postscript to the two. Sender (17G2) conlined his 
doubts to ch. xv and xvi, the former of which he re- 
garded as a private encyclical for the use of the breth- 
ren whom the bearers of the larger epistle should meet 
on their way to Rome, the latter as a catalogue of per- 
sons to be saluted on the same journey. Schulz (1829) 
supposed that ch. xvi was addressed to the Ephesians 
from Rome, and Schott that it is made up of fragments 
from a short epistle written by Paul when at Corinth 
to an Asiatic Church. Baur has more recently (183G) 
followed on the same side; but, as usual, on merely in- 
ternal grounds, and in favor of his peculiar theory of 
t he relation of the parties of Paul and Peter in the 
apostolic age. These various hypotheses have long 
passed into oblivion; and by all recent critics of note 


the last two chapters have been restored to their place 
as an integral part of the epistle. 

With greater semblance of reason has the genuine- 
ness of the doxologv at the end of the epistle been 
questioned. Schmidt and Reiche consider it not to be 
genuine. In this doxology the anacolouthical and un- 
connected style causes some surprise, and the whole has 
been deemed to be out of its place (vers. 2G and 27). 
The arguments against its genuineness on the ground 
of style, advanced by Reiche, are met and refuted by 
Fritzsche {Rom. vol. i, p. xxxv). Such defects of style 
may easily be explained from the circumstance that the 
apostle hastened to the conclusion, but would be quite 
inexplicable in additions of a copyist who had time for 
calm consideration. The same words occur in different 
passages of the epistle, and it must be granted that 
such a fluctuation sometimes indicates an interpolation. 
In the Codex I, in most of the Codices Minusculi, as well 
as in Chrysostom, the words occur at the conclusion of 
ch. xiv. In the codices B, C, I), E, and in the Syrian 
translation, this doxology occurs at the conclusion of 
ch. xvi. In Codex A it occurs in both places; while in 
Codex D** the words are wanting entirely, and they 
seem not to fit into either of the two places. If the 
doxology be put at the conclusion of ch. xiv, Paul 
seems to promise to those Christians weak in faith, of 
whom he had spoken, a confirmation of their belief. 
But it seems unfit in this connection to call the Gos- 
pel an eternal mystery, and the doxology seems here 
to interrupt the connection between ch. xiv and xv; 
and at the conclusion of ch. xvi it seems to be super- 
fluous, since the blessing had been pronounced already 
in ver. 24. We, however, say that this latter circum- 
stance need not have prevented the apostle from allow- 
ing his animated feelings to burst forth in a doxology, 
especially at the conclusion of an epistle which treated 
amply on the mystery of redemption. We find an 
analogous instance in Eph. xxiii, 27, where a doxology 
occurs alter the mystery of salvation had been mention- 
ed. We are therefore of opinion that the doxology is 
rightly placed at the conclusion of ch. xvi, and that it 
was in some codices erroneously transposed to the con- 
clusion of ch. xiv, because the copyist considered the 
blessing in xvi, 24 to be the real conclusion of the epis- 
tle. In confirmation of this remark, we observe that 
the same codices in which the doxology occurs in ch. 
xvi either omit the blessing altogether or place it after 
the doxology. (See § iv, 7 below.) 

III. Time and IHace of Writing . — The date of this 
epistle is fixed with more absolute certainty and with- 
in narrower limits than that of any other of Paul’s epis- 
tles. The following considerations determine the time 
of writing. First. Certain names in the salutations 
point to Corinth as the place from which the letter was 
sent. (1.) Phoebe, a deaconess of Cenchrete, one of the 
port towns of Corinth, is commended to the Romans 
(xvi, 1, 2). (2.) Gains, in whose house Paul was lodged 

at the time (ver. 23), is probably the person mentioned 
as one of the chief members of the Corinthian Church 
in 1 Cor. i, 14, though the name was very common. 
(3.) Erastns, here designated “ the treasurer of the city” 
( oitcovopoQ , ver. 23, A. V. “chamberlain”), is elsewhere 
mentioned in connection with Corinth (2 Tim. iv, 20; 
see also Acts xix, 22). Secondly. Having thus deter- 
mined the place of writing to be Corinth, we have no 
hesitation in fixing upon the visit recorded in Acts xx, 
3, during the winter and spring following the apostle’s 
long residence at Ephesus, as the occasion on which the 
epistle was written. For Paul, when he wrote the let- 
ter, was on the point of carrying the contributions of 
Macedonia and Achaia to Jerusalem (xv, 25-27), and a 
comparison with Acts xx, 22; xxiv, 17 ; and also 1 Cor. 
xvi, 4; 2 Cor. viii, 1,2; ix, 1 sq., shows that he was so 
engaged at this period of his life. (See Palev, Fiores 
F\iulince, ch. ii, § 1.) Moreover, in this epistle he de- 
clares his intention of visiting the Romans after he has 
been at Jerusalem (xv. 23-25), and that such was his 


ROMANS, EPISTLE TO THE 103 ROMANS, EPISTLE TO THE 


design at this particular time appears from a casual no- 
tice in Acts xix, 21. 

The epistle, then, was written from Corinth during 
Paul’s third missionary journey, on the occasion of the 
second of the two visits recorded in the Acts. On this 
occasion he remained three months in Greece (Acts xx, 
3). When he left, the sea was already navigable, for 
he was on the point of sailing for Jerusalem when he 
was obliged to change his plans. On the other hand, 
it cannot have been late in the spring, because, after 
passing through Macedonia and visiting several places 
on the coast of Asia Minor, he still hoped to reach Je- 
rusalem by Pentecost (xx, 16). It was therefore in 
the winter or early spring of the year that the Epistle 
to the Romans was written. According to the most 
probable system of chronology, this would be the win- 
ter of A.D. 54-55. 

The Epistle to the Romans is thus placed in chrono- 
logical connection with the epistles to the Galatians 
and Corinthians, which appear to have been written 
within the twelve months preceding. The First Epis- 
tle to the Corinthians was written before Paul left Eph- 
esus, the Second from Macedonia when he was on his 
way to Corinth, and the Epistle to the Galatians most 
probably either in Macedonia or after his arrival at 
Corinth, i. e. after the epistles to the Corinthians, though 
the date of the Galatian epistle is not absolutely cer- 
tain. See Galatians, Epistle to the. We shall 
have to notice the relations existing between these con- 
temporaneous epistles hereafter. At present it will be 
sufficient to say that they present a remarkable resem- 
blance to each other in style and matter — a much great- 
er resemblance than can be traced to any other of Paul’s 
epistles. They are at once the most intense and most 
varied in feeling and expression — if we may so say, the 
most Pauline of all Paul’s epistles. When Baur ex- 
cepts these four epistles alone from his sweeping con- 
demnation of the genuineness of all the letters bearing 
Paul’s name (Paulas, der Apostel ), this is a mere cari- 
cature of sober criticism; but underlying this errone- 
ous exaggeration is the fact that the epistles of this pe- 
riod — Paul’s third missionary journey — have a charac- 
ter and an intensity peculiarly their own, correspond- 
ing to the circumstances of the apostle’s outward and 
inward life at the time when they were written. For 
the special characteristics of this group of epistles, see 
a paper on the Epistle to the Galatians in the Journal 
of Class, and Sacr, Phil, iii, 289. 

IV. Occasion and Object of Writing. — These evident- 
ly grew out of the position and character of the persons 
addressed, and therefore involve a consideration of the 
Church at Rome and of the apostle’s purposes with re- 
lation to it. 

1. The opinions concerning the general design of this 
letter differ according to the various suppositions of 
those who think that the object of the letter was sup- 
plied by the occasion, or the supposition that the apos- 
tle selected his subject only after an opportunity for 
writing was offered. In earlier times the latter opin- 
ion prevailed, as, for instance, in the writings of Thom- 
as Aquinas, Luther, Melancthon, Calvin. In more re- 
cent times the other opinion has generally been advo- 
cated, as, for instance, by Hug, Eichhorn, and Flatt. 
Many writers suppose that the debates mentioned in 
ch. xiv and xv called forth this epistle. Hug, there- 
fore, is of opinion that the object of the whole epistle 
was to set forth the following proposition: Jetcs and 
Gentiles have equal claim to the kingdom of God. Ac- 
cording to Eichhorn, the Roman Jews, being exasper- 
ated against the disciples of Paul, endeavored to demon- 
strate that Judaism was sufficient for the salvation of 
mankind; consequently Eichhorn supposes that the po- 
lemics of Paul were not directed against Judaizing con- 
verts to Christianity, as in the Epistle to the Galatians, 
but rather against Judaism itself. This opinion is also 
maintained by De Wette ( FAnleitung ins Neve Testa - 
ment, 4th ed. § 138). According to Credner ( Einleitung , 


§ 141), the intention of the apostle was to render the 
Roman congregation favorably disposed before his ar- 
rival in the chief metropolis, and he therefore endeav- 
ored to show that the evil reports spread concerning 
himself by zealously Judaizing Christians were errone- 
ous. This opinion is nearly related to that of Baur, 
who supposes that the real object of this letter is men- 
tioned only in eh.ix-xi. According to Baur, the Jndaiz- 
ing zealots were displeased t li at by the instrumentality 
of Paul such numbers of Gentiles entered the kingdom 
of God that the Jews ceased to appear as the Messianic 
people. Baur supposes that these Jndaizers are more 
especially refuted in ch. ix-xi, after it has been shown 
in the first eight chapters that it was in general incor- 
rect to consider one people better than another, and that 
all had equal claims to be justified by faith. Against 
the opinion that the apostle, in writing the Epistle to 
the Romans, had this particular polemical aim, it has 
been justly observed by Rhckert (in the 2d cd. of his 
Commentar'), Olshansen, and De Wette that the apos- 
tle himself states that his epistle had a general scope. 
Paul says in the introduction that he had long enter- 
tained the wish of visiting the metropolis, in order to 
confirm the faith of the Church, and to be himself com- 
forted by that faith (i, 12). lie adds (ver. 16) that he 
was prevented from preaching in the chief city by ex- 
ternal obstacles only. lie says that he had written to 
the Roman Christians in fulfilment of his vocation as 
apostle to the Gentiles. The journey of Phoebe to 
Rome seems to have been the external occasion of the 
epistle. Paul made use of this opportunity by sending 
l he sum and substance of the Christian doctrine in writ- 
ing, having been prevented from preaching in Rome. 
Paul had many friends in Rome who communicated with 
him; consequently he was the more induced to address 
the Romans, although he manifested some hesitation in 
doing so (xv, 15). These circumstances exercised some 
influence as well on the form as on the contents of the 
letter; so that, for instance, its contents differ consider- 
ably from the Epistle to the Ephesians, although this 
also has a general scope. 

2. The immediate circumstances under which the epis- 
tle was written were these. Paul had long purposed 
visiting Rome, and still retained this purpose, wishing 
also to extend his journey to Spain (i,9-13; xv, 22-29). 
For the time, however, he was prevented from carrying 
out his design, as he was bound for Jerusalem with the 
alms of the Gentile Christians, and meanwhile he ad- 
dressed this letter to the Romans, to supply the lack of 
his personal teaching. Phoebe, a deaconess of the neigh- 
boring Church ofCenchrete, was on the point of starting 
for Rome (xvi. 1-2), and probably conveyed the letter. 
The body of the epistle was written at the apostle’s dic- 
tation bv Tcrtius (ver. 22); but perhaps we may infer 
from the abruptness of the final doxology that it was 
added by the apostle himself, more especially as we 
gather from other epistles that it was his practice to 
conclude with a few striking words in his own hand- 
writing, to vouch for the authorship of the letter, and 
frequently also to impress some important truth more 
strongly on his readers. 

3. The Origin of the Roman Church is involved in 
obscurity (see Mangold, Die Aifange der romischen 6Y- 
jneinde [Marb. 1866]). If it had been founded by Pe- 
ter, according to a later tradition, the absence of any 
allusion to him both in this epistle and in the letters 
written by Paul from Rome would admit of no expla- 
nation. it Is equally clear that no other apostle was 
the founder. In this very epistle, and in close connec- 
tion with the mention of his proposed visit to Rome, 
the apostle declares that it was his rule not to build on 
another man’s foundation (xv, 20), and we cannot sup- 
pose that he violated it in this instance. Again, he 
speaks of the Romans as especially falling to his share 
as the apostle of the Gentiles (i, 13), with an evident 
reference to the partition of the field of labor between 
himself and Peter, mentioned in Gal. ii, 7-9. More- 


ROMANS, EPISTLE TO THE 104 ROMANS, EPISTLE TO THE 


over, when he declares his wish to impart some spiritual 
gift (xapKTfio) to them, “that they might be estab- 
lished” (i, 11), this implies that they had not yet been 
visited by an apostle, and that Paul contemplated sup- 
plying the defect, as was done by Peter and John in 
the analogous case of the churches founded by Philip 
in Samaria (Acts viii, 14-17). See Peter ( the Apostle ). 

The statement in the Clementines (Horn, i, § 6) that 
the first tidings of the Gospel reached Home during the 
lifetime of our Lord is evidently a fiction for the pur- 
poses of the romance. On the other hand, it is clear 
that the foundation of this Church dates very far back. 
Paul in this epistle salutes certain believers resident in 
Rome— Andronicus and Junia (or Junianus?)— adding 
that they were distinguished among the apostles, and 
that they were converted to Christ before himself (xvi, 
7), for such seems to be the meaning of the passage, 
rendered somewhat ambiguous by the position of the 
relative pronouns. It may be that some of those Ho- 
mans, “both Jews and proselytes,” present on the day 
of Pentecost (oi imdiHAovvrei; 'Viopcuoi, ’lovScuai re 
icai 7rpo(Tt)\vToi y Acts ii, 10), carried back the earliest 
tidings of the new doctrine, or the Gospel may have 
first reached the imperial city through those who were 
scattered abroad to escape the persecution which fol- 
lowed on the death of Stephen (Acts viii. 4 ; xi, 19). At 
all events, a close and constant communication was 
kept up between the Jewish residents in Home and their 
fellow-countrymen in Palestine by the exigencies of 
commerce, in which they became more and more en- 
grossed as their national hopes declined, and by the 
custom of repairing regularly to their sacred festivals 
at Jerusalem. Again, the imperial edicts alternately 
banishing and recalling the Jews (comp. e. g. in the 
case of Claudius, Josephus, Ant. xix, 5, 3, with Sueto- 
nius, Claud. 25) must have kept up a constant ebb and 
flow of migration between Home and the East, and the 
case of Aquila and Priscilla (Acts xviii, 2 ; see Paley, 
Jlor. Paul. c. ii, § 2) probably represents a numerous 
class through whose means the opinions and doctrines 
promulgated in Palestine might reach the metropolis. 
At first we may suppose that the Gospel was preached 
there in a confused and imperfect form, scarcely more 
than a phase of Judaism, as in the case of Apollos at 
Corinth (Acts xviii, 25), or the disciples at Ephesus 
(Acts xix, 1-3). As time advanced and better-instructed 
teachers arrived, the clouds would gradually clear away, 
till at length the appearance of the great apostle him- 
self at Rome dispersed the mists of Judaism which still 
hung about the Roman Church. Long after Christian- 
ity had taken up a position of direct antagonism to Ju- 
daism in Rome, heathen statesmen and writers still 
persisted in confounding the one with the other (see 
Merivale, Hist, of Rome, vi, 278, etc.). 

4. A question next arises as to the composition of the 
Roman Church at the time when Paul wrote. Did the 
apostle address a Jewish or a Gentile community, or, if 
the two elements were combined, was one or other pre- 
dominant so as to give a character to the whole Church ? 
Either extreme has been vigorously maintained, Baur, 
for instance, asserting that Paul was writing to Jewish 
Christians, Olshauscn arguing that the Roman Church 
consisted almost solely of Gentiles. We are naturally 
led to seek the truth in some intermediate position. 
Jowett finds a solution of the difficulty in the supposi- 
tion that the members of the Roman Church, though 
Gentiles, had passed through a phase of Jewish prose- 
Ivtism. This will explain some of the phenomena of 
the epistle, but not all. It is more probable that Paul 
addressed a mixed Church of Jews and Gentiles, the 
latter perhaps being the more numerous. 

There are certainly passages which imply the pres- 
ence of a large number of Jewish converts to Christian- 
ity. The use of the second person in addressing the 
Jews (ch. ii and iii) is clearly not assumed merely for 
argumentative purposes, but applies to a portion at least 
of those into whose hands the letter would fall. The 


constant appeals to the authority of “ the law” may in 
many cases be accounted for by the Jewish education 
of the Gentile believers (so Jowett, ii, 22), but some- 
times they seem too direct and positive to admit of this 
explanation (Rom. iii, 19 ; vii, 1). In ch. vii Paul ap- 
pears to be addressing Jews, as those who, like himself, 
had once been under the dominion of the law, but had 
been delivered from it in Christ (see especially verses 
4 and 6). And when in xi, 13 he says, “ I am speaking 
to you — the Gentiles,” this very limiting expression 
“ the Gentiles” implies that the letter was addressed to 
not a few to whom the term would not apply. 

Again, if we analyze the list of names in ch. xvi, and 
assume that this list approximately represents the pro- 
portion of Jew and Gentile in the Roman Church (an 
assumption at least not improbable), we arrive at the 
same result. It is true that Mary, or rather Mariam 
(xvi, 6), is the only strict!}’ Jewish name. But this 
fact is not worth the stress apparently laid on it by Mr. 
Jowett (ii, 27); for Aquila and Priscilla (ver. 3) were 
Jews (Acts xviii, 2, 26), and the Church which met in 
their house was probably of the same nation. Androni- 
cus and Junia (or Junias? ver. 7) are called Paul’s kins- 
men. The same term is applied to llerodion (ver. 11). 
These persons, then, must have been Jew’s, v’hethcr 
“ kinsmen” is taken in the v’ider or the more restricted 
sense. The name Apelles (ver. 10), though a heathen 
name also, was most commonly borne by Jew’s, as ap- 
pears from Horace (Rat. I, v, 100). If the Aristobulns 
of ver. 10 was one of the princes of the Herodian house, 
as seerns probable, we have also in “ the household of 
Aristobulns” several Jev’ish converts. Altogether it 
appears that a very large fraction of the Christian be- 
lievers mentioned in these salutations were Jew’s, even 
supposing that the others, bearing Greek and Latin 
names, of whom w r e know nothing, w’ere heathens. 

Nor docs the existence of a large Jev’ish element in 
the Roman Church present any difficulty. The captives 
carried to Rome by Pompev formed the nucleus of the 
Jew'ish population in the metropolis. See Rome. Since 
that time they had largely increased. During the reign 
of Augustus we hear of above 8000 resident Jews at- 
taching themselves to a Jewish embassy v'hich appealed 
to this emperor (Josephus, Ant. xvii, 11, 1). The same 
emperor gave them a quarter beyond the Tiber, and al- 
lowed them the free exercise of their religion (Philo, 
Leg. ad Citium, p. 568 M.). About the time when Paul 
v’rote, Seneca, speaking of the influence of Judaism, 
echoes the famous expression of Horace (Ep. ii, 1, 156) 
respecting the Greeks — “Victi victoribus leges dede- 
runt” (Seneca, in Augustine, I)e Civ. Dei, vi, 11). The 
bitter satire of Juvenal and indignant complaints of 
Tacitus of the spread of the infection through Roman 
society are well known (Tacitus, Ann. xv, 44; Juvenal, 
Sat. xiv, 96). These converts to Judaism were mostly 
women. Such proselytes formed at that period the 
point of coalescence for the conversion of the Gentiles. 

Among the converts from Judaism to Christianity 
there existed in the days of Paul two parties. The 
congregated apostles had decreed, according to Acts xv, 
that the converts from paganism were not bound to 
keep the ritual law's of Moses. There w’ere, how r ever, 
many converts from Judaism who were disinclined to 
renounce the authority of the Mosaic law, and appealed 
erroneously to the authority of James (Gal. ii, 9; comp. 
Acts xxi, 25); they claimed also the authority of Peter 
in their favor. Such converts from Judaism, mentioned 
in the other epistles, w r ho continued to observe the ritual 
law’s of Moses w’ere not prevalent in Rome: Baur, how- 
ever, supposes that this Ebionitic tendency prevailed at 
that time in all Christian congregations, Rome not ex- 
cepted. He thinks that the converts from Judaism 
were then so numerous that all were compelled to sub- 
mit to the Judaizing opinions of the majority (comp. 
Baur, A bhandlung iiher Zweck und Veranlassung des 
Romerbriefs, in the Tubingen Zeitschrift . 1836). How- 
I ever, Neander has also shown that the Judaizing tcu- 


ROMANS, EPISTLE TO THE 105 ROMANS, EPISTLE TO TIIE 


deucy did not prevail in the Roman Church (comp. 
Neander, Pjlanzung der christlichen Kirche [3d ed.], p. 
388). This opinion is confirmed by the circumstance 
that, according to ch. xvi, Paul had many friends at 
Rome. Baur removes this objection only by declaring 
ch. xvi to be spurious. lie appeals to ch. xiv in order 
to prove that there were Ehionitic Christians at Rome : 
it appears, however, that the persons mentioned in ch. 
xiv were by no means strictly Judaizing zealots, wish- 
ing to overrule the Church, but, on the contrary, some 
scrupulous converts from Judaism, upon whom the oth- 
ers looked down contemptuously. There were, indeed, 
some disagreements between the Christians in Rome. 
This is evident from xv, 6-9, and xi, 17, 18: these de- 
bates, however, were not of so obstinate a kind as among 
the Galatians ; otherwise the apostle could scarcely have 
praised the congregation at Rome as be does in ch. i, 8, 
12, and xv, 14. From ch. xvi. 17-20 we infer that the 
Judaizers had endeavored to find admittance, but with 
little success. 

On the other hand, situated in the metropolis of the 
great empire of heathendom, the Roman Church must 
necessarily have been in great measure a Gentile Church ; 
and the language of the epistle bears out this supposi- 
tion. It is professedly as the apostle of the Gentiles 
that Paul writes to the Romans (i, 5). lie hopes to 
have some fruit among them, as he had among the 
other Gentiles (ver. 13). Later on in the epistle he 
speaks of the Jews in the third person, as if addressing 
Gentiles: “I could wish that myself were accursed for 
my brethren, my kinsmen after the flesh, who are Isra- 
elites,” etc. (ix, 3, 4). Again : “ my heart’s desire and 
prayer to God for them is that they might be saved” (x, 1 ; 
the right reading is inrip avriov. not virip rov T (Tpca)\, 
as in the Received Text). Comp, also xi, 23, 25, and 
especially xi, 30: “For as ye in times past did not be- 
lieve God, ... so did these also (i. e. the Jews) now 
not believe,” etc. In all these passages Paul clearly 
addresses himself to Gentile readers. 

These Gentile converts, however, were not, for the 
most part, native Romans. Strange as the paradox 
appears, nothing is more certain than that the Church 
of Rome was at this time a Greek, and not a Latin, 
Church. It is clearly established that the early Latin 
versions of the New Test, were made not Ibr the use of 
Rome, but for the provinces, especially Africa (West- 
cott, Canon , p. 269). All the literature of the early 
Roman Church was written in the Greek tongue. The 
names of the bishops of Rome during the first two cen- 
turies are, with but few exceptions, Greek (see Milman, 
Latin Christianity , i, 27). In accordance with these 
facts, we find that a very large proportion of the names 
in the salutations of this epistle are Greek names; while 
of the exceptions. Priscilla, Aquila, and Junia (or Ju- 
nias), were certainly Jews; and the same is true of Ru- 
fus, if, as is not improbable, he is the same mentioned in 
Mark xv, 21. Julia was probably a dependent of the 
imperial household, and derived her name accordingly. 
The only Roman names remaining are Amplias (i. e. 
Ampliatus) and Urbanus, of whom nothing is known, 
but their names are of late growth, and certainly do not 
point to an old Roman stock. It was therefore from 
the Greek population of Rome, pure or mixed, that the 
Gentile portion of the Church was almost entirely drawn. 
The Greeks formed a very considerable fraction of the 
whole people of Rome. They were the most busy and 
adventurous, and also the most intelligent of the middle 
and lower classes of society. The influence which they 
were acquiring by their numbers and versatility is a 
constant theme of reproach in the Roman philosopher 
and satirist (Juvenal, iii, 60-80; vi, 18T; Tacitus, lie 
Orat. 29). They complain that the national character 
is undermined, that the whole city has beeome Greek. 
Speaking the language of international intercourse, and 
brought by their restless habits into contact with foreign 
religions, the Greeks had larger opportunities than oth- 
ers of acquainting themselves with the truths of the 


Gospel; while, at the same time, holding more loosely 
to traditional beliefs, and with minds naturally more 
inquiring, they would be more ready to welcome these 
truths when they came in their way. At all events, 
for whatever reason, the Gentile converts at Rome were 
Greeks, not Romans; and it was an unfortunate con- 
jecture on the part of the transcriber of the Syriac Pc- 
shito that this letter was written “ in the Latin tongue” 
(rHJOSV i). Every line in the epistle bespeaks an orig- 
inal. 

When we inquire into the probable rank and station 
of the Roman believers, an analysis of the names in the 
list of salutations again gives an approximate answer. 
These names belong for the most part to the middle and 
lower grades of society. Many of them are found in 
the columbaria of the freedmen and slaves of the early 
Roman emperors (see Journal of Class, and Sacr. Phil. 
iv, 57). It would be too much to assume that they 
were the same persons; but, at all events, the identity 
of names points to the same soeial rank. Among the 
less wealthy merchants and tradesmen, among the petty 
officers of the army, among the slaves and freedmen of 
the imperial palace, whether Jews or Greeks, the Gos- 
pel woidd first find a firm footing. To this last class 
allusion is made in Phil, iv, 22, “they that are of Cw- 
sar’s household.” From these it would gradually work 
upwards and downwards; but we may be sure that in 
respect of rank the Church of Rome was no exception 
to the general rule, that “not many wise, not many 
mighty, not many noble,” were called (1 Cor. i, 26). 

It seems probable, from what has been said above, 
that the Roman Church at this time was composed of 
Jews and Gentiles in nearly equal portions. This fact 
finds expression in the account, whether true or false, 
which represents Peter and Paul as presiding at the 
same time over the Church at Rome (Dionys. Cor. ap. 
Euseb. H. E. ii, 25; Irenseus, iii, 3). Possibly, also, the 
discrepancies in the lists of the early bishops of Rome 
may find a solution (Pearson, Minor Theol. TForfo, 
ii, 449; Bunsen, JJippo/ytus, i, 44) in the joint episco- 
pate of Linns and Cletus — the one ruling over the Jew- 
ish, the other over the Gentile, congregation of the me- 
tropolis. If this conjecture be accepted, it is an impor- 
tant testimony to the view here maintained, though we 
cannot suppose that in Paul’s time the two elements of 
the Roman Church had distinct organizations. 

5. The heterogeneous composition of this Church ex- 
plains the general character of the Epistle to the Romans. 
In an assemblage so various, we should expect to find 
not the exclusive predominance of a single form of er- 
ror, but the coincidence of different and opposing forms. 
The Gospel had here to contend not specially with Ju- 
daism, nor specially with heathenism, but with both to- 
gether. It was therefore the business of the Christian 
teacher to reconcile the opposing difficulties and to hold 
out a meeting -point in the Gospel. This is exactly 
what Paul does in the Epistle to the Romans, and what, 
from the circumstances of the case, he was well enabled 
to do. He was addressing a large and varied commu- 
nity which had not been founded by himself, and with 
which he had had no direct intercourse. Again, it does 
not appear that the letter was specially written to an- 
I swer any doubts, or settle any controversies, then rife in 
the Roman Church. There were therefore no disturb- 
ing influences, such as arise out of personal relations, or 
peculiar circumstances, to derange a general and sys- 
tematic exposition of the nature and working of the 
Gospel. At the same time, the vast importance of the 
metropolitan Church, which could not have been over- 
looked even by an uninspired teacher, naturally pointed 
it out to the apostle as the fittest body to whom to ad- 
dress such an exposition. Thus the Epistle to the Ro- 
mans is more of a treatise than of a letter. If we re- 
move the personal allusions in the opening verses, and 
the salutations at the close, it seems not more partic- 
ularly addressed to the Church of Rome than to any 


ROMANS. EPISTLE TO TIIE 106 ROMANS. EPISTLE TO THE 


other Church of Christendom. In this respect it differs 
widely from the Epistles to the Corinthians and Gala- 
tians, with which, as being written about the same time, 
it may most fairly be compared, and which are full of 
personal and direct allusions. In one instance alone we 
seem to trace a special reference to the Church of the 
metropolis. The injunction of obedience to temporal 
rulers (xiii, 1) would most iitly be addressed to a con- 
gregation brought face to face with the imperial govern- 
ment, and the more so as Rome had recently been the 
scene of frequent disturbances, on the part of either Jews 
or Christians, arising out of a feverish and restless antici- 
pation of the Messiah’s coming (Sueton. Claud. 25). Oth- 
er apparent exceptions admit of a different explanation. 

6. This explanation is, in fact, to be sought in its re- 
lation to the contemporaneous epistles. The letter to the 
Romans closes the group of epistles written during the 
second missionary journey. This group contains, be- 
sides, as already mentioned, the letters to the Corin- 
thians and Galatians, written probably within the few 
months preceding. At Corinth, the capital of Achaia 
and the stronghold of heathendom, the Gospel would 
encounter its severest struggle with Gentile vices and 
prejudices. In Galatia, which, either from natural sym- 
pathy or from close contact, seems to have been more 
exposed to Jewish influence than any other Church 
within Paul’s sphere of labor, it had a sharp contest 
with Judaism. In the epistles to these two churches 
we study the attitude of the Gospel towards the Gen- 
tile and Jewish world respectively. These letters are 
direct and special. They are evoked by present emer- 
gencies, are directed against actual evils, are lull of per- 
sonal applications. The Epistle to the Romans is the 
summary of what he had written before, the result of 
his dealing with the two antagonistic forms of error, 
the gathering together of the fragmentary teaching in 
the Corinthian and Galatian letters. What is there im- 
mediate, irregular, and of partial application is here ar- 
ranged and completed and thrown into a general form. 
Thus, on the one hand, his treatment of the Mosaic law 
points to the difficulties he encountered in dealing with 
the Galatian Church; while, on the other, his cautions 
against antinomian excesses (vi, 15, etc.), and his pre- 
cepts against giving offence in the matter of meats and 
the observance of days (ch. xiv), remind us of the er- 
rors which he had to correct in his Corinthian converts 
(comp. 1 Cor. vi, 12 sq. ; viii, 1 sq.). Those injunctions, 
then, which seem at first sight special, appear not to be 
directed against any actual known failings in the Ro- 
man Church, but to be suggested by the possibility of 
those irregularities occurring in Rome which he had 
already encountered elsewhere. 

7. Viewing this epistle, then, rather in the light of a 

treatise than of a letter, we are enabled to explain cer- 
tain phenomena in the text above alluded to (§ ii). In 
the received text a doxologv stands at the close of the 
epistle (xvi, 25-27). The preponderance of evidence is 
in favor of this position, but there is respectable au- 
thority for placing it at the end of ch. xiv. In some 
texts, again, it is found in both places, while others omit 
it entirely. The phenomena of the MSS. seem best ex- 
plained by supposing that the letter was circulated at 
an early date (whether during the apostle’s lifetime or 
not it is idle to inquire) in two forms, both with and 
without the two last chapters. In the shorter form it 
was divested, as far as possible, of its epistolary charac- 
ter bv abstracting the personal matter addressed espe- 
cially to the Romans, the doxologv being retained at 
the close. A still further attempt to strip this epistle 
of any special references is found in MS. G, which omits 
iv 1 *M[iy (i, 7) and ro7g iv Vibfiy (vcr. 15) ; for it is to be 
observed, at the same time, that this MS. omits the dox- 
ologv entirely, and leaves a space after ch. xiv. This view 
is somewhat confirmed by the parallel case of the opening 
of the Ephesian epistle, in which there is very high au- 
thority for omitting the words and which bears 

strong marks of having been intended for a circular letter. 


V. Scope , Contents, and Characteristics . — The elabo- 
rate argument and logical order observed in this epistle 
give it a very systematic character. Nevertheless, the 
bearing of many of its parts has often been greatly ob- 
scured or imperfectly understood, especially under the 
influence of polemical bias. On this account, as well as 
because of the great interest always attached to the 
fundamental doctrines so formally treated in it, we give 
an unusually full outline of its contents, even at the risk 
of some repetition. 

1. In describing the general purport of this epistle we 
may start from Raul’s own words, which, standing at the 
beginning of the doctrinal portion, may be taken as giv- 
ing a summary of the contents: “The Gospel is the 
power of God unto salvation to every one that believeth, 
to the Jew first and also to the Greek; for therein is the 
righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith” (i, 16, 
17). Accordingly the epistle has been described as com- 
prising “ the religious philosophy of the world’s history.” 
The world in its religious aspect is divided into Jew and 
Gentile. The different positions of the two, as regards 
their past and present relation to God and their future 
prospects, are explained. The atonement of Christ is 
the centre of religious history. The doctrine of justifi- 
cation by faith is the key which unlocks the hidden 
mysteries of the divine dispensation. 

It belongs to the characteristic type of Paul’s teach- 
ing to exhibit the Gospel in its historical relation to the 
human race. In the Epistle to the Romans, also, we 
find that peculiar character of Paul’s teaching which in- 
duced Schelling to call Paul’s doctrine a philosophy of 
the history of man. The real purpose of the human 
race is in a sublime manner stated by Paul in his speech 
in Acts xvii, 26,27 ; and he shows at the same time how 
God had, by various historical means, promoted the at- 
tainment of his purpose. Paul exhibits the Old-Test, 
dispensation under the form of an institution for the ed- 
ucation of the whole human race, which should enable 
men to terminate their spiritual minority and become 
truly of age (Gal. iii, 24; iv, 1-4). In the Epistle to 
the Romans, also, the apostle commences by describing 
the two great divisions of the human race, viz. those 
who underwent the preparatory spiritual education of 
the Jews, and those who did not undergo such a pre- 
paratory education. We find a similar division indi- 
cated by Christ himself (John x, 16), where he speaks 
of one flock separated by hurdles. The chief aim of all 
nations, according to Paul, should be the righteousness 
before the face of God, or absolute realization of the 
moral law. According to Paul the heathen also have 
their vopog, law , as well religious as moral internal rev- 
elation (Rom. i, 19,32; ii, 15). The heathen have, how- 
ever, not fulfilled that law which they knew, and are in 
this respect like the Jews, who also disregarded their 
own law (ch. ii). Doth Jews and Gentiles are trans- 
gressors, or, by the law, separated from the grace and 
sonshipofGod (ver. 12; iii, 20); consequently, if blessed- 
ness could only be obtained by fulfilling the demands 
of God, no man coidd be blessed. God, however, has 
gratuitously given righteousness and blessedness to all 
who believe in Christ (ver. 21-31). The Old Test, also 
recognises the value of religious faith (ch. iv). Thus 
we freely attain to peace and sonship of God presently, 
and have before us still greater things, viz. the future 
development of the kingdom of God (v, l-l l). The 
human race has gained in Christ much more than it 
lost in Adam (v, 12, 21). This doctrine by no means 
encourages sin (ch. vi); on the contrary, men who are 
conscious of divine grace fulfil the law much more en- 
ergetically than they were able to do before having at- 
tained to this knowledge, because the law alone is even 
apt to sharpen the appetite for sin and leads finally to 
despair (ch. vii) : but now we fulfil the law by means of 
that new spirit which is given unto us, and the full de- 
velopment of our salvation is still before us (viii, 1-27). 
The sufferings of the present time cannot prevent this 
development, and must rather work for good to those 


ROMANS, EPISTLE TO THE 107 ROMANS, EPISTLE TO THE 


whom God from eternity has viewed as faithful believ- 
ers; and nothing can separate such believers from the 
eternal love of God (viii, 28-39). It causes pain to be- 
hold the Israelites themselves shut out from salvation; 
but they themselves are the cause of this seclusion, be- 
cause they wished to attain salvation by their own re- 
sources and exertions, by their descent from Abraham, 
and by their fulHlmeut of the law. Thus, however, the 
.lews have not obtained that salvation which God has 
freely offered under the sole condition of faith in Christ 
(ch. ix); the Jews have not entered upon the way of 
faith, therefore the Gentiles were preferred, which was 
predicted by the prophets. However, the .Jewish race, 
as such, has not been rejected; some of them obtain 
salvation by a selection made not according to their 
works, but according to the grace of God. If some of 
the Jews are left to their own obduracy, even their tem- 
porary fall serves the plans of God, viz. the vocation of 
the Gentiles. After the mass of the Gentiles shall have 
entered in, the people of Israel, also, in their collective 
capacity, shall be received into the Church (ch. xi). 

2. The following is a more detailed analysis of the epis- 
tle: 

Salutation (i, 1-7). The apostle at the outset strikes the 
key-note of the epistle in the expressions “ called as an 
apostle,” “called ns saints.” Divine grace is everything, 
human merit nothing. 

I. Personal explanations. Purposed visit to Rome (i, 
S-15). 

II. Doctrinal discussion (i, 1C: xi, 30). 

The general •proposition. The Gospel is the salvation of 
Jew and Gentile alike. This salvation comes by faith 
(i, 16, 17). 

The rest of this section is taken up in establishing this 
thesis, and drawing deductions from it, or correcting 
misapprehensions. 

(a.) All alike were under condemnation before the Gos- 
pel : 

The heathen (i, 1S-32). 

The Jew (ii, 1-29). 

Objections to this statement answered (iii, 1-8). 

The position itself established from Scripture (iii, 
9-20). 

(6.) A righteousness (justification) is revealed under the 
Gospel, which being of faith, not ot‘ law, is also uni- 
versal (iii, 21-26). 

Boasting is thereby excluded (iii, 27-31). 

Of this justification by faith Abraham is an example (iv, 
1-25). 

Thus, then, we are justified in Christ, in whom alone \ve 
glory (v, 1-11). 

This acceptance in Christ is as universal as was the con- 
demnation in Adam (v, 12-19). 

(c.) The moral consequences of our deliverance. 

The. law was given to multiply sin (v, 20, 21). When we 
died to the law, we died to sin (vi, 1-14). The aboli- 
tion of the law, however, is not a signal for moral li- 
cense (ver. 15-23). On the contrary, as the law has 
passed away, so must sin, for sin and the law are cor- 
relative: at the same time, this is no disparagement 
of the law, but rather a proof of human weakness (vii, 
1-25). So henceforth in Christ we are free from sin, 
we have the Spirit, and look forward in hope, tri- 
umphing over our present afflictions (viii, 1-39). 

(d.) The rejection of the Jews is a matter of deep sorrow 
(ix, 1-5). 

Yet we must remember — 

(i.) That the promise was not to the whole people, but 
only to a select seed (ix, 6-13). And the absolute 
purpose of God in so ordaining is not to be can- 
vassed by man (ver. 14-19). 

(ii.) That the Jews did not seek justification aright, 
and so missed it. This justification was promised 
by faith, and is offered to all alike, the preaching to 
the Gentiles being implied therein. The character 
and results of the Gospel dispensation are fore- 
shadowed iu Scripture (x, 1-21). 

(iii.) That the rejection of the Jews is not final. This 
rejection has been the means of gathering in the 
Gentiles, and through the Gentiles they themselves 
will ultimately be brought to Christ (xi, 1-36). 

III. Practical exhortations (xii, 1 : xv, 13). 

(a.) To holiness of life and to charity in general, the duty 
of ohedience to rulers being inculcated by the way 
(xii, 1 ; xiii, 14). 

(6.) More particularly against giviug offence to weaker 
brethren (xiv, 1 ; xv, 13). 

IV. Personal matters. 

(a.) The apostle’s motive in writing the letter, and his 
intention of visitiuu the Romans (xv, 14-33). 

(b.) Greetings (xvi, 1-23). 

Conclusion. "The letter ends with a benediction and dox- 
ology (xvi, 24-27). 


3. While this epistle contains the fullest and most 
systematic exposition of the apostle’s teaching , it is at 
the same time a very striking expression of his charac- 
ter. Nowhere do his earnest and affectionate nature, 
and his tact and delicacy in handling unwelcome topics, 
appear more strongly than when lie is dealing with the 
rejection of his fellow -countrymen the Jews. See 
Paul. 

VI. The Commentaries on this epistle are very nu- 
merous, as might be expected from its importance. For 
convenience, we divide them chronologically into two 
classes. 

1. Of the many patristic expositions, but few are now 
extant. The work of Origen is preserved entire only 
in a loose Latin translation of Rufimis (6 trig. [ed. I)e la 
Due] iv, 458); but some fragments of tbe original are 
found in the Pkilocalia , and more in Cramer’s Catena. 
The commentary on Paul’s epistles printed among tbe 
works of Ambrose (ed. Ben. ii, App. p. 21), and hence 
bearing the name Amhrosiaster. is probably to be at- 
tributed to Hilary the deacon. Chrysostom is the most 
important among the fathers who attempted to inter- 
pret this epistle. He enters deeply and with psycho- 
logical acumen into the thoughts of the apostle, and 
expounds them with sublime animation (ed. Montf. ix, 
425, edited separately by Field, and trains], in tbe Li- 
brary of the Fathers [ Oxf. 1841], vol. vii). Besides 
these are the expositions of Paul’s epistles bv Pelagius 
(printed among Jerome’s works [ed. Vallarsi], vol. xi, 
pt. iii, p. 135), by Primasius (J fagn. Fill. Yet. Patr. vol. 
vi, pt. ii, p. 30), and by Tlieodoret (ed. Schulze, iii, 1). 
Augustine commenced a work, but broke off at i. 4. It 
bears the name Inchoatu Expositio Epistohe ad Rom. 
(ed. Ben. iii. 925). Later he wrote Expositio quunm- 
dam Propositiomnn Epistolce ad Rom ., also extant (ed. 
Ben. iii, 903). To these should be added tbe later Ca- 
tena of (Eeumenius (10th century), and the notes of 
Theophylact (11th century), the former containing val- 
uable extracts from Photius. Portions of a commentary 
of Cyril of Alexandria were published by Mai ( Nov. 
Patr. Bill, iii, 1). The Catena edited by Cramer (1844) 
comprises two collections of Variorum notes, the one 
extending from i, 1 to ix, 1, the other from vii, 7 to the 
end. Besides passages from extant commentaries, they 
contain important extracts from Apollinarius, Theodo- 
rus of Mopsuestia, Severianus, Gennadins, Photius, and 
others. There are also the Greek Scholia , edited by 
Matthai, in his large Greek Test. (Riga, 1782), from 
Moscow MSS. The commentary of Euthymius Ziga- 
benus (Tholuck, Einl. § G) exists in MS., but lias never 
been printed. Abelard wrote annotations on this epistle 
(in Opp. p. 489), likewise lingo Victor (in Opp. i), and 
Aquinas (in Opp. vi). See Commentary. 

2, Modern exegetieal helps (from the Reformation to 
the present time) on the entire epistle separately are the 
following, of which we designate the most important by 
ail asterisk prefixed: Titelmann, Collections (Antw. 
1520, 8vo); Melancthon, A dnotationes ( Vitemb. 1522, 
and often, 4to); Bugenhagen, fnterpretutio (Hag. 1523, 
1527, 8vo); CEcolampadius, A dnotatimes (Basil. 1520, 
8vo) ; Sadoleto [Rom. Catli.], Comment arii (Lugd. 1535, 
fol.); Haresehe [Rom. Catli.], Commentani (Par. 153G, 
8vo); *Calvin, Commentarins (in Opp.; in English by 
Silion, Loud. 1834, 8vo; by Rodsell and Beveridge, 
Edinb. 1844, 8vo; by Owen, ibid. 1849, 8vo; in Ger- 
man, Frankf. 183G-38, 2 vols. 8vo); Sarcer, Scholia 
(Fraucf. 1541, 8vo); Grandis [Rom. Catli.], Commen - 
tanas (Par. 154G, 8vo) ; Soto [Rom. Catli.], Commen- 
tarius (Antw. 1550; Salm. 1551, Ibl.); Hales, J)ispv- 
tationes (Vitemb. 1553, 8vo); Musenlus. Commentarins 
(Basil. 1555, 1572, fid. ); Valdes [Sociniau], Commen- 
taria (Veil. 155G, Svo); Naclanti [Bom. Catli.], Enar- 
rationes (ibid. 1557, 4to); Martyr, Commentarins (Basil. 
1558, fid., and later; in English, Loud. 15G8, fid.); Ali- 
gner [Rom. Catli.], Commentaria (Par. 1558, fid., and 
later); Ferns [Rom. Catli.], Exegesis (ibid. 1559, 8vo, 
and later) ; Bticer, Metaphrasis (Basil. I5G2, fol.) ; Mai- 


ROMANTICISTS 


ROMANS, EPISTLE TO TIIE 108 


thisins [Kom. Catli.], Comment arius (Colon. 1562, fol.) ; 
Cruciger, Continent arius (Vitemb. 15G7, Hvo); Brent, 
Commentarius (Tub. 1571, Hvo); Hesch, Commentarius 
(Jen. 1572, 8vo; also [with other epistles] Lips. 1G05, 
|‘ol.) ; Hemming, Commentarius (ibid. 1572, 8vo) ; Ole- 
vian, Xoke (Genev. 1579, 8vo) ; Wigand, Adnotationes 
( Franef. 1580, Svo); Comer, Commentarius (Heidelb. 
1583. 8vo): l>e la Cerda [Kom. Cath.], Commentarius 
(Vbyss. 1583. fol.); Mussi [Kom. Cath.], Commentarius 
(Yen. 1588, 4to); Pollock, .1 rudysis (Edinb. 1594; Ge- 
nev. 1 596, 1608, 8vo); Pantnsa [Kom. Cath.], Commen- 
tarius (Veil. 159G, 8vo) ; Ilium, Expositio (Marp. 1587 ; 
Franef. 159G; Vitemb. 1G07, 8vo) ; Pasqnal (R.) [Kom. 
Cath.], Commentaria (Bare. 1597, fol.); Chytneus, Ex- 
plica tio (s. 1. 1599, 8vo ) ; Fenardent [Kom. Cath. ], 
Commentarius (Par. 1599, 8vo) ; Toletus [Kom. Cath.], 
Adnotationes (Kom. 1602, 4to, and later) ; Pererius, Dis- 
putationes (Ingolst. 1603, 4to) ; Kung, Disputafiones [in- 
clud. 1 Cor.] (Vitemb. 1603, 4to) ; Fay, Commentarius 
(Genev. 1G08, 8vo); Parens, Commentarius (Franef. 
1G08, Ito. and later); Mann, Xotationes (ibid. 1614, 
8vo); Wilson, Commentary (Lond. 1614, 4to; 1627, 
1653, fol.); *\ViIlet, Commentaria (Lond. 1620, fol.); 
Contzen [Kom. Cath.], Commentarius (Colon. 1G29, fol.) ; 
Parr, Exposition [on parts] (Lond. 1G32, fol. ); Crell 
[Soeinian], Commentarius (Kacov. 163G, 8vo); Heger, 
Exegesis (Franef. 1G45, 8 vo ; 1651, 4to); Cundis, Exer- 
citationes (Jen. 1G4G, 4to), De Dieu, A nimadversiones 
[includ. other epistles] (L. B. 1G4G, 4to); Rudbeek, Vis- 
put atioiies (Aros. 1648, 4to); Brown (Sr.), Explana- 
tion (Edinb. 1651, 1759, 4to); Ferma, Analysis (ibid. 
1651, 12mo; in English, ibid. 1849, 8 vo) ; Elton, Trea- 
tises [on portions] (Lond. 1653, fol.), Weller, A dnota- 
tiones ( Brunsw. 1654, 4to); Wandalin (Sr.), Para- 
phrasis (Slesiv. 1656, 4to); Feurborn, Commentarius 
(Giess. 1661, 4to); Hipsted, Collationes (Brem. 1665, 
4to); Gerhard, A dnotationes (Jen. 1666, 1676, 4to) ; De 
Brais, Xotce (Salm. 1670; Lips. 1726, 4to) ; Groenwegen, 
Vytlegginge ( Gor. 1671, 4to); Mommas, Meditationes 
[includ. Gal.] (Hag. 1678, 8vo); Wittich, Investigatio 
(L. B. 1685, 4to) ; Alting, Commentarius (in Opp. vol. iii, 
iv; Amst. 1686, fol.); Van Leeuwen, Verhandeling (ibid. 
1688, 1699, 4to); Schmid, Paraphrasis [in portions] 
(Harnb. 1691—94, 4to); Van Peene, Nasporing (Leyd. 

1695, 4to; in German, Fr.-a.-M. 1697, 4to); Yaren, 
Exegesis (Ilamb. 1696, 8vo); Possalt, Erkldrnng (Zittan, 

1696, 4to); Fibns [Kom. Cath.], Interpretatio (Col. Ag. 
1696, fol.); Zierold, Exegesis (Starg. 1701, 1719, 4to); 
Loeke, Xotes (Lond. 1707, 4to); Dannhauer, Disputa- 
tiones ( Gryph. 1708, 4to ) ; Fisehbeek, Explanatio 
(Goth. 1720, 8vo) ; Streso, Meditation (Amst. 1721, 4to) ; 
A T an Til, Verklaring [inelud. Phil.] (Haarlem, 1721, 
4to); Wirth, Erkleirung (Nuremb. 1724, 8vo ) ; llase- 
voert, Verklaring (Leyd. 1725, 4to); Vitringa, Ver- 
klaringe (Franeek. 1729, 4to); Kambach, Erkleirung 
(Brem. 1738, 4to); also Introductio (Hal. 1727, Svo); 
Turretin, Pnrlectiones [on i-xi] (Lausan. 1741, 4to) ; 
Wandalin (Jr.), Preelectiones (llaf. 1744, 4to); Taylor 
[Unitarian], Xotes (Lond. 1745, 1747, 1754, 1769. 4to^ in 
German, Zur. 1774, 4to); Anton, Anmerkungen (Frankf. 
1746, 8vo) ; Baumgarten, A uslegung (Hal. 1749, 4to); 
Carpzov, SStricturm (Helms!. 1750, 1758, 8vo) ; Edwards, 
Annotations [includ. Gal.] (Lond. 1752, 4 to) ; Semler, 
Xotie (Hal. 1767, 8vo); Mosheim, Einleitung (ed. Boysen, 
Quedlinb. 1771, 4to); Moldenhauer, ErUiuterung (Ilamb. 
1775, 8vo); Kichter, Erkldrnng (Frankf. 1775, 8vo); 
Cramer, A uslegung (Leips. 1781, 8vo) ; Sehoder, A nmerk. 
(Frankf. 1785, 4to); Fuchs, Erliiuterung (Steud. 1789, 
8vo); Herzog, ErUiuterung ( Halle, 1791, 8vo); Keuss, 
A nmerk. (Giess. 1792, Hvo); Wunibald, A nnotationes 
(Heidelb. 1792, 8vo); Francke, A nmerk. (Gotha, 1793, 
8vo); Morns, Prirlectiones (Lips. 1791, Hvo); Jones 
[Unitarian], Analysis (Lond. 1801, Hvo); Mbbius, Jie- 
merk. (Jen. 1801, Hvo): Biih me, Commentarius (Lips. 
1806, Hvo); Stock, Lectures ( Duhl. 1806, Hvo); Wcin- 
gart, Commentarius (Goth. 1816, Hvo); Fry, Lectures 
(Lond. 1816, Hvo); *Tholuck, A uslegung (Bed. 1821, 


1828, 1831, 1836, 1856, 8vo; in English, Edinb. 1842, 
2 vols. Hvo; Phila. 1844, 8vo); Horneman, Commentar 
(Copenh. 1824, 8vo) ; Cox, Xotes (Lond. 1824, 8vo); 
Flat, Vorlesungen (Tub. 1825, 8vo) ; Bowles, Sermons 
( Bath, 1826, 12mo) ; Terrot, Notes ( Lond. 1828, Hvo) ; 
Stenerson, Commentarius (Lips. 1829, 8vo) ; Klee [Kom. 
Cath.], Commentar (Mainz, 1830, Hvo); Maitland, Dis- 
courses (Lond. 1830, 8vo); Moysey, Lectures (ibid. 1830, 
Hvo); *Kuekert, Commentar (Leips. 1831, 1839,2 vols. 
8vo); Benecke,i'>/a«te?'MHf 7 (lIeidelb. 1831, Svo; in Eng- 
lish, Lond. 1854, 8vo); Paulus, Erldvterung (Heidelb. 
1831, 8vo) ; Ritchie, Lectures (Edinb. 1831, 2 vols. 8vo) ; 
Geissler, ErUiuterung (Nuremb. 1831-33, 2 vols. 8vo) ; 
*Stuart, Commentary (Andover, 1832, 1835; Lond. 1857, 
Hvo); Parry, Lectures (ibid. 1832, 12mo); Keiehe, Er- 
kldrung (Gott. 1833-34, 2 vols. 8vo) ; Glockler, Erkld- 
rung (Frankf. 1834, 8vo) ; Kollner, Commentar (Darmst. 
1834, Hvo); *Hodge, Commentary (Phila. 1835, 1864, 
Hvo; also abridged, ibid. 1836); *De Wette, Erkldrung 
(Leips. 1835, 1838, 1840, 1847, Svo) ; Wirth, Erlauterung 
(Regensb. 1836, 8vo); Lossius, Erkldrung (Ilamb. 1836, 
Hvo); Stengel [Kom. Cath.], Commentar (Freib. 1836, 
8vo); *Fritzsche, Commentarius (Hal. 1836-43, 3 vols. 
8vo); Chalmers, Lectures (Glasg. 1837, 4 vols. 8vo, and 
later; N. Y. 1840, 8vo); Anderson, Exposition (Lond. 
1837, 12mo) ; Bosanquet, Paraphrase (ibid. 1840, 8vo) ; 
Haldane, Exposition (ibid. 1842, 1852, 3 vols. 12mo; 
N. Y. 1857, 8vo; in German, Ilamb. 1839-43, 3 vols. 
8vo) ; Sumner, Exposition [includ. 1 Cor.] (Lond. 1843, 
Hvo); Allies, Sermons (Oxf. 1844, 8vo); Reithmavr 
[Kom. Cath.], Commentar (Regensb. 1845, 8vo); Wal- 
ford, Xotes (Lond. 1846, 8vo); *Philippi, Commentar 
(Frankf. 1848, 1852, 3 vols. 8vo; Erlang. 1855, 1S67, 2 
vols. 8vo); Yinke, Verklaring (Utr. 1848, 1860. Hvo); 
Whitwell, Notes (Lond. 1848, 8vo); Krehl. Auslegung 
(Leips. 1849, 8vo); Marriott , Reflections (Lond. 1843, 
12mo); Ewbank, Commentary (ibid. 1850-51, 2 vols. 
Hvo); Steinhofer, Erkldrung (Nordl. 1851, 8vo); Prid- 
ham, Xotes (Bath, 1851, 12mo); *Turner, Commentary 
(N. Y. 1853, Svo); Knight, Commentary (Lond. 1854, 
8vo); Beelen [Kom. Cath.], Commentarius (ibid. 1854, 
Hvo) ; *llengl, Interpretatio (Lips. 1854-59, 2 vols. 8vo) ; 
Jowett, Xotes [includ. Gal. and Thess.] (Lond. 1855, 

1859, 2 vols. 8vo); Livermore [Unitarian], Commentary 
(Bust. 1855, 12mo); Purdue, Commentary (Dubl. 1855, 
Svo); Umbreit, A uslegung (Goth. 1856, Hvo); Ewald, 
Erlauterung (Gott. 1857, Svo) ; Brown (J., Jr.), Exposi- 
tion (Edinb. and N. Y. 1857, Svo); Bromehead, Notes 
(Lond. 1857, Svo) ; Stephen, Lectures (Aberdeen, 1857, 
12mo); Five Clergymen, Revision (Lond. 1857, Hvo); 
Camming, Readings (ibid. 1857, 12mo); Mehring, Er- 
kldrung (Stet. 1858-59, 2 vols. Hvo); Vaughan, Notes , 
(Lond. 1859, 1861, Hvo); Crawford, Translation (ibid. 

1860, 4 to) ; Brown (D.), Commentary (ibid. 1860, 8vo); 
Wardlaw, Lectures (ibid. 1861, 3 vols. 8vo); Colenso, 
Xotes (ibid. 1861, Svo); Ford, Illustration (ibid. 1862, 
Hvo) ; Hinton, Exposition (ibid. 1865, 8vo) ; Marsh, Ex- 
position (ibid. 1865, 12mo); Wangemann, Erkldrung 
(Berl. i860, Svo); Ortloph, A uslegung (Erlang. 1866, 
8vo); Prichard, Commentary (Lond. 1866, 8vo); Forbes, 
Commentary [on parallelisms] (ibid. 1868, 8vo); Hor- 
ton, Lectures (ibid. 1868 sq.. 2 vols. Hvo); *Delitzsch, 
Erlauterung (Leips. 1870, Svo); Chamberlain, Xotes 
(Lond. 1870, 12mo); Plnmer, Commentary (N. Y. and 
Edinb. 1871, Hvo) ; Best, Commentary (Lond. 1871, Hvo) ; 
O’Connor, Commentary (ibid. 1871, Hvo); Robinson, 
Xotes (ibid. 1871, 2 vols. Hvo) ; Phallis, Xotes (ibid. 1871, 
Hvo); Giirtner, Erkldrung (Stuttg. 1872, 8vo); Colet, 
Xotes (Lond. 1873, 8vo) ; St rung, A nalgsis (N. Y. 1873, 
Hvo); Neil, Xotes (Lond. 1877, Svo). See Epistlks. 

Romanticists, Tuk. A class of thinkers whose 
chief object was to introduce a new religion of human- 
ity and art. They were the advocates of the ideal, in 
opposition to the real, seeking to resolve religion into 
poetry, and morality into aesthetics. Rousseau was the 
first author to set forth the romantic view of life with 
any degree of consistency and decisiveness. He found 










P.Salaria 








ROM ANUS 


109 


ROME 


two disciples in Germany, Lavater (1741 - 1801) and Pes- 
talozzi (1746-18*26), and at about the same time (1724— 
1804) Kant lent his influence to this school. The prin- 
ciple of the Romanticists was life , and they represented 
ideas lyrically , as they ring in the raptures or agonies 
of the human heart. They represented the passions 
picturesquely, as they may burn in an individual char- 
acter belonging to a certain age, race, stage of life, etc. 
The decay of this school was a simple consequence of 
its artistic principle. Life is not the highest principle 
of art; the highest principle is truth. When this was 
seen, the question arose, What is truth? The Ro- 
manticists attempted a double answer, but failed in 
both. In Germany they said, Truth is only a symbol, 
and the highest symbols mankind possess are a Roman 
Catholic Church and the absolute monarchy. They 
despised the Reformation on aesthetic grounds as unro- 
mantic. Hence followed political reaction, conversion 
to Romanism, extravagances, insanity, and suicide. In 
England they said, There is no truth outside of the in- 
dividual ; take away all those abstract generalities which 
enslave the individuality, and the unbound Prometheus 
will show himself the truth. The result was disgust 
at life, despair at all. This branch of the Romantic 
school soon withered. In Germany the favorite phi- 
losopher of the Romanticists was Schelling, and their 
favorite divine Schleiermacher. The book which most 
fitly represents their school in England is the Sartor 
Resartus of Carlyle. — Gardner, Faiths of the World, s. v. ; 
Johnson, Cyclop, s. v. 

Romanus, the name of a number of saints of the 
Roman Catholic Church. 

1. Romanus Thaumaturgus, said to have lived at 
Antioch in the 5th century, to have led a very abstemi- 
ous life in a cave — partaking of only bread, salt, and 
water, and never kindling a fire — and to have wrought 
many wonders. His day is Feb. 9. 

2 . An archbishop of Rheims (530), a reputed relative 
of pope Vigilius, said to have been at first a monk and 
to have built a monastery in the neighborhood of Troyes, 
which was confirmed by Clodowig I. II is death took 
place in 533 or 534. His anniversary is Feb. 28. 

3. An abbot of the convent of Jaux, in Burgundy, 
who is said to have been born near the end of the 4th 
century and to have been consecrated priest by Hilary, 
the bishop of Arles. It is related that he retired into 
solitude at the age of thirty-five; that he introduced 
the hermit life into France, built cells and convents, and 
healed the sick through prayer and the kiss. He died 
in 460, and his day is also Feb. 28. 

4 . Albert and Domittan, said to have been mar- 
tyred at Rome. Their alleged remains were exhumed 
in Rome in 1659 and placed in the Jesuit church at 
Antwerp. They are commemorated March 14. 

5 . A monk in the diocese of Auxerre and Sens in 
the 6th century, who was divinely instructed to go from 
devastated Italy to France, and there built monasteries, 
converted many people to a monastic life, and wrought 
miracles. Ilis relics are preserved at Sens. His day 
is May 22. 

6. An archbishop of Rouen (622) said to belong to 
the royal family of France, of whom the legend relates 
that when a monster which devoured man and beast 
ravaged the city of Rouen, he provided a criminal who 
was awaiting death with the symbol of the cross and 
commanded him to remove the monster. The result 
was that the monster followed like a tame animal, and 
was burned. Romanus is said to have died in 639, and 
is commemorated on the reported date of his death, 
Oct. 23, and also on May 30. 

7 . A martyr, alleged to have been baptized by St. 
Laurent and to have been beheaded under Decius, A.D. 
255. Commemorated Aug. 9. 

8 . A deacon of Caesarea, martyred under Diocletian, 
to whom Nov. 18 is assigned. 

9 . A reputed priest of Bordeaux whose death is fixed 
in 318, of whom the legend states that many wonders 


were wrought through his prayers, particularly that of 
rescuing shipwrecked persons. His day is Nov. 24. 

See Ausjuhrl. lleiligen-Lex., with Calendar (Cologne 
and Fran kf. 1719), p. 1928 sq.; Les Vies d. Saints, etc. 
(Par. 1734), i, 243 ; ii, 101.— Ilerzog, Real-Encyki. s. v. 

Romanus, Rope in A.D. 897, reigned only four 
months and twentv-three days. A single letter is all 
that history has preserved of his remains, and the only 
remarkable event of his pontificate was his disapproval 
of the indignities inflicted by his predecessor, Stephen 
VI, on the lifeless body of Formosus 1 (891-896). See 
the article. Romanus abrogated the unjust decrees of 
his predecessor, by which all the acts of Formosus had 
been declared void, and confirmed the consecrations and 
other pontifical acts which had been so nullified. See 
Bower, Lives of the Popes, v, 71-73; Baronins, Aimales , 
A.D. 891-896. — Wetzer u. Welte, Kirchen-Lex . s. v. 

Rombouts, Dirck, a Flemish historical painter, 
was born at Antwerp July 1, 1597. A pupil of Jansen’s, 
he inherited the hatred of his master for Rubens, and 
opened a rival school. In 1617 he went to Italy, where 
his reputation was soon established, and he was called 
to the court of the grand-duke Cosmo II. He returned 
to Antwerp, where he spent the rest of his life. lie 
was master of the Guild of St. Luke and held municipal 
offices. He died in 1637. The Taking-doicn from the 
Cross,' St. Francis Receiving the Stigmata, and Themis 
with the Attributes of Justice show him to have pos- 
sessed the qualities of a great master. — English Cy- 
clopaedia, s. v. 

Rome (P ibprj [in Greek, strength ; bnt probably from 
Romulus, the founder], expressly mentioned in the Bi- 
ble only in the books of the Maccabees, and in Acts 
xviii, 2, etc. ; Rom. i, 7, 15; 2 Tim. i, 17 ; see also “ Baby- 
lon,” Rev. xiv, 8, etc.), the ancient capital of the Western 
world, and the present residence of the pope and capital 
of Italy. In the following brief account, we adhere in 
the main to the statements found in Kitto and Smith. 
See Roman Empire. 

I. General Description . — Rome lies on the river Ti- 
ber, about fifteen miles from its mouth, in the plain of 
what is now called the Campagna ( Felix ilia Campania, 
Pliny, Ilist . Nat. iii, 6), in lat. 41° 54' N., long. 12° 28' E. 
The country around the city, however, is not altogether 
a plain, but a sort of undulating table-land, crossed by 
hills, while it sinks towards the south - west to the 
marshes of Maremma, which coast the Mediterranean. 
In ancient geography, the country in the midst of which 
Rome lay was termed Latium, which, in the earliest 
times, comprised within a space of about four geograph- 
ical square miles the country lying between the Tiber 
and the Numicius, extending from the Alban Hills to 
the sea, having for its chief city Laurent uni. The 
“seven hills” (Rev. xvii, 9) which formed the nucleus 
of the ancient citv stand on the left (eastern) bank. 
On the opposite side of the river rises the far higher 
ridge of the Janiculum. Here from very early times 
was a fortress, with a suburb beneath it extending to 
the river. Modern Rome lies to the north of the an- 
cient city, covering with its principal portion the plain 
to the north of the seven hills, once known as the Cam- 
pus Martins, and on the opposite bank extending over 
the low ground beneath the Vatican to the north of the 
ancient Janiculum. 

The city of Rome was founded (B.C. 753) by Romulus 
and Remus, grandsons of Numitor, and sons of Rhea Syl- 
via, to whom, as the originators of the city, mythology 
ascribed a divine parentage. At first the city had three 
gates, according to a sacred usage. Fo muled on the 
Palatine Hill, it was extended, bv degrees, so as to take 
in six other hills, at the foot of which ran deep valleys 
that in early times were in part overflowed with water, 
while the hill-sides were covered with trees. In the 
course of the many years during which Rome was ac- 
quiring to herself the empire of the world, the city un- 
derwent great, numerous, and important changes. Un- 


ROME 


110 


ROME 



der its first kings it must have 
presented a very different as- 
pect from what it did after it 
liad been beautified by Tar- 
quin. The destruction of the 
city by the Gauls (A.U.C. 365) 
caused a thorough alteration 
in it; nor could the troubled 
times which ensued have been 
favorable to its being well re- 
stored. It. was not till riches 
and artistic skill came into the 
city on the conquest of Philip 
of Macedon and Antiochus of 
Syria (A.U.C. 565) that there 
arose in Pome large, handsome 
stone houses. The capture of 
Corinth conduced much to the 
adorning of the city, many fine 
specimens of art being trans- 
ferred thence to the abode of 
the conquerors. As the power 
of Pome extended over the 
world, and her chief citizens went into the colonies to 
enrich themselves, so did the masterpieces of Grecian 
art tlow towards the capital, together with some of the 
taste and skill to which they owed their birth. Au- 
gustus, however, it was who did most for embellishing 
the capital of the world, though there may be some sac- 
rifice of truth in the pointed saying that he found Rome 
built of brick and left it marble. Subsequent emperors 
followed his example, till the place became the greatest 
repository of architectural, pictorial, and sculptural skill 
that the world has ever seen — a result to which even 
Nero’s incendiarism indirectly conduced, as affording 
an occasion for the city’s being rebuilt under the higher 
scientific influences of the times. The site occupied by 
modern Pome is not precisely the same as that which 
was at any period covered by the ancient city: the 
change of locality being towards the north-west, the 
city has partially retired from the celebrated hills. 
About two thirds of the area within the walls (traced 
by Aurelian) are now desolate, consisting of ruins, gar- 
dens, and fields, with some churches, convents, and 
other scattered habitations. Originally the city was 
four miles in circumference. In the time of Pliny the 
walls were nearly twenty miles in circuit; now they 
are from fourteen to fifteen miles around. Its original 
gates, three in number, had increased in the time of 
the elder Pliny to thirty-seven. Modem Pome has 
sixteen gates, some of which are, however, built up. 
Thirty-one great roads centred in Pome, which, issu- 
ing from the Forum, traversed Italy, ran through the 
provinces, and were terminated only by the boundary 
of the empire. As a starting-point, a gilt pillar (Mil- 
liarinm Aureum) was set up by Augustus in the mid- 
dle of the Forum. This curious monument, from which 
distances were reckoned, was discovered in 1823. Eight 
principal bridges led over the Tiber; of these three are 
still relics. The four districts into which Pome was 
divided in early times, Augustus increased to fourteen. 
Large open spaces were set apart in the city, called 
Campi, for assemblies of the people and martial exer- 
cises. as well as for games. Of nineteen which are men- 
tioned, the Campus Martius was the principal. It was 
near the 1 iber, whence it was called Tiberinus. The 
epithet “ Martius” was derived from the plain being 
consecrated to Mars, the god of war. In the later ages 
it was surrounded by several magnificent, structures, and 
porticos were erected, under which, in bad weather, the 
citizens could go through their usual exercises. It was 
also adorned with statues and arches. The name of Fo- 
rum was given to places where the people assembled for 
the transaction of business. The Fora were of two kinds 
— fora venalta, “ markets;” fora civilia , “law-courts,” 
etc. Until the time of Julius Caesar there was but one 
of the latter kind, termed by way of distinction Forum 


Remains of the Forum at Rome. 

Romanum, or simply Forum. It lay between the Cap- 
itoline and Palatine Hills; it was eight hundred feet 
wide, and adorned on all sides with porticos, shops, and 
other edifices, on the erection of which large sums had 
been expended, and the appearance of which was very 
imposing, especially as it was much enhanced by nu- 
merous statues. In the centre of the Forum was the 
plain called the Curtian Lake, where Curtius is said to 
have cast himself into a chasm or gulf, which closed on 
him, and so he saved his country. On one side were 
the elevated seats, or suggesius , a sort of pulpit from 
which magistrates and orators addressed the people — 
usually called rostra, because adorned with the beaks 
of ships which had been taken in a sea-fight from the 
inhabitants of Antium. Near by was the part of the 
Forum called the Comitium, where were held the as- 
semblies of the people called Comitia Cnriata. The 
celebrated temple bearing the name of Capitol (of which 
there remain only a few vestiges) stood on the Capi- 
toline Hill, the highest of the seven ; it was square in 
form, each side extending about two hundred feet, and 
the ascent to it was by a flight of one hundred steps. 
It was one of the oldest, largest, and grandest edifices 
in the city. Founded by Tarquinius Priscus, it was 
several times enlarged and embellished. Its gates were 
of brass, and it was adorned with costl\ gildings; whence 
it is termed “golden” and “glittering,” aurea,fulge?is. 
It enclosed three structures, the Temple of Jupiter Cap- 
itolinus in the centre, the Temple of Minerva on the 
right, and the Temple of Juno on the left. The Capitol 
also comprehended some minor temples or chapels, and 
the Casa Eomuli, or cottage of Romulus, covered with 
straw. Near the ascent to the Capitol was the asylum. 
We also mention the Basilicas, since some of them were 
afterwards turned to the purposes of Christian worship. 
They were originally buildings of great splendor, being 
appropriated to meetings of the senate, and to judicial 
purposes. Here counsellors received their clients, and 
bankers transacted their business. The earliest church- 
es, bearing the name of Basilica?, were erected under 
Constantine. He gave his own palace on the Coelian 
Hill as a site for a Christian temple. Next in antiq- 
uity was the Church of St. Peter, on the Vatican Hill, 
built A.D. 324, on the site and with the ruins of temples 
consecrated to Apollo and Mars. It stood about twelve 
centuries, at the end of which it was superseded by the 
modern church hearing the same name. The Circi 
were buildings oblong in shape, used for public games, 
races, and beast-fights. The Theatra were edifices de- 
signed for dramatic exhibitions; the Ampliitheatra 
(double theatres, buildings in an oval form) served for 
gladiatorial shows and the fighting of wild animals. 
That which was erected by the emperor Titus, and of 
which there still exists a splendid ruin, was called the 


ROME 


111 


ROME 



Rome from the Pincian Hill; the Plaza del Popolo in the foreground, St. Angelo and St. Peter’s iu the distauce. 


Coliseum, from a colossal statue of Nero that stood near 
it. With an excess of luxury, perfumed liquids were 
conveyed in secret tubes around these immense struct- 
ures, and diffused over the spectators, sometimes from 
the statues which adorned the interior. In the arena 
which formed the centre of the amphitheatres, the early 
Christians often endured martyrdom by being exposed 
to ravenous beasts. 

See Smith, Did of Chtss . Geog. s. v. ; Parker, Archae- 
ology of Rome (Loud. 1877, 6 vols. 8vo) ; Wood, Guide 
to Rome (Loud. 1875) ; Cokeslv, Map) of A nc . Rome 
(Loud. 1852). 

IT. Judaism in Rome. — The connection of the Ro- 
mans with Palestine caused Jews to settle at Rome in 
considerable numbers. The Jewish king Aristobulus 
and his son formed part of Pompev’s triumph, and many 
Jewish captives and emigrants were brought to Rome 
at that time. A special district was assigned to them 
(Josephus, A nt. xiv, 10, 8), not on the site of the mod- 
ern “ Ghetto,” between the Capitol and the island of the 
Tiber, but across the Tiber (Philo, Leg . ad Caium, p. 
568, ed. Mangey). From Philo also it appears that the 
Jews in Rome were allowed the free use of their nation- 
al worship, and generally the observance of their ances- 
tral customs. With a zeal for which the nation had 
been some time distinguished, they applied themselves 
with success to proselytizing (Dion Cass, xxxvii, 17). 
Many of these Jews were made freedmen (Philo, loc.cit.). 
Julius Ciesar showed them some kindness (Josephus, 
Ant. xiv, 10, 8; Sueton. Ccesar , 84). They were favor- 
ed also by Augustus, and by Tiberius during the lat- 
ter part of his reign (Philo, loc.cit.). On one occasion, in 
the reign of Tiberius, when the Jews were banished 
from the city by the emperor for the misconduct of 
some members of their body, not fewer than four thou- 
sand enlisted in the Roman army which was then sta- 
tioned in Sardinia (Sueton. Tib. 3(1 ; Josephus, A nt. xviii, 
3,4). Claudius “commanded all Jews to depart from 
Rome” (Acts xviii, 2), on account of tumults connected, 
possibly, with the preaching of Christianity at Rome 
(Sueton. Claud. 25, “Judaeos impulsore Chresto assidue 
tumultuantes Roma expulit”). This banishment can- 
not have been of long duration, for we find Jew's resid- 
ing at Rome apparently in considerable numbers at the 
time of Paul’s visit (Acts xxviii, 17). The Roman bi- 
ographer does not give the date of the expulsion by 
Claudius, but Orosius (vii, 6) mentions the ninth year 
of that emperor’s reign (A.l). 50). The precise occa- 
sion of this expulsion history does not afford us the 


means of determining. The cause here assigned for 
their expulsion is that they raised disturbances, an al- 
legation which at first view 1 does not seem to point to 
a religious, still less to a Christian, influence. Vet w-e 
must remember that the words bear the coloring of the 
mind of a heathen historian, who might easily be led 
to regard activity for the diffusion of Christian truth, 
and the debates to which that activity necessarily led, 
as a noxious disturbance of the peace of society. The 
Epicurean view of life could scarcely avoid describing 
religions agitations by terms ordinarily appropriated to 
martial pursuits. It must equally be borne in mind 
that the diffusion of the Gospel in Rome — then the 
very centre and citadel of idolatry — was no holiday 
task, but would call forth on the part of the disciples 
all the fiery energy of the Jewish character, and on the 
part of the pagans all the vehemence of passion which 
ensues from pride, arrogance, and hatred. Had the or- 
dinary name of our Lord been employed by Suetonius, 
we should, for ourselves, have found little difficulty iu 
understanding the words as intended to be applied to 
Jewish Christians. Rut the biographer uses the word 
Chrestus. The us is a mere Latin termination; but 
what are we to make of the root of the word — direst 
for Christ ? Yet the change is in only one vowel, and 
Chrest might easily be used for Christ by a pagan writ- 
er. A slight difference in the pronunciation of the 
word as vocalized by a Roman and a Jew r would easi- 
ly cause the error. We know' that the Romans often 
did make the mispronunciation, calling Christ “Chrest” 
(Tertull. Apol. c. 3; Lactant. Inst, iv, 17; Just. Mart. 
A pot. c. 2). The point is important, and w r e therefore 
give a few details, the rather that Lardner has, under 
Claudius (i, 259), left the question undetermined. Now', 
in Tacitus {Annul, xv, 44) Jesus is unquestionably call- 
ed Chrest in a passage where his followers are termed 
Christians. Lucian, too, in his Philopatris , so desig- 
nates our Lord, playing on the word Chrestus (Xptj- 
wdiich, in Greek, signifies “good.” These are his 
words: “since a Chrest [a good man] is found among 
the Gentiles also.” Tertullian (ut sup.) treats the dif- 
ference as a case of ignorant mispronunciation, Chris- 
tianas being wrongly pronounced Chresiianus. The 
mistake may have been the more readily introduced 
from the fact that, while Christ was a foreign word, 
Chrest was customary. Lips that had been used to 
Chrest would, therefore, rather continue the sound than 
change the vocalization. The term Chrest occurs on 
inscriptions (lleumann, Sylloge , diss. i, 536), and epi- 


ROME 


112 


ROME 


grams in which the name appears may be found in 
Martial (vii, 55 ; ix, 28). In the same author (xi, 91) 
a diminutive from the word, namely, Chrestillus, may be 
found. The word assumed, also, a feminine form, Chres - 
ta, as found in an ancient inscription. Comp, also Mar- 
tial (vii, 55). There can therefore be little risk in 
asserting that Suetonius intended to indicate Jesus 
Christ by Chrestus; and we have already seen that the 
terms which he employs to describe the cause of the 
expulsion, though peculiar, are not irreconcilable with a 
reference on the part of the writer to Christians. The 
terms which Suetonius employs are accounted for, 
though they may not be altogether justified, b} r those 
passages in the Acts of the Apostles in which the col- 
lision between the Jews who had become Christians 
and those who adhered to the national faith is found 
to have occasioned serious disturbances (Kuinol, Acts 
xviii, 2; Rorsal, De Christo per Errorem in Chrest . Comm. 
[Groning. 1717]). Both Suetonius and Luke, in men- 
tioning the expulsion of the Jews, seem to have used 
the official term employed in the decree. The Jews were 
known to the Homan magistrate; and Christians, as be- 
ing at first Jewish converts, would be confounded un- 
der the general name of Jews. But that the Christians 
as well as the Jews strictly so called were banished by 
Claudius appears certain from the book of Acts; ami, 
independently of this evidence, seems very probable 
from the other authorities of which mention has been 
made. See Chrestus; Home. Jews in. 

III. Christianity at Rome . — Nothing is known of the 
first founder of the Christian Church at Home. Roman 
Catholics assign the honor to Peter, and on this ground 
an argument in favor of the claims of the papacy. 
There is, however, no sufficient reason for believing that 
Peter was ever even so much as within the walls of 
Rome (Ellendorf, 1st Petrus in Rom and Bischof der 
romischen Kirche yewesen ? [Darmstadt, 1843]). See 
Peter. Christianity may, perhaps, have been intro- 
duced into the city, not long after the outpouring of the 
Holy Spirit on the day of Pentecost, by the “ strangers 
of Rome” who were then at Jerusalem (Acts ii, 10). 
It is clear that there were many Christians at Rome 
before Paul visited the city (Rom. i, 8, 13, 15; xv, 20). 
The names of twenty-four Christians at Rome are given 
in the salutations at the end of the Epistle to the Ro- 
mans. For the difficult question whether the Roman 
Church consisted mainly of Jews or Gentiles, see Cony- 
beare and Ilowson, Life of St . Paul, ii, 157; Alford, Pro- 
ley. ; and especially Prof. Jowett, Epistles of St. Paul to 
the Romans, Galatians , and Thessalonians, ii, 7-26. The 
view there adopted, that they were a Gentile Church, 
but with many Jewish converts, seems most in harmony 
with such passages as i, 5, 13 ; xi, 13, and with the gen- 
eral tone of the epistle. See Romans, Epistle to. 

It may be useful to give some account of Rome in 
the time of Nero, the “Ca?sar” to whom Paul appealed, 
and in whose reign he suffered raartvrdom (Eusebius, 
//. E. ii, 25). 

1. The city at that time must be imagined as a large 
and irregular mass of buildings unprotected by an outer 
wall. It had long outgrown the old Servian wall (Di- 
onvs. Hal. Ant. Bom. iv, 13; ap. Merivale, Rom. Hist. 
iv. 497) ; but the limits of the suburbs cannot be exactly 
defined. Neither the nature of the buildings nor the 
configuration of the ground was such as to give a strik- 
ing appearance to the city viewed from without. “An- 
cient Rome had neither cupola nor campanile” (Conv- 
beare and Ilowson, Life of St. Paul , ii, 371 ; Merivale, 
Rom. Emp. iv, 512), and the hills, never lofty or impos- 
ing, would present, when covered with the buildings 
and streets of a huge city, a confused appearance like 
the hills of modern London, to which they have some- 
times been compared. The visit of Paul lies between 
two famous epochs in the history of the city, viz. its 
restoration by Augustus ami its restoration by Nero 
(Convbeare and Ilowson, i, 13). Some parts of the city, 
especially the Forum and Campus Martius, must now 


have presented a magnificent appearance; but man}' of 
the principal buildings which attract the attention of 
modern travellers in ancient Rome were not yet built. 
The streets were generally narrow and winding, flanked 
by densely crowded lodging-houses ( insulce ) of enor- 
mous height. Augustus found it necessary to limit 
their height to seventy feet (Strabo, v, 235). Paul’s 
first visit to Rome took place before the Neronian con- 
flagration, but even after the restoration of the city, 
which followed upon that event, many of the old evils 
continued (Tacitus, Hist, iii, 71; Juvenal, Sat. iii, 193, 
269). One half of the population consisted, in all prob- 
ability, of slaves. The larger part of the remainder 
consisted of pauper citizens supported in idleness by the 
miserable system of public gratuities. There appears 
to have been no middle class and no free industrial pop- 
ulation. Side by side with the wretched classes just 
mentioned was the comparatively small body of the 
wealthy nobility, of whose luxury and profligacy we 
hear so much in the heathen writers of the time. (See 
for calculations and proofs the works cited.) 

Such was the population which Paul would find at 
Rome at the time of his visit. We learn from the Acts 
of the Apostles that he was detained at Rome for “ two 
whole years,” “dwelling in his own hired house with a 
soldier that kept him” (Acts xxviii, 16, 30), to whom 
apparently, according to Roman custom (Seneca, Ep. v ; 
Acts xii, 6, quoted by Brotier, Ad Tac . Ann. iii, 22), he 
was bound with a chain (Acts xxviii, 20; Eph. vi, 20; 
Phil, i, 13). Here he preached to all that came to him, 
no man forbidding him (Acts xxviii, 30, 31). It is 
generally believed that on his “appeal to Caesar” he 
was acquitted, and, after some time spent in freedom, 
was a second time imprisoned at Rome (for proofs, see 
Convbeare and Howson, Life of St. Paul, ch. xxvii, 
and Alford, Gr. Test. vol. iii, eh. vii). Five of his epis- 
tles, viz. those to the Colossians, Ephesians, Philippians, 
that to Philemon, and the Second Epistle to Timothy, 
were, in all probability, written from Rome, the latter 
shortly before his death (2 Tim. iv, 6), the others during 
his first imprisonment. See also Hebrews, Eimstlk 
to the. It is universally believed that he suffered 
martyrdom at Rome. 

2. The localities in and about Rome especially con- 
nected with the life of Paul are — (1) The Appian Way, 
by which he approached Rome (Acts xxviii, 15). See 
Appii Forum. (2) “The palace,” or “Ctesar’s court” 
(to 7rpairujpiov, Phil, i, 13). This may mean either 
the great camp of the Praetorian guards which Tiberius 
established outside the walls on the north-east of the 
city (Tacitus, Ann. iv, 2; Suetonius, Tib. 37), or, as 
seems more probable, a barrack attached to the imperial 
residence on the Palatine (Wieseler, as quoted by Cony- 
beare and Ilowson, Life of St. Paul, ii, 423). There is 
no sufficient proof that the word “ prtetorium” was ever 
used to designate the emperor’s palace, though it is 
used for the official residence of a Roman governor (John 
xviii, 28; Acts xxiii, 35). The mention of “ Csesar’s 
household” (Phil, iv, 22) confirms the notion that Paul’s 
residence was in the immediate neighborhood of the 
emperor's house on the Palatine. 

3. The connection of other localities at Rome with 
Paul’s name rests only on traditions of more or less 
probability. We may mention especially — (1) The 
Mamertine prison, or Tullianum, built by Ancus Marcius 
near the Forum (Liv. i, 33), described by Sallust (Cat. 
55). It still exists beneath the Church of San Giuseppe 
dei Falegtiami. Here it is said that Peter and Paul 
were fellow-prisoners for nine months. This is not the 
place to discuss the question whether Peter was ever at 
Rome. It may be sufficient to state that though there 
is no evidence of such a visit in the New Test., unless 
Babylon in 1 Pet. v, 13 be a mystical name for Rome, yet 
early testimony (Dionysius, ap. Euseb. ii, 25) and the 
universal belief of the early Church seem sufficient to 
establish the fact of his having suffered martyrdom 
there. The story, however, of the imprisonment in the 


ROME 


113 


ROME, COUNCILS OF 



The Mamertiue Prison at Rome. 


Mamertine prison seems inconsistent with 2 Tim., espe- 
cially iv, 1 1. (2) The chapel on the Ostiaii Road which 
marks the spot w'here the tw'o apostles are said to have 
separated on their way to martyrdom. (3) The sup- 
posed scene of Paul’s martyrdom, viz. the Church of 
San Paolo alle tre Fontane, on the Ostian Road. (See 
the notice of the Ostian Road in Cains, ap. Enseb. //. E. 
ii, 25.) To these may be added, (4) The supposed scene 
of Peter’s martyrdom, viz. the Church of San Pietro 
in Montorio, on the Janiculum. (5) The chapel “ Do- 
mine quo Yadis,” on the Appian Road, the scene of the 
beautiful legend of our Lord’s appearance to Peter as he 
was escaping from martyrdom (Ambrose, Ep. 33). (6) 

The places where the bodies of the two apostles, after 
having been deposited first in the Catacombs ( tcoipgri )- 
pia) (Euseb. II. E. ii, 25), are supposed to have been 
finally buried — that of Paul by the Ostian Road, that of 
Peter beneath the dome of the famous basilica which 
bears his name (see Cains, ap. Enseb. II. E. ii, 25). All 
these and many other traditions will be found in the 
Annals of Baronius, under the last year of Nero. “Val- 
ueless as may be the historical testimony of each of 
these traditions singly, yet collectively they are of some 
importance as expressing the consciousness of the 3d 
and 4th centuries that there had been an early contest, 
or at least contrast, between the two apostles, which in 
the end was completely reconciled; and it is this feel- 
ing which gives a real interest to the outward forms in 
which it is brought before us — more or less, indeed, in 
all the south of Europe, but especially in Rome itself” 
(Stanley, Sermons and Essays, p. 101). 

4. We must add, as sites unquestionably connected 
with the Roman Christians of the apostolic age — (l) 
The gardens of Nero in the Vatican, not far from the 
spot where St. Peter’s now stands. Here Christians, 
wrapped in the skins of beasts, were torn to pieces by 
dogs, or, clothed in inflammable robes, were burned to 
serve as torches during the midnight games. Others 
were crucified (Tacitus, A nn. xv, 44). (2) The Cata- 

combs. These subterranean galleries, commonly from 
eight to ten feet in height, and from four to six in 
width, and extending for miles, especially in the neigh- 
borhood of the old Appian and Nomentan ways, were 
unquestionably used as places of refuge, of worship, and 
of burial by the early Christians. It is impossible here 
to enter upon the difficult question of their origin, and 
their possible connection with the deep sand-pits and 
subterranean works at Rome mentioned by classical 
w riters. See the story of the murder of Asinius (Cice- 
ro, Pro Cluent, 13), and the account of the concealment 
offered to Nero before his death (Suetonius, Nero, 48). 
A more complete account of the Catacombs than any 
previously given may lie found in G. B. de Rossi’s Roma 
Sotteriana Christiana (1864 sq.). Some very interesting 
notices of this work, and descriptions of the Roman Cata- 
combs, are given in Burgon’s Letters from Rome , p. 120- 
258. “ De Rossi finds his earliest dated inscription 

A.D. 71. From that date to A.D. 300 there are not 
known to exist so many as thirty Christian inscriptions 
bearing dates. Of undated inscriptions, however, about 
4000 are referable to the period antecedent to the em- 
peror Constantine” (Burgon, p. 148). See Catacombs. 
IN.-H 


The lately exhumed foundations of the Church of St. 
Clement are confidently claimed as relics of the same 
age (Mullooly, Clement's Basilica in Rome [Rome, 1873, 
8vo]). See Clement. 

Linns (who is mentioned in 2 Tim. iv, 21) and Clem- 
ent (Phil, iv, 3) are supposed to have succeeded Peter 
as bishops of Rome. See Linus. 

IV. Mystical Titles. — Rome, as being their tyrannical 
mistress, was an object of special hatred to the Jews, 
who therefore denominated her by the name of Babylon 
— the state in whose dominions they had endured a 
long and heavy servitude (Sclibttgen, flor. Ihb. i, 1125; 
Eisenmenger, Entdeckt. Judenth. i, 1800). Accordingly 
Rome, under the name of Babylon, is set forth in the 
Apocalypse (xiv, 8; xvi, 19; xvii, 5; xviii, 2) as the 
centre and representative of heathenism ; while Jerusa- 
lem appears as the symbol of Judaism. In xvii, 9 al- 
lusion is clearly made to the Septicollis, the seven-hilled 
city — “seven mountains on which the woman sittcth.” 
The description of this woman, in whom the profligacy 
of Rome is vividly personified, may be seen in Rev. xvii. 
In eh. xiii Rome is pictured as a huge, unnatural beast, 
whose name or number “is the number of a man, ami 
his number is x£ < r\” 666, not improbably Latinos , Aa- 
rdi'og, Latin, Roman. This beast has been most vari- 
ously interpreted. The several theories serve scarcely 
more than to display the ingenuity or the bigotry of 
their originators, and to destroy each other. 1M timer 
(De Oven It o Urbis Roma? Nomine [llafn. 1811]) thinks 
there is a reference to the secret name of Rome, the dis- 
closure of which, it was thought, would be destructive 
to the state (Pliny, Hist. Nat. iii, 9; Macrobins, Sat. iii, 
5; Plutarch, Quevst. Rom. c. 61 ; Servius, Ad sEn. ii, 
293). Pliny’s words occur in the midst of a long and 
picturesque account of Italy. Coming in the course of 
it to speak of Rome, he says, “the uttering of whose 
other name is accounted impious, and when it had been 
spoken by Valerius Soranus, who immediately suffered 
the penalty, it was blotted out with a faith no less ex- 
cellent than beneficial.” lie then proceeds to speak of 
the rites observed on the first of January, in connection 
■with this belief, in honor of Diva Angerona, whose im- 
age appeared with her mouth bound and sealed up. 
This mystic name tradition reports to have been Va- 
lencia. 

One of the most recent view's of the name of the 
beast, from the pen of a Christian writer, we find in 
Hyponoia , or Thoughts on a Spiritual Understanding 
of the Apocalypse (Loud. 1844). “The number in ques- 
tion (666) is expressed in Creek by three letters of the 
alphabet: six hundred; £, sixty; 7, six. Let us 

suppose these letters to be the initials of certain names, 
as it was common with the ancients in their inscriptions 
to indicate names of distinguished characters by initial 
letters, and sometimes by an additional letter, as C. 
Caius, Cn. Cneus. The Creek letter \ (ch) is the initial 
of XpuTTog (Christ); the letter £ is the initial of £?'X on 
(wood or tree) ; sometimes figuratively put in the New 
Test, for the cross. The last letter, 7, is equivalent to 
<t and r, but whether an s or an st, it is the initial of 
the word Satanas, Satan, or the adversary. Taking the 
first tw'o names in the genitive, and the last in the nom- 
inative, we have the following appellation, name, or ti- 
tle: Xpiarov £5Xop aarai’dg, ‘the adversary of the 
cross of Christ,’ a character corresponding with that of 
certain enemies of the truth described by Paul (Phil, 
iii, 19).” See Numbeu of the Beast. 

ROME. Bishop of. See Pope. 

ROME, Councils of. The most important are: 1. 
In 313, against the lapsi, and on discipline; 2. In 341, 
by pope Julius I and the Eastern bishops, in lavor of 
Athanasius; 3. In 352, by Liberius, for the same object ; 
4. In 358, against the emperor Constans and the here- 
tics; 5. In 364, at which w'ere present deputies from the 
Council of Lampsaeus; 6. In 366, at which the Macedo- 
nians adopted the Nicene Creed; 7. In 367, to examine 


ROME, JEWS IN' 


114 


ROME, JEWS IN' 


into the charge of adultery preferred against the pope 
Damasns; 8. In 369, by Damasus, at which Ursinus and 
Valera were condemned; 9. In 372, at which Auxen- 
tius, bishop of Milan, was excommunicated; 10. In 374, 
by Damasns. condemning Apollinaris; 11. In 375, con- 
demning Lucius, bishop of Alexandria; 12. In 376, against 
the Apollinarists and others; 13. In 380, fourth of Dam- 
asns, against the Sabellians, Arians, etc.; 14. In 400, 
against the Donatists; 15. In 430, against Nestorius; 
16. In 444, against the Manichees; 17. In 774, giving 
Charlemagne power to elect the Roman pontiff, and 
to invest all bishops; J8. In 963, deposing pope John 
XII and appointing Leo VIII; 19. In 964, deposing 
Leo VIII; 20. In 964, restoring Leo VIII and deposing 
Benedict V, etc. — Smith, Tables of Church Hist.; Lan- 
don, Manual of Councils. See Lateran ; Vatican. 

ROME, Jews in. The origin of the Jews in Rome 
is very obscure. If credit is to be given to a reading 
in Valerius Maximus, as it is found in two cpitomists — 
Julius Paris and Januari us Nepotianus— the Jews were al- 
ready in Rome in 139 B.C. The old reading was, “ Idem 
(t\ Cornelius Ilispalla, praetor peregrinus) qui Sabazii 
Jovis cultu simulate mores Romanos inticere conati sunt, 
domos suas repetere coegit.” The epitomists read : 

Paris. I Xcjwtianus. 

‘ ‘ Idem Judceos qni Sabazii | “Jndseos quoque qui Ro- 
Jovis cultu Romanos inticere manis tradere sacra sna co- 
mores conati sunt, repetere nati sunt, idem Hispalns nrbe 
domos suas coegit.” exterminavit arnsque priva- 

|tas a pnblicis locis abjecit.” 

If this reading be genuine, we find the Jews not merely 
settled in Rome, but a dangerous and proselyting peo- 
ple, three quarters of a century before the taking of 
Jerusalem by Pompev. But aside from the fact that 
both Paris and Nepotianus are post-Christian writers, 
t he question comes up, “ What have the Jews to do with 
Jupiter Sabazius — a Phrygian god?” Without argu- 
ing the question at any length, we may unhesitating- 
ly say that the whole is a flagrant anachronism, in- 
troduced into the text of Valerius after the time when 
the Jew's, either of themselves or as connected with the 
Christians, had become much more familiar to the gen- 
eral car. Friedlander, in his Darstellungen aus tier Sit- 
tengeschichte Poms, iii, 510, adopts the reading of Vale- 
rius Maximus as a source; but it is certain that the first 
settlement of the Jew's at Rome w'as under Pompey, 
when vast numbers of slaves w r ere brought to the cap- 
ital. These slaves w r ere publicly sold in the markets, 
but, if we may believe Philo, were soon emancipated by 
their tolerant masters, who w r ere unwilling to do violence 
to their religious feelings. Is it not more probable that 
there w'ere some, if not many, opulent commercial Jews 
already in Rome, “who, with their usual national spirit, 
purchased, to the utmost of their means, their unhappy 
countrymen, and enabled them to settle in freedom in 
the great metropolis?” Certain it is that at the time 
when Cicero delivered his memorable oration to vindi- 
cate Elaccus their influence was already felt; for being 
afraid of the large number of Jew's Cicero saw in the 
audience, he delivered his speech in a low voice (Cicero, 
Pro Fltieco, 28). Under Julius Crcsar they enjoyed great 
liberties; for, as Suetonius tells us, they were among the 
mourners— the most sincere mourners — at the obsequies 
of Caesar; they waited for many nights around his en- 
tombment (“ pnecipue Judtei qui noctibus coutinnis bus- 
turn frequeutaruut” \ Jnl. c. 81]). At the time of Au- 
gustus, the number of Jew's residing at Rome already 
amounted to several thousand. Tacitus gives their 
number at 4000, and Josephus states that 8000 w r ere 
present when Archelaus appeared before Augustus {Ant. 
xvii, 11,1; I Ft//', ii, 6, l). They formed the chief popu- 
lation of the trans-Tiberiue region: rt)v i repay rov Ti- 
/■FjOtwc; 7roTapov peydXij v rijc *P tbfnjQ a7roropi}y , tjv 
ovk i/yi'uei tcart\opiyi]V tcai oiKovpivijv 7t pbg 'lovCai- 
tov ’ \*(ofiahn ci gaav oi ttXhoiu; a7rtXf:v$£pio3rt vrtQ. 
Aixm'tXiOToi yap eic AraXtay, virb rioy kt)]- 

aa/itvujv iXevSepibSijoav, oidiv tujp Trarptwy 7r«pay«- 


pa%ai (3ia<rSfvT£Q. Such is the report Philo gives in 
Legat. ad Caiiim, § 23 (Mang. ii, 568). Augustus was 
at first an enemy to all foreign religions, and even 
praised Caius, the son of Agrippa, for not having sacri- 
ficed in Jerusalem (Sueton. Augustus, 93). But as he 
advanced in years he grew more superstitious, and final- 
ly ordered that sacrifices for his welfare should be offer- 
ed in the Jewish temple. The kindly feelings of Au- 
gustus tow ards the Jew's were no doubt increased by his 
private friendship for Herod, and we must not be sur- 
prised at the special favors shown to the Jew's by Au- 
gustus; for the less wealthy Jew's not only shared in 
the general largess of corn which was distributed among 
the poorer inhabitants of the city, but, by a special fa- 
vor of the monarch, their portion was reserved lor the 
following day if the distribution tell on a Sabbath. 

The first direct persecution of the Jew's occurred un- 
der the reign of Tiberius, w'ho sent 4000 Jewish youth 
against the robbers of Sardinia, purposely exposing 
them to the inclemencies of the climate (“si ob gravita- 
tem coeli interirent, vile damnum,” as Tacitus writes), and 
w’ho banished all the others from Rome (Tacit. Annctl. 
ii, 85 ; Sueton. Tiberius, 36). The ground of this decree 
is stated to have been the emperor’s desire to suppress 
all foreign superstitions, more especially the Jewish, 
which numbered many proselytes. Josephus explains 
that a certain Jewish impostor who acted as a rabbi in 
Rome had, in concert w r ith three other Jews, succeeded 
in proselytizing Fulvia, a noble Roman lady. On pre- 
tence of collecting for the Temple, they received from 
her large sums, which they appropriated to their own 
purposes. The fraud w r as detected, and Sejanus, who at 
that time w'as high in the emperor’s confidence, used 
the opportunity for inciting his master to a general per- 
secution of the Jew's. After the death of Sejanus, the 
Jew's were allow’ed to return to Rome to be oppressed by 
Caligula. Claudius (A.D. 41-45) again banished them 
from Rome, probably on account of the disputations and 
tumults excited by them in consequence of the spread 
of Christianity (“Judieos impulsore Chresto assidue tu- 
multuantes Roma expnlit” [Sueton. Claudius, 2bJ). Yet 
here, as elsewhere, oppression and persecution seemed 
not to be the slightest check on their increase, and it is 
true what Dion Cassius remarks, that the Jews w'ere a 
yivoc, KoXovaSrtv pi v 7ro\X«/eic, avfyi$iv fii irri ttXh- 
oto v (xxxvii, 17). They had a sort of council, or house 
of judgment, w'hich decided all matters of dispute. To 
this, no doubt, either in the synagogue or law-court at- 
tached to it, Raul expected to give an account of his 
conduct. “The numbers of the Jew's in Rome were, 
doubtless, much increased; but their respectability as 
well as their popularity w r as much diminished by the im- 
mense influx of the most destitute as well as of the most 
unruly of the race, w’ho w'ere swept into captivity by 
thousands after the fall of Jerusalem.” The change ap- 
pears to be very marked. Rome tolerated, indeed, all 
religions; but the exclusiveness and the isolation of 
the Jew's at Rome raised against them popular preju- 
dice. The language of the incidental uotices which 
occur about the Jews in the Latin authors, after this 
period, seems more and more contemptuous, and implies 
that many of them w r ere in the lowest state of penury — 
the outcasts of society. Juvenal bitterly complains 
that the beautiful and poetic grove of Egeria was let 
out to mendicant hordes of Jews, who pitched their 
camps, like gypsies, in the open air, with a w'allet and 
a bundle of hay for their pillow as their only furniture: 

“Nunc sacri fontis liemns et delnbra loenntur 
Judaeis, quorum cophinus foenumque supellex” 

{Sat. iii, 12). 

And Martial alludes to their filth, and, what is curious 
enough, describes them as peddlers, venders of matches, 
which they trafficked for broken glass (i, 42; xii, 46). 
Be it as it may, certain it is that the Jews had once a 
flourishing and influential congregation at Rome, as may 
be seen from Jewish inscriptions and tombstones which 
of late have been brought to light. 


HOME 


115 


KOMEYN 


Such was the checkered history of the dispersed of Is- 
rael during the period which ends with the destruction of 
Jerusalem. Their wanderings and settlements in other 
parts of Europe, and the events which befell them in 
the Roman empire and elsewhere, are fully treated in 
the articles Jew and Rome. 

See Schi'irer, Lehrbuch der nevtestam en tlivh en Zeitge - 
sckichte , p. 624 sq. ; Hausrath, Neutesta merit U ch e Zeitge- 
schichte. iii, 71-81 ; Edersheim, History of the Jewish 
Nation , p. 83 sq. ; Milman, History of the Jews, i, 458 sq.; 
Gratz, Gesch. d. Jnden . iii, 141, 142, 21 1, 212, 251 : Kraus, 
Roma Sotteranea : Die romischen Katukomben (1873), p. 
61 sq., 489 sq.; S. Garrncei, Cimitero degli A ntirhi Ebrei 
Scoperto recentemente in Yigna Randanini (Roma, 1862); 
Corpus Inscript . Grcec, vol. iv, Nos. 9901-9926. (B. 1\) 

Rome, Benjamin (brx-Jeuupa) of, a learned Jew, 
flourished in the 14th century, and is the author of com- 
mentaries on Kings, Chronicles, and Proverbs. They 
are still in J\1S., but “represent the sound and single 
exegesis of the Spanish school, abounding with quota- 
tions from Jonah lbn-Jaunah, Ibn-Gikatilla, Ibn-Ba- 
Iam, I bn- Ezra, Joseph Kirnchi,and David Kimchi, and 
are of considerable interest for the history of exegesis.” 
See De Rossi, Dizionario Storico degli ,1 utori Ebrei, p. 63 
(Germ, transl.); Ginsburg, Le vita's Massoreth ha-Mas- 
soreth, p. 81, note 91 ; Wolf, Bibliotheca IJebr. iii, 152, No. 
393; Steinschneider, Catulogns Libr. IJebr. in Bibl. Bod- 
leiana , p. 790, 1840, 2769 ; the same in the Jewish Liter- 
ature (Lond. 1857), p. 146,376; and Bibliographisches 
llandbuch , p. 21, No. 206 (Leips. 1859) ; Filrst, Bibl.Jud. 
i, 117. (B.R.) 

Rome Land, a large open space in front of the 
minster of Waltham, Bury St. Edmund’s, and St. Al- 
ban’s, called the forbnry at Reading, and probably the 
original of the tombland of Norwich, so called since 
1302. 

Rome Scot, or Rome Fee, an annual tribute of a 
thousand marks paid by king John to the see of Rome. 
The money was remitted for the support of an English 
school or college in Rome, and was held by some of the 
popes to be a proof of the dependence of England on 
the Roman see. It was abolished Jan. 15, 1534. See 
Petek- pence. 

Romeyn, the name of a family who have long 
been prominent in the ministry of the Reformed (Dutch) 
Church in America. Their ancestors tied from their 
native country, the United Provinces (now Belgium), 
during the persecutions of Louis XIV for conscience’ 
sake and for their attachment to the Protestant cause. 
They took their lives in their hands, leaving all their 
effects behind them. There were three brothers, one 
of whom went to England, and was the ancestor of the 
celebrated Rev. William Itomaine, author of The Life, 
the Walk , and the Triumph of Faith. He was the con- 
temporary and colaborer of Whitetield, Berridge, the 
countess of Huntingdon, and the Wesleys, with others 
of the great revivalists of the last century. The other 
two brothers, somewhere between 1650 and 1660, went 
to the Dutch West India Islands and Brazil. One of 
them died soon after. Claas Janse Romeyn, the sur- 
vivor, left Brazil when that country, which had been 
subject to the States-general, passed from their posses- 
sion in 1661. He came to New York and died about 
twelve years later. Of his descendants the following 
are entitled to notice among the deceased ministers of 
the Reformed Church. 

1. James, son of James Van Campen Romeyn, born at 
Greenbush, N. Y., in 1797, was a graduate of Columbia 
College in 1816, and of the Theological Seminary of the 
Reformed Church at New Brunswick in 1819. lie was 
settled successively at Nassau, N. Y., 1820-27 ; Six Mile 
Run, N. J., 1827-33; Hackensack, N. J., as colleague 
with his venerable father, 1833-36; Catskill, N. Y., 
1836-40; Leeds, N. Y., 1842-4*1; Bergen Neck, N. J.. 
1844-50; Geneva, N. Y., 1850-51. He had scarcely be- 
gun his labors at this place when he was stricken down 


with paralysis, of which he lingered, often in great suf- 
fering, until death brought him a happy release in 1859. 
He had previously been declared emeritus at bis own 
request by the classis to which he belonged — a provi- 
sion by which a minister is honorably discharged from 
active duties. None of the churches which he served 
offered him so prominent a position as his pulpit power 
seemed toothers to demand. But this was the result en- 
tirely of his own peculiar views, his feeble health, and of 
his very sensitive nature, which led him to decline more 
commanding places and enabled him to occupy a con- 
genial retirement. With these feelings he also declined 
the professorship of logic and rhetoric in Rutgers Col- 
lege, and seldom published any of his pulpit discourses. 
He was a frequent contributor to the religious press, 
writing upon almost all topics of current interest with 
equal ease and ability. His only published sermons 
were, one on The Crisis and its Claims upon the Church 
of God, preached, June, 1842, before the General Synod 
of the Reformed Church, of which he was the retiring 
president; another, entitled A Plea for the Evangelical 
Press, preached at the public deliberative meeting of 
the American Tract Society, October, 1843; and the 
very last effort of his pen, before he was paralyzed, en- 
titled Enmity to the Cross of Christ. These are all char- 
acteristic sermons. The last was published in Dr. H. 
C. Fish’s- Pulpit Eloquence of the. Nineteenth Century , 
and also in pamphlet form by the author as “A part- 
ing memorial to the people of his former charges.” He 
was the author of a famous Report on the State of the 
Church, made to the General Synod in 1848; and also 
published a remarkable address before the Greene Coun- 
ty Agricultural Society, during his residence there. In 
his will he forbade any posthumous publication of his 
discourses, llis correspondence would make one of the 
raciest volumes of epistolary writing in our language. 
Probably the best idea of his pulpit oratory and sermons 
may be formed from the statements which we quote. 
Dr. James W. Alexander, writing to a friend in Septem- 
ber, 1844, from Staten Island, says: “Here I heard James 
Romeyn ; and a more extraordinary man 1 never heard. 
Fulness of matter, every step sudden and unexpected, 
genius, strength, tire, terror, amazing and preposterous 
rapidity, contempt of rule and taste. It was an awful 
discourse: 1 Thcss. v, 3. It was one which I shall not 
soon forget.” Another contemporary says of him : “I 
think I see him now — his tall form, which, in face at 
least, I fancy to have been Laurence Sterne’s, strung up 
to the highest nervous tension, and his tongue pouring 
forth a lava-tide of burning eloquence, the most pow- 
erful to which I have ever listened. Powerful ,” he 
adds, “is just the word. I have heard men more re- 
markable for literary polish, more original in fancy, 
more erudite in learning, more winning in pathos; but 
for the grander sublimities of eloquence 1 never heard 
his equal. His denunciations were awful; he abound- 
ed in this style. 1 have heard of his preaching his first, 
sermon on the text , 1 Yet forty days and Nineveh shall 
be destroyed,’ of which the effect was startling. He 
abounded and excelled in illustration. He laid all lit- 
erature and knowledge under contribution for this pur- 
pose.” Yet with all these characteristics of a Boaner- 
ges, he was tender and soul-moving. He could as eas- 
ily bring tears to the eyes as terrors to the conscience. 
His zeal was flaming, llis love to Christ and to souls 
and to the kingdom of Christ burned in every sermon 
and inflamed every prayer. His prayers were as re- 
markable as his sermons for fulness, variety, point, and 
overwhelming effects. The hymnology of the Church 
afforded him more illustration, and was quoted with 
more power than by any other minister whom we ever 
heard. His grasp of a great subject, his analytic skill, 
his surprising fertility of figurative language, and his- 
torical, scientific, literary, and especially scriptural, illus- 
trations, his condensed, intense modes of expression, the 
beauty of his language, and the uplifting power of his 
eloquence made him, as a preacher, perfectly unique 


ROMEYX 


116 


EOAIEYN 


and inimitable. lie thought in figures, and his figures 
were powers. Ills voice was strong and commanding; 
his utterance was more rapid than that of anv other 
public speaker, not excepting the celebrated statesman 
liufus Choate; his action was as energetic as his 
thought, and perfectly exhausting to his weak and 
overtaxed body. He never went into his pulpit, not ' 
even to lecture in a country school-house, without the 
most careful preparation, ilis manuscript sermons and 
lectures are (piite as marvellous for their neat and mi- 
nute chirography as lbr their literary and theological 
contents. It is wonderful how he could read them in 
or out of the pulpit. But his physical and mental pe- 
culiarities seem to have been more acutely sensitive 
than those of ordinary mortals. He could see further, ( 
hear quicker, speak and think more rapidly than almost ' 
all others. But these very qualities brought with them j 
a more excitable and naturally irritable temperament, 
more impatience with things and people that were not 
right in his sight, and other infirmities that needed the 
constant control of divine grace to enable him to live 
for Christ. Yet he was, in private life, a most enter- 
taining and interesting companion, mirthful, exuberant, 
simple as a child, and a fast, friend. In the. ecclesiasti- 
cal affairs of his denomination he was a conspicuous and 
zealous worker, and although, as in his Report on the 
State of the Churchy he seemed to be far in advance of 
the times, yet, one by one, nearly all of his proposed 
changes have been adopted and incorporated with the 
policy and life of the Church. He dealt in principles 
and facts rather than in theories and fancies. His af- 
flictions enriched his experience, while they caused 
“ many a conflict, many a doubt.” His last days were 
beclouded by the saddening shadows of disease that 
fell upon the wreck of his body and mind. But the 
spirit of his piety and ministerial life still shot up its 
heavenly radiance through the gloom until he entered 
into rest. On his tombstone are graven these words 
expressive of his highest aims: “Thou hast dealt well 
with thy servant, O Lord! 1 have passed my days as 
a minister of Jesus Christ. That is enough ! That is 
enough ! I am satisfied. God has led me by a right 
way. Bless the Lord, O my soul !” 

2. James Van Cam pen, son of Lev. Thomas and 
Susannah (Van Campen) Komevn, was born at itf ini- 
sink, Sussex Co., N. J., Nov. 15, 1705. A child of the i 
covenant, he was converted at an early age, and was al- 
ways noted for conscientious piety and for the. simplic- 
ity and frankness of his well-balanced character, lie j 
was educated at the Schenectady Academy, which was j 
the germ of Union College, under the eye of his un- 
cle, Ur. Theodoric Komevn, with whom he afterwards 
studied theology, lie was licensed to preach the Gos- 
pel by the Synod of New York, Oct. 5, 1787, and im- 
mediately settled as pastor of the united churches of 
Greenbush and Schodac, Bensselaer Co., N. Y., opposite 
Albany. In 1794 he relinquished the Schodac Church 
and took charge of a new enterprise which he had or- 
ganized at Wynant’s Kill in connection with the Church 
at Greenbush. In 1799 he removed to New Jersey, 
having accepted a call to the united Second Church- 
es of Hackensack and Sehralcnburg, which had been 
formed out of the old original churches there, and 
where he remained until disease compelled him to cease 
all active service, in 1832. His ministry in New Jersey 
began at a period of bitter dissensions between the Cee- 
tus and Confercutie parties, which, perhaps, raged with 
more theological and personal violence in these two 
churches than in any other part of the Dutch denom- 
ination. True to the antecedents and instincts of his 
family, Mr. Komevn was a leader of the liberal and pro- 
gressive side. The reactionary party were, as a rule, 
arrayed also against the national struggle for indepen- 
dence. Bolides embittered t lie ecclesiastical disputes. 
Families were divided ; personal strifes ran so high that, 
in many cases, the opposing parties would neither wor- 
ship together, nor speak to each other, nor even turn 


out for each other on the roads. In 1822 another great 
conflict which had arisen some years previously cul- 
minated in the secession of Kev. Solomon Froeligh, D.D., 
a professor of theology and pastor of the old churches 
of Hackensack and Schralenburg, and four other cler- 
gymen, with seven congregations, who formed what 
they called the “True Kelormed Dutch Church in Amer- 
ica.” All the rancor and obstinacy of the old strifes 
seemed to be transferred to this unhappy movement, in 
which Mr, Komevn was necessarily involved as the chief 
representative of the faith and polity of the Church 
against which this revolt was directed. But he stood 
undaunted — prudent in counsel, energetic in action, and 
conciliatory in disposition. He was admirably fitted 
for his burdens by bis natural endowments, bis high 
moral qualities, and his pervading piety. No one could 
charge him with rash enterprise, doubtful expedients, 
personal antipathies, excited words, retaliating acts, or 
irritating and aggressive measures. In the affairs of 
the Church he was the ready helper, the judicious coun- 
sellor, the pacificator. Without the form of judicial 
authority, he wielded an influence far more effectual, 
desirable, and honorable. In person Mr, Korney n was 
tall, large and well proportioned, erect and of command- 
ing presence, dignified and impressive. He was retir- 
ing, modest, stable, strong, and earnest. Ilis piety was 
serene, profound, chastened by divine discipline, and 
developed with great simplicity and tenderness. Ilis 
mind was neither rapid nor brilliant nor original, but 
clear, comprehensive, well trained, and practical. In 
doctrine he was a strong Calvinist, holding the truth in 
love, “and insisting more upon the spirit which is life 
than upon the letter which killeth.” His own congrega- 
tions remained perfectly united and peaceful amid the 
surrounding strife, and his ministry was blessed with a 
stead}’ ingathering of souls and growth in grace. He 
preached from carefully prepared analyses, with fluent 
speech, terse expression, and a remarkable facility in 
the use of appropriate Scripture language. This was 
especially the case in his communion services, when the 
Church members stood around successive tables, and, as 
he gave with his own hand the broken bread to each 
one, he accompanied it with some brief quotation from 
the Bible particularly adapted to the circumstances of 
the recipient. Here his pastoral tact and intimate 
knowledge of his flock were often manifested with a 
power which melted every heart and carried his people 
up to the top of the mount of communion. He was 
very active and prominent in the general councils of 
the Church, for man}’ years was stated clerk, and in 
1800 president of the General Synod. From 1807 till 
his death he was a trustee of Rutgers College, and also 
rendered great aid in securing funds for the theological 
professorships. Ilis only published matter consists of a 
manifesto in regard to a controversy, an address to theo- 
logical students at New Brunswick {Magazine of the Re- 
formed Dutch Churchy iv, 202), and some synodical re- 
ports. lie died in perfect peace at Hackensack after a 
lingering illness of paralysis which had laid him aside 
from all pastoral work for eight years, June 27, 1840. 

3. Jeremiah, son of John and Juliana (M‘Cartv) 
Komevn, and nephew of the Kev. Thomas Komevn, 
Sr., was born in New York Dec. 24, 1708. He was 
educated at Hackensack Academy under the celebrated 
Peter Wilson, LL.D., and in theology under the Kev. 
I)rs. Theodoric Komeyn and John H. Meyer. Be- 
fore he was twenty years old he was ordained to the 
ministry, Nov. 10, 1788, and settled as pastor of a Dutch 
Church at Linlithgow, N. Y., Livingston’s Manor. In 
1800 he removed to Harlem, remaining there as pastor 
until 1814, when he went, to Delaware County, serving 
churches at Schoharie Kill and Beaver Dam. the latter 
of which was resuscitated by his labors. In 1817 he 
removed to Woodstock, N. Y., on account of his daugh- 
ter’s health, but after a few months was himself taken 
with the disease of which he died, July 17, 1 s 1 8. In 
1797 he was appointed professor of Hebrew by the Gen- 


R03IEYN 


m 


ROMEYN 


eral Synod of the Reformed Church, and held this of- 
fice until his death. “Ilis personal appearance,” says 
one of his pupils of 1812, “ was uncommonly imposing' — 
nearly six feet in height, of a full habit, grave, digni- 
fied, and graceful. 1 1 is head was finely formed, his vis- 
age large, with a dark-blue powerful eye, well set under 
an expanded brow; his countenance florid; his hair full 
and white, and usually powdered before entering the 
pulpit or associating with gentlemen of the old school.” 
As a preacher, he was distinguished by his “deep bass 
voice, of remarkable smoothness and considerable com- 
pass;” by an easy, deliberate manner; and by great ac- 
curacy of language, precision of thought, and variety of 
treatment. Tie was described as combining the Dutch 
style of pulpit method with the English mode of rea- 
soning and the French vivacity, and picturesque setting 
of illustration and expression with the most perfect self- 
command. His theological culture was large and pro- 
found, and his reputation as a linguist was very high. 
“ lie pronounced the Hebrew with the German accent, 
with great skill according to the Masoretic points. His 
attachment to this language brought him, and kept him 
for many years, in close intimacy with the Jewish rabbins 
and other teachers of Hebrew in New Fork, who often 
spoke of his high scholarship in this department.” His 
temperament was nervous and somewhat irritable, but 
his piety was pervasive and controlling. He was gen- 
erous, witty, impulsive, kind, and vivacious — religion 
and his pulpit absorbed his whole soul. His death was 
marked by the most perfect trust in “Christ, the hope 
of glory,” and by patient waiting for his coming. 

4. John Brodiiead, D.D., the on\y son of Theod- 
oric Komevn, w r as born at Marbletown, Ulster Co., 
N. Y., Nov. 8, 1777. After a preliminary education in 
the Schenectady Academy, he entered the senior class 
of Columbia College at the age of seventeen, and grad- 
uated with high rank in 1795. The next year he united 
with his father’s Church in Schenectady, and immedi- 
ately began his theological studies with I)r. John H. 
Livingston, but completed them under his father. At 
twenty-one he was licensed to preach by the Chassis of 
Albany, June 20, 1798. In 1799 he became pastor of 
the Reformed Church of Ehinebeek, Dutchess Co., N. Y., 
and labored there with increasing popularity and suc- 
cess until, in 1803, he took charge of the Presbyterian 
Church in Schenectady, which had united in a call upon 
him after a long period of division. This change ena- 
bled him to be with his aged father in his last days. 
After one year of labor, he went to the First Presbyte- 
rian Church in Albany, and sustained himself with great 
ability in that important Church at the capital of the 
state. Four years later (in 1808) he accepted the call 
of the newly formed Cedar Street Presbyterian Church 
in New York city, of which he continued the pastor 
until his death, which occurred Feb. 22, 1825, in the 
twenty-sixth year of his ministry. Dr. Romevn inher- 
ited the nervous sensibility, and the acute, rapid, and 
decisive characteristics of his family, lie was a man 
of medium size and fine personal appearance; quick in 
his movements, cultivated in manner, and earnest in his 
work. lie was a great reader, and his fine library was 
filled with well-used works in almost all departments of 
literature. His theological attainments were general 
rather than profound. As a preacher, he was among 
the foremost of his day. Even when the New York 
pulpit contained such men as Dr. John M. Mason and 
Dr. Alexander M‘Leod. he built up his new Church un- 
der the very shadows of their sanctuaries with complete 
success. With a congregation composed of the elite of 
the city, his popularity was maintained by discourses 
which always evinced careful preparation, and by a pas- 
toral tact winch was almost unrivalled. Few men have 
had such power to attach their people to their ministry 
as he. The greatest characteristic of his preaching was 
his magnetic power of attraction and impression. 1 1 is 
sermons were not remarkable for analysis or discussion, 
but in their application, and especially in dealing with 


consciences, and in appeals to the emotional nature, he 
was a prince of preachers. Ilis published volumes of 
sermons, like those of Whitcrield, do not sustain his 
great reputation as a pulpit orator. Their power over 
his audiences was doubtless owing to his impressive de- 
livery, which was generally pleasing, natural, and lull 
of vivacity. “At times every line of his face, even his 
whole frame, became instinct with passion, and then the 
eye kindled or became tearful, the very soul speaking 
through the body, that trembled with emotion or erect- 
ed itself into an attitude of authority. The torrent of 
feeling often subdued and carried away his hearers 
with responding emotion. Dr. Romevn, and young 
Spencer, of Liverpool, have always been associated in 
my mind as having strong points of resemblance” (Dr. 
Vermilye, in Sprague’s Annuls of the Amer . Pulpit, iv, 
223). His ministry was exceedingly blessed, and espe- 
cially among the young. “ Ilis catechetical classes were 
crowded. Of a very large Bible class of young ladies 
every one became a professor of religion. More young 
men became ministers from his congregation than from 
any other.” In addition to two volumes of Sermons 
(published in 1816 and reprinted in Scotland), Dr. Ro- 
meyn printed a number of occasional discourses, deliv- 
ered upon national and other important occasions — 
among these was an Oration on the Death of Washing- 
ton (1800). lie was active in the benevolent move- 
ments of his day — a trustee of Princeton College from 
1809; a principal agent in establishing the Theological 
Seminary in that place, and one of its first directors; 
moderator of the General Assembly in 1810, when he 
was but thirty-three years of age ; and one of the found- 
ers of the American Bible Society in 1816. He was also 
its first secretary for domestic correspondence. Ilis 
health was not equal to the constant strain to which 
his zealous spirit, peculiar trials, and infirmities of mind 
and bod} r subjected him. A tour in Europe in 1813 
and 1814 brought transient relief; but for more than a 
year prior to his death his strength gave way, and he 
finished his course with joy, making “earnest interces- 
sion for his family and his flock,” and supported by the 
most cheering heavenly prospects and triumphant faith 
in Christ, 

5. Theodore (or Dirok), D.D., a younger half- 
brother of Thomas, Sr., was born at Hackensack, N. J., 
Jail. 12 (O. S.), 1744. Ilis elementary education was 
received from his elder brother Thomas and the Rev. 
J. M. Goetschins, pastor of the united churches of Hack- 
ensack and Schralenburg. lie entered the junior 
class in Princeton College while the Rev. Dr. Finley 
was president, and graduated in 1765 in the same class 
with the younger Jonathan Edwards, who was his bos- 
om friend; and Dr. Sprague states that it was partly 
through his influence that Dr. Edwards was, many 
years after, chosen president of Union College. Con- 
verted at the age of sixteen, he immediately gave him- 
self up to the ministry of the Gospel, studied theology 
with the Rev. J. M. Goetschins, and was licensed in 
1766, after a two days’ examination, by the American 
Classis, or Coetus, of the Dutch Church. Ilis first set- 
tlement was at Marbletown,' Rochester, and Wa warsing, 
Ulster Co., N. Y., from 1766 to 1775. lie then removed 
to Hackensack, his native place, and Schralenburg, 
where he ministered until 1784, when he went to Sche- 
nectady, his last settlement (1784 to 1804). During 
this period he declined numerous urgent calls from more 
prominent, churches. He was twice elected president 
of Queen’s College (now Rutgers), N. J., but declined 
both invitations. Ilis zeal for education led him to es- 
tablish the Schenectady Academy, out of which grew f 
Union College, lie was the father of this institution, 
and its presidency was first offered to him, but declined 
for reasons satisfactory to himself. The General Synod 
of his Church appointed him lector in theology, an of- 
fice which he held from 1792 to 1797, when he was 
elected professor of theology, and so remained until his 
decease. Dr. Romevn was gifted with a powerful in- 


ROMEYN 


118 


ROMEYN 


telleet, mature ami comprehensive judgment, great ex- 
ecutive ability, a remarkably retentive memory, a strong 
will, and those marked qualities which made him “a 
leader and commander in Israel.” lie was foremost, 
with Dr. Livingston and others, in the movements 
which secured the independence of the Dutch Church 
from the control of the Church in Holland. His bold 
patriotism during the Revolutionary war made him a 
conspicuous mark for Tory and British persecutions and 
revenges. The British troops sacked his dwelling, and 
destroyed or carried off all his furniture, clothing, books, 
and papers. He was obliged to remove his family for 
safety, but made frequent visits to his congregations, 
which were always attended by danger; and at one time 
his life nearly paid the forfeit from armed loyalists. 
Among the prisoners who were carried off from Hack- 
ensack when it was attacked by the British was his own 
brother, who was held captive three months. He also 
saved a number of men by hiding them in his own 
house behind a chimney. During all this period he 
was in intimate relations with some of the most distin- 
guished officers of the army. “ He was the counsellor of 
senators, the adviser and compeer of the warriors of the 
Revolution, and an efficient co-worker with the patriot.” 
His pulpit oratory was powerful and popular. He was 
learned and yet practical; “a son of thunder,” and “a 
son of consolation” also. Ilis discourses were rich in 
solid matter, enlivened with historical anecdote and il- 
lustration. He went deeply into his subject, and his 
appeals to conscience and the feelings were at times 
overwhelming. His manner was natural, easy, and 
commanding. “ His most expressive organ was his eye, 
and when he was excited no one could withstand its 
power.” As a theological professor he gave full satis- 
faction to his students and to the Church which hon- 
ored him. He was stately, reserved, affable, but not 
familiar. Governor Dc Witt Clinton describes him as 
having “something in his manner peculiarly dignified 
and benevolent, calculated to create veneration as well 
as affection, and it created an impression upon my mind 
that can never be erased.” Another of his friends, and 
a student in theology (Dr. Jacob Brodhead), says that 
“in his external form, his manly, noble stature, his ma- 
jestic though sometimes stern countenance, he resem- 
bled the illustrious Washington.” Another says, “lie 
was unquestionably the first man in our Church, among 
the first in the whole American Church. Ilis piety 
was deep, practical, and experimental. He realized 
more than others his own errors and weaknesses, and 
trusted like a little child in the Saviour whom he 
preached and loved.” He died April 16, 1804, having 
been in the ministry thirty-eight years. Ilis wife was 
Elizabeth Brodhead, of Ulster Co., N. Y., by whom he 
had two children, a daughter and a son. The daughter 
became the wife of Caleb Beck, of Albany, and mother 
of three very eminent physicians — Drs. Theodoric Ro- 
meyn, Lewis C., and John B. Beck. The son was the 
Rev. John B. Romeyn, D.D., whose memorial is given 
above. 

6 . Thomas, Sr., son of Nicholas Romeyn, was born 
at Bomptou, N. J., March 20 (0. S.), 1720. Ilis father 
being a farmer, lie was brought up in the same calling 
until April, 1747, when he began to study for the Gospel 
ministry. lie was a student in Princeton College under 
the presidency of the Rev. Aaron Burr, D.D., and pur- 
sued his studies with the Rev. Theodorus Frelinghuysen, 
pastor of the Dutch Church in Albany, N. Y. Having 
completed this course, and received a call from the 
Dutch Church in Jamaica, L. I., lie sailed for Europe 
April 11, 1753, and was examined, licensed, ordained, 
and installed by the Classis of Amsterdam as pastor of 
the Church in Jamaica, to which he returned Aug. 27, 
1754. Ilis first wife was Margaret, daughter of the 
Rev. Theodorus Jacobus Frelinghuysen, by whom he 
had one son, the Rev. Theodorus Frelinghuysen Romeyn. 
She died at Jamaica in 1757. In 1760, oil account of 
difficulties in his congregation, he accepted a call to the 


Church at Minisink, on the Delaware River. After a 
pastorate of ten years he removed to Caughnawaga, 
N. Y., in 1770, where he continued as pastor of the 
Church until his decease at Mayfield, Montgomery Co., 
Oct. 22, 1794. He married his second wife, Susannah 
Van Carnpen, of Sussex County, N. J., Oct. 3, 1770. Six 
sons were born of this marriage. Of all his seven sons, 
four were educated for the ministry — Theodorus Fre- 
linghuysen, James Van Carnpen, Benjamin, and Thomas. 
Benjamin died soon after graduating at Williams Col- 
lege in 1796. The others were all ordained to the min- 
istry of their mother Church. Theodorus F. died in 
1785, after a single year of service as the beloved pastor 
of the churches of Bridgewater and Bedminster, N. J. 
Their venerable father was the first Low-Dutch minis- 
ter who settled west of Schenectady, in the valley of 
the Mohawk. His field of labor, being on the frontier, 
embraced large portions of what are now Fulton and 
Montgomery counties, surrounding the old church at 
Caughnawaga (now Fonda). His duties were conse- 
quently very arduous and often dangerous, from expos- 
ure to Indians and other pioneer trials. His missionary 
spirit w r as accompanied by intense devotion to the lib- 
eral views of the Ccetus, who advocated the education 
and ordination of the clergy in this country, and inde- 
pendence of the Church in Holland. During the whole 
period of the Revolutionary war he was an enthusiastic 
patriot. His residence on the frontier was the theatre 
of frequent alarms, murders, and desolations, which often 
interrupted, and at one time stayed, his ministerial la- 
bors. lie was obliged to flee with all his family into 
the interior for safety until the danger was passed. He 
is represented to have been of a mild and patient spirit, 
“enduring hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ,” 
and unostentatious in his demeanor. As a preacher, he 
was lucid and winning, strongly attached to the doc- 
trines of grace as set forth in the standards of his 
Church, and able in their defence. In the pulpit he was 
solemn, earnest, and tender. His last illness, for more 
than a year, was borne with meek submission to the 
will of God, until his long ministry of forty years was 
closed by death. His remains were buried in front of 
the pulpit in the old church where for tweutv-four years 
he had preached the Gospel of Christ. 

7 . Thomas, Jr., son of Rev. Thomas Romeyn, Sr., 
was born at Caughnawaga (now Fonda), N. Y., Feb. 
22, 1777. Educated in the classics by his brother, Rev. 
James Y. C. Romeyn, and at the Schenectady Academy, 
he graduated at Williams College, Mass., in Septem- 
ber, 1796; studied theology with Dr. Theodoric Romeyn 
in Schenectady; was licensed to preach by the Classis 
of Alban}' in 1798, and ordained in the Dutch Church 
of Remsenbiish (now Florida), N. Y., in 1800, having 
the double charge of that congregation and the Second 
Church of Schenectady. In 1806 he accepted the pas- 
toral care of the churches of Niskaynna and Amity, 
N. Y., and served them until 1827, when he was disabled 
by a fall, which lamed him for life and compelled him 
to abandon active duty as a settled minister. He had 
a large, powerful frame, and was dignified, humorous, 
courteous, and decided, as well as amiable and transpar- 
ently honest. His intellect was vigorous, his judgment 
almost uniformly correct, and his shrewd, pointed, quiet 
humor gave great zest to his deliberate and thoughtful 
speech. In the pulpit he was noted for theological ex- 
actness of statement, for knowledge and apt quotations 
of Scripture, for deep piety, and for practical usefulness. 
His attainments were respectable, but his wide influ- 
ence over a large section of the Church was chiefly due 
to his thorough knowledge of “the law of the house” 
and his wisdom as a counsellor and peace-maker. He 
died Aug. 9, 1859, revered by all who knew him, and in 
“ the full assurance of faith.” He was a pillar of the 
Reformed Church in the valley of the Mohawk. 

See Sprague, A minis of the A mer . Pulpit , i v, ix ; Cor- 
win. Manual of the Ref. Church ,* Magazine of the Ref. 
Dutch Church ; Life of Dr. J. H. Livingston ; Taylor, 


ROMMEL 


119 


RON GALA 


Annals of the CUtssis of Bergen; Fish, Pulpit Eloquence 
of the 19 th Century. (W. J. R. T.) 

Rommel, Dietrich Christopher von, the Hes- 
sian historian, was born April 17, 1781. For some time 
lie was prolessor at Marburg, ami from 1820 he resided 
at Cassel as president of the governmental archives, 
lie died in 1859. His historical works are of great im- 
portance to Church history. He published, Philipp der 
Grossmuthiye , Laiulyraf von Hessen. Ein Beit ray zur 
genaueren Ku/tde der Reformation mid des 10. Jahrhun- 
derts (Giessen, 1830, 3 vols. ): — Landgraf Philipp der 
Hochherziye a. die Reformation (Da mist. 1845) : — Kurze 
Gesch. d. hess. Kirchenverbesseruny unter d. Landyr. 
Philipp d. Grossmiithiyen , etc. (Cassel, 1817). See Wi- 
ner, Hundbitck der theolog. Literatur. i, 793; ii, 39; 
Zuchold, Biblioth. Theol. ii, 1082. (11. P.) 

Romowa, in Prussian mythology, is the sacred 
place of the ancient Prussians. A civil war had di- 
vided the native Prussians and the immigrant Skan- 
dians. Waidewnt and Grive, the first king and the 
first chief priest, had restored peace, and Grive after- 
wards assembled the people on a beautiful plain on 
which stood a massive oak with widely spreading 
branches. Before this tree he had placed throe images, 
which he called Potrimpos, Perknnos, and Pikullos, and 
declared them to be the supreme gods. Punishments 
were threatened and rewards promised in their names. 
Three niches were cut in the oak-tree which had been 
selected to become the home of the idols, and they were 
placed there with great solemnity. A pyre was then 
erected before the tree, from the top of which Grive 
exhorted the people, and on which sacrifices, including 
several unmanageable persons, were afterwards burned. 
A fearful thunder-storm, which the priest declared to be 
the voice of God, made the people tremble, and caused 
them to regard Grive with a dread that put them in 
mortal terror for centuries afterwards when they were 
obliged to approach him. The place in which this oc- 
curred was called Romowa. The priests continued to 
dwell and offer sacrifices there until the increased popu- 
lation and extension of its territories caused the estab- 
lishing of other sacred oaks. Christianity ultimately 
came in and extirpated them all, so that the location 
of the original Romowa is no longer known. — Vollmer, 
Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Romulus, a prime character in Roman mythology; 
but which of the legends concerning this alleged founder 
and earliest king of their city was regarded as genuine 
by the Romans is wholly uncertain, since our informa- 
tion is based on very modern sources. The following 
tradition had, however, become quite generally estab- 
lished in the flourishing period of Roman literature: 
Two brothers belonging to the royal family descended 
from TEneas and reigning in Alba, who were named 
Numitor and Amulins, divided their inheritance so that 
Numitor received the throne and Amulins the treasure. 
Amulius, however, soon dethroned his brother, and made 
a vestal of his daughter Ilia, or Rhea Silvia, in order to 



The Cupitohuc Wolf Suckling Romulus uud Remus. 


guard against offspring on her part. She was, how- 
ever, approached by the god Mars, and gave birth to 
the twins Romulus and Remus, whom Amulius caused 
to be exposed by means of a servant on the overflowed 
banks of the Tiber. They were nourished by a she- 
wolf and a bird, until found by the shepherd Fanstulus, 
who bore them to his house and reared them with the 
assistance of his wife, Acca Larentia. On arriving at 
manhood, they dethroned and killed Amulius and re- 
instated their grandfather Numitor. After this they 
founded a new city (Rome) ; but in the progress of the 
work a quarrel broke out between them, and Remus was 
slain by his brother’s hand. Romulus now reigned alone 
in the new state, and after his death was venerated as a 
god under the name of Quintals. , because of the declara- 
tion of Julius Proculus that Romulus had appeared to 
him in superhuman form. A bronze group of the wolf 
suckling the twins is still preserved in the Capitoline 
Palace, and constitutes one of the most eminent relies 
of ancient Roman art. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. 
s. v. See Smith, Diet, of Class. Biog. s. v. 

Romus, in Greek mythology, was the son of Ulysses 
and Circe. 

Ronde, Lambert us dk, a minister of the Reformed 
(Dutch) Church in America, was colleague with Jo- 
hannes Ritzema in the Collegiate (Dutch) Church of 
New York, and successor to the venerable Gualterus du 
Bois from 1751 to 1784. With his associate Ritzema he 
was thoroughly educated in one of the universities of 
Holland, and brought to his pulpit ample preparations. 
When driven from New York during the Revolutionary 
war, he supplied the Church of Schaghticokc, near Al- 
bany. where he resided during the rest of his life, being 
too old to resume his labors. He preached only in the 
Dutch language, and was the leading spirit in opposi- 
tion to the introduction of English preaching, and in 
the lawsuit which resulted in favor of the consistory 
and against ‘‘the Dutch party,” who had to pay in 
costs £300. Notwithstanding all this, his character 
was always venerated, and he died in a good old age 
at Schaghticoke, his place of voluntary exile, in 1795. 
The consistory of the Church in New York gave him an 
annuity of £200 for life after he left their active service, 
and the same was given to his aged colleague Ritzema, 
who died at Kinderhook, N. Y. Mr. de Ronde was a 
man of respectable attainments and abilities as a preach- 
er, but was not so eminent for these things as he was for 
his part in the ecclesiastical controversies in that transi- 
tion period of the Dutch Church. Sec De Witt, Hist. 
Discourse , p. 70; Gunn, Life of Livingston, p. 88, 164; 
Corwin, Manual of the Ref. Ch. p. 70. (W. J. R. T.) 

Roney, Moses, a minister of the Reformed Presb}'- 
terian Church, was born in Washington Comity, Pa., 
Sept. 20, 1804. In his fourteenth year he entered the 
grammar-school of Jefferson College, and graduated 
from the college in 1823. He spent some time in teach- 
ing in Baltimore, and then pursued his studies under 
Dr. Wilson, receiving his license June 8, 1829. lie was 
ordained and installed pastor in Newburgh, N. Y., June 
8, 1830. In the great controversy concerning the rela- 
tions of the Church to the authorities of the United 
States he opposed the proposed changes. In 1836 the 
Synod chose him to be editor of a contemplated maga- 
zine, which first appeared in March following as The 
Reformed Presbyterian, and which he conducted, with 
the exception of a single year, until it reached the mid- 
dle of the eighteenth volume. In 1848, on account of 
ill-health, he resigned the editorship, and the next year 
took charge of the literary institution in Allegheny, Pa., 
which he retained until nearly the time of his death 
(July 3, 1854). See Sprague, Annals of the A mer. Pul- 
pit, ix, 79. 

Rongala, in South -Sea Island mythology, is the 
name of the supreme being or highest god among the 
inhabitants of the Caroline Islands, in the Pacific 
Ocean. 



RONSDORF SECT 


120 


ROOD 


Ronsdorf Sect. This name has been given to 
the clique of fanatics founded by Elias Eller (q. v.) at 
Elberfeld, and subsequently transferred to Ronsdorf, in 
the duchy of Berg, Germany. 

Rood (Saxon), a cross or crucifix. The term is more 
particularly applied to the large cross erected in Roman 
Catholic churches over the entrance of the chancel or 
choir. This is often of very large size, and when com- 
plete is, like other crucifixes, accompanied by the fig- 
ures of St.John and the Blessed Virgin, placed one on 
each side of the foot of the cross; but these are often 
omitted. Lights are frequently placed in front of these 
roods, especially on certain festivals of the Church. — 
Barker, Gloss, of Architect, s. v. 



Occasionally roods or crucifixes are found sculptured 
outside of churches, on churchyard crosses, on wayside 
crosses, and at the entrance of chantries and oratories. 
There is a much-defaced example at Sherborne Minster, 
in Dorsetshire. — Lee, Gloss, of Liturg. Terms, s. v. 

Many churches were dedicated to the holy rood, as 
the abbey near Edinburgh, and at Daglingworth, Caer- 
inarthen, Bettws-v-Grog, Capel Christ, Southampton, 
Wood Eaton, Swindon, and others. The Church of 
SS. Vincent and Anastas! us, after it received the ad- 
dition of a transept, was called Holy Cross, from its new 
shape. The rood was set before the feet of the dying, 
stretched on straw or ashes, emblems of mortality, and 
also, Beleth says, erected at the head of graves. — Wal- 
cott, Sac. A rchceol. s. v. 

ROOD-ALTAR, an altar standing under the rood- 
screen. In large churches there were generally two, 
one on each side of the entrance into the choir. 

ROOD-ARCII, the arch which separates the choir 
from the nave of a cathedral or church, under which 
the rood-screen and rood were anciently placed. 

ROOD-BEAM, or ROOD-LOFT. The rood spo- 
ken of above was supported either by a beam called 
the rood -beam, or by a gallery called the rood-loft , 
over the screen separating the choir or chancel of a 
church from the nave. Rood-lofts do not appear to 
have been common in England before, if so soon as, 
the 14th century. They were approached from the in- 
side of the church, generally by a small stone staircase 
in the wall, which is often to be found in churches 
which have lost all other traces of them. The front 
was frequently richly panelled, and the under-side form- 
ed into a large covered cornice, or ornamented with 
small ribs and other decorations, connecting it with 
the screen below. Although most of the rood-lofts in 
England have been destroyed, a considerable number 


of examples (more or less perfect) remain, as at Long 
Sutton, Kingsbury Episcopi, Barnwell, Dunster, Ti tu- 
be rscnmbc. Minehead, and Winsham, Somersetshire ; 
Newark, Nottinghamshire; Charlton - on -Otmoor, and 
Handborough, Oxfordshire ; Merevale, Knowle, and 
Worm -Leighton, Warwickshire ; Flamsted, Hertford- 
shire ; Uffendon, Bradninch, Collumpton, Dartmouth, 
Kenton, Plymptree, and Hart land, Devon, etc. The 
rood-loft was occasionally placed above the chancel- 
arch, as at Northleach, Gloucestershire. It sometimes 
extended across the first arch of the nave, as in Castle 
Hedingham Church, Essex. There are some very fine 
and rich rood-lofts in Wales, in churches which are in 
other respects plain and poor. — Parker, Gloss, oj Archi- 
tect. s. v. 

ROOD-BOWL, a bovd of latten or other material, 
with a pricket in the centre, to hold a taper for lighting 
the rood-screen. 

ROOD-CHAINS, those chains by which, in the case 
of large figures placed on or heside the rood, such figures 
were supported. These chains were inserted in the roof 
in front of the chancel arch. Remains of such chains are 
to be seen at Collumpton, Devonshire. 

ROOD-CLOTH (or Rode-Cloth), the veil by 
which the large crucifix or rood, which anciently stood 
over the chancel-screen, was covered during Lent. Its 
color in England was either violet or black, and it was 
frequently marked with a white cross. We find exam- 
ples of this cloth figured in mediaeval illuminations. — 
Lee, Gloss, of IAturg. Terms , s. v. 

ROOD-DOORS, the doors of the rood-screen, sepa- 
rating the nave from the chancel. 

ROOD-GALLERY. See Rood-loft. 

ROOD-GAP, the space under a chancel-arch. 

ROOD-LIGHT, a light, whether from a mortar with 
taper or from oil-lamps or cressets, placed on or about 
the rood-beam. Such were kept continually burning in 
ancient parish churches. 

ROOD-LOFT. See Rood-beam. 

ROOD-MASS, a term sometimes applied (I) to the 
daily parish mass, said in large churches at the altar 
under the rood-screen; and (2) sometimes to the mass 
said on Holy-cross Day, or on the feast of the Exaltation 
of the Holy Cross. 

ROOD-SAINTS, images of the Virgin Mary and of 
John the beloved disciple, which were placed on each 
side of the rood. 

ROOD-SCREEN, a screen separating the choir or 
chancel of a church from the nave. Above it was a 
gallery supporting the rood, and called the rood-loft. 
The rood-screen had no upper loft, or solar. In early 
times it had three doors, one facing the altar, the sec- 
ond fronting the gospel side, and a third the epistle 
side. Before it veils were dropped at the consecration. 
— Walcott, Sac. A rchceol. s. v. 

ROOD-STAIR, the staircase winding up to the rood 
(q. v.). 

ROOD-STEEPLE, or ROOD-TOWER. This name 
is sometimes applied to the tower built over the inter- 
section of a cruciform church. 

ROOD-STEPS, the steps into a choir or chancel, 
commonly found under or immediately before the rood- 
screen. 

Rood, Anson, a Presbyterian divine, was ordained 
at New Haven, Conn., in 1829. He took up his residence 
in Philadelphia, Pa., where he died in 1857. He pub- 
lished, .1 (Iturch M anual far the Members of the Pres- 
byterian Church (Phila. 1843, 8vo) ; several pamphlets 
and papers on theological subjects, temperance reform, 
etc.; and edited a daily paper in Philadelphia. See 
Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. A uthors , s. v. 


ROOF 


121 


ROOF 


Roof (MJl, gag; areyjj, INIatt. viii, 8; Sutga, Acts x, 
9). The roofs of dwelling-houses in the entire East, 
because of the generally dry weather, are made fiat and 
are surrounded with a guard or railing (n|32p; are- 
<pdvrj. See Dent. xxii,8, where the parapet is insisted 
on, and comp. Thomson, Land and Book , i, 48 sq. ; 2 
Kings, i, 2; comp. Mishna, J loed Katan , i. 10; Michael is, 
Mas. Bit. iv, 350). Anciently only buildings intended 
for display had raised roofs; such as temples (Cicero, 



Orat. iii, 26; Philo, ii, 43; Sueton. Claud, xvii). So 
the Temple in Jerusalem, we are told by Jewish writers, 
was arched or vaulted, so that no one should repair 
thither for the same purposes as to the roofs of the 
houses (comp, also Jerome, A d Suniam et Fretel. p. 6G1). 
In the East the roof consists usually of a water-proof 
tiling (Mariti, Trav. p. 240 sq. ; Tavernier, Voyage , i, 
108) or of stones (Vitruv. ii, 1, 5; Schweigger, Reis. 
p. 203), and is raised a little at one side or in the mid- 
dle to shed water (Pliny, xxxvi, 62; Burckhardt, A rub, 
p. 152). Pipes are also used to convey the water into 
cisterns (see Maimon. ad Middoth, vi, 6). A kind of 
weak, perishable grass commonly grew up between the 
tiles (Psa. cxxix, 6; 2 Kings xix, 26; Isa. xxxvii, 27 ; 
see Shaw, Trav. p. 210). The roof of Dagon’s temple 
(Judg. xvi, 27) is said to have been crowded with 3000 
persons to behold Samson’s feats; but this can hardly 
mean the top of the temple, because the persons there- 
on could not see what was passing within. It appears 
rather to have been a loft or gallery running around 
the top of the building inside, and supported by pillars 
with two main posts, in the middle of the temple. A 
very usual kind of roof is constructed in the following 
manner: The beams are placed about three feet apart; 
across these sticks are arranged close together, and 
thickly matted thorn-bush ; over this is spread a coat 
of thick mortar, and lastly the marl or earth, which cov- 
ers the whole. A large stone roller is kept on the top 
of the house for the purpose of hardening and, flatten- 
ing the layer of earth, to prevent the rain from pene- 
trating. Roofs, however, are often of a very inferior 
description to this. They are at times composed of the 
palm-leaf, and in other cases are made of cornstalks or 
brushwood, spread over with gravel (Robinson, Biblical 
Res. i, 243; ii, 279), or of reeds and heather with a 
layer of beat- 
en earth (Hart- 
ley, Resea rch es in 
Greece , p. 240). 

The roofs of the 
great halls in 
Egypt are cov- 
ered with flag- 
stones of enor- 
mous size. Para- 
pets are uniform- 
ly placed around 
the roof, for the 
purpose of guard- Al1cient 

Egyptian House, having a ter- 
mg against acei- race and roof siq ported by columns. 


dent by falling (Wilkinson, A nc. Egypt, ii, 122). The 
roof was much used by the Hebrews, as it still is in East- 
ern nations. It was often resorted to to get fresh air, 
by convalescents and others (2 Sam. xi, 2; Dan. iv, 
26; comp. Buckingham, Mesop. p. 70; Thomson, Land 
and Book, i, 49 sq. See Thilo, Cod. Apocryph. i, 120, 
297, where it is a playground for children). In sum- 
mer the people slept there (1 Sam. ix, 26; comp. Taver- 
nier, i, 168; Buckingham, Mesop. p. 336; Rosenmi'dler, 
Moryenl. iii, 85 ; Morier, Second Journey, p. 230; Robin- 
son, iii, 242). It was sought as a place for quiet con- 
versation (1 Sam. ix, 25), for undisturbed lamentation 
(Isa. xv, 3 ; Jer. xl viii, 38), for building “ booths” (q. v., 
Neh. viii, 16), and for various religious actions (2 Kings 
xxiii, 12; Jer. xix. 13; Zeph. i, 5; Acts x, 9), perhaps 
with the feeling of being raised nearer to heaven and to 
God. Acts of a public nature were transacted there (2 
Sam. xvi, 22), and announcements made (Matt, x, 27 ; 
Luke xii,3; comp. Josephus, War, ii, 21,5 ; Talm.Babvl. 
Shab. fol. 35, 2; comp. Lucian, Per. Hist, ii, 46). Nor 
is this inconsistent with its use for secret interviews, 
before named, as these took place when neighbors were 
supposed to be occupied; yet the “upper chamber” 
(q. v.) was certainly more commonly sought for. Again, 
the roof was a lookout over the street (Judg. xvi, 27; 
Isa. xxii, 1 ; comp. Shaw, Trav. p. 190), a place for ex- 
posing clothes and household stuff to the air (Josh, ii, 
6; comp. Mishna, Toroth, ix, 6; Alikvaoth, ii, 7 ; Mach- 
shir, vi, 2 ; Mauser , i, 6, 3 ; Meyilla, iii, 3 ; Merntch, viii, 
4); a commanding position for defence against attacks 
from below (Judg. ix, 51 ; 2 Macc. v, 12; comp. Jose- 
phus, A nt. xiv, 15, 12 ; IPar, iv, 1,4; Schweigger, Reis. 
p. 263). But a constant residence on the roof, in lone- 
liness and exposure, is a forcible image of a sorrowful 
life (Brow xxi, 9; comp, xxv, 24). It was usual to 
have two flights of stops to ascend to the roof; one 
within the house and one in the street. It was easy, 
too, to climb over the railing of the roof and thus pass 
from that of one house to its neighbor; or from house 
to house along a whole street (Matt, xxiv, 17; Mark 
xiii, 15; Luke xvii, 31 ; comp. Flamin, Reisebesch. p. 10 ; 
Russel, Aleppo, i. 45; Josephus, Ant. xiii, 5, 3 ; Mishna, 
Baba Metsia , fol. 88, 1 ; Barhebr. Chron. p. 170). Thus, 
too, it was easy to pass down from the roof into a house' 
(see Lightfoot, Hor. Heb. p. 601). The passage Mark 
ii, 4 is most naturally explained by supposing Jesus 
to have been in the chamber immediately under the 
roof. The people took up the floor of the roof (comp. 
Josephus, Ant. xiv, 15. 12) and let down the sick man 
(Strauss, Leb.Jes. ii, 61, supposes the usual mode of ac- 
cess from the roof to the upper chamber to be used, 
which contradicts Mark). This is the meaning of Luke 
in tire parallel passage, v, 19. If we understand the 
midst (ro piaov) to mean the court of the house, then 
the tiling (icipapoi), as our version has it, or rather 
bricks, must mean the guard wall around the roof (Fa- 
ber, Archeeol. i, 419), or the cornice (Host, A r achr. v. 
Maroe, p. 264). But it is doubtful whether the latter 
was common in Palestine; and the expression into the 
midst (comp. Luke iv, 35; Mark iii, 3; xiv, 60; John 
xx, 19) does not admit the above interpretation (Shaw, 
Trav. p. 186 sq., gives an explanation which does not 
suit the passage). A literal takiug-up of the roof, how- 
ever, would be but a trifling matter, and would involve 
no injury to the building, if it were like the modern 
Arab houses in that vicinity. They are very low, and 
the roof is formed chiefly of twigs and earth, on beams 
some three feet apart. It is very common to remove 
part of this to let down goods, etc. (see Thomson, Land 
and Book, ii, 6 sq.); the Talm. Babl. Moed Luton, xxv, 
1, says, when R. Huna died, his bier could not pass the 
door, and it was thought best to let it down through 
the roof. See Mill, Biss, de yEdium Ilebr. Techs, in 
Oelrich’s Coll. Opusc. Hist. Phil. Then}. I, ii. 573 sq. ; Bat- 
tus, Biss, de Tectis Heir. Retectis (Viteb. 1696); Faber, 
A rchcvol. i, 417 sq. ; Ilackett, Jllustr. of Script, p. 70, 71, 
72, and on Prov. xxvii, 15, p. 85. See Housetop. 




hoof 


122 


ROOF 


ROOF, in architecture, is the external covering on the 
top of a building; sometimes of stone, but usually of wood 
overlaid with slates, tiles, lead, etc. The form and con- 
struction of the timber-work of roofs differ materially 
according to the nature of the building on which it is 
to be placed, and any attempt to notice all the varieties 
would far exceed the limits of this work. The main 
portions of the framing, which in most cases are placed 
at regular intervals, are each called a truss, principal, 
or pair of principals. These, in ornamental open roofs, 
are the leading features, and in some ancient roofs are 
contrived with an especial view to appearance. The 
accompanying diagrams of two of the simplest kinds 


F 



Queeu-post Roof. 


A, king-post. F F, ridge pieces. 

B B, queen-posts. G G G U G G, purlins. 

C C C C, braces or struts. H, collar. 

D L), tie-beams. J J J J, common rafters. 

E E E E, principal rafters, blades, KKKK, pole-plates, 
or backs. L I. L L, wall-plates. 

of modem roofs will serve to explain the names of the 
most important timbers : a king-post roof has one ver- 
tical post in each truss, a queen-post roof has two. 

' Mediaeval roofs vary so much in their structure, on 
account of the ornamental disposition of the pieces, that 
it is not easy to establish a universal nomenclature for 
them. Many names of beams and timbers occur in old 
contracts of which the original appplication is often 
uncertain. 

The Hammer-beam roofs contain most of the peculi- 
arities of structure that distinguish the mediaeval roofs 
from the modern roofs, and the following nomenclature 
may be adopted in describing them : Sometimes one 
hammer-beam is repeated over another, forming, as it 



A, hammer-beam. E, collar. 

B B, pendant-post. F, side-post. 

(’, hammer-brace. G, collar-brace. 

D D, rafter. H, upper collar. 


were, two stories. It is then called a double hammer- 
beam roof, anil the nomenclature runs: lower hammer- 
beam, upper hammer-beam, lower hammer-brace, upper 
hammer-brace , loicer side-post, upper side-post , etc. 

It must be remembered that all upright pieces may 
be called posts . with an epithet, if necessary, e. g. Pen- 
dant-post. Inclined pieces, if not rafters , are braces, 
and commonly derive their epithet from the piece un- 
der which they are placed, or which they principally 
stiffen, as collar-brace. Ashlar pieces are fixed to ev- 
ery one of the rafters in most mediaeval roofs, but they 
are sometimes concealed by cornice - mouldings and 
frieze - boards. The example from Dorchester shows 
the hammer-beam construction with collar-brace, side- 
post, etc. 



Hammer-beam Roof, North Aisle, Dorchester, Oxfordshire. 

Of the construction of the wooden roofs of the An- 
cients very little is known, but it was probably of the 
most inartificial kind, and judging from the form of 
their pediments, the pitch of them was low. Some small 
buildings still retain their original roofs of marble, as 
the Tower of the Winds, and the Choragic Monument 
of Lisicrates at Athens. The Mausoleum of Theodoric 
at Ravenna lias a domed roof, formed of a single block 
of stone, nearly thirty-six feet in diameter. 

Saxon roofs were elevated, but to what degree we 
have no certain account; neither is there satisfactory 
i evidence of their internal appearance. The illumina- 
tions in manuscripts seem to represent them as often 
covered with slates, tiles, or shingles. 

Norman roofs were also raised, in some cases to a 
very steep pitch ; but in others the elevation was more 
moderate, the ridge being formed at about a right an- 
gle. It does not appear that at this period the con- 
struction was made ornamental, although, doubtless, in 
many cases the framing was open to view. The cov- 
ering wAs certainly sometimes of lead, but was probably 
oftener of a less costly material. 

Early English roofs were generally, if not always, 
made with a steep slope, though not universally of the 
same pitch. Sometimes the section of the roof repre- 
sented an equilateral triangle, and sometimes the pro- 
portions were Hatter. A few roofs of this date still ex- 
ist, as on the nave of Dales Owen Church, Shropshire : 
this originally had tie-beams across it, and under every 
rafter additional pieces of timber are fixed, which are 
cut circular, so that the general appearance is that of 
a series of parallel ribs forming a barrel-vault. This 
seems to have been a common mode of improving the 
appearance of roofs in this style before any important 
ornaments were applied to them. The additional pieces 
under the rafters were usually either quite plain or only 
chamfered on the edges. A moulded rib sometimes ran 
along the top, and a cornice next the wall-plate, both 
of which were generally small. The tie-beams also were 
frequently moulded. 

When first the approach of the Decorated style be- 


ROOF 


123 


ROOS 



South Aisle, Kidlington, 
Oxfordshire. 


gan to exercise an influence, the roofs, though still of 
the same construction, became somewhat more orna- 
mental. There are also roofs existing of this date, and 
some probably earlier, in country churches, the insides 
of which are formed into a series of flat spaces, or cants. 
They are usually quite plain, with the exception of the 
tie-beam and cornice, which are frequently moulded, 
and the king-post, which is commonly octagonal, with 
a moulded capital or base. Of a later period, roofs of 
this kind are extremely common in some districts, but 
they are generally to be distinguished from the earlier 
specimens by being arranged in seven cants instead 
of six. Of the older description good examples re- 
main at Chartham Church, Kent, and on the south 
aisle of Merrow Church, Surrey. Most of these roofs 
are now ceiled, but probably many of them were orig- 
inally open. 

As the Deeorated style advanced, the leading tim- 
bers of the principals were often formed into an arch 
by the addition of circular 
braees under the tie-beams, j,| || 
the beams themselves be- 
ing also frequently curved. 

The spandrels formed by 
these braces were very usu- 
ally filled with piereed tra- 
cery. and the timbers gen- 
erally were more moulded 
and enriched than in the 
earlier styles. Where the 
lines of mouldings were in- 
terrupted, they very com- 
monly terminated in carved 
leaves or other ornaments. 

Sometimes the tie-beams were omitted in roofs of 
high pitch, but the principals were generally arched. 
The roofs of domestic halls, in the Decorated style, ap- 
pear to have been more enriched than those of church- 
es: that of Malvern Priory had a variety of cross- 
braces above the tie-beams cut into ornamental feather- 
ings; that of the archbishop of Canterbury’s palace at 
Mayfield, Sussex, was supported on stone arches span- 
ning the whole breadth of the room (about forty feet). 
This kind of construction is also partially used in the 
hall at the Mote, Ightham, Kent. This kind of con- 
struction, a wooden roof supported on stone arches in- 
stead of the large timbers necessary for the principals, 
seems to have been more common than is generally sup- 
posed, and at all periods. 

In the Perpendicular style hammer-beam roofs were 
introduced (one of the finest specimens of which is that 
on Westminster llall), and, together with them, most 
numerous varieties of construction for the sake of orna- 
ment. These are far too manifold to be enu- 
merated; many specimens exist in churches 
and halls, some of which are extremely mag- 
nificent, and are enriched with tracery, feath- 
erings, pendants, and carvings of various 
kinds, in the greatest profusion. Many roofs 
in this style were nearly or quite flat ; these, 
when plain, had the timbers often exposed 
to view, and moulded ; in other cases they 
were ceiled with oak and formed into panels, 
and were usually enriched with bosses and 
other ornaments of similar description to 
those of the higher roofs; good examples re- 
main at Cirencester Church, Gloucestershire. 

On halls hammer-beam roofs were principal- 
ly used, but on churches other kinds of con- 
struction were more prevalent. There are 
some mediaeval buildings, principally ves- 
tries. apses, and portions of churches, which 
are entirely roofed with stone. They are 
generally of high elevation, and often have 
ribs answering to the rafters in a wooden 
roof. They occur at all periods, and in some 
cases may have been erected for protection 


against fire; in other cases, when the material was suit- 
able, perhaps from economy. 

The name of roof is often applied to what are, in fact, 
ceilings having an external covering, or outer roof, dis- 
tinct from that whieh is seen. Vaulted roofs are also 
frequently spoken of, but a vault usually has an outer 
roof over it, and is more properly a vaulted ceiling. — 
Parker, Gloss, of Architect, s. v. See Chambers's Ency- 
clop. s. v. ; Walcott, Sac . A rchceol. s. v. 

Room is employed in the A. V. as the equivalent 
of no less than four Ileb. and eight Greek terms. The 
only one of these, however, which need be noticed here 
is 7rpioroic\t(Tia (Matt, xxiii, 6; Mark xii, 39; Luke 
xiv, 7, 8 ; xx, 46), which signifies, not a “room” in the 
sense we commonly attach to it of a chamber, but the 
highest place on the highest couch round the dinner or 
supper table — the “uppermost seat,” as it is more ac- 
curately rendered in Luke xi, 43. See Meal. The 
word “ seat” is, however, generally appropriated by our 
translators to KaSicpa, which seems to mean some kind 
of official chair. In Luke xiv, 9, 10, they have ren- 
dered TO7T0t; by both “ place” and “ room.” — Smith. See 
also Upper IJoom. 

The convenience of dividing habitations into sepa- 
rate apartments early suggested itself. We read of 
various kinds of rooms in Scripture — bedchamber, in- 
ner chamber, upper chamber, bride -chamber, guest- 
chamber, guard-chamber, of the king’s house. In early 
times the females and children of the family slept in 
one room, on separate beds, and the males in another. 
See Chamber. 

Roos, Johann Friedrich, only son of the fol- 
lowing, was born in 1759, and died in 1828, at Marbach, 
where he had held the position of dean. He wrote a 
History of the Reformation and a Church History , 
neither of which was based on original sources, and 
both of which have been superseded by more modem 
works. See Herzog, Real-Eucyklop. s. v. 

Roos, Magnus Friedrich, the last of the series 
of clergymen in Wiirtemberg who during the 18th cen- 
tury promoted the independent development of Pietism 
(q. v.), and exercised an important influence over the 
clergy and churches of Wiirtemberg against the ration- 
alistic and other movements of North Germany. He 
was born at Sulz-on-the-Neckar, Sept. 6, 1727, passed 
through the schools of Wiirtemberg in regular course, 
anil in 1749 became vicar at Owen. After filling vari- 
ous ministerial stations in Tubingen, Stuttgart, etc., lie 
was made pastor at Lustnau, near Tubingen, in 1767, 
where he was brought into contact with the notabilities 
and students of the university, and sought to benefit 
the latter by the delivery of private lectures on Biblical 



St. Mary’s, Devizes, Wilts, cir. 1450. 


ROOSEVELT 


124 


theology. In 1784 he was appointed to the prelature of 
An hausen, which gave him a seat in the district gov- 
ernment, and in 1787 he was promoted to a place in the 
national diet, which diverted his attention largely to- 
wards political affairs, lie preached his last sermon to 
his people on Christmas-dav, 1802, and died March 19, 

1 803. 

Roos was emphatically a man of one book — the Bible, 
lie was not the representative of any scientific idea in 
theology, nor a rhetorician who attached importance to 
the elegancies of style. I lis theology was contained in 
the sentences of the Bible, so that nothing is left for the 
theologian to perform beyond condensing what is there 
expanded, collecting what is scattered, and converting 
the whole directly into faith and life. As a dogmatist 
he simply brought together the doctrines of Scripture, 
holding that they require no elaboration in order to ap- 
pear as a faultless whole. As an expositor and polemic 
he displayed an utter incapacity to appreciate difficul- 
ties, and accepted all the statements of the Bible with 
unquestioning faith ; and in that one of his works which 
partakes most largely of a scientific character, the F un- 
ci amenta Psychologic*} $ aerie (Tubingen, 1769; Stutt- 
gart, 1857), he simply gathered from the Scriptures 
every passage in which a psychological term occurs, and 
given the specific and general meaning of the terms and 
phrases so obtained. He held that the truth was fully 
and appropriately given in the Bible, and therefore did 
not attempt a thorough system of psychology. He also 
gave attention to the times in which he lived and to 
the impending future, taking the Apocalypse for his 
guide and following the interpretations of Bengel (q. v.), 
though without accepting the dates of that scholar for 
the end of the world (e. g. 1836), and without placing 
implicit reliance on the results of his investigations. 

The writings of Boos were very numerous, and have 
no importance for onr times. The principal ones are 
the Fundam. Psychol. Suer.. already cited : — a devotion- 
al manual entitled Hausbuch (1790, 2d ed.), which was 
largely used, and a practical work entitled ChristUche 
(ledunken v. d. Verschiedenheit u. Finigkeil cl. Kinder 
(lattes (1st ed. 1764; new [3d] ed. 1850). — Herzog, 
Ileal- Fncyklop. s. v. 

Roosevelt, James Henry, //oh., a distinguished 
philanthropist, was born in New York city, Xov. 10, 1800. 
1 le was a descendant of the well-known and wide-spread 
family of that name. His father, James C. Roosevelt, was 
an attorney of the New York bar, educated at Columbia 
College. James Henry was left a large property by bis 
father, and in early life manifested his benevolence by 
taking an interest in charitable institutions, particular- 
ly the Leake and Watts Orphan Asylum, of which lie 
was for twentv-three years the treasurer, lie never 
married, and lived a quiet and frugal life. As his nat- 
ural heirs were wealthy and did not need his property, 
he determined on devoting it to benevolent objects. In 
March, 1854, he made his will, and after certain be- 
quests, gave the residue of his estate to five incorpora- 
tions in the city of New York, known as the Society of 
the New York Hospital, the College of Physicians and 
Surgeons, the New York Eye Infirmary, the Demilt 
Dispensary, and the New York Institution for the Blind. 
It also provided for the establishment in the city of 
New York of a hospital for the reception and relief of 
sick and diseased persons, and for its permanent endow- 
ment. The charity was to extend to all sick, without 
limit or restriction of any kind, and without distinction 
as to race, sex, color, or religion. The hospital, which 
occupies nil entire, block between Ninth and Tenth av- 
enues, was in due time erected, and was formally opened 
Nov. 2, 1*71. The generous founder died Nov. 30, 1*63. 
He was •• n man upright in his aims, simple in his hab- 
its, sublime in his benefaction.” ( W . l\ S.) 

Root (-nr, shfiresh. piZct), that part of a plant 
which extends downwards and fastens itself in the 
earth. The rocky ground of Palestine is in some places 


ROQUE 

covered with a very thin soil, so that the plants grow- 
ing in these spots cannot strike deep roots, and are 
therefore easily uptorn by the winds or withered by the 
scorching sun — a circumstance to which a beautiful al- 
lusion is made in the parable of the sower (Matt, xiii, 
21). The root of a family is the progenitor from whom 
the race derives its name; thus, ‘‘Out of the serpent’s 
root shall come forth a cockatrice” (Isa. xiv, 29), mean- 
ing Hezekiah, who was descended from David, and was, 
like him, a scourge to the oppressors of Israel. The 
word is used in this sense in a very remarkable proph- 
ecy, “ And in that day there shall be a root of Jesse, 
which shall stand for an ensign of the people; to it 
shall the Gentiles seek, and his rest shall be glorious” 
(xi, 10). The Messiah, elsew'here called “the branch,” 
is here described as “ t he root,” for though David’s son 
in his human character, yet in his divine capacity he is 
David's “ root,” as being his Lord and God. A similar 
passage occurs in Revelation, “The lion of the tribe of 
Judah, the root of David, hath prevailed” (v, 5). So 
“covetousness is the root of all evil” (1 Tim. vi. 10); 
that is, the origin, the cause, the occasion; “Lest any 
root of bitterness trouble you” (Heb. xii, 15). In Job 
xix, 28, “root of the matter” signifies a ground or cause 
of controversy. The root may also denote the race, the 
posterity : Prov. xii, 3, “The root of the righteous shall 
not be moved,” i. e. shall not fail ; Jer. xii, 2, “ Whence 
do the wicked prosper in all things V thou hast planted 
them, and they have taken root.” In Daniel and in 
the Maccabees, Antiochus Epiphanes, the persecutor of 
the Jew’s, is represented as a young sprout or sucker, or 
root of iniquity, proceeding from the kings, the succes- 
sors of Alexand6r the Great. Jesus Christ, in his hu- 
miliation, is described as a root ill nourished, growing 
in a dry and barren soil (Isa. liii, 2). In the contrary 
sense, Paul says (Rom. xi, 16-18) that the Jews are, as 
it were, the root that bears tlie tree into which the Gen- 
tiles are grafted; and that the patriarchs are the pure 
and holy root of which the Jew r s are, as it were, the 
branches. Jesus Christ is the root on which Christians 
depend, and from which they derive life and subsistence 
(Col. ii, 7). 

ROOT, a name sometimes found in the inventories 
of English church furniture, by wffiicli were designated 
richly embroidered copes that had the “stem of Jesse” 
and the genealogy of our Lord figured upon them. 

Root, Henry, a Presbyterian minister, was born in 
Canaan, Columbia Co., N. Y., July 17, 1813. He grad- 
uated at Williams College, Mass., studied theology at 
Auburn Seminary, N. Y., and was licensed by Cayuga 
Presbytery. After graduating he removed to Michi- 
gan, where he w r as ordained in 1835, and was stated 
supply for Dexter and Howell churches. Subsequent- 
ly he preached for Granville, Portland, and Bunker Hill 
churches. He was connected with the American Home 
Missionary Society, and w'as one of their most suc- 
cessful missionaries. He died at Feltz, April 5, 1860. 
Mr. Root was a powerful preacher, and in building up 
churches in the faith he had no superior. See Wilson, 
Presb. Hist. A Inuinac , 1861, p. 1G3. (J. L. S.) 

Ropes, Timothy Pickering, a Baptist minister, 
w'as born in Oxford, N. H„ Sept. 13, 1802, and w'as grad- 
uated at Waterville College in the class of 1827. He 
w'as ordained as an evangelist Aug. 13, 1828, and became 
pastor of the Baptist Church at Hampton Falls in July, 
1829. He was afterwards pastor of the churches in 
Weston and Lexington. Mass., and for several years 
was engaged in teaching in different places, lie w f ent 
West in 1854, and for ten years w r as pastor of the Bap- 
tist Church in Le Roy, Minn., where he died, July 3, 
1873. (J.C. S.) 

Roque, Sr., a popular saint of the Roman Cath- 
olic Church in France, who is considered the special 
patron of those sick of the plague. Few r particulars of 
his history have been preserved. He was born of a 
noble family in Montpellier, at the end of the 13th or 


125 


ROSARY 


ROQUELAURE 

early in the 14th century; and having undertaken a 
pilgrimage to Home, was surprised on his way through 
Italy by an outbreak of the plague at Piacenza, lie 
labored with generous zeal lor the victims, fell sick, 
was abandoned by men, but a dog licked his sores. lie 
recovered his health, returned to Franee, and after a 
life of great sanctity died at Montpellier, probably in 
1327. — Chambers's Encyclop. s. v. 

Roquelaure, Jean A km and de Bessuejouls, 
Count of. a Freneh prelate, was born at Roquelaure in 
1721. Of a noble family, he entered the Church when 
quite young, was doctor of theology at the age of twen- 
ty-six, and vicar-general of Arras when, in 1754, he re- 
ceived the bishopric of Seulis. In 1704 lie was first 
almoner of the king, in 1707 councillor of state, in 1708 
abbe of St. Germer, and in 1771 member of the French 
Academy. He was one of the few bishops who re- 
mained in Franee after the civil oath was required, but 
did not yield to the constitution of 1790. During the 
Keign of Terror he retired to Arras. He resigned his 
see of Senlis, but was in 1802 made archbishop of Ma- 
liues. In 1808 he received a canonry in St. Denis, and 
spent the remainder of his life in Paris. He died of 
old age, April 23, 1818. 1 1 is writings are, 0 raison Fu- 

nebre de la Heine d'Espayne (Paris, 1701): — 0 raison 
Funebre de Louis A'F (ibid. 1774): — Mandements, and 
Lettres to the clergy. — I loefer, Nouv. Bioy. Generate , s. v. 

Roques, Pierre, a Protestant French theologian, 
was born at La Caune, July 22, 1085. His parents were 
obliged to leave Franee on account of their faith, and 
Roques was educated ill Switzerland, at Geneva and 
Lausanne. He was ordained in 1 709, < and in 1710 be- 
came pastor of the Protestant French Church at Basle, 
where he died, April 13, 1748. 11 is principal writings 

are, Le Pasteur Evanyelique (Basle, 1723), transl. into 
German (Halle, 1741-44) : — Elements des Ve rites 11 is- 
toriqnes, o. te. (Basle, 172G): — Lettres a un Protestant 
de Franee etc. (Lausanne, 1730-35): — Les Devoirs 
des Softs (Basle, 1727): — Sermons stir Dicers Softs 
de Morale (ibid. 1730), transl. into German (Halle, 
1731): — Le Yrai Pielisme (Basle, 1731): — Trait e des 
Tribunaux de Judicature (ibid. 1738). Besides these 
are scattered pieces in several works, an edition of the 
Diet, of Moreri (ibid. 1731-45), and one of Martin's 
Bible (ibid. 1730). He continued with Beausobre the 
Sermons of Saurin, and revised the Freneh translation 
of lliibner’s Geoyraphie (ibid. 1747). See Frey, Vie de 
P. Roques ; Haag, La France Protest ante. — Hoefer, 
Nouv. Bioy. Generate , s. v. 

Roquette, Gabriel de, a French prelate, was born 
at Toulouse in 1032. After finishing his studies he 
went to Paris, where he soon obtained ecclesiastical 
preferment, became abbe of Grandselve, prior of Char- 
lieu and of St. Denis de Yaux, vicar-general of Armand, 
and abbe of Cluny. In 1000 he was made bishop of 
Autun, and in 1009 founded the Hospital of St. Gabriel 
in that place. He resigned his see in 1702 in favor of 
his nephew, Bertrand de Senaux. He died at Autun, 
Feb. 23, 1707. Boquette was an ambitious man, a slave 
of the Jesuits, and devoted to the interests of cardinal 
Maznrin. He left a work entitled Ordonnances pour le 
Rdublissement de la Discipline Ecclesiustiqne (Autun, 
1009-74), and an Oraison Funebre d' Anne-Marie Mar- 
tinozzi , Princesse de Conti (Paris, 1074). — Hoefer, Nouv. 
Bioy. Generate, s. v. 

Rosa, St. See Rosa of Lima. 

Rosa of Lima, the most noted of Peruvian saints, 
was a beautiful virgin, horn in 1580 at Lima, who early 
displayed great fortitude in the enduring of physical 
pain, and manifested a strong inclination towards an 
ascetic life. Her parents permitted her to become a 
Dominican nun; but having entered a church to pray 
while on her way to the convent, she found herself 
unable to proceed farther, and consequently became a 
hermit, living in a cell which she built in the garden 


belonging to her parents. She inflicted cruel bodily 
mortifications on herself, and died in 1017. She was 
buried in the Dominican church, and was canonized in 
1071. She ranks as the patroness of the state, and is an- 
nually commemorated, with great solemnity and pomp, 
on Aug. 20. See Ada SS. for Aug. 20. — Herzog, Real- 
Encyklop. s. v. 

Rosa of Viterbo, a hermit attached to the order 
of Fanciscans, though without having been formally re- 
ceived. She occupied a cell in the house other parents, 
and was accustomed to preach repentance, standing 
with crucifix in hand in the public streets. She was 
temporarily banished from Viterbo, but eventually re- 
called and received with enthusiasm. She died in A.I). 
1252, aged about eighteen. See Acta SS. for Sept. 4. 
— Herzog, Real- Envy klop. s. v. 

Rosa, Salvator, an Italian painter, was born at 
Aranella, near Naples, June 20, 1015. He was brought 
up under Francisco Francanzano, but was obliged to get 
his living by selling his pictures upon the street. Af- 
ter his father’s death, he went with Ribera to Rome, at 
which city he remained four years, when cardinal Bran- 
cacei carried him to Viterbo, where he painted several 
pieces. He afterwards went with Prince John Charles 
of Medici to Florence, and stayed nine years in this city. 
He finally fixed his residence at Rome, where he died, 
March 15, 1073. Among his most celebrated works are, 
the Catiline Conspiracy: — Saul and the Witch of Eu- 
dor: — Attilus Reyulus, and altar-pieces. He was also 
a good composer of music. See lady Morgan, Life and 
Times of Salvator (Loud. 1824, 2 vols.) ; Cantu, Salrator 
Rosa (Milan, 1844); Reynolds [Sir Joshua], IFor/os. 

Rosalia, St., the greatest of Sicilian saints, is said 
to have died between 1100 and 1180. Her father was 
the count Sinibald ofQuisquina and Rosis, and was de- 
scended from the ancient kings of Sicily. She lived for 
a time on Mount Quisquina in the character of a hermit, 
but afterwards on Mount Pelegrino, near Palermo. It 
is alleged tliat her body was found in 1024, together 
with an inscription on Mount Quisquina narrating her 
descent and sojourn in an adjoining cave. A pestilence 
ceased to prevail at the time her body was found, and 
this fact was attributed to her intercessions, which may 
account for the veneration she receives. Her day is 
Sept. 4, and is observed with much pomp in Palermo, 
one of the features being a procession in which a colos- 
sal statue of the saint is carried about. See Acta SS. 
for Sept. 4. — Herzog, Reul-Encyklop. s. v. 

Rosario, Jerome, an Italian ecclesiastic and writer, 
was born at Pordeiione in 1485. He was nuncio from 
pope Clement VII to Hungary, and died in 155(5. He 
wrote a curious treatise — Quod Animalia Brut a sape 
Ratione utantur melius Uomine (“That brutes often rea- 
son better than man” [1648]). 

Rosary (Jtosariuni). This is a Roman Catholic 
instrument, composed of a number of larger and .smaller 
beads strung on a cord, which serves among Romanists 
to aid in the repeating of a defluite number of Pater- 
nosters and Ave-M arias. In its wider meaning the 
word dsnotes the worship in which the rosary is em- 
ployed. The custom of repeating the Lord’s Prayer a 
number of times originated among the early hermits 
and monks, and it is stated by Palladius (Aavoiaica, 
cap. 35) and Sozomen ( Hist, vi, 29) that the abbot Paul 
of t lie desert of Pherme repeated the Pater-noster 300 
times, and at each repetition dropped a small stone into 
his lap. The llail-Mary was added in the 11th cen- 
tury, but did not attain its completed form until the 
16th. A combination of the Lord’s Prayer with the 
Credo and the angelical greeting in this worship occurs 
as early as 1196 in the Statutu Communiu of bishop 
Odo of Paris. 

The rosary is accordingly of modern origin, and all 
opinions which assign to it a high antiquity are false. 
Some modern inquirers hold that it was brought from 


ROSAllY 


126 


ROSARY 


the East by returning Crusaders, since it is found among 
Mohammedans and Brahmins also; but it would seem 
to have had an independent origin in the West as well. 
It was tirst used by the Dominican monks, though it is 
by no means certain that it was introduced by St. Dom- 
inic himself. 

As many as twenty forms of rosary devotions have 
been enumerated bv Schulting in his Bill. Eccles. I. in, 
205. The more familiarly known are as follows: 

1. The complete (or Dominican) rosary, consisting 
of fifteen decades of small Marv-beads, alternating with 
fifteen Pater-noster beads, so that ten Hail-Marvs are 
said after each Lord’s Prayer. This rosary is accord- 
ingly called the Psulterium Maria, 

2. The ordinary rosary ( rosarium ) has five decades 
of Marv-beads and five Pater-noster beads, in all fifty- 
five beads. Three repetitions equal rosary No. 1. 

3. The intermediate rosary has sixtv-three Marv- 
beads and seven Pater-noster beads, denoting the sixty- 
three years of life which the legend assigns to the Vir- 
gin. The Franciscans repeat seventy-two Hail-Marvs, 
because they believe that the Virgin lived seventy-two 
years. 

4. The smaller rosary has three decades of Marv-beads 
and three Pater-noster beads, signifying the years of 
Christ’s life on earth. 

5. The angelical rosary is similar to No. 4, but re- 
quires a single recital of the Ilail-Mary with each dec- 
ade, and for each of the nine remaining beads the Sand us 
(“Sanctus, Sanctus, Sanctus Dominus Deus Sabaoth ! 
Pleni sunt coeli et terra gloria tua, Hosanna in excel- 
sis! Benedictus qui venit in nomine Domini, Hosanna 
in excelsis!”) with the lesser doxology (“Gloria Patri 
et Filio et Spiritui Sanctor 1 ). 

6. The crown ( capellaria , corona') has thirty -three 
Pater-noster beads, indicative of the years of Christ’s 
earthly life, and five Mary-beads to denote the number 
of his wounds. A rosary composed of twelve Ave-Ma- 
rias and three Pater-nosters has also been termed the 
crown in recent times (Binterim, Denkw.Wl. i, 105). 

The Officitim Laicorum is composed only of Pater- 
nosters, and cannot therefore be reckoned among the 
rosaries. 

The devotion begins with the sign of the cross, after 
which the worshipper grasps the cross depending from 
the cord, repeats the Apostles’ Creed, and prays the 
Lord’s Prayer with three Ilail-Marys. A correspond- 
ing form serves as the conclusion. With the Domin- 
ican rosary is connected the contemplation of the so- 
called mysteries, according to which the rosary is char- 
acterized as joyful, sorrowful , or glorious. The joyful 
rosary embraces the five mysteries of — 

1. The annunciation of our Lady when the Son of God 
was conceived. 

2. The visitation of Elisabeth. 

3. The nativity of our Lord Jesns Christ. 

4. The presentation of our Lord in the Temple. 

5. The tindiug of our Lord in the Temple among the 
doctors. 

The sorrowful rosary embraces — 

1. The prayer of our Lord in the garden. 

2. The whipping him at the pillar. 

3. The crowning him with a crown of thorns. 

4. His carrying of the cross to Mount Calvary. 

5. His crucifixion and death on the cross. 

The glorious rosary contains — 

1. The resurrection of our Lord. 

2. 11 is ascension into heaven. 

3. The coining of the Ilolv Ghost. 

4. The assumption of the’Blessed Virgin. 

5. Her coronation above all angels and saints. 

Each of these fifteen mysteries is appended to the words 
“Jesus Christ” in the Ave-Maria, and is thus repeated 
ten times. 

The rosarv of the Blessed Virgin Mary is altogeth- 
er the most popular form of devotion among Roman 
Catholics. It has been strongly recommended by 
many popes, who have granted great indulgences to 
those that practice it. The five Joyful Mysteries are 


said on Mondays and Thnrsdavs through the year, and 
daily from the first Sunday in Advent to the Feast of 
the Purification. The five Sorrowful Mysteries are 
said on Thursdays and Fridays through the year, and 
daily from Ash -Wednesday to Easter -Sunday. The 
five Glorious Mysteries are said on ordinary Sundays 
and "Wednesdays and Saturdays through the year, and 
daily from Easter -Sunday to Trinity -Sunday. The 
manner of saying the rosary on the beads may he un- 
derstood by the accompanying cut, with the following 
directions (see Barnum, Romanism, p, 436) : 



On the cross say the Apostles’ Creed. 

On the next large bead say the Lord’s Prayer. On the 
next small bead say the Hail Mary, thus: “Hail Mary, 
full of grace, the Lord is with thee: blessed art thou 
among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Je- 
sus. Who may increase, our faith. Holy Mary, Mother of 
God, pray for ns sinners, now, and at the hour of our 
death. Amen.” 

On the second small bead repeat the nail Mary, substi- 
tuting for the above italicized words, “ Who may strength- 
en our hope.” 

On the third small bead repeat the Hail Mary, substi- 
tuting in the same place, “IFAo may enliven our charity .” 
Then, and at the end of every decade, say, “Glory be to 
the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost, as it 
was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be, world 
without end. Amen.” 

On the next large bead, and on every large bead, say 
the Lord’s Prayer. In saying the ten Hail Marys for the 
first Joyful Mystery, substitute for the above italicized 
clanse, “W7io teas made man for its;” in the second, 
“ U7/om thou didst carry to St. Elisabeth’s ;” in the third, 
“W’/io was born in a stable for its;” .in the fourth, “UT/o 
was presented in the Temple for us;” in the fifth, “If'ftowi 
thou didst, find in the Temple .” 

At the end of the five Joyful Mysteries, and at the end 
of the five Sorrowful and five Glorious Mysteries, say the 
Salve Regina (=llail, Queen), thus: “Ilail, Holy Queen, 
Mother of Mercy, onr life, our sweetness, and our hope. 
To thee do we cry, poor banished children of Eve. To 
thee do we send up onr sighs, mourning and weeping in 
this valley of tears. Turn, then, O most gracious advo- 
cate, thine eyes of mercy towards ns; and after this onr 
exile is ended, show ns the blessed fruit of thy womb, Je- 
sus. O clement ! O pious l O sweet Virgin Mary ! 

“ V. Pray for us, O holy Mother of God. 

“It. That we may be made worthy of the promises of 
Christ.” 

In saying the five Sorrowfnl Mysteries, the clauses sub- 
stituted in the Hail Marys for the italicized clanse are: 
(1) “117/0 sweated blood for ns;” (2) “U7/o was scourged for 
us;” (3) “U7/o was crowned with thorns for \is;” (4) “ 117/0 
carried the heavy cross for vs;” (5) “IF/io ? vas crucified and 
died for us.” In saying the five Glorious Mysteries, sub- 
stitute for the italicized clause: (l)“U7zo arose from the 
dead;” (2) “ H7/o ascended into heaven;” (3) “H7zo sent the. 
Holy Ghost;” (4) “U7/o assumed thee [or took thee up] into 
heaven ;” (5) “ H7/o crowned thee in heaven.” 

The term rosary is variously explained by Roman 


ROSCELIX 


ROSARY, BROTHERS OF THE 127 


Catholic writers: as derived from Rosa. mystica, an ec- 
clesiastical predicate of the Virgin; from St. Rosalia, 
who is represented with a wreath formed of gold and 
roses; from the fact that the beads are made of rose- 
wood, etc. Steitz (in Herzog, Real- Encyklop, s. v.) 
suggests that it may be derived from a rose-garden ( ro - 
sariuni), after the manner in which devotional manuals 
were in the Middle Ages termed Hortulus Animas, 

ROSARY, Brothers of the. The troubles which 
came upon Europe in the 14th and 15th centuries led to 
the forming of pious associations which sought to secure 
the averting of such evils by means of prayer to God; 
and the brotherhoods of the rosary were among the ear- 
liest of these unions. Pope Leo’s bull Pastoris x. Eterni , 
of Oct. G, 1520, shows that they had then become old. 
The popes Sixtus IV, Innocent VIII, and Clement VII 
conferred on them valuable exemptions, which were 
continued by Sixtus V. The Brothers of the Rosary 
displayed great zeal during the contests of Western Eu- 
rope with the Turks, and aided the warriors with their 
prayers; and after the victory of Lepanto they insti- 
tuted processions in honor of the Virgin Mary. The 
festival instituted by Pins V in commemoration of that 
victory was consequently called “ the Feast of the Ro- 
sary.” 

A modern organization called “the Living Rosary” 
consists of unions of fifteen persons each, who severally 
pray the decades of the rosary which have been assigned 
to them respectively. — Wetzer u.Welte, Kirch en- Lex. s. v. 

ROSARY, Ceremony of the, a ceremony practiced 
among the Mohammedans on special occasions, called 
in the Arabic Sobhat , and usually performed on the 
night succeeding a burial. The soul is then supposed 
to remain in the body, after which it departs to Hades, 
there to await its final doom. The ceremony is thus 
described: “At night tikis, sometimes as many as fifty, 
assemble, and one brings a rosary of 1000 beads, each as 
large as a pigeon’s egg. They begin with the 67 th chap- 
ter of the Koran, then say three times, ‘God is one;’ then 
recite the last chapter but one and the first, and then say 
three times, ‘O God. favor the most excellent and most 
happy of thy creatures, our lord Mohammed, and his fam- 
ily and companions, and preserve them.’ To this they 
add, ‘All who commemorate thee are the mindful, and 
those who omit commemorating thee are the negligent.’ 
They next repeat 3000 times, ‘There is no God but 
God,’ one holding the rosary and counting each repeti- 
tion. After each thousand they sometimes rest, and 
take coffee; then 100 times, ‘ (I extol) the perfection of 
God with his praise:’ then the same number of times, 
‘I beg forgiveness of God the great;’ after which fifty 
times, ‘The perfection of the Lord, the Eternal;’ then, 
‘The perfection of the Lord, the Lord of might,’ etc. 
(Koran, eh. xxxvii. last three verses). Two or three 
then recite three or four more verses. This done, one 
asks his companions, ‘ Have ye transferred (the merit 
of) what ye. have recited to the soul of the deceased?’ 
They reply, ‘ We have ;’ and add, ‘ Peace be on the apos- 
tles.’ This concludes the ceremony, which, in the houses 
of the rich, is repeated the second and third nights.” 
See Macbride, Mohammedan Religion Explained ; Gard- 
ner, Faiths of the World , s. v. 

ROSARY, F raternit y of THE. See Rosary, Broth- 
ers OF THE. 

Rosbrugh, John, a Presbyterian minister, was born 
in Ireland in L7I7, emigrated to the United Statesin 1735, 
and graduated at the College of New Jersey in 17G1. 
lie studied theology under the Rev. John Blair, then 
of Fagg’s Manor, and was taken on trial by the New 
Brunswick Presbytery May 22, I7G2. He was licensed 
to preach Aug. 18, 1763, and was ordained at Green- 
wich, N. J., Dec. 1 1, 1764, having charge of Mansfield, 
Greenwich, and Oxford. lie was dismissed from the 
three congregations April 18, 1760, and on the same day 
was called to the Forks of Delaware (now Allentown and 
Mount Bethel). He was installed pastor of these con- 


gregations Oct. 28, 1772, and continued such until his 
death, in January, 1777. at the hands of the Hessians, 
near Trenton. See Sprague, Annuls of the Amer. Pul - 
pity iii, 254. 

Roscelin (also Rocklin, Ruceltn, or Ruzelin), 
Jean, a scholastic theologian of the 1 1th century, who 
ranks in the common estimation as the originator of the 
Nominalist theory in philosophy and as a Tritheist in 
theology. The circumstances of his life are shrouded 
in obscurity, however, and the particular views lie ad- 
vocated are not well determined. II is place in history 
was achieved chiefly through controversies with Anselm 
and Abelard (see the respective articles) in which he 
became engaged. He first arrested attention by ex- 
pressing opinions concerning the Trinity which were 
deemed heretical, at a time when he was canon at Com- 
piegne. As he claimed that Anselm shared his views, 
the latter interposed a denial, and was about undertak- 
ing a refutation of Roscelin’s teaching, when the Synod 
of Soissons (1092) compelled a retraction of the heresy. 
The course of Roscelin’s life becomes doubtful again at 
this point, and such facts as are known to have occurred 
are variously combined by students. The following 
seems to be the view now generally preferred. Rosce- 
lin soon recalled his retraction, according to Anselm, 
because his action at Soissons had been governed by 
fear of the populace. Anselm consequently wrote the 
refutation previously begun {De Fide Tt'initat. et In- 
carnate and Roscelin went to England, where he at- 
tempted to injure Anselm by treating him with con- 
tumely, but was himself compelled to return to the 
Continent, partly because of liis relations with Anselm, 
then archbishop of Canterbury, and partly because he 
had offended the English clergy by denouncing abuses 
which existed among them. He then addressed an un- 
successful application for refuge to Ivo of Chartres (q. v.), 
and from that time was lost to notice for some years. 
The name of Roscelin is next mentioned in connec- 
tion with a controversy with Abelard. The latter had 
been Roscelin’s pupil; but the publication of his Intro- 
ductio ad Theologiam (1119), in which he emphasized 
the divine unity in three persons, and in such a way as 
to reflect on the position Roscelin had occupied at Sois- 
sons, caused an open rupture between them. Abelard’s 
language savored of Sabellianism, and Roscelin prepared 
to bring the new heresy to the notice of the bishop of 
Paris. Each of the parties contributed a letter to this 
controversy, which documents are still extant ; and with 
the issuing of the Ejnstola ad Abcelard. Roscelin passes 
definitely from our view. 

1. Roscelin as a Tritheist. — Ilis opinions grew out of 
an emphasizing of the idea of personality in connection 
with the divine nature, and, as they appear in the writ- 
ings of his opponents, may be comprehended in the 
statement that the three Divine Persons cannot be con- 
ceived as una res (ovaia), unless the necessary conse- 
quence that the Father and the Spirit became incarnate 
with the Son be also accepted. To escape this conse- 
quence, he holds that the distinction between the Per- 
sons is one of substance; but lie strives to preserve the 
divine unity by postulating a unity of will and power. 
It seems evident that he believed this provision suffi- 
cient to preserve his doctrine from being charged with 
polytheism and atheism, and that he was therefore not 
guilty of intentional heresy; but it was not difficult for 
the keen dialectics of Anselm to demonstrate his error. 
Roscelin cannot be justly charged with tritheism ; and, 
if his argumentation was at fault, he certainly earned 
for himself the credit of scholarly penetration in having 
recognised the full greatness of the difficulty to be over* 
come in reconciling the doctrine of the Trinity with 
that of the Incarnation. 

2. Roscelin as a Nominalist. — We are wholly depend- 
ent for a knowledge of his position in this respect upon 
the statements of his enemies, and it appears certain 
that they caricatured his views; but it is evident that 
they did not regard him as the originator of nominal- 


ROSCHOLCHIKA 


128 


ROSE 


ism. He held the extreme of the nominalist position, 
denominating universal conceptions an empty sound 
(Jlatum rods'), but apparently only for the purpose of 
antagonizing the extreme realism of Anselm. 11 is idea 
doubtless was that universal concepts exist simply in 
our thought, and do not at the same time postulate a 
real existence extraneous to the mind, lie laid down 
the axiom that “no thing has parts” — a paradox which 
can only mean that no whole can really exist and fur- 
nish its parts from out of itself. The parts really con- 
stitute the whole, and alone possess a real existence; 
and the whole, as a unity, cannot be distinguished from 
them otherwise than in thought. In its application to 
the doctrine of the Trinity, the axiom implied that the 
real existences in the Deity are in the three Persons, 
and that the unity of the Godhead exists only in the 
thought which comprehends them together into one. 
The only point of interest to him as a philosopher, how- 
ever, was to discover whether the reality lies in the 
general concept or in the concrete individual; and his 
axiom has, e. g., no relationship with the atomism of 
Democritus. 

3. The Connection between Roscelin’s Philosophy and his 
Theologictd Vieics. — This is evident from the foregoing 
statements. He did not, however, publicly connect his 
theological innovation with his nominalism, but based 
it on the Christological difficulty already mentioned. 
According to Anselm {De Fide Trinit. 3), Roscelin de- 
clared that “ Pagani defendant legem suam , Judafi 
defendant ridem suam, ergo et nos Christ ianam tidem 
defendere debemus,” thus showing that it was not his 
purpose to damage the faith; but the words sound like 
a plea for scientific discussion of the faith in general, or 
perhaps for liberty of the thinking mind to apprehend, 
and consequently to further the development of, the 
doctrines of the Church. Nominalism, in general, would 
seem to have been nearly always connected with a ra- 
tionalistic tendency. 

See Anselm, Ep. ii, 35 and 41, and De Fide Trinitatis 
et Incarmitinne ; a letter to Anselm by John, abbot of 
Telese. later cardinal-bishop of Tuseoli (in Baluz. Mis- 
cell, iv, 478); Abelard, Epist. 21 (Opp. [Paris, 1G1G] p. 
334), and Dialectica (in Cousin, (Ettcres Inedits d'Abel.)\ 
Epist. Roscel. ad Abeelardum (ed. Sehmeller, Munich, 
1851); a letter to Roscelin by Theobald of Estampes 
(in D’Achery, SpiciL vol. iii), and one by Ivo of Char- 
tres (Epist. 7); John of Salisbury, Metalog. ii, 17 ; Otto 
of Freisingen, De Gest. Frider. vol. i, c. 47, et al. — Her- 
zog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. ; Wetzer u. Welte, Kirchen- 
Lex. s. v. 

Roscholchika, a term signifying “ Seditionists,” 
and applied to the Russian sect Isbraniki , or the “Com- 
pany of the East.” This sect was formed in the middle 
of the 17th century, during the patriarchate of Nicon, 
A.D. 1G54. The cause of separation was not any differ- 
ence of doctrine or ritual, but a desire to protest against 
the laxity and inclination to change displayed bv the 
clergj 7 , and to adopt a greater piety and purity of life. 
Pinkerton ( Diss . on Russian Sects) identities them with 
the Starovertzi , or “ Relievers of the Old Faith.” See 
Platon, Present State of the Greek Church , Blunt, Diet, 
of Sects, s. v. See Russian Sects. 

Roscoe, William, a historian and poet, was born 
near Liverpool, March 8, 1753, and in 17G9 was articled 
to an attorney for six years. During this time he paid 
great attention to English classics, and subsequently 
added an acquaintance with choice writers in the Creek, 
Latin, Spanish, Italian, and French languages, lie was 
admitted to the bar in 1774, and retired from practice 
in 1796. 1 1 is means, through unfort unate business spec- 
ulations, became very limited, but he still continued his 
literary labors for many years. He was a member of 
Parliament for Liverpool in 180G, and died June 30, 
1831. Among his works are, Scriptural Refutation of 
a Pamphlet on the Licitness of the Slave-trade (1788, 
8vo): — The Life and Pontificate of Leo X (Liverpool, 


1805, 4 vols. 4to). See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and 
Amer . Authors, s. v. ; Darling, Cyclop. Bibliog. s. v. 

Rose (rbsisn, chabatstseleth ,* Sept. Kpirov, dj'3-oc; 
Aq. Ni\\g.flos, lilimn) occurs twice only in the 

canonical Scriptures; namely, first in Cant, ii, 1, where 
the bride replies, “ I am the rose of Sharon and the lily 
of the valley,” and secondly in Isa. xxxv, 1, “The wil- 
derness and the solitary place shall be glad for them, 
and the desert shall rejoice and blossom as the rose.” 
There is much difference of opinion as to what particu- 
lar flower is here denoted. (In the following treatment 
of it we chiefly follow lioyle in Kitto’s Cyclopaedia.) 
Tremellius and Diodati, with some of the rabbins, be- 
lieve the rose is intended, but there seems to be no foun- 
dation for such a translation. The Sept, renders it sim- 
ply b y flower in the passage of the Canticles. In this 
it has been followed by the Latin Vulgate. Luther, etc. 
It is curious, however, as remarked by Celsius ( Hierobot . 
i, 489), that many of those who translate chabatstseleth 
by rose or flower in the passage of the Canticles render 
it by lily in that of Isaiah. The rose was, no doubt, 
highly esteemed by the Greeks, as it was, and still is, 
by almost all Asiatic nations; and as it. forms a very 
frequent subject of allusion in Persian poetry, it has 
been inferred that we might expect some reference to 
so favorite a flower in the poetical books of the Script- 
ure, and that no other is better calculated to illustrate 
the above two passages. But this does not prove that 
the word chabatstseleth or any similar one was ever ap- 
plied to the rose. Other flowers, therefore, have been 
indicated, to which the name chabatstseleth may be sup- 
posed, from its derivation, to apply more fitly. Scheuzer 
refers to Hiller ( Hierophyt . p. 2), who seeks chabatstseleth 
among the bulbous-rooted plants, remarking that the 
Hebrew word may be derived from c habab and batsal, a 
bulb, or bulbous root, of any plant, as we have seen it ap- 
plied to the onion (q. v.). So Roscnmuller remarks that 
the substantial part of the Hebrew name shows that it 
denotes a flower growing from a bulb, and adds in a 
note “that chabatstseleth is formed from betsel, or bulb, 
the guttural cheth being sometimes put before triliterals 
in order to form quadriliterals from them” (see Gesen. 
Gram. p. 863). Some, therefore, have selected the as- 
phodel as the bulbous plant intended, respecting which 
the author of Scripture Illustrated remarks, “ It is a very 
beautiful and odoriferous flower, and highly praised by 
two of the greatest masters of Grecian song. Hesiod 
says it grows commonly in woods, and Homer ( Odyss . 
i, 24) calls the Elysian Fields ‘meads filled with aspho- 
del.’” Celsius (/or. cit.) has already remarked that Bo- 
chart has translated chabatstseleth by narcissus ( Polyan- 
thus narcissus), and not without reason, as some Orien- 
tal translators have so explained it. In the Targum 
(Cant, ii, 1), instead of chabatstseleth we have narkom 
( ), which, however, should have been written 
narkos (0^*3), as appears from the words of David 
Cohen de Lara, “ Narkos is the same as chabatstseleth of 
Sharon.” So in Isa. xxxv, 1 . chabatstseleth is written 
chamzaloito in the Syrian translation, which is the same 
as narcissus (Cels. Uierobot. i, 489). This, Rosen m idler 
informs ns (Bibl. Dot. p. 142), according to the testimo- 
ny of Syriac-Arabic dictionaries, denotes the Colchicum 
autummile, that is, the meadow saffron. That plant 
certainly has a bulb -like root -stock; in form the 
flowers resemble those of the crocus, and are of a 
light violet color, without scent. Narkom and narkos 
are, no doubt, the same as the Persian nurgus, which 
throughout the East indicates the Narcissus tazetta, or 
the Polyanthus narcissus. The ancients describe and 
allude to the narcissus on various occasions, and Celsius 
has quoted various passages from the poets indicative of 
the esteem in which it was held. Since they were not 
so particular as the moderns in distinguishing species, 
it is probable that more than one may be referred to by 
them, and therefore that N. tazetta may be included un- 
der the same name as N.pneticus, which was best known 


ROSE 


ROSE l 



to them. It is not unimportant to remark that the nar- 
cissus was also called Bulbus vomitorius , or the Emetic 
bulbus , in Greek and Latin ; and the Arabic busl-al-kye 
no doubt refers to the same or a kindred species. If is 
curious, also, that an Eastern name, or the corruption 
of one, should be applied by gardeners even in Eng- 
land to a species of narcissus: thus, X. trewriunus and 
cremilatus (the former supposed by some to be a varie- 
ty of X. orient a Us) were once called “ Bazulman major” 
and “ Bazalnum minor.” That the narcissus is found in 
Syria and Palestine is well known, as it lias been men- 
tioned by several travellers, and also that it is highly 
esteemed by all Asiatics from Syria even as far as In- 
dia (comp. Soph. (Ed. Col. p. 698 sq. ; Mosch. Idyl, ii, 
65 sq.; Athen. xv, 679 sq.). Chateaubriand ( Itmeraire , 
ii, 130) mentions the narcissus as growing in the plain 
of Sharon; and Strand {Flor. Pulcest. No. 177) names it 
as a plant of Palestine, on the authority of Bamvolfand 
Hasselquist (see also Kitto, Phys. Hist, of Palest, p. 216). 
lliller ( IHerophyt . ii, 30) thinks the chabatstseleth de- 
notes some species of asphodel ( A spkodelus ) ; but the 
finger-like roots of this genus of plants do not well ac- 
cord with the “bulb” root implied in the original word. 
Thomson (Land and Book, 161; ii, 269) suggests the pos- 
sibility of the Hebrew name being identical with the Ara- 
bic khubbaizy , “ the mallow,” which plant he saw grow- 
ing abundantly on Sharon ; but this view can hardly be 
maintained. The Hebrew term is probably a quadri- 
literal noun with the harsh aspirate prefixed, and the 
prominent notion implied in it is betsel, “ a bulb.” and has 
therefore no connection with the above-named Arabic 
word. The narcissus alone is still called buseil by the 
natives of Palestine ( [Qtutr . Statement of the Palest. Ex - 
plor. Soc. Jan. 1878, p. 46). See Siiauon. 

Though the rose is apparently not mentioned in the 
Hebrew Bible, it is referred to in Ecclus. xxiv, 14, where 
it is said of Wisdom that she is exalted “ as a rose-plant 
(6jq (pvra pbcov ) in Jericho” (comp. Mishna, Maaser, ii, 
5). So also in Ecclus. xxxix, 13, “And bud forth as a 
rose growing by the brook of the field and the high- 
priest’s ornaments are compared in 1, 8 to “the flowers 
of roses in the spring of the year.” But the passage in 
the book of Wisdom (ii, 8 ; comp. Pliny, xxi, 6; Athen. 
xv, 683), “Let ns crown ourselves with roses ere they 
be withered,” is especially well suited to the rose. Yet 
roses have not been found by travellers in the neighbor- 
hood of Jericho. They cannot be considered exactly as 
spring flowers, nor do they grow specially by the sides 
of brooks. The rose was as highly esteemed among an- 
cient as it is among modern nations, if we may judge by 
the frequent references to it in the poets of antiquity. 
As we know that it continues to be the favorite flower 
of the Persians, and is much cultivated in Egypt (Has- 
IX.— I 


9 

selqnist, Trav. p. 248; Russcgger, Reis. I, i, 193), we 
might expect more frequent mention of some of its 
numerous species and varieties in the Jewish writings. 
This, however, is not the case, which probably arises 
from its being less common in a wild state in a compar- 
atively dry and warm climate like that of Syria. Still 
it is indigenous in some parts. Monro, as quoted by 
Kitto in the Physical History of Palestine , “ found in 
the valley of Baalbec a creeping rose of a bright-yellow 
color in full bloom about the end of May. About the 
same time, on advancing towards Rama and Joppa from 
Jerusalem, the hills are found to be to a considerable 
extent covered with white and pink roses. The gar- 
dens of Rama itself abound in roses of a powerful fra- 
grance.” Mariti, as stated by Rosenmiiller, found the 
greatest quantity of roses in the hamlet of St.John, in 
t he desert of the same name. “ In this place the rose- 
plants form small forests in the gardens. The greatest 
part of the roses reared there are brought to Jerusalem, 
where rose-water is prepared from them, of which the 
scent is so very exquisite that in every part of Lyeia, 
and also in Cyprus, it is in request above all other rose- 
waters.” Burckhardt was struck with the number of 
rose-trees which he found among the ruins of Bozra be- 
yond the Jordan. That the rose was cultivated in Da- 
mascus is well known. Indeed, one species is named 
Rosa Dajnascena from being supposed to be indigenous 
there, “ In the gardens of the city roses are still much 
cultivated. Monro says that in size they are inferior to 
our damask rose and less perfect in form, but that their 
odor and color are far more rich. The only variety that 
exists in Damascus is a white rose, which appears to 
belong to the same species, differing only in color" 
(Kitto, loc. cit. p. cclxxxiv). The attar of roses from 
Damascus is famous. Dr. Hooker observed the fol- 
lowing wild roses in Syria: Rosa eylanteria L., R. sem- 
pervirens L., R. Henkeliana , R. Phoenicia Boiss., R. seria- 
cea , R. am/ttstifoUa , and R. Libanotica. Some of these 
are doubtful species. R. centifolia and Damascena are 
cultivated everywhere. It. is possible, however, that 
the common rose may not be the plant meant in the 
above passages of Ecclesiasticus, and that the name 
rhodon may have been used in a general sense, so as to 
include some rose-like plants. We have an instance of 
this, indeed, in the oleander, of which rhododendron , or 
rose-tree , was one of the ancient names, and rhododaphne 
another. The former name is now applied to a very 
different genus of plants; but laurier-rose , the French 
translation of rhododaphne, is still the common name in 
France of the plant which used to be called rose bay 
in England, but which is now commonly called olean- 
der. Its long and narrow leaves are like some kinds of 



ROSE 


130 


ROSE 


willows, anti in their hue and leathery consistence have 
some resemblance to the bay-tree, while in its rich in- 
florescence it may most aptly be compared to the rose. 
The oleander is well known to be common in the south 
of Europe by the sides of rivers and torrents, also in 
Asia Minor, "Syria, and Egypt. It is seen in similar 
situations in the north of India, and nothing can be 
conceived more beautiful than the rivulets at the foot 
of the mountains, with their banks lined with thickets 
of oleanders, crowned with large bunches of roseate- 
colored flowers. Most travellers in Palestine have been 
struck with the beauty of this plant. Of the neighbor- 
hood of Tripoli, Kauwolf says, “There also by the river’s 
side are found Anthilis marina , etc., and oleander with 
purple flowers, by the inhabitants called defied At the 
foot of Lebanon, again, he says, “In the valley further 
down towards the water, grew also the oleander.” It is 
mentioned as a conspicuous object in similar situations 
by Robinson and Smith, lvitto says, “Among the 
plants in flower in April, the oleander flourishes with 
extraordinary vigor, and in some instances grows to a 
considerable size by all the waters of Palestine. When 
the shrub expands its splendid blossoms, the effect is 
truly beautiful. Lord Lindsay speaks with rapture of 
the glorious appearance which the groves of blooming 
oleanders make in this season along the streams and in 
the lone valleys of Palestine” ( loc . cit. p. ccxxxvii). 
“In the month of May, ’’adds Kitto (loc. cit, p. ccxliv), 
“oleanders, continuing still in bloom, are as much no- 
ticed in this as in the preceding month by travellers. 
Madox noticed in this month that fine oleanders in full 
bloom were growing all along the borders of the Lake 
of Tiberias, mostly in the water. The same observa- 
tion was made by Monro. The lake is here richly mar- 
gined with a wide belt of oleanders, growing in such 
luxuriance as they are never known to do even in the 
most genial parts of Europe.” Such a plant could hard- 
13 ’' escape reference, and therefore we are inclined to 
think that it is alluded to in the book of Ecclesiasticiis 
by the name rhadon. If this should not be considered 
sufficiently near to rhododaphne and rhododendron, we 
may' state that in Arabic writers on Materia Medica 
rodyon is given as the Syrian name of the oleander (see 
Tristram, Xai. I list . of Bible, p. 477). See Engedi. 

The plant commonly called “rose of Jericho” is in 
no way referred to in the above-quoted passages. Dr. 
Lindley', in the Gardener's Chronicle , ii, 362, has thus 
described it : “ The A nastatica II ierochuntina , or rose of 
Jericho of the old herbalists, is not a rose at all, nor has 
it the smallest resemblance to a rose; nor is it, as it is 
often described to be, alive as sold in the shops. It is 
gathered by the poor Christians of Palestine and sold to 
pilgrims as a charm. It is a little grav-leaved annual, 
very common in Palestine, and of which hundreds may 
be gathered in full flower in June by the sides of the 
road over the Isthmus of Suez (see Arvieux, Xeaehr. ii, 
156; Seetzen,inZ«c^. xvii, 146; Forskal, Flora, p. 1 17). 
It produces a number of short, stiff, zigzag branches, 
which spread pretty equally' from the top of the root, 
and, when green and growing, lie almost flat upon the 
ground, having the flowers and fruit upon their upper 
side. It is, in fact, a cruciferous plant, nearly related to 
the common purple sea-rocket, which grows on the coast 
of England, and has a somewhat similar habit. When 
tiie seed-vessels of this plant are ripe, the branches die, 
and, drying up, curve inwards, so as to form a kind of 
ball, which then separates from the roots, and is blown 
about on the sands of the desert. In the cavity' thus 
formed bv the branches, the seed-vessels are carefully' 
guarded from being so disturbed as to lose their con- 
tents. In that condition the winds carry' the anastatica 
from place to place, till at last rain falls, or it reaches a 
pool of water. The dry', hard branches immediately ab- 
sorb the fluid, become softened, relax, and expand again 
into the position they' occupied when alive; at the same 
time, the seed-vessels open and the seeds fall out, germi- 
nate if favored, and become new plants. This is due, 



Badge of the Tudors. 


then, to the hygroscopic property of vegetable texture.” 
So D’Arvieux, who calls the anastatica a “natural hy'- 
grometer” (see the fables told of it in Zetller, Universal - 
Lex. xxxii, 867 sq. ; Helmuth, Naturgesch. viii, 288 sq.). 
See Rose of Jericho. 

ROSE, Architectural. A kind of rose was some- 
times used as an ornament on the 
face of the abacus on Corinthian 
capitals. It also occurs in orna- 
mental mouldings during the Nor- 
man style ; but the full rose, as in 
the accompanying illustration, 
was a badge of the Tudors, and 
during their reigns it is often 
found carved on buildings in con- 
junction with the portcullis. — 
Parker, Gloss, of Architect, s. v. 

ROSE, Tiie Golden ( Rosa aurea), a rose made of 
gold and consecrated by' the pope, which is presented 
to such princes as have rendered special service to the 
Church, or as may' be expected to promote its interests, 
though it is sometimes given also to cities and church- 
es. The essential parts of the rose are gold, incense, 
and balsam, signifying the threefold substance of Christ 
— Deity', body', and soul ; and its color denotes purity, 
its scent attractiveness, its taste the satisfying of de- 
sire. It is not known when the ceremony of consecrat- 
ing the rose was introduced, though the time is com- 
moulv placed in the Ilth century' and in the pontificate 
of Leo IX, and it has become increasingly' impressive 
with the progress of time. The day' is always the 
I fourth Sunday in Lent, which is consequently' known 
also as “ Rose-Sunday'” (Dominica de Rosa). The pope, 
clothed wholly' in white, intones before the altar the 
Adjutorium nostrum and offers a prayer of consecration, 
after which he dips the rose in balsam and sprinkles it 
with balsam-dust, incense, and holv-water. It is then 
placed on the altar, mass is said, and the benediction 
concludes the solemnity'. When the rose is not con- 
ferred by' the hand of the pope, it is always transmitted 
by special messenger, and accompanied with a letter 
from the pope. Its use as a symbol of joyous events has 
been continued in the Romish Church down to the 
present time. See llerzog, Real-Ency Hop. s. v. ; Wet- 
zer n. Welte, Kirchen-Lex. s. v. 

ROSE of Jericho, a plant of the natural order Cru- 
cifene , which grows in the sandy' deserts of Arabia, on 
rubbish, the roofs of houses, and other such situations, 
in Syria and other parts of the East. It is a small, 
bushy', herbaceous plant, seldom more than six inches 
high, with small W'hite flowers. After it has flowered, 
the leaves fall off, and the branches become incurved 
towards the centre, so that the plant assumes an almost 
globular form, and in this state it is often blown about 
by the wind in the desert. When it happens to be 
blown into water the branches expand again, the pods 
open and let out the seeds (see illustrations on the fol- 
lowing page). Numerous superstitions are connected 
with this plant, which is called Rosa J/ariie, or the Rose 
of the Virgin. — Chambers's Encyclop. s. v. See Rose. 

Rose, Alexander, a Scottish prelate, was born in 
the north of Scotland, was educated at King’s College, 
Aberdeen, and afterwards studied theology at Glasgow. 
11 is first preferment was Perth, which he left to become 
professor of divinity in the University of Glasgow. In 
1684 he was nominated to the principality of St. Mary'’s 
College, University of St. Andrew’s, and in 1687 he was 
made bishop of Edinburgh. He refused to join the 
standard of William, and during the Revolution was de- 
prived of his cathedral, despoiled of his revenues, and 
stripped of his civil dignities. He died in March, 1720, 
and was buried in the church of Restalrig, near Edin- 
burgh. See Hook, Eccles. Biog. s. v. 

Rose, Guillaume, a French prelate, was born at 
Chaumont, about 1542. He was professor of grammar 
and rhetoric in the College of Navarre, but subsequent- 


IIOSE 


ROSE 131 



Rose of Jericho ( Anastatica Uierochuntinu ). 1, dry; 2, expauded by moisture. 


ly went to Paris, where his eloquent and incisive preach- 
ing gained for him a wide reputation. Becoming chap- 
lain-in-ordinary to Henry III, he soon joined the Holy 
League, and in 1583 opposed himself to the king; but 
the break was only temporary. Rose was made head- 
master of the College of Navarre, and in 1584 received 
the bishopric of Senlis. For some time he repressed 
the expression of any extreme views, but when he de- 
parted for Paris as member of the Council of the Union, 
he said publicly that the celestial palm was reserved 
for the members of the League when they had killed 
father and mother. Thereafter he was one of the 
fiercest preachers of his party, and in the contest be- 
tween Mavenne and the Spanish he was an ardent par- 
tisan of the latter. He was member of the States-gen- 
eral in 1593, and rendered important service to the 
country in opposing the friends of the infanta of Spain, 
which was all the more remarkable considering his pre- 
vious attitude towards the Spaniards. After the tri- 
umph of Henry IV, Rose took refuge in the convent of 
Val de Beaumont-sur-Oise, but by letters-patent was 
allowed to retain his bishopric. Continuing his hostil- 
ity to the king, he was in 1598 arrested and forced to 
pay a fine of one hundred livres d’or. Rose died at 
Senlis, March 10, 1G02. The celebrated pamphlet en- 
titled De Just a Reipublicce Christiana in Reges Imjrios 
Authoritate (Paris, 1590; Antwerp, 1592) has been at- 
tributed to Rose, but its authorship is uncertain. See 
Labitte, Predicuteurs de la Ligue ; De Thou, Ilistoria; 
L’Estoil, Journal. — Hoefer, Nouv. Riog. Generate , s. v. 

Hose, Henry John, an English author, was born 
in 1801, graduated at St. John’s College, Cambridge, in 
1821, and became fellow of his college in 1824. He was 
made Hulsean lecturer in 1833, rector of Houghton Con- 
quest, Bedfordshire, in 1837, and archdeacon of Bedford 
in 18GG. His death took place in Bedford, Jan. 31, 1873. 
Rose edited the Encyclopedia Metropolitana from 1839, 
also vol. i of Rose's Biographical JHctionary . He trans- 
lated Neander’s History of the Christian Religion and 
Church during the First Three Centuries (1831,2 vols. ; 
2d ed. 1842); contributed an essay to Replies to Essays 
and Reviews (1861) ; aud was one of the authors of The 
Speaker's Commentary. He published, The Law of 
Moses, etc. (Hulsean Lectures, 1834), and History of 
the Christian Church , 1700-1858. 


Rose, Hugh James, an English clergyman, was 
born in Little Ilorsted, Surrey, in 1795, and was ed- 
ucated at Trinity College, Cambridge. He gained the 
first Bell’s scholarship in 1814, took his degree in 1817, 
became tutor to the son of the duke of Athol, was or- 
dained deacon and became curate of LTckfield, Surrey, 
in 1818. In 1821 he became vicar of Horsham, Surrey; 
in 1825 select preacher at Cambridge; in 1826 chaplain 
to bishop Howley, and prebendary of Chichester, 1827- 
33. In 1830 he became rector of Hadleigh, Suffolk ; 
exchanged it for Fairstead and Werley, Essex, in 1833, 
and immediately exchanged the latter for St. Thomas’s, 
Southwark, which he retained until his death. He was 
made professor of divinity of the University of Dublin 
in 1833, domestic chaplain to the archbishop of Canter- 
bury in 1834, and principal of King’s College, London, 
in 183G. Rose died at Florence, Italy, Dec. 22, 1838. 
He was the author of Christianity Always Progressive 
(1829, 8vo ) : — Notices of the Mosaic Law (1831, 8vo) : — 
The Gospel an Abiding System (1832, 8vo): — an edition 
of Parkhurst’s Greek Lexicon : — besides Lectures , Ser- 
mons, etc. See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Au- 
thors, s. v. : Darling, Cyclop. Bibliog. s. v. 

Hose, John Baptist, a French priest, was born at 
Quingey, Feb. 7, 1716. He was made curate of a chap- 
el in his own village, which position nothing could in- 
duce him to leave, and he there continued during his 
life. In 1778 he was made a member of the Academy 
of Besan^on. He submitted to the decrees of 1789, and 
in 1795 the National Convention voted him a pension 
of 1500 livres. Rose died Aug. 12, 1805. His works 
are, Traite Elementaire de Morale (2 vols. 12mo ) : — La 
Morale Evangelique (1772, 2 vols. 12mo) : — Traite sur le 
Providence: — L' Esprit des Peres (1791, 3 vols. 12mo). 
He was also a good mathematician, and sent papers to 
the Academy of Sciences, Paris. See Chalmers, Biog. 
Diet. s. v. 

Rose, Stephen, a deacon and ruling elder of 
the Presbyterian Church, Bridgehampton, Long Island, 
N. Y.. was born there, June 5, 1780. After a period of 
darkness and doubt, he was converted in 1803 and unit- 
ed with the Church. Renouncing all efforts to obtain 
wealth, he devoted himself exclusively to the Church, 
and he emphatically “loved the gates of Zion more 
than all the dwellings of Jacob,” and no one was more 


ROSE -WINDOW 


132 


ROSENBACH 


distinguished for piety and usefulness than elder Rose, 
He was a pioneer in the cause of the circulation of the 
Bible, temperance, and Sabbath-schools in Suffolk Coun- 
ty. To the Church and these institutions he devoted 
the energies of a powerful and cultured mind. He was 
a man of large and liberal views, and was ready to labor 
for the cause of Christ in all denominations, no Church 
lines interfering with beuetieent actions, lie did much 
in winning souls to Christ by personal effort, always 
seeming to be in a revival spirit. In his religious ex- 
perience he knew little of those alternations of hope 
and despondency which enter into the feelings of many 
professing Christians. In him there was a harmonious 
blending of virtues and graces unsullied by any defects. 
He was wise, yet modest and unassuming ; cautious, 
yet decided and unwavering. His sense of justice was 
strong and inflexible, but not stern and merciless — fol- 
lowing the dictates of his Divine Master in a readiness 
to forgive even the greatest injuries on the first move- 
ment of repentance on the part of the offender. Every- 
where, among all classes, he was revered as a man of 
God, perfect in his day and generation. He was a per- 
fect storehouse of information, not only on all matters 
pertaining to Church history, but of Bible doctrines, 
lie died “as a shock of corn cometh in its season,” at 
his home on Rose Hill, July 18, 1800. (W. P. S.) 

Rose-window, or the Marygold, was derived from 
the round window called the eye in the basilica, pierced 
through the gable over the entrance, and imitated in 
the Norman period at Canterbury in the transept, and 
at Southwell in the clerestory, but is unknown in Rhen- 
ish architecture. About the 13th century the rose be- 
came of large dimensions. There are fine examples at 
Baris (1*220-57), Nantes (1220), Laon, Rheims (1239), 
Amiens (1825), St. Denis, Seez, Clermont, and Rouen. 
The mullions of this window converge towards the 
centre, something like the spokes of a wheel ; hence 
they are sometimes called Catherine, or wheel, windows. 
They also bore the names of the elements — the northern 
being called the rose of the winds; the west, of the sea; 
the south, of heaven ; and the east, of the earth. When 
there were two of these transcptal windows in a cathe- 
dral, that on the north was called the bishop’s, and the 
southern one the dean’s eye, as representing their re- 
spective jurisdiction — one watching against the inva- 
sion of evil spirits on the north, and the latter as pre- 
siding as censor morum over the capitulars and close. 
At St. Paul’s, exceptionally, the Lady Chapel had a 
superb eastern rose, and one still adorns the nine chapels 
of Durham. — Walcott, Sac . Ai'chccol . s. v. See Win- 
dow*. 

Roselli (or Rosselli), Cosimo, an Italian 
painter, was born of a noble family at Florence in 1439, 
and studied under Neri di Bicci and Fra Angeli. He 
decorated what is called “the Chapel of the Miracle” at 
Sant’ Ambrogio, and in 1476 aided in decorating the 
Sistine Chapel at Rome, where he hail charge of the four 
great subjects — the Passaye of the lied Sea, the lfor- 
ship of the Golden Calf the Lord's Supper, and Christ 
Preachiny on the Sea of Tiberias . Returning to Flor- 
ence loaded with honors, lie died about 1506. The 
Museum of Berlin contains a Virgin with the Maydalen 
painted by him; that of Paris, a Virgin Gloi'iosa , a 
Christ Entombed, and two Madonnas ; and at the Ex- 
position of Manchester were shown a Christ on the Cross 
and the Viryin Surrounded by Saints. Roselli’s princi- 
pal pupil was Fra Bartolomeo. — llocfer, Xouv. Biog. 
Gene rale, s. v. 

Roselli (or Rosselli), Matteo, an Italian 
painter, descended from the preceding, was born at 
Florence in 1578. lie studied under Gregorio Pngani. 
and after the death of his master finished several of his 
uncompleted pictures. He decorated the Clementine 
Chapel. Some of his paintings are, the Manger, the 
Trinity , the Crucifixion of St. Andrew, and St. Eliz- 
abeth of Hungary. His frescos are superior to his 


other paintings, five of the best of which are in the 
cloister of the Annunciation, lie died in 1650. — Hoe- 
fer, Xouc. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Rosellini, Ippolito, an Italian antiquary, was 
born at Pisa in 1800. In 1821 he received the degree 
of doctor of theology, and afterwards studied at Bologna 
under Mezzofanti, and taught in the University of Pisa. 
At the time of the discoveries of Champollion, in 1825, 
Rosellini became interested in the study of hieroglyph- 
ics, and, in company with Champollion, studied Egyp- 
tian antiquities in the museums of Italy, and went with 
him to Paris. In 1828 he was commissioned by the 
grand-duke of Tuscany to explore the ruins of Egypt 
and Nubia with his son and three naturalists. Cham- 
pollion was sent at the same time, and on a similar er- 
rand, by the duke de Blacas. The two parties united, 
and for fifteen months travelled through the two coun- 
tries. Returning to Pisa, Rosellini spent the rest of his 
life in directing the publication of the results of the ex- 
pedition, the whole of the work having fallen upon him 
at the death of Champollion. On account of his feeble 
health, he gave up his professor’s chair, and was made 
librarian of the university. He died June 4, 1843. His 
works are, La Eionda di David (Bologna, 1823), a trea- 
tise upon the age of the Masoretic points :—Lettera Fi- 
lologico-critica al Am. Peyron (Pisa, 1831): — Tributo 
di Riconoscenzci e d'A more reso alia Memoria di Cham- 
pollion il Minore (ibid. 1832) : — I Monument i dell ’ Eyitto 
e della Xubia, Jnterpretati ed JUustrati (Florence, 1832, 
1840); this is his great work, the foundation of all mod- 
ern research concerning ancient Egypt; it is divided 
into Monument i Stoi'ici, Civili,e Reliyiosi: — and Element a 
Linguae xEyyptiacce vulgo Copiicee (Rome, 1837). The 
latter, published by P. Ungarelli, is a resume of the 
lectures given by Rosellini, but the substance of it is 
printed in the Grammaire Copte of Champollion. Some 
other works, De Jnterpretatione Obeliscorum Urbis Ro- 
nue, published by Ungarelli as those of Rosellini, belong 
really to Champollion. See Miller and Unbenas, Revue 
de Bibliographic A nalytique (1842) ; Bardelli, Bioyr. delV 
Ipp. Rosellini. — Iloefer, Xouv. Bioy. Generate, s. v. 

Rosemary, Use of at Funerals. The early 
Christians rejected the use of the cypress at funerals, as 
used by the heathen, and substituted rosemary. The 
heathen, having no thoughts of a future life, but be- 
lieving that the bodies of the dead would lie forever 
in the grave, made use of cypress, which is a tree that, 
being once cut, never revives, but dies away. The Chris- 
tians, having better hopes, and expecting the reunion 
of soul and body, use rosemary, which, being always 
green, and flourishing the more for being cut, is' more 
proper to express this confidence and trust. — Eadie, Ec- 
cles. Cyclop, s. v. 

Rosen, Friedrich Augustus, a celebrated Ori- 
ental scholar, was born in Hanover. Sept. 2, 1805, and 
entered Leipsic University in 1822, where be devoted 
himself to the study of the Biblico-Oriental languages. 
He went to Berlin in 1824, and studied Sanscrit under 
Bopp. He was subsequently called to the London Uni- 
versity as professor of Oriental literature, which pro- 
fessorship he resigned in 1831, and devoted himself to 
study and writing. As secretary of the Asiatic Society, 
he conducted its entire foreign correspondence. Rosen 
died in London, Sept. 12, 1837. His first work w*as Ra- 
dices Sanscrit ee (Berlin, 1827), He edited the Arabic 
Handbooks of Algebra, by Mohammed ben-Musa (Loiul. 
1831), wrote Oriental articles for the Penny Cyclopedia, 
and revised the Sanscrit- Bengali Dictionary of Hough- 
ton (ibid. 1835). In 1836 he began to publish Hymns 
of the Rig-Veda, but left it unfinished. It was published 
by the Asiatic Society under the title Rigreda-Sanhita , 
fAber Primus , Sanscrite et Latine (ibid. 1838). — Cham- 
bers's Encyclop. s. v. 

Rosenbach, Johann Georg, a journeyman spur- 
maker of Heilbronn, in Wiirtemberg, who became one 
of the most prominent fanatics of the last century. 


ROSENFELD 


133 


ROSENMULLER 


Converted to God, as he thought, by the reading of Pi- | 
etistic works, he forsook his handicraft in 1703, and trav- | 
ersed the cities of Central Germany, preaching and 
holding devotional meetings. He secured the endorse- 
ment of several professors in the faculty at Altorf, and 
gained over some of the students at Tubingen; but he 
was everywhere opposed by the clergy and driven away 
by the civil authorities. He eventually went to Hol- 
land, and there disappeared from view. 

The teachings of Kosenbach were given to the world 
in three books — Glaubensbekenntniss (1703), \V under- u. 
fjnculenvolle Bekehrung (1704), and Wander - u. gnaden- 
volle Fiihrung Gotfes eines anf d. Wege d. Bekehrung 
Christo nuchfolgend. Schnfes. It appears that he re- 
jected infant baptism as not commanded in Scripture, 
and ineffective to produce conversion. He held the 
Lord’s supper to be simply a memorial; despised the 
ministry in the churches; regarded the Bible as a mere 
dead letter, and not the Word of God ; believed Christ 
to be the Saviour, but asserted that the kindling of in- 
ward goodness would result in the saving, through 
Christ, of those who do not know of him; and con- 
founded faith with its fruits, and justification with sanc- 
tification. He insisted positively on the existence of 
an intermediate state of souls after death, and on the 
prospect of a millennial reign of saints with Christ dur- 
ing a thousand years prior to the general resurrection. 

The appeal of Rosenbach to the professors of Altorf 
in support of his views led to a protracted controversy, 
in which Joh. Phil. Storr, pastor at Heilbronn, and 
Prof. J. Michael Lange were the principal champions. 
See Walch, Einl. in d. Rel.-Streitigkeiten d. ev.-lutli. 
Kirche , i. 799 sq., 838 sq. ; ii, 755 sq. ; v, 109 sq. ; Un- 
schuldige Nachrichten , 1704, p. 852; 1707, p. 172; 1708, 
p. 758;' 1715, p. 1054; 171G, p. 42G sq.; 1721, p. 1096; 
also Yon Einem, Kirchengesch. des 18 ten J ahrhunderts , 
ii, 747 sq. ; and Schrockh, Kirchengesch. seit d. Refor- 
mation, , viii, 404. — Herzog, Recd-Encykiop. s. v. 

Rosenfeld, Hans, a German impostor who set 
himself up as the Messiah, about the year 17G3, in Prus- 
sia, declaring that Jesus Christ and his apostles were 
impostors, and that Frederick the Great was the Evil 
One, whom Rosenfeld was to depose, lie taught that 
be was to govern the world, assisted by a council of 
twenty-four elders, like those of the Apocalypse. He 
deluded multitudes, and lived upon them in outrageous 
profligacy for twenty years. Eventually, in 1782, one 
of his followers appealed to the king, whom he believed 
to be the Evil One, to revenge him on Rosenfeld for the 
seduction of his three daughters. The king ordered 
proceedings against Rosenfeld, and he was sentenced to 
be flogged, and imprisoned for the remainder of his life 
at Spandau. After this his followers, called Rosenfelders, 
quietly disappeared. 

Rosenfeld, Samson Wolf, rabbi of Bamberg, 
was born Jan. 2G. 1780, at Uhlefeld, in Bavaria. At 
the age of thirteen he entered the Jewish academy at 
Forth, where, besides the Talmud, he studied the philo- 
sophical writings of Maimonides, Albo, and others. At 
the age of nineteen he returned to his native place, 
and continued his studies, especially devoting himself 
to the writings of Moses Mendelssohn. In 1817 he was 
appointed rabbi of his native place. In 1819 he repre- 
sented his coreligionists in Munich, and presented a me- 
morial concerning the amelioration of the condition of the 
Jews; an act which he repeated in 184G, in spite of the 
hatred of the orthodox Jews, who thought of putting 
him under ban. In 182G he was called to Bamberg, 
and, having passed the necessary examination required 
by the government, be entered upon his new field in 
March of the same year. lie was a conservative re- 
former, and as such he published some works which 
tended to enlighten bis coreligionists. He died May 
12, 1862. Of his publications, we mention especially his 
St unden der A ndacht fur die Israeliten beiderlei Ge- 
schlechts (2d ed. Dinkensbubl, 1858, 3 vols.). See Fiirst, 


Biblioth. Jud. iii, 169; Kayserling, Bibl. jud. Kanzel- 
redner , i, 414 sq. ; Klein, in Frankel’s Monutsschrift , 
1863, p. 201 sq. ; Kriimer, in the Jewish year-book 
A chawu, 1866, p. 15-33. (11. I*.) 

Rosenfelders. See Rosenfeld, IIaxs. 

Rosenfeldt, Frederick John, a missionary of 
the Episcopal Church, was born of Jewish parents Feb. 
10, 1804, at Mitau, in Courland, Russia. According to 
the custom of that country, Rosenfeldt was instructed 
in the religion of Rabbinism, and when ten years old he 
was taken to Berditsehev for further instruction in the 
Talmud. One of the most learned teachers, however, 
at that place endeavored to awake in his students a de- 
sire to apply themselves to the study of other lan- 
guages, and not without success. Rosenfeldt, with two 
fellow -scholars, was permitted by a Roman Catholic 
priest to take part in the instruction of his school, which 
lie did in secret, acquiring a knowledge of reading 
and writing Russian, Polish, German, and a little arith- 
metic. At the age of eighteen he was married, accord- 
ing to the fashion of the country, and for two years 
lived in the house of his father-in-law, spending his 
time in the study of the Talmud. Having returned to 
Berditsehev, he came into possession of a copy of the 
New Testament in Hebrew, circulated by the mission- 
ary Mr. Moritz (q. v.). 11 is two former fellow-scholars 

and himself resolved to embrace Christianity, and in- 
tended to go to Berlin. Rosenfeldt was prevented from 
carrying out his plan by circumstances beyond his con- 
trol. In the meantime he received letters of introduc- 
tion to the missionaries in Poland, and arrived at War- 
saw in September, 1827. Having received the necessary 
instruction, he was baptized in the Reformed Church 
Feb. 10, 1828. 1 1 is exemplary life and Rabbinical learn- 
ing recommended him to the London Society, and in 
September, 1828, he was appointed assistant to the mis- 
sion station at Radom. From this time on till his death, 
which occurred July 11, 1853, he was connected with 
the London Society, his last station being Lublin. See 
the Jewish Intelligencer , 1853, p. 313 sq. ; A initial Reports 
of the London Society , 1829, p. 52 sq. (B. P.) 

Rosenkrans, Cyrus E., a Presbyterian minister, 
was born at Wallpack, N. J., March 12, 1809. He grad- 
uated at Amherst College, Mass. ; studied divinity in the 
Union Theological Seminary, New York city; and was 
licensed and ordained by New York Third Presbytery 
April 8, 1842. He entered upon his labors as a minister 
in the West, at East May, Wis., and subsequently at 
Columbus, Wis. He died March 8. 1861. Mr. Rosen- 
krans was a man of fine conversational powers, excellent 
judgment, and had the tact necessary to carry out useful 
plans of action. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. A ImanaCy 1862, 
p. 195. (J. L. S.) 

Rosenkrans, Joseph, a Presbyterian minister, 
was born at Wallpack. N. J., Nov. 13, 1812. He re- 
ceived his education at Amherst College, Mass., and 
Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. : studied theology 
in the Union Theological Seminary, New York city” ; 
and was ordained by New York Third Presbytery in 
1842 as pastor of the Church in Bethlehem, N. Y. He 
subsequently preached for the churches of Newport, 
Martinsburg, Romulus, and Onondaga Valley, N. Y., 
where he was laboring when he died, June 19, 1863. 
Mr. Rosenkrans was a man of well-balanced mind; or- 
thodox, faithful to every trust, a fair scholar, and a 
good preacher. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. A Imanac, p. 
321. (J. L. S.) 

Rosenkreuz. See Rosicrucians. 

Rosenmuller, Ernst Friedrich Karl, a noted 
German Orientalist, who contributed largely to the ad- 
vancement of our acquaintance with the Shemitie lan- 
guages, literature, and customs. He was the oldest son 
of the rationalist theologian Johann Georg Roscnmiiller 
(q. v.), and was born Dec. 10. 1768. The various posi- 
tions held by his father introduced him to learned stud- 


ROSEN MULLEN 


134 


ROSH 


ies at an unusually early age, ami afforded him un- 
equalled facilities for their prosecution. He became 
identified with the University of Leipsie, first as a stu- 
dent, in 1792 as tutor, extraordinary professor of Arabic 
in 1796, and professor in ordinary of Oriental languages 
from 1813 to the time of his death, Sept. 17, 1835. llis 
principal work was authorship; his chief importance 
that of a learned, keen, and industrious writer on Ori- 
ental subjects. He promoted the study of the Arabic 
language ( Institutiones ad Fumktm. Lingua ? A rab. [Lips. 
1818] ; Analecta Arabica [ibid. 1824-27, 3 vols.]), 
brought within the reach of theologians the rapidly in- 
creasing knowledge of his day with reference to the 
conditions of the East (A lies u. Xeues J lorgenl. etc. 
[ibid. 1816-20, 6 vols.]), and endeavored to raise the 
exposition of the language and statements of the Old 
Test, to the level of the science of his day. Comp, his 
Scholia in Vetus Test. (16 pts. ibid. 1 <88-1817 ; the same 
in epitome, 5 pts. 1828-35); IJandb. Jur Lit . d. Bibl. 
Kritik u. Exegese (4 pts. Getting. 1797-1800), and the 
JJandb. d. Bibl. Alterthumskunde (4 pts. Leips. 1823-34). 
His works, with biography annexed, are fully given in 
Xeaer Xekrolog d. Deutschen, I3th year, pt. ii, p. 766- 
769. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Rosenmuller, Johann Georg, the father of the 
preceding, a prominent theologian, preacher, and writer 
of Germany in the close of the last and the beginning 
of the present century, was born of humble parentage 
Dec. 18, 1736. Unusual talents secured for him assist- 
ance by which he was enabled to procure an education 
at Nuremberg and the University of Altorf. He sub- 
sequently spent several years as tutor in different fami- 
lies and schools, and became popular as a preacher, so 
that a number of prominent churches were successively 
placed under his charge. In 1775 he became professor 
of theology at Erlangen, in which position he secured a 
name, and in 1783 at the pedagogium at Giessen. In 
1785 he entered on a theological professorship at Leip- 
sie, and in that office, joined with the pastorate of St. 
Thomas’s Church and the superintendency, he spent the 
last thirty years of his life. It is not strange that he 
should have become tinged with rationalism from asso- 
ciation with the element then in control of the Leipsie 
University; but he has retained the name of a pious 
rationalist. His influence was highly beneficial to the 
progress of the theology and ecclesiastical life of Prot- 
estantism. Many of his sermons were printed, and 
earned for him the reputation of an exemplary popular 
preacher; and devotional manuals from his pen have 
not yet lost their hold upon the Christian public. His 
literary activity was surprising, nearly 100 different 
writings having been given by him to the world, among 
them works on exegesis, hermeneutics, and practical 
theology; e. g. Scholia in X. T. (6th ed. Lips. 1815-31, 
6 vols.) : — Hist. Interp. Libr. Sacrorum in Eccles. Christ. 
(ibid. 1795-1814, etc., 5 vols.). His practical activity 
was equally respectable. lie founded and improved 
schools, labored to secure a modernized hymuologv, 
sought to eliminate objectionable features from the ad- 
ministration of the Lord’s supper, etc. After having 
been rewarded with all the titles and honorary positions 
usually conferred on a senior of the theological faculty, 
he died, March 14, 1815. See I)olz, Dr. J. G. Rosen- 
m tiller's Leben und Wirken (ibid. 1816). — Herzog, Real- 
Encyklop. s. v. 

Rosenthal, David Augustus, Dr., a German 
writer of ecclesiastical history, was born of Jewish par- 
entage at Neisse, in Silesia, in the year 1812. Having 
finished his preparatory studies at the gymnasium, he 
entered the University of lireslau for the study of medi- 
cine. After having been promoted as doctor of medi- 
cine, he settled at Breslau, and in 1851, together with 
his family, became a member of the Boman Catholic 
Church. As a member of that Church he was especial- 
ly active in ameliorating the Catholic press and societies 
of Silesia. He also distinguished himself as an author 


by editing the poetical w r orks of Angelus Silesius, better 
known as Schefiier (1862, 2 vols.), but more especially 
by the publication of his Convert it enbilder aus dem 19. 
Jahrhundert (5 vols.). Rosenthal died March 29, 1875. 
His Convert it enbilder, or biographical sketches of con- 
verts to the Roman Catholic Chnrch in the 19th cen- 
tury, are a very important contribution to Church his- 
tory, in which the lives of Jews and Protestants are 
described who joined the Romish Church in our cen- 
tury. The first volume (Schaflfhausen, 1871-72) treats 
of the converts in Germany ; the second, of those of Eng- 
land; the first division of the third (1869), of those of 
France and America; the second division of the third 
(1870) is devoted to Russia, besides giving a supplement 
to the former volumes. See the Literarischer Hand- 
weiser, 1875, p. 120. (B. P.) 

Rosette, an ornament in front of the hat worn by 
prelates, dignitaries in a cathedral, and archdeacons. 
Savage ( Progress of a Divine , 1735) says, “He gained 
a cassock, beaver, and a rose." — Walcott, Sac. A rchceul. 
s. v. 

Rosewell, Thomas (1), an English clergyman, 
was born near Bath in 1630, and educated at Pembroke 
College, Oxford. He .became rector of Sutton Mande- 
ville in 1657, was ejected for nonconformity in 1662, and 
was settled as minister at Rotherhithe in 1674. He was 
tried for high-treason in 1684 by judge Jeffreys for some 
expressions in a sermon, was condemned, but pardoned. 
He died in 1692. Rosewell published, The Causes and 
Cure of the Pestilence (Loud. 1665, sm. 8vo). See Alli- 
bone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer . Authors, s. v. ; Darling, 
Cyclop. Bibliog. s. v. 

Rosewell, Thomas (2), an English Dissenting 
minister, was born at Rotherhithe in 1680, and educated 
partly in Scotland. He was for a time assistant to 31 r. 
John Howe, at Silver Street, London, and then colleague 
with Mr. John Spademan at the same place till towards 
the close of his life, when he removed to Mare Street, 
llacknev, where he died in 1722. Rosewell had a share 
in the continuation of Henry’s Exposition, the part as- 
signed him being the Epistle to the Ephesians, lie 
published a volume of Sermons (1706): — sixteen single 
Sermons (1706-20): — anil The Arraignment and Trial 
of Mr. Thomas Rosewell (1718, 8 vo). 

Rosh (Heb. Rush, head, as often ; Sept. 'P tog), 

the name of a man and perhaps of a people. See also 
Gall. 

1. The seventh named of ten sons of Benjamin, each 
of whom was head of a family in Israel (Gen. xlvi, 21). 
B.C. cir. 1880. He is perhaps identical with the Rapjia 
of 1 Chron. viii, 2. See Jacob. “ Kalisch has some long 
and rather perplexed observations on the discrepancies 
in the lists in Gen. xlvi and Numb, xxvi, and specially 
as regards the sons of Benjamin. But the truth is that 
the two lists agree very well so far as Benjamin is con- 
cerned ; for the only discrepancy that remains, ivhen the 
absence of Becher and Gera from the list in Numb, is 
explained [see those words], is that, for the two names 
■>nN and (Ehi and Rosh) in Gen., we have the one 
name Ei^nx (Ahiram) in Numb. If this last were 
written EX">, as it might be, the two texts would be al- 
most identical, especially if written in the Samaritan 
character, in which the shin closely resembles the mem. 
That Ahiram is right we are quite sure, from the fam- 
ily of the Ahiramites, and from the non-mention else- 
where of Rosh, which, in fact, is not a proper name. 
The conclusion, therefore, seems certain that wXIT’ns 
in Gen. is a mere clerical error, and that there is perfect 
agreement between the two lists. This view is strength- 
ened by the further fact that in the word which follows 
Rosh, viz. Muppim, the initial m is an error for sh. It 
should he Shuppim, as in Numb, xxvi, 39; I Chron. 
vii, 12. The final m of Ahiram and the initial sh of 
Shuppim have thus been transposed” (Kitto). 


R0S1I IIASII-SIIAXAII 


135 


ROSIN 


2 . The Heb. word rosh, rendered “prince” (Ezek. 
xxxviii, 2, 3; xxxix, 1), ought to lie read as a proper 
name, as in the Sept. — “ the chief” or “prince of Rosh, 
Meshech, and Tubal.” Uosh thus appears as the name 
of a northern nation, along with Meshech and Tubal 
(comp. Rhoas , in Pliny, vi, 4, which may be a city, a 
river, or a people, between Suavi and the district Ecrec- 
tice, on Caucasus; and Rhcidsh , an Iberian province in 
the same place, named by Russegger [Beschreib. d. 
Caucus, ii, 34]). Gesenius says, “ Without much doubt 
Rosh designates the Russians, who arc described by the 
Byzantine writers of the 10th century, under the name 
of the Roos, as inhabiting the northern parts of Taurus; 
and also by Ibn-Fosslan, an Arabic writer of the same 
period, under the name Rus , as dwelling upon the river 
Volga” ( Thes. JItb. s. v. ). The Oriental writers say 
that Rus was the eighth son of Japhet, and his descend- 
ants are, by Abulfaraj, always joined with the Bulga- 
rians, Slavonians, and Alani. For other suppositions, 
see Stritter, Memor. Popular, olim ad lhmub etc., Habi- 
tant. ii, 957 sq. ; Michaelis, Suppl. vi, 2*224 sq. ; Bocliart, 
Phal. xiii, 13; Schulthess, Parad. p. 193; llerbclot, 
Biblioth. Or. iii, 137 sq. If the view of Gesenius be 
correct, in this name and tribe we have the first trace 
of the Russ, or Russian, nation. “ Von Hammer identi- 
fies this name with Rass in the Koran (xxv, 40; 1, 12), 
‘the peoples Aad, Thamud, and the Asshabir (or in- 
habitants) of Rass or Ross.’ lie considers that Mo- 
hammed had actually the passage of Ezekiel in view, 
and that ‘Asshabir’ corresponds to Nasi, the ‘prince* 
of the A. V., and dpxoi ra of the Sept. (Sur les Origines 
Russes [St. Petersb. 1825], p. 24-29). The first certain 
mention of the Russians under this name is in a Latin 
Chronicle under the year A.D. 839, quoted by Bayer 
(Origines Russicce, Comment. Acad. Petropol. [1720], p. 
409). From the junction of Tiras with Meshech and 
Tubal in Gen. x, 2, Von Hammer conjectures the iden- 
tity of Tiras and Rosh (p. 2G). The name probably 
occurs again under the altered form of Rasses (q. v.) in 
Judith ii. 23 — this time in the ancient Latin, and possi- 
bly also in the Syriac version, in connection withThiras 
or Thars: but the passage is too corrupt to admit of any 
certain deduction from it. This early Biblical notice of 
so great an empire is doubly interesting from its being 
a solitary instance. No other name of any modern na- 
tion occurs in the Scriptures, and the obliteration of it 
by the A. V. is one of the many remarkable variations 
of our version from the meaning of the sacred text of 
the Old Test.” (Smith). 

Rosh hash-Shanah. See Talmud. 

Rosicrucians, a pretended fraternity in Germany 
which existed simply in a book entitled Fama Frater- 
nitas des loblichen Ordens des Rosenkreuzes, and publish- 
ed in 1014. That book recited that Christian Rosen- 
kreuz, a German of noble family, born in 1388, and edu- 
cated in a convent, had in early youth visited the holy 
sepulchre, and had spent three years in Damascus with 
the Arabians, engaged in the study of physics and 
mathematics, after which he went to Fez bv way of 
Egypt, and there pursued the study of magic, lie 
learned among other things that every man is a micro- 
cosm. An attempt to dispense his new-found wisdom 
in Spain met with no-encouragcmcnt, for which reason 
he determined to bestow his treasures on his fatherland. 
He built a sort of convent, which he named Sanctus Bpi- 
ritus, and associated with himself three friends from the 
monastery to which he originally belonged. This was 
the institution of the Rosicrucian order, which was af- 
terwards enlarged by the addition of four other persons. 
The members travelled everywhere to promote the ref- 
ormation of the world, but met at their central house 
once a year. They claimed the possession of the high- 
est knowledge and freedom from sickness and pain, 
though not from death. Each member chose his suc- 
cessor, but concealed his own death and place of burial. 
Even the tomb of Rosenkrcuz himself was»unknown un- 


til after 120 years from the founding of the order, when 
a vault was discovered in his house which was brilliant- 
ly illumined from above by an artificial light, and which 
contained a round altar placed over the yet undecom- 
posed body of the founder. The inscription “ Post CXX 
annos patebo” over the door of the vault showed that 
the time had come for making known the order to the 
world. The learned were accordingly invited to care- 
fully examine the arts described in the Fama (which 
was printed in five languages), and to publish their 
opinions through the press, as the hope was expressed 
that many would connect themselves with the order. 
Other writers appeared in confirmation or illustration 
of the Fama, e. g. a Confession (1615), and the Chy- 
mische llochzeit Christian Rosenkrcuz (161G). An im- 
mense excitement in Germany and adjoining lands was 
produced by these works, and called forth a flood of ap- 
preciative or condemnatory reviews. The interest felt 
at the time in secret arts, particularly that of making 
gold, led many to seek association with the fraternity, 
while others suspected a most dangerous heresy in the- 
ology and medicine; but it was remarkable that no ac- 
tual member of the original Rosicrucian order was ever 
discovered. Every theological text-book contended at 
length against this heresy, and medical writers discov- 
ered its intention to destroy the reputation of Galen and 
supersede him by Paracelsus. Robert Fludd, in Eng- 
land, defended the order with zeal, and the court physi- 
cian of the emperor Rudolph II, Michael Maicr, asserted 
the truth of the statements contained in the Fama. 
The title of Rosicrucians was finally adopted by a so- 
ciety of alchemists, which originated at the Hague in 
1622, and afterwards by other fraternities. Investiga- 
tions made by such societies into the origin of the Fama 
Fraternitas led to the conclusion that the book was in- 
tended as a satire on the condition of the times. The 
authorship of the book was finally ascribed to Joh. Val. 
Andreie, the Wurtcmberg theologian, and this opinion 
is still generally received. 

A list of the older Rosicrucian literature maybe found 
in Missis an d. hocherl. Briidersehaft d. Ordens d. gol- 
clenen u. Rosenkreuzes, etc. (Leips. 1783) ; Chr. v. Murr, 
Wahrer Ursprung d. Rosenkreuzer, etc. ( Sulzbach, 
1803). See also Gottfr. Arnold, Uvparthei. Kirchen- u. 
Ketzer- lFistorie (Frankft. 1729; Schaffhausen, 1742), 
pt. ii, ch. xviii and suppl., p. 947 ; Herder, Hist. Ziceifel 
iiber Fr. Nicolai's Buck, etc., in the iJeutscher Merkur 
of 1782 ( Samnitl . Werke z. Phil. v. Gesch. vol. xv) ; Zur 
Lit. u. Kunst, vol. xx ; Buhle, Ursprung u. rornehmste 
Schickscde der Orden d. Freimaurer u. Rosenkreuzer 
(Gott. 1804); Nicolai, Ueber Ursprung und Gesch. d. 
Freimaurer ( Bcrl. and Stettin, 1806); 1 1 ossbach, Joh. 
Val. Andrece a. sein Zeitalter (Berk 1819); Guhrauer, 
Verfctsser u. urspriingl. Zweck d. Fama Fraternitas , 
etc., in Nicdner’s Zeitsch.f. hist. Thcofogie, 1852, p. 298- 
315. — Herzog, Real- Encyklop. s. v. ; Wetzer u. Welte, 
Kirchen-Lex. s. v. 

Rosin, properly “naphtha” (ud^a; Yulg. naphtha, 
so the Peshito-Syriac). In the Song of the Three Chil- 
dren (ver. 23), the servants of the king of Babylon arc 
said to have “ceased not to make the oven hot with 
rosin, pitch, tow, and small wood.” Plinv (ii, 101) 
mentions naphtha as a product of Babylonia, similar in 
appearance to liquid bitumen, and having a remarkable 
affinity to fire. To this natural product (known also as 
Persian naphtha, petroleum, rock oil, Rangoon tar. Bur- 
mese naphtha, etc.) reference is made in the passage in 
question. Sir R. K. Porter thus describes the naphtha 
springs at Kirkuk, in Lower Kurdistan, mentioned by 
Strabo (xvii, 738): “They are ten in number. For a 
considerable distance from them we felt the air sulphur- 
ous, but in drawing near it became worse, and we were 
all instantly struck with excruciating headaches. The 
springs consist of several pits or wells, seven or eight 
feet in diameter, and ten or twelve deep. The whole 
number are within the compass of five hundred yards. 
A flight of steps has been cut into each pit for the pur- 


ROSINI 


136 


ROSS 


pose of approaching the fluid, which rises and falls ac- 
cording to the dryness or moisture of the weather. The 
natives lave it out with ladles into bags made of skins, 
which are carried on the backs of asses to Kirkuk, or to 
any other mart for its sale. . . . The Kirkuk naphtha 
is principally consumed by the markets in the south- 
west of Kurdistan, while the pits not far from Kufri 
supply Bagdad and its environs. The Bagdad naphtha 
is black” ( Trav . ii, 440). It is described by Dioscorides 
(i, 101) as the dregs of the Babylonian asphalt, and 
white in color. According to Plutarch ( A lex. p. 35 ), 
Alexander first saw it in the city of Ecbatana, where 
the inhabitants exhibited its marvellous effects by 
strewing it along the street which led to his headquar- 
ters and setting it on tire, lie then tried an experi- 
ment on a page who attended him, putting him into a 
bath of naphtha and setting light to it (Strabo, xvii 
743), which nearly resulted in the boy’s death. Plu- 
tarch suggests that it was naphtha in which Medea 
steeped the crown and robe which she gave to the 
daughter of Creon; and Suidas says that the Greeks 
called it “ Medea’s oil,” but the Medes “ naphtha.” The 
Persian name is nuft, Posidonius (in Strabo) relates 
that in Babylonia there were springs of black and white 
naphtha. The former, says Strabo (xvii, 743), were of 
liquid bitumen, which they burned in lamps instead of 
oil. The latter were of liquid sulphur. — Smith. See 
Bitumen; Naphtha. 

Rosini, Carlo Maria, an Italian archaeologist, was 
born at Naples, April 1, 1748. lie studied among the 
Jesuits, embraced the ecclesiastical life, and in 1784 be- 
came the successor of Xicolo Ignarra as professor of Holy 
Scripture in a college at Naples. lie was canon of the 
Cathedral of Naples till 1792, when he was elected bish- 
op of Pozznoli. lie was in favor with the king, and 
received the position of councillor of state and grand 
almoner, and later, under Ferdinand I, was minister of 
public instruction. Ilosini was a member of the Acad- 
emy of Herculaneum after its reorganization, and was 
one of the most active in deciphering ancient MSS., 
of which he published a great number. They are in- 
cluded in the I I ereulaneusia Volumina (Naples, 1793). 
Rosini died at Naples, Feb. 18, 1836. His works are all 
on archaeological subjects, the principal one being Dis- 
sert at io Isagogica ad Ilerculanensium Voluminum Ex- 
planationem (ibid. 1797), a history of the destruction of 
Herculaneum and Pompeii. See Tipaldo, Biogr. degli 
Ital. Illustri; Rosa [Prospero della], Vita di C. M. Rosini. 
— Hoefer, Xour. Blog. Generate , s. v. 

Rosier, Christian Friedrich, a German doctor 
of theology and professor of history, was born June 19, 
1736, at Canstadt, in Wurtemberg. For some time he 
labored as deacon at Vaihingen, and in 1777 he was 
called to Tiibingen, where he died, March 20, 1821. He 
wrote, Lehrbegriff der christl. Kirche in den 3 er'sten 
Jahrhunderten (Frankft'.-on-the-Mnin, 1775): — De Phi- 
losopkia Vet. Ecclesice de Spirit u et de Murnlo (Tiibingen, 
1783): — Bibliothek der Kirchenrdler in Uebersetzungeu 
u. A usziigen. etc. (Leips. 1776-86). See Winer, lland- 
buch dertheol. Literatur, i, 594. 598, 876; ii, 738. (B. P.) 

Ross, Alexander, a Scottish divine and writer, 
was born at Aberdeen in 1590. lie became chaplain to 
Charles I, and was his zealous partisan during the civil 
war, 1642-49. lie was also master of the Southampton 
Free School, to which, at his death, in 1654, he left a 
handsome bequest. Among Ross’s works was a Contin- 
uation of the History of Sir Walter Raleigh, A.M. 3604 
to A.L). 1640 (Bond. 1652): — Rerum Juduicarum (ibid. 
1617-32, 4 vols.) : — Exposition of the First Fourteen 
Chapters of Genesis, by “ Abrahame Rosse” (ibid. 1626) : 
— .! View of the Jewish Religion (ibid. 1656. small 8vo). 
See Allibone, Diet, of Brit . and .1 mer. A uthors , s. v. 

Ross, Edward Frederick, a Presbyterian di- 
vine, was born in New York city, Feb. 12, 1826. He 
graduated from Union College in 1818, and entered the 
Andover Theological Seminary, where lie pursued his 


theological studies for two years, when he entered the 
Union Theological Seminary, and graduated in 1851. 
He was ordained Sept. 26 of the same year, and was 
installed pastor of the Congregational Church of Morris- 
ania, N. Y., in which position he remained until 1854, 
when he resigned and removed to Poughkeepsie. Here 
he remained without charge, and died at Pleasant Val- 
ley, N. Y., Feb. 22, 1855. (W. P. S.) 

Ross, Hugh, a Presbyterian minister, was born in 
Rothicmurchus, Inverness-shire, Scotland, in 1797. lie 
pursued his academic studies at the parish school of 
Aberncthv, until, in 1813, the family emigrating to Nova 
Scotia and settling in Pietou, he became a student in the 
Pictou Academy. When he had finished his academic 
course, he studied theology with Rev. Dr. McCullough, 
was licensed by Pictou Presbytery in 1823, and, being 
able to preach in Gaelic, was soon after ordained as an 
evangelist, and spent some time in the island of Cape 
Breton. In 1827 he became pastor of the churches of 
Tatamagouchee and New Annan, and subsequently of 
Georgetown and Murray Harbor. He was moderator 
of the synod at the time of the disruption, and gave in 
his adherence to the Free Church. Mr. Ross died sud- 
denly, Dec. 1, 1858. He was a man of tine gifts and an 
excellent preacher. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. A Imanac , 
I860, p. 234. (J. L. S.) 

Ross (also Rous, Rouse, or Rows), John (1), usu- 
ally called “the Antiquary of Warwick,” was born in the 
town of that name in England, and educated there until 
prepared tor the university. He then studied at Baliol 
College, Oxford, where he took the degree of A.M., 
and afterwards was installed canon of Osney. Eng- 
lish antiquities became his favorite pursuit, and he 
travelled over the greater part of the kingdom to ac- 
quire information. He then took up his residence at 
Guy’s Cliff, in Warwickshire, where he had a posses- 
sion granted him either by the earl of Warwick or by 
Edward IV, and died Jan. 14, 1491. Of the manuscripts 
left by him the following were published: Joannis Ros- 
si Antiquarii Warwicensis JJistoria Rerum Anglice De- 
scripsit (Oxon. 1716, 8vo; 2d ed. 1745, 8vo) : — Joannis 
Rossi Ilistoriola de Comitibus Wancicensibus (1729, Svo). 
See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. J uthors , s. v. 

Ross, John (2), an English clergyman, was a na- 
tive of Herefordshire, and was educated at St. John’s 
College, Cambridge, where he took his degree of D.D. 
In 1756 he became vicar of Frome, Somersetshire, bish- 
op of Exeter in 1778, and died in 1792. He published 
six single Sermons (1756-85, 4to) : — a Defence of Epis- 
tles said to have been Written by Cicero to Brutus: — Marci 
Tullii Ciceronis Epistolarum ad Familiares Libri XVI 
(1749, 2 vols. 8vo). 

Ross, John (3), a Presbyterian minister, was born 
in Dublin, Ireland. July 23, 1783, of Roman Catholic 
parents, but was left in a state of orphanage when 
quite young. At the age of nineteen he left his 
friends secretly and went to sea. On his way to 
Liverpool he was seized by a press-gang and put on 
board a man-of-war. Afterwards, at Barbadoes and 
elsewhere, he was pressed a second and a third time. 
His numerous desertions and wonderful escapes would 
constitute the staple of a romance. He at last reached 
the United States, and went to work at his early trade 
of shoemaker at New London, Conn. He was still a 
bigoted Roman Catholic; but as there was no church 
of that denomination in the town, he was in some 
degree weaned from his attachment and, through con- 
tact with Protestants, brought to reflect upon his con- 
dition, and eventually led to realize that he was a 
sinner, and that something beyond the power of priest- 
ly absolution was necessary to give his troubled con- 
science rest. By prayer to the Friend and Saviour 
of sinners, he found pardon and peace. Soon after his 
conversion his mind was turned to the ministry, and 
Providence wonderfully opened the way for him. as it 
does for all who arc truly called to that work. By the 


ROSS 


137 


ROSSI 


aid of an association of ladies he was enabled to enter 
Middlebury College, Vt., where he graduated in 1811. 
lie entered Princeton Theological Seminary in 1813. 
After remaining in the seminary over two years, Mr. Ross 
preached as a missionary for about three months in the 
suburbs of Philadelphia, lie was educated for the for- 
eign lield, and was in readiness to go to it, but the Board 
had not the funds to send him. He was therefore sent 
to Somerset and Bedford, Pa. Having received a call 
from the Church at Somerset, he was ordained as pas- 
tor by the Presbytery of Redstone in 1817. From Som- 
erset he went to Ripley, O., in 1819, where he remained 
about four years, and afterwards went to Indiana, preach- 
ing at different points and for various periods of time 
on his way. In both Ohio and Indiana he did much 
missionary work, travelling on horseback over wild and 
wide ranges of country, lie preached several sermons 
in the old fort at Fort Wayne, Ind., when there were 
very few houses in that now large and flourishing city, 
and he is said to have been the first Presbyterian min- 
ister that ever preached in that town. In September, 
1824, he settled at Richmond, la., and was pastor of 
Beulah Presbyterian Church for twenty-five years, from 
1824 to 1849. From the minutes of the General Assem- 
bly it appears that in 1849 he was a member of the 
Presbytery of Muneie, and continued such until his 
death. In 1849 he was a stated supply at Burlington, 
la., and in 1850 at Windsor, 0., being vet quite vig- 
orous for his years. After leaving Richmond, he re- 
sided in New Paris, O., Milton, Connersville, Knights- 
town, Burlington, Muneie, and Tipton, la. In labors, 
he was more abundant as a pioneer in what was then 
the “ far West.” As long as he could stand in the pul- 
pit he was fond of preaching, ami sometimes preached 
with the fire of his younger days long after he had be- 
come an octogenarian, lie lived to be the oldest minis- 
ter in the Presbyterian Church, and died at the house 
of his daughter in Tipton, March 11, 187 G. (W. P. S.) 

Ross, W'illiam, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born in Tyringham, Mass., Feb. 10, 
1792. He was converted in his seventeenth year, and 
was received as a probationer in the New York Confer- 
ence in 1812. In May, 1824, he attended the General 
Conference in Baltimore, where he signalized himself 
as the author of a very able and luminous report on 
missions, lie died Feb. 10, 1825. He was a diligent 
student and an eloquent preacher. See Minutes of An- 
nual Conferences , 1825, p. 47G; Sprague, A nnctls of the 
A me?\ Pulpit , vii, 524. 

Ross, William Charles, Sir , an English minia- 
ture-painter, was born in London, June, 1794. In 1837 
he was appointed miniature-painter to the queen. In 
1843 he gained a prize of one hundred pounds for a 
picture of The Angel Raphael Discoui'siny with Ada?n. 
II is death occurred in 1860. 

Ross, William Z., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Licking County, ()., April 
24, 1823. At the age of sixteen he professed faith in 
Christ ami united with the Methodist Episcopal Clmreh. 
lie was licensed as a local preacher, and was admitted 
on trial in the Ohio Conference in 1853. In 1865 he 
was appointed missionary to Tennessee and stationed 
at Shelby ville, where he died, Oct. 11, 1866. 11 is 

preaching was marked by extraordinary force and pun- 
gency of application. See Minutes of A nnual Coi?fe?'~ 
ences , 1867, p. 259. 

Rosshirt, Conrad Ergen Franz, a Roman Cath- 
olic divine, was born in 1793 at Oberseheinfeld, in Fran- 
conia. He studied at Laiulshut and Erlargen, and in 
1817 he was already professor of canon-law in the latter 
place, lie was one of the oldest professors of canon- 
law in Germany, and died June 4, 1873, at Heidelberg. 
He wrote, Lehrbuch des Kb'cheni'echts (3d ed. Schaff- 
hausen, 1858): — Von den falschen Decretalen ?/. von 
eiuigen neaen in Bamberg entdeekten Ilandschriften der 
falschen Decretalen (lleidelb. 1846): — Zu den kirchen- 


recht lichen Quell e?i des ei’sten Jalirtausemls und zu den 
pseudoisidoi'ischen Decretalen (ibid. 1849) : — Cwtonisckes 
Recht (Schaffhausen, 1857) : — Manuale Latinitatis Juris 
Canon ici, Rerum Moralium et Theologicanun , Brevissi- 
mis A nnotationibus Instructum , quu Lexici Juris Cunonici 
Lineamenta Pt'oponere Stnduit (ibid. 1862): — Beit? dye 
zum Kh'chenrevht (lleidelb. 1863). See Zuchold, Bibb 
Theob p. 1088 ; Litei'ar . Ihmdweiser , 1873, p. 300. (B. 1\) 

Rossi, Azariah (uen-Moses) de, a Jewish schol- 
ar of the celebrated family called in Hebrew Min ka- 
Adomim, was born in Mantua about 1514. Naturally 
endowed with extraordinary powers of mind, keenness 
of perception, reflnement of taste, and with an insatiable 
desire for the acquisition of knowledge, De Rossi de- 
voted himself with unwearied assiduity and zeal to the 
study of Hebrew literature, arclueology, history, the 
writings of ancient Greece and Rome, and even the 
fathers, which knowledge was of great use to him af- 
terwards, when he devoted himself more especially to 
the criticism of the Hebrew language and the sacred 
text. Having prosecuted his studies in Mantua, Fer- 
rara, Ancona, Sabionctta, Bologna, etc., he went back to 
Ferrara with the accumulated learning of more than 
half a century, the results of which he now communi- 
cated to the world in his celebrated work entitled 
"niXE, The Light of the Eyes (Mantua. 1574-75). 
The work consists of three parts, subdivided into chap- 
ters as follows : 

Part I, which is entitled E^h'SX Vlp, The Voice of God 
(republished at Vienna in 1829), which was occasioned by 
the terrible earthquake at Ferrara, Nov. IS, 1570, and which 
De Rossi himself witnessed, contains, in easy style, a graph- 
ic description of the event. He believes it a duty to relate 
to posterity how the power of the Creator had manifested 
itself. He dilates on the subject, to prove that he does not 
altogether agree with Greek philosophers, who attribute 
sudden disasters to natural causes, but argues forcibly and 
(quoting also Scriptural and Rabbinical authorities) con- 
cludes that the invisible hand of God uses nature— its own 
creation — to mete out men’s deserts, lie then branches 
out to comment, scientifically on narratives in sacretl and 
secular works relative to earthquakes, and remarks that 
what happened to his wife would haveconfoiimled an /E'- 
culapins and a Hippocrates. She had moved into her 
daughter’s room shortly before the roof of the house fell, 
by a sudden shock, into her own chambers. The fright 
occasioned turned the color of her skin into a deep yel- 
low, and from that moment she craved for nothing but 
salt. Bread and salt became to her a most delicious food. 
Yet that morbid desire he holds to have been her cure. 
Without taking any medicine, it gradually decreased, and 
her natural color returned. Thereupon De Rossi reasons 
about our ignorance of the wonders of nature, and sug- 
gests the possibility that the quantity of pure salt his wife 
ate destroyed the effect of the saline and sulphuric parti- 
cles which may have entered her system at the upheaving 
of the earth. 

Part II, which is entitled E^3pt The Stonj of 

the Aged (republished at Vienna in 1S29)', contains an ac- 
count of the Sept, version of the Bible, chiefly from the let- 
ter of Aristeas, a confidential friend of king Ptolemy Philn- 
delphns, communicated to his brother Phylocrates. De 
Rossi accepted it as true in all its details. Modern criti- 
cism has seen where it is at fault, and declared ii spurious. 
That, a Greek translation of the Pentateuch — not of the 
whole Bible— was made under the auspices of king Ptole- 
my cannot be doubted. Besides Josephus, Philo, and the 
fathers of the Christian Church, the Talmud has recorded 
the 'incident, somewhat hyperbolically, in the treatise Me- 
gillah. But that the so-called Sept, version of the entire 
Scriptures should have had the origin related above is im- 
possible. See Septcaoint. 

Part HI, which is divided into two divisions, respec- 
tively called n^E "'TEX, Word of Understanding , and 
Eb“13? “'E?, Chronology , consists of four sections, subdivid- 
ed again into sixty chapters. The first division, with its two 
sections (E "HEXED, treats, in ch. i-xiii, of the use of the 
fathers ; the heathen writings ; Philo : the Jewish sects, es- 
pecially the Essenes; the Sept, and the Aramaic versions ; 
t lie history of the Jews in Alexandria and Cj’rene ; the Bar 
Kochba revolts ; the Ten Tribes ; the Talmudic story about 
Alexander the Great’s entry into Jerusalem; and of the 
Talmudic theory of nature. The second section, embrac- 
ing ch. xiv-xxviii, contains treatises on the explanation 
of Scripture by ancient sages; on the Midraslj and Ha- 
gadic exegesis ; on sundry striking differences between 


ROSSI 


138 


ROSSIGNOL 


Christian and Jewish writers; the old Persian list of 
kings ; on the different teras of the Jewish chronology ; 
Josephus ; Seder Olam ; on the series of high-priests dur- 
ing the second Temple, etc., published with the secoud 
part (Vienna, 1829-30). The third section treats, in ch. 
xxix-xliv, of the Biblical chronology and the Jewish Cal- 
endar ; of old Persian kings ; extracts from and criticisms 
on Philo, Josephus, etc. The fourth section, embracing 
ch. xlv-lx, descants upon Jewish antiquities; Aquila and 
Onkelos ; the antiquity of the letters and the vowel-poin is ; 
Hebrew poetry, etc. 

This work, considered as a whole, though not dis- 
tinguished by scientific correctness or historical accu- 
racy, has nevertheless always been a favorite among 
Hebrew scholars, and parts of it have been translated 
into Latin, as ch. xxiii, xxv, xxxiii, xxxv, by Voorst, 
in his translation of the "Jin (Leyden, 1644) ; 

ch. viii, xiv, xix, by Meyer, in bis version of the “HD 
obi" (Amst. 1699); ch. ix, xlii, lix, by Buxtorf. in his 
Trcictatus de Antiquitate Punctorum (Basel, 1648); ch. 
1, lx, by the same, in bis translation of Kuzari (ibid. 
1660), and ch. lvi, lviii, in his Dissertatio de Litteris 
Heb. (ibid. 1662); ch. iii, v, vii, viii, ix, xix, xx, xlviii, 
by Morin, in his Exercitutiones Biblicce (Paris, 1638), p. 
185, 188, 190, 191, 230, 287, 314, 342, 563 ; ch. ii, viii, xv, 
xvi, xxii, xlv, li, lvi, lvii, lix, by De Vorsin, in bis edi- 
tion of Martini’s Pngio Fidei ud versus Mauros et Ju- 
deeos, etc. (ibid. 1651), p. 75, 77, 113, 122, 127, 128, 129, 
142, 144, 373; ch. ix, by Van Dale, in bis Disserta- 
tio super A risteam, etc. (Amst. 1705), p. 174; ch. ix, 
xxii, by Bartolocci, in bis Bibliotheca Magna Rab- 
binica (Borne, 1675-93), i, 680; ii, 800; ch. xvi and 
xxi, by Bochart, in his Uierozoicon (Leyden, 1712), pt. I, 
ch. vi; II, 569; and ch. lvi, by Hottinger, in his Cippi 
Ilebrai (Heidelb. 1662), p. 123. The sixteenth chap- 
ter has been translated into English by Baphall, in the 
Hebrew Review and Magazine , ii, 170 (treating “of the 
gnat which entered the skull of Titus,” as related in the 
Talmud) ; while the sixtieth chapter has been translated 
by bishop Lowth, in the preliminary dissertation to his 
transl. of Isaiah (Lond. 1835), p. xxviii, etc. De Rossi 
has criticised his material in so liberal a manner that 
many of the Jews proscribed the work, while others wrote 
in refutation of some of his liberal criticisms. Prominent 
among these were Ii. Moses Proven^ale, of Mantua, and 
Ii. Isaac Finzi, of Pesaro. De Rossi subjoined to some 
copies of the Meor Enayim itself a reply to the former, 
and wrote a separate work entitled rorb CHE'S D, 
The Refining-pot for Silver, after Prov. xvii, 3. This 
work, which is an essential supplement to the Meor 
Enayim, has recently been published by Filipowski 
(Edinb. 1854), and by L. Zunz, with the Meor Enayim 
(Wilna, 1863-66, 3 vols.). Dc Rossi also wrote Poems 
and Epigraphs, (Venice, 15S6). Three 

years before his death, De Rossi had a dream. A man 
stood by him, and voices cried, “Dost thou not see the 
personage looking on thee? lie is a prophet.” “If 
so,” said Azariah, addressing the stranger, “if thou art 
indeed inspired, let me know how long I have to live.” 
“Three years yet,” was the answer. By the wayside 
of Mantua the bones of the illustrious writer rested, and 
on his grave a significant inscription was placed, when 
the dream proved true, in Kislcv, 5338 (i. e. 1577). The 
stone shared the fate of him who lay buried beneath. 
Both were rudely cast away to some unknown spot by 
the Italian monks, who sought for more space to build 
up monasteries. 

See Fiirst, Bibb Jud. iii, 171 sq. ; De Rossi, Dizionario 
Storico, p. 280 sq. (Germ, transl.); Stcinsclineider, Cata - 
logos Libr. Ilebr. in Bibl. Bodl. col. 747 ; Ginsburg in 
Kitto, s. v. ; the same, Levita’s Massoreth ha-J/asso- 
reth , p. 52 sq., and Essenes, p. 59 sq. ; Wolf, Bibl. Ilebr. 
i, 944; iii. 871 ; Etheridge, Introd. to Ueb. Literature , p. 
455 ; Cassel, Leitfnden f ir Gesch. u. Literatur, p. 97 ; 
Griitz, Gesch. d. Juden, ix, 432 sq. 435; Jost, Gesch. d. 
.Indent h. u.s. Secten, iii, 123; Da Costa, Israel and the 
Gentiles, p. 488; Zunz, Literatur gesch. zur synagogalen 


Poesie, p. 417 ; id. Biography of De Rossi in Kerem 
Chemed (Prague, 1841-42), v, 131-138; vii, 119-124; 
id. Zur Gesch. d. Literatur, p. 233, 249, 536; Rapaport 
in Kerem Chemed (ibid. 1842), v, 159-162; Jewish Mes- 
senger (N. Y. March, 1875). (B. P.) 

Rossi (in Lat .De Rubeis), Bernardo Maria de, 
an Italian scholar, was born at Cividale di Friuli, Jan. 18, 
1687. At the age of seventeen he took Hie vows of 
the Order of St. Dominic ; and after finishing his studies 
taught for three years in a convent at Venice. In 1718 
he went to Vienna, where he made the acquaintance of 
the learned Apostolo Zeno. On his return, he accepted 
the chair of theology in the same institution in w hich 
he had formerly taught. In 1730 he resigned his chair 
and devoted himself wholly to study and the most rig- 
orous asceticism. In 1722 he accompanied an embassy 
to the court of France. He w r as librarian of his convent, 
and enriched it by the addition of many rare and valu- 
able works. De Rossi died Feb. 8, 1775. His writ- 
ings are very numerous, consisting principally of his- 
torical and religious annals. Among them are, De Fab- 
ula Monachi Benedict ini D. Thomas Aquinatis (Venice, 
1724) : — De Peccato Originali (ibid. 1757): — De Chari- 
tate (ibid. 1758): — Dissert ationes Varies Eruditionis 
(ibid. 1762). See Fabroni, Vitos Itulorum . — Hoeler, 
Nouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Rossi, Giovanni Bernardo de, an eminent 
Italian Orientalist, was born at Castel-Nuovo, in Pied- 
mont, Oct. 25, 1742. In 1766 lie was ordained priest at 
Turin, and in the same year received the degree of 
doctor of theology. For several years lie devoted him- 
self to the study of the Oriental languages, and he was 
also acquainted with the greater part of those of Europe. 
In 1769 he w r as employed in the Museum of Turin, 
and soon after was called to the chair of Oriental lan- 
guages at Parma, which position he held until 1821. 
During the remainder, of his life he was employed in 
writing and editing philological and bibliographical 
works. Many of these were printed in the most ele- 
gant style, and are to-day considered models of typog- 
raphy. His collection of rare Hebrew manuscripts was 
sold to Maria Louisa in 1816. De Rossi died at Parma 
in March, 1831. Among his w*orks are, Canticnm sen 
Poejna llebraivum (Turin, 1764): — Della Lingua Pro- 
pria di Cristo e degli Ebrei della Pcdestina da' Tempi de' 
Maccabei (Parma, 1772) : — Della Yana Aspettazione de- 
gli Ebrei del loro Messia (ibid. 1773): — Varies Lcctiones 
Veteris Testament i (ibid. 1784-88), a most valuable con- 
tribution to Biblical criticism (q. v.) : — Introdnzione 
alia Sacra Scrittura (ibid. 1817). — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. 
Generate , s. v. 

Rossi, Pasquale, called Pasqualino, a painter of 
the Roman school, was born at Vicenza in 1641, and 
died about 1718. II is works are to be found in the 
principal galleries. Among them are, Christ in the Gar- 
den: — The Baptism of Christ: — St. Gregory Celebruting 
Mass : — and the Adoration of the Shepherds. 

Rossignol, Jean Joseph, a French Jesuit, was 
born at Pisse, among the Upper Alps, July 3, 1726. He 
joined the Order of St. Ignatius in 1742, and taught 
philosophy at Embrun, near Marseilles. In 1761 he 
went to Wilna, Poland, and there taught mathemat- 
ics and astronomy, and constructed the observatory of 
the city. In 1764 lie took the chair of mathematics in 
the College of the Nobles at Milan, and here he pub- 
lished bis (Eurres. On the suppression of his order, he 
settled at Embrun; but on account of the violent oppo- 
sition which he showed to the civil constitution of the 
clergy, he w r as obliged to establish himself at Turin. 
Here he was maintained by the liberality of count dc 
Melzi, a former pupil. Rossignol died in 1817. His 
w orks w ere numerous, and are said to have exceeded one 
hundred, but they are very rare. The principal ones arc, 

, Theses Generates de Theologie, de Philosophie,de Matlie- 
\ matiques (1757): — Theses de Physique, d' Astronomie, et- 
I (I llistoire Xuturelle (1759): — ) ’ues Philosophiques sur 


ROSSIGNOLI 


139 


ROSZEL 


VEucharistie (Embrun, 1776). See Feinlle Ilebdoma- 
daire de Turin. — Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Rossignoli, Bernardino, an Italian theologian, 
was born at Ormea in 1563. At the age of sixteen he 
joined the Society of Jesus, subsequently taught the- 
ology at Milan, was rector of several colleges, and was 
provincial at Borne. At the time of his death, June 5, 
1613. he was rector of a college at Turin. Kossignoli’s 
writings are, De Disdplina Christianas Per feet ionis Lib. 
V ( Ingolstadt, 1600): — De Actionibus Virtutis Lib. II 
(Venice, 1603). These two works passed through many 
editions, and the first was translated into French (Paris, 
1606). Several other works have been attributed to 
Rossignoli, but it is probable that he was merely the 
translator. At the time of the interest excited in the 
De Imitatione Christi , Rossignoli was the first to at- 
tract attention to the MS. of this work, bearing the 
name of abbe Jean Gerson. See Rossotto, Syllabus 
Script. Pedemontii. — Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Rdssler, Carl Gottfried, a Lutheran divine, was 
born in Leipsic. lie was first deacon at Merseburg, and 
afterwards superintendent at the same place, where he 
died, Aug. 16, 1837. He published Predigten unci Gele- 
genheitsreden (Merseburg, 1820): — De Scriptures Sucrce 
Versione a Luthero ■ Temporibus inde ad nostra usque in 
Ecclesia Evangelico- Luther ana constanter caute passim 
Emendaiula (Lips. 1836). See Zuehold, Bibl. Theol. p. 
1088; Winer, llandbuch der theol. Literatur , ii, 103, 738. 
(B. P.) 

Rosso (in French, Hoax'). Giovanni Batista del, 
an architect and painter of the Florentine school, was 
born at Florence in 1496. It is not known whether he 
ever studied under any of the masters of his time, but 
his style was probably formed from copying the works 
of Angelo and Parmigiano. II is life was one of agita- 
tion, and, during his earlier years, a continued disappoint- 
ment. Finding that his work was not appreciated in 
his native city, he left for Rome. Here his success was 
somewhat greater; but, after the sack of the city in 
1527, he fell into the hands of soldiers, who robbed him 
of all he possessed. He went to Perugia, and after the 
city was quieted, returned to Rome. In 1530 he went 
to France, where he was well received by Francis I ; 
and his troubles seemed at an end. He was superin- | 
tendent of the works at Fontainebleau, and many of the 
frescos are by his own hand. During the triumphal 
passage of Charles V through France, the arches which 
were erected in his honor were designed by Rosso. As 
a reward for his work, Francis added to the pension of 
the artist and gave him a canonicate in the Sainte-Cha- 
pelle. He lived in luxury and high favor at court; but 
an unfortunate affair, involving his honesty, so wrought 
upon his mind that he poisoned himself in 1541. The 
pictures of Rosso are not often seen in galleries, but 
there are a few which may be mentioned: Moses De- 
fending the Daughters of Jethro: — The Four Seasons : 
— Christ in the Tomb : — Madonna , with St. Sebastian and 
other Saints: — and the Marriage of the Virgin. — lloe- 
fer, Xouv. Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Rostagno, Francisco Gurico, a minister of the 
Waldensian Church, was born in the year 1838 in the 
village of Prali, in the mountains of The Valleys. Deli- 
cate health prevented his going to school till he was 
about fifteen years of age; but, being a diligent, student, 
he soon acquired the necessary, requirements to make 
him a useful minister of the Gospel. Being thoroughly 
acquainted with the Italian language and literature, he 
wrote many articles for the Revista. Cristiana , his last 
being on the “ Religion of Alessandro Manzoni.” In 
the year 1866 he was ordained for the Waldensian min- 
istry, and a year afterwards he was put in charge of the 
small congregations of Verona and Mantua, where he 
labored until 1872. lie was then called to Leghorn; 
and at this important and difficult post he not only sup- 
plied the spiritual wants of his own coreligionists, but also 
arranged to give a course of addresses especially to Jews 


upon the subject of the need of the Messiah — “What 
say the Scriptures about His Coming?” “Jesus of Naz- 
areth Borne Testimony to in the Old Testament, in the 
Prophecies, and the Types.” But soon he was removed 
from his earthly post, and died in January, 1874. Sec 
Jewish Intelligencer, 1874, p. 85 sq. (B. P.) 

Rosweyde, Heribert, a Dutch Jesuit and histo- 
rian, was born at Utrecht, Jan. 22, 1569. At the age of 
twenty he entered the Society of Jesus, taught philoso- 
phy at Douai and Antwerp, and finally gave his whole 
time to the study of ecclesiastical antiquities, exploring 
the libraries of all Belgium to gain information on the 
subject. Rosweyde died at Antwerp. ( >ct. 5, 1629. His 
works are numerous, and were ail published at Antwerp. 
Among them are, Fasti Sanctorum (1607): — 1 Ike Pa- 
trum (1615): — Ilistoria Ecclesiastica (1623): — Vibe 
Sanctorum Virginum (1626). See Foppens, Bibl. Belgi- 
ca ; Dupin, Bibl. dcs A uteurs Ecclesiastiques. — Iloefer, 
Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Roswitha, a nun of Gandersheim, in Brunswick, 
Germany, who lived at the close of the 10th century, 
and is noteworthy because of certain poetical composi- 
tions from her pen which have come down to our time. 
They are written in rhymed hexameters, and include 
panegyrics on the Virgin, St. Gan golf, St. Dionysius, St. 

J Agnes, the Ascensio Domini, etc. She also wrote Chris- 
tian comedies in prose, after the manner of Terence, in 
which she celebrated the victory of heavenly over flesh- 
ly love, and of Christian martyrdom over heathen pas- 
sion, and two historical poems in hexameter — one of 
which rehearses the history of her convent, and the oth- 
er that of the emperor Otho I ( Carmen de Gestis Ottonis 
I Impej'utoris). The latter possesses some historical in- 
terest, though based on the statements of the friends of 
Otho and showing marks of her ignorance of the world. 
It contains much fine description, and is written in su- 
perior language. Its form approaches that of the Latin 
epos, particularly of Virgil. The Carmen de Primordiis 
Ccenobii G under sheimensis includes the family history of 
the house of Saxony, and thus becomes somewhat im- 
portant to general German history. 

Roswitha’s works were first published by Conrad Cel- 
tes (Nuremb. 1501, fol.). Pertz, Mon. Germ. Ilist. Script . 
iv, 306-335, contains the two historical poems and a life 
of Roswitha. A complete edition was given by Dr. 
Barrach, of the Germunisches Museum ( 1857). See 
Gfrdrer, Kirchengesch. Ill, iii, 1357; Contzen, Geschicht- 
schreiber d. sachsischen Kaiserzeit ( Regensburg and 
Augsburg, 1837), p. 109 sq. ; Giesebrecht, Gesch. d. 
deutsch. Kaiserzeit, i, 742. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. 
s. v. 

Roszel, Stephen Asbury, son of the following, 
was born in Georgetown, D. C., Feb. 18, 1811. At the 
age of seventeen he had made himself acquainted with 
the whole course of English and classical literature re- 
quired for graduation from the best colleges. His con- 
version took place in his sixteenth year, and about the 
same time he became associated with his brother in a 
classical school in Baltimore. He studied law and was 
admitted to the Baltimore bar, but soon decided to give 
up the profession, lie acted for several years as princi- 
pal of the grammar-school of Dickinson College, and in 
1838 was admitted to the Baltimore Conference on tri- 
al. He dissolved his connection with the institution 
in 1839, sustained a supernumerary relation for a year, 
and then resumed active work. He was elected in 1848 
a delegate to the General Conference held at Pittsburgh, 
Pa., and was for eight years secretary of his own con- 
ference. He died in Alexandria, Va., Feb. 20, 1852. 
See Minutes of Annual Conferences, 1852, p. 10. 

Roszel, Stephen G.,a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was bom in London County, Va.. 
April 8, 1770. lie was converted at the age of sixteen, 
and soon after united with the Church. He entered 
the travelling connection in 1789, although, for some 
reason, his name is not found on the minutes until the 


ROSZFELD 


140 


ROTH 


following year, when he appears among those who re- 
main on trial. He served the Church as preacher in 
charge, presiding elder, as agent for Dickinson College, 
and in the General Conference, until his death, which 
took place at Leesburg, Va., May 14, 1841. See Sprague, 
A muds of the Amer. Pulpit, vii, 179; Minutes of Annu- 
al Conferences. 1842. 

Roszfeld (in Latin, Rosinus), Johann, a German 
antiquary, was born at Eisenach in 1551. lie studied 
at .Jena, and in 1579 became sub-director of the gymna- 
sium at Iiatisbon, but after a few years he gave up this 
position to enter the evangelical ministry, and preach- 
ed at Naumburg, in Saxony, until his death bv the 
plague, Oct. 5, 1626. His principal works are: Antiqui- 
tatum Romano rum Corpus Ahsolutissimum (Basle, 1583 ; 
Lyons. 1585) : — Exempla Pietutis Illustris (Jena, 1002). 
— Iloefer, Xouv. Bi.og. Generate , s.v. 

Rota, in Norse mythology, was one of the Walkures, 
or Odin’s messengers, to select the victims who were to 
fall in death. 

ROTA, in Lapp mythology, was an evil god of hell, 
the ruler of the place of punishment for the souls of 
transgressors. 

Rota Romana (or Sacra Rota), the supreme pa- 
pal tribunal at Rome, was instituted by pope John XXII 
in A.D. 1326, and improved by Sixtus IV and Benedict 
XIV. The name is variously derived from the circular 
arrangement of the judges’ seats, or the form in which 
the calendars are arranged, etc.; comp. Dorn. Bernino, 
II Tribunole della S. Rota Rom. (Rome, 1717) for ety- 
mology of the title and history of the court. The Rota 
was long the supreme court of the entire Roman Cath- 
olic Church; but legal causes in the Church in foreign 
parts are now generally tried by ju dices in partibus who 
have been delegated by the pope. The Rota is divided 
into two colleges, or senates, one of which forms a low- 
er court of appeal, while the other has supreme juris- 
diction. Each senate is composed of at least live judges, 
namely, a referendary (termed a ponens ), who presides, 
and four associates ( correspondentes ). The action of 
the higher senate may, however, be subjected to the 
process of restitutio in integrum , on which the matter is 
referred to the ple?ium of the Rota. This plenum con- 
sists of twelve members ( Uditori Romani, or A adit ores 
Rohe ), each of whom is assisted by a lawyer ( adjntante 
di studio). The senior judge is denominated dean, and 
takes the chair. Sessions are held on Monday and Fri- 
day of every week, except in the vacation during Au- 
gust and September, in the Vatican. The decisions of 
this court have been gathered into different collections, 
the first in 1470, etc. A more recent edition containing 
selected trials is Decis. S. Rofee R. Recent iores Selectee 
(Venet. 1697, xxv parts in xix vols. fol.). They are 
also published in full in annual issues. — Wetzer u. Wel- 
le, Kirchen-Lex. s. v. See Curia Romana. 

Rote, a mediaeval musical instrument, not unlike 
the ancient psalferium. 

Rotger (Rltotger, Rutger), archbishop of Treves 
from 91* to 928. He was chosen, without intervention 
of the king, by the clergy and people of the Church of 
Treves, and by the wisdom and energy of his adminis- 
tration justified their choice. He induced Giselbert, the 
duke of Lorraine, to restore the abbey of St. Servetius 
at Mnestrieht, which he had seized, to the archbishop- 
ric of Treves, and was the leading agent in overcoming 
the faction of nobles who sought to transfer Lorraine to 
the usurper Rudolph of Burgundy after that province 
had been forever ceded (923) to Henry, king of Germa- 
ny. 11c also sustained a literary intercourse with Flo- 
doard of Rheims, the learned author of the Hist. Rhe- 
mens., and induced him to write a large poetical work 
on the triumphs of Christ and various Palestinian and 
Italian saints, the manuscript of which was still pre- 
served in the library of the cathedral at Treves in the 
17 th century. II is principal ambition, however, was to 


regulate the affairs of the Church in the province of 
Treves, and to administer the canons in the spirit of the 
councils. He accordingly instituted a collection of can- 
ons from the fathers and the popes, and submitted it to 
a provincial synod of the suffragans of Metz, Verdun, 
and Tull at Treves in 927, See Wetzer u. Welte, Kirch- 
en-Lex. s. v. ; and comp. Hist, de la France , vii, 201-203 ; 
Brower, Annul. Tree. lib. ix, n. 64-79. 

Rotger, Gottfried Sebastian, a German doctor 
of theology, was born at Klein -Germersleben, not far 
from Magdeburg, April 5, 1749, and died May 16, 1831, 
as director of the cloister school and provost *of Magde- 
burg. He wrote: Yersnch einer mugdeburgischen Re- 
formutionsgeschichte (Magdeburg. 1792) : — Kirchlicke 
Gebetsubungen (Bonn, 1824). See Winer, Ilandbuch der 
theolog. Literatur, i, 806 ; ii, 283, 389,738. (B. P.) 

Roth, Karl Johann Friedrich von , juris utriusque 
doctor, and during twenty years president of the Protes- 
tant high consistory at Munich, tills an important place 
in connection with the history of the Church in Bava- 
ria from 1828 to 1848. He was born at Vaihingen, in 
Wiirtemberg, Jan. 23, 1780, and trained in the study of 
the ancient languages from early childhood. In his 
youth he shared in the enthusiasm of the times for 
theories set alloat by Voltaire and still more by Rous- 
seau, and consequently chose the law for his profession 
instead of theology, as both his father and himself had 
j originally intended. Entering the University of Tu- 
bingen in 1797, he found a judicious guide in Malblanc, 
and, through the study of the sources of Roman law, ac- 
quired the historical faculty which distinguished him 
through life. At the age of twenty-one he published 
a treatise, l)e Re Romano rum Municipali. which won 
for him the doctorate of laws and secured the approval 
of prominent legal minds. He became jurisconsult to 
the then free city of Nuremberg, in which position he 
was led to study the subject of finance, which he had 
not previously examined ; and when the city was trans- 
ferred to Bavaria he entered the service of that king- 
dom in the finance department. He was elected to 
membership in the Royal Academy of Sciences in 1813; 
and the publication in 1817 of the I Veisheit I)r. Mur- 
I tin Luther's — extracted apothegms from the reformer’s 
writings — and of Humana's 1 1 T erke in 1825 gave evi- 
I denee that his conversion to orthodox views in religion 
had progressed side by side with his growing attain- 
ments in scientific culture. In 1828 king Louis I ap- 
pointed Roth to the presidency of the high consistory. 

I When Roth received this appointment, the reaction 
against rationalism had begun, and a number of clergy - 
■ men were conducting a brave battle for its overthrow. 
The attitude of Roth, who made it his business to fos- 
ter the good wherever it might exist, gave them the 
encouragement they needed for a successful prosecution 
of their task. In other respects his work was marked 
out for him. Ilis department was thoroughly organized 
into a high consistory, three consistories, and a number 
of deaneries, with district and general synods having 
advisory jurisdiction and the right to propose measures. 
It was requisite that this machinery should be quietly 
but energetically worked, and Roth succeeded in his 
task to a degree that made the Bavarian Church a mod- 
el of systematized powers and effective discipline. In 
the matter of training theologians for the future. Roth 
was likewise earnestly employed. He discovered men 
like 1 Rilling, Thomasius, and Harless, and had them ap- 
pointed to the faculty of Erlangen, the local university. 
He also originated the ephorate to supervise the prog- 
ress of theological students and report directly to the 
ministry of the interior, and founded the Preachers’ 
Seminary at Munich to receive a number of candidates 
who had passed the first examination, and afford them 
two additional years of practical training under the di- 
rection of the high consistory. The accession of Von 
Abel in 1837 to the ministry of the interior began a 
new aura, in which the Protestants of the kingdom were 


ROTHAAN 


141 


ROUMANIAN 


systematically oppressed and the Roman Catholics fa- 
vored. An order by which all soldiers, including those 
of the Landwehr , which consists of citizens, were obliged 
to kneel whenever the Romish Sanctisdmum should be 
carried about excited great dissatisfaction; and Roth 
was censured in this business because it was believed 
that he had been timid or indifferent in contending for 
the rights of Protestants. Later events have shown 
that he was acting from prudential motives which 
would not permit him to risk all while striving to se- 
cure a particular end; but the feeling against him rose 
to such a height as to compel his retirement from the 
high consistory in March, 1848. The ephorate was 
likewise rejected by the students in that year of revolts. 
The result of the persecution was, however, beneficial 
to the cause of Protestantism in the end, because it 
united its adherents, increased their spirituality, and 
settled their determination to insist on a recognition of 
their rights; and at the proper moment a letter to the 
king from Roth secured a revocation of the military or- 
der which was so greatly resented. Roth was, soon af- 
ter his retirement, called to a seat in the council of 
state; but, after completing the fiftieth year of his of- 
ficial life, he sought and obtained a dismissal to private 
life. He died Jan. 21, 1852. A collection of Roth’s 
writings was published by himself at Frankfort, con- 
sisting chiefly of panegyrics and addresses. lie also 
edited the Gelehrten Anzeigen , issued by the Academy 
of Sciences, from 1835 to 1850, enriching them with ar- 
ticles of his own and with reviews of English, French, 
and other foreign works. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Rothaan, John Philip, a Dutch Jesuit, was born 
Nov. 23, 1785, at Amsterdam, entered, Feb. 3, 1804, 
at Dlinaburg, in Russia, the Society of Jesus, and be- 
came professor of rhetoric, Greek, and Hebrew at Po- 
lotsk, in Russia. When the Jesuits had to leave the 
Russian empire, he retired into Switzerland, and in 1829 
was elected vicar-general of the order, Being obliged 
to leave Rome on account of the Italian revolution, he 
visited a great part of the European provinces of the 
Jesuits, returned again to Rome, and called together a 
general congregation of the order; but before it con- 
vened he died, May 8, 1853. He published, Exercitia 
S. P. Ignatii Loyola, (Rome, 1835; Paris, 18G5; German 
translation, Regensburg, 1855) : — De Ratione Meditandi 
(Rome, 1847; German translation, Regensburg, 1853; 
Vienna, 1857). (B. P.) 

Rothe, Richard, an eminent German divine, was 
born at Posen, Jan. 28, 1799, and became successively 
member, professor, director, and ephorus of the Theo- 
logical Seminary of Wittenberg. lie was for five years 
chaplain of the Prussian embassy at Rome, conducted a 
theological seminary at Heidelberg for twelve years, 
and was a professor of theology at Bonn and Heidel- 
berg, where he died, Aug. 20, 18(57. His religious views 
are tinged with the philosophy of Schleiermacher and 
Hegel. He published, Die An fringe tier christ lichen 
Kirche und iltre Verfassung (1837): — Znr Dogmatik 
(1863): — and Theologische Ethik (1845-48, 3 vois. ; re- 
vised by Holtzmau, 1867-71, 5 vols., with the author’s 
posthumous notes). Since his death there have appeared 
his university lectures, Dogmatik (1870) ; essays, Sti/le 
Stunden (1872), and hislectures on Church history (1875, 
edited by Weingarten). For the best account of his life, 
see Nippold, Richard Rothe (Wittenberg, 1873). See 
also the Studien uml Kritiken , 1869, No. 3; M eth. Quar. 
Rev. July, 1872; Bib. Sacra , July and Oct. 1874. Sec 
Ethics. 

Rothem. See Juniper. 

Rotheram (or Rotherham), John, an English 
divine, was born in Cumberland, and was educated at 
Queen’s College, Oxford, lie became fellow of Univer- 
sity College, Oxford, rector of llougbton-le-Spring, and 
in 1769 vicar of Seaham. Rotheram died in 1788. 
Among his published works are, Sketch of the One Great 
Argument for the Truth of Christianity (Oxford, 1752- 


54, 8vo) : — Force of the Argument for the Truth of 
Christianity from Prophecy (2d ed. 1753, 8vo) : — Origin 
of Faith (1761, 8vo) : — Apology for the Athanasian 
Creed (Loud. 1762,2 vols. 8vo) : — On Faith (1766-68, 
8vo) : — besides Sermons and Essays . 

Rothwell, Richard, an English divine, was born 
in Lancashire, near Bolton-in-the-Moors, about 1563. 
He received his education at Cambridge, and, after 
spending a number of years in the university, was or- 
dained presbyter by Dr. Whitgift, archbishop of Can- 
terbury. He was made chaplain to a regiment under 
the earl of Essex in Ireland; and afterwards, refusing 
several benefices, was for a time lecturer at a chapel in 
Lancashire, and domestic chaplain to the earl of Dev- 
onshire. Still later, he spent most of his time in the 
bishopric of Durham, having gone there at the proposal 
of lady Bowes. His death took place in 1627. — Middle- 
ton, Evany . Biog. ii, 450. 

Rotuman Version. About 300 miles north of 
Fiji is an island called Rotnmah, with a population of 
less than 3000, and until lately wholly enveloped in 
heathen darkness. In 1865 the Rev. W. Fletcher, of 
the Wesleyan Missionary Society, commenced mission- 
ary work among the people, and his three years’ labor 
in that place resulted in bringing a large proportion of 
the population under the influence of the Gospel. In 
the year 1869 Mr. Fletcher commenced a translation 
of the New Test, in the Rotuman dialect, which was 
printed at Sydney, and has been in circulation since 
1871. Mr. Fletcher, in consequence of the extremely 
trying character of the climate, was compelled to leave 
the island, but his translation was prepared with all 
possible promptitude. European missionaries are not 
allowed to reside permanently in Rotumah, and the 
future progress of the mission must depend mainly on 
the efforts of native teachers and the presence among 
the people of the Word of God in their own vernacular. 

(IS- !’•) 

Rouel (or Rowel) Light is a device for moving 
the star in the Epiphany play of The Three Kings with 
a pullev-wheel ( roue'), as the spiked wheel in a spur is 
called rowel. 

Rougemont, Francois de, a French Jesuit mis- 
sionary, was born at Maestricht in 1624. In 1641 lie 
joined the Jesuits, and, as was customary, was for a 
time employed in teaching, but at his urgent request 
was finally sent as a missionary to China with several 
of his brethren. They arrived in that country in 1659, 
and for some years Rougemont had charge of several 
! churches and missionary stations in the province of 
Nankin. During the persecution of 1664 he was, with 
many others, carried in chains to Pekin, and thence to 
Canton, where he was for a long time held prisoner. 
But an edict of the emperor Kang-hi gave him liberty 
in 1671, and he returned to his work of preaching and 
teaching. Rougemont died at Taitsang-tchow in 1676. 
His writings are, Historia Tartaro-sinica Xova (Lou- 
vain, 1673): this was written in the prison at Canton: 
— Abrege de la Doctrine Chretienne: — Questions sur Us 
J [rxurs du Siecle. The two last were written in Chi- 
nese, and have never been translated. See Sotwel, 
Bibl. Scriptor. Soc. Jesu. — lloefer, Xouv. Biog. Gene- 
rale, s. v. 

Rouille, Pierre Julien, a French Jesuit, was born 
at Tours in 1681, and died in 1740. lie was one of the 
authors or compilers of Memoires de Treroux . 

Roumania. See Russia; Turkey. 

Roumanian (or Wallaciiian) Version. The 
people for whom this version was made are descendants 
of the Dacians, and of the Roman colonists who settled 
in the country after its subjugation by Trajan. In con- 
sequence of their Roman origin, the Wallachiaus style 
themselves Rumanje , and are commonly known to other 
nations as the Rouman race. The language spoken by 
that people contains a large number of pure Latin words, 


ROUND CHURCHES 


142 


ROUSSEAU 


but about half of the Wallachian words are borrowed 
from the Greek, the Turkish, and the Slavonian. The 
first translation of the Scriptures into that language 
was made by the metropolitan Theodotius, and was 
printed in 1668 at Bucharest; while prior to this, in 
1048, the New Test, had been published in Belgrade. 
Another edition was published in 1714, and a third, at 
Blaje. in Transylvania, in 1795. In the year 1816 the 
Bussian Bible Society undertook an edition of 5000 
copies of the Wallachian New Test., which was soon 
followed by other editions. In 1838 the British Bible 
Society published a revised edition of the New Test., 
and since that the entire Bible has been translated and 
published in that language at the expense of the Brit- 
ish and Foreign Bible Society. See Dalton, Das Gebet 
des Ilen'n in den Sprachen Russlands , p. 45 ; Bible of 
Every Land , p. 279 sq. (B. P.) 

Round Churches were imitations of the Holy 
Sepulchre at Jerusalem, the nave being round and form- 
ing the vestibule of an oblong chancel, as in the Tem- 
plars’ churches at Laon, Metz, and Segovia, 1208. Oth- 
er examples are found in Ludlow Castle, Cambridge, 
Northampton, of the end of the 12th century; Little 
Maplestead (built by the Hospitallers), St. Gereon’s, 
Cologne, of the 13th century; Treves, Bonn, Aix-la- 
Chapelle (a copy of St. Yitalis, Ravenna, and more re- 
motely of St. Sophia, Constantinople), Salamanca, St. Be- 
nignus at Dijon, London, built in 1185; Neuvv St. Sep- 
ulchre, cir. 1170; Lanleff, Rieu Minervois, of the close of 
the 11th century; Brescia, Pisa, Rome, Bergamo, Bologna, 
Thorsager, and several other churches in Scandinavia. 
In many cases the shape may have been merely a me- 
chanical contrivance to carry a dome. Circular churches 
occur of all dates, and distributed over most parts of Eu- 
rope.either insulated as baptisteries, in a mystical allusion 
to the Holy Sepulchre, attached as chapels to churches, 
or existing as independent buildings. They are some- 
times of a simple round or polygonal form, either with- 
out recesses, except an apse or porch, such as the church 
of Ophir, Orkney, and the baptistery of Canterbury, or 
with radiating recesses, rectangular or apsidal, as the 
baptisteries of Novara and Frejus. Sometimes a cir- 
cular or polygonal centre is supported by pillars, and 
surrounded by an aisle of corresponding form : this aisle 
is repeated at St. Stephen’s, Rome, and Charroux. The 
Crusaders, or pilgrims, imitated the plan of the Sepul- 
chre of Jerusalem, surrounded by a circular church, and 
the Martyrdom, or place of the crucifixion, by a chan- 
cel eastward of a round nave. At Bury St. Edmund’s, 
at the close of the 11th century, the abbot removed the 
body of St. Edmund from the “round chapel” to the 
new church; and this circular termination is still seen 
in Becket’s Crown at Canterbury, at Sens, Burgos, Ba- 
talha, Murcia, and Dronthcim. After the middle of 
the 13th century round churches were no longer built. 
Almost all the German churches of the time of Charle- 
magne were circular, like Aix, Nimcguen, Petersburg, 
and Magdeburg. — Walcott, Sac. Aichceol. s. v. 

Round Towers occur of the time of Justinian, 
attached to the Church of St. Apollinaris-ad-Classem, 
in Verona; two in the same city, cir. 1047; others of 
minaret-like shape, and divided by string courses, at 
St. Mary’s and St. Yitalis’, Ravenna; also at Pisa, Bury, 
near Beauvais, and at St. Desert, near Chnlons-sur-Sa- 
one. The French round towers appear to have come 
from the north of Italy. In the 9th century they were 
erected at Ccntula, Charroux, Bury, and Notre Dame 
(Poicticrs), Gernrode, and Worms. Those of Ireland 
are maiulv of the 11th or 12th century, though some 
are of an unknown date, and were at once treasuries, 
belfries, refuges, and places of burial. Round towers 
are found in East Anglia, at Rickingaie Inferior, at 
Welford and Sheffonl, Bucks; Wei ford, Gloucestershire 
(13th century); in the Isle of Man, at Bremless, Bre- 
conshire, Brechin, built by Irish ecclesiastics (cir. 1020); 
Abernethv, and Tchernigod, near Kief (cir, 1024). 


The East Anglian form, and those of Piddinghoe and 
Lewes, have been attributed to the peculiar character 
of the material employed, and a desire to evade the use 
of coigns. At Brixworth a round is attached in front 
of a square tower. — Walcott, Sac. Archceol. s. v. 

Rounds, Nelson, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born in Winfield, Herkimer Co., 
N. Y., May 4, 1807. He was converted at the age of 
nine years, and graduated at Union College, New York, 
in 1829. On June 24, 1831, he was licensed to preach; 
and July 1, 1831, he was admitted on trial in the Oneida 
Conference. In 1836 and 1837 he was professor of an- 
cient languages in Cazenovia Seminary; then served 
as presiding elder of Cayuga District two years, and 
of the Chenango District four years. In 1844 he was 
elected editor of the Northern Christian A(/r , oc«te,where 
he served four years. When the Wyoming Conference 
was formed, he became a member of it, and labored 
within its bounds until 1867, when he became super- 
annuated. The next year he took an effective relation 
and was soon transferred to the Oregon Conference, and 
elected president of the Willamette University at Sa- 
lem, which position he held for two years. In 1871 he 
was elected by the Legislature of Washington Terri- 
tory as superintendent of public instruction, which of- 
fice he tilled until within two months of his death, in 
Clark County, Wash. T., Jan. 2, 1874. See Minutes of 
Annual Conferences , 1874, p. 83. 

Rousa, Edward D., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born at Ithaca, Tompkins Co., 
N. Y., Jan. 19, 1832. He joined the Church in 1848, 
and studied at Lima, N. Y. In 1852 he was received 
on trial in the East Genesee Conference, from which he 
was transferred, in 1863, to the Upper Iowa Conference. 
In 1866 he received a supernumerary relation, and lo- 
cated in 1868. In October, 1872, he entered the Cen- 
tral New York Conference, and died in Westfield, Tioga 
Co., Pa., May 6, 1873. See Minutes of Annual Confer- 
ences, 1873, p. 130. 

Rouse, Peter P., a clergyman of the Reformed 
Church in America, and the son of a respectable farmer, 
was born at Catskill, N. Y., March 29, 1799. He gradu- 
ated at Union College in 1818, and at New Brunswick 
Theological Seminary in 1821 ; was settled in Florida, 
N. Y., from 1822 to 1828; and in the First Reformed 
Church, Brooklyn, from 1828 to 1833. He w'as a good 
scholar, an animated, instructive, and eloquent preacher, 
and a thorough pastor. His brief ministry was closed 
by death, from hemorrhage of the lungs, in June, 1833; 
the immediate result of intense feeling produced by a 
pastoral visit to an afflicted parishioner. His memory 
is cherished with great affection in the ancient Church 
and denomination of which he was an ornament. He 
departed this life in Christian triumph. See Sprague, 
.4 nnals of the A mer. Pulpit , ix, 203. (W. J. R. T.) 

Rousseau, Jean Jacques, the brilliant genius w ho 
divided with Voltaire the rule over the almost bound- 
less republic of French culture in the 18th century. 
His life was restless and full of contradictions, but it is 
possible to distinguish in it three periods. 

1. The Period of Early A d venture (from his child- 
hood to 1749). — Rousseau was born at Geneva, June 28, 
1712. His mother died in giving him birth, and his 
father early turned him over to the care of an uncle. 
He became first a copyist to an attorney, and then ap- 
prentice to an engraver on copper. He was from early 
childhood an insatiable reader of romances, and an en- 
thusiastic admirer of nature; nor is it unimportant to 
notice that at the age of nine years he had already de- 
voured Plutarch. The charms of nature and of a cir- 
culating library were too strong for his fidelity to duty, 
lie neglected his business, was punished by his master, 
and ran away. At this time he first made the ac- 
quaintance of Madame de Warens at Annecy (his 
“mamma,” as he w r as wont to term her), and was by 
her persuaded to become a Romanist. Compelled to 


ROUSSEAU 


143 


ROUSSEAU 


earn his bread, he entered the service of a noble lady, 
and in that condition committed offences which he had 
the baseness to charge on an innocent girl. He soon 
returned to Madame de Warens, whose favor secured 
him admission to a seminary for priests, where he re- 
newed the musical studies of his earlier years, but did 
nothing else. Thence he went to Lyons with a music- 
teacher, and afterwards to Lausanne and Neufchatel, in 
which places he endeavored to establish himself in the 
same profession. Various other situations were occu- 
pied by him in swift succession, but in the end he is 
found once more with Madame de Warens, who now 
lived at Chambery, and permitted Rousseau to lead an 
idyllic life on her farm at Charmettes, while at the 
same time sustaining improper relations with him. 
llis growth towards culture had in the meantime been 
steady, lie was acquainted with much of the current 
literature, even of England, and had given thought to 
religious questions. He now added the study of Latin 
and mathematics, and also of philosophy in the works 
of Locke, Leibnitz, Malebranche, Descartes, etc. His 
earliest comedies and operas were written in this peri- 
od, which, however, soon came to an end by reason of 
the failure of his health* llis relation with Madame 
de Warens was definitely broken off by his removal to 
Montpellier in 1737. After a brief sojourn in Lyons, he 
went to Paris, where he arrived in 1741, hoping to make 
his fortune through a new system of musical notation ; 
but though his treatise was read before the Academy 
of Sciences, it was not approved, llis next venture was 
an opera entitled Les Muses Galantes , which likewise 
proved less successful than he expected. In 1743 he 
was made private secretary to Count de Montaign, 
whom he accompanied to Venice, returning to Paris 
after an absence of eighteen months. With his en- 
trance on a lawless relation with Theresa Le Vasseur, 
a thoroughly uncultivated character of low antecedents 
and utter ignorance, whom he did not profess to love, 
but whom he made his wife after years of illicit con- 
nection, and whose parents he received into his care, 
the first division of his life may close. 

2. The Period of his Triumphs (1749-62). — The 
Academy of Dijon in 1749 offered a prize for the best 
essay on the question, “ Whether the re-establishment 
of the sciences and arts has helped to purify manners?” 
for which Rousseau competed with success. He as- 
sumed that nature must ennoble mind, instead of mind 
being needed to redeem and improve nature, and argued 
the pessimist view with such force and brilliancy of 
style that he was at once assigned a place as a writer 
of prose by the side of Voltaire. The book was thor- 
oughly adapted to the times, when hearts throbbed with 
intense yearning for deliverance from the unnatural 
conditions that prevailed in culture and in practical 
life, and when longings had been stimulated by the 
appearance of books like Robinson Crusoe, Thomson’s 
Seasons, etc., in which the bliss of a state of nature was 
celebrated. The gospel of nature was in vogue, and 
Rousseau became its leading prophet. Yet it was at 
this time that he chose to add one more to the many 
paradoxes of his life, by availing himself of the celeb- 
rity he had attained to secure employment in copying 
music as a means of livelihood. In 1752 he published 
the opera, Le Devin du Village, by which his musical 
reputation became established; and in 1753 he dis- 
cussed a second prize question presented by the Acad- 
emy of Dijon, and relating to the inequalities existing 
in the conditions of mankind. His book, the Discours 
sur VOriyine et les Fondemens de VIneyalite parmi les 
Homines , takes the ground that human society, consid- 
ered in the abstract, is exclusively natural, and cannot 
therefore sustain a relation independent of nature, i. e. 
so as to divide nature and appropriate it to individuals. 
Rousseau does not place all men on the same level, as 
if they were merely so uianv animals. He admits the 
existence of physical, mental, and spiritual differences. 
But he declares that the first man to fence off' a piece 


of land and claim that it belonged to him, and find peo- 
ple to concede his claim, was the founder of society. 
He evidently regards property as an egotistical robbery 
of the community of men, and has no conception of 
property as both required and conditioned by morality. 
This book also was in harmony with the spirit of the 
time, though its effect was not fully displayed until a 
later day; and Rousseau himself was so fully in sym- 
pathy with its teachings that he felt driven to forsake 
the gilded and varnished glory of Paris for a season of 
communion with nature in his native town, though the 
growing coolness between himself and his friends — to 
which his letters on French music contributed largely 
— was not without intluence in bringing him to that 
determination, lie recovered his forfeited citizenship 
at Geneva by returning to the Reformed faith, and de- 
lighted to call himself “Citoyen de Geneve.” He 
found, however, that he could not remain away from 
Paris, especially after his adversary Voltaire had estab- 
lished himself at Ferney; and his return was signalized 
in 1760 by the publication of the romance La Xouuelle 
Ileloise , in which the ideas of his two previous works 
are combined, and in which great brilliancies of style 
conceal grave faults of composition. It was also sig- 
nificant because of moral, social, and religious reflections 
in its pages, which foreshadowed Rousseau’s later posi- 
tions. 

The two constructive works from Rousseau’s pen, 
Le Contrat Social and Emile, appeared in close succes- 
sion in 1762. The latter book was directed against 
abuses in the training of the young, and effected a com- 
plete revolution in European pedagogics; but while it 
antagonized many real errors, it at the same time as- 
sailed the fundamental conditions upon which all youth- 
ful training must rest. Nature again is the kev-note 
to which the argument is attuned. Each child, so 
runs the demand, should develop its own nature from 
the beginning, without being placed under adult hu- 
man guidance — that nature being its individualistic 
qualities. The object is to train the man, who exists 
for himself, and is contrasted with the training of the 
citizen, who exists for society, though the contrary ob- 
ject is enforced in the Contrat Social. This egoistic 
nature is represented as an ideal nature which needs 
only development, but not redemption and regenera- 
tion. Emile finds his religious perfection in deism, not 
in Christianity. In the Profession de Foi dn Yicaire 
Savoyard, Rousseau nevertheless assails the material- 
ism and atheism of his former friends, and insists on 
the three fundamental theistic truths— God, liberty, and 
immortality. He contends against revelation, but yet 
utters sentiments of reverence for the Gospel on ac- 
count of its exalted character, and declares that “ if 
Socrates died like a philosopher, Christ died like a 
God.” 

The effects produced by the Contrat Sochi in the 
political world were less rapid, but more profound, than 
that occasioned by the Emile in pedagogics. The ideas 
which ripened into the French Revolution were sown 
in the days of the Massacre of St. Bartholomew and 
during the reign of Louis XIV; but they found in 
Rousseau’s book a spark which kindled them into a 
flame, ultimating in that furious blaze. The Contrat 
Social determined the scope of ideas at the beginning 
of the Revolution, conducted affairs to more far-reach- 
ing consequences, and furnished the watchwords — above 
ali, the cry — of “Liberty and equality.” The book has 
no conception of the historical and rightful relation of 
the individual citizen to national and political author- 
ity, and of the supreme law of right above even such 
authority. The citizen is taught in it, not to take his 
place as a person under the divinely instituted order of 
things in this world, but to cultivate the idea that the 
state rests simply on an original agreement between in- 
dividuals, according to which the community stands 
pledged to protect the person and property of the indi- 
vidual, while the individual has bound himself to live 


ROUSSEAU 


144 


ROUSSEAU 


in entire subordination to the community. The citizen 
is accordingly altogether dependent on the community. 
He ought therefore to accept the religion appointed by 
the state or suffer banishment, or, in case of resistance, 
death. As Rousseau recognises no representation of 
the people, nor yet any form of government that may 
not at any moment be overturned by the community 
of citizens, lie really passes beyond every limit of a 
radicalism which yet admits the legal relation of au- 
thority and subject, and of political and religious con- 
ditions. and draws the first lineaments of socialism. 
Yet he was too much a dreamer to suspect the conse- 
quences that must spring from such ideas. In 1766 
he declared to a pseudonymous Cassius who offered to 
reduce to practice these principles in the liberation of 
the people, that he abominated every such undertak- 
ing; and when disorders broke out on the occasion of 
the burning of his Emile at Geneva, he pacified the 
people himself. 

Of Rousseau’s minor works, the Lettre a M. d'A lem - 
bert sur les Spectacles is a determined protest against 
the establishing of a theatre at Geneva; the celebrated 
Lettre a Christopher de Beaumont was a response to a 
prohibition of the Emile by the archbishop of Paris, 
and the Lettres de la Montague form a similar rejoinder 
to the magistracy of Geneva. These letters have been 
compared with those of Junius, or of Lessing against 
Gdtze. 

The troubles of Rousseau began to germinate at the 
time of his highest prosperity. His ardent and sensi- 
tive nature was out of place in the circle of cold and 
cynical mockers by whom he was surrounded, and the 
frankness with which he uncovered his inmost experi- 
ences to their gaze made him an object of their merci- 
less witticisms and sareasms; and when he proceeded to 
assail their cherished idols and to contend for God, vir- 
tue, and immortality, he brought on himself the full 
weight of their hatred in the form of incessant mali- 
cious sneers. Other matters contributed to fully dis- 
gust him with the situation. He burned with illicit 
love for Madame d’Houdelot, whose relations to her 
husband were not happy, but who adored the poet 
Lambert instead of Rousseau. He broke decidedly 
with Diderot. lie participated in false gossip deroga- 
tory to Madame d’^pinav, who had been his patroness 
and had permitted him to occupy her summer-house in 
the forest of Montmorency since 1756. He lived from 
1758 to 1762 in another house near Montmorency, and 
in the latter year encountered the storm which broke 
out against his Emile . This event forms the proper 
opening of a new period. 

3. The Period of Unsettled Wandering and Morbid 
Fears. — It is remarkable that a government which tol- 
erated an entire school of atheistical mockers of religion 
in Paris should have condemned as godless the earnest 
deist who was alone in daring to contend for God in 
those circles; and equally strange that the decree of 
the Parisian Parliament should have condemned the 
Emile , instead of the far more dangerous Contrat Social. 
Perhaps the government which had just expelled the 
Jesuits may have found it convenient to persecute 
Rousseau, the Swiss, who had gone back to Calvinism, 
and who had dared to represent a Romish priest as af- 
fording a charming illustration of deism. To avoid ar- 
rest, he fled to Yverdun,iu Switzerland; hut the Genevan 
senate had likewise condemned him before a copy of 
his book had reached that city. Tie renounced his citi- 
zenship and turned aside to the canton Neufehatel, 
where he lived from 17G2 to J7G5 under the protection 
of Frederick the Great of Prussia, lie wrote the Lettres 
dela Montague, pursued studies in legislation in behalf 
of the Corsicans. and botanized — botany and music con- 
stituting his favorite employments. The gossiping 
tongue of his mistress, Theresa, succeeded, however, in 
rendering him suspected of irreligion by the pastor and 
peasants of Mot iers-Tra vers, where he resided. lie im- 
agined himself no longer safe, and fled the canton. In 


1765 he accepted an invitation from Hume to visit 
England, but even here his mania of suspicion con- 
trolled him. He included Hume in the number of his 
foes, and removed to the house of a new' friend, Daven- 
port, whence the objection of individual Englishmen to 
his relation with Theresa drove him back to France in 
17G7. lie went under the assumed name of Penon to 
Castle Trve, a possession of prince Conti, and, after fur- 
ther travels, back to Paris in 1770. Seven ot eight 
years more of life remained to him, which he passed in 
the Rue Platriere (now known by his name), tormented 
by melancholy fancies, oppressed by poverty, alienated 
from Theresa, and gradually failing in health. He 
sustained himself by copying notes, and finished his 
Confessions, which he had begun at Motiers. He died 
suddenly at Ermenonville, near Paris, July 2, 1778 — 
whether of disease or of poison administered by himself 
is not known. He was received into the Pantheon Oct. 
11,1794. 

The European and even world-wide reputation which 
Rousseau had achieved is illustrated by the fact that he 
was induced in the last period of his life to compose the 
Lettres sur Legislation des Corses and the Considerations 
sur le Gouvernement de Pologne (1772) ; and his mental 
force is apparent in the ability to write his Confessions 
at a time when his soul was darkened with the clouds 
of morbid and imaginary fears. His native frankness 
is very evident in that book, but faults and errors are so 
interwoven with virtues and attractive features that the 
result of the whole is a glorification of himself. The 
book may be regarded both as a companion-picture and 
a contrast to the Confessiotis of Augustine. Such con- 
tradictions are characteristic of the man in every rela- 
tion. He was immeasurably vain, selfish, changeful, 
and ungrateful — easily provoked, always suspicious, and 
morbidly misanthropic. As a reformer, his merit con- 
sists in having opposed to the godless humanism of his 
day the crying needs of the human heart; but he iden- 
tified the empirical sinful heart with the ideal heart, in- 
dividual participation in nature with personal conform- 
ity to nature, the beautiful soul with the moral spirit, 
the utilitarian with the practical, declamation with con- 
fession, and he therefore remained involved in contra- 
dictions to the end. In contrast with Calvin, he brought 
out the ideas of individual rights and of the personal 
dignity of man — elements of Christian truth often vio- 
lated b} r Calvin ; but he nevertheless gave his ideal 
state power over the religious worship and profession 
of its subjects. Compared with Voltaire, the sardonic 
mocker of all existing things, Rousseau commands re- 
spect by the frankness and manliness of his protests, 
even when they are directed against holy things. He 
was incapable of comprehending the syntheses nature 
and culture, liberty and authority, individuality and 
society, reason and revelation, the human and the di- 
vine. In its pedagogical aspects, his work compares 
with that of Pestalozzi as does the dawn with the noon- 
day sun. In politics he points forward to both Mira- 
beau and Saint-Simon ; and in philosophy, as a preacher 
of deism, he may be compared with Kant. For both 
good and evil, Rousseau was a mighty exponent of the 
spirit of his time, and deserves, in justice, to be studied 
from both points of view. 

Rousseau’s works were very numerous, the botanical 
and musical writings, among others, being especially 
worthy of recognition. Editions of his writings are 
likewise numerous (Geneva, 1782-90, 17 vols. 4to, or 35 
vols. 8vo; Paris, 1793-1800, 18 vols. 4to, etc. German 
editions by Cramer, GJeicli, and others). Additional 
matter was furnished by Musset -Pat hay, in (Enrres 
Inedites de ./. ,/. Rousseau (Paris, 1825), and by Mars 
Michel Rev, in Lett? m es Inedites de ./. ./. Rousseau (Arnst. 
and Paris, 1858). Musset-Pathay also wrote a Ilis'oire 
de la Vie et des Ourrages de J. J. Rousseau (ibid. 1821). 
See also Girardin, Sur la Mort de J. J. Rousseau (ibid. 
1824) ; Villi main, Coursde Litteruture Frangaise (Vingt- 
deuxieme Loqoii); the J Ponte on the history of litera- 


I10USSEL 


145 


ROW 


Hire by Vinet, Demogeot, etc.; Schmidt - Weissenfels, 
Gesch. d. franz . Revolutionsliteratur ( Prague, 1859 ). 
p. 1G sq. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. See also iloe- 
fer, Naur. Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Roussel, Gerard (Lat. Gerardus Rufus), bishop 
of Oleron, in Franco, and reformer, was born at Vaquerie, 
near Amiens, and became a student at Paris, where Le- 
fevre d’Etaples convinced him tliat man is saved only 
through faith in God’s mercy, but that such faith may 
consist with the practice of the external forms of Ro- 
manism, they being regarded as indifferent matters. 
When Lefevre was accused of heresy and obliged to flee 
to bishop Bri^onnet ofMeaux in 1521, Roussel followed, 
and remained at Meaux until compelled to seek a refuge 
against imprisonment for heresy himself, when he es- 
tablished himself in the house of Capito at Strasburg. 
In 152G Francis I recalled the fugitives, and Roussel be- 
came court preacher to Margaret of Orleans, in that po- 
sition faithfully preaching evangelical doctrines, but re- 
taining the usages of Rome. On the marriage of Mar- 
garet with the king of Navarre (1527), Roussel became 
her confessor. In 1530 he obtained the rich abbey of 
Clairac. In 1533 his patroness invited him to preach 
in the Louvre, which he did amid great popular agita- 
tion. Many Romanists were expelled the city, and 
Roussel, on the other hand, was imprisoned, but after- 
wards released and forbidden to preach, lie returned 
with his protectress to Hearn, and soon afterwards ob- 
tained the bishopric of Oleron, for accepting which Cal- 
vin censured him strongly, because his new position 
would compel him to tolerate abuses which he had for- 
merly condemned, Roussel, however, did what he could 
for the welfare of his diocese, while holding an inter- 
mediate position between Rome and the Reformation. 
He explained the Bible in his sermons, celebrated mass 
in the vernacular, administered the communion under 
both kinds, made provision for the Christian training 
of the young, and devoted his rich revenues to the sup- 
port of the poor, lie also wrote Expositions , in dialogue 
form, of the Apostles’ Creed, the Decalogue, and the Lord’s 
Prayer, as guides to his clergy in the conduct of cate- 
chetical instruction. In this work Roussel occupied 
thoroughly evangelical ground, if a few concessions in 
regard to ceremonies be set aside. The only appeal is 
to the Bible; Christ is represented as the only head of 
the Church ; faith in him as the only condition of salva- 
tion. The Church triumphant is the only perfect Church, 
and of visible churches that alone is a true Church in 
which the Gospel is preached in its purity, and in which 
the sacraments, of which there are but two, are proper- 
ly administered. A subsequent tract on the Lord’s sup- 
per taught the impartation of Christ’s glorified body in 
the sense of Calvin, with whose theology the views of 
Roussel had much in common, particularly in the feat- 
ure of an absolute predestination. The Sorbonne ex- 
tracted a number of propositions from these works and 
condemned them as heretical, as it had already done the 
sermon in the Louvre; but before the sentence was pro- 
nounced Roussel had ended his career. In the spring 
of 1550 he had preached a sermon before a synod held 
at Mauleon, in which he advocated a reduction in the 
number of saints’ days, which excited the rage of the 
Romish fanatics present to such a degree that they 
broke down the pulpit in which he stood, and injured 
him so severely in the process that he died soon after- 
wards. In addition to the works referred to. Roussel 
published, in early life, a Latin translation of Aristotle’s 
Ethics , and a Commentary accompanying an edition of 
the arithmetic of Bontins, which was designed to elu- 
cidate the mystical signification of numbers. See C. 
Schmidt, Gerard Roussel. Predicateur de la Reine Mar- 
guerite de Navarre (Strasburg, 1845). — Herzog, Real- 
Encyklop. s. v. See also lloefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, 
s. v. 

Roustan, Antoine Jacques, a Swiss Protestant 
minister and writer, was horn at Geneva in 1734. For 
IX.— K 


twenty-six years (1764-90) he was minister of a Swiss 
church in London. He w rote, Retires sur I'Etat Present 
de Christianisme , etc, (Lond. 17G3, 12mo; in English, 
1775, 8vo). 

Routli, Martin Joseph, an English clergyman and 
educator, was born at South Elmhatn, Suffolk, Sept. 15, 
1755. lie matriculated as a battler at Queen’s College, 
Oxford, May 31, 1770 ; in July, 1771, was elected a deinv 
of St. Mary Magdalen College, and fellow' in July, 177G. 
He w as appointed college librarian in 1781, senior proc- 
tor in 1783, junior dean of arts in 1784 and 1785, was 
made bachelor of divinity July 15, 1786, and college 
bursar in 1791. He became president of Magdalen 
College, April 11, 1791, which position he retained until 
his death (Dec. 22. 1854). In 1810 he became rector 
of Tylehtirst, near Reading, where he retired for rest at 
certain seasons of the year. His w'orks were distin- 
guished by profound scholarship and great critical acu- 
men. His works are: Platonis Eathydemas et Gory ins, 
etc. (Oxf. 1784, 8vo) : — Reliquiae Sacra ? (1814-18,4 vols. ; 
later ed. 1846-48, 5 vols.) : — Bishop Burnet's History of 
his Own Time (1823,6 vols. 8vo), annotated. — Allibone, 
Diet, of Brit, and A mer. A uthors, s. v. 

Roux-Lavergne, Pierre Celestjn, a French 
writer, who died Feb. 16, 1874, was for some time editor 
of the Unicers. When quite advanced in age, he be- 
came a priest, and for many years labored as professor 
of theology at the seminary in Nismes. He died at 
Rennes as member of 'the cathedral. He wrote, De la 
Philosophic de V Histoire (1850): — Philosophia juxta 
Divi Thomas Dogmata (1850-59). See the Literarischer 
Handweiser, 1874, p. 176. (B. P.) 

Row Heresy. In 1831, Mr. Campbell, minister 
of Row t , Scotland, was deposed by the General Assembly 
for holding, among other errors, the doctrine of univer- 
sal pardon, and a peculiar view of the nature of faith, 
quite similar to that of the Sandemanians (q. v.) On 
| some other points his views touched those of Edw'ard 
I Irving, but his doctrines did not spread to any extent. 
In 1856 he published the Nature of the Atonement, in 
which he declares that it w r as not a satisfaction, but 
only “an adequate repentance, in no sense substitu- 
tionary,” and that Christ’s suffering arose “from see- 
ing sin and sinners with God’s eyes, and feeling in ref- 
erence to them with God’s heart.” — Eadie, Eccles. Cy- 
clop. s. v. 

Row, John fl), a Scottish divine, was born near 
Sterling about 1526. He w as agent of the clergy of 
Scotland at the Vatican in 1550, and afterwards became 
a Protestant minister. He died in 1580. He w r as one 
of the six ministers who composed the Scottish Confes- 
sion and First Book of Discipline. 

Row, John (2), a Presbyterian divine, and son of 
John Row the reformer, was born at Perth in 1568. 
He studied at the University of Edinburgh, and w r as 
minister ofCarnock, Fifeshirc, from 1592 till 1644. His 
death took place in 1646. lie wrote The Historic of the 
Kirk of Scotland (1558-1637), which, after lying in MS. 
for more than 200 years, has recently been twice pri- 
vately printed, together with a continuation by his sons 
to 1639 (Edinb. Maitland Club, 1842, 2 vols. 4to; 2d ed. 
ibid. Wodrow Society, 1842, 4to). 

Row, John (3), a Presbyterian divine and Hebrew 
scholar, w'as born at Carnock about 1598, and was the 
son of the preceding. He became one of the ministers 
of Aberdeen in 1631, and in 1644 he was chosen mod- 
erator of the Provincial Assembly at Aberdeen. Ilewas 
a Covenanter in the civil war, and in 1652 became prin- 
cipal of King’s College, Aberdeen, but resigned in 1661. 
He w'as subsequently a schoolmaster in Aberdeen, but 
spent his last years in retirement in the parish of Ki- 
nellar, near Aberdeen. He was noted — and the same 
may be said of his father and grandfather — for an inti- 
mate acquaintance with the Hebrew' language. His 
death took place about 1G72. He published, Iftbraicte 


ROWAN 


146 


ROYAARDS 


Linguce Institutiones (Glasg. 1634, 1 2mo) :^-Xibicis He - 
bi'aica seu Vocabularium, ete. (1644, 12mo): — 
ria BaoiXiict), etc. (Abredon. 1660, 4to). See Allibone, 
Diet . of Brit, and Amer. A uthors, s. v. 

Rowan, Arthur Blennerhassett, D.D., an 
Irish divine, was for more than thirty years curate of 
Bletmerville, subsequently arehdeacou of Ardfert, reetor 
of Kilgobbin and Balinooher, and surrogate of the Con- 
sistorial Court of Ardfert and Aghadoe. He died at 
Belmont, Kerry, Ireland, Aug. 12, 1861. Among his 
publications are, Romanism in the Church, ete. ( 1847, 
8vo) : — N etc man's Popular Fallacies Considered (Dub- 
lin, 1852, 8vo): — Casuistry and Conscience (1854, 8vo): 
— besides Sermons and Sketches. See Allibone, Diet, of 
Brit, and Amer. Authors , s. v. 

Rowan, Stephen, D.D., a (Duteh) Reformed min- 
ister, was born at Salem, N. Y., 1787. After having 
graduated at Union College in 1804, he studied theology 
with Drs. J. H. Meyer and Jeremiah Romevn, and then 
entered the ministry in 1806. lie was a popular preach- 
er of the Reformed Church settled in the then suburb- 
an village of Greenwich, now in Bleeeker Street, New 
York. His labors were much blessed, until difficulties 
arose which led to his leaving the denomination and 
the establishment of the Eighth Presbyterian Church 
in Chrystie Street in 1819. Here he ministered until 
1825, when he became secretary of the American Society 
for Meliorating the Condition of the Jews. He visited 
Europe in this behalf, and was an efficient officer. His 
tine pulpit abilities and winning manners made him 
many warm friends, and great sueeess attended his pas- 
toral labors. But his trials were oppressive, and over- 
clouded his work sadly. He died in 1835, chastened in 
spirit, in firm -faith, and leaving rich testimonies for the 
grace that supported him. See Corwin, Manual of the 
Reformed Church , p. 192. (W. J. R. T.) 

Rowbotham, John, an English clergyman of Up- 
minster. Essex, during the latter part of the 17th cen- 
tury, ejected for nonconformity in 1662. He wrote, 
Preciousness of Christ to Beliei'ers (Loud. 1647, 12mo) : 
— Exposition of the Canticles (ibid. 1651, 4to) : — Mystery 
of the Two Witnesses Unveiled (ibid. 1654, 12mo): — Dis- 
quisitio in Ilypothesin Baxterianam de Fcedere Gratice 
ab Initio , ete. (ibid. 1694-98, 8vo). See Allibone, Diet, 
of Brit, and A mer. .1 uthors , s. v. 

Rowe, Elizabeth, an Englishwoman noted for 
her personal accomplishments and elegant writings, was 
the daughter of Walter Singer, a Dissenting minister, 
and was born at Ilchester, Somersetshire, in 1674. She 
was very charitable, freely distributing to those in need. 
Her death occurred in 1737. Among her published 
works are, Friendship in Death (1728): — Devout Exer- 
cises of the Heart , in Meditation, ete. (1738, 8vo; Phila. 
1850, 24mo) : — Miscellaneous Works (1739,2 vols. 8vo). 

Rowe, John, a Nonconformist minister, was born 
at Tiverton, England, in 1627. He was educated at New 
Inn Hall, Oxford, and obtained a fellowship in Corpus 
Christi College. He. became preacher at Witney and 
Tiverton, and, in 1654, at Westminster Abbey. In 1662 
he was ejected for nonconformity, and afterwards had a 
congregation in Bartholomew Close, London. He wrote, 
Heavenly-mindedness and Earthly-mindedness ( 1672,2 pts. 
1 2mo) : — Saints' Temptations (1674, 1675, 8vo) : — Eman- 
uel (1680, 8vo) : — Sermons, ete. 

Rowe, Samuel, an English clergyman, was horn 
in 1793. lie became a bookseller, but graduated at 
Jesus College, Oxford, in 1826. In 1833 he was made 
viear of Crediton and perpetual curate of Postburv, St. 
Luke, which offices he held until his death. He pub- 
lished, Appeal to the Rubric (Lond. 1841, small 8vo) : — 
Church Psalm-book (several editions) : — also Panorama 
of Plymouth, and Per ambulat ions in the Forest of Dart- 
moor (Plymouth, 1848, 8vo). 

Rowe, Wesley, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was horn near Frankfort, Ross Co., O., 


April 4, 1809. He made a formal profession of religion 
and united with the Church in his nineteenth year. In 
1832 he was licensed to preach, and in 1834 was admit- 
ted on trial into the Ohio Annual Conference, in which, 
and in the Cincinnati Conference, he labored until with- 
in a lew days of his death, Feb. 8, 1862. See Minutes 
of A nnual Conferetices, 1862, p. 185. 

Rowites, the name applied to the followers of Mr. 
Campbell, of Row, Scotland. See Row Heresy. 

Rowland, Daniel, an eminent Welsh divine, 
chaplain to the duke of Leinster during the latter part 
of the last century. He published Eight Seimions, etc. 
(Lond. 1774, 12mo) : — Three Sermons (1778, 12mo). 

Rowland, Henry Augustus, D.D., a Presby- 
terian divine, was born at Windsor, Conn., Sept. 19, 1804. 
His father was pastor of the Congregational Church at 
Windsor, and his mother was a relative of Rev. Jonathan 
Edwards, D.D. lie graduated at Yale College in 1823, 
finished his theological course at Andover Seminary in 
1827, was licensed by the Hampden Association, and or- 
dained by the New York Presbytery Nov. 24. 1830. lie 
began his ministry in the Presbyterian Church at Fay- 
etteville, N. C. In 1834 he became pastor of Pearl 
Street Church, New York ; in 1843, of the Church at 
llonesdale, Pa.; and in 1856 accepted a call and was in- 
stalled pastor of the Park Presbyterian Church, New- 
ark, N. J., where he labored until his death, Sept. 4, 1859. 
Dr. Rowland was a successful pastor and an earnest, elo- 
quent preaeher. He labored efficiently with his pen, 
and in the pulpit, to promote the interests of the Re- 
deemer’s kingdom for more than one third of a century. 
He was fond of literature, and wrote much for the peri- 
odical press; also several volumes, viz,: On the Common 
Maxims of Infidelity (1850, 12mo): — The Path of Life 
(1851, 18mo) : — Light in the Dark Valley (1852, 24mo) : 
— The Way of Peace (1853, 16mo) : — Tracts on Chris- 
tian Baptism: — The Elect Saved by Faith: — and A 
Conversation on Decrees and Free Agency. Also many 
single sermons and articles in the New York Evangelist, 
New York Observer, ete. See Memorial of the Life and 
Services of the late llenry A. Roivland, D.D . ; Wilson, 
Presb. Hist. Almanac, 1861, p. 163. (J. L. S.) 

Rowland, Thomas, a minister of the United 
Methodist Free Churehes, England, was born in Man- 
chester in 1792. He entered the Wesleyan ministry in 
1813, and continued to labor until 1850, when he became 
involved in the questions connected with the Reform 
movement. Refusing to apologize to the Conference 
for some of his writings, he was at first made supernu- 
merary, and afterwards expelled. He joined the Wes- 
leyan Reformers, and preached among them for several 
years. He attended the First Annual Assembly of the 
United Methodist Free Churehes, held at Rochdale, 1857, 
and died in 1858. See Simpson, Cyclop, of Methodism, 
s. v. 

Rowrawa, one of the eight Narakas (q. v.), or 
principal plaees of torment, in the system of Buddhism. 

Roy, Julian David le, a French architect and 
antiquary, was born in Paris in 1728, and died in 1803. 
He wrote, Ruines des Plus Beaux Mo tinmens de la Gr'ece 
(1758, corrected 1770) : — liistoire de la Disposition et des 
Formes Different es des Temples des Chretiens: — Observa- 
tions sur les Edifices des A nciens Peuples. See Chalmers, 
Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Royaards, Herman John, professor of theology 
in the University of Utreeht for more than thirty 
years, beginning with 1823, was born in that city Oct. 
3, 1794. In 1818 he obtained the degree of doetor in 
theology, and in the following year became pastor of the 
Reformed Church at Meerkerk, at which place he wrote 
a successful prize essay on the Book of Daniel (1821). 
His special department in the university was that of 
historical theology, to which he added that of Christian 
ethics, lie aided in founding (1839) the journal Ar- 
chie f voor Kerkelyke Geschiedenis, and contributed vari- 


110YCE 


147 


RUBENS 


ons very important papers to its pages. Tlie his- 
tory of the Church in the Netherlands engaged his 
mind predominantly, and he rendered services of real 
value in its treatment, though almost a pioneer in that 
field. In 1842 he published a prize treatise entitled 
Invoering en Vestiyiug van het Christendom in Nederland, 
etc., and subsequently a complementary work under 
the title Geschiedenis ran het Christendom en de Chris - 
telyke Kerk in Nederland gedurende de Middeneeuwm 
(pt. i, 1849 : pt. ii, 1853). He desired to write a history 
of the Reformation and of the Roman Catholic Church 
in the Netherlands, but did not live to execute his pur- 
pose. lie, however, rendered meritorious service in a 
different direction, viz. in ecclesiastical jurisprudence, 
having published (1834 and 1837) a work on this sub- 
ject entitled Iledendaagseh Kerkregt by de J/errormden 
in Nederland, and having taken active part in the re- 
peated discussions relating to a concordat with the pa- 
pal chair. He also prepared a Chrestomathia Patristica 
(pt. i, 1831 ; pt. ii, 1837), intended to aid in the study of 
the Church fathers, and a Compendium JJist. Eccl. Christ. 
for use in academical instruction. He died Jan. 2, 1854. 
See Boumaun, Narratio de 11. J. Royaards. in his Char- 
til Theologies, (Traj.ad Rh. 1857), p. 1-90. — Herzog, Real- 
Encyklop. s. v. 

Royce, Lorenzo D., a Baptist minister, was horn at 
Sharon, Vt., Oct. 5, 1820. He graduated from Water- 
ville College, Maine, in the class of 1844, and from the 
Newton Theological Institution in the class of 1847. 
He was ordained as pastor of the Second Baptist Church 
in Thornaston, Me. llis ministry was a brief one, his 
death occurring Sept. 3, 1850. He was among the most 
highly cultivated young ministers of his denomination, 
and had his life been spared would not have failed to 
make his mark deep on the generation in which he 
lived. (J. C. S.) 

Roye, Gut de, a French prelate, was born at Muret 
about 1345. He was canon of Noyon, and in 1376 was 
made bishop of Verdun. He never went to his diocese, 
but remained with Gregory XI, accompanying him to 
Rome, and afterwards attached himself to Clement VII, 
by whom he was consecrated. Resigning his see in 
1379, he became in succession administrator of the bish- 
opric of Dol, bishop of Castres (1383), archbishop of 
Tours, archbishop of Sens (1385), and, finally, resigning 
all these, was on the22d of June, 1390, consecrated arch- 
bishop of Rlieims. Gui took the part of Benedict XIII. 
and was a member of the Council of Paris in 1404, but 
refused to join the National Council of 1406, which was 
convened for the extinction of the clerical privileges 
during the schism. In 1408 he presided over the Pro- 
vincial Council at Rlieims, and the next year set out 
for Italy, but was killed, during the journey, in a quar- 
rel among his retainers, June 8, 1409. He is the author 
of a work entitled Doctrinal de la Sapience (Geneva, 
1478), which passed through several editions. See 
Gallia Christiana, vol. ix ; Brunet, J fanuel du Libraire. 
— Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Royko, Caspar, doctor of theology, a Roman Cath- 
olic divine of Germany, was horn Jan. 1, 1744, at Mar- 
burg, in Steyermark, and died April 20, 1819, as professor 
of pastoral theology and cathedral preacher at Prague. 
He is the author of Einleitung in die christliche Religions- 
und Kirchengeschichte (Prague, 1771): — Synopsis Ilistor. 
Religionis Christianee Methodo System. Adumbrata (ibid. 
1785) : — Christliche Religions- u. Kirchengeschichte (ibid. 
1788-95, 4 vols.): — Geschichte der grossen allgemeinen 
Kirchenversammlung zn Costnitz (ibid. 1780-96, 4 pts.). 
See Winer, Hamlbnch der theol. Literatnr , i, 529, 541, 
666; ii, 741; Niedner, Lehrbuch der christl. Kirchenge- 
schichte, p. 864. (B. P.) 

Ruar, Martin, a learned German writer and Prot- 
estant minister, was born in Holstein in 1588, and died 
near Dantzic in 1657. “ His Epistles throw much light 
on the theological opinions of the age” (Hallam, Lit. of 
Europe ). 


Rubble, Bubble-work, Rough-walling, coarse 
walling constructed of rough stones, not large, but of 
great irregularity both in size and shape, and not so flat 
bedded as in rag-work. In some districts it is often 
formed of Hints: in large buildings, in neighborhoods 



Rubble-work. 


where better materials can be obtained for the outer 
face of the walls, it is in general only used for the in- 
sides, or backing; but in other districts the whole sub- 
stance of the walls is not unfrequently of this construc- 
tion. It is often found to have been plastered on both 
sides, but sometimes it was only pointed externally. — 
Parker, Gloss, of A rchiteet. s. v. 

Rubens, Peter Paul, Sir, the illustrious Flemish 
painter, was born at Siegen. Germany (according to 
some, at Cologne), June 29, 1577. After the death of 
his father in 1587, he went with his mother to Antwerp, 
where his parents had formerly resided. He became 
page to Marguerite de Ligne, countess de Lalaing, but 
soon left her to study art, chiefly under A. van Noort 
and O. van Veen (or Venius). In 1600 he visited Italy, 
going first to Venice and Mantua and thence to Rome, 
where he devoted himself to the study of the pictures 
of Titian and Paul Veronese. In 1605 the duke Vin- 
cenzo Gonzaga sent him on a special mission to Philip 
HI of Spain. Again visiting Italy, he resided at Rome, 
Milan, and Genoa, painting many pictures, until 1608, 
when, hearing of his mother’s illness, he returned to Ant- 
werp. He was appointed court painter to the archduke 
Albert, and married Isabella Brant (or Brandt) in 1609. 
When, in 1627, Charles I declared war against France, 



House of Rubens. 


Rubens was intrusted to negotiate with Gerbier, Charles’s 
agent at the Hague. In the autumn of the same year 
he was sent to Madrid, and in 1629 was ambassador to 
England. He was employed on a mission to Holland 
in 1633. died May 30, 1640, and was buried in the Church 
of St. Jacques, Antwerp. The pictures ascribed wholly 
or in part to Rubens, according to Smith’s Catalogue 
Raisonne, number 1800. They comprise history, por- 
traits, landscapes; animal, fruit, and flower pieces. The 
finest are in the cathedral in Antwerp — The Descent 
from the Cross, and The Elevation of the Cross , the 
former being generally considered his masterpiece. 
The Belvedere in Vienna contains a noble altar-piece 
with wings representing The Virgin Presenting a Splen- 


RUBEZAIIL 


148 


RUCHRATH 


did Robe to St. Ildefonso : — St. A mbrose Refusing to A li- 
mit the Emperor Theodosius into the Church ; and two 
altar-pieces representing the miracles performed by St. 
Ignatius Loyola and St. Francis Xavier. See Waagen, in 
Baumer’s I/istorisches Taschenbuck (Leips. 1833; Lond. 
1840) ; Michel, Rubens et VEcole d' Anvers (Paris, 1854) ; 
Waagen, Treasures of Art in Great Britain (Lond. 1854- 
57, 4 vols.). 

Rubezahl, in Silesian legend, was a good-natured 
spirit of the Riesengebirge who assisted the good, the 
needy, and the wandering traveller, but who also teased 
and punished the wicked. lie was able to assume any 
form whatever, and appeared sometimes as a rabbit run- 
ning between the feet of pedestrians, sometimes as a 
turtle, sometimes in the form of a hawk, snatching the 
hat from a sleeper’s head, and sometimes so confused 
the senses that the tiles on a roof seemed to be of gold, 
or that a person seemed to see his own double, etc. lie 
never carried his sport so far, however, as to work real 
injury to his victim. The name Rubezahl was a nick- 
name, and greatly irritated him; but he loved to be 
called “The Lord of the Mountains.” — Vollmer, Wor- 
terb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Rubigo. See Rorigus. 

Rubino, Joseph Carl Friedrich, a German doc- 
tor and professor of philology and ancient history, was 
born Aug. 15. 1799, at Fritzlar, of Jewish parentage. 
Having completed his studies at Heidelberg and Got- 
tingen, he lived from 18*20 to 1831 in private at Cassel, 
where he became intimately acquainted with the most 
prominent men of his time. In 1831 he was appointed 
professor at Marburg, and April 24, 1842, he openly pro- 
fessed the Christian faith. Up to his death, April 10, 
18G4, he lectured at Marburg, having been invested sev- 
eral times with the highest offiees of the university. 1 1 is 
last words were, “ For other foundation can no man lay 
than that is laid, which is Jesus Christ” (1 Cor. iii, 11). 
The great veneration in which Rubino was held is best 
shown in Dr. Gran’s dedication of his work, Semiten und 
I ndogermanen. to his fatherly friend Rubino. See Kal- 
kar, Israel und die Kir che, p. 127 ; Delitzseh, Saat avf 
llofnunq , IF, ii. 52 sq.; Literarischer IJandweiser , 18G4, 
p. 342 ; F first, Bibl. Jud. iii, 179. (B. P.) 

Rubrics (Lat. rnbrica, from ruber , red), in classic 
use, meant the titles or headings of chapters in certain 
law-books, and is derived from the red color of the ink in 
which these titles were written, in order to distinguish 
them from the text. In mediaeval and modern use the 
name is restricted to the directions which are found in 
the service-books of the Church, as to the ordering of 
the several prayers, and the performance of the some- 
times complicated ceremonial by which they were ac- 
companied. The same name, together with the usage 
itself, is retained in the Church of England Prayer-book ; 
and in all these, even where the direction has ceased to 
he printed in red ink, the name rubric is still retained. 
Where red ink is not employed, the rubric is distin- 
guished from the text by italics, or some other variety 
of print. In the Catholic Church a considerable con- 
troversy exists as to whether the rubrics of the missal, 
the ritual, and the breviary are to be. considered pre- 
ceptive or only directive — a question into which it would 
he out of place to enter. A similar controversy has ex- 
isted at various times in the English Church. The sci- 
ence of rubrics is with Catholics a special branch of 
study, the chief authorities on which are Gavanti, Me- 
rati, Cavalieri, and other more compendious writers. — 
Chambers's Eneyclop. s. v. 

Rubruquis, Guillaume de. See Ruysbroek. 

Ruby (only plur. peninim ; once [Prov. iii, 

15, Kethib] peniyim ,■ Sept. A&oi, or Xj'S’oi 7to- 

XvreXiig ; Vnlg. cuncUe opes , cuncta pretiosissima, gem- 
mir , de ultimis Jinibus, ebor antiquum ), a gem concerning 
which there is much difference of opinion and great un- 
certainty. It occurs in the following passages: “The 


price of wisdom is above peninim ” (Job xxviii, 18; so 
also Prov. iii, 15; viii, 11 ; xxxi, 10) ; “A multitude of 
peninim ” (xx, 15). In Lam. iv, 7, it is said, “ the Naza- 
rites were purer than snow, they were whiter than milk, 
they were more ruddy in body than peninim .” Boote 
( Animud . Sac. iv, 3), on account of the ruddiness men- 
tioned in the last passage, supposed “coral” to be in- 
tended, for which, however, there appears to be another 
Hebrew word. See Coral. Miehaelis (Svppl. p. 2023) 
is of the same opinion, and compares the Heb. JlSlQ 
with the Arab, panah, “ a branch.” Gesenius ( Thesaur . 
s. v.) defends this argument. Boehart (llieroz. iii, G01) 
contends that the Hebrew term denotes pearls, and ex- 
plains the “ruddiness” alluded to above by supposing 
that the original word (fl'ETN;) signifies merely “bright 
in color,” or “color of a reddish tinge.” This opinion 
is supported by Rosenmuller ( Schol . in Thren.) and oth- 
ers, but opposed by Maurer (Comment.') and Gesenius. 
Certainly it would be no compliment to the great peo- 
ple of the land to say that their bodies were as red as 
coral or rubies, unless we adopt Maurer’s explanation, 
who refers the “ruddiness” to the blood which flowed 
in their veins. See Ruddy. On the whole, consider- 
ing that the Hebrew word is always used in the plural, 
we are inclined to adopt Boehart’s explanation, and un- 
derstand pearls to be intended.— Smith. See Pearl. 

The ruby is, however, generally supposed to be rep- 
resented by the word kad-kod ', which occurs in 

Ezek. xxvii, G, and Isa. liv, 12, where the A. Y. renders 
it “agate” (q. v.). An Arabic word of similar sound 
(kadskadsat) signifies “vivid redness;” and as the He- 
brew word may be derived from a root of like significa- 
tion, it is inferred that it denotes the Oriental ruby, 
which is distinguished for its vivid red color, and was 
regarded as the most valuable of precious stones next 
after the diamond. This mode of identification, how- 
ever, seems rather precarious. The Greek translator of 
Ezek. xxvii, 1G does not appear to have known what it 
meant, for he preserves the original word ; and although 
the translator of Isa. liv, 12 has jasper (Gr. iaspis, i’acr- 
tt(£), lie is not regarded as any authority in such mat- 
ters when he stands alone. The rubv was doubtless 
known to the Hebrews, but it is by no means certain 
that kad-kod was its name. Some have supposed that 
the word ekdach, rnjTS, which from its etymology 
should signify a sparkling, flaming gem, is to be regard- 
ed as a species of ruby. It occurs only in Isa. liv, 12; 
hence the Sept, and A. Y. make it a “carbuncle” (q. v.\ 
— Kitto. 

The ruby of mineralogists is a red sapphire (q. v.) or 
spinel. It is a gem highly prized, and only inferior in 
value to the diamond. The finest are the Oriental, 
which are ehieflv brought from Ceylon and Burmah. 
They are found in alluvial deposits. The ruby, like 
other gems, had a host of occult virtues attributed to it 
by the Cabalists. It was supposed to give valor to the 
soldier in battle; to decide and concentrate affection; 
to foretell evil by growing pale, and to indicate that the 
danger was past by recovering its vivid color. See Gem. 

Ruchat, Abraham, a Swiss ecclesiastical writer, 
was born about 1G80. He was for a time pastor at Au- 
bonne, but after 1721 taught belles-lettres and philos- 
ophy in the Aeademv of Lausanne. He died Sept. 29, 
1750. II is principal works are, Grammatica Uebraica 
(Leyden, 1707) : — Abrege, de VIJistoire Ecclesiast'ique du 
Pays de Valid (Berne, 1707) : — I/istob-e de la Reforma- 
tion de la Suisse (Geneva, 1740, G vols.). See Rousset, 
Eloge de Ruchat. — Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Generale, s. v. 

Ruchrath, Johann, called Von Wesel , a German 
reformer, was bom at Oberwesel, on the Rhine, about 
1410. He was professor of divinity at Erfurt, and after- 
wards preached at Worms for seventeen years. He was 
accused of heresy and tried before the Inquisition in 
1479, but, to escape death or torture, recanted. Ruch- 
ratli died in 1481. He wrote a Treatise against lndul- 


KUCKERSFELDEI 


149 


KUDIN GE1 


genceSy and Concerning the A uthority, Duty, and 
Power of Pastors. See Hodgson, lit formers and 
Martyrs (Phila. 1867). 

Riickersfelder, August Friedrich, a 
German Orientalist, who died Oct. 15, 1799, at 
Bremen, where lie retired in 1753 from his posi- 
tion as do.ctor and professor of theology and Ori- 
ental languages at the gymnasium in Deventer, 
is the author of Dissertatio Inaug. Exegetica ad 
Psa linos Ixxiiiy 21-23 ( Deventer, 1755 ) : — De - 
scriptio Codicis flebrcei Mannscripti Daventri- 
ensis in his Sylloge Commentatiomim et Obserca- 
tionum (ibid. 1762): — Commentar . Harmon, in 
/ V Evang. sec. Singular. Ordinem Proprium Dis- 
positum (being a translation of M'Knight’s Har- 
mony of the Four Gospels [ibid. 1772-79,3 vols.]). 
See Winer, Handbueh der theol. Literatur, i, 244, 
280; ii, 142; Zuchold, Bibl. Theol. p. 1093; Fiirst, 
JSibl. Jud. iii, 180. (B. 1\) 

Rudbeck, John, a learned Swedish prelate 
and reformer, was born at Orebro about 1580. 
lie was chaplain toGustavus Adolphus, and bish- 
opof Westerns. His death occurred in 1646. lie 
was father of Olas (or Olaf) Rudbeck, Sr., the 
eminent anatomist and botanist. 



Rudborne (or Rodburne), Thomas, an English 
bishop and architect, was a native of Hertfordshire. He 
studied at Merton College, Oxford, and was afterwards 
chaplain to Henry V previous to the battle of Agincourt. 
lie received the prebend of Horton, Salisbury, the liv- 
ing of East Deping, Lincolnshire, and the archdeaconry 
of Sudbury. He served the office of proctor in the uni- 
versity, and was elected chancellor. Jn 1426 he was 
warden of Merton College, resigning the next year. In 
1433 he was promoted to the see of St. David’s, and 
died about 1442. The tower and chapel of Merton will 
long remain monuments of his skill and taste. He 
wrote, according to Bale, a Chronicle , and some Epistles 
ad Thomam Waldenem et Alios. See Chalmers, Biog. 
Diet. s. v. 

Rudd, John Churchill, D.D., an Episcopal cler- 
gyman, was born at Norwich, Conn., May 24, 1779. By 
adverse circumstances he was prevented from taking 
a collegiate course, and, although brought up a Congre- 
gationalist, united with the Episcopal Church. He was 
admitted to deacon’s orders by bishop Moore, April 28, 
1805, and in 1806 to priest’s orders by the same prelate. , 
In December, 1805, he took charge of St. John’s Parish, 
Elizabethtown, N. J., and in May following w r as insti- 
tuted its rector. Owing to ill-health, he resigned, May 
26, 1826, and removed to Auburn, N. Y., and took charge 
of St. Peter’s Church in that city for seven years. In 
1827 he was induced by bishop Hobart to commence 
The Gospel Messenger, vt\ncX\ he continued to edit until 
the close of his life, Nov. 15, 1848. The following are 
some of I)r. Rudd’s publications: Monitorial Schools 
(1825), an address : — The Resurrection (1833), a sermon : 
— Christ, the Chief Corner-stone (1833), a sermon: — be- 
sides a number of other Addresses and Sermons. Dr. 
Rudd edited the Churchman's Magazine, several years 
previous to 1812. See Sprague, Annals of the Amer. 
Pulpit , v, 501. 

Rudd, Sayer, a minister of Walmer, Kent, Eng- 
land, in the middle of the last century, published a 
number of Poems, Sermons , and Theological Treatises, 
of which the best known is his Essay on the Resurrec- 
tion, Millennium, and Judgment (Loud. 1734, 8vo). His 
Prodromus, or Observations on the. English Letters, was 
published in 1755 (8vo). See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, 
and A mer. A uthors, s. v. 

Rudder (wriSaXtov. Acts xxvii, 20, strictly a foot- 
let ; “helm,” James iii, 4), an oar (hence the English 
paddle) used bv the ancients for steering vessels, being 
passed through an eye or rowlock at the stern ; when I 
at anchor they were unshipped, and secured from slip- ! 


ping through the rudder-port by lashings (fevtcrigna. 
“bands”). There were usually two of these rudders 
(hence the plural), one on each quarter of the vessel. 
See Ship. 

Ruddy ps’vSTN, admoni , reddish; Sept. Trvppd- 
ki)q; Vulg. rufus'). Many interpreters think that the 
word means red-haired, and it is so rendered in the an- 
cient versions, although ours understands a ruddy com- 
plexion. It would then appear that Esau (Gen. xxv, 
25) and David (1 Sam. xvi, 12; xxvii, 42) had red 
hair, a peculiarity so uncommon in the East that it 
forms a particular distinction, as in the Scriptural in- 
stances; but it is by no means unknown, especially in 
mountainous countries. It has been observed in Persia, 
accompanied with the usual fresh complexion. Such hair 
and complexion together seem to have been regarded as 
a beaut}' among the Jews. The personal characters of 
Esau and David appear to agree well with the temper- 
ament which red hair usually indicates. — Kitto. That 
interpretation, however, is by no means established, and 
the contempt of Goliath for David as a youth of a 
fair, bright skin is more probable. See David. This 
view is confirmed by the application of kindred words, 
as addm (D^X), in Lam. iv, 7, to the Nazarites in gen- 
eral; and adorn (CTN) to the bridegroom (Cant, v, 10), 
who is immediately described as black-haired (ver. 11). 

Rudelbach, Andreas, a Danish theologian, was 
bom at Copenhagen in 1792. He became superintend- 
ent at Glauchau, Saxony, in 1829, and died in 1862. 
lie published a number of dogmatic works, in which he 
advocates the orthodox Lutheran creed. 

Rudenture, the moulding, in form like a rope or 
staff, filling the flutings of columns, usually one third 
of the height. It is sometimes plain, sometimes orna- 
mental. 

Rudes ( uncultivated ), one of the names given to 
the catechumens in the early Church, because they 
were unacquainted with the doctrines of Christianity, 
into which the baptized or faithful were initiated. 

Riidinger (also Rudiger and Rudinger), Es- 
ROM, a German theologian and author, was born at 
Bamberg, Bavaria, May 19, 1523. He was a pupil of 
Joachim Camerariusin his early years, and subsequently 
(1548) became his son-in-law. In 1549 he became rec- 
tor of the gymnasium at Zwickau, and greatly promoted 
the efficiency of that school; but, as his relations with 
the superintendent became unpleasant by reason of his 
advocacy of the “ necessity of good works,” he gladly 
accepted a call to Wittenberg in 1557. In 1562 he be- 


RUDOLPH 


150 


RUE 


came rector, ami in 1570 dean, of the theological faculty 
of that university. By this time his peculiar views had 
become known, lie did not acknowledge the corporeal 
presence of Christ in the sacrament, nor a real partak- 
ing of the i'es sacramenti by unbelievers. He was com- 
manded to renounce such opinions, and was even ar- 
rested (1574); but he refused and tied, eventually es- 
tablishing a school among the Moravians, in connection 
with whose curriculum he wrought out his valuable 
exposition of the book of Psalms. lie died at Nurem- 
berg in 1591, though Altorf is sometimes given as the 
place of his decease. 

Riidinger left many works in manuscript, besides 
others which were published. His theological writings 
are the following: Synesii Cyrencei xEgyptii, seu de Pro - 
videntia Disputatio , etc. (Basic, 1557): — Exegesis . . . 
de Coena JJom. (Leipsic and Heidelberg, 1575; the latter 
edition naming Cureus as the author): — Libri Psalmo - 
rum Paraphrasis Latina : — ’EvCt^iov, Tunica Funebris 
ex Tela Paradisiad Dextram Crucis Christi (Luke xxiii, 
43) : — De Origine Ubiquitatis Pii et Eruditi . . . Tradatio 
(Geneva, 1597), a posthumous work usually credited to 
him: — De Jesu Martyre Anna Burgio, etc., in Miegii 
Afonumenta, etc., ii, 61 sq. : — De Fratribus Orthodox - 
is in Bohemia et Moravia, etc., in Camerarius’s Nar- 
ratio de Fratr. Orthod. Ecclesiis in Boh. (Heidelberg, 
1 605). See Will, Nurnbergisches Gelehrten-Lexikon , s. v., 
and the supplementary volume to the same work by 
Nopitsch, s. v. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v- 

Rudolph, St ., a monk of Fulda in the 9th cen- 
tury, was a pupil of Rhabanus Maurus (q. v.), director of 
the convent-school, and spiritual counsellor and favorite 
preacher to Louis II. lie wrote a number of works, 
among which a continuation of the Annals of Fulda 
(839-863) holds the tirst place. By direction of his ab- 
bot, Maurus, he composed a life of Lioba, abbess of 
Bischofsheim, which is given in Surius and Mabillon 
(Acta Ord. S. Ben. S:ec. iii, 2). A short history of the 
Saxons, which has been incorporated into Meginhard’s 
narrative of the translation of St. Alexander (comp, the 
art. “ Fclicitas u. ilire 7 Sbhne” in Pertz, ii, 673-681), 
is also from his pen ; and to this list must be added a 
tract known by the erroneous title Vita B. Pabani Ar~ 
chiep. Moguntiocensis, given by the Bollandists, vol. i, 
Feb. p. 500; Mabillon, Acta Ord. S. Ben. vol. iv, pt. ii, 
p. 1, etc. Canisius (Led. Antiq. ii, 168, ed. Basnage) 
contains a letter of Ermenrich, subsequently abbot at 
Ellwangen, with which he transmits to Rudolph, his 
former instructor, a life of the priest St. Sola for im- 
provement. See Pertz, i, 338, 339, in the preface to 
the Annals of Fulda. — Wetzer u. Welte, Kirchen-Lexi - 
kon, s. v. 

Rudolph (Rudolf or Rodolf) II, emperor of 
Germany, eldest son of Maximilian II, was born in 
1552. He was educated at the Spanish court by the 
Jesuits. Upon the death of his father (October, 1576), 
he ascended the throne. lie prohibited the exercise of 
the Protestant religion, and gave all the principal of- 
fices to the Catholics. This bigotry and intolerance led 
the Protestants to ally themselves with their coreligion- 
ists in the Low Countries and in France in 1608, of which 
confederation the elector-palatine Frederick IV was the 
head. Between 1608 and 1611 his brother Matthias 
extorted from Rudolph successively the sovereignty of 
Austria, Moravia, Hungary, Bohemia, etc. He died 
without issue in January, 1612, and was succeeded by 
Matthias. Rudolph was devoted to the study of as- 
trology and the occult sciences, and extended his pat- 
ronage to Kepler and Tycho Brahe. The Rudolphine 
Tables derive their name from Rudolph, who originally 
undertook to defray the expenses incidental to the un- 
dertaking, but failed for want of means. See Kurtz, 
Geschichte Oestreichs unter Kaiser Rudolph (Linz, 1821). 

Rudra (the bloody one), a Hindu deity of the Vaidic 
period, described in t lie Veda as the father of the winds. 
At a later period he is identified with Siva (q. v.) 


Rudy, John, a (Dutch) Reformed minister, was born 
in Switzerland in 1791, and studied under the Rev. Dr. 
IlellTenstein in Philadelphia. He entered the ministry 
of the German Reformed Church in 1821, and after 
serving Christ in North Carolina for three years, at 
Guilford (1821-24), he transferred his relations to the 
Reformed Dutch Church. From 1825 to 1835 he was 
pastor at Germantown, N. Y. In the latter year he re- 
solved to leave the English-speaking Church and peo- 
ple and came to New York city as a missionary to the 
Germans, and in 1838 took pastoral charge of the Ger- 
man Evangelical Mission Church in Houston Street, 
where he rendered apostolic service until his death, 
in 1842. lie built up this Church from a little gath- 
ering in a hired hall to a membership of 300, and 
secured the erection of their commodious edifice. 11c 
was a man of deep piety, tilled with the Spirit, and bur- 
dened with the labors of a New-Testament evangelist. 
His distinguishing traits were a sound mind, good judg- 
ment, untiring zeal, and faithfulness unto death. He 
was an efficient coworker with the American Tract So- 
ciety in the preparation and circulation of evangelical 
truth among the Germans. He gave himself up to the 
missionary service among his countrymen with tact 
and success. II is last illness was contracted while en- 
gaged in arduous pastoral work. (W. J. R. T.) 

Rue (7r?/ydiw ; Vulg. rut a) occurs in the A. V. 
only in Luke xi, 42: “But woe unto you, Pharisees! 
for ye tithe mint, and rue, and all manner of herbs, and 
pass over judgment,” etc. In the paralled passage (Matt, 
xxiii, 23) dill (civiftov, translated “anise”) is mentioned 
instead of rue. Both dill and rue were cultivated in 
the gardens of Eastern countries in ancient times, as 
they are at the present day. Dioscorides (iii, 45) de- 
scribes two kinds, Ruta montana and Ruta hortensis ; 
the latter of which he says is the best for the table. 
They are distinct species, and the first is common in the 
south of Europe and the north of Africa. The other is 
usually called Ruta graveolens , and by some R. hortensis, 
which is found in the south of Europe, and is the kind 
commonly cultivated in gardens. It is a native of the 
Mediterranean coasts, and has been found by Hassel- 
quist on Mount Tabor. Several species grow wild in 
Palestine, but R. graveolens is cultivated (Tristram, Nat. 
/list, of the Bible , p. 478). Josephus speaks of a rue of 
extraordinary size as growing at Machrerus (War, vii, 
6, 3). Rue was highly esteemed as a medicine, even as 



Ruta graveolens. 



RUE 


151 


RUFFNER 


early as the time of Hippocrates. Pliny says, “Rue is 
an herbe as medicinaole as the best. That of the gar- 
den hath a broader leafe, and branncheth more than the 
wild, which is more hotte, vehement, and rigorous in all 
operations; also that is it sowed usually in Februarie, 
when the western wind, Favonius, blowetli. Certes we 
find that in old time rue was in some great account, and 
espeeiall reckoning above other hearbs: for 1 read in 
auncient histories, That Cornelius Cethegus, at what 
time as he was chosen Consult with Quiutius Flaminius, 
presently upon the said election, gave a largesse to the 
people of new wine, aromatized with rue. The fig-tree 
and rue are in a great league and amitie, insomuch as 
this herb, sow and set it where you will, in no place 
prospereth better than under that tree; for planted it 
may be of a slip in spring” (Holland’s Pliny , xix, 8). 
That it was employed as an ingredient in diet, and as a 
condiment, is abundantly evident from Apicius, as no- 
ticed by Celsius, and is not more extraordinary than 
the fondness of some Eastern nations for assafoetida as 
a seasoning to food (see Columela, R . Rust, xii, 7, 5). 
That one kind was cultivated by the Israelites is evi- 
dent from its being mentioned as one of the articles of 
which the Pharisees paid their tithes, though they neg- 
lected the weightier matters of the law. Rosen m filler 
states that in the Talmud ( Shebuoth , ix, 1) the rue is in- 
deed mentioned among kitchen herbs (asparagus por- 
tulac(e et coriandro ) ; but, at the same time, it is there 
expressly stated that it is tithe -free, it being one of 
those herbs which are not cultivated in gardens, accord- 
ing to the general rule established in the Talmud. Cel- 
sius long previously observed with reference to this fact 
that in making rue free from tithes they show how far 
they have left their ancestors’ customs; by which, as 
God’s Word assures us, it was tithed ( Hierobot . ii, 253). 
See Beckman, Ad Antiq. Curyst. p. 09 sq. — lvitto. 

Rue is a small shrub with a bushy stem, bark gra) T 
towards the base, with doubly pinnated leaves of a deep 
dark green, and yellowish flowers. The whole plant 
lias a peculiar and very powerful odor, and its juice is 
so acrid that if not diluted it would blister the skin. 
Notwithstanding this coarseness, it was popular with 
the ancients, and it is still prized in the East. The 
Egyptians have a proverb, “The presents of our friends 
come on leaves of rue,” meaning that they derive a 
pleasant perfume from the good-will of the sender, and 
just as verbena and mignonette are grown in our win- 
dows, the Turks and Arabs keep pots of rue in their 
drawing-rooms (Burckhardt, Arabic Proverbs , p. 695). 
Among the Greeks and Romans it was valued not only 
as tonic and medicinal, but a special efficacy was as- 
cribed to it as a safeguard from serpents (Plinv. Hist. 
Nat. xx, 13) — a popular belief embodied in the modern 
Arabic phrase, “More hateful than is the scent of rue 
to serpents.” In the Middle Ages of Europe it acquired 
a certain sacredness from small bunches of it being used 
by the priests to sprinkle holy water on the people (Bur- 
nett, Useful Plants , vol. i), and it is called “herb of 
grace” by Shakespeare (Richard //, iii, 4). — Fairbairn. 

Rue, Charles de la, a Benedictine monk, was born 
at Corbie, Picardy, in 1684 (5). He became very learn- 
ed in the Greek and Hebrew languages, and died in 1739. 
He published three volumes of the IPorA-s of Origen 
(1733-39), and his nephew Vincent de la Rue, born in 
1707, published the fourth volume in 1759. 

Ruechat, Abraham, a theologian and historical 
writer of Switzerland, was born Sept. 15. 1678, at Grand- 
cour, in the canton of Vaud. He early manifested a 
taste for archeological and historical inquiry, and also 
great facility in the acquiring of languages, so that he 
was able to apply for a professorship of Greek and Lat- 
in at Berne when twenty-one years of age; and soon 
afterwards mastered English and German, attending, 
for the purpose of perfecting himself in the latter tongue, 
various universities, e. g. Berlin and Leyden. On his 
return he was made pastor of Aubonne and Rolle, then 


professor of belles-lettres and president of the Upper 
Gymnasium at Lausanne (July, 1721), and finally pro- 
fessor of theology in the same institution, which latter 
station he occupied until his death, Sept. 29, 1750. 

Ruechat distinguished himself chiefly as a historian 
of the Church in his native land. In 1707 he published 
an Abrege de VHistoire Eccl. du Pays-de- Vaud. His 
principal work, Ilistoire de la Reformation de la Suisse 
(Geneva, 6 vols.), appeared in 1727 and 1728. It was 
placed on the Index at Rome, and was assailed by Jesuit 
priests, to whom Ruechat replied in a letter addressed 
to the editor of the Biblioth. Germanique , xx, 213. His 
work had been published no farther than 1537, the re- 
mainder not being given to the public until more than 
a century after the first issue. The first complete edi- 
tion is by Valliemin (Lausanne and Paris, 7 vols,), 
with Notice sur Abraham Ruechat appended. Of Rue- 
chat’s works a number have not yet been printed. The 
list of his printed works includes a Hebrew Grammar 
(Leyden, 1707): — Examen de VOrigenisme (against M. 
Iluber [q. v.]): — a translation of the epistles of the 
apostolical fathers Clement, Ignatius, and Polycarp 
(1721): — a treatise on Bible weights and measures 
(1743): — and various dissertations. — Herzog, Real-En- 
cyklop. s. v. 

Ruet, Francisco de Paula, a Spanish Protestant 
ministerj was born at Barcelona in 1826. When nine- 
teen years of age he became deeply impressed with the 
evangelical truth under the preaching of De Sanctis at 
Turin, and he at once decided for the Protestant faith. 
Having been ordained at Gibraltar, he at once betook 
himself to the preaching of the Gospel in his own na- 
tive place with that ardor and zeal which characterizes 
t he nature of the Spaniard. The fanaticism of the Ro- 
mish Church, however, brought about his expulsion 
from his country for the remainder of his life. He went 
to Gibraltar, and from that place he labored for the 
evangelization of his country with great effect, and was 
the means of bringing Matamoros to the Gospel truth. 
The revolution which broke out in 1868 once more 
brought him back to his country, and from that time 
he labored at Madrid in the most intimate connection 
with the brothers Fliedner, preaching at the Jesus’ 
chapel in Calatrava Street until lie died, Nov. 18, 1878. 
Ruet was the senior among the Protestant clergy of 
Spain, and also the first who had suffered imprisonment 
and exile for the sake of the evangelical faith. (B. P.) 

Ruff, an ecclesiastical garment: (1) a piece of plait- 
ed linen worn round the neck; (2) a falling collar; (3) 
an academical robe of silk worn over the gown of cer- 
tain graduates; (4) a name sometimes given in the 
17th century to the hood or tippet worn by clerics in 
Church. 

Ruffinus. See Rufinus. 

Ruffner, Henry, D.D., LL.D.,a Presbyterian divine, 
was born in the valley of Virginia, in what is now Page 
County, Jan. 19, 1789. Ilis father was of German ori- 
gin, his mother of Swiss. In his early youth his father 
removed to Kanawha County, Va. ; and, schools being 
very scarce in that section, he was sent to Lewisburg, 
Va., to the school of Rev. John MeElhenny, who was also 
pastor of the Church in that place. While here he was 
hopefully converted, and joined the Church, lie grad- 
uated at Washington College, Lexington, Va., in 1817, 
studied theology with his friend George A. Baxter, D.D., 
and was licensed by Lexington Presbytery in 1819. 
The same year he was elected professor in Washington 
College, and was ordained by Lexington Presbytery 
and took charge of the Church of Timber Ridge, Va. 
During the thirty years of his connection with Wash- 
ington College, he successively filled every professor’s 
chair, and was its president for ten or twelve years. In 
1848 he was compelled to resign his position by reason 
of ill-health ; but after a few years of rest he took charge 
of the Church in Malden, on the Kanawha River, where 
he continued to labor till a year before his death, which 


RUFFO 


152 


RUGGLES 


occurred Dec. 17, 1861. Dr. Huffner was an untiring 
and enthusiastic student all his life. In learning he 
had few equals, and for many years he was probably 
the most learned man in the Southern country, if not 
in the United States. He was always an instructive 
preacher; at times his eloquence was overpowering, 
liis manner always demanding attention. He was the 
author of Judith Bensaddi (a romance) : — The Fathers 
of the Desert (2 vols.) The Predestinarian : — also a 
nu.nber of Pamphlets and A ddresses. See Wilson, Presh. 
Hist. Almanac , 1863, p. 202; N. Amer . Rev. xlv, 241 ; 
South. Lit. Mess, iv, 792; Review of Du y chink's Cyclop, 
of Amer. Lit. p. 28; Amer. Annual Cyclop. 1861, p. 545. 
(J. L. S.) 

Rufifo, Dionigi Fabrizio, an Italian cardinal 
and general, was born at Naples (or Calabria) about 
1744. He raised in Calabria the Army of the Holy 
Faith, a large body of royalists which, under his com- 
mand, expelled the French and the republicans from 
the country in 1799 and restored king Ferdinand IV to 
the throne. A number of republican chiefs taken by 
him at Naples, as prisoners of war, were put to death by 
order of the king. He died in 1827. 

Ruffo, Luigi, cardinal and archbishop of Naples, 
was born at San Onofrio, Calabria, Aug. 25, 1750. He 
was made cardinal -priest, and in 1801 archbishop of 
Naples. On the accession of Joseph Bonaparte to the 
throne, Ruffo was exiled, and remained in Rome till 1815, 
when he was allowed to return to his diocese. Under 
Ferdinand IV he was director of the university, but 
was replaced by Rosini, bishop of Rozzuoli. Ruffo died 
at Rome Nov. 17, 1832. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate , 
s. v. 

Rufina, St ., a Christian martyr, under Valerian, at 
Rome. Her suitor, to avoid danger, renounced Chris- 
tianity, and endeavored to dissuade Rufina from her pro- 
fession. She remained steadfast, and her suitor, finding 
her unyielding, informed against her and occasioned her 
arrest. Although tortured several times, she remained 
inflexible, and was beheaded A.D. 257. 

Ruf Inus Tyrannius, monk, presbyter, the friend, 
and later the adversary, of Jerome, was born at Concor- 
dia, Italy, about A.l). 330. Forty years later he was 
converted to Christianity at Aquileia and became a 
monk, in which character he visited the East and be- 
came acquainted with the monastic institution as found 
in the Nitrian desert and elsewhere. He witnessed and 
wrote an account of the persecution under the emperor 
Valens, though it is not certain that he endured any of 
the troubles of martyrdom. In 378 he went to Jerusa- 
lem in company with Melania, a strict ascetic and friend 
of Jerome, and was made presbyter by the bishop John 
of Jerusalem in 390. The breaking-out of the Origen- 
istic controversy (q. v.) soon afterwards destroyed his 
friendship with Jerome, the latter taking sides against 
that father. In 397 Rufinus, again accompanied by Me- 
lania, who shared his views, journeyed to Rome, where 
he enjoyed the protection of bishop Siricius; but he 
was summoned before Anastasias, the succeeding bish- 
op, to answer for his Origcnistic errors. He sent a 
written defence from Aquileia, but was formally con- 
demned in 399. Subsequently the incursions of the 
Goths under Alaric compelled him to flee. He died in 
410 in Sicily, while on the way to Palestine. The theo- 
logical importance of Rufinus arises from his having 
brought the writings of the Greeks within the reach of 
the Western Church. He translated the Church Histo- 
ry of Eusebius in response to the wish of bishop Chro- 
matins of Aquileia, though taking rather arbitrary lib- 
erties with the text (comp. Vales, on Euseb. ; Iluetius, 
De Claris fnterpretibus , p. 202; Kimmel, De Ruf no Ens. 
Diterprete [1838]), and continued the history to the 
reign of Theodosius the Great, the continuation being 
afterwards translated into Greek. He also wrote a Vitie 
Patrum S. flistor, Eremitica for bishop Patronius of 
Cologia, who furnished the material and was long con- 


sidered to be the author, though many attributed the 
work to Jerome instead. Rufinus’s translation of Ori- 
gen was intended to demonstrate the orthodoxy of that 
father, but was not impartially done, and gave rise to 
acrimonious disputes with Jerome, against whom he 
now wrote his two books known as Invectivce . His ex- 
position of the Apostles’ Creed deserves mention also. 
It was composed at the request of bishop Laurentius, 
was much esteemed in ancient times, and is still impor- 
tant to the history of doctrines. Several other works 
once credited to him are now rejected as spurious. The 
chief edition of his writings is by Vallarsi (Verona, 
1745). The Church History was first printed at Basle 
in 1544, but was afterwards improved by the Carmelite 
Peter Th. Oacciari, and published in 1740. See Fonta- 
nini, Hist. Lit. A quileiens ; De Rubeis [F. J. INI aria], Mo- 
num. Eccl. Aquil. (Arg. 1740); De Rufina. (Ven. 1754); 
Marzunnitti, E. IJ. de Tyr. Ruf. Fide et Religione (Patav. 
1835) ; Schrockh, x, 12*1 sq. : Neander, Ch. Hist. vol. i. — 
Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Ru'fus (Lat. for red, Graecized ’Poc^oc) is mention- 
ed in Mark xv, 21, along with Alexander, as a son of 
Simon the Cyrenaean, whom the Jews compelled to bear 
the cross of Jesus on the way to Golgotha (Luke xxiii, 
26). A.D. 29. As the evangelist informs his readers 
who Simon was by naming the sons, it is evident that 
the latter were better known than the father in the cir- 
cle of Christians where Mark lived. Again, in Rom. 
xvi, 13, the apostle Paul salutes a Rufus whom he des- 
ignates as “elect in the Lord” (GcXektov tv Kvptof), 
and whose mother he gracefully recognises as having 
earned a mother’s claim upon himself by acts of kind- 
ness shown to him. A. D. 55. It is generally supposed 
that this Rufus was identical with the one to whom 
Mark refers; and in that case, as Mark wrote his gos- 
pel in all probability at Rome, it was natural that he 
should describe to his readers the father (who, since 
the mother was at Rome, while he, apparently, was not 
there, may have died or have come later to that city), 
from his relationship to two w T ell-known members of 
the same community. It is some proof at least of the 
early existence of this view that in the Acta Ai}dre(P et 
Petri both Rufus and Alexander appear as companions 
of Peter in Rome. Assuming, then, that the same per- 
son is meant in the two passages, we have before us an 
interesting group of believers — a father (for we can 
hardly doubt that Simon became a Christian, if he was 
not already such, at the time of the crucifixion), a moth- 
er, and two brothers, all in the same family. Yet we 
are to bear in mind that Rufus was not an uncommon 
] name (AVettstein, Nov. Test, i, 634); and possibly, there- 
fore, Mark and Paul may have had in view different in- 
dividuals. — Smith. The name is Roman, but the man 
was probably of Hebrew origin. He is said to have 
been one of the seventy disciples, and eventually to 
have had charge of the Church at Thebes. 

Rugen, in Hindu mythology, was a prince belong- 
ing to the race of children of the moon, father of the 
Birmaseenes, and grandfather of the Pradibes. 

Rugger, Prosper (originally Salomo Meir ben-Mo- 
ses ), a Jewish scholar, was horn at Novara in 1606. At 
the age of thirteen he was already known as a good 
Hebraist, and was afterwards appointed rabbi at Jerusa- 
lem. On June 25, 1664, he joined the Christian Church 
and received the name Prosper Ruggerius. The date 
of his death is not known. While yet a member of the 
synagogue he wrote, 2* 2117, on the advent of 

the Messiah, which was to take place in 1676: — a com- 
mentary on Pirke Shira : — a biography of Joseph 
Karo, Joseph della Rena, and Nahaman Katbofa. The 
works which he wrote after his conversion arc still in 
manuscript. See F first, Bibl. Jud. iii, 180; Delitzsch, 
Knnst, Wissenschaft. n. Judenthu.m , p. 297 ; J ocher, Ge- 
lehrten- Lexicon, iii, 379, s. v. “Me'ir ben-Mose Novara.” 
(B. P.) 

Ruggles, Henry Edwin, a Presbyterian minis- 


RUGGLES 153 RUIN 


ter, was born at Newbury, Yt., Nov. 27, 1822. lie en- 
tered Dartmouth College, where he graduated in 1845. 
He spent a year in teaching the classics at Lyndon, Yt., 
and also at Hoosic Falls, where he remained two years, 
at the end of which time he entered the Union Theo- 
logical Seminary, N. Y., where in due course of time he 
graduated, and was appointed city missionary in New 
York. At the end of his service in this field he went 
South, and was appointed stated supply over a Church 
in St. Louis, Mo., which position he occupied for one 
year, and was ordained with a view of becoming pas- 
tor of the Presbyterian Church at St. Charles, Mo. 
Thence he came to New York, and was pastor of a Con- 
gregational Church at Eaton village, where he remain- 
ed but one year on account of sickness, which obliged 
him to return to his native place, where he died, Dec. 
24, 185G. (W.P.S.) 

Ruggles, William, LL.D., a Baptist educator, 
was born in Rochester, Mass., Sept. 5, 1797, and was a 
graduate of Brown University in the class of 1820. 
Shortly after graduating, he went to Washington, D.C., 
and was appointed a tutor in Columbian College in 1822, 
his name being retained in the list of its faculty for 
forty-five years. He was appointed professor of math- 
ematics and natural philosophy in 1827, and discharged 
the duties ot that office with marked ability and suc- 
cess till 1859, when, at his own request, he was appoint- 
ed professor of political economy. He discontinued ac- 
tive service after 1873. During four interims he was 
the acting president of the college. lie died Sept. 10, 
1877. 

Prof. Ruggles was a most generous giver to the be- 
nevolent organizations of the denomination (the Bap- 
tist) with which he sympathized. “ II is relations with 
some of the Baptist missionaries in Bunnah had led 
him to take particular interest in their labors. This 
was especially true of the Karen Theological School 
established by the late Dr. Binney, who had been his 
associate in Washington. In his last will and testa- 
ment, after certain personal bequests, he bestowed his 
estate upon the Baptist Missionary Union and the Bap- 
tist Home Missionary Society, with a residuary provis- 
ion for the college in whose service he had spent his 
entire active life.” (J.C. S.) 

Rugiwit, in Wendish mythology, was a war-god 
of the ancient Rugians, and presumably the same as 
Kareicit , since the latter is represented in a similar 
character (at Karenz, on the island of Riigen). Fre- 
quent colossal statues of stone or wood were erected to 
him in the different towns, in which he appeared as a 
being having seven faces on a single head, and as bear- 
ing a naked sword in his hand, while seven other swords 
were suspended from his person. The swallow appears 
to have been sacred to him, since that bird was allowed 
to build its nests in the eyes, mouths, and other lines 
of the different faces, and also in the folds of the scarlet 
cloth in which the god was usually enveloped for the 
purpose of preventing access to his person. At Rhetra 
an image of this god was found which was almost na- 
ked and had six heads, four male and two female, be- 
sides the head of a lion on the breast. It has been sup- 
posed that a twofold deity, representing both Rugiwit 
and Karewir,is set forth in this imago; but the two are 
but a single god of war. — Yollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. 
s. v. 

Ruha'mah [some Rn'hamak ] (Heb. Ruchamak', 
iTCrn, finding mercy ; part, of Dill, to be merciful; 
Sept, translates tXr i)pzvi], and so Vulg. misericordiam 
consecutu), a figurative title of Israel. When God di- 
rected Hosea to prophesy against the wickedness of Is- 
rael and Judah, he commanded him to take to wife a 
harlot, the symbol of idolatry, the spiritual harlotry of 
the Jews; and of her were born a daughter, named, 
after God’s direction, Lo-ruhamah, “Not obtaining 
mercy,” and a son named Lo-ammi, “Not my people” 
(Hosea i, 6, 9). Israel is represented by Lo-ruharnah, 



Judah by Lo-ammi. Perhaps Israel is typified by the 
female because that kingdom was the weaker of the 
two, and the more completely overthrown; and Judah 
by the male because from Judah the Messiah was to de- 
scend according to the flesh. Subsequently Hosea says 
(ii, 1), “Sa 3 r ye unto your brethren, Ammi [my peo- 
ple]; and to your sisters, Ruhamah” [having obtained 
mercy], thus promising God’s reconciliation to the peo- 
ple on their repenting and seeking him; saying that 
he will have mercy, and they shall be his people, thus 
indicating the restoration of the Jewish nation after 
much affliction. As the promises of grace to the ob- 
stinate Jews are transferred meanwhile to the believing 
Christians, Peter applied them to the Gentile proselytes, 
to whom he addresses his first epistle, telling them that 
in time past they “were not a people, but arc now the 
people of God, which had not obtained mercy, but now 
have obtained mercy” (1 Pet. ii, 10). Paul also dis- 
tinctly applies the prophecy not to the Jews only, but 
to the Gentiles: “That he might make known the riches 
of his glory on t lie vessels of mercy. . . even on us, whom 
he hath called, not of the Jews only, but also of the Gen- 
tiles. As he saith also in Osee, I will call them my 
people which were not my people, and her beloved 
which was not beloved” (Rom. ix, 23-25). The word- 
ing in Hosea (i, 2) indicates the admission of the Gen- 
tiles into the participation of the promises made to the 
Jews. In the first instance, in the threats against Is- 
rael and Judah, it is a son, Lo-ammi, and a daughter, 
Lo-ruhamah. When the promises are given, the plural 
number is used ; then it is brethren and sisters: not Jew 
only, but Jew and Gentile. See Lo-kuiiamaii. 

Ruhmani, in Hindft mythology, was the first con- 
sort of the god Yislinu in the incarnation of Krishna. 

Ruin. The words used in the Hebrew thus ren- 
dered in the A. V. are very expressive. The ruin of a 
city by dilapidation, separating all its stones: Isa. xxv, 
2, “Thou hast made of a fenced city a ruin” (or separa- 
tion , •iba’C ; so of a country, Isa. xxiii, 13; nb-212, Isa. 


KUINAKT 


154 


KUMELIN 


xvii, 1; r^2"2, Ezek. xiii, 13; xxvii, 27). Ruin of 
strongholds by breaking them up: Psa. lxxxix, 40, 
‘•Thou hast brought his strongholds to ruin” (i. e. to a 
breaking , PlPims). This word elsewhere means terror, 
and expresses the alarm attendant on the taking of a 
fortified place. Demolished structures: Ezek. xxxvi, 
35, 3G (the root is O^n, to tear down , as in Amos ix, 
11; like KaraaKcazTO), Acts xv, 16; but in Luke vi, 49, 
it is pijypa, a tearing). 

Figuratively , ruin, a fall, or stumbling, from some 
cause of, or temptation to, sin : 2 Chron. xxviii, 23, 
“They [the gods of Damascus] were the ruin (nj'Jr'S, 
a stumbling-block ) of him [Ahaz] and of all Israel;” 
so bill's, Ezek. xviii, 30; xxi, 15. Ruin, destruc- 
tion: Prov. xxiv, 22, “ Their calamity shall rise sud- 
denly; who knoweth the ruin (T'B, destruction) of them 
both?” Ruin, a cause for repentance: xxvi, 28, “A 
flattering mouth worketh ruin” (fin^TS, contrition or 
repentance). 

Ruinart, Thierre, a monk of the congregation of 
St. Maur, and a learned writer of martvrological and 
historical works, was born at Eheims in 1G57, and en- 
tered the Order of St. Maur in the abbey St. Faron, at 
Meaux, in 1G74. He was sent to the abbe} r St. Pierre 
at Corbie, to study philosophy and theology, and while 
there was chosen to assist Mabillon (q. v.) because of 
his interest in Christian archaeology, lie travelled for 
literary purposes to Alsace and Lorraine, and afterwards 
to Champagne, and, in consequence of exposure, de- 
stroyed his health. He died Sept. 27, 1709. His works 
are, A eta Primorum Martyrum, etc. (Par. 1689, 2 vols.) ; 
improved and accompanied with a brief Life of the au- 
thor, in a posthumous edition (Amst. 1713). The work 
contains, among other things, a refutation of Dodwell’s 
opinion that the number of martyrs in the first three 
centuries was inconsiderable : — llist.Yandal. Persecutio- 
ns (Par. 1G94), in two parts, only the first of which was 
entirely composed by him: — Gregor. Episc. Turonensis 
Opera Omnia (ibid. 1699), preceded by the Annales 
Fruncorum , and containing the additions of Fredegard 
and others. This work was admitted by Dorn Bouquet 
into his collection of the historical works of France: — 
Acta SS. 0. Benedict. (1701, 2 vols.), by Mabillon and 
himself, embracing the Gth century of the order: — An 
A pologie de la Mission de St. Maur (ibid. 1702), designed 
to prove that Benedict of Nnrsia and St. Maur of Gan- 
feuil, founder of the Order of St. Maur, were one and the 
same person: — In defence of Mabillon he wrote Fed. 
Paris. V indieata adv. R. P. Barth. German ., etc. (ibid. 
1706-12): — He also wrote in honor of his master a Vie 
de D. Jean Mabillon (ibid. 1709), and issued a second 
edition of that author’s De Re Diplomatica. Ruinart’s 
Iter Literarium in Alsatiam et Lothuringiam ; Disqui- 
sitio IIist.de Pallio A rchiepiscopali ; and Beati Urbani 
Pap(e II Vita appeared after the author’s death. See 
Tassin, Ilist. Lit. de la Congreg. de St. Maur. — Herzog, 
Real- Encyklop, s. v. 

Ruiswick, Herman, a Hollander who was found 
guilty of circulating grossly heretical doctrines of the 
Mauichrean type at about the close of the 15th and the 
beginning of the 16th century. He w’as apprehended 
in 1499, but again liberated after he had recanted. He, 
however, renewed the effort to introduce his views, was 
accused and tried before the inquisitor Jacob of Hoog- 
straten, and died at the Hague by fire A.D. 1512. He 
was charged with denying the existence of created 
angels, the immortality of the human soul, and a hell, 
and with asserting that matter is coeternal with God. 
lie taught that Christ was not the Son of God; that 
Moses did not receive the law from God; that the Bible 
in both Testaments is simply a fable and a series of 
falsehoods, etc. See Feller, Diet. Hist.; Ross [Alex.], 
I hr Welt Gottcsdienste , p.439; Allgem. Encykiopddie, by 
Ersch u. Gruber, s. v. — Wctzcr u.Welte, Kirchen-Lex. s. v. 


Ruiz, Juan, archpresbyter of Hita, in Spain, prob- 
ably flourished during the reign of Alphonso XL He 
is known to have been imprisoned by the bishop of 
Toledo about 1333 for his zeal in attacking the laxity 
of discipline and worldly manners of the clergy. The 
most of his life was spent in Guadalajara and Hita. He 
wrote a humorous poem describing his adventures, 
which is a mixture of all kinds of measures, containing 
hymns, pastoral poems, and epilogues, in the confusion 
of which the original plan of the work is entirely lost. 
The style of this work has been compared in some re- 
spects to that of Chaucer. See Ticknor, History of 
Spanish Literature; Puymaigre, Lcs UiVw# Auteurs Cas- 
tilians. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Rukmini ( golden ), the name of an avatar of 
Lakshnl, who under this form was the favorite wife of 
Krishna, an avatar of Vishnu. See Avatar. 

Ruland, Anton, a German doctor of theology and 
Roman Catholic divine, was born at Wurzburg in 1809, 
where he also received holy orders in 1832. Having 
labored for some time at Kitzingen, he was called in 

1836 as librarian of the Wurzburg University, but in 

1837 he was appointed pastor of Arnstein. For thirteen 
years he labored in this place, when, in 1850, he v r as re- 
called to Wfirzbnrg as first librarian. From 1848 till 
his death, which took place January 8, 1874, he was a 
member of the Bavarian House of Representatives. He 
wrote : Practischer Unterricht zum erstmaligen Empfang 
der heiligen Communion (2d ed. Wfirzbnrg, 1866). See 
the Literarischer Handweiser , 1872, p. 161 ; 1874, p. 48. 
(B. P.) 

Rule the Choir, the duty of the precentor as di- 
rector of the musical services on greater doubles, and 
of the hebdomadary on simple feasts. The choir was 
ruled for the invitatory on Sundays, doubles, feasts of 
nine lections, and other principal feasts. Canons present 
at the service were said to keep choir. — Walcott, Sac. 
A rchceol. s. v. 

Rule of Faith. See Faitii, Rule of. 

Rule, Gilbert, a Nonconformist divine, was sub- 
principal of King’s College, Aberdeen, in 1651. He 
afterwards became curate of Alnwick, Northumberland, 
from which he was ejected in 1662. After the Revolu- 
tion he was appointed principal of the University of 
Edinburgh. He died about 1703. He published, the 
Rational Defence of Nonconformity (16S9,4to) : — 1 Indi- 
cation of the Church of Scotland (1691, 4to): — The Cy- 
priunick Bishop, etc. (1696, 4to): — Good Old Way (1697, 
4to) : — Presbyterian Government, etc. See Allibone, Diet, 
of Brit, and A mer. Authors, s. v. ; Darling, Cyclop. Bi- 
bliog. s. v. 

Ruler of the Feast. See Arciiitiuclinus. 

RULER of the Synagogue. See Ahchisynago- 

GUS. 

Ruling Elders. Among Presbyterian churches 
there are generally two classes of elders — teaching and 
ruling elders. See Elder; Presbyterian Church. 

Ru'mah (Heb./frn?w/?', iTJip, high; Sept.'Poiym; 
Vulg. Ruma; Josephus, ’Afiovpa, Ant. x, 5, 2), a city 
named only in 2 Kings xxiii, 36 as the home of Pedai- 
ah, father of Jehoiakim’s mother, Zebitdah. It is prob- 
ably the same with Arttmuh (Judges ix, 41), which is 
identified by Schwarz ( Palest . p. 158) with the modern 
Ramin, two miles west of Samaria. See Arumaii. Jo- 
sephus mentions a Rumah in Galilee (JF«r, ii, 7, 21). 
Others with less probability regard this as identical 
with Dumah , one of the towns in the mountains of Ju- 
dah, near Hebron (Josh, xv, 52), not far distant from 
Libnah, the native town of another of Josiah’s wives. 

Rumelin, Georg Burkiiard, a German divine, 
was born in 1680 at Tubingen, where, also, he studied, 
and was made magister in 1699. In 1706 he labored as 
pastor at Ober-Owishcim, in 1707 as deacon at Unter- 
Owisheim, and from 1735 until his death (Jan. 29, 1746) 


RUMILIA 


155 


IIUNNEE 


he was pastor at WaltdorfF, near Tubingen. He wrote, I 
Lexicon Biblicum in quo 0 nines quce V. T.leguntur Voces , 
Verba scilicet ac Nomina , etc., Recensentur (Frankf. 1710) : 
— Lexicon Critico-sacrum in Du as Partes Distinct um, etc. 
(Tubingen, 1730). See Fiirst, BibL Jud . iii, 180 ; Jbcher, 
Gelehrten- Lexicon, s. v. (B. P.) 

Rumilia (Rumia, or Rumiiia), in Koraan my- 
thology, was the goddess of nursing mothers, whose 
office it was to cause infants to readily receive their 
nourishment. She was also supposed to have been 
nurse to Romulus and Remus. 

Ruminus, in Roman mythology, was an appellative 
of Jupiter, signifying “ the nourisher.’’ 

Rumoldus, tit., was a martyr and patron of Mech- 
lin. His life was first written by the abbot Theodoric 
about A.D. 1100, and was based on popular traditions, 
while the death of Rumoldus is said to have occurred 
in the year 775. He is represented as a native of Sco- 
tia, who led a pious life and resolved to convert the 
heathen. A later addition to the story makes him a 
son of king David and a Sicilian princess. He jour- 
neyed to Rome and returned to Brabant, where he 
gained many converts in the neighborhood of Antwerp, 
Lyra, and Mechlin. Count Ado received him kindly. 
It is not certain that he ever became a bishop. Two 
murderers surprised him while reciting the Psalms, and 
killed him to obtain money, throwing the body into a 
stream. Celestial lights marked the place where it lay, 
and led to its receiving honorable burial, while, miracles 
before and after death attested the sanctity of the man. 
In about 1050 a convent of canons of St. Rumoldus was 
established at Mechlin, and the cathedral in that town 
was dedicated to him. lie is commemorated June 1. 
See Acta titi. Juuii, i, 169-266; Gestel, Hist. Archiep. 
Mechlin. ( 1725) ; Uist.Litter.de la France, ix, 338. — 
Wetzer u. Welte, Kirchen-Lex . s. v. 

Rump (or rather tail [IV'PX;, abjahJ) of the Sac- 
rifices. Moses ordained that the rump and fat of the 
sheep offered for peace-offerings should be given to the 
tire of the altar (Exod. xxix, 22; Lev. iii, 9; vii, 3; 
viii, 25; ix, 19). The rump was esteemed the most 
delicate part of the animal, being the fattest (see Bo- 
chart, Ilieroz. i, 491 sq.). Travellers, ancient and mod- 
ern, speak of the rumps or tails of certain breeds of sheep 
in Syria and Arabia as weighing twenty or thirty pounds 
(Russell, A leppo, ii, 147). Herodotus says (iii, 113) that 
some may be seen three cubits, or four feet and a half, 
long; they drag upon the ground; and for fear they 
should be hurt, or the skin torn, the shepherds put un- 
der the tails of these sheep little carriages, which the 
animals draw after them. The pagans had also such 
regard for the rumps or tails that they always made 
them a part of their sacrifices (Diod. Sic. ii, 24). In 
the Description de VEgypte (Paris, 1820, large fol.) is in- 
serted a plate of an Egyptian ram, remarkable for the 
enormous size of the tail, the weight of which exceeded 
forty-four pounds. See Sheep. 

Runcarii, the name of an Autinomian sect of the 
Waldenses, which is mentioned hv Reiner as agree- 
ing for the most part with the Paterins, but as holding 
that no part of the body below the waist can commit 
mortal sin, because such sin proceeds “out of the heart.” 
They probably took their name from the town of Eun- 
calia or Euukel. See Reiner, Contr. Waldens, in Bibl. 
Max. Luejd. xxv, 266 sq. — Blunt, Diet, of tiects, s. v. 

Runcina, in Roman mythology, was a goddess who 
presided over the reaping of grain. 

Rundell, William W., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Norwich, Chenango Co., 
N. Y., and joined the Genesee Conference in 1818. lie 
began his labors in Canada, where his name is still men- 
tioned with great respect, lie travelled in the itinerant 
ranks for thirty years, and was superannuated twenty- 
seven. lie was a member of the Northern New York 
Conference at the time of his death, which occurred in 


Mexico, Oswego Co., N. Y., March 28, 1876. See Min- 
utes of Annual Conferences, 1876, p. 65. 

Rundi, in Hindu mythology, was the daughter of 
prince Dritarashtra and Kanderi, and the form in which 
the goddess Maritshi chose to appear among men. Her 
mother became famous as having won the love of Krish- 
na; but Rundi was not the daughter of that god, hav- 
ing been born before Vishnu was incarnated in that 
form. — Vollmer, Wbvterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Rundle, Thomas, LL.D., an English prelate, was 
born in the parish of Milton Abbot, Devonshire, about 
1686. In 1702 he entered Exeter College, Oxford, and 
was introduced to Mr. Edward Talbot., son of Dr. Will- 
iam Talbot, bishop of Oxford — an event of great im- 
portance, as it secured to him the friendship and patron- 
age of the Talbot family. lie was ordained by bishop 
Talbot in 1718, in 1720 was made archdeacon of Wilts, 
and in the same year was constituted treasurer of the 
church of Sarum. On Jan. 23, 1721, he was collated to 
the first stall in Durham Cathedral, but on Nov. 12 in 
the following year was removed to the twelfth preb- 
end. He had also the mastership of Sherburne Hos- 
pital (July 5, 1723), and became associate chaplain at 
the palace in Durham. He was consecrated bishop of 
Derry, in Ireland, February, 1734 (or 1735). and died at 
his palace in Dublin, April 14, 1743. Of his works we 
have nothing except four Sermons (1734-36), and The 
Letters of the Late Thomas Rundle to Mrs. Barba tian- 
dt/s (Oxf. 1790, 2 vols. 12mo). See Allibone, Diet, of 
Brit, and A mer. A uthors, s. v. ; Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Runner, a word that does not occur in the A. V., 
although “running” frequently does (usually as a ren- 
dering of ^ r; H, ruts, rptx w). The OKI Test, furnishes 
many illustrations of speed of foot. See Footmen. We 
have a very curious specimen of the manners of the 
times, and a singular instance of Oriental or Jewish 
craft in Ahimaaz, who, it appears, w r as a professed run- 
ner— and a very swift one, too — which one would hard- 
ly have expected in the son of the high-priest. It be- 
longs, however, to a simple state of society that bodily 
powers of any kind should be highly valued, and exer- 
cised by the possessor of them in the most natural way 
(comp. Homer’s favorite epithet of “Achilles swift of 
foot”). Ahimaaz was probably naturally swift, and so 
became famous for his running (2 Sam. xviii, 27). So 
we are told of Asahel, Joab’s brother, that “he was as 
light of foot as a wild roe” (ii, 18). And that quick run- 
ning was not deemed inconsistent with the utmost dig- 
nity and gravity of character appears from what we 
read of Elijah the Tishbite, that “ he girded up his loins 
and ran before Ahab [who was in his chariot] to the en- 
trance of Jezreel” (1 Kings xviii, 46). The kings of Is- 
rael had running footmen to precede them when they 
went in their chariots (2 Sam. xv, 1 ; 1 Kings i, 5), and 
their guards were called runners. It appears by 

2 Chron. xxx, 6, 10, that in Hezekiah’s reign there was 
an establishment of running messengers, who were also 
called O^X"!. The same name is given to the Persian 
posts in Esth. iii, 13, 15; viii, 14, though it appears 
from the latter passage that in the time of Xerxes the 
service was performed with mules and camels. The 
Greek name, borrowed from the Persian, was dyyapoi. 



As regards Ahimaaz’s craftiness, we read that when Ab- 
salom was killed by Joab and his armor-bearers, Ahi- 
maaz was very urgent with Joab to be employed as the 


RUPERT 


150 


RUPERT 

messenger to run and carry the tidings to David. — 
Smith. See Post. 

In the New Test, we have frequent reference to run- 
ning, in the allusions to the Grecian races (1 Cor. ix, 24; 
Ileb. xii, 1; comp. Psa. xix, 5; Eccles. ix, 11). See 
Game. 

Rupert (or Rupreciit, i. e. Robert), St., the apos- 
tle of Bavaria. The exact period in which this per- 
sonage lived is not known, and is the subject of contin- 
ued dispute, the limits being from about A.D. 580 to 
700 sq. The authorities are the Salzburg Chronicles 
from the 12th to the 14th century, on the one hand; 
and the Vita Primigenia, composed about 878 (see 
Kleinmayr, Nachr. vom Zustande d. Gegend u. Stadt 
Juravia [Salzb. 1784, suppl. p. 7 sq. ]), the so-called 
Congestum of bishop Arno of Salzburg, the Breves No- 
titice of the time of bishop Virgil (died 784), etc., on the 
other. The preponderance of opinion is towards the 
later date, according to which Rupert entered on his 
work of conversion in 696, after a beginning had already 
been made by other agents. Concerning his life, it is 
related that he sprang from the royal family of the 
Franks, became bishop of Worms, and was invited by 
dukeTheodo to preach the cross in his Bavarian domin- 
ions. Having consented, he was received at Ratisbon 
w ith great solemnity, and baptized the duke, many no- 
bles, and large numbers of the common people. He was 
also permitted to select a place for his settlement any- 
where in the country, and for this purpose traversed the 
land, everywhere preaching the Gospel: and after a tem- 
porary experiment elsewhere, he tinally chose the spot 
covered by the splendid ruins of a Roman city on the 
Juvavum (Salzach), and there built an episcopal resi- 
dence, church, and convents. This was the beginning 
of the tow n and diocese of Salzburg (about A.D. 700), 
which in the time of Arno, the tenth successor of Ru- 
pert, was raised into a metropolitan see. Rupert placed 
twelve pupils from Worms in the monastery, and as- 
signed the nunnery to the virgin Erindrud. After fur- 
ther tours for preaching, the founding of other churches, 
and the appointing of a successor, he returned to his 
proper see ( propria sedes ), and there died on Easter- 
Simday. So the Vita Primigenia , though Arnold of 
Vochburg lets him die at Salzburg. See Rudhard, in 
the Miinchen. Gelehrten-Anzeiger , 1837, Nos. 196-222; 
1845, Nos. 80-83 ; A elteste Gesch. Bayerns (Hamb. 1841) ; 
Rettberg, Kirch. Gesch. ii, 193 sq. ; Kurtz, Bandb. d. 
(dlgem. Kirchengesch. II, i, 120 sq. — Herzog, Real-En - 
cyklop. s. v. 

Rupert, abbot of Deutz (Rupertus Tuitiensis), 
a contemporary of St. Bernard, and in his theological re- 
lation a mystic, w as one of the most prolific among the 
exegetical writers of his time. Neither his country nor 
the exact time of his birth is known; but it is certain 
that he spent his early years in the Benedictine convent 
of St. Laurent at Liege in preparation for a monastic 
life. He was consecrated to the priesthood in 1101 or 
1102, and began his literary career somewhat later. 
The earliest work from his pen, if we disregard some 
Latin verses but little known, is entitled Be Divinis 
OJJiciis , in which he endeavors to explain the entire 
symbolism of the public w'orship to the common un- 
derstanding. 11 is first exegetical work was an abridg- 
ment of the Moralia in Jobum of Gregory the Great. 
These publications involved him in controversies, chief 
among which was that waged against the schools of 
William of Champeaux and Anselm of Laon. One of 
their adherents had advanced the idea in Rupert’s con- 
vent at Liege that God w illed the evil and that Adam 
sinned in accordance w r ith God’s w ill. Rupert charac- 
terized the doctrine as impious, and advocated instead 
the Augustinian (infralapsarian) view' that God sim- 
ply permits the evil. Being protected by his abbot 
Berengar, and after the death of that patron in 1113 
by Cuno. abbot of Siegburg, and later bishop of Ratis- 
bon, he resisted the virulent attacks of the body of 


adherents belonging to those schools. He embodied 
his views in the treatise Be Voluntate Bet, and when 
his opponents asserted that the idea of a permission of 
evil is destructive to the doctrine of God’s omnipotence, 
he added the book Be Omnipotentia Bei (about 1117), 
and followed up his effort by meeting William of 
Champeaux in a public disputation at Chalons, which 
ended by leaving each disputant confident of the success 
of his cause, and exposed Rupert to the subsequent ma- 
licious attacks of William’s pupils w hile he lived. 

The energy of Rupert’s devotion to the Scriptures is 
apparent from the fact that it was in this period of ex- 
citing conflict that he issued the first of his independent 
exegetical works, a Tractatus in Evangelium Johannis 
(in 14 books). The exposition follows the text, giving 
the literal meaning, reconciling difficulties — which are 
regarded as only apparent — and frequently adding an 
allegorical interpretation. The authority of the fathers 
prevails everywhere, and all manner of dogmatical ques- 
tions are woven into the exposition. A second, the largest 
and most original of his exegetical works — the Commen- 
tarius de Operibus Sanctce Trinitatis (in 42 books) — ap- 
peared in 1117. Its purpose was to explain the entire 
plan of salvation from the beginning to its consumma- 
tion. Its title is derived from the systematic plan by 
which the dispensation of each Person in the Trinity is 
distinguished. The work is dominated by the system- 
atizing tendency of Middle-Age theology, and as it 
lacks the advantage growing out of a knowledge of the 
original 'languages of Scriptures, is obliged to present 
the traditional results of earlier investigations; but it 
luxuriates in the use of the unregulated hermeneutics 
of the time and in the development of mystical and 
anagogical meanings from the Scriptures, and thereby 
illustrates the qualities which distinguish Rupert as a 
theologian, namely, the religious fervor and enthusiasm 
of the mystic. 

In 1119 Rupert returned to Cuno of Siegburg, and 
would seem to have formed an intimate relation with 
the archbishop Frederick of Cologne, to whom he dedi- 
cated a Commentary on the Apocalypse (in 12 books), 
which is peculiar as regarding the visions and state- 
ments of that book as relating to past experiences of the 
Church from the Creation to the times of the New' Test., 
rather than as prophecies having reference to the fut- 
ure. II is next work was a Commentary on the Song of 
Solomon (in 7 books), which expounds the book as be- 
ing a prophetical celebration of the incarnation of Christ, 
though the execution of the plan results instead in in- 
spired laudations of the Virgin Mother. The book is 
nevertheless a witness to show that, the 12th century did 
not accept the dogma of the “immaculate conception.” 
A Commentary on the Twelve Minor Prophets followed — 
w'hich was interrupted by the composition of a work en- 
titled Be Victoria Verbi Bei (in 13 books), showing 
how God executes his counsels, despite the opposition of 
Satan, by an examination of the Bible narratives, the 
mystical treatment being altogether ignored — but was 
eventually completed. 

In 1120 Rupert w as chosen abbot of Deutz, and w r as 
compelled to lay aside his pen to arrange difficulties re- 
lating to the property of his convent and involving a 
number of actions at law' (comp. Ruperti, Be Incendio 
Tuitiensi Liber Aureus, cap. viii, ix). He eventually 
placed the management of the secular business of the 
convent in the hands of a committee of monks, and re- 
served for himself the administration of discipline and 
the spiritual care of his subordinates. His Comment 
tary on Matthew (in 13 books), allegorical through- 
out. appeared not earlier than 1126. A work enti- 
tled Be Glorioso Rege Bavid (in 15 books) appeared 
at about the same time. It is based on the books 
of Kings, and, like all of Rupert’s writings, refers ev- 
erything to Christ in some form of typical relation. 
He also gave attention to practical subjects, and w'rote 
De Regula Sancti Benedict i (in 4 books), and an An- 
\ nuhts (in 3 books), written in dialogue form and de- 


RUPERTI 


157 


RUSH 


signed to promote the conversion of the Jews by proving 
that the Messiah had appeared. This composition does 
not appear, however, in editions of Rupert’s works, and 
was not discovered until after 1669, by Gerberon, who 
included it in his edition of Anselm’s works. The book 
De Glorijicutione Triuitaliset Processione Spiritus Sancti 
likewise aims to help the Jews to embrace Christianity. 
The Liber Aureus de Incendio Tuitiemi commemorates 
a fire which on the night of Sept. 1, 1128, destroyed the 
surroundings of Deutz. but left the convent and church 
unharmed. Two books De M editatione Mortis give evi- 
dence that the author believed his end approaching; 
and with a Commentary on Ecclesiastes, in which he de- 
velops, more than in any other work, the literal sense 
alone, he brought his exegetical labors to a close. A 
few additional writings, lives of saints, etc., do not re- 
quire special mention. Rupert died peaceably in his 
abbey of Deutz, March 4, 1 135. 

The earliest edition of Rupert’s works was issued un- 
der the direction of Coehlteus at Cologne (1526-28; 
enlarged ed. ibid. 1577, 3 vols. fol. ; again enlarged, 1602, 
2 vols.; once more enlarged, Mayence, 1631; the latter 
edition reprinted, but carelessly, Paris, 1638). Separate 
editions of particular works are numerous. The latest 
complete edition is that of Venice (1751, 4 vols. fol.). 
See Gerberon, Apologia pro Ruperto Tuitiensi (Par. 
1669); Mabilion, A nnales Ordinis S . Benedict i, tom. v, 
vi passim; Histoire Litteraire de la France (ibid. 1841), 
xi, 422-587. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop . s, v. 

Ruperti, Georg Alexander, D.D., a Lutheran di- 
vine, was born at Bremervorde Dec. 19, 1758. Having 
been teacher for a number of years at Stade, he was ap- 
pointed, in 1814, general superintendent of the duchies 
of Bremen and Verden, and died March 14, 1839. He 
wrote, Symbolic ad Interpret ationem Sacri Codicis (Gott. 
1782): — Theologumena (Hamb. 1824, 2 vols.): — Theolo- 
gische Miscellen (ibid. 1816-19, 4 vols.) : — Des h. A bend- 
maids urspriingliche Eeier (Hanover, 1821). See Fiirst, 
Bibl.Jud. iii, 181 ; Winer, Handbuch der theol. Literatur , 
i, 13, 16, 195, 454, 868 ; ii. 743. (B. P.) 

Rupitae (or Rupitani), a name given to the small 
Donatist congregation at Rome, from their being driven 
to shelter among the rocks for the purpose of celebrating 
their religious services. 

Rupstein, J. G. E. Friedrich, a German doctor of 
theology and abbot of Loccum, was born Aug. 30, 1794, 
at Wunsdorf. From 1813 to 1816 he studied at Gottin- 
gen, in 1820 he was made chaplain of the Neustiidter 
Chnrcli in Hanover, in 1822 he was appointed minister 
of the Schlosskirche, and in 1825 assessor of consistory. 
In 1830 he was made court preacher and member of 
consistory, in 1832 abbot of Loccum, and in 1866 first 
member of consistory, and died Oct. 7, 1876, in Hanover. 
He published, Auswahl von Predigten (Hanover, 1832, 2 
vols.): — Dr. II. Ph. Sextro (ibid. 1839), a biography. 
See Zuchold, Bibl. Theol. p. 1 100; Winer, Ilandbuch der 
theol. Literatur , ii, 144, 743; Schneider, Theologisches 
Jahrbuch, 1878, p.227. (B. P.) 

Rural Dean, a designation of a class of very an- 
cient officers of the Church, who, being parish priests, 
executed the bishop’s processes, inspected the lives and 
manners of the clergy and people within their district, 
and reported the same to the bishop. In order that 
they might have knowledge of the state of their re- 
spective deaneries, they had power to convene rural 
chapters. Much of their authority at the present day 
rests on custom and precedent. Their duties and pow- 
ers vary in different dioceses. See Dean. 

Rural Deanery, a certain number of parishes 
placed under the supervision of a rural dean. 

Ruridecanal Chapter, a chapter consisting of 
the parish priests of a rural deanery, assembled for coik 
saltation under the presidency of a rural dean. These 
chapters are of considerable antiquity, and were com- 
monly assembled in mediaeval times once a year, at or 
about V hitsuntide. After the Reformation they were 


seldom convened, and so for many generations they 
have practically ceased to exist. Since the Catholic 
revival in 1830, they have been restored in England 
according to ancient precedent, and in the great major- 
ity of English dioceses they are now in full working 
order. English Roman Catholics have likewise re- 
stored this ancient machinery, and now have their own 
ruridecanal chapters in several Anglo-Roman dioceses. 
— See Gloss, of Liturgical Terms , s. v. 

Rush is the rendering in the A. V. of two Ileb. 
words, both of which are occasionally translated “bul- 
rush” (q. v.). 

1. Agnion (“|" ,, 2T)S;; Sept. icpiicog, drSpaZ, puepog, rt- 
\o(j ; Vulg. cir cuius, fervens, ref returns) occurs in Job xi, 
26 (A.Y. xli, 2), “Canst thou put agmon ” (A. V. “hook”) 
into the nose of the crocodile? again, in xl, 12 (A. V. xli, 
20), “ Out of his nostrils goeth smoke as out of a seeth- 
iug-pot or agmon ' ’ (A. V. “caldron”). In Isa. ix, 14, it 
is said Jehovah “will cut off from Israel head and tail, 
branch and agnion ” (A. V. “ rush”). The agmon is men- 
tioned also as an Egyptian plant, in a sentence similar 
to the last, in Isa. xix, 15 (A. V. “rush”); while from 
Iviii, 5 (A. V. “bulrush”) we learn that the agmon had 
a pendulous panicle. The term is allied closely to the 
Heb. again (D£X), which, like the corresponding Arabic 
ajam, denotes a marshy pool or reed-bed (see Jer. Ii, 32, 
for this latter signification). Again is also considered 
to be derived from the same root as the pa- 

pyrus (see No. 2 below). Some have even concluded 
that both names indicate the same thing, and have 
translated them by juncus, or rush. The expression 
“Canst thou put agnum ” into the crocodile’s nose? 
has been variously explained. The most probable in- 
terpretation is that which supposes allusion is made to 
the mode of passing a reed or a rush through the gills 
of fish in order to carry them home; but see the com- 
mentaries and notes of Rosenmuller, Sehultens, Lee, 
Cary, Mason Good, etc. The agmon of Job xli, 20 
seems to be derived from an Arabic root signifying to 
“be burning;” hence the/emw of the Vulg. Rushes 
were used anciently for cords (xli, 2) and for other pur- 
poses; nevertheless, they are proverbially without value. 
Figuratively the term is used of the least important 
class of people (Isa. ix, 14; xix, 15; Iviii, 5; Jer. Ii, 32). 

There is some doubt as to the specific identity of the 
agmon , some believing that the word denotes “ a rush” 
as well as a “reed” (see Rosenmuller [ Bibl. Boi. p. 184] 
and Winer [ Realworterb . ii, 484]). Celsius ( tlierob . i, 
465 sq.) has argued in favor of the Aruiulo phrag - 
mites (now Phragmites communis). That the agnion 
denotes some specific plant is probable from the pas- 
sages where it occurs, as well as from the fact that 
kaneh (H3p) is the generic term for reeds in general. 
Lobo, in his Voyage d'A byssinie, says the Red Sea was 
seen to be literally red only in places where the gonemon 
was abundant. What this herb is does not elsewhere 
appear. Forskal applies the name of ghobeibe to a spe- 
cies of arundo, which he considered closely allied to 
A . phragmites. M. Hove, in his Voyage Botanique en 
Egypte , observed, especially on the borders of the Nile, 
quantities of Sacch arum sEgypfiacu m and of A rundo 
yEgyptiaca , which is, perhaps, only a variety of A. do- 
na x, the cultivated Spanish or Cyprus reed, or, as it is 
usually called in the south of Europe, Canna and Cana. 
In the neighborhood of Cairo he found Poa cynosuroides 
(the knsha, oreusa,or sacred grass of the Hindus), which, 
he says, serves “aux habitans pour faire des cordes, 
chauffer leurs fours, et cuire des briques et poteries. Le 
Sacch arum cylindricum est employe aux m ernes usages.” 
The Egyptian species of arundo is probably the A . isiaca 
of Delile, which is closely allied to A . phragmites, and its 
uses may be supposed to he very similar to those of the 
latter. This species is often raised to the rank of a ge- 
nus under the name of phragmites, so named from being 


RUSH 


158 


RUSH 



KUSH 


159 


RUSSALKI 


6. The construction of papyrus boats is mentioned by 
Theophrastus. So Pliny (Hist. Nat. vi, 24) : “ Papy ra- 
ce is navibus armamentisque Nili and again (vii, 5G) : 
“ Naves primum repertas in /Egypto in Nilo ex papyro.” 
Plutarch, as quoted by Rosenm idler, says, “Isis circum- 
navigated the marshes in a papyrus wherry for the pur- 
pose of collecting the pieces of Osiris’s body. From 
lleliodorus’s account it appears that the Ethiopians 
made use of similar boats, for he relates that the Ethi- 
opians passed in reed wherries over the Astaboras; and 
he adds that these reed wherries were swift-sailing, be- 
ing made of a light material, and not capable of carrying 
more than two or three men.” Bruce relates that a 
similar kind of boat was made in Abyssinia even in his 


time, having a keel of acacia wood, to which the papy- 
rus plants, first sewed together, are fastened, being gath- 
ered up before and behind, and the ends of the plants 
thus tied together. Representations of some Egyptian 
boats are given in Kitto’s Pictorial Bible (ii, 135), where 
the editor remarks that when a boat is described as be- 
ing of reeds or rushes or papyrus, as in Egypt, a cover- 
ing of skin or bitumen is to be understood. Ludolf {Hist. 
sEtkiop. i, 8) speaks of the Tzamic lake being navigated 
“monoxylislintribnsextyphapnecrassaconfertis/’akind 
of sailing, he says, which is attended with considerable 
danger to the navigators. Wilkinson (,4 nc. yEgypt. ii, 9G, 
ed. 1854) says that the right of growing and selling the 
papyrus plants belonged to the government, who made 
a profit by its monopoly, and thinks other species of the 
Cyperacem must be understood as affording all the vari- 
ous articles — such as baskets, canoes, sails, sandals, etc., 
which have been said to have been made from the real 
pap) r rus. Considering that Egypt abounds in Cyperacece , 
many kinds of which might have served for forming 
canoes, etc., it is improbable that the papyrus alone 
should have been used for such a purpose; but that the 
true papyrus was used for boats there can be no doubt, 
if the testimony of Theophrastus (Hist. Plant, iv, 8. 4), 
Pliny (Hist. Nat. xiii, 11), Plutarch, and other ancient 
writers is to be believed. 

c. From the soft cellular portion of the stem the an- 
cient material called papyrus was made. “ Papyri,” 
says Sir G. Wilkinson, “are of the most remote Phara- 
onic periods. The mode of making them was as fol- 
lows: the interior of the stalks of the plant, after the 
rind had been removed, was cut into thin slices in the 
direction of their length; and these being laid on a flat 
board in succession, similar slices were placed over them 
at right angles; and their surfaces being cemented to- 
gether by a sort of glue and subjected to a proper de- 
gree of pressure and well dried, the papyrus was com- 
pleted. The length of the slices depended, of course, 
on the breadth of the intended sheet, as that of the 
sheet on the number of slices placed in succession beside 
each other, so that though the breadth was limited, the 
papyrus might be extended to an indefinite length” 
(Kitto; Smith). See Writing. 

Rush, Benjamin, M.D., LL.D.. a distinguished 
American physician, was born near Bristol, in the vi- 
cinity of Philadelphia, Jan. 5, 1745. At nine years of 
age he was placed under the tuition of Dr. Samuel Fin- 
ley, who was subsequently president of Princeton Col- 
lege. By him he was prepared for college, and entered 
the above-named institution under the presidency of 
Dr. Davies, and graduated in 17G0, The following six 
years he devoted to the study of medicine under the 
preceptorship of Dr. John Rodman, of Philadelphia. To 
perfect himself in the science of medicine, he went to 
Europe, and attended medical lectures at the University 
of Edinburgh for two years, and afterwards spent some 
time in the London hospitals. In I7G9 he returned to 
Philadelphia, with qualifications seldom surpassed, to 
enter upon the practice of his profession, and was not 
long in obtaining an extensive and lucrative practice, 
lie was appointed professor of chemistry in the Univer- 
sity of Pennsylvania in 1789, and in 1791 professor of 
the theory and practice of medicine, and subsequently 


of the institutes of medicine and clinics, which he held 
during life. 1 le was elected member of Congress in 1776, 
and signed the Declaration of Independence, lie was 
appointed surgeon-general of the Middle Department of 
the army, and also physician -general. He resigned 
this post in 1778; and, after serving as delegate to the 
state convention which ratified the Constitution of the 
United States, he retired from political life and resumed 
the practice of his profession, llis writings are mostly 
on medical subjects, and were published in five volumes. 
That on mental diseases, published in 1812, is especially 
valuable as to its bearing on medical jurisprudence. He 
was an enlightened and practical Christian, abounding 
in every good word and work. Dr. Rush died April 18, 
1813. lie published numerous pamphlets on moral, 
scientific, and social topics, for which and other litera- 
ture, see Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer . Authors, 
s. v. (W. P. S.) 

Rushton. See Risiiton. 

Rusk, James, a minister of the Methodist Episco- 
pal Church, was born in Ireland of Scottish parents, and 
emigrated to America when twenty-one. lie was li- 
censed to exhort at Pleasantville,N. Y., became a teacher 
in Irving Institute at Tarrvtown, and was by the Quar- 
terly Conference of that place licensed to preach. He 
was admitted on trial in the New York Conference in 
1851, and received a supernumerary relation at the Con- 
ference of 1857. He took up his residence at Cold Spring, 
where he died, April 4, 1859. See Minutes of Annual 
Conferences , 1859. 

Rusk, John Y., a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born in Perry County, 0., Jan. 10, 
1842. He was educated at the Ohio Wesleyan Univer- 
sity, graduating June 28, 1866; was licensed to preach 
by the Uniontown Quarterly Conference, Sept. 15; and 
was admitted on trial into the Ohio Annual Conference, 
Sept. 27. He was ordained deacon by bishop Morris in 

1868, and was appointed to New Holland, where he died, 
Sept. 25, 1869. See Minutes of Annual Conferences, 

1869, p. 229. 

Rusling, Joseph, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born near Epworth, Lincolnshire, 
England, May 12, 1788. lie came to this country when 
about seven years of age, and settled in New Jersey, 
lie joined the Church in 1808, commenced preaching in 
1812, and in 1814 was admitted on trial in the Philadel- 
phia Conference, of which he remained an active mem- 
ber until his death, July 6, 1839. Mr. Rusling estab- 
lished the first Methodist book-store in Philadelphia. 
He published a few Sermons , and Hymns for Sunday- 
schools. See Sprague, Annuls of the Amer. Pulpit, vii, 
551 ; Simpson, Cyclop . of Methodism, s. v. 

Rusling, Sedgwick, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born near llackettstown, N. J., 
April 24, 1799. He became an exhorter in 1826, and 
was licensed to preach in November of that year. In 
1827 he was admitted on trial into the Philadelphia 
Conference. He labored actively until 1850, when he 
became supernumerary because of ill-health. In 1852 
he resumed regular work, but in 1855 became supernu- 
merary again, filling, however, a vacancy in Elizabeth 
City. He died in Lawrenceville, Tioga Co., Pa.. March 
7, 1876. See Minutes of Annual Conferences, 1876, p.47. 

Rusor, in Roman mythology, was an appellative of 
Pluto, “the god to whom everything returns.” 

Russalki, in Slavonic mythology, were nymphs of 
supernatural beauty, who resided in brooks, rivers, and 
seas. They often bathed in some sparkling fountain, 
sported on the grass of some sunny meadow, swung to 
and fro on the waving trees, or combed their long green 
hair, and might then be overheard ; but woe to him 
who should so observe them, for they rarely gave their 
love to anv favored swain, and he who had once seen 
them could afterwards discover no attractive features in 
a woman of earthly mould.— Yollmer, Worterb. der My- 
thol. s. v. 


RUSSEL 


ICO 


RUSSIA 


Russel, James, a distinguished minister of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church, was born in Mecklenburg 
County, N. C., about 1786. He was admitted on trial 
in the South Carolina Conference in 1805, but located, 
on account of ill-health, in 1815. and died dan. 16, 1825. 
Mr. Russel had great power in the pulpit. See Sprague, 
A nnals of the Amer. Pulpit , vii, 408. 

Russel, John, D.D.. an English clergyman, was 
educated at the Charter House, and thence was elected 
student of Christ Church, Oxford, graduating in 1806. 
He was ordained in 1810, was head-master of the Char 
ter House from 1811 to 1882, and canon of Canterbury 
in 1827. He became rector of St. Botolph’s, Bishops- 
gate, in 1832, and secretary of the Clergy Orphan Cor- 
poration in 1849. 1 1 is death occurred in 1863. lie 

published, Rudiments of Latin: — English Grammar 
(Loud. 1832, l8mo). which has run through eleven edi- 
tions: — The Spital Pulpit (1833, 4to): — Coneio ad Cle- 
rum (1833):— besides Sermons, etc. 

Russel, Michael, a Scottish prelate, was born at 
Edinburgh in 1781, and graduated from the University 
of Glasgow in 1806. He became minister at Alloa in 
1808, and of St. James’s Chapel, Leith, in 1809, in which 
charge he continued during life. He was made dean 
of Edinburgh in 1831, bishop of Glasgow and Galloway 
in 1837, and died in 1848. Kussel wrote, View of Edu- 
cation in Scotland (1813. 8vo): — Connection of Sacred 
and Profane History, etc. (Loud. 3 vols. 8vo — vols. i and 
ii, 1827; vol. iii, 1837): — Discourses on the Millennium 
(1830, 12mo) : — History of the Church in Scotland (Loud. 
1834, 2 vols. sm. 8vo) besides several other histories. 
See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. A uthors . s. v. 

Russell, Alexander, physician to the English 
factory at Aleppo, was born and educated at Edinburgh. 
After a residence of many years in the East, during 
which he made himself familiar with the Turkish lan- 
guage, and gained great celebrity by his practice, he 
returned to Europe, and published his Natural History 
of Aleppo , a valuable performance, which has been 
translated into various languages. In 1759 he was 
elected physician of St. Thomas’s Hospital, which posi- 
tion he retained until his death, in 1770. 

Russell, Moses, a Presbyterian minister, was born 
in Greene County, near Xenia, O., Feb. 29, 1812. He 
was early operated upon by the influences of the Holy 
Spirit; he felt his call to the ministry, and God opened 
lip a wav for him to follow the desire of his heart. In 
1833 he completed his preparatory studies, and in 1837 
graduated from Miami University. He pursued a part 
of his theological studies under the direction of the Kev. 
John S. Galloway, of Springfield, O., and finished the 
course at Hanover and Allegheny seminaries. In 1840 
lie was licensed to preach, and in November of the same 
vear was ordained and installed pastor of the Clifton 
Presbyterian Church, where he continued to labor until 
the day of his death, March 22. 1864. I >uring this pas- 
torate of almost a quarter of a century the Church in- 
creased greatly in numbers and strength, and erected a 
large and commodious church edifice. Mr. Bussell was 
an active, faithful minister of the Gospel. His preach- 
ing was doctrinal and practical. Ilis sermons were rig- 
idly systematic, formed after a Scripture model. Dur- 
ing his life he preached over 3000 times, and has left 
over 1000 written sermons. Sec Wilson, Presb. Hist. 
Almanac, 1865, p. 116. (J. L. S.) 

Russell, Robert D., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Guilford County, N. C., March 23, 1793. He 
was educated at the academy at Greensborough, and the 
University of North Carolina, at Chapel Hill; studied 
divinity in the Union 'rheological Seminary at Prince 
Edward, Va., and was licensed by Orange Presbytery in 
1829. In 1832 he labored for Goshen and Olncv church- 
es, in Lincoln County, N. C. ; in 1834 in Tuscumbia and 
Bussell vilie, Ala.; and in 1837 he removed to Nanapolia, 
and was ordained in that year by the South Alabama 
Presbytery, lie was agent for the American Bible So- 


ciety, and preached at Geneva, Tompkinsville, London, 
and Shell Creek, and at Nanapolia, near which place he 
died, April 16, 1867. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac , 
1868, p. 368. (J. L. S.) 

Russell, Robert Young, a Presbyterian minis- 
ter, was born in Antrim County, Ireland, April 18, 1800. 
In 1801 his parents emigrated to the United States, ami 
settled in York District, S. C. After acquiring a good 
English education, he commenced the study of the lan- 
guages under Dr. Samuel Wright, of Turkey Creek ; 
subsequently taught school in order to obtain pecuni- 
ary means; and in 1820 entered Salem Academy, in 
Union District, and thence went to Yorkville, where he 
completed his academic course under the care of Kev. 
Bobert M. Davis. During this period he had, from hon- 
est and earnest convictions of truth and duty, connected 
himself with the Independent Presbyterian Church; 
and in view of the apparent necessities of this Church, 
then in its infancy, he was induced to forego his cher- 
ished design of completing his studies, and in 1824 he 
commenced the study of divinity under Kev. B. M. Da- 
vis. He was licensed by lMrkville Presbytery of the 
Independent Presbyterian Church, Jan. 24, 1825, and 
ordained by the same presbytery, April 22, 1826. He 
removed to Mount Tabor, in Union District, where he 
taught school for a time, and where he organized a 
Church to which he preached for many years. Thence 
he removed to the bounds of Bullock Creek Church, and 
became pastor of that Church in Mav, 1829, which re- 
lation continued for thirty-seven years. He died Nov. 
5, 1866. Mr. Bussell was a man of untiring zeal and 
impressive power as a minister of the Gospel. He had 
the most remarkable success all through his ministry. 
For thirty years prior to the union of the Independent 
Presbyterian Church with the Presbyterian Church, 
he was the acknowledged and honored leader in that 
branch of the Church in which he had cast his lot. He 
loved this Church and her peculiar doctrines, and yet 
in every endeavor which was made to heal the breach 
he gave his hearty approval and earnest aid. See Wil- 
son, Presb. Iiist. A Imanac, 1867, p. 450. (J. L. S.) 

Russia, one of the largest empires of the world, 
containing in 1878 an area of 8,500,000 square miles, 
and a population of 87,800,000 souls, has under its rule 
about one sixth of the entire surface of the earth, and 
still continues to expand in Asia. It is in point of ter- 
ritory about equalled by the British empire, but is more 
than twice as large as any other country. Among the 
Christian nations it is the foremost standard-bearer of 
the interests of the Greek Church, being not only the 
only large state in which this Church prevails, but con- 
taining within its borders fully seventy-seven per cent, 
of the aggregate population connected with it. More 
than any Catholic or Protestant state, the government 
of Bussia uses its political influence for advancing the 
power of its official Church at home as well as abroad ; 
and has recently not only co-operated in the re-es- 
tablishment of a number of independent co- religious 
states in the Balkan peninsula, but is rapidly plant- 
ing the creed of the Greek Church among the sub- 
jected tribes of Asia, and also, to some extent, in the 
adjacent countries. The Russian empire, by its vast 
conquests in Europe and Asia, embraces a variety of re- 
ligions, even the Mohammedan and heathen. The re- 
lation of the state to other forms of religion is deter- 
mined by Article 40 et seq. of the first volume of the 
Russian law, as follows: “The ruling faith in the Rus- 
sian empire is the Christian Orthodox Eastern Catholic 
declaration of belief. Religions liberty is not only as- 
sured to Christians of other denominations, but also to 
Jews, Mohammedans, and pagans, so that all people 
living in Russia may worship God according to the laws 
and faith of their ancestors.” This law, however, is in- 
terpreted in such a manner as to mean that religious 
liberty is assured only so long as a member of an unor- 
thodox Church adheres to the faith in which he was 


RUSSIA 


161 


RUSSIA 


born ; but all unorthodox churches are forbidden to re- 
ceive as members proselytes from other churches. A 
severe penalty is imposed upon any one who leaves a 
Christian for a non-Christian religion. 

I. The Russian Church . — 1. Its Origin and Progress . 
— The Russian empire begins with the elevation in 862 
of the Norman Ruric to the throne. At that time, the 
territory inhabited by the Russians was without Chris- 
tian churches. A Russian tradition, according to which 
the apostle Andrew had planted the tirst cross at Kief, 
cannot be authenticated. Tertullian, Origen, and Chrys- 
ostom speak of the triumphs of Christianity among the 
Scythians and Sarmatians, and a doubtful inference has 
been drawn from their words that Christianity had also 
made converts among the Russians at this early period. 
If really any congregations were organized, they perish- 
ed during the migration of nations. It is reported that 
in the 9th century patriarch Ignatius of Constantinople 
sent again missionaries to the Russians, and patriarch 
Photius praised them for their enthusiastic desire for 
the Gospel — a praise which was not verified by subse- 
quent events. In 955, Olga, the widow of Igor (912— 
945) and regent of Russia during the minority of her 
son Svatoslav, procured baptism for herself in Constan- 
tinople from the patriarch Theophylact, and had her 
name changed to Helena; but even to the close of her 
life she could enjoy the services of a Christian priest 
only in secret. Her pious desire to see her son con- 
verted was not fulfilled; but her grandson Vladimir I 
(980-1014), called Isapostolos (apostle-like), not only 
embraced Christianity himself (988), but at once de- 
cided the triumph of Christianity in the empire. After 
investigating the conflicting claims of Mohammedan- 
ism, Judaism, and Christianity, as represented by mis- 
sionaries of these various creeds, he was won over by 
the enthusiastic accounts which his ambassadors to 
Constantinople made of the splendor of the Eastern 
service in the Church of Sophia. The people cried 
when the images of Pcroun and other gods were cast 
into the Dnieper, but without active resistance yielded 
to the demand of Vladimir that the people be bap- 
tized. His son Yaroslav (1019-54) nearly completed the 
conversion of the Russians who remained in close con- 
nection with the see of Constantinople. A metropolitan 
see was established at Kief, which was called a second 
Constantinople. The fifth metropolitan, Hilarion (1051- 
72), was elected by order of grand -duke Yaroslav at 
the Council of Kief without the co-operation of the pa- 
triarch of Constantinople. A cave-convent (Peczera) 
at Kief became in the 11th century a famous seminary 
of the Russian clergy and a flourishing seat of Russian 
literature. Here the monk Nestor (1056-1111) wrote 
his Annals, the chief source of information for the 
earliest history of the Russian Church. The rapid 
growth of the Church, and the great practical strength 
which it displayed so soon after its establishment, nat- 
urally attract the attention of the Church historians, 
who attribute it chiefly to the fact that the Church, at 
its foundation, found the translation of the Bible by 
Cyril and Methodius into the national Slavonic language 
ready for use. The practical strength displayed by the 
Russian Church at so early a period is the more surpris- 
ing, as Russia alone among the European nations (un- 
less Spain and Hungary be counted exceptions) was 
Christianized without the agency of missionaries, and 
chiefly by the direct example, influence, or command 
of its prince. The Russian Church has dignified its 
founder, prince Vladimir, with the name of saint, and 
the same honor has been conferred upon another prince 
of the 13th century, Alexander Nevski, so called from a 
victory on the banks of the Neva, in which he repulsed 
the Swedes. Besides these two saints, two other princes 
are held in high veneration — the one, Yaroslav (1017), 
for introducing the Byzantine canon law and the first 
beginnings of Christian education; the other, Vladimir 
Ii, surnamed Monomachos, for being a model of a just 
and religious ruler. Ivan I transferred (1325) his resi- 
IX. — L 


dence, and with it the primacy of the Russian Church, 
from Kief to Moscow. Gradually the metropolitans of 
the Russian Church became independent of Constanti- 
nople. In the middle of the 17th century, Jonah was 
appointed by the grand-prince metropolitan ofMoscow, 
and recognised by a synod of all the Russian bishops 
held at Moscow as metropolitan of Russia. He was the 
first in whose appointment “ the great Church” had no 
direct share. The metropolitan of Moscow remained, 
however, in close and friendly relations with the pa- 
triarchs of the Byzantine empire, and conjointly with 
them the metropolitan Isidor attended the Union Coun- 
cil of Florence. The fall of Constantinople in 1453 
smoothed the way for an entire independence of the 
Russian Church, which, however, was not fully estab- 
lished until 1587. In that year, the patriarch Jeremiah 
of Constantinople, while visiting Russia to obtain sup- 
port, consented to turn the metropolitan ofMoscow into 
a patriarch in the person of Job, the patriarchate of 
Russia thus taking, in the opinion of the Eastern bish- 
ops, the place of the schismatic patriarch of Rome. It 
was further arranged that the Church of Russia be gov- 
erned by four metropolitans, six archbishops, and fight 
bishops. Soon after, the patriarchs of Alexandria and 
Jerusalem, sixty- five metropolitans and eleven arch- 
bishops of the Byzantine Church, declared their con- 
currence in the independent organization of the Russian 
Church. The Muscovite patriarchs continued, how- 
ever, to apply to Constantinople for confirmation until 
1657. Soon after, in 1660, the Russian ambassador re- 
ceived from patriarch Dionysius II of Constantinople 
and the other Greek patriarchs the documentary dec- 
laration that the Russian patriarch might in future be 
elected by his own clergy without needing a confirma- 
tion by the Greek patriarchs. The Roman popes of the 
16th century, especially Leo X, Clement VII, and Greg- 
ory XIII, made renewed efforts for gaining over the 
Russian Church to a union with Rome. When Ivan 
Vasili vitch (1533-84) had been defeated by the Poles, 
he intimated a readiness ( 1581 ) to unite with the 
Roman Catholic Church as long as he needed the 
help of the emperor and the mediation of the pope. 
Gregory XIII sent the Jesuit Possevino to the grand- 
prince, who held a religious disputation with the Rus- 
sians, in which the grand -prince himself took part. 
Possevino was, in the end, unsuccessful in Russia; but 
in those Russian provinces which fell with Lithuania 
into the hands of the Poles, his efforts had the desired 
effect. The metropolitan Rahoza of Kief, keenly of- 
fended by the patriarchs Jeremiah and Job, convoked 
the bishops of his metropolitan district to a synod held 
at Brzesc (1593), where the union with Rome was ef- 
fected in conformity with the agreement which had 
been formed in Florence, w ith a great respect at first 
for old ancestral usages. Clement VIII announced the 
union to the Catholic world in his bull Magnus Domi- 
nus ac laudahilis , and confirmed the metropolitan in 
the possession of his traditional rights of jurisdiction 
(1596), including the right of confirming the bishops of 
his metropolitan diocese; only the metropolitan him- 
self was to apply to the papal nuncio in Poland for 
confirmation. For that part of the Russian Church 
which refused to enter into the union wfith Rome, Peter 
Mogila was in 1633 elected orthodox metropolitan of 
Kief, with the approbation of king Vladoslav IV. As a 
bar against the further advance of Roman Catholic and 
Protestant view's, Mogila composed (1642) a catechism, 
which was confirmed by all the patriarchs as an official 
confession of the orthodox Eastern Church. 

Important innovations in the liturgy of the Russian 
Church were made by patriarch Nikon, who has been 
called by a modern Church historian (Stanley, History 
of the Eastern Church ) “the greatest character in the 
annals of the Russian hierarchy,” “ a Russian Chrysos- 
tom,” and also “in coarse and homely proportions a 
Russian Luther and a Russian Wolsev.” The most im- 
portant among the changes introduced by him was the 


RUSSIA 


162 


RUSSIA 


revival of preaching, entirely without an example in 
the other Eastern churches at that time. Among the 
innovations which he made in the Russian ritual, in or- 
der to make it more conform to that of Constantinople, 
were benedictions with three fingers instead of two, a 
white altar- eloth instead of an embroidered one, the 
kissing of pictures to take place only twice a year, a 
change in the way of signing the cross, and in the in- 
flections in pronouncing the Creed. Many regarded 
these changes as an apostasy from orthodoxy, and re- 
fused to adopt them, but at that time their protests were 
put down with an iron hand. The man whose energy 
introduced a new period in Church history was finally 
himself deposed from his office. II is severity had ex- 
asperated the clergy, his insolence had enraged the no- 
bles. In lGt>7 a council of the Eastern patriarchs, con- 
vened at Moscow, and presided over by the czar, for- 
mally deprived him of his office. 

A still greater change was introduced into the Rus- 
sian Church by Peter the Great. The aim of his life 
was to civilize the Russian empire and to raise it to a 
level with the remainder of Europe. While travelling in 
Europe, he studied the Protestant and Roman Catholic 
systems of belief. He beard the doctrines and studied 
the religious belief of all the countries which he passed, 
but he concluded to remain a prince of the Orthodox 
faith. lie believed, however, he would be guilty of in- 
gratitude to the Most High if, “after having reformed 
by his gracious assistance the civil and military order, 
he were to neglect the spiritual,” and “if the Impartial 
Judge should require of him an account of the vast 
trust which had been reposed in him, he should not be 
able to give an account.” Among the practical reforms 
which he introduced were the increase of schools, re- 
strictions on the growth of monasteries, and regulations 
respecting the monastic property. But by far the most 
radical change was the abolition of the patriarchate 
and the substitution for it of a permanent synod, con- 
sisting of prelates presided over by the emperor or his 
secretary. After the death of the eleventh patriarch, 
Hadrian (1702), whose retrograde policy had greatly 
exasperated him, Peter allowed his see to remain va- 
cant, and transferred the administration of the patriar- 
chate to the metropolitan of Riazan, who as exarch had 
not the full authority of the patriarch, and was not al- 
lowed to exercise all his functions. This semblance of 
a patriarchal government lasted for twenty years, and 
during this time various changes were gradually car- 
ried through. Taxes were levied on the possessions of 
cloisters and bishops, the titles and dignities of several 
episcopal sees which were offensive to the czar were 
abolished, and the episcopal jurisdiction, which in former 
times had been wholly unhindered, was now in many 
respects restricted. A number of reformatory regula- 
tions were issued for the government of the religious 
orders. For the reform of the secular clergy Peter 
wrote with his own hand twenty-six articles of Spirit- 
ual Regulations , and lor the use of the bishops he issued 
a pastoral instruction. After having accustomed in this 
way the clergy and the people to an absolute submission 
to bis all-powerful authority, Peter declared in an as- 
sembly of bishops, held in 1720 at Moscow, that a pa- 
triarch was neither necessary for the government of the 
Church nor useful for the State, ami that he was deter- 
mined to introduce another form of Church government 
which would be intermediate between the government 
by one person (the patriarch) and a general council, 
since both forms of Church government were subject in 
Russia to great inconveniences and difficulties on ac- 
count of the vast extent of the empire. When some of 
the bishops objected that the patriarchate of Kief and 
of all Russia had been erected with the consent of the 
Oriental patriarchs, Peter exclaimed, “ 1 am your patri- 
arch !” then, throwing down his hunting-knife on the 
table, “There is your patriarch!” The plan of Peter 
was vigorously supported by Theophanes, archbishop 
of Pskov, and Demetrius of Rost off, adopted by the 


episcopal synod, and sanctioned by the whole body of 
Eastern patriarchs. In the next year (1721), the Holy 
Governing Synod of Russia was instituted, and solemn- 
ly opened by an address of its vice-president, archbish- 
op Theophanes. Even those who blame Peter for sub- 
jecting a Church formerly enjoying the fullest amount 
of self-government to the rule of the State readily ad- 
mit that its first members were the best men of the 
Russian Church, and generally esteemed on account of 
their character and ability. While the abolition of the 
patriarctiate and the establishment of the Holy Synod 
fixed the position of the Russian Church among the large 
national divisions of Christianity, other measures led to 
the separation from it ofa large number of ultra-conserv- 
atives, who could not bear the idea of seeing the small- 
est change in the holy faith of their forefathers. Peter 
resolutely continued the work of patriarch Nikon, and 
as the latter had introduced man}' innovations from 
Constantinople, Peter introduced new customs from the 
West. Thus, on the opening of the 18th century the 
emperor decreed that henceforth the year should no 
longer begin on the 1st of September and be dated Horn 
the creation of the world, but that the Christian sera 
should be adopted and the new year begin on the 1st 
of January. Still more irritating for the uncompromis- 
ing opponents of ecclesiastical reforms was Peter’s en- 
deavor to assimilate his countrymen to the West by for- 
bidding the use of the beard. The Eastern Church had 
shown a strong attachment to the beard. Michael C:v- 
rularius had laid it down in the 11th century as one of 
the primary differences between the Greek and the 
Latin Church, and “ to shave the beard bad been pro- 
nounced by the Council of Moscow in the 17th century 
as a sin which even the blood of the martyrs could not 
expiate.” So determined was the opposition which was 
made to this innovation that even Peter, with all his 
energy, quailed before it. The nobles and tbe gentry, 
after a vain struggle, had to give way and be shaved; 
but the clergy were too strong for the czar, and the 
magnificent beards which the Russian priests are known 
to Avear to the present day are the expressive proof of 
the ecclesiastieal victory they gained in this particular 
over the reforming czar. The implacable enemies to 
the reforms of Nikon and Peter sullenly withdrew from 
tbe communion of the Established Church, and under 
the name “Raskolniks” (Separatists), or, as they call 
themselves, “ Starovertzi” (Old Believers), have contin- 
ued separate ecclesiastical organizations to the present 
day. 

The reigns of most of the successors of Peter during 
the 18th century have left no marked influence upon the 
progress of the Russian Church. None of them contin- 
ued the Avork of political reform with such energy as 
Catharine II. She Avas a friend of Voltaire, but did not 
deem it expedient to open to the deistic tendencies of 
Western Europe a road to the National Church of her 
dominions. During her reign, Ambrose, the learned 
archbishop of Moscoav, came to a violent death (1771) 
by the populace of that city because he had ordered the 
removal of a miraculous picture to Avhieh the people 
flocked in immense numbers at a time of frightful pes- 
tilence. See Ambrose. “I send you the incident,” 
wrote the empress Catharine in one of her letters to 
Voltaire, “ that you may record it among your instances 
of the effects of fanaticism.” One of his successors to 
the see of Moscoav, Plato, has attained outside of Russia 
a greater celebrity than any other Russian bishop, lie 
Avas the favorite both of the civilized Catharine II and 
for a time of her savage son, Paul, and in the last years 
of his life Avas the trusted comforter of Alexander I in 
the terrible year of the French invasion. Alexander I 
made noble efforts to raise the educational standard of 
the Russian people, and thus contributed much to the 
improvement of the National Church. Schools were 
established on all the lands belonging to the crown, im- 
provements made in the theological seminaries, and the 
respect of the people for the priestly character strength* 


IiUSSIA 


163 


RUSSIA 


ened bv exempting the priests from the knout. For a 
time, Alexander showed himself very favorable to the 
principles of evangelical Protestantism; and when the 
British and Foreign Bible Society was formed in Lon- 
don, Alexander requested the society to establish a 
branch in St. Petersburg. In the labors of the Rus- 
sian Bible Society he took a warm interest. At his 
request, the Holy Synod prepared a translation of the 
New Test, into Russian, and into almost all the other 
languages spoken in the Russian empire. The em- 
peror’s inclination towards Biblical theology and ex- 
perimental religion was greatly strengthened by the in- 
fluence which in 1814 the pious and enthusiastic baroness 
von Krudener gained over him ; but in the latter years 
of his life the emperor yielded to the growing ecclesi- 
astical opposition to the Bible Society, and it was final- 
ly abolished under Nicholas I in 1826. In the same year, 
Philaret, formerly bishop of Reval and archbishop of 
Tver, was appointed archbishop of Moscow. He has 
been called the most gifted and influential archbishop 
of Russia since Nikon. He revived in the Church the 
spirit of austere asceticism, inflamed the religious en- 
thusiasm of the people in the wars against the Moham- 
medan Turks and the Catholic Poles, vigorously aided 
the emperor in preparing the abolition of Russian serf- 
dom, and made valuable contributions to the theological 
literature of the Russian Church. During the reign of 
Alexander I, the Russian Church began to make earnest 
efforts for the conversion of the Mohammedan and pagan 
subjects of the vast empire, and inducements were held 
out to those who might become converts to Christiani- 
ty. The missionary zeal thus awakened was greatly 
strengthened during the reign of Nicholas I (1825-55), 
when schemes were formed and extensively supported 
for the consolidation of all the tribes of the vast empire 
into one language and one religion. The Armenian 
Church, which, in consequence of the conquest of a 
part of the Persian territory by Russia, saw the seat 
of its ecclesiastical head, the catholicos of Etchmiadzin, 
placed under Russian rule, showed itself disinclined to 
being incorporated with the Russian Church; but the 
United Greeks of the formerly Polish provinces, who 
during Polish rule had been induced to recognise the 
supremacy of the pope, yielded to the influences brought 
to bear upon them by the Russian government. These 
exertions were begun as soon as Catharine II had ac- 
quired the possession of the Polish provinces, and it has 
been calculated that during the reign of this empress 
about seven millions of United Greeks joined the Rus- 
sian Church. Little was done for this purpose during 
the reigns of Paul and Alexander I, but Nicholas I re- 
sumed these efforts with extraordinary vigor; and in 
1839 the bishops and clergy of the United Greek Church 
of Lithuania and White Russia were induced at the Syn- 
od of Polotsk to declare in favor of a union with the Rus- j 
sian Church. Only one United Greek dioeese — Chelm, 
in Poland— remained in communion with Rome until 
about 1877, when the majority of its priests and people 
were reported to have likewise been received into the 
Russian Church. See Roman Catholic Church. 

The missions among the pagan tribes of the empire 
made considerable progress, and especially Innocent, 
archbishop of Kamtchatka, became a much-praised ex- 
ample of the revived missionary spirit in the Russian 
empire, traversing to and fro the long chain of pagan 
islands between North-eastern Asia and North-western 
America. The reign of Alexander II (since 1855) has 
been prolific of important reforms in the civil adminis- 
tration of the empire. Some of them, as the total abo- 
lition of serfdom, and the organization of a system of 
public schools, have had a considerable and favorable 
reaction upon the progress of the national Church. The 
efforts for Russifying the polyglot and polyreligious 
tribes of the empire in one tongue and one creed gained 
in vigor and extent. The great Eastern war of 1877 
was proclaimed bv the Russian bishops as a holy re- j 
ligious war for the overthrow of the Mohammedan i 


power over the Orthodox Eastern churches in the 
Turkish empire, and made the Russian Church appear 
to a greater extent than ever before as the standard- 
bearer of all the interests of the Oriental Eastern 
Church. The increasing missionary zeal of the Church 
overstepped the boundaries of the empire and founded 
missions in China and Japan which were prosperous 
beyond expectation. In many large cities of Western 
Europe and of t lie United States, Russian priests were 
appointed by the Russian government to gather not 
only the Orthodox Russians, but all persons belonging 
to the Eastern Oriental Clmrch, into permanent con- 
gregations, and in 1879 even a bishop, with his resi- 
dence in San Francisco, was appointed to exercise the 
episcopal superintendence over the congregations on 
the Racific coast of North America. A strong desire 
for establishing friendly intercourse and relations with 
other churches of episcopal constitution made itself felt 
among many of the most educated and zealous priests 
and laymen of the Church, and “societies for religious 
enlightenment” were formed at St. Petersburg and in 
other cities which proclaimed the promotion of this in- 
tercourse as one of their chief objects. The grand-duke 
Constantine, brother of Alexander II, is an enthusiastic 
patron of this movement and the president of the St. 
Petersburg society. 

2. Doctrinal Basis of the Russian Church. — Although 
the connection between the Russian Church and the 
other sections of the Orthodox Eastern Church has for 
some time been severed, they have remained in entire 
union with regard to their common doctrine. Some 
(Sehaff, Creeds of Christendom, ?, 70) regard as “the 
most hopeful feature of the Russian Church the com- 
paratively free circulation of the Scriptures, which are 
more highly esteemed and more widely read there than 
j in other parts of the Eastern Church.” Ilepworth Dix- 
I on (Free Russia, p. 290) says that the Russians, next to 
the Scotch and the New-Englanders, are the greatest 
Bibl e-readers, but it must be remarked that not more 
than one out of ten Russians can read at all. Dr. Pink- 
erton, an English Independent, who for many years 
resided and travelled in Russia as agent of the British 
and Foreign Bible Society, takes, in his work on Russi<i 
(London, 1833), a hopeful view of the future of the Rus- 
sian Church, “for the Church that permits every one 
I of its members to read the Scriptures in a language 
which he. understands, and acknowledges this Word as 
the highest tribunal in matters of faith on earth r is pos- 
' sessed of the best reformer of all superstition.” It is 
also noteworthy that the treatise on The Duty of Par- 
ish Priests , which was composed by archbishop Konin- 
sky of Mohilev, aided by bishop Sopkofsky of Smolensk 
(St. Petersburg, 1776), and on the contents of which all 
candidates for holy orders in the Russian seminaries 
are examined, approaches more nearly the Protestant 
principle of the supremacy of the Bible in matters of 
Christian faith and Christian life than any deliverance 
of the Eastern Church. Thus it says, “All the articles 
of the faith are contained in the Word of God; that is, 
in the books of the Old and the New Testament. The 
Word of God is the source, foundation, and perfect rule, 
both of our faith and of the good works of the law. 
The writings of the holy fathers are of great use, but 
neither the writings of the holy fathers nor the tradi- 
tions of the Church are to be confounded or equalled 
with the Word of God and his commandments” (see 
Sehaff’, Creeds of Christendom, i, 73). 

Notwithstanding this respect of the Russian Church 
for the supreme authority of the Scriptures, it has nev- 
er been prevailed upon to bold ecclesiastical commun- 
ion with any other than the several branches of the 
Orthodox Eastern (commonly called Greek) Church. 
An interesting attempt to establish intercommunion 
and eo-operation between the Russian Church and some 
Anglican bishops was made from 1717 to 1723 by two 
High-Church English bishops, called Nonjurors (for 
refusing to renounce their oath ol allegiance to James 


RUSSIA 


164 


RUSSIA 


II), in connection with two Scottish bishops. They I 
wrote to this end, in October, 1717, to Peter the Great 
and the Eastern patriarchs. The patriarchs, in 1723, 
sent their ultimatum, requiring as a term of commun- 
ion absolute submission of the British to all the dog- 
mas of the Greek Church. The “Most Holy Govern- 
ing Synod” of St. Petersburg was more polite, and in 
transmitting the ultimatum of the Eastern patriarchs 
proposed, in the name of the czar, “to the most rever- 
end the bishops of the remnant of the Catholic Church 
in Great Britain, our brethren most beloved in the Lord, 
that they should send two delegates to Russia to hold 
a friendly conference, in the name and spirit of Christ, 
with two members to be chosen by the Russians, that 
it may be more easily ascertained what may be yielded 
or given up by one or the other; what, on the other 
hand, may or ought for conscience’ sake to be absolute- 
ly denied.” The conference, however, was never held, 
for the death of Peter the Great put an end to the ne- 
gotiations. 

A more serious attempt to effect intercommunion be- 
tween the Anglican and Russo-Greek churches was be- 
gun in 1862, with the authority of the Convocation of 
Canterbury and the General Convention of the Prot- 
estant Episcopal Church in the United States. In the 
session of the latter held in New York in 1862, a joint 
committee was appointed “ to consider the expediency of 
opening communication with the Russo-Greek Church, 
to collect authentic information upon the subject, and 
to report to the next general convention.” Soon after- 
wards (July 1, 1863) the Convocation of Canterbury ap- 
pointed a similar committee looking to “such eccle- 
siastical intercommunion with the Orthodox East as 
should enable the laity and clergy of either Church to 
join in the sacraments and offices of the other without 
forfeiting the communion of their own Church.” The 
Episcopal Church in Scotland likewise fell in with the 
movement. These committees corresponded with each 
other, and reported from time to time to their author- 
ities. Two Eastern Church associations were formed, 
one in England and one in America, for the publication 
of interesting information on the doctrines and worship 
of the Russo-Greek Church. Visits were made to Rus- 
sia, fraternal letters and courtesies were exchanged, and 
informal conferences between Anglican and Russian 
dignitaries were held in London, St. Petersburg, and 
Moscow. The Russians, however, as well as the other 
branches of the Orthodox Eastern (Greek) Church, did 
not show the least disposition towards making any 
concession. A number of Russian divines took an ac- 
tive part in the Old Catholic reunion conferences at 
Bonn in 1874 and 1875; but although the Anglican and 
Old Catholic theologians here surrendered to the Ori- 
entals as a peace-offering the jilioque of the Western 
Creed, the Orientals made no concession on their part. 

3. Ecclesiastical Polity . — In regard to Church consti- 
tution, the organization of the Holy Governing Synod 
has established a considerable difference between the 
Russian Church, on the one hand, and all the other sec- 
tions of the Orthodox Eastern Church, on the other. 

(1.) The Holy Synod . — -The members of the synod are 
partly priests, partly laymen. All of them are appoint- 
ed by the czar, who has also the right to dismiss them 
whenever he pleases. They meet at St. Petersburg in a 
special part of the large building whioh has been erect- 
ed for the high imperial boards. At first the synod 
had twelve clerical members, one president, two vice- 
presidents, four councillors, and four assessors. The 
twelfth member was destined for the synodal office at 
Moscow. Three of the twelve clerical members had to 
be bishops, the others were to belong to different de- 
grees of the hierarchy. It was, however, forbidden to 
appoint an archimandrite or protopresbyter from any 
diocese the bishop of which was a member of the syn- 
od, as it was feared that the former might be influenced 
by their bishop. According to the pleasure of the czar, 
the number of the clerical members was, however, some- ] 


times larger, sometimes smaller than twelve. No epis- 
copal see except that of Grusia (Tiflis) confers ex ojji - 
cio upon its occupant the right of membership in the 
Holy Synod, but the metropolitans of St. Petersburg, 
Moscow, and Kief invariably belong to it. Some of 
the members are obliged to reside at St. Petersburg, 
others are absent members who are invited only when 
matters of prime importance require the presence of all 
the members. The synod is always presided over by 
the oldest metropolitan. The most prominent among 
the lay members is the procurator-general of the synod. 
He represents the czar, makes the necessary prepara- 
tions, has the right of veto, and carries out the meas- 
ures that have been adopted. Every member of the 
synod, before taking his seat, must bind himself by a 
solemn oath to discharge faithfully the duties of his 
office, to be loyal to the czar and his successor, and to 
recognise the czar as the highest judge in the synod. 
The salaries of the members of the synod were at first 
paid from the property of the former patriarchate, 
which after its abolition was called synodal property. 
At present they receive a very moderate fixed addition 
to the salaries which they derive from their regular ec- 
clesiastical office (as archbishops, bishops, or priests). 
The synod is subject to the emperor, and receives his 
orders ; on the other hand, all prelates and clergymen 
are subject to the synod. Among the chief duties of 
the synod are to preserve purity of doctrine, to regulate 
divine service, and to act as the highest court of ap- 
peal in all Church matters. The Synod has to pre- 
vent the spreading of heresies, to examine and censure 
theological books; it is entitled to prescribe ceremonies, 
and to see to it that they are observed. It has to su- 
perintend all churches and convents, to present to the 
czar suitable candidates for the vacant positions of 
archimandrites and prelates, and to examine the candi- 
dates for episcopal sees. It may transfer bishops to 
other sees, remove them, or send them to a convent. 
It acts as a court of appeal from the decisions of the 
bishops, and receives the complaints of any clergyman 
against his superiors. It has the right in doubtful cases 
to give instruction to the prelates; but it can make new 
laws only with the consent of the czar. It can grant 
dispensation from ecclesiastical laws, as from the rigid 
observation of the fasts. All trials which were for- 
merly brought before the court of the patriarch belong 
now to the jurisdiction of the synod; among them are 
trials for heresy (against the Raskolniks), blasphe- 
my, astrology : for doubtful, unlawful, and forced mar- 
riages; for adultery, divorce. Fornication and abduc- 
tion are tried before secular courts. In affairs which 
are partly of an ecclesiastical and partly of a secular 
character, the synod acts conjointly with the senate, to 
which it is, in general, co-ordinate. The administra- 
tive functions of the synod are divided into two sec- 
tions, the Economical Department (or College of Econ- 
omy) and the comptroller’s office. All affairs which 
involve an outlay of money — as the erection of churches, 
schools, convents, payments, supports of clergymen, and 
so forth — are first submitted to the Economical Depart- 
ment. The Department of Comptrol has to examine 
whether the moneys assigned have been properly used, 
and to examine the accounts. Since 1809 all sums 
realized by the sale of consecrated candles and other 
objects which the faithful purchase from the Church, 
as well as the proceeds of the voluntary offerings of 
the people, have to be sent by the bishops to the synod, 
which distributes them among the eparchies according 
to their several wants. The treasury of the synod, 
which receives all these moneys, stands under the spe- 
cial control of the two youngest members of the synod, 
and of a civil officer appointed by the chief procurator. 

In 1839 the commission of ecclesiastical schools, which 
had been established in 1808, was dissolved by the czar, 
and the Holy Synod was charged with the direction of 
these schools. 

j Subordinate to the Holy Synod are — 1, the synodal 


RUSSIA 


I Go 


RUSSIA 


office of Moscow, which is presided over by the met- 
ropolitan of the city, who is assisted by a vicar-general, 
one archimandrite, and one protopresbyter; 2, the syn- 
odal office of Grusia, in which the metropolitan of Tiflis 
and Grusia presides, being assisted by two archiman- 
drites and one protopresbyter; 3, the college of the for- 
mer Greek United Church in White Russia and. Lithu- 
ania, presided over by the archbishop of Lithuania, who 
is assisted by three members of the secular clergy. The 
synod has two printing-offices, in St. Petersburg and 
Moscow, in which all rescripts of the czar and the synod 
referring to ecclesiastical affairs, all books used at divine 
service, and, in general, all books, registers, circulars, 
prayers, pictures, etc., intended for Church use are print- 
ed. The synod sends the printed matter to the bishop, 
who distributes it among the clergy. Every parish 
priest has to render at the end of the year an account 
to the bishops of all articles sold, and to remit to him 
the proceeds. The bishop sends an account of all ar- 
ticles sold within the diocese and remits the amount. 
The synod has annually from these sales a considerable 
surplus, which is used for supplying poor eparchies and 
parishes gratuitously with the books and other objects 
needed at divine service. Rooks on theological sub- 
jects are not only printed in the offices of the synod, 
but their contents must be expressly approved by it. 
For this purpose the Holy Synod is assisted by three 
committees of censorship, which have their seats at St. 
Petersburg, Moscow, and Kief. 

(2.) Orders of the Clergy.—' The higher clergy of the 
Russian Church consists of metropolitans, archbishops, 
and bishops. At first Russia had only one metropolitan, 
at Kief; when the patriarchate was erected, the arch- 
bishops of Novgorod, Kasan. Astrakhan, Rostoff, and 
Ivrutizk were raised to the rank of metropolitans. In 
1667 the czar Alexis Michaelovitch raised the arch- 
bishops of Kasan and Siberia to metropolitans, and ap- 
pointed a special metropolitan at Astrakhan. Five 
other metropolitans were appointed by Theodore Alex- 
ievitch, and, on the accession of Peter the Great, Russia 
had, therefore, twelve metropolitans. Peter appointed 
in the place of the deceased metropolitans and arch- 
bishops only bishops, and conferred the title of “metro- 
politan” and “archbishop” upon any bishops he pleased. 
Thus the titles “metropolitan” and “archbishop” are 
now not bound to dioceses of a higher degree, but are 
only the honorary titles of bishops whom the czar wishes 
to distinguish by a higher title. It has, however, been 
customary that the occupants of the eparchies Nov- 
gorod - Petersburg, Moscow, and Kief have the title 
“metropolitans,” and in 1878 no other archbishop had 
this title. The eparchies are divided into eparchies of 
the first, second, and third classes, according to the sal- 
aries connected with the sees. The three metropolitans 
of Novgorod-Petersburg, Moscow, and Kief belong to 
the first class. According to Silbernagl ( Yerfassung 
mid gegemc dr tiger Bestand sdmmtlicher Kirchen des Ori- 
ents, 1865), there were seventeen eparchies of the second 
and thirty of the third class. Not embraced in these 
numbers are the eparchies of Georgia or Grusia, which 
territory in 1801 was incorporated with Russia. The 
country has at present five eparchies, which are not di- 
vided into classes, but among which that of Tiflis holds 
the highest rank. The occupant of the see has the title 
“exarch of all Georgia,” and is always ex officio member 
of the Holy Synod and president of the synodal office at 
Tiflis. When an episcopal see becomes vacant, the synod, 
according to the regulations of Peter the Great, presents 
to the czar two candidates, of whom the czar is to select 
one. Often, however, the czar himself designates a can- 
didate, whom the synod has to elect. As the bishop has 
to be unmarried, and all the secular clergy are married, 
the candidates for the episcopal sees can only be taken 
from the regular clergy. The first claim belongs to those 
archimandrites who are members of the Holy Synod, or 
those to whom affairs of the synod have been intrusted, 
and who have given proof of their ability. After the 


confirmation of the bishop elect by the czar, all the 
archbishops and bishops present in the capital assemble 
in the hall of the synod, and the new bishop is pro- 
claimed by the oldest archbishop. The consecration 
always takes place in the cathedral, and is also attended 
by all bishops of the capital. The rights and duties of 
the bishops are fully explained in the Spiritual Regu- 
lations of Peter the Great. The bishop ordains all the 
clergymen of his diocese, but he is expected not to or- 
dain more priests, deacons, and other clergymen than 
are necessary for the celebration of divine service. He 
has to superintend all the monks under his jurisdiction, 
and to see that they observe the monastic rules, but he 
has not the right to punish them without the previous 
consent of the Holy Synod. The secular clergy, on the 
other hand, are, also in this respect, wholly under his 
jurisdiction. Laymen may be excommunicated by the 
bishop on account of public transgression of the divine 
commandments, or on account of heresy, but the bishops 
must previously admonish them three times, and must 
not involve the family of the culprit in the sentence. 
The bishop is in particular expected to devote himself 
zealously to the establishment of schools and semina- 
ries. In order to become acquainted with his eparchy, 
the bishop shall visit all its parishes at least once every 
two or three years, and he is not allowed to leave the 
diocese without the permit of the Holy Synod. In all 
important or doubtful affairs he is directed to ask for 
the advice of the Holy Synod. The bishop holds the 
official rank of a major-general and a councillor of state. 
According to a ukase of 1764, issued by Catharine II, 
the property of all bishoprics, convents, and churches of 
Great Russia was confiscated and transferred for admin- 
istration to the College of Economy, which now pays 
to all the bishops a fixed salary. To new eparchies the 
czar assigns likewise a fixed salary, to be paid by the 
College of Economy; he also determines, in case two 
eparchies are united, whether the bishop shall receive the 
income of one or of both. As has already been stated, 
the eparchies are divided, according to the amount of 
the salaries, into eparchies of the first, second, and third 
class. According to the ukase of Catharine II, the prel- 
ates of the first class are to receive a salary of 1500 ru- 
bles, those of the second class 1200 rubles, and those of 
the third class 1000 rubles. Besides, the bishops receive 
a certain amount of table-money, etc., for defraying the 
expenses of their household. The table-money of the 
metropolitans ranges from 2200 to 3000 rubles; the 
bishops of the second class receive 1000, and those of 
the third class 800. The bishops generally reside in 
celebrated convents, which, however, although they are 
still called convents, are now rather extensive “episco- 
pal houses.” Besides the incomes derived from the State, 
the bishops receive fees for their episcopal functions, as 
the consecration of new churches, the ordination of 
priests, for masses for the dead, etc. The eparchies 
bear their name from the place where the prelate has 
his residence, rarely from a province. It is common to 
mention the name of the eparchy by means of adjec- 
tives, as the “Muscovite metropolitan” instead of the 
“ metropolitan of Moscow.” 

Besides bishops, archbishops, and metropolitans, Rus- 
sia has also vicars of episcopal rank. They were at 
first appointed in very extensive eparchies, where the 
prelate found it impossible to perform all the episcopal 
functions. The first eparchy which had a vicar was 
Novgorod ; in 1764 the empress Catharine II established 
another for the eparchy of Moscow. The vicars have 
their own dioceses and full episcopal jurisdiction. They 
have a consistorial chancery like the other prelates, but 
an appeal may be taken from their judgments to the 
metropolitan or archbishop in whose eparchy their dis- 
trict is situated. In regard to salary, they are placed 
on a level with the prelates of the third class. At pres- 
ent the Russian Church has ten vicariates. 

Every prelate is assisted in the administration of his 
diocese by a consistory which is composed of from five 


RUSSIA 


1GG 


RUSSIA 


to seven members. They are presented to the synod 
by the bishop, and, after t heir confirmation, can only be 
removed with the consent of the synod. Each consis- 
tory has its own chancery, which generally consists, in 
eparchies of the first class, of twenty-eight persons, in 
eparchies of the second, of twenty-one, and in eparchies 
of the third, of nineteen. The consistory has to take the 
necessary measures lor preserving the purity of the faith. 
It superintends the sermons and the keeping of the cler- 
ical registers, and reports once a year on the condition 
of the eparchy to the synod. To its jurisdiction belong 
also matrimonial affairs and the complaints of clergy- 
men and laymen against each other. If secular priests 
or monks wish to return to the ranks of the laity, the 
consistory has to subject them to an admonition, the 
former during three and the latter during six months; 
it has also to sentence clergymen for important or dis- 
graceful offences. The sentences pronounced against 
such clergymen are: 1, suspension; 2, degradation to a 
lower degree of the clergy; 3, entire degradation or dep- 
osition. The last-named sentence involves the sur- 
render of the culprit into the army or to the imperial 
manufactures, and, in criminal cases, to the secular au- 
thorities. From the judgment, of a consistory an appeal 
may be taken to the prelate, and from the latter to the 
Holy Synod. In every large town of the eparchy there 
are offices called “ecclesiastical directories,” general- 
ly consisting of two members, which have to receive 
petitions to the consistory and make reports to it. The 
bishop appoints, with the consent of the synod, deans 
for superintending the churches and the clergymen. 
A dean’s district embraces from ten to thirty parish 
churches. They have to visit the churches of their 
district, and to revise once ever}' six months the regis- 
ters of the Church and the lists of baptisms, marriages, 
and deaths. Under their presidency the parishes elect 
the church-wardens. In the cities the protopresbyter 
of the principal church has the superintendence of the 
entire clergy. 

The clergy are divided into the white, or secular, 
clergy, and the black clergy, or monks. The white 
clergy chiefly recruits itself from the sons of the priests 
and other employes of the Church. The admission of 
persons from other classes of society is surrounded with 
difficulties. The bishop is forbidden to ordain any one 
without the necessary knowledge, the requisite age, and 
good certificates of character, and is not to exceed the 
number of priests wanted by his eparchy. No one shall 
be ordained a secular priest without having previously 
been married to a virgin. The other persons employed 
for the services of the Church, as sextons, choristers, 
etc., do not receive any ordination, but are also regarded 
as a part of the clergy. 

(3.) Schools. — Peter the Great was the first who com- 
manded the prelates to establish in the capitals of their 
eparchies ecclesiastical seminaries where boys — espe- 
cially the sons of priests — might he educated for the 
priesthood. All that had been required before his time 
was that the candidates should be able to read, to write a 
little, and to perform the liturgical functions. Peter the 
Great also decreed that, the chief convents should con- 
tribute one twentieth, and the principal churches one 
thirtieth of t heir corn for the gratuitous education of 
the pupils of the ecclesiastical schools. After the con- 
fiscation of the Church property in 1764, the support of 
the seminaries devolved upon the lloly Synod. The 
ecclesiastical schools are divided into the four school 
distriets/of Petersburg, Kief, Moscow, and Kasan. At 
the head of each of the districts is an ecclesiastical acad- 
emy. At each academy is a conference consisting of the 
rector of the academy, one archimandrite, one yero- 
monaeh, two secular priests, and several professors, and 
presided over by the metropolitan or archbishop, who 
has to superintend the execution of all the decrees of 
the synod in regard to the education of the clergymen 
and of the priests. The Conference of the Academy of 
St. Petersburg constitutes the centre of the scientific life 


in the Russian Church, as the conferences of the other 
school districts receive from it the decisions of the Holy 
Synod. The system of Church schools, which is under 
the direct jurisdiction of the Holy Synod, consists of the 
ecclesiastical academies, the eparehial seminaries, the 
circuit schools, and the parish schools. Every pupil has 
first to .enter the parish school and to remain there for 
two years. He then attends in succession the circuit 
school, the eparehial seminary, and finally the academy, 
remaining in each of these schools for three or four 
years. 

(4.) Marriage and Privileges of the Priests. — As 
the secular clergy must be married, they cannot as- 
cend to a higher position than that of a protopresbyter. 
Widower presbyters were required by a canon of Theo- 
dosius, metropolitan of Moscow, to resign and withdraw 
to a convent. The Council of Moscow in 1667 author- 
ized widower clergymen who led a virtuous life in the 
convent to continue their priestly functions as yero mo- 
nach. Peter the Great forbade the bishop to force any 
widower priest to retire to a convent. By a second re- 
script, issued in 1724, lie provided that widower priests 
who were good scholars or preachers and who should 
marry a second time should be employed as rectors of 
the seminaries or in the chanceries of the bishops. At 
present the synod can give permission to widower 
priests tc remain in their office. 

The secular clergy are exempt from personal taxes 
and from military duty. For any criminal offence the 
clergy are subject to the civil court, but tbe proceedings 
against them always take place in the presence of dep- 
uties of the ecclesiastical court. In the case of any 
other offence they are judged by the Church courts. No 
priest or deacon can be subjected to corporal punish- 
ment until he has been degraded by bis ecclesias- 
tical superior. The wives of priests and other Church 
employe's share the privileges of their husbands as long 
as they are not married again. 

(5.) Appointment and Support of the Clergy. — In 1722 
and 1723 the synod fixed, conjointly with the senate, 
the number of clergymen who were to serve at every 
church. Since the confiscation of the Church property 
in 1764, the Economy College of the Holy Synod pays 
fixed salaries to the clergymen and employes of all 
churches which had real estate, or at least, twenty serfs. 
In ease a community wants a larger number of clergy- 
men than the government is bound to pay, it has to 
make satisfactory provision for a sufficient salary. 

Every regiment of the army has its own priest, who 
is under the jurisdiction of the prelate in whose eparehv 
the regiment is stationed. Only in time of war all the 
military priests are placed under the jurisdiction of a su- 
perior priest who is specially appointed for this purpose. 

The bishop has full freedom in appointing the priests 
of all churches which have no patron. In the army no 
priest is to be appointed without the consent of the 
bishop. The children and relatives of a parish priest 
must not. be appointed at the same church. The noble- 
man on whose estate a church has been erected has 
the right of patronage, lie may propose a priest whose 
appointment he desires to the bishop, and without his 
consent no priest can be appointed. In villages the pa- 
trons superintend the church-warden and hold the key 
to the Church treasury. 

(6.) Afonks and Nuns. — All the convents of Russia 
follow the rule of St. Basil. No one can become a monk 
before the fortieth year of age, nor a nun before the 
fiftieth year. Before the year 1830 the thirtieth year 
of age was required for monks. The synod grants, how- 
ever, dispensations in regard to age, especially to young 
men who, after completing their studies at an ecclesi- 
astical academy, desire to enter a convent with a view 
to securing as early as possible an appointment as prel- 
ate, archimandrite, or professor. Children need the con- 
sent of their parents to their entrance into a convent, 
and many legal precautions have been taken to close 
the gates of the convents against persons who are un- 


RUSSIA 


167 


RUSSIA 


willing, or who by entering a convent would violate 
other duties. In those convents which are supported 
by the State the limit of the number of monks is 
fixed by law. The novitiate lasts three years. After 
its termination the permission of the diocesan bishop is 
required for admitting the novices to a preparatory de- 
gree. On this admission they put on the black habit, 
from which the monks have received the name of the 
black clergy. The taking of the monastic vows is con- 
nected with solemn rites. There is a third monastic 
degree, called the “great” or “angelic” habit, but only a 
few monks arc admitted to it. 

Every convent of monks is either under an archi- 
mandrite or an ignmen ; smaller convents are under a 
predstoyatel (president); the female convents arc under 
an igumcna. Formerly the superiors of convents were 
elected by the monks, now they are appointed by the 
Holy Synod. The monks are divided into two classes, 
those who have received the order of priests or dea- 
con and are called yeromonachs and yerodeacons, and 
common monks called monachs. The number of the 
former is only small. The convents are under the su- 
perintendence of the bishop in whose eparchy they are 
situated; only the lauras, a small class of the most 
prominent convents, and the stauropigies, or exempt 
convents, are under the direct jurisdiction of the Holy 
Synod. The present regulations of the Russian con- 
vents date from the time of Peter the Great. By a 
ukase of 1 70 L he abolished the institution of the lay 
brothers, and bound the monks to receive and nurse in- 
valid soldiers and other aged and poor men; the nuns, 
in the same way, were required to receive aged females, 
to educate orphans, and teach female handiwork. The 
regulations are, on the whole, the same as for most of the 
religious orders of the Eastern and Roman Catholic 
churches. The monks are admonished to read often in 
the Bible and to study, and the superiors are required 
to be well versed in the Scriptures and the monastic 
rules. The monks are excluded from pastoral duties; 
only the chaplains of the navy are taken from their 
ranks. The government has established a college for 
this special purpose at Balaklava, in the Crimea. To 
this college monks are called from the various eparchies, 
and the archimandrite of the convent elects from them 
chaplains for the men-of-war. As the monks receive, in 
general, a better education than the secular clergy, the 
professors in the seminaries and ecclesiastical academies 
are generally taken from them. 

The first Russian convents were established during 
the reign of Vladimir the Great, but the cradle of all 
the Russian convents was the Petchersky Laura at 
lvief, which had been founded by Anthony, a monk 
of Mount Athos, during the reign of Yaroslav (1036- 
51). From that time the convents increased rapidly. 
In 1542 Ivan II Vasili vitch forbade, at the Council of 
Moscow, the establishing of a convent without the per- 
mission of the monarch and the diocesan bishop. Peter 
the Great not only forbade bishops and other persons to 
build convents or hermitages, but also ordered the aboli- 
tion of smaller convents and of all hermitages. Catha- 
rine II, in 1704, confiscated the entire property of the 
convents. At the same time many convents were sup- 
pressed, for the empress intended to preserve only the 
most prominent convents in the large cities and those 
that were most celebrated. In consequence of numerous 
petitions addressed to her, the empress allowed the con- 
tinuance of many convents under the condition that 
such convents should support themselves or be support- 
ed by the voluntary offerings of the people. Since that 
time two classes of convents have been distinguished, 
those which are supported by the Economy College and 
those which arc not. The former are, like the eparchies, 
divided into three classes, according to the number of 
inmates and the amount of their salaries. 

4. /Statistics . — The procurator -general of the Holy 
Synod publishes annually an account of the condition 
of the Russian Church. The following facts are taken 


from the report made by the present procurator-general, 
count Tolstoi, on the state of the Church in 1876, and 
published in April, 1878. There were in 1875 in all the 
eparchies, with the exception of the exarchate Grusia, 
the Alexandro-Nevski Laura (convent of the first rank) 
of St. Petersburg, and the Petehayevsk-Uspensky Laura 
at Kief, from which no report had been received. 5G 
archicpiscopal houses and 380 convents of monks, of 
which 1G9 received no support from the State. The 
total number of monks was 10,512, of whom 4G21 were 
serving brothers. Of nunneries there were 147 (forty 
of which derived no support from the State), w'ith 14,574 
nuns, of whom 10,771 were serving sisters. The num- 
ber of cathedral churches, including 57 episcopal church- 
es, 562 chief churches of cities, 3 army cathedrals, and 3 
navy cathedrals, w-as G25; of other churches, 39,338; of 
chapels and oratories, 13,594. Of the churches, 227 par- 
ish churches are reported to belong to Raskolniks. The 
total number of the secular clergy, which includes the 
sextons, was 98,802. In the course of the year 187G, 
323 churches and 170 chapels and oratories were built. 
There w r cre 87 hospitals with 1192 inmates, and G05 
poorhouses with G7G3 inmates. The number of persons 
received into the Russian Church was 12,340, embracing 
1192 Roman Catholics, 516 United Greeks, 8 Armenians, 
G88 Protestants, 2539 Raskolniks, or Old Believers (1498 
completely united with the Russian Church, and 1041 re- 
served the use of the ancient canons), 450 Jew's, 219 Mo- 
hammedans, and G728 pagans. The number of divorces 
w r as 1023 ; in 29 cases the cause was remarriage of the one 
party during the lifetime of the other; in 2, too close con- 
sanguinity; in 15, impotence; in 80, adultery; inG50, the 
unknown residence of one party; in 247, the condemna- 
tion of one party to forced labor or exile. The institu- 
tions for the education of the clergy, with the number 
of their teachers and pupils, were as follows: 


Institutions. 

j Number. 

Teachers. 

Pupils. 

Academies I 

4 

131 

f>86 , 

Seminaries 

f>3 

8SS 

12.401 

Schools 1 

1 IStt 

1(523 

27,Sf>5 

Total | 

243 

2042 

40,842 | 


The number of schools connected with churches and 
monasteries was G811, with an aggregate of 197,191 pu- 
pils, of whom 170,4G1 w r ere male and 26,730 female. 
The number of Church libraries was 15,770 ; the number 
of new libraries established in the course of the year, 
235. The Church property under the administration 
of the procurator-general amounted, on Jan. 1, 1877, to 
26,855.858 rubles. The population connected with the 
Orthodox Russian Church, w'ith the exception of three 
Asiatic eparchies, the exarchate Grusia, and the army 
and navy, from which no reports had been received, 
amounted to 57,701,660. Adding an estimate of the 
Orthodox population in the districts above named, the 
total population of the Orthodox Russian Church was 
in 1876 about GO, 100,000. The Orthodox Church pre- 
vails in each of the sixty governments into which Eu- 
ropean Russia is divided, except sixteen, of which twelve 
are chiefly inhabited by Roman Catholics, three by 
Protestants, and one by Mohammedans. Of the total 
Orthodox population about 54,900,000 live in European 
Russia, 2,100,000 in Caucasia, 3,000.000 in Siberia, and 
270,000 in Central Asia. The grand-duchy of Finland 
has about 37,000 adherents of the Russian Church. Out- 
side of Russia the Russian Church has established mis- 
sions in China and Japan which are reported as making 
satisfactory progress, and as counting in each country a 
population of about 5000 souls. 

II. Other Christian Churches. — While nearly the 
entire population in those provinces which have not 
been under anv other than Russian rule belong to the 
Greek Church, the empire has received a large Roman 
Catholic population by the partition of Poland, and a 
considerable Protestant population by the annexation 
of the Baltic provinces. The conquest of Erivan in 


RUSSIA 


168 


RUSSIA 


1828 placed under Russian rule not only a considerable ] 
portion of the Armenian Church, but the seat of its head, 
the catholicos of Etchmiadzin. 

1. Roman Catholics. — Until 1042 no provision had 
been made for the few Roman Catholics living in the 
Russian dominions. In 1642 the Italian embassy to 
Moscow was attended by a Jesuit, who was followed by 
twenty Capuchin monks and a prefect. From 1705 to 
1715 several other Jesuits were sent to Russia, and a 
college was established bv them at Minsk. Pius VI 
sent a legate to St. Petersburg, and placed under his ju- 
risdiction the missions of that city, Moscow, Riga, and 
Reval. As the provinces which were incorporated with 
Russia at the first partition of Poland contained a con- 
siderable Catholic population, Catharine 11 concluded 
to erect a bishopric of the Latin rite for her Catholic 
subjects. This led to the establishment of the arch- 
bishopric of Mohilev, which was confirmed in 1783 by 
Pius VI. By the second and third partitions of Poland, 
a number of episcopal sees fell under Russian rule, all 
of which, except that of Livonia, were abolished by 
Catharine II, who, instead, erected two new ones. Paul 
I came to an understanding with the pope about a reor- 
ganization of the Catholic Church in the new Russian 
provinces, and accordingly, in 1797, the following dio- 
ceses were organized: Mohilev, archbishopric; and Sa- 
mogitia, Wilna, Luzk, Kaininiec, and Minsk, bishoprics. 
All these dioceses received a new circumscription by 
the concordat of Aug. 3, 1847. By the same concordat 
a sixth episcopal see of Kherson, or Tiraspol, was erected 
for the Catholics in the southern provinces of European 
Russia and in the Caucasus. The archbishop of Mohi- 
lev is president of the Roman Catholic academy, a kind 
of central or general seminary for all the Catholic dio- 
ceses above referred to. The constitution of this acad- 
emy is almost the same as that of the four academies 
of the Orthodox Russian Church already referred to. 
The diocese of Mohilev embraces all those parts of Rus- 
sia proper (exclusive of the former kingdom of Poland) 
which do not belong to one of the six dioceses which 
have been mentioned, also the Catholics of Finland. 
Besides the archbishopric of Mohilev, Russia has in the 
former kingdom of Poland the ecclesiastical province of 
Warsaw, embracing the archbishopric of Warsaw and 
the bishoprics of Cracow, Lublin, Yanov or Podlachia, 
Sendomir, Seyna or Angnstovo, and Vladislav-Kalish or 
Kuyavia. This ecclesiastical organization of Poland 
dates from the papal bull of June 30, 1818, and was con- 
firmed by another concordat concluded in 1847. The Rus- 
sian government has pursued, with regard to the Cath- 
olic Church of Poland, the same policy as that with regard 
to the Russian State Church. The Church property was 
confiscated, and, in return, the clergy were paid and the 
buildings maintained by the government. The number 
of convents w’as greatly reduced, and the remaining ones 
placed under almost the same regulations as those of the 
Orthodox Russian Church. As the Russian government, 
in many cases, carried through new regulations in re- 
gard to the Roman Catholic Church without having 
come to a previous understanding with the pope, fre- 
quent conflicts between Russia and the pope have been 
the consequence. In 1878 the diplomatic relations be- 
tween Russia and Rome were still interrupted. The 
active part which a number of the Catholic clergy in 
the Polish districts have always taken in the national 
movements of the Poles against the Russian rule has 
naturally added to the unfriendly feelings which have 
generally prevailed between Russia and the Roman 
Catholic Church. Notwithstanding these incessant con- 
flicts, the immense majority of the total population of 
the former kingdom of Poland has remained in connec- 
tion with the Roman Catholic Church. In 1878 the 
Roman Catholics there were reported as numbering 
4,597,000 in a total population of 5,210,000, while the 
Orthodox Russian Church had only a population num- 
bering 34,135 souls. 

Exclusive of the kingdom of Poland, Russia proper 


| in Europe had a Roman Catholic population of 2.898,000 
i souls; in Caucasia, 25,916; in Siberia, 24,316; in Cen- 
tral Asia, 1316. Only in two governments did they 
form a majority of the total population — in Kovno, 
where they constitute 79.5 per cent., and in Wilna, 
where they constitute 61 per cent. 

Besides the Roman Catholic population of the Latin 
rite, the Polish provinces had formerly a large popula- 
tion belonging to the United Greek Church. Nearly 
the whole of this population has been induced by the 
Russian government, in the manner already referred to, 
to unite with the Russian Church, and to sever its con- 
nection with Rome. The Russian government in 1879 
reported the Church as nearly extinct. The United 
Armenians are estimated at about 33,000. They have 
no bishops of their own, but are under the jurisdiction 
of the Catholic bishops of the Latin rite. 

2. Protestants. — By far the most numerous among 
the Protestant sects represented in Russia are the Lu- 
therans, who, in the Baltic provinces, constitute a con- 
siderable majority of the entire population ; besides them, 
there are Reformed, Mennonites, Moravians, and Bap- 
tists. 

(1.) The Lutherans . — Until Peter the Great, Russia 
had no Protestant congregation outside of Moscow. By 
the acquisition of the Baltic provinces and of Finland, 
a numerous Lutheran population was placed under Rus- 
sian rule. The Russian government did not interfere 
with their Church constitution. The affairs of the Lu- 
theran Church were superintended by the St. Peters- 
burg College of Justice, and the administration of the 
several sections was carried on by consistories. In 1810 
the Lutheran, with all other non-Russian churches, was 
placed under the Ministry of Ecclesiastical Affairs; in 
1832, under the Ministry of the Interior. In 1829 a 
committee was appointed in St. Petersburg to draft a 
new Church constitution, with the greatest possible re- 
gard for the existing institutions of the Church. As a 
fruit of the activity of this committee, a law was pub- 
lished in 1832 for the Evangelical Lutheran Church of 
Russia, an instruction of the clergy and Church boards, 
and an agenda for the congregations. All these laws, 
however, were only intended for Russia proper, not for 
the grand-duchy of Finland. The clergy and the teach- 
ers of theology and religion have to bind themselves by 
an oath to adhere to the symbolical books. The mem- 
bers of the Church are required to go at least once a 
year to the Lord’s supper. Marriages with pagans are 
forbidden, but with Jews and Mohammedans permitted. 
Candidates for the ministry have to pass two examina- 
tions — one before the theological faculty at Dorpat, and 
the other before the consistory — ere they are allowed to 
preach. A third examination has to be passed before 
they can be appointed. The appointment is at first for 
only one, two, or three years; after the expiration of 
which a new colloquium is required. A number of 
parishes are united into a district, at the head of which 
is a prohst (provost). There is no difference of degree 
between the titles of superintendent and superintendent- 
general, but the name of superintendency -general is 
given to the larger consistorial districts. The title of 
bishop, which was introduced in 1819, is only honorary, 
and does not denote a distinct office. The superintend- 
ents are the organs of the consistories: they examine 
the candidates, ordain the preachers, and visit the prov- 
osts; only in exceptional cases the pastors. For this 
office of a provost all the preachers of a district propose 
two candidates, and the appointment is made by the 
State ministry upon the recommendation of the con- 
sistory. For the superintendent’s office two candidates 
are presented : in Riga and Reval by the magistrate, in 
Moscow and St. Petersburg by the General Consistory, 
in the other consistories by the nobility. The appoint- 
ments are made by the emperor. There are eight con- 
sistories: St. Petersburg, Livonia, Courland, Esthonia, 
Moscow, Oesel, Riga, and Reval. The consistories are 
composed of an equal number of clerical and lay mem- 


RUSSIA 


169 


RUSSIA 


bers, and presided over by a layman. All the members 
must belong to the Lutheran Church. The superin- 
tendent is the vice-president. The consistories have 
jurisdiction in all matrimonial affairs. As the members 
do not reside in the same place, plenary meetings are 
only called at intervals for disposing of the more impor- 
tant affairs, while ordinary matters are treated by a 
committee. The General Consistory of St. Petersburg 
is the central Church board and court of appeal in mat- 
rimonial affairs. It is composed of deputies who meet 
twice a year in St. Petersburg, and are elected for a 
term of three years. Candidates for this office are nom- 
inated in a similar manner to those for the office of su- 
perintendent. The election of one of the candidates is 
made by the ministry, upon the recommendation of the 
General Consistory. The presidents are appointed by 
the emperor. Preachers’ synods are held in all the con- 
sistorial districts, and one half of the clergy are always 
required to be present. A Lutheran general synod is 
to be convoked from time to time as a deliberating 
assembly. It consists of clerical and lay delegates, who 
are partly chosen by the consistories, and partly elected 
by the consistorial districts. The candidates for the 
ministry receive their theological education at the Uni- 
versity of Dorpat. The total number of Lutherans 
amounts to about 2,400,000 in Russia proper, to 300,000 
in Poland, and to 12,000 in Asia. 

(2.) The Reformed Church . — The membership of this 
Church in all Russia does not exceed 200,000, about one 
half of whom live in Lithuania, in the governments of 
Wilna and Grodno. Lithuania is divided into four dis- 
tricts, at the head of each of which are a superintendent 
and vice-superintendent. Annually a synod is held, 
which lasts from three to four weeks. This synod gov- 
erns the Reformed Church of Lithuania, under the su- 
perintendence of the State ministers. 

(3.) Other Protestant Denominations. — The Mennon- 
ites have established a number of flourishing colonies 
in Tauris (where they numbered in 1876 about 15,000 
souls), and on the Volga. Quite recently, when the 
Russian government had revoked their exemption from 
military service, they began to emigrate to the United 
States. 

The Moravians have in Livonia and Esthonia prosper- 
ous societies, with more than 250 chapels and above 
60,000 members. In accordance with the general char- 
acter of the Moravian societies in the diaspora, the 
members do not sever their connection with the State 
churches. See Moravians. 

The German Baptists have recently established some 
missions, chiefly among the Germans of Russia, and 
they report encouraging progress. 

3. The Gregorian Armenian Church. — By the con- 
quest of the Persian province of Erivan in 1828 the head 
of the Armenian Church, the catholicos of Etchmiad- 
zin, became a subject of Russia. When the catholicos 
Ephrem died, in 1830, the emperor of Russia, who was 
desirous of restoring the ancient order of election, de- 
creed to leave the election to all the clergymen, and to 
the most distinguished lay members of the Armenian 
Church, and that in future also members of the same 
Church in other states might be admitted. A new 
regulation for the government of the Armenian Church 
was drawn up by the St. Petersburg Department of the 
Ecclesiastical Affairs of Foreign Creeds, on the basis of 
propositions submitted by two commissions, one con- 
sisting of prominent Armenian clergymen and laymen 
at Tiflis, and the other consisting of Russian officers at 
St. Petersburg. The draft was examined and com- 
mented upon by the commander-in-chief of the Trans- 
caucasian provinces, and sanctioned by the emperor in 
March, 1836. This new regulation is divided into ten 
chapters, of which six relate to the administration of 
eparchies and convents, while the first four treat of the 
administration of the Armenian Church of Russia in 
general. According to the first chapter, the Armenian 
Church and the Armenian clergy enjoy equal rights 


with those of other foreign (non-Rnssian) creeds. The 
clergy are free from taxes and corporal punishments. 
The second chapter treats of the privileges and jurisdic- 
tion of the catholicos. For this office the clergy and 
the notables of the nation are to propose several candi- 
dates, one of whom is to be appointed by the emperor. 
The catholicos has the right to send a deputy to the 
coronation of the emperor. On leaving the palace, he 
is accompanied by an honorary guard of Armenians, lie 
has the exclusive privilege of preparing and consecrating 
the holy oil, and of selling it to all Armenian churches. 
The third chapter refers to the synod, which constitutes 
the council of the catholicos, but with only a delibera- 
tive vote. The synod consists of a number of promi- 
nent ecclesiastical dignitaries, who are proposed by the 
patriarch and appointed by the emperor. An imperial 
procurator is appointed at Etchmiadzin, as also at the 
seats of the supreme ecclesiastical authorities of other 
foreign creeds. The fourth chapter provides that the 
archbishops and bishops be solely appointed by the ca- 
tholicos, and that they be responsible for the adminis- 
tration of their eparchies both to the catholicos and to 
the emperor. The number of eparchies which recognise 
the authority of the catholicos amounts to about forty, 
but only six are situated within the Russian empire, 
namely, Astrakhan, Erivan, Grnsia, Nachitshevan, Ka- 
rabagh, and Shirvan. See also Armenian Church. 
The number of Gregorian Armenians in 1878, as report- 
ed by the Russian government, was 38,720 in Europe- 
an Russia, 595,310 in Caucasia, 15 in Siberia, and 1 in 
Central Asia. 

III. Non-Christian Religions . — 1. Jews. — For the edu- 
cation of Jewish rabbins, Rabbinical schools have been 
established by the government at Wilna and Shitomir. 
The government also supports Jewish schools at Odessa, 
Kishinef, Vinnica, Stara-Constantinof, and Berditchef. 
The number of Jews of Russia proper in Europe was 
stated to be, in 1878, 1,944,378; in Poland, 815,433; in 
Caucasia, 22,732; in Siberia, 11,941; in Central Asia, 
3396. 

2. Mohammedans. — The Mohammedan population 
has rapidly increased by the progress of the Russians in 
Central Asia. It now amounts to about 7,500,000, of 
whom 2,364,000 are found in Russia proper in Europe, 
426 in Poland, 1,987,000 in Caucasia, 61,000 in Siberia, 
and 3,016,000 in Central Asia. The Mohammedans 
even constitute a majority of the population in one of 
the European governments — Oofa. There are about 
20,000 muftis, mollahs, and teachers, all of whom, ex- 
cept those of Tauris and the Kirghis Cossacks, are sub- 
ject to the mufti of Orenburg. 

Lutherans and Roman Catholics are forbidden to con- 
vert to Christianity a Mohammedan who is a Russian 
subject, while a non-Russian Mohammedan may be re- 
ceived into anv of the Christian churches permitted in 
the empire. These laws have been very strictly exe- 
cuted. On several occasions Tartars who had em- 
braced Christianity and had afterwards returned to 
their original faith were punished by imprisonment, 
while no attention was paid to the excuse that the re- 
lapse had been occasioned by an unbearable pressure 
exercised by Orthodox priests, as well as by their ava- 
riciousness. On the other hand, the government aids 
the Orthodox clergy in every possible manner in their 
efforts to convert the unfaithful. In Kasan, one of the 
principal seats of the Mohammedan population of Euro- 
pean Russia, the Brotherhood of St. Gnrij was formed in 
1870 for the purpose of converting the Mohammedans 
and pagans on the Volga. This brotherhood had es- 
tablished up to 1874 115 schools with their own means, 
which were attended by 1992 male and 339 female Tar- 
tars, besides members of other nationalities. The civil 
rights of the Mohammedans are, like those of the Jews, 
limited by special laws. They are, indeed, eligible to 
municipal and government offices under the same con- 
ditions as Christians; but in city councils, e. g., the non- 
Christian members must not exceed one third of the 


RUSSIA 


170 


RUSSIA 


total number of members, while the office of mayor is 
entirely closcil to them. The criminal statistics are 
particularly interesting. Among all the inhabitants of 
the empire, the Mohammedans occupy the lowest rank 
with regard to the more serious crimes, there being but 
one conviction among 5770 Mohammedans against ‘2710 
Orthodox Christians. With regard to the less serious 
offences, the Mohammedans occupy the fifth rank; but 
even this unfavorable relation is caused by the numer- 
ous convictions for evasion of military duty. Theft, 
however, is also of common occurrence among them. 
The Mohammedans are generally very prompt in ob- 
serving their duties to the State, with the exception of 
those arising from the general liability to military ser- 
vice. The service in the regular army is to this day so 
unpopular among the Tartars of the Crimea that in 1876 
the government was forced to take severe measures to 
prevent a wholesale emigration to Turkey. An official 
report states that the Tartars feared, above all things, 
that they would be forced to fight against their co- 
religionists the Turks, and that they would be compel- 
led to eat pork, which is to them worse than death. 
Hut even before the declaration of war against Turkey, 
and during this war, the excitement was said to have 
subsided, and they were, with a few exceptions, loyal. 
The same was the case with the Mohammedans in Asi- 
atic Russia. In matters pertaining to their religion, the 
Mohammedans are granted complete liberty, although 
the government takes care to be informed on the entire 
pei'sonnel of the clergy, their actions, etc. 

The highest Moslem ecclesiastical body in the gov- 
ernments of European Russia is the Mohammedan Ec- 
clesiastical College of Ool’a. This college is elected, and 
fills all offices under its jurisdiction without the neces- 
sity of obtaining the consent of the government. For 
the Mohammedan clergy of Central Asia, the cities of 
Bokhara and Samarcand are to this day centres of 
learning, and the heads of the institutions of learning 
at these places are regarded as the preservers of the true 
faith. The colleges for theology and .Mohammedan law 
(niadrassa. or niedresseh) number several hundred. (In 
European Russia there are two hundred and fifty, of 
which several are attended by hundreds of students.) 
In these colleges, Mohammedan science flourishes, with- 
out ever having been touched by so much as a breath of 
Western culture. The government docs not interfere 
in any manner in the inner affairs of these schools; 
does not oppose a journey to Mecca; and even permits 
priests (mollahs) who have finished their education in 
Constantinople, Arabia, or Egypt to hold a position 
upon their return to Russia. It was found that the 
ulemas (the learned men) connected with the mosques 
or schools readily submit to any government, as this 
alone could secure to them the use of their legacies 
( vahif ), their main source of income. Those brethren, 
however, who have had themselves declared saints have 
become in all Mohammedan countries a perfect nuisance, 
and the sworn enemies of a well-regulated government. 
The title of saint (ishan) is easily obtained. The mo- 
tives to obtain it are, however, very frequently the most 
dishonorable, while the saints themselves in many cases 
bear a very poor reputation. In Central Asia, the ma- 
jority of robberies are committed by the saints, and 
they are therefore avoided hv the stationary popula- 
tion. The nomads, on the other hand, receive them 
with open arms, and here, among the roving sons of the 
steppe, they find their true home. The Russian gov- 
ernment at first did not oppose them. The decrees of 
1781 and 1785, on the contrary, opened to them the 
newly acquired Kirghis steppes. Their influence here 
was a very pernicious one. The government, however, 
treats them at present more strictly. In 1873 a case 
occurred in Orenburg where such a saint was banished 
to a government having no Mohammedan inhabitants. 
In the same manner, the Russian government proceeded 
against the saints in the Caucasus, while in Turkestan it 
watches the fanatical order of Xakshbandi very closely. 


The popular school system among the Mohammedans 
was entirely reorganized by an imperial decree of .Nov. 
20, 1874. This decree placed the schools of the Tartars, 
the Bashkirs, and Kirghis under the imperial ministry 
of education, which informed its subordinates of this 
act as follows: “The subordination of the Tartar non- 
Russian schools under this ministry is not only im- 
portant in an educational, but also in a political, point 
of view. The Mussulmans’ schools have been, up to tin's 
time, without any government supervision, and there- 
fore promoted among the people an anti-Russian senti- 
ment and a fanaticism which prevented the assimila- 
tion of the Tartar, etc., with the other inhabitants of 
Russia.” According to Mohammedan views, every mul- 
lah is at the same time a teacher, while the school is near 
the mosque. Through these schools, the mollahs en- 
deavor to bring their community under their influence, 
and to keep them away from their Russian neighbors. 
They are also decidedly opposed to any government 
supervision of the schools. The government at first 
tried to establish teachers’ seminaries for the education 
of teachers in these schools; and the decree of 1870, 
which ordered the establishment of these seminaries, 
provided, in order to do away with all prejudices, that 
the teachers of the Russian language should be, as far 
as possible, Mohammedans, and the mollahs be permit- 
ted to attend all the lessons, so that they might con- 
vince themselves that nothing objectionable was taught. 
Even now the teachers in the madrassas of the principal 
cities, like Kasan, speak Russian fluently, although they 
are all Mohammedans. The authorities are also active- 
ly engaged in the preparation of reading-books contain- 
ing, besides tales and fables, incidents from Russian his- 
tory, as well as facts from geography and natural his- 
tory. This is a decided improvement, as according to 
all authorities, like Shaw, Lerch, and Vambery, the en- 
tire Turkish-Tartaric literature breathes “a spirit of re- 
ligious mysticism, rose-colored sensual love, and reck- 
less bravery emanating from the most bitter hate of the 
unbelievers.” Even such an old library as that of Ka- 
san is completely wanting in works on the history and 
geography of Mohammedan countries; but it is ex- 
pected that this want will be relieved in time by the 
Mohammedan students in the Russian high and second- 
ary schools. In 1871 the Oriental faculty of the Uni- 
versity of St. Petersburg was attended by thirty- six 
students. In the same year there were ninety-two Mo- 
hammedan students in the Russian gymnasia, of which 
the educational district of Kasan, with its forty-three 
per cent, of the total Mohammedan population, had for- 
ty-seven. 

3. Pagans. — The number of pagans in European 
Turkey is 258,125; in Poland, 245; in Caucasia, 4083 ; 
in Siberia, 286,016; in Central Asia, 14,740. 

IV. Literature. — On the history of the Russian Church, 
see Monravieff, History of the Russian Church (transl. by 
Blackmore [1842] to the year 1710), vol. i ; Strahl, Bci - 
trage zur russischen Kirchengeschichte (1827), vol. i; 
id. Geschichte der russischen Kirelie ( 3830), vol. i; 
Schmitt, Die morgenliindisch -griech isch -russische Kirche 
(1826); id. Kritisehe Geschichte der neugriech. mid der 
russischen Kirche (1840); Neale, History of the Holy 
Eastern Church (1850) ; Stanley, History of the Eastern 
Church (1862); Theiner, Die St a at shir che Russhinds 
(1853); Gallitzin [prince A.], L'Eglise Greco - Russe 
(1861); Boissard, L'Eglise de Russie (1867, 2 vols.); 
Philaret [archbishop of Tchernigoff], Geschichte dir 
Kirche Russhinds (Germ, transl. by Blumenthal, 1872); 
Ilasaroff, Russische Orthodoxe Kirche (1873); also the 
Occasional Papers of the Eastern Church Association 
of the Church of England and the Protestant Episcopal 
Church in the United States (published in New York 
and London since 1864). The doctrine of the Orthodox 
Eastern Church as taught in Russia is set forth in the 
catechisms of the metropolitans Plato and Philaret of 
Moscow. An English translation of the larger cate- 
chism of Philaret was published by Blackmore (1845). 


RUSSIA, VERSIONS OF 171 RUSSIA, VERSIONS OF 


and republished in Schaff, Creeds of Christendom (1877), 
vol. ii. See also Guettee [a Gallican priest who joined 
the Russian Church], Exposition de la Doctrine de VEylise 
Cath. Orthodoxe de Russ. (1866) ; Procopowicz, Theologia 
Christiana Orthodoxa (1773-75), 5 vols, ; abridg. (1802). 
On the rites and ceremonies of the Russian Church, see 
King [Anglican chaplain in St. Petersburg], The Rites 
and the Ceremonies of the Greek Church in Russia (1772) ; 
Mouravieff, Lettres a an A mi sur VOffice Divin (French 
trails!, by prince Gallitzin). On the constitution and 
present condition of the Church, see Silbernagl, Verfass- 
nng und gegenwdrtiger Bestand sanimtlicher Kirchen des 
Orients (1865); Neher, Kir chi. Statistik (1865), vol. ii. 
The latest statistics of the Church arc found in the an- 
nual reports of the procurator- general. A full statis- 
tical account of all the religious denominations of the 
empire is found in the Statistical Year-book of the Rus- 
sian Empire (in the Russian language [St. Petersburg, 
1871]), vol. ii. (A. J. S.) 

Russia, Versions of, or, rather, Versions in the 
Languages of Russia. The praise which has been 
awarded to ancient Thebes on the Nile by calling it 
ticaToyn-vXog, “ the hundred-gated,” may be also given 
to Russia, which, in its geographical dimensions, variety 
of races, multiplicity of population, and diversity of lan- 
guages, is a world in itself, and baffles and bewilders the 
mind at the bare conception that the millions that owe 
allegiance to the throne of the czar are to be furnished 
with the Word of God in their own vernaculars. Ac- 
cording to the geographical position, we get the follow- 
ing linguistic groups: 

I. East Siberian , or Eastern Group: 
a, Jnkagir; 6, Tchuksht and Coreak; c, Kamlchatkan ; 
</, Giliak. 

II. (A.) A Itaic Group : 

n, Tuugusiau; 6, Mantchu; c, Aino, or Kurile; d, Aleu- 
tian. 

(B.) Mongolian Languages: 
a, Mongol ; b , Buriat ; c, Kalmuck. 

(C.) Tartar: 

a, Jakut; 6, Siberian Tartar ; c, Kirghise Tartar; d, Bash- 
kir and Meshtcherik ; e, Nogaian and Kiimiik ; /, Turkme- 
nian ; g, Aderbedshan ; h, Ivazau Tartar ; i, Tchnvash. 

(D.) Samoiede: 

a , Jarak ; b, Tawgy, Samoiede. 

(E.) Finnish Family: 
a, Ugrian. 
a , Ostjak; b, Wogul. 

/3, Bulgarian. 

a, Tcheremissiaii ; 6, Mordniu. 
y, Permian. 

a, Permian ; b, Sirenian ; c , Wotjakian. 

5, Finnish Branch: 

а , Finnish in the narrower sense, with 

1, Carelian ; 2, Tschudian ; 3, Wotian ; 4, Olonetzinn. 

б, Esthonian; c, Livian; d, Krewingiau; e, Lappouese. 

III. Jeniscan Group: 

a , Jeniseo, Ostjakian ; 6, Kottian. 

IV. Caucasian Group: 

a , Georgic; 6, Lesghic; c, Rislic; d t Tclierkess Families 

V. Shemitic Group: 
a, Hebrew ; b , Arabic. 

VI. Asiatic Group: 

n, Persian ; b, Kurdish ; c, Armenian ; tf, Ossitirian. 

VII. European Group: 

(A.) Slavonic Family. 

a , Russian ; 5, Polish ; c, Servian ; d, Tschechian ; e, Bul- 
garian. 

(B.) Lithuanian Family, 
a, Lithuanian and Satnogitinu ; 6, Lettish. 

(C.) Germanic Family. 

a, German ; 6, Eiigli-h ; c, Swedish ; d, Dntch. 

(/>.) Graeco-Latin Family. 

a, Greek ; b, Albanian ; c, Latin ; d, Italian ; e, French ; /, 
Ron man. 

Tliese are the representatives of the Russian empire. 
As to the versions made for these different families, only 
a few enjoy this privilege. Following our table, we 
must pass over the East Siberians, or Eastern Group, as 
none of these people, who are but partially Christians, 
have the Scriptures in their vernacular. The same I 


must be said of the Ain os, or Kuriles, belonging to the 
Altaic, and of a great many others belonging to the 
other groups. For a better view, we will speak of the 
different versions in alphabetical order; and with the 
help of the linguistic table the reader will be easily 
guided as to which family the respective version be- 
longs to. As the most important versions have either 
been given already, or will be given, in this Cyclopedia. 
the reader will be referred to them. 

1. Albanian. 

2. Aleutian is the language of the inhabitants of the 
Aleutian Islands. For the most part, they belong to the 
Greek Church, which had the Gospel of St. Matthew print- 
ed lor them in the Aleutian, according to the translation 
prepared by priest John VeniaminoflVin the year 1840, in 
parallel columns with the Russian version. 

3. Arabic. 

4. Armenian. 

5. Bulgarian. See Si.avonio Versions. 

6. Buriat. The Buriats, residing on Lake Baikal, and 
numbering about 150,000 individuals, are Lamaists; some 
are Christians. At a very early time, prince Gallitzin, pres- 
ident of the Russian Bible Society, wrote to the governor 
of Irkutsk, requesting him to send two learned Buriats to 
St. Petersburg for the purpose of assisting Dr. Schmidt in 
the translation of the New Test. Two saisangs, or Buriat 
nobles, accordingly repaired to Sr. Petersburg, and, with 
the consent of their prince and lama, engaged in the work 
of translation. The Divine Word was blessed in their 
conversion, and in a letter addressed to their chief they 
avowed their faith in Jesus. In ISIS the Gospel of St. 
Matthew Was published, which was soon followed by oth- 
er parts of the New Test. Since 1840 the British and For- 
eign Bible Society possesses a translation of the entire Bi- 
ble, which was prepared at the expense of that society. 

7. Dutch. 

S. English. 

9. Esihonian. Esthonia is a maritime government in 
the north-west of European Russia, and forms one of the 
Baltic provinces. The language is spoken in two dia- 
lects — the Dorpat and Reval Esthonian. The former is 
spoken in South Esthonia, and the latter prevails in the 
North. Almost all the Esthouians are of the Lutheran 
persuasion. As early as 16S6 they received the entire New 
Test, in the Esthonian language, translated by John Fisch- 
er, a German professor of divinity and general superinten- 
dent of Livonia. This translation was executed at the 
command of Charles XI. A version of the Old Test., made 
by the same translator, aided by Gosekeuius, appeared in 
4to in 16S9 ; but it is uncertain in which dialect these early 
versions were written, although it was understood through- 
out Esthonia. Later versions considered both dialects, 
and thus we have two versions — the Reval Esthonian 
(q. v.) and the Dorpat Esthonian. As to the latter dialect, 
a New Test, was printed in Riga in 1727, which edition 
was soon exhausted. In 1S15, through the exertions of 
Dr. Paterson, 5000 copies of the New Test, were printed 
by the British and Foreign Bible Societ}'; and in 1824 the 
Russian Bible Society had SOOo copies printed, while an- 
other edition was undertaken in 1836 by the Dorpat Bible 
Society. In the same year a version of the Psalms, trans- 
lated from the Hebrew by the Rev. Ferdinand Meyer, of 
Caroleu, was printed by the aid of the parent society, and 
the number of copies of the New Test, together with the 
Psalms which has been distributed is, according to the 
last report of the British and Foreign Bible Society (1S78), 
35,000. 

10. Finnish. As early as 1548 the New Test, was pub- 
lished at Stockholm. This version was made by Michael 
Agricola, rector, and afterwards bishop of Abo, a friend 
of Luther. In 1644 the entire Bible was published under 
the patronage of queen Christina, to whom the work was 
also dedicated. Editions of the New Test, from the text 
of queen Christina’s version appeared in 1732, 1740, 1774, 
and 1776. In 1S11 the British and Foreigu Bible Society 
commenced its operations in Finland, and a Bible society 
was formed at Abo. In 1815 an edition of 8000 copies of 
the New Test, was published at Abo, and in the following 
year 5000 copies of the entire Bible left the press in Abo. 
A quarto edition of the entire Bible, aided by a grant from 
the British and Foreign Bible Society, was completed in 
1827, but the extensive fire which broke out in the same 
year at Abo destroyed this edition (consisting of 7500 cop- 
ies). In consequence, another edition of 5000 copies of 
the New Test, was immediately undertaken by the same 
society: and this edition was completed at Stockholm in 
1829. In 1S32 the Bible Society of Abo was again in active 
operation, and new editions of the entire Bible, as well as 
of the New Test., left the press. Apart from the Finnish 
edition printed at. Abo, the St. Petersburg Society under- 
took some editions for the purpose of supplying the Finns 
in their own neighborhood. The New Test, was printed 
in 1S14 and agaiii in 1822, and the entire Bible was com- 
pleted in 1817. Many large editions of the Scriptures have 
subsequently been issued bv the joint agency of the Fin- 
nish and the British and Foreign Bible societies. Ac- 
cording to the latest report for 187S, the former society 


172 


RUSSIAN SECTS 


RUSSIA, VERSIONS OF 

had issued since its formation 239,273, and the latter 409,743 
copies of the Holy Scriptures. 

11. French. 

12. Georgian. By way of supplement we will add that 
in 1S76 the British and Foreign Bible Society decided to 
print an edition of the Four Gospels, the work being 
done at Till is. 

13. German. 

14. Greek. 

15. Hebrew Xeiv Testament. 

16. Italian. 

17. Judceo - Arabic. 

IS. Judceo- German. 

19. Judceo- Per sic. 

20. Judceo- Polish is a language spoken by the Polish 
Jews, consisting principally of Old German with a mixt- 
ure of Hebraisms, or at least phrases peculiar to the Jews, 
with very little Polish in it. In 1S20 a translation of the 
New Test, into this language was undertaken by the Lon- 
don Society for Promoting Christianity among the Jews. 
An edition was published in 1S21 by the British and For- 
eign Bible Society, the characters being the so-called Rab- 
binic. A new edition in the Hebrew square letters was 
published by the Loudon society in 1S09, while in lS72the 
British and Foreign Bible Society undertook a new edi- 
tion in the pointed Hebrew characters, edited by P. Iler- 
shon, which was completed in 1878. 

21. Kalnmckian. For the Kalmucks near the month of 
the Volga, N1 r. Neitz, a missionary of the Moravian Breth- 
ren, at the begiuniug of this century undertook the work 
of translation, which was continued by Dr. Schmidt, whose 
version of St. Matthew was printed at St. Petersburg at the 
expense of the British and Foreign Bible Society. This is 
the only part which bas been translated. 

22. Karaite-Tartar. 

23. Karelian is the language of a people dwelling in the 
government of Tver, in European Russia. As early as the 
12th century they joined the Church of Rome, but in a bull 
published March 14, 1351, by Clement IV, we are told that 
they were obliged to join the Greek Church, to which they 
still belong. In 1S20 the Russian Bible Society published 
the Gospel according to St. Matthew for the benefit of this 
tribe in the modern Russian characters. 

24. Kirghisian. The Kirghise, belonging to the Tartar- 
ic tribes, are the most numerous, their number being given 
as about 1,500,000. At the expense of the Russian Bible 
Society at Astrachan, the New Test, was translated in ISIS 
by Mr. Charles Frazer, a Scottish missionary. Since this 
mission was abandoned, nothing has beeu done for the 
circulation of the Word of God among this people. 

25. Kurdish. See Slavonic Versions. 

26. Lapponese. 

27. Latin’. 

I»: uultnj S** S'-*'™ 10 Veus.ons. 

30. Manch r t. 

31. Mordvinian. The Mordnins occupy a locality lower 
down the Volga, and their number is, on good authority, 
supposed to approach 400,000. They are divided into two 
tribes— the Mokshans and Ersans. The Russian Bible So- 
ciety translated the New Test, into their language, but the 
dissolution of that society brought the work ton termina- 
tion. 

82. OUmetzian, which is a sub-dialect of Karelian, had a 
small portion of the Scriptures translated into that dialect. 
A specimen of this translation was sent in 1820 to Tver to 
be compared with the dialect spoken in that government, 
but the suspension of the Russian Bible Society arrested 
the progress of this undertaking. 

33. Ostjakian is a dialect spoken by one of the most nu- 
merous tribes in Siheria. A translation of the Gospel of 
St. Matthew into this vernacular exists in a collection at 
London, prepared at the expense of prince Lueieu Bona- 
parte. 

34. Ossitinian is the language spoken by the Ossetes, 
who inhabit the central part of Caucasus, north of Geor- 
gia. In 1752 Russian priests established a missiou among 
them, and in 1S21 upwards of 30,000 Ossetes had joined the 
Greek Church. Among the converts was also a nobleman 
of the name of Jalguside, who, being anxious to provide 
his countrymen with a version of the Scriptures in their 
own tongue, proposed to the committee of the Russian 
Bible Society to prepare a translation of the gospels in 
the Ossitinian dialect. The proposition was accepted, and 
in 1S24 the work was ordered to be put to press. While 
the printing was going on, the Russian Bible Society was 
suspended, and thus the work was discontinued. Forty 
years later a new translation of the gospels was prepared 
at Tiflis. 

35. Permian. The Permians, occupying the seat of the 
ancient Bjarmnland, are divided into three divisions— the 
Permians proper, composed of about 50,000 souls, partial- 
ly Christianized, but without the Scriptures in their lan- 
guage except the Gospel of St. Matthew, which had beeu 
executed for prince Louis Lticien Bonaparte, not with a 
view to circulation, hut to aid linguistic studies. The 
Sirenian and Wotjak will be mentioned iu the proper 
place. 

36. Persian. 

37. Polish. See Slavonic Versions. 


38. Roumanian. 

39. Russian. 

40. Samogitian. 

41. Slavonic. 

42. Servian. 

43. Sirenian. This dialect is spoken by the Sireuians, 
another section of the Permians; their number is about 
70,000. The Russian Bible Society translated the Gospel 
of St. Matthew into their language, of which 1400 copies 
were printed in 1S23. 

44. Swedish. See Scandinavian Versions. 

45. Sgriac in Hebrew Characters. 

46. Transcaucasian Tartar. 

47. Tcheremissian is a dialect spoken by a people dwell- 
ing along the banks of the Volga aud Kama, in the gov- 
ernments of Kazan and Simbirsk. The complete New 
Test, appeared in the Tcheremissian language iu 182<i. 
being printed at the expense of the Russian Bible Society 
during the reign of the emperor Alexander. While the 
work was in progress, the archbishop of Kazan collected 
a number of the people and read to them from one of the 
books of the New Test, to ascertain whether it was intel- 
ligible to them. The people wept aloud for joy that they 
had received the Word of Jesns in their own tongue. An 
edition of 3000 copies was printed, hut the dissolution of 
the Russian Bible Society that followed brought the work 
to a termination. 

48. Tchuwaschian is spoken by a people inhabiting both 
sides of the Volga, numbering about 670,000 individuals, 
partially Christianized. In 1817 an attempt was made by 
the Russian Bible Society at Simbirsk to translate the 
New Test. In ISIS the Four Gospels were translated, and 
two years later the entire Test., under the care of the arch- 
bishop of Kazan, to whose diocese the people belong. The 
edition, consisting of 5000 copies, was printed in Russian 
characters. 

49. Vogulian is spoken in the governments of Perm and 
Tobolsk, in a district between the Tobol, the Beresov, the 
Obi, and the Uralian Mountains. A translation of the 
Gospel of St. Matthew into Vogulian is contained iu the 
collection of prince Lucien Bonaparte. 

50. Wotjakian. The third section of the Permian race 
consists of the Wotjaks, about 200,000, located in the Up- 
per Kama, and generally Christianized. In 1820, Lewnn- 
dowski, a learned Woljak, commenced a translation of the 
New Test. The Russian Bible Society encouraged him to 
continue; and thus under the care and inspection of the 
Viatka Branch Bible Society, the gospels of SS. Matthew 
and Mark were completed during the year 1S23. From 
the first sheets of these gospels some portions were rend 
in their churches, and it is related that the people demand- 
ed to hear more, but a change came; the Russian society 
became extinct, and all its piimiug operations were nec- 
essarily suspended. 

Besides the Annual Reports of the British and For- 
eign Bible Society , see The Bible of Every Land, but es- 
pecially Dalton, Das Gebet des Berm in den Sprachen 
Russlands (St. Petersburg, 1870). (B. P.) 

Russian Sects. Religious sects abound in Rus- 
sia, and under the most absolute monarchy in Europe 
we have the singular phenomenon of large bodies of 
dissenters defying the sovereign’s power, and living in 
open secession from the National Church. All of these 
sects are included under the general name of Raskol- 
niks (q. v.), i. e. Schismatics . The Raskolniks are di- 
vided into two great branches, the Popoftchins and the 
Bezpopoftchins, the former having priests and the lat- 
ter none. (For much of the following article we are 
indebted to the Rev. F. W. Flocken, missionary to Bul- 
garia.) 

I. The Popoftchins are divided into five principal 
sects. 

1. The Diaconoftchins. This sect was started in 
1706 at Veska, under the leadership of Alexander the 
Deacon, from whom it takes its name. 

2. The Epefannft chins (q. v.). 

3. The Peremayanoftchins (q. v.). 

4. The Starovertzi (men of the ancient faith) is the 
name assumed by the majority of those who refused to 
acquiesce in the reforms introduced in the 17th cen- 
tury, especially the revision of the Scriptures and the 
liturgical books effected by the patriarch Nikon (A.D. 
1654). The following are the points which, they 
strenuously maintain, justify their separation from the 
National Church : a. The service should be according 
to the old books before their alteration by Nikon, b. 
In the Creed the article on the Holy Ghost should 
read, “And in the Holy Ghost, the true and living 
Lord.” c. The Hallelujah should be sung only twice, 


173 


RUSSIAN SECTS 


RUSSIAN SECTS 


not three times; after the second adding “Glory to ' and the tendency to fanaticism so universally found in 
God.” d. The processions around the churches should lhissian dissent did not fail to appear among them, 
go with the course of the sun, and not against it. e. They were persecuted under Peter I (A.D. 1089-1725), 
That the sign of the cross should be made by unit- who laid double taxes on them ; but his successors, es- 
iug the fourth and fifth tiugers, and not the first three peciallv Catharine II and Alexander I, have adopted a 
fingers, with the thumb. /. To acknowledge, respect, milder policy with the hope of winning them back to 
and adore only the eight-ended cross, g. The name the Eastern Church. But little success has attended 
of Jesus is to be written and pronounced Isus, and not . these attempts at reconciliation. 

j esus | 5. Tchenwltzi, or Wjetkaers, an insignificant body 

There were other and still smaller points of dispute, who, during the time oi the persecution (A.D, 1730), 



This cross is by all the different Russian Raskolniks considered the only 
true Christian cross; while bv them the four-ended one is considered and 
declared to be an innovation made by the patriarch Nikon, and consequent- 
ly anti-Christian. , , , . T • . 

1. Represents the impression said to have been made by Jesus Christ 
upon a wet cloth, and bv Ananias sent to king Abgarus of Edessa. 

2. The letters in it stand for and signify : £ for otnebo theds/n, lrom 
heaven descended 0 for omi ego ne prinjali , “ they did not receive nun ; 

H for Tia krette ratpiali, “ on the cross outstretched him. 

3. The writing: under it is in Old Slavic, and reads obras nerukotworennu , 
signifying “ image not made by hand.” 

4. Reads Avgeli < ioapodni , signifying “ Angels of the Lord. 

5. “ Za'r s/a ft, “ “ Lord of Glory.” 

6. “ I*us Chrixtoa, “ “ Jesus Christ.” 

7. “ Sin Boshii, “ “ Son of God.” 

8. “ Solnze, “ “ Sun.” 

9. Luna, “ “Moon.” 

10. “ Chrentu twoemu poklonaemaa wladiko t awetloe woakreseme twoe 


alavim, signifying “To till ne cross do we bow, Lord, aod 
thy luminous resurrection do we glorify.” 

Rends Kopte, signifying “ Spear.” 

“ Troat, “ “ Hyssop.” . 

“ jXa krette iskupil k row in Adama, signifying * On the cross re- 
deemed with blood of Adam.” 

“ Mesto Mmoe, signifying “ Place of skull.” 

“ Itaspial Bog, “ “ Crucified God.” 

« Gora Golgotha, “ “ Mount Golgotha.” 

“ Glova Adama, “ “ Head of Adam.” 

The tree of which it is said that it was pointed out to Seth by the 
archangel Michael, in noswer to his prayer for his fnther 
Adam (Gospel of Nicodemus, ch. xiv). 

Reads Swjataja Maria Magdalena, signif. “ St. Mary Magdalene.” 

“ Miter Tkeot, “ “ Mother of God.”* 

“ Snjatoi Joann Bogoslow, “ “ St. John the Theologian.” 

“ Sirjatoi Login Sotnic, “ “ St. Logan the Centurion.” 

* The three little stars signify the perpetual virginity. 


RUSSIAN SECTS 


174 RUSSIAN SECTS 



A Popoftehiu Teacher. 


took refuge on the islands of the Wjetka, a small river 
between Russia and Poland, whence their name. Here 
they formed a separate community and built two mon- 
asteries, from which, fifty years later, some of them mi- 
grated to Poland and built a church and convent at 
Tchernoboltz. Their chief distinguishing practices are a 
refusal to take oaths and to offer prayers for the emperor. 

II. The Bezropoftciuns, as we have said, are dis- 
senters who refuse to have priests, the sacraments be- 
ing administered and services conducted by lay elders. 
They recognise no priestly hierarchy, and dislike the 
national bishops and priests so much that when any 



A Popoftehiu Monk at Iloiue. ' 



A Popoftehiu Monk in Travelling-dress. 


one of these enters their houses they hasten, as soon as 
he leaves, to wash the seats and walls. They believe 
that the Church is in a period of decline and apostasy, 
that the apostolic succession has been interrupted, and 
that legitimate priests are now impossible. They hold 
that the world has had four aeras: a spring, or morning, 
from Adam until the building of Solomon’s Temple; a 
summer, or noon, lasting until the birth of Christ; an 
autumn, or evening, until the appearance of Antichrist, 
about 1050; and now the cold winter, the dark night, 
which will continue until the Lord shall descend upon 
earth to save men. The Bezpopoftchins are divided 
up into very many sects, some of them holding opinions 
exceedingly absurd. The three principal of these sects 
are the following : 



A Popoftehiu Nun. 


RUSSIAN SECTS 


175 


RUSSIAN SECTS 


1. The Pomoryuns. — The founder of this sect was a 
runaway deacon of the name of Danilo Wiculin. In 
the year 1695 lie founded a monastery on the borders 
of the Viga, of which for forty years he was the prior, 
and died in 1735. In the erection of the monastery and 
in its leadership he was assisted by Andrei Mishtezkv, 
who was of princely origin, and occupied his post until 
his end, in 1730. Soon after this a monastery for fe- 
males was organized, of which Salomonia, the sister of 
Mishtezky, became prioress. The monasteries soon 
amassed wealth, and were thereby enabled to procure a 
large library of old Slavic manuscripts, and composed 
books for the education of singers, writers, painters, and 
the future leaders of the sect. At. the end of the past 
century these monasteries contained *2000 male and 1000 
female inmates. Andrei and Si mi on Denisow have 
written several works for the sect, and in general de- 
fence of the Raskolniks, of which the Pomoryun Answers 
to the Questions of Xerfit is the principal. 

The teachings of the Pomorvans, also called Danil- 
owtchina, consist in the following : a, From the time of 
Nikon, the Antichrist has been reigning, though unseen, 
in the orthodox Church, and has abolished the true sac- 
raments and priesthood, b. Those from the orthodox 
Church who wish to join the Pomorvans must receive 
rebaptism, which, like other sacraments, can, in conse- 
quence of the fall of the true priesthood, be administer- 
ed by laymen, and even by females, c. As there is no 
true priesthood, there is no one to solemnize marriages, 
therefore all are obliged to live in the unmarried state, 
and those married in the Church must separate, d. 
Monks from the orthodox Church can be acknowledged 
as such after having been rebaptized, and they may in- 
stall others in that state and be permitted to serve as 
priests, even if they have not been such before, e. For 
those in authority no prayers are to be offered. During 
the reign of Anna Ivanova one of the Pomorvans re- 
ported this to the authorities; then, to avoid difficulties 
with the government, they introduced a prayer for the 
czar, which they have used ever since, f. The crosses 
not to have the inscription “I. N. U. I.,” because this is 
a Latin heresy, but to have the initial letters of these 
words : Zar Slavy Isus Christos Sin Bashii , “Lord of 
Glory, Jesus Christ, Son of God,” as it had been to the 
time of Nikon, g. The food bought in the market is 



A Pomoryau Teacher. 


not to be considered unclean, h. To be ready for sui- 
cide by lire for the true faith. 

2. The Fedosejoftchins. — This is the second of the 
principal sects of the Bezpopoftchins, which spread with 
the same rapidity in another part of the country. The 
principal promoter of it was a deacon by the name of 
Fedosei, a contemporary of Danilo Wiculin. Having 
removed with his family to Poland, he gathered around 
him in a short time a number of Raskolnik fugitives 
from Russia, and founded two abodes, one for males and 
the other for females, among whom he acted as priest, 
lie agreed in all points with the Pomorvans, except two, 
viz.: a. The inscription of “1. N. R. I.” is to be 
retained upon the cross, b. The food bought in the 
markets must be purified by prayer and adoration. 
These two points gave rise to the sect. The efforts 
of the Pomorvans to form a union with the Fedosejoft- 
chins proved unsuccessful, and an open enmity between 
the two began, wdiich increased just as soon as the Po- 
moryans commenced to pray for the czar. In the year 
1771 they succeeded, at Moscow, in founding a cenobitical 
establishment, known as the Preobrashensky Cemetery, 
which became the principal centre of the sect. The 
originator, and for thirty-eight years the head of this 
institution, was Elijah Alexejew Kow'ilin, a dealer in 
bricks and w’ines. During the pestilence at Moscow' in 
1771, when all the poor workmen who had been there 
commenced to leave the town to return to their native 
places, and in that way carried the sickness to all parts 
of the country, lvowiliu, with another merchant, Zen- 
koff, applied for permission to establish, at their ex- 
pense, a quarantine on one of the principal roads lead- 
ing from the city, and with it to connect a cemetery for 
the burial of those that died. Having received the 
permission, they established a barrier and building for 
the purpose proposed. He, with others, fed the hungry, 
nursed the sick, and comforted the dying. The news 
of the comfort provided by Kow'ilin spread very rapidly, 
and, besides the hungry and sick, the people en masse 
took refuge with him. He, on the other hand, did all 
he could to instil into the minds of the refugees that 
this woe from hunger and pestilence was sent upon 
Moscow by God as a just punishment for the Wikonian 
heresy, and exhorted them to repent and turn to God. 
The people, seeing that those dying as orthodox were 



RUSSIAN SECTS 


176 


RUSSIAN SECTS 


just thrown into a cart and hurled off, while those under 
Kowilin’s care were provided with all the necessaries of 
life, the sacraments in the last hours, and when dead 
were given a Christian funeral, chose, between the two, 
the latter, and submitted en masse to rebaptism and 
the conditions of Kowilin. At the same time, they 
turned over to Kowilin all their movable and real prop- 
erty. When the pestilence ceased, he retained many of 
his adherents and formed a kind of monastery, which, at 
the commencement of the present century, contained 
1500 persons of both sexes. The sect numbered near- 
ly 10,000 members at Moscow. To perpetuate the in- 
stitution, he petitioned for assistants under the name of 
trustees, who were selected from among the members, 
and were of the richest merchants. The news of the 
wealth and good order of this establishment and the 
concern of Kowilin for the good of the Fedosejoftchins 
raised him in the eyes of the sect in other parts of the 
laud, which by degrees placed all their communities 
under his protection and made them dependent upon 
the Preobrashenskv Cemetery institution, from which 
they all began to get their leaders and singers, and 
bought all their books and ikonas , and to which they 
continued to send their annual contributions. 

3. The Philippoftchins. — Besides the general doctrines 
of the Bezpopoftchins, the Philippoftchins hold : a. 
That only the eight-ended cross without inscription is 
to be venerated, h. Only the ikonas according to the 
old style, and painted by themselves, are to be wor- 
shipped. c. No prayers are to be offered for the czar. 
d. Man and wife are to be separated after having been 
rebaptized, e. Suicide by fire or hunger is martyrdom 
for the true faith. This last point explains why the 
Philippoftchins are sometimes also called Samososhi- 
gately (Self-burners) and Morelshtchiky (Starvation- 
ists). Even Philip and a number of his followers burned 
themselves by setting fire to their monastery and re- 
maining in it. See Philippines. 

4. Among the minor sects are : 

(I.) The Pastushkoe, or A clamant ova. — The origina- 
tor of this sect was a herdsman of Denisow, Adam by 
name. Pastush, in Russian, means herdsman; and this 
his calling, combined with his name, forms the name 
of the sect. He censured the Philippins because of their 
passion for suicide, the Pomoryans on account of their 
aversion to eat and drink with others; and taught that 
it was sinful to walk on paved streets, to handle money, 
and possess passports, because the first is an invention 
of the Antichrist, and the last two bear the seal and im- 
print of the same. 

(2.) The Spasova , or Kusmintchin. — Its founder was 
Kusma, an illiterate peasant, and his doctrine was called 
Netovtchina (a word derived from the Russian word 
net , which means “ there is not”), and is used in this 
form to show that he held that since the time of 
the correction of the books, and with them the prayers 
and faith in the orthodox Church, the Antichrist is 
reigning, and, consequently, “there is no” grace, no 
sanctity, no sacraments. He taught that there is noth- 
ing holy remaining in the world, and that salvation 
is to be obtained only through the “Spassa,” which 
is the Slavic word for the Russian Spctssifel , meaning 
“Saviour.” His followers do not rebaptize those that 
join them, nor do they always baptize their own chil- 
dren, believing that the “Spassa” can save them with- 
out it. The marriage-tie, where or whenever performed, 
is with them considered indissoluble; but, with the ap- 
proach of age, they are forbidden to make use of its 
rites. They worship only their own ikonas and cross- 
es, which they always carry with them, and which, 
therefore, are small and made to fold together. This 
sect is principally to be found in the districts of Nish- 
gorod. 

(3.) The Ttetoube it chins ( Infanticides ). — This sect con- 
sider it a great misfortune for children to come under 
the influence of Antichrist (the established Church), ami 
believe it to be the best offering they can make to God 


to deliver them from this calamity — by death, if neces- 
sary. They do not hesitate, therefore, to commit the 
crime of infanticide. 

| (4.) The Beguny {Deserters), or Strannilcy ( Wander - 

! ers ). — This sect originated about 1790, in the village of 
Sopel, district of Jaroslav, from which it is sometimes 
called Sopelniks. Its founder was Deserter Efimy, who, 
after having been rebaptized, settled in said village and 
taught that the Antichrist had ascended his throne long 
ago: first, one thousand years after Christ he invisibly 
reigned in the Greek empire under the Greek name of 
Appolyen * * * § as intimated by John in the Revelation; 
then, after the lapse of GG<5 years, which letters compose 
his name, he appeared in Russia, not yet as czar, but as 
a false prophet, as stated in the Revelation by John. 
And this first beast and false prophet was the patriarch 
Nikon, for he was the first to blaspheme against God by 
changing the name of Isus into Jesus ft and, like a beast, 
persecuted the worshippers of the true Isus; and that 
lie really was the beast spoken of in the Apocalypse is 
seen from his real or lay name, Nikita, in Greek iirjK})- 
nog,X which gives the number GOG. After his fall, 
there appeared the third Antichrist, or the second beast 
with the two horns, which signify the two imperial 
names, czar and imperator, the last of which, in Greek, 
is T7rqourop,§ and. also gives the number G66. In this 
trinity the members of the orthodox Church are bap- 
tized and marked with the sign of the cross by three 
fingers instead of by the two first, as it was of old. To 
escape eternal punishment, it is necessary, first to wash 
off this sign and mark by rebaptism, and then flee from 
every citv and village which forms part of this Babel of 
Antichrist. 

(5.) The Ishraniki , or “Company of the Elect.” — The 
cause of the separation of this sect from the Russian 
Church was not any difference of doctrine or ritual, but 
a desire to protest against the laxity and inclination to 
change displayed by the clergy, and to adopt a greater 
piety and purity of life. They were termed by the or- 
thodox party Roscholshiki ( Seditionists). Pinkerton 
{On Russian Sects) identifies them with the Starovertzi. 

(G.) The Bezslovestni (the dumb), the name given to 
a not very numerous sect of the 18th century, whose 
members, after conversion, became perpetually speech- 
less. Very little: is known of their tenets. 

(7.) The Istmiye Christiane . See Malakaxs. 

(8.) The Karabliki. See No. (18) below. 

(9.) The Khlistie, or Flagellants . 

(10.) The Malakans (q. v.). 

(11.) The Martinists (q. \\). 

(12.) The Moreshiki. 

(13.) The Netovtshins (q. v.). 

(14.) The Niconians (q. \\). 

(15.) The Njetoicschitchini . See Netovtshins. 

(16.) The Roscholshiki (q. v.). 

(17.) The Subatniki (q. v.). 

(18.) The Slcoptzi (eunuchs), a name given to this 
sect because of their practice of self-mutilation, which 
they supposed to be warranted by Scripture (Matt, xix, 
12). The general characteristics of this sect, even among 
those who do not adopt this extreme course of action, is 
one of self-mortification and asceticism. They perform 
self-imposed penances, such as flagellation, wearing hair- 
cloth shirts, and iron chains and crosses. They profess 
great respect for Peter III, of whom they keep pictures 
in their houses, in which he is represented with a scar- 
let handkerchief tied round his right knee (which is 
supposed to be one of their Masonic signs). They ex- 
pect him to revisit the earth as the true Messiah, and, 
having rung the great bell of the Church of the Ascen- 

* The word is rendered ’An-oAAiei, while it ought to be 
' \ir oWvoiv ; the first is equal to 66(5, the second to 1461. 

t Before Nikon’s time the two vowels in the word Jeshna 
were left out, so it rend Isns. 

t The word is rendered Ntik/jt IO r, equal to 6G6; while it 
ought to be NnK-^rav, equal to 5S7. 

§ The word is rendered ’It repurop, equal to 6CG ; while it 
ought to be 'l^nepdrop, equal to 706. 


RUSSIAN VERSION 


177 


RUSSIAN VERSION 



sion in Moscow, to summon the eleet, and reign over all 
the true Skoptzi. They are noted for their anxiety 
to procure converts, and he who gains twelve is digni- 
fied with the title of apostle. Their chief peculiarities 
of practice and doctrine are the rejection of the resur- 
rection of the body, a refusal to observe Sunday, and 
the substitution of certain rites invented by themselves 
in lieu of the sacrament of the eucharist. They are a 
numerous sect in some governments, as that of Orel, 
comprising whole villages, and they have many adher- 
ents among the jewellers and goldsmiths of St. Peters- 
burg, Moscow, and other large towns. 

(19.) The Strigolmks. This sect arose in Novgorod 
at the close of the 14th or early in the 15th century. 
A Jew named Ilorie, joined by two Christian priests, 
Denis and Alexie, and afterwards by an excommuni- 
cated deacon named Karp Strigolnik, preached a mixt- 
ure of Judaism and Christianity, and gained so many 
followers that a national council was called to suppress 
him. They regard the payment of money by the cler- 
gy to the bishops on ordination as simoniaeal, and con- 
fession to a priest as unscriptural. Strigolnik himself 
was thrown into the river and drowned during a riot 
in Novgorod, but the opposition of his followers to the 
Russian Church continued for many years after his 
death. 

(20.) The Wjetkaers . 

(21.) The Yedinovertzi (Coreligionists). This name 
was given to some members of the Starovertzi in the 
reign of Alexander (1801-25), when strong hopes were 
entertained of regaining them to the orthodox commun- 
ion. They assume for themselves the name of Blagos- 
lovenni, or “ The Blessed.” 

For literature, see Dimitri, l fist, of Russian Sects; 
Farlati, Illyricum Sacrum ; Gregoire, Hist, des Sectes 
Reliyieuses (Paris, 1814), vol. iv; Haxthausen, Studien 
iiber Russland (llan. 1847); Krazinski, Lectures on Sla- 
vonia (Bond. 1809); Mouravieff, I fist, of the Church of 
Russia (ibid. 1842); Platon, Present State of the Greek 
Church in Russia (Pinkerton’s transL Edinb. 1814; N. Y. 
1815); Strahl, Gesch. der Gritnduny, etc., der christlichen 
Lehre in Russland, etc. (Halle, 1830). See Russia. 

Russian Version of the Scriptures. The 
Russian language, which is understood from Archangel 
to Astrakhan, admits ofbut two principal divisions, name- 
ly, Great Russian — the literary and official language of 
the nation, spoken in Moscow and the northern parts of 
the empire — and Little, or Main, Russian, which contains 
IX. — M 


many obsolete forms of ex- 
pression, and is predominant 
in the south of European 
Russia, especially towards the 
east. To this may be added 
the White, or Polish, Russian, 
spoken by the common peo- 
ple in parts of Lithuania and 
in White Russia. The earli- 
est Russian version of the 
Scriptures was written in 
White Russian, and in 1517 
parts of the Old Test, were 
printed at Prague, while the 
Acts and the Epistles ap- 
peared at Wilna in 1527. 
The translator is said to 
have been Fr. Skorina. At 
the close of the 17th century 
another attempt was made 
to produce a version of the 
Scriptures in the Great Rus- 
sian. The promoter of this 
version was the Lutheran pas- 
tor Ernest Gluck, of Livonia, 
who made it from the Old 
Slavonic text. Unhappily, 
at the siege of Marienburg, 
in 1702, the whole ofGltick’s 
MSS. were destroyed. In the year 1816 the Russian 
Bible Society laid before the emperor Alexander some 
copies of a new version, and he was much struck at per- 
ceiving that, while so many barbarous tribes had been 
thus put in possession of the oracles of God, “ his own 
Russians still remained destitute of the boon mercifully 
designed to be freely communicated to all.” At his in- 
stigation an order was immediately forwarded through 
the president of the society to the Iloly Synod, enjoin- 
ing the translation of the New Test, into modern Russ. 
Under the auspices of the Religious Academy of St. Pe- 
tersburg, the work was undertaken by the archiman- 
drite Philaret, and, after three years had been devoted 
to the undertaking, an edition of the Four Gospels was 
struck off, in parallel columns with the Slavonic text. 
The preface to the Gospels, which appeared in 1819, 
was signed by Philaret, Michael, metropolitan of Nov- 
gorod, and Seraphim of Moscow’. The. demand for this 
work was such that in 1820 the fourth edition of the 
Gospels w r as published; in the same year the second 
edition of the Acts was printed, while the first edition 
of the entire New Test, did not appear till 1823. As 
to the order of the books of the New’ Test., which 
were reprinted and published by Tauchnitz, of Leipsie, 
in 1838, and again in London in 1862, it is as follows: 
Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts; the epistles of James, 
Peter, John, and Jude; Romans, Philemon, Hebrews, 
Revelation. 

Of the Old Test., only the Psalms were translated by 
the Rev. Dr. Pavsky, of the Cathedral of St. Petersburg, 
the first. Hebrew’ scholar in the empire. The first edi- 
tion appeared in 1822, and consisted of 15.000 copies ; 
yet so great w r as the demand that within the space of 
two years no less than 100,000 copies left the press. In 
1853 Air. Tauchnitz, of Leipsie, published an edition in 
Hebrew and Russian. The edition before us, in Russ 
alone, was published at London in 1862, and we notice 
that the word “ Selah” is ahvavs put in brackets; that 
the number of verses in the different psalms does not 
agree with the English, but with the Hebrew’, as the 
superscriptions, which are found in the English Bible 
in small type, are counted as a verse; Psa. ix and x 
are translated according to the Sept, as one, and thus, 
e. g., the xviiitb is the xviith Psalm; the cxlviith 
Psalm of the Hebrew is divided, as in the Sept., into 
tw'O — cxlvi, from 1-11, and cxlvii, from 12-20 — and 
thus the usual number of 150 psalms is gained. The 
translation of the other books of the Old Test, from the 


RUSSNIAKS 


178 


RUSSO-GREEK CHURCH 


Hebrew proceeded under the direction of the religious 
academics of St. Petersburg, Moscow, and Kief; and an 
edition to eonsist of 10,000 copies of the Pentateuch and 
the books of Joshua, Judges, and Ruth, was subse- 
quently undertaken; but in 182G the Russian Bible So- 
ciety was suspended by the ukase of the emperor Nich- 
olas*. A new translation has of late been issued by the 
Holy Synod, while the British and Foreign Bible Soci- 
ety also published a version, which is largely circulated 
in Russia. See The Bible of Every Land, p. 290 sq. ; 
Dalton, Das Gebet des Ilerrn in den Spraclien Russlamls, 
p. 37 sq. ; Reuss, Geschichte der heiliyen Schriften des 
Xeuen Testaments (Brunswick, 1874), § 400; also the 
Annual Reports of the British and Foreign Bible /Soci- 
ety. (B. P.) 

Russniaks (also Russixe and Rutiikni), the name 
of a variety of peoples who form a branch of the great 
Slavic race, and are sharply distinguished from the 
Muscovites, or Russians proper, by their language and 
the entire character of their life. They are divided 
into the Russniaks of Galicia, North Hungary, Podolia, 
Volhvnia, and Lithuania, and are estimated by Schafa- 
rik at 13,000,000. They are almost all agriculturists, 
and, on the whole, rather uncultivated. Before the 17th 
century they were a free race, but were then subjugated, 
partly by the Lithuanians, partly by the Poles, and for 
a long time belonged to the Polish kingdom. Their 
language has consequently become closely assimilated 
to the Polish. In earlier times it was a written speech 
with quite distinctive characteristics, as may be seen 
from the translation of the Bible published at Ostrog 
in 1581, and from various statutes and other literary 
monuments still extant. Recently, printing in the 
Russuiak tongue has been recommenced. The Russni- 
aks belong, for the most part, to the United Greek 
Church, but in part also to the Non-uuited. They pre- 
serve many old customs peculiar to themselves, and 
much folk-lore, prose and poetic, very like that current 
in Poland and Servia. This has been collected by 
Vaclav in his Piesni Polskie i Ruskie (Lemberg, 1833). 
Levieki has published a Grammatik der russinischen 
Sprache fur Deutsche (Przemvsl, 1833). — Chambers's 
Encyclop. s. v. 

Russo -Greek Church is the community of 
Christians subject to the emperor of Russia, using the 
Slavonic liturgy and following the Russian rite. See 
Gukek Church. 

1. Origin. — The early history of the Russian Church 
is involved in much obscurity ; but that Christianity 
was introduced into Russia previous to the middle of 
the 9th century must be inferred from a letter of Pho- 
tius (8GG) in which he says that the people called Rus- 
sians had forsaken idolatry, received Christianity, and 
allowed a bishop to be placed over them (Epistolee, ed. 
Montacaut, p. 58). Its diffusion, however, was very lim- 
ited. The princess Olga was baptized about the mid- 
dle of the 10th century, but by no means succeeded in 
winning over her son Swatoslav and her people to 
Christianity. Nor was it till the alliance of Vladimir 
with the court of Byzantium by his marriage with 
A nne, sister of the emperor Basil II, and his baptism in 
988 (when he took the name of Wassily, or Basil), that 
the foundation of Christianity can be said to have been 
regularly laid in Russia. lie issued an edict for the 
destruction of idols and idol temples throughout his 
dominions; and his subjects were commanded to re- 
ceive baptism, which they did in very large numbers. 
Churches were built in all directions, the lirst of them 
being dedicated by Vladimir himself. Yaroslav, the 
next Russian monarch, built convents which he tilled 
with Greek scholars and artists, and many works were 
translated from Greek into the Slavonic dialects. 

2. Government. — At first the Russian Church was un- 
der the jurisdiction of Rome, and it seems that as late 
as the Council of Florence (1439) the adherents of the 
Roman Church throughout Russia were as numerous 


as those of the Greek party. Its complete separation 
from Rome was effected by an archbishop of Kief, 
named rhotius, in the latter part of the same century. 
For more than a century it continued directly subject 
to the patriarch of Constantinople; but in 1588 the pa- 
triarch Jeremias, being in Russia, held a synod of the 
Russian bishops and erected the see of Moscow into a 
patriarchate with jurisdiction over the entire territory. 
He was also induced in 1589 to consecrate Job, arch- 
bishop of Rostow, the first patriarch. This action was 
afterwards confirmed by a synod held at Constantino- 
ple ; but, as their junior, the patriarch of Moscow rank- 
ed after the patriarchs of Alexandria, Antioch, Jerusa- 
lem, and Constantinople. This subordination was ac- 
quiesced in until the reign of Alexis Michaelowitz, 
when the patriarch of Moscow, Nikon, refused to ac- 
knowledge it further. When Peter the Great became 
ruler, he saw that his government was, in fact, divided 
with the clergy and the patriarch. Upon the death of 
Adrian, in 1700, when the bishops were assembled to 
choose his successor, Peter entered and broke up the 
meeting, declaring himself patriarch of the Russian 
Church. To wean the clergy by degrees from their 
established rights, he kept the offiee open for upwards 
of twenty years, and abolished it in 1721. The per- 
manent administration of Church affairs was placed un- 
der the direction of a council, called the “ Holy Syn- 
od,” or “ Permanent Synod,” consisting of archbishop, 
bishops, and archimandrites, all named by the em- 
peror. 

3. Constitution. — Under the direction of this council, 
a series of official acts and formularies, and catechetical, 
doctrinal, and disciplinary treatises, was drawn up, by 
which the whole scheme of the doctrine, discipline, and 
Church government of the Russian Church was settled 
in detail, and to which all the clergy, officials, and dig- 
nitaries are required to subscribe. The leading princi- 
ple of this constitution is the absolute supremacy of the 
czar, and it has been maintained in substance to the 
present time. The Holy Synod is considered as one of 
the great departments of the government, the minister 
of public worship being ex officio a member. This code 
was enacted in 1551 and received the name of Stoglav, 
or a hundred chapters. 

4. Doctrine.— As regards doctrine, the Russian Church 
may be considered as identical with the common body 
of the Greek Church (q. v.). With that Church it re- 
jects the supremacy of the pope and the double proces- 
sion of the Holy Ghost. All the great leading charac- 
teristics of its discipline, too, are the same; the differ- 
ences of ceremony being too minute to permit our en- 
tering into detail. The discipline as to the marriage 
of the clergy is the same as that described for the Greek 
Church; and in carrying out the law which enforces 
celibacy upon bishops the Russians adopt the same ex- 
pedient with the Greeks, viz. of selecting the bishops 
from among the monks, who are celibates by virtue of 
their vow. 

5. Liturgy. — The service of the Russian Church was, 
at its commencement, borrowed from the Greek Church, 
according to the books translated by Cyril and Metho- 
dius into the Slavic, which to this da}' is the language 
of the Church. They translated, however, only the 
most necessary books, the others being translated into 
Russian since the time of Yaroslav I. In them were 
found many mistakes which Cyprian and Photins la- 
bored to correct; but, as the metropolitans who suc- 
ceeded them were Russians, and not well versed in the 
Greek language, errors again crowded in. Maksim, a 
monk, was called from Athos in 150G and ordered to re- 
vise the Church books, and soon discovered that, by the 
numerous errors of translation, even the articles of the 
Creed had been changed in meaning. II is work dis- 
pleasing some, they brought false charges against him, 
and he was sent to a monastery, deprived of I he sacra- 
ments, and, after thirty years of suftering, died in 1556. 
When Nikon became patriarch, he undertook the cor- 


RUST 


179 


RUSTIC-WORK 


recti on of the books, and sent to the East the monk 
Arseny Suchanow for the purpose of collecting ancient 
Greek and Slavic MSS. This resulted in the correc- 
tion of the Scriptures and the introduction of the cor- 
rected version in the place of the old ones. The Church 
service itself underwent no change except the addition 
of some holy days in honor of new saints. 

6. Clergy. — There are three ranks of episcopacy in 
the Church — metropolitans, archbishops, and bishops, 
who each have a peculiar dress. These three classes arc 
called by the general name of archirei, or prelates; next 
to them in degree are the archimandrites and hegoume- 
ni, or abbots and priors of the monasteries; and last and 
lowest of all are the monks, who have been either or- 
dained for the priestly office, for the second degree, or 



Muscovite Bishop. 


diaconate, or arc mere lay brothers without having 
taken the vow. The clergy are divided into two classes, 
regular and secular. The first are alone entitled to the 
highest dignities of the Church, are ordained under 
much stricter vows than the others, and are termed the 
black clergy from their wearing a black robe. The 
secular clergy have a brown and blue robe, and are 
termed the white clergy. Although special provision 
was made for the Roman Catholics in Poland by the 
erection of an archbishopric in communion with Rome 
at Mohilev in 1783, and still later arrangements, yet 
the whole policy of the Russian government is opposed 
to the free exercise of worship by its subjects. Accord- 
ing to the statistical Year-book of the Russian Empire 
for 1871, the orthodox adherents of the Russian Church 
exceeded 53,000,000, the clergy of all ranks numbering 
about 215,000. Religious sects abound, who all go by 
the general name of Raskolniks (q. v.). See King, 
Travels in Russia ,* KrazinSki, Religious History of the 
Slavonic Nations ; Mouravieff, History of the Church in 
Russia; Ricaut, History of Greek and A rmeuian Church- 
es (1694). See Russia. 

Rust (jSjOwoic, tog') occurs as the translation of 
two different Greek words in Matt, vi, 19, 20 and 
James v, 3. In the former passage the word fiptooic, 
which is joined with (Ti)g, “moth,” has by some been 
understood to denote the larva of some moth injurious 
to corn, as the Tinea granella (see Stainton, Insecta 


Britan, iii, 30). The Hebrew UV (Isa. 1, 9) is rendered 
fipwmg by Aquila (comp, also Epist. Jerem. v, 12, otto 
iou Kai fipwfidnov, “from rust and moths;” A. V. Bar. 
vi, 12). Scnltetus ( Exerc . Evany, ii, 35; Crit. Sac. vol. 
vi) believes that the words <n)g Kai fipwotg are a lion- 
diadvs lor <t ijg /3j ookjkiov. The word can scarcely be 
taken to signify “rust,” for which there is another term, 
fo£, which is used by James to express rather the “ tar- 
nish” which overspreads silver than “ rust,” by which 
name we now understand “oxide of iron.” B Ipwmg is 
no doubt intended to have reference, in a general sense, 
to any corrupting and destroying substance that may 
attack treasures of any kind which have long been suf- 
fered to remain undisturbed. The allusion of James is 
to the corroding nature of log on metals. Scnltetus cor- 
rectly observes, “yErugine deformantur quidem, sed non 
corrumpuntur nummi;” but though this is. strictly speak- 
ing, true, the ancients, just as ourselves in common par- 
lance, spoke of the corroding nature of “rust” (comp. 
Hammond, Annotnt. in Matt, vi, 19). — Smith. More- 
over, various writers agree that the gold and silver 
coins of antiquity were much more liable to corrosion 
than those of the present, being much more extensively 
adulterated with alloys. 

The word translated “scum” (Hi <\rt,cheldh) in Ezek. 
xxiv, 6, II, 12 means the rust or corrosion of the pot 
of brass (or rather copper) which typified Jerusalem. 
Copper is more liable to corrosion than the other met- 
als, each of which has its own dissolvent; but copper is 
acted upon by all those dissolvents, and the corrosion 
of the copper pot symbolizes the aptitude of Jerusalem 
to corruptions, which, being shown by Ezekiel to be re- 
moved only by the agency of fire, was a type of the 
awful punishments ami fiery purgation awaiting Jeru- 
salem. 

Rust, George, a learned English divine, was a na- 
tive of Cambridge, and educated at Christ’s College. 
On the Restoration, Jeremy Taylor, foreseeing the va- 
cancy in the deanery of Connor, in Ireland, sent to Cam- 
bridge to secure a man suitable for that position. Dr. 
Rust was chosen, and he landed at Dublin about Au- 
gust, 1661. lie was preferred to the deanery as soon as 
it was void, and in 1662 to the rectory of the island of 
Magee. The bishop dying (Aug. 13, 1667), the bish- 
opric was divided, and Dr. Rust became bishop of Dro- 
more, which position he held until his death, in Decem- 
ber, 1670. He wrote, A Letter of Resolution concerning 
Origen , etc. (Lond. 1661, 4to) : — Discourse of Truth: — 
besides several Sermons . — Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Rust, Isaac, a German doctor of theology and 
member of the consistory in Speyer, was born in 1796 
at Mussbach, in Bavaria. In 1820 he was minister in 
Ungstein, in 1827 he was appointed minister of the 
French Reformed Church at Erlangen, in 1847 he was 
called to Munich, and was finally made pastor in Speyer, 
where he died in 1862. He wrote, Philosophic ttnd 
Christ enthum , oder 1 Vissen mid Glanben ( Mannheim, 
1833,2d ed.) : — Predigten iiber ausgewahlte Texte (Er- 
langen, 1830) : — Stimmcn der Reformation u. der Refor- 
matoren an die Fitrsten u. V biker die ser Zeit (ibid. 1831) : 
— De Blasio Pascale 1 ’er it at is et Divinitatis Religionis 
Christ iaiue Yindice (ibid. 1833), pt. i, ii : — Jesus Christus 
gestern u. heute u. derselbe auch in Eicigkeit (Munich, 
1850), sermons. See Winer, Handbnch der theol. Lite- 
rature i ; 25, 411 ; ii, 103, 405, 744; Zuchold, Bibl. Theol. 
p. 1101. (B.P.) 

Rustic-work, ashlar masonry, the joints of which 
are worked with grooves, or channels, to render them 
conspicuous. Sometimes the whole of the joints arc 
worked in this way, and sometimes only the horizontal 
ones. The grooves are either moulded or plain, and are 
formed in several different ways. The surface of the 
work is sometimes left, or purposely made, rough, but 
at the present day it is usually made even. Rustic- 
work was never employed in mediaeval buildings, but 



RUT El 


180 


RUTH 



Rustic-work. 

it is said to have had its origin in the buildings of 
Augustus and Claudius at Rome. — Parker, Gloss, of 
A rch itect. s. v. 

Ruter, Calvin W., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Bradford, Orange Co., 
Yt.. March 15, 1704. He was received into the Ohio 
Conference in 1817, and in 1820 was transferred to the 
Missouri Conference. When the Indiana Conference 
was formed in 1832. Mr. Ruter was chosen its secretary. 
He took deep interest in founding the Indiana Asbury 
University, and was for many years one of its trustees. 
He took a superannuated relation in 1855, and died 
June 11, 1850. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 
1850, p. 274. 

Ruter, Martin, D.D., a minister and instructor of 
the Methodist Episcopal Church, was born in Charlton, 
Mass., April 3, 1785. In 1801 he was admitted into 
the New York Conference, and in 1818 was appointed 
in charge of the Newmarket Wesleyan Academy, af- 
terwards removed to Wilbraham. In 1828 he became 
president of Augusta College, where he remained until 
August, 1832. In 1834 he accepted the position of 
president of Allegheny College, and held it until 1837, 
when he was appointed superintendent of the Texas 
mission, where he formed societies, secured the building 
of churches, and laid out the greater part of the state in 
circuits. His death took place May 16, 1838. He pub- 
lished a Hebrew Grammar : — a History of Martyrs : — 
an Ecclesiastical History : — Sermons : — and Letters. See 
Simpson, Cyclop, of Methodism, s. v. 

Rutgers, Henry, a distinguished Revolutionary 
patriot, philanthropist, and Christian of New York city, 
who was severely wounded while serving as an officer 
in the war of independence, and always stood high in 
the confidence of the state and general governments, 
was born in 1746. Possessed of ample wealth, he was 
noted for his unceasing munificence to various objects 
of humane and religious charity. He was one of the 
first managers of the American Bible Society, and was 
prominent in all the great benevolent movements of his 
time. By a timely act of liberality, he was to a large 
degree instrumental in the revival of Queen’s College, 
which since that date (1825) has been honored with his 
venerated name as Rutyers Colleye. I n the public move- 
ments of his denomination (the Dutch Reformed), he 
was “a prince and a great man, whose praise is in all 
the churches.” He died Feb. 17, 1830, in the full con- 
fidence and triumph of Christian hope. His last words 
were “ Horae ! home !” (W. .). R. T.) 

Ruth (Ileb. Ruth , P*H, probably for P!|2H, and this 
for m:n,a female friend; Sept, and New Test., 'PoeS; 
Josephus, 'VovStj, Ant. v, 9. 1), a Moabitess, the wife, 
first, of Mahlon, secondly of Boaz, and by him mother 
of Obed, the ancestress of David and of Christ, and one 
of the four women (Tamar, Rahab, and Uriah’s wife 
being the other three) who are named by Matthew in 
the genealogy of Christ. She thus came into intimate 
relation with the stock of Israel, and her history is given 
in one of the books of the sacred canon which bears her 
name. The narrative that brings her into the range 
of inspired story is constructed with idyllic simplicity 
and pathos, and forms a pleasant relief to the sombre 
and repulsive shades of the picture which the reader 


has just been contemplating in the later annals of the 
Judges. It is the domestic history of a family com- 
pelled, by the urgency of a famine, to abandon the laud 
of Canaan, and seek an asylum iti the territories of 
Moab. Elimelech, the head of the emigrating house- 
hold, dies in the land of his sojourn, where his two sur- 
viving sons “took them wives of the women of Moab; 
the name of the one was Orpah, and the name of the 
other Ruth.” On the death of the sons, the widowed 
parent resolving to return to her country and kindred, 
the filial affection of the daughters-in-law is put to a 
severe test, and Ruth determines at all hazards to ac- 
company Naomi. “Whither thou goest, 1 will go, and 
where thou lodgest, 1 will lodge; thy people shall be 
my people, and thy God my God: where thou diest, I 
will die, and there will I be buried : the Lord do so 
to me, and more also, if aught but death part thee and 
me,” was the expression of the unalterable attachment 
of the young Moabitish widow to the mother, to the 
land, and to the religion of her lost husband. They ar- 
rived at Bethlehem just at the beginning of barley har- 
vest, and Ruth, going out to glean for the support of her 
mother-in-law and herself, chanced to go into the field 
of Boaz. a wealthy man, the near kinsman of her father- 
in-law, Elimelech. The story of her virtues and her 
kindness and fidelity to her mother-in-law, and her 
preference for the land of her husband’s birth, had gone 
before her; and immediately upon learning who the 
strange young woman was, Boaz treated her with the 
utmost kindness and respect, and sent her home laden 
with corn which she had gleaned. Boaz had bidden 
her return from day to day, and directed his servants to 
give her a courteous welcome. An omen so propitious 
could not but be regarded as a special encouragement to 
both, and Naomi therefore counselled Ruth to seek an 
opportunity for intimating to Boaz the claim she had 
upon him as the nearest kinsman of her deceased hus- 
band. A stratagem, which in other circumstances would 
have been of very doubtful propriety, was adopted for 
compassing this object; and though Boaz entertained 
the proposal favorably, yet he replied that there was 
another person more nearly related to the family than 
himself, whose title must first be disposed of. Without 
delay he applied himself to ascertain whether the kins- 
man in question was inclined to assert his right — a 
right which extended to a purchase of the ransom (at 
the Jubilee) of Elimelech’s estate. Finding him indis- 
posed to the measure, he obtained from him a release, 
ratified according to the legal forms of the time, and 
next proceeded himself to redeem the patrimony of 
Elimelech, and finally, with all due solemnity, took Ruth 
to be his wife, amid the blessings and congratulations 
of their neighbors. As a singular example of virtue and 
piety in a rude age and among an idolatrous people; as 
one of the first-fruits of the Gentile harvest gathered 
into the Church; as the heroine of a story of exquisite 
beauty and simplicity ; as illustrating in her history the 
workings of Divine Providence, and the truth of the 
saying that “ the eyes of the Lord are over the right- 
eous;” and for the many interesting revelations of an- 
cient domestic and social customs which are associated 
with her story, Ruth has always held a foremost place 
among the Scripture characters. Augustine has a curi- 
ous speculation on the relative blessedness of Ruth, 
twice married, and by her second marriage becoming 
the ancestress of Christ, and Anna remaining constant 
in her widowhood (I)e Bono Yiduit.). Jerome observes 
that we can measure the greatness of Ruth’s virtue by 
the greatness of her reward — “Ex cjus semine Christus 
oritur” ( Epist . xxii ad Pavlnm). 

The period in which the famine above spoken of oc- 
curred is a greatly disputed point among commentators. 
The opinion of Usher, which assigns it to the age of 
Gideon (B.C. cir. 1360), and which is a mean between 
the dates fixed upon by others, carries with it the great- 
est probability. The oppression of the Midianitcs, men- 
tioned in Judg. vi, 3-6, which was productive of a fam- 


181 


RUTH, BOOK OF 

ine, and from which Gideon was instrumental in deliv- 
ering his people, wasted the land and destroyed its in- 
crease, “till thou come unto Gaza;” and this embraced 
the region in which. Judah and Bethlehem were situ- 
ated. The territory of Judah was also adjacent to 
Moab, and a removal thither was easy and natural. The 
scourge of Midian endured, moreover, for seven years; 
and at the expiration of ten years after the deliverance 
by Gideon was fully consummated, Naomi re-emigrated 
to her native land (see llenstenberg, Ventat. ii, 92, note). 
— Kitto; Smith. Ruth seems in the genealogy of David 
to have been his great-grandmother, but as Boaz is in 
the same list set down as the grandson of Nahshon, who 
flourished at the Exode, we are forced to suppose the 
omission of some nine generations, which chronologers 
insert according to their respective schemes. See Ge- 
nealogy of Jesus Christ. 

RUTH, Book of. This book is inserted in the can- 
on, according to the English arrangement and that of 
the Sept., between the book of Judges and the books of 
Samuel, as a sequel to the former and an introduction 
to the latter. Among the ancient Jews it was added 
to the book of Judges, because they supposed that the 
transactions which it relates happened in the time of 
the judges of Israel (Judg. i, 1). Several of the ancient 
fathers, moreover, make but one book of Judges and 
Ruth. In the Hebrew Bible it stands among the A'e- 
thubim, or Hagiographa. But the modern Jews com- 
monly place, after the Pentateuch, the five Megilloth 
(q. v.) — 1. The Song of Solomon; 2. Ruth; 3. The 
Lamentations of Jeremiah; 4. Ecclesiastes; 5. Esther. 
Sometimes Ruth is placed the first of these, sometimes 
the second, and sometimes the fifth. 

1. The true date and authorship of the book are alike 

unknown, though the current of tradition is in favor 
of Samuel as the writer (Talmud, Baba Bathra, 14, 2). 
That it was written at a time considerably remote from 
the events it records would appear from the passage 
in iv, 7, which explains a custom referred to as hav- 
ing been “the manner in former time in Israel, concern- 
ing redeeming and concerning changing” (comp. Deut. 
xxv, 9). That it was written, also, at least as late as 
the establishment of David’s house upon the throne 
appears from the concluding verse, “And Obed begat 
Jesse, and Jesse begat David.” The expression, more- 
over (i, 1), “when the judges ruled,” marking the 
period of the occurrence of the events, indicates, no 
doubt, that in the writer’s days kings had already be- 
gun to reign. Add to this what critics have considered 
as certain Chaldaisms with which the language is in- 
terspersed, denoting its composition at a period consid- 
erably later than that of the events themselves. Thus 
Eichhom finds a Chaldaism or Syriasm in the use of 
X for n in though the same form oceurs else- 

where. He adverts also to the existence of a super- 
fluous Yod in T’S’d and (iii, 3) and in ■'PaaiO 

(ver. 4). As, however, the language is in other re- 
spects, in the main, pure, these few Chaldaisms may 
have arisen from a slight error of the copyists, and 
therefore can scarcely be alleged as having any special 
bearing on the a?ra of the document. The same re- 
mark is to be made of certain idiomatic phrases and 
forms of expression which occur elsewhere only in the 
books of Samuel and of Kings, as, “The Lord do so to 
me, and more also” (Ruth i, 17; eomp. 1 Sam. iii, 17; 
xiv, 44; xx, 23; 2 Sam. iii, 9, 35; xix, 13; 1 Kings ii, 
23; xix, 2; xx, 10; 2 Kings vi, 31); “I have discov- 
ered to your ear,” for “I have told you” (Ruth iv, 4; 
comp. 1 Sam. xx, 2 ; 2 Sam. vii, 27). 

2. The canonical authority of Ruth has never been 
questioned, a sufficient confirmation of it being found in 
the fact that Ruth, the Moabitess, comes into the geneal- 
ogy of the Saviour, as distinctly given by the evangelist 
(Matt, i, 6). The principal difficulty in regard to the 
book arises, however, from this very genealogy, in which 
it is stated that Boaz, who was the husband of Ruth, 


RUTH, BOOK OF 

and the great-grandfather of David, was the son of 
Salmon by Rahnb. Now, if by Rahab we suppose to 
be meant, as is usually understood, Rahab the harlot, 
who protected the spies, it is not easy to conceive that 
only three persons— Boaz, Obed, and Jesse— should have 
intervened between her and David, a period of nearly 
four hundred years. The solution of Usher is not prob- 
able, that the ancestors of David, as persons of pre-em- 
inent piety”, were favored with extraordinary longevitv. 
It may be that the sacred writers have mentioned in 
the genealogy only such names as were distinguished 
and known among the Jews. But a more reasonable 
explanation is that some names arc omitted, as we 
know is elsewhere the case in the same genealogy. 
(See above.) 

3. The leading scope of the book has been variously 
understood by different commentators. Umbreit ( Ueber 
Geist uml Zweck des Buches Ruth, in Theol. Stud, und 
Brit, for 1834, p. 308) thinks it was written with the 
specific moral design of showing how even a stranger, and 
that of the hated Moabitish stock, might be sufficiently 
noble to become the mother of the great king David, be- 
cause she placed her reliance on the God of Israel. 
Bertholdt regards the history as a pure fiction, designed 
to recommend the duty of a man to marry his kins- 
woman ; while Eichhom conceives that it was com- 
posed mainly in honor of the house of David , though it 
does not conceal the poverty of the family. The more 
probable design we think to be to preintimate, by the 
recorded adoption of a Gentile woman into the family 
from which Christ was to derive his origin, the final 
reception of the Gentile nations into the true Church, 
as fellow-heirs of the salvation of the Gospel. The 
moral lessons which it incidentally teaches are of the 
most interesting and touching character: that private 
families are as much the objects of divine regard as the 
houses of princes; that the present life is a life of ca- 
lamitous changes; that a devout trust in an overruling 
Rrovidenee will never fail of its reward; and that no 
condition, however adverse or afflicted, is absolutely 
hopeless, are truths that were never more strikingly il- 
lustrated than in the brief and simple narrative before 
us.— Kitto. 

4. The separate commentaries on the entire book are 

not very numerous. Of the Church fathers we men- 
tion the following : Origen, Fragment um (in Opp. ii, 
478 sq.) ; Theodoret, Qncestiones (in Opp. I, i); Isidore, 
Commentaria ( in Opp. ) ; Bede, Qncestiones ( in Opp. 
viii); Raban, Commentaria (in Opp .); also Irimpertus, 
Expositio (in Rez, Thesaur . IV, i, 141 sq.). By mod- 
ern expositors there are the following: Banolas, 
[includ. Cant, etc.] (finished in 1329; pub. by Marka- 
ria, Riva di Trento, 15(50, 4to; also in Frankfurter’s Rab- 
bin. Bible) ; Bertinoro, Wip.D (Cracov. s. a. 4to; also in 
his works, Yen. 1585) ; Sal. Isaak, 3 (Salon. 1551, 
4to ) ; Alkabaz, ^ (Const. 1561; Lubl. 1597, 

4to); Mercer, Vers to Syriaca c um Scholiis (Par. 1564, 
4to) ; Isaak ben-Joseph, ^“13 (Sabbionetta, 1551, 8vo; 
Mantua, 1565, 16mo) ; Strigel, Scholia (Lips. 1571, 1572, 
8vo); Feuardent, Commentaria (Par. 1582; Antw. 1585, 
4to); Lavater, Homiliee ( Heidelb. 1586, 8vo ; also in 
English, Lond. 1601, 8vo); De Celada, Commentarii 
(Lugd. 1594, 1651, fob); Cuper, Commentarius [includ. 
Tobit, etc.] (Mogunt. 1600, 4to) ; Topsell, Commentarius 
(Lond. 1601, 8vo) ; also Lectures (ibid. 1613, 8vo); Al- 
scheich, n'w*C ( Ven. 1601 , 4to) ; Manera, Com- 

mentarius (ibid. 1604, 4to) ; lleidenreich, Expositio [in- 
clud. Tobit] (Jen. 1608, 8vo); Serrarius, Explanatio 
[includ. Judg.] (Mogunt. 1609, fob); Bernard, Commen- 
tary (Lond. 1628, 4to); Sanctius, CommentaHi [includ. 
other books] (Lugd. 1628, fob) ; Bonfiere, Commentarius 
[includ. Josh, ami Judg.] (Par. 1631, 1659, fid.) ; Crom- 
mius, Commentarii [includ. Judg., etc.] (Lovan. 1631, 
4to) ; Drusius, Commentarius (Amst. 1632, 4 to) ; Schleup- 
ner, Expositio (Norib. 1632, 8vo) ; D’Acosta, Commen - 


RUTHENIAN VERSION 


182 


RUTHVEN 


tarius (Lugd. 1641, fol. ); Fuller, Commentary (Loud. 
1654, 1868, 8vo); Osiander, Commentarius (Tiib. 1682, 
fol.) ; Crueius, Verklaaring (Haarlem, 1691, 4to) ; Schmid, 
Adnotationes (Argent. 1696, 4to); Carpzov, Disputa- 
tiones [to ii, 10] (Lips. 1703, 4to [Rabbinic]); Wer- 
ner, Interpretatio (Ilamb. 1711, 4to); Outhof, Verklaa- 
ring (Amst. 1711, 4to) ; Moldenhauer, Erlduterung [in- 
clud. Josh, and Judg.] (Quedl. 1774, 4to); MacGowan, 
Discourse ( Lond. 1781, 8vo); Asulat, nrnsb 

(Legh. 1782, 4to); Wolfssohn, “fiXS (Ber'l.'l788, 8vo) ; 
Lawson, Lectures (Edinb. 1805, 1*2 mo; Phila. 1870, 8vo) ; 
Dereser, Erkl lining (Fr.-a.-M. 1806, 8vo) ; Ricgler, An- 
merh\ (Wiirzb. 1812, 8vo); Paur, Bearbeitung (Lcips. 
1815, 8vo); Macartney, Observations (Lond. 1841, 8vo); 
Bliicher, nn (Lemb. 1843, 8vo); Philpot, Lectures 
(Lond. 1854, 18mo); Tvng, History (N. Y. 1855; Lond. 
1856, 8vo); Metzger, Interpretatio (Tub. 1856, 4to); 
Roordam, Versio Syr.- Ilexapl. Gnece cum Notts (Havn. 
1859 sq., 4to) ; Wright, Commentary (Loud. 1864, 8vo). 
See Old Testament. 

Ruthenian Version of the Holy Scriptures. 
This version, which is of a very recent date, has been 
prepared for the Rnthenians in Austria, the majority 
of whom belong to the Orthodox Greek Church, by 
which the reading of the Holy Scriptures has never 
been prohibited. In the year 1875 the Gospel according 
to St. Luke, as prepared by Mr. Kobvlanski, was print- 
ed, and thus the Word of God was given to the Ruthe- 
nian people in their own tongue lor the first time. En- 
couraged by the success of the Ruthenian Gospel of St. 
Luke, the British and Foreign Bible Society, in the year 
1877, resolved to print the Gospel of St. John also, as 
translated by Mr. Kobylanski, whose translation Prof. 
Micklovich has critically examined and declared to be 
a complete success. See the .4 nnual Reports of the, BHt. 
and For. Bible Soc. 1875, p. 46 ; 1877, p. 51.' (B. P.) 

Rutherford, Samuel, a Scottish minister and Cov- 
enanter, was born in the parish of Nisbet, Roxburgh- 
shire, about 1600. He was ordained minister of An- 
worth in 1627, but was silenced in 1636 for preaching 
against the articles of Perth. During the Rebellion he 
was a zealous defender of Presbyterianism, and in 1639 
was appointed professor of divinity in the New College, 
St. Andrew’s. He was commissioner to the assembly 
of divines at Westminster, 1643^17; principal of New 
College, St. Andrew’s, 1649; and shortly after was raised 
to the rectorship. He died in 1061. Besides other 
works, he was the author of Exercitationes Apologeticce 
pro Divina Gratia, etc. (Amst. 1636, 8vo; Francf. 1651, 
1660, 8vo) : — Plea for Paul's Presbytrie in Scotland 
(Lond. 1642) : — Due Rights of Presbyteries (1644, 1645, 
4 to) : — Tryal and Triumph of Faith (1645, 4to; Edinb. 
1845, 12mo), twenty-seven sermons: — Divine Right of 
Church Government ,o, tc. (Lond. 1646, 4to) : — Christ’s Dy- 
ing, etc. (1647, 4to), sermons: — Survey of the Spiritual 
Antichrist (ibid. 1648, 2 parts, 4 to) :— .4 Free Disputa- 
tion against Pretended Liberty of Conscience (1649, 4to) : 
— Disputatio Sckolastica de Divina Provulentia, etc. 
(Edinb. 1649, 1650, 4to) : — Life of Grace (1659, 4to) : — 
Joshua Redivirus , or (352) Religious Letters (1664, 2 
parts, 12mo; 1671, 8vo; with his dying words and Air. 
M 4 Ward’s preface, Glasg. 1765, 8vo; 9th ed. with bio- 
graphical sketches, edited by Rev. A. Bonar, 1862, 2 
vols. 8vo): — .4 Garden of Spices: — extracts from above 
by Rev. L. R. Dunn (Cincinnati, 1869, 12mo). Sec Mur- 
ray, Life, etc. ; Scots Worthies ; Livingston, Character- 
istics ; Watt, Bibl. Brit. ; Thompson, Bing. Diet, of Emi- 
nent Scotsmen; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Au- 
thors, s. v. 

Rutherforth, Thomas, an English philosopher and 
divine, was born in Cambridgeshire, Oct. 13, 1712. He 
was educated at St. John’s. Cambridge, taking his de- 
gree of A.B. in 1729 and A.M. in 1733. He was chosen 
f How and made B.D. in 1740. Two years after, he was 
chosen follow of the Royal Society, and in 1745 was ap- 


pointed professor of divinity, took his degree of D.D., 
and was appointed chaplain to the Prince of Wales. 
He was afterwards rector of Barrow, in Suffolk; Shen- 
stone, in Essex; Barley, in Hertfordshire; and in 1752 
archdeacon of Essex. He died Oct. 5, 1771, and was 
buried in the church at Barley. He was the author 
of Ordo Institutionum Physicarum , etc. (Camb. 1743, 
4to) : — Essay on the Nature and Obligations of Virtue 
(Lond. 1744, 8vo) : — System of Natural Philosophy 
(Camb. 1748, 2 vols. 4to) : — Credibility of Miracles De- 
fended (1751, 8vo): — Institutes of Natural Law (Lond. 
1754-56, 2 vols. 8vo; 2d American ed. Baltimore, 1832), 
lectures read in St. John’s College, Cambridge: — also 
Letters, Sermons, etc. See Hutton, Diet.; Niehol, Lit. 
Anecdotes ; Watt, Bibl. Brit. 

Rutherglen Declaration, the name given to a 
protesting declaration of an armed body of Covenant- 
ers who, in 1679, assembled in this old burgh, burned 
some obnoxious acts of Parliament, and affixed a copy 
of their protest to the market-cross. Claverhouse was 
sent, May 31, from Glasgow in search of the party; the 
battle of Drumclog was fought, and the royalist forces 
were routed. At the battle of Bothwell Bridge, Sun- 
day, June 22, the Covenanters were defeated and twelve 
hundred prisoners taken. — Eadie, Eccles. Cyclop, s. v. 

Ruthrauff, John F., a Lutheran minister, was 
born in Northampton County, Pa., Jan. 14, 1764, and be- 
gan his theological studies with Rev. Jacob Goering 
in York, 1790. He began to preach in 1793, and had 
charge of several churches in York County and in Car- 
lisle until June, 1795, when he accepted a call from the 
Green Castle congregation and several others, in some 
of which he labored upwards of forty years. His 
charge embraced M‘Connelsburg, London, Mercersburg, 
Waynesboro’, Quincy, Smoketown, Jacob’s Church, and 
several in Washington County, Md. He continued his 
labors until the year before his death, which occurred 
Dec. 18, 1837. lie was a man of strong mental quali- 
ties; a fluent, animated, and instructive preacher; and 
the possessor of substantial Christian excellence. See 
Sprague, Annals of the Ante?'. Pulpit, ix, 104. 

Ruthrauff, Jonathan, a Lutheran minister, was 
born in Grcencastle, Franklin Co., Pa., Aug. 16, 1801, 
and was son of the preceding. He entered Wash- 
ington College, Pa,, and in 1822 commenced his theo- 
logical studies under the direction of Rev. Benjamin 
Kurtz, Hagerstown, Md., and continued them under 
Rev. Dr. Lochman. He was licensed to preach at Read- 
ing, Pa., in 1825, and served as itinerant missionary un- 
til Feb. 25, 1827, when he accepted a call from the 
united churches of Lewistown and vicinity. In 1829 
he accepted a call from Hanover, where he labored 
for eight years. In December, 1837, he assumed charge 
of the Church at Lebanon, Pa., which he served with 
great fidelity until 1849, when he was prostrated by 
disease, which terminated his life, July 23, 1850. Mr. 
Ruthrauff was of a kind and genial nature; his preach- 
ing, which was in both German and English, was emi- 
nently practical and pungent. Sec Sprague, A nnals of 
the Amer. Pulpit, ix, 175. 

Ruthven, James, a noted ruling elder in the Pres- 
byterian Church, was born in Glasgow, Scotland, Dec. 
15, 1783. His father removed to the United States and 
settled in the city of New York, and attended the min- 
istry of the Rev. John Mason, D.I)., of the Scotch 
Church. In the sixth year of his age James witness- 
ed the inauguration of Washington with indescribable 
emotions. In 1812 he was ordained a deacon and sub- 
sequently an elder in Dr. Mason’s church, which was 
then in Murray Street. He removed in 1842 to Bridge- 
port, Conn., where his influence was of great value, and 
returned to New York after an absence of eight years. 
With him religion was an all-pervading spirit, giving 
warmth and glow and purity and hope in every expe- 
rience. A distinguished minister of another Church 
said of him: “Few persons whom I have ever known 


RUTLEDGE 


183 


RUYSBROECK 


liave more deeply impressed me with their absolute ex- j 
cellence, their entire, thorough, and beautifully consist- 
ent character.” And this character he maintained un- 
blemished for more than half a century. The ripeness 
and richness of his Biblical piety shone conspicuously 
in the social meetings, in the community, at the bed of 
sickness, everywhere. He loved the Church, honored 
the ministry, consecrated all his wealth to God, and as 
an almoner of the divine bounty scattered blessings far 
and wide. For him, “to live was Christ,” and for him, 
“to die was eternal gain.” The last words he uttered 
were, “ Dying, and, behold, we live !” He died Nov. 25, 
1855. (W. P. S.) 

Rutledge, George, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Augusta County, Va., 
Nov. 11, 181 L. lie professed conversion and joined the 
Church when twenty years of age. In 1835 he was ad- 
mitted on trial into the Baltimore Conference, and was 
immediately transferred to the Illinois Conference. He 
served as presiding elder on six different districts, and 
was three times delegate to the General Conference. 
His death occurred Sept. 7, 1871. See Minutes of An- 
nual Conferences , 1871, p. 212. 

Ruttenstock, Jacob, Dr., provost and Lateran ab- 
bot at Klosterneuburg, in Austria, was born at Vienna, 
Feb. 10, 1776, and entered the Augustinian convent at 
Klosterneuburg, Oet. 6, 1795, completing his theological 
studies partly in the convent and partly at the Univer- 
sity of Vienna. He took vows March 30, 1800, and on 
Sept. 8 of the same year was consecrated to the priest- 
hood. He devoted himself specially to the cure of souls, 
but steadily employed his leisure hours in the prosecu- 
tion of theological studies. He was accordingly ap- 
pointed professor of Church history and canon law in 
the institute for theological tutors connected with his 
convent, and in December, 1809, he was made a tempo- 
rary supply of the chair of Church history at Vienna. 
In 181 1 he became pastor of Klosterneuburg and direct- 
or of its principal school, but was almost immediately 
tranferred to the high-sebool at Vienna, where he be- 
came ordinary professor of Church history in 1813, and 
continued during nineteen years to approve himself as 
a patient inquirer, a thorough scholar, and a capable in- 
structor. The text-book entitled Institutiones Histories 
Ecclesiastics N. T. (Vienna, 1832-34), in three volumes, 
and extending to the year 1517, is the only monument 
of this period of his life that is preserved, lie was 
chosen provost of Klosterneuburg, June 8, 1830, and in 
that capacity rendered valuable services in completing 
the convent and adorning the cathedral, etc. In 1832 
the emperor Francis I appointed Buttenstock a coun- 
cillor of state, director of gymnasial studies in the he- 
reditary states of Austria, etc. In 1842 he received the 
cross of the Order of Knights of Leopold. He died June 
29, 1844, in the convent of Klosterneuburg. It remains 
to be added that several of Rutteustock’s sermons were 
published, and that he ranked, wherever known, as an 
eminent pulpit orator. See Wetzer u. Welte, Kirchen- 
Lex. s. v. 

Ruysbroeck (or Rusbroek), Jean pe, the 
most noted of mystics in the Netherlands, was born in 
A.D. 1293 at Ruysbroeck, near Brussels, and was edu- 
cated in the latter city under the direction of an Augus- 
tinian prebendary who was his relative. His fondness 
for solitude and day-dreams prevented him from mak- 
ing solid progress, however. His Latin was imperfect, 
though it is clear that he became acquainted with the 
earlier mystical writings, lie probably did not read 
the writings of Neo-Rlatonists, but was certainly not 
unacquainted with those of the Areopagite. His works 
suggest the thought that the writings of master Eckart 
(died 1328), with whom Ruysbroeck was contemporary 
for thirty -five years, exercised influence over our au- 
thor’s mind. Ruysbroeck became vicar of the Church 
of St. Gudula at Brussels, where he lived in strict ascet- 
icism, enjoying the society of persons who had devoted 


themselves to a contemplative life, composing books 
and exercising benevolence. He contended against the 
sins of the day, and labored to promote reforms. It is 
said that Tauler once visited him, attracted by the fame 
of his sanctity. At the age of sixty he renounced the 
secular priesthood and entered the new Augustinian 
convent Grbnendal, in the forest of Soiguy, near Brus- 
sels, becoming its first prior, and there he died in 1381. 
His life at once became the subject of legendary tales. 
The name Doctor Ecstaticus was early conferred on him. 

The chief of his mystical writings are, The Ornament 
of Spiritual Marriage (Lat. by Gerh. Groot, 0 mains 
Spirituals Desponsioms, IMS. at Strasburg; by another 
translator, and published by Faber Stapulensis [Baris, 
1512], De Omatu Spirit. Nuptiarum , etc.; also in 
French, Toulouse, 1619; and in Flemish, ’ J Cieraet der 
gheestclyeke Bruyloft , Brussels, 1624) : — Speculum sE ter- 
ns Salutis: — De Calculo , an interpretation of the cal- 
culus candidus , Rev. ii, 17 : — Samuel , sire de Alta Con- 
templatione. The other works of Ruysbroeck contain 
but little more than repetitions of the thoughts ex- 
pressed in those here mentioned. He wrote in his na- 
tive language, and rendered to that dialect the same 
| service which accrued to the High German from its use 
j by the mystics of the section where it prevailed. He 
is still regarded in Holland as “the best prose-writer of 
the Netherlands in the Middle Ages.” Ilis style is 
| characterized by great precision of statement, which be- 
| comes impaired, however, whenever his imagination 
soars, as it often does, to transcendental regions too sub- 
limated for language to describe. His works w’ere ac- 
cessible until lately only in Latin editions (by Surius, 
Cologne, 1549, 1552, 1609 [the best], 1692, fol.), or in 
manuscripts scattered through different libraries in Bel- 
gium and Holland. Four of the more important works 
were published in their original tongue, wdtli prefaces 
by Ullmann (Hanover, 1848). No complete edition has 
as yet been undertaken (see Moll, De Boekerij van het 
S. Barhara-Klooster te Delft [Amst. 1857, 4to], p. 41). 

Ruysbroeck’s mysticism begins with God, descends 
to man, and returns to God again, in the aim to make 
man one with God. God is a simple unity, the essence 
above all being, the immovable, and yet the moving, 
cause of all existences. The Son is the wisdom, the 
uncreated image of the Father; the Ilolv Spirit the 
love which proceeds from both the Father and the Son, 
and unites them to each other. Creatures pre-existed 
in God, in thought; and, as being in God, were God to 
that extent. Fallen man can only be restored through 
grace, which elevates him above the conditions of nat- 
ure. Three stages are to be distinguished: the active, 
or operative; the subjective, or emotional; and the con- 
templative life. The first proceeds to conquer sin, and 
draw r near to God through good works; the second con- 
sists in introspection, to which ascetic practices may be 
an aid, and which becomes indifferent to all that is not 
God. The soul is embraced and penetrated bv the 
Spirit of God, and revels in visions and ecstasies. 1 1 igher 
still is the contemplative state (vita vitalis), wdiich is an 
immediate knowing and possessing of God, leaving no 
remains of individuality in the consciousness, and con- 
centrating every energy on the contemplation of the 
eternal and absolute Being. This life is still the gift 
of grace, and has its essence in the unifying of the soul 
with God, so that he alone shall work. The soul is led 
on from glory to glory, until it becomes conscious of its 
essential unity in God. 

Ruysbroeck was constantly desirous of preserving the 
distinction between the uncreated and created spirits. 
In the unifying of the soul with God he does not assert 
an identification of personality, but merely a cessation 
of the difference in thought and desire, and a giving-up 
of the independence of the creature. His language was 
often so strong, how r ever, and his thought often so sub- 
limated, that more cautious thinkers found serious cause 
to charge his writings with pantheism. This w r as true 
! of Gerson (Opp. vol. i, pt. i, p. 59 sq.). Few mystics 


RUYSBROEK 


184 


RYE 


have ascended to the empyrean where Ruysbroeck so 
constantly dwelt; and the endeavor to compress into 
forms of speech the visions seen in a state where all 
clear and real apprehension is at an end occasioned the 
fault of in definiteness with which his writings must be 
charged. II is influence over theological and philosoph- 
ical thought was not so great as that exercised by Eck- 
art and Tauler, and was chiefly limited to his immedi- 
ate surroundings. The Brotherhood of the Common 
Life (q. v.) was founded by Gerhard Groot, one of Buys- 
broeck’s pupils, and its first inception may perhaps be 
traced back to Uuvsbroeck himself — a proof that he was 
not wholly indifferent to the conditions of practical life. 

See Engelhard t, Richard v. St. Victor u. J. Ruysbroeck 
(Erlang. 1838); Ullmann, Reformatoren vor der Re- 
formation, ii, 35 sq. ; Schmidt, Etudes sur le Afysticisme 
A demand au 14/we Siecle, in Ale moires de VAcademie 
des Sciences Morales (1847); Noack, Die christliche 
Afystik, i, 147 sq.; Bdh ringer, Deutsche Alystiker d. 14 ten 
n. ioten Jahrhnnderts , p. 4 62 sq. — Herzog, Real-Ency- 
klop . s. v. 

Ruysbroek (or Rubruquis), Willem de, a 
mediaeval traveller and missionary, was born in Bra- 
bant about 1220. In 1253 Louis IX of France sent him 
and two other friars to Tartar)'. The object of their 
mission was to propagate Christianity among the Tar- 
tars, to search for Prester John, and to visit Sartach, a 
Tartar chief, who was reported to be a Christian. Ruys- 
broek performed this arduous enterprise bravely, and, 
returning through Persia and Asia Minor, reached home 
in August. 1255. lie died after 1250. He wrote a work, 
which is divided into two parts, De Gestis (or De Alori- 
bus') Tartfirtorum , and Itinerarium Orient is. Hakluyt 
published one part in his Principal Navigations (Lond. 
1598-1000, 3 vols. fol.); but the story of Ruysbroek is 
found most complete in Pnrchas’s Pilgrims (1020, 4 
vols. fob). — Hoefer, Nouv. Hiog. Generate, s. v. 

Ruze, Guillaume, a French prelate, was horn at 
Paris about 1530. He taught rhetoric and philosophy 
in the College of Navarre, where he received the degree 
of doctor, lie was councillor under Henry II, Charles 
IX, and Henry III, who made him grand almoner. In 
1570 he was promoted to the bishopric of Saint-Malo, 
but resigned it two years later to receive that of Angers. 
In 1583 he assisted at the Council of Tours, and ren- 
dered into French the confession of faith adopted by 
that council. lie was also the author of a French trans- 
lation of the Commonitorium ad versus Ihereticos of Vin- 
cent de Lerius. Ruze died Sept. 28, 1587. See Gallia 
Christiana. — Hoefer, Nouv. Blog. Generate, s. v. 

Rybaut (or Ribaut), Paul, a French Protestant 
minister, was born near Montpellier in 1718. While the 
law made the preaching of Protestant doctrine a capital 
offence, he lived and preached for many years in caves 
and huts in the forest. He was a man of extensive in- 
fluence, and often used it to restrain his people from vi- 
olent measures. lie died in 1795. 

Ryder, Henry, D.D., an English prelate, a younger 
son of the earl of Harrow by, was born in 1777, became 
dean of Wells in 1812, bishop of Gloucester in 1815, and 
was translated to Lichfield and Coventry in 1824. lie 
died in 183G. He published several Sermons and Charges 
(1806-32). For full obituary, sec Gentleman's Alagazine, 
183G, i, G58. 

Ryder, James, D.D., a Roman Catholic ecclesias- 
tic, was born in Dublin in 1800, and emigrated to the 
United States in early youth. He entered the novitiate 
of the Society of Jesus in 1815, and pursued his secular 
studies at Georgetown College, Md., from 1815 to 1820, 
and his theological studies at Rome from 1820 to 1825. 
lie then received holy orders, and occupied the chair 
of theology and Sacred Scriptures in the College of Spo- 
leto, Italy, from 1825 to 1828. lie returned to America 
in 1828, ami was for several years professor of theology 
and vice-president of Georgetown College. In 1839 he 


was pastor of St. Mary’s Church, Philadelphia, and also 
of St. John’s Church, Frederick, Md. From 1840 to 
1845, and also from 1848 to 1851, he was president of 
Georgetown College, and from 1845 to 1848 president 
of the College of the Holy Cross, Worcester, Mass. He 
was also superior of the Order of Jesuits in the province 
of North America. Ryder died in 1860. He published 
occasional Lectures and Discourses, and was a contribu- 
tor to the Encyclopaedia .4 mericana . See Allibone, Diet, 
of Brit, and A mer. A uthors, s. v. 

Ryder, William, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Holliston, Middlesex 
Co., Mass., June 27, 1805. He joined the Church in 
Fort Ann, N. Y., in 1824, and in 1830 was licensed to 
preach. A year or two afterwards he entered the Troy 
Conference. He was ordained deacon in 1833, but was 
obliged through ill-health in 1834 to take a superannu- 
ated relation. His disease was of a rheumatic-neuralgic 
nature, and so severe that in 1837 he lost all power of 
locomotion, and the use of almost every muscle. His 
sufferings were very intense, and from them he bail 
very little release. Tie contrived to have a book so 
placed before him that lie could read, and was thus en- 
abled to beguile many painful hours each day. He 
died in 1849. See Wentworth, The Superannuate (N. Y. 
184G); Minutes of Annual Conferences, 1850, p. 458. 

Rye (rxSS, kussemeth ), occurs in three places of 
Scripture (Exod. ix, 32; Isa. xxviii, 25; and “fitches” 
in Ezek. iv, 9); but its true meaning still remains un- 
certain. It was one of the cultivated grains both of 
Egypt and of Syria, and one of those employed as an 
article of diet. It was also sown along with wheat, or, 
at least, its crop was in the same state of forwardness; 
for we learn from Exod. ix, 32 that in the seventh 
plague the hail-storm smote the barley which was in 
the ear. and the flax which was boiled; but that the 
wheat and the kussemeth were not smitten, for they 
were not grown up. Respecting the wheat and the 
barley, we know that they are often sown and come to 
maturity in different months. Thus Forskal says, “ Bar- 
ley ripens in February, but wheat stands till the end of 
March” ( Flora yEgypt. p. 43). The events above re- 
ferred to probably took place in February (see Kitto, 
Piet. Bible, ad loc.). That kussemeth was cultivated in 
Palestine we learn from Isa. xxviii, 25, where it is men- 
tioned along with ketsah (nigella) and cumin, wheat and 
barley; and sown, according to some translators, “on 
the extreme bonier (H^it) of the fields,” as a kind of 
fence for other descriptions of corn. See Agriculture. 
This is quite an Oriental practice, and may be seen in 
the case of flax and other crops in India at the present 
day. The rye is a grain of cold climates, and is not 
cultivated even in the south of Europe. Korte declares 
{Travels, p.l G8) that no rye grows in Egypt; and Shaw 
states (p. 351) that rye is little known in Barbary and 
Egypt (Rosenm filler, p. 7G). That the kussemeth was 
employed for making bread by the Hebrews we know 
from Ezek. iv, 9, where the prophet is directed to “ take 
wheat, and barley, and beans, and lentils, and millet, 
and kussemeth, and put them in a vessel, and make 
bread thereof.” 

Though it is very unlikely that kussemeth can mean 
rye, it is not easy to say what cultivated grain it de- 
notes. The principal kinds of grain, it is to be observed, 
are mentioned in the same passages with the kussemeth . 
Celsius has, as usual, with great labor and learning, col- 
lected together the different translations which have 
been given of this difficult word. In the Arabic trans- 
lation of Exod. ix, 32, it is rendered julban: “cicercula, 
non circula, lit perperam legit nr in versione Latina.” 
Bv other Arabian writers it is considered to mean pease, 
and also beans. Many translate it vicia, or vetches, as 
in the A. V. of Exod. ix,32; for according to Maimoni- 
des (ad tract. Shabb. xx, 3), carshinin is a kind of leg- 
ume, which in the Arabic is called kirsdna , but in the 


RYE 


185 


RYSDYCK 


sacred language kussemeth. Both julban and kirsdna 
mean species of pulse, but it is not easy to ascertain the 
specific kinds. The majority, however, instead of a 
legume, consider kussemeth to' indicate one of the cereal 
grains, as the rye ( secale ), or the oat {arena'), neither 
of which it is likely to have been. These have prob- 
ably been selected because commentators usually ad- 
duce such grains as they themselves are acquainted 
with, or have heard of as commonly cultivated. Cel- 
sius, however, informs us that in the Syriac and Chaldee 
versions kussemeth is translated kunta; far in the Latin 
Vulg. ; far adoreum , Guisio, tract. Peah, viii, 5, and 
tract. Chilaim , i, 1 ; &a in the Sept., Isa. xxviii. 
Aqnila. Symmachus, and others render it spelta. So 
Ben-Melech, on Exod. ix and Ezek. iv, says “ kysse- 
meth, vulgo spelta," and the Sept, has 6 Xvpa. Upon 
this Celsius remarks, “All these — that is, kunta, far, 
ador, Zed, spelta, and bXvpa — are one and the same 
thing.” This he proves satisfactorily by quotations from 
the ancient authors {Ilierobot. ii, 100). Dr. Harris states 
{Nat. Hist, of the Bible, s. v.) that the word kussemeth 
seems to be derived from kasdm, “ to have long hairs;” 
and that hence a bearded grain must be intended; 
which confirms the probability of spelt being the true 
meaning. Gesenius derives it from C03, “to shear, to 
poll,” and translates it, “a species of grain like wheat, 
with a smooth or bald ear, as if shorn.” 

Dioscorides has stated (ii, 111) that there are two 
kinds of Z,ud, one simple, and the other called dicoc- 
cus. Sprengel concludes that this is. without doubt, 
the Triticum spelta of botanists; 

> that the olyra was a variety, 
which Host has called T. zea ; 
and also that the simple kind is 
I the T. monococcon. That these 
grains were cultivated in Egypt 
and Syria, and that they were es- 
teemed as food in those countries, 
may also he satisfactorily proved. 
Thus Herodotus states that the 
Egyptians employ olyra, which 
others call zea , as an article of 
diet. Pliny (Hist. Nat. xviii, 8) 
mentions it as found both in 
Egypt and in Syria, as it is in 
more modern times (Dapper, De- 
scriptio A sice, p. 130; Johannes 
Phocas, l)e Locis Syr. et Paliesti- 
n<e, p. 34; Cels. loc. cit. p. 100). 
That it was highly esteemed by 
the ancients is evident from Di- 
oscorides describing it as more 
nourishing than barley, and 
grateful in taste. Pliny also 
(xviii, 11) and Salmasius prefer 
it, in some respects, to wheat. 
The goodness of this grain is also 
implied from the name of semen 

Spelt {Triticum. spelta). f'a' ing been especially applied to 
F * it (C. Bauhm, Pinox , p. 22). 

Triticum spelta, or spelt, is in many respects so closely 
allied to the common wheats as to have been thought 
by some old authors to be the original stock of the 
cultivated kinds; but for this there is no foundation, 
as the kind cultivated for ages in Europe does not 
differ from specimens collected in a wild state. These 
were found by a French botanist, Michaux, in Persia, 
on a mountain four days’ journey to the north of II am- 
adan. It is cultivated in many parts of Germany, in 
Switzerland, in the south of France, and in Italy. It is 
commonly sown in spring, and collected in July and 
August. — Kitto. There are three kinds of spelt, viz. 
T. spelta, T. dicoccum (rice wheat), and T. monococcum. 
In its general appearance the more frequent form of 
spelt differs little from common bearded wheat (T. vili- 
fy a re). It is equally nutritious, and in its habits more 



hardy. It grows on a coarser soil, and requires less care 
in its cultivation. There is an awnless variety, which 
is “perhaps the most naked of all the cerealia:” so that, 
betwixt the smooth sort and the bearded, spelt should 
conciliate even the etymologists. See Tristram, Nat. 
Hist of the Bible, p. 479. See Cereals. 

Rye, Peter K., a minister of the Methodist Episco- 
pal Church, was horn in Norway in 1839. It is not 
known at what time he came to the United States; but 
in 1858, while a resident of Hart Prairie, Wis., he was 
converted; prosecuted his studies at the Garrett Bibli- 
cal Institute, and in 18(51 was licensed to preach. In 
1862 he was admitted on trial into the Bock Biver Con- 
ference, and at the close of the year was transferred to 
the Wisconsin Conference. In 1864 he was transferred 
back to the Bock Biver Conference and made superin- 
tendent of the Scandinavian Mission, with his head- 
quarters at Copenhagen, Denmark. lie returned to 
America in 1869, and continued to work until a few 
weeks before his death, March 16, 1873. See Minutes 
of A nnual Conferences, 1873, p. 101. 

Rykajoth, in the mythology of the ancient Prus- 
sians, was a place in which inferior deities were wor- 
shipped, always located under the shade of oak, lime, or 
elder trees. The superior gods were worshipped in 
similar places at Bomowa (q. v.). 

Ryland, William, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in the north of Ireland in 
1770. lie came to the United States at the age of 
eighteen, and settled in Harford County, Md. He 
afterwards removed to Baltimore and engaged in com- 
mercial pursuits, but in 1802 was admitted on trial in 
the Baltimore Conference. His ministry comprised a 
period of forty-four years, the tirst nine of which were 
spent on circuits, the next eighteen in cities, and the 
remaining seventeen as a chaplain in the United States 
navy. He was five times elected chaplain of the Unit- 
ed States Senate, was a friend for many years of gen- 
eral Jackson, and commanded general respect on account 
of his integrity, his intellectual powers, and pulpit abil- 
ities. He died Jan. 10. 1846. See Sprague, Annals of 
the Amer. Pulpit, vii, 392. 

Ryors, Alfred, a Presbyterian minister, was born 
on Long Island, N. Y., in 1812. lie acquired his aca- 
demical education under the direction of the venerable 
Dr. Steel, of Abington, Pa. ; graduated at Jefferson Col- 
lege, Canonsburg, Pa., in 1835 ; spent one year as tutor 
in Lafayette College, Easton; and in 1836 was elected 
professor of mathematics in the Ohio University at 
Athens. lie was licensed to preach in 1838; retain- 
ed his professorship in the Ohio University until 1844, 
when he was elected professor of mathematics in the 
Indiana University at Bloomington, where he remained 
until 1848, in wffiieh year he was recalled to the Ohio 
University and elected president, lie held this office 
until 1853, w'hen he left for the Indiana University ; be- 
came a stated supply of the Church at Madison until, 
in 1854, he w r as elected professor of mathematics of 
Centre College, at Danville, Kv. He died May 8, 1858. 
Mr. Ryors was an excellent w'riter, and eminently dis- 
tinguished for his attainments as a professor. See Wil- 
son, Presb. Hist. A Imanac, 1860, p. 77. (J. L. S.) 

Rysdyck, Isaac, a (Dutch) Reformed minister, w’as 
born in Holland in 1720, and was educated at the Uni- 
versity of Groningen. After laboring for ten or fifteen 
years as a pastor in his native land, he accepted a call 
to the churches of Poughkeepsie, Fishkill, Hopew ell, and 
New Hackensack, N. Y.. which made up one charge, and 
was installed in September, 1765. The strife between 
the Ccetus and Conferentie w'as running high, and the 
parties were bitterly divided when he arrived. He 
sided with the Conferentie, hut w'as moderate in spirit 
and action, and in 1771 was prominent in the conven- 
tion which settled this sad conflict, and president of 
the convention of 1772 which formed the “Articles of 


RYSDYCIv 


186 


Union" between tliese parties. In 1772 tlie Poughkeep- 
sie Church separated peacefully from its collegiate re- 
lations, and Mr. Rysdyck retained the sole charge of 
the others until 1783, when the'Rev. Isaac Blauvelt was 
elected his colleague. The aged pastor died in 1789, 
and was buried beneath the pulpit of his old church in 
New Hackensack. Mr. Kysdyck was a stately speci- 
men of the gentleman of the olden time — tall, venerable, 
precise in antique dress and address; punctilious, polite, 
and commanding universal respect and reverence. TIis 
dark complexion indicated Spanish blood in his Dutch 
veins. He usually rode on horseback when making 
parochial visits, and wore a cocked hat, white flowing 
wig, and the customary clerical dress ; and when pass- 


SAADIA(S) 

ing any one on the road, would always lift his hat 
and give a friendly greeting. Before the Revolution- 
ary War he taught a classical school at Fishkill, and 
among his pupils was the celebrated Dr. John H. Liv- 
ingston. He was regarded as the most learned theolo- 
gian and classical scholar in the Dutch Church. He 
wrote in Greek and Latin, and was as much at home in 
Hebrew as in his native tongue. His sermons were 
textual, analytical, and drawn directly out of the Script- 
ures, which he expounded with learning and affection- 
ate faithfulness. In the most excited controversies of 
the Church he was always known as a peace-maker. 
For a long time he was the only minister in Dutchess 
County. He left no production in print. (W. J. R. T.) 


s. 


Sa, Manoei, pe, a Portuguese theologian, w r as born 
in 1530 at Villa do Conde. At the age of fifteen he 
joined the Order of Jesuits, and became instructor in 
philosophy, first in the University of Coimbra, and af- 
terwards at Gaudia. Being called to Rome in 1557, he 
spent his time in teaching, preaching, and editing a 
new version of the Bible, which appeared during the 
pontificate of Sixtus V. He also founded many relig- 
ious houses in Upper Italy. After residing for a time 
at Genoa, he returned to the convent at Arona, where 
he died, Dec. 30, 1590. Of his works, we have Apho- 
rismi Confess ovum (1595): — /Scholia in IV Evangeliis 
(1590) : — Notationes in Tutam S. Scripturam (1598). — 
Hoefer, Xouv. Blog. Generate , s. v. 

Saadhs, a sect in Hindostan who have rejected 
Hindu idolatry, substituting for it a species of deism. 
They are found chiefly at Delhi, Agra, Jyepore, and 
Furruekhabad. Their name implies Pure , or Puritans. 
The sect originated in A.D. 1058, with a person named 
Birbluin. They have no temples, but assemble at stated 
periods, more especially every full moon, in private 
houses, or in adjoining courts set apart for this purpose. 
They wear white garments, use no pigments, nor secta- 
rian marks upon their forehead, and have no chaplets 
or rosaries or jewels. — Gardner, Faiths of the World, s. v. 

Saadia(s), iiag-Gaon (“i'lXyii, the majesty ), ben- 
Joseph Ila-Pithomi , IJa-Mizri, called in Arabic Said 
Ibn-Jaakub al-Fayumi , a learned Jewish rabbin, was 
born at Fayum, in Upper Egypt, A.D. 892. His con- 
temporary was the Arabian historian Masudi. Saadia 
enjoyed the tuition of an eminent Karaite teacher, Sal- 
omon ben-Jorucham, an advantage that gave him an 
enlargement of mind beyond many of his colleagues in 
the Babylonian schools, though he never embraced the 
Karaite doctrines, but contended for the necessity of 
oral tradition. Saadia was distinguished alike as philos- 
opher, Talmudist, theologian, orator, grammarian, and 
commentator, and, when little more than twenty -two 
(915), he published his first production, written in Ara- 
bic, entitled “A Refutation of Allan,” or Kitab ar-rud 
ila A nan. This work has not as yet been found, but 
from Jerucham’s rejoinder to it we learn that the im- 
port of it was to refute Allan’s dogtrines. and to show 
the necessity of the traditional explanation of the 
Scriptures as contained in the Rabbinic writings. “He 
urged in support of tradition that the simple words of 
the Bible are insufficient for the understanding and the 
peformance of the law, since many of the enactments 
in the Pentateuch are only stated in outline, and re- 
quire explanation; as in the case of the general prohi- 
bition to work on the Sabbath, where the nature of the 
labor is not defined; that prayer was not at all ordered 
in the Mosaic law, while the necessity of it is referred 
to ail oral communication; that the advent of the Mes- 
siah and the resurrection of the dead are based upon 
traditional exegesis; and that the history of the Jews 
is derived entirely from tradition” (comp. Jerucliarn 


against Saadia, Alphabet iii, MS.). The rapid stride 
of Karaism, and the fact that the Karaites were now 
almost the sole possessors of the field of Biblical exege- 
sis and grammatical research, while the orthodox Jews 
were satisfied with taking the Talmud as their rule of 
faith and practice, determined Saadia to undertake an 
Arabic translation of the Scriptures, accompanied by 
short annotations. His Biblical works are, bx “POSH 
mir>, A Translation of the Pentateuch, which he com- 
pleted A.D. 915-920. The commentary accompany- 
ing this translation, and which Abeu-Ezra and Saa- 
dia himself mention, has not as yet come to light, but 
the Arabic version lias been published, first with the 
reputed Chaldee paraphrase of Onkelos, the Jewish- 
Persian version of Jacob Taus, the Hebrew text, and 
Rashi’s commentary (Constantinople, 1546); then in 
the Paris and London polyglots, with a Latin version: — 
PPSUP “HDSr, A Translation of Isaiah, which II. E. 
S. Paulus published from a MS. in the Bodleian Library 
(Coil. Pococke, No. 32) of the year 1244, under the title 
Babbi Saadiee Phiumensis Versio Jesaiee A rabica, etc. 
(Jena, 1790-91), and which called forth a number of 
dissertations and criticisms, as well as 'corrections, as 
may be seen in Eichhorn’s A llyem. Bibliothek der hi - 
blischen Literatur, iii, 9 sq., 455 sq. ; Micliaelis, Neve 
oriental. Bibliothek, v iii, 75 sq. ; Gesenius, Der Prophet 
Jesuia , I, i, 88 sq. ; Rappaport, in Bikkure Jla-Tttim, v, 
32, etc.; Munk, Notice sur Saadia, etc., p. 29-62: — 
mao "113T “POSH (mu), A Translation of the 
Psalms of David . with annotations; only parts of this 
commentary, which is still extant in two MSS. of the 
Bodleian Library (Cod. Pococke, No. 281 [Uri, No. 39], 
and Cod. Hunt, No. 416 [Uri, No. 49]), and in one Mu- 
nich MS., were published by Schnurrcr, Hanneberg, 
and Ewald: — A Translation of Job, 

with annotations, entitled b n "12rb>fc The Book 

of Justification, or Theodiccea; excerpts of this ver- 
sion, and annotations from the only MS. extant (Bod- 
leian Library, Cod. Hunt, No. 511), were published by 
Ewald:— “PIS b? IL'VPB ,A Commentary on 
the Sony of Songs, first published by Isaac Akrish (Con- 
stantinople, about 1579); then separately by Salomon 
ben-Moses David, under the title i"PP”D “1 125*H5 
(Prague, 1608). Excerpts of the Constantinople edi- 
tion, with an English translation, wore published by 
Ginsburg in his Historical and Critical Commentary on 
the Song of Songs (Lond. 1857), p. 36, etc. From quo- 
tations made by Aben-Ezra, Kimclii, Salomon ben-Je- 
rucliam, and other Jewish expositors and lexicogra- 
phers, we know that Saadia also wrote commentaries 
on other books, as on Ruth, Lamentations, Ecclesiastes, 
j and Esther, as well as the Minor Prophets and the book 
of Daniel. Of bis grammatical and lexical works, only 
| that on the seventy I'nraJ, Xeyoptna, entitled "PCSri 
m-isbx nilEb "prEcbs, was published by Dukes, 


SABA 


SAADIA(S) 187 


and again, with important corrections, by Geiger in his 
Wissenschaftliche Zeitschrift (Leips. 1844), v, 317-324. 

All these works Saadia wrote before he was thirty- 
six years of age, i. e. between A.D. 015 and 0*28. So 
great was the reputation which these works secured for 
him that he was called to Sora, in Babylon, where he 
was appointed gaon of the academy, a dignity which 
had never before been conferred upon any but the sages 
of Babylon, who were selected from the learned teachers 
of their own academies. After occupying this high po- 
sition a little more than two years (928-930), he was 
deposed through the jealousy of others and his own un- 
flinching integrity. In the presence of an anti-gaon, he 
retained his office for nearly three years more (030-933), 
when he had to relinquish his dignity altogether. In 
Bagdad, where he now resided as a private individual 
from 933 to 937, he wrote against the celebrated Mason te 
Aaron ben-Ashcr, as well as those two philosophical 
works, viz. the commentary on the Book Jezira , and the 
treatise commonly entitled nil'll maVIX, Faith and 
Doctrine , which were the foundation of the first system 
of ethical philosophy among the Jews. This latter work, 
which is intended to demonstrate the reasonableness of 
the articles of the Jewish faith, and the untenableness 
of the dogmas and philosophemes opposed to them, con- 
sists of ten sections, and discusses the following sub- 
jects: section 1, the creation of the world and all things 
therein, 2, the unity of the creation; 3, law and reve- 
lation; 4, obedience to God and disobedience, divine 
justice and freedom, 5, merit and demerit; 6, the soul 
and immortality; 7, the resurrection; 8, the redemp- 
tion; 9, reward and punishment; 10, the moral law. 
The original of this work, entitled nJOXTGXbx 

and written in Arabic, has not as yet 
been published. It is in Ibn-Tibbon’s Hebrew transla- 
tion of it, made in 1186, under the title nismxfl p 
and published in Constantinople (1562), Am- 
sterdam (1648), Berlin (1789), in Flirst’s German trans- 
lation (Leipsic, 1845), and in Ph. Bloch’s translation in 
the Jiidisches Literaturblatt (Magdeburg, 1878), which 
shows that this treatise is accessible to scholars. Saa- 
dia also wrote an Agenda, containing prayers and 
hymns, which are specified by Burst. In the year 937 
Saadia was reinstalled in his office as gaon of Sura, 
and died live years afterwards, in 942. See Rappaport, 
Biography of Saadia in Bikkure lla-Ittim (Vienna, 
1828), ix, 20-37; Geiger, Wissenschaftliche Zeitschrift 
(Frankf. -on -the -Main, 1835), i, 182; ibid. (Leipsic, 
1844), v, 261 sq. ; Jihlische Zeitschrift , 1868, p. 309 ; 1872, 
p. 4 sq., 172 sq., 255; Munk, Notice sur Rabbi Saadia 
Gaon et sa Version Arabe, in Cahen's Bible (Paris, 1838), 
ix, 73 sq. ; Ewald n. Dukes, Beitrdge zur Geschichte 
der dltesten Anslegung des Alien Testaments (Stuttgart, 
1844), i, 1-115; ii, 5-115; Fiirst, Bibliotheca Judaica , 
i, 266-271 ; id. Geschichte des Karaerthnms von 900- 
1575 (Leips. 1865), p. 20 sq.; Introduction to the He- 
brew and Chaldee Lexicon, p. xxiv sq. ; Steinschnei- 
der, Catalogus Librorum Hebr. in Bibliotheca Bodleiana , 
No. 2156-2224; Griitz, Geschichte der Juden , v, 268 sq., 
479 sq. ; Bloch, in Griltz’s Monatsschrift , 1870, p. 401 sq. ; 
Turner , Biographical Notices of some of the most Dis- 
tinguished Jewish Rabbis (N. Y. 1847), p. 63-65, 185- 
190; Ueberweg, History of Philosophy (ibid. 1872), i, 
418, 423, 424; Ginsburg, in Kitto’s Cyclop, s. v. ; id. 
Commentary on the Song of Songs (Lond. 1857), p. 34 
sq. ; Etheridge, Introduction to Hebrew Literature, p. 
226 sq. ; Dessauer, Geschichte der Israeliten, p. 278 sq. ; 
Steinschneider, Jewish Literature , p. 84, 125, 131, 132, 
135, 159, 160, 165, 166; Schmiedel, Saadia A Ifajumi mid 
die negativen Vorzuge seiner Religionsphilosophie (Wien, 
1870); Kalisch, Hebrew Grammar (Lond. 1863), ii, 5 
sq. ; Keil, Introduction to the Old Testament (Edinb. 
1870), ii, 383; Bleek, Einleihmg in das Alte Testament, 
p. 101 sq., 104 sq., 744; De Rossi, Dizionario Sforico, 
p. 97 (Germ, transl.) ; id. Bibliotheca Judaica Anti- 


christiana, p. 98 sq. ; Jost, Gesch. el. Judenth, u. s. Secten , 
ii, 274 sq., 279, 285, 345 ; Kaufmann, Die Attributenlehre 
des Saadja AlJ'ajjumi (Gotha, 1875); Eisler, Vorlesung- 
en iiber die jiidisclien Philosophen des Mittelulters, I. Ab- 
theilung (Wien, 1876), p. 1 sq.; Kaufmann, Geschichte 
der Attributenlehre in der jiidisclien Religionsphilosophie 
des Mittelulters von Saadja bis Mai muni (Gotha, 1877), 
and review of this work in Z. d. d. M. G. (1878), xxxii, 
213 sq. ; Buck, Geschichte des jiidisclien Volkes (Lissa, 
1877), p. 255 sq.; Thcologischcs Universal- Lexikon , s. v. 
(B. P.) 

Saalschiitz, Joseph Levin, a learned German 
rabbi, was born in Kbnigsberg, March 15, 1801, and was 
educated in his native place, where he was also made 
doctor of philosophy in 1824, having presented for 
this purpose to the faculty an elaborate treatise on the 
Urim oik T Thummim. In the following year he pub- 
lished Von der Form der hebr. Poesie, nebst einer A b- 
handlmig iiber die Musik der Hebraer (Kbnigsberg, 1825), 
which he republished with two additional treatises un- 
der the title Form mid Geist der biblisch-hebr. Poesie 
(ibid. 1853). lie then went to Berlin, where he was 
engaged in the Jewish public school (1825-29), at the 
same time prosecuting his archaeological researches. In 
1829 he was called as rabbi to Vienna, where he re- 
mained until 1835, when he was called for the same po- 
sition in his native place. Here he continued the re- 
mainder of his life, and published the following works: 
Forschungen im Gcbiete der hebraisch-agyptischen Ar- 
chaologie (1838-49, 3 vols.): — Das mosaische Recht 
(1846-48, 2 vols. ; Berlin, 1863, 2d ed.) : — A rchdologie der 
Hebraer (1856, 2 vols.) : — Die Ehe nach biblist her Vor- 
stellung (1858) : — Die klassischen Studien mid der Orient 
(1850). In 1849 he was appointed privatdocent in phi- 
losophy at the University of Kbnigsberg — the first Jew 
who ever received such an appointment — and was after- 
wards made honorary professor. He died Aug. 23, 1863. 
See Fiirst, Bibl. Judo iii, 182 sq.; Zuchold, Bibl. Theolo- 
gica , ii, 1103; Kitto, Cyclop, s. v. ; Jost, Gesch. d. Judenth. 
u. s. Secten , iii, 362; Theologisches Universal- Lexikon, 
s. v.; Kavserling, Bibliothek jiidischer Kunzelredner, ii, 
85 sq.; Jolowiez, Gesch. d. Juden in Kbnigsberg (Posen, 
1867), p. 130 sq. ; Ben Chananya (1864), p. 749 sq. (B. P.) 

Saba or Sabas (S«/8e/c), the name of several 
saints of the Roman Catholic Church. See also Saubas. 

1. A Gothic soldier who was martyred at Rome with 
170 other persons under the emperor Aurelian (Martyr. 
Rom. April 24; Tillemont, Memoir es, iv, 363). 

2. Another Goth and martyr who suffered many 
cruel tortures in the persecution under At hanaric, king 
of the Goths, and was finally drowned in the river Mu- 
sa?us. His relics, together with a letter from the Gothic 
to the Cappadocian Church (which is preserved among 
the epistles of St. Basil), were sent to Cappadocia by the 
Roman governor on the Scythian border (Basil, Kpp. 
155, 164, 165; Martyr. Rom. and Acta SS. April 12; 
Stolberg, xii, 209). 

3. A hermit of Mount Sinai who, according to a state- 
ment by the hermit Ammonius (Combefis, A eta SS.; 
Eust., etc. [Paris, 1660]), was mortally wounded in a 
surprise by the Saracens towards the close of the 4tli 
century (Tillemont, Memoires, vii, 575). 

4. The name Sabas or Sabbas (according to Theod- 
oret, Vit. Patr. c. ii, equivalent to i rptafivTip;') was con- 
ferred upon the hermit Julian of Edessa by the Mesopo- 
tamians. Julian was accounted one of the leading her- 
mits by Jerome and Chrysostom. He spent forty years 
of his life (about A.D. 330-370) in a narrow and damp 
cave in the desert of Osrcene, practicing the utmost 
austerity, performing miracles — chief!}' works of heal- 
ing and exorcisms, descriptions of which are given by 
Theodore t— and instructing a band of nearly 100 pupils. 
The death of Julian the Apostate was revealed to this 
saint at the moment when that emperor fell in battle 
(A.D. 363), though twenty days’ journey separated him 
from the scene of conflict (Theodorct, II. E. iii, 24). In 


SABA 


188 


SAB A CIITII AX I 


the reign ofYalens the Ariaus of Antioch claimed that 
this hermit, whose fame extended over the entire East, 
belonged to their party; but Sabas, in response to the 
request of the Catholics, forsook his solitude for the first 
time in forty years, and appeared at Antioch to contra- 
dict the Arian boast, his journey to that place and back 
being signalized by the performance of numerous mira- 
cles. The recollection of this visit was still fresh when 
Chrysostom preached at Antioch. Sabas died in his 
cave, an old man. Ilis festival is observed by the 
Greeks on Oct. 18 and 28, and by the Latins on Jan. 14 
(A eta SS. Jan. 14 ; Tillemont, Memoires, vii, 581 ; Stol- 
berg, xii, 198). — Wetzer u. Welte, Kircken-Lex . s. v. 

5. The most noted saint of this name appeared at the 
beginning of the Gth century in connection with the 
Monophysite controversy, lie was born about A.D. 439 
at Mutalasca, in Cappadocia, of good family. At first a 
monk under the rule of St. Basil, he became a hermit in 
Palestine before completing the eighteenth year of his 
age, and was received into favor as a pupil bv the her- 
mit Euthvmius, to whose prayers he owed the preserva- 
tion of his life at a subsequent day, when he was dying 
of thirst in the desert. (Stolberg, xvii, 1G8). He was 
made a priest in A.D. 484, and placed over all the her- 
mits in the neighborhood of Jerusalem, eventually till- 
ing his station with great success, though at first the 
strictness of his rule gave much dissatisfaction and 
caused his withdrawal to a distant solitude. At the 
time of the Monophysite controvers\', the patriarch 
Elias of Jerusalem sent him with other hermits to Con- 
stantinople with a view to dispose the emperor Anasta- 
sius more favorably towards the Catholic cause, but his 
mission failed to produce lasting results. Elias having 
been superseded in the patriarchate bv John, who be- 
longed to the party of Severus (q. v.), Sabas and others 
induced the new primate to renounce his views and ac- 
knowledge the Council of Chaleedon. The emperor en- 
deavored to reclaim John, but was met with a spirit of 
defiant opposition, which found further expression in the 
pronouncing of a solemn anathema upon Nestorius, Eu- 
tyches, Severus, and all other opponents of the Council 
of Chaleedon. The revolt of Vitalian in the meantime 
diverted attention from the insubordinate monks, and in 
518 the emperor Anastasius died. Sabas afterwards per- 
formed a second journey to Constantinople, a year be- 
fore he died, for the purpose of obtaining a reduction of 
the oppressive imposts exacted from the population of 


Palestine, and also to counteract the influence ofOrigen- 
ism, which began to make itself felt among the monks 
under his direction. He was received with great pom}), 
the emperor Justinian sending Epiphanius,the patriarch, 
and a number of bishops and courtiers in the imperial 
galleys to meet him, and on his arrival prostrating him- 
self before the aged hermit to receive his blessing. The 
petition in behalf of Palestine was granted, and a large 
sum of money was offered to Sabas for the use of his 
convent; but this Sabas declined to receive, and asked 
that it be appropriated to other useful purposes in Pal- 
estine. Nothing, however, was done against Origenism 
while Sabas lived. See Ouigenistic Controversy. 
A joyful welcome awaited him on his return to Pales- 
tine, after which he retired to his laura , and died Dec. 
5, A.D. 531 or 532. There is a Greek liturgy entitled 
Tv7rtKnv , etc. (printed at Venice, 1G03, 1G13, 1G43, fol.), 
attributed to St-. Saba, but of unknown authorship. 
See Cvrilli Vita S.Subie in Cotelerii Monum. Keel. Gr. 
iii, and Latin in Surius, Dec. 5; Tillemont, Memoires, 
xvi, 701 sq. — Wetzer u. Welte, Kirchen-Lex, s. v. ; comp. 
Smith, Diet, of Class. Biorj. s. v. 

SABA (St.), Monastery of, now called Deir Mar 
Saba, still exists on the brink of Wady Nar, the exten- 
sion of the valley of the Kidron, near the Dead Sea. 
The surrounding scenery is of the wildest and most ro- 
mantic character. See Kidron. The convent hangs 
on the precipitous side of the ravine, being partly ex- 
cavated out of the rock, and surrounded by a strong 
wall, accessible only on one side. The edifices within 
are extensive and commodious, being occupied by about 
sixty monks of the Greek rite, who are said to be quite 
rich. The original cell of the founder is shown, said to 
have been a cave occupied by a lion, which voluntarily 
relinquished it to the saint. The convent was plunder- 
ed by the Persians in 533, and forty-four of the monks 
were then massacred; but it has survived all the vicis- 
situdes of the Holy Land, of which it is one of the ear- 
liest monastic relics. No women are ever admitted with- 
in its portals, although the monks are hospitable to male 
visitors, provided they are furnished with the proper 
credentials. For a full description, see JJobinson, Re- 
se a relies, i, 382, 521 ; Thomson, Land and Book, ii, 435; 
Porter, Handbook for Pal. p. 229. 

Sabach'thani [many sabachiha'ni ] ((m/SoyS-oi'i, 
a Grrvcized form of the Chaldee shebakta'ni, 
thou hast left me), quoted by our Lord upon the cross 



Convent of Mar Saba (from a photograph by the Editor). 


SABiEAN 


189 


SABAT 


(Matt. xvii, 46 ; Mark xv, 34) from the Targum on Tsa. 
xxii, 2 (where the Heb. has azabta'ni , ■’3FQT3J, “thou 
hast forsaken me”). See Petersen, Erforschung des 
Wvrtes fftt(3ax^ctvi (s. 1. 1701). Comp. Agony. 

Sabae'an. As much confusion has been introduced 
by the variety of meanings which the name Subleans 
has been made to bear, it may be proper to specify in 
this place their distinctive derivations and use. In our 
Authorized Version of Scripture the term seems to be 
applied to three different tribes. 

1. The Sebtdm (D"'5<2D, with a sdmech), the descend- 
ants of Seba or Saba, son of Cush, who ultimately set- 
tled in Ethiopia. See Skua. 

2. The Shebaim with a shin'), the descend- 

ants of Sheba, son of Joktan, the Sabcei of the Greeks 
and Homans, w r ho settled in Arabia Felix. They are 
the “ Sabieans” of Joel iii, 8, to whom the Jews were to 
sell the captives of Tyre. The unpublished Arabic 



ignation given in Jer. vi, 20 to Sheba, as the country 
of frankincense and the rich aromatic reed, and also by 
our Lord in Matt, xii, 42, who says the queen of Sheba, 
or “the south,” came Ik non 7repdrton tIjq yifQ, “from 
the earth’s extremes.” See Sheba. 

3. Another tribe of Shebans (Heb. sheba', X-'J, also 
with a shin), a horde of Bedawin marauders in the days 
of Job (i, 15) ; for whether we place the land of Uz in 
Idutmea or in Ausitis, it is by no means likely that the 
Arabs of the south would extend their excursions so 
very far. We must therefore look for this tribe in Des- 
ert Arabia; and it is singular enough that, besides the 
Seba of Cush and the Shaba of Joktan, there is another 
Sheba, son of Jokshan, and grandson of Abraham, by 
Keturah (Gen. xxv, 33); and -his posterity appear to 
have been “ men of the wilderness," as were their kins- 
men of Midian, Ephah, and Dedan. To them, how- 
ever, the above-cited passage in the prophecy of Joel 
could not apply, because in respect neither to the lands 
of Judah nor of Uz could they be correctly described as 
a people “ afar off.” As for the Sttbaitn of Ezek. xxiii, 
42 (which our version also renders by Sabaeans”), while 
the Keri has Sabaiyam ’, E^X-D, the Kethib has Sobe- 
im', E^XEIO, i. e. “drunkards,” which better suits the 
context. See Shaba. 

4. Yet, as if to increase the confusion in the use of 
this name of “ Sabieans,” it has also been applied to the 
ancient star-worshippers of Western Asia, though they 
ought properly to be styled Tsabians, and their religion 
not Sabaism, but Tsabaism, the name being most prob- 
ably derived from the object of their adoration, tseba ', 
XES, the host , i. e. of heaven (see an excursus by Gese- 
nius in his translation of Isaiah, On the Astral Worship 
of the Chaldeenns, and Sabaotii). 

5. The name of Sabteans, or Sabians, has also been 
given to a modern sect in the East, the Mandaites , or, 
as they are commonly but incorrectly called, the “ Chris- 
tians” of St. John; for they deny the Messiahship of 
Christ, and pay superior honor to John the Baptist. 
They are mentioned in the Koran under the name of 
Sabionna , and it is probable that the Arabs confounded 
them with the ancient Tsabians above mentioned. Nor- 
berg, however, says that they themselves derive their 
own name from that which they give to the Baptist, 
which is Abo Sabo Zalrio ; from Abo, “father;” Sabo, 
“to grow old together;” and Zakrio, e. g. Zechariah. 
“The reason they assign for calling him Sabo is be- 
cause his father, in his old age, had this son by his wife 
Aneshbat (Elizabeth), she being also in her old age 
(see Norberg’s Codex Nusareeus , Liber A da mi Appella - 
tus, and Silvestre de Sacy, in the Journal des Savans 
for 1819). — Kit to. See Sabi an ism. 

Sabaism. See Sab.ean. 

Sabanus (adfiavog, classical trapavov, a linen 


cloth), a white cloth w ith which the infant was covered 
in baptism. This "was an ancient practice. From the 
4th century we rind frequent mention of clothing the 
newly baptized in white garments. These garments, 
as emblems of purity, were delivered to them with a 
solemn charge to keep their robes of innocence unspot- 
ted till the day of Christ. The neophytes wore this 
dress from Easter eve until the Sunday after Easter, 
which was hence called Dominica in albis , that is, “the 
Sunday in white.” This garment was usually made of 
white linen, but sometimes of more costly materials. — 
Farrar, Eccles. Diet, s. v. See Alb ; Cn in some. 

Sab'aoth [some Saba'oth ] (ao/iooi^, a Gra^cized 
form of the Ileb. tsebuoth', niXE !£, armies), a word oc- 
curring in this form only in the A. V. in Horn, ix, 29; 
James v, 4; but in the Heb. of frequent occurrence in 
the phrase “Jehovah of hosts,” or “Jehovah, God of 
hosts.” “It is familiar through its occurrence in the 
Sanctus of the Te Deum, ‘Holy, Holy, Iloly, Lord God 
of Sabaoth.’ It is often considered to be a synonym of, 
or to have some connection with, Sabbath, and to ex- 
press the idea of rest, and this not only popularly, but 
in some of our most classical writers. Thus .Spenser, 
Faery Queene, canto viii, 2 : 

‘ But thenceforth all shall rest eternally 

.With him that is the God of Sabaoth bight: 

O that great Sabaoth God, grant me that Sabaoth’s 
sight;’ 

also Bacon, Adrancement of Learning, ii,24: ‘. . . sa- 
cred and inspired divinity, the Sabaoth and port of all 
men’s labors and peregrinations;’ Johnson, in the first 
edition of whose Dictionary (1755) Sabaoth and Sab- 
bath are treated as the same word; Walter Scott, Ivan - 
hoe, vol. i, ch. xi (1st ed.) : ‘a w r eek, aye the space be- 
tween two Sabaoths.’ But this connection is quite 
fictitious. The two words ate not only entirely differ- 
ent, but have nothing in common” (Smith). The llcb. 
term tsabd, XE2, signifies an army (see Dent, xxiv, 5; 
Exod. vi, 26). The plural is used in the sense of ar- 
mies (Exod. vii, 4, and often). The singular is some- 
times applied to the company of angels which surround 
the throne of Jehovah, who are called XE22, 

tsabd hash-shamayim, “the host of heaven.” The same 
phrase is also applied to the stars, for the most part as 
objects of idolatrous worship ; indeed, the expression 
appears to include everything in heaven, both angels 
and heavenly bodies. Isaiah uses the phrase 

tsabd ham-marom, “the Host on High,” in op- 
position to the kings of the earth. God is called JTirP 
Jehovah elohey' tsebadth, “ Jehovah God 
of hosts,” which most commentators regard as synony- 
mous with “God of heaven” (see Zenkei De Synonymis 
IY1503 et Lips. 1763), though others assert that 

it should be taken in a military sense, as the God of 
armies or w r ars. “It designates him as the supreme 
head and commander of all the heavenly forces; so that 
the host of Jehovah is all one with the host of heaven 
(1 Kings xxii, 19), and must be understood strictly of 
the angels, who are ever represented as the Lord’s im- 
mediate and fitting agents, ready on all occasions to ex- 
ecute his will (Psa. ciii, 21 : cxlviii, 2). It is never 
applied to God with reference to the army of Israel. 
Once, indeed, the companies composing this are called 
‘the hosts of the Lord’ (Exod. xii, 41), because they 
w'ere under his direction and guardianship; but when 
employed with the view' of heightening the idea of 
God’s greatness and majestj', as the term ‘hosts’ is in 
the phrases in question, the hosts can only be those of 
the angelic or heavenly world (sec Gescnius, Thesaur, 
s. v.)” (Fairbnirn). See Host. 

Sa'bat (SajSdr, v. r. in Esdr. 'Zatydr and S«0oy), 
the Gnecizcd form of three names in the Apocrypha. 

1. The head of one of the families of “ Solomon’s ser- 
vants” who returned from the captivity with Zerubba- 


SABATA2AS 


190 


SABBATH 


bel, according to 1 Esdr. v, 34 ; but the Ileb. lists (Ezra 
ii, 57 ; Neh. vii. 59) have no corresponding name. 

2. The Jewish month Shebat (q. v.) (L Macc. xvi, 

H). 

Sabatae'as (Yafiaraiag v. r. Yafifiaraiag and 
YafiaTaiog), a Gnecized form ([ Esdr. ix, 48) of the 
Ileb. name (Neh. vii, 7) Siiabbetiiai (q. v.). 

Sabatniki, a sect of Russian Sabbatarians, or “ Sab- 
bath - honorers,” which arose in Novgorod (cir. A.D. 
1470), where some clergy and laity were persuaded by a 
Jew of Kiev, named Zacharias, into a belief that the 
Mosaic dispensation alone was of divine origin. They 
accepted the Old Testament only, of which, being un- 
acquainted with Hebrew, they used the Slavonic trans- 
lation. Like the Jews, they were led to expect the ad- 
vent of an earthly Messiah. Some of them denied the 
Resurrection; and, being accused of practicing several 
cabalistic arts, for which points of Jewish ceremonial 
may have been mistaken, were regarded by the common 
people as soothsayers and sorcerers. They were grad- 
ually becoming a powerful sect, one of their number, 
named Zosima, having even been elected archbishop of 
Moscow, when in A.D. 1490 they were condemned bv a 
synod, and a tierce persecution nearly obliterated them. 
But here and there, in remote parts of Russia, travellers 
have within the last century discovered fragmentary 
communities holding Jewish views, which have been 
thought to be relics of the older sect of Sabatniki. In 
Irkutsk they continue to exist under the name of Seles - 
newschschini. See Platon, Present State of the Greek 
Church in Russia (Pinkerton’s transl.), p. 273. — Blunt, 
Diet, o f Sects , s. v. 

Sab'atus (Ydflarog, v. r. Ydj3a$og), a Gnecized 
form (l Esdr. ix, 28) of the Heb. name (Ezra x, 27) 
Zabad (q. v.). 

Sabazius, a deity worshipped by the ancient Phryg- 
ians, alleged to have sprung from Rhea or Cybele. In 
later times he was identified both with Dionysus and 
Zeus. The worship of Sabazius was introduced into 
Greece, and his festivals, called Sabazia, were mingled 
with impurities. — Gardner, Faiths of the World , s. v. 
See also Vollmer, Worterbuch der Mythol . s. v. 

Sabba. See Saba. 

Sabbae'us (Yafifialog, v. r. Yafifiatag), a corrupt- 
ly Gnecized form (1 Esdr. ix, 22) of the Heb. name 
(Ezra x, 31) Siiejiaiaii (q. v.). 

Sab'ban (Ydj3j3avog ; Yulg. Raimi), a corrupt form 
(l Esdr. viii, 63) of the Heb. name (Ezra viii, 33) Bix- 
nui (q. v.). 

Sabbas, St. ( Prince Rasteo ), a mediaeval ecclesias- 
tic, was born during the latter part of the 12th century. 
He was the son of Stephen Neman ia, founder of the 
kingdom of Servia. Contrary to the wishes of his 
father, Rasteo embraced the monastic life. and. though 
young, was soon made abbot, lie prevailed upon the 
patriarch of Constantinople to create a Servian arch- 
bishopric, and was himself the first to enjoy the posi- 
tion. lie made an extended tour through Egypt and 
the Holy Land, and, on his return, died at Truava, in 
Bulgaria, Jan. 14, 1237. 11 is remains were placed in 

the monastery at Milechivo, but were burned in 1595 
by the order of Sikan Pasha. The 14th of January is 
kept in memory of this saint. — Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. Ge- 
neral, s. v. 

Sabbatarians, those who keep the seventh day 
as the Sabbath. They arc to be found principally, if 
not wholly, among the Baptists. They object to the 
reasons which are generally alleged for keeping the 
first day, and assert that the change from the seventh 
to the first was effected by Constantine on his conver- 
sion to Christianity. The three following propositions 
contain a summary of their principles as to this ar- 
ticle of the Sabbath, by which they are distinguished : 
1. That God has required that the seventh, or last, day 
of every week be observed by mankind universally for 


the weekly Sabbath. 2. That this command of God 
is perpetually binding on man till time shall be no 
more. 3. That this sacred rest of the seventh-day 
Sabbath is not (by divine authority) changed from the 
seventh and last to the first day of the week, or that 
the Scripture nowhere requires the observance of any 
other day of the week for the weekly Sabbath but the 
seventh day only. They hold, in common with other 
Christians, the distinguishing doctrines of Christianity. 
— Buck, Theol. Diet. s. v. See Evans, Sketch of the De- 
nominations of the Christian World. See Baptists, 
Seventh-pay. 

Sabbatati, a name applied sometimes to the ir«Z- 
denses (q. v.), from the circumstance that their teachers 
wore mean or wooden shoes, which in French are called 
sabots. — Gardner, Faiths of the World , s. v. 

Sabbath, Jewish. The word Sabbath is, in He- 
brew, shabbath', TZ'Z (comp. Ewald, Ausfiihrl. Lehrb. p. 
400; and see on the form shabbathan , 'pr2'l3,at the end 
of this art.") ; in the Grtecized form odfifiarov, or. in 
the plural form, rd <x dfifiara (comp. Horace, Sat. i, 9, 
69). The derivation and meaning of the word are well 
known. Josephus (Apion, ii, 2) explains it as a rest 
from all labor , drenravatg curb rravrog ipyov (comp. 
Ant. i, 1, 1). Mistaken etymologies, by those ignorant 
of Hebrew, are found in Josephus, Apion, loc. cit. ; Plu- 
tarch, Symp. iv, 6, 2; Lactantius, Instil uf. vii, 14. On 
Sabbath (Gv. odfifiara) in the sense of week, see Week. 
It is clear that the word ificopdg (2 Macc. vi, 11) means 
the Sabbath (comp. Josephus, 115/;-, ii. 8, 9). 

This was the seventh day of the Hebrew week, ex- 
tending from sunset on Friday to sunset on Saturday 
(comp. Lev. xxiii, 32, and sec Light foot, I/or. Ilebr. p. 
312 sq.). See Day. The time during which the sun 
was going down was the eve of the Sabbath. See 
Pkepaiiation. Of course, the commencement and 
close of the Sabbath varied with the higher or lower 
position of the observer. Thus, Carpzov quotes from 
the book Musar this statement : “ Tiberias lay in a val- 
ley, where the sun disappeared half an hour before set- 
ting; Zephore was on a mountain, where, the sun shone 
longer than on the plains. The people in the former, 
therefore, began their Sabbath sooner, in the latter later, 
than the rest of the nation.” By a law of Augustus 
(Josephus, Ant. xvi, 6, 2), the Sabbath began at the 
ninth hour. According to the disciples of the Gema- 
ra, the Sabbath began and ended in all Jewish cities 
at the sound of the trumpet (comp. Maimon. I/iJkoth 
Shab. c. 5). Josephus records this custom of Jerusalem 
( IJMr, iv, 9, 12). In the Temple, the trumpet was to be 
blown from the “ covert for the Sabbath ,” or Sabbath - 
roof Heb. Mesak hash -shabbath, 7* 2 2' H ”2**0 (2 Kings 
xvi, 18). See Rhenferd, Opera Philol. p. 770 sq. 

This day was celebrated by the Hebrews as a holy 
day (Deut. v, 12), a day of rest and rejoicing (Isa. lviii, 
13 , comp. Hos. ii, 1 1 , 1 Macc. i, 41), by ceasing from all 
labor, with their servants and all strangers, as well as 
cattle (Exod. xx, 10; xxxi, 13 sq.; xxxiv, 21, xxxv, 
2 , Deut. v, 14 , comp. Jer. xvii, 21, 24 ; Josephus, Apion, 
ii, 39; Dion Cass, xxxvii, 17 [Philo, Opp. ii, 137, ex- 
tends the Sabbath-rest even to plants — they were not 
to be eared or reaped on that day]), and by a special 
bnrnt-offering,prescnted in the Temple, in addition to the 
usual daily offering (q. v.) — which was doubled on this 
day — consisting of two yearling lambs, with the meat- 
offerings and drink-offerings belonging to it (Numb, 
xxxviii, 9; comp. 2 Chron. xxxi, 3; Neh. x, 33; Ezek. 
xlvi, 4). In the holy place of the Temple, the sliew- 
bread was renewed (Lev. xxiv, 8; 1 Chron. ix, 32), and 
the new division of priests appointed for that week 
took their places (2 Kings xi, 5, 7, 9; 2 Chron. xxiii, 4). 
The services of the priests and Levites in and about 
the tabernacle and Temple were not accounted labor 
(comp. Matt, xii, 5), and continued through the Sab- 
bath. Circumcision, too, as a religious ceremony, took 
place on the Sabbath, when that was the eighth day 


SABBATH 


101 


SABBATH 


(John vii, 22 sq. ; comp. Mishna, Shah. c. 19 ; Schottgen, 
I for, Ihbr. i, 121 ; Lightfoot, 1 1 or. Ihbr. p. 1028). 

Deliberate profanation of this day was punished with 
death (Exod. xxxi, 14 sq. ; xxxv, 2), which was inflict- 
ed by stoning (Numb, xv, 32 sq.; Mishna, Sankedr. vii, 
8). But if the law of the Sabbath was broken through 
ignorance or mistake, a sin-offering was required, and 
the offence pardoned (comp. Sh ab. vii, 1; xi, G: Chri- 
t /tilth , iii, 10). There were times, too, when the Jews 
dispensed with the extreme severity of their law (Isa. 
lvi, 2; lviii, 13; Ezek. xx, 1G; xxii, 8; Earn, ii, G; Neh. 
xiii, 1G) ; and the legal observance of the Sabbath seems 
never to have been rigorously enforced until after the 
Exile. At this time, too, the meaning of the work 
which profaned the Sabbath was tirst strictly defined, 
since the lawgiver had left this to be determined by 
experience, and, in certain doubtful cases, the individ- 
ual conscience, definitely prohibiting but one act — the 
kindling of a fire in one’s house (Exod. xxxv, 3; comp. 
Eichliorn, Repert . ix, 32; xii-i, 258) for cooking (Exod. 
xvi, 23; Numb, xv, 32; comp. iMishna, Terum. ii, 3). 
This was interpreted by the Jews, however, to include 
the lighting of lamps, and they used to do this before 
the Sabbath began (Mishna, Shab. ii, 7 ; xvi, 8; comp. 
Seneca, Ep. 95, p. 423, Bip.). This prohibition com- 
pelled the Jews to cook and bake their food for the 
Sabbath on the preceding day, and it was often kept 
warm in vessels set in dry hay or chips (Mishna, Shah. 
iv, 1 sq. ; comp, also Josephus, lT«r, ii, 8, 9, on the Es- 
senes). The intermission of labor was required on 
feast-days as well as on the Sabbath, except the prep- 
aration of food (comp. Exod. xii, 1G, see iMishna, Yom 
Tab , v, 2; Megilla, i, 5). A later age, which sought to 
observe painfully the letter of the law, and to confide as 
little as possible to the judgment and conscience of 
individuals, extended the meaning of this work much 
further, and strove to complete a formal code for Sab- 
bath observance. Marketing and public trade ceased 
on the Sabbath, of course (Neh. x, 31 ; xiii. 15, IG) : and 
it was merely an auxiliary police regulation of Nehe- 
miah to close the gates on that day (Neh. xiii, 19). It 
was in the spirit of the law, too, that travelling on the 
Sabbath was forbidden, with reference to Exod. xvi, 29 
(comp. Josephus, Ant. xiii, 8, 4). See Sarratii-day’s 
Journey. But the conduct of the Jewish armies in 
refusing to arm on the Sabbath, and suffering their en- 
emies to cut them down, certainly savored of fanaticism 
(1 Macc. ii, 32 sq. ; 2 Macc. vi, 11 , Josephus, Ant. xii, 6, 
2: ir«r, ii, 17, 10; Life , p. 32; comp. Plutarch, Super- 
stit. p. 109). A parallel may be found in the Jewish 
steersman who left the helm at the moment of a squall 
because the Sabbath was beginning (Synes. Ep. iv, p. 
1G3, ed Petav.). Yet the apprehension of the great 
advantage which would thus accrue to the enemy led 
prudent commanders to observe this rest from fighting 
only so far as to abstain on the Sabbath from offensive 
operations (1 Macc. xi, 34, 43 sq.; Josephus, Ant. xiii, 1, 
3, xiv, 4, 2 sq.). Marching armies halted on that day 
(Josephus, Ant. xiii, 8, 4; comp, xiv, 10, 12). The last 
passage seems to show that the Sabbath law was made a 
pretext by Jews to escape from foreign military service 
when they wished (see again Ant. xviii, 9, 2; 10,2; 
ll’or, iv, 2, 3 ; Michaelis, Mas. Recht, iv, 133 sq.). Yet 
in the last Jewish war less caution was exercised, even 
in abstaining from offensive movement (Josephus, li r or, 
ii, 19,2); and many an artifice was carried on by the 
aid of the Sabbath and its observances (ibid, iv, 2,3. In 
this instance, it was less the fear of breaking the law 
than a shrewd calculation of advantage which prevent- 
ed the Jews from engaging the enemy on the Sabbath). 

The Pharisees gave very minute directions on the 
observance of the Sabbath ; and although different 
teachers differed in many points, yet in the New-Tes- 
tament period we find great rigor prevailing. The 
plucking of single ears of grain in passing (Matt, xii, 
2; Mark ii, 23 sq.; Luke vi, 1 sq.), the healing of the 
sick (Matt, xii, 10; Mark iii, 2; Luke vi, 7 ; xiii, 14; 


John ix, 14, 16; Thilo, A poor. p. 503), the walking of 
a cured patient with his bed (John v, 10), all were con- 
sidered as desecrations of the Sabbath by the Phari- 
sees and their disciples; although when property was 
in danger, many acts which were certainly work were 
freely performed in case of pressing need (Matt, xii, 1 1 ; 
Luke xiv, 5; comp. Gemara, Shab. cxxviii, 1); yet 
even in the care of cattle (comp. Luke xiii, 15) all 
work was to be shunned which was not really necessa- 
ry (Shab. xxiv, 2 sq). The Essenes seem to have 
been yet stricter in observing this day. The iMishna 
(SI lab. e. 17) has severe regulations against the re- 
moval of goods; yet certain exceptions were allowed 
(comp. Philo, Opp. ii, 5G9). On the severity of the Sa- 
maritans in this respect, see Gesen. Be T/ieol. Samarit. 
p. 35 sq.; comp. Origeu, Princip. iv, 17 ; tom. i, p. I7G). 
They refrained from sexual intercourse on the night of 
the Sabbath (Eichliorn, Repert. xiii, 258). The iMish- 
na, in the tract Shab. (2d part), which treats the whole 
subject of this article, names in particular (vii, 2) thir- 
ty-nine forms of labor which are forbidden on the Sab- 
bath, each of which has, again, its variations and spe- 
cies. In the twofold Gemara to this tract (the Tosiph- 
ta to the tract Shab. is found in Hebrew and Latin in 
Ugolini Thesaur. xvii; the tract itself has been sepa- 
rately edited by J. I». Carpzov, Leips. 1661), and in the 
Kabbinical writings the matter is spun out still further 
and finer (see Hulsius, Theol. Jud. i, 240 sq.; Bnxtorf, 
Sgnag. Jud. c. 16 ; Schottgen, Uor. Ihbr. i, 121 sq.). As 
to the healing of the sick, the rabbins generally allow- 
ed the use of all proper remedies if life was in danger 
(see Mishna, Yoma, viii, 0; Schottgen, op. cit. p. 122 sq. ; 
Danz, Christ i Curutio Sabbathica 1 dndic. [Jen. 1699]; 
also in Meuschen, A r . T. p. 569 sq.) ; but those which 
were only designed to make the sick more comfortable 
were rigorously forbidden (see, e. g. Gemara, Berachoth , 
p. 11. According to the Mishna [N/<o5. xxii, 6], even 
a broken bone was not to be set nor dislocations poul- 
ticed on the Sabbath; yet see Maimonides, ad loc.). 
On the other forms of labor permitted on the Sabbath 
(Mishna, Shab. xxiv, 5) the reader may consult Y. 11. 
Hasenmidler, Opera Sabba/hum Bepellan(ia (Jen. 1708). 

The Sabbath was especially consecrated to devotion 
and to the law (Josephus, A nt. xvi, 2, 4), and frivolous 
or unclean conversation was accounted a desecration of 
the day (Gesen. In Jesa. ii, 230). Hence in the syna- 
gogues everywhere on this day took place the great 
services of worship (Mark i, 21 ; vi, 2; Luke iv, 16,31 ; 
vi, 6; xiii, 10; Acts xiii, 44 ; xvi, 13; xvii, 2; xviii, 4), 
with prayer and the public reading and expounding of 
the holy books (Luke iv, 16 sq.; Acts xiii, 27 ; Josephus, 
Apion, i, 22). This, however, cannot be considered as a 
Mosaic regulation (see Vitringa, Sgnag. 2, 2); but see 
Law. Cheerful meals were held (Luke xiv, 1 ; Philo, 
Opp. ii, 477. The didst on [dpiorof was taken on the 
Sabbath about the sixth hour [Josephus, Life, p. 54]. 
On the three meals of the Sabbath, see IMishna, Shab. 
xvi, 2, and Maimon. ad loc.') ; feast-day clothing was put 
on (Sharban, Be Luxu Sabbatorio, in his Observ. Sacr. 
iii, 541 sq.) ; and it was never a fast-day (Jud. viii, 6. 
Justin’s remark [xxxvi, 2], which makes it a fast, is 
untrue. Comp. Sueton. A ug. 76, where Ernesti’s expla- 
nation does not accord with the usage of speech; Pe- 
tron. Eragm. xxxv, 6. See contra, Maimon. Uilkoth 
Shab. Extr. Comp. P. T. Carpzov, Be Jejun . Sabb. ex 
Antiq. Ihbr. [Bostoch. 1741]). 

When the Jews were under foreign snpremaev, ex- 
cept during the reign of Antiochus Epiphanes (1 Macc. 
i, 45, 48; 2 Macc. vi, 6), their legal Sabbath was con- 
firmed (comp. 1 Macc. x, 34; Josephus, Ant. xiv, 10, 20, 
21,23,25); and even in the composition of the civil 
law, a conciliatory respect was shown to it (Josephus, 
Ant. xvi, 6, 2 and 4; Philo, Opera , ii, 569). It is still a 
question how far the Jewish legal administration itself 
regarded the Sabbath (see, among others, Tholuck, On 
John , p. 302 sq. ; Illeek, Beitriige z. Evangelienkritik , p. 
140 sq.). The Mishna (Yom Tab, v, 2) says expressly 




SABBATH 


192 


SABBATH 


that no court was held on that day, nor even was a ses- 
sion begun the afternoon preceding, lest it might en- 
croach upon the Sabbath (Mishna, Shab. i, 2; comp. 
Gemara, Sanhed. fol. 35, I ; nor can the force of these 
passages be removed by Gemara, Sanhed. fol. 88, l, even 
though it referred to this subject). See Council. It 
is remarkable that at one time the Jews themselves 
made an effort in Syria to do away with the observance 
of the Sabbath (Josephus, War, vii, 3, 3). This effort 
was aided, perhaps, by the view which the Romans took 
of this weekly rest, often mocking the Jews as slothful 
(Juvenal, xiv, 105 sq. ; Seneca, in Augustine, Civ. Dei , 
vi, 1 1). 

The origin of the Sabbath is usually referred to Mo- 
ses by the German critics (Ewald, Gesch. Jsr. ii, 142 sq.) 
on the ground that Gen. ii, l caunot be accepted as a 
testimony to its earlier institution, since this whole ac- 
count of the creation, whose date and author are un- 
known, is plainly designed for the very purpose of pre- 
senting the Sabbath to us as an immediate divine or- 
dinance (see Gabler, Never 1 "ers. iiber die mos. Schbpf- 
ungsgesch. p. 38 sq.; De Wette, Krit. p. 40 sq.), just as 
it is often set forth in later writings in connection with 
the exode and with the legislation of Sinai (Ezek. xx, 
10 sq.; Neh. ix, 13 sq.; comp. Deut. v, 14 sip, with which 
Exod. xvi, 23 agrees). Reggio, bj 7- a peculiar explana- 
tion of Gen. ii, l sq., arrives at a distinction between the 
Sabbath appointed here for all mankind and that given 
to the Jews in their law ( Zeitschrift fur d. Judenth. 1845, 
p. 102 sq,, 12L sq.). The Sabbath is considered as a 
Mosaic institution also by Eusebius (//. E. i, 4, 3; Privp. 
Ev. vii, 6) and most of the rabbins (Selden, Jus. Nat. 
et Gent, iii, 10). Among the more recent writers, this 
view is adopted by Spencer {Leg. lilt, i, 4, 9 sq.) ; Eich- 
horn {Urgesch. i, 249 sq.) ; Gabler {ibid. p. 58 sq.; Neuer 
Versuch , p. 38 sq.) ; Bauer {Gottesdienstl. Verfass. ii, 174 
sq., in answer to Hebenstreit, De Sab. ante Leg. Mos. Ex- 
istent e [Lips. 1748]); I ken {Dissert. Theol. p. 20 sq.) : 
Richter (in the Biblioth. Brem. Nova, iii, 310 sq.); Mi- 
chaelis {Mos. Reckt, iv, 1 10 sq.). See Sabbath, Chris- 
tian. 

The question may be raised whether the Sabbath 
was not borrowed by Moses from some other ancient 
people, as the Egyptians. It is not necessary to discuss 
the unhistoric suppositions of Philo (ii, 137) and Jose- 
phus {Apion, ii, 39) that this feast was very widely 
spread among ancient nations. Yet it appears from 
Seneca {Ep. 95, p. 423, Bip.) and Ovid {Remed. Amor. 
p. 219) that a reverence for the seventh day had found 
an entrance among the Romans (comp. Ideler, Chron. ii, 
1 7 G). Various strange opinions as to the origin of the 
Sabbath have been suggested which answer themselves 
(Plutarch, Sympos. iv, 6, 2). (On the pretended Jew- 
ish worship of Saturn, see Buttmann, Mythol. ii, 44 sq.) 
It is certain that the Egyptians knew the reckoning by 
weeks, and even began each successive week with the 
day of Chronos (Dion Cass, xxxvii, 18, 19). Baur, fol- 
lowing Tacitus {Hist, v, 5), has connected the Sabbath 
with the worship of Chronos-Saturn, to whom the Ro- 
mans also dedicated particularly the seventh day of the 
week {Tiibinger Zeitschr. fir Theol . 1832, iii, 145 sq. ; 
comp. Movers, Phdniz. p. 315); hence the Roman his- 
torians compared the Jewish Sabbath with the day of 
Saturn (Dion Cass, xxxvii, 17, 18; Tibul. i,3, 17). His 
view rests on the well-known representation by the 
Greeks and Romans of the golden age long gone by, 
the age of rest and equality, under Saturn, and the cus- 
tom connected with it of giving the slaves a holiday at 
the Saturnalia (see Syrb, I)e. Sabbatho Gent Hi in Temp. 
Ilelvet. ii, 527 sq. ; and in Ugolim Thesaur. vol. xvii; 
comp, also Wernsdorf, Diss. de Gent it. Sabbato [Viteb. 
1722]). But this theory is so finespun that it falls to 
pieces at the first touch, for the passage in Dion Cassius 
does not do anything towards proving a naming of the 
days of the week after the planets (see Ideler, Chronol. 
i, 180). And the Western representations of Saturn 
can so much the less be transferred to the East in that, 


even among the Romans, the day of Saturn was counted 
an unlucky one. Astrologicallv, too, the day of Saturn 
is the first, not the seventh, of the week. But, apart 
from all this, it was more natural for an agricultural 
people to keep as a festival the last day of the week, 
after men and beasts had become wearied with toil, in 
rest, and with ceremonies in accordance with their re- 
ligious character, particularly with sacrifices. Why 
should we seek a foreign model for all the Mosaic insti- 
tutions? Why refer these simple observances to such 
far-fetched and generally unsuitable explanations? (See 
especially Biihr, Symbol, i, 5S4 sq. In answer to Von Boh- 
len, Genesis , p. 137, Introd. see Tuch, Genesis, p. 14 sq.) 

The Sabbath, as the basis of the Israelitish cycle of 
feast-days, was imitated and repeated, as it were, in 
several other festivals; e. g. the Sabbath Year, the Sev- 
enth New Moon, and the Year of Jubilee. On the sub- 
ject of the whole article, see Carpzov, ^1 ppar. p.382 sq. ; 
Reland, Ant. Sacr. iv, 8; Bauer, op. cit. ii, 152 sq. ; 
Jahn, iii, 388 sq.; Gisb. Voetii Dis. Sel. iii, 1227 sq.; 
Biihr, Symbol, ii, 566 sq., 577 sq. — Winer, s. v. 

A figurative use of the word “Sabbath” denotes a 
solemn festival on which servile work was proscribed; 
but this occurs only with respect to the great day of 
annual atonement (Lev. xxiii, 33). The word properly 
representing such an abstract idea of rest is "jinSl'J, 
shabbatun , (Tal3j3aTi<7f.i6Q, sabbatism (q. v.). The term 
“Sabbath,” however, is frequently applied to a longer 
hebdomadal cycle than that of the week, e. g. the sab- 
batic year (q. v.). The Rabbinic or orthodox Jews 
likewise claim that in Lev. xxiii, 11-16, Sabbath, 

is synonymous with 1103, Passover , and accordingly 
they reckon Pentecost from the 16th of Nisan, the sec- 
ond day of unleavened bread, instead of the Sabbath 
following it. See Calendar, Jewish. In this they 
are upheld by a majority of Christian archaeologists and 
interpreters. The Karaites, on the contrary, contend 
that the word “Sabbath” in that ordinance has its reg- 
ular and usual signification, namely, the seventh day 
of the week. The arguments advanced for the tradi- 
tional view and reckoning, formidable as they at first 
appear, will be found, on a close examination, to be 
wholly inconclusive. (1.) It is a pure assumption that 
the phrase nail* 11 nltlO, morrow of the Sabbath , is 
equivalent to 1103*1 nino, morrow of the Passover. 
The passage in Josh, v, 11, often appealed to in proof, 
states that on the latter day the Israelites ate the prod- 
uce of Canaan Cj f ixn 1*100, A. V. erroneously u old 
corn of the land”'*, consisting of unleavened cakes and 
parched ears. From this it has been inferred that, as 
the Passover had just been celebrated, the wave-sheaf, 
which was a necessary preliminary to harvest (Lev. 
xxiii, 14), ha<l already been offered. This, as all par- 
ties agree, could not be done before the 16th of Nisan, 
and hence Keil and others unwarrantably assume that 
this was the day in question. But we know, from its 
use elsewhere (Numb, xxiii, 3), that the phrase “mor- 
row after [Heb. of] the Passover” was the day im- 
mediately succeeding the Paschal meal, i. e. the 15th of 
Nisan. The wave-slieaf had not therefore at that time 
been offered, and the Israelites could not have stood 
upon ceremony in eating the new grain, probably be- 
cause they had not yet become settled in their posses- 
sion to which the law in question was specially applica- 
ble (Lev. xxiii, 10; comp. Numb, xv, 18). (2.) The 

definite art. in na'i’il in the ordinance under consider- 
ation merely indicates it as the one Sabbath of the Pas- 
chal week, and cannot refer to anv other of the Pass- 
over days in the context, which are not (either there or 
elsewhere) designated by this term. Nor is the word 
nad, Sabbath, ever used in Biblical Hebrew in the 
sense of a literal week', as the Rabbinical theory assumes. 
The seven Sabbaths are termed full (rflO^nfi, “ com- 
plete”) because they are exclusive of the terminus a 


SA1313ATII 


193 


SABBATH 


quo , contrary to the usual Jewish practice, which is to 
include both extremes. (3.) The reckoning of Pente- 
cost from the Sabbath proper would not disagree with 
the classification of the other Jewish feasts by terms of 
seven, nor tend to displace either that or the Passover 
in the calendar; for the other feasts were not depend- 
ent upon the Pentecost, and the fifty days would be 
equally regular and harmonious from whatever point 
reckoned. (4.) The weight of Jewish authority is of 
little account, and the accession of Christian writers is 
of still less, since there is known to have been an early 
difference of opinion and practice on this point. The 
two instances occurring in the New-Test, history are 
decidedly adverse to the Rabbinical mode of computa- 
tion, namely. the “second Sabbath after the first,” on 
which Jesus passed through the fields of standing corn 
(Luke vi, 1) [see Second-first Sabbath], and the 
first Pentecost of the Christian Church, which by the 
traditionary calendar would have fallen on the Sabbath 
(the seventh after that of the crucifixion), and not on 
Sunday, as generally admitted. See Pentecost ; Sab- 
bath, Morrow AFTER. 

In Luke vi, 1 we have the above-noted phrase, <rap- 
(Scitov dtvrepb7rpi*)rov, rendered in the A. V. “The sec- 
ond Sabbath after the first.” It is over-hasty, after a 
few MSS., to blot out the second word as not genuine, 
though even Meyer does so. Who could have inserted 
it V And is not the omission of a word which nobody 
understood easily accounted for in the few instances 
in which it takes place? To strike out a word simply 
as strange is too uncritical to be borne. The various 
older interpretations are collecfed in Wolf, Cur. i, G 19 
sq. ; Hus, Harm. Evany. p. G39 sq. ; Paulus, Comm, ii, 
82 sq. It is usually regarded as the first Sabbath after 
the second Easter-day (comp. Lev. xxiii, 15, and the 
Sept.), since from this day to the Passover seven Sab- 
baths were reckoned (Lev. 1. c.), and these may well 
have been distinguished by their numbers — the first, 
second, third, etc., after the second Easter-day (Scali- 
ger, De Emend. Temp. p. 557 ; Casaub. Exercit. Antibar. 
p. 272; Bauer, op. cit. ii, 154). Olshausen’s objections 
to this view do not seem to be forcible. 11 is own ex- 
planation (following Beza and Paulus), the first Sab- 
bath of two during a feast, is not plausible. A peculiar 
name would hardly be given to this; and, even if given, 
would be of no importance to the evangelist. More- 
over, in such a case the phrase would be inappropriate 
at best. Credner’s view ( Beitr . z. Einl. ins N. T. i, 357) 
is rightly answered by De Wette, On Luke, 1. c. The 
objections made by Paulus and others to our interpreta- 
tion have been well answered by Liibkert (in the Stu- 
( lien n. Krit. 1835, iii, G64 sq.). Yet he takes no notice 
of P. Evald's suggestion (in the Neu. krit. Journ. d. 
Theol. ii, 480) that the phrase may easily be an abridged 
Hebrew expression for the second Sabbath after the 
second Paschal day; in which, however, the proof that 
such a phrase was in use in the age of Jesus is wanting, 
llitzig understands it to mean the 15th of Nisan, which, 
according to Lev. xxiii, 11, was considered as a Sab- 
bath, following the 14th, which had always been a Sab- 
bath. This, however, is unsupported. Wieseler gives 
{Chronol. Synop. p. 231 sq.) an interpretation intimately 
connected with his whole system, that it is the first 
Sabbath in the second year of the seven years, reckoned 
from one sabbatical year to another; i. e. the first Sab- 
bath of Nisan. Here it is assumed that a technical 
term was appropriated to the first Sabbath of every 
year in such a series of years; which is the less proba- 
ble, as the civil year, with which the sabbatical year is 
connected (comp. Wieseler, p. 204 sq.). began in autumn. 
Add to this that no mode of reckoning in practical life 
by Sabbath years has been proved from Josephus (.l/tf. 
xiv, 10, 5 and G), nor from the Mishna. In fine, the 
effort of Redslob to refer this phrase to the second Sab- 
bath after the second Easter-day by the force of the 
word CevTepoirpojTOv {Hull. IAt.-Z. 1847 ; Int. El. No. 70) 
seems to be a mistake. See Second-first Sabbatii. 
IX.— N 


Of equal regard with the Sabbath, as a day of entire 
rest, was the first Paschal day and the last (Lev. xxiii, 
39), while the great day of reconciliation was a Sabbath 
of Sabbaths (xvi, 31; xxiii, 32). Accordingly, some 
would understand the words in John xix, 31 (ijy peyd- 
\i] }) iipipa iKeirov too aafificiTov, rendered in the 
A. Y. “for that Sabbath day icus a high day’') of the 
first Paschal day. But a proper weekly Sabbath seems 
certainly to be meant, in harmony with the entire re- 
lation of John; e. g. with xxi, 1. It is called a great 
or high day because the first Paschal day fell upon it 
(see Carpzov, .1 pp. p. 384 ; Bleek, Beitr. z. Erungelien - 
Kritik , p. 31 sq.). 

The Sabbath is kept by the modern Jews as a great 
festival with every demonstration of joy, taking the 
idea from Isa. xviii, 13, 14: “If thou turn away thy 
foot from the Sabbath, from doing thy pleasure on my 
holy day, and call the Sabbath a delight, the holy of 
the Lord, honorable . . . then shalt thou delight thy- 
self in the Lord, and I will cause thee to ride upon the 
high places of the earth,” etc. The Sabbath is held 
from evening to evening (Lev. xxiii, 32), but they be- 
gin it half an hour before sunset on Friday, and prolong 
it till half an hour after sunset on Saturday, for the 
benefit of the souls of the damned, who, they believe, 
are allowed on that day suspension of their sufferings. 
On Friday afternoon they prepare all the food, etc., that 
may be wanted, and lay out their best clothes to wear 
in honor of “Queen Sabbath.” Some opulent Jews 
keep magnificent dresses to he worn on the Sabbath 
alone. As soon as the Sabbath commences, the mistress 
of the house lights the Sabbath lamp, which is filled 
with pure olive-oil, and has from four to seven wieks, 
and lays on the table the Sabbath bread, shaped like a 
twisted plait, made of the finest vheaten flour, and 
sprinkled with poppy seeds. They go to the syna- 
gogue, and after their devotions wish each other “a 
good Sabbath.” At supper, the master of the house re- 
peats the commemoration of the Sabbath out of Gen. ii, 
“Thus the heavens were finished,” etc.; thanks God 
for the Sabbath, blesses the wine, and passes it round. 
They rise later than usual on the Sabbath morning; 
and at the synagogue they use some additional devo- 
tions, with a commemoration of the dead. They think 
it right to eat at least three meals on the Sabbath, be- 
cause the word “ to-day” relating to the Sabbath is re- 
peated three times in Exod. xvi, 25. So convinced are 
they that one way of honoring the Sabbath is by great 
feasting.that they sometimes fast the preceding day to 
enable them to eat the more at the Sabbath meals 
(Buxtorf, Syn. Jud. c. 15). There is a Jewish maxim, 
that he is greatly to be commended who honors the 
Sabbath exceedingly in his body, in his dress, and in 
eating and drinking. Such are the principal features 
of the carnal view’s of the Sabbath from which the early 
fathers wished to wean the Jewish converts. A full 
account of the sabbatical ceremonies observed at pres- 
ent by the Jews may be found in Buxtorf’s Syuagoga 
Judaica , and in Picard’s Religious Ceremonies. 

See, in general, Journ. of Sac, Lit. Oct. 1851, p. 70 
sq. ; Ball, Iloree Subbatica (Loud. 1853); and the mon- 
ographs cited by Yolbeding, Index Programmatum, p. 
112; and by Darling, Cyclopaedia Bibliographica (see 
Index). See also the literature referred to under the 
article following and Lord’s Day. 

SABBAT1 1, Christian. Under this head, we pro- 
pose to treat of the sabbatical institution as one of gen- 
eral and permanent obligation. 

I. Concerning the time when the Sabbath was first 
instituted there have been different opinions. Some 
have maintained that the sanctification of the seventh 
day mentioned in Gen. ii is only there spoken of chct 
7 rpo\jjfau)£. or by anticipation, and is to be understood 
of the Sabbath afterwards enjoined in the wilderness; 
and that the historian, writing after it w r as instituted, 
there gives the reason of its institution : and this is sup- 
posed to be the ease, as it is never mentioned during the 


SABBATII 


194 


SABBATH 


patriarch «al age. But against this sentiment it is urged 
(a) that it cannot be easily supposed that the inspired 
penman would have mentioned the sanctification of the 
seventh day among the primeval transactions if such 
sanctification had not taken place until 2500 years af- 
terwards; ( b ) that, considering Adam was restored to 
favor through a Mediator, and a religions service insti- 
tuted which man was required to observe, in testimony 
not only of his dependence on the Creator, but also of 
his faith and hope in the promise, it seems reasonable 
that an institution so grand and solemn, and so neces- 
sary to the observance of this service, should be then 
existent. — Buck, s. v. 

Some find the institution of it in the fourth command- 
ment (Exod. xx, S-l l); but the language employed is 
not apparently that of origination. The command to 
remember the Sabbath seems to imply that the Israel- 
ites were already acquainted with its existence and sa- 
credness. But such injunctions, we are told, have often 
prospective significance, e. g. “ Remember this day in 
which ye came out from Egypt” (xiii, 8); “Remember 
the word which Moses the servant of the Lord com- 
manded you” (dosh. i, 13); “Remember now thy Crea- 
tor in the days of thy youth” (Eccles. xii, 1). In all 
these citations the meaning is — remember from this 
time. To this stricture it may be replied that such in- 
junctions have always relation to the future, but that 
they also suppose antecedent knowledge. Children, for 
example, would not be told to remember their Creator 
unless they had been previously informed about creation 
— unless they had been instructed that one God has 
made us, and that we are all his offspring. That an or- 
dinance should be ushered into existence by the require- 
ment to remember it is a strange idea to which facts 
give no countenance. Besides, the fourth command- 
ment assigns a reason for observing the Sabbath, which, 
if good for the future, must have been always valid. 
We do not here enter into any disquisition about the 
days of creation. It is enough that God, in a manner 
befitting him, worked six days and rested on the sev- 
enth, and has required that, in a manner befitting us, 
we shall imitate his example. But how was it to be ex- 
pected that this consideration should weigh much with 
the Jews in time to come, if, in preceding ages, God 
himself had made no account of it in his regulation of 
human conduct? 

Some, again, have contended that we do not require 
to go far back in order to find its commencement; they 
think they learn when and how it began in Exod. xvi, 
19-30 : these verses have reference to the gathering and 
cooking of manna. That an institution so prominent as 
the Sabbath in the religion of the Jews should have 
been initiated in a manner so incidental, and almost un- 
observable, is in contradiction to the whole genius of the 
economy. Nor does the passage countenance any sueh 
notion. “ It came to pass,” we are told (ver. 22), “ that 
on the sixth day they gathered twice as much bread.” 
In other words, they gathered on the sixth day enough 
for that day and for the day following. But why pro- 
vide beforehand for the Sabbath in order to respect and 
keep its rest, if not in supposed obedience to the will of 
God, as previously notified? It is alleged, in reply, that 
the order complied with is presented to ns afterwards, 
and occurs in ver. 23, “This is that which the Lord 
hath said, To-morrow is the rest of the holy Sabbath 
unto the Lord: bake that which ye will bake to-day, 
and seethe that ye will seethe; and that which remain- 
eth over lay up for you, to be kept until the morning.” 
By this exegesis the practice (ver. 22) is first related, 
and then we come to the injunction (ver. 23), of which 
it was the fulfilment! In such inversion of natural or- 
der there is obvious unlikelihood. But the exposition 
in question is otherwise untenable. The verses alleged 
to exhibit first the obedience, and then the statute 
obeyed, have no such intimacy of connection. They 
refer, in fact, to different things. Ver. 23 docs not touch 
on the collection of the manna at all, but has regard to 


the baking of it — a new subject : and therefore the gath- 
ering of it on the sixth day in quantity sufficient also 
for the seventh day, not being here prescribed, remains 
without any explanation, except a previons appointment 
and prevalent knowledge of the sabbatical institution. 

It is objected, however, that the Sabbath disappears 
from the record during the antediluvian and patriarchal 
periods. Why this protracted silence about it if it had 
then a place among religious articles and usages? This 
evidence of its absence is negative, and cannot outweigh 
express contrary proof of its initiation. Of these times, 
be it also remarked, we have not detailed accounts, and 
we must therefore make allowance for great brevity and 
many omissions. Succeeding annals are more ample, 
and yet we have no indication of the observance of the 
Sabbath during four hundred years after its sacredness 
had been confessedly proclaimed from Mount Sinai. 
Even if neglect of the day could be established, sueh 
negligence would not disprove obligation. The Pass- 
over, during protracted periods, fell into disuse, and 
there was general and continued departure from the 
marriage relation as originally constituted. 

It is not the case, however, that allusion to the Sab- 
bath is wholly wanting during the time alleged. Oc- 
casional mention is made of weeks; and we know that 
the heathen 'world very extensively distributed days 
into sevens, with some notion of sacrcdness belonging to 
the seventh. This arrangement is traced by some to the 
lunar month, divided into quarters, each of seven days, 
by the phases of the moon. But this computation does 
not accord, except proximately, with fact, as the lunar 
month exceeds twenty- nine days in duration. It as- 
cribes consequence also to the number Jour, as well as 
to the number seven — partitioning the month into four 
divisions — and/owr has no distinctive sacredness in any 
known country or language. The explanation, though 
ingenious, is simply a guess, without any support from 
Scripture or other writings, and has like validity with 
another conjecture, that the assignment of seven days 
to a week may have been derived from the supposed 
number of the planets. 

II. That the Sabbath owes its maintenance to its mo- 
rality we will endeavor more expressly to substantiate. 
Here a consideration of first consequence is that it forms 
the subject of the fourth commandment. Sonic deny 
the ethical character of the decalogue. They allege it 
to be of a mixed nature, and insist that though par- 
ticular elements in it arc of inherent and enduring 
worth, yet, as a whole, it belonged to an economy of 
shadows, and has vanished with them. Therefore the 
presence of any statute in such a compendium is no de- 
cisive evidence of moral force. 

1. But the decalogue in its integrity has a very dis- 
tinctive place and consequence in the Bible. It was 
proclaimed with extraordinary solemnity, peculiar to 
itself.from Mount Sinai (Exod. xix, 1G-24). God caused 
it to be written on tables of stone, and he made these 
stones to be deposited in the ark, representative of him- 
self. “These words,” says Moses, “ the Lord spake to 
all your assembly in the mount, out of the midst of the 
fire, of the cloud, and of the thick darkness, with a great 
voice, and he added no more.” The decalogue was fre- 
quently called the covenant , and the chest containing it 
the ark of the covenant. Would a fragmentary and het- 
erogeneous compound create or warrant any such desig- 
nation? Again, as often as Christ cited any of these 
commandments he enforced them emphatically. The 
Jews seem to have distributed them into greater and 
less, and to have treated the less as scarcely deserving 
consideration. But he impressively declared, “ Whoso- 
ever shall break one of these least commandments, and 
shall teach men so, he shall be called the least in the 
kingdom of heaven : but whosoever shall do and teach 
them shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven.” 
The kingdom of heaven 5s the Gospel dispensation. 
Certain statutes our Lord declares to be congenial with 
that economy, and their observance he characterizes as 


- 


SABBATH 


195 


SABBATH 


a sure constituent or guarantee of its greatness. But 
what statutes could he speak of which verify this de- 
scription, and are recognisable from others, unless those 
composing the decalogue ? When, also, he resolved the 
law into two great commandments, he made evident ref- 
erence to the two tables of the covenant, for he insti- 
tuted the same classification of devotional and social du- 
ties; and when he further resolved all duty into love, 
with God and man for its objects, he impressed on the 
whole code a moral interpretation. What can be more 
truly or purely moral than charily ? — charity branching 
off into piety and benevolence? In a word, the dec- 
alogue is reproduced by the apostles. What it enjoins 
they enjoin in the identical terms, or with only verbal 
alterations; and how could the} 7, more decisively affix 
their seal to its indelible righteousness? 

2. The decalogue, then, as a whole, is moral. See 
Law of Moses. If the Sabbath be an exception, it is 
the only exception. But when we have found it in a 
code collectively moral — the morality of which is at- 
tested by the clearest and most cumulative proof— and 
when we find it sharing all the conspicuousness and 
honors of the allied enactments, it would require strong 
argument indeed to render credible its exceptional ritu- 
alism. Let us see whether good cause for so regarding 
it be discoverable in its own nature , or in prophecy , or 
in what Christ said of it expressly, or in the apostolic 
epistles. 

(I.) The Sabbath provides for rest and worship. Our 
sensuous being requires the one, and our spiritual being 
the other. To deny the laboring population any inter- 
mission of toil, or the heir of immortality any time for 
religious observances, would be to offend against the 
fundamental conditions of our state of existence. Un- 
der these aspects the Sabbath is not arbitrary. It is 
founded on the essentials and necessities of the human 
constitution, and nothing here below can be more solid 
and stable than its groundwork. To speak of our spirit- 
ual responsibilities more especially — if it be a moral duty 
to worship God, it must also be a moral duty to observe 
that worship to the best advantage. For this the Sab- 
bath provides. It is advantageous for worship that a 
certain day be set apart for it, and guarded from intru- 
sive distractions. It is advantageous that the worship- 
pers set apart the same day, both to the end that one 
may not draw another into temporal toil, and that relig- 
ion may have the aids of social stimulus. It is advan- 
tageous that the day recur with suitable frequency. 
What frequency would be best it might be difficult or 
impossible for us to determine ; but that would not 
show the proportioning of the time to be a matter of in- 
difference. We can easily perceive that there are ex- 
tremes to be avoided. If every day were a Sabbath, 
our terrestrial occupations would be suppressed. If the 
Sabbath returned onee a year, it would be inadequate for 
the maintenance of habitual devotion. One of these 
arrangements would have been evidently incompatible 
with what we owe to this world, and the other with du- 
tiful regard for the world to come. If we ean judge 
thus far of the too often and the too seldom, why may 
not God descry unerringly the mean, and perceive that 
one day in seven is the best possible adjustment? — the 
most conducive to moral good in our existing circum- 
stances? Experience has recommended no other divi- 
sion of time as preferable; on the eontrarv, every at- 
tempt to elongate or contract the week has utterly failed, 
and has owed the failure to a manifested impracticabil- 
ity or mischievousness. It follows that not only the 
duty, but the very timing of the duty, is of moral ac- 
count, and that the Sabbath is entitled, by its nature, to 
the place it occupies in the decalogue — fitly and justly 
ranking with statutes whieh transcend casualties, and 
will maintain their jurisdiction while the world lasts. 
On the same principle, if the sacredness of the Sabbath 
has been enhanced by rendering it commemorative of 
some great event, such as the natural creation, there 
may be religious benefit, and therefore moral suitable- i 


ness, in transferring it to another day of the seven, in 
order to commemorate another event of analogous but 
superior consequence — such as the accomplishment of a 
spiritual creation by the resurrection of Christ from the 
dead. See Loud’s Day. Even the old economy, not- 
withstanding its necessary regard to times, did not show 
any rigid adherence to particular days, when a sufficient 
reason existed for departing from them. Thus, while 
circumcision was by the law fixed to the eighth day, 
the great mass of the people who had grown up in the 
wilderness were eireumcised on the same day (Josh, v, 
1-9) ; and when any obstacle prevented men from the 
eating the Passover on the 14th of the first month, they 
were allowed to postpone it to the next (Numb, ix, G). 

(2.) The prophets, speaking in the name of God, al- 
ways express themselves in reverential language of the 
Sabbath. (See, in particular, Isa. lvi, G, 7 ; lviii, 13, 14 ; 
also lxvi, 23.) 

It is objected that in these and like instances the 
Sabbath is allied with acknowledged constituents of 
the Mosaic law, and that such passages would therefore 
equally prove their permaneney. It is in plain accord- 
ance, however, with the moral claims of the Sabbath 
that its continued observance should be foretold, and 
the absence of such prediction would have been urged 
in proof of its abrogation. Besides, these prophecies 
are in no part meaningless. They point to real and to 
improved worship in sueh dietion as the Jews were fa- 
miliar with and could alone comprehend. Shall we say, 
then, that the change in worship would be improvement, 
and the change as to the Sabbath abolition? We ean- 
not see that this conclusion is called for “by parity of 
reasoning.” On the contrary, these passages, to have 
sense or truth in any of their clauses, require a perpet- 
uated Sabbath ; for the effeet would be to sweep away 
worship altogether if a day for it were not preserved. 

(3.) As regards Christ's express sayinys on this subject, 
he discouraged, no doubt, such a trailitional observance 
of the Sabbath as would have transformed it into a day 
of heartless neglects and sanctionless rigors. But he 
countenanced the keeping of it in its true spirit, as a 
da} r of personal privilege and beneficent usefulness — 
avowing that “the Sabbath was made for man, and not 
man for the Sabbath.” This seems to teach that the 
Sabbath was made for man not as a Jew or as a Chris- 
tian, but as man, and therefore entitled to his regard in 
all conditions and through all ages. In reply, however, 
we are told that the expression in the original is the 
man. This must mean, it is said, “those for whom it 
was appointed, without specifying who they w-ere, and 
not at all designating man in general.” We see no 
grounds for such a paraphrase, but very mueh to de- 
mand its rejection. The article in sueh expressions de- 
fines the individual or the species. No individual man 
could be thus singled out as having the Sabbath made 
for him unless it were Adam; and none will assert that 
it was made for him in any sense exclusive of his pos- 
terity. Again, the article may define the species, as we 
say the horse, the ass, the ostrich. Where the speeies 
is defined, all the individuals are comprehended, or sueh 
an allegation is made as would apply to any of them in- 
differently. For example, “If the salt have lost its sa- 
vor, it is good for nothing but to be trodden under the 
feet of men” — literally “ the men,” or the species, men 
without the distinction of Jew and Gentile. “Let your 
light so shine before men,” literally “ the men,” in the 
sense of any or all men. “That which cometh out of 
the mouth this defileth a man” — literally “ the man,” 
equivalent to man or any man. Practically the distinc- 
tion here attempted to be made is visionary. Since 
man without the article is general, and the man, mean- 
ing the species man, is also general, the article mav be 
dropped or retained without affeeting the sense. Ac- 
cordingly, these modes of expression are often used in- 
terchangeably. When Christ, then, declares that the 
Sabbath was made for man, we can only understand 
him as teaching that it was intended and instituted for 


SABBATII 


196 


SABBATII 


our eornmon humanity, and that it is to be so employed 
as to conduce to man’s highest or spiritual good. Hut 
he also said that he was “Lord of the Sabbath: which 
shows,” we are told, “ that lie had power to abrogate it 
partially or wholly.” It seems as if some cannot think 
of power in connection with the Sabbath unless as exer- 
cised in abrogation. If it be placed in Christ’s charge, 
they take for granted that more or less extinction must 
be the consequence. They speak as if Christ’s seeptre 
were an axe, and the only question were how much it 
would hew down and devastate! We maintain, on the 
contrary, that Christ would not be the Lord of the Sab- 
bath to be its destroyer. In the language of the New 
Testament, this title points to assured prosperity. But 
though he will not superintend in order to annihilate 
either worship or worshippers, the designation “ Lord” 
does suppose a manifested supremacy, and leads us to 
expect ameliorating modification with essential preser- 
vation — in other words, a Christian Sabbath or Lord’s 
day. 

(4.) In the epistles, mueh stress has been laid by oppo- 
nents of the Sabbath on some expressions of Paul. “ One 
man esteemeth one day above another : another esteem- 
eth every day alike. Let every one be fully persuaded 
in his own mind” (Horn. xiv, 5). To us this language 
is vague and seems general ; but it had relation to spe- 
cific disputes, and we do not know, because we have not 
been told, what days are more particularly intended. 
They may have been festival days of human appoint- 
ment, or cherished relics of Judaism unconnected with 
its Sabbath — perfectly known, without danger of mis- 
take, to the parties addressed. It is admitted that the 
apostles had stated religious services with assigned sea- 
sons for them; and if in the passage commented on we 
give his words the absolute and exceptionless sense 
claimed for them, it will follow that he courted contempt 
for his own ordering of worship. Assuredly he sanction- 
ed no such sweeping indifference to days as would in- 
validate the injunction, “ Forsake not the assembling of 
yourselves together, as the manner of some is.” 

It is said (Col. ii, 16), “Let no man therefore judge 
you in meat or in drink, or in respect of an holydav, or 
of the new moon, or of the Sabbath days, which are a 
shadow of things to come, but the body is of Christ.” 
This passage perfectly aecords with a superseding of the 
Sabbath day as distinguished from the Lord's day, em- 
bodying substantially all that prior sabbatical observ- 
ance had shadowed. In the same relation we would use 
the same language still. Independently of this answer 
to the objection, many have held, with bishop Horsley, 
that the word Sabbath is not here used in its strict 
acceptation, but with reference to other days observed 
by the Jewish Church with Sabbath-like solemnity. 
Even if these passages had more difficulty than they 
present, two or three doubtful expressions, in relation to 
ioeal circumstances and usages about which we have 
little information, are not to be balanced against the 
weighty and cumulative evidence? which has been ad- 
duced lor the morality of the Sabbath, and its conse- 
quent claims on the respect of all countries and ages. 

It may appear to some an objection to these views 
that if the Sabbath were moral, and therefore immuta- 
ble, it would remain in heaven : whereas first and sev- 
enth days equally lose in the heavenly state their dis- 
tinctive characters. There all duration is Sabbath — all 
space sanctuary — all engagement worship. It is suffi- 
cient to reply that morality supposes facts in demanding 
conformity to them. Filial duty implies the existing 
relation of parent and child, and is ever binding while 
that relation subsists, but is otherwise non-existent. So 
the Sabbath supposes a sensible world, and in such a 
world it must ever be a duty to have time expressly for 
temporal and time expressly for spiritual occupations. 
But in the world of spirits, where even the natural body 
becomes a spiritual body, and which flesh and blood 
cannot inherit, this discrimination disappears. It is the 
glory of the Sabbath that it prepares us for this con- 


summation — for inheriting blessings transcending its 
own privileges, and even induces approximations to ce- 
lestial perfection under present adverse circumstances. 
— Fairbairn, s. v. 

III. Under the Christian dispensation, the Sabbath is 
altered from the seventh to the first day of the week 
(see Stone, in the Theol, Eclectic , iv, 542 sq.). The ar- 
guments for the change are these: 1. As the seventh 
day was observed by the Jewish Church in memory of 
the rest of God after the works of the creation, and their 
deliverance from Pharaoh’s tyranny, so the first day of 
the week has always been observed by the Christian 
Church in memory of Christ’s resurrection. 2. Christ 
conferred particular honor upon it by not only rising 
from the dead, but also by repeated visits to his disci- 
ples on that day. 3. It is called the Lord's day, Kvpia- 
k{), a term otherwise only used in the New Test, in ref- 
erence to the sacred supper (1 Cor. xi, 20), and as in 
the latter passage it denotes that which specially com- 
memorates the death of our Lord, it seems indisputable 
that it is applied in the former to that which special- 
ly commemorates his resurrection (Lev. i, 10). 4. On 
this day the apostles were assembled, when the Holy 
Ghost came down so visibly upon them, to qualify them 
for the conversion of the world. 5. On this day we find 
Paul preaching in Troas, when the disciples came to 
break bread. 6. The directions which the apostles give 
to the Christians plainly allude to their religious assem- 
blies on the first day. 7. Pliny refers to a certain day 
of the week being kept as a festival in honor of the 
resurrection of Christ; and the primitive Christians 
kept it in the most solemn manner. See Loud’s Day. 

These arguments, it is true, are not satisfactory to 
some, and it must be confessed that there is no law in 
the New Test, concerning the first day. However, it 
may be observed that it is not so much the precise time 
that is universally binding, as that one day out of seven 
is to be regarded. “As it is impossible,” says Dr. Dod- 
dridge, “certainly to determine which is the seventh 
day from the creation ; and as, in consequence of the 
spherical form of the earth, and the absurdity of the 
scheme which supposes it one great plain, the change 
of place will necessarily occasion some alteration in the 
time of the beginning and ending of any day in ques- 
tion, it being always at the same time, somewhere or 
other, sunrising and sunsetting, noon and midnight, 
it seems very unreasonable to lay such a stress upon 
the particular day as some do. It seems abundantly 
sufficient that there should be six days of labor and one 
of religious rest, which there will be upon the Christian 
and the Jewish scheme.” See Sunday. 

As soon as Christianity was protected by the civil 
government, the Lord’s day was ordered by law to be 
kept sacred. All proceedings in courts of law, except- 
ing such as were deemed of absolute necessity, or of 
charity, as setting slaves at liberty, etc., were strictly 
forbidden; and all secular business, excepting such as 
was of necessity or mercy, was prohibited ; and by a 
law of Theodosius senior, and another by Theodosius 
junior, no public games or shows, no amusements or 
recreations, were ]x>imitted to be practiced on that day 
(see Cod. Theo'd. lib. ii, tit. 8, “De feriis Cod. Justin. 
lib. iii ; Cod. Theod. lib. xv, “Do spectaculis,” lit. 5, 
leg. 2). The day was consecrated by all the primitive 
Christians to a regular and devout attendance upon the 
solemnities of public worship, and other religious exer- 
cises; and, as Bingham says in his Christian Antiqui- 
ties, “ they spent it in such employments as were proper 
to set forth the glory of the Lord, in holding religious 
assemblies for the celebration of the several parts of di- 
vine service — psalmody, reading the Scriptures, preach- 
ing, praying, and receiving the Communion; and sueh 
was the flaming zeal of those pious votaries that noth- 
ing but sickness, or a great necessity, or imprisonment, 
or banishment, could detain them from it.” A further 
proof of the sanctity in which they held the Sabbath 
was their pious and zealous observance of the Saturda} r 


SABBATH 


197 


SABBATH 


evening, or, rather, from midnight to break of day on 
the Lord’s day. This time the early Christians spent 
in the exercises of devotion; and persons of all ranks 
employed it in preparation for the sacred da} r . It must 
also be further observed that, in many places, particu- 
larly in cities, they usually had sermons twice a day in 
the churches, and that the evening was as well attended 
as the morning service; but in such churches as had no 
evening sermon, there were still the evening prayers, 
and the Christians of those times thought themselves 
obliged to attend this service as a necessary part of the 
public worship and solemnity of the Lord’s day. The 
better to enforce this observance upon such as were un- 
godly or careless, ecclesiastical censures were inflicted 
upon them, whether they frequented places of public 
amusement or spent the day in indolence at home. 
These observations chiefly refer to the period between 
the publication of the Gospel by the apostles and the 
latter end of the 4th century — a period when this day 
might be expected to be observed more in accordance 
with the command of Christ and the will of the Holy 
Ghost. 

IV. As the Sabbath is of divine institution, so it is to 
be kept holy unto the Lord. Numerous have been the 
days appointed by men for religious services; but these 
are not binding, because of human institution. Not so 
the Sabbath. Hence the fourth commandment is ush- 
ered in with a peculiar emphasis — “ Remember that thou 
keep holy the Sabbath day.” This institution is wise 
as to its ends: that God may be worshipped, man in- 
structed, nations benefited, and families devoted to the 
service of God. It is lasting as to its duration. The 
abolition of it would be unreasonable, unscript ural 
(Exod. xxxi, 13), and every way disadvantageous to 
the body, to society, to the soul, and even to the brute 
creation. It is, however, awfully violated by visiting, 
feasting, indolence, buying and selling, working, worldly 
amusements, and travelling. “Look into the streets,” 
says bishop Porteus, “on the Lord’s day, and see whether 
they convey the idea of a day of rest. Do not our ser- 
vants and our cattle seem to be almost as fully occupied 
on that day as on any other? As if this were not a 
sufficient infringement of their rights, we contrive, by 
needless entertainments at home and needless journeys 
abroad, which are often by choice and inclination re- 
served for this very day, to take up all the little remain- 
ing part of their leisure time. A Sabbath-day’s jour- 
ney was among the Jews a proverbial expression for a 
very short one; among us it can have no such meaning 
affixed to it. That day seems to be considered by too 
many as set apart, by divine and human authority, for 
the purpose, not of rest, but of its direct opposite, the 
labor of travelling, thus adding one day more of tor- 
ment to those generous but wretched animals whose 
services they hire; and who, being generally strained 
be} r ond their strength the other six days of the week, 
have, of all creatures under heaven, the best and most 
equitable claim to suspension of labor on the seventh.” 

The evils arising from Sabbath-breaking are greatly 
to be lamented : they are an insult to God, an injury to 
ourselves, and an awful example to our servants, our 
children, and our friends. To sanctify this day, we 
should consider it — (1) a day of rest; not, indeed, to 
exclude works of mercy and charity, but a cessation 
from all labor and care ; (2) as a day of remembrance ; 
of creation, preservation, redemption ; (3) as a day of 
meditation and prayer, in which we should cultivate 
communion with God (Rev. i, 10) ; (4) as a day of pub- 
lic worship (Acts xx, 7 ; John xx, 19); (5) as a day of 
joy (Isa. lvi, 2; Psa. cxviii, 24); (0) as a day of praise 
(Psa. cxvi, 12-14); (7) as a day of anticipation, looking 
forward to that holy, happy, and eternal Sabbath which 
remains for the people of God. — Ruck, Theol. Diet. s. v. 

V. The literature of the subject is very copious. The 
following are the chief standard works: Jlrerewood, 
I'reatise of the Sabbath ; Prideaux, Doctrine of the Sab- 
bath ; Rramhall, Discourses on the Controversy about the 


Sabbath; White, Treatise of the Sabbath Day; Ileylin, 
Jlistory of the Sabbath; Chandler, Two Sermons on the 
Sabbath; Watts, Perpetuity of the Sabbath; Kennicott, 
Sermon and Dialogue on the Sabbath ; Paley, Natural 
and Political Philosophy, bk. v, ch. vii ; Holden, Chris- 
tian Sabbath; Rurnside, On the Weekly Sabbath; Rur- 
der, Law of the Sabbath; Wardlaw, Wilson, and Agnew, 
severally, On the Sabbath ; Modern Sabbath Examined 
(1832); James, On the Sacraments and Sabbath; Mau- 
rice, On the Sabbath ; Kaliseh, Commentary on Exodus 
(ad loc.) ; Proudhon, De la Celebration du Dimanche ; 
Hessey, Hampton Lecture (Lond. 18CG); Johnstone, 
Sunday and the Sabbath (ibid. 1853) ; Domville, In- 
quiry into the Nature of the Sabbath (ibid. 1855, 2 
vols.); Ellicott, Jlistory and Obligation of the Sabbath 
(ibid. 1844; N. V. 18G2) ; Hill, The Sabbath Made for 
Man (Lond. 1857) ; Coleman, in the Bibliotheca Sacra, 
i, 52G sq. ; and the literature cited by Malcolm, Theol. 
Index , s. v. ; and especially by Cox, Literature of the 
Sabbath Quest io?i (Edinb. 18G5, 2 vols. 8vo). Articles 
on special points connected with the institution of the 
Sabbath may be found (in addition to those referred 
to in Poole’s Index, s. v.) in the Meth. Quar. Per. Jan. 
1849; April, 1857 ; Journ. of Sac. Lit. Oct. 1851 ; July, 
1857; Theol. and Lit. Journ. 1852; North Brit. Per. 
Feb. 1853 ; Biblioth. Sacra, Oct. 1854 ; South. Quar. Rev. 
July, 1857; Neic - Englander, Aug. 1858; United Presb. 
Rev. Jan. 1SG0; Amer. Theol. Rev . April, 18G2; Brit, 
and Eor. Ev. Rev. Jan. 18G3; Princeton Rev. Oct. 18G3. 
See Sunday. 

Sabbatli, Count of the (P.Siril sir, musak 
hash - shabbdth ; Sept, o SqusXt o£ ri}c KciSicpag rUv 
crafifidnoz' ; Yulg. Musach sabbati, 2 Kings xvi, 18), is 
understood to mean a canopy under which Ahaz used 
to stand, at the entrance of the porch of the Temple, 
when he attended the service; but which he removed 
when he became an idolater, to show his contempt, and 
his intention of not resorting thither any more. See 
Court. So we see in 2 Chron. xxviii, 24 that “he 
shut up the doors of the house of God” that none might 
enter to worship. See Aiiaz. 

Sabbath, Morrow after the. There has been 
from early times some difference of opinion as to the 
meaning of the words rz'cfl rPH'E, mochordih hash- 
shabbdth. thus rendered in the computation of the Pass- 
over (Lev. xxiii, 11, 15). It has. however, been gener- 
ally heldj^y both Jewish and Christian writers of all 
ages, that the Sabbath here spoken of is the first day 
of holy convocation of the Passover, the 15th of Nisan, 
mentioned in Lev. xxiii, 7. In like manner the word 
r.3^ i.s evidently used as a designation of the day of 
atonement (Lev. xxiii, 32); and yiPS!!? ( sabbati obser- 
ved to) is applied to the first and eighth days of Taber- 
nacles and to the Feast of Trumpets. That the Sept, 
so understood the passage in question can hardly be 
doubted from their calling it “ the morrow after the first 
day” (i. e. of the festival) : ?/ tizavptQi> rijg 7rpwrj]g. 
The word in ver. 15 and IG has also been understood as 
“ week,” used in the same manner as crdfifiara in the 
New Test. (Matt, xxviii, 1 ; Luke xviii, 12; John xx, 
1, etc.). Rut some have insisted on taking the Sabbath 
to mean nothing but the seventh day of the week, or 
“the Sabbath of creation,” as the Jewish writers have 
called it; and they see a difficulty in understanding 
the same word in the general sense of week as a period 
of seven days, contending that it can only mean a reg- 
ular week, beginning with the first day, and ending 
with the Sabbath. Hence t he Raithnsian (or Saddu- 
ca?an) party, and in later times the Karaites, supposed 
that the omer was offered on the day following that 
weekly Sabbath which might happen to fall within the 
seven days of the Passover. The day of Pentecost would 
thus always fall on the first day of the week. Hitzig 
' ( Ostern und Pfngsten [Heidelberg, 1837]) has put forth 
the notion that the Hebrews regularly began a new 


SABBATH 


198 SABBATH-DAY’S JOURNEY 


week at the commencement of the year, so that the 
7th, 14th, amt 21st of Nisan were always Sabbath days, 
lie imagines that “ the morrow after the Sabbath” from 
which Pentecost was reckoned was the 22d day of the 
month, the day after the proper termination of the Pass- 
over. He is well answered by Biihr {Symbolic, ii, 020), 
who refers especially to Josh, v, 11, as proving, in con- 
nection with the law in Lev. xxiii, 14, that the omer 
was offered on the 1 6 1 1 1 of the month. It should be 
observed that the words in that passage, 
mean merely coni of the land, not, as in the A.V., “ the 
old corn of the land.” “The morrow after the Fass- 
over” (nSCil rHH^) might at first sight seem to ex- 
press the 15th of Xisan; but the expression may, on 
the whole, with more probability, be taken as equiva- 
lent to “the morrow after the Sabbath,” that is, the 
16th day. See Iveil on Josh, v, 11; Masius and Drn- 
sius, on the same text, in the Crit. Sac.; Biihr, Symb. 
ii, 621; Selden, I)e Anno Cii'ili , c. vii ; Bartenora. in 
Chagigah, ii, 4; Buxtorf, Syn. Jud. vol. xx; Fagius, in 
Lev. xxiii, 15; Drusius, Notce Mojo res in Lev. xxiii, 16. 
It is worthy of remark that the Sept, omits tjj iirao- 
piov rov 7 TaGxa, according to the texts of Tischendorf 
and Tlieile. — Smith. See Passover; Pentecost. 
But there is strong ground for the Karaitic interpreta- 
tion. See Sadbatii {supra'). 

Sabbath, Second after the First (Luke vi, 1). 
See Second-first Sabbatii. 

Sabbathae'us ( 'Eafifiaraloc ), a Grnecized form 
(Esdr. ix, 14) of the Ileb. name (Ezra x, 15) Siiab- 
betiiai (q. v.). 

Sabbathai Zebi (i. e. the yazelle, or beauty, a 
family adjunct), a famous Jewish impostor, was born in 
Smyrna, July, 1641. When a child he was sent to a 
Babbinic school and instructed in the whole cycle of 
Babbinic lore. When fifteen years ofage, he betook him- 
self to the study of the Cabala, rapidly mastered its 
mysteries, and became peerless in his knowledge of 
“those tilings which were revealed and those things 
which were hidden;” and at the age of eighteen ob- 
tained the honorable appellation of sage (Sin), deliver- 
ing public lectures, and expounding the divine law and 
the esoteric doctrine before crowded audiences. At the 
age of twenty-four, he revealed to his disciples that he 
was the Messiah, the son of David, the true Hedeemer, 
and that he was to redeem and deliver Israel from their 
captivity among the Christians and Mohammedans. At 
the same time he publicly pronounced the Tetragram- 
maton as it is written, to do which, it is well known, 
was not permitted, save to the high-priest during the 
existence of the Temple, when he performed service in 
the Holy of Holies on the day of atonement, thus brav- 
ing the rule that “the penalty of death is pronounced 
on him who utters the Tetragrammaton publicly." 
When the sad intelligence reached the sages of Smyr- 
na, they sent to him two messengers of the Beth-din 
(ecclesiastical tribunal) to warn him, and to caution him 
that if he should so trespass again they would excom- 
municate him, and even consider it a meritorious action 
for any one to take his life. But Sabbathai replied that 
he was allowed to do so, being the anointed of God. 
Hearing this, the sages of Smyrna were much affright- 
ed, and having deliberated together what to do, they 
decreed unanimously that he was guilty of death for two 
reasons: firstly, because he had uttered the name of the 
Lord according to its letters, and, secondly, because he 
pretended to be the Messiah. Therefore they excom- 
municated him, and proclaimed it a meritorious action 
for any one to slay him, and the fine imposed on the 
slayer by the laws of the Mohammedans they promised 
to pay. Now, when Sabbathai saw that evil was deter- 
mined against him, he fled from Smyrna to Salonica, 
where he was received with great honor, his evil deeds 
having not yet been known there. Many disciples also I 


gathered around him to learn the science of the Cabala, 
and all the inhabitants of Salonica revered him and 
loved him more than any other man. But after having 
been there for a considerable time, he fell again into his 
former error, and repeated his former transgression, ut- 
tering the name of the Lord according to its letters in 
the presence of his disciples; and when his pupils asked 
him wherefore he did so, he replied that he was the 
anointed, and that it was therefore lawful for him to do 
so. The sages of Salonica, having heard of this repeat- 
ed offence, sent to him two messengers of the Beth-din, 
ordering him to quit Salonica, otherwise he would be 
put to death, because he had wrought folly in Israel. 
Knowing that the Jews had more power at Salonica 
than in any other country, he secretly fled to Athens, 
and thence into Morea. But he found no refuge there, 
for the inhabitants of Morea, being informed that he had 
been expelled from Salonica, also drove him away. He 
then went through Greece to Alexandria, from this city 
to Cairo, and thence to the Holy Land, as far as Jerusa- 
lem, where he remained for several years, teaching the 
Cabala, proclaiming himself as the Messiah, anointing 
prophets, and converting thousands upon thousands. 
So numerous were the believers in him that in many 
places trade was entirely stopped ; the Jews wound up 
their affairs, disposed of their chattels, and made them- 
selves ready to be redeemed from their captivity and led 
by Sabbathai Zebi back to Jerusalem. The consuls of 
Europe were ordered to inquire into this extraordinary 
movement, and the governors of the East reported to 
the sultan the cessation of commerce. Sabbathai Zebi 
was then arrested by order of the sultan Mohammed 
IV, and taken before him at Adrianople. The sultan 
spoke to him as follows: “I am goiiig to test thy Mes- 
siah ship. Three poisoned arrows shall be shot into 
thee, and if they do not kill thee, I too will believe that 
thou art the Messiah.” He saved himself by embracing 
Islamism in the presence of the sultan, who gave him 
the name Effendi, and appointed him Kapulji- Bashi. 
Sabbathai died Sept. 10, 1676, after having ruined thou- 
sands upon thousands of Jewish families. The litera- 
ture on this pseudo-Messiah is very rich. See Fitrst, 
Bibl. Jud. iii, 184 sq. ; Griitz, Gesch. d. Juden , x, 205 sq.; 
note 3, p. 23 sq. ; Jost, Gesch. d. Judenth. u. s. Secten, iii, 
153 sq.; Ginsburg, Kabbalah, p. 139; Basnage, Uistoire 
des Juifs (Taylor’s transl.), p. 701 ; Theologisches Uni - 
rersal - Lcxikon, s. v. ; Mil man,, ///$/. of the Jeics, iii, 
369 sq. ; Da Costa, Israel and the Gentiles, p. 475 sq. ; 
Schmueker, 1 list, of the Modern Jews, p. 226 sq. See 
Messiahs, False. (I*. P.) 

Sabbathaists. See Sabbathai. 

Sabbath-day’s Journey (cafifidrov 6 dog, Acts 
i, 12; in Talmudical Ileb. DStt’n Dinri, techum hash - 
shabbdth) is a phrase for the prescribed distance which 
may lawfully be traversed on a Sabbath, and beyond 
which no Jew can go without violating the sanctity of 
the day, except he adopts the means appointed for ex- 
ceeding the canonical boundary. 

I. Distance of a Sabbath-way, and its Origin. — F rom 
the injunction iu Exod. xvi, 29, that every man is to 
“ abide in his place,” and not “ go out of his place” on 
the Sabbath, the ancient Hebrew legislators deduced 
that an Israelite must not go 2000 yards, or 12,000 
hand-breadths — as the ancient Hebrew yard consisted 
of six hand-bread ths = five Greek stadia, for the Greek 
stadium measured 2400 hand-breadths — beyond the 
temporary or permanent place of his abode. Epipha- 
nius’s definition of the Sabbath-day’s journey at six 
stadia — 14,400 hand-breadths, or 750 Homan geograph- 
ical paces {liter, p. 66, 82), is most probably based upon 
the larger yard, which the Jews adopted at a later po- 
riod. See Weights and Measures. These 2000 
yards are not to be measured from any and every spot, 
but according to definite and minute rules, the city 
having always to be reduced to a square. Thus if the 
Sabbath-day’s walk is to be fixed from a circular city, 


SABBATICAL YEAR 


SABBATII-DAY'S JOURNEY 199 



Diagram ot‘ a “ Sabbath- 
day’s .Journey.” 


an imaginary square must 
be circumscribed about it, 
and the measurement is not 
to be taken from the corner 
a in a diagonal direction — 
i. e. from a to e — inasmuch 
as thereby the distance be- 
tween a /will be less than 
2000 yards, but from a to f 
whereby 7 the allowable dis- 
tance is increased in the di- 
rection of a e , as will be seen 
from the annexed diagram. 

The permitted distance seems to have been grounded 
on the space to be kept between the ark and the people 
(Josh, iii, 4) in the wilderness, which tradition said was 
that between the ark and the tents. To repair to the 
ark being, of course, a duty on the Sabbath, the walk- 
ing to it was no violation of the day; and it thus was 
taken as the measure of a lawful Sabbath-day’s journey 7 . 
This prohibition is not repeated in the law, but the 
whole spirit of the Sabbath institution obviously 7 for- 
bade a Jew to make a proper journey on that day' (Jo- 
sephus, A nt. xiii, S, 4), especially 7 as the beasts of burden 
and travel were to rest (comp. Matt, xxiv, 20). Wheth- 
er the earlier Hebrews did or did not regard it thus, 
is not easy to say. Nevertheless, the natural inference 
from 2 Kings iv, 23 is against the supposition of such 
a prohibition being known to the spokesman, Elisha 
almost certainly living — as may 7 be seen from the whole 
narrative — much more than a Sabbath-day’s journey 7 
from Sliunem. Heylin infers from the incidents of Da- 
vid’s flight from Saul, and Elijah’s from Jezebel, that 
neither felt bound by such a limitation. Their situa- 
tion, however, being one of extremity 7 , cannot be safely 
argued from. Our Saviour seems to refer to this law 
in warning the disciples to pray that their flight from 
Jerusalem in the time of its judgment should not be 
“on the Sabbath day” (Matt, xxiv, 20). The Chris- 
tians of Jerusalem would not, as in the case of Gentiles, 
feel free from the restrictions on journeying on that 
day", nor would their situation enable them to comply 7 
with the forms whereby 7 such journeying, when neces- 
sary, was sanctified; nor would assistance from those 
around be procurable. The Jewish scruple to go more 
than 2000 paces from his city 7 on the Sabbath is referred 
to by 7 Origen (ntpi iv, 2), by Jerome (Ad Al- 

gasiam , qu. 10), and by GSeumenius — with some ap- 
parent difference between them as to the measurement. 
Jerome gives Akiba, Simeon, and llillel as the authori- 
ties for the lawful distance. 

Another reason for fixing the distance of a Sabbath- 
day’s walk or journey at 2000 y 7 ards is that the fields of 
the suburbs for the pasture of the flocks and herds be- 
longing to the Levites measured 2000 cubits or yards, 
and that in Exod. xxi, 13 it is said, “ I will appoint thee 
a place (Dip"2) whither he shall flee” — i. e. the Levitieal 
suburbs or cities. Now, it is argued, if one who com- 
mitted murder accidentallv was allowed to undertake 


this journey of 2000 y'ards on a Sabbath without violat- 
ing the sanctity of the day 7 , innocent people may 7 do the 
same. Besides, the plaee of refuge is termed Dip'S, 
which is the same word employed in Exod. xvi, 20. 
As the one tip's, place, was 2000 yards distant, it is 
inferred, according to the rule the analogy of ideas or 
words (iiV^ IrTTS) that the command, “Let no man 
go out of his place (IDpDD) on the seventh day” 
(Exod. xvi, 29) means not to exceed the distance of 
the place 2000 yards off (llillel I, rule ii, in Eruhin , 51 
a; Maccoth , 12 b; Zebachim , 117 a). Josephus (Win', 
v, 2, 3) makes the Mount of Olives to be about six 
stadia from Jerusalem ; and it is the distance between 
these two places which in Acts i, 12 is given as a Sab- 
bath-day T ’s journey 7 . Josephus elsewhere determines the 
same distance as five stadia (Ant, xx, 8, fi); but both 


were probably 7 loose statements rather than measured 
distances; and both arc below the ordinary estimate of 
2000 cubits. Taking all circumstances into account, it 
seems likely 7 that the ordinary Sabbath-day’s journey 7 
was a somewhat loosely determined distance, seldom 
more than the whole and seldom less than three quar- 
ters of a geographical mile. See Selden, De Jure Nut. 
et Gent, iii, 9 ; Frischmuth, Dissert, de Itin. Sabbat. 
(1G70); Walt her, Dissert, de Itin. Sabbut. ; both in The- 
saurus Theolog. Philog. (Amsterd. 1720). 

II. Cases in which the Limits of a Sabbath-day's Jour- 
ney could be exceeded. — Though the laws about the Sab- 
bath-dav’s journey are very 7 rigorous, and he who walked 
bey 7 ond the 2000 y r ards, or moved more than four yards 
farther than his temporary 7 place of abode, when the 
Sabbath-day’s journey 7 had not been determined before- 
hand, received forty 7 stripes save one; yet in cases of 
public or private service, when life was in danger, peo- 
ple were allowed to overstep the prescribed boundary 7 
(Mishnn, Erttbin, iv; Itosh - hushanah, ii, 5). The 
Pharisees, or the orthodox Jews in the days of our Sav- 
iour, also contrived other means whereby 7 the fraternity 
of this order could exceed the Sabbath-day’s walk with- 
out transgressing the law. They 7 ordained that all those 
who wished to join their social gatherings on the Sab- 
bath were to deposit on Friday 7 afternoon some article 
of food in a certain place at the end of the Sabbath- 
day’s journey, that it might thereby 7 be constituted a 
domicile, and thus another Sabbath-day 7 ’s journey 7 could 
be undertaken from the first terminus. See Pharisee. 
This mode of connecting or amalgamating the distances 
(■piainan D1“PS‘), as it is called, is observed by 7 the 
orthodox Jews to the present day 7 . Such importance 
have the Jews, since their return from the Babylonian 
captivity 7 , attached to the Sabbath-day’s journey 7 that a 
whole tractate in the Mishna (Erubin) is devoted to it. 
lienee the phrase is mentioned in the New Test. (Acts 
i, 12) as expressive of a well-known law, and the so- 
called Jerusalem Targum translates Exod. xvi, 29, “And 
let no man go walking from his place bey 7 ond 2000 
y 7 ards on the seventh day 7 ,” while the Chaldee para- 
phrase of Buth i, 1G makes Naomi say 7 to Buth, “We 
are commanded to keep sabbaths and festivals, and not 
to walk bey'ond 2000 yards” (comp. Mishna, Erubin , c. v ; 
Rosh-hashunuh , ii, 15; Babylon Talmud, Erubin, 5G b, 
57 a ; Zuekermann, in Frankel’s Monutsschrift fur Ge- 
schichte mid Wissenschaft des Judenthums [Breslau, 
18G3], xii, 4G7 sq.). — Kitto ; Smith. 

Sabbath-school. See Sunday-school. 

Sabbatians, a Judaizing section of the Novatians, 
who ow r ed their origin to Sabbatius, a presby 7 ter that 
had been ordained by Marcian (Socrat. 1 list. Eccl.v, 20; 
vii, 15). They 7 assumed the name of Protopasehites, 
and refused to communicate with any 7 but those who 
adopted with them the Quartodeciman rule in regard 
to the paschal festival. The Sabbatians were included 
among heretics who were condemned in A.D. 381 by 7 the 
seventh canon of the Council of Constantinople (Mansi 
Concil. iii, 5G3). — Blunt, Diet, of Sects, s. v. 

Sabbatic River, a stream of Palestine, described 
by 7 ancient writers as flowing only 7 on the Sabbath day 7 
(Beland, Pulcest. p. 291). Josephus locates it between 
Aree and Baphanaca (lF«r, vii, 24). Thomson thinks 
that the intermittent fountain of Nebo el-Fuar, in the 
valley of Mar Jirius, west of Kulat llusn, near Tripoli, 
may have been the origin of the fountain, as it seems 
to contain a siphon for carrying off the overflow of the 
water ( Land and Booh, i, 49G sq.). 

Sabbatical Year, the septennial rest for the land 
from all tillage and cultivation enjoined in the Mosaic 
law (Exod. xxiii, 10, 11 ; Lev. xxv, 2-7 ; Deut. xv, 1- 
11 ; xxxi, 10-13; comp. Josephus, A nt. iii, 12,3). (The 
following art. is based upon that of Ginsburg in Kioto’s 
Cyclopedia, with additions from other sources.) 

I. Names and their Sign ijicai ion.— In the Mosaic legis- 


SABBATICAL YEAR 


200 


SABBATICAL YEAR 


lation this festival is called by four names, each of which 
expresses some feature connected with the observance 
thereof. Thus it is called— (1) yinad for, Rest of 
entire Rest , or Sabbath of Subbatism (Lev. xxv, 4 ; A. V. 
“ Sabbath of rest”), because the land is to have a com- 
plete rest from all tillage and cultivation; (2) 

the Year of Sabbatism or Rest (Lev. xxv, 5, 
“year of rest”), because the rest is to extend through the 
year; (3) w, or more fully PC P3U5, “Re- 
lease,'' Remission, or “the Year of Release ” (Deut. xv, 

l, 2, 9), because on it all debts were remitted; and (4) 

P3 'I', “ the Seventh Yea r" (Deut. xv, 9), because 
it is to be celebrated every seventh year, for which 
reason it is called in the Hebrew canons uar 
TV'Vf'Z'd, the Seventh (i. e. ilj’j, Year), as is also the 
name of the tractate in the Mishna ( Shebiith ) treating 
on the sabbatical year. Josephus styles it the ificopa- 
tikuq or <mj3j3ariKbQ iviavrug ( Ant . xiv, 10, (3; 10, 2; 
xv, 1, 2) ; once dpyov trog {War, i, 2, 4). 

II. The Laws connected with this Festival. — Like the 
year of jubilee, the laws respecting the sabbatical year 
embrace three main enactments — (1) Best for the soil; 
(2) care for the poor and for auimals; and (3) remission 
of debts. 

The first enactment, which is comprised in Exod. 
xxiii, 10, 11; Lev. xxv, 2-5, enjoins that the soil, the 
vineyards, and the olive-yards are to have perfect rest; 
there is to be no tillage or cultivation of any sort, at 
least in Palestine (comp. Tacit. Hist, v, 4, 3). What 
constitutes tillage and cultivation, and how much of 
labor was regarded as transgressing the law, may be 
seen from the following definitions of the Hebrew can- 
ons : “ The planting even of trees which bear no fruit is 
not allowed on the sabbatical year; nor may one cut off 
withered or dried-up boughs of trees, nor break off the 
withered leaves and branches, nor cover the tops with 
dust, nor smoke under them to kill the insects, nor be- 
smear the plants with any kind of soil to protect them 
from being eaten by the birds when they are tender, nor 
besmear the unripe fruit, etc., etc. And whoso does one 
of these things in the sabbatical year is to receive the 
stripes of a transgressor” (Maimonides, Jad JIa-Chezaka 
T/ilkoth Shemita Ve-Jobel,\,b ). Anything planted wit- 
tingly or unwittingly had to be plucked up by its roots 
(Mishna, Tenon, ii, 3). Thus it was a regulation re- 
quiring all the land periodically to lie fallow (Philo, Opp. 

m, 207, 277, (331), and as a year of rest corresponded with 
the Sabbath or day of rest {ibid, ii, 631 ; Josephus,/, o.; 
War , i, 2, 4; Tacit. /. e.) ; in fact, a Sabbath year, just 
as the Essenes, besides the seventh day, observed a 
sabbath of weeks each seventh week (Philo, Opp. ii, 
481). 

The second enactment, which is contained in Exod. 
xxiii, 11 ; Lev. xxv, 5-7, enjoins that the spontaneous 
growth (PPE5) of the fields or of trees (comp. Isa. 
xxxvii, 30) is to be for the free use of the poor, hire- 
lings, strangers, servants, and cattle (Exod. xxiii, 11; 
Lev. xxv, 5-7 ; comp. Mishna, Edayoth , v, l). This law 
is thus defined by the Jewish canons: “He who locks 
up his vineyard, or hedges in his field, or gathers all the 
fruit into his house in the sabbatical year, breaks this 
positive commandment. Everything is to be left com- 
mon, and every man has a right to everything in every 
place, as it is written ‘that the poor of thy people may 
eat’ (Exod. xxiii, 11). One may only bring into his 
house a little at a time, according to the manner of 
taking things that are in common” (Maimonides, ibid. 
iv, 24). “ The fruit of the seventh year, however, may 

only be eaten by man as long as the same kind is found 
in the field ; for it is written ‘and for the cattle and for 
the beast that are in thy land shall all the increase 
thereof be meat’ (Lev. xxv, 7). Therefore, as long as 
the animals eat the same kind in the field thou mayest 
eat of what there is of it in the house; and if the animal 
has consumed it all in the field, thou art bound to re- 


move thi^kiud from the house into the field” (Maimon- 
ides, ibid, vii, 1). The people, who are enjoined to live 
upon the harvest of the preceding year, and the sponta- 
neous growth of the sabbatical year, are promised an 
especially fruitful harvest to precede the fallow year as 
a reward for obeying the injunction (Lev. xxv, 20-22). 
That the fields yielded a crop in the sabbatical year, 
and even in the second fallow year — i.e. in the year of 
jubilee — has been shown in the art. Jubilee Y ear. 

The third enactment, which is contained in Deut. xv, 
1-8, enjoins the remission of debts in the sabbatical 
year. The exceptions laid down are in the case of a 
foreigner, and that of there being no poor in the laud. 
This latter, however, it is straightway said, is what will 
never happen. Put though debts might not be claimed, 
it is not said that they might not be voluntarily paid; 
and it has been questioned whether the release of the 
seventh year was final or merely lasted through the 
year. This law is defined by the ancient Hebrew can- 
ons as follows : The sabbatical year cancels every debt, 
whether lent on a bill or not. It does not cancel ac- 
counts for goods; daily wages for labor which may be 
performed in the sabbatical year, unless they have been 
converted into a loan; or the legal fines imposed upon 
one who 'committed a rape, or was guilty of seduction 
(Exod. xxii, 15, 16), or slander, or any judicial penal- 
ties; nor does it set aside a debt contracted on a pledge, 
or on a —-Trpbg (3ov\ jj (or /3or\/jr) — i. e. dec- 

laration made before the court of justice at the time of 
lending not to remit the debt in the sabbatical year. 
The formula of this legal declaration was as follows: 
“ I, A B, deliver to you, the judges of the district C, the 
declaration that I may call in at any time I like all 
debts due to me,” and it was signed either by the judges 
or witnesses. If this Prosbul was antedated, it was 
legal, but it was invalid if postdated. If one borrowed 
money from five different persons, a Prosbul was neces- 
sary from each individual; but if, on the contrary, one 
lent money to five different persons, one Prosbul was 
sufficient for all. This Prosbul was first introduced by 
llillel (q. v.) the Great (born about B.C. 75), because he 
found that the warning contained in Deut. xv, 9 was 
disregarded: the rich would not lend to the poor for 
fear of the sabbatical year, which seriously impeded 
commercial and social intercourse (Mishna, Shebiith, x, 
1-5; Gift in, iv, 3). This shows beyond the shadow of 
a doubt that the release of the seventh year did not sim- 
ply last through the seventh year, as some will have it, 
but was final. The doctors before and in the time of 
Christ virtually did away with this law of remitting 
debts by regarding it as a meritorious act on the part 
of the debtor not to avail himself of the Mosaic enact- 
ment, and pay his debts irrespective of the sabbatical 
year. But not glaringly to counteract the law, these 
doctors enacted that the creditor should say, “ In accord- 
ance with the sabbatical year, I remit thee the debt;” 
whereunto the debtor had to reply, “ I nevertheless wish 
to pay it,” and the creditor then accepted the payment 
(Mishna, Shebiith, x, 8). As the Mosaic law excludes 
the foreigner from the privilege of claiming the remis- 
sion of his debts in the sabbatical year (Deut. xv, 3), 
the ancient Jewish canons enacted that even if any Is- 
raelite borrows money from a proselyte whose children 
were converted to Judaism with him, he need not legal- 
ly repay the debt to his children in case the proselyte 
dies, because the proselyte, in consequence of his con- 
version, is regarded as having severed all his family ties, 
and this dissolution of the ties of nature sets aside mut- 
ual inheritance, even if the children professed Judaism 
with the father. Still the sages regarded it as a meri- 
torious act if the debts were paid to the children (Mish- 
na, Shebiith, x, 9). It is often said, too, that in the sab- 
batical year ail slaves of Hebrew birth were freed; but 
the words in Exod. xxi, 2 (comp. Jer. xxxiv, 14sq.) re- 
quire only that they be freed in the seventh year of 
their servitude (Josephus, Ant. xvi, 1, 1). Deut. xv, 12 


SABBATICAL YEA1 


201 


SABBATICAL YEAR 


no more relates to the law of the sabbatical year than I * 
ver. 19 sq. (comp. Ranke, Pentat. ii, 362), and where the < 
sabbatical year is expressly treated of— as in Lev. xxv 1 

nothing is said of such manumission. Nor does Jo- ' ] 

sephus {Ant. iii, 12, 3) mention it. Lev. xxxiv, 8 does | < 
not refer at all to this institution (yet see llitzig, ad loc .), I 
and ver. 14 refers only to the law in Exod. xxi, 2. See \ 
Release. 

HI. Time, Observance , and Limit of the Sabbatical 
Year. — The sabbatical year, like the year of jubilee, be- < 
gan on the first day of the civil new year = the first of ; 
the month Tisri (Maimonides, 1. c. iv, 9). See New 
Year. But though this was the time fixed for the 
celebration of the sabbatical year during the period of 
the second Temple, yet the tillage and cultivation of 
certain fields and gardens had already to be left off in 
the sixth year. Thus it was ordained that fields upon 
which trees were planted were not to be cultivated after 
the feast of Pentecost of the sixth year (Mishna, She- 
biith, i, 1-8), while the cultivation of corn-fields was to 
cease from the feast of Passover (ibid, ii, 1). Since the 
destruction of the Temple, however, the sabbatical year, 
or, more properly, cessation from tillage and cultivation 
of all kinds, does not begin till the feast of New Year. 
According to the Mosaic legislation, the laws of the 
sabbatical year were to come into operation when the 
children of Israel had possession of the promised land; 
and the Talmud, Maimonidcs, ctc.j tell us that the first 
sabbatical year was celebrated in the twenty-first year 
after they entered Canaan, as the conquest of it record- 
ed in Josh, xiv, 10 occupied seven years, and the divi- 
sion thereof between the different tribes mentioned in 
Josh, xviii, etc., occupied seven years more, whereupon 
they had to cultivate it six years, and on the seventh 
year— the twenty-first after entering therein — the first 
sabbatical year was celebrated (Babylon Talmud, Era- 
chan, 12 b; Maimonidcs, l. c. x, 2). On the feast of 
Tabernacles of the sabbatical year, certain portions of 
the law were read in the Temple before the whole con- 
gregation (Dent, xxxi, 10-13). As the Pentatcuchal 
enactment assigns the prelection of the law to the 
priests and college of presbyters (ibid.)— viz. the spirit- 
ual and civil heads of the congregation (hence the sin- 
gular Jdpn, li thoushalt read this law before all Israel”) 
— the Hebrew canons ordained that the high-priest, and 
after the return from Babylon the king, should perform 
this duty. The manner in which it was read by the 
monarch is thus described in the Mishna : “At the close 
of the first day of the feast of Tabernacles in the eighth 
year — i.c. at the termination of the seventh fallow year — ! 
a wooden platform was erected in the outer court, where- 
on he sat, as it is written, ‘at the end of the seventh 
year on the festival’ (ver. 10). Thereupon the superin- 
tendent of the synagogue took the book of the law and 
gave it to the head of the synagogue; the head of the 
synagogue then gave it to the head of the priests, the 
head of the priests again gave it to the high-priest, and 
the high-priest finally handed it to the king; the king 
stood up to receive it, but read it sitting. He read — (1) 
Dent, i, 1-vi, 3 WJ h^K); (2) Dent. 

vi,4-8 (r-rr); (3) Dent. xi, 13-22 (SIS^ mm); 
(4) Dcut.xiv,22-xv,23 pem Tr;?); (5) Deut.xxvi, 
12-19 prrb "C); (6) Dcut.xvii, 14-20 (JY:nS 

and (7) Dent, xxvii, xxviii (TVibipl 
mi“nsn m“). The king then concluded 

with the same benediction which the high-priest pro- 
nounced, except that he substituted the blessing of the 
festivals for the absolution of sins” (Mislina, Sota, vii. 
8). This benediction forms to the present day a part 
of the blessing pronounced by the maphtir, or the one 
who is called to the reading of the lesson from the proph- 
ets after the reading of the lesson from the law, and is 
given in an English translation in the art. Haph- 
taraii of this Cyclopaedia, beginning with the words 


“For the law, for the divine service,” etc. The sabbati- 
cal year, however, was only binding upon the inhabi- 
tants of Palestine ( Kiddushin , i, 9; Orlah, iii, 9), the 
limits of which were determined on the east by the 
desert of Arabia, on the west by the sea, on the north 
by Amana, while on the south the boundary was doubt- 
ful (comp. Geiger, Lehr - und Lesebuch zur Spracke der 
Mishna [Breslau, 1845], ii, 75, etc.). 

As to the obedience to this law, ancient Jewish tra- 
dition tells us that it was never kept before the exile, 
and that it is for this reason that the Jews were seventy 
years in the Babylonian captivity, to give to the land 
the seventy years of which it was deprived during the 
seventy sabbatical years, or the 430 years between the 
entrance into Canaan and the captivity, as it is written 
(2 Chron. xxxvi, 20, 21),“ until the land had enjoyed 
her Sabbaths [i. e. sabbatical years], for as long as she 
lay desolate she kept Sabbath to fulfil threescore and 
ten years [i.e. sabbatical years]” (comp. Shabbath, 13, a ; 
Seder Olam, c. xxvi; Kashi on 2 Chron. xxxvi, 20). 
After the captivity, however, when all the neglected 
laws ivere more rigidly, observed (see Neh. x, 31), the 
sabbatical year was duly kept, as is evident from the 
declaration in 1 Macc. vi, 49 that “Jhey came out of 
the city, because they had no victuals there to endure 
the siege, it being a year of rest for the land,” from the 
fact that both Alexander the Great and Caius Cresar ex- 
empted the Jews from tribute on the seventh year, be- 
cause it was unlawful for them to sow seed or reap the 
harvest (Josephus..! nt. xiv, 10,6), and from the sneers of 
Tacitus about the origin of this festival ( Hist . v, 2,4), as 
well as from the undoubted records and the post-exilian 
minute regulations about the sabbatical year contained 
in the ancient Jewish writings. According to 1 Macc. 
vi, 53, the one hundred and fiftieth year of the Seleucid 
icra v T as a sabbatical year (Josephus, Ant. xiii, 8, 1, 10, 
12; xv, 1, 2; War, i, 2, 4; comp. Hitzig, Isa. p. 433; 
Von Bolden, Gen. p. 138 sq., Einleit.). The Samaritans 
observed it (Josephus, Ant. xi, 8, 6). St. Paul, in re- 
proaching the Galatians with their Jewish tendencies, 
taxes them with observing years as well as days and 
months and times (Gal. iv, 10), from which w r e must in- 
fer that the teachers who communicated to them those 
tendencies did more or less the like themselves. An- 
other allusion in the Ncw f Test, to the sabbatical year is 
perhaps to be found in the phrase iv cafifiaTt'j um- 
fxyn-pibrqj (Luke vi, 1). Various explanations have been 
given of the term, one of them being that it denotes the 
first Sabbath of the second year in the cycle (Wieseler, 
quoted by Alford, vol. i). 

IV. Design of the Regulation. — The spirit of this law 
is the same as that of the weekly Sabbath. Both have 
a beneficent tendency, limiting the rights and checkiug 
the sense of property; the one puts in God’s claims on 
time, the other on the land. The land shall “keep a 
Sabbath unto the Lord.” “The land is mine.” The 
sabbatical year opened in the sabbatical month. It 
was thus, like the weekly Sabbath, no mere negative 
rest, but was to be marked by high and holy occupa- 
tion, and connected with sacred reflection and senti- 
! ment. At the completion ofa week of sabbatical years, 
the sabbatical scale received its completion in the year 
of jubilee. 

This singular institution has the aspect, at first sight, 
of total impracticability. This, however, wears off when 
w'e consider that in no year was the owmer allowed to 
reap the whole harvest (Lev. xix, 9; xxiii, 22). Un- 
less, therefore, the remainder w r as gleaned very careful- 
■ ly, there may easily have been enough left to insure 
: such spontaneous deposit of seed as in the fertile soil of 
, Syria would produce some amount of crop in the suc- 
, cecding year, while the vines and olives would of course 
: yield their fruit of themselves. Moreover, it is clear 
• that the owners of land were to lay by corn in previous 
i years for their own and their families’ wants. This is the 
unavoidable inference from Lev. xxv, 20-22. Though 
; the right of property w r as in abeyance during the sab- 


SABBATIER 


202 


SABELLIUS 


batical year, it lias been suggested that this only applied 
to the fields, and not to the gardens attached to houses. 
The great physical advantage aimed at in the sabbati- 
cal year was doubtless that the land lay fallow, thus in- 
creasing the fruitfulness of the six years of cultivation, 
especially in that ancient period when the artificial use 
of fertilizers was unknown. Hut this rest was experi- 
enced likewise by men and eattle. Other advantages 
of more or less importance have been suggested: the 
encouragement of the chase (comp. Lev. xxv, 7); the 
securing of the land against famine (Michaelis in the 
Comment. Soc . Gutting . Oblut. [Urem. 1763], v, 9; Mas. 
Ilechty ii,39 sq.) ; the prevention of exportation and for- 
eign trade (Hug, Zeitschr. fur das Erzbisth. Freiburg , 
i, 10 sq.). On the other hand, scarcity did sometimes 
occur during the sabbatical year (1 Macc. vi. 49, 53; Jo- 
sephus, Ant. xiv, 1G, 2), and it is certain that the insti- 
tution had various inconveniences incident to it (comp. 
Grever, Comment. Mis. Syntagma [Olden. 1794]. p. 27 sq.; 
Von Raumer, Yorles. viber alte Gesch. i, 138 sq.), which, 
however, are certainly exaggerated by Von Raumer. 
Jliilhnann, too, has been carried too far by his zeal 
against this institution ( Stuatsrerfass . tier Israelii . p. 
163 sq.). 

V. Literature. — Mishna, Shebiith ; the Talmud on this 
Mishna; Maimonides, Jad Ha-Chezuhi IHlkoth Shemita 
Yc-Jobel; Michaelis, Commentaries on the Laics of 
Moses , arts. Ixxiv-lxxvii (English transl. [Loud. 1814], 
i, 387-419); Biilir, Symbolik des mosaischen Cultus 
(lleidelb. 1839), ii, 5G9 sq., GOI sq.; Maimonides, Tr.de 
Jurib. Ami Sept. Vertit Notisque illustr. J. II. Maius 
(F rankf.-on-the-Main, 1708) ; Carpzov, Appttr. p. 442 sq.; 
Winer, Realwiirterb. ii, 349. 

Sabbatier, Pierre, a French Benedictine, was 
born at Poitiers in 1G82. In 1700 lie took the habit of 
St. Benedict at the abbey of St. Faron de Meaux. He 
was emploj'ed by prince Bruinart to edit the fifth vol- 
ume of the Annales Benedictines. At this time he also 
began to publish the ancient version of the Scriptures, 
commonly called the Italian Version. The first edition 
had not appeared when, on account of the part he had 
taken in the Jansen is t quarrels, he was exiled to the 
abbey of St. Nicaise at Rheims. He did not live to see 
the work completed, his death occurring on March 24, 
1742, but it was finally published by Ballard and Vin- 
cent de la Rue under the title of Bibliorum Sacrorum 
Latinai Yersiones Antique p, sen Yetus Italica (1743). — 
Hoefer, Xouv. Blog. Generate , s. v. 

Sabbatini, Andrea, called.! ndrea da Salerno , an 
Italian painter, was born at Salerno about 1480. He 
studied at Rome under Raphael, and, though he re- 
mained there but a year, was one of the best imitators 
of Raphael’s style. Among his numerous works at 
Naples are the frescos and scenes of Santa Maria della 
Grazia. 11 is best works are at Gaeta and Salerno, and 
his Visitation may be seen at the Louvre, in Paris. He 
died in 1515. — Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Sabbatini, Lorenzo, called Lorenzino da Bo- 
logna, another Italian painter, was born about 1533 at 
Bologna. Being called to Rome under the pontificate 
of Gregory XI II, he painted in the royal hall of the 
Vatican Faith Triumphing over Unbelief, and other fres- 
cos iu the Pauline Chapel. These gained for him the 
position of superintendent of the works in the Vatican, 
which he held till bis death. The principal pictures 
of Sabbatini are a Madonna, in the Louvre; the Mar- 
riage of St. Catharine, at Dresden ; and the Yirgin En- 
throned, at Berlin. He died in 1577. — Hoefer, Xouv. 
Biog. Gene rale, s. v. 

Sabbatini, Luigi Antonio, an Italian composer 
of music, was born at Albano in 1739. While young 
he joined the Order of St. Francis, and received his mu- 
sical education in the convents at Rome, Bologna, and 
Padua. His principal teacher was Villotti, whose sys- 
tem of harmony he adopted. He was made musical di- 
rector of the church of the Twelve Apostles at Rome, 


and retained the position till 1780, when he took the 
place of Villotti in the church of St. Antony at Padua. 
He composed much sacred music, and was the author 
of several musical works — Elementi Teorici della Musica 
(1789): — lera Idea delle Musical i Numeriche Segiui- 
ture (1795) — besides a Life of Villotti, and an edition 
of the Psalms of Marcello, lie died at Padua Jan. 29, 
1809. — Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Sabbatism (<T«/3/3nr(<rju6£, Ileb. ii, 9, A. V. “ rest”), 
a repose from labor, like that enjoyed by God at crea- 
tion ; a type of the eternal Sabbath of heaven. See 
Rest. 

Sabbatum Magnum {great Sabbath ). The day 
before Easter was designated as the high Sabbath, 
partly in imitation of the primitive institution, and 
partly in token of respect for the time in which our 
Saviour lay in the grave. This was the only Sabbath 
eventually continued in the Church and distinguished 
by peculiar solemnities. It was set apart as a strict 
fast, probably with reference to the words of Christ, 
“When the Bridegroom is taken away from them, in 
those days shall they fast.” It was called the Easter 
vigil, and was among the earliest of those established 
by Christians. From Lac tan tins, Jerome, and other 
Christian writers we learn that the early Christians 
expected the second coming of our Lord on this night, 
and prepared themselves for it by fasting, prayer, and 
other spiritual exercises. The Easter vigil was distin- 
guished by the lighting of a large taper {cereus qias- 
chalis), signifying the resurrection of our Lord, and the 
consequent rejoicing of the Church ; by the baptism of 
catechumens, particularly in the Greek Church ; and by 
the reading of proper lessons, which took place immedi- 
ately before the celebration of the baptism. The fast 
was continued till cock- crowing the next morning, 
which was supposed to be the time of the resurrection. 
In the Latin Church the Easter vigil was suppressed, in 
consequence of the numerous abuses practiced and the 
injury to the morals of young people. — Farrar, Eccles. 
Diet. s. v. 

Sabe'an; Sabe'us. See Sab.eax ; Sab-eus. 

Sabellianism. See Sabellius. 

Sabellians. See Sabellius. 

Sabellius, the author of a Heretical doctrine con- 
cerning the nature of the Trinity, which disturbed the 
Church in the 3d century, and lias occasionally reap- 
peared, under modified forms, even down to modern 
times. Sabellius, according to Hippolytus {Philosophou- 
mena), spent some time at Rome in the beginning of the 
3d century, and was gained by Callistus to patripassian- 
ism. Subsequently lie appears as a presbyter of Ptole- 
mais, i.n Egypt. There his doctrine assumed a modified 
form, and made such progress in the Church that Dio- 
nysius, bishop of Alexandria, excommunicated him at 
a council in that city (A.D. 2G1), and opposed him so 
earnestly as to almost fall into the opposite error of a 
hypostatical independence of the Father and the Son. 
Thereupon the Sabellians complained of that bishop to 
Dionysius of Rome, who held a council on the subject 
in 262, and controverted Sabellianism in a special trea- 
tise, taking care also to refute subordinationism and 
tritheism. The bishop of Alexandria retracted his ut- 
terances on these last points. Thus this feature of the 
strife was largely allayed until the age of Arius, half a 
century later. 

Sabellius is by far the most original and ingenious of 
the so-called Monarchians. 11 is system is known to ns 
only from a few fragments imperfectly preserved in 
Athanasius and other fathers. It lias been carefully 
discussed, and even partially revived, by Schleiermacher 
in modern times (see Schaff, Church History, p. 292- 
294). The beginnings of Sabellianism are found in 
Noetus, though there is no evidence of any historical 
connection between Noetus and Sabellius. The system 
seems rather to have sprung out of Judaizing and Gnos- 


SABI 


203 


SABIANS 


tic tendencies which were indigenous to Egypt. Sa- 
bellius held the Jewish position of a strict monotheism, 
recognising only a single divine substance and a single 
hypostasis, w hich arc but two w ords for the same thing. 
In themselves they constitute the monad. As simple 
substance, the monad is “ the silent God,” i. e. it is in- 
operative and unproductive. It becomes active only 
through revelation and development, which are some- 
times conceived of as an unfolding, sometimes as a 
speaking. The first form of Sabelliauism seems to have 
held merely to a dyad, to wit, God simple and God 
speaking, that is, God and the Logos. But this earlier 
form soon disappears, and gives place to a triad. Thus 
the monad evolves itself as a triad, as three divine per- 
sons, but not in the Nicene sense. The one divine sub- 
stance simply assumes three forms (the Father, the Son, 
and the lloly Ghost) in its threefold relation to the 
world. This is not, liow’cver, simply three appellations, 
but it is three successive forms of manifestation of the 
one divine substance. In illustration of this, Sabellius 
compares the Father to the visible globe of the sun, the 
Son to its illuminating effects, and the Spirit to its 
warming influence, while the sun, per se, would corre- 
spond to the simple divine substance. To the first form 
of manifestation (the Father) is attributed the giving 
of the law, and in general the whole pre-Christian 
economy. Thereupon ensued the second form, the in- 
carnation, in which God accomplished our objective re- 
demption. Thereafter he appears under a third phase, 
the Spirit of sanctification, which exerts its efficiency 
in the hearts of believers. As the three manifestations 
are conceived of as successive, so, also, are they but tem- 
porary and transitory. The divine substance does not 
manifest itself simultaneously in three forms, but as 
each new manifestation is made the previous one ceases ; 
and when, finally, all three stages have been passed, 
the triad will again return into the monad, and the di- 
vine substance will again be all and in all. Thus ap- 
pears the pantheistic tendency of Sabellianism as a 
whole. God is the abstract substance which evolves 
itself into the world of reality, traverses the stage of 
finite life, and eventually retires within itself. The 
“silent” God speaks forth in the universe, and then re- 
turns back into silence. Some of the fathers traced the 
doctrine of Sabellius to the Stoic system. The only 
common element, however, is the pantheistic expansion 
and contraction of the divine nature immanent in the 
world. Kindred ideas are also found in Pythagorean- 
ism, in the Gospel of the Egyptians , and in the Pseudo - 
Clementine Homilies. But this does not affect the vig- 
orous originality of Sabellius. llis theory broke the 
wav for the Xicene Church doctrine by its full rejection 
of subordinationism, and by its complete co-ordination 
of the three persons, lie differs from the orthodox view 
by his denial of the trinity of essence and the perma- 
nence of the threefold manifestation, thus making of 
the Father, Son, and Spirit simply a transient series of 
phenomena, which fulfil their mission, and then return 
into the abstract one divine substance. 

Sec Athanasius, Contra Arianos Oratio , iii, 4; De 
Synodis, c. vii ; Philastrius, De litres. post Christ i Pas- 
sionem , lib. xxvi; Theodoret, llecret. Fab. Compeml. ii, 
9; Augustine, De Hares, lib. xli; Basil, Epist. 210, 
214; Tillemont, Memoires, iv, 237 ; Mosheim, De Debus 
Christian. siec. Ill, § xxxiii ; Neander, Church Hist. 
(Bose’s ed.), ii, 276; Milman, Hist, of Latin Christian- 
ity, ii, 429; Schleiermacher, Ueber den Gegcnsatz der 
Sabellianisckcn und athanasianischen Vorstellung von der 
Trinitiit ; Herzog, Real-Encykl. xiii, 2L4-216. (J. P. L.) 

Sa'bi [or rather Sabi'e, as in the earliest editions 
of the A.V.] v. r. S«/3erV) r given in 1 Esdr. v, 

34 as the head of one of the families of “ Solomon’s ser- 
vants” w ho returned from Jerusalem ; apparently a false 
Gneeism for the Zkbai.m (q. v.) of the lleb. lists (Ezra 
ii, 57 ; Neh. vii, 59). 

Sabians (sometimes confounded with Sabaans'), a 


very ancient sect, said to be named after Sabi, son of 
Enoch, reputed to have been the founder of their relig- 
ion in its original and purest form. Their creed com- 
prehended the worship of one God, the Governor and 
Creator of all things, who was to be addressed through 
a mediator, which office was to be performed by pure 
and invisible spirits. An admiration of the heavenly 
bodies, and an undue idea of their influence over earth- 
ly objects, soon produced an idolatrous worship of the 
heavenly luminaries, in which they conceived that the 
mediativc intelligences resided. At first the Sabians 
worshipped towards the planets, as the residences of the 
mediating spirits between God and man; hence soon 
arose star-worship. Then they made images to repre- 
sent the stars, in which, after consecration, they imag- 
ined the intelligences came to reside; they named the 
images after the planets, and hence arose idolatry and 
its corruptions. They taught that the sun and moon 
were superior deities and the stars inferior ones; that 
the souls of the wicked were punished for nine thousand 
years, and then pardoned. They highly valued agri- 
culture and cattle, and it was unlawful to kill the latter. 
The principal seats of Sabianism v’ere Harran and “Ur 
of the Chaldees.” Maimonides says that Abraham was 
originally a ySbian, till he was converted and left Chal- 
diea. Maimonides also says that it was very prevalent 
in the time of Moses. It is to Sabianism that Job al- 
ludes (xxxi, 26, 27), “ If I beheld the sun when it shined, 
or the moon walking in brightness; and my heart hath 
been secretly enticed, or my mouth hath kissed my 
hand” — i. e. in token of salutation. Also in different 
parts of the second book of Kings, and in Zeph. i, 
5; Jer. xix, 13, the idolatrous worship of the host 
of heaven is mentioned. The Sabians of later times, 
v’hen praying, turn towards the north pole; pray at 
sunrise, noon, and sunset; abstain from many kinds of 
vegetables; believe in the ultimate pardon of the wicked, 
after nine thousand years of suffering; keep three year- 
ly fasts — one in February of seven days, one in March 
of thirty days, and one in December of nine days; offer 
many burnt-offerings, or holocausts; adore the stars; 
teach that mediators live in the seven planets, whom 
they call lords and gods, but the true God they call 
Lord of lords; each planet, they teach, has his distinct 
region, office, and objects of guardianship; they believe 
that an intercourse is kept up between the planetary 7 in- 
telligences and the earth, and that their influence is 
conveyed by talismanic mystic seals, made with spells 
and according to astrological rules. They go on pil- 
grimage to Harran, in Mesopotamia, respect the temple 
at Mecca, and venerate the pyramids in Egypt, which 
they believe to be the sepulchres of Seth, Enoch, and 
Sabi; and they offer there a cock and black calf, and 
burn incense (Sale, Koran). See T sabians. 

The name of Sabians is often given by the Moham- 
medans and Eastern Christians to a sect in and about 
Bagdad and Bassorali, whose proper appellation is Men- 
daifes, or “Disciples of John:” sometimes improperly 
called “ Christians of St. John,” as they have in reality 
no pretensions to Christianity. The name of their found- 
er is John, but it is not quite clear that he is John the 
Baptist, as has been supposed by their using a kind of 
baptism. Their sacred books arc a ritual, the book of 
John, and the book of Adam: the latter has been pub- 
lished, and is extremely mystical and obscure. It sets 
out with the Gnostic tenet of two eternal, self-existent, 
independent principles. 1 1 teaches that Jesus is one of 
the seven planets — viz. Mercury; that he was baptized 
in Jordan by John, but corrupted the doctrines of John, 
wherefore the good genius Anush delivered him up to 
be crucified. These Sabians pray at the seventh hour 
and at sunset; assemble at the place of worship on the 
first day of the week, on which day they baptize their 
children ; they use extreme unction, deerv celibacy, for- 
bid the worship of images, permit all kinds of meat, but 
abstain from meat dressed by infidels; sign their chil- 
dren with a particular sign, and contemn all reverence 


SABIN 


204 


SABOTIERS 


for the planets. The Rev. Joseph Wolf mentions in his 
Journal having met with some of these Sabians, or ra- 
ther Meudaites, about Bassorah ; but they evidently 
wished to impose on him and give a favorable impres- 
sion of their doctrines. They affected a great reverence 
for Christ, as the Messiah, and the Word of (iod; they 
professed to require the mediation of Christ and John, 
and to believe that Christians would be saved, and to 
expect the second advent, and taught that sin was 
washed away by rebaptizing. Their remaining tenets, 
such as sealing their children, abstaining from meats 
cooked by Mohammedans, etc., are the same as have 
been before quoted. See Mkndjeans. 

Sabin (or Sabine). Elijah Robinson, an early 
American Methodist minister, was descended from an 
old Puritan family, and was born in Tolland, Conn., 
Sept. 10, 1776. Although he never went to school after 
he was eight years of age, he acquired a tolerable educa- 
tion by night study on his father’s farm. He was early 
converted under Calvinistie inlluence, but soon joined 
the Methodists, and began to preach in Vermont in 1798. 
The next year he was received into what was then the 
New York Conference, and sent to Needham, Mass. 1 1 is 
labors on the Landafif Circuit, in New Hampshire, which 
was his next appointment, were so severe as to impair 
his health, and he retired as supernumerary for two 
years, during which he married, lie resumed his min- 
istry in 1805 as presiding elder of the Vermont district, 
and afterwards presiding elder on the New London dis- 
trict, enduring many hardships and persecutions in the 
work, lie next served on the Needham Circuit, and 
finally in Boston. In 1811, his health failing, he located 
and afterwards removed to Penobscot, where he endured 
the horrors of the ensuing Avar, being in 1814 temporari- 
ly compelled to escape to Landafif. In 1817 he visited 
the South, and died at Augusta, Ga., May 4, 1818. lie 
was a man of fine figure and commanding address, and 
at one time Avas chaplain of the House of Represen- 
tatives of Massachusetts. He published several small 
works: The Road to Happiness: — Charles Observatov : 
—several occasional Sermons and Tracts : — and began 
the collection of materials for a History of Maine. See 
Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit, vii, 30G sq. 

Sabina, Popp^ea, first the mistress and aftenvards 
the Avife of Nero. Her father was T. Ollius, Avho per- 
ished at the fall of his patron Sejanus, and her maternal 
grandfather Avas Poppams Sabin us, Avhose name she as- 
sumed. Poppaea had been originally married to Rufius 
Crispinus, by Avhom she had a son; but she afterwards 
became the mistress of Otho, a boon companion of Nero, 
by whose means she hoped to attract the notice of the 
emperor. Obtaining a divorce from Rufius, she married 
Otho. Her husband’s lavish praise of her charms made 
the emperor anxious to see her. Her conduct had the 
desired effect. Nero removed Otho out of the Avay by 
sending him to govern Lusitania, A.D. 58. Poppaxa 
noAv became the acknowledged mistress of Nero, but Avas 
anxious to be his Avife. As long, hoAveA r er, as Agrippina, 
the mother of Nero, Avas alive, she could scarcely hope 
to obtain this honor. Through her influence Nero Avas 
induced to put his mother to death, in A.D. 59, and in 
A.D. 62 he put away Octavia, on the plea of barrenness, 
and married Pop pa- a a few days afterwards. Not feel- 
ing secure as long as Octavia Avas alive, she Avorked 
upon the fears and passions of her husband until she 



preA'ailed upon him to put the unhappy girl to death in 
the course of the same year. Poppaea Avas killed by a 
kick from her husband in a fit of passion (A.D. 65), 
Her body Avas not burned, according to the Roman cus- 
tom, but embalmed, and Avas deposited in the sepulchre 
of the Julii. She received the honor of a public fune- 
ral, and her funeral oration Avas pronounced by Nero 
himself. The only class in the empire Avho regretted 
her may have been the JeAvs, whose cause she had de- 
fended (Josephus, Life, § 3 ; Ant. xx, 8, 1 1). See Smith, 
Diet . of Gr. and Rom, Biog. iii, 686. 

Sabina, Saint and Martyr , Avas a pious and noble 
AvidoAv who had been conA'ertcd to Christianity by Sera- 
pia, a virgin of Antioch Avho lived in her house (in 
Avhat station is not knoAvn). Serapia Avas required to 
sacrifice to the gods, but refused; and Avlien the presid- 
ing judge commanded her to offer to Christ instead, she 
replied, “1 sacrifice to him continually, and pray to him 
day and night.” To the inquiry, “Where is the tem- 
ple of your Christ, and Avhat sacrifices do you offer?” 
she responded, “ I offer myself in chastity and purity, 
and endeavor to persuade others to the same course; for 
it is Avrittcn, 1 Ye are the temple of the living God.’” 
Thereupon the judge delivered her up to tAvo Egyptians 
that they might violate her chastity; but they Averc 
smitten by divine poAver with blindness and terror, and 
Averc unable to accomplish their purpose. This result 
Avas attributed to the magical arts of Serapia, and she 
Avas subjected to various tortures, and finally beheaded. 
Sabina had the remains of her sainted teacher interred 
in her own tomb, and was soon called to suffer a similar 
fate. She endured joyfully for Christ, and Avas laid by 
the side of her companion. ’The year of their martyr- 
dom Avas about A.D. 125, as both Tillcmont and the 
Bollandists assume; the place, according to Tillcmont, 
some toAvn in Umbria, but according to the Bollandists, 
the city of Rome. Roman Catholic scholars are not 
agreed respecting the character of such ancient “Acts” 
of this saint as still exist; some, like Baronins, regard- 
ing them as “ sineerissima,” Avhilc others, like Tillemont 
( Monum . vol. ii), acknoA\dcdgc them to be ancient, but 
doubt Avhether their antiquity reaches back to the time 
Avlien these martyrs suffered, and also Avhether interpo- 
lations have not been added. The Bollandists decide, 
“nobis non videntur fide indigna, etiamsi non eareant 
omni nan*o” (see the Bollandists, in Act. SS. MM. Sc - 
rapias et Sabines ad 29 Augusti). The relics of the tAvo 
confessors Avere transferred in A.D. 430 to a iicav church 
erected in their honor at Rome. — Wetzcr u. Wclte, 
K irchen- Lexikon, s. v. 

Sabinian. See Sabinianus. 

Sabinianus, Rope, Avas a native of Volterra, and 
Avas elected bishop of Rome after the death of Gregory 
I, or the Great, Sept. 13, A.D. 604. He had been em- 
ployed on a mission to the court of Phocas, the usurper 
of the Eastern empire, lie is said to ha\'e shoAvn him- 
self avaricious and fond of hoarding, and to have there- 
by incurred the popular hatred. Sabinianus died in 
about eighteen months after his election (Feb. 22, A.D. 
606), and Avas succeeded, after a vacancy of nearly one 
year, by Boniface III, the first bishop of Rome Avho Avas 
acknoAvledged by the imperial court of Constantinople 
as primate of the Avhole Church. See lloefer, s. v. 

Sabotiers, a name given to the Waldenses, from 
the sabots (sandals) Avorn by the French peasantry. 
The sabots of the Waldenses Averc, hoAvevcr, distin- 
guished by a painted cross — insabbatati — or else bv 
sandals tied crosSAvise. They are described in an epis- 
tle of Innocent III as “calciamenta desuper aperta” (In- 
nocent, Bp. xv, 137); and other Avriters speak of the 
Waldenses as Avoaring sandals, after the custom of the 
apostles, and as Avalking Avith naked feet. Ebrard 
speaks of them eontemptuously as assuming this name 
themselves: “Xabatenses a xabata potius, quam Chri- 
stiani a Christo, se volunt appellari.” The custom Avas 
doubtless adopted in imitation of the voluntary poverty 


SABTA 


205 


SACCOPIIORI 


oftlie apostles, aiul in accordance with the names “Pan- 
peres de Lugduno” and “ De Lombardia,” winch they as- 
sumed (Ebrard, Contr. Waldens, in Bill. Lugd. [1572], 
xxiv).— Blunt, Diet, of Sects, s. v. 

Sab'ta (lleb. Salta', of unknown etymolo- 

gy ; Sept. SafiaSa v. r. 2<:</3ar«, 1 Chron. i, 9 ; in Gen. 
x, 7 the lleb. [in most MSS.] is Sabtah', FlFCD; Sept. 

; Eng. Vers. “ Sabtah”), the third named of the 
live sons of Cush, the son of Ham. B.C. cir. 24 » 5. His 
descendants appear to have given name to a region of 
the Cushites (Gen. x, 7 ; 1 Chron. i, 9). See Cusn. 

In accordance with the identifications ol the settle- 
ments of the Cushites in the art. Arabia and else- 
where, Sabtah should be looked for along the southern 
coast of Arabia. There seem to be no traces in Arabic 
writers; but the statements of Pliny (vi, 32, § 155; xii, 
32), Ptolemy (vi, 7, p. 411), and Anon. Peripl. (27), re- 
specting Sabbatha , Sabota, or Sabotale , metropolis of 
the Atramitae (probably the Chatramotitre), seem to 
point to a trace of the tribe which descended from Sab- 
ta, always supposing that this city Sabbatha was not 
a corruption or dialectic variation of Saba, Seba, or 
Sheba. See Sheba. It is only necessary to remark 
here that the indications afforded by the Greek and 
Iloman writers of Arabian geography require very cau- 
tious handling, presenting, as they do, a mass of con- 
tradictions and transparent travellers’ tales respecting 
the unknown regions of Arabia the Happy, Arabia 
Thurifera, etc. Ptolemy places Sabbatha in long. 77°, 
lat. 16° 30'. It was an important city, containing no 
less than sixty temples (Pliny, A r . 11. vi, 23, 32); it 
was also situate in the territory of king Elisarus, or 
Eleazus (comp. A non. Peripl. ap. INI tiller, Geog. Min. 
p. 278, 279), supposed bv Fresnel to be identical with 
“Ascharides,” or “Alascharissoun” in Arabic ( Joum . 
Asiat. Nouv. Serie, x, 191). Winer thinks the identifi- 
cation of Sabta with Sabbatha, etc., to be probable; 
and it is accepted by Bunsen ( Bibelioerk , Gen. x, and 
A this). It certainly occupies a position in which we 
should expect to find traces of Sabta, where are traces 
of Cushitic tribes in very early times, on their way, as 
we hold, from their earlier colonies in Ethiopia to the 
Euphrates. Gesenius, who sees in Cush only Ethiopia, 
“ has no doubt that Sabta should be compared with 
2a/3«r, £a/3«, 'Zafiai (see Strabo, xvi, p. 770, ed. Ca- 
saub. ; Ptolemy, iv, 10), on the shore of the Arabian 
Gulf, situated just where Arkiko is now, in the neigh- 
borhood of which the Ptolemies hunted elephants. 
Among the ancient translators, Pseudo- Jonathan saw 
the true meaning, rendering it -0, for which read 
i. e. the Sembritie, whom Strabo (/. c. p. 786) 
places in the same region. Josephus (Ant. i, G, 1) un- 
derstands it to be the inhabitants of Astubora” (Gese- 
nius, ed. Tregelles, s. v.). Here the etymology of Sab- 
ta is compared plausibly with £a/3«r ; but when prob- 
ability is against his being, found in Ethiopia, etymology 
is of small value, especially when it is remembered that 
Sabat and its variations (Sabax, Sabai) may be related 
to Seba, which certainly was in Ethiopia. On the Kab- 
binical authorities which he quotes we place no value. 
It only remains to add that TMichaelis ( Suppl . p. 1712) 
removes Sabta to Ceuta, opposite Gibraltar, called in 
Arabic Sebtuli (comp. Marasid, s. v.) ; and that Bochart 
(Phaleg, i, 1 14, 1 15, 252 sq.), while he mentions Sabba- 
tha, prefers to place Sabta near the western shore of 
the Persian Gulf, with the Saphtha of Ptolemy, the 
name also of an island in that gulf. — Smith. 

Sab'tah (Gen. x, 7). See Sabta. 

Sab'techa (Heb. Sabteka', X3PD5, etymology 
unknown; Sept, in Gen. 'S.aficizuKa v. r. 2af3caca$d ; 
in Chron. A. V. “ Sabtecliah ;” 2€/3t3aya v. r. SticaSa), 
the last named oftlie five sons of Cush, the son of Ham. 
B.C. cir. 2475. His descendants seem to have given 
name to a people in Ethiopia (Gen. x, 7 ; 1 Chron. i, 9). 
See Cush. “Their settlements would probably be near 


the Persian Gulf, where are those of Kaamah, the next 
before him in the order of the Cushites. See Dedax ; 
Kaamah; Sheba. He has not been identified with 
an) r Arabic place or district, nor satisfactorily with any 
name given by classical writers. Bochart (who is fol- 
lowed by Bunsen, Bibehcerk, Gen. x, and Atlas ) argues 
that he should be placed in Carmania, on the Persian 
shore of the gulf, comparing Sabtechah with the city 
of Samydace of Steph. Byz. (^.apidciKt) or "Zap vKa?rj of 
Ptolemy, vi, 8, 7). This etymology appears to be very 
far-fetched. Gesenius ( Thesaur . p. 936) merely says that 
Sabtechah is the proper name of a district of Ethio- 
pia, and adds the reading of the Targ. Pseudo-Jonathan 
(“•SG^T, Zingitani )” (Smith). In confirmation of this 
latter view the name Sabatoh has been discovered on 
the Egyptian monuments (Kosellini, Monum. ii, 198). 

Sab'techali (Gen. x, 7). See Sabteciia. 

Sabureans, a class of doctors among the modern 
Jews, who weakened the authority of the Talmud by 
their doubts and conjectures. They were sometimes 
termed Opinionists. It is said that rabbi Josi was the 
founder of the sect about twenty-four years before the 
Talmud was finished. He had some celebrated succes- 
sors who became heads of the academies of Sora and 
Pumdebitha. But as these two famous academies were 
shut up by order of the king of Persia, the sect of the 
Sabureans became extinct about seventy-four years af- 
ter its establishment. — Gardner, Faiths of the World, 
s. v. 

Saccea, a festival observed by the ancient Persians 
and Babylonians in commemoration of a victory gained 
over the Sacae, a people of Scythia. It lasted live 
days, and resembled in its mode of observance the Ko- 
man saturnalia (q. v.). — Gardner, Faiths of the B or Id, 
s. v. 

Sa'car (Heb. Sacar', hire, as often; Sept. 

Sayap v. r. Ayop, and in 1 Chron. xxvi, 4), 

the name of two Israelites. 

1. The father of Abiam, one. of David’s mighty men ; 
he is called a ilararite (1 Chron. xi, 35), and is the 
same man called Siiakak (q. v.) in 2 Sam. xxiii, 33. 
B.C. ante 1020. See Davij>. 

2. The fourth named of the eight sons of Obed-Edom 
(1 Chron. xxvi, 4). B.C. cir. 1012. 

Sacchi, Andrea, an Italian painter, was born at 
Rome in 1598. From his father, a mediocre artist, he 
received his first ideas of art, and by studying the works 
of Albani he became one of the best artists of the Ro- 
man school. His works show great care in execution, 
though they have been criticised by Raphael Mengs as 
lacking in detail. In the Vatican are four of his paint- 
ings, which are reproduced in Mosaic in the crypt of St. 
Peter’s. Among his best paintings are the Miracle of 
St. Gregory the Great, Xoah and his Sons, and portraits 
of Albani and of the artist himself. He died in 1GG1. 
His tomb is in the church of St.John Lateran at Rome. 
— Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generale, s. v. 

Sacchini, Francesco, an Italian historian, was 
born in 1570 at Paciono, near Perugia. In 1G88 he 
joined the Order of Jesuits, and taught in Rome. He 
was for seven years the secretary of Vitellesclii, general 
of his order. 1 1 is writings were principally historical, 
as Uistoria Soc. Jesu (5 vols. fob; the last three of 
these were published after his death). He also pub- 
lished a volume of sermons, and an Italian translation 
of the life of Paulin de Nole, by Koswevde. lie died 
at Rome Dec. 1G, IG25.— Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generale, 
s. v. 

Saccopliori (sack-carriers), a name of a small 
party of professing penitents in the 4th century, who 
went about always dressed in the coarse apparel which 
their name implies. They appear to have been a sub- 
division oftlie Encratites— those, namely, who thought 
lit to make an outward profession of their rule. St. Basil 
puts together the Encratites, Saccopliori, and Apotactics 


SACCUS 


206 


SACERDOTAL ORDER 


as an offshoot of the Marcionites (Basil, Can. Epist. ii, 
can. 47). Theodosius made a decree, which was re- 
newed by Ilonorius, that some of the Manichieans, who 
went by the name of Encratites, Saccophori, or llydro- 
parastatre, should be jumished with death {Cod. Theod. 
lib. xvi, tit. 5, “ De I beret.” leg. ix). 

Both the Marcionites and the Maniclueans held the 
doctrine of Two Principles; and it is no wonder that 
the Encratites are referred now to one, now to the other 
of these sects. But their true origin appears to be from 
tiie former. St. Basil’s Canon is one relating to the bap- 
tism of these sects.— Blunt, Diet of Sects, s. v. See Ex- 
CRATITES. 

Saccus (oaKKog), a tight sleeveless habit worn by 
Greek patriarchs and metropolitans. 

Sacellanus, The Grand, an officer in the Greek 
Church, whose title denotes “head-master of the chapel.” 
He exercises inspection over monasteries and nunneries, 
presents all candidates for ordination to the patriarch or 
liis deputy, and assists the patriarch in the performance 
of several of the ceremonies of the Church, and in the 
administration of his judicial functions. — Eadie, Eccles. 
Cyclop, s. v. 

Sacellius (Gr. aatctWapiog), a lay officer of the 
early Church, acting in the capacity of treasurer, as 
gsyag i TciKsWdpiog , treasurer of the cloisters. See 
Coleman, Christian Antiquities, p. 129. 

Sacellum, a sacred enclosure among the ancient 
Homans, which was dedicated to a god, and containing 
an altar and a statue of the deity. 

Sacer, Gottfried Wilhelm, a German hvmnist, 
was born at Naumberg July 1 1, 1635, and died Sept. 8, 
1699. lie was an excellent lawyer, and in his official 
duties distinguished himself by a strict conscientious- 
ness and the most unbounded benevolence. He is the 
author of a number of very fine hymns; the greater 
part he composed while a student at the University of 
Greifswalde. When these hymns were collected and 
published in 1714, they immediately procured him the 
reputation of a distinguished poet. Two of them were 
also translated into English by Miss E. Cox: Gott 
fahrt anf yen' 1 Ilimmel (Hymns from the German , p. 62), 
*• Lo! God to heaven ascendeth,” and So hub' ich obye- 
sieyet (p. 86), “ My race is now completed.” See Koch, , 
Geschichte des deutschen Kirchenliedes , iii, 398 sq. ; Gul. 
Saceri Memoria, auctore Joanne Arnold Ballenstedt 
(Helmst. 1745). (B. P.) 

Sacerdos (priest), a name by which bishops and 
presbyters are frequently designated in early writings, 
bishops being occasionally called summi sacerdotes. 
From the deacons performing only the subordinate 
ministerial duties, they were early called sacerdotes se- 
cundi cel tertii ordinis . See Coleman, Chris. A ntiq . p. 111. 

Sacerdotal Cities, the thirteen cities set apart 
by Joshua for the family of Aaron, which lay in the 
tribes of Judah, Simeon, and Benjamin (Josh, xxi, 4), 
and in the vicinity of the holy city. Their names were 
Hebron (a free city), Libnah, Jattir, Eshtemoa, Ilolon, 
Debir, Ain, Juttah, Beth-shemesh, Gibeon, Geba, Ana- 
thoth. and Almon ; the last four being in the tribe of 
Benjamin (vcr. 10 si].). After the exile, too, priests 
dwelt in these cities (Neh. vii, 73), though many were 
permanently settled in Jerusalem itself (xi, 10 sq.). — 
Winer. ♦‘See City; Levi; Priest. 

Sacerdotal Consecration among tiie Israel- 
ites. IViests and high-priests were consecrated to 
their offices with a variety of ceremonies, which are de- 
scribed at great length in t he sacred books (Exod. xxix, 
1-37 ; Lev. viii, 1-30 ; Exod. xl, 12-15; comp. Biihr, 
Symbolic, ii, 166 sq.). The service consisted chietty of 
two parts (comp. Exod. xxix, 29). 

1. The proper consecration consisted of washing the 
whole body, investment, and anointing with the sacred 
oil. See Uxguent. The latter, indeed, in Exod. xxix, \ 
7 ; Lev. viii, 12, is mentioned only of the high-priests; 


but that the common priests were also anointed is clear 
from Exod. xl, 15 (comp. xxviii,41); and the peculiar- 
ity of the anointing of the high-priest seems to have 
been simply that the ointment was poured upon his 
head (xxix, 7 ; Lev. viii, 10), while the common priests 
were, perhaps, simply touched with the ointment on the 
hands, or, as the rabbins say, on the brow. 

2. A sacrifice then followed. Three beasts v r ere led 
to the altar, and the hands of the new-made priest were 
laid upon them. First a young bull was presented as a 
sin-offering, and essentially treated as a sin-offering of 
the first class. See Sin-offering. A ram was slain 
as a burnt-offering, according to the usual ceremonial; 
and finally the Bam of Consecration. Blood from this 
ram was placed on the ear-laps, on the right thumb, ami 
on the great toe of the right foot, and was sprinkled 
about the altar. The parts of the body touched with 
blood point out the members chiefly used in sacerdotal 
service. (On the foot, comp. Exod. xxviii, 35. See 
Biihr, op. cit. p. 425. Comp, the five places touched by 
the Catholics in extreme unction. Their priests at 
consecration have only the hands anointed.) Now the 
bodies and the clothing of the candidates were again 
sprinkled, this time with a mixture of the blood of the 
sacrifice and oil. The final ceremony was this: those 
parts of the ram of consecration which in the case of a 
thank-offering were raised and waved were placed, 
with some unleavened bread, upon the hands of the 
persons consecrated, and waved, and finally burned 
upon the altar, the “breast of the wave-offering” and 
the “shoulder of the heave-offering” alone excepted. 
On the symbolic meaning of this ceremony, sec Con- 
secration Offering. 

The ceremony of consecration, perhaps only the sac- 
rifices of it, was to be repeated seven days (Exod. xxix, 
35), and the priests were forbidden during this time to 
leave the sanctuary. It is not very probable that this 
minute ceremonial was carried out at the ordination of 
all Jewish priests. According to the rabbins, it was 
only necessary at the first institution of the priesthood, 
and afterwards each common priest, on entering upon 
his office, was only required to present the meat-offer- 
ing (Lev. vi, 12, 14 sq.). — Winer. See Consecration; 
Priest. 

Sacerdotal Order (designated in general bv the 
Hebrew word jn'iests, kohanim', for the ety- 

mology, see various views in Gesenius, Thesaur. ii, 661 
sq.). In the patriarchal age the head of a family was 
its priest (Gen. xxxv, 1 sq. [see Jethro; Melchize- 
df,k]) ; but when the children of Israel became a nation, 
a special tribe of priests was set apart by law for them. 
This arrangement was so far similar to that of the 
Egyptians that they too had a separate caste or body 
of priests, who indeed were their first and highest caste 
(Herod, ii, 164; Diod. Sic. i, 73. On the Indian Brah- 
mins, see Meiner, Gesch. d. Religion , ii, 541 sq. ; yet 
comp. Biihr, Symbolik, ii, 32 sq.). By its hereditary 
nature, the priesthood acquired more firmness and se- 
curity; the ritual and ceremonial law was more easily 
preserved and obeyed ; and the higher culture which 
such a caste always secures obtained a more definite 
and fixed centre. 

These priests alone “ drew near to God ” (Numb, xvi, 
5; Exod. xix ; 22; Ezek. xlii, 13 ; comp. Numb, xviii, 3), 
and hence must alone attend to all tiie services of t lie 
central sanctuary, the penalty of death being denounced 
against all others who assumed such duties (Numb, iii, 
6-10,38; xvi, 40). These priests, who exercised their 
office, after the division of the kingdom, in Judah alone 
(1 Kings xiii,33; 2 Chron.xi, 13 sq.), were confined to 
the family of Aaron (Exod. xxviii, 1), who were Ko- 
hathites (comp. Numb, iv, 2). lienee they are called 
the children of A c iron (Lev. iii, 5, 13 ; comp, i, 5 ; ii, 2); 
although not all the descendants of Aaron who were 
legally qualified actually served as priests. Thus 
Benaiali, a priest’s son (1 Cliron. xxvii, 5), held military 


207 


SACERDOTAL ORDEIi 


SACERDOTAL ORDER 

office under David (2 Sam. viii, 18: xx,2S; 1 Kings ii, 
35). They were required to be without physical de- 
fect, as became men who must draw near to God, and 
mediate between him and his people (Lev. xxi, 17 sq.; 
comp. Mishna, Bechorotli , c. 7 ; Josephus, 1 Yar, v, 5, 7; 
see Tholuck, Zwei Beil. z. Br. a. d. Ilebr. p. 81 sq. On 
the examination for priesthood, see Mislnia, Muldoth, 
v,4). They must also be of blameless reputation (Jo- 
sephus, .1 nt, iii, 12, 2 ; Philo, Opp. ii, 225; see Bichter, 
Physiogn . Sacerd. [Jena, 1715] ii, 4 ; Iviesling, Be Legib. 
Mos. circa Sacerdot. Yitio Corporis Luboruntes [Lips. 
1755]), which, indeed, was demanded among other na- 
tions (Potter, Creek A ntiq . i, 292 sq. ; Adam, Rom. Antiq. 
i, 520). On the vestals especially, see Aul. Gell. i, 12. 
The requirements of the canon law as to physical de- 
fects in the clergy may be compared. 

The law did not lix any definite year of the priest’s 
age in which he should enter upon his office; yet the 
Gemarists assert that none was ever admitted before his 
twentieth year. Indeed, this age was required of the 
Levites (q. v.) before serving. But since, at a later day, 
even the high-priest might be but a youth (Josephus, 
Ant. xv, 3, 3), it may be that with priests of lower 
grade no great strictness was ever exereised in this re- 
spect. Indeed the Mishna (Yuma, i, 7 ; comp. Tumid , 
i,l) speaks of youths whose beard was just beginning 
to grow (if the gloss be right) as already entering the 
sanctuary in the priestly office. At a later day every 
one was required to prove his genealogy (comp. Mish- 
na, Middot Ii, v, 4 ; Ktddush. iv, 4 sq.), which led the 
priests to set great value on their family records (comp. 
Ezra ii, 02 ; Neh. vii, 04 ; Josephus, A pi on , i, 7), and the 
Gemara refers to a special course of instruction for those 
entering on this office ( Kethuboth , evi, 1). The formal 
consecration to the priesthood consisted in sacrifices, 
with symbolic ceremonies, purifications, and investment 
(Exod. xxix ; Lev. viii). See Sacerdotal Consecra- 
tion. 

The Israelitish priests, during active service (and, ac- 
cording to Jewish tradition, during their stay in the 
Temple; but see Josephus, lK«r, v, 5, 7; according to 
the Mishna, Tumid , i, 1, they were merely prohibited 
from sleeping in their clothes; these were kept in the 
Temple under a special officer [Mishna, Shekul. v, 1]), 
wore clothing of white linen (“73, bad), as did the 
Egyptian priests (Herod, ii, 37), whose white linen gar- 
ments, the simple expression of purity, were known 
through the ancient world (see Spencer, Leg. Bit. iii, 5; 
Celsius, Uierobot. ii, 290). Biihr supposes the Israel- 
itish priestly garments to have been copied from the 
Egyptian (Symbol, ii, 89 sq.),but on insufficient grounds 
(comp. Ilengstenberg, Mos. p. 149 sq.). These gar- 
ments of the Jewish priests consisted of the following 
distinct parts, which, however, are not accurately de- 
scribed (Exod. xxviii, 40, 42; xxxix,27 sq. ; Lev. vi,3; 
viii, 13): (1.) C'DSS'S, miknasim (Sept. 7repi(TKt\i), 
A.X. “linen breeches”), which were simply drawers , a 
covering for the pudenda , extending from the hips to 
the thighs (so described by Josephus, Ant. iii, 7, 1 ; but 
comp. Philo, Opp. ii, 225). (2.) PSnS, kethoneth (A. V. 
“coat”), a woven tunic for the body. It is described by 
Josephus (.1??/. iii, 7, 1) as reaching to the feet and fit- 
ting the body, with sleeves tied fast to the arms, and 
girded to the breast a little above the elbows. (3.) 
I2D3X, ubnet, the “girdle” used to bind the tunic. It 
passed round the body several times, beginning at the 
breast, and was then tied, and hung loosely clown to 
the ankles, save when the priest was serving, when, for 
convenience, it was thrown over the shoulders. It was 
broad, loosely woven, and embroidered (Josephus, Ant. 
iii, 7, 2). (4.) *l33yo, migbadli (A.V. “bonnet,” Exod. 
xxviii, 40), properly a cap or turban , not made conical, 
but covering rather more than half the head, and so 
made as to resemble a crown. It was of heavy linen, in 
many folds, and sewed together, and had a cover of fine 


linen, which reached down to the forehead. It was fit ted 
closely to the head (Josephus, A nt. iii, 7, 3). But Biihr 
lias made some well-grounded objections to this descrip- 
tion of Josephus (Symbol, ii, G4 sq.), and the migbadli 
may, perhaps, have been a real cap, possibly in the form 
of a tiower-cup (comp, especially t lie extracts from Schil - 
te llaggibbor.in Hebrew and German, in Ugolini Thesaur. 
vol. xiii, and Braun, Be Yestitu Sacerdot. [Amst. 1701]). 
There is no sufficient reason for supposing the forms of 
these articles of clothing to have been imitated from 
Egyptian models. The Israelitish priests seem not to 
have worn shoes: no mention, at least, is made of them ; 
and the belief prevailed that on a holy place one should 
tread only with bare feet (Exod. iii, 5; Josh, v, 15). 
See Shoe. The Egyptian priests performed their ser- 
vice barefoot (Sil. Ital. iii, 28; for other similar exam- 
ples, see Carpzov, Appar. p. 790 sq. ; Walch, Be Yet. 
llelig. uvv7roh)(jiq [Jena, 175G], p. 12 sq.; Baldwin, Be 
Calceo Antiq. e. 23). though Herodotus ascribes to them 
sandals of papyrus (ii, 37). The Babbins assure us 
expressly that the priests wore no shoes (Bartcuora, 
A d Cod. Sliekal. v, 1 ; Maimonides, Chele Jhvmmikd. v, 
14; comp. Theodoret, Ad Exod. iii, qu. 7; Mishna, 
Beraclioth , ix, 5), and refer in part to this cause the fre- 
quency of diseases of the bowels among the priests, 
which rendered it necessary to keep a special physician 
at the Temple skilled in those diseases (comp. Braun, 
Yestit. Sacerd. i, 3, 33 sq. : Kail, Be M orb is Sacerdot. 
Y. T. ex Ministerii eor. Condit. Oriundis [Ilafn. 1745]). 

The priests appear to have been divided by David 
into twentv-foiir classes for the daily service (1 Chron. 
xxiv, 3 sq. ; eomp. 2 Chron. viii, 14; xxxv, 4 sq.; Jo- 
sephus, Ant. vii, 14, 7), each of which had its president 
or ruler (2 Chron. xxxvi, 14; Ezra x, 5; Neh. xii, 7 : 
he is called dp\iepevQ by Josephus, Ant. xx, 7, 8; Life, 
v, 38, 39; and in the New Test., Matt, ii, 4; xvi, 21 ; 
Luke xxii, 52), and performed the service for one week, 
from Sabbath to Sabbath (2 Kings xi, 9 ; 2 Chron. xxiii, 
4; eomp. Luke i,5; Josephus, Apion, ii, 7 sq.); dividing 
itself further into six sections, one for each day of the 
week, the whole number acting on the Sabbath. 'These 
twenty-four classes still existed in the period after the 
exile (Josephus, Life, p. 1 ; Apion, ii, 7 ; comp. 1 Mace, 
ii, 1), and the Talmud asserts (Lightfoot, llor. lleb. p. 
708 sq.) that the four priestly families which returned 
with Ezra (Ezra ii, 3G sq.) were immediately divided 
into twenty-four parts by the prophets (comp. Sonntag, 
Be Sacerd. Y. T. Ephem. [Altorf, 1G91] ; Mains, Be 
Ephem. Sacerd. in his Exercit. i, 20). Herzfeld, how- 
ever, considers the account of the original division into 
classes as a fable of the chronicler, yet without reason 
(Gesch.des Yolkes Israel, i, 392 sq.). The several duties, 
as they returned in order, were distributed by lot (Luke 
i, 9; Mishna, Yoma , ii, 3 sq. ; and Tumid; see Light- 
foot, llor. Ihb. p. 714 sq.), and there was a special offi- 
cer at the ’Temple to preside over this distribution 
(Mishna, Shekul. v, 1). The office of priest, in distinc- 
tion from that of Levite, consisted in “coming nigh” to 
the vessels of the sanctuary and to the altar (Numb. 
xviii,3) ; and included the following special duties: (1.) 
In the Temple itself, the kindling of the incense (q. v.) 
morning and evening (Luke i, 10); the cleansing <>1 the 
lamps in the “golden candlestick” and filling them with 
oil; the weekly renewal of the shew-bread. (2.) In the 
court of the Temple, the feeding of the continual lire 
on the altar of burnt-offering (Lev. vi, f>), and daily re- 
moval of the ashes from it (Yoma, ii, 8, iii, 1 ; Tumid, 
i, 2, 4); all the exclusively priestly services in sacrific- 
ing, sprinkling the blood (Lev. i, 5, 1 1 ; iii, 2, 13; iv, 
25; 2 Chron. xxx, 17, etc.); waving the wave-pieces 
(Lev. xiv, 24; xxiii, 11, 20); presenting the sacrifices 
and gifts upon the altar, and burning those which were 
to be burned (ii, 2, 8, IG; iii, 11, 1G; iv, 2G [see Sacri- 
fice]) ; then the sacred ceremonies at the cleansing of 
the Nazarite, on the final release from his vow (Numb, 
vi), and at the ordeal of a woman suspected of 
adultery (ver. 12 sq.), and the blowing of the metal 


SACERDOTAL ORDER 


203 


SACERDOTAL ORDEli 


trumpets at set times (Numb, x, 8 sq. ; 2 Chron. v, 12; 1 
vii, G ; xxix, 2G; Nell, xii, 41; Mishna, Succa , v, 5; 
A rack, ii, 3). To these were added the examination of 
the unclean, especially of lepers and their cleansing (Lev. 
xiii, 14; comp. Dent, xxiv, 8; Matt, viii, 4; Luke xvii, 
14 [see Purification]), the estimation of vows (Lev. 
xxvii), and the nightly watch of the inner sanctuary 
(Mishna, J liddoth, i, 1). How these were related to 
the priests who kept the threshold (2 Kings xii, 9; 
xxv, 8; Jer. lii, 23) is uncertain. See Threshold. 
The overseer of the regular watch of the priests is men- 
tioned ( Middoth , i, 2) ; perhaps the same with the cap- 
tain of the Temple , orpartiyug rod hpov (Acts iv, 1 ; v, 
24; comp. Devling, Obserr. iii, 302 sq.). Hut who, then, 
are the captains of the Temple , arparijyot, in the plural 
(Luke xxii, 52) ? Perhaps under-officers of the Leviti- 
cal Temple-watch (comp. Mishna, Shekal. v, 1, 2). See 
Tesifle. 

The priests were also required to instruct the people 
in the law, and in certain cases to give judicial answers 
(Deut. xvii, 8 sq.; xix, 17; xxi, 5; comp. 2 Chron. 
xvii, 8 sq.). King Jehoshaphat even established a 
high tribunal, consisting of priests and Levites, in Jeru- 
salem (2 Chron. xix, 8; comp. Josephus, Apion, ii, 21 ; 
Died. Sic. Eel xl, 1). On the services of priests in ar- 
mies, see Wail 

The priests were required to perform all their offices 
in a state of ceremonial purity (Josephus, War, v, 5, G), 
which led to their oft-repeated washings, especially be- 
fore each performance of official duty (Exod. xxx, 19 
sq.; Tamul, i, 2, 4; ii, 1), for which purpose vessels of 
water for bathing were kept in the court of the sanctu- 
ary. (On the duties of priests when rendered unclean, 
see the Mishna, Middoth, ii. 5.) They were not per- 
mitted, while engaged in official service, to take wine or 
any other intoxicating drink (Lev. x, 9 sq. ; Ezek. xliv, 
21 ; Josephus. Ant. iii, 12, 5; War, v, 5, 7). According 
to Rabbinical regulations, those who had the daily min- 
istration must entirely abstain, and the rest of the 
weekly division might drink wine only at night, be- 
cause during the day they w'ere liable to be called on 
for aid (Mishna, Taanith , ii, 7 ; comp. Josephus, -Apion, 
i, 22, p. 457 ed. Haverc.). All extravagant demonstra- 
tions of sorrow, as rending the clothes, wounding the 
body, shaving the head, etc., were forbidden them (Lev. 
x, G sq.; xxi, 5 [see Mourning]), and they were to 
avoid with care the touch of a corpse (Lev. xxi, 1 sq. ; 
Ezek. xliv, 25 sq. ; Ilahr, Symbol, ii, 182 sq.). With 
these restrictions may be compared those enjoined on 
th a f amen dialis among the Romans (Aid. Gell. x, 15). 
They were required in marrying, too, to have regard to 
priestly dignity ; though not compelled to celibacy, as 
the Egyptian priests (Diod. Sic. i, SO), they could only 
marry virgins or widows of character (never divorced 
women. MLhna, Sota , viii. 3), and of Israelitish descent 
(Lev. xxi, 7 ; Ezek. xliv, 22 ; comp. Ezra x, 18), though 
no limit was enjoined as to the particular tribe; and in 
a later age even the Israelitish descent needed not to 
be direct (M ishna, Eiccur . i, 8). Yet intermarriage w ith 
the families of priests was especially sought (Luke 3, 5; 
comp. Josephus, Apion, i, 7; Miinch, l)e Mutrim. Sa- 
cerd. E. T. c. Filiab. Sacerd. [Nuremb. 1747]). The law r 
even extended its special care to the dignity and honor 
of the daughters of the priests (Lev. xxi, 9; comp, xxii, 
12; Mishna, Tern moth, vii, 2). 

It is not difficult to understand how 1 the priests en- 
joyed the peculiar reverence of the people (comp. Jer. 
xviii, 18; Sirach vii, 31 sq.; Josephus, Apion, ii, 21), 
although their want of piety, and even their immorality, 
often called for severe rebukes from the prophets (.Jer. 
v, 31 : vi, 13; xxiii, 11 ; Lam. iv, 13; Ezek. xxii, 2G; 
Ilos. vi, 9; Mic. iii, 11 ; Zcph. iii, 4; Mai. ii). A num- 
ber of cities (thirteen) w'ere set apart for the. residences 
of the priests, as also for the Levites (Josh, xxi, 4, 10 
sq.), which lay near together in the vicinity of the sanc- 
tuary, in the tribes of Judah, Simeon, and Tienjnmin 
[see Sacerdotal Cities], and between which and Je- 


| rusalem they made their journeys on official duty (comp. 
Luke x, 31. (On the station or reserve body of priests 
, in Jericho, see Lightfoot, I] or. Heb. p. 89, 709.) In the 
Holy City, the priests inhabited chambers in the neigh- 
borhood of the Temple (Nell, xi, 10 sq.). 

The priesthood was supported (comp. Numb, xviii ; 
Josephus, Ant. iv, 4, 4) by the assigned portions of the 
sacrifices (Lev. ii, 3, 10 ; v, 13 ; vi, 9, 13 ; vii, G, 9, 14, 32, 
34; x, 12 sq.; Numb, vi, 20; Dent, xviii, 3), as in Egypt 
(see Herod, ii, 37 ; and see Sacrifice; comp, also Schol. 
ad Aristoph. Plat. 118G). This sacred portion was dis- 
tributed also to those of priestly descent who were in- 
firm, or for other reasons not called into service (Lev. 
xxi, 22 ; Josephus, War, v, 5, 7 ; see Hottinger, A poloy. 
pro Benigna Lege , Lev. xxii [Frankf. 1738]; Cremer, 
in the Miscell. (droning, ii, 294 sq. ; Deyling, Obserr. v, 
70 sq.). First-fruits, heave-offerings (Numb, xxxi, 29), 
tithes (q.v.).the shew'-bread, when removed (Lev. xxiv, 
9; Matt, xii, 4 ; comp. Succa, v, 8), the tines for Levit- 
ical transgressions (Numb, v, 6 sq.), the redemption 
price of the first-born (xviii, 15 sq.), and the subjects of 
vows, or the price of their redemption (Lev. xxvii; 
Numb, xviii, 14; see in general Philo, Be Prcemiis Sa- 
cerd. in vol. ii of Mangey’s Avsg. p. 232 sq.), were also 
perquisites; some of which were only to be enjoyed by 
the priests themselves, and only then in the vicinity of 
the sanctuary, as the pieces of the trespass -offering 
(Lev. vi, 19 sq.) and the shew-bread (xxiv, 9); others 
only within the Holy City; while the tithes, heave- 
offerings, etc., were eaten in the sacerdotal cities, and 
by the entire families of the priests. 

In addition to their receipts, the priests were free 
from taxes and from military serviee; and the freedom 
from taxation was granted them even in the period af- 
ter the exile, and by the foreign rulers of Palestine 
(Ezra vii, 24; Josephus, Ant. xii, 3, 3). In the last pe- 
riod of the Jew ish state the rapacity of the high-priests 
reduced the common priests even to want (Josephus, Ant. 
xx, 9, 2 ; comp. 8, 8). As the priests and Levites formed 
one thirteenth of the whole population, the support of 
this class was no small burden on tlie productive indus- 
try of the nation; yet the constant increase of the Le- 
vitical families caused such division of the revenues 
that the income of a Levite could never have been very 
great. In relation to this subject, it should be borne in 
mind, (1) that the tithes and first-fruits, on a soil so 
fruitful, and with property secured by law, could never 
be very burdensome; (2) that the other gifts, pieces 
from the sacrifices, vows, etc., depended in great part on 
the free choice of worshippers ; (3) that, apart from the 
priests and a few r officers of government, the whole peo- 
ple w'ere producers, and, during the early period at least, 
the body of consumers was not increased by a standing 
army or a learned class; (4) that the increase in num- 
bers of the Levites themselves did not increase the 
tithes, which were a fixed percentage of the produce. 
The true view is that one thirteenth of all the land 
rightfully belonged to the tribe of Levi; and, as this 
share was abandoned to the other tribes, their revenues 
were not payments for their sacerdotal services, but in- 
terest or rent for their land. 

Thus, until the destruction of the Temple at Jerusa- 
lem by the Romans, the priestly order continued as a 
hereditary and honored body (contrasted w ith the laity 
in the Talmud, Terum.v, 4), directing and expressing 
the religious views of the people by symbolic usages, 
and when their relations to Jehovah were disturbed by 
sin, restoring them by expiatory sacrifices. It was a 
kind of nobility (.Josephus, Life, sec. i). It seems to 
have been in correspondence with their natural position 
in the nation that at an early period the priests had an 
active share in the government as political counsellors 
(Numb, xxvii, 2, 19; xxxi, 12 sq., 2G; xxxii, 2; Deut. 
xxvii, 9; Josh, xvii, 4). Under the kings, they some- 
times mediated betweeu the prince and the people (2 
Sam. xix, II), or were prized as counsellors at court (1 
Kings i, 7 sq., 39; iv, 4; 2 Sam. viii, 17); but later, 


SACIIEVERELL 


209 


SACHS 


when the corruption of the people and the State became 
obvious, they allied themselves with kings and princes 
for the suppression of the bold speaking of the prophets 
(Jer. xx, 1 sq., xxvi, 7 sq.), for their love of form and 
ritual would naturally endanger the spirit of faith within 
them, and place them in opposition to the prophets. 
See Seek. 

The rule of the sacerdotal caste in Palestine does not 
seem to have begun with the settlement of the Israelites 
there. In the time of the Judges there were family 
priests appointed by the head of the household (Judg. 
xvii, 5 sq. ; xviii, 3, 27, 30). Those who were not Le- 
rites, or at least not priests, offered on altars which they 
had themselves built (Judg. vi, 20; xiii, 10; 1 Sam. vii, 
9; xvi. 5; but Judg. vi, 18 does not belong here; see 
Rosenmiiller, ad loc. ; so in 1 Sam. vi, 14, as in 2 Sam. vi, 
17, though priests are not expressly named) ; and in 
Shiloh, near the sanctuary, where a family of priests 
performed service, the people visited high-places and 
altars long before consecrated. See Sacrifice. Even 
under David, it would seem that the Levi deal priests 
were not exclusively intrusted with the sanctuary, for 
David’s sons were priests (2 Sara, viii, 18). It is true 
that the word COITS, Tcohinim , is here often rendered 
privy-couficillors, or, as in the A. V., “princes;” and so 
in other places where the priests are named with the 
people of the court, but without philological grounds 
(Gesenius, Thesaur. ii, 603 sq.). An exclusive priest- 
hood, as a distinct caste, was confirmed by the building 
of the Temple, and their influence may have been in- 
creased by being concentrated within the little king- 
dom of Judah. According to 2 Chron. xi, 13 (comp. 1 
Kings xii, 31; xiii, 33) the priests and Levites left the 
kingdom of Israel under its first king, and gathered in 
the kingdom of Judah (but comp. 2 Kings xvii, 27 sq.). 

See, in general, Philo, in the first book, De J fonar- 
ckia. p. 225 sq. ; Saubert, De Sacerdot . llebr. in his Op. 
Posth. p. 283 sq., and De Sacrif. Yet . p. 637 sq. ; also in 
Ugolini Thesaur. vol. xii ; Krumbholz, Sacerdot. llebr. 
and Ugolini Sacerdot. llebr. in Thesaur. vol. xiii; Carp- 
zov, A ppar. p. 89 sq. ; Reland, Ant. Sac. ii, 4 sq. — Wi- 
ner. See Priest. 

Sacheverell, Henry, D.D., a celebrated English 
divine, son of Joshua, minister of St. Peter’s Church, 
Marlborough, was born about 1672. He was educated 
at Magdalen College, of which he became a fellow, and 
appears to have been celebrated and successful as a col- 
lege tutor, lie took his degree of M.A. in 1696, of 1>.D. 
in 1707, and of D.D. in 1708. The first living he held 
was at Cannock, in Staffordshire, but in 1705 he was ap- 
pointed preacher of St. Saviour’s, Southwark. It was 
while in this situation that he delivered his two famous 
sermons — the first at the assizes at Derby, Ang. 15, 
1709; the other before the lord mayor at St. Paul’s, 
Nov. 5, in the same year. In both sermons he vehe- 
mently attacked Low-Churchmen and Dissenters, and 
asserted that the Church was in imminent danger. In 
one he was supposed to allude, under the name of Vol- 
pone, to lord Godolphin. He was impeached by the 
House of Commons, anti tried before the Lords, found 
guilty, and suspended for three years, his sermons to 
be burned by the public hangman. On the expiration 
of his sentence (1713), the queen presented him to the 
living of St. Andrew’s, Holborn. lie died June 5, 1724. 
He left a number of sermons, principally remarkable be- 
cause of their connection with his trial. Some excel- 
lent Latin poems by him are in the Ilf usee Anejlicaner, 
vols. ii, iii. See Secret Memoirs of Sacheverell (Lond. 
1710) ; History of Dr. Sacheverell (ibid. 1711). 

Sachs, Hans, an eminent people’s poet of Ger- 
many, was born at Nuremberg, Nov. 5, 1494. In a 
Latin school, from 1501 to 1509, he learned the ele- 
ments of the sciences of the day. Though apprenticed 
to the trade of a shoemaker in his fifteenth year, and 
hindered from university training, the beginnings of 
general knowledge which he obtained in youth were 
IX.-O 


fruitfully utilized in his after-life. As a schoolboy he 
was trained to take part in the choral service of the 
Church; and he enjoyed also the special instruction 
of the Meistersinger Lienhard Nonnenbeck. Thus he 
joined to his profession of cobbler that of a Meister- 
singer. In 1511 he started upon a wandering tour, and 
in the course of five years became acquainted with most 
of the cities and eminent persons of Germany. In 1519 
he returned to Nuremberg, married, and plied his two 
trades of cobbler and poet to the end of his life. lie 
died Jan. 20, 1576, at the age of eightv-one. 

The career of Sachs falls in the most prosperous pe- 
riod of Nuremherg’s history, and covers the whole epoch 
of the Reformation. Among his townsmen were Diirer, 
Vischer, Ebner, Spongier, and Osiander. When Luther 
began to preach, he warmly welcomed the new epoch, 
and called the reformer the “Wittenberg nightingale.” 
Throughout his fruitful life he labored, directly or in- 
directly, to promote the new doctrines, and to promote 
honor and purity among the people, llis poetic pro- 
ductiveness began with his return to Nuremberg, in his 
twenty-fourth year. Thenceforth his fertility is almost 
marvellous, and comparable only to that of the Spanish 
poet Lope de Vega. His works embraced thirty -four 
folio volumes. In 1567 he estimated the number of his 
poems, short and long, at 6048, and nearly 600 were 
subsequently added. They were written upon all pos- 
sible subjects — history, sacred and profane ; fable, clas- 
sic and Gothic; civic life and domestic; animals, birds, 
and fishes; and in every style — tragedy, comedy, farce, 
epic, didactic, lyric, elegiac, and descriptive. The 
greater part of these poems were designed not for the 
press, but to be used by players in IMS., and to be sung 
on special occasions. The first complete collection of 
his approved poems appeared at Augsburg, in 3 vols. fob, 
from 1558 to 1561. A larger edition, at the same place, 
in 5 vols. fob, in 1570-79. A selection of his better pieces 
appeared at Nuremberg in 1781, also in 3 vols. ; ibid, in 
1816-24; still another, in 2 vols., in 1856; still another 
in the 4lh, 5th, and 6th vols. of the Deutsche Dichter 
cles 16. Jahrhnnderts, by Goedeke and Tittmann (Leips. 
1870-74). During the dry dogmatic period of the 1 7th 
century, Sachs was quite neglected, but Wieland and 
Goethe brought him again into good repute. A monu- 
ment was erected to him at Nuremberg in 1874. See 
Ranisch, Lebensbeschreibung Hans Sachsens (Altenburg, 
1765); Hoffmann, lions Sachs (Nuremberg, 1847) ; Her- 
zog, Real-Encykl. xx, 636, 653. (J. P. L.) 

Sachs, Marcus, professor of Hebrew and exeget- 
ical theologj T ,v r as born of Jewish parentage at Inovratz- 
lav, in the duchy of Posen, June 13, 1812. He received 
his early education at Berlin, in the house of an uncle, 
who sent him to the gymnasium, where Ilomer became 
his delight. Having passed his examination, he entered 
the university, and gave himself to the study of French 
literature. Voltaire became his idol. The career of a 
rabbi was closed to him; and as for a position in any 
public office, the government of Prussia in those days was 
not liberal to men of his opinions. As trade also was not 
to his mind, he determined in 1842 to go to England. 
After a short sojourn in London he came to Edinburgh, 
and here it was that, through the instrumentality of the 
late Dr. John Brown, this Jewish freethinker was brought 
to Christ. When he had made his public profession, he 
betook himself to the study for the ministry, and at- 
tended the lectures of Dr. Chalmers. Having obtained 
license as a preacher, he was appointed tutor in Hebrew 
to the Free Church Divinity Hall in Aberdeen. Alter 
having filled the office of tutor for some years, he was 
raised to the status and obtained the title of professor 
of Hebrew and exegetical theology. For nearly thirty 
years he held this honorable position, until he was called 
home, Sept. 29, 1869. See Marcus Sachs: In Memoriam 
(Aberdeen, 1872) ; Delitzsch, Saat auflloffnung (1875), 
xii, 41 sq. (B. P.) 

Sachs, Michael, a German rabbi, was bom at 


SACHSE 


210 


SACK 


Great-Glogau, Sept. 3, 1808. Owing to his distinguished 
talents both as a Biblical scholar and a preacher, he was 
invited to become rabbi preacher of the new temple at 
Prague in 1830, which office he occupied till 1844, when 
he was appointed rabbinate assessor to the Jewish com- 
munity at Berlin, where he remained till his death, Jan. 
31, 1804. He published a German translation of the 
Psalms, with annotations (Berlin, 1835) : — Deuteronomy, 
Joshua, Judges , Samuel, Isaiah, Joel, Amos, Ilabakkuk, 
Zephaniah , flaygai, Malachi, the Psalms, the Song of 
Songs , and Lamentations, as well as part of Jeremiah, 
translated from the Hebrew into German, embodied in 
the Twenty four Books of Holy Scripture according to 
the Massoy'etic Text, edited by Zunz, Arnheim, Fiirst, 
and Sachs (ibid. 1838) : — Die religiose Poesie der Juden 
in Spanien (ibid. 1845): — Stimmen vom Jordan und Eu- 
phrat (ibid. 1853): — Beitrage zur Sprach - und Alter- 
thumsforschung (ibid. 1852-54, 2 vols. ): — Festival 
Prayers of the Israelites, the Hebrew text with a Ger- 
man translation and notes (ibid. 1850-57, 9 vols.) : — Dai- 
ly Prayer-book, the Hebrew text with a German trans- 
lation (ibid. 1858) : — and finally, Sermons (ibid. 1867-09, 
2 vols., ed. by Dr. D. Rosin), besides a number of valu- 
able essays, published in the Kei'em-Chemed (ibid. 1850, 
new ser. vol. ix). See Fiirst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 190 sq.; 
Kitto, Cyclop, s. v.; Geiger, Jiidische Zeitschrift, 1803, 
p. 203 sq. ; Frankel, Monatsschrift, 1864, p. 115 sq. ; 
1800, p. 301 sq. ; Griiiz, Geschichte der Juden, xi, 571 sq. ; 
Cassel, Leitfaden derjudischen Literatur, p. 114 sq. ; Jew- 
ish Messenger (N. Y.), Aug. 27, 1875. (B. P.) 

Sachse, Christian Friedrich Heinrich, D.D., a 
German Protestant theologian, was born July 2, 1785, 
at Eisenberg, in Saxe - Altenburg. Having finished 
his studies at Jena, he was in 1812 appointed deacon 
in Meuselwitz, near Altenburg. In 1823 he was made 
court preacher at Altenburg, in 1831 member of con- 
sistory, and in 1841 his alma mater honored him with 
the theological doctorate. In February, 1860, he was 
obliged, through bodily infirmities, to retire from his 
important position, and on October 9 he was called to 
his home. Sachse wrote several very fine hymns, two 
of which are also translated into English — Wohlauf! 
wohlan! zum letzten Gang, sung at his own funeral (in 
Hymns from the Land of Luther [p. 108], “Come forth ! 
come on with solemn song!”), and Lebivohl, die Erde 
wartet dein (ibid. p. 154, “Beloved and honored, fare thee 
well!”). See Koch, Gesch. des deutschen Kirchenliedes, 
vii, 22, 76; Knapp, Evangel . Liederschatz, p. 1342, s. v. 
(B. P.) 

Sack, Brethren of the, a religious order, which 
was established about the beginning of the 13th cen- 
tury, and had monasteries in France, Germany, Italy, 
and England. The brethren were very austere, for they 
neither ate flesh nor drank wine. Besides^the sack 
w hich they wore, and from which they took the name, 
they went barelegged, and had only wooden sandals on 
their feet. — Buck, Theol. Diet. s. v. 

Sack, August Friedrich Wilhelm, one of the 
most eminent German Reformed preachers of the reign 
of Frederick II of Prussia, w r as born at Harzgerode, Feb. 
4, 1703. In 1722-24 he studied at Frankfort-on-the- 
Oder. The next two years he passed as tutor in the 
family of a French preacher at Stettin. Then he studied 
in Holland. Here he became acquainted with the chief 
theologians of Arminianism, from which his own view's 
took a permanent coloring. From 1728 to 1731 he was 
teacher to a young prince in the neighborhood of Mag- 
deburg. In 1731 he began to preach in Magdeburg, 
and rapidly rose in esteem and in office. In the last 
year of the old king Frederick William I (1740) he w'as 
called to Berlin, where he entered upon his ministry of 
forty years. It was a noble and fruitful career. He 
stood independent between the two prevalent parties — 
the slavishly orthodox and the rationalists— holding to 
the good in both parties, and esteemed by the best in 
both. At the outbreak of the Seven Years’ War he ac- 


companied the royal family to Magdeburg, and there, 
for three years, was charged with the education of the 
cnvwn-prince. At the close of the war, he resumed his 
labors as cathedral preacher in Berlin. He preached 
his last sermon in 1780. He died April 3, 1786. The 
chief theological work of Sack is Der vert heidigte Glaube 
der Christen (issued first in 1751, again in 1773), a pop- 
ular statement and defence of Christian doctrine, which 
is worthy of attention even to-day. In this work the 
author ably and safely avoids the two fatal extremes of 
dynamic determinism as to the action of grace and of 
the self-regeneration of the Socinians. “The objective 
conditions of salvation are miraculously prepared in re- 
demption; the subjective appropriation of these condi- 
tions is left to human freedom. God cannot convert 
man without man; man cannot convert himself with- 
out God.” Of Sack’s sermons several volumes appeared 
(1735 to 1764). They passed through many editions. 
One volume of them was translated into French by 
Frederick II’s queen, Elizabeth: Six Sermons de M. 
Sack (1775). In character Sack w r as w'orthy of his high 
position. He quailed not before tyrants, and was be- 
lieving in an age of negation and infidelity. He stood 
by the side of Spalding, Jerusalem, and Zollikofer, a 
pillar of the Church, when obscurantist and neologist 
w'ere laboring to bury it in ruins. His was noble blood; 
his son and his son’s son have followed W'orthily in 
his footsteps. See Sack, Lebensbeschreibung (by his son 
[Berlin, 1789, 2 vols.J); Herzo g, Beal-Encykl. xx, 653- 
062. (J. P. L.) 

Sack, Carl Heinrich, Dr., a German theologian, 
son of F. S. G. Sack, was born at Berlin, Oct. 17, 1790. 
He studied at Gottingen and Berlin, and commenced 
his lectures at the Berlin University in 1817. In 1818 
he w r as made professor extraordinary, and in 1832 pro- 
fessor of theology in Bonn. He died at Pappelsdorf, 
near Bonn, Oct. 10, 1875. Of his many works we men- 
tion Chi'istliche Apologeiik (Hamb. 1841): — Christliche 
Polemik (ibid. 1838) : — Geschichte der Predigt von Mos- 
heim bis Schleierrnacher und Menken (Heidelberg, 1866) : 
— Theologische Aufsdtze (Gotha, 1871, etc.). See Zuch- 
old, Bibliotheca Theologica, ii, 1106 sq. ; Theologisches 
Universal- Lexikon, s. v. ; Koch, Gesch. des deutschen 
Kirch enliedes , v i i . 3 53 ; Literarischer H and weiser (1875), 
p. 433; Theologisches Juhrbuch (Bielefeld, 1877), p. 228. 
(B.P.) 

Sack, Friedrich Ferdinand Adolph, brother 
of the preceding, w’as born at Berlin, July 16, 1788, and 
succeeded his father as court and cathedral preacher. 
He died Oct. 16, 1842. Together with his brother, he 
published Sermons (Bonn, 1835). He is also the author 
of the beautiful communion hymn Du ladest, Herr, zu 
deinem Tisch. See Koch, Gesch. des deutschen Kirchen- 
liedes, vii, 353 ; Knapp, Evangel. Liederschatz, p. 1342, 
s.v. (B.P.) 

Sack, Friedrich Samuel Gottfried, a Prus- 
sian theologian, court preacher, and Church governor, 
was born Sept. 4, 1738. His mother w'as of a French 
refugee family, which explains a fondness w’hich Sack 
had for the French language and literature. He studied 
at the University of Fran kfort-on-the-Oder from 1755 to 
1757. The next two years he studied in England, com- 
ing into contact with Seeker, the archbishop of Canter- 
bury, Kennicott, Lardner,,and others. On his return to 
Germany he acted as tutor to a young nobleman, whom 
he accompanied to Frankfort-on-the-Oder, and where 
he again heard lectures. lie now associated much with 
T,dllner. After preaching at Magdeburg (1769-77), he 
w'as called by Frederick II as fifth court preacher to 
Berlin. Gradually he rose to the first place. In 1786 
he became a member of the high consistory, The years 
1804-13 were spent in arduous devotion to the oppressed 
and suffering people of the capital. In 1816 the king 
conferred upon him the title of bishop of the Evangeli- 
cal Church. He died Oct. 2, 1817. In theology Sack 
w’as independent of the traditions of orthodoxy, but he 


SACKBUT 


211 


SACONAY 


stood firmly on evangelical ground. God as a person 
and Father; the Son as Kedeemer and Offering; the 
Holy Spirit as comforter; love to God in Christ as the 
spring of the Christian life— such were the elements of 
his theology. Though leaning somewhat towards ra- 
tionalism, he vet firmly opposed the inroads which 
Kant's and Fichte’s speculations made upon evangelical 
doctrine. He was one of the chief movers tow ards the 
union of the Lutheran and Reformed churches of Prussia, 
which was effected after his death. For some years he 
stood in the closest relations to the young Schleier- 
macher, and rejoiced in the promise of good which the 
latter would bring to the Church. When this young 
divine first issued his celebrated Reden (1799), Sack 
openly expressed his paternal grief at w r hat seemed to 
him a leaning towards pantheism in this work. In 
later editions many of the criticised passages were modi- 
fied. Sack was not productive; he w r as chiefly a prac- 
tical worker. 11 is published works consist of transla- 
tions from English (Blair’s Servians ) and Latin (Cicero’s 
BeAmicitia and De Senectute ), two collections of Ser- 
mons, an A utobiography , and some minor Essays. See 
Herzog, Real-Encykl. xx, 662-G67. (J. P. L.) 

Sackbut is the rendering in the A. V. of the Chal- 
dee sabbeka (written XI 2 0 in Dan. iii, 5, but XI22J 
in Dan. iii, 7, 10, 15; thought by Gesenius, Tkesaur. 
s. v., to be from 7j?0, to weave, from the entwined 
strings), which the Sept, and Vulg. render by the cor- 
responding aapfivKi], sambuca , which, in fact, are mere 
transcriptions of the Chaldee word. The English ver- 
sion has evidently imitated the word. The sackbut , 
however, is an old English name for a wind instrument 
(see the Bible Educator , iv, 150), but the Greek and 
Roman sambuca had strings (see Smith, Diet, of Class. 
Antiq. s. v.). “ Mr. Chappell says {Pop. Mus. i, 35), ‘The 

sackbut was a bass trumpet with a slide, like the mod- 
ern trombone.’ It had a deep note, according to Dray- 
ton ( Polyolbion , iv, 305) : 

‘The hoboy, sagbut deep, recorder, and the flute.’ 

The sambuca was a triangular instrument with four or 
more strings played with the fingers. According to 
Athenteus (xiv, G33), Masnrius described it as having a 
shrill tone; and Euphorion, in his book on the Isthmian 
games, said that it was used by the Parthians and Trog- 
lodytes, and had four strings. Its invention is attribu- 
ted to one Sambvx, and to Sibylla its first use (Athen. 
xiv, G37). Juba, in the 4th book of his Theatiical His- 
tory, says it was discovered in Syria, but Neanthes of 
Cvzicum, in the first book of the Hours, assigns it to the 
poet Ibvcus of Khegium {ibid, iv, 77). This last tradi- 
tion is followed by Suidas, who describes the sambuca as 
a kind of triangular harp. That it w^s a foreign instru- 
ment is clear from the statement of Strabo (x, 471), who 
says its name is barbarous. Isidore of Seville {Origin. 
iii, 20) appears to regard it as a wind instrument, for he 
connects it with the sambucus, or elder, a kind of light 
wood of which pipes were made. The sambuca was 



Ancieni Egyptiau Triangular and Grand Harps. 


early known at Rome, for Plautus {Stick. ii, 2, 57) men- 
tions the Women who played it {sambucce, or sambucis- 
triee , as they are called in Livy, xxxix, 6). It was a 
favorite among the Greeks (Polybius, v, 37), and the 
Rhodian women appear to have been celebrated.for their 
skill on this instrument (Athen. iv, 129). There was 
an engine called sambuca used in siege operations, which 
derived its name from the musical instrument, because, 
according to Athenteus (xiv, G34), when raised it had 
the form of a ship and a ladder combined in one'’ (Smith). 
Rawlinsou {Ancient Monarchies, iii, 20) thinks that the 
Chaldee sabbeka was a large harp resting on the ground 
like that of the Egyptians. See Musical Instru- 
ments. 

Sackcloth (pb, sak , from its ??eMike or sieve- 
like structure; a word which has descended pure in the 
Greek (tclkkoq and modern languages) is the name of a 
coarse material, apparently made of goat’s or camel’s 
hair (Rev. vi, 12), and resembling the cilicinm of the 
Romans (Gen. xxxvii, 34; 1 Kings xx, 31; 2 Kings 
xix, 1 sq. ; Matt, xi, 21; Luke x, 13; comp. Josephus, 
Ant. vii, 1, G; Porphyr. Abstin. iv, 15; Plutarch, Su- 
perst. c. 7). It was probably dark brown or black in 
color (Isa. 1, 3; Rev. vi, 12; comp, the black dresses of 
the Greeks: Eurip. Ale. 440; Orest. 458; Helen, 1088; 
and Romans, Ovid, Metam . vi, 5G8; Tacit. Annal. iii, 
2; Becker, Gallvs , ii, 289; see Josephus, Life, 28). It 
was used for the following purposes: (1.) For making 
sacks for grain, the same word describing both the ma- 
terial and the article (Gen. xlii, 25; Lev. xi, 32; Josh, 
ix, 4). Sacks are usually made of hair in the East ; 
whence we may understand that where sackcloth is 
mentioned haircloth is intended. (2.) This material 
was certainly employed for making the rough garments 
used by mourners (Esth. iv, 21), which were in extreme 
cases worn next the skin (1 Kings xxi, 27 ; 2 Kings vi, 
30; Job xvi, 15; Isa. xxxii, 11), and this even by fe- 
males (Joel i, 8; 2 Macc. iii, 19), but at other times 
were worn over the coat or kethoneth (Jon. iii, 6) in lieu 
of the outer garment. The robe probably resembled a 
sack in shape, thus fitting closer to the person than the 
usual flowing garments of the Orientals (Niebuhr, Be- 
schreib. p. 340), as we may infer from the application of 
the term to bind, to the process of putting it on (2 
Sam. iii, 31; Ezra vii, 18, etc.). It was confined by a 
girdle of similar material (Isa. iii, 24). Sometimes it 
was not laid aside even at night (1 Kings xxi, 27). 
Prophets and ascetics wore it over the underclothing, 
to signify the sincerity of their calling (Isa. xx, 2; 
Matt, iii, 4; see Wetstein, A 7 . T. i. 384 sq.). The 
Apocrypha intimates that this habit of sackcloth was 
that in which good people clothed themselves when 
they went to prayers (Baruch iv, 20). The use of hair- 
cloth as a penitential dress was retained by the early 
Oriental monks, hermits, and pilgrims, and was adopted 
by the Roman Church, which still retains it for the 
same purposes. Haircloth was, indeed, called “sack- 
cloth” by the early Greek and Latin fathers. It does 
not appear that sackcloth is now much used in token of 
grief in the East; but ornaments are relinquished, the 
usual dress is neglected, or it is laid aside, and one coarse 
or old assumed in its place (comp. Liske, Be Sacco et 
Cinere [Vitemb. 1693]). See Mourning. 

Saconay, Gabriel de, a French theologian, was 
born near Lyons. While quite young, he was made 
canon of Lyons, and afterwards became dean of the 
chapter. He was one of the most zealous opponents of 
the Reformation, and was for some time censor of the 
city of Lyons. He died Aug. 3, 1 580. 1 lis writings are 

principally controversial, and bitter in the extreme. 
They are, De la Providence de Bieu sur les Rvis de 
France , with V Histoire des A Ibigois (1568) : — Traite de 
la Vraie JdolatHe de notre Temps (15G8) : — Discours des 
Premiers Troubles advenus a Lyons, written in answer 
to a Huguenot writing {La Genealogie et la Fin des Hu - 
gueneaux) : — and Becouverte da Calvinisme. Saconay 



SACRA 


212 


SACRAMENT 


also published an edition of the treatise of Henry VIII 
against Luther, to which he wrote a preface full of the 
most violent expressions. Calvin answered it by a sa- 
tirical work called (Jratulatio (1500). — Hoeler, Xouc. 
Biog . Generate, s. v. 

Sacra (sacred rites'), a general term used by the an- 
cient Romans to denote all that belonged to the worship 
of the gods. The sacra were either public or private, 
the former applying to the worship conducted at the ex- 
pense of the State, and the latter at the expense of fami- 
lies or single individuals. In both cases the whole ser- 
vices were performed by the pontiffs, who, in the case 
of the sacra jmblica, had also the charge of the funds 
set apart for these services. The sacra privata were 
generally nothing more than sacrifices to the Penates, or 
household gods. — Gardner, Faiths of the World, s. v. 

Sacra, Circa, or In sacris. The power of the 
magistrate is scarcely allowed by any party in sacris (in 
sacred things), but main 7 allow his power circa sacra 
(about sacred things). The 23d chapter of the Westmin- 
ster Confession says, however: “ The civil magistrate 
may not assume to himself the administration of the 
word and sacraments for the power of the keys of the 
kingdom of heaven ; yet he hath authority, and it is his 
duty, to take order that unity and peace be preserved 
in the Church, that the truth of God be kept pure and 
entire, that all blasphemies and heresies be suppressed, 
all corruptions and abuses in worship and discipline pre- 
vented or reformed, and all the ordinances of God duly 
settled, administered, and observed. For the better ef- 
fecting whereof, he hath power to call synods, to be 
present at them, and to provide that whatsoever is 
transacted in them be according to the mind of God.” 
It is noteworthy that one of the proof-texts in the IFesf- 
minster Confession, under this head, is Matthew ii, 4, 5, 
Herod’s calling together the sanhedrim when startled 
by the news of the birth of Christ — a rival prince, as he 
thought, and whom he proposed to destroy. A large 
party object to this doctrine of the magistrate’s power 
as Erastian and unscriptural, and maintain that the 
Church should be free of all control on the part of the 
State, and alike independent of its pay and its patron- 
age. See Ekastianism. How the compromise is ef- 
fected between the two powers in the Church of Scot- 
land may be seen in the way in which the General As- 
sembly is annually dismissed at the end of the statutory 
period beyond which it cannot prolong its sittings. 
Thus, in the year 1861, the moderator concluded his 
address by saying, “As this General Assembly was con- 
vened in the name and by authority of the Lord Jesus 
Christ, so in the same name and by the same author- 
ity I now r dissolve it, and appoint the next meeting of 
the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland to be 
held in this place on Thursday, the 22d day of May, 
1862.” The lord high commissioner then said: “Right 
reverend and right honorable, it is now my duty, in my 
sovereign’s name, to dissolve this assembly; and, ac- 
cordingly, I hereby declare this assembly dissolved in 
her name, and by the same authority I appoint the 
next General Assembly to meet on Thursday, the 22d 
day of May, 1862.” — Eadie, Eccles . Cyclop, s. v. See 
Secular Rower. 

Sacrament (from the Lat. sacramentum, a mili- 
tary oath of enlistment), a word adopted by the writers 
of the Latin Church to denote those ordinances of re- 
ligion by which Christians come under an obligation 
of obedience to God, and which obligation, they sup- 
posed, w'as equally sacred with that of an oath. Con- 
sidering the simplicity of the manner and the brevity 
of the terms in which the Lord Jesus Christ instituted 
certain general and perpetual observances for the Church 
which he founded, it is difficult to repress amazement at 
the extent of the discussions and the voluminonsness 
of the controversies that have sprung up in reference 
to them. Many of those controversies are now obso- 
lete, and all of them shrink to comparative unimpor- 


tance wffien the Word of God is taken as the one only 
source of authoritative instruction on the subject. In 
order to make proper distinctions between the divine 
teachings and human theories, and also to see how 
doctrines have been promulgated in successive periods 
without the shadow of scriptural authority, it is well 
first to note both the letter and the spirit of the New 7 - 
Testament teaching in reference to what we now call 
sacraments. We may then the more intelligently fol- 
low the line of historical development and practice, 
however that may have been corrupted from the sim- 
plicity of the Gospel. A negative lesson of no little 
significance is taught in the fact that the term sacra- 
ment is not found in the N. T. ; neither is the Greek 
word pwriiptov in any instance applied to either bap- 
tism or the Lord’s supper, or any other outward observ- 
ance. That word, however, came subsequently into ec- 
clesiastical usage as the equivalent of the Latin S(fcru - 
mentum. The Greek Church still uses it in that sense, 
designating as the seven mysteries what the Roman 
Church calls the seven sacraments. 

I. Scriptural Statement of the Subject . — The instruc- 
tions given by the N. T. in reference to baptism and the 
Lord’s supper are of tw 7 o kinds: 1. Those found in the 
example and precepts of Christ himself; 2. Those found 
in the subsequent practice and teaching of the apostles. 
Introductory to both is the great fact w r ith which the 
Gospel history opens, viz. John’s baptism : that was dis- 
tinetly declared to be a baptism of repentance, intro- 
ductory to the kingdom of God about to be established 
by the promised Messiah. John’s baptism, therefore, 
is to be regarded as a connecting link between the old 
and the new dispensation; and as it w r as prophetic of 
Christ’s immediate advent, so it was sanctioned by the 
fact of Christ’s accepting, indeed demanding, baptism at 
the hands of John, in order to “fulfil all righteousness.” 
By this expression w r e may understand that Christ not 
only fulfilled, in his own person, the law of the Abra- 
hamie covenant in circumcision, but also the spiritual 
law of Christianity which he was about to establish, 
and of which baptism wns to be the appointed emblem. 
This view is corroborated in the fact that, in connec- 
tion with this baptism, not only w r as the Messiahship 
of Christ attested by an approving voice from heaven, 
but by the descent upon him of the Holy Ghost (Matt, 
iii, 13-17 ; Mark i, 8-1 1 ; Luke iii, 21, 22). This great 
event occurred at the beginning of Christ’s public min- 
istry; and although, in the record of his ministrations, 
little is said of baptism, yet sufficient is recorded to in- 
dicate that the rite was practiced from the first as ini- 
tiatory to Christian discipleship. It is summarily men- 
tioned in John iv, 1,2, “that Jesus made and baptized 
more disciples than John, though Jesus himself bap- 
tized not, but his disciples.” In the preceding chapter 
(ver. 22) it had been stated that “Jesus and his disci- 
ples came into the land of Jiukea; and there he tarried 
with them, and baptized.” Hence we may infer that 
baptism was fully established as a custom of the initial 
Church prior to the formal command by which, in the 
great Commission, its perpetual observance was enjoin- 
ed (Matt, xxviii, 19). From the first exercise of their 
appointed office, the apostles preached baptism as a duty 
(Acts ii, 38), and administered it to those professing 
Christianity (see Acts ii, 4 1 ; viii, 12, 13, 16, 38; ix, 18; 
xvi, 15, 33 ; xviii, 8, etc.). See Baptism. 

The institution of the Lord’s supper w r as, in some re- 
spects, similar. In his custom of fulfilling all righteous- 
ness, our Lord, on the night before his betrayal, assem- 
bled his disciples to eat the Passover (q. v.), in accord- 
ance with Jewish law and custom. In that connection 
he not only identified himself as the true Paschal Lamb, 
slain from the foundation of the world, but appointed 
bread and wine to be emblems of his body and blood, to 
be used by all his followers in perpetual commemora- 
tion of his impending sacrificial death (see Matt, xxvi, 
26; Mark xiv,22; Luke xxii, 19; 1 Cor. xi, 23-27). That 
this institution w'as observed by the apostles and the 


SACRAMENT 


213 


SACRAMENT 


churches founded by them in the simplicity and sacred- 
ness of its original appointment is obvious from various 
statements and allusions in the Acts and Epistles; but 
we may search the whole New-Testament record in vain 
for an account of any other appointments of a corre- 
sponding character. If, by analysis, we seek to deter- 
mine what is peculiar and essential to baptism and the 
Lord’s supper, when considered as ordinances of the 
Christian Church, the following characteristics will be 
found to inhere in both: 1. They were illustrated by 
our Lord’s own example, and enjoined by his specif- 
ic command; 2. They were enjoined upon the whole 
Church, and as of perpetual obligation; 3. They were 
recognised by the apostles and the New-Testament 
churches in the character stated, and by them observed 
in the form and spirit of their appointment; 4. Each 
of the institutions named had an important significance 
with reference to the whole scheme of salvation, and 
was adapted to serve as a means of grace to all Chris- 
tians. See Lord’s Supper. If, now, the ordinances 
named are to be considered as sacrameuts of the Chris- 
tian Church (which has never been questioned or de- 
nied), it is evident that nothing else should be consid- 
ered a sacrament in which the same characteristics 
do not in like manner inhere. Let the several points 
named be applied as tests to the five additional ob- 
servances of the Greek and Homan churches, called by 
them sacraments — viz. confirmation, matrimony, pen- 
ance, orders, and extreme unction — and it will be seen 
how radically defective they all are. 

Keeping in view the fact that the term sacrament 
has no sanction from scriptural usage, a question of 
some importance arises as to how it came to its present 
significance and general adoption, also whether and to 
what extent the term itself has become an agency of 
error. In considering this question, it is well to go 
back in thought to the post -apostolic age, and trace 
downward, by successive steps, the development of 
ideas and customs in the Christian Church. 1. Ideas 
of peculiar sacredness could not fail to be associated 
with duties enjoined in the last commands of the Lord 
Jesus — the recently crucified but now ascended Sav- 
iour. 2. These ideas tvould be intensified in the par- 
ticipation of the Lord’s supper, which, by its very de- 
sign. addressed itself to the tenderest sympathies and 
highest moral purposes of the human soul. 3. As the 
act of communion demanded of each believer, not only 
self-examination as to his faith and spiritual life, but 
also an actual or implied pledge of future obedience and 
devotion to Christ, the Captain of our salvation, so that 
pledge might easily come to be regarded somewhat in 
the light of an oath. 4. More especially as Christians 
were taught to regard themselves as soldiers, called to 
fight the right of faith and to war a good warfare, 
it would be natural to regard the act of devotion by 
which they pledged allegiance to Christ as very anal- 
ogous to the sacramentum , or oath, by which Roman 
soldiers swore allegiance to their emperor. Hence the 
Lord’s 6iipper came to be called sacramentinn eucha - 
rishe. 5. In like manner, as baptism was regarded in 
the light of an enrolment to be a soldier of Jesus Christ, 
so it came to be called sacramentum aquee . Thus, or 
similarly, in point of historic fact, the term sacrament 
became generic and inclusive of the two and only ob- 
servances enjoined by Christ as of universal and per- 
petual obligation upon the Church. Moreover, as both 
sacraments were designed to serve as outward signs of 
a promised invisible grace, they would naturally be rev- 
erenced as involving much that was incomprehensible 
to the natural mind, in fact, mysterious. Hence, in the 
Greek language, the term pvariipiov ( mystery ) came to 
be used as the equivalent of sacramentum in the Latin. 
This term “mystery,” however, became misleading by 
very natural processes. It had for a long time been 
applied to certain secret ceremonies, practiced specially 
among the Greeks [see Eleusinian Mysteries], and 
could hardly fail to suggest analogous and corrupting 


ideas to Christians at all inclined to a worldly policy. 
The writers of the New Testament had, in fact, repeat- 
edly used the words mystery and mysteries, but never 
in connection with either baptism, the Lord’s supper, 
or any Christian ceremony. They had spoken of the 
mysteries of the kingdom of God, the mystery of faith, 
the mystery of godliness, and also of the Gospel as “the 
revelation of the mystery which was kept secret since 
the world began, but now is made manifest.” 

II. Multiplication of the Sacraments. — When from 
such obviously appropriate uses the term mystery was, 
in ecclesiastical language, so far perverted as to be 
made almost exclusively to represent Christian cere- 
monies, a wide door was opened for the ingress of erro- 
neous opinions anil practice. The very term suggested 
secrecy where publicity was designed. It obviously 
prompted the artificial rules of the disciplina ((ream 
(q. v.), and thus strongly encouraged ceremonial in- 
stead of spiritual conversion. It also stimulated the 
inventiveness of ecclesiastics in the multiplication of 
so-called sacraments. It gave countenance to priest- 
ly pretensions on the part of Christian ministers, and 
encouraged the imitation of Jewish and pagan rites. 
Combined with other influences of like nature, it con- 
tributed to that great perversion of the sacrament of 
the Lord’s supper by which it came to be regarded as 
a propitiatory sacrifice — a parent error, from which the 
mystical ceremonies and the doctrine of transubstantia- 
tion were logical outgrowths. Errors also arose from a 
loose application of the word sacramentum. As that 
term involved the generic idea of sacredness, so it came 
to be applied to various other usages that sprang up in 
the Church, with the tendency to attribute to them an 
importance and sanctity corresponding to those of the 
sacraments proper. For successive centuries the num- 
ber of observances called, in this loose sense, sacraments 
was more or less varied and indefinite; one writer (Da- 
mian) enumerated twelve. Hut by degrees, the sacred 
number seven came to be adopted as the limit, yet not 
always in application to the same ceremonies or in the 
same order. The present enumeration of the Roman 
Church is credited to the schoolman l’eter Lombard (d. 
1 164), although for at least three centuries later more 
or less controversy was maintained among the school- 
men as to the number and order of the sacraments. It 
was the General Council of Florence in 1439 that, fol- 
lowing Peter Lombard and Thomas Aquinas, first as- 
sumed to define authoritatively the number as subse- 
quently maintained by the Church of Rome. The def- 
inition or limitation then decreed was promulgated in a 
synodal epistle from pope Eugenius to the Armenians 
in 1442. The language of the decree is full and explic- 
it, not only as to the number, but also as to the doctrine 
of the sacraments. It says: 

“The sacraments of the new law are seven— namely, 
baptism, confirmation, the encharist, penance, extreme 
unction, orders, and matrimony — which differ much from 
the sacraments of the old law: for those do not cause 
grace, but represent it. as only to be given through the 
passion of Christ : but the sacraments of the new law 
contain grace, and confer it on those who worthily re- 
ceive them. The first five are ordained for the spiritual 
perfection of each man in himself; the la-t. two, for the 
government and multiplication of the whole Church. . . . 
All these sacraments are perfected in three ways— name- 
ly, by things as to the material, by words as to the form, 
and by the person of the administrator who confers the 
sacrament with the intention of doing what the Clintvh 
does — of which, if any be wanting, the sacrament is not 
perfected. Among these sacraments there are three — 
baptism, confirmation, and orders — which impress indel- 
ibly on the soul a character: that is, a certain spiritual 
sign, distinguishing him from others. Hence they are 
not repeated on the same person. But the other four do 
not impress a character, and admit of reiteration.” 

The 6aerame»tal theory of the Roman Catholic Church 
has rarely, if ever, been better stated. As thus formu- 
lated, it was an ingenious and authoritative digest of 
views that had been developed during long centuries 
in which tradition and superstitions inventiveness had 
usurped the supreme control in matters of religion. 


SACRAMENT 214 SACRAMENT 


During that period the living oracles were silent, and 
nearly all the prevailing intiuences united to enhance 
the prerogatives of the clergy by attaching magical or 
supernatural influence to their supposed priestly func- 
tions. Baptism, loaded down with accumulated cere- 
monies, became the essential agency of regeneration; 
absolution from sin was given or withheld at the option 
of a priest; while extreme unction was regarded as an 
important, if not an essential passport to usher a dying 
person into the presence of God. But it was the Lord’s 
supper in which all that was most solemn and mysteri- 
ous was concentrated. That rite had become the holy 
of holies in the Christianity then prevalent. In it the 
presence of the Lord Jesus Christ was believed to be se- 
cured as often as the priest performed the act of conse- 
cration ; but the manner of that presence was for a long 
time undiscussed, being neither debited by canon, agi- 
tated before council, nor determined bv pope. “ During 
all those centuries no language was thought too strong 
to express the overpowering awe and reverence of the 
worshippers. The oratory of the pulpit ami the horta- 
tory treatise had indulged freely in the boldest images; 
the innate poetry of the faith had worked those images 
into realities.” A specimen of the oratorical hyperbole 
employed in reference to this subject may be taken from 
Chrysostom, written in his treatise on the priesthood, 
about A.D.380: “ The priestly office is discharged upon 
earth, but holds the rank of heavenly things, and very 
rightly so. . . . For when yon behold the Lord sacri- 
ficed and prostrate, and the priest standing over the 
sacrifice, and praying, and all stained with that precious 
blood, do you then suppose you are among men and 
standing upon earth? Are you not immediately trans- 
ported to heaven? . . . Oh, the marvel! Oh, the love 
of God to man! lie who sits with the Father on high 
is at that moment held in the hands of all, and gives 
himself to those who are willing to embrace and to re- 
ceive him !” 

For centuries following Chrysostom, the prevalent 
ideas of the real presence in the encharist were not 
only vague, but widely dissimilar, ranging from the 
border of a just spiritualism to a gross materialism, but 
with growing tendencies to the latter, until, at length, 
the more material the conception came to be of an 
actual and repeated sacrifice, the more it seemed to 
impress minds wholly uninstructed in Scripture truth. 
For a long period inquiries into the nature of the sa- 
cred mysteries were regarded as presumptive ; but 
when, at length, speculation arose, the most startling 
theorists excited the most attention. It was to Pas- 
ehasius Radbert, a monk of Corvev (A.D. 831), that the 
Roman Church was indebted for the first clear state- 
ment of what came afterwards to be known as the 
doctrine of transubstantiation. Although Paschasius 
did not employ that term, he fully set forth the idea 
which the term was afterwards invented to express. 
He taught that the substance of the bread and wine 
was actually annihilated, notwithstanding the corporeal 
form remained, in passing into and becoming the body 
and blood of the Redeemer — the actual body and blood 
of Jesus Christ, which had been resuscitated in the res- 
urrection, and which was now multiplied in countless 
numbers of times and places, lie did not shrink from 
following out this theory to its grossest consequences, 
sustaining it by the narration of various miracles, such 
as the host bleeding and assuming tbe human form. It 
is not to be supposed that Paschasius originated this 
theory; his task was that of formulating it from the 
still cruder notions of the average popular and priestly 
mind of his day. But, dark as were the times in which 
he lived, his theory, when reduced to a connected state- 
ment, was too gross to pass unchallenged. A protract- 
ed discussion arose, known in ecclesiastical history as 
the First Eucharistic Controversy. 

Against the theory of Paschasius, Frudegard, a monk 
of another order, and Ratramnus, another monk of Cor- 
vey, urged sundry arguments, ami quoted many passages 


from the fathers, especially from Augustine, showing 
that the body of Christ In the eucharist could not be 
the same body as that in which he was born, suffered, 
and rose again. Ratramnus, in fact, wrote a learned 
work entitled De Corpore ei Sanguine Domini , in which 
he modestly but ably controverted the positions of his 
abbot, Paschasius. The latter had strongly urged those 
views of the sacrifice of the mass that had prevailed 
from the time of Gregory the Great. On the other 
hand, Ratramnus designated the eucharist as being 
only a commemorative celebration of Christ’s sacri- 
fice, by remembrance of which Christians should make 
themselves capable of partaking of the divine grace of 
redemption. Rabanus Maurus, John Scotus Erigena, 
and others also wrote in opposition to the theory of 
Radbert. Thus the controversy was protracted into 
the 10th century, but with a constantly increasing ten- 
dency to reject and silence all opposition to the extrem- 
est views as heretical. See Transuhstantiation. 

Notwithstanding the popular drift in the line of 
transubstantiation, Berengar of Tours (q. v.), about the 
middle of the 11th century, opened, by his acute and 
able opposition to the theory of Paschasius Radbert, 
what has been denominated the Second Eucharistic 
i Controversy. 1 1 is position was that the substance of 
the bread and wine was not changed by the consecra- 
tion, but only their efficacy, thus maintaining a dynam- 
ic, as against an actual change. His chief literary op- 
ponent was Lanfranc (q. v.), but his ecclesiastical oppo- 
nents were legion. In the apparent consciousness that 
he could not be answered, he was summarily arraigned 
by popes and prelates, before councils and synods, and 
forced repeatedly to renoutice his doctrines on pain of 
death. As often as he was able to escape from the 
power of his persecutors, he recanted his successive re- 
nunciations of his doctrines respecting the sacraments, 
until he at length found a refuge in France, where he 
was permitted, at the age of ninety, to die in peace. 
His views found many adherents, both in France and 
Germany, who came to be known and proscribed as Be- 
rengarians. 

A synod of Rome in 1079 confirmed the doctrine of 
Paschasius Radbert; and, although for some years af- 
terwards that doctrine was maintained by the use of 
other terms, it at length found definite expression in the 
term transubstantiation, which is said to have been first 
used by Hildebert of Tours (about 1134). Steps were 
now successively taken by which discussion was checked 
and opposition in the Church practically silenced. Pope 
Innocent 111, at the Lateran Council of 1215, made tran- 
substantiation (q. v.) an unchangeable article of the Ro- 
man Catholic faith; pope Urban IV, in 1264, instituted 
the annual festival of Corpus Christi ; and pope Clem- 
ent V, in 131 1, reduced the doctrine in question to a li- 
turgical form. By these means, not only the theolo- 
gians and the clergy of the Church, but also the masses 
of the people, were committed to the actual deification 
of the host, or consecrated wafer. The withholding of 
the cup from the laity was deemed a logical sequence 
of the doctrine of transubstantiation of more controlling 
influence than the express command of Christ with ref- 
erence to the cup — “Drink ye all of it.” The precept 
quoted was thenceforward conveniently limited to the 
clergy. 

From the periods named above, scholasticism was 
busy in the vindication and explanation, by various 
ingenious methods, of the new dogma; while in prac- 
tice, the sacrifice of the mass became more than ever 
the centre of the Roman ritual. Nor is it easy for 
Protestants in the 19th century to understand how 
completely the combined influence of the decrees of 
the Church, the w ritings of the schoolmen, the ceremo- 
nies of the ritual, and the parade of festivals had blot- 
ted out of the public mind the simple scriptural idea of 
the eucharist, and substituted in its place a vague but 
blind superstition in reference to this now mutilated 
sacrament. The efforts made during successive centu- 


SACRAMENT 


215 


SACRAMENT 


ries to give reality and impressiveness to the Koman 
doctrine of the sacraments, and especially that of the 
eucharist, had not been limited to traditional and pre- 
ceptive influences; stupendous miracles in demonstra- 
tion of it had been often and widely proclaimed. “ Be- 
sides, the very nature of the doctrine itself adapted 
it singularly to retain its hold on an ignorant and 
superstitious generation. The notion once impressed 
upon the multitude that, when they celebrated one of 
the sacraments of their Church, they actually swallow- 
ed the real body and blood — the very person of their 
God — was too intensely exciting, too attractive to their 
imagination, too closely connected with their senses, to 
be abandoned without great reluctance. We might, 
indeed, wonder how it was found possible to obtain so 
general a credence for a dogma than which, in its pop- 
ular sense, no more audacious paradox was ever obtrud- 
ed on the credulity of man ; but, once received, once 
impressed on the belief, once embraced as an essential 
truth, it became so entirely essential, so predominant, 
so engrossing, as to take almost exclusive possession of 
the soul, and to throw a shade of comparative insigniti- 
cance over every other tenet. To be deprived of this 
conviction ; to be assured t hat the consecrated elements 
hitherto reverenced and adored as the very body of the 
Divinity were no more than bread and wine, unchanged 
by the sacerdotal consecration, either in substance or in 
accident, was, in the vulgar mind, to part with the por- 
tion of religion most nearly touching both feelings and 
practice. ‘That they were robbed of their God’ was 
the first impression produced upon ignorant devotees; 
and those who had nourished that ignorance, and found 
their profit in it — the chiefs and champions of the sys- 
tem to which that dogma was so essential — united in 
one great confederacy to propagate the cry” (Wadding- 
ton, History of the Reformation , ch. xxxi). 

III. Roman Catholic View . — The full and authorita- 
tive statement of the Koman Catholic doctrine concern- 
ing the sacraments is given in the Decree of the Coun- 
cil of Trent, as embraced in the following extract of the 
preface and in thirteen consecutive canons: 

“In order to complete the exposition of the wholesome 
doctrine of justification, published iu the last session by 
the unanimous consent of the fathers, it hath been deem- 
ed proper to treat of the holy sacraments of the Church, 
by which all true righteousness is at first imparted, then 
increased, and afterwards restored, if lost. For which 
cause the sacred, holy, oecumenical, and general Council 
of Trent, lawfully assembled, etc., abiding by the doctrine 
of the Sacred Scriptures, the tradition of the apostles, and 
the uniform consent of other councils and of the fathers, 
hath resolved to frame and decree these following mu- 
ons, in order to expel and extirpate the errors and here- 
sies respecting the most holy sacraments which have ap- 
peared in these times— partly the revival of heresies loug 
ago condemned by our ancestors, partly new inventions 
— and have proved highly detrimental to the purity of the 
Catholic Church and the salvation of souls. The remain- 
ing canons, necessary to the completion of the work, will 
be published hereafter, by the help of God. 

“ Catum 1. Whoever shall affirm that the sacraments of 
the new law were not all iustitnred by Jesus Christ our 
Lord, or that they are more or fewer than seven — name- 
ly, baptism, confirmation, eucharist, peuance, extreme 
auction, orders, and matrimony — or that any of these is 
not truly and properly a sacrament, let him be accursed. 

“2. Whoever shall affirm that the sacraments of the 
new law only differ from those of the old law iu that 
their ceremonies and external rites are different, let him 
be accursed. 

“3. Whoever shall affirm that these seven sacraments 
are in such sense equal that no one of them is in any 
respect more honorable than another, let him be ac- 
cursed. 

“4. Whoever shall affirm that the sacraments of the 
new law are not necessary to salvation, but superfluous, 
or that men may obtaiu the grace of justification by faith 
only, without these sacraments (although it is granted 
that they are all not necessary to every individual), let 
him be accursed. 

“5. Whoever shall affirm that the sacraments were in- 
stituted solely for the purpose of strengthening our faith, 
let him be accursed. 

“G. Whoever shall affirm that the sacraments of the 
new law do not contain the grace which they signify, or 
that they do not confer that grace on those who place no 
obstacle in its way, as if they were only the external signs 


of grace or righteousness received by faith, and marks of 
Christian profession whereby the faithful are distinguish- 
ed from unbelievers, let him be accursed. 

“7. Whosoever shall affirm that grace is not always 
given by these sacraments, and upon all persons, as far as 
God is concerned, if they be rightly received, but that, it 
is only bestowed sometimes aud oil some persons, let 
him be accursed. 

“S. Whoever shall affirm that grace is not conferred by 
the sacraments of the new law, by their own power (ex 
opere operato), hut that faith in the divine promise is all 
that is necessary to obtain grace, let him be accursed. 

“9. Whoever shall affirm that a character (that is, a 
certain spiritual and indelible mark) is not impressed 
upon the soul by the three sacraments of baptism, con- 
firmation, and orders (for which reason they caunot be 
repented), let him be accursed. 

“10. Whoever shall affirm that all Christians have pow- 
er to preach the word and administer all the sacraments, 
let him he accursed. 

“11. Whoever shall affirm that, when ministers per- 
form and confer a sacrament, it is not necessary that 
they should, at least, have the iutention to do what the 
Church does, let him be accursed. 

“ 12. Whoever shall affirm that a minister who is iu a 
state of mortal sin does not perform or confer a sacra- 
ment, although he observes everything that is essential 
to the performance and bestowment thereof, let him be 
accursed. 

“13. Whoever shall affirm that the received aud ap- 
proved rites of the Catholic Church, commonly used in 
i he solemn administration of the sacraments, may be 
despised or omitted without sin by the minister, at his 
pleasure, or that any pastor of a* church may chauge 
them for others, let him be accursed.” 

Kefutations of the Romanistic theory of the sacra- 
ments have been so numerous and detailed in the writ- 
ings of the Reformers, from the days of Wycliffe down 
to the present time, that it seems only necessary to pre- 
sent here a brief resume of the standard objections to 
it: 1. The sacramental theory of the Church of Rome 
wholly ignores the great scriptural doctrine of salva- 
tion by faith. 2. It elevates ceremonies above Chris- 
tian obedience and duty. 3. It is artificial in naming 
as sacraments several things which Christ did not ap- 
point as such — e. g. confirmation, penance, orders, ex- 
treme unction, and matrimony; which last, instead of 
being instituted by Jesus Christ, was, in fact, appointed 
by God from the creation of man. 4. It is arbitrary in 
dividing the eucharist and denying the cup to the lai- 
ty. 5. It unduly exalts the functions of the priesthood, 
making the gift of divine grace dependent on the in- 
tention of the administrator of a real or supposed sac- 
rament. 6. It sanctions immorality in the highest of- 
fices ami most sacred ceremonies of religion by main- 
taining that wickedness, even to the extent of mortal 
sin, does not disqualify the celebrant from truly admin- 
istering the holy sacraments. 7. It gives incentives to 
bad living, and even to crime, by teaching men that the 
sacraments impress upon the soul an indelible character 
of grace and spirituality, irrespective of their personal 
faith or practice. 

The doctrine of the Old Catholics (q. v.), as stated in 
Art. VIII of the 7'heses agreed upon in the Conference at 
Bonn in 1874, is thus expressed: 

“1. We acknowledge that the number of the sacra- 
ments was fixed at seven first in the 12th century, and 
then was received into the general teaching of the Church, 
not as a tradition coming down from the apostles or from 
the earliest times, but as the result of theological specula- 
tion. 

“2. Catholic theologians (i.e. Bellarmine) acknowledge, 
and we acknowledge with them, that baptism and the eu- 
charist are * principalia, preecipua, eximia salutis nostra t 
sacramenta.' ” 

IV. Tenets of the Oriental Churches . — The Greek 
Church, including the Russian, teaches that there are 
seven sacraments (fwortjpiei), the same as the Roman 
Catholic — namely, baptism, unction with chrism, the eu- 
charist, penitence, the priesthood, lawful marriage, and 
extreme unction (Orthodora Confessio [A.D. 1643]. qu. 
98; Dosithei Confessio [A.D. 1672], deer. 15; Lonrjer 
Catechism [prepared by Rhilaret, and approved by the 
Synod of A.D. 1839]. qu. 285). That Church holds, in- 
deed, some peculiarities as to the mode of administer- 
ing certain of these sacraments; but they nevertheless 


SACRAMENT 


216 


SACRAMENT 


strenuously maintain the divine character and essential 
importance of them all. See Greek Church. 

The Armenian and Coptic churches [see each] have 
substantially the same views upon the subject as the 
Greek Church. The orthodox Nestorians (q. v), how- 
ever, including the Christians of St. Thomas, believe, 
with Protestants, in two sacraments only, namely, bap- 
tism and the Lord’s supper; but the “Chaldsean” branch, 
of course, coincides with the Koman view. 

V. Views of the Lutheran Reformers and of later 
Protestants. — Notwithstanding the formidable combi- 
nation of influences to popularize and maintain the 
doctrine of transubstantiation, many minds revolted 
against the absurdities it involved. Some individuals 
and sects went to the extreme of rejecting the sacra- 
raments altogether ; others, including most of those 
known as Reformers before the Reformation, alike ob- 
jected to the invented and redundant sacraments, and 
pointed out many errors and abuses connected with the 
administration of baptism and the eucharist. This op- 
position, however, was manifested under many restraints 
and embarrassments, not merely caused by the spirit of 
persecution that was everywhere so rife, but by those 
prejudices and habits of mind to which the reformers 
themselves were subject. Bold and uncompromising 
as was Luther on most subjects in which Roman errors 
were involved, he nevertheless on the one topic now 
in question exhibited weaknesses of character and an 
infirmity of judgment that can only be accounted for 
by the influence of his education and early habits of 
thought. Even after that great man had fully accept- 
ed the doctrine of salvation by faith, and rejected the 
greater number of those errors and inventions by which 
the Roman system had made void the word and truth 
of God, he remained so tenacious of the doctrine of 
Christ's real and corporeal presence in the bread and 
wine of the eucharist as to make a violent and almost 
fatal issue with his fellow-Reformers on that point. No 
argument was sufficient to move him from his fixed ad- 
herence to the literal interpretation of the phrase, “This 
is my body.” Hence, not only he, but Melancthon and 
all those German Reformers who acted with them, while 
rejecting transubstantiation, rigidly adhered to that 
slight variation from it known as consubstantiation (q. 
v.). The controversies between Luther and Zwingli 
and their several adherents unhappily put in jeopardy 
some of the most important interests of the Reforma- 
tion, and gave great cause of rejoicing to the partisans 
of the papacy. But for that unfortunate issue, which, 
at a very critical period, divided the Reformers and 
weakened their strength, it cannot be doubted that 
much more rapid progress would have been made in 
restoring to the Church the true but long-lost idea of 
the supper of the Lord as instituted by him and ap- 
pointed for the confirmation of faith in his atoning sac- 
rifice. But, notwithstanding all hindrances, it is from 
the period of the Reformation that improvements may 
be noted in those doctrinal views of the sacraments 
which found expression in the creeds of representative 
churches. To show the successive steps of progress 
made as the result of controversy on the subject, quo- 
tations will now be given from several of the more cel- 
ebrated creeds put forth during the 16th century. 

The oldest of all the Protestant confessions of faith 
is that of Augsburg, of which several articles related to 
the sacraments. That celebrated document was pre- 
pared by Melancthon, and read, June 27, 1530, in the 
presence of the emperor Charles V and his court, in- 
cluding many prominent Roman Catholic theologians. 
Although its tone was apologetic, nevertheless its ut- 
terances were distinctly Protestant, except in some of 
the articles relating to the sacraments. 

Part I, Art. VIII, allows the validity of the sacraments, 
althongh administered by evil men. 

Art. IX declares that baptism is necessary to salva- 
tion. 

Art. X is in these words: “Of the Lord’s supper, they 
(the Lutherans) teach that the [true] body and blood of 


Christ are truly present [under the form of bread and 
wine], and are [there] communicated to those that eat in 
the Lord’s supper.” 

Art. XIII, On the Use of the Sacraments , contains the 
following language: “They were ordained, not only to 
be marks of profession among men, but rather that they 
should be signs and testimonies of the will of God to- 
wards us, set forth unto us to stir up and confirm faith in 
such as use them. Therefore men must use sacraments 
so as to join faith with them which believes the promises 
that are offered and declared unto us by the sacraments. 
Wherefore they (the Lutherans) condemn those that teach 
that the sacraments do justify by the work done {ex opere 
operate ), and do not teach that faith which believes the 
remission of sins is requisite in the sacraments.” 

Part II, Art. I, enjoins communion in both kinds, and 
discountenances the carrying about the elements in pro- 
cession. 

Art. Ill says: “Our churches are wrongfully accused 
of having abolished the mass ; for the mass is still re- 
taiued among ns, and celebrated with great reverence.” 
Nevertheless, the article proceeds to condemn private 
masses as being celebrated only for lucre’s sake. 

The Augsburg Confession does not definitely assert, 
but clearly implies, that the sacraments are only two in 
number. The Helvetic Confession of 1536 was explicit 
on that point, stating, also, that both baptism and the 
eucharist are only outward signs of the hidden things, 
or inward graces, spiritually imparted to faith in the 
promises of God. That confession also denies that the 
body and blood of Christ are naturally united, locally 
included, or actually present in the material bread and 
wine; but it affirms that the bread anil wine, by the in- 
stitution of God, are symbols through which, as from 
Christ himself, by the ministry of the Church, a true 
spiritual communication of his body and blood is made, 
not in perishable food, but for the sustenance of the 
soul’s life. 

In the further development of Protestantism, the 
most noted ecclesiastical statement of the doctrine of 
the sacraments is found in the Thirty-nine Articles of 
the Church of England, originally adopted in 1563. 
The following extracts embrace the more important 
points : 

“Sacraments ordained of Christ be not only badges or 
tokens of Christian men’s profession, but rather they 
be certain sure witnesses and effectual signs of grace 
and God’s good-will towards us, by the which he doth 
work invisibly in ns, and doth not only quicken, hut also 
streugthen and confirm, our faith in him.” “There are 
two sacraments ordained of Christ our Lord iu the Gos- 
pel; that is to say, baptism and the supper of the Lord.” 
“ Those five commonly called sacraments — that is to say, 
confirmation, penance, orders, matrimony, and extreme 
unction — are not. to he counted for sacraments of the 
Gospel, being such as have grown partly of the corrupt 
following of the apostles, partly are states of life allowed 
in the Scriptures, but yet have not like nature of sacra- 
ments with baptism and the Lord’s supper, for that they 
have not any visible sign or ceremony ordained of God.” 
“ The sacraments were not ordained of Christ to be gazed 
upon, or to be carried about, but that we should duly use 
them ; and in such only as worthily receive the same they 
have a wholesome effect or operation. . . . Transnbstau- 
tiation (or the change of the substance of bread and wine) 
ill the supper of the Lord cannot be proved by Holy Writ, 
but is repugnant to the plain words of Scripture, over- 
throws t ie nature of a sacrament, and hath given occa- 
sion to many superstitions. The body of Christ is given, 
taken, and eaten in the supper only after a heavenly and 
spiritual manner; and the mean whereby the body of 
Christ is received and eaten in the supper is faith.” 

In the three symbols above quoted may be seen the 
types of doctrine which have prevailed, with slight 
variations of expression, in all Protestant evangelical 
churches. 'Hie Lutheran churches of Europe and Amer- 
ica have alone followed the doctrines of the Augsburg 
Confession. The Calvinistic churches of all countries 
have followed, in the main, the Zwinglian doctrine as 
set forth in the first Helvetic Confession ; while the 
formula of the Church of England lias been adopted 
by the Methodist churches of Great Britain and Amer- 
ica and the Protestant Episcopal Church of the United 
States. 

Notwithstanding the variations of views and state- 
ments that prevailed among the different branches of 
early Protestantism, yet so substantial was the unity 
among all classes of the reformers in rejecting the doc- 


SACRAMENT 


217 


SACRAMENT 


trine of the opus operation, and also, as sacraments, all 
observances besides baptism and the Lord’s supper, 
that the general drift of the Protestant doctrine be- 
came widely diffused and accepted during the first pe- 
riod of the Reformation. That the influence of coun- 
ter-discussion had come to be greatly dreaded by the 
Roman theologians is obvious from several expressions 
made use of by the Council of Trent in 1547. Never- 
theless, as we have seen, that council proceeded to re- 
affirm the mediieval theories of the sacraments in their 
most objectionable forms. 

In many points of view, it may be regarded as ex- 
tremely unfortunate that among the active agents of 
the Reformation there arose serious differences of views 
as to the sacraments, and more especially that those dif- 
ferences resulted in actual divisions and oppositions be- 
tween brethren agreed in general principles and striv- 
ing for common results. On the other hand, it is not 
difficult to infer that much discussion was necessary at 
that period as a means of clearing away the misconcep- 
tions of preceding ages, and of bringing out scriptural 
truth into a prominent light. It is impracticable and 
quite unnecessary here to outline the successive and 
protracted controversies with reference to the sacra- 
ments which took place between Luther and Zwingli 
and their successive followers for several generations, 
or, indeed, the somewhat different controversies that 
prevailed in Great Britain, bearing upon the same sub- 
ject. It is, however, only just to remark that the influ- 
ence of John Calvin in the Protestant sacramental con- 
troversy was very opportune and very powerful. As a 
contemporary and friend both of Luther and Zwingli, 
he sought to mediate between the extreme views of 
both. His theory was, in fact, an ingenious compro- 
mise between the realism of Luther and the idealism 
of Zwingli. He adopted the figurative interpretation 
of Christ’s words, tovto tan to <jujj ud pov , and rejected 
all carnal and materialistic conceptions of the eucharis- 
tic mystery; but he at the same time strongly asserted 
a spiritual real presence and communion of Christ’s body 
and blood for the nourishment of the soul. “ He taught 
that believers, while they receive with their mouths the 
visible elements, receive also by faith the spiritual real- 
ities signified and sealed thereby — namely, the benefit 
of the atoning sacrifice on the cross and the life-giving 
virtue of Christ’s glorified humanity in heaven, which 
the Holy Ghost conveys to the soul in a supernatural 
maimer; while unbelieving or unworthy communicants, 
having no inward connection with Christ, receive only 
bread and wine to their own judgment.” Luther had 
always insisted upon the corporeal presence and the 
oral manducation of the body and blood of Christ by 
communicants. Calvin substituted for that idea the 
virtual, or dynamic, presence of Christ’s humanity, and 
a spiritual reception and assimilation of the same by 
the act of faith and through the mediation of the Holy 
Spirit. This view was substantially adopted by the 
writers and adherents of the Heidelberg Catechism, 
and, in fact, passed into all the leading Reformed con- 
fessions of faith. In fact, Melancthon, during the lat- 
ter period of his life, substantially approved of Cal- 
vin’s doctrine of the Lord’s supper. That circumstance 
gave rise to a controversy in the bosom of the Luther- 
an Church, by which it was divided into Lutherans, or, 
more properly, ultra-Lutherans, and Melancthonians, or 
Philippists. Luther’s doctrine, by a literal interpre- 
tation of the words of institution, not only involved 
the oral manducation, but the practical ubiquity, of the 
body of Christ. Under the influence of Bucer and Cal- 
vin, and a further study of Augustine and of the Holy 
Scriptures, Melancthon had rejected both these views ; 
although, through modesty and strong personal attach- 
ment, he did not separate from Luther or define an op- 
posite theory. Luther, though grieved at these changes 
of view, nevertheless did not withdraw his friendship 
from Melancthon; but when both were dead, direct is- 
sues were made between their respective followers. A 


long and bitter controversy ensued, which extended to 
several other topics of theology, as well as that relating 
to the ubiquity, or multi presence, of Christ’s body. The 
high Lutherans insisted upon ubiquity as a necessary 
result of the real communication of the two natures in 
Christ; while the Philippists and Calvinists rejected 
it as inconsistent with the nature of a body, with the 
reality of Christ’s ascension, and with the general prin- 
ciple that the infinite cannot be comprehended or shut 
up in the finite. At the end of the controversy, the 
views of the extreme Lutherans became limited to only 
a portion of the Protestants of Germany ; while those 
of Melancthon and Calvin were adopted by the Reform- 
ed churches of Germany, Switzerland, France, and the 
Netherlands. Practically, the same views were embod- 
ied in the later Helvetic confessions, in the creeds and 
catechisms of the Scotch Kirk, and in the Westminster 
Confession. 

During the last three hundred years a great degree 
of practical unity has prevailed throughout Protestant 
Christendom in reference to the theory of the sacra- 
ments. This fact may be attributed to the general use 
and recognised authority of the Word of God. There 
have, indeed, been some small sects which, following the 
views of Socinus, have, by their theories, reduced the 
sacraments to mere commemorative observances, hav- 
ing a certain emblematic significance, but void of any 
spiritual influence. The Friends, or Quakers, have even 
rejected the sacraments as not designed for continued 
observance, at least in an outward form. They claim 
that the one baptism appointed for perpetuity among 
Christ’s followers is the baptism of the Holy Ghost, and 
the true Lord’s supper is that alluded to in Rev. iii, 20: 
“ Ilehold, I stand at the door, and knock : if any man 
hear my voice, and open the door, I will come in to him, 
and will sup with him, and he with me.” Aside from 
such slight exceptions, the great body of Protestants, 
while rejecting the mass and all other superstitious cer- 
emonies of the Roman Catholic Church, have sought to 
practice the ordinances of baptism and the Lord’s sup- 
per both in the form and spirit of their original appoint- 
ment. It is true that somewhat extended controversies 
have arisen as to the subjects and the mode of baptism, 
prompted chiefly by the exclusive claims of those who 
would reject from the Lord’s supper all who have not 
been baptized by immersion (q. v. ; also Infant Bap- 
tism). Another form of exception to the general Prot- 
estant sentiment has been exhibited by that class of 
Anglicans and others who have distinguished them- 
selves by those Romanizing tendencies which have so 
frequently terminated in adhesion to the Church of 
Rome, with her full list of sacraments. 

VI. Literature . — Taking into view all the phases of 
controversy that have been developed in reference to 
the sacraments, the literature of the subject is exceed- 
ingly voluminous; but by far the greater part of it is 
now obsolete and never likely to be reproduced. That 
the discussions of the past have, on the whole, had a 
favorable issue is indicated by the fact that the great 
majority of modern publications relating to baptism and 
the Lord’s supper are of a practical character, aiming 
to set forth the design, the obligations to their observ- 
ance, and the duties growing out of them. Publications 
of this character are so numerous and so common that 
an attempt to give a full or even a specimen list of their 
titles is deemed quite unnecessary. The following are 
chiefly books which discuss the broader aspects of the 
sacraments in general, or which furnish historical data 
respecting the development of sacramental theories: 
Chrysostom, On the Priesthood ( Homilies ) ; Augustine, 
On Catechising the Ignorant; On Baptism (Sermons 
218, 272); On True Religion ; Ambrose, On the Sacra- 
ments; Gregory Nazianzum, Oration CO; Gregory of 
Nyssa, Catechetical Orations; Cyril of Jerusalem, Cate- 
chetical Discourses ; Gregory the Great, Liturgy ; Book 
of Morals ; the so-called A pos folic Constitutions (bk. 
8); Bingham, Antiquities of the Christian Church ; Ha* 


SACRAMENTAL SEAL 


218 


SACRED HEART 


genbach, History of Doctrines; Neander, Church His- 
tory ; Gieseler, Church Ilistoiy ; Melancthon, Seuten- 
tia de Coena Domini ; Calvin, De Ccena Domini; Al- 
bcrtin, lie Eucharistia ; Beza, Discourses ; Cranmcr, 
Definition of the True Doctrine of the Lord's Supper ; 
Cud worth, True Notion of the Lord's Supper; Halley, 
On Symbolic Institutions ; Barrows , Sermons ; South, 
Sei'mons ; Owen, Sacramental Discourses ; Brevant, 
Sacrament and Sacrifice ; Willet, Synopsis Papism* ; 
Elliott, Romanism ; Bennett, History of the Eucharist; 
Whately, On the Sacraments ; Adam Clarke, On the Eu- 
charist ; Luekev, On the Lord's Supper; Nevin, Mys- 
tical Presence; Harbangh, Creed and Cultus; and Es- 
says by other authors in Tercentenary Monument of the 
Heidelberg Catechism. The authors who have discuss- 
ed the doctrine of the sacraments as a topic of theology 
are almost innumerable. See also all Church creeds, 
e. g. SchatY, Creeds of the Churches (N. Y. 1878, 3 vols. 
8vo). (D. P. K.) 

Sacramental Seal, an expression used by Rom- 
ish writers to denote the obligation which rests upon 
the priesthood to conceal those things the knowledge 
of which is derived from sacramental confession. 

Sacramentals, a name given to those rites which 
are of a sacramental character, but yet are not true sac- 
raments — such as confirmation and matrimony. 

Sacramentarians, a controversial name given by 
the Lutherans to the Zwinglians to designate their be- 
lief that the consecrated elements in the eucharist are 
merely sacramental symbols, and not in any way the 
means by which the body and blood of Christ are real- 
ly and truly present to, and conveyed to, the faithful par- 
taker of them. The third volume of Schlusselburg’s 
llcereticorum Catalogus contains 492 pages “ De Secta 
Sacrameutariorum qui Ciugliani sen Calvinistre vocan- 
tur.” — Blunt, Diet, of Sects, s. v. See Zwinglians. 

Sacramentary, the name of a book in the Romish 
Church containing the collects, together with the can- 
on, or that part of the sacramental service v r hich is in- 
variable. 

Sacraments ; Sacramentum. See Sacra- 
ment. 

Sacrarium, a term employed by the ancient Ro- 
mans to denote any place in which sacred things were 
deposited. A sacrarium was either public or private, 
the former being a part of a temple in which the idol 
stood, and the latter the part of a private house in 
which the Penates w r ere kept. In the early Latin 
Church the name was given to the chancel or bema, 
and also to the side table ( oblationarium ) on which the 
offerings of the people were deposited. 

Sacred Heart, Brothers of the, a lay order in 
the Roman Catholic Church devoted to the instruction 
of youth, especially in France, w'here it was founded by 
the abbe Coindre in 182G, and whence it, extended in 
1847 to the United States. The Brothers have acade- 
mies, orphan asylums, and schools, with more than GOO 
boys under their care, in Kentucky, Mississippi, and 
Louisiana. 

SACRED HEART (of Jesus' ), Feast of the, a fes- 
tival of comparatively modern institution in the Roman 
Catholic Church, and for a time the subject of much 
controversy among Roman Catholics themselves. Its 
origin is traced to a vision recorded of a French nun of 
the Order of the Visitation, named Mary Margaret Aln- 
coque, who lived at Paray-le-Monial, in Burgundy, in 
the latter half of the 17th century, and whose enthusi- 
asm led her to practice a special devotion to the heart 
of the Saviour. This devotion was gradually propa- 
gated in France, and at length was approved by pope 
Clement XII in 1732 and 1736, and by Clement XIII in 
17G5. The festival is held on the Friday after the oc- 
tave of Corpus Christi. — Chambers's Encyclop. s. v. 

This festival has for its principal object to excite in 
the hearts of those who celebrate it a feeling of love to 


Jesus. It has doubtless given origin to the societies of 
cognate title. The instructions to these for each day ill 
the week are peculiar. Thus: 

“Sunday.— You will enter into the opened heart of Jesus 
as into a furnace of love, there to purify yourself from all 
stains contracted during the week, and to destroy the life 
of sin, that you may live the life of pare love, wdiich will 
transform all into itself. This day will be dedicated to a 
special homage to the blessed Trinity. 

“ Monday. — You will look ou yourself as a criminal , who 
desires to appease his judge by sorrow for his sins, and 
who is ready io make satisfaction to his justice. Yon will 
enter in spirit into the heart of Jesus, in order to enclose 
yourself in that prison of love. 

“ Tuesday . — You will enter into the heart of Jesus as 
into a school , in which you are one of his disciples. lit 
this school is learned the science of the saints, the science 
of pure love, which makes us forget all worldly sciences. 

“ Wednesday. — You will enter into the heart of Jesus as 
a passenger into a ship. 

“ Thursday . — You will enter into the heart of Jesns 
Christ as n friend who is invited to The/e«s£ of his friend. 
On this day you will perform all yonr actions in the spirit 
of love. 

“Friday . — You will contemplate Jesns on the cross as a 
tender mother, w ho has brought you forth in his heart, 
w'ith inexpressible pains ; you will repose in his arms as a 
child in the arms of its mother. 

“Saturday.— Yon will ofter yourself to the heart of Jesus 
as a victim coming up to the temple to be immolated aud 
led before the sacriticer.” 

— Eadie, Eccles. Cyclop, s. v. 

SACRED HEART (of Jesus), Ladies of the, a re- 
ligious congregation of the Roman Catholic Church, 
founded in Paris Nov. 21, 1800, and devoted to educa- 
tion. In that year Joseph Desire Varin, superior of the 
Fathers of the Faith, desirous of establishing a society 
of w r oraen w r ho would devote themselves to the educa- 
tion of young ladies of the higher classes, selected Ma- 
deleine Sophie Louise Barat and Octavie Bailly. On 
Nov. 21 they consecrated themselves to the Heart of 
Jesus, and opened a school in Paris. They removed to 
Amiens in 1801, where both their community and pu- 
pils increased rapidly. Madame Barat was chosen su- 
perior in 1802, branch establishments were founded, and 
in 1806 a first chapter of the order w'as held, at which 
that lady was chosen superior-general, which post she 
retained till her death, in 18G5. Pere Varin completed 
his draft of the proposed constitutions in 1825, and 
they w’ere approved bv Leo XII Dec. 22, 1826. Being 
invited by the pope to Rome, they established them- 
selves in the convent and church of Trinita de’ Monti. 
They spread thence to the chief cities of Italy, and soon 
owned flourishing schools in Austria, Bavaria, Prussia, 
Belginm, England, and Ireland. They had come to the 
United States in 1817 with bishop Dubottrg, of New 
Orleans, and founded a house near St. Louis, Mo. Their 



Outdoor Dress of the Brothers of the Sacred Heart. 


SACRED HEARTS 


219 


SACRIFICE 


increase in this country is chiefly owing to the late 
archbishop Hughes, to Madame Elizabeth Gallitzin, and 
especially to Madame Aloysia Hartley, who founded the 
majority of the American houses. They opened a 
school at the corner of Houston and Mulberry streets, 
New York, and now the order has spread to the princi- 
pal states of the Union, to the Canadian provinces, 
Cuba, and Chili. The rides and constitutions are closely 
modelled on those of the Society of Jesus in all that re- 
gards the conditions for membership, training, degrees, 
elections, etc. The members employed in teaching and 
governing are styled “choir religious,” the others “lay 
sisters.” According to Appletons’ Cyclopteditt , the or- 
der had (1875): “In France, 8 provinces and 42 estab- 
lishments, including 1 in Algiers; the province of Bel- 
gium and Holland, with 4 establishments; that of Eng- 
land and Ireland, with 5; that of Italy, with 5; that of 
Spain, with 3 ; and that of Austria, with 5. In America, 
they had in the United States 3 provinces, with 21 
houses; the province of Canada, with 5; and the prov- 
ince of Chili, with 5, besides an establishment at Ha- 
vanna. The number of ‘choir religions’ was 2325, and 
that of lay sisters 1947 ; total 4272. The central house 
of the whole order and the residence of the superior- 
general is in the Boulevard des Invalides, Baris.” 



Outdoor Dress of the Ladies of the Sacred Heart. 


SACRED HEART (of Man/), Order of the, a so- 
ciet} r of nuns established at Range', in France, by the 
abbe' Brault in 1755, and devoted to the care of the in- 
firm and neglected, especially during the French Revo- 
lution. 

Sacred Hearts (of Jesus and Mary), Congrega- 
tion of the, a religious order in the Roman Cat hull 
Church, founded at Poitiers in 1800 by M. Cotidrin and 
Madame Avme de la Chevallerie, for the cultivation of 
personal piety (hence it is sometimes styled the Order 
of the Perpetual Adoration of the l/oly Host), the edu- 
cation of youth, missionary labors, etc. The Congrega- 
tion has houses in various parts of France. See Migne, 
Diet, des Ordres Reliyieux, iv, 1277 sq. 

Sacrificati, Christians w ho, to avoid condemnation 
before a heathen tribunal, had offered sacrifice to an idol. 
When such persons, after the persecution w’as over, re- 
turned to the Church, they w r ere obliged to undergo a 
very rigid penance before they could be readmitted into 
its fellowship. Sacrificati is their denomination as 
penitents, after their return to the faith. Those who 
continued in idolatry w’ere simply apostates. See Li- 

BELLAT1CI. 

Sacrifice, properly so called, is the solemn inflic- 


tion of death on a living creature, generally by effusion 
of its blood, in a way of religious worship; and the pre- 
senting of this act to the Deity as a supplication for the 
pardon of sin, and a supposed mean of compensation for 
the insult and injury thereby offered to his majesty and 
government. Among the Hebrews it w'as an offering 
made to God on bis altar by the hand of a lawful min- 
ister. Sacrifice differed from oblation: in a sacrifice 
there w-as a real change or destruction of the thing of- 
fered, whereas an oblation was but a simple offering or 
gift. (The following article is based upon that in Smith’s 
Diet, of the Bible.) See also Sacrificial Offering. 

I. Scripture Terms . — The following are the original 
words used in the Bible to express the sacrificial act: 

1. nnp-2, minchdh, from the obsolete root “to 

give;” used in Gen. xxxii, 13, 20, 21, of a gift from Ja- 
cob to Esau (Sept. ddtpoi'); in 2 Sam. viii, 2, 6 (gena), 
in 1 Kings iv, 21 (bwpa), in 2 Kings xvii, 4 (pavaci), 
of a tribute from a vassal king; in Gen. iv, 3, 5, of a 
sacrifice generally (SCopov and Sonia, indifferently); 
and in Lev. ii, 1, 4, 5, 6, joined with the word korban , 
of an unbloody sacrifice, or “meat-offering” (generally 
fiibpov Sveta). Its derivation and usage point to that 
idea of sacrifice which represents it as a eueharistic gift 
to God our King. See Minch ah. 

2. korban (derived from the root “to 

approach,” or [in Hiphil] to “make to approach”); 
used with minchdh in Lev. ii, 1,4, 5, 6 (Sept, dutpov Sv- 
eta), generally rendered Sibpov (see Mark vii, 11, jeop- 
/3d r, o ten Cwpov) or 7rpoecpopd. The idea of a gift 
hardly seems inherent in the root, which rather points 
to sacrifice, as a symbol of communion or covenant be- 
tween God and man. See Corban. 

3. nn.T, zebuch (derived from the root !“CT, to “ slaugh- 
ter animals,” especially to “slay in sacrifice”), refers 
emphatically to a bloody sacrifice, one in which the 
shedding of blood is the essential idea. Thus it. is op- 
posed to minchdh in Bsa. xl, 0 ((Sveiav Kat Trpoetyopdv), 
and to oldh (the whole burnt-offering) in Exod. x, 25; 
xviii, 12, etc. With it the expiatory idea of sacrifice is 
naturally connected. See Victim. 

4. In the New’ Test, the comprehensive term is Sveia 
(from Si’oj , which seems radically to express the fum- 
iny up of (lie sacrificial smoke), which is used botli of 
the victim offered and of the act of immolation, w hether 
literal or figurative. 

Distinct from these general terms, and often appended 
to them, are the words denoting special kinds of sacri- 
fice. See Offering. 

5. nMs, oldh (Sept, generally o\o KatWiopa), the 
“whole burnt-offering.” See Burnt-offering. 

g. cVci, shelem (Sept. Sveta ewnjptov ), used fre- 
quently with rCT, and sometimes called *j2pp, the 
“ peace-” or “ thank-offering.” See each of these w 7 ords. 

7. PN^n, chattdth (Sept, generally 7rspi dpapriac), 
the “ sin-offering*’ (q. v.). 

8. DwX, ashdm (Sept, generally 7r\i}ppt\eia), the 
“trespass-offering” (q. v.). 

9. tTi'X, ishsheh (from 11*8:, fire), a “sacrifice made 
by fire;” spoken of every kind of sacrifice and offering, 
as commonly burned (Lev. ii, 3, 10), and even of those 
not consumed by fire (xiv, 7, 9) ; but usually in the rit- 
ual formula, “a sacrifice of sw’eet odor to Jehovah” (i, 9, 
13, 17; ii, 2, 9; iii, 5; comp. Exod. xxix, 41 ; Lev. viii, 
21 ; briefly, Exod. xxix, 18, 25; Lev. ii, 16). See Fire. 

10. PH "PI, t oddh, is used in a figurative sense only, 
“a sacrifice of praise.” See Braise. 

11. an, char/ (from SSH, to dance in religious joy), is 
properly a festival only: but by metonymy is occasion- 
ally used for the sacrificial victims of such occasions 
(Exod. xxiii, 18; Bsa. cxviii, 27 ; Mai. ii, 3). See Fes- 
tival. 

The term “sacrifice” is sometimes used figuratively 


SACRIFICE 


220 


SACRIFICE 


for deep repentance (Psa. li, 17), for the good works of 
believers (Phil, iv, 18 ; Heb. xiii, 16), and for the duties 
of prayer and praise (Kora, xii, 1; Heb. xiii, 15; 1 Pet. 
ii, 5). 

II. Origin of Sacrifice. — Did it arise from a natural 
instinct of man, sanctioned and guided by God, or was 
it the subject of some distinct primeval revelation? 
This is a question the importance of which has proba- 
bly been exaggerated. There can be no doubt that 
sacrifice was sanctioned by God’s law, with a special 
typical reference to the atonement of Christ; its uni- 
versal prevalence, independent of, and often opposed to, 
man’s natural reasonings on his relation to God, shows 
it to have been primeval, and deeply rooted in the in- 
stincts of humanity. Whether it was tirst enjoined by 
an external command, or whether it was based on that 
sense of sin and lost communion with God which is 
stamped by his hand on the heart of man, is a histori- 
cal question, perhaps insoluble, probably one which can- 
not be treated at all, except in connection with some 
general theory of the method of primeval revelation, 
but certainly one which does not affect the authority 
and the meaning of the rite itself. We need not dis- 
cuss here the theory of the old English deists, such as 
Blount and Tvndale, that, as cruel men delighted in 
bloodshed, so they conceived God to be like themselves, 
and sought to please and appease him by the slaughter 
of innocent beasts; or the specious improvement of this 
theory which Spencer ( De Leg . Ilebr. Rit. 1. iii, diss. ii) 
framed, that men sacrificed originally because of the 
savage wildness of their nature, and that God accepted 
and ratified their grim worship to restrain them from 
what was worse. The question is now proposed in this 
form : Did sacrifice arise from the natural religious in- 
stinct of man, with or without (for both views are held) 
an unconscious inspiration of the Divine Spirit, or did it 
originate in a distinct divine revelation? Those who 
advocate the former view speak of sacrifice as the “free 
expression of the divinely determined nature of man” 
(Neumann). “Man sacrifices because of his inaliena- 
ble divine likeness, according to which he cannot cease 
to seek that communion with God for which he was 
created, even through such an effectual self-sacrifice as 
is exhibited in sacrifice. Sacrifices have thus been as 
little an arbitrary invention of man as prayer. Like 
prayer, they have originated in an inner necessity to 
which man freely surrenders himself” (Oehler, in Iler- 
zog’s Real-Encykl. x, 617). 

1. One recent writer on the subject (Davison, In- 
quiry into the Origin and Intent of Primitive Sacrifice, 
1825) adduces (on the authority of Spencer and Ou- 
tram) the consent of the fathers in favor of the human 
origin of primitive patriarchal sacrifice, and alleges that 
the notion of its divine origin is “a mere modern fig- 
ment, excogitated in the presumptively speculative age 
of innovating Puritanism.” This assertion has, in part, 
been met by Faber ( Treatise on the Origin of Expiato- 
ry Sacrifice, 1827), who shows that the only authorities 
adduced by Outram (De Sacrificiis ) and Spencer (De 
Leg. I lehr.) are Justin Martyr, Chrysostom, the author 
of the work called Apostolical Constitutions, and the au- 
thor of the Questions and Answers to the Orthodox, com- 
monly printed with the works of Justin Martyr. Of 
the early theologians thus adduced, the last three are 
positive and explicit in their assertion, while the senti- 
ments of Justin Martyr are gathered rather bv impli- 
cation than in consequence of any direct avowal. lie 
says, “As circumcision commenced from Abraham, so 
the Sabbath, and sacrifices, and oblations, and festivals 
commenced from Moses;” which clearly intimates that 
he considered primitive sacrifice as a human invention 
until made by the law a matter of religious obligation. 
The great body of the fathers are silent as to the origin 
of sacrifice; but a considerable number of them, cited 
by Spencer (De Leg. I lehr. p. 646 sq.), held that sacri- 
fice was admitted into the law through condescension 
to the weakness of the people, who had been familiar- 


ized with it in Egypt, and, if not allowed to sacrifice to 
God, would have been tempted to sacrifice to the idols 
of their heathen neighbors. The ancient writers who 
held this opinion are Justin Martyr, Origen, Tertullian, 
Chrysostom, Theodoret, Cyril of Alexandria, Epiphanius 
of Salamis, I remeus, Jerome, Procopias, Eueherius, Anas- 
tatius, and the author of the Apostolical Constitutions. 
But out of the entire number, only the four already men- 
tioned allege incidentally the human origin of primitive 
sacrifice: the rest are silent on this point. Outram, in- 
deed (De Sucrifi lib. i, cap. 1, § G, p. 8, 9), thinks that in 
giving this opinion they virtually deny the divine ori- 
gin of sacrifice. But it is fairly answered that the as- 
sertion. be it right or be it wrong, that sacrifice was in- 
troduced into the law from condescension to the Egyp- 
tianizing weakness of the people, furnishes no legitimate 
proof that the persons entertaining this opinion held 
the mere human origin of primitive patriarchal sacri- 
fice, and affords no ground for allegiug the consent of 
Christian antiquity in favor of that opinion. Such per- 
sons could not but have known that the rite of sacrifice 
existed anterior to the rise of pagan idolatry ; and hence 
the notion which they entertained leaves the question 
as to the primitive origin of sacrifice entirely open, so 
far as they are concerned. Paganism, whether in Egypt 
or elsewhcr 1 , merely borrowed the rite from pure patri- 
arehism, which already possessed it; and unless a writ- 
er expressly declares such to be his opinion, we are not 
warranted in concluding that he held the human origin 
of primitive patriarchal sacrifice, simply because he con- 
ceives that a system of sacrificial service had been im- 
mediately adopted into the law from paganism out of 
condescension to the weakness of the people. Besides, 
some of these very fathers held language with respect 
to primitive sacrifice not ranch in favor of the interpre- 
tation which has, on this ground, been given to their 
sentiments. Thus, according to Cyril, “God accepted 
the sacrifice of Abel and rejected the sacrifice of Cain, 
because it was fitting that posterity should learn from 
thence how they might blamelessly offer unto God his 
meet and due honor.” If, then, these authorities be 
taken as neutral on the question, with the four excep- 
tions alrea Iv indicated, we shall find whatever authori- 
ty we ascribe to these more than counterbalanced by 
the testimony of other ancient witnesses in favor of the 
divine origin of primitive sacrifice. Philo- Judaeus says, 
“Abel brought neither the same oblation as Cain, nor 
in the sane manner; but, instead of things inanimate, 
he brought things animate; and instead of later and 
secondary products, he brought the older and the first : 
for he offered in sacrifice from the firstlings of his Hock, 
and from their fat, according to the most holy command” 
(De Suerifi A bells et Caini in Opp. p. 145). Augustine, 
after expressly referring the origin of sacrifice to the 
divine command, more distinctly evolves his meaning 
by saying, “The prophetic immolation of blood, testify- 
ing, from the very commencement of the human race, 
the future passion of the Mediator, is a matter of deep 
antiquity; inasmuch as Abel is found in Holy Script- 
ure to have been the first who offered up this prophet- 
ic immolation” (Cont. Faust. Munich, in Opp. vi, 145). 
Next we come to Athanasius, who, speaking of the 
consent of the Old Testament to the fundamental doc- 
trines of the New, says: “What Moses taught, these 
things his predecessor Abraham had preserved; and 
what Abraham had preserved, with those things Enoch 
and Noah were well acquainted; for they made a distinc- 
tion between the clean and the unclean, and were accepta- 
ble to God. Thus, also, in like manner, Abel bore tes- 
timony ; for he knew what he had learned from Adam, 
and Adam himself taught otdy what he had previously 
learned from the Lord" (Synod. Nicen. contra I Jeer. Ari - 
an. deevet. in Opp. i, 403). Eusebius of Caesarea, in a 
passage too long for quotation, alleges that animal sac- 
rifice was first of all practiced by the ancient lovers of 
God (the patriarchs), and that not by accident, but 
through a certain divine contrivance, under which, as 


SACRIFICE 


221 


SACRIFICE 


taught by the Divine Spirit, it became their duty thus 
to shadow forth the great and venerable victim, really 
acceptable to God, which was, in time then future, des- 
tined to be offered in behalf of the whole human race 
( Bemonst . Evany, i, 8, 24, 25). 

Among the considerations urged in support of the 
opinion that sacrifice must have originated in a divine 
command, it has been suggested as exceedingly doubt- 
ful whether, independently of such a command, and as 
distinguished from vegetable oblations, animal sacrifice, 
which involves the practice of slaughtering and burn- 
ing an innocent victim, could ever, under any aspect, 
have been adopted as a rite likely to gain the favor of 
God. Our own course of scriptural education prevents 
us, perhaps, from being competent judges on this point; 
but we have means of judging how so singular a nte 
must strike the minds of thinking men not in the same 
degree prepossessed by early associations. The ancient 
Greek masters of thought not unfrequently expressed 
their astonishment how and upon what rational princi- 
ples so strange an institution as that of animal sacrifice 
could ever have originated; for as to the notion of its 
being pleasitig to the Deity, such a thing struck them 
as a manifest impossibility (Iamblic. Be Vit . Pythag. p. 
106-1 18 ; Porphyr. Be A bstin. p. 96 ; Theophrast. et Por- 
phyr. ap. Euseb. Prcep. Evany, p. 90, 91). Those who 
do not believe that sacrifices were of divine institution 
must dispose of this difficulty by alleging that, when 
men had come to slay animals for their own food, they 
might think it right to slay them to satisfy their gods; 
and, in fact, Grotius, who held the human origin of sac- 
rifices, and yet believed that animal food was not used 
before the Deluge, is reduced to the expedient of con- 
tending that Abel’s offering was not an animal sacri- 
fice, but only the produce — the milk and wool — of his 
best sheep. This, however, shows that he believed ani- 
mal sacrifice to have been impossible before the Deluge 
without the sanction of a divine command, the exist- 
ence of which he discredited. 

A strong moral argument in favor of the divine in- 
stitution of sacrifice, somewhat feebly put by Ilallet 
( Comment . on Heb. xi, 4, cited by Magee, On the Atone- 
ment). has been reproduced with increased force by Fa- 
ber (j Prim. Sacrifice , p. 183). It amounts to this: (1.) 
Sacrifice, when uncommanded by God, is a mere act 
of gratuitous superstition; whence, on the principle of 
Paul’s reprobation of what he denominates will -wor- 
ship, it is neither acceptable nor pleasing to God. (2.) 
But sacrifice during the patriarchal ages was accept- 
ed by God, and was plainly honored with his approba- 
tion. (3.) Therefore, sacrifice during the patriarchal 
ages could not have been an act of superstition uncom- 
manded by God. (4.) If, then, such was the character 
of primitive sacrifice — that is to say, if primitive sacri- 
fice was not a mere act of gratuitous superstition un- 
commanded by God — it must, in that ease, indubitably 
have been a divine, and not a human, institution. If it 
be held that any of the ancient ‘sacrifices were expiato- 
ry, or piacular, the argument for their divine origin is 
strengthened, as it is hard to conceive the combination 
of ideas under which the notion of expiatory sacrifice 
could be worked out bv the human mind. This diffi- 
culty is so great that the ablest advocates of the human 
origin of primitive animal sacrifice feel bound also to 
deny that such sacrifices as then existed were piacular. 
It is strongly insisted that the doctrine of an atonement 
by animal sacrifice cannot be deduced from the light of 
nature or from the principles of reason. If, therefore, 
the idea existed, it must either have arisen in the fer- 
tile soil of a guessing superstition, or have been divine- 
ly appointed. Now, we know that God cannot approve 
of unwarranted and presumptuous superstition ; if, there- 
fore, he can be shown to have received with approba- 
tion a species of sacrifice undiscoverable by the light 
of nature, or from the principles of reason, it follows that 
it must have been of his own institution. 

The question of the existence of expiatory sacrifice 


before the law, however, is more difficult, and is denied 
by Ou tram, Ernesti, Ddderlin, Davison, and many oth- 
ers, who believe that it was revealed under the law, as 
well as by those who doubt its existence under the Mo- 
saical dispensation. The arguments already stated in 
favor of the divine institution of primitive sacrifice go 
equally to support the existence of piacular sacrifice, 
the idea of which seems more urgently to have required 
a divine intimation. Besides, expiatory sacrifice is 
found to have existed among all nations in conjunc- 
tion with eucharistic and impetratory sacrifices; and 
it lies at the root of the principle on which human sac- 
rifices were offered among the ancient nations. The 
expiatory view of sacrifice is frequently produced by 
heathen writers: “Take heart for heart, fibre for fibre. 
This life we give you in the place of a better” (Ovid, 
Fasti, vi, 161). This being the case, it is difficult to 
believe but that the idea was derived, along with ani- 
mal sacrifice itself, from the practice of Noah, and pre- 
served among his various descendants. This argument, 
if valid, would show the primitive origin of piacular 
sacrifice. Now there can be no doubt that the idea of 
sacrifice which Noah transmitted to the postdiluvian 
world was the same that he had derived from his pious 
ancestors, and the same that was evinced by the sacri- 
fice of Abel, to which we are, by the course of the argu- 
ment, again- brought back. Now if that sacrifice was 
expiatory, we have reason to conclude that it was di- 
vinely commanded ; and the supposition that it was 
both expiatory and divinely commanded makes the 
whole history far more clear and consistent than any 
other which has been or can be offered. It amounts, 
then, to this — that Cain, by bringing a eucharistic of- 
fering, when his brother brought one which was expia- 
tory, denied virtually that his sins deserved death, or 
that he needed the blood of atonement. Some go fur- 
ther, and allege that in the text itself God actually 
commanded Cain to offer a piacular sacrifice. (See 
this question discussed below.) 

2. On the other hand, the great difficulty in the the- 
ory which refers it to a distinct command of God is 
the total silence of Holy Scripture — a silence the more 
remarkable when contrasted with the distinct reference 
made in Gen. ii to the origin of the Sabbath. Sacri- 
fice when first mentioned, in the case of Cain and Abel, 
is referred to as a thing of course; it is said to have 
been brought by men ; there is no hint of any com- 
mand given by God. This consideration, the strength 
of which no ingenuity has been able to impair, al- 
though it does not actually disprove the formal revela- 
tion of sacrifice, yet at least forbids the assertion of it, 
as of a positive and important doctrine. See, for ex- 
ample (as in Faber’s Origin of Sacrifice), the elaborate 
reasoning on the translation of in Gen. iv, 7. 

Even supposing the version a “sin-offering coucheth 
at the door” to be correct, on the ground of general 
usage of the word, of the curious version of the Sept., 
and of the remarkable grammatical construction of the 
masculine participle with the feminine noun (as refer- 
ring to the fact that the sin-offering was actually a 
male), still it does not settle the matter. The Lord 
even then speaks of sacrifice as existing, and as known 
to exist: he does not institute it. The supposition 
that the “skins of beasts” in Gen. iii, 21 were skins of 
animals sacrificed by God’s command is a pure assump- 
tion. The argument on Heb. xi, 4, that faith can rest 
only on a distinct divine command as to the special 
occasion of its exercise, is contradicted by the general 
definition of it given in ver. 1. (See below.) 

Nor is the fact of the mysterious and supernatural 
character of the doctrine of atonement, with which the 
sacrifices of the O. T. are expressly connected, any con- 
clusive argument on this side of the question. All al- 
low that the eucharistic and deprecatory ideas of sacri- 
fice are perfectly natural to man. The higher view of 
its expiatory character, dependent, as it is, entirely on 


SACRIFICE 


222 


SACRIFICE 


its typical nature, appears but gradually in Scripture. 
It is veiled under other ideas in the case of the patri- 
archal sacrifices. It is first distinctly mentioned in the 
Law (Lev. xvii, II, etc.) : but even then the theory of 
the sin-offering, and of the classes of sins to which it 
referred, is allowed to be obscure and difficult; it is 
only in the N. T. (especially in the Epistle to the He- 
brews) that its nature is clearly unfolded. It is as 
likely that it pleased God gradually to superadd the 
higher idea to an institution, derived by man from the 
lower ideas (which must eventually find their justifica- 
tion in the higher), as that he originally commanded 
the institution when the time for the revelation of its 
full meaning was not yet come. The rainbow was 
just as truly the symbol of God’s new promise in Gen. 
ix, 13-17, whether it had or had not existed as a natu- 
ral phenomenon before the flood. What God sets his 
seal to he makes a part of his revelation, whatever its 
origin may be. It is to be noticed (see Warburton, 
Dh\ Leg. ix, c. 2) that, except in Gen. xv, 9, the method 
of patriarchal sacrifice is left free, without any direction 
on the part of God, while in all the Mosaic ritual the 
limitation and regulation of sacrifice, as to time, place, 
and material, is a most prominent feature, on which 
much of its distinction from heathen sacrifice depend- 
ed. The inference is at least probable that w hen God 
sanctioned formally a natural rite, then, and not till 
then, did he define its method. 

See on the question, in addition to the above trea- 
tises, Sykes, Essay on the Nature , Origin , and Design of 
Sacrifices; Taylor, Scripture Doctrine of the Atonement 
(1758); Ritchie, Criticism upon Modern Notions of Sac- 
rifices (1701) ; Magee, Discourses on Atonement and Sac- 
rifices. See also Atonement. 

III. Biblical History of Sacrifice. — 1. Ante-Mosaic 
Instances . — In examining the various sacrifices record- 
ed in Scripture before the establishment of the law, we 
find that the words specially denoting expiatory sacri- 
fice (TX^n and G^'SJ) are not applied to them. This 
fact does not at all show that they w r ere not actually 
expiatory, nor even that the offerers had not that idea 
of expiation w hich must have been vaguely felt in all 
sacrifices; but it justifies the inference that this idea 
was not then the prominent one in the doctrine of sac- 
rifice. 

The sacrifice of Cain and Abel is called minchak. al- 
though in the case of the latter it w r as a bloody sacri- 
fice. (So in Heb. xi, 4 the word Svaia is explained by 
the rot^ CujpoiQ below.) In the case of both it would 
appear to have been eucharistic, and the distinction be- 
tween the offerers to have lain in their “faith” (Heb. 
xi, 4). Whether that faith of Abel referred to the 
promise of the Redeemer and was connected with any 
idea of the typical meaning of sacrifice, or whether it 
was a simple and humble faith in the unseen God, as 
the giver and promiser of all good, we are not author- 
ized by Scripture to decide. See Cain. 

The sacrifice of Noah after the flood (Gen. viii, 20) is 
called burnt-offering ( oldh ). This sacrifice is express- 
ly connected with the institution of the covenant which 
follow’s in ix, 8-17. The same ratification of a cove- 
nant is seen in the burnt-offering of Abraham, especial- 
ly enjoined and defined by God in Gen. xv, 9; and is 
probably to be traced in the “ building of altars” by 
Abraham on entering Canaan at Bethel (Gen. xii, 7, 8) 
and Mature (xiii, 18), by Isaac at Beersheba (xxvi,25), 
and by Jacob at Shechcm (xxxiii,20), and in Jacob’s 
setting-up and anointing of the pillar at Bethel (xxviii, 
18; xxxv, 14). The sacrifice ( zebach ) of Jacob at Miz- 
pah also marks a covenant with Laban, to w'hich God 
is called to be a witness and a party. In all these, 
therefore, the prominent idea seems to have been what 
is called the federative , the recognition of a bond be- 
tween the sacrificer and God, and the dedication of 
himself, as represented by the victim, to the service of 
the Lord. See Noah, 


The sacrifice of Isaac (Gen. xxii, 1-13) stands by it- 
self as the sole instance in w'hich the idea of human 
sacrifice was even for a moment, and as a trial, counte- 
nanced by God. Yet in its principle it appears to have 
been of the same nature as before: the voluntary sur- 
render of an only son on Abraham’s part, and the will- 
ing dedication of himself on Isaac’s, are in the fore- 
ground; the expiatory idea, if recognised at all, holds 
certainly a secondary position. See Isaac. 

In the burnt-offerings of Job for his children (Job i, 
5) and for his three friends (xlii, 8), w r e, for the first 
time, find the expression of the desire of expiation for 
sin accompanied by repentance and prayer, and brought 
prominently forward. The same is the case in the 
w'ords of Moses to Pharaoh as to the necessity of sacri- 
fice in the wilderness (Exod. x, 25), wffiere sacrifice ( ze- 
bach ) is distinguished from burnt-offering. Here the 
main idea is at least deprecatory ; the object is to ap- 
pease the wrath and avert the vengeance of God. 

2. The Sacrifices of the Mosaic Period . — These are in- 
augurated by the offering of the Passover and the sac- 
rifice of Exod. xxiv. The Passover, indeed, is unique 
in its character, and seems to embrace the peculiarities 
of all the various divisions of sacrifice soon to be estab- 
lished. Its ceremonial, however, most nearty resem- 
bles that of the sin-offering in the emphatic use of 
the blood, which (after the first celebration) w’as poured 
at the bottom of the altar (see Lev. iv, 7), and in the 
care taken that none of the flesh should remain till the 
morning (see Exod. xii, 10; xxxiv, 25). It w r as un- 
like it in that the flesh w’as to be eaten by all (not 
burnt, or eaten by the priests alone), in token of their 
entering into covenant with God, and eating “at his 
table,” as in the case of a peace-offering. Its peculiar 
position as a historical memorial, and its special ref- 
erence to the future, naturally mark it out as incapa- 
ble of being referred to any formal class of sacrifice; 
but it is clear that the idea of salvation from death by 
means of sacrifice is brought out in it with a distinct- 
ness before unknowm. See Passover. 

The sacrifice of Exod. xxiv, offered as a solemn in- 
auguration of the covenant of Sinai, has a similarly 
comprehensive character. It is called a “burnt-offer- 
ing” and “peace-offering” in ver. 5; but the solemn 
use of the blood (comp. Heb. ix, 18-22) distinctly marks 
the idea that expiatory sacrifice w r as needed for enter- 
ing into covenant with God, the idea of w'hich the sin 
and trespass offerings were afterwards the symbols. 

The law of Leviticus now unfolds distinctly the va- 
rious forms of sacrifice : 


(a.) The burnt-offering. Self-dedicatory. 

(5.) The meat-offering (unbloody). I Furhar :~ t : r 
The peace-offering (bloody). / ^naristic. 

(c.) The sin-offering. ) 

The trespass-offering, f Expiatoiy. 

( d .) The incense offered after sacrifice in the Iloly 
Place, and (on the Day of Atonement) in the Holy of 
Holies, the symbol of the intercession of the priest (as a 
type of the Great High-priest), accompauyiug and mak- 
ing efficacious the prayer of the people. 


In the consecration of Aaron and his sons (Lev. viii) we 
find these offered in what became ever afterwards the 
appointed order: first came the sin-offering, to prepare 
access to God; next the burnt-offering, to mark their 
dedication to his service; and, thirdly, the meat-offer- 
ing of thanksgiving. The same sacrifices, in the same 
order, with the addition of a peace-offering (eaten, no 
doubt, by all the people), were offered a week after for 
all the congregation, and accepted visibly by the de- 
scent of fire upon the burnt-offering. Henceforth the 
sacrificial system was fixed in all its parts, until He 
should come whom it typified. It is to be noticed that 
the law of Leviticus takes the rite of sacrifice for 
granted (see Lev. i, 2 ; ii, 1, etc., “ If a man bring an of- 
fering, ye shall,” etc.), and is directed chiefly to guide 
and limit its exercise. In every case but that of the 
peace-offering the nature of the victim was carefully 
prescribed, so as to preserve the ideas symbolized, but 
so as to avoid the notion (so inherent in heathen sys- 


SACRIFICE 


223 


SACRIFICE 


terns, and finding its logical result in human sacrifiee) 
that the more costly the offering, the more surely must 
it meet with acceptance. At the same time, probably 
in order to impress this truth on the mind, and also 
to guard against corruption by heathenish ceremonial, 
and against the notion that sacrifice in itself, without 
obedience, could avail (see 1 Sam. xv, 22, 23), the place 
of offering was expressly limited, first to the Taber- 
nacle, afterwards to the Temple. (For instances of in- 
fringement of this rule uncensured, see Judg. ii, 5; vi, 
26; xiii, 19; 1 Sam. xi, 15; xvi, 5; 2 Sam. vi, 13; 1 
Kings iii, 2, 3. Most of these cases are special, some 
authorized by special command ; but the law probably 
did not attain to its full strictness till the foundation 
of the Temple.) This ordinance also necessitated a 
periodical gathering as one nation before God, and so 
kept clearly before their minds their relation to him 
as their national King. Both limitations brought out 
the great truth that God himself provided the way by 
which man should approach him, and that the method 
of reconciliation was initiated by him, and not by them. 

In consequence of the peculiarity of the law, it has 
been argued (as by Outram, Warburton, etc.) that the 
whole system of sacrifice was only a condescension to 
the weakness of the people, borrowed, more or less, from 
the heathen nations, especially from Egypt, in order to 
guard against worse superstition and positive idolatry. 
The argument is mainly based (see Warburton, Dir. Leg. 
iv, § vi, 2) on Ezek. xx, 25, and similar references in the 
Old and New Test, to the nullity of all mere ceremo- 
nial. Taken as an explanation of the theory of sacri- 
fice, it is weak and superficial ; it labors under two fatal 
difficulties, the historical fact of the primeval existence 
of sacrifice, and its typical reference to the one atone- 
ment of Christ, which was foreordained from the very 
beginning, and had been already typified, as, for exam- 
ple, in the sacrifice of Isaac. But as giving a reason 
for the minuteness and elaboration of the Mosaic cere- 
monial so remarkably contrasted with the freedom of 
patriarchal sacrifice, and as furnishing an explanation 
of certain special rites, it may probably have some val- 
ue. It certainly contains this truth : that the craving 
for visible tokens of God’s presence, and visible rites of 
worship, from which idolatry proceeds, was provided 
for and turned into a safe channel by the whole ritual 
and typical system, of which sacrifice was the centre. 
The contact with the gigantic system of idolatry which 
prevailed in Egypt, and which had so deeply tainted 
the spirit of the Israelites, would doubtless render such 
provision then especially necessary. It was one part 
of the prophetic office to guard against its degradation 
into formalism, and to bring out its spiritual meaning 
with an ever-increasing clearness. 

3. Post-Mosaic Sacrifices. — It will not be necessary 
to pursue, in detail, the history of Post-Mosaic sacri- 
fice, for its main principles were now fixed forever. 
The most remarkable instances of sacrifice on a large 
scale are by Solomon at the consecration of the Temple 
(1 Kings viii, 63), by Jehoiada after the death of Atlia- 
liah (2 Chron. xxiii, 18), and by Hezekiah at his great 
Passover and restoration of the Temple- worship (2 
Chron. xxx, 21-24). In each ease the lavish use of 
victims was chiefly in the peace-offerings, which were 
a sacred national feast to the people at the table of 
their Great King. 

The regular sacrifices in the Temple service were : 

(a.) Burnt-offerings. 

1. The daily burnt-offerings (Exod. xxix, BS-42). 

2. The double burnt-offerings on the Sabbath (Numb, 
xxviii, 9, 10). 

3. The burnt -offerings at the great festivals (Numb, 
xxviii, 11-xxix, 39). 

( b .) Meat.-offei ings. 

1. The daily meat -offerings accompanying the daily 
burnt-offerings (flour, oil, and wine) (Exod. xxix, 40, 41). 

2. The shew-bread (twelve loaves with frankincense), 
renewed every Sabbath (Lev. xxiv, 5-9). 

3. The special meat-offerings at the Sabbath and the 
great festivals (Numb, xxviii, xxix). 


4. The first-fruits, at the Passover (Lev. xxiii, 10-14), 
at Pentecost (xxiii, 17-20), both “ wave -offerings the 
first-fruits of the dough and threshing-floor at the harvest- 
time (Numb, xv, 20, 21 ; Deut. xxvi, 1-11), called u heave- 
offerings.” 

(c.) Sin-offerings. 

1. Sin-offering 1 (a kid) each new moon (Numb, xxviii, 
15). 

2. Sin-offerings at the Passover, Pentecost, Feast of 
Trumpets, and Tabernacles (Numb, xxviii, 22, 30; xxix, 5, 
16,19, 22, 25, 28, 31,34, 38). 

3. The offering of the two goats (the goat sacrificed, 
and the scape-goat) for the people, and of the bullock for 
the priest himself on the Great Day of Atonement (Lev. 
xvi). 

(d.) Incense. 

1. The morning and evening incense (Exod. xxx, 7, 8). 

2. The incense on the Great Day of Atonement (Lev. 
xvi, 12). 

Besides these public sacrifices, there were offerings of 
the people for themselves individually : at the purifica- 
tion of women (Lev. xii) ; the presentation of the first- 
born, and circumcision of all male children ; the cleans- 
ing of the leprosy (ch. xiv) or any uncleanness (cb. 
xv) ; at the fulfilment of Nazaritic and other vows 
(Numb, vi, 1-21); on occasions of marriage and of 
burial, etc., besides the frequent offering of private sin- 
offerings. These must Lave kept up a constant suc- 
cession of sacrifices every day, and brought the rite 
borne to every man’s thought and to every occasion of 
human life. See Sacrificial Offerings. 

IV. Significance of the Levitical Sacrifices. — In ex- 
amining the doctrine of sacrifice, it is necessary to re- 
member that, in its development, the order of idea is 
not necessarily the same as the order of time. By the 
order of sacrifice in its perfect form (as in Lev. viii) it 
is clear that the sin-offering occupies the most impor- 
tant place, the burnt-offering comes next, and the meat- 
offering, or peace-offering, last of all. The second could 
only be offered after the first had been accepted; the 
third was only a subsidiary part of the second. Yet, 
in actual order of time, it has been seen that the patri- 
archal sacrifices partook much more of the nature of the 
• peace-offering and burnt-offering; and that, under the 
law, bv which was “the knowledge of sin” (Rom. iii, 
20), the sin-offering was for the first time explicitly set 
forth. This is but natural, that the deepest ideas should 
be the last in order of development. 

It is also obvious that those who believe in the unity 
of the Old and New Tests., and the typical nature of 
the Mosaic covenant, must view the type in constant 
reference to the antitype, and be prepared, therefore, to 
find in the former vague and recondite meanings which 
are fixed and manifested by the latter. The sacrifices 
must be considered, not merely as they stand in the law, 
or even as they might have appeared to a pious Isra- 
elite. but as they were illustrated by the prophets, and 
perfectly interpreted in the N. T. (e. g. in the Epistle to 
the Hebrews). It follows from this that, as belonging 
to a system which was to embrace all mankind in its 
influence, they should be also compared and contrasted 
with the sacrifices and worship of God in other nations, 
and the ideas which in them were dimly and confused- 
ly expressed. 

1. Contrast ivith Heathenism. — It is needless to dwell 
on the universality of heathen sacrifices (see Magee, 
Dis. on Sacrifice, vol. i, dis. v, and Ernst von Lasanlx, 
Treatise on Greek and Roman Sacrifice, quoted in notes 
23, 26 to Thomson’s Bampton Lectures, 1853), and it is 
difficult to reduce to any single theory the various ideas 
involved therein. It is clear that the sacrifice was often 
looked upon as a gift or tribute to the gods; an idea 
which, for example, runs through all Greek literature, 
from tlie simple conception in Homer to the caricatures 
of Aristophanes or Lucian, against the perversion of 
which Paul protested at Athens, when he declared that 
God needed nothing at human hands (Acts xvii, 25). 
It is also clear that sacrifices were used as prayers to 
obtain benefits or to avert wrath, and that this idea 
was corrupted into the superstition, denounced by hea- 
then satirists as well as by Hebrew prophets, that by 


SACRIFICE 


224 


SACRIFICE 


them the gods’ favor could be purchased for the wick- 
ed, or their “envy” bo averted from the prosperous. 
On the other hand, that they were regarded as thank- 
offerings, and the feasting on their tlesh as a partaking 
of the ** table of the gods” (corap. 1 Cor. x, 20. 21), is 
equally certain. Nor was the higher idea of sacrilice 
as a representation of the self-devotion of the offerer, 
body and soul, to the god, wholly lost, although gener- 
ally obscured by the grosser and more obvious concep- 
tions of the rite. But, besides all these, there seems 
always to have been latent the itlea of propitiation; 
that is, the belief in a communion with the gods, natu- 
ral to man, broken off in some way, and by sacrifice to 
be restored. The emphatic “shedding of the blood” 
as the essential part of the sacrifice, while the tlesh was 
often eaten by the priests or the sacrificer, is not capa- 
ble of a full explanation by any of the ideas above 
referred to. Whether it represented the death of the 
sacrificer, or (as in cases of national offering of human 
victims, and of those self-devoted for their country) an 
atoning death for him ; still, in either case, it contained 
the idea that “without shedding of blood is no remis- 
sion,” and so had a vague and distorted glimpse of the 
great central truth of revelation. Such an idea may 
be, as has been argued, “ unnatural,” in that it could 
not be explained by natural reason; but it certainly 
was not unnatural if frequency of existence and ac- 
cordance with a deep natural instinct be allowed to 
preclude that epithet. 

Now. the essential difference between these heathen 
views of sacrifice and the scriptural doctrine of the O. 
T. is not to be found in its denial of any of these ideas. 
The very names used in it for sacrifice, as is seen above, 
involve the conception of the rite as a gift, a form of 
worship, a thank-offering, a self-devotion, and an atone- 
ment. In fact, it brings out, clearly and distinctly, the 
ideas which, in heathenism, were uncertain, vague, and 
perverted. But the essential points of distinction are 
two : 

(1.) Whereas the heathen conceived of their gods as 
alienated in jealousy or anger, to be sought after, and to 
be appeased by the unaided action of man, Scripture 
represents God himself as approaching man, as point- 
ing out and sanctioning the way by which the broken 
covenant should be restored. This was impressed on 
the Israelites at every step by the minute directions of 
the law as to time, place, victim, and ceremonial, and by 
its utterly discountenancing the “will-worship” which 
in heathenism found full scope, and rioted in the inven- 
tion of costly or monstrous sacrifices. It is especially to 
be noted that this particularity is increased as we ap- 
proach nearer to the deep propitiatory idea ; for where- 
as the patriarchal sacrifices generally seem to have 
been undefined by God, and, even under the law, the 
nature of the peace-offerings, and, to some extent, the 
burnt-offerings, was determined by the sacrificer only, 
yet the solemn sacrifice of Abraham in the inauguration 
of his covenant was prescribed to him, and the sin-offer- 
ings under the law were most accurately and minutely 
determined (see, for example, the whole ceremonial of 
Lev. xvi). It is needless to remark how this essential 
difference purifies all the ideas above noticed from the 
corruptions which made them odious or contemptible, 
and sets on its true basis the relation between God and 
fallen man. 

(2.) The second mark of distinction is closely con- 
nected with this, inasmuch as it shows sacrifice to be a 
scheme proceeding from God, and, in his foreknowledge, 
connected with the one central fact of all human his- 
tory. It is to be found in the typical character of all 
Jewish sacrifices, on which, as the Epistle to the He- 
brews argues, all their efficacy depended. It must be 
remembered that, like other ordinances of the law, they 
had a twofold effect, depending on the special position 
of an Israelite as a member of the natural theocracy, 
and on his general position as a man in relation with 
God. On the one hand, for example, the sin-offering 


was an atonement to the national law for moral offences 
of negligence, which in “presumptuous” — i. e. deliberate 
and wilful — crime was rejected (see Numb, xv, 27-81 ; 
and comp. Heb. x, 20, 27). On the other hand, it had, 
as the prophetic writings show us, a distinct spiritual sig- 
nificance as a means of expressing repentance and re- 
ceiving forgiveness, which could have belonged to it 
only as a type of the great atonement. How far that 
typical meaning was recognised at different periods and 
by different persons, it is useless to speculate; but it 
would be impossible to doubt, even if we had no testi- 
mony on the subject, that, in the face of the high spirit- 
ual teaching of the law and the prophets, a pious Israel- 
ite must have felt the nullity of material sacrifice in it- 
self, and so believed it to be availing only as an ordi- 
nance of God, shadowing out some great spiritual truth 
or action of his. Nor is it unlikely that, with more or 
less distinctness, he connected the evolution of this, as 
of other truths, with the coming of the promised Mes- 
siah. But, however this be, we know that, in God’s pur- 
pose, the whole system was typical; that all its spirit- 
ual efficacy depended on the true sacrifice which it rep- 
resented, and could be received only on condition of 
faith ; and that, therefore, it passed away when the 
Antitype had come. 

2. The nature and meaning of the various kinds of 
sacrifice are partly gathered from the form of their in- 
stitution and ceremonial, partly from the teaching of 
the prophets, and partly from the N. T., especially the 
Epistle to the Hebrews. 

(1.) Old-Testament Relations . — Here all had relation, 
under different aspects, to a covenant between God and 
man. 

(</.) The sin -offering represented that covenant as 
broken by man, and as knit together again, by God’s 
appointment, through the “shedding of blood.” Its 
characteristic ceremony was the sprinkling of the blood 
before the veil of the sanctuary, the putting some of it 
on the horns of the altar of incense, and the pouring-out 
of all the rest at the foot of the altar of burnt-offering. 
The tlesh was in no case touched by the offerer; either 
it was consumed by fire without the camp, or it was 
eaten by the priest alone in. the holy place, and every- 
thing that touched It was holy (U'Hp). This latter 
point marked the distinction from the peace -offering, 
and showed that the sacrificer had been rendered un- 
worthy of communion with God. The shedding of the 
blood, the symbol of life, signified that the death of the 
offender was deserved for sin, but that the death of the 
victim was accepted for his death by the ordinance of 
God’s mercy. This is seen most clearly in the ceremo- 
nial of the Day of Atonement, when, after the sacrifice 
of the one goat, the high-priest’s hand was laid on the 
head of the scape-goat — which was the other part of 
the sin-offering — with confession of the sins of the peo- 
ple, that it might visibly bear them away, and so bring 
out explicitly what in other sin-offerings was but im- 
plied. Accordingly, we find (see quotation from the 
Mishna in Out ram, Lie Sacr. i, ch. xv, § 10) that in all 
cases it was the custom for the offerer to lay his hand 
on the head of the sin-offering, to confess, generally or 
specially, his sins, and to say, “ Let this be my expia- 
tion.” Beyond all doubt, the sin-offering distinctly 
witnessed that sin existed in man, that the “wages of 
that sin was death,” and that God had provided an atone- 
ment by the vicarious suffering of an appointed victim. 
The reference of the Baptist to a “ Lamb of God who 
taketh away the sins of the world” was one understood 
and hailed at once by a “true Israelite.” Sec Sin-of- 
fering. 

( b .) The ceremonial and meaning of the himit-offer- 
ing were very different. The idea of expiation seems 
not to have been absent from it, for the blood was 
sprinkled round about the altar of sacrifice; and, be- 
fore the Levitical ordinance of the sin-offering to pre- 
cede it, this idea’may have been even prominent. But 


SACRIFICE 


225 


SACRIFICE 


in the system of Leviticus, it is evidently only second- 
ary. The main idea is the offering of the whole victim 
to* God, representing (as the laying of the hand on its 
head shows) the devotion of the sacrificer, body and 
soul, to him. The death of the victim was (so to speak) 
an incidental feature, to signify the completeness of the 
devotion ; and it is to be noticed that, in all solemn sac- 
rifices, no burnt-offering could be made until a previous 
sin-offering had brought the sacrificer again into cove- 
nant with God. The main idea of this sacrifice must 
have been representative, not vicarious; and the best 
comment upon it is the exhortation, in Horn, xii, 1, “to 
present our bodies a living sacrifice, holy and accepta- 
ble to God.” 

(c.) The meat-offerings — the peace- or thank-offer- 
ing, the first-fruits, etc. — were simply offerings to God 
of his own best gifts, as a sign of thankful homage, and 
as a means of maintaining his service and his servants. 
Whether they were regular or voluntary, individual or 
national, independent or subsidiary to other offerings, 
this was still the leading idea. The meat-offering, of 
flour, oil, and wine, seasoned with salt and hallowed by 
frankincense, was usually an appendage to the devotion 
implied in the burnt-offering; and the peace-offerings 
for the people held the same place in Aaron’s first sacri- 
fice (Lev. ix, 22), and in all others of special solemnity. 
The characteristic ceremony in the peace-offering was 
the eating of the flesh by the sacrificer (after the fat 
had been burned before the Lord, and the breast and 
shoulder given to the priests). It betokened the en- 
joyment of communion with God at “the table of the 
Lord,” in the gilts which his mercy had bestowed, of 
which a choice portion was offered to him, to his ser- 
vants, and to his poor (see Dent, xiv, 28, 29). To this 
view of sacrifice allusion is made by Paul in Phil, iv, 
18; Heb. xiii, 15, 16). It follows naturally from the 
other two. See Meat-offering. 

It is clear, from this, that the idea of sacrifice is a 
complex idea, involving the propitiatory, the dedicato- 
ry, and the eucharistic elements. Any one of these, 
taken by itself, would lead to error and superstition. 
The propitiatory alone would tend to the idea of atone- 
ment by sacrifice for sin, as being effectual without any 
condition of repentance and faith; the self-dedicatorv, 
taken alone, ignores the barrier of sin between man and 
God, and undermines the whole idea of atonement ; the 
eucharistic, alone, leads to the notion that mere gifts 
can satisfy God’s service, and is easily perverted into 
the heathenish attempt to “bribe” God by vows and 
offerings. All three, probably, were more or less im- 
plied in each sacrifice, each element predominating in 
its turn : all must be kept in mind in considering the 
historical influence, the spiritual meaning, and the typ- 
ical value of sacrifice. 

Now, the Israelites, while they seem always to have 
retained the ideas of propitiation and of eucharistic of- 
fering, even when they perverted these by half-hea- 
thenish superstition, constantly ignored the self-dedi- 
cation which is the link between the two, and which 
the regular burnt-offering should have impressed upon 
them as their daily thought and duty. It is, therefore, 
to this point that the teaching of the prophets is main- 
ly directed; its key-note is contained in the words of 
Samuel — “ Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and 
to hearken than the fat of rams” (l Sam. xv, 22). So 
Isaiah declares (as in i, 10-20) that “ the Lord delights 
not in the blood of bullocks, or lambs, or goats;” that to 
those who “cease to do evil and learn to do well . . . 
though their sins be as scarlet, they shall be white as 
snow.” Jeremiah reminds them (vii, 22, 23) that the 
Lord did not “command burnt -offerings or sacrifices” 
under Moses, but said, “Obey my voice, and I will be 
your God.” Ezekiel is full of indignant protests (see 
xx, 39-44) against the pollution of God’s name by offer- 
ings of those whose hearts were with their idols. Ho- 
sea sets forth God’s requirements (vi,6) in words which 
our Lord himself sanctioned : “ I desired mercy and not 
IX .— V 


sacrifice, and the knowledge of God more than burnt- 
offerings.” Amos (v, 21-27) puts it even more strong- 
ly, that God “hates” their sacrifices, unless “judgment 
run down like water, and righteousness like a mighty 
stream.” And Micah (vi, 6-8) answers the question 
which lies at the root of sacrifice — “Wherewith shall I 
come before the Lord?” by the words, “What doth the 
Lord require of thee, but to do justly, and love ’mercy, 
and walk humbly with thy God?” All these passages, 
and many others, are directed to one object — not to dis- 
courage sacrifice, but to purify and spiritualize the feel- 
ings of the offerers. 

The same truth, here enunciated from without, is 
recognised from within by the Psalmist. Thus he says, 
in Psa. xl, 8-1 1, “ Sacrifice and meat-offering, burnt-of- 
fering and sin-offering, thou hast not required;” and con- 
trasts with them the homage of the heart — “Mine ears 
hast thou bored,” and the active service of life — “ Lo! I 
come to do thy will, O God.” In Psa. 1, 13, 14, sacrifice 
is contrasted with prayer and adoration (comp. Psa. cxli, 
2): “Thinkest thou that I will eat bulls’ flesh, and 
drink the blood of goats? Offer unto God thanksgiv- 
ing; and pay thy vows to the Most High : and call upon 
me in the day of trouble.” In Psa. li, 16, 17, it is similar- 
ly contrasted with true repentance of the heart: “The 
sacrifice of God is a troubled spirit, a broken and a con- 
trite heart.” Yet here also the next verse shows that 
sacrifice was not superseded, but purified: “ Then shalt 
thou be pleased with burnt- offerings and oblations; 
then shall they offer vonng bullocks upon thine altar.” 
These passages are correlative to the others, expressing 
the feelings, which those others in God’s name require. 
It is not to be argued from them that this idea of self- 
dedication is the main one of sacrifice. The idea of 
propitiation lies below it, taken for granted by the 
prophets as by the whole people, but still enveloped in 
mystery until the Antitype should come to make all 
clear. For the evolution of this doctrine we must look 
to the N. T. ; the preparation for it by the prophets 
was (so to speak) negative, the pointing out the nullity 
of all other propitiations in themselves, and then leav- 
ing the warnings of the conscience and the cravings of 
the heart to fix men’s hearts on the better atonement 
to come. 

(2.) New-Testament Explanation . — Without entering 
directly on the great subject of the atonement (which 
would be foreign to the scope of this article), it will be 
sufficient to refer to the connection established in the 
N.T. between it and the sacrifices of the Mosaic system. 
To do this, we need do little more than analyze the 
Epistle to the Hebrews, which contains the key of the 
whole sacrificial doctrine. 

(cr.) In the first place, it follows the prophetic books 
by stating, in the most emphatic terms, the intrinsic 
nullity of all mere material sacrifices. The “gifts and 
sacrifices” of the first tabernacle could “ never make the 
sacrifices perfect, in conscience” (icard avvttfo)<nr ) : 
they were but “carnal ordinances, imposed on them till 
the time of reformation” (dio pSwatioQ) (Heb. ix. 9, 10). 
The very fact of their constant repetition is said to 
prove this imperfection, which depends on the funda- 
mental principle “that it is impossible that the blood 
of bulls and goats should take away sin” (x, 4). But 
it does not lead ns to infer that they actually had no 
spiritual efficacy if offered in repentance and faith. On 
the contrary, the object of the whole epistle is to show 
their typical and probationary character, and to assert 
that in virtue of it alone they had a spiritual meaning. 
Our Lord is declared (see l’l’et. i, 20) “to have been 
foreordained” as a sacrifice “before the foundation of 
the world;” or (as it is more strikingly expressed in 
Bev. xiii, 8) “slain from the foundation of the world.” 
The material sacrifices represented this great atone- 
ment as already made and accepted in God’s foreknowl- 
edge; and to those who grasped the ideas of sin, par- 
don, and self-dedication symbolized in them they were 
means of entering into the blessings.which the one true 


220 


SACRIFICE 


SACRIFICE 


sacrifice alone procured. Otherwise the whole sacrifi- 
cial system could have been only a superstition and a 
snare. The sins provided for by the sin-offering were 
ccrtainlv in some cases moral. The whole of the Mo- 
saic description of sacrifices clearly implies some real 
spiritual benefit to be derived from them, besides the 
temporal privileges belonging to the national theocra- 
cy. Just as Paul argues (Gal. iii, 15-20) that the prom- 
ise and covenant to Abraham were of primary, the law 
only of secondary importance — so that men had under 
the law more than they had by the law — so it must be 
said of the Levitical sacrifices. They could convey 
nothing in themselves: yet, as types, they might, if ac- 
cepted by a true, though necessarily imperfect faith, be 
means of conveying in some degree the blessings of the 
Antitype. See Type. 

(b.) This typical character of all sacrifice being thus 
set forth, the next point dwelt upon is the union in our 
Lord's person of the priest, the offerer, and the sacrifice. 
See Priest. The imperfection of all sacrifices, which 
made them, in themselves, liable to superstition and 
even inexplicable, lies in this: that, on the one hand, 
the victim seems arbitrarily chosen to be the substitute 
lor, or the representative of. the saerificer; and that, on 
the other, if there be a barrier of sin between man and 
(iod, he has no right of apprpach, or security that his 
sacrifice will be accepted; that there needs, therefore, 
to be a mediator, i. e. (according to the definition of 
Ileb. v, 1-4), a true priest, who shall, as being one with 
man, offer the sacrifice, and accept it, as being one with 
t Iod. It is shown that this imperfection, which neces- 
sarily existed in all types, without which indeed they 
would have been substitutes, not preparations for the 
antitype, was altogether done away in him : that in the 
first place he, as the representative of the whole human 
race, offered no arbitrarily chosen victim, but the will- 
ing sacrifice of his own blood; that in the second place 
he was ordained by God, by a solemn oath, to be a high- 
priest forever, “after the order of Melchisedek,” one 
“in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin,” 
united to our human nature, susceptible to its infirmi- 
ties and trials, yet, at the same time, the true Son of 
God, exalted far above all created things, and ever liv- 
ing to make intercession in heaven, now that his sacri- 
fice is over; and that, in the last place, the barrier be- 
tween man and God is by his mediation done away for- 
ever, and the most holy place once for all opened to 
man. All the points in the doctrine of sacrifice which 
had before been unintelligible were thus made clear. 

(e.) This being the case, it next follows that all the 
various kinds of sacrifices were, each in its measure, 
representatives and types of the various aspects of the 
atonement . It is clear that the atonement in this epis- 
tle, as in the N. 1’. generally, is viewed in a twofold 
light. 

(i.) On the one hand, it is set forth distinctly as a 
vicarious sacrifice which was rendered necessary by the 
sin of man, and in which the Lord “bare the sins of 
many.” It is its essential characteristic that in it he 
stands absolutely alone, offering his sacrifice without 
any reference to the faith or the conversion of men — 
offering it, indeed, for those who “ were still sinners” and 
at enmity with God. Moreover, it is called a “propi- 
tiation” (iXaa/uif or WarjTi'ifnov), Pom. iii, 24; 1 John 
ii, 2; a “ransom” (ri7ro\i'r/»w<rit;)> Korn, iii, 25; 1 Cor. 
i, 30, etc.; which, if words mean anything, must imply 
that it makes a change in the relation between God 
and man, from separation to union, from wrath to love, 
and a change in man’s state from bondage to freedom. 
In it, then, lie stands out alone as the mediator between 
God ami man; and his sacrifice is offered once for all, 
never to be imitated or repeated. 

Now, this view of the atonement is set forth in the 
Epistle to the Hebrews as typified by the sin-offering, 
especially by that particular sin-offering with which 
the high -priest entered the most holy place on the 
great day of atonement (ix, 7-12), and by that which 


hallowed the inauguration of the Mosaic covenant and 
cleansed the vessels of its ministration (ix, 13-23). In 
the same way Christ is called “our Passover, sacrificed 
for us” (1 Cor, v, 7); and is said, in even more start- 
ling language, to have been “made sin for ns,” though 
he knew no sin” (2 Cor. v, 21). This typical relation 
is pursued even into details, and our Lord’s suffering 
without the city is compared to the burning of the 
public or priestly sin-offerings without the camp (Heb. 
xiii, 10-13). The altar of sacrifice (Svaiaariipior) is 
said to have its antitype in his passion (xiii, 10). All 
the expiatory and propitiatory sacrifices of the law are 
now for the first time brought into full light. Al- 
though the principle of vicarious sacrifice still remains, 
and must remain, a mystery, yet the fact of its exist- 
ence in him is illustrated by a thousand types. As the 
sin-offering, though not the earliest, is the most funda- 
mental of all sacrifices, so the aspect of the atonement 
which it symbolizes is the one on which all others rest. 

(ii.) On the other hand, the sacrifice of Christ is set 
forth to us as the completion of that perfect obedience 
to the will of the Father which is the natural duty of 
sinless man, in which he is the representative of all 
men, and in which he calls upon us, when reconciled to 
God, to “take up the cross and follow him.” “ In the 
days of his fiesh he offered up prayers and supplica- 
tions . . . and was heard, in that he feared; though he 
were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things 
which he suffered: and being made perfect” (by that 
suffering; see ii, 10), “he became the author of salva- 
tiou to all them that obey him” (v, 7, 8, 9). In this 
view his death is not the principal object; we dwell 
rather on his lowly incarnation, and his life of humility, 
temptation, and suffering, to which that death was but 
a fitting close. In the passage above referred to the 
allusion is not to the cross of Calvary, but to the agony 
in Gethsemane, which bowed his human will to the 
will of his Father. The main idea of this view of the 
atonement is representative rather than vicarious. In 
the first view the “ second Adam” undid by his atoning 
blood the work of evil which the first Adam did; in the 
second he, bv his perfect obedience, did that which the 
first Adam left undone, and, by his grace making us 
like himself, calls upon us to follow him in the same 
path. This latter view is typified by the burnt-otter- 
ing; in respect of which the N, 4'. merely quotes and 
enforces the language already cited from the O. T., and 
especially (see Heb. x, G-9) the words of Psa. xl, 6, etc., 
which contrast with material sacrifice the “doing the 
will of God.” It is one which cannot be dwelt upon 
at all without a previous implication of the other: as 
both were embraced in one act, so are they insepara- 
bly connected in idea. Thus it is put forth in Horn xii, 
1, where the “mercies of God” (i. e. the free salvation, 
through the sin-offering of Christ’s blood, dwelt upon 
in all the preceding part of the epistle) are made the 
ground for calling on us “ to present our bodies, a liviny 
sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God,” inasmuch as we 
are all (see v, 5) one with Christ, and members of his 
body. In this sense it is that we are said to be “cruci- 
fied with Christ” (Gal. ii, 20 ; Horn, vi, (>) ; to have “the 
sufferings of Christ abound in us” (2 Cor. i,5); even to 
“till up that which is behind” (r« iaTrepppara) thereof 
(Col. i, 24); and to “be offered” {airi rcWSai) “upon 
the sacrifice of the faith” of others (Phil, ii, 17 ; comp. 
2 Tim, iv, G; 1 John iii, 1G). As without the sin-offer- 
ing of the cross this, our burnt-offering, would he im- 
possible, so also without the burnt-offering the sin-of- 
fering will to us be unavailing. 

(d.) With these views of our Lord’s sacrifice on earth, 
as typified in the Levitical sacrifices on the outer altar, 
is also to he connected the offering of his intercession 
for us in heaven, which was represented by the incense. 
In the Epistle to the Hebrews, this part of his priestly 
office is dwelt upon with particular reference to the of- 
fering of incense in the most holy place by the high- 
priest on the great day of atonement (Heb. ix, 24 28; 


SACRIFICE 


227 SACRIFICIAL FESTIVAL 


comp, iv, 14-16; vi, 19, 20; vii, 25). It implies that 
the sin -offering has been made once for all to rend 
asunder the veil (of sin) between man and God, and 
that the continual burnt-offering is now accepted by 
him for the sake of the greaJt interceding High-priest. 
That intercession is the strength of our prayers, and 
“with the smoke of its incense” they rise up to heaven 
(Rev. viii, 4). See Incense. 

(e.) The typical sense of the meat-offering or peace- 
offering is less connected with the sacrifice of Christ 
himself than with those sacrifices of praise, thanksgiv- 
ing, charity, and devotion which we, as Christians, offer 
to God, and “with which he is well pleased” (Ileb. xiii, 
15, 16) as with “an odor of sweet smell, a sacrifice ac- 
ceptable to God” (Phil, iv, 18). They betoken that 
through the peace won by the sin-offering we have al- 
ready been enabled to dedicate ourselves to God, and 
they are, as it were, the ornaments and accessories of 
that self-dedication. See Peace-offering. 

Such is a brief sketch of the doctrine of sacrifice. It 
is seen to have been deeply rooted in men’s hearts, and 
to have been, from the beginning, accepted and sanc- 
tioned by God, and made by him one channel of his 
revelation. In virtue of that sanction it had a value, 
partly symbolical, partly actual, but in all respects de- 
rived from the one true sacrifice, of which it was the 
type. It involved the expiatory, the self-dedicatory, 
and the eucharistic ideas, each gradually developed and 
explained, but all capable of full explanation only by 
the light reflected back from the antitype. 

Literature. — This is very copious, as may be seen 
from the lists of works cited by Danz ( Worterb . s. v. 
“Opfer”), Darling ( Cyclop . Bibliog. [see Index]), and 
Malcolm ( Theol . Index, s. v.), as also from the references 
in the following articles. See especially Kurtz, Der alt - 
testanu Opfer cult us (Mitau, 1862); transl. Sacrificial 
Worship of the Old Test. (Edinb. 1863). 

SACRIFICE, Human. The offering of human life, 
as the most precious thing on earth, came in process of 
time to be practiced in most countries of the world. All 
histories and traditions darken our idea of the earlier 
ages with human sacrifices. But the period when such 
prevailed was not the earliest in time, though probably 
the earliest in civilization. The practice was both a 
result and a token of barbarism more or less gross. In 
this, too, the dearest object was primitively selected. 
Human life is the most valuable thing known, and of 
this most precious possession the most precious portion 
is the life of a child. Children, therefore, were offered 
in fire to the false divinities, and in no part of the world 
with less regard to the claims of natural affection than 
in the land where, at a later period, the only true God 
had his peculiar worship and highest honors. 

Under these circumstances, it is a striking fact that 
the Hebrew religion, even in its most rudimcntal condi- 
tion, should be free from the contamination of human 
sacrifices. The case of Isaac and that of Jephthah’s 
daughter cannot impair the general truth that the of- 
fering of human beings is neither enjoined, allowed, nor 
practiced in the Biblical records. On the contrar\ r , such 
an offering is strictly prohibited by Moses as adverse to 
the will of God and an abomination of the heathen. 
“Thou shalt not let any of thy seed pass through the 
fire to Moloch: defile not yourselves with any of these 
things” (Lev. xviii, 21; see also xx, 2; Dent, xii, 31; 
Psa. evi, 37 ; Isa. lxvi, 3 ; Jer. xxiii, 37). Yet in an age 
in which, like the present, all manner of novelties are 
broached, and, in some cases, the greater the paradox 
advanced with the more promptitude and maintained 
with the greater earnestness, these very clear positions 
have been withstood, and human sacrifices have been 
confidently charged on the Hebrew race. In the year 
1842, Ghillanv, professor at Nuremberg, published a book 
(Die Menschenopfer der alien I lehr Her) , the object of 
which was to prove that as the religion of the ancient 
Hebrews did not differ essentially from that of the Ca- j 
naanites — so that Moloch, who had been originally a god 


common to both, merely in the process of time was soft- 
ened down and passed into Jehovah, thus becoming the 
national deity of the people of Israel— so did their altars 
smoke with human blood, from the time of Abraham 
down to the fall of both kingdoms of Judah and Israel. 
In the same year appeared in Germany another work, 
by Daumer ( Der Feuer- i aid Molochdienst der alien He - 
braer), intended to prove that the worship of Moloch, 
involving his bloody rites, was the original, legal, and 
orthodox worship of the nation of Abraham, Moses, Sam- 
uel, and David. To these works a reply was put forth 
in 1843, by Lowengard ( Jehovah , nicht Moloch, war der 
Gait der alien Ilebraer ), in which he defends the worship 
of Jehovah from the recent imputations, and strives, by 
distinguishing between the essential and the unessen- 
tial, the durable and the temporary, to prepare the way 
for a reformation of modern Judaism. 

Wc do not think that it requires any deep research 
or profound learning to ascertain from the Biblical rec- 
ords themselves that the religion of the Bible is wholly 
free from the shocking abominations of human sacri- 
fices, and we do not therefore hesitate to urge the fact 
on the attention of the ordinary reader as not least con- 
siderable among many proofs not only of the superior 
character, but of the divine origin, of the Hebrew wor- 
ship. It was in Egypt where the mind of Moses, and 
of the generation with whom he had primarily to do, 
was chiefly formed, so far as heathen influences were 
concerned. Here offerings were very numerous. Sac- 
rifices of meat-offerings, libations, and incense were of 
very early date in the Egyptian temples. Oxen, wild 
goats, pigs, and particularly geese, were among the ani 
mal offerings: besides these, there were presented to the 
gods wine, oil, beer, milk, cakes, grain, ointment, flow 
ers, fruits, vegetables. In these, and in the case of 
meat-, peace-, and sin-offerings (as well as others), there 
exists a striking resemblance with similar Hebrew ob- 
servances, which may be found indicated in detail in 
Wilkinson (Manners and Customs of the Ancient Egyp- 
tians , v, 358 sq. ; see also ii, 378), who, in agreement 
with Herodotus, maintains, in opposition to Diodorus, 
that the Egyptians were never accustomed to sacrifice 
human beings — a decision which has a favorable aspect 
on our last position, namely, that the religion of the 
Israelites, even in its earliest days, was unprofaned by 
human blood. A remarkable instance of disagreement 
between the observances of the Egyptians and the Jews 
in regard to sacrifices is that w hile the Egyptians re- 
ceived the blood of the slaughtered animal into a vase 
or basin, to be applied in cookery, the eating of blood 
w as most strictly forbidden to the Israelites (Deut. xv, 
23). — Kitto. 

Sacrificial Festival (ilfl). This w^as held with 
the pieces of the victims laid aside from sacrifices of 
a joyful nature (epulee sacra*, dupes'), not only in all 
ancient heathen nations (Saubert, De Sacrifc. c. 26; 
Feith, Antiq. Horn, i, 10, 7 ; Stuck, Antiq. Conviv. i, 33 ; 
Lakemacher, A ntiq. Greccor. Sucre? , p. 384 sq. ; Doug- 
taei Annul, i, 235; on the Romans, see, among others, 
Josephus, War, vii, 1,3; comp, also Plato, Leg. v, p. 738 ; 
Herod, vi, 67), but also among the Israelites (Deut. xii, 
6 sq. ; 1 Sam. ix, 19; xvi, 3, 5; 2 Sam. vi, 19). Only 
the thank-offerings of individuals, however, among that 
people gave opportunity for these festivals, sinee of these 
alone certain rich portions w r ere consumed on the altar 
(Lev. iii, 3 sq., 9 sq.; xiv, 15); the breast and the right 
shoulder belonged to the officiating priests (vii, 31 sq.), 
and all the rest of the flesh was restored to the offerer 
(Dent, xxvii, 7). This was to be eaten on the same or 
the follow ing day (Lev. vii, 16), and in the company of 
all members of the household and of bidden guests (the 
Levites especially were often invited) (Dent, xii, 12). 
Other sacred meals were held at the times of festivals 
(xvi, II sq.). Upon the tithe meal, see Titiie. Hea- 
then sacrificial meals, which were held sometimes in the 
temples (1 Cor. viii, 10), sometimes in private houses, 


SACRIFICIAL OFFERING 


SACRIFICIAL INSTRUMENTS 228 


are mentioned (Numb, xxv, 2). The participation of 
an Israelite in these was accounted idolatry (xxv, 3 sq. ; 
Psa. evi, 28; Tob. i, 1*2: 1 Cor. x, 20 sq. ; Hew ii, 14); 
lienee, too, the apostles forbade Christians to join them 
(Acts xv. 29; xxi, 25), or at least warned against them 
on account of those who were weak in faith (1 Cor. viii, 
1 sq. ; x, 28 sq.). Such “meat offered to idols,” how- 
ever, was set forth on the table not only at the sacrifi- 
cial meals (1 Cor. viii, 10; x, 27), but the poor or the 
avaricious used to preserve it for future use (Theophr. 
Char . x) or sell it to traders (ibid, xxiii); hence it might 
easily happen that one who bought at the meat market 
received it (1 Cor. x, 25).— Winer. See Festival. 

Sacrificial Instruments in tiie Israelitisii 
Sanctuary. For the use of the priests in offering sac- 
rifices, especially those with blood, there were kept in 
the tabernacle (Fxod. xxvii, 3 ; xxxviii, 3; Numb, iv, 
14) and in the Temple (l Kings vii, 40, 45; 2 Kings 
xxv, 14 sq. ; Jer. lii, 18 sq.) the following inplements 
of bras&: 

1. yai/n', shovels, perhaps to free the altar of 

burnt-offering from its ashes; to which the si- 

roth', or pots , belonged, into which they w'ere thrown. 

2. ripnp, mizrakoth basins, to take up the blood 
of the victims for sprinkling. 

3. jp, mizlayoth' , forks, flesh-forks. 

4. r*nnp, machtoth', firepans, in which coals were 
taken up. 

The brazen ri-BSJp, mezammeroth’ (Jer. lii, 18), 
may be considered as belonging here, and will then 
doubtless mean sacrificial knives, elsewhere called 
'C. m 'Z~7} m 2,machlaphitn\ See Knife. The golden rases 
or vessels mentioned in 1 Kings vii, 50 are certainly dif- 
ferent from those just mentioned (No. 2), and were in- 
tended for use in the holy place. — Winer. See Sacri- 
fice; Temple. 

Sacrificial Offering. There is no doubt that 
the origin of sacrifices is to be referred to the very ear- 
liest ages of humanity, w’here also the Mosaic history 
places it (Gen. iv, 3 sq.; viii, 20; xxii, 2; xxxi, 54; 
xlvi, 1 ; comp, llottinger, De Oriyine Sacrifc. Patri- 
arch. [Marb. 1 70G]). While men as yet made little 
distinction between the sensible and the supernatural, 
they sought to acquire or fix the favor of their gods, or 
to express their gratitude for their gifts, by thank-offer- 
ings, usually of some kind of food, since they attributed 
to their gods the wants of men (Lev. xxi, 6; xxii, 25; 
Numb, xxviii, 2; comp. Pliny, ii, 5, p. 73 [ed. Hard.] ; 
Homer, Iliad, iv. 48; Aristoph. A res, 1510 sq.; comp. 
Pauly's Real- Encyklop. iv, 839 sq.). (On the meaning 
and kinds of offerings, see Melnncthon, in the .1 pol. A . C. 
p. 253 sq. A contracted view is taken by Sykes, Utber 
d. Xaiur, Absicht u. Urspr. d. Opfer [Halle, 1778]. 
There is a vain attempt to philosophize, hv Kosenkranz, 
in the Hall. EncykJ. vol. iii, § iv, p. 74; comp. Hander, 
Veber dne kiinft. Theorie d. OpJ'ers and Cult us [Munich, 
1830] ; Hiihr, Symbol, ii, 288 sq.) The sensualism of an 
early age expressed itself, too, in supposing a god to 
he pleased with the odor of sacrifices (Lev. i, If, 13; 
Numb, xv, 7 sq. ; Lucian, fcaromcn. 27). The sacrifices 
were usually of such food as men themselves most en- 
joyed, and of the greatest excellence in their kind (1 
Sam. xv, 15; Psa. lxvi, 15), and were either raw or pre- 
pared in such a way as to be most palatable. Hence 
doubtless the use of salt (q. v.). Perhaps Gift first of- 
ferings were productions of the vegetable kingdom 
(Plato, Ley. vi, 782), and then honey, milk, etc., animals 
not being offered until later (Theophr. in Porphyr. Ab- 
stinent. ii, f>, and xxviii, 33; comp. Plato, Ley. vi, 782; 
Ovid, Fasti, i, 337 ; Pnusnn. viii. 2, 1). For the history 
informs us that man began with vegetable food, and 
afterwards to eat flesh (comp. Gen. i, 29; ix, 3; see 
Sehickedanz, De Xntura Sacrif F. T. ex Seculi Morib. 
repi tend. [Francf. 1781], and in the Symbol. Duisb. II, ii, 


493 sq.), and perhaps the sacrifice of animals may have 
led to the burning of the sacrifices on altars. (See in 
general Gedicke, Verm . Schrift. p. 229 sq.; Wolf, Verm. 
Schrift. n. A ujs. [Halle, 1802], p. 243 sq.; Saubert, De 
Sacrifc . Vet. Collectanea [Jen. 1659]; Meiner, Krit. 
Gesch. der Religion , ii, 1 sq. ; Baur, Symbol, u. My t hoi. 
II, ii, 284 sq.) It is commonly supposed that the first 
offerings w ere of immediate divine appointment (Dey- 
ling. OhserraL ii, 53 sq.), but this is not affirmed in the 
Mosaic history (comp. Wolf, Homines Mose Veiustiores 
Spent e Sacra fecisse, etc. [Lips. 1782]), and is rejected 
bv some as anthropopathism. The views of those who 
seek definite dogmatic relations in the first sacrifices, as 
Tholuck (2/e Beil, zum Bi\ a. d. Hebr. p. 69), do not 
belong to historical criticism, but to dogmatic theology 
(see also the Zeitschr.f wissensch. Theol. 1863, iii). 

On the ritual of sacrifice among the Hebrews in gen- 
eral, see Lightfoot, De Ministerio Templi , in his lFor&s, 
and in Ugolino, vol. ix, ch. viii; Carpzov, A pp. p. 699 
sq. ; Ontram, De Sacrif. Lib. (Lond. 1677), vol. ii (only 
the first book relates to the Jewish sacrifices); Belaud, 
A ntiq . Sacr. iii, 1 ; Bauer. Gottesdienst - T ’ erfass . i. 80 sq. ; 
Hosenmiiller, Excursus i, ad Lev.; Gramberg, Reliy.- 
Ideen, i, 94 sq.: Scholl, in the Wurtembery. Stud. I. ii, 
152 sq. ; IV, i, 3 sq. ; V, i, 108 sq.; Biihr, Symbol, ii, 189 
sq.; Kurtz, Das mos. OpJ'er (Mitau, 1842). The Jewish 
views of the ritual of sacrifice are especially set forth in 
the tracts Sebachim . Menachotk, and Temura, in the 
fifth part of the Mishna. From these and the rabbins 
extracts are given by Otho, Lex. Talm. p. 621 sq. The 
entire Babylonish Gemara to the tract Sebachim, and 
the Tosiphta to the same tract, arc found in Hebrew’ and 
Latin in Ugolini Thesaur. vol. xix. Many parallels 
and explanations are found in the Phoenician table of 
offerings discovered some years since in Marseilles, and 
published, with a commentary, by Movers (Breslau, 
1847). (On the offerings of other Eastern and Western 
nations, see Fliigel, Vblkel, and Wachter, in the Ilall. 
Encykl. iii, § iv, p. 77 sq.) 

The law adopted as a model the sacrifices already 
long in use, and gives exact directions as to the kinds 
of sacrifices and the ceremonies of offering. (We can- 
not here discuss the question of how much of this law 
was Mosaic. In answer to the view of De Wette, Von 
Bohlen, George, and others that the greater part had a 
still later origin, see Bleek, in the Stud. v. Krit. 1831, 
iii, 491 sq. ; Biihr, Symbol, ii, 192 sq.) This law of of- 
ferings may be summed up thus: 

1. The subjects to be sacrificed, in the proper sense 
of the word, which were laid, that is, on the burning 
altar of Jehovah, must be borrowed as well out of the 
vegetable as the animal kingdom. (In the w ider sense of 
offering , even tithes, first-fruits, and incense are included. 
Comp, the offering of wood, Neh. x. 35.) lienee there 
is a distinction between offerings without blood (rinSw, 
menachoth, 7rpo(T(})opai , ()u>pa) and offerings with blood 
(-'POT, zebachim, Swim). See 1 Sam. ii, 29; iii, 14, 
Psa. xl, 7; Hob. viii, 3. The latter w’ere considered 
the more important. But salt, a mineral, was added to 
every distinct sacrifice of either kind. The vegetable 
products offered were both solid and fluid ; of the for- 
mer, roasted grain, Hour, cakes w’ith olive-oil (the cakes 
always without leaven or honey), and incense .ns an ac- 
companiment, formed the meat-offerings (the Pin:*2, 
minchdh, in the proper sense) ; of the latter, wine formed 
the drink-offerings (7jp2, nesek). The animals offered 
must be clean, and such as were fit for food (Josephus, 
Ant. xii, 5, 4; comp. Gen. viii, 20), and must, be tame 
beasts, as cattle (Bocbart, Ilieroz. i, 326 sq.), goats, 
sheep, and sometimes turtle-doves and young pigeons, 
but never fishes. They must be altogether free from 
deformity (spotless, perfect, dvovpoQ. ri\sioQ, Lev. xxii, 
‘20 sq.; comp. Mai. i, 8, 14; Herod, ii, 38; Plutarch, Orac. 
Def. p.49; Ovid, .1/e/, xv, 130; Virgil, JEn. iv, 57 ; Plinv, 
viii, 70; At hen. xv, 674; Tertull. A pol. c. 14; with the 


SACRIFICIAL OFFERING 


229 SACRIFICIAL OFFERING 


passage in Plutarch may be compared Politic. Onom . i, 1, 
29; SehoL ad Aristoph. Acorn, p. 785; on tiie expres- 
sions in Lev. xxii, 20 sq., see Bochart, flieroz. i, 594 sq. ; 
comp. Baldinger, pries. Hottinger, I)e Victim, Integritate 
et Mysteno [Ileidelb. 1731]). Except the doves, they 
must be at least eight days old, because younger flesh 
is unlit for food (Exod. xxii, 30; Lev. xxii, 27), the 
smaller cattle being usually yearlings (sheep, goats, 
calves, Exod. xxix, 38; Lev. ix, 3; xii, G; xiv, 10; 
xxiii, 12, 18 sq. ; Numb, xv, 27; xxviii, 9 sq.), while 
the larger were young, perhaps usually three years old 
(yet Judg. vi, 25 mentions a bull of seven years as a 
sacrifice; comp. Pliny, viii, 77; Herod, ii, 38). The 
sex of four-footed beasts for sacrifice was sometimes in- 
different (as in thank- and sin-offerings; comp. Lev. iii, 
1, 6; yet in all public offerings the Mishna requires 
males, Temura, ii, 1), and sometimes males were re- 
quired, as in burnt-offerings; for the male sex was con- 
sidered the superior. The choice of the kind of beast 
was free in the burnt -offerings and thank-offerings 
(Lev. i, 2; iii, 1, 6), but was determined by law in the 
trespass- and sin-offerings (iv, 3). Human sacrifices, as 
heathenish (xviii, 21; xx, 2 sq. ; Deut. xii, 31), were 
avoided by the pious Israelites (Psa. cvi, 37), although 
their sacred history contained an example of the pur- 
posed sacrifice of a son bv his father (Gen. xxii), and 
in the unsettled days of the judges a daughter fell 
under the sacrificial knife of her superstitious father 
(Judg. xi). On the human sacrifices of other nations, 
see Baur, Mythology , II, ii, 293 sq. ; Wachsmuth, llellen. 
Alterth. ii, 549 sq.; and on those of the apostate Israel- 
ites, see Moloch. The slanderous statement that the 
Jews slaughtered strangers and drank their blood arose 
about, the time of Antioehus Epiphanes (see Josephus, 
A pion, ii, 8 ; Ghillanv, Die Afenschenopfer der alien IJeb. 
[ Nuremberg, 1842] {flail. Lit. Zeit. 1844, No. 220-223). 
The legal and regular circle of sacrificial beasts is ex- 
plicable from the agricultural pursuits of the Israelites: 
oxen, goats, and sheep were the usual stock of farmers, 
and corn, oil, and wine were the chief productions of 
the soil for the commonest wants of life. The addition 
of doves springs from the fact that scarcely any creatures 
w ith life suitable for sacrifice eould be found save among 
birds, and doves w 7 ere the most common domestic birds. 
But why not chickens; and why, according to the 
rabbins, eould not chickens be kept in the holy city? 
(comp. Eskuche, De Gcillis et Gallinis ad A ram .force 
non Fact is [Pint. 1741]). See Fatted Fowl. Each 
person was required to furnish his own sacrifices, and 
those who lived near enough drove them from their 
own herds. But later there arose in Jerusalem traders 
in beasts for sacrifice ( victimarii negotiatores ; Pliny, 11. 
N. vii, 10; Mishna, Shekal. vii, 2), and at the time of 
Jesus a regular market for this purpose stood in the 
vicinity of the Temple (q. v.). 

2. The place w'here alone sacrifices might be presented 
w’as the court of the national sanctuary — the tabernacle 
first and afterwards the Temple (Deut. xii, 5 sq., 11), 
and every offering elsewhere w 7 as to be punished with 
death (Lev. xvii, 4 sq. ; Deut. xii, 13; comp. 1 Kings 
xii, 27). The place is more exactly called “the door 
of the tabernacle of the congregation” (Lev. i,8 ; iii, 2- 
8; iv, 4, 14); and, according to the Mishna ( Sebach . e. 
5), the offerings were slain, part on the north side of 
the altar, part, the less holy, at any place in the court 
indifferently (comp. Plato, Leges , x, 910). Those regu- 
lations w-ere designed to prevent the idolatrous worship 
wdiieh might have been concealed under the mask of 
the legal ritual. Besides, the common place of worship 
must have had a beneficial infiuenee on the spirit of a 
nation so torn into factions (comp. 1 Kings xii, 27). 
This common place of sacrifice was not alw ays observed 
in the time of the judges, nor even of David (1 Kings 
iii, 2, 3). Sacrifices were made away from the taber- 
nacle (Judg. ii, 5; 1 Sam. vii, 17; 1 Kings i, 9), espe- 
cially on high-places (Judg. vi, 20; xiii, 19; Hos. iv, 
13). Even the law-abiding Samuel did this (1 Sam. 


1. c.), and David tolerated it (1 Kings iii, 2 sq.). These 
sacrifices on high -places lasted after Solomon’s time, 
even under theocratic kings. In the kingdom of Israel 
the common place of sacrifice w f as abandoned. In the 
time of the judges the irregularity sprang from the con- 
fusion of jurisdiction and the unsettled condition of the 
people, everywhere pressed by their enemies; yet it is, 
on the whole, probable that such entire exclusiveness of 
locality was not so severely demanded by the Mosaic 
law 7 as later, alter the unfortunate consequences of pri- 
vate and voluntary sacrifices were seen. 

3. r lhe purpose of the sacrifices was special — either 
to thank God for benefits received, or to propitiate him 
because of sins and errors. Hence the distinction of 
thank-offerings and sin- and trespass-offerings. The 
burnt-offerings had a more general tendency (comp, the 
division of sacrifices in Philo, Opp. ii, 240; see Scholl, in 
Klaiber’s Studien, iv, I, 36 sq.). The Hebrew sacrifices 
are enumerated, though not defined with exactness, in 
Numb, xv, 3 sq. ; Deut. xii, 6; Jer. xvii, 26. On the 
classes of Carthaginian sacrifices, see Movers (Phbniz. p. 
19, 41). These various offerings produced great variety 
of ceremonies, as now 7 in the masses of the Roman Cath- 
olics. On great public festivals, great collective offer- 
ings like hecatombs are mentioned (1 Kings viii, 5, 63 
sq. ; 2 Chron. xxix, 32 sq. ; xxx. 24; xxxv, 7 sq. ; 
comp. Herod, vii, 43; Xenoph. Hell, vi, 4, 29; Suetou. 
Calig. 14; Capitol, in Maxim, et Balbin. e. 11). 

Offerings were sometimes public (comp. Herod, vi, 
57 ; Xenoph. A then, ii, 9), sometimes private, sometimes 
prescribed, sometimes voluntary; the latter were some- 
times family sacrifices (1 Sam. i, 21 ; xx, 6). One per- 
son had sacrifices offered for another, as the Catholics 
with masses (Job i, 5; 2 Maec. iii, 32). Not only the 
Israelites, but the heathen, were permitted to sacrifice to 
Jehovah (Numb, xv, 14; 2 Mace, iii, 35; xiii, 23; 
Philo, Opp. ii, 569; Josephus, Apion, ii, 5; Mishna, 
Shekal. vii, 6), and the Jews even made sacrifices for 
heathen princes on the altars of Jehovah ,(1 Maec. vii, 
33; Josephus, Ant. xii, 2, 5). Originally they were of- 
! fered only for the living, sometimes when death was 
near (Sir. xxxviii, 11); but after the resurrection be- 
came a general belief sacrifices for the dead arose (2 
Mace, xii, 43). There is, indeed, no other instance, and 
perhaps they never were customary, especially as they 
are not in harmony with the law (see Grotins, ad loc.). 
The polemic writers against the Catholic masses for the 
dead repudiate them indignantly (Chemnitz, Exam. 
Condi. Trid. p. 736 sq. [ed. Francf.]; Pfaft', Kum ex 2 
Macc. xii, 39 sq. adstn/i possint Missce et Preces pro 
Defunctis [Tubing. 1749]), or suppose that the narrator 
forged the account (Hvper. in the Miscell. Duisburg, i, 
453). 

4. In the sacrifice of offerings with blood the ow 7 ner 
himself (see Hottinger, De Function. Laic, drea Victim. 
[Marburg, 1706]), after being cleansed and sanctified 
(1 Sam. xvi, 5; Job i, 5; comp. Josephus, Apion, ii, 23; 
Hesiod, Opp. p. 724 sq. ; Ovid, Met am. x, 434 sq. ; 
Tibul. ii, 1, 11 : Herod, ii, 37), led the beast to the altar 
(Lev. iii, 1, 12; iv, 14; xvii, 4). Among the Greeks 
and Romans the horns of the beast w 7 ere gilded (Homer, 
Iliad , x, 294; Odys. iii, 384, 426; Plato, Aldb. ii, c. 20; 
Virgil, sEn. ix, 927 ; Macrob. Sat. i, 17, p. 29, ed. Bip.) 
and crow-ned (comp. Acts xiv, 13; see Ovid, Metam. 
xv, 131; Lucian, Sacrif. vol. xii; Lveophron. Alex. p. 
327; Statius, Theb. iv, 449; Pliny, xvi, 4; Strabo, xv, 
732; Athen. xv, 674; see Wetstein, ii, 543; Waleh, 
Dissert, ad A eta Apost. iii, 200). That this custom pre- 
vailed among the Jews, at least with the thank-offer- 
ings, is less clear from Josephus (Ant. xiii, 8, 2) than 
from the Mishna (Bikknrim, iii, 2 sq.; comp, in general 
Lakemaeher, Obserr. i, 79 sq.). The ow ner laid his hand 
upon the head of the beast (Lev. i, 4; iii, 2; iv, 4, 15, 
24; viii, 18; comp, the Egyptian custom, Herod, ii, 40). 
If the sacrifice w 7 as that of a community, the elders per- 
formed this duty (Lev. iv, 15); but when the offering 
w 7 as public, i. e. in the name of the whole people, the 


SACRIFICIAL OFFERING 


230 


SACRIFICIAL OFFERING 


ritual mentions this imposition of the hand but in one 
case (xvi, 21; comp, t lie Mishna, Menack . ix, 7; yet 
see 2 Chron. xxix, 23), this ceremony being the formal 
consecration of the beast to Jehovah : not the laying of 
the penalty due to sin upon the sacrifice, as lloehart 
thinks (// ieroz . i, 330), for the ceremony occurs in the 
case of the thank-offering. According to the rabbins, a 
regular form of words was used in laying the hands on 
the victim (Maimon. J/ilch. Korban, iii, 9) ; then it was 
slain (Lev. iii, 2; iv, 4, 15, 2-1; viii, 15, 19), but this 
might be, and in later times actually was, done by the 
priests (2 Chron. xxix, 21) ; perhaps even by the Le- 
vites, but 2 Chron. xxx, 17 does not prove this. Among 
the Homans, ollicers called popte or rictiinarii slew the 
victim (1 loch art, II ieroz. i, 330). The blood was then 
taken up, and in dillerent sacrifices variously sprinkled 
or poured out by the priest (llottinger, I)e Function. 
i 'Saver, circa Victim. [Marb. 170G]). According to the 
varying character of the ottering, the blood was sprin- 
kled, or brought into the Temple and there sprinkled 
upon the ark of the covenant, and put on the horns of 
the altar of burnt-offering, and the remainder thrown 
out at the foot of the altar of burnt-offering. The sac- 
rilicer (yet comp. 2 Chron. xxix, 34) then took off the 
skin of the victim (Lev. i, G), which belonged, when not 
burned (iv, 11), either to the priests (vii, 8; only said 
of the burnt-offering) or to the offerer (comp, the direc- 
tions in the Talmud — Mishna, Sebach. xii, 2 sq.). So, 
too, among the Carthaginians (see the lists of offerings 
found in Marseilles, 3, 4, 8, JO). In Sparta the skins 
of public sacrifices belonged to the kings (Herod, vi, 57). 
The victim was cut to pieces (Lev. i, G; viii, 20), which 
were, in various sacrifices, either all (as the burnt-offer- 
ings), or certain specially valued pieces (in all other 
offerings; comp. Isa. i, 1 1 ; Strabo, xv, 732; Catull. xl, 
5), burned by the priest upon the altar. In the latter 
case the flesh belonged to the priests or to the sacrilicer, 
or must be burned outside of the city. (On the cere- 
mony of offering the doves, see Lev. i, 14 sq. ; v, 8; 
comp, llottinger, De Suer. A vium [Marb. 1 70G].) The 
ceremonies of heaving and waving took place in some 
sacrifices either before or after the victim was killed. 
See IIeave-offeking; Wave-offering. 

5. The yearly expense of sacrifices, both by individ- 
uals and the whole people, was not trifling; yet house- 
holders had at hand most of the necessary offerings, and 
wood was brought from the forests. (On the limits 
within which wood was obtained for Temple use in the 
later age, see the Mi.slma, Tuanitk , iv, 5. For the trees 
used as sacrificial wood, see the tract Tumid , ii, 3.) 
Later, foreign princes who desired the favor of the 
Jews applied from their revenues a portion to public 
sacrifices (Ezra vi, 9; 1 Macc. x, 39; 2 Maec. iii, 3; ix, 
Hi ; .Josephus, A nt. xii, 3, 3). (On a peculiar festival of 
carrying wood, see Josephus, 117/?-, ii, 17, G. It was 
held in the beginning of the month KIul). 

G. As an expression of pious gratitude, and of rever- 
ence towards Jehovah (l\sa. Ixvi, 15; cx,3; Sir. xxxviii, 
4; comp. Matt, viii, 4; Acts xxi, 2G), sacrifices were 
presented in abundance by the Hebrews through all 
antiquity, and he who offered none was accounted irre- 
ligious (Eccles. ix, 2; comp. Isa. xliii, 23 sq.). Oaths 
were made by the offerings (Matt, xxiii, IS), and in 
descriptions of golden antiquity the ideally magnified 
splendor of the sacrificial ritual appears (Isa. xix, 21 ; 

1 vi, 7; lx, 7 ; Zecli. xiv, 21 ; Jer. xvii, ‘2G; xxxiii, 18), 
while the want of sacrifice is among the terrors of 
threatened exile (Hos. iii, 4). Yet the Israelites often 
forgot in the symbol the higher affection of the heart, 
and their offerings became an opus opera turn. Accord- 
ingly the prophets occasionally give warning against 
overvaluing sacrifices, ami strive to call forth a pious 
disposition, as more pleasing to God than they are, since 
in them the heart feels nothing (Isa. i, 1 1 ; Jer. vi, 20; 
vii, 21 sq. ; Ilos. vi, G; Amos v, 22; Mic. vi, G sq.; 
eomp. l*sa. xl, 7 ; l,9sq.; Ii, 18 sq.; Prov. xxi. 3 ; Matt, 
v, 23 sq.; Sir. xxxv, 1; comp. Plato, Alcib. ii, 150; 


Diod. Sic. xii, 20; Ovid, lleroid. xx, 18 1 sq.; Seneca, 
Benef i, G; comp. Siebelis Disput. p. 12 L sq.). Such 
representations do not justify us in denying to the older 
Israelites the authropopathic view of sacrifices, and forc- 
ing upon ancient simplicity an artificial doctrine. Yet 
this is done by lliihr ( Symbol . ii, 198 sq. ; comp. Hoff, 
J)ie mos. Opjer nach Hirer sinn - it. vorbildl. BedenU 
[Warsaw, 1845]), who, starting with the statement that 
offerings with blood were the germ of all (in reference 
to Lev. xvii, 1 1), finds in the Mosaic sacrifices the doc- 
trine of symbolic substitution. 44 The offering and bring- 
ing near of the nephesh , or life, in the sacrificial blood 
upon the altar, as the place of the presence and revela- 
tion of God, is a symbol of the offering of the nephesh, ox. 
life, of the sacrilicer to Jehovah. As this presentation 
of the blood is a giving-up to death of the animal life, 
so must also the spiritual life of self, as opposed to God, 
be given up and die. Hut since the giving-up is to Je- 
hovah, the Holy One, it is not merely a ceasing, some- 
thing negative, but a dying, which in the very act is a 
becoming alive,” etc. Apart from all the assumption 
in this theory, it is entirely too artificial, one might say 
too Christian, for Israeli tish antiquity. It is necessary, 
too, to assume that the sacrifices with blood were the 
original ones, which is not proven; and the doctrine 
cannot be extended without violence to any but sin-of- 
ferings (see Kurtz, Mos. Opfer , p. 7 sq.), in which it 
cannot be denied that the idea of substitution is found. 

In the period after the exile arose the Essenes, who 
went further than the prophets, and retained of the out- 
ward ritual only the lustrations, not ottering sacrifices 
at all (Josephus, .4 nt. xviii. 1,5). It is well known that 
all the ceremonial of sacrifice has been given up by the 
Jews, since they no longer possess the Temple moun- 
tain ; yet the Samaritans still yearly offer seven Iambs 
on Mount Gerizim at the Passover (Robinson, iii, 98 
sq.). — Winer. See Offering. 

The fact that every individual who brought a sacri- 
fice had to be present in the Temple when it was of- 
fered gave rise to the opinion that the daily morning 
and evening sacrifices which were brought for the whole 
congregation of Israel required that the congregation 
should be represented in the Temple at the offering of 
these national sacrifices. Hence the whole people was 
divided into twenty-four divisions or orders, correspond- 
ing to the divisions of the priests and Levites. Ev- 
ery division chose a number of representatives (“ttTSX 
one of whom was appointed chief (^^'EH), 
and in turn sent up some of them as a deputation to 
Jerusalem to represent the nation at the daily sacrifices 
in the Temple, and pronounce the prayers and blessings 
in behalf of the people while the sacrifices were offered. 
They had also to fast four days (i. e. the second, third, 
fourth, and fifth day) during the week of their repre- 
sentation. Those of the representatives who remained 
at home assembled in a synagogue to pray during the 
time of sacrifice. See Temple. 

It will he observed from the above notices that there 
was one grand point of difference between the Jews 
and the heathens: the sacrificial rites of the former 
were never stained with human blood, than which noth- 
ing could be conceived more abhorrent to all the attri- 
butes of Jehovah (Jephthah’s daughter is no exception, 
for it cannot he proved with certainty that she was sac- 
rificed; on the contrary, many interpreters think that 
she was solemnly dedicated to the service of God). Hut 
the testimony of innumerable writers proves that no hea- 
then nation has been free from human sacrifices; such 
having occurred, even among civilized people, at some 
period of their history, especially on some great occa- 
sion, to expiate a great sin or avert some dreadful ca- 
lamity. Even to this day among the Hindus, w r hose 
tenets forbid blood-shedding, human self-immolations, 
or sacrificial suicides, are common. Another point of dif- 
ference is found in the animal sacrifices, which, among 
the heathens, were frequently of such as were particu- 


SACRILEGE 


231 


SACRILEGIUM 


larlv forbidden in the Mosaic law — unclean animals 
and beasts of prey; such as dogs offered to Hecate, 
swine to Mars (in the Suovetcturilia ), and wolves to 
Apollo. Heathens in their sacrifices poured oil over 
the beast, which the Jews did not; they (the former) 
burned only a portion of the frankincense presented; 
the Jews burned all. The Greeks offered honey to the 
sun; in Jewish sacrifices it was forbidden; and the Sa- 
bian idolaters ate the blood of their sacrifices, which 
Maimonides thinks was one of the reasons why it was 
so particularly prohibited to the Jews. Their bread- 
offerings also were leavened. Some points of similar- 
ity are to be found between the Jewish and heathen 
sacrifices. The heathens brought their victims to the 
temples, chose them without blemish, poured out liba- 
tions of wine, cut the animal’s throat, flayed and dis- 
sected it, caught the blood in a vessel, and poured it on 
and round the altar; and they used salt by mixing 
some with meal, and sprinkling it on the head of the 
animal, on which they also laid their hands. In the 
early times the sacrifice was burned w hole, the skin be- 
ing given to the priest; but later, part only was con- 
sumed and the rest given to the sacrificers (if it was an 
eatable animal) to feast upon. The thighs and fat 
were the share of the gods. The victims among the 
Greeks and Homans were crowned with garlands and 
adorned with fillets and ribbons, and the horns of large 
animals were gilded. None of these decorations are 
enjoined in the Jewish sacrifices. See Sacrifice. 



Roman Sacrifice of the Suovetaurilia. 

Sacrilege (ispoaoXiuj, to rob a temple , Horn, ii, 22; 
so the noun iqooeroXoc, “ robber of churches,” Acts xix, 
37), the violation or profanation of holy places, persons, 
or things. Though the word sacrilege is not used else- 
where than as above in our version of the canonical 
Scriptures, yet we find the crime itself often alluded to; 
e. g. “ profaning the sanctuary” (Lev. xxi, 22), “ profan- 
ing hallowed things” (Lev. xix, 8), “ prolaning the cove- 
nant” (Mai. ii, 10). The first sacrilegious act we read 
of is that of Esau selling his birthright (Gen. xxv, 33), 
for which he is called “profane” by Paul (Ileb. xii, 
16). Instances of this under the Mosaic economy 
(which sternly forbade it [Exod. xxv, 14]) were the 
cases of Nadab and Abihu (Lev. x), the men of llelh- 
shemesh (l Sam. v), Uzzah (2 Sam. vi, 67), Uzziah 
(2 Chron. xxvi). The Jews at a later period of their 
history were eminently guilty in this particular, inas- 
much as they withheld the tithes and offerings which 
God required of them (Mai. iii, 8-10), and converted 
his holy temple into a market (Matt, xxi, 12, 13). This 
profanation is forbidden in the Talmud (Light foot, ml 
loc.). See Temple. Yet they pretended to be punc- 
tiliously scrupulous in their reverence for the interior 
building (Matt, xxvi, 61). So the grand accusation 
against Stephen was that he spoke disrespectfully of 
the Temple (Acts vi, 13). An uproar w'as excited 
against Paul in Jerusalem on the charge that he 
brought Greeks into the Temple and polluted the holy 
place (Acts xxi, 28, 29), though daily profanations w r ere 


committed by the affected zealots w r ith impunity. At 
length, in the closing scenes of Jerusalem, such were the 
multitude and the magnitude of the sacrileges that 
Josephus says if the Homans had not taken the city of 
Jerusalem he would have expected it to have been 
swallowed up like Sodom, or have had some other 
dreadful judgment. The jealousy of the Almighty re- 
specting things dedicated to him, and his punishment 
of the profanation of them, are alluded to by Paul 
(I Cor. iii, 17) : “If any man defile the temple of God, 
him shall God destroy; for the temple of God is holy, 
which temple ye are.” We read but little else in the 
N. T. pertaining to sacrilege except Paul’s rebuke of 
the Corinthians lor their profane conduct at the cel- 
ebration of the Lord’s supper (I Cor. xi, 29). In that 
early period of the Christian Church, it had not been 
able as yet regularly to establish sacred places and 
things ; but as soon as circumstances permitted, we shall 
find in the Church history of every nation a due re- 
spect for consecrated things, and laws for their preser- 
vation. Even the heathens, particularly the Greeks 
and Homans, w ? ere not without their rules concerning 
sacrilege, the penalty of which w as usually death. Thus 
it was held sacrilege for the polluted to pass beyond 
the porch of the temple, to spit or wipe the nose in a 
temple, to cut dowui consecrated trees, to build upon or 
till any spot of ground where a thunderbolt had fallen, 
to suffer a man to witness the ceremonies of the Ilona 
Dea, or Good Goddess, or to suffer a woman to enter 
the temple of Diana in the Vicus Patri- 
cius in Home, to suffer a birth or death 
to occur in the holy isle of Delos, to steal 
anything belonging to a temple, to ap- 
proach a sacrifice without being sprin- 
kled by the priest with the lustral wa- 
ter, to consecrate a blemished man to 
the priesthood (compare with the Jew- 
ish law, Lev. xxi, 21), and many other 
instances which will occur to the classi- 
cal reader. 

SACRILEGE, Christian View of. 
The ancient Church distinguished sev- 
eral sorts of sacrilege: 1st, the diverting 
things appropriated to sacred purposes 
= VL IM -c to other uses: to break or burn the fur- 

niture of the Church, or deliver it to be 
broken or burned; 2d, robbing the graves 
or defacing and spoiling the monuments 
of the dead: 3d, those were considered as sacrilegious 
persons who delivered up their Ilibles and the sacred 
utensils of the Church to the pagans in the time of the 
Diocletian persecution; 4th, profaning the sacraments, 
churches, altars, etc. ; 5th, molesting or hindering a cler- 
gyman in the performance of his office; 6th, depriving 
men of the use of the Scriptures or the sacraments, par- 
ticularly the cup in the eucharist, the last being con- 
demned \ y Gelasins and pope Leo, and yet not recog- 
nised as sacrilege by the Romish casuists. See Sacki- 
lkgium. In England sacrilege is not now a legal, but 
a popular term, used to denote the breaking into a place 
of worship and stealing therefrom. The legal offence 
comes generally under the head of burglary or house- 
breaking. A less punishment applies to the offence 
when committed in dissenting chapels. In Scotland 
there is no increase of severity in the punishment by 
reason of the sacred character of the things stolen. 

Sacrilegium, in Homan Catholic theology, is a 
term denoting contempt of God or of divine and holy 
things when expressed in act, the utterance of such 
feeling in speech being characterized bv the word blas- 
phemy (q. v.) This crime may be committed either 
directly against the holiest objects by unworthy partak- 
ing of the consecrated bread and wine or otherwise des- 
ecrating their character (sacrilegium immediatum ) ; or 
indirectly against consecrated persons, tilings, or places 
(sacrilegium medial uni). The latter form is consequent- 
ly either personate, incurred through violation of the 


SACKING -BELL 


232 


SACRISTAN 


pricilegium canonist, or assault on the persons of individ- 1 
uals belonging to the clerical and monastic orders [see 
Puivilkoiu.m Canon is], with intent to do bodily harm, 
or through violations of the law of chastity by persons 
of rank in such orders (sacrileyiuni carnal e); or it is 
sacnlegium reulc. consisting in the employment of sa- 
cred edifices and their decorations, vessels, utensils, etc., 
for common or even wicked purposes; the purloining of 
things which have been set apart for the use of a church 
by consecration or benediction (q. v.), or which have 
been placed in a church for protection and safe-keeping; 
the alienating from or denying to the Church of legal 
and customary reveuues; the voluntary transfer of ob- 
jects used in the worship and other services of the 
Church to the enemies of Christianity, particularly in 
limes of persecution, etc. ; and the receiving of any 
‘‘sacrament of the living” (q. v.) while in a state of ' 
mortal sin, and without having previously been ab- 
solved : or, lastly, the sacriUgium is locale , and may be 
committed by consciously violating an ecclesiastical 
asylum [see Asylum], by breaking a local interdict 
(q. v.) with armed force, by desecrating holy places 
with murder, the guilty spilling of human blood or hu- 
man sperm, the interment of unbelievers and excom- 
municated persons in churches and burial-grouuds be- 
longing to the Church, etc. 

The punishments denounced against this crime have 
been severe under every code. According to the canon 
law, sacrilege committed against the venerabile itself 
w r as visited with the anathema; against other sacred 
things, with the ban ; and in case of obstinate contumacy, 
with the denial of Christian burial (c. 2, x, “ De Rapt.” 
v, J 7 ; c. 22, x, “ De .Sent. Excomm.” v, 30). The Ro- 
man law punished robbery of churches, unless mitigat- 
ing circumstances intervened, with death (Inst. § 9, 

“ De Publ. Jud.” iv, 18). The criminal code of Charles 
V decreed the punishment of death by tire against the 
theft of a monstrance or a ciborium (q. v.) containing 
the host, and death in a milder form against the theft 
of other sacred objects belonging to the altar and used 
in worship. Plundering an alms-chest might be pun- 
ished by cither corporal inflictions or death, and the 
abstraction of unconsccratcd objects from churches and 
sacristies (unless accompanied with violence or com- 
mitted at night) by the infliction of penalties denounced 
upon ordinary burglaries (CC. 0. of 1532, art. 172-175). 
The more recent administration of criminal law in Ger- 
many likewise invariably imposes severe penalties upon 
crimes committed against the Church. Licentiousness 
on the part of clergymen belonging to the higher or- 
ders is punished by suspension and penances; if com- 
mitted by monks, by continerncnt and severe penances. 
The violator of a nun, if a clergyman, is deposed [sec 
Deposition]; if a layman, is excommunicated; and 
the nun herself is subjected to close confinement and 
mortifications of the bodv (e. G, 21 ; c. xxvii, qu. i). 
Under the Roman law the violator of a consecrated fc- j 
male was beheaded (lib. 2, cod. “ De Epise. et. Clcr.” i, 3, | 
Nov. 123. c. 43), and this penalty was retained under 
the code of the German empire. — Wetzcr u. Wclte, 
Kirchen-Lex . s. v. 

Saciing - bell ( campaneUa , timbele) was rung at 
the elevation inside the church, in England, by the 
Constitutions of Cnntelupe in 1240, as a warning of de- 
votion. Recou says while the elements wore blessed 
the serving-boy or parish clerk rang the little sacring- 
beli, at which tiie people knelt down while the host 
was elevated. 1 he second snoring was the crossing of 
the chalice with the host. The custom has been at- 
tributed to cardinal Grey when legate in Germany, cir. 
1203; it was confirmed by Gregory IX in 125fl! At 
the beginning of the 13th century! at Paris, the* bells 
were rung at this time. The Armenians use a evm- i 
bal, with little bells, called the qucchnnez . A sacriug- 
bell was found in the wall of Deddington church, and 
that of ilawstcud still hangs above the rood screen. ^ 
'Ihc use of this bell lias been traced back to the Jlth 


century; and before 1114, Ivo, bishop of Chartres, 
thanked queen 31 and of England for the bells which 
she had given to Chartres, and says they were rung at 
the elevation. The custom is confined to Western 
Christendom, and is unknown at Rome. In Spain 
they use a melodious peal of bells, which chime a sil- 
very music, instead of the ordinary tinkling of a single 
bell, at the moment of consecration, when the divine 
words of institution are recited by the celebrant; and, 
at the elevation of the host, Aubrey mentions that at 
lJrokenborough, Wilts, there were eighteen little bells 
rung by pulling one wheel. Such wheels, it. is believed, 
are still preserved at Yaxley and Long Stratton. In 
the Roman Church it is rung thrice at the Sanctum 
once before and three times at the elevation of the 
host, three times at the elevation of the chalice, and 
at the fJomine non sum d if plus, and once before the 
Pater (the latter dating from the IGth century), and 
also at benediction with the sacrament.— Walcott, Sa- 
cred A rchceol. s. v. 

Sacris solemniis juncta sint gaudia is the 
beginning of a festival hymn composed by Thomas 
Aquinas, of which the first stanza runs thus: 

“ Sacris solemniis juncta sint gaudia, 

Et ex prsecordiis sonent praeconia ; 

Recedant vetera, nova sint omuia, 

Corda, voces, et opera.” 

There is an English translation by Chambers in the 
Lyra Eucharistica , p. 70 : 

“ Let this our solemn feast 
With holy joys be crowned,” etc. ; 

and another by Caswall in Hymns and Poems , Original 
and Translated , p. 54 : 

“ Let old things pass away, 

Let all be fresh and bright,” etc. 

There is also a German translation of this hymn in Biiss- 
ler’s .4 uswahl alt christ licher Lieder (Berlin, 1858), p. 1 16, 
and a second one in Rambach, Anthologie christlicher 
Gesdnge , i, 811. (B. P.) 

Sacristan. (1 .) The monastic treasurer and church- 
warden. He pro\ ided all the necessaries for divine 
service; was keeper of the church keys, relics, fabric, 
plate, furniture, and ornaments; secretary, and chancel- 
lor. He arranged the way of processions for the prmcen- 
tor, superintended the bell-ringers, and received the rents, 
oblations, and burial-fees. At Canterbury he delivered 
the crosier to the new archbishop. At Ely he received 
the candle-corn (one sheaf of corn in every acre), to 
supply the lights, and, as the bishop’s vicar, exercised 
arehidiaconal jurisdiction over the city chaplains. At 
Peterborough his fee were the horses of a knight buried 
in the minster, if under four marks in value, other- 
wise the}' accrued to the abbot; and at Worcester, the 
abbots of Gloucester, Tewkesbury, Pcrshore, and Eves- 
ham gave him a cope of profession at their benediction. 
(2.) Vice-custos, the vicar of the treasurer, or sub-treas- 
urer at York in 1230. He opened the doors of the sac- 
risty in the morning, admitted the rectors of choir and 
sick members who desired to say the Hours privately, 
lie warned canons of chapter, kept the doors shut dur- 
ing its session, rang the bells, and led the procession. 
Bishop Storey mentions the use of the. word sacrist in 
an inferior sense as recent in the 15th century. Where 
there was no permanent sacristan in a cathedral, a 
canon was appointed, called prefect of sacristy. In 
the Decretals of Gregory IX and at Lyons (12G9) the 
sacrist was the inferior of the sacristan. In the new 
foundations lie furnished the sacred elements, admin- 
istered sacraments, officiated at marriages and burials, 
was the curate of the chapter, like the foreign parochus , 
and had charge of the bells, church goods, furniture, 
and lights. At Girgenti there are four sacrists; at 
M aye nee he was a vicar, and at Angers a cubicular, or 
chamberlain, who administered the sacraments to sick 
canons and the choir clergy. (3.) The sacristan at 
mass has charge of the vessels, and attends in a sur- 
plice at the credence - table, which is placed on the 


SACRISTY 


233 


SADDLE 


south side of the altar, and arranges on it the chalice, 
covered with the linen cloth called the purifier; and 
also the paten, which is covered with a stiff cloth and a 
rich veil of silk; the cruets lor wine and water; the 
Gospel and Epistle books: the ewer, basin, and water 
for washing the celebrant’s fingers; the corporal, or 
cloth on which the chalice and host are placed, and 
contained in a burse, or embroidered case ; a crucifix, 
and two tapers. (4.) A church servant, now called 
sexton. — Walcott, Sacred A rchtttol. s. v. 

Sacristy, an apartment in a church or convent in 
which are kept the sacred objects used in the public 
worship, and in which the clergy and other public func- 
tionaries who take part in the service assemble and pre- 
pare for the ceremonies on which they are about to en- 
ter. In many churches the sacristy is a spacious and 
costly building. — Walcott, Sacred Archeology , s. v. 

Sacrobosco, Christopher, a native of Dublin, 
Ireland, in the early part of the 17th century, is chief- 
ly known as the author of the work Defensio Decreti 
Tridentini et Sentential Rob. Bellarmini et Authoritate 
Vulgates Editionis Latince contra Whitakerum, etc. (1604, 
8vo). 

Sacrobosco (or Holywood), John de, an Eng- 
lish ecclesiastic of the 13th century, is supposed to have 
been born at Halifax, in Yorkshire, but is claimed also 
as a native of Ireland and Scotland. He became a canon 
regular of the Order of St. Augustine in the monastery 
of Holywood, in Nithsdale. He afterwards went to 
Paris, and became professor of mathematics. His death 
occurred in 1256, His principal work was Spheera 
Afundi (1648, 8 vo). Other works were, De Atuti Ra- 
tioned seu de Compute Ecclesiastico : — De A lyorismo. 

Sacy, Antoine Isaac Silvestre de, Baron , 
a celebrated French Orientalist, was born at Paris Sept. 
21, 1758. At an early age lie showed great aptitude for ' 
the study of languages ; hut it was mainly from self-in- ' 
struction, with the help of irregular private lessons, that 
his immense learning was acquired. In Hebrew he was 
helped by a Jew ; in Arabic, by a Benedictine monk, 
Berthereau. Having entered upon the practice of the 
law at the age of twenty-three, he retired in 1789, at 
the age of thirty, and devoted several years to private 
study. During the Reign of Terror, he lived very hum- 
bly among peasants, and could make but furtive visits 
to the libraries of Paris. Early in his learned career he 
had opened correspondence with the chief Orientalists 
of Europe — with J. D. Michaelis, Sir Wra. Jones, Eich- 
horn, and others. To Eichhorn’s Repertorium he con- 
tributed frequent essays. In France he published in 
1785 an essay on the origin of Arabic literature, and in 
1787 an abridgment of the Natural History of Demiri. 
Still more valuable and erudite was his work Memoires 
sur Diverses Antiquites de la Perse (1793). In 1792 he 
was made a member of the Academie des Inscriptions; 
and when, in 1795, the Convention founded a school for 
the study of modern Oriental languages, Dc Sacy was 
made professor of Arabic, a post which he held till his 
death. In 1806 he became also professor of Persian at 
the College de France. From this time he was very pro- 
ductive in all the branches of Oriental learning. Many 
of his works have had a very fruitful influence upon 
Biblical criticism. We mention particularly a trans- 
lation of Makrisi’s treatise On Mohammedan Medals 
(1797): — The Outlines of Universal Grammar (1799): 
— his Chrestomathie A rube (1806,3 vols.) : — his large 
Arabic Grammar (1810): — Culila-re- Dimnn , the Ara- 
bic text of the Fables of Pilpay (1816): — the Pend-Xa- ■. 
meh (Book of Counsels), a Persian didactic poem (1819) : j 
— The Sessions of Ilariri. a romance in Arabic (1821): 
— and his work On the Religion of the Druids (1838, 2 i 
vols.). The amount of learning which t hese works eon- 1 
tain and imply can only be appreciated by Oriental 
specialists. Besides the works. ^mentioned, he contrib- 
uted scores of essays to learned journals in Germany and : 
elsewhere. Ilis style is simple and direct. The chief i 


defect is a lack of poetic delicacy and of rhetorical pol- 
ish. De Sacy, though beginning his career in obscu- 
rity, was finally abundantly honored. In 1808 he was 
given the honorary position of membership in the Corps 
Leyislatif In 1813 he was made a baron. In 1814 he 
became rector of the l diversity of Paris. After the 
Revolution of 1830 he was made a peer of France and 
a grand officer of the Legion of Honor. Honors from 
abroad also came upon him in abundance. He founded 
chairs for the Sanscrit and the Chinese language at 
the College de France; and he continued his public 
lectures, six per week (an unusual number for a Pari- 
sian savant) down to the day of his sickness. In poli- 
tics lie was conservative, in character upright, in relig- 
ion Catholic. On Feb. 19, 1838, be was stricken with 
apoplexy on the street, and died three days after. See 
two biographical sketches in the Journal A siatiqne. 
1838; Encyd. Brit. vol. xix; Herzog, Real-EncyHop. 
xiii, 287-289. (J. P. L.) 

Sacy, Louis Isaac le Maistre de, an emi- 
nently pious and learned Port-Royalist divine and Bib- 
lical critic, was born at Paris in 1613. He was shut up 
in the Bastille on account of his Jansenist doctrines, and 
died in 1684. The New Test, translated by De Sacy, 
and known as the Testament de Mons, was condemned 
by pope Clement IX in 1668. De Sacy’s version of 
Thomas a Kempis’s De Dnifatione has had 150 editions. 
His commentary on the Scriptures has continued to 
maintain a high character. It is essentially valuable for 
unfolding the spiritual meaning of the sacred text. Dc 
Sacy was assisted in the work by Du Fosse, Charles 
Ilure, and Le Tourneaux. Many editions have been 
printed, both of the original work and of abridgments. 
The edition of 1692 is the best ; that of 1705-30, bound 
variously in 40, 45, or 54 vols. P2mo, is esteemed for its 
convenient form ; that of 1781, printed at Nismes, in 25 
vols. 8vo, lias the advantage of being edited, with addi- 
tions, by Rondet. De Sacy also wrote Lettres Chretiennes 
et Spirituelles (Paris, 1690, 2 vols. 8vo). 

Sadami'as (Vulg. Sadamias , the Greek original 
being lost), given in the Apocrypha (2 Esdr. i, 1) in- 
stead of Siiallum (q. v.) in the ancestry of Ezra (Ezra 

vii, 2). 

Sadanana ( the god with sir faces'), in Himlfi my- 
thology, is a surname of the twelve-handed Skanda, 
who was born to Shiva the Destroyer by the two sisters 
Ganga and Ulma. Sadanana slew the giant Torake by 
cutting him through the middle, and then transformed 
half of the body into a peacock, upon which lie rides. 
He is greatly revered in India, and lias many pagodas.. 
— Vollmer, Wdrterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Sa'das (2«cdc v. r. 'Aorai, ’Apyai), a corrupt 
Grsecized form (I Esdr. v, 13) of the name Azgad (q. v.) 
of the Heb. text (Ezra ii, 12). 

Saddae'us (or rather Daddce'us [as in 1 Esdr. 

viii, 46], AadcaioQ. v. r. AoA$o1qq. Aocdaloc , and Ao- 
£aioc)> a corrupt Gra?cizcd form (1 Esdr. viii, 45) of the 
name Iddo (q. v.) of the Hebrew text (Ezra viii, 17). 

Saddle (S2*1T3, merkdb, a “chariot” [1 Kings iv, 
26; Ileb. v, 6] ; also a seat in a chariot or other vehicle, 
“saddle” [Lev. xv, 9J ; “covering” ofa palanquin [Cant, 
iii, 10]). See Chariot. 

The word which our translators elsewhere (Gen.xxii, 
3; Numb. xxii,2l; Judg.xix, 10; 2 Sam. xvi, 1 : xvii, 
23 ; 1 Kings ii. 40 ; xiii, 13, 23, 27 ; 2 Kings iv, 24) ren- 
der by “to saddle” literally signifies “to bind about” 
(as Exod. xxix, 9; Jon. ii, 6, and often)— namely, with 
the hags or panniers used for riding or carrying burdens. 
It is certain that saddles were unknown for many ages 
after the custom of riding had been introduced. Those 
who did not ride bareback were contented with placing 
a piece of leather or cloth between them and their 
steed. As luxury advanced, a solt cushion was intro- 
duced, to which ’were added various ornamental trap- 
pings, and these were soon carried to a ridiculous excess 


SADDUC 


234 


SADDUCEE 


of ostentation. Saddles, properly so called, were in all 
probability invented by the Persians, perhaps for the 
sake of giving a steady seat to their mounted archers, a 
part of their military force to which they always paid 
the greatest attention. Pack-saddles must have been 
a much earlier invention, for something was obviously 



Ancient Egyptian Saddles. 


necessary to prevent the backs of animals bearing heavy 
burdens from being chafed by the loads (see Kit to, Piet. 
Bible, at Judg. xix, 10). See Ass; Camel; House. 
The ordinary pack-saddles of the camels were high, and 
made of wood; carpets, cloths, etc., were heaped upon 
it, to form a comfortable seat for ladies who do not use 
the cradle, or hamper, while travelling. The cloths, 
etc., were removed at the end of the day’s journey, and. 
being laid on the ground, served as a sort of mattress in 
the tent, on which a person might sit or lie down, while 
he reclined against the pack-saddle itself (Gen.xxxi,34). 

Sad'duc (or rather Saddu'cus, Saddovicog, v. r. 
SacdouXovKog), the Gra?cized form (1 Esdr. viii, 2) of 
the name of Zahor (q. v.), the high-priest, one of Ezra’s 
ancestors (Ezra vii, 2). 

Sad'ducee (strictly Sadducce'an , ^latcovKalog 
[Matt. iii, 7; xvi, 1, 6, 11, 12; xxii, 23. 34: Mark xii, 
IK; Luke xx. 27 ; Acts iv, 1 ; v, 17 ; xxiii, 6, 7,8]), the 
usual designation of one of the three sects or orders of 
Judaism in the time of Christ, the other two being the 
Esscncs and the Pharisees. (This article is mainly 
based upon that of Ginsbnrg in Kitto’s Cyclopaedia.) 
See Sects, Jewish. 

I. Xante of the Sect and its Signification. — According 
to the current tradition of the Jews, the appellation 
I'suddnkim, of which ^accovKalai = Saddnctei 
is the Greek form (used hv Josephus and the New Test, 
as above), is derived from Zadok , the name of the found- 
er of this sect, who was a disciple of Antigonus of Soho, 
B.C. 200— 170. Sec School. This is not only declared 
iii the .1 both di Rabbi Nathan (cap. v), but by Saadia 
Gaon,892 1)42 A.l). ; by II. Nathan (cir. 1030-1 1*06 A.D.), 
in his lexicon called .1 ruch, s. v. "pcir^ ; by Mai mon- 
ides (1135-1201 A.l).), in his commentary on ,1 both (i. 3), 
but by the greatest Jewish authorities since the 9th cen- 
tury of the Christian a*ra. l)r. Geiger, who, in his l T r- 
schnft nnd l T ebersetzungen der liibel (p. 105), argues in 
a most elaborate maimer that there are not sullicient 
historical data for deriving the name Sadducec from 
Zadok. a disciple of Antigonus of Soho, derives it, never- 
theless, from this proper name, which lie assigns to an- 
other person of an earlier date, as will he seen in the se- 
quel. Epiphanius. however, seems to derive it from a 
double source— viz. from a proper name Zadok , and from 
the Hebrew noun pilL righteousness. He says that t hev 
call themselves Sadducees because this name is de- 
rived from righteousness , as Zedek denotes righteousness 
( lino vojt amount v iarrovg ^aiVovKaiovg cifcfv otto 
c iKaiofrrrtjtj rijc IvnicXijfrFMg bppiopf vi)g * atci): -yap 
(ppTfvei'FTCH CiKaiorri't'tj), nnd that there was also an- 
ciently a priest named Zadok , but they did not continue 


in the doctrines of their (ii TKTrdrijg) chief ( Adversus 
Ihereses , i, 14). Dr. Low rejects altogether the deriva- 
tion of Sadclucce from the proper name Zadok , for the 
following reasons : (1.) Because there is no precedent in 
the whole ancient Jewish history’ for the followers of a 
sect to be called by the name of the chief of the sect, 
and that it is as contrary to the genius of the Hebrew if 
"ipYl2£ is taken as the proper name p*ni£, with n ap- 
pended, to translate it a follower of Zadok , as it would 
be to render a follower of Jeroboam. (2.) The 

older Talmudic literature knows nothing of Zadok and 
Boethus. the supposed originators of the Sadducees. (3.) 
The Sadducees, as is evident from ancient sources, called 
themselves C^p^^, the righteous (Epiphanius, Adver- 
sus Ihereses, i, i, 4). Hence Dr. Low concludes that, in 
harmony with his Hebrew name p the Sadducee 
called himself in Greek svBvg, the straightforward , open, 
honest, righteous, and that the opponents of this sect 
changed both the honorable Hebrew appellation D*'p’ 1 ‘*i25 
into C^pniS (lienee the singular *p'\~l% = Sadducee') t 
and the Greek name evSvg, which is written in Hebrew 
DirZX (according to the analogy of 
into Oir n 3, from which originated C 1 Diri"'3, Boethu- 
sians. He moreover maintains that it is for this rea- 
son that the Talmud makes no distinction between 
the Sadducees and the Boethusians ( Ben-Chananja , i, 
346 sq.). This definition of the appellation Sadducee is 
entirely speculative, and its soundness must he deter- 
mined by an examination of the rise, progress, and doc- 
trines of the Sadducees. Besides, the first objection 
against the derivation of KpVliS from the proper name 
p*HU is set aside by the fact that the first Karaites 
called themselves C n 32;* , followers of Anan, Ananites; 
so that ^222.*, an Ananite, is an exact parallel to * 1 p‘l ta I!£, 
a Zadokite. Still more speculative, and altogether 
unique, is the opinion of Kbster that “ Sadduc-ee is 
simply a different form of Stoic" (Siudien mid Kritiken , 
1837, p. 164). According to some readings the Sad- 
ducees also called themselves C^X’lp, Scripturalists , 
Bible-followers , Karaites {Megilla, 24 b; Jerusalem Me- 
gilla, iv, 9), because they adhered to the written law. 
This is in perfect accordance with the ancient custom 
of calling a Biblical student by the honorable Hebrew 
appellation N’njT* (formed according to the analogy of 
or by the Aramaic form (defective of 

X'V'p), or formed according to the analogy of 
Thus Chanina, Abba Chalifa, Eliezer ben-Simon, 
and Levi bcn-Sisi.were designated by this title (Taauith, 
27 b; Baba Bathra , 123; Mulrash Rabba on Lent. cap. 
xxx ; Jalkut, On the Song of Songs, § 533); and the Tal- 
mud tells us that those were deemed worthy of this 
name “who understood how to read accurately the law, 
the prophets, and the Hagiographa” (comp. Kiddushin, 
42 ; Fiirst, Kuraerthum , p. 129). 

II. Scripture Notices. — Although frequently mention- 
ed in the New Test, in conjunction with the Pharisees, 
they do not throw such vivid light as their great an- 
tagonists on the real significance of Christianity. Ex- 
cept on one occasion, when they united with the Phari- 
sees in insidiously asking for a sign from heaven (Matt, 
xvi, 1, 4. 6), Christ never assailed the Sadducees with 
the same hitter denunciations which he uttered against 
the Pharisees; and they do not, like the Pharisees, seem 
to have taken active measures for causing him to be put 
to death. In this respect, and in many others, they 
have not been so influential as the Pharisees in the 
world s history; but still they deserve attention, as rep- 
resenting Jewish ideas before the Pharisees became tri- 
umphant, and as illustrating one phase of Jewish thought 
at the time when the new religion of Christianity, des- 
tined to produce such a momentous revolution in the 
opinions of mankind, issued from Jndaia. 


SADDUCEE 


235 


SADDUCEE 


The Sadducees are not spoken of at all in the fourth 
Gospel, where the Pharisees are frequently mentioned 
(John vii, 32, 45; xi, 47, 57 ; xviii, 3; viii, 3, 13-19 ; ix, 
13) ; an omission which, as Geiger suggests, is not un- 
important in reference to the criticism of the Gospels 
(ut sup. p. 107). Moreover, while Paul had been a 
Pharisee and was the son of a Pharisee, while Josephus 
was a Pharisee, and the Mishnawasa Pharisaical digest 
of Pharisaical opinions and practices, not a single un- 
doubted writing of an acknowledged Sadducee has come 
down to us, so that for an acquaintance with their opin- 
ions we are mainly dependent on their antagonists. This 
point should always be borne in mind in judging their 
opinions and forming an estimate of their character, and 
its full bearing will be duly appreciated by those who 
reflect that even at the present day, with all the checks 
against misrepresentation arising from publicity and the 
invention of printing, probably no religious or political 
party in any country would be content to accept the 
statements of an opponent as giving a correct view of 
its opinions. 

III. The Tenets and Practices of the Saddncees. — To 
apprehend duly the doctrines and usages of this sect, it 
must be borne in mind that the Sadducecs were the 
aristocratic and conservative priestly party, who clung 
to their ancient prerogatives and resisted every innova- 
tion which the ever-shifting circumstances of the com- 
monwealth demanded; while their opponents, the Phari- 
sees, were the liberals, the representatives of the people 
— their principle being so to develop and modify the 
Mosaic law as to adapt it to the requirements of the 
time, and to make the people at large realize that they 
were “ a people of priests, a holy nation.” Thus, stand- 
ing immovably upon the ancient basis, the Sadducecs, 
whose differences were at first chiefly political, after- 
wards extended these differences to doctrinal, legal, and 
ritual questions. 

A. Political Opinions.—' The primary political differ- 
ence between the two sects was that the Saddncees 
maintained that a man’s destiny is in his own hands, 
and that human ingenuity and statecraft are therefore 
to be resorted to in political matters; while the Phari- 
sees clung to the conviction that the political relations 
with foreign nations, like the theocracy at home, are 
under the immediate control of the holy one of Israel 
(Josephus, Ant. xiii, 5, 9; xviii, 1, 4, with War, ii, 8, 14; 
Mishna, Berachoth , 33 b; Nidah, 16, 72). That the 
Saddncees, who were the real aristocracy (Josephus, A nt. 
xviii, 1,4) and the successful warriors in the Maccabtean 
struggles (ibid, xiii, 16, 2; IPr/r, i, 5, 3), should have 
espoused such political views was the natural result of 
their political success. Moreover, the doctrine that 
what a man possesses is what he deserves was peculiar- 
ly gratifying to the successful and aristocratic caste. 
Besides, in this respect, as in all other matters, the Sad- 
ducees showed their conservatism in abiding by the Pen- 
tateuchal views that a man is rewarded in this world ac- 
cording to his deeds, and that prosperity and adversity 
are a test of piety and wickedness (Dent, xxviii, 1-68, 
with Psa. xxx vii, 25). 

B. Doctrinal Views. — 1. Rejection o f the Oral La w . — 
Foremost among the doctrines of the Saddncees is the 
tenet that the Hebrew Scriptures, with the authoritative 
explanations and glosses which developed themselves 
in the course of time, are the sole rule of faith and prac- 
tice, thus denying that there existed any orally trans- 
mitted law to supplement the written law, to which 
their opponents the Pharisees laid claim ; or, as Jose- 
phus states it, “the Pharisees have given to the people 
many statutes from the traditions of the fathers -which 
are not written in the law of Moses; and it is for this 
reason that the Sadducecs reject them, saying that it 
is only the written observances which arc binding, but 
those which are transmitted by the fathers are not to he 
observed” (Ant. xiii, 10, 6). For the better understand- 
ing of this important question, it must be remarked that 
the Pharisees and the orthodox Jews to the present day 


have an oral law in addition to the written law'. This 
oral law consists of sundry religious, ceremonial, and so- 
cial practices which obtained in the course of time, and 
which w'ere called forth either through the obscurity, 
conciseness, and apparent contradiction of some of the 
written enactments, or through the inapplicability of 
some of the Mosaic statutes to the ever-changing cir- 
cumstances of the commonwealth. Some of the enact- 
ments contained in this oral code are undoubtedly as old 
as the original laws which they supplement and explain, 
so as to adapt them to exceptional cases not specified in 
the Mosaic law; others, again, were introduced by the 
spiritual heads of the nation after the return from the 
Babylonian captivity, because the altered state of the 
nation absolutely required these regulations, although 
there was no basis in the Mosaic law for them; while 
others originated in party feeling, to shield the pious 
against even approaching the limits of transgression. 
Now the Sopherim (i. e. scribes and the lawyers), alter 
the Babylonian captivity, who found this accumulated 
traditional code, tried to classify and arrange it. Those 
practices which could be deduced from or introduced 
into the text of Holy Writ by analogy, combination, or 
otherwise, were regarded as the legitimate and authori- 
tative traditional exposition of the law [see Midrash]; 
while those practices which obtained in the course of 
time,' which were venerated and esteemed by the people 
both for their antiquity and utility, but for which neither 
author nor apparent reason could be found in the writ- 
ten law, were denominated A traditional law of Moses 
from Sinai (*3072 JTlTTsb PlZ^n), because from their 
antiquity and importance it was thought that they 
must have come down orally from the lawgiver him- 
self. It is this oral law which the Sadducees rejected; 
and in their conservatism they adhered to the ancient 
Hebrew Scriptures, as well as to those time-honored ex- 
planations and practices (rilbn) which were not at 
variance with the text of the Bible. It must be dis- 
tinctly borne in mind that by their rejecting traditions 
is not meant that the Saddncees rejected all the tradi- 
tional comments upon the law and the ancestral prac- 
tices not found in the Bible. Even the Talmud itself 
only charges them with rejecting some things (Sanhe- 
drin, 33 b; Ilorajoth , 4 a), and there is but little doubt 
that those practices which they rejected were originated 
by the Pharisees, the liberal party whose innovations 
the conservative Saddncees disliked, and regarded as an 
encroachment upon their priestly and aristocratic rights. 
In the Mishna specific points of difference between the 
Pharisees and Sadducees are mentioned, which are un- 
important — such, e. g., as whether touching the Holy 
Scriptures made the hands technically “ unclean,” in the 
Levitical sense, and whether the stream which flows 
when water is poured from a clean vessel into an un- 
clean one is itself technically “clean” or “ unclean” (Fh- 
detim, iv, 6, 7). If the Pharisees and Saddncees had 
differed on all matters not directly contained in the 
Pentateuch, it would scarcely have been necessary to 
particularize points of difference such as these, which to 
Christians imbued with the genuine spirit of Christ’s 
teaching (Matt, xv, 1 1 : Luke xi. 37-40) must appear 
so trifling as almost to resemble the products of a dis- 
eased imagination. Indeed, it will be seen in the course 
of this article, from the enumeration of their distinctive 
tenets, that the theological views of the two sects were 
not so much at variance as might have been supposed, 
and that the Sadducecs in many cases actually adhered 
to ancient traditions, while the Pharisees abandoned 
these traditions and introduced new statutes in order to 
raise the people, whose true representatives they were, 
to a nation of kings and priests. Sec Tradition. 

That the Sadducees also rejected the prophets and 
Hagiographa, and only believed in the Pentateuch, as 
is asserted by Epiphanius (Adrersus Uwreses , xiv), 
Origen (Cels, i, 49), Jerome (Comment, on Matth. xxii, 
31-33), and followed by some modern writers, is utterly 


SADDUCEE 236 SADDUGEE 


at variance with the Jewish records of this sect, and has 
evidently arisen from a confusion of the Saddueees with 
the Samaritans. 

2. Denial of the Resurrection, etc. — Next in impor- 
tance in point of doctrine is their eschatology. The 
Saddueees denied that the dead will rise to receive their 
reward and punishment. Josephus, who specifics this 
second cardinal difference between the Pharisees and 
the Saddueees, describes their respective doctrines of a 
future reward and punishment in such a manner as to 
infer that the former, believing in a future judgment, 
also believed in the immortality of the soul; while the 
latter, by denying a future judgment, also denied the 
survival of the soul after the death of the body 
re rt) v etaftoin)v Kal tuq ku 5’ a Cod npiopiag teal rif.taQ 
avaiporoi [ir</r, ii, 8, 14]), In another place, again, 
where this historian mentions the distinctive eschato- 
logical views of the Saddueees, he plainly says, “Their 
doctrine is that souls perish with the bodies” (Sacdou- 
Kciioig Ce rdt,’ xpv^ag 6 Aoyog ovva<pcn’iZei roTt; (Ttopavi 
[.4k/. xviii, l, 4]). Ihit in the Talmud and in the New 
Test, wc are told that they simply denied the resurrec- 
tion (comp. Sanhedrin, 90 b with Luke xx, 27 ; Mark 
xii, 18; see also Matt, xxii, 23), which by no means in- 
volves the immortality of the soul; and it cannot be 
supposed that if the Saddueees had actually denied the 
immortality of the soul, so vital a point would be passed 
over in silence by the Talmudic doctors, when unimpor- 
tant differences are minutely specified. There can, there- 
fore, be no doubt that Josephus, in his vanity to depict 
to the Greeks the Jewish sects in such colors as to make 
them correspond to the different philosophical schools 
among the Greeks, did injustice to the Saddueees by 
assigning to them the doctrines of the Stoics. The 
misrepresentation of the Saddueees will appear all the 
more evident when it is borne in mind how defectively 
Josephus describes the Pharisaic eschatology in the very 
same section. lie there represents the Pharisees, who 
were his own party, as believing that the resurrection 
is to be confined to the righteous, while the wicked are 
to be detained in everlasting punishment in Hades un- 
der the earth (.4 m/. xviii, 1,3); whereas it is well know n 
that this opinion was only entertained by some of the 
later doctors, while the Pharisees generally believed in 
the resurrection of both the righteous and the wieked 
(Dan. xii, 2), and this was the common doctrine as 
late as the second book of Maccabees (comp, xii, 40-45). 
The reason which the Saddueees assigned for not be- 
lieving in the resurrection of the dead to receive their 
reward and punishment is that it is not taught in the 
law of Moses ( Sanhedrin , 90 b), which simply promises 
temporal rewards and punishments for obedience and 
disobedience (Kxod. xx, 12; xxiii, 25, 26; Dent, vii, 
12 do; xxviii, 1-68). The very quotation made by our 
Saviour (Matt, xxii, 31,32; Mark xii, 26, 27; Luke xx, 
37) of Exod, iii, 6, 15, which it is only natural to sup- 
pose is the most cogent text in the law, nevertheless 
does no more than suggest an inference on this doctrine. 
The Saddueees, however, did not admit the inference, 
and they simply regarded this mode of proving the 
resurrection from the law' as Pharisaic, as they were in 
the habit of hearing similar inferences deduced by the 
Pharisees from other passages. Thus the Talmud re- 
lates: “ The Saddueees asked Kabbi Gamaliel, Whence 
do you know that the holy one, blessed be he, will raise 
the dead? To which he replied, From the law', the 
prophets, and the 1 lagiographa : from the law' because 
it is written, ‘And the Lord said to Moses, Behold, thou 
slrnlt lie down with thy fathers (np*l), and this people 
shall rise again’ (I)eut. xxxi, 16): from the prophets 
because it is written, ‘Thy dead men shall live,’ cte. 
(Isa. xxvi, 19); and from the 1 lagiographa because it 
is written, ‘And the roof of thy mouth,’ etc. (Song of 
Songs, vii, It). The Saddueees, however, would not ac- 
cept these passages till lie quoted the passage, ‘The land 
which the Lord sware unto your fathers to give it to 


them' (Deut, xi, 21). He promised it to them (Qi"i5) — 
i. e. to the living, and not to the dead ; but as they were 
now dead, it is evident that there will be a resurrection 
if the promise is to be fulfilled” ( Sanhedrin , 90 b). 

We are also told in the New Test, that the Saddueees 
say that there is “neither angel nor spirit” (Acts xxiii, 
8) ; but this can bv no means imply that they altogether 
denied the existence of angelic and spiritual beings, since 
the Saddueees were firm believers in the divinity of the 
Mosaic law, w'here the appearance of angels is again and 
again recorded (Gen. xvi, 7; xix. 1 ; xxii, II; xxviii, 
12; Exod. xxiii, 20; Numb, xxii, 23 et ah), and neither 
Josephus nor the Talmudic writings charge them with 
this unbelief. What they denied is the incarnation and 
manifestation of demoniac pow’ers and angelic beings in 
later days, as believed and described in the Jewish w rit- 
ings and in the New Test. 

3. The opinions of the Saddueees respecting the free- 
dom of the will , and the way in which those opinions are 
treated by Josephus (Ant. xiii, 5, 9), have been noticed 
elsewhere. Sec Pharisees. It may here be added that 
possibly the great stress laid by the Saddueees on the 
freedom of the will may have had some connection w ith 
their forming such a large portion of that class from 
which criminal judges w r ere selected. Jewish philoso- 
phers, in their study, although they knew that punish- 
ments as an instrument of good w r ere unavoidable, might 
indulge in reflections that man seemed to be the creature 
of circumstances, and might regard w’ith compassion the 
punishments inflicted on individuals w'hom a wiser moral 
training and a more happily balanced nature might have 
made useful members of society. Those Jews w r ho w'ere 
almost exclusively religious teachers woidd naturally in- 
sist on the inability of man to do anything good if God’s 
Holy Spirit w-ere taken aw T av from him (Psa. li, 11, 12), 
and w'ould enlarge on the perils w r hieh surrounded man 
from the temptations of Satan and evil angels or spirits 
(I Chron. xxi, 1 ; Tob. iii, 17). But it is likely that the 
tendencies of the judicial class w’ould be more practical 
and direct, and more strictly in accordance with the 
ideas of the Levitical prophet Ezekiel (xxxiii, 11-19) 
in a well-know r n passage in which he gives the respon- 
sibility of bad actions, and seems to attribute the pow r er 
of performing good actions exclusively to the individual 
agent, lienee the sentiment of the lines, 

“Our acts our angels are, or good or ill, 

Our fatal shadows that walk by us still,” 

would express that portion of truth on w hich the Sad- 
ducees, in inflicting punishments, w'ould dwell with most 
emphasis; and as, in some sense, they disbelieved in 
angels, these lines have a peculiar claim to be regarded 
as a correct .exponent of Sadduciean thought. Vet per- 
haps, if writings w'ere extant in which the Saddueees 
explained their own ideas, w e might find that they rec- 
onciled these principles, as we may be certain that Eze- 
kiel did, with other passages apparently of a different, im- 
port in the Old Test., and that the line of demarcation 
between them and the Pharisees w'as not, in theory, so 
very sharply marked as the account of Josephus would 
lead us to suppose. 

C. Legal Mutters. — 1. The Saddueees restricted the 
Levirate law to cases of betrothal (noVlX), but denied 
its obligation when the marriage was consummated 
(•"Wi'D). Thus, for instance, though they regarded a 
betrothed woman (noi^X) as a wife, and treated her as 
a married woman in accordance with the Mosaic legis- 
lation [see Marriage], yet, w’hen her betrothed hus- 
band died without cohabiting with her, his surviving 
brother could perform the duty of Lecir without com- 
mitting incest, as she was still a virgin. In this re- 
spect, too, the Saddueees, as the erudite Geiger has 
shown, followed the ancient Levirate law', which is 
based upon Gen. xxxviii, 7-10, and which — inferring 
from the similarity of expression used in ver. 7 and 10 
that Er too had acted wickedly and not properly con- 


SADDUCEE 


237 


SADDUCEE 


summated the marriage with Tamar— enacted that the 
Levir is only then to perform the duty towards his de- 
ceased brother when the marriage has not been con- 
summated (Yebamoth, 34 b; Bercshith Rabbit, lxxxv; 
Geiger .Jiidische Zeitschrift [Breslau, 1862], i, 30, etc.). 
It is to be remarked that the Samaritans of old restrict- 
ed the Levirate law (l)eut. xxv, 5, etc.) in the same 
manner, and that the Talmud which records it tells us 
that in support of this restriction the Samaritans ap- 
pealed to the expression n^lnn, which they translated 
outer, and regarded as the adjective of P^il PTTX, con- 
struing it with the preceding HTIP xb, while they took 
“it as explicative of the preceding by way of rep- 

etition, translating the whole passage “The wife of the 
deceased who is outside (i. e. the consummation of the 
marriage) is not to be for another man’’ ( Jerusalem Ye- 
bamoth , i, 6; Kirchheim, Karuie Shomron, p. 36). The 
Karaites, who may be regarded as modern Sadducees, 
explain the Levirate law in the same manner. This re- 
striction of the Levirate law on the part of the Sad- 
ducees imparts additional force to the incident recorded 
in the Gospels (Matt, xxii, 23, etc.; Mark xii, 18, etc.; 
Luke xx, 27, etc.). Here we are told that the Sad- 
ducees, not believing in a resurrection, put the follow- 
ing question to our Saviour: The first of seven brothers 
married a wife and died childless, whereupon the second 
brother performed the duty of Levir, and he too died 
without issue; then the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and 
seventh brother successively performed the duty of 
Levir, so that she alternately became the wife of seven 
husbands — now, whose wife is she to be at the resurrec- 
tion? With the restricted application of the Levirate 
law before us, it will be seen that though this ironical 
question was chiefly directed against the doctrine of the 
resurrection, yet it. at the same time also attacks the or- 
thodox Pharisaic view of the Levirate law which was 
undoubtedly shared by our Saviour. What the Sad- 
ducees thereby say is, as Geiger rightly remarks, that 
according to their application of the Levirate law, which 
restricts it to the betrothed woman (HD^X), apart 
from the extremely rare occurrence of death between 
the betrothal and connubial intercourse (!“!NV£2), espe- 
cially several times under similar circumstances, the re- 
lation of the woman to her last husband who consum- 
mated the marriage is far more intimate than to any of 
the other husbands to whom she was simply betrothed. 
Supposing, therefore, for argument’s sake, that there will 
be a resurrection, and that the woman will rise with all 
the seven brothers, no difficulty will be experienced ac- 
cording to the restricted application of this law, inas- 
much as she will be the wife of the last husband who 
alone consummated the marriage. According to the 
Pharisaic practice, however, the Levirs have to marry 
the widow after the marriage has been consummated, so 
that she is the real wife of all the seven brothers; hence 
the ironical question put to our Saviour, “According to 
the Pharisaic doctrine of the Levirate law, in which you 
believe, the difficulty will be to decide whose wife she is 
to be.” 

2. The ceremony of taking off the shoe (nn^bn), in 
case the surviving brother refuses to perform the duty 
of Levir towards the widow of his deceased brother, is 
explained most rigidly bv the Sadducees insisting upon 
the letter of the law, that the rejected widow is to spit 
into the man’s face (V233, Dent, xxv, 9); while the 
Pharisees, adapting the law to the requirements of the 
time, regarded the spitting before his face as satisfying 
the demands of the injunction, and hence explained the 
passage accordingly ( Taanith , iv). 

3. The same conservatism and rigor the Sadducees 
manifested in the right of retaliation, insisting upon the 
literal carrving-out of the law, “eye for eye, tooth for 
tooth, hand* for hand, foot for foot,” etc. (lixod. xxi, 23, 
etc.); while the Pharisees, with a due regard for the 


interests of the people, maintained that pecuniary com- 
pensation is sufficient {Baba Kama, 53 b ; 34 a, b ; Taa- 
nith, iv, 2). 

4. For the same reason the Sadducees also insisted 
upon the literal explanation of the law in Dent, xix, 
21, maintaining that false witnesses are only then to be 
executed when the sentence of the falsely accused had 
actually been carried out, in which case alone the words 
“life for life” receive their literal fulfilment; whereas 
the Pharisees concluded, from Deut. xix, 19, that if they 
are found out, even before the sentence has been carried 
out, they are to be executed; for it is there said, “Ye 
shall do unto him as he intended to do unto his broth- 
er.” Hence the intention is to be visited with capital 
punishment (Mishna, Maccoth, i, 6; Tosiphta Sanhe- 
drin, vi). 

5. The law of inheritance formed another distinctive 
feature of the Sadducees. According to the Mosaic 
law, the son alone is the rightful heir; and in case there 
is no son, the daughter inherits the father’s property 
(Numb, xxvii, 1-11). Now, the Sadducees maintained 
that in case, the son, who is the heir presumptive, has 
sisters, and he dies, leaving a daughter, the property is 
not to go entirely to his female issue, but that the de- 
ceased’s sisters are to have an equal share with his is- 
sue, urging that the deceased son’s daughter is only the 
second degree, while his sisters are the first degree. The 
Pharisees, on the contrary, maintained that the deceased 
brother’s daughter is the rightful and sole heir, inas- 
much as she is the descendant of the male heir, whose 
simple existence disinherited his sisters (Mishna, Baba 
Buthra , viii, 1; Babylonian Baba Bathra, 115 b; 116; 
Taanith, v. 2. 

6. From the law that the owner of cattle is responsi- 
ble for damages done by his animals (Exod. xxi, 28, 29), 
the Sadducees maintained that a master is responsible 
for damages done by his slave, submitting that he is far 
more answerable for him than his cattle, inasmuch as he 
is to watch over his moral conduct. The Pharisees, on 
the other hand, denied this, submitting that the slave is 
a rational, and hence a responsible, creature ; and that 
if the master be held answerable for his conduct, the 
dissatisfied slave might, out of spite, commit ravages in 
order to make his master pay (Mishna, Yadaim, iv, 7). 

D. Ritual Questions. — 1. The first important distinc- 
tion in this department to be mentioned is the great 
stress which the Sadducees laid on the ritual purity of 
the person of the officiating priest. He had to keep 
aloof from the very appearance of uncleanness. Hence 
they required that the burning of the red heifer, from 
the ashes of which the water of absolution was prepared, 
should not l>e performed by any priest who had been 
defiled, although he had immersed, because he does not 
become undefiled before sunset (l!7£t3 n 3“n“ , C). The 
Pharisees, on the other hand, disregarding the person 
and regarding the thing, opposed this great ado about 
the aristocratic priest. “They prepared a baptistry on 
the Mount of Olives, where the burning of the red heif- 
er took place, and designedly defiled the priest who was 
to burn it, so that the Sadducees should not be able to 
say that the heifer is not to be prepared by such as 
had not become pure by the sun-setting” (Mishna, Para, 
iii, 7). 

2. The Sadducees, again, did not believe that the sa- 
cred vessels in the Temple are to be subjected to the 
strict laws of Levitical purity, which the Pharisees 
stoutly maintained. So strict were their views on 
this subject that the Pharisees had all the sacred ves- 
sels immersed at the conclusion of every festival, be- 
cause some unclean priest might have touched them. 
Hence, when the Pharisees, on one occasion, immersed 
even the golden candlestick after a festivity, the Sad- 
ducees tauntingly exclaimed, “Behold, the Pharisees 
will at last also purify the sun !” (Jerusalem Chagiga, 
79 d). That the Pharisees should have thus guarded 
| the sanctity of the vessels against the possible touch 


SADDUCEE 


238 


SADDUCEE 


of a defiled priest must have been all the more annoy- 
ing to the priestly Saddueees, since in other things 
which did not affect this aristocratic fraternity, but 
conduced to the comfort of the people at large, the 
Pharisees were less rigorous with regard to the laws 
of Levitieal purity than the Saddueees, as may be seen 
from the following instance. 

3. The Saddueees interpreted the injunction in Lev. 
xi, 39, 40 most rigidly, maintaining that it is not only 
the carcass of an animal which died a natural death 
that defiles by touching it, but also its sundry parts, 
such as the skin, bones, sinews, etc. ; while the Pharisees 
restricted this defilement by contact simply to the jiesh , 
except the parts of a dead human body, and of a few 
reptiles, in which the skin and the flesh are, to a certain 
extent, identical. 

4. As a necessary and vital consequence of the fore- 
going view, the Saddueees maintained that the skin 
and the other parts of an animal not legally slaugh- 
tered — i.e. both of all those animals which the law per- 
mits to be eaten when legally slaughtered, but which 
have died a natural death, and of those which the law 
docs not permit to be eaten — are not allowed to be 
made into different articles of use; and that leather, 
parchment, or any other of the numerous articles made 
from the skin, bones, veins, etc., is defiling. This rigid 
view obliged the Saddueees to explain Lev. vii, 24 in 
an unnatural manner, by taking the expression tlbsD 
to denote an animal approaching the condition of becom- 
ing a carcass — i. e. being so weak that it must soon ex- 
pire — and to urge that an animal in such a condition 
may be slaughtered before it breathes its last. In such 
a case, though its fiesh is a defiling carcass, and must 
not be eaten, the fat, skin, bones, etc., may be used for 
divers purposes ( Jerusalem Mcgitla , i, 9 ; Babylon Sab- 
bath , 108 a). The Pharisees, on the other hand, as the 
representatives of the people, whose interests they had 
at heart, allowed the sundry parts of such animals to be 
used as materials for different utensils. They even al- 
lowed the Sacred Scriptures, the phylacteries, and the 
mezuzak (q. v.) to be written on parchment prepared 
from the skin of an animal which either died a natural 
death or was torn by wild beasts, but not on parchment 
prepared from the skin of an unclean animal (ibid, and 
Torah ad init. ; Sopherim ad init.). Bearing in mind 
t*his difference of opinion, we shall understand the im- 
port of the two discussions, recorded in the jMishna, be- 
tween the Saddueees and the Pharisees, based there- 
upon. The Saddueees, we are told, said, “ We complain 
of you Pharisees because you say the Sacred Scriptures, 
when touched, defile the hands, but the hooks of Homer 
do not defile the hands.” Jochanan ben-Zakkai said, 
“And have we nothing else to object to the Pharisees 
but tli is V Do they not also assert that the bones of an 
ass are clean, but that the bones of Jochanan the high- 
priest are unclean?” (Yadaim, iv, G). Now, according 
to the Saddueees, contact with sacred things, so far from 
defiling, actually sanctified; while the Pharisees, in or- 
der to guard t he sacred things against contact, ordained 
that contact with such holy things defiles. ( >u the oth- 
er hand, the Saddueees regarded the touching of foreign 
books as defiling, because they are written upon parch- 
ment made from skins of unclean animals, or of clean 
animals not legally slaughtered, which, with them, were 
like carcasses, and which, as wc have seen, the Pharisees 
did not admit. Hence the charge of the Saddueees 
that the Pharisees assign a superiority to profane hooks 
over the Sacred Scriptures, which Jochanan ben-Zakkai 
rebuts by ironically enhancing this charge, and saving 
that tins is not the only accusation against the Phar- 
isees, inasmuch as he shows thereby a similar conse- 
quence arising from Pharisaic views. The hones of a 
dead man, he submits, are unclean, according to the ex- 
press declaration of the Bible, even if they happen to 
he the hones of such a man as John Ilyreanus. the pa- 
tron of the Saddueees; whereas the bones of an animal, 


even if it be unclean, and such a contemptible one as an 
ass, are clean ; thus showing that the defiling power of 
an object does not always betoken a degradation in its 
nature, hut, on the contrary, because.it is of an elevating 
nature, therefore it defiles more easily. The other dis- 
cussion, also arising from this difference of opinion, is 
recorded in the Talmud, where the law of the Pharisaic 
sages is recorded, that the Sacred Scriptures, the phy- 
lacteries, and the mezuzah may be written upon parch- 
ment prepared from the skin of an animal which died a 
natural death, but not from an unclean beast. Where- 
upon a Boethusian [ = Saddncee] asked liabbi Joshua 
Ha-Garsi, “ Where can you show that the phylacteries 
are not to be written on the skin of an unclean ani- 
mal?” ft. Joshua. “Because it is written [Exod. xiii, 
9, where the phylacteries are enjoined] that the law 
of the Lord he in thy mouth; that is to say, prepared 
from animals allowed to be put into the mouth.” The 
Sadducee. “ But, according to this, they ought not to 
be written on the skin of an animal which died or was 
torn [because these, too, must be put into the mouth, or 
be eaten].” To which he replied, “I will tell thee a 
parable, to show the distinction between the two: Two 
men are guilty of death ; one is killed by the king him- 
self, and the other by the executioner. Whose lot is 
preferable?” Reply. “That one’s whom the king exe- 
cuted.” [So is the carcass of a clean animal killed by 
the hand of the King of kings to be preferred to the 
unclean animal which is already stamped with defile- 
ment while alive.] “But, according to this,” said the 
Sadducee, “the carcass ought also to be eaten.” To 
this he replied, “ The law says ye shall not eat of any- 
thing that died [Dent, xiv, 21]; and sayest thou that 
it should be eaten?” To this the Sadducee replied, 
“ Bravo !” (D'lbxp = KaXCjg [Sabbath, 108 aj). 

5. The Saddueees, who stood upon their priestly dig- 
nity and ancient prerogatives, rejected the artificial 
mode of amalgamating the distances ("pTainsn mi*'?) 
introduced by the Pharisees to enable the members of 
their order to walk beyond the Sabbath-day’s journey 
without infringing on the sanctity of the day, so as to 
join the social meal which was instituted in imitation 
of the priestly social repast. See Pharisee; Sabbath- 
day’s Journey’. 

6. As priests, the Saddueees were not subject to the 

stringent Sabbatical laws, and could therefore enjoy 
their meals comfortably, inasmuch as they regarded the 
work requisite for their preparation as part of their 
sacerdotal duties, which set aside the Sabbatic regula- 
tions; whereas upon the people they imposed the most 
rigorous observance. Thus, in accordance with Exod. 
xxv, 3, they insisted that lights must not be kindled on 
Sabbath eve. and that the supper should be eaten in 
the dark (Sabbath, 55 b; Iiaslii, on Tosiphta in Sabbath, 
ibid.; Maimonides, Yad Ifachezahi, Ililchoth Sabbath , 
vi, 1 ; Tanchuma, Iviii) ; they prohibited the eating of 
any food which was either kept warm since the prep- 
aration-day (rOTT or was warmed on the Sab- 

bath (Responses of the Gaonim, called Shaare Teshnba , 
No. xxxiv) ; and forbade connubial intercourse because 
of the exertion connected therewith, and of its not be- 
ing holy work, according to Exod. xix, 10, 15 (comp. 
Baba Kama, 82 a). 

7. The Saddueees, who, as the priestly party, regard- 
ed the Temple treasury as their own, demanded that 
the daily morning and evening sacrifices should he pro- 
cured from the private and voluntary gifts of each in- 
dividual, basing their opinion upon the expression of 
the law (Numb, xxviii. 4); while the Pharisees, on the 
other hand, also basing their opinion upon the letter of 
t he law (ibid, xxviii, 2), and wishing to protect the in- 
terests of the people, maintained that the sacrifices were 
national, and that they ought to he procured with the 
money of the Temple treasury. Accordingly, the Phar- 
isees ordered a special Temple-tax, which was collected 
every spring, and deposited in three distinct boxes in 


SADDUCEE 


239 


SADDUCEE 


the Temple treasury, on which was indicated that the 
money therein contained was destined for the sacrifices 
for aU Israel. The required money was taken out of 
the boxes three times a year — on the three great festi- 
vals, i. e. on the feast of Passover, Pentecost, and Tab- 
ernacles. From the first box it was taken with the 
announcement that it was “ in the name of the whole 
land of Israel;” from the second, with the express dec- 
laration, “in the name of its surrounding cities;” and 
from the third, “in the name of Babylon, in the name 
of Media, and in the name of the distant countries gen- 
erally;” so that all the Israelites, including even those 
who did not contribute to this tax, were represented 
in this daily sacrifice (Shekalim, iii, 1-3; Maimonides, 
Shekalim). So hotly was this point contested between 
them that it lasted eight days (Nisan, 1-8, year not 
mentioned), and that the Pharisees, to mark their vic- 
tory over the Sadducees, appointed these eight days 
half- festivals, during which no mourning should take 
place ( Menachoth , p. 65 a). 

8. Regarding the sacrifices as their own, or as be- 
longing to their priestly party, the Sadducees main- 
tained that the priests might eat of the meat-offerings 
which were connected with the free-will animal sacri- 
fices (Numb, xv, 2, etc.) ; while the Pharisees maintain- 
ed that they must be burned on the altar, and carried 
their opinion into a law, for which reason they again 
instituted a half- festival in commemoration of their 
victory. 

9. Taking the expression fQ-ll n'TI^'E (Lev. 
xxiii, 11, 15, 16) literally, the Sadducees maintained 
that the Omer ought to be offered on the first day 
following the weekly Sabbath; so that the feast of 
Pentecost is always to be on the first day of the week 
(Mishna, Menachoth , x, 3; Gemara on the same, 65 a; 
Taanith , i, 1). See Pentecost. 

10. The Sadducees rejected the old custom of pour- 
ing water on the altar every day at the morning sacri- 
fice during the feast of Tabernacles (D^*cn “pO*3); 
and so opposed were they to this ceremony that it be- 
came the cause of separation between the Saddticaean 
king Alexander Jan mens and the Pharisees (Succa, 
48 b, with Josephus, Ant. xiii, 13, 5; Gratz, Geschichte 
der Juden , iii, 473, 2d ed.). 

11. They also objected to the procession of the peo- 
ple round the altar holding willow branches in their 
hands on the feast of Tabernacles (Yoma, 43 b). See 
Tabernacles, Feast of. 

12. They maintained that the incense which the 

high-priest was to carry into the holy of holies on the 
great day of atonement ought to be kindled outside, 
and thus to be carried into the sanctuary; because they 
deemed it improper to do work in the presence of the 
Lord, and because it was more in accordance with the 
words rnszn by "C (Lev. xvi, 2), which 

they interpreted to mean “only in the cloud” (i. e. rising 
from the burning incense) “will I be seen on the cov- 
er.” The cloud thus arising from the burning incense 
was to conceal the manifested Deitv, whereas if the 
high -priest were to enter before this cloud began to 
ascend, he would see God and die. The Pharisees con- 
sidered this as violating the express command of the 
text, which plainly requires that the frankincense should 
be put on the burning coals in the holy of holies. So 
particular were they about it that they exacted an oath 
from the high-priest, before the Day of Atonement, to 
perform everything in strict accordance with their en- 
actments (Siphi'a. Pericope iii; Jerusalem 

Yoma , i, 5; Babylon Yoma , 19 b, 53 a). 

13. Though admitting that Exod. xiii, 6 enjoins phy- 
lacteries, the Sadducees rejected the Pharisaic regula- 
tions about the making and weaving of them (Sanhe- 
drin, 88 b; Maimonides, Yad Ilachezaka, llilchoth Te- 
phillin , iv, 3). See Phylactery. 

14. Based upon the law that a lying-in woman is not 


to touch holy things nor to go into the Temple during 
the thirty-three days following the first seven days af- 
ter the birth of a boy, and during the sixty-six days 
following the first fourteen days after the birth of a girl 
(Lev. xii, 2-8), the Sadducees maintained that this law 
excludes the woman from the enjoyment of her connu- 
bial rights all these days; while the Pharisees, who al- 
ways endeavored to relieve the people as much as pos- 
sible from the burden of the law, did not transfer the 
holiness of the things and of the Temple to the persons, 
thus granting to the wife and to the husband the enjoy- 
ment of their rights. Hence, while they held every 
other appearance of blood in the woman as defiling, 
they regarded it, in this instance, as the effects of the 
birth, and as pure blood (mna i£“I). It is for this 
reason that the H in mm: (Lev. xii, 4, 5) has not the 
Mappik , thus denoting pure, blood, as the present Mas- 
oretic text is the Pharisaic text ; and that the render- 
ing of it in the A. Y. by “the blood of her purifying,” 
though agreeing with the Sadduceean text, which is 
undoubtedly the original one, is at variance with the 
textus receptus (comp. Geiger, He-Chaluz, v, 29; vi, 28 
sq. ; Jiidische Zeitschrift, i, 51 ; ii, 27, etc.). 

It must not, however, be concluded that these are the 
only distinctive features of the Sadducees, although not 
many more are mentioned by their opponents, the Phar- 
isees. 

IV. II istory of the Sadducees . — 1. Their Origin.— The 
oldest record pretending to describe the source of this 
sect C,r3 r"2N) is the commentary of Rabbi 

Nathan Ha-Babli (q. v.) on the tractate of the Mishna 
entitled A both (P'l-X) = the Moral Sayings of the An- 
cient Fathers. In this commentary on the saving of 
Antigonus of Soho (B.C. 200-170) — “Be not like ser- 
vants who serve their master for the sake of receiving 
wages, but be like servants who serve their master 
without expecting to receive wages, and let the fear 
of the Lord be upon you” (Mishna, Aboth, i, 3) — Rabbi 
Nathan remarks as follows: “Antigonus of Soho had 
two disciples who propounded his maxim; they taught 
it to their disciples, and their disciples, again, taught it 
to their disciples. Thereupon they began to examine it 
after them, and said, ‘What did our fathers purport to 
teach by this maxim? Is the laborer to work all day, 
and not receive his wages in the evening? Surely, if 
our fathers had known that there is another world, and 
believed in a resurrection of the dead, they would not 
have spoken thus.’ They then separated themselves 
from the law, and two sects arose from them— the Za- 
dokites [= Sadducees] and the Boethusians. The Za- 
dokites are called after Zadok, and the Boethusians af- 
ter Boethus. They used vessels of silver and vessels 
of gold all their days, not because they were proud, but 
because the Sadducees said that the Pharisees had a 
tradition that they are to afflict themselves in this 
world, and yet they have nothing in the world to 
come” (Aboth di Rabbi Nathan, cap. v). That Zadok 
and Boethus were contemporaries of Antigonus of Soho, 
that they opposed the doctrines of the sages, and that 
the sages ordained laws to obviate the cavils of their 
opponents, is also declared by Saadia Gaon (q.v.) (A. I). 
892-942). Thus Isaac Israeli tells us: “Saadia says, 
the contemporaries and the tribunal of Antigonus of Soho 
ordained it as a law that the beginning of the month is 
to be determined by the appearance of the new moon, 
to do away with the cavils of Zadok and Boethus, who 
disputed against the sages about the fixing of the new 
moon” ( Yesod Olam , iv, 6, p. 9 [ed. Berlin, 1848]). Sim- 
ilar in import to Rabbi Nathan’s statement on Aboth , 
i, 3 is the remark of Maimonides (A.D. 1135-1204) on 
the same passage. “Antigonus,” says this great au- 
thority, “had two disciples, one named Zadok and the 
other Boethus, who, when they heard this sage pro- 
pound this maxim, left him, saving one to the other, 
the Rabbi distinctly declares that there is neither a fut- 


240 


SADDUCEE 


SADDUCEE 

ure state of reward and punishment, nor any hope for 
man — because they misunderstood his maxim. There- 
upon they strengthened each other’s hands, separated 
themselves from the congregation, and left the observ- 
ance of the law, when one sect followed the one, and 
another sect followed the other, whom the sages re- 
spectively called the Zadokites and the Boethusians” 

( Comment , on Aboth , i, 3). It must be added that the 
greatest Jewish authorities since the 9th century of 
the Christian a?ra have regarded Zadok and Boethus as 
the heretical leaders who originated two sects. Mod- 
ern critics, however, reject this current account of the 
origin of the Sadducees from Zadok and Boethus, the 
disciples of Antigonns of Soho, as unhrstorical, because 
(a) it is not mentioned either in Josephus, the Mishna, 
or the Gemara; ( b ) the original account of Rabbi Na- 
than neither says that Zadok and Boethus themselves 
misunderstood Antigonns’s maxim, nor that they were 
the chiefs of these sects, but that their disciples misin- 
terpreted the import of the maxim, and separated them- 
selves from the congregation; and (c) it is illogical to 
suppose that the disciples of Zadok, who, according to 
Rabbi Nathan’s account, did not misunderstand Antig- 
oniis, but simply continued to propound his master max- 
im, would call themselves, or be called, Zadokites - Sad- 
ducees, and not Antigonites, seeing that the maxim be- 
longs to Antigonus and not to Zadok. The second and 
third reasons, however, are of little value, since the pres- 
ent text of Rabbi Nathan’s Aboth is obscure, and since 
Saadia Gaon, the Aruch , Maiinonides, and all the an- 
cient Jewish authorities who lived centuries ago, and 
who had better means of procuring correct codices, un- 
derstood the passage to mean, and also derived it from 
independent sources, that Zadok and Boethus themselves 
misunderstood their master Antigonus, and that they 
were the originators of the sects. It is the first reason 
which, coupled with the fact that the oldest records are 
perfectly silent about Zadok and Boethus as disciples 
of Antigonus, goes far to show that the passage in the 
Aboth of Rabbi Nathan, like many other pieces in the 
same work, is by a later hand ; and that its author, who 
most probably tiourisbed towards the end of the 7th 
century, though possessing the right information that 
the Zadokites and Boethusians were the followers of 1 
Zadok and Boethus, misstated the fact bv making these 
two chiefs, who lived at different times, contemporaries, 
and by describing them as disciples of Antigonus. This j 
mistake is all the more natural since the real and essen- j 
tial differences between the Sadducees and the Phari- 
sees actually began to develop themselves in the time 
of Antigonus; and it is not at all improbable that, though ' 
the Sadducees, as we shall presently see, derived their 
early sentiments and distinctive name from a much old- 
er leader named Zadok, a distinguished descendant of 
that leader, hearing the same name, may have lived in 
the time of Antigonus, and may have contributed great- 
ly to the final separation of the Sadducees from the 
Pharisees. 

2. Development of the Sect . — We have seen from their 
tenets and practices that the Sadducees were the an- 
cient priestly aristocracy, and that they persisted in 
maintaining their conservative notions, as well as in 
retaining their pristine prerogatives, against the voice 
of the people. It is therefore natural, in tracing their 
origin, to look for a leader among the priests them- 
selves, as their strong conservative sentiments would, 
ns a matter of course, make them centre around a rep- 
resentative and a name of their own caste celebrated 
in the records of the Sacred Scriptures. Such a chief, 
answering all the conditions required, we lind, as Gei- 
ger has elaborately shown, in the eminent priest Za- 
dok, the tenth in descent from the high-priest Aaron, 
who declared for the succession of Solomon to the 
throne when Ahiathar took -the part of Adonijah 
(1 Kings i, 32-45), and whose line of descendants, or 
“house” as it is termed in the Bible, henceforth re- 
tained a pre-eminence in the future history of the Jew- 


ish people. Thus when Hezekiah put a question to the 
priests and Levites general!}', the answer was given by 
Azariah, “the chief-priest of the house of Zadok” (2 
Chron. xxxi, 10) ; and Ezekiel, in his prophetic vision 
of the future temple, pre-eminently distinguishes “the 
sons of Zadok,” and “the priests and the Levites of 
the seed of Zadok,” as the faithful guardians of the 
Lord’s sanctuary when the children of Israel went 
astray (Ezek. xl, 46; xliii, 19; xliv. 15; xlviii, 11). 
When the Jews returned from the Babylonian captivity, 
this sacerdotal aristocracy, ami especially the “priests 
of the seed of Zadok,” the “sons of Zadok,” or, which 
comes to the same thing, “the Zadokites” = Sadducees, 
naturally continued to form the centre of the newly 
formed state, and to be the time -honored guardians 
both of God’s sacred heritage and their holy religion. 
The high-priests were also the chief functionaries of 
state. Their maxim, however, that statecraft and in- 
genuity are to be employed in political transactions 
with foreign nations, as well as the conduct of the 
chiefs among this sacerdotal aristocracy based upon 
this maxim, threatened to destroy both the nationality 
ami the religion of the Jew's. Hellenism — which grad- 
ually found its way into Judaea after its occupation by 
Alexander the Great— Grecian sports, and political al- 
liances v’ith the heathen, were advocated by the high- 
est of the land, and openly espoused by multitudes (1 
Macc. i, 11-15). The very high -priest, who hitherto 
v\ns the centre of religion, did all he could to denation- 
alize the people of his charge (2 Macc. iv, 1-19). The 
people, who saw their sanctuary ravished by the Syri- 
ans while their aristocracy were engaged in their ruin- 
ous statecraft, became embittered against both the for- 
eigners abroad and the rulers at home. We cannot do 
better than continue the description of the Sadducees 
in the powerful words of Geiger: “ It was then that a 
pliable priestly family niade itself the hand and the 
mouthpiece of this discontent; it conquered and crush- 
ed the foreign sway, overthrew the governing families 
at home, and assumed the pre-eminence. But. the aris- 
tocracy soon surrounded the new' sun of the Maccabees, 
and the Zadokites. who themselves had hitherto been 
the sun, now became its satellites, as Sadducees. The 
party struggle increased wdth continued success to the 
Pharisees. The internal struggles, however, made the 
interference of the Romans easy, and paved the w av of 
the keenly ambitious Herod to the throne. He was 
neither a priest nor a born Israelite; but, like all up- 
starts, he w r as anxions to ally himself with the ancient 
aristocracy. His connection with Mariamne supported 
a Maccabaean family in the court itself, which, in oppo- 
sition thereunto, had popular sympathies because it had 
its root among the people in consequence of its cele- 
brated past; hence the eternal court intrigues and the 
consequent brutalities. It was for this reason that 
Herod sought for another alliance w’ith the sacerdotal 
aristocracy which should both legitimatize him and be 
his faithful followers, and which he, on his part, would 
raise by being connected with the sovereign. For this 
purpose he selected the family of Boethus, a sacerdotal 
family to whom the functions of the high-priesthood 
did not belong. He married the daughter of Simon 
Boethus, whom he made high-priest. Thus was a new 
high aristocracy created, which, being of ancient aris- 
tocratic blood, was blended with the high aristocracy, 
hut which, nevertheless, owed its elevation to t lie sov- 
ereign, and was allied to his house. These were the 
Boethusians. Their double character, being both up- 
starts and yet claiming to be ancient aristocracy, en- 
hanced their arrogance” (. liitlische Zeitschrift , ii,34 sq.). 
They are the llerodians, and for this reason are alter- 
nately called llerodians and Sadducees in the New Test. 
(comp.Matt.xvi.G with Mark viii. 15). Tims w r e are told 
that the Pharisees took counsel with the llerodians — 
i. e. with the Boetlmsian branch of the Sadducees — how 
they might destroy Jesus (Mark iii, 6), as these Hero- 
1 dians, from their alliance with the reigning dynasty, had 


SADDUCEE 


241 


SADE 


the temporal power for their aid. Again, in Mark xi, 
27 ; xii, 13, it is stated that the chief-priests, the scribes, 
and the ciders, sent unto Jesus certain of the Pharisees 
and of the Ilerodians to catch him in his words; and 
after they had conjointly put to him the question about 
the tribute-money (xii, 14-17), each of the representa- 
tives of the two sects — i. e. of the Sadducecs and the 
Pharisees— tried to entrap him with questions in har- 
mony with their sectarian tenets. Accordingly, the 
Sadductean portion of the deputation, which are called 
in ver. 13 Ilerodians and in ver. 19 Sadducecs, came 
forward first and asked him the question about the 
seven brothers, which bore upon the Sadducasan doc- 
trine of the resurrection and the Leviratc law (xii, 19- 
27). When they were silenced, one of the scribes — 
i. c. of the Pharisaic portion of the deputation — who was 
pleased with the manner in which Jesus put down the 
cavils of the Ilerodians, came forward and tried to en- 
tangle our Saviour with a question from a Pharisaic 
point of view (xii, 28-37). The reason why our Sav- 
iour, who so frequently rebuked the extravagances of 
some of the Pharisees, did not expose the doctrines of 
the Sadducecs is that at his advent their tenets had 
been thoroughly refuted by their opponents the Phari- 
sees; and that although, through their alliance with 
the court, they wielded the temporal arm (Acts v, 17), 
they exercised no religious influence whatever upon the 
mass of the Jewish people, with whom the Pharisees 
were all in all (Joseph. Ant. xiii, 10, 5). But even 
their political influence soon ceased, for with the de- 
struction of the Jewish state by the Homans the Saddu- 
cees lost their temporal significance ; and though their 
doctrines continued to be held by a small fraction of 
the dispersed Jews, vet. they were deemed of so little 
influence that Jehudali the Holy (163-193), in his re- 
daction of the Mishna, only rarely and sparingly takes 
notice of the different opinions upon the various Jewish 
enactments held by the Sadducees and the Boethusians. 
It is for this reason that the Sadducees are also men- 
tioned so little in the Talmud and the Midrashim, and 
that their origin was forgotten in the 7th century, 
when the above-quoted passage relating to their rise 
was introduced into the Aboth of Rabbi Nathan. 

3. Then' Eventual Fate. — The fact of the rapid dis- 
appearance of the Sadducees from history after the 1st 
century, and the subsequent predominance among the 
Jews of the opinions of the Pharisees, remains to be 
considered. Two circumstances indirectly hut power- 
fully contributed to produce this result: 1st, the state 
of the Jew's after the capture of Jerusalem by Titus; 
and, 2d, the growth of the Christian religion. As to the 
first point it is difficult to overestimate the consterna- 
tion and dismay which the destruction of Jerusalem 
occasioned in the minds of sincerely religious Jews. 
Their holy city was in ruins; their hoH and beautiful 
Temple, the centre of their worship and their love, had 
been ruthlessly burned to the ground, and not one stone 
of it w'as left upon another; their magnificent hopes, 
either of an ideal king who was to restore the empire 
of David, or of a Son of Man who w T as to appear to them 
in the clouds of heaven, seemed to them for a while 
like empty dreams; and the w hole visible w'orld was, to 
their imagination, black with desolation and despair. 
In this their hour of darkness and anguish, they natu- 
rally turned to the consolations and hopes of a future 
state; and the doctrine of the Sadducecs that there 
was nothing beyond the present life would have ap- 
peared to them cold, heartless, and hateful. Again, 
while they were sunk in the lowest depths of depres- 
sion,. a new religion which they despised as a heresy 
and a superstition, of which one of their own nation 
w’as the object, and another the unrivalled missionary 
to the heathen, was gradually making its way among 
the subjects of their detested conquerors, the Homans. 
One of the causes of its success was undoubtedly the 
vivid belief in the resurrection of Jesus, and a conse- 
quent resurrection of all mankind, which w'as accepted 
IX. — Q 


by its heathen converts w’ith a passionate earnestness, 
of which those who at the present day are familiar from 
infancy with the doctrine of the resurrection of the 
dead can form only a faint idea. To attempt to check 
the progress of this new religion among the Jew's by an 
appeal to the temporary rewards and punishments of 
the Pentateuch would have been as idle as an endeav- 
or to check an explosive power by ordinary mechani- 
cal restraints. Consciously, therefore, or unconsciously, 
many circumstances combined to induce the Jews, who 
were not Pharisees, but who resisted the new heresy, 
to rally round the standard of the oral law r , and to as- 
sert that their holy legislator, Moses, had transmitted 
to his faithful people by word of mouth, although not 
in W'riting, the revelation of a future state of rewards 
and punishments. A great belief was thus built up on 
a great fiction ; early teaching and custom supplied the 
place of evidence; faith in an imaginary fact produced 
results as striking as could have flowed from the fact 
itself; and the doctrine of a Mosaic oral law', enshrin- 
ing convictions and hopes deeply rooted in the human 
heart, has triumphed for nearly eighteen centuries in 
the ideas of the Jew'ish people. See Kabbinisji. 

4. Their Modern Representatives. — Many leading Jew T - 
ish writers (Pinsker, Geiger, Fiirst, etc.) claim the Ka- 
raites as lineal descendants of the Sadducees: and this 
identity is quietly assumed by Ginsburg in the art. in 
Kitto’s Cyclopaedia, which w'e have thus far mainly fol- 
lowed. It is true the modern Karaite Jews hold, in 
common with the Sadducees, the decided rejection of 
the oral law. Less important coincidences are also 
pointed out, such as their view's of worldly policy, their 
notions respecting the Levirate law, retaliation, inheri- 
tance, defilement, the Sabbath, phylacteries, etc.; but 
these particulars, if indeed not merely accidental, are 
certainly not conclusive, in the absence of any link of 
historical connection between the two sects. On the 
other hand, the failure of agreement in the marked ten- 
et respecting the resurrection is a sufficient offset to 
these other marks of identity. See Karaites. 

V. The literature is nearly the same as that for the 
Pharisees (q. v.). The following monographs, however, 
may be specified : Cellarius, I)e Causis cur Sadduccei 
Angelos negarint (Ziz. 1637); Eeiske, I)e Sadducceis 
(Jen. 1666) ; Mieg, lie A rgumento Christ. adversus Sad- 
ducceos (lleidclb. 1677); Willemer,Z)e Sadducceis (Yiteb. 
1680); Barthel, De Sadducceis (Lips. 1680); Lund, De 
Pkctrisceis, Sadducceis et Essenis (Aboa?, 1689); Salden, 
De Sadducceis et Pharisceis (in his Otia Theol. p. 554) ; 
Buding, De Sadducceismo Annce et Caiaphce (Buding. 
1719); Cobius,ri. rgum.Jes.Chr. contra Sadducceos (Xiicb. 
1727); Walt her, De Immortalitate Animarum a Saddu- 
cceis negata (Nenbrand. 1776); Schultze, Conjectures 
II ist.-criticce de Sadducceis (Hal. 1779); Schaffer, Oratio 
dp-^iepevcn in Ecclesia Hebrcea Sadducea (Jen. s. a.) ; 
Harenberg, Nerrus Demonstrationis a Christo in Saddu- 
cceos susceptce (in lken’s Thesaur. ii, 242); Gade, De 
Sadducceorum in Rente Judaica Auctoritate (in the Mis- 
cell. Lips. Nor. ii, 13; v, 440); Giiklenapfcl, Josephi de 
Sadducceorum Canone Sententia (Jen. 1804) ; Grossman, 
De Philosophic Sadducceorum (Lips. 1836-39, 4 vols.) ; 
Hanne, Die Pharisder u. Saclducaer als polit. Parteien 
(in Hilgenfcld’s Zeitschrift , 1867). See Philosophy. 

Sade, Jean Baptiste de, a French prelate, 
nephew of Hichard, was born at Avignon in 1632. 
After the death of his uncle he became bishop of Ca- 
vaillon, and died Dec. 21, 1707. lie left several relig- 
ious w'orks: Instructions Chretiennes et Morales (1696): 
— Reflexions Chretiennes sur les Psaumes Penitentiaux 
Trouvees dans la Cassette cV Antoine /, Roi de Portugal 
(1698). — Iloefcr, Nouv. Biog. Generale, s. v. 

Sade, Pons de, a French prelate. lie w T as first 
professor in the University of Avignon, and in 1445 was 
made bishop of Vaison. He died at Vaison in 1469. 

Sade, Richard de, a French ecclesiastic, was suc- 
cessively chamberlain of pope Urban VIII, vicc-govern- 


SADEEL 


242 


SADOLETO 


or of Tivoli and Ravenna, and after fGGO bishop of Ca- 
vaillon. He died at Rome, June 27, 1663. 

Sadeel, Antoine, one of the promoters of the Ref- 
ormation, was born, 1534, at the castle of Chabot, in the 
Maconnais. At the age of twenty he was invited to 
preach to a congregation of the Reformed at Paris. At- 
tacked by the priests, he was employed by the Protest- 
ants to draw up a vindication, was imprisoned the next 
year, 1558, but was released by the king of Navarre. 1 Ie 
went to Orleans, where, in 1562, he presided at a national 
synod. He then went to Herne, and finally to Geneva, 
where, from 1589, he labored as preacher and professor 
of Hebrew until his death, Feb. 23, 1591. He wrote 
against the Jesuits, SophismataF. Turriani, etc. (1577): 
— Index Repetitions m Turviani (1583, 8vo) : — He Legi- 
tima Voccitione Pastorvm Ecclesiee Reformats (1583, 
8vo): — Response a la Profession de Fog (1593, Svo) : — 
Opera Theologica (1592, fol.). 

Sadhyas, in Hindi*! mythology, are demi-gods, all 
of whom are descended from the first Menu. 

Sadir Jug, in Hindu mythology, is a period in 
Hindi! chronology which embraces four world-periods, 
or twelve thousand divine years of three hundred and 
sixty solar years each. 

Sadleir, Francis, D.D., provost of Trinity College, 
Dublin, from 1837 until his death in 1851, was a lineal 
descendant of Sir Ralph Sadleir. His Sermons and 
Lectures ( Donellan Lectures) were published in Dublin 
(1821-22, 2 vols, 8vo). 

Sadler, Anthony, D.D., chaplain to Charles II, 
died about 1G80. His published works are, Inquisitio 
Anglicana (Loud. 1G54, 4to) : — The Loyal Mourner 
(1660, 4 to) : — The Subject's Joy for the King's Resto- 
ration: a Masque (1660,4 to): — Strange News Indeed 
(1664, 4to) : — Schema. Sacrum, etc. (1683). Also single 
Sermons. See Bliss’s Wood. Athen. Oxon. iii, 1267. 

Sadler, John, an English divine and author, who 
died 1595, is known principally by his work, Sacred 
Records of the History of Christ (Lond. 8vo). 

Sadler, Michael Thomas, an English states- 
man and philanthropist, was a native of Snelston, Der- 
byshire, and was born in 1780. lie was for some time 
a merchant of Leeds, was member of Parliament for 
Newark-upon-Trent, 1829-30, and in 1831 for Aldbor- 
ougli, Yorkshire. He was noted for his philanthropic 
interest on behalf of the agricultural poor and children 
in factories, and his opposition to Roman Catholic 
emancipation and parliamentary reform. He died in 
1835. The following are some of his principal works : 
Ireland: its Evils and Remedies (Lond. 1828, 8 vo) : — 
Speech in the House of Commons on the Roman Catholic 
Relief Rill, March 17, 1829; Second Speech, March 30, 
1829 (Lond. 1829). 

Sa'doc, the Greek form of the name Zadok (q. v.) 
in the Apocrypha and New Test. 

1. (Vnlg. Sadoch, the Greek original being lost). 
The high-priest Zadok (2 Esdr. i, 1); one of Ezra’s an- 
cestors (Ezra vii, 2). 

2. (SaCibK, Yulg. Sadoc). The son (great-grandson) 
of Azor and father of Achim (Matt, i, 14) in Christ’s an- 
cestry. B.C. cir. 220. See Genealogy (of Chiust). 

Sadoleto, Jacopo, a Roman cardinal and bishop, 
noted for his learning, ability, purity, and liberality, 
born at Modena in 1477. II is father, a professor at 
Pisa, then at Ferrara, gave him an excellent education. 
While yet a mere youth he heard lectures on Aristotle, 
and was introduced to the riches of classical literature. 
Philosophy and eloquence were his favorite studies; 
and Aristotle and Cicero his masters. Jlis first publi- 
cation was J'hilosophictr Consolationes et Meditationes 
in A dversiis (1502). lie also made a promising start 
in poetry, as his I)e Cajo Curtio and He Laoeoontis Sta- 
tua testify. On leaving the university he went to 
Rome, and soon won the esteem of all scholars and of 
several eminent prelates. Cardinal Caraffa had him 


made a canon of San Lorenzo, a place which he held 
until 1517. Leo X, on his accession, chose Sadoleto 
and Peter Bembo as his secretaries. In this position 
Sadoleto rendered his Church faithful services and won 
great reputation. In 1517, while on a pilgrimage to 
Loretto, he was appointed bishop of Carpentras, near 
Avignon. After vainly declining this honor, he ac- 
cepted it, and fulfilled its duties with exemplary dili- 
gence. Leo’s successor, Adrian VI, did not esteem him 
so highly as Leo. But Clement VI I recalled him to 
Rome — a call which he accepted on condition of being 
permitted to return to his see after three years. He 
now became one of Clement’s most trusted counsellors, 
and exerted a very beneficent influence. But he en- 
deavored in vain to dissuade the pope from his league 
against Charles V (1526). Foreseeing the calamities 
which would result, he begged to be permitted to retire 
to his diocese. Scarcely twenty days after his depart- 
ure, Rome was sacked and the pope a prisoner. He 
now gave his earnest attention to the management 
of his diocese, removing unworthy pastors, appointing 
faithful ones, establishing schools, and endeavoring to 
make the Reformation unnecessary by removing abuses. 
Here he came into correspondence with some of the 
most eminent Protestants — Martin Bucer, John Sturm, 
and Melancthon. He appreciated the motives of the 
Reformers; but he regarded their doctrine of justifica- 
tion by faith alone as an excessive statement of a good 
Catholic doctrine, and as liable to Antinomian abuse. 
His position was that of a mediator; and to all perse- 
cution of the Protestants he was utterly opposed. Dur- 
ing his stay at Carpentras he entered afresh upon liter- 
ary labors. Here he wrote a work on education: De 
Liber is rede Instituendis (Ven. 1533; new ed. Paris, 
1855) and a commentary, In Pauli Epistolam ad Ro- 
manos (Ven. 1535). This commentary is his most im- 
portant doctrinal utterance. His purpose was to pre- 
sent the general Catholic doctrine on faith, good works, 
justification, predestination, and free will. He mainly 
followed Chrysostom and Theophylact, and opposed the 
determinism of Augustine. Man is not passive in the 
process of regeneration, but must personally co-oper- 
ate with the grace of God. Faith and good works are 
inseparable; but works without faith are of no worth. 
In so far as he. opposed justification by faith alone, he 
opposed only its abuse. He also opposed the excessive 
fasts and asceticism of the Roman Church. The book 
was severely censured at Rome. Sadoleto modified 
some of its utterances, and issued a new edition in 1536. 
At this period he wrote also an Interpretatio of some of 
the Psalms. On the accession of Paul III, Sadoleto was 
called to Rome to give counsel as to measures of Church 
reform. The pope now raised him to the eardinalate 
(1536), retained him at Rome, and charged him with 
preparations for the contemplated Council of Trent. In 
1538 he attended the pope when he met Charles X at 
Nice. Here he labored to bring about a peace between 
the emperor and Francis 1. An armistice having been 
effected, he obtained permission to retire to his bishop- 
ric. Here he wrote his elegant work De Philosoqdiia. 
In 1539 he wrote his celebrated Epistolam ad Senatum 
Populumque Genevensem, an eloquent and affectionate 
appeal to the Genevese Protestants, whom he styles 
“his beloved brethren in Christ,” to return into the 
unity of the Church. Here he also began his irenical 
work, l)e Exstructionc Cath. Eccl . At this period he 
gave a signal proof of his Christian liberality. Francis 
I had issued an order of persecution against all dissent- 
ers in Provence; thereupon some of them drew up a 
statement of their belief, sent it to Sadoleto, and asked 
his intercession. He candidly made the examination, 
suggested a few changes, and promised to use his ut- 
most endeavors to rescue them from persecution. War 
breaking out afresh between Francis I and Charles V, 
Sadoleto was called to Rome (1542) to act as peace 
commissioner. This work done, he retired for a few 
months to Carpentras; but in the summer of 1543 he 


SADOLETO 


243 


SAFFRON 


returned to Rome to aid the pope further in his prepa- 
rations for the Council of Trent. The next year lie 
was called on to meet the emperor and the pope at 
Busseto in an endeavor to effect a peace with France. 
This was among the last of Sadoleto’s labors. He was 
now far advanced in years; his health gave way in 
the summer of 1547, and on Oct. 18 he entered into rest. 
Sadoleto was one of the noblest characters of the age; 
he belonged to that select circle of high Roman prelates 
who sincerely desired to do away with the corruptions 
of their Church, but whose influence was largely coun- 
teracted by the worldly-minded majority. 11 is works, 
which are very elegantly written, were printed in 1G07 : 
Sadoleti Opera quee extant Omnia (Mogunt.). His col- 
lected works, except his Letters , were again issued at 
Verona in 1737-38, in 4 vols.4to ; his Epistolarum Libri 
XV J I, at Lyons in 1550; a better edition of these Let- 
ters, at Rome, 1759, in 5 vols. 8vo; his work on philoso- 
phy, at Paris in 1853. See his Life by Florebellus; ; 
Joly, Etude sur Sadolet. (Caen, 1857): Herzog, Real- 
Encijklop. xiii, 297-301 ; IJoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, 
s. v. ( J. P. L.) 

Sadoleto, Paolo, an Italian prelate, nephew of 
the preceding, was born at Modena, 1508. He studied 
literature and ancient languages at Ferrara, and was in 
1533 made assistant of his uncle at the siege of Carpen- 
tras, and in 1541 governor of Yenaissin. In 1544 he 
succeeded his uncle as bishop, and went to Rome as sec- 
retary of pope Julius III. At the death of that pontiff, 
in 1555, he returned to his diocese, and twice again was 
charged with the governorship of Venaissin, 15G0, 15G7. 
He died Feb. 26, 1572, deplored by his people for his 
excellent qualities and erudition. 1 1 is Letters and Lat- 
er Poems were published by abbe Costanzi at the end 
of liis uncle’s Letters . See Tirabosehi, Storia della Let - 
teratura Italiana, vii ; Barjavel, Did. Hist, du Yauduse. 
— Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Sadr, in Scandinavian mythology, is a surname of 
Odin, the principal deity. 

Saewulf, supposed to have been a merchant of 
Gloucester, flourished in 1102, and is noticed by William 
of Malmesbury. He left in manuscript an account of 
his travels in the Holy Land, A.D. 1102-3, under the 
title, Relatio de Peregrinatione Saewulji ad Ilierosoly- 
mam et Terrain Sand am, etc. A French translation 
was published in Paris, 1839, under the title, Relation 
des Voyages de Saewulf a Jerusalem et en Terre-Sainte ; 
and an English translation is included in Thomas 
Wright’s Early Travels in Palestine (Loud. 1848). 

Saffron (03*13, karkom', Sept, icporog) occurs only 
once in the O. T., viz. in Cant, iv, 14, where it is men- 
tioned along with several fragrant and stimulant sub- 
stances, such as spikenard, calamus, and cinnamon, trees 
of frankincense, myrrh, and aloes (ahalim ) : we may 
therefore suppose that it was some substance possessed 
of similar properties. The name, however, is so simi- 
lar to the Persian karkam (see Castelli, Lex. Ilept. Col. 
1808) and the Greek KpoKog that we have no difficulty 
in tracing the Hebrew karkom to the modern crocus or 
saffron. It is also probable that all three names had 
one common origin, saffron having from the earliest 
times been cultivated in Asiatic countries, as it still is 
in Persia and Cashmere (comp. Theophr. Plant, vi, 6; 
Pliny, xxi, 17), and especially in ancient Cilicia (Strabo, 
xiv, G, 71 ; Dioscor. i, 25). Crocus is mentioned by 
Hippocrates and Theophrastus. Dioscorides describes 
the different kinds of it, and Pliny states that the 
benches of the public theatres were strewn with saf- 
fron; indeed, “the ancients frequently made use of 
this flower in perfumes. Not only saloons, theatres, 
and places which were to be filled with a pleasant fra- 
grance were strewn with this substance, but all sorts 
of vinous tinctures retaining the scent were made of it, 
and this costly perfume was poured into small fountains, 
which diffused the odor which was so highly esteemed. 
Even fruit and confitures placed before guests, and the 


ornaments of the rooms, were spread over with it. It 
was used for the same purposes as the modern pot- 
pourri” (Rosenmiiller, Bill. Bot. p. 138). In the pres- 
ent day a very high price is given in India for saffron 
imported from Cashmere; native dishes are often col- 
ored and flavored with it, and it is in high esteem as a 
stimulant medicine. The common name, saffron, is no 
doubt derived from the Arabic zafran, as are the cor- 
responding terms in most of the languages of Europe. 
To this it may be added that it was a favorite pigment 
or dye. “Saffron-vested” {KpoKQireTrXog) is a Homeric 
epithet for aurora or morning, and the crocota was a 
robe of delicate texture and bright-yellow color, occa- 
sionally worn by actors and Roman ladies. Its beauty 
in the landscape is referred to by Homer {Iliad, xiv, 
399), Virgil (Georg, iv, 182), and Milton {Par. Lost, iv, 
700). Nothing, therefore, was more likely than that 
saffron should be associated with the foregoing fragrant 
substances in the passage of Canticles, as it still con- 
tinues to be esteemed by Asiatic nations, and, as we 
have seen, to be cultivated by them. Ilasselquist also 
(7Var.p.3G), in reference to this Biblical plant, describes 
the ground between Smyrna and Magnesia as in some 
places covered with saffron; and Rauwolf mentions 
gardens and fields of crocus in the neighborhood of 
Aleppo, and particularizes a fragrant variety in Syria. 
Kitto {Phys. Hist, of Palest, p. 321) says that the safflow- 
er {Carthamus tinctorius ), a very different plant from 
the crocus, is cultivated in Syria for the sake of the 
flowers which are used in dyeing; but the karkom, no 
doubt, denotes the Crocus sativus. 

Saffron belongs to the flag or iris order ( Iridaccee ). 
The different members of the crocus family are great 
favorites: the purple and golden varieties (Crocus ver- 
mis, Willd., and C. aureus, Sm.), which, on English flower 
borders, are the first to follow the snowdrop, and often 
fill with a flush of coming spring the earliest days of 
March ; and the lonely, fragile sort {C. nudifonis, Sm.), 
which, with its own leaves still underground, comes up 
amid the drifting foliage of autumn, making a mourn- 
ful effort to cheer the last days of October. These, and 
other species now naturalized in various localities, are 
regarded by some as only varieties of the C. sativus of 



Saffron ( Crocus sativus). 


SAGA 


244 


SAHUGUET 


Linnaeus, the true or saffron -yielding crocus— a plant 
of plentiful occurrence in Greece and Asia Minor. The 
name saffron, as usually applied, does not denote the 
whole plant, nor even the whole flower, of Crocus sativus, 
but only the stigmas, with part of the style, which, be- 
ing plucked out, arc carefully dried. (Comp. Halle En- 
cykl. i, § xx, 165 sq., and plates in Plenck, leones Plan- 
tar. Med. i, plate 32.) These, when prepared, are dry, 
narrow, thread-like, and twisted together, of an oraiige- 
yellow color, having a peculiar aromatic and penetrat- 
ing odor, with a bitterish and somewhat aromatic taste, 
tinging the mouth and saliva of a yellow color. Some- 
times the stigmas arc prepared by being submitted to 
pressure, and thus made into what is called cake saf- 
fron, a form in which it is still imported from Persia 
into India. Hay saffron is obtained chiefly from France 
and Spain, though it is also sometimes prepared from 
the native crocus cultivated for this purpose. Saffron 
was formerly highly esteemed as a stimulant medicine, 
and still enjoys high repute in Eastern countries both 
as a medicine and as a condiment. See, further, Beck- 
mann, Geschichte der Erf ml. ii, 79 sq. ; Celsius, Ilierobot. 
ii, 1 1 sq. ; Bod. a Stapcl. Comment, in Theophr . p. 663 
sq. ; Ilcrtodt, Crocologia (Jen. 1670); Tristram, Eat. 
Ilist. of the Bible , p.496. 

Saga, in Scandinavian mythology, possibly identi- 
cal with Logo, is a deity who at least shares the dwell- 
ing-place of Laga in the cooling waters of Soquabekr, 
and participates in the love of Odin, who pays her dai- 
ly visits. Saga is one of the Asins, whose songs com- 
memorate the deeds of the heroes. See Norse My- 
thology. 

Sagan (jSD, a prefect), the second priest of the 
Jews, who acted as deputy of the high -priest, often 
officiating for him in the sacred service of the Temple. 
He was sometimes called high-priest, and was identical 
with the ruler of the Temple. See Priest. 

Sagaren,or Sangaren, in Hindu mythology, was 
a famous king, belonging to the race of Children of the 
Sun, whose sixty thousand sons were turned to ashes by 
an angry glance of the white penitent Kabiler. 

Sagaris, in Greek mythology, was a Trojan who 
accompanied /Eneas to Italy, where he was slain by 
Turn us. 

Sagaritis, in Phoenician mythology, was a dryad 
who induced Atys to violate his faith with Cybele, to 
punish which the latter cut down the tree of Sagaritis, 
and thus caused her death. 

Sagatraka waxen, in Hindi! mythology, was a 
monstrous giant who sprang from the blood of Brahma, 
when that god was decapitated by the angry Siva, 
and who was provided with five hundred heads and a 
thousand arms. — Yollmer, Wdrterb. d. Mgtliol. s. v. 

Sage, Jonx, a bishop of the Episcopal Church of 
Scotland, was born (1652) in the parish of Creich, Fife. 
He was educated at the University of St. Andrews 
(M.A. 167*2), and wa9 ordained in 1681. He officiated 
at Glasgow until the Revolution in 1688, and was con- 
secrated a bishop for Scotland, 1705. He died in 1711. 
The following are his principal works: The Fundamen- 
tal Charter uf Prcsbgterg (Loud. 1695, 8vo) ; The Prin- 
ciples of the Cgprianic Age with regard to Episcopal 
Power, etc. ( 1695, 4 to ; 1717, 8vo) ; A Vindication of the 
same (1701, 4 to). These, together with his Life, were 
republished, in three octavo volumes, by the Spottis- 
woodc Society (Edin. 18 1 1-46). See Allibunc, Diet, of 
Authors, s. v. ; Darling, Cgclop. Hibliog. s. v. 

Sagittarius, Caspar, historiographer of the duchy 
of Saxony, professor of history at the University of Jena, 
and, according to his biographer, J. A. Schmidt, one of 
the most excellent, erudite, ami industrious men of his 
time, was born Sept. 23, 1613. His father, a pastor, 
taught him with eare, and sent him, when fifteen, to 
the gymnasium at Lllbeek. At. this early age he 
published an essay, Dc Pitibus Veterum Jlomanorum 


Xuptialibus, and began his annotations on Justin. 
Here also he wrote an erudite history of the Passion 
of Jesus. After three years at the gymnasium, he 
entered the University of Uelmstadt, and heard lect- 
ures on the whole field of human knowledge — exege- 
sis, church history, metaphysics, logic, ethics, politics, 
physics, history, geography, and anatomy — thus lay- 
ing a foundation for the character of polghistor which 
he subsequently bore, lie also preached and travelled 
in various parts of Germany, and formed relations with 
many learned men. He next prepared his work, De 
Calceis et Kmlipedalibus Veterum. At the age of twen- 
ty-live he became rector of the school at Saalfeld (1668), 
where he not only distinguished himself as an educator, 
but also continued his literary productiveness. In 1671 
he was called to a professorship at Jena. After writing 
various philological treatises and theological disputa- 
tions — one of them De Martyrum Cruciatibus in Pri- 
mitiva Ecclesia — he succeeded (1674) to the chair of J. 
A. Bose as professor of history. The next year he pub- 
lished a very learned work on the history and customs 
of Thuringia. In 1676 he visited the libraries of Ger- 
many and Copenhagen; in 1678 he issued his Compen- 
dium Histories Saxonicce, and was made a doctor of the- 
ology; in the following years he appeared as a polemic, 
defending Lutheranism against the Jesuit Schonmann. 
Thereupon followed various works on Pietism, which he 
boldly defended, and for which he was bitterly assailed 
by the staid orthodox party. Among the best of his 
works in this strife is his Christlicher Neitjah rswunsch 
an alle evangelische Theologos , die die Beforderung des 
thatigen Chi'istenthums sich angelegen segn lassen (Jena, 
1692). Among his later writings were his Ilistoria 
Vitce Georgii S palatini (Jena, 1693), and an Introductio 
in Historiam Ecclesiasticam, which lie did not live to 
finish, lie died March 9, 1694. For a complete list of 
the works of Sagittarius, see Joan. A ndr. Schmulii Com- 
ment arius de Vita et Scriptis Caspari Sagittarii (Jena, 
17 1 3). See Herzog, Real-Encykl. xiii, 301-304. (J. P. L.) 

Sagui, in Hindu mythology, is the second stage of 
blessedness in the paradise of Vishnu. See Hinduism. 

Sahadutha. See Jegar-Saiiadutha. 

Sahidio (or Thebaic) Version. Sec Egyptian 
Versions. 

Sahuguet, Marc Reni£, abbe' d’Espagnac, was born 
at Brivcs, in 1753. Being destined for the Church, he 
received orders, and was soon appointed canon of Paris. 
He gave himself principally to literary pursuits, and his 
earlier essays have received just praise. In 1782 he be- 
came advisory clerk of Parliament, and soon developed 
a great love of riches. The agent and friend of Calonne, 
he only engaged in those enterprises which would in- 
crease his wealth. Among his operations was a specu- 
lation in shares of the East India Company, which 
was so scandalous as to oblige the government to can- 
cel the whole bargain. After the disgrace of Calonne, 
the abbe d’Espagnac was exiled, though he was still 
canon of Notre Dame. In 1789 he returned to Paris 
and associated himself with the so-called Club o/’1789. 
At the same time he was a friend of the Jacobins, whose 
influence procured for him the office of purveyor to the 
army of the Alps. lie was very soon denounced by 
Cambon and put under sentence of arrest for engaging 
in fraudulent business transactions, but succeeded in 
clearing himself. Having gained bis liberty, he at- 
tached himself to the army of Dumouricz, and by vari- 
ous means acquired an immense fortune. But at the 
revolt of Dumoiiriez, Sahuguet was arrested, and tried 
as an accomplice in a conspiracy to corrupt the govern- 
ment. He was found guilty, and executed at Paris, 
April 5, 1794. Of his literary works there are a few 
remaining which show considerable ability. The most 
noticeable are L'Eloge de Catinat , who was crowned by 
the French Academy in 1775, and Reflexions sur VAbbe 

Roger et sur son Riecle (1780) Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. 

Gene rale, s. v. 


SAIL 


245 


SAINT 


Sail is the incorrect rendering in the passages Isa. 
xxxiii, 23 ; Ezek. xxvii, 7, of the Hebrew 03, ?ws, usu- 
ally a standard or flag-staff, and in the passages in ques- 
tion a flag of a ship. In Acts xxvii, 17 it stands vague- 
ly for ofcevog (a vessel or implement of any kind), which 
there designates the tackling, or sailing-apparatus in 
general of a ship. See, also, Main-sail. 

Sailer, Johann Michael, a Homan Catholic bish- 
op of Katisbon, the originator of a tendency in German 
Catholicism, and one of the purest and noblest theologi- 
ans of the Church universal. His life lies between Nov. 
17, 1751, and May 20, 1832. He was born near Schro- 
benhansen, in the bishopric of Augsburg, of upright, de- 
vout parents. His mother left upon his young heart 
an impression for which he expressed public thanks to 
the end of his days. His readiness in learning induced 
his father to send him in his tenth year to school at 
Munich. For live or six years he earned his way as 
attendant on a young nobleman. Having finished his 
gymnasium studies at the age of nineteen, he entered 
as novitiate into the Jesuit Society at Landsbcrg, and 
passed three very studious years. On the dissolution 
of the order (1773), he went to Ingolstadt, and pursued 
philosophy and theology until 1777, when he was con- 
secrated to the priesthood. 

Up to his sixteenth year, Sailer suffered under a ten- 
der and often upbraiding conscience. lint, finding a wise 
spiritual guide, he was now led to a clear, evangelical 
conversion. At his eighteenth year he was troubled 
with historical doubts. An aged missionary from In- 
dia helped him, happily, over these. Hut other, even 
severer, temptations beset him subsequently. In 1777 
he became 1 'epetitor publicus of philosophy and theolo- 
gy at Ingolstadt. Here he formed intimate bonds with 
the zealous and devout pastor Feneberg, and with Win- 
kelhofer, the German Fenelon. In 1780 he was pro- 
moted to the chair of dogmatics. He now began his 
public literary activity, and published notes to the 
Jmitatio Christ i , also a prayer-book, which has enjoyed 
great popularity, and a discussion of the province of 
reason. From 1784 to 1794 he served as professor of 
pastoral theology at the University of DiUingen — a 
very fruitful period. He planted evangelical princi- 
ples in the hearts of thousands of students, who in 
turn spread them throughout German Catholicism. He 
formed religious friendships with many eminent Prot- 
estants, especially Lavater, and with all who were ear- 
nestly upholding religion against the inflooding of ration- 
alism. This finally brought persecution upon Sailer, 
and in 1794 he was abruptly dismissed from his chair. 
For a while he shared the hospitality of Winkelhofer in 
Munich, but then retired into greater privacy at Ebcrs- 
berg. The next six years brought to Sailer great spir- 
itual temptations. He was brought into the stream of 
earnest evangelical mysticism which centred in Martin 
Boos; but he was not entirely carried captive by it. 
Partially convinced that he still retained something of 
the Pharisee and formalist, yet unable to break en- 
tirely away from Catholic tradition, he finally sought 
refuge and consolation in fervent prayer and active la- 
bor upon the souls of men. Not fully rising to the sub- 
jective self-assertion of Luther, he yet clung with his 
whole heart to Christ, and followed the examples of 
Fenelon and Francis de Sales. His piety resembled 
that of Charles Wesley, while his adhesion to Catholi- 
cism, though less passionate, was yet of the same type as 
Charles Wesley’s devotion to the Establishment. In 
1799, Sailer was again favored with a chair in Ingol- 
stadt. The next year the university was removed to 
Landshut. Here lie labored with great fruitfulness un- 
til 1821. He lectured on ethics, pastoral theology, 
homiletics, pedagogics, liturgies, and served as univer- 
sity preacher. His pen was also very busy. He at- 
tracted students from every part of Germany, and re- 
ceived many tempting calls to other fields, one of them 
to the archbishopric of Cologne ; but lie declined them 


all. Even yet he did not entirely escape persecution 
and abuse ; but he bore it all with the greatest pa- 
tience, holding as his motto the words of the prophet 
(Jer. xxx, 15), “ In spe et silentio erit fortitudo ves- 
tra.” While Napoleon accused him of being a bigoted 
papist, the pope distrusted him and refused to confirm 
him as bishop of Augsburg. Accused of mysticism and 
of fraternization with Protestants, he published, in 1820, 
a detailed defence of all that he had done or taught, and 
submitted the whole to the judgment of the pope, fol- 
lowing the example of the great Fenelon.” This docu- 
ment did not fully satisfy Borne, and it was only after 
considerable negotiation that the king of Bavaria ob- 
tained papal consent to his ecclesiastical preferment. 
In 1821 he was made prebendary of Batisbon, and in 
1822 vicar-general and coadjutor of the aged bishop Von 
Wolf; at the same time he was made bishop in parti- 
bus of Gcrmanicopolis. With great conscientiousness 
he now entered upon the weighty duties of this great 
diocese of Batisbon. Everywhere he endeavored to 
look into matters with his own eyes, and to correct all 
abuses to the extent of his ability. He held regular 
meetings with all his clergy, and endeavored to im- 
prove the popular education. In 1829 he became in 
name what he had long been in reality, bishop of Batis- 
bon. Three years later he died at the age of eighty- 
one. A complete edition of his works was published by 
J. Widmer (Sulzb. 1830-42) in forty volumes. Among 
them the following deserve special mention : Brief e 
aus alien Jahrliunderten (1800-4): — Grundlehren der 
Religion : — Moralphilosophie : — Erziehung fur Erzie - 
her : — Die 1 Veisheit avf der Gasse : — Pastoraltheologie : 
— and many sermons and addresses. Though lacking in 
profound speculative power, Sailer’s writings have 3*et 
had a very wide and very stimulating influence. He 
has been compared to Herder, but he had far more re- 
spect than Herder for the objective fruit of ecclesias- 
tical thought. He endeavored in all things to practice 
the maxim In necessariis unites, in dubiis libertas , in 
omnibus caritas. Of a school of theology as spring- 
ing from Sailer, we cannot properly speak. He did not 
leave a school, but only a spiritual impulse. He was of 
decidedly ironical tendency. Full of Christian love, his 
ideal was a “ mild orthodoxy,” equally opposed to ra- 
tionalism, on the one hand, and to a stiff, arid, Boman 
orthodoxy, on the other. Among the most eminent fol- 
lowers of Sailer was Melchior Diepcnbrock (1798-1851), 
his companion at Batisbon, and subsequently prince- 
bishop of Breslau and cardinal-priest. See Hagenbach, 
Church in the 1 8th and 1 Oth Centuries; but especially 
Herzog, Real-Encykl. xiii, 305-313. (J. P. L.) 

Sailly, Thomas, a Belgian theologian, was born at 
Brussels in 1553, where he died in 1023. At the age of 
seventeen, having been already ordained priest, he went 
to Borne to enter the Society of Jesus. When hardly 
out of his novitiate, he was sent by Gregory XIII on an 
embassy to the czar Ivan. On account of his health he 
was recalled, and became confessor to prince Alexander 
of Parma. In 1597 he was made superior of a military 
mission, and in 1G0C he went to Borne as procurator-gen- 
eral of the Belgian provinces. In 1G20 he took part as 
missionary in the campaign of Spinola. He was the 
author of works in Latin, Flemish, and French : Guidon 
et Pratique Spiritudle du Soldat Chretien (1590) :-Nar- 
ratio Ifineris Fr. de Mendoza , .4 Imirantii A r agon ice, in 
Legatione sua (1598): — Thesaurus Litanarum ac Ora- 
tionvm Sacer ( 1 598) : — Den nieiren M orghemcekker ( I G 1 2) . 
He also translated several religious treatises into his na- 
tive language. — Hoefer, Four. Biog. Gene rale, s. v. 

Saint, an epithet applied to (1) a person eminent 
for piety and virtue : (2) a consecrated or sanctified per- 
son. There arc two words in the Hebrew Scripture used 
to express the above, both of which are rendered in our 
translation by the single expression Saint. ^Dn, chasid 
(like the Gr. umog), denotes a mental quality; its most 
certain acceptation being pious, just, godly, etc. It is 


SAINT 


246 


SAINT JOHN 


spoken of pious Hebrews (Psa. iv, 3 ; xxx, 4; xxxi, 23; 
xxxvii, 28; 1, 5; Iii, 9; Ixxix, 2; xevii, 10; cxvi, 15). 
On the other hand, tunf, kadosh, and also the Greek 
word ayjof, signifies pure, clean, in reference to physi- 
cal purity and cleanliness ; they arc also used of 
moral purity, holy, hallowed, sacred — applied to per- 
sons consecrated to the service of God : the priests 
O'.xod. xxviii, 41 ; xxix, 1 ; Lev. xxi, 6; 1 Sara, yii, 1 ; 
1 l’ct. ii, 5); the first-born (Exod. xiii, 2; Luke ii, 23; 
Korn. xi, 10) ; and the people of Israel (Exod. xix, 10, 
14; Isa. xiii, 3); prophets and apostles (Luke i, 70; 
Acts iii, 21 ; 2 l’et. i, 21 ; Eph. iii, 5) ; the pious Israel- 
ites, the saints (Dent, xxxiii, 3: Psa. xvi, 3; xxxiv, 9; 
lxxxix, 5, 7; Zeeh. xiv, 5; Dan. vii, 18, 21, 25, 27; 
Matt, xxvii, 52); and the angels (Job v, 1; xv, 15; 
Dan. viii, 13 ; Matt, xxv, 31 ; 1 Thess. iii, 13), The lat- 
ter Greek word is also used of those who are purified 
and sanctified by the Holy Spirit; and as this is as- 
sumed of all who profess the Christian name, Christians 
are called saints (Acts ix, 13, 14, 32,41 ; xxvi, 10; Rom. 
i, 7; viii, 27). It may here be observed that the He- 
brew word for a consecrated prostitute is ■TiHjr', kede- 
shdh, derived from *^1p, kadosh , in its signification of 
separated, dedicated, because such women among idol- 
aters were devoted to the service of the temples of their 
false deities, particularly those of Venus, and to the an- 
cient priests of Bel, or Bclus. Of such female devotees, 
instances are to be found in the present day attached to 
the Hindi! temples. 

The later Jews have their saints as well as the Chris- 
tian Church ; the word they use is 'dip, kadosh. Their 
most celebrated saint is rabbi Judah Ilak-kadosh (rabbi 
Judah the llolv). He lived about one hundred and 
twenty years after the destruction of the second Tem- 
ple, and was the author of the Mishna (or text) of the 
Babylonian Talmud. They have also their devout 
men chasidim), who devote themselves to a 

religious life and to the study of their law, visit the 
dying, perform the rites for the dead, etc. Of such 
kind were the “ devout persons” with whom Paul 
disputed (Acts xvii, 17). In the New Test, the word 
ay i or, as above, is used throughout wherever our ver- 
sion has “saint,” and with the same signification as 
in the Sept. — viz. separated, dedicated, sanctified by 
consecration — because the Christians were then especial- 
ly dedicated to God's service, in separation from the 
Jews and pagans, as the Jews had been before the “holy 
people” separated from the Gentiles. See Holiness. 

After the Christian aera, the martyrs were considered 
as dignified saints in the same rank as the apostles— i. e. 
saints by profession and office, as distinguished from the 
saints, or holy and pious by character and conduct, such 
as have been eminent for religion and virtue, but not 
canonized. After some time canonization was extended 
also to confessors— that is, persons who during the per- 
secutions against the Christians had made a resolute 
avowal and defence of their faith, and had suffered tort- 
ure, banishment, or confiscation in consequence, but not 
actual martyrdom (see the monographs cited by Volbc- 
ding, I/ulex Programmatum, p. 169). For some centu- 
ries there was no regular canonization in the Christian 
< Lurch. By a tacit consent of the clcrgv the names of 
martyrs, etc., were inserted as saints in a kind of ecclesi- 
astical register, called a diptych. It was not till about 
the 9th century that solemn and formal canonization, 
with its particular eeremonics, began to be regularly 
practiced. At present, in the Church of Rome, the cer- 
emony of beatification, or being pronounced blessed bv 
the pope, must precede canonization, and cannot take 
place till fifty years after death. Sec Canonization. 
The word is generally applied by us to the apostles and 
other holy persons mentioned in the Scriptures; but the 
Romanists make its application much more extensive, 
as, according to them, all who are canonized arc made 
saints of a high degree. Protestants, in applying this 


term to the sacred writers, are very inconsistent; for 
though they say St. John, St. Peter, St. David, they 
never use St. Isaiah, St. Habakkuk, ete. The practice 
has even extended to naming churches after certain 
saints. Sec Patron Saints. 

Coucerning the bodies of the saints which arose and 
came out of their graves after the resurrection of Christ 
(Matt, xxvii, 50), it is believed that they were persons 
who believed in him and waited for him in hope, as old 
Simeon had done (Luke ii, 25), but who had died before 
his resurrection, and who were thus favored to be an ex- 
ample of the general resurrection, and to whom Christ 
alluded (John v, 25), “The hour is coming, and now is, 
when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God, 
and they that hear shall live;” and of whom Paul 
speaks, “Now is Christ risen from the dead, and be- 
come the first-fruits of them that slept,” because his 
resurrection was the signal for theirs. It appears that 
these persons must have been deceased during the then 
present generation; for they went into Jerusalem, and 
appeared unto many, who could not have recognised 
them had they been much longer dead. We may here 
observe that when the word saint or saints (liyiog, uyioi) 
is used in the New Test, relative to persons deceased, it 
is to be understood of the spirits of the just (without 
any distinction of office or character) made perfect. See 
Resurrection. 

Saint-Amour, Louis Gorin de, a French theolo- 
gian, was born at Paris, Oet. 27, 1 G 1 9. II e was educated 
at the University of Paris, and afterwards became its 
reetor, and in 1644 was made professor at the Sorbonne. 
Ilis profound learning and the vigor of his argumenta- 
tive powers soon made him conspicuous in the assem- 
blies of the faculty. When the Jesuits obtained the 
condemnation of the five propositions of the book of 
Jansenius, Saint-Amour became one of the most power- 
ful adversaries of the decision. He was one of the doc- 
tors who went to Rome to obtain its reversal, but was 
obliged to return without having succeeded. By his 
defence of Arnanld he was excluded from the assemblies 
of the Sorbonne, and, being arrested by the order of the 
Council of State, he was in 1684 burned at the stake. 
He published a Journal de ce qui Pest passe a Rome 
touchant les cinq Propositions depuis 164 6 jusqu'en 1653 
(1662), edited by Arnanld and De Saey from the notes 
of Saint-Amour and the abbe Salaine. — Iloefer, Xouv. 
Biog. G hie rale, s. v, 

Saint-George, Arthur, D.D., dean of Rosse, died 
1772. His only published work is The Archdeacon's 
Examination of Candidates for Holy Orders , etc., edited 
by W. Wotton, D.D. (Loud. 1751, 12mo). 

Saint John, Knights Hospitallers of (also 
called Knights of Rhodes, and Knights of Malta), a re- 
ligious and military order, originating in the middle of 
the 1 1th century. Some eitizens of Amalfi, while trad- 
ing with Palestine, had (1048) founded two hospitals 
for the reception of pilgrims to Jerusalem — one for men, 
and the other for women. The hospital for men bore 
the name of St. John the Almoner, a native of Cyprus 
and patriarch of Alexandria, who sent aid to Jerusa- 
lem in 614, after it had been sacked by Chosroes II. 
The confraternity who did service in the hospital 
was under the direction of Gerard. They displayed 
such heroic charity when Jerusalem was captured 
by the Crusaders, July 15. 1099, that several knights 
— among them Raymond du Puv — joined them as 
hospitallers. The lordship of Moutboire, in Brabant, 
was bestowed upon them by Godfrey de Bouillon. 
When peace was restored to the city, Gerard and his 
associates pledged themselves to labor forever in the 
hospitals “as the servants of the poor and of Christ,” 
the members of both sexes assuming as their habit the 
black robe of the Augustinians, with a white linen cross 
of eight points on the left breast. The order received 
the papal approbation from pope Paschal IT, Feb. 15, 
1113, under the appellation of “Brothers Hospitallers 


SAINT- JOHN 


247 


SAINT-SIMON 


of St. John in Jerusalem.” A magnificent church was 
erected to St. John the Baptist on the traditional site 
of his parents’ abode. Gerard took the title of Guar- 
dian and Provost of the order, and built, for the accom- 
modation of pilgrims, hospitals in the chief maritime 
towns of Western Europe ; these afterwards became com- 
manderics of the order. Gerard died in 1118, and was 
succeeded by Raymond du Puv, who to their former 
duty of hospitality and attendance upon the sick added 
that of knighthood, in opposition to infidels; and this 
soon became the principal object of the order. Ray- 
mond divided the order into knights, priests, and broth- 
er servants; and there grew up, also, a numerous inter- 
mediate class of' sergeants (old Fr. serfyents , serving- 
men), who rendered valuable service in field and hospi- 
tal, and were, in course of time, assigned separate com- 
manderies. The order, under its new organization, was 
called after St.John the Baptist; and Raymond ex- 
changed the title of guardian for that of master. The 
title of grand-master was first assumed by Ungues de 
Revel, 1267. The constitutions, based on the Augustin- 
ian rule, were drawn up by Raymond, and approved by 
pope Calixtus II, 1120. The great influx of members 
caused the order to be divided according to national- 
ities, or “languages” — those of Provence, Auvergne, 
France, Italy, Aragon, Germany, and England — to 
which were added the languages of Castile and Por- 
tugal. The order became famous by its delivering An- 
tioch from the Moslems, raising the siege of Jaffa, as- 
sisting powerfully in the fall of Tyre, driving the ene- 
my from Coele-Syria and Phoenicia, and contributing to 
the fall of Ascalon, in 1153. Araaury, king of Jerusa- 
lem, bribed them, in 1168, to promise to violate a sol- 
emn treaty and engage in an expedition against Egypt. 
The order was nearly annihilated in 1187 by Saladin 
in the battle of Tiberias. After the fall of Jerusalem, 
it was established at the castle of Margat (Markat), the 
female branch of the order retiring to Europe. The 
Kharcstnians nearly exterminated the order in 1244 at 
the battle of Gaza. When the Saracens took Acre (1201), 
the hospitallers removed to Limisso, in Cyprus, where 
originated their naval character, as their vessels con- 
veyed pilgrims to the Iloly Land. Having conquered 
Rhodes in 1309 (or 1310), they afterwards made it the 
principal seat of their order, and were hence called 
Knights of Rhodes. They sustained there two sieges, 
the first, in 1480, under the grand-master D’Aubusson, 
proving disastrous to the besiegers ; and the second, 
under L’lsle-Adam, in 1522, ending (after a heroic de- 
fence of six months) in the defeat of the knights and 
evacuation of the island. ,After taking refuge succes- 
sively in Carnlia, Messina, and the mainland of Italy, 
they were put in possession of the islands of Gozo and 
Malta and the city of Tripoli by emperor Charles V. 
They made Malta one of the strongest places in the 
world, and it gave its name to the order. They re- 
pelled attacks from the Turks in 1551 and 1565, and 
held the island until June, 1798, when it was taken by 
Bonaparte, the grand -master Ilompesch having abdi- 
cated and been sent to Trieste. Since that event the 
order has existed only in name. It was for a time un- 
der the protection of Paul I of Russia, whose reported 
conversion to Romanism led to his being elected grand- 
master. The scat of the order was removed to Catana 
in 1801, to Ferrara in 1826, and to Rome in 1834. Sec 
A ppldons' New A mer. Cyclop, s. v. See Hospitallers. 

Saint -John, Pawlett, D.D., rector of Yelden, 
Beds, prebendary of Hereford, and chaplain in ordina- 
ry. lie received the degree of M.A. in 1706, and D.D. 
in 1716, and died 1732. “Ilis sermons were written 
in a forcible yet simple style.” Fourteen of them, on 
practical subjects, were published (Loud. 1737, 8vo). 
See Darling, Cyclop. Biblioy. s. v. 

Saint- John, Theopliilus, D.D., a pseudonym. 
The real author was the Rev. Samuel Clapham , A.M. 
His Sermons were of a highly popular and useful char- 


acter, two volumes of which were published (Loud. 
1812, 8vo). — Darling, Cyclop. Biblioy. s. v. 

Saint-Jure, Jean Baptiste i>E,an ascetic author, 
was born, in 1588, at Metz. At the age of sixteen he 
joined the Jesuits, and was superior successively of the 
monasteries at Amiens, Alei^ou, Orleans, and Paris. He 
was one of the Jesuits who went into England during 
the reign of Charles I; but the condition of the country 
was so unsettled that he returned to his native land. 
He died at Paris, April 30, 1657. He wrote several 
works which have been reprinted, even at the present 
day. We mention De la Connaissance el de V Amour de 
J esus-Chnst (1634) : — At ethode pour bien ?«o?mV(1640) : 
—V Ilomme Spirituel (1646) :—VIdee d'un Par fail Chre- 
tien, ou la Vie de M. de Benty (1651) V Homme Reli- 
yieux (1057).— Iloefer, Nouv. Bioy. Gene rale, s. v. 

Saiut-Maur. See Maur (St.'), Congregation of. 

Saint-Pard (Pierre Nicholas van Blotaque), 
Abbe de, a Belgian ascetic writer, was born, Feb. 9, 1734, 
at Givet-Saint-Hilaire. He studied with the Jesuits 
at Diman, joined their order, and was sent to teach in 
various colleges. At the time of the suppression of the 
society he was at Ycnnes,but went to Paris; and, learn- 
ing of the interdict of Parliament, he changed his name 
to that of Saint-Pard, which he retained till his death, 
which -occurred at Paris, Dec. 1, 1824. During the Rev- 
olution he remained in Paris, and, though obliged to 
conceal himself, he still exercised his ministerial func- 
tions. Under the Directory he became bolder, and was 
twice imprisoned for preaching in public. In 1801 he 
became honorary canon of Notre Dame, and had charge 
of the parish of St. Jacques de llaut-Pas, which he held 
during the remainder of his life. Of his writings we 
have Retraite de dix Jours (1773) : — VAme Chretienne 
formee sur les Maximes de VEvanyile (1774) : — Exercises 
de V Amour du Penitent (1799). He abridged and re-ed- 
ited Le Livre des Elus (1759), and La Connaissance de 
J esus-Christ (1772). — Iloefer, Nouv. Bioy. Generate , s. v. 

Saint-Pierre, Charles Ik£si£e Castel. a French 
ecclesiastic, was born near Barfleur, Normandy, Feb. 18, 
1658. He was educated by the Jesuits at Caen, and 
joined the priesthood. He went to Paris in 1686, and 
succeeded Bcrgeret in the Academy, 1695. He became 
chaplain of the bishop of Orleans in 1702, and received, 
through him, the abbey of Tiron. He attended the 
Congress of Utrecht with cardinal Polignac in 1712. 
In some of his writings ( Discours sur la Polysynodie) 
he severely judged Louis XIV, and advocated a constitu- 
tional government. For this he was expelled from the 
Academy ; but an association known as the Club de V En- 
tresol gave him opportunities to expound his humanita- 
rian schemes. It was closed seven years after (1731) 
by cardinal Fleury. lie died April 2*9, 1743. Most of 
his writings are included in his Ouvrctyes de Politique 
ei de Morale (Rotterdam, 1738-41,18 vols.). 

Saint - Simon, Claude {the younger ), a French 
prelate, was born in 1695. In 1716 he became superior 
of the abbey of Jumicges. Being made bishop of No- 
yon, he was afterwards (in 1733) transferred to Metz: he 
there founded a seminary which bears his name, and in 
which he died, Feb. 29, 1760. 

Saint-Simon, Claude Henri, Count of, one of 
the most eminent so-called socialistic or communistic 
philosophers of modern times. He was born at Paris 
of an ancient and noble family, April 17, 1760. Grown 
up in the midst of religious and social agitation, he en- 
tered the army and was made a captain at the age of 
seventeen. In 1779 he went to America, fought under 
Bouille and Washington, was captured with the count 
de Grasse in 1782, and, at the conclusion of the war, re- 
turned to France and was promoted to a colonelcy. In 
1785 he visited Holland and endeavored to induce the 
government to join with France in an expedition against 
the English in the East Indies. He then went to Spain 
with an eccentric project of uniting Madrid by a canal 


SAINT-SIMON 


248 


SAINTE-VALIE1 


with the sea. Failing in both schemes, he returned to 
Paris, and, finding the Revolution in full blaze, laid 
aside his aristocratic name, and fell in with the popular 
current. Rv speculating in confiscated property he 
found himself, in 1797, in possession of 144,000 francs in 
specie. With this capital he led, the next ten years, a 
life of travel, study, experiment, and pleasure, and, in 
the intervals, brooded over a fanciful scheme of regener- 
ating human society. Locating himself in the Latin 
Quarter, Paris, he studied the whole circle of physical 
and social sciences. This was his theoretical education ; 
but he wanted also an experimental education. In or- 
der to this, he endeavored to realize in his own per- 
son the whole circle of human experiences, joys, and sor- 
rows. lie entered society ; he gave banquets and balls; 
lie gambled, drank, and debauched himself; he courted 
contagious diseases; he tried to keep off old age by 
medicaments and paint; he set all moral law aside, 
justifying it by the maxim that the end sanctified the 
means. It was right for him, the reformer, to do this. 
Ilow could he apply the remedy if he had not himself 
felt the pain ! lie married in 1801, but, soon dissatis- 
fied, lie put away his young wife and sought out an- 
other. From this state of dissipation and theorizing 
he awoke just in time to find that his money was all 
gone, and that poverty was staring him in the face. 
The germs of Saint-Simon’s system are given in his 
first publication, Left res d'un Habitant a Geneve (1802). 
All men of thought were to form the spiritual order, all 
men of action the temporal order — an adaptation to 
modern society of the mediaeval distinction of the Rom- 
ish Church. This work was followed in 1807 by his 
Introduction aux Travanx S'cientijiques du 1 Oieme Sie- 
cle (Paris, 1807, 2 vols.). The novelty of these views 
attracted to Saint-Simon a circle of admiring youth, 
among whom were Olinde Rodrigues, Augustin Thier- 
ry, and Auguste Comte. This was the beginning of 
organized Saint-Simonism. In co-operation with these 
disciples, he now produced in rapid succession a Pt'os- 
pectusd'une Xonvelle Encyclopedic (1810) : — De la Reor- 
ganisation de la Societe Europeenne (1814) : — L'lndus- 
trie (1817): — UOrganisateur (1819): — Systenie Indus- 
trial (1821 -22): — Catechisme des Indust riels (1823): 
— Opinions Litte retires , Philosophiques et Industrielles 
(1825). Rut these ambitious works did not produce 
the revolution in society which Saint-Simon looked for. 
They fell still-born from the press, or were left unread. 
The pretended saviour of mankind was oppressed with 
poverty and discouragement. Reaching the lowest 
depths in March, 1823, he made a fruitless attempt at 
suicide, but succeeded only in blowing out one of his eyes. 
Recovering from his wounds and despondency, he now 
summoned up his last powers in an endeavor to give 
the world a new religion. The result was his Xouceau 
Christ umisme (Paris, 1825). In this he used many 
thoughts from the Rible. God is the infinite, universal 
being; be is the all; everything is in him and by him ; 
his central essence is love; he reveals himself as reason, 
understanding, wisdom, strength, beauty. Man is his 
highest revelation. Mail’s ideal essence is also love. 
1 he ideal condition of humanity is not the enslaving 
of the one by the other, but the improvement of each 
bv the other, and the transformation of earth into a 
paradise. l»y this process all evil is to be overcome 
and all bliss to be attained; men are to yield obedience 
to the authority of wisdom; all are to labor for the 
happiness of all. Ilut the God of Saint-Simon was a 
vague abstraction; the system was simply materialism 
with a slight tincture of naturalistic pantheism. Ma- 
terial well-being was the ideal paradise; Saint-Simon- 
ism was hedonism; Christianity was but a transient 
form of man’s endeavor to find happiness. Catholicism 
did a good work in its day, so also did Protestantism; 
but .Saint-Simonism was now to supersede all previous 
systems. The new a»rn was to be brought about by two 
principles — an end and a means. The end was, the 
most rapid possible amelioration, physical and moral, 


of the condition of the class the most numerous and 
poor. The means was, to each man a vocation ac- 
cording to his capacity, and to each capacity a reward 
according to its works. The result aimed at was a sort 
of democratic epicureanism. It was an outbirth of a 
one-sided brooding over the conflict between capital 
and labor, noble and peasant, priest and devotee. It 
sprang of fanatical enthusiasm for a vaguely compre- 
hended good; it was devoid of high ethical thoughts; 
it had no just appreciation of the philosophy of histo- 
ry: hence it was of a highly artificial and sentimental 
character, and its speedy collapse was a matter of log- 
ical necessity. So soon, therefore, as Saint-Simon died 
(May 19, 1825), and the enthusiasm of his first disciples 
had occasion to come into contact with the practical 
facts of society, the system as a whole vanished into 
thin air. Dissensions arose. Rodrigues, Enfant in, Le- 
roux, Hazard, Comte, each interpreted the master for 
himself, and each went his own way. The last rem- 
nant of organized Saint-Simonism was dispersed by de- 
cree of a civil court in August, 1832. After this date 
most of the members returned to the ranks of ordinary 
life, and the system became simply a matter of social 
history. See Carovc, Per S a in t-S inion ism us (Leipzig, 
1831); Veit, Saint-Simon (ibid. 1834) ; Matter, in Stud, 
u. Krit. (1832); Herzog, Real-Encyklop. xiii, 317-320; 
Encycl. Blit. (8th ed.), vol. xix. (J. P. L.) 

Saint-worship. See Invocation of Saints. 

Sainte-Aulaire, Martial Louis de Reaupoil 
de, a French prelate, was born in 1720, and in 1759 lie 
was called to the bishopric of Poitiers, and made deputy 
to the state assembly of 1789. He was adverse to all 
innovations, and strongly opposed to the requirements 
of the law in obliging ecclesiastics to take the civil 
oath. In 1791 he went to England and afterwards to 
.Switzerland, where he died in 1798. — Hocfer, Xouv. 
Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Sainte-Beuve, Jacques de, a French theologian, 
was born at Paris, April 2G, 1013. He received His de- 
gree in 1038 at tbe Sorbonne, and became royal professor 
of theology in that institution, where his learning gained 
for him so wide a reputation that he was considered one 
of the most ready casuists of his time. Ilis refusal to 
subscribe to the censure passed upon two proposi lions 
of Arnauld caused him to lose his professorship in 1050. 
lie was also deprived of His authority as preacher; but 
as he afterwards showed more submission to tbe dictates 
of the Church by signing the new formula prescribed 
Feb. 15, 1005, by Alexander VI 1, lie was chosen theo- 
logian of the French clergy. This position brought 
him a pension, and also obliged him to write a Theologie 
Morale for t He assembly at Mantes. Sainte- Relive 
lived in Paris in retirement, but was sought for consul- 
tation by all the dignitaries of his time. It was said 
that he not only ruled all of one city, but a whole king- 
dom. He died Dec. 15, 1077. His writings, are De Con- 
Jirmatione (1G8G) : — De Extrema Undone (1080): — 
Decisions de Cas de Conscience (1G8G). These works 
were edited after his death by his brother Jerome. — 
Hocfer, Xour . Biog, Generate , s. v. 

Sainte-Marthe, Claude de. a French ascetic 
author, was born at Paris, June 8, 1020. He entered 
the priesthood in early life, and lived for a time in soli- 
tude. After being for some years cure of Mondevillc, 
in the diocese of Sens, he entered the order of Port- 
Iloyal des Champs. Twice he was obliged to leave on 
account of persecution, and finally, in 1079, went to live 
at His chateau at Courbeville, where he died Oct. 11, 
1090. His writings arc, Defense des Religeuses de Port- 
Royal et de leitr Directeurs (1C07): — Traites de Piete 
(1702): — Lettres de Piete et de Morale (1709). lie 
wrote part of the Morale Pratique des Jesuites, and 
was engaged in the translation of the New Testament 
by Mows. Resides these, he left many petty works, 
sermons, and letters. — Hocfer, Xouv. Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Sainte-Valier, Jean Raptiste de Lacroix de, 


SAINTS 


249 


SAKTAS 


a French prelate, was born at Grenoble, Nov, 14, 1G53. 
lie became chaplain to Louis XIV, and in 1G84 was 
appointed viear - general of Quebec by bishop Laval, 
lie arrived in Canada July 30, 1085, returned to France 
Nov. 1087 ; was consecrated bishop of Quebec, Jan. 25, 
1088, and went back to Canada in August of the same 
year; founded the general hospital at Quebec, was cap- 
tured by the English at sea while returning from a visit 
to France, July, 1704, and remained a prisoner until 1709. 
lie died at Quebec, Dec. 20, 1727. lie was the author 
of Etat Present de VEylise et de la Colonie Frungaise 
dans la Nouvelle France (1088). 

Saints. See Savnt. 

Saints, Invocation of. See Invocation of 
Saints. 

Saints’ Days. See Calendar; Feasts. 

Saints’ Relics. See II iclics. 

Sa'fr. See Satyr. 

Saitis, in Greek mythology, is a surname of Minerva, 
under which she possessed a temple on the mountain 
Pontinus, near Lerna, in Argolis. This Saitic worship 
was doubtless derived from Sais, in Egypt, where the 
goddess Neith was adored, the latter service being in- 
corporated with that of Minerva by the Greeks. 

Saitons, in Prussian mythology, were persons who 
inflicted wounds on themselves, and spilled their blood 
in the sacred groves, in order to make atonement to the 
gods for the sins of other people. 

Saivas, the general name given to those among the 
Hindus who worship Siva the Destroyer, one of the 
members of the Trimurti. The only form under which 
this deity is worshipped is that of the Linga , which 
they adore either in temples, in their houses, or on the 
side of a sacred stream. “ The worship of Siva seems 
to have been, from a remote period, rather that of the 
learned and speculative classes than that of the masses 
of the people. In a renowned work called the Sankara- 
dig-vijaya , or the victory of Sankara over the world, 
composed by Anandagiri, one of the disciples of San- 
kara, several subdivisions of the Saivas are named — viz. 
the Saivas , properly so called, who wore the impression 
of the Linga on both arms ; the Raudras , who had a 
trident stamped on the forehead ; the Ugras , who had 
the drum of Siva on their arms; the Bhaktas , with an 
impression of the Linga on their foreheads; the Jan- 
ffamas, who carried a figure of the Linga on their heads ; 
and the Pasupatas, who imprinted the same symbol on 
the forehead, breast, navel, and arms. The present di- 
visions of the Saivas, however, are the following : the 
Dandins and Dasnami-Dandins; the Yogins; the J n- 
gamas; the Paramahansas ; the Aghorins; the Urdha- 
bahus; the Akasmukhins and Nakhins; the Giidaras; 
the Rukharas, Sukharas, and Ukharas ; the Karalingins ; 
the Bramacharins ; and the Nagas.” Each division is 
characterized by some peculiarities of dress, self-torture, 
tenets, etc. (see Wilson, Religious Sects of the Hindus 
[Lond. 1802], i, L88 sq.). — Chambers's Encyclop. s. v. 

Saivo Oiniak, in Lapp mythology, was a moun- 
tain deity worshipped under the symbols of peculiarly 
shaped stones or mountains. 

Sajotkatta, a term given by the North American 
Indians to those persons who enjoy the special favor of 
their patron spirits, and are through such aid enabled to 
discover things that are hidden, to foretell future events, 
to bewitch other persons, to perform extended journeys 
in the soul while absent from the body, etc. — in short, 
the most cunning impostors in the tribes. The Iroquois 
equivalent for this title is Agottsinnachs , i. e. seers. — 
Vollmer, Worterb. der My t hoi. s. v. 

Sakai', in Mohammedan writers, is one of the seven 
hells, which serves as the place in which Parsees are 
punished for being what they are. 

Sakhi Bhavas, a Hindi! sect who worship 
Radha as the personification of the Sakti oi Krishna . 


They assume the female garb, and adopt not only the 
dress and ornaments, but the manners and occupations 
of women. The sect are held in little estimation, and are 
very lew in number. They occasionally lead a mendi- 
cant life, but are rarely met with. It is said that the 
only place where they are to be found in any number is 
Jaypur. There are a few at Benares, anil a few scatter- 
ed throughout several parts of Bengal. — Gardner, Faiths 
of the World , s. v. 

Sakhtar is the Parsee name for the heaven which 
encloses the heaven of the fixed stars, and which is im- 
movable and inhabited by Ormuzd alone. 

Sakia, in Arabian mythology, is a Mohammedan 
name for the god of a primeval race of giants and dai- 
mons who dwelt in Arabia Petra?a, and who dreiv down 
rain to the earth. 

Sakin, in Scandinavian mythology, is one of the 
thirty-seven rivers of hell. 

Sakkuto, Abraham ben-Samuel, a learned Jew- 
ish writer, was born at Salamanca about A.I). 1450. lie 
was a celebrated astronomer, mathematician, historian, 
and lexicographer, and his distinguished talents secured 
for him the professional chair of astronomy at Saragossa. 
When he had to quit Spain, in 1492, he repaired to Por- 
tugal, where king Emmanuel appointed him ehronog- 
rapher and astronomer royal. On the banishment of 
the Jews from Portugal, he retired to Tunis. It was 
here that he completed, in 1504, the famous chronicle en- 
titled ‘pSlTP {The Book of Genealogies ), which 
comprises a chronological history of the Jews from the 
creation to A.M. 5200= A. D. 1500. In this elaborate 
work Sakkuto gives an account of the oral law as trans- 
mitted from Moses through the elders, prophets, sages, 
etc.; the acts and monuments of the kings of Israel, as 
well as of the surrounding nations, in chronological or- 
der; the Babylonian colleges at Sora and Puinbadita; 
the events which occurred during the period of the sec- 
ond Temple; the different sects of that period — viz. the 
Pharisees, Sadducees, Essenes.andNazarites; the princes 
of the captivity, and the rectors of the colleges after the 
close of the Talmud; and the period down to the end of 
the 15rh century. Sakkuto’s work, which is an ency- 
clopedia of Jewish literature, was lirst published at Con- 
stantinople (156G): then, with many additions and 
glosses, at Cracow (1581), Amsterdam (1717), Konigs- 
berg (1857), and from a MS. in the Bodleian Library, 
ivith many corrections, additions, etc., by Filipowski 
(Lond. 1857). Sakkuto also wrote a Rabbinic Aramaic 
lexicon to the Chaldee paraphrases, the Midrashim, and 
Talmud, entitled qJnrfl rYSD 1 .?! (i. e. Supple- 

ments to the Book Aruch),of which an account is given 
by Geiger in the Zeitschrift der D. J/. G. xii, 144 sq. 
(Leips. 1858): — 235*]? SllT^ {Sweet to the Soul), on the 
future state, the separation of spirit from body, etc. (Con- 
stantinople, 151G). See Fiirst, Bib!. Jud. iii, 200 sq. ; 
Rossi, Bizionario Storico (Germ, transl.), p. 334; Stein- 
sehneider, Catalogus Librorum Ilebr. in Bib!. Bodl. p. 70G 
sq. ; Kitto, Cyclop . s. v. ; Undo, Hist, of the Jeics , p. 2G7 ; 
Finn, Sephardim , p.452; Da Costa, Israel and the Gen- 
tiles , p. 284; Etheridge, Introd. to Ilebr. Literature , p. 451 
sq. ; Griitz, Gesch. d. Juden, ix, 18 sq., 418, 458, 474 ; Jost, 
Gesch. d. Jadenth. n. s. Secten, iii, 1 13. (B. P.) 

Saktas, the worshippers of the Sakti (q. v.), the 
female principle, or the divine nature in action, which 
is personified under different forms, according as the 
worshippers incline towards the adoration of Vishnu 
or Siva — Saraswati being the Sakti, or wife, of Brah- 
ma; Lakshmi the Sakti, or wife, of Vishnu; and Devi 
or Durga the Sakti, or wife, of Siva. Since Siva is the 
type of destruction, his energy, or wife, becomes still 
more the type of all that is terrific. As a conse- 
quence, her worship is based on the assumption that 
she can be propitiated only by practices which involve 
the destruction of life, and in which she herself delights. 


250 


SALADIN 


SAKTI 


Such a worship leads to brulalism and licentiousness, 
and it became the worst of all forms which the various 
aberrations of the Hindu mind assumed. Appealing to 
the superstitions of the vulgar mind, it has its profess- 
ors chietlv among the lowest classes. The works from 
which the tenets and rites of this religion are derived 
arc known by the collective name of Tantras ,* but as in 
some of these works the ritual enjoined does not com- 
prehend all the impure practices which are recommend- 
ed in others, the sect became divided into two leading 
branches — the Dakshinacharins and Vamachcirins, or 
the followers of the right-hand and left-hand ritual. 
The Dakshinacharins are the more respectable of the 
two. although they indulge in practices contrary to the 
Yedic ritual. The Yamacharins adopt a ritual of the 
grossest impurities. Their object is, by reverencing 
Devi, who is one with Siva, to obtain supernatural 
powers in this life, and to be identified after death with 
Siva and his consort. The worship of Sakti requires 
the presence of a female as the living representative and 
type of the goddess, and is mostly celebrated in a mixed 
society — the men representing Bhairava (or Siva as the 
Terrific), and the women Bhairavi (or Sakti as the Ter- 
rific). The ceremony generally terminated with the 
most scandalous orgies among the votaries. The mem- 
bers of the sect arc very numerous, especially among the 
Brahminical caste. All classes are, however, admissible 
and equal at these ceremonies. The particular insignia 
of ihe Saktas are a semicircular line or lines on the fore- 
head of red sanders or vermilion, or a red streak up the 
middle of the forehead, with a circular spot of red at the 
root of the nose. They use a rosary made of the seeds 
of the cl oearpus or of coral beads, but of no greater 
length than may be concealed in the hand. In wor- 
shipping they wear a piece of red silk round the loins 
and decorate themselves with garlands of crimson flow- 
ers. Two other sects are likewise mentioned as belong- 
ing to the Saktas, but it is doubtful whether they are 
still in existence. See Wilson, Sketch of Religious Sects 
of the Hindus , i, 240 sq. — Chambers's Eneydop. s. v. 

Sakti, the active volition or omnipotent energy of 
any one of the members of the Hindu Trimurti. It 
may exist separately from the essence of Deity, and in 
such a case it is conceived to he invested with a species 
of personality, and to be capable of exerting an inde- 
pendent agency. When viewed as the cause of phe- 
nomena, or sensible appearances, it is called Maya 
(q. v.). The Sakti is worshipped by many Hindus, be- 
ing personated by a naked female, to whom meat and 
wine arc offered. — Gardner, Faiths of the World, s. v. 

Sakti Sodhana, a religious ceremony in connec- 
tion with the Sakti , or personified energy of Deity 
among the Hindus. The object of worship in this case 
should be a dancing-girl, a harlot, a washerwoman, or 
barber’s wife, a female of the Brahminical or Sndra 
tribe, a flower-girl, or a milkmaid. The ceremony is 
performed at midnight with a party of eight, nine, or 
eleven couples. Appropriate mantras are to be used, ac- 
cording to the description of the person selected for the 
Sakti, who is then to be worshipped according to the 
prescribed form. She is placed disrobed, but richly or- 
namented, on the left of a circle described for the pur- 
pose, with various mantras and gesticulations, and is to 
be rendered pure by the repetition of different formulas. 
Being finally sprinkled over with wine, the act being 
sanctified by the peculiar mantra, the Sakti is now puri- 
fied ; but if not previously initiated, she is further to be 
made an adept by the communication of the radical man- 
tra whispered thrice in her ear, when the object of the cer- 
emony is complete.— Gardner, Faiths of (he World, s. v. 

Sakuntala, one of the most pleasing female char- 
acters of Hind A mythology. She is mentioned as a 
watcr-nympli in the Yajurveda , is the subject of a 
beautiful episode of the Mahabhdrata , and is spoken of 
in the Pnrtinas. Her name has become specially fa- 
miliar in Europe through the celebrated drama of Kali- 


dasa, which, introduced to us by Sir William Jones in 
1789, became the starting-point of Sanscrit philology in 
Europe.— Chambers’s Eneydop . s. v. 

Sakyamuni, or Saint Sakya, a name of Buddha 
(q. v.), the founder of the Buddhist religion. 

Sa'la (£a\d), the Greek form (Luke iii, 35) of the 
name of the patriarch Salah (q. v.), the father of Eber 
(Gen. x, 24). 

Salaam. See Salutation. 

Salacia, in Iioman mythology, was a goddess of the 
salt waters, the wife of Neptune, and mother of Triton. 

Saladin, the name given by Western writers to Sa- 
laii kd-din Yussef ibn-Ayub, tlic sultan of Egypt and 
Syria, and the founder of the Ayubite dynasty in those 
countries. As the great Moslem hero of the third crusade, 
and the beau-ideal of Moslem chivalry, he is one of the 
most interesting characters presented to us by the his- 
tory of that period. He belonged to the Kurdish tribe 
of Bavad, and was born at Tekrit (a town on the Ti- 
gris, of which his father, Ayub, was kutical, or governor, 
under the Seljuks) in 1137. Following the example of 
his father and uncle, he entered the service of Nourcd- 
din (q. v.), prince of Syria, and accompanied his uncle 
in his various expeditions to Egypt in command of 
Nonreddin’s army. Saladin was at this time much ad- 
dicted to wine and gambling, and it was not till, at the 
head of a small detachment of the Syrian army, he was 
1 beleaguered in Alexandria by the combined Christiana 
1 of Palestine and the Egyptians, that he gave indications 
of possessing the qualities requisite for a great captain. 
On the death of his uncle, ShSrkoh, Saladin became 
[ grand-vizier of the Fatimite caliph, and received the title 
of El-melek d-nasr , “ the Yictorions Prince.’’ But the 
Christians of Syria and Palestine, alarmed at the elcva- 
! tion of a Syrian emir to supreme power in Egypt, made 
a combined and vigorous attack on the new vizier. 
Saladin foiled them at Damietta, and transferred the 
contest to Palestine, taking several fortresses, and de- 
feating his assailants near Gaza; but about the same 
time his new-born power was exposed to a still more 
j formidable danger from his master, Noureddin, whose 
jealousy of the talents and ambition of his able young 
lieutenant required all the skill and wariness at Saladin’s 
command to allay. On Nonreddin’s death, in 1 174, Sal- 
adin began a struggle with his successor, which ended 
in his establishing himself as the sultan of Egypt and 
Syria, a title which was confirmed to him the caliph 
of Bagdad. The next ten years were occupied in petty 
wars with the Christians, and in the arrangement and 
consolidation of his now extensive dominion. The 
plundering by the Christians of a rich pilgrim caravan 
on its way to Mecca, an infringement of the treaty with 
Saladin, brought down upon them the latter’s vengeance. 
Their army suffered a dreadful defeat at Tiberias (July 
4, 1 187). The king of Jerusalem, the two grand-masters, 
and many other warriors of high rank were taken cap- 
tive; Jerusalem was stormed (Oct. 2), and almost every 
other fortified place in Palestine was taken. The news 
of this great success of the infidels being brought to 
Western Europe, aroused the enthusiasm of the Chris- 
tians to its highest pitch, and a powerful army of cru- 
saders, headed by t lie kings of France and England, 
speedily made their appearance on the scene of strife. 
They captured Acre in 1191, and Bichard Coeur-de- 
Liou, at the head of that portion of the crusading army 
which adhered to him, continued the war with success, 
twice defeated Saladin, took Crcsarca and Jaffa, and 
finally obtained a treaty for three years (Aug. 1192), 
by which the coast from Jaffa to Tvrc was yielded to 
the Christians. In the following year, Saladin died at 
Damascus of a disease under which he had long suffer- 
ed. Saladin was not a mere soldier; his wise adminis- 
tration left behind it traces which endured for centuries; 
and t lie citadel of Cairo and sundry canals, dikes, and 
roads arc existing evidences of his careful attention to 


SALAGRAMMA 


251 


SALAMIS 


the wants of his subjects. In him the warrior instinct 
of the Kurd was united to a high intelligence ; and even 
his opponents frankly attribute to him the noblest qual- 
ities of mediaeval chivalry, invincible courage, inviolable 
fidelity to treaties, greatness of soul, piety, justice, and 
moderation. — Chambers's Encyclop. s. v. 

Salagramma, in Hindi! mythology, was a stone 
into which Vishnu was transformed by the curse of a 
virtuous woman after he had violated her chastity in 
the guise of her husband. 

Sa'lah (lleb. She'luch, nV,l3, something sent forth, 
as a javelin or a sprout ; Sept, and New Test. EctXa, but 
Sd\a in 1 Chron. i, 24; A.V. “Shelali” in 1 Chron. i, 
18, 24), the only named son of the patriarch Arphaxad, 
and the father of Eber (Gen. x, 24; xi, 12, 13, 14, 15; 1 
Chron. i, 18, 24), B.C. cir. 2478. See Sala. “ The name 
is significant of extension, the cognate verb (nb’J) being 
applied to the spreading-out of the roots and branches 
of trees (Jer. xvii, 8; Ezek. xvii, G). It thus seems to 
imply the historical fact of the gradual extension of a 
branch of the Shemitic race from its original seat in 
Northern Assyria towards the river Euphrates. A place 
with a similar name in Northern Mesopotamia is noticed 
by Syrian writers (Ivnobel, in Gen. xi) ; but we can hard- 
ly assume its identity with the Salah of the Bible. Ewald 
( Gesck . i, 354) and Von Bohlen ( Introd . to Gen. ii, 205) 
regard the name as purely fictitious, the former explain- 
ing it as a son or offspring , the latter as the father of a 
race. That the name is significant does not prove it 
fictitious, and the conclusions drawn by these writers are 
unwarranted” (Smith). 

Salai, or Salaino, Andrea, an Italian painter, 
was bom about 1500, but the time of his death is not 
known. From an humble position in the studio of 
Leonardo da Vinci, he finally became the favorite pupil 
of his master, and his pictures show the same softness 
which characterizes those of the great artist. In Milan 
may be seen his Ilolg Family and St. John in the Desert , 
and at Paris an Adoration of the Magi , besides many 
others scattered through Europe. — Hoefer, Nouv, Biog. 
Generate , s. v. 

Salamander, a kind of imaginary beings belong- 
ing rather to the physico-philosophieal systems of the 
Cabalists than to the mythology of any particular peo- 
ple. They were supposed to inhabit fire as their proper 
element, as the Undines made their home in water; and 
this idea probably gave rise to the notion that the am- 
phibious, lizard-like reptiles of the species which are 
dotted with black, yellow, or red spots are likewise able 
to resist the destructive power of fire. 

Salaminius, in Greek mythology, is a surname of 
Jupiter , derived from Salamis, in Cyprus, where a temple 
was erected to him by Teucer. 

Salamis, in Greek mythology, was a daughter of 
the river-god Asopus, whose name was transferred to 
the island of Salamis, and who became by Neptune the 
mother of Cychreus. 

Sal'amis (£a\aju/c, perhaps from d\g, salt, as be- 
ing on tile sea), a city at the east end of the island of 
Cyprus, and the first place visited by Paul and Barna- 
bas on the first missionary journey after leaving the 
mainland at Seleueia. Sec Paul. Two reasons why 
they took this course obviously suggest themselves, viz. 
the fact that Cyprus (and probably Salamis) was the 
native place of Barnabas, and the geographical proxim- 
ity of this end of the island to Antioch. But a further 
reason is indicated by a circumstance in the narrative 
(Acts xili, 5). Here alone, among all the Greek cities 
visited by Paul, we read expressly of “synagogues” 
in the plural. Hence we conclude that there were many 
Jews in Cyprus. This is in harmony with what we 
read elsewhere. To say nothing of possible mercantile 
relations in very early times (see Ciiittim), Jewish 
residents in the island arc mentioned during the period 


when the Sclcucidte reigned at Antioch (1 Macc. xv, 
23). In the reign of Augustus, the Cyprian copper- 
mines were farmed to Herod the Great (Josephus, Ant. 
xvi, 4, 5), and this would probably attract many He- 
brew families: to which we may add evidence to the 
same effect from Philo ( Legat . ad Caiam) at the very 
time of Paul’s journey. Again, at a later period, in. 
the reign of Trajan, we arc informed of dreadful tu- 
mults here, caused by a vast multitude of Jews, in the 
course of which “the whole populous city of Salamis 
became a desert” (Milman, Ilist. of the Jews, iii, 111, 
112). Hadrian, afterwards emperor, came to the aid of 
the Cypriots. He overcame the Jews, and expelled 
them from the island, forbidding any of that nation to 
approach its coasts; and so strictly was this carried 
out that if a Jew were ever east by shipwreck on the 
island, he was put to death. We may well believe that 
from the Jews of Salamis came some of those early 
Cypriot Christians who are so prominently mentioned 
in the account of the first spreading of the Gospel be- 
yond Palestine (Acts xi, 19, 20) even before the first 
missionary expedition. Mnason (xxi, IG) might be 
one of them. Nor ought Mark to be forgotten here. 
He was at Salamis with Paul and his own kinsman 
I Barnabas; and again he was there with the same kins- 
man after the misunderstanding with Paul and the sep- 
aration (xv, 39). See Mark. 



Coin of Salamis with the head of Ptolemy V. 


Salamis was not far from the modern Famagosta. 
Legend ascribed its origin to the iEaeid Teucer. Af- 
ter various fortunes in the connections of the Greek 
states, it finally fell under the power of the Ptolemies. 
It was situated on a bight of the coast, a little to the 
north of a river called the Pediams, on low ground, 
which is, in fact, a continuation of the plain (anciently 
called Salaminia) running up into the interior towards 
the place where Nicosia, the present capital of Cyprus, 
stands. We must notice in regard to Salamis that its 
harbor is spoken of by Greek writers as very good ; and 
that one of the ancient tables lays down a road between 
this city and Paphos (q. v.), the next place which Paul 
and Barnabas visited on their journey. Salamis again 
has rather an eminent position in subsequent Christian 
history. Constantine or his successor rebuilt it and 
called* it Constantin , and, while it had this name, Epi- 
phanius was one of its bishops. In the reign of llera- 
elius the new town was destroyed by the Saracens. 
See Cyprus. 

Very little of the ancient city is now standing; but 
on the* outside of the city recent travellers have seen 
the remains of a building two hundred feet in length, 
and six or eight feet high ; also a stone church and 
portions of an aqueduct by which water was brought 
to the city from a distance of thirty miles. Of the 
travellers who have visited and described Salamis we 
must particularly mention Pocoeke (Descr.of the Last, 
ii, 214) and Ross f Risen nach Kos, Halikarnassos, Rho- 
des, mid Ctjpern, p. 1 18-125). These travellers notice, 
in the neighborhood of Salamis, a village named St. 
Sergius, which is doubtless a reminiscence of Sergius 
Pa ulus, and a large Byzantine church bearing the name 
of St. Barnabas, and associated with a legend concern- 
ing the discovery of his relics. The legend will be 
found in Ccdrenns (i, G18, cd. Bonn). See Barnabas; 
Sergius Paulus. Sec Smith, Diet, of Class. Geog. ii, 
87G sq ; Conybeare and Ilowson. Life and Epistles of 



SALARY 


252 


SALCAH 


St. Paul , i, 1G9; Lewin, St. Paul, i, 120 sq. On the 
coins of Salamis, see Eckhc!, iii, 87. 



Salary (Lat. solarium, salt-money, salt being part 
of the pay of the Uoman soldier), an annual or periodi- 
cal payment for services. Nothing like the provisions 
of the Levitical law, for the maintenance of the clergy, 
was known in the primitive Church. The duty, how- 
ever, of the Church to maintain her religious teachers 
is implied in the New Test. “The workman is worthy 
of his meat,” says Christ (Matt, x, 10), to which the 
apostle appeals, “ Even so hath the Lord ordained that 
they which preach the Gospel should live of the Gos- 
pel” (1 Cor. ix, 14). In the apostolic age the mainte- 
nance of the clergy consisted merely in the supply of 
their personal wants (2 Cor. xi, 7, 8; Phil, iv, 1G— 18). 
There were probably in early times no fixed stipends 
for the ministers because the Church did not possess 
property; and when at length specific provision was 
made for the support of the clergy, it was not by any 
ordinance of the Church, but by the law of the State. 
Pees paid to the clergy for services rendered were call- 
ed sport ee, sport elhe, and sportuh e ; probably in allusion 
to the bringing of the first-fruits in a basket, sportula. 
They were not the same as the jura stoke, surplice fees 
(q. v.), which were unknown in the primitive Church. 
It was an established rule that no fees should be re- 
ceived for religious services. The first departure from 
it began with the celebration of religious ordinances in 
a private manner, in which the individual, at whose re- 
quest this private celebration was performed, was re- 
quired to pay something as an equivalent for the pub- 
lic and voluntary oblations that would otherwise have 
been made. So far as the clergy of the primitive 
Church can be said to have had any salary, it was 
paid, either according to their necessities or according 
to some general rule, from the treasury of the Church, 
which was supplied chielly from voluntary contribu- 
tions. Various rules were, from time to time, given for 
the distribution of funds. One required that they 
should be divided into three equal parts, one of which 
was to be paid to the bishops, another to the clergy, 
and the third was to be expended in making repairs, etc. 

In the *1 tli century the Church and clergy came into 
the possession of real property. By a law of Constan- 


tine in the year 321. the clergy were permitted to re- 
ceive donations and bequests. Liberal grants were also 
made by Constantine and by Gratian, Theodosius the 
Great, and other emperors. By other means also the 
revenues of the Church were enriched : 1. On the dem- 
olition of heathen temples by Theodosius the Great 
and his sons, the proceeds were applied to the benefit of 
the clergy, or appropriated to religious uses. 2. On 
the same principle, the property belonging to heretics 
was sequestrated. 3. The property of such clergy as 
died without heirs, and of all who relinquished their 
duties without sufficient cause, became the property of 
the Church. 4. The Church was made heir-at-law of 
all martyrs and confessors who died without near rela- 
tions. 5. By tithes and first-fruits, which, however, 
were unknown until the 4th or 5th century. Charle- 
magne first required the payment of tithes by statute 
law, and enforced the duty by severe penalties. Ilis 
successors confirmed and completed the system of tithe 
by law which was subsequently introduced into Eng- 
land and Sweden. In the Eastern Church the support 
of religion was never legally enforced, but was urged 
as a religious duty, and tithes were paid as a volunta- 
ry offering. See Coleman, Christ. Antiquities, p. 148 sq. 

Salasad'a'i (EaXaaaSai, v. r. SapacraSai, etc., a 
corruption from the Sept. Sonpujac^at, for Zurishaddai, 
in Numb, i, G), a name given (Jud. viii, 1) as that of 
an Israelite, father of Samael, in the ancestry of Ju- 
dith (q. v.). 

Sala'thiel (Heb. Shealtiel', ashed of 

God; Sept, and New Test. EaXaSi/jX ; more correctly, 
“Shealtiel,” in the A. A', in Ezra iii, 2; Neh. xii, 1 ; 
Hag. i, 12, 14; ii, 2). It is customary to distinguish 
two of this name, from the apparent difference of par- 
entage in Matt, i, 12 and Luke iii, 27; but probably 
they were one, and the manner of keeping the Jewish 
records will readily suggest methods of reconciling the 
passages (comp. Strong, Harmony and Expos, of the 
Gospels, p. 1G). See Genealogy op Ciiktst. Sala- 
thiel was the son of Jeconiah, perhaps grandson of Neri 
(Luke iii, 27), and father of Zerubbabel (1 Chron. iii, 
17; Ezra iii, 2; Neh. xii, 1 ; Hag. i. 12, 14; ii, 2; Matt, 
i, 12; Luke iii, 27. See Shealtiel. 

Sal'cali (lleb. Salhak', rcb&, from an Arabic root, 
signifying miyration; Sept. SeX^a, v. r. StX«, 

’EXx«, etc.; A.X^. “Salchah,” in Deut. iii, 10 [ Targum 
Pseudo-Jon. gives it i. e. Seleucia ; though 

which Seleucia they can have supposed was here in- 
. tended it is difficult to imagine]), a city named in the 
early records of Israel as the extreme limit of Bashan 
(Deut. iii, 10; Josh, xiii, 11). This city appears to 
have been one of the old capitals of Og’s kingdom 
(Josh, xii, 5). A statement in 1 Chron. v, 11 seems 
to show that Salcah was upon the eastern confines of 
both Manasseh and Gad, although it was really beyond 
the bounds of Palestine as occupied by the Hebrews. 
On another occasion the name seems to denote a dis- 
trict rather than a town (Josh, xii, 5). In later Jewish 
history the name is never mentioned, and the probabil- 
ity is that the city soon fell into the hands of the orig- 
inal inhabitants. By Eusebius and Jerome it is merely 
mentioned, apparently without their having had any 
real knowledge of it. 

Salcah is, doubtless, identical with the present town 
of Sulhhad , which stands at the southern extremity of 
the Jebel Hainan, twenty miles south of Kunawat (the 
ancient Kenath), which was the southern outpost of the 
Leja, the Argob of the Bible. Sulkhad is named by 
both the Christian and Mohammedan historians of the 
Middle Ages (Will, of Tyre, xvi, 8, “Selcath ;” Abulfe- 
da [Tah. Syr. p. 10G; also in Schultens’s Index Geoyr.~\, 
“ Sarchad”). It was visited by Burckhardt {Syria, Nov. 
22, 1810), Seetzen, and others, and more recently by Por- 
ter, who describes it at some length ( Five Years in Da- 
mascus, ii, 17G-21G). Its identification with Salcah 


SALCHAII 


253 


SALEM 


seems to be due to Gesenius (Burckhardt, Reisen , p. 507). 
Immediately below Sfdkhad commences the plain of tlie 
great Euphrates desert, which appears to stretch, with 
hardly an undulation, from here to Busra, on the Persian 
Gulf. The town is of considerable size, from two to three 
miles in circumference ; it occupies a strong and com- 
manding position on a conical hill. On the summit 
stands the castle, a circular building of great size and 
strength, surrounded by a deep moat. The external 
walls are still tolerably perfect, anil were evidently 
founded not later than the 1 Soman age, though the up- 
per portions are Saracenic. The sides of the cone im- 
mediately beneath the walls are steep and smooth, and 
are covered with light cinders and blocks of lava, show- 
ing that it was originally a volcano. The city occupies 
the lower slopes on the south, extending to the plain. 
A large number of the houses are still perfect, with 
their stone roofs and stone doors, though they have been 
long deserted. On the walls of the castle, and among 
the ruins, there are Greek inscriptions, bearing dates 
equivalent to A.D. 240 and 370 ; while an Arabic rec- 
ord on the walls of a large mosque shows that it was 
built in the year A.l). 1224, and a minaret near it about 
four centuries later. The latter appears to be the 
newest building in the place. The country round Sal- 
call is now without inhabitants; but traces of former 
industry and wealth, and of a dense population, are vis- 
ible. The roads, the fields, the terraces, the vineyards, 
and the fig-orchards are there, but man is gone. The 
view from the summit of the castle of Salcah is one of 
the most remarkable for desolation in all Palestine. See 
Porter, Handbook for Syria , p. 488 ; Schwarz, Palestine , 
p. 222. See Basiiax. 

Sal'chah (Deut. ii, 10). See Salcah. 

Sale, John, a Methodist Episcopal minister, and 
“one of the most heroic evangelists and founders of 
Western Methodism,” was born in Virginia in 1769. 
In 1796 he joined the itinerancy, and was sent to Swa- 
nino Circuit, “in the wilds of Virginia, where he had 
his courage and fidelity tested in breasting the dangers 
and hardships of a pioneer preacher.” 11 is next circuit 
was the Mattamuskeet, Va. ; in 1799 lie went to llol- 
ston Circuit; in 1803, to the north-western territory of 
Virginia, where, for nearly a quarter of a century, he 
alternated between Ohio and Kentucky, a successful 
circuit preacher and a commanding presiding elder. 
He died in 1827, exclaiming, “My last battle is fought, 
and the victory sure! hallelujah!” Mr. Sale was an 
eminently useful man, and he adorned every relation 
that he sustained to the Church. See Minutes of Con- 
ferences, i, 572; Stevens, Ilist. of the J\f. E. Church , iv, 
10G, 148, 149, 338, 431; Sprague, Annals of the A mer. 
Pulpit, v ii; Finley, Sketches, p. 185, 186; Bangs, Hist, 
of the M. E. Church, ii, 11 1. (J. L. S.) 

Sa'lem (Heb. Shalem', cVr, peaceful, i. e. unin- 
jured, or whole, as often) occurs in a few passages of 
Scripture, and in several other notices, as the name of 
one or more places, although some writers doubt wheth- 
er it should not in all cases be translated as a simple 
appellative. (In the following remarks we partly adopt 
the art. in Smith’s Diet, of the Bible, s. v.) See also 
SlIALEM. 

1. (Sept. Sa\///j, and so N. T.) The place of which 
Melchizedek was king (Gen. xiv, 18; Heb. vii, 1, 2). 
Some have inferred, from the circumstances of the nar- 
rative (e. g. Bochart, Phaleg, ii, 4 ; Ewald, Gcsch. i, 410), 
that it lay between Damascus and Sodom; but although 
it is said that the king of Sodom— who had probably 
regained his own city after the retreat of the Assyrians 
— went out to meet (HSOp?) Abraham, yet it is also dis- 
tinctly stated that this was after A bra ham had returned 
“OHN;) from the slaughter of the kings. The 
only clue is that afforded by the mention of the valley 
of Shaveh (q. v.), which seems to have been the “ King’s 
Dale” near Jerusalem. See Absalom ’ s Pillar, 


Dr. Wolff, in a striking passage, implies that Salem 
was — what the author of the Epistle to the Hebrews 
understood it to be — a title, not the name of a place. 
“Melchizedek of old . . . had a royal title: he was 
‘King of Highteousness’ (in Hebrew, Melchi-zedek) ; lie 
was also ‘ King of Peace’ (Melek- Salem). When Abra- 
ham came to his tent, he came forth with bread and 
wine, and was called ‘the Priest of the Highest,’ and 
Abraham gave him a portion of his spoil. Just so 
Wolff’s friend, in the desert of Meru, in the kingdom 
of Khiva . . . whose name is Abd-er-Kahman, which 
means ‘ Slave of the merciful God,’ . . . has also a royal 
title. He is called Shahe-Adaalat, ‘ King of Bighteons- 
ness’ — the same as Melchizedek in Hebrew. When lie 
makes peace between kings, he bears the title Shake 
Sfilkli, ‘ King of Peace’ (in Hebrew, Melek-Salem).” 

The main opinion, however, current from the earliest 
ages of interpretation, is that of the Jewish commenta- 
tors, who, from Onkelos ( Targum ) and Josephus (ir«r, 
vi, 10; Ant. i, 10, 2 ; vii, 3, 2) to Kaliscli (Comm, on Gen. 
p. 360), with one voice affirm that Salem is Jerusalem, 
on the ground that Jerusalem is so called in Psa. lxxvi, 
2, the Psalmist, after the manner of poets, or from some 
exigency of his poem, making use of the archaic name 
in preference to that in common use (see Belaud, Pal- 
cestina, p. 833). The Christians of the 4th century held 
the same belief with the Jews, as is evident from an 
expression of Jerome (“ nostri omnes,” Ep. ad Ecange- 
lum , § 7), and Eusebius (in the Onomast. s. v.). 

Here it is sufficient to say (1) that Jerusalem suits 
the circumstances of the narrative rather better than 
any place farther north, or more in the heart of the 
country. It would be quite as much in Abraham’s road, 
going from the sources of Jordan to his home under the 
oaks of Hebron, and it would be more suitable for the 
visit of the king of Sodom. In fact, we know that, in 
later times at least, the usual route from Damascus 
avoided the central highlands of the country and the 
neighborhood of Shechem, where Salim is now shown 
(see Pompev’s route in Josephus, Ant. xiv, 3, 4; 4. 1). 
(2) It is, perhaps, some confirmation of the identity — at 
any rate, it is a remarkable coincidence — that the king 
of Jerusalem in the time of Joshua should bear the title 
Adoni-zedek — almost precisely the same as that of Mel- 
chizedek. 

2. Jerome himself, however, is not of the same opin- 
ion. He states (Ep. ad Erang. § 7) without hesitation, 
though apparently (as just observed) alone in his be- 
lief, that the Salem of Melchizedek was not Jerusalem, 
but a town near Scvthopolis, which in his day was still 
called Salem, and where the vast ruins of the palace of 
Melchizedek were still to be seen. Elsewhere (Ono- 
mast. s. v. Salem) he locates it more precisely at eight 
Iloman miles from Scvthopolis, and gives its then name 
as Salumias. Further, he identifies this Salem with the 
Salim (q. v.) (SnXeqO °f John the Baptist. 'Flint a 
Salem existed where Jerome thus places it there need 
be no doubt; indeed, the name has been recovered at 
the identical distance below Beisan by Van dc Velde, 
at a spot otherwise suitable for /Enon. But that this 
Salem, Salim, or Salumias was the Salem of Melchize- 
dek is even more uncertain than that Jerusalem was so. 
The ruins were probably as much the ruins of Melchiz- 
edek’s palace as the remains at Barnet el-Khalil, three 
miles north of Hebron, are those of “Abraham’s house.” 
Nor is the decision assisted by a consideration of Abra- 
ham’s homeward route, lie probably brought back his 
party by the road along the Ghdr as far as Jericho, and 
then, turning to the right, ascended to the upper level of 
the country in the direction of Manure; but whether he 
crossed the Jordan at the Jisr Benat Yakub, above the 
Lake of Gennesaret, or at the Jisr Mejamia, below it, 
he would equally pass bv both Scytlmpolis and Jerusa- 
lem. At the same time, it must be confessed that thi 
distance of Salem (at least eighty miles from the prob- 
able position of Sodom) makes it difficult to suppose 
that the king of Sodom can have advanced so far to 


SALEM 


meet Abraham, adds its weight to the statement that the 
meeting took place after Abraham had returned— not 
during his return, and is thus so far in favor of Salem 
being Jerusalem. Sec Melchizedek. 

3. Professor Ewahl (Geschichte,\, 410, note) pronounces 
that Salem is a town on the further side of Jordan, on 
the road from Damascus to Sodom, quoting at the same 
time John iii, "23; but there seems to be no authority for 
this, nor any notice of the existence of the name in that 
direction cither in former or recent times. 

4. A tradition given by Eupolcmiis, a writer known 
only through fragments preserved in the Prcrparatio 
Evangdica of Eusebius (ix, 17), differs in some impor- 
tant points from the Biblical account. According to 
this, the meeting took place in the sanctuary of the city 
Argarizin, which is interpreted by Eupolemus to mean 
“ the Mountain of the Most High.” “A rgarizin" (Pliny 
uses nearly the same form — Argaris, II. X. v, 14) is, of 
course, kar-Gerizzim , Mount Gcrizim. The source of 
the tradition is, therefore, probably Samaritan, since the 
encounter of Abraham and Melchizedek is one of the 
events to which the Samaritans lay claim for Mount 
Gcrizim. But it may also proceed from the identifica- 
tion of Salem with Sliechern, which, lying at the foot 
of Gcrizim, would easily be confounded with the moun- 
tain itself. Sec Shalkm. 

5. A Salem is mentioned in Jud. iv, 4 among the 
places which were seized and fortified by the Jews on 
the approach of Holofernes. “The valley of Salem,” 
as it appears in the A. V. (roc avXuiva ZaXijfi), is pos- 
sibly, as Belaud has ingeniously suggested ( Palcest . p. 
977), a corruption of tig avXm>a dg ^laXijfJ. — “into the 
plain to Salem.” If AvXibv is here, according to fre- 
quent usage, the Jordan valley, then the Salem referred 
to must surely be that mentioned by Jerome and al- 
ready noticed. But in this passage it may be with 
equal probability the broad plain of the Mukhna which 
stretches from Ebal and Gerizim, on the one hand, to 
the hills on which Salim stands, on the other, which is 
said to be still called the “plain of Salim” (Porter, 
Handbook, p. 340 a), and through which runs the cen- 
tral north road of the country. Or, as is perhaps still 
more likely, it refers to another Salim near Zerin (Jcz- 
reel), and to the plain which runs up between those 
two places as far as Jenin, and which lay directly in 
the route of the Assyrian army. There is nothing to 
show that the invaders reached as far into the interior 
of the country as the plain of the Mukhna. The other 
places enumerated in the verse seem, as far as they can 
be recognised, to be points which guarded the main 
approaches to the interior (one of the chief of which 
was by Jezreel and Enganiiiu), not towns in the interi- 
or itself, like Sliechern or the Salem near it. See Ju- 
dith, Book ok. 

6. (Sept, iv dpipny, Yulg. in pace), Psa. Ixxvi, 2. It 
seems to be agreed on all hands that Salem is here em- 
ployed for Jerusalem, but whether as a mere abbrevia- 
tion to suit some exigency of the poetry and point the 
allusion to the peace (shaldm) which the city enjoyed 
through the protection of God, or whether, after a well- 
known habit of poets, it is an antique name preferred 
to the more modern and familiar one, is a question not 
'yet decided. The latter is the opinion of the Jewish 
commentators, but it is grounded on their belief that 
the Salem of Melchizedek was the city which after- 
wards became Jerusalem. (Sec above.) See a remark- 
able passage in Geiger’s Vrsehrift, etc. p. 74-76. The 
antithesis in ver. 1 between “Judah” and “Israel” might 
seem to some to imply that some sacred place in the 
northern kingdom is here contrasted with Zion, the 
sanctuary of the south. If there were in the Bible any 
sanction to the identification of Salem with Sliechern 
(noticed above), the passage might be taken as referring 
to the continued relation of God to the kingdom of ls- 
riel. But the parallelism is rather one of agreement 
than contrast. Hence, Zion the sanctuary being named 
in the one member of the verse, it is tolerably certain 


4 SALIG 

that Salem, in the other, must denote the same city. 
See Jerusalem. 

Salecna, in Arabic mythology, is the god of health 
worshipped by a race of giants who are said to have in- 
habited Arabia. 

Sales, Francis dk. See Francis of Sales. 
Salesians, an order of recluse nuns, otherwise 
known as Visitants. Its founder was count Francis of 
Sales (q. v.), who conceived the idea of providing an 
asylum for widows and other females in distress, and of 
devoting them to the service of the sick and to a relig- 
ious life. A vision encouraged him to carry forward 
his purpose, and the active co-operation of a noble 
widow (saint), Francisca du Chantal, enabled him to 
succeed. The order of the Visitation of Mary , or Sa- 
lesians, was the result. The first house for their use 
was secured in 1G10, at Anneev, and the second in 1G15, 
at Lyons. Their rules (given by St. Francis) were mild, 
and intended rather to promote spiritual dispositions 
and works of mercy than to encourage outward asceti- 
cism. The sisters were required to take only the simple 
vows; strict renrement was imposed only during the 
period of the novitiate; their apparel was not required 
to be different from that of ordinary females, except 
that it should be of black color and modest appearance. 
In 1618 pope Paul Y raised the congregation into an 
order De Visit at ione B. V. M. under the rule of St. Au- 
gustine, and conferred on it all the privileges accorded 
to other religious orders, making its special mission the 
training of female children. The convents were placed 
under t he supervision of the diocesan bishops by the 
will of their founder. Their number increased rapidly, 
the first being established at Paris, in 1619 ; thirteen be- 
fore Francis died in 1G22, and eighty-seven during the 
life of mother du Chantal (died 1641). The order grad- 
ually spread also over Italy, Germany, Poland, Austria, 
Switzerland, Syria, and North America. It is now one 
of the most important in the Roman Catholic Church, 
having one hundred convents with at least three thou- 
sand inmates. 

The members of the order are classed as choristers, 
associates, and house companions, the first of which 
classes performs the duties of the choir, while the last 
takes charge of the domestic administration of the 
house. The modern rule is not especially strict, but 
few special fasts being prescribed. The habit of the 
order is black, with a black band crossing the forehead, 
and a small white breast-cloth pendent from the neck, 
under which a silver cross is suspended from a black 
band. — AVetzer u. AA'elte, Kirchen-Lex. ix, 577 sq. 

Salganens, in Greek mythology, is an appellative 
of Apollo, derived from the Boeotian town of the same 
name. 

Salian, Jacques, a learned French Jesuit, was born 
at Avignon in 1557. lie was admitted in 1578 into the 
Institute of St. Ignatius, where he taught theology, and 
also in the province of Lyons. lie was rector of the 
College of Bcsan^on, and while on a visit to Paris died 
of apoplexy, Jan. 23, 1640. Ilis principal work is en- 
titled A nnales Ecclcsiastici V. T. (1G19). — Hoefer, Nouv. 
Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Salians. See Salesians. 

Salier, Jacques, a French theologian, was born at 
Saulicn in 1615. He belonged to the order of the Mi- 
nimes. After having taught theology, he became pro- 
vincial, and finally assistant of the general of his order. 
He died at Dijon, Aug. 20, 1707. He wrote, De Eucha- 
risticis (1687): — Cacocephalus (1694): — Pensecs sur le 
Paradis et sur V A me Ilaisonnable, in which there is very 
little about paradise. — Hoefer, Nouv. Blog. Generate, 
s. v. 

Salig, Christian August, a German theologian of 
great learning and mystical tendency, was born near 
Magdeburg, April 6, 1G92. His father, a pastor, in- 
structed him in Latin, Greek, and Hebrew. In 1707 he 


SALII 


255 


SALIM 


began to study at Ilalle, and heard lectures from A. H. 
Franke, P. Anton, Christian Wolf, and others, also taking 
frequent partin public disputations against Socinianism 
and Romanism. From 1710 to 1712 he studied at Jena, 
under J.F. Buddseus, J. A. Danz, and others, and took his 
master’s degree. In 1714 he delivered lectures, philo- 
sophical, theological, and historical, at Halle. The same 
year he published Philosojdiumena Vcterum et Recenti- 
orum de Anima et ejus Dnmortalitate , at Halle, a work 
which drew to him the attention of Thomasius. In 
1717 he became conrector of the school at Wolfen- 
biittel. and entered upon his duties with a dissertation, 
J)e Nexu Corruption^ ac Instaurationis Ecclesice etc 
Scholctriun, Here the excellent library furnished him 
welcome means of productive study. In 1723 he issued 
his work De Entychianismo ante Eutychem , in which he 
treated also of the history of Nestorianism. For this 
work he was fiercely accused of Nestorianism himself. 
The second centenary of the Augsburg Confession oc- 
casioned the preparation of Salig’s master-work, a com- 
plete history of the Augsburg Confession and Apology 
(Halle, 1730). In 1733 he issued an additional work on 
the history of Protestantism outside of Lutheranism. 
In 1735 he published an account of the inner growth 
and strifes of Lutheranism, which was bitterly assailed 
because of its frank presentation of men and things as 
they actually were. As a continuation of his labors 
in the same field, he undertook a complete history 
of the Council of Trent, but did not live to finish it. 
He died at Wolfenbiittel in 1735. He wrote, also, AV 
dus Prcedestinationis Solutus. See Ballenstedt, De Vita 
et Obitu C. A. Saliyii (Helmst. 1738) ; Herzog, Recil-En - 
cykl. xiii, 323-325. (J. P. L.) 

Salii were priests of Mars Gradivus, and are said to 
have been instituted by Numa. They were twelve in 
number, chosen from the patriarchs, and had charge of 
the sacred shields ( ancilia ), which were kept in the 
Temple of Mars on the Palatine Hill. The distinguish- 
ing dress of the salii was an embroidered tunic bound 
with a brazen belt, the trabea, and the apex, also worn 
by the flamines. Each had a sword by his side, and in 
his right hand a spear or staff'. The festival of Mars 
was celebrated by the salii on the 1st of March, and for 
several successive days, on which occasion they were 
accustomed to go through the city in their official dress, 
carrying the ancilia, singing and dancing. The mem- 
bers of the collegium were elected by co-optation. Till- 
ius Hostilius established another collegium of salii. 
These were twelve in number, were chosen from the 
patricians, and appear to have been dedicated to the 
service of Quirinus. They were called the Salii Coll ini, 
Ayonales , or A gonenses. See Smith, Diet, of Class . 
A ntiq . s. v. 

SaTim ( 'ZaXtip v. r. 'SaWup ; Vulg.SWim), a place 
named (John iii, 23) to denote the situation of yEnon, 
the scene of John’s last baptisms — Salim being the well- 
known town or spot, and zEnon a place of fountains, or 
other water, near it. Christ was in Judaea (ver. 22), and 
the whole scope of the passage certainly conveys the 
impression that John was near him, and consequently 
Salim was either in Judaea or close to its borders. The 
only direct testimony we possess is that of Eusebius 
and Jerome, who both affirm unhesitatingly ( Onom . 
“yEnou”) that it existed in their day near the Jordan, 
eight Roman miles south of Scythopolis. Jerome adds 
(under “ Salem”) that its name was then Sahimias. 
Elsewhere ( Ep . ad Evanyelum , § 7, 8) he states that it 
was identical with the Salem of Melchizedek. A tra- 
dition is mentioned by Belaud ( Pultestina , p. 978) that 
Salim was the native place of Simon Zelotes. This in 
itself seems to imply that its position was, at the date 
of the tradition, believed to be nearer to Galilee than to 
Judaea. Various attempts have been more recently 
made to determine the locality of this interesting spot. 
(In the following particulars we chiefly follow the ar- 
ticle in Smith’s Diet, of the Bible , s. v.). 


1. Some (as Alford, Creek Test, ad loc.) propose Shil- 
him and Ain, in the arid country far in the south of 
Judrea, entirely out of the circle of associations of John 
or our Lord. Others identify it with the Shalim of 1 
Sam. ix, 4 ; but this latter place is itself unknown, and the 
name in Hebrew contains V, to correspond with which 
the name in John should be SeyaXtip or 'EaaXtip. 

2. Dr. Robinson (Bibl. Researches, iii, 333) suggests 
the modern village of Salim, three miles east of Nablus; 
but this is no less out of the circle of John’s ministra- 
tions, and is too near the Samaritans; and although 
there is some reason to believe that the village contains 
“ two sources of living water” {ibid. p. 298), yet this is 
hardly sufficient for the abundance of deep water im- 
plied in the narrative. A writer in the Colonial Ch. 
Chron . No. cxxvi, 4(54, who eoncurs in this opinion of 
Dr. Robinson, was told of a village an hour east (?) of 
Salim “named Ain-un,with a copious stream of water.” 
Lieut. Couder says ( Tent Work in Palestine, i, 92) that 
Wady Farali,it) the locality in question, contains a suc- 
cession of little but perennial springs, from which the wa- 
ter gushes out in a fine stream over a stony bed, and that 
the village of Ain-fin lies five miles north of the stream. 

3. Dr. Barclay (City of the Great King, p. 5G4) is filled 
with an “ assured conviction” that Salim is to be found 
in Wady Seleim, and TEnon in the copious springs of 
Ain Farah (ibid. p. 559), among the deep and intricate ra- 
vines some five miles north-east of Jerusalem. This 
certainly has the name in its favor, and, if the glowing 
description and pictorial wood-cut of Dr. Barclay may be 
trusted, has water enough (v§arct 7roXXd) and of suf- 
ficient depth for the purpose. But the proximity to 
Jerusalem is a decided objection. See jEnon. 

4. There is said to be a village called Salim in the 
plain of Muklina, east of Nablus, which is probably the 
Shalem of Gen. xxxiii, 18 (Porter, Handbook, p. 340 ; 
Robinson, Bibl. Researches, ii, 279) ; but it is too far 
north to suit the Gospel narrative; and, besides, it can- 
not be said of it “ there is much water there.” See 
Shalem, 

5. The name of Salim has been lately discovered by 
l Van de Velde (Syr. and Pal. ii, 345) in a position exact- 
ly in accordance with the notice of Eusebius, viz. six 
English miles south of Beisan and two miles west of 
the Jordan. On the northern base of Tell Bedgliah is 
a site of ruins, and near it a Mussulman tomb, which is 
called by the Arabs Sheik Salim (see also Memoir, p. 

I 345). Dr. Robinson (Bibl. Researches, iii, 333) com- 
plains that the name is attached only to a Mussulman 
j sanctuary, and also that no ruins of any extent are to 
be found on the spot; but with regard to the first ob- 
i jection, even Dr. Robinson does not dispute that the 
! name is there, and that the locality is in the closest 
agreement with the notice of Eusebius. As to the sec- 
ond, it is only necessary to point to Kefr-Saba, where a 
town (Antipatris), which so late as the time of the de- 
struction of Jerusalem was of great size and extensive- 
ly fortified, has absolutely disappeared. The career of 
the Baptist has been examined in a former part of this 
work, and it has been shown with great probability that 
his progress was from south to north, and that the 
scene of his last baptisms was not far distant from the 
spot indicated by Eusebius, and now recovered by Van 
de Velde. See John; Jordan. Salim fulfils also the 
conditions implied in the name of yEnon (springs), and 
the direct statement of the text that the place con- 
tained abundance of water. “ The brook of V adv 
Chusneh runs close to it, a splendid fountain gushes out 
beside the Welv, and rivulets wind about in all direc- 
tions. ... Of few places in Palestine could it so truly 
be said, ‘ Here is much water’” (Syr. and Pal. ii, 340). 
Drake, however, avers that “inquiries of the Arabs and 
fellahiu of the district resulted in not a man of them 
even having heard of either of these places, i. e. Blr 
Salim and Sheik Salim (Quar. Report of the Pal. Ex - 
plor. Fund, Jan. 1875, p. 32). See Salem. 


SALDIBENI 


256 


SALMAS1US 


Salimbeni, Arcangelo, an Italian painter, was 
born at Sienna, and flourished from 1557 to 1579. He 
was a pupil of Sozzi,and enriched his native town with 
a great number of pictures. His best are a Holy / u?n- 
tig and a Martyrdom of St. Peter. — Hoefer, Hour. Bioy. 
Generuk, s. v. 

Salimbeni, Simondio, son of the following, was 
born in 1597, and died in 1643. In one of the churches 
in Sienna are four frescos by this artist. 

Salimbeni, Ventura, called the Cavaliere Bevi- 
lacquiiy son of Arcangelo, was born at Sienna in 15G7. 
He studied with his father, and at last went to Home, 
where he executed many of liis best frescos. The 
number of these is very large, and in the church of St. 
Catharine at Sienna are some of the finest. At Florence 
may be seen his A pparition of St. M ichael, and in Vienna 
a ft oly Family, lie died in 1013. — Hoefer, A r oiit\ Bioy. 
Ginirale, s. v. 

Salisbury, John. See John of Salisbury. 

Salisbury, Nathaniel, a Methodist minister, was 
horn in Vermont in 179 4, and converted in Scipio, Tomp- 
kins County, N. Y., at the age of twenty-live years. He 
was admitted into the Genesee Conference on trial in 
18*22, ordained deacon in 1824. and elder in 1826. lie 
was employed on circuits eleven years, on stations sev- 
enteen years, and on districts, as presiding elder, fifteen 
rears, and was on the superannuated list eleven years, 
lie was in 1832 a member of the General Conference 
from the Oneida Conference, lie was a man of fine 
preaching abilities, a safe counsellor, and was greatly 
beloved by the people. lie died in Rome, N. Y., Feb. 
18, 1876. See Minutes of Conferences, 1876, p. 63. 

Salius, in Greek mythology, was one of the com- 
panions ofTEneas, who secured a prize, consisting of the 
skin of a lion, in the races. 

Salkeld, John, who flourished from 1575 to 1659, 
was educated partly at Oxford, and, after being for 
many years a Jesuit in Spain and Portugal, was con- 
verted by the eloquence of James I, and by him made 
vicar of Wellington, Somersetshire. From 1635 to 1645 
he was minister of the church at Taunton, Devonshire, 
from which he was ejected in the civil wars. He pub- 
lished, A Treatise of Angels (Loud. 1613, 8vo) : — Trea- 
tise of Paradise , of the Serpent, Cherubim, etc. (1617, 
12rao). See Allibone, Diet, of A at hors, s. v. 

Sal'lai (lleb. “'ZD, Sallay', perhaps lifted up, from 
b5D, salul; or basket-maker; Sept. EijXsi , £aXm , v. r. 
Ni;X<), the name of two Hebrews. 

1. One of the leaders of the sons of Benjamin, who 
settled at Jerusalem with 928 tribesmen on the return 
from captivity (Noli, xi, 8), 13. C. cir. 459. 

2. ( )ne of the chiefs of the priests who returned to Je- 
rusalem with Zerubbabel (Neh. xii, 20), 13. C. cir. 459. 
He is elsewhere (Neh. xii, 7) called Sallu (q.v.). 

Sal'lu, the name of two Hebrews, differently spelled 
in the original. 

1. (lleb. K'S w, Sallu' [N2D in Neh. xi, 7]. zeeighed; 
Sept. N«\<5, v. r. I'j/Xoj, SaXdyi.) A Bcnjaminite, son of 
Meshullarn, dwelling in Jerusalem after the return from 
exile (Neh. xi, 7 ; 1 Chron. ix, 7), B.C. cir. 159. 

2. (lleb. SZO, Sallu', weighed; Sept. NaXou v. r. 
~«XXo vai.) Another name (Neh. xii, 7) for Sallai 
(Neli. xii, 20), No. 2 (q. w). 

Sallu 'nius (yiaWovpoc v. r. '2,a\o~>fiog),a Gnecized 
form (1 Esdr. ix, 25) of the name Siiallum (q. v.) of the 
Hob. (Ezra x, 24). 

SaFraa (lleb. Salma', a garment; Sept. 

SuXpdv, NaXw/iwr, v. r. NaX/nor), the name of two 
men. 

1. An ancestor of David and Christ (1 Chron. ii, 11); 
elsewhere Salmon (q.v.). 

2. The second-named of three sons of Caleb the son of j 
llur, called the “father” (i.e. founder) of Bethlehem and 


of the Netophathites (1 Chron. ii, 51, 54), B.C. ante 1500. 
Lord Ilervey ( Genealogy of Our Lord, cli. iv, ix) con- 
founds this person with the preceding (see Keil, ad loc . ). 

Salmacis, in Greek mythology, was the nymph of 
a fountain of the same name in Caria. She loved Her- 
maphroditus, the son of Mercury and Venus, who was 
possessed of extraordinary beauty; but lie avoided lier 
and despised her prayers. She therefore seized him in 
her embraces at a time when he was bathing in her 
fountain, and besought the gods to join her inseparably 
with him in case he should not listen to her plea. The 
prayer was heard, and Ilermaphroditus, previously a 
man, thereafter united both the sexes in his person. 

Salmana'sar (Vulg. Salmanasar, for the Gr. text 
is lost), a less correct form (2 Esdr. xiii,40) of the name 
of the Assyrian king Shalmaneser (q. v.). 

Salmanticani (sc. theologi), a collection of theo- 
logical “Summoe” emanating from the college ofDiscal- 
ceate Carmelites at Salamanca, and highly esteemed in 
the Roman Catholic Church. The work, in arrange- 
ment and execution, is wholly in the style of Thomas 
Aquinas, and its teaching is emphatic in defending the 
views of the Angelical Doctor to the utmost, particularly 
with reference to the doctrine of grace. Its authors 
directed their argument especially against the system 
of Molina [see Molina, Luis], which was then a sub- 
ject of controversy. In this course they were supported 
by the whole weight of the University of Salamanca, 
which not only clung to the Thomist doctrines in their 
utmost strictness, but whose faculty bound itself with a 
unanimous oath to present only the doctrines of Augus- 
tine and Aquinas in their public lectures. A work con- 
taining the philosophical system of Aquinas had pre- 
viously been issued by the Barefooted Carmelites of the 
College of Alcalii, under the title Comjdutensis Artium 
Cursus, which served as a preliminary to the Salmanti- 
can theology. The authors of the above works are not 
definitely known, though Antonius, in Bibl. IHspan., 
mentions a Carmelite father Antonius as the principal 
author of both — a statement which is disproved by the 
preface to the Theology. The first volume of the Sal- 
mantican theologians appeared in 1631, and nine vol- 
umes are now known to exist (Pfaff, Tntrod. in Hist. 
Theol. IJterar. p. 203, mentions ten), the last of which 
contains the tract De Incarncitione . 

A smaller work on moral theology, Cursus Theol. 
Jf oralis (Venet. 1728, complete in G vols.), was pub- 
lished by the same order and school, whose authors 
were, without exception, Probabilists. See Probabil- 
ism. Their names are given in the book. The work 
has been highly commended by Roman Catholic theo- 
logians in the department of morals, e. g. by Gury. 
— Wctzer u. AVelte, Kirchen-Lex. ix, 580. 

Salmasius, Claudius ( Claude de Saumaise'), one 
of the greatest French scholars of the 17th century, was 
born at Scmur-en-Anxois, in Burgundy, April 15, 1588. 
His father, a jurist, gave him the first elements of his 
classic knowledge; his mother, a Calvinist, impressed 
upon him her practical religion. At the age often he 
wrote Latin and Greek. At sixteen he went to the 
University of Paris, and was greatly stimulated by in- 
tercourse with those great classic scholars, Joseph Scal- 
iger and Isaac Casaubon. To his Greek and Latin he 
now added Hebrew, Arabic, and Coptic, which he learned 
without a teacher. In 1606 he resorted to the Univer- 
sity of Heidelberg to study jurisprudence under Gotlio- 
fredus, but he found the most attraction in the rich li- 
brary, and especially in its rare manuscripts. He now 
gave up jurisprudence as a specialty, and devoted him- 
self to universal erudition. At the age of twenty-one 
he brought out his richly annotated edition of Floras, a 
work which gave him a name among the scholars of 
the age. In 1611 he printed at Paris his Scriptoi'es 
Historic A u gusto 1 . In 1G23 he married, and lived for 
some years near Paris, working upon his essays on Pliny 
and Solinus. They appeared in Paris in 1629 in two 


SALMEGGIA 


257 


folio volumes, under the title PlinianitB Dissert at tones 
in Caii Julii Solid Polyhistora , and obtained for their 
author wide fame and calls to many foreign universi- 
ties. In 1G32 he accepted an honorary professorship at 
Leyden, with a comfortable pension, devoting himself 
to erudite labor, and declining many tempting invita- 
tions to return to France. Even the offer by Richelieu 
of six times as great a salary if he would come to Paris 
and become the great statesman’s biographer was re- 
spectfully declined, with the remark that he could not 
consent to devote his pen to the work of tiattery. II is 
work on the primacy of the pope (1645) involved him 
in trouble with the Roman clergy; but the consequences 
of his Defensio Regia pro Carolo Primo (Leyden, 1649), 
which he had written at the request of the banished 
king Charles II, were much more serious, for it not only 
called forth the able and passionate rejoinder of Milton, 
Defensio pro Populo Anglicano (1650), but it brought 
upon its author the disapproval of his republican pa- 
trons in Holland. Wounded at this, Salmasius hastily 
accepted an invitation of Christina of Sweden to enter 
her service; but, his expectations not being met, he re- 
turned to Holland in 1651. Hut his health was now 
completely broken. Salmasius became a Protestant at 
Heidelberg while still a youth, and held fast to his faith 
at no little self-sacrifice throughout life. He died at Spa 
Sept. 6, 1653, and was buried at Maestricht. Among his 
writings which bear upon religion, we may mention De 
Episcopis et Presbyteris : — De Ca’surie Vivo rum et Ma- 
lierum Coma: — Super llerodis infanticida: — De Tran - 
substantione : — DeCruceet Hyssopo. See Papillon, Bib- 
liotheque des Auteurs de Bourgogne ; Paquot, M e moires ; 
Ilerzog, Real-Encyklop . xiii, 328-331. (J. P. L.) 

Salmeggia, Enea, an Italian painter, was born at 
Ilergamo. lie was a pupil of Campi at Cremona, af- 
terwards went to Rome, and for fourteen years gave 
himself to the study of the works of KafYaelle. His 
works show the effect of this study. Many of his pict- 
ures are at Bergamo, but the best may be seen in Milan, 
as St, Victor , Christ in the Garden , and others. He died 
in 1626. — Hoefer, Noitv, Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Salmeron, Alpiionso, one of the original six who 
associated themselves with Loyola in founding the So- 
ciety of Jesus. He was born at Toledo in 1515. Hav- 
ing learned the ancient languages at Alcala, he repaired 
to the University of Paris to study philosophy and the- 
ology. There he became attached to Loyola, and was 
soon one of his most zealous and efficient disciples. 
Subsequently he visited Italy, and promoted the cause 
of the new order by enthusiastic public labors of every 
kind. His talent for controversy was of a high order. 
The pope rewarded his zeal bv conferring on him the 
title of Apostolic Nuncio of Ireland. He was charged 
by the popes Paul III, Julius III, and Pius IV with the 
function of papal theologian and orator at the Council 
of Trent. In co-operation with Laiuez, he prepared a 
statement of the so-called erroneous teachings of the 


SALMONE 

i 

Reformers, accompanying each one with citations from 
the fathers, popes, and councils which refuted and con- 
demned them. After the Council of Trent he returned 
to Italy, and retired into the college which he had 
founded at Naples. There, as president of the provin- 
cial section of his order in Naples, he closed his days, 
in 1585, combating all forms of heresy, and preparing 
his extensive commentary on the Bible. Ilis works 
were published, in sixteen volumes folio, at Madrid, 
Mantua, Brixen, and Cologne (1597-1612). Some of 
the titles of the separate volumes are, Prolegomenon in 
Universam Script urum : — De Jncarnatione Verbi: — De 
Sermone Domini in Monte : — De Christi Miraculis : — 
De Passione et Morte Domini : — De Resurrectione et .1 s- 
cettsione Domini. See Herzog, Real-Encyklop. xiii, 331. 
(J. P. L.) 

Sal'mon, the name of a man and of a bill. 

1. (Hcb. Salmon ', clothing , Ruth iv, 21, 

Sept. SrtXjUwr v. r. 'S.aXpdv ; but Salma', X’cVl', id. t 
Chron. ii, 11, Sept. Eakuttv v. r. EaXo>/n5r, A. V. Sal- 
ma;” and Salm ah', n^b'-l’, id. Ruth iv, 20, Sept. X«X- 
fiCov v. r. SoXjtirtiq A. V. “ Salmon ;” N. T. SaXfubi’). 
The son of Nahshon and the ancestor of Iloaz, of the 
family of Judah and David (Ruth iv, 20, 21; 1 Chron. 
ii, II ; Matt. i. 4, 5; Luke iii, 32). B.C. cir. 1660. See 
Genealogy ok Cuuist. 

2. (Heb. Tsalmon, “p, «b^, shady.) A place named 
(Psa. lxviii, 14) as a battle-field, apparently during the 
Israelites’ conquest of Canaan; probably the Mount 
Zalmon (q. v.) elsewhere (Jiulg. ix, 48) referred to. 

Salmon, Nathaniel, an English clergyman and 
physician, son of the Rev. Thomas Salmon, was edu- 
cated at Cambridge. He entered holv orders, but after 
a while abandoned the clerical profession for that of 
medicine, in the practice of which, and in the study of 
antiquities, he passed the remainder of his life. He 
died April 2, 1742. His principal works were, Lives of 
the English Bishops (Loud. 1733, 8vo) : — History of 
Hertfordshire (ibid. 1728): and others on history and 
antiquities. 

Salmo'ne (SfrXjuwr?/, of unknown etymology), a 
promontory in Crete, apparently forming the north-east 
point of the island, mentioned thus in the narrative of 
Paul’s voyage and shipwreck: “When we had scarce 
come over against Cnidus, the wind not suffering us, 
we sailed under Crete, over against Salmone” (Acts 
xxvii, 7). Capt. Smith (of Jordanhill) has shown the 
naturalness and accuracy of this notice in his own pe- 
culiar way. The direct course of the ship, he states, 
from Myra to Italy, after reaching Cnidus, lay by the 
north side of Crete; but the wind at the time did not 
suffer that, blowing, as be shows, from a point some- 
what to the west of north-west— a wind very prevalent 
in the Archipelago in late summer. Then he says, 
“ With north-west winds the ship could work up from 



IX. — R 


View of Cape Salmone. 


258 


SALOME 


SALMON EUS 


Myra to Cnidus; because, until she reached that point, 
she had the advantage of a weather shore, under the 
lee of which she would have smooth water and a west- 
erly current; but it would be slowly and with difficulty. 
At’ Cnidus that advantage ceased; and unless she had 
put into that harbor and waited lor a fair wind, her 
only course was to run under the lee of Crete, Kara. 
HaXfuoi'tjv, in the direction of Salmone, which is the 
eastern extremity of that island” (Paul's Voyage and 
Shipwreck, eh. ii). They passed the point, the evan- 
gelist says, with some difficulty; and the same modern 
writer mentions the case of a squadron (a portion of 
the British fleet from Abukir) which tried to take the 
same course, but had the wind too westerly to admit of 
their doing so (see Lewin, St. Paul > ii, 191). See Ship- 
wreck. (of St. Paul). 

The classical name for the headland is Sotmonium, 
Sinnmoniinn, or Samonium (SoX/iwrtop, So/t/iwi'tor, 
S«/iwmoi\ Ptolem. iii, 15, § 5; Strabo, ii, 1 06 ; x, 474, 
475, 478, 489; comp. Pomp. Mela, ii, 7, § 12; Pliny, iv, 
20. § 21). The name Point Salomon is now usually 
applied to the end of Cape Sidero. the easternmost ex- 
treme of Crete (Hbck, Greta , i, 427); but Spratt {Re- 
se arches in Crete [Lend. 1805]) thinks it is rather a 
southern extension of that headland called Cape Plaka. 
Sec Crete. 

Salmoneus, in Greek mythology, was a son of 
vEolus and Enarete, and brother of Sisyphus. He was 
king in Elis (where he built Salmone), and husband, 
first of Alcidice, the mother of Tyro, and afterwards of 
sidero. Such was his vanity that he demanded to be 
recognised and worshipped as Jupiter, and that, to de- 
ceive the populace, he attempted to imitate the light- 
nings of Jove bv causing flaming torches to be thrown 
about him, and the thunders of the god by driving over 
sounding bridges of brass with heavy war-chariots, or 
by dragging vessels tilled with air behind his chariot, 
lie was even charged with having murdered people, 
that he might pretend that they had fallen beneath 
his thunderbolts. Jupiter at length became wearied 
4 if his madness, and smote him with his bolt, besides 
destroying the entire city of Salmone. — Yollmer, Wor- 
terb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Sa'lom (^a\wp), a Greek form in the Apocrypha, 
(a) incorrectly (1 Mace, ii, 20), for Saru (q. v.), the fa- 
ther of Zimri (Xumb.xxv. 14) ; (b) less correctly (Bar. 
i, 7), for Shalloi (q.v.), the father of Ililkiah (1 Chron. 
vl, 13). 

Salo'me (EaXw/nj, from the Heb. GlblT, i. e. peace- 
f(d). the name of several women mentioned or alluded 
to in the X. T. and by Josephus. 

1. Called also Alexandra, the wife of Aristobulus I, 
king of the Jews, on whose death (B.C. 106) she released 
her brothers, who had been thrown by him into prison, 
and advanced the eldest of them (Alexander Janmeus) 
to the throne (Josephus. . I nt. xiii. 12, 1; War, i, 4, 1). 
By some she has been identified with Alexandra, the 
wife of Alexander Jannjvus. See Alexandra. 

2. A daughter of Antipater by his wife Cvpros, and 
sister of Ilerod the Great, one of the most wicked of 
women. She first married Joseph, whom she accused 
of familiarities with Mariamne, wife of Ilerod, and thus 
procured his death (!».(’. 31). She afterwards married 
Costobarus; but. being disgusted with him, she put him 
away — a license till then unheard of among the Jews, 
whose law (says Josephus) allows men to put away 
their wives, but does not allow women equal liberty 
(B.C. 26). After this she accused him of treason against 
Ilerod. who put him to death. She caused much di- 
vision and trouble in Herod’s family by her ealuinnies 
and mischievous informal ions; and she may be consid- 
ered as the chief author of the death of t he princes Al- 
exander and Aristobulus, and of their mother Mariamne. 
See Aristoui i.i s. She afterwards conceived a violent 
passion for an Arabian prince, called Silheus, whom she 
would have married against her brother Herod’s con- 


sent; and even after she was married to Alexas, her in- 
clination for Sillieiis was notorious. Salome survived 
Ilerod. who left her, by will, the cities of Jamnia, Azoth, 
and Bhasaelis, with fifty thousand pieces of money. She 
favored Anti pas against Arehelaus, and died A.D. 9, a 
little after Arehelaus had been banished to Vienne, in 
Dauphiny. Salome had five children by Alexas — Bere- 
nice, Antipater, Calleas, and a son and a daughter whose 
names are not mentioned (Josephus,An/.xv, 4; xvii, 8). 
See Herod. 

3. A daughter of Ilerod the Great by Elpis. In ad- 
dition to what her father bequeathed to her, Augustus 
gave her a considerable dowry, and married her to one 
of the sons uf l’heroras, Herod’s brother (Josephus, A nt. 
xvii, I ; 117/r, i, 28, etc.). See Herod. 

4. The wife of Zebedee, as appears from comparing 
Matt, xxvii, 56 with Mark xv, 40. It is further the 
opinion of many modern critics that she was that sis- 
ter of Mary, the mother of Jesus, to whom reference is 
made in John xix, 25. The -words admit, however, of 
another and hitherto generally received explanation, 
according to which they refer to the “Mary the wife 
of Cleophas” immediately afterwards mentioned. In 
behalf of the former view, it may be urged that it gets 
rid of the difficulty arising out of two sisters having 
the same name; that it harmonizes John’s narrative 
with those of Matthew and Mark; that this circuitous 
manner of describing his own mother is in character 
with John’s manner of describing himself; that the ab- 
sence of any connecting link between the second and 
third designations may be accounted for on the ground 
that the four are arranged in two distinct couplets; 
and, lastly, that the Peshito, the Persian, and the yEthi- 
opic versions mark the distinction between the second 
and third by interpolating a conjunction. On the oth- 
er hand, it may be urged that the difficulty arising out 
of the name may be disposed of by assuming a double 
marriage on the part of the father; that there is no ne- 
cessity to harmonize John with Matthew and Mark, for 
that the time and the place in which the groups are 
noticed differ materially; that the language addressed 
to John — “Behold thy mother!” — favors the idea of 
the absence rather than of the presence of his natural 
mother; and that the varying traditions current in the 
early Church as to Salome’s parents, worthless as they 
are in themselves, yet bear a negative testimony against 
the idea of her being related to the mother of Jesus. 
(According to one account, she was the daughter of Jo- 
seph by a former marriage [Epiphan. Ilcer. lxxviii, 8] ; 
according to another, the wife of Joseph [Niceph. U. K. 
ii, 3].) Altogether, we can hardly regard the point as 
settled, though the weight of modern criticism is decid- 
edly in favor of the former view (see Wieseler, in the 
Stud. it. Krit . [1840] p. 648). The only events recorded 
of Salome are that she preferred a request, on behalf of 
her two sons, for seats of honor in the kingdom of heav- 
en (Matt, xx, 20) ; that she attended at the crucifixion 
of Jesus (Mark xv, 40); and that she visited his sepul- 
chre (Mark xvi, 1) (A.D. 26-28). She is mentioned by 
name only on the two latter occasions. — Smith. See 
Zeredee. 

5. The daughter of Herodias by her first husband, 
Ilerod Philip (Josephu?, Ant. xviii, 5, 4). She is the 
“daughter of Ilerodias” noticed in Matt, xiv, 6 as 
dancing before Ilerod Antipas, and as procuring, at her 
mother’s instigation, the death of John the Baptist. 
See Herodias. She Mas married, in the first place, to 
Philip, the tetrarch of Traehonitis, her paternal uncle, 
M'ho died childless; and, secondly, to her cousin Aristo- 
bnlus, son of Ilerod, the king of Chalcis, by M'hom she 
had three sons. The legendary account of her death 
(Niceph. II. K. i, 20) is a clumsy invention to the effect 
that Salome accompanied her mother Herodias, and her 
father-in-law Ilerod, in their banishment to Vienne, .in 
Dauphiny; and that, the emperor having obliged them 
to go into Spain, as she passed over a river that M'as 
frozen, the ice broke under her feet, and she sank in up 


SALOAIO 


259 


SALT 


to her neck, when, the ice uniting again, she remain- 
ed thus suspended by it, and suffered tiic same punish- 
ment she had made John the Baptist undergo. See 
Herod. 

Salomo bex-Abraham Lax i ado. See Laniado. 

Salomo bex- Abr a i iam Parciiox. See Parciiox. 

Salomo bex-Abraham Urbixo. See Urbixo. 

Salomo bex -David de Oliveyra. See Oli- 

VEYRA. 

Salomo ben-Elijakim Panzi. See Paxzi. 

Salomo bex-Jeciiiel Loria. See Loria. 

Salomo bex-Jeiiuda Ibx-Gebirol. See Ibx- 
Gebirol. 

Salomo bex-Jeiiuda Verga. See Verga. 

Salomo bex-Joel Dubxo. See Dubxo. 

Salomo bex- Isaak. See Kashi. 

Salomo Levi. See Paulus Burgexsis. 
Salomo Molcho. See Molcho. 

Salomon di Norzi. See Norzi. 

Salomon, Gotthold, a German rabbi, was born 
at Sandersleben, in the duchy of Anhalt-Dessau, Nov. 
1, 1784. Up to his sixteenth year he was educated in 
Talmudic lore and literature, according to the custom 
of that time. After this he acquired the rudiments of 
the German language, especially through the efforts of 
the chaplain Bobbe, who not only allowed him to come 
to his school, but also gave him private lessons. He 
then went to Dessau, to attend the lectures at the Jew- 
ish college, employing, however, all his spare time in ac- 
quainting himself with German literature. In 1802 he 
became tutor of German and Hebrew at the Franz 
school, and afterwards he was intrusted with the re- 
ligious instruction. In 1800 he delivered his maiden- 
speech, which was very highly spoken of by Christians 
who heard him. Salomon never lost sight of his in- 
tention to become a preacher; and in this he was en- 
couraged by his Christian friends, who not only sup- 
plied him with the sermons of Zollikofer and Rein- 
hardt, but even corrected his compositions in accord- 
ance with the rules of homiletics. In 1815 he went to 
Berlin, where he delivered his first discourse in Jacob- 
sohn’s Temple. lie now became known to his corelig- 
ionists; and when, in 1818, the Temple of the Reformed 
party at Hamburg was dedicated, Salomon was elected 
assistant preacher. In the A r ear 1844 he dedicated the 
“ New Temple,” and attended the assemblies of the rab- 
bins at Brunswick, Frankfort, and Breslau. In the year 
1857 he retired from his duties, and died Nov. 17, 1802. 
Of his numerous publications we mention : Avswahl von 
Predigten (Dessau. 1818): — Predigten (Hamburg, 1819- 
29): — Moses, in 21 sermons (ibid. 1835): — David , as 
Man, Israelite, and King, 2G sermons (ibid. 1837) : — Eli- 
as, the Champion of Light and Truth, in 19 sermons (ibid. 
1840) : — Der Berg des l I err n, 17 sermons on the Deca- 
logue (ibid. 184G): — comments upon llaggai 
and Zechariah (Dessau, 1805): — The Pentateuch, ac- 
cording to the Masorctic text, with a German transla- 
tion and short glosses (Krotoschin, 1848-49, 5 vols.). 
Some of his sermons were also translated into English 
by Miss A. M. Goldsmid (London, 1839). See F first, 
Bill. J nd. iii, 22G sq.; Kayserling, Bibliotheh jiidischer 
Kanzelredner, i, 142-277 ; J ost, Gesch. d. Judenth. u. s. Sec- 
ten, iii, 3G5, 371 ; Gratz, Gesch. d. Juden, xi, 41 G sq. ; Ph. 
Philippson, Biographische Skizzen (Leips. 18GG, 3 pts.) ; 
Geiger, in the Zeitsch rift fir judische Theologie, ii, 127 
sq. ; iii, 91-102; Unsere Zeit, vii, 39G ; Steinschneider, 
Ilebr. Bibliographic, vi, 17 ; L. Philippson, Predigt - uml 
Schul-M agazin, ii,253-2G9. (B. P.) 

Salomon, John, professor of Hebrew, was a native 
of Posen, where he was born in 1G23. lie embraced 
Christianity at Dantzic, Jan. 22, 1G57. Two years later 
he was appointed professor of the Oriental languages at 


the gymnasium there, and died July 1, 1083. lie wrote, 
Demonstrationes XXXVIJI contra Judivos (Frankfort, 
1GG0) : — Progrumma Ilebr. ad A udiendam Orationem 
Ilebr. de Priest a ntia et Utilitate Lingua; Ilebr. (Dantzic, 
1GGG) : — Progrumma de Jubihris Hebrieorum (ibid. 1G58, 
etc.). See Fiirst, Bibl. Judaica, ii, 97; iii, 229; Stein- 
schneider, Bibliograph. llundbuch, p. 123; id. Catalogus 
Librarian Ilebr. in Bibl. Bodl. p. 2397 ; Wolf, Bibl. Ilebr. 
i, 480; Delitzsch, Wissenschaft, Kunst mid Judenthum, 
p. 139, 301 ; Basnage, IJistoire des Juifs (Taylor’s 
transl.), p. 735. (B. I’.) 

Salonius, St., bishop of Geneva in the middle of 
the 5th century, was the son of Eucher, afterwards bish- 
op of Lyons. At the early age of ten, lie entered the 
monastery of Lerins, and there studied under Hilary, 
Honorat, and Vincent. It is not positively known 
whether Salonius had charge of the church at Vienna 
or Geneva, but it was probably the latter, lie is sup- 
posed to have assisted, with his father, at the Council 
of Orange in 441. He died about 470. There remains 
a writing of Salonius, called Expos i Go Mgstica in Para- 
bolas Salomonis et Ecclesiasten. The style is simple, and 
the most of the exposition relates to ethics. — Ilocfcr, 
Nouv. Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Salpinx (a trumpet'), in Greek mythology, was a sur- 
name of Minerva, llegeleos, the son of Tyrsenus, ded- 
icated to her a temple with the above name after his 
father had invented the trumpet. 

Salt (nb- 2 , melach ; u\q), the chloride of sodium of 
modern chemistry. Indispensable as salt is to ourselves, 
it was even more so to the Hebrews, being to them not 
only an appetizing condiment in the food both of man 
(Job vi, 6) and beast (Isa. xxx, 24; see margin), and a 
most valuable antidote to the effects of the heat of the 
climate on animal food, but also entering largely into 
their religious services as an accompaniment to the va- 
rious offerings presented on the altar (Lev. ii, 1 3). They 
possessed an inexhaustible and ready supply of it on the 
southern shores of the Dead Sea. In the same manner 
the Arabs of the present day procure their supply of salt 
from the deposits of the Dead Sea, and carry on a con- 
siderable trade in that article throughout Syria. Here 
may have been situated the Valley of Salt (2 Sam. viii, 
13), in proximity to the mountain of fossil salt which 
Robinson ( Researches , ii, 108) describes as five miles 
in length, and as the chief source of the salt in the sea 
itself. See Salt, Valley of. Here were the salt-pits 
(Zeph. ii, 9), probably formed in the marshes at the 
southern end of the lake, which are completely coated 
with salt, deposited periodically by the rising of the 
waters; and here also were the successive pillars of salt 
which tradition has from time to time identified with 
Lot's Avife (Wisd. x, 7; Josephus, Ant. i, 11, 4). See 
Dead Sea. Salt might also be procured from the 
Mediterranean Sea, and from this source the Phccni- 
cians would naturally obtain the supply necessary for 
salting fish (Nch. xiii, 1G) and for other purposes. The 
Jews appear to have distinguished between rock-salt 
and that which was gained by evaporation, as the Tal- 
mudists particularize one species (probably the latter) 
as the “salt of Sodom” (Carpzov, Appnr. p. 718). The 
notion that this expression means bitumen rests on no 
foundation. The salt-pits formed an important source 
of revenue to the rulers of the country (Josephus, Ant. 
xiii, 4, 9), and Antiochus conferred a valuable boon on 
Jerusalem by presenting the city with 375 bushels of 
salt for the Temple service (ibid, xii, 3, 3). In addition 
to the uses of salt already specified, the inferior sorts 
were applied as a manure to the soil, or to hasten the 
decomposition of dung (Matt, v, 13; Luke xiv, 35). 
Too large an admixture, however, was held to produce 
sterility, as exemplified on the shores of the Dead Sea 
(I)eut. xxi.x, 23; Zeph. ii, 9) ; hence a “salt” land was 
synonymous with barrenness (Job xxxix. G; see mar- 
gin; Jer. xvii, G; comp. Josephus, Bur, iv, 8, 2, d\pv~ 


SALT 


200 SALT SEA 


pntcijg Kcii d yoroc) ; and hence also arose the custom 
of sowing with salt the foundations of a destroyed city 
(Judg. ix, 45), as a token of its irretrievable ruin. It 
was the belief of the Jews that salt would, by exposure 
to the air, lose its virtue (pwpav^ip Matt, v, 13), and 
become saltless (iivaXor, Mark ix, 50). The same fact 
is implied in t lie expressions of Pliny, sal iners (xxxi, 
30). sal tabes cere (xxxi, 44); and Maundrell ( Early 
Travels [ed. Point], p. 512) asserts that he. found the 
surface of a salt rock in this condition (see Hackett, II- 
l list rat. of Script, p. 43 sq.). 

The associations connected with salt in Eastern coun- 1 
tries are important. As one of the most essential arti- 
cles of diet, it symbolized hospitality; as an antiseptic, 
durability, fidelity, and purity, lienee the expression, 
“covenant of salt” (Lev. ii, 13; Numb, xviii, 19; 2 
Chron. xiii. 5), as betokening an indissoluble alliance 
between friends (see (lettysb. Evany. Her. Oct. 1807); 
and again the expression, “salted with the salt of the 
palace” (Ezra it, 14), not necessarily meaning that they 
had “ maintenance from the. palace,” as the A. V. has it, 
but that they were bound by sacred obligations of fidel- 
ity to the king. So in the present day, “to eat bread 
and salt together” is an expression for a league of mu- 
tual amity (Bussell. Aleppo. i, 23 2) ; and, on the other 
hand, the Persian term for traitor is nemekharamf faith- 
less to salt” (Gesenius, Thesaur. p. 790). The same force 
would be given bv the preservative quality of salt 
(Pahrdt, De Fade re Sails [Lips. 1701] ; Hallervordt, id. 
[ibid. 1701]; Zeibich, id. [Ger. 1760]; Thomson, Land 
and /look, ii. 4*2 sq.). See Covenant. It was possibly 
with a view to keep this idea prominently before the 
minds of the Jews that the use of salt was enjoined on 
the Israelites in their offerings to God; for in the first 
instance it was specifically ordered for the meat-offering 
(Lev. ii, 13), which consisted mainly of flour, and there- 
fore was not liable to corruption (see Pontanns. De Sale 
Sucrijic. [Traj. 1703]; Spencer, De Leyis IHt. i, 5, 1). 
The extension of its use to burnt-sacrifices was a later 
addition (Ezra xliii, 24; Josephus, Ant. iii, 9, 1), in the 
spirit of the general injunction at the close of Lev. ii, 
13. Similarly the heathens accompanied their sacri- 
fices with sailed barley- meal, the Greeks with their 
ov\o\vrai (Homer, //. i, 449), the Homans with their 
mold salsa (Horace, Sat. ii.3, 200) or their solsie fruyes 
(Virgil, xEn. ii, 133). Salt, therefore, became of great 
importance to Hebrew worshippers: it was sold accord- 
ingly in the Temple market, and a large quantity was 
kept in the Temple itself, in a chamber appropriated 
to the purpose (Maii Diss, de Usn Salts Symbol, 
in lit bus Sacris [Giess. 1092]; Wokenius, De Sulitura 
Oblatiovnm Deo Factar. [ laps. 1747] ; Josephus, Ant. 
xii, 3. 3; Middoth,v, 3; Othon. Lex. It abb. p. 008). It 
may. of course, be assumed that in all of these cases salt 
was added as a condiment ; but the strictness with which 
the rule was adhered to— no sacrifice being oflered with- 
out salt (Pliny, xxxi, 41), and still more the probable, 
though perhaps doubtful, admixture of it in incense 
( Exod. xxx, 35. where t lie word rendered “tempered 1 
together” is by some understood as “salted” — leads to 
the conclusion that there was a symbolical force attached 
to its use (Josephus, Ant. iii, 9, 1 ; I’liilo, ii, 255; Het- 
tinger, ,////•. lltb. Leyy. p. 108); as was certainly the case 
with the Greeks and Homans (Pliny, / list. A 'at. xxxi, 
41; Ovid. Fast, i, 337 ; Spencer. De Ley. Hit. iii, 2, 2; 
Luketnaelier, Antiy. finer. Sarr. p. 350: Hettinger, I)e 
l sit Salts. <*tc. [Marburg, 1708]; Schiekedanz, id. 

[ Servest. 1758 j; Mains, id. [Giess. 1092]; INI ill. id. 
(Lit. 1731]). Our Lord refers to the sacrificial use of 
salt in Mark ix, 19, 50, though some of the other asso- 
ciations may also he implied. The purifying property j 
of salt, as opposed to corruption, led to its selection ns 
the outward sign in Elisha’s miracle (2 Kings ii, 20, 21), 
and is also developed in the New Test. (Slat t. v, 13; 
Lol. iv, 0). The custom of rubbing infants with salt 
(Ezra xvi, 4) originated in sanitary considerations, but 
received also a symbolical meaning (Hi eh ter, De Usn 


Sails apud Pt'iscos Profano et Sacro [Zittau, 17G6]). 
— Smith; Kitto. 

SALT, Ecclesiastical Use ok. It would appear 
from a sentence of Augustine that in the 4th century 
it was customary to use salt in baptism, at least in 
Milan. Salt was placed in some churches on the 
tongues of the catechumens, as an emblem of wisdom 
and an admonition to attain it. With salt, milk and 
honey were given. In the Sacramentary of Gregory the 
Great, after a form for the benediction and consecration 
of salt, it is said, “Mac oratione expleta, accipiat sacer- 
dos de eodem sale, et ponat in ore infantis, dicendo, 
Accipe sal sapientije in vitam teternam” (“This bene- 
diction being finished, let the priest take a portion of 
the same salt and put it into the mouth of the infant, 
saying, Take the salt of wisdom to eternal life”). See 
Farrar, Eccles. Diet. s. v. 

SALT, City of (lleb. Ir ham-Me'lach, n?EH“W; 
Sept. a\ TruXtic Sac^wi', v. r. ?/ 7roXt£ rail' aXwi'; Vulg. 
cicitas Sails'), the fifth of the six cities of Judah which 
lay in the “wilderness” (Josh, xv, 62). Its proximity 
to Engedi, and the name itself, seem to point to its be- 
ing situated close to. or at any rate in the neighborhood 
of, the Salt Sea. I)r. Hobinson (Bib. Hes. ii, 109) ex- 
presses his belief that it lay somewhere near the plain 
at the south end of that lake, which he would identify 
with the Valley of Salt (q. v.). This, though possibly 
supported by the reading of the Vatican Sept., “the 
cities of Sodom,” is at present a mere conjecture, since 
no trace of the name or the city has yet been discov- 
ered in that position. On the other hand, Van de 
Velde (Syr. and Pal. ii, 99; Memoir, p. Ill, and Map) 
mentions a Nahr Maleh which he passed in his route 
from Wady el-Hmail to Sebbeh, the name of which 
(though the orthography is not certain) may be found 
to contain a trace of the Hebrew. It is one of four ra- 
vines which unite to form the Wady el-Iledun. Another 
of the four, Wady ’Amreh (ibid.), recalls the name of 
Gomorrah, to the Hebrew of which it is very similar. — 
Smith. It seems most probable that it took its name 
from salt works or mines. At the south-western ex- 
tremity of the Dead Sea stands a remarkable range of 
hills of pure salt, and near them “ the City of Salt” was 
perhaps situated. There are ancient ruins at the mouth 
of Wady Zuweireh, at the northern end of the range; 
and others at Um-Bagliek, five miles farther north. 
One or other of these places may mark the site of “the 
City of Salt” (Van de Velde, Memoir , p. 345; Tristram, 
Land of Israel, p. 318 sq.). — Kitto. See Judah. 

SALT, Covenant of. See Covenant; Salt. 

SALT SEA, usually known as “ the Dead Sea.” This 
is the largest lake in Palestine, and in many respects 
the most remarkable in the world. (The following ac- 
count of it is chiefly taken from the dictionaries of 
Kitto and Smith.) See Palestine. 

1. Names. — This body of water has received a variety 
of designations from writers both ancient and modern ; 
and, as they are characteristic, they demand a brief ex- 
amination here. 

1. “ The Salt Sea ” is the most common Scripture ap- 
pellation C^ 1 , Yum ham-Melach ; Sept, i) §ct- 

\aa(7a riot’ aXwr, or «Xo£ ; also >/ B'dXaaaa i) d\vKt)g; 
Vulg. Mare Sails), It is evidently a descriptive name, 
probably intended to indicate both the saltness of its 
water and the character of the plain and hills along its 
southern margin (Poland, Pattest. p. 240). It occurs in 
the earliest books of the Bible, lmt is not. found later 
than the time of Joshua (Gen. xiv; 3; Numb, xxxiv, 
3; Deut. iii, 17; Josh, iii, 16; xv, 2, 5; xviii, 19). In 
the Tahnudical books it is likewise called “the Sea of 
Salt” (Xnb»"l See quotations from the Tal- 

mud and the Midrash Tehillim bv Poland (Palcest. p. 
237). 

2. “ The Sea of the Plain or, more properly, o f the 

! Arabah Yam ha- A rabdh ; Sept. [//] 3 id- 


SALT SEA 


261 


SALT SEA 


\a<j<ra [n/e] *Apafia ; Vulg. Mare solitudiuis), is also a 
descriptive title, showing its geographical position in 
the centre of the great valley of the Arabah. It is lirst 
employed in combination with the preceding, as if Mo- 
ses had heard it on his approach to Palestine (Dent, iii, 
17); and possibly it may have afterwards supplanted 
the older name (iv, 49; 2 Kings xiv, 25), with which it 
is sometimes associated (Josh, iii, IG; xii, 3; Deut. iii, 
17). See Arabah. 

3. “ The East Sea" is the only other name employed 

in Scripture D^H. ha- Yam hak-Kudmom ; 

Sept. )) SrdAaaoa t) 7 rpbg dvaroAdg ; Vulg. Mare Ori- 
entale). It is used by Ezekiel (xlvii, 18), Joel (ii, 20), 
and Zcchariah (xiv, 8, where the A. V. has “th e former 
sea,” although the Hebrew is the same), to distinguish 
it from the Mediterranean, which was called “the west- 
ern” (*p-inxn, literally “latter,” though when opposed 
to “|V2np it means “western”). 

In one passage (Ezck. xlvii, 8) it is styled, without 
previous reference, “ the Sea ” (Z^n, ha- Yam ), and dis- 
tinguished from “ the great sea” — the Mediterranean — 
(vcr. 10). 

4. The Sea of Sodom (D*HD b'2 X'S"’) is found in the 
Talmud (Relaud, p, 237, 243), no doubt because common 
tradition represented the city of Sodom as having been 
engulfed by it. Its connection with Sodom is first 
suggested in the Bible in the book of 2 Esdras (v, 7) by 
the name “Sodomitish sea” ( mare Sodomiticum). 

5. Josephus, and before him Diodorus Siculus (ii, 48; 
xix, 98), names it the Asphaltic Take — 1 ) ’Aa^aAririQ 

(Ant. i, 9; iv, 5, 1; ix, 10, 1; War, i, 33, 5; iii, 
10, 7; iv, 8, 2, 4), and once X. 1 ) datpaArotyopog (Ant. 
xvii, G, 5). Also (ibid, v, I, 22) ?/ Socofiing At ftp)}. 
This name was adopted by Galen and other ancient 
writers, apparently because bitumen or asphaltum was 
often found floating on its surface or lying along its 
shores (Relaud, p. 241). 

G. The name Dead Sea appears to have been first 
used in Greek (SrdAaaaa reKpci) by Pausanias (v, 7) 
and Galen (iv, 9), and in Latin (mare mortuum) by 
Justin (xxxvi, 3, G), or, rather, by the older historian, 
Trogus Pompeiius (B.C. cir. 10), whose work he epito- 
mized. It is employed also by Eusebius (Onomast. s. v. 
Sudo/ua). The expressions of Pausanias and Galen im- 
ply that the name was in use in the country; and this 
is corroborated by the expression of Jerome (Comm, on 
Dan. xi, 45), “Mare . . . quod nunc appellatur mortu- 
um.” The origin of this name is given by Jerome (ad 
Ezek. xlvii), “In quo nihil poterat esse vitale;” and in 
this respect modern research has to a large extent con- 
firmed ancient tradition, proving that the name is ap- 
propriate. The Jewish writers appear never to have 
used it, but it has become established in modern litera- 
ture from the belief in the very exaggerated stories of 
its deadly character and gloomy aspect, which them- 
selves probably arose out of the name, and were due to 
the preconceived notions of the travellers who visited 
its shores, or to the implicit faith with which they re- 
ceived the statements of their guides. Thus Maunde- 
villc (ch. ix) says it is called the Dead Sea because it 
moveth not, but is ever still — the fact being that it is 
frequently agitated, and that when in motion its waves 
have great force. Hence also the fable that 110 birds 
could fly across it and live, a notion which the expe- 
rience of almost every modern traveller to Palestine 
would contradict. 

7, The Arabic name is Bahr Liit , “ the Sea of Lot.” 
The name of Lot is also specially connected with a 
small piece of land, sometimes island, sometimes penin- 
sula, at the north end of the lake. Another frequent 
designation among the modern inhabitants is El-Bahei - 
ret el-Myetah , “Dead Sea,” suggested by its character. 

II. Physical Features. — 1 . General Position. — The 
Dead Sea is situated in the lowest part of that great 
valley which stretches in a direct line due south from 


the base of Hermon to the head of the gulf of Akabah. 
The valley is a chasm or fissure in the earth’s cru&i, be- 
ing for nearly 200 miles below the level of the ocean. 
The Dead Sea is the reservoir into which all its waters 
flow, and from which there is, and can be, no escape 
except by evaporation. It is the lowest ami largest of 
the three lakes which interrupt the rush of the Jordan’s 
downward course. It is, in fact, a pool left by the ocean 
in its retreat from what there is reason to believe was 
at a very remote period a channel connecting the Medi- 
terranean with the Red Sea. As the most, enduring 
result of the great geological operation which deter- 
mined the present form of the country, it may be called, 
without exaggeration, the key to the physical geogra- 
phy of the Holy Land. It is therefore in every way an 
object of extreme interest. 

The valley is shut in on the east and west by parallel 
ranges of mountains, having steep, rugged, and bare 
sides, furrowed by wild ravines. The eastern range is 
somewhat higher than the western. In the parallel of 
Jericho the ranges expand slightly, and the valley there 
attains its greatest breadth — about twelve miles; but 
they contract again at the northern end of the Dead 
Sea, and continue in parallel lines throughout its entire 
length. The cliffs which hem in the valley are here 
steeper, higher, and wilder than elsewhere, and the 
scenery is more bleak and desolate. The sea occupies 
the whole width of the valley, in many places washing 
the sides of the cliffs. 

2. Terrace Banks. — It is deserving of special note 
that the mountain-sides and low plains on both the 
eastern and western shores of the Dead Sea are marked 
by a series of terraces, manifestly water-lines of some 
remote ages. The highest is very distinctly seen on 
the mountain-chain of Moab, extending along the tops 
of the cliffs like a huge shelf. Its elevation appears to 
be about 1300 feet; and on the western range, at vari- 
ous places, there is a corresponding terrace. This ter- 
race has been frequently noticed by travellers, but 
special attention was recently given to it by Tristram 
who remarks; “These terraces in the old Secondary 
limestone must be about the present level of the Medi- 
terranean, and they seem to tell of a period long ante- 
cedent to the Tertiary terraces and deposits below, when 
the old Indian Ocean wore the rocks and scooped out 
the caverns, as its unbroken tide swept up from the 
coasts of Africa; or when the Salt Sea formed one in a 
chain of African lakes” (Land of Israel , p. 247). 

About 230 feet above the present level of the Dead 
Sea are traces of another ancient shore-line, marked by 
a strip of alluvial marl adhering to the rocks and cliffs, 
particularly at the north-west angle, and down as far as 
lias el-Feslikhah (ibid. p. 25G). It is also seen at Wady 
Derejah and Ain-Jidv. The deposit is mixed with 
shells of existing species, layers of gypsum, and gravel. 
Where there arc ravines running down to the sea be- 
tween high cliffs, the deposit reaches up their sides in 
places to a height of 400 feet, and then slopes away in 
a series of terraces to the present level of the sea, as if 
the water had gradually and slowly evaporated. At 
one point Tristram counted on the shore “no less than 
eight low gravel terraces, the ledges of comparatively 
recent beaches, distinctly marked. The highest of these 
was forty-four feet above the present sea-level” (p. 278). 
At Jebei Sluikif, a short distance north of Engedi, Tris- 
tram, in addition to the lower terraces noted elsewhere, 
measured the elevations of three high terraces. The 
first at a height of 322 feet, marked by a deposit of 
marl on limestone; the second GG5 feet, formed of hard 
limestone; and the third 1G54 feet, of crystalline lime- 
stone (ibid. p. 295). 

3. Circuit of the Shore. — The contour of the Dead 
Sea, as delineated in most maps, is regular, the shore- 
lines having few indentations, and the curves at the 
north and south being uniform. Recent researches — 
especially those of Lynch. Robinson, and Tristram— 
have shown that this regularity of outline is incorrect. 


262 


SALT SEA 


SALT SEA 


The western shore especially has long promontories and 
deep bays, and the curves at the north and south are 
very far* from being so gracefully rounded as most cliar- 
tographers have delineated them. 

On the north, at the embouchure of the Jordan, a 
low promontory is in process of gradual formation by the 
muddy deposits brought down by the river. It is mostly 
hare, destitute of all vegetation, and, like the adjoining 
plain, covered with a nitrous crust. At present it projects 
into the lake more than a mile. When the water is 
verv high, a portion is overflowed. To the westward lies 
a deep hay, and beyond it a long, low isthmus, covered 
with cairns of loose rounded stones. Pe Sanlcv has 
given to this isthmus the name Uejum Lut, “Lot’s, 
ruin;” but this name is not heard on the spot. The ru- 
ins are shapeless and desolate. They are of the highest 
antiquity, and may perhaps be of the icra of the "cities 
of the plain.” 

The shore-line now trends, with an easy curve, to the 
south-west, and then to the south, until it reaches the 
bold headland of Has el-Feshkhah. So far it is tiat and 
sandy, and the adjoining plain dreary and naked, save 
where, at long intervals, a little brackish spring rises, 
or a tiny streamlet Hows, and there cane-brakes and 
shrubberies of tamarisk are seen. Ridges of drift mark 
the water-line, and arc composed of broken canes and 
willow branches, with trunks of palms, poplars, and 
other trees, half imbedded in slimy mud, and all cov- 
eied with incrustations of salt. 

A few miles north of Ras el-Feshkhah are some con- 
fused heaps and long ridges of loose unhewn stones and 
mounds of earth, to which De Sanlcv has given the 
name Gumran. Other travellers, however, have been 
unsuccessful in discovering here any traces of a ruined 
city, or of the name which the French savant lias given 
to it (Tristram, p. 249; Porter, Handbook , p. 203). 

Ras el-Feshkhah is a bold headland of crystalline 
limestone, descending from a height of some 1500 feet 
in broken cliffs into the deep sea. It bars all passage 
along the shore ; but Tristram by great exertions 
climbed round its face. It is cleft asunder by Wady 
eu-Nar, the continuation of the Kidron. At the base 
of the cliff is a vein of bituminous limestone, largely 
used in the manufacture of little ornaments which are 


sold to the pilgrims at Jerusalem. “The substance 
seemed to have been partially ejected in a liquid form, 
and to have streamed down the cliffs. It was generally 
mixed with flints and pebbles, sometimes covering the 
boulders in large splashes, and then, in the sea itself, 
formed the matrix ol'a very hard conglomerate of gravel 
and ‘flints. When thrown into the fire, it burned with a 
sulphurous smell, but would not ignite at the flame of a 
lamp” (Tristram, p. 254). 

South of Ras el-Feshkhah the cliffs retreat, leaving 
a plain along the shore, varying from one to two miles 
in breadth, and extending to Ain-Terabeh, about six 
miles distant. The plain is an alluvial deposit with 
layers of gravel, and having spits of pure sand project- 
ing at intervals into the sea. It is partially covered 
with shrubberies of tamarisk, acacia, and retem (a spe- 
cies of broom; the Genista rcetam of Forskal, abounding 
in the peninsula of Sinai), and towards the south with 
dense cane-brakes. The coating of alluvial marl which 
once covered it is now in many places worn away; and 
deep gullies rend it in all directions. Enough remains 
to show’ that its top, like that of the plains at the north- 
ern and southern cuds of the lake, formed the old Ter- 
tiary level of the waters (ibid. p. 256). 

In the plain is a copious brackish spring, w ith a tem- 
perature of 96° Fahr. Farther south is Ain-Terabeh, a 
small fountain, slightly brackish, oozing up from the 
sand a few T feet from the shore. Between it and the 
clifts is a dense thicket abounding with birds and beasts: 
ducks, teal, pochard, thrush, bulbul: with swine, leop- 
ard, jackal, fox, hare, and porcupine (ibid. p. 273). 

From Ain-Terabeh to Ras Mcrsed (six miles) the 
coast plain is a mere strip, frequently interrupted by 
rocky headlands which dip into the waves. Bitumen 
is here abundant with pebbles imbedded. “In a little 
bay, just before reaching Wady Shukif, w r e were struck 
by a powerful sulphurous odor, and after some search 
found hot water bubbling through the gravel, at a tem- 
perature of 95° Fahr., only six inches from the sea. 
The smell of sulphur and rotten eggs was very strong, 
and while scooping in the gravel my hands became 
quite black, and my boots w r ere covered with a yellow 
incrustation. Pebbles throw’ll in became incrusted with 
j sulphur in a few minutes, and all the rocks in the sea, 



The Bead Sea from Ain- J id}’, looking south. 


SALT SEA 


263 


SALT SEA 


which were here quite hot — of the temperature of 80° 
Fahr. — were covered with it. There must be an enor- 
mous discharge of this mineral water under t lie sea, as 
the heat of the water extends for two hundred yards, and 
the odor to a much greater distance. The ordinary tem- 
perature of the sea elsewhere was G'i 3 ” (ibid. p. 279). On 
the south side of this spring is Jebcl Shukif, a high, 
bold peak projecting into the sea. Two miles beyond 
it is the oasis of Engedi, a plain some two miles square, 
forming a delta to two glens which empty into it per- 
ennial streamlets of fresh water. These, with the “foun- 
tain of the kid” itself, make this spot a paradise in the 
midst of a dreary desert. See Engedi. 

South of Engedi the plain becomes wider, but it is 
bare and desolate. The cliffs rise over it in broken 
masses of pale-brown limestone, divided bv yawning 
chasms, while the alluvial deposits along their base are 
as white as snow. Two miles southward a spring of 
fetid water (Birket el-lvhulil) oozes up on the margin 
of the sea, having a temperature of 88° Fahr. Other 
springs must exist beneath the waves, for the water 
near the shore is much hotter than elsewhere, and the 
whole surrounding air is tilled with fumes of sulphnret- 
ed hydrogen. No traces of trap-rock are anywhere 
seen; but near Wady Ivhuderah are veins of crystalline 
limestone, and great quantities of flint, coated with ox- 
ide of iron. These De Saulcy and others mistook for 
lava torrents. The coast has the same general features 
as far as the hill and fortress of Sebbeh, the ancient 
Masada (q. v.). There, at the base of the hill, are the 
remains of a Homan camp; and beyond it the aspect of 
the plain is that of utter anil even painful sterility. 
“Elsewhere the desolation is comparatively partial; 
here it reigns supreme. The two miles of rugged slope 
that lay between our path and the sea are difficult to 
describe. They are formed of a soft, white, and very 
salt deposit, torn and furrowed by winter torrents in 
every direction, which have left fantastic ruins and cas- 
tles of olden shape, flat-topped mamelons, cairns, and 
every imaginable form into which a wild fancy could 
have moulded matter, standing in a labyrinth, north 
and south, before and behind us” (ibid. p. 315). The 
Birket el-lvhulil just alluded to is a shallow depression 
on the shore, which is tilled by the water of the lake 
when at its greatest height, and forms a natural salt- 
pan. After the lake retires the water evaporates from 
the hollow, and the salt remains for the use of the 
Arabs. They also collect it from similar though smaller 
spots farther south, and on the peninsula (Irby, June 2). 
One feature of the beach is too characteristic to escape 
mention — the line of drift-wood which encircles the 
lake, and marks the highest, or the ordinary high, level 
of the water. It consists of branches of brushwood, 
and of the limbs of trees, some of considerable size, 
brought down by the Jordan and other streams, and in 
course of time cast up on the beach. They stand up out 
of the sand and shingle in curiously fantastic shapes, all 
signs of life gone from them, and with a charred though 
blanched look very desolate to behold. Among them 
are said to be great numbers of palm-trunks (Poole, p. 
G9) ; some doubtless floated over from the palm-groves 
on the eastern shore already spoken of, and others 
brought down by the Jordan in the distant days when 
the palm flourished along its banks. The drift-wood is 
saturated with salt, and much of it is probably of a very 
great age. 

Farther south the shore recedes, forming a bay some 
eight miles in length, the water in places almost wash- 1 
ing the base of the cliffs. One wild glen, called Um- 
Jiaghek, breaks through the mountains, and sends out a 
tin}' stream with a dense fringe of evergreens. Not 
far from it is another hot sulphur spring, which spreads 
its suffocating odors around. On the south the bay is 
bounded by the oasis of the Wady Zuweireh — a plain 
of some extent, sprinkled with tamarisks and acacias, 
and torn in all directions with torrent-beds, through 
which the winter rains and the streamlets from numer- 


I ous sulphurous and brackish springs find their way to 
I the sea. The elifls and peaks which rise over the 
oasis appear from a distance to exhibit traces of vol- 
canic action, but closer inspection proves that there are 
no igneous rocks here or elsewhere along the western 
shore. Veins of ruddy limestone, blocks of ironstone, 
and multitudes of nodules of black flint look like trap- 
dikes and craters in the distance. There are, however, 
a few cinders and scorne observable here and there 
along the shore. 

A short distance south of the Wady Zuweireh is Jeb- 
el Usdum, a range of hills running from north to south 
a distance of seven miles, with an average elevation of 
three hundred feet, composed of a solid mass of rock- 
salt. The top and sides are covered with a thick coat- 
ing of marl, gypsum, and gravel, probably the remains 
of the Post-tertiary deposit uplifted upon the salt. The 
declivities of the range are steep and rugged, pierced 
with huge caverns, and the summit shows a serried 
line of sharp peaks. The salt is of a greenish-white 
color, with lines of cleavage as if stratified, and its base 
reaches far beneath the present surface. The name of 
the range, Khashrn Usdum, appears to preserve a me- 
morial of the ancient guilty “city of the plain.” See 
Sodom. 

At the mouth of the Wady Zuweireh are some heaps 
of rough stones and the shattered walls of a small tow- 
er, marked by De Saulcy as the remains of Sodom. 
That city may have stood in this region, but it requires 
some power of imagination to identify it with these 
insignificant ruins. 

At the northern end of Jebel Usdum is the month 
of Wailv Muhawat, which exhibits some very remark- 
able geological features. Its sides are cliffs ol old lime- 
stone, showing here and there on their surface traces 
of Post -tertiary marl; “but since the marl has been 
washed out there has been a second filling-in of an ex- 
traordinary character, which is only now in course of 
denudation. There are exposed on the sides of the 
wady, and chiefly on the south, large masses of bitumen 
mingled with gravel. These overlie a thick stratum 
of sulphur, which again overlies a thicker stratum of 
sand so strongly impregnated with sulphur that it 
yields powerful fumes on being sprinkled over a hot 
coal. Many blocks of the bitumen have been washed 
down the gorge, and lie scattered over the plain below 
along with huge boulders and other traces of tremen- 
dous floods. . . . The layer of sulphurous sand is gener- 
ally evenly distributed on the old limestone base, the 
sulphur evenly above it, and the bitumen in variable 
masses. In every way it differs from the ordinary 
mode of deposit of these substances as we have seen 
them elsewhere. Again, the bitumen, unlike that which 
we pick up on the shore, is strongly impregnated with 
sulphur, and yields an overpowering sulphurous odor; 
above all, it is calcined, and bears the marks of having 
been subjected to extreme beat.” This discovery is 
exceedingly important,; and the remarks of Tristram 
upon it will he read with the deepest interest l>v all 
students of the Bible. “Here, so far as I cap judge, 
we have the only trace of anything approaching to 
volcanic action which we have met with in our careful 
examination of the northern, western, and southern 
shores. The only other solution of the problem — the 
existence of a bituminous spring when the supply of 
water was more abundant — would scarcely account for 
the regular deposition of sulphurous sand, and then of 
the sand with the bitumen superimposed. 1 have a 
great dread of seeking forced corroborations of scriptur- 
al statements from questionable physical evidence, for 
the sceptic is apt to imagine that when he has reluted 
the wrong argument adduced in support of a scriptural 
statement, he has refuted the scriptural statement it- 
self; but, so far as I can understand this deposit, if 
there be any physical evidence left of the catastrophe 
which destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, or of similar 
occurrences, we have it here. The whole appearance 


2G4 


SALT SEA 


SALT SEA 

points to a shower of hot sulphur, ami an irruption of ' 
bitumen upon it, which would naturally be calcined and 
impregnated by its fumes; and this at a geological pc- I 
riod quite subsequent to all the diluvial and alluvial 
action of which we have such abundant evidence. The j 
catastrophe must have been since the formation of the 
wady, since the deposition of the marl, and while the 
water was at its present level ; therefore, probably dur- 
ing the historic period” (p. 3oo-3f>7). 

The shore-line runs for nearly three miles south- 
ward along the base of Jebel Usdum, and then sweeps 
sharplv round to the east, leaving on the south a naked, 
miry plain called Sabkah, ten miles long from north to 
south by about six wide. It is in summer coated with 
a saliue'ertist. but is so low that when the water is high ( 
a large section of it is tlooihed. Numerous torrent-beds 
from the salt range on the west, and Irom the higher 
ground of the Arabah on the south, run aeross it, con- 
verting large portions into impassable swamps. On its 
southern border the old diluvium terrace rises like a 
white wall to a height of more than two hundred feet. 
It is only on getting close to it that the sides are seen ( 
to be rent and torn into a thousand fantastic forms by 
winter torrents and the wearing-away ot the softer de- 
posits. l'he Sabkah is bounded on the east by Wady 
Tufeileh, one of the principal drains of the Arabah, and 
containing a brackish, perennial stream. Beyond it 
the character of the surface completely changes. The 
ground rises in an easy slope to the foot ot the Moab 
Mountains, and is covered with dense thickets of reeds, 
tamarisk, acacia, retem. zyziphus, and other shrubs, in- 
termixed with fertile tiehls, cultivated bv the Ghawari- 
neh Arabs (as the inhabitants of the Ghor are called, | 
here the worst representatives of their race), and pro- j 
dneing abundant crops of wheat, maize, indigo, melons, | 
and cucumbers. Tristram says: “The place positively 
swarmed with birds in countless myriads. There were 
doves by the score on every bush, large and small ( Turtur 
visor ius and T. *Egyptins)< bulbuls, the hopping-thrush, 
shrikes, the gorgeous little sun-bird resplendent in the ! 
light, and, once more, our new sparrow. The Abyssin- 
ian lark, pipits, and wagtails luxuriated in the moist 
rills at our feet, which were fringed by drooping tufts 
of caper (Capparis * Egypt ia-ea ) in full dower. All 
teemed with a prodigality of life” (p. 33G). 

This fertile tract touches the south-eastern shore of 
the sea, and continues along it as it trends north-east 


for some five miles to the mouth of the Wady Nimei- 
reh, becoming gradually narrower as the shore-line ap- 
proaches the rocky sides of the mountains. The geo- 
logical formation of this eastern range is different from 
the western. The front cliffs are red sandstone, appar- 
ently overlying hard, crystalline limestone, and topped 
by more recent calcareous rock. Trap boulders and 
fragments of greenstone and sienite are strewn along 
the base. 

Such are the great southern shores of the Dead Sea. 
The great valley is here narrower than at the northern 
shore, not because of any contraction in the mountain- 
ranges, but arising from the ridge of Usdum, which was 
evidently thrown np from the bottom of the valley at 
some period subsequent to the formation of the Arabah. 
The projecting base of Jebel Usdum on the west, and 
the high fertile region ofEs-Safieh on the east, contract 
the southern end of the lake into the form of a semi- 
circular bay about six miles in diameter. A few miles 
farther north the shores on each side expand so much 
that the breadth of the sea is almost doubled. The 
general aspect of the shores is dreary and desolate in 
the extreme. The salt-incrusted plain, the white downs 
of the Arabah, the naked line of salt hills, the bare and 
scathed mountain-ranges on each side, all blazing under 
the rays of a vertical sun, form a picture of utter and 
stern desolation such as the mind can scarcely conceive. 

On the northern side of Wady Nimeireh a narrow 
strip of saline plain, very low and very barren, inter- 
venes between the shore and the mountains. Here and 
there, at a little fountain or at the month of a ravine, 
a clump of bushes or a cane-brake may be seen. 

The Peninsula of el-Lisdn. “the Tongue” [see Bay], 
is the most remarkable feature on the eastern shore. 
It juts out opposite the great ravine of Kerak. The 
neck connecting it with the mainland is a strip of low, 
bare sand, measuring five miles across. In outline the 
peninsula bears some resemblance to the human foot, 
the toe projecting northward and forming a sharp 
promontory. Its length is about nine miles, and from 
the heel or south-western point to the southern shore- 
line is seven miles. The main body is a Post-tertiary 
deposit composed of layers of marl, gypsum, and sandy 
conglomerate, manifestly coeval with the great diluvial 
terrace, and corresponding with it in elevation. The 
top is a table-land, broad towards the south, but gradu- 
ally narrowing to a serried ridge at the northern end. 



The Dead Sea from the heights behind Sobheh (Masada), showing the wide beach on the western side of the lake 

and the tongue-shaped peuinsula. 


SALT SEA 


265 


SALT SEA 


It is white and almost entirely destitute of vegetation. 
The surface is all rent and torn by torrent-beds; and 
the sides are worn away into pyramidal masses resem- 
bling lines and groups of white tents. It is worthy of 
special note that in the wadys and along the shores 
pieces of sulphur, bitumen, rock-salt, ami pumice-stone 
are found in great profusion. Probably, if examined 
with care, geological phenomena similar to those in 
Wady Ma ha wfit might be found on this peninsula, and 
some* additional light thus thrown upon the destruction 
of the cities of the plain. Poole says “ the soil appear- 
ed sulphurous” (< Journal R. G. IS. xxvi, 62-64). 

The little plain at the mouth of Wady Draa, or Ke- 
rak, affords a striking contrast, in its thickets of ever- 
greens and luxuriant corn-tields, to the arid desolation 
of the adjoining peninsula. It is here that the few in- 
habitants of the peninsula reside, in a wretched village 
called Mezra’ah. 

The shore of the Dead Sea between the peninsula 
and the north-eastern angle has never been thorough- 
ly explored. Seetzen, Irby and Mangles, I)e Saulcy, 
anil more recently the party of the Due de Luvnes, 
visited a few places; and Lieut. Lynch and his of- 
ficers touched at several points. A few miles north of 
el-Lisan the fertile plain called Ghor el-Mczra’ah ter- 
minates, and the mountains descend in sublime cliffs of 
red sandstone almost to the water’s edge. Higher up, 
white, calcareous limestone appears, and forms at this 
place the main body of the range, Basalt also appears 
in places, sometimes overlying the limestone as on the 
plain of Bashan, at others bursting through the sand- 
stone strata in dikes and veins. The ravines of Mo- 
jib (Arnon) and Zerka Ma’in appear like huge rents in 
the mountains. Near the mouth of the latter veins of 
gray and black trap cut through the sandstone, and 
a copious fountain of hot, sulphurous water sends a 
steaming river into the sea amid thickets of palms 
and tamarisks. This is Callirrhoe, so celebrated in old- 
en time for its baths. Between this point and the 
plain of the Jordan volcanic eruptions have produced 
immense flows of basaltic rock, portions of which had 
been overflowed into the valley of the Jordan. Among 
other smaller basaltic streams three were found border- 
ing on the eastern edge of the Dead Sea to the south 
of the little plain of Zarah (M. Lartet’s paper to French 
Academy of Sciences; see in Journal of IS ac. Lit. July, 
I860, p. 496). 

The plain between the mountains and the mouth of 
the Jordan is in general well watered, and covered with 
luxuriant vegetation and occasional thickets of tama- 
risk, retem, and acacia. At the ruins of Suweimch, 
De Saulcy found a copious hot spring with a ruinous 
aqueduct ( Voyage en Terre - Sainte, i, 317). Along] 


the shore pieces of pumice-stone, lava, and bitumen are 
found imbedded in the sand and mud as if washed up 
by the waves; and at this point are more distinct traces 
of volcanic action than elsewhere around the sea. 

One remarkable feature of the northern portion of 
the eastern heights is a plateau which divides the 
mountains half-way up, apparently forming a gigantic 
landing-place in the slope, and stretching northward 
from the Wady Zerka Ma’in. It is very plainly to be 
seen from Jerusalem, especially at sunset, when many 
of the points of these fascinating mountains come out 
into unexpected relief. This plateau appears to be on 
the same general level with a similar plateau on the 
western side opposite to it, with the top of the rock of 
Sebbeh, and perhaps with the Mediterranean, 

4. The dimensions of the Dead /Sea have never yet 
been taken with sufficient accuracy. Its longest axis is 
situated nearly north and south. It lies between 31° 6' 
20" and 31° 46' N. hit., nearly; and thus its water sur- 
face is from N. to S. as nearly as possible 40 geographi- 
cal, or 46 English miles long. On the other hand, it 
lies between 35° 24' and 35° 37' E. long., nearly; and 
its greatest width (some three miles south ofAin-Jidy) 
is about 9 geographical miles, or 10-J- English miles. 
The ordinary area of the upper portion is about 174 
square geographical miles; of the channel, 29; and of 
the lower portion, hereafter styled the laynon. 46 — in all, 
about 250 square geographical miles. It must be re- 
membered that this varies considerably at different sea- 
sons of the year, and in different years. When the sea 
is filled np by winter rains, the fiat plain on the south 
is submerged for several miles. The annual rainfall, 
too, is not uniform in Palestine. Some years it is more 
than double what it is in others, and this produces a 
corresponding effect on the volume of water in the sea, 
and consequently on its area. At its northern end the 
lake receives the stream of the Jordan; on its eastern 
side the Zerka Ma’in (the ancient Callirrhoe, and pos- 
sibly the more ancient cn-Eglaim), the Mojib (the Ar- 
non of the Bible), and the Beni-Hemad. On the south 
the Rurally or el-Ahsy, and on the west that of Ain- 
Jidv. These are probably all perennial, though varia- 
ble, streams; but, in addition, the beds of the torrents 
which lead through the mountains east and west, ami 
over the fiat, shelving plains on both north and south 
of the lake, show that in the winter a very large quan- 
tity of water must he poured into it. There arc also all 
along the western side a considerable number of springs, 
some fresh, some warm, some salt and fetid, which ap- 
pear to run continually, and all find their way, more or 
less absorbed by the sand and shingle of the beach, into 
its waters. 

The peninsula of Lisan divides the sea into two sec- 



Section of the Bend Sen from North to South. 

1. Jericho ; 2. Ford of the Jordan ; 3. The Frank Mountain ; 4. Bethlehem ; 5. Hebron ; 6. Ain-Jidy ; 7. Sebbeh (Masada). 


SALT SEA 


266 


SALT SEA 


tioiis: that on the north is an elongated oval in form, 
while that on the south is almost circular. The nar- 
rowest part of the channel between the peninsula and 
the mainland is not much more than two miles across. 
The northern section is a deep, regularly formed basin, 
the sides descending steeply and uniformly all round, as 
well on the north and south as on the cast and west. 
This is one of the most remarkable features of the sea. 
Lvnch ran seven lines of soundings across it from shore 
to shore, and found it deepest between Ain-Terabeh and 
Wady Mojib, that is, about the centre of the northern 
section. From this point the depth decreased gradual- 
ly towards the Lisan on the south and the mouth of the 
.Iordan on the north. The greatest depth found by 
Lynch was 1308 feet, but Lieut. Molvneux records one 
sounding taken by him as 1350 feet. The deep part 
of the lake terminates at the peninsula. The greatest 
depth of the channel between the Lisan and the western 
shore is only thirteen feet, and no part of the southern 
section was more than twelve feet iu depth (Lynch, Offi- 
cial Report, p. 43). 

It appears that when the water is very low there are 
two practicable fords from the peninsula to the main- 
land — one across the narrow channel, and the other run- 
ning from the isthmus to the northern point of Jebel 
Usdum (Seetzen, Reisen , ii, 358; Irby and Mangles, 
Travels, p. 140). 

5. The depression of the Dead Sea is without a paral- 
lel in the world. From experiments made by boiling 
water in 1837, Messrs. Moore and Beke supposed the de- 
pression to be about 500 feet. In the following year, 
Russegger with his barometer made it about 1400 feet. 
Synionds by trigonometrical survey, in 1841, calculated 
the depression at 1312 feet: and the level run by Dale, 
an ottieer of Lynch’s expedition, gave a result of 1316 
feet. A still more careful measurement has been recent- 
ly made by the corps of English engineers under Capt. 
Wilson, with the following result: “The levelling from 
the Mediterranean to the Dead Sea has been performed 
with the greatest possible accuracy, and by two inde- 
pendent observers, using different instruments, and the 
result may be relied upon as being absolutely true to 
within three or four inches. The depression of the sur- 
face on March 12, 1865, was found to be 1292 feet; but 
from the line of drift-wood observed along the border of 
the Dead Sea, it was found that the level of the v r ater 
at some period of the year — probably during the winter 
Ireshets — stands two feet six inches higher, which would 
make t he least depression 1 289.5 feet. Capt. Wilson also 
learned, from inquiry among the Bedouin, and from 
European residents in Palestine, that during the early 
summer the level of the Bend Sea is lower by at least 
six lect. This would make the greatest depression to 
be as near as possible 1298 feet. . , . The most recent 
observation before that now given, by the Due de 
Luynes and Lieut. A r ignos, of the French navy, agrees 
with our result in a very remarkable manner, consider- 
ing that the result was obtained by barometric observa- 
tion, the depre*sion given by them being 1286 feet on 
*1 mic 7, 1864, which at most differs only twelve feet 
from the truth, if we suppose the Dead Sea was then at 
it* lowest” ( Sir 1 lenry .lames, in the Athena nm'). 

The exact amount of the depression will, of course, 
vary with the ri*e and fall of the waters at different 
seasons. Traces along the shore prove that the level 
has varied as much as fifteen leet within the past half 
century (Robinson, 1 'hi /sin d ( lenqraphy, p. 19M). ft is 
a singular coincidence that the depth and depression of 
the Dead Sea arc very nearly equal, each about 13t)0 
feet ; the elevation of .lerusalem above the Mediterra- 
nean is about twice, and above the Dead Sea about three 
times that number (ibid. p. 190). 

6. 1 he water nf the Jh<nl Sea is more intensely salt 
than that of any other sea known. It has also a latter, 
nauseous taste, and leaves upon the skin a slightly greasy 
feeling. Vet it is transparent as the water ol'tiie Med- 
iterranean, and its color is the same — a delicate green. 


Its specific gravity, and consequent buoyancy, is very 
great. Bathers float easily in an upright position with 
head ami shoulders above the surface. Lynch says that 
eggs, which w’ould have sunk in the ocean, floated here 
with only tw r o thirds immersed. This peculiarity was 
well known to the ancients (Josephus, War, iv, 8, 4; 
Aristot. Meteor, ii, 3; see also in Reland, p. 241, 249). 
Of its weight and inertia the American expedition had 
also practical experience. In the gale in which the 
party were caught on their first day on the lake, be- 
tween the mouth of the Jordan and Ain-Feshkhah, “ it 
seemed as if the bows of the boats were encountering 
the sledge-hammers of the Titans.” When, however, 
“the wind abated, the sea rapidly fell; the water, from 
its ponderous quality, settling as soon as the agitating 
cause bad ceased to act” (Lynch, Narrative, p. 268). At 
ordinary times there is nothing remarkable in the action 
of the surface of the lake. Its waves rise and fall, and surf 
beats on the shore, just like the ocean. Nor is its color 
dissimilar to that of the sea. The w'ater has an oily 
feel, owing possibly to the saponification of the lime and 
other earthy salts with the perspiration of the skin, and 
this seems to have led some observers to attribute to it 
a greasy look ; but such a look exists in imagination 
only. It is quite transparent, of an opalescent green 
tint, and is compared by Lynch (ibid. p. 337) to diluted 
absinthe. Lynch (p. 296) distinctly contradicts the as- 
sertion that it has any smell, noxious or not. So do the 
chemists who have analyzed it. One or two phenom- 
ena of the surface may be mentioned. Many of the old 
travellers, and some modern ones (as Osburu, Pal. Past 
and Present, p. 443, and Churton, Land of the Morning, 
p. 149), mention that the turbid, yellow’ stream of the 
Jordan is distinguishable for a longdistance in the lake. 
Molyneux (p. 129) speaks of a “curious broad strip of 
white foam which appeared to lie in a straight line 
nearly north and south throughout the w’hole length of 
the sea . . . some miles west of the mouth of the Jor- 
dan” (comp. Lynch, Narrative, p. 279, 295). “ It seemed 
to be constantly bubbling and in motion, like a stream 
that runs rapidly through still w'ater; while nearly over 
this track during both nights w f e observed in the sky a 
w-hite streak like a cloud extending also north and south, 
and as far as the eye could reach.” Lines of foam on 
the surface are mentioned bv others, as Robinson (Phys- 
ical Geography, i, 503), Borrer (Journey, etc., p. 479), 
Lynch (Narrative, p. 288). From Ain-Jidv a current 
was observed by Mr. Clowes’s party running steadily to 
the north not far from the shore (comp. Lynch, ibid. p. 
291). It is possibly an eddy caused by the influx of the 
Jordan. Both De Sanlcy (Narrative, Jan. 8) and Rob- 
inson (Physical Geograjdiy, i, 504) speak of spots and 
belts of w’ater remaining smooth and calm while the rest 
of the surface was rippled, and presenting a strong re- 
semblance to islands (comp. Lynch, Nai'ratire, p. 288; 
lrbv, 7 'ravels, June 5). The haze or mist Which per- 
petually broods over the water has already been men- 
tioned. It is the result of the prodigious evaporation. 
Lynch continually mentions it. Irby (June 1) saw’ it 
in broad transparent columns, like waterspouts, only very 
much larger. Extraordinary effects of mirage, due to 
the unequal refraction produced by the heat and moist- 
ure. are occasionally seen (Lynch, Narrative , p. 320). 
The remarkable weight of this water is due to the very 
large quantity of mineral salts which it holds in solu- 
tion. The details of the various analyses are given in 
the following table, accompanied by that of sea-water 
for comparison. From that of the United States expe- 
dition it appears that each gallon of the water, weighing 
12} lbs., contains nearly 3£ lbs. (3.319) of matter in solu- 
tion — an immense quantity when we recollect that sea- 
water, weighing 10} lbs. per gallon, contains less than i 
lb. Of this 3£ lbs. nearly 1 lb. is common salt (chlo- 
ride of sodium), about 2 lbs. chloride of magnesium, and 
less than } lb. chloride of calcium (or muriate of lime). 
The most unusual ingredient is bromide of magnesium, 
which exists in a truly extraordinary quantity. To its 


SALT SEA 


SALT SEA 267 


COMPARATIVE TABLE OF ANALYSES OF THE WATER OF THE DEAD SEA. 


Components. 

1. 

C.G. 

Gmelin, 

1824. 

As recal- 
culated by 
Marchand. 

2. 

Apjohn, 

1838. 

3. 

Marchand, 

1847. 

4. 

Herapath, 

1849. 

5. 

Booth, 
of Phila- 
delphia 
(U. S. 
Exiwd.), 
1S49. 

6. 

Boutron- 

Chnrlard 

and 

Henry. 

7. 

Prof. W. 
Gregory, 
1854. 

8. 

Molden- 
hauer, 
Nov. 1854. 

9. 

Water of the 
Oceau. 

Chloride of magnesium 

12. 166 
7.039 

7.370 

7.S39 

10.543 

6.578 

7 . 822 
12.109 

14.589 

7.855 

1.696 

11.003 

13.951 

7.339 

6.831 

2.957 

.360 

2.700 


3. 330 

2.43S 

2.894 

2.455 

3.107 

.680 

2.796 

1.471 



1 .086 

.S52 

1.39S 

1.217 

.658 

.166 

.571 

2.391 

!070 

“ manganese 

“ ammonium 

.161 

.007 

.143 

.005 

!oi$ 

.006 

.006 

.056 






“ iron 

Sulphate of potash .... 


.003 




’.062 


“ lime 

!052 

1 075 

loss 

.068 

!070 


!iog 


!l40 

“ magnesia 




1233 



.230 

Bromide of magnesium 

“ sodium 

’.442 

!201 

I251 

’.251 

’.137 

trace 

’.009 

!l83 

.002 

Orirnnif! matter 




!oC2 






SiHca 



ioos 



I260 




Bituminous matter 










Carbonate of lime 






1953 



!003 










Loss .025 

Total solid contents 

24.435 

18.780 

21.773 

24.055 

26.416 

14.927 

24.832 

13.895 

3.530 

Water 

75.565 

81.220 

78.227 

75.945 

73.584 

85.073 

75.168 

86.105 

96.470 


100.000 

1 00. 000 

100.000 

100.000 

100.000 

100. 000 

1 00. 000 

100.000 

100.000 

Specific ermvity 

1.202 

1 . 153 

1.1S41 

1 . 172 

1.227 

1.099 

1.210 

1.116 

1.U27S 

Roilmor.point 

221° 

at 66° F. 

227.75 

at 60° F. 


at 60° F. 



Water obtained 


% mile 
from 
Jordan, 
late 

in rainy 
season. 

in 1847, 

in March, 

May 5, >48, 
195 fall), 
deep, 
otr 

A.-Terabeh. 

Apr. 2, 
1850, 

“ 2 hours 
From the 
Jordan.” 

from 

in June, 




at the 
north end. 

1849, 

Y> mile 
NAV. of 
mouth of 
Jordan. 

Island at 
N. end, 
March 11, 
1854. 

1854. 



presence is due the therapeutic reputation enjoyed by 
the lake when its water was sent to Rome for wealthy 
invalids (Galen, in Reland, Pokiest , p. 24*2) or lepers 
docked to its shores (Ant. Mart. § 10). Boussingault 
de Chimie, 1856, xlviii, 168) remarks that if ever 
bromide should become an article of commerce, the Dead 
Sea will be the natural source for it. It is the magne- 
sian compounds which impart so nauseous and bitter a 
flavor to the water. The quantity of common salt in 
solution is very large. Lynch found ( Xurrative , p. 377) 
that while distilled water would dissolve — of its 
weight of salt, and the water of the Atlantic the 
water of the Dead Sea was so nearly saturated as only 
to be able to take up Aj. The above differences in the 
analysis of the water of the Dead Sea must be expected. 
When the sea is Hooded by freshets, the amount of salts 
in solution will be less; when low, after the evaporation 
of the summer, the amount will be more. The presence 
of these foreign ingredients in such quantities is easily 
accounted for. The washings of the salt range of Us- 
dum, and numerous brackish springs along the shores, 
supply the salt; the great sulphur fountain at Callir- 
rhoe, and many others on the north and west, with the 
sulphur, bitumen, iron, etc., found so abundantly in the 
later deposits, supply the other ingredients. It is known 
also that large masses of bitumen are occasionally forced 
up from the bed of the sea; and it may be that beneath 
its waves are fountains and deposits more numerous 
and more remarkable than those in the surrounding 
rocks and plains. Then, too, the constant evaporation 
takes away the pure water, but leaves behind all the 
salts, which are thus gradually increasing in quantity. 

Of the temperature of the water more observations 
are necessary before any inferences can be drawn. Lynch 
( Report , May 5) states that a stratum at 59° Fahr. is al- 
most invariably found at ten fathoms below the surface. 
Between Wady Zerka and Ain-Terabeh the tempera- 
ture at surface was 76°, gradually decreasing to 62° at 
1044 feet deep, with the exception just named (Xarra- 
the, p. 374). At other times, and in the lagoon, the 
temperature ranged from 82 3 to 90°, and from 5° to 10° 
below that of the air (ibid. p. 310-320 ; comp. Poole, Nov. 
2). Dr. Stewart (Tent and Khan, p. 38 1), on March 
11, 1854, found the Jordan 60° Fahr. and the Dead Sea 
(north end) 73°; the temperature of the air being 83° 
in the former case and 78° in the latter. 


The water is fatal to animal life ; and this fact, accord- 
ing to Jerome, originated the name Dead Sea (A d Ezcch. 
xlviii, 8; comp. Galen, De Simpl. iv, 19). Shells and 
small fish, in a dead or dying state, have been picked up 
along the northern shore, and are found in some of the 
little fountains along the western coast; but they are all 
of foreign importation. Recent investigations have led 
some to suppose that the Dead Sea does contain and 
support a few inferior organizations, but the fact has not 
as yet been established on conclusive evidence. Lying 
in this deep caldron, encompassed by naked white cliffs 
and white plains, exposed during a great part of the 
year to the unclouded beams of a Syrian sun, it is not 
strange that the shores of the Dead Sea should exhibit 
an almost unexampled sterility and a death-like soli- 
tude; nor is it strange that in a rude and unscientific 
age the sea should have become the subject of wild 
and wondrous superstitions. “Seneca relates that bricks 
would not sink in it. Early travellers describe the lake 
as an infernal region; its black and fetid waters always 
emitting a noisome smoke or vapor, which, being driven 
over the land, destroys all vegetation like a frost. Tlenee, 
too, the popular report that birds cannot fiy over its 
deadly waters” (Robinson, Physical Geography, p. 199). 
Such stories arc fabulous. It is true that the tropical 
heat causes immense evaporation, the exhalations from 
the sulphurous springs and marshes taint the air tor 
miles, and the miasma of the swamps on the north and 
south gives rise to fevers, and renders the ordinary inhab- 
itants feeble and sickly; but. this lias no necessary con- 
nection with the Dead Sea. or the character of its waters. 
The marshes of Tsknndcrun are much more unhealthy 
than any part of the Ghdr. Wherever a copious foun- 
tain bubbles up along the shores, or a mountain stream- 
let affords water for irrigation, tangled thickets of tropi- 
cal trees, shrubs, and flowers spread out their foliage. 
There birds sing as sweetly as in more genial climes, 
and the Arab pitches his tent like his brethren on the 
Eastern plateau, and an abundant harvest rewards the 
labors of the husbandman. Tristram exclaims with 
something of enthusiasm, “ What a sanitarium Kngodi 
might be made, if it were only accessible, and some en- 
terprising speculator were to establish a hydropathic es- 
tablishment ! Hot water, cold water, and decidedly salt 
1 water baths, all supplied by nature on the spot, the hot 
I sulphur springs only three miles off, and some of the 


268 


SALT SEA 


SALT SEA 

grandest scenery man ever enjoyed, in an atmosphere ] 
where half a lung is sufficient for respiration” {The Land 
of Israel, p. 295'). 

III. Oriyin and History .— It is a question of the high- 
est importance, and one which lias created much con- 
troversy among scientific and lJiblieal students, whether 
the present physical aspect of the Jordan valley and 
shores of the Dead Sea tends to throw any light upon 
its origin and changes, or upon the destruction of Sodom 
and Gomorrah. Our knowledge of the physical struct- 
ure of the Jordan valley, and of the various strata and 
deposits along the shores of the Dead Sea, is not yet 
sufficiently extensive or minute to enable us to construct 
a satisfactory theory on the points at issue; but it may 
be well to state here in a few simple propositions what 
are the actual statements made in Scripture about the 
Dead Sea, and what are the facts which scientilic in- 
vestigation, so far as hitherto prosecuted, has established. 

1. The references to the Dead Sea in Scripture are 
few. and mostly incidental. Three passages deserve 
special attention. (1.) In Gen. xiii, 10, where the sa- 
cred writer relates the story of t lie separation of Abra- 
ham and Lot, he represents the two as standing on the 
mountain-top east of Bethel. He then says, “Lot lifted 
up his eyes, and beheld all the plain (or circuit) of Jor- 
dan, that it was well watered everywhere, before the 
Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, even as the gar- 
den of the Lord, like the land of Egypt, as thou comest 
unto Zoar.” It has been inferred from this that the 
cities of Sodom and Gomorrah, and the whole plain 
around them, must have been in sight at the time refer- 
red to, and must therefore have been situated at the 
northern end of the Dead Sea. which alone is visible 
from the height at Bethel. But a careful examination 
of the passage shows that this does not follow’. The 
patriarchs looked towards “the circuit of the Jordan.” 
It is not implied that they saw’ it all, nor is it said that 
Sodom and Gomorrah were in sight. They saw’ enough 
to give them a general idea of the whole region. One 
thing is evident from the statement: a remarkable 
change was effected in the plain at the time of the de- 
struction of Sodom. It was fertile and well watered 
before that event, but manifestly not so, or not so much 
so, after it. This is corroborated by the narrative in 
Gen. xix, 24, 25. 

(2.> The second passage is Gen. xiv, 2-10, wdiich con- 
tains the story of Lot’s capture. Ver. 8 is important: 
“All these (kings) were joined together in the vale of 
Siddim, which is the Salt Sea .” There cannot be a doubt 
that the idea here expressed is that the district called 
in the time of Lot “ the vale of Siddim” had become, in 
the time of the writer, “ the Salt Sea,” or at least consti- 
tuted a part of that sea. The Hebrew phrase estab- 
lishes the identity of the two just, as certainly as the 
similar phrase in ver. 2 establishes the identity of Bela 
and Zoar. The clause is found in all the ancient MSS. 
and versions, and in the Targmn of Onkelos. Its gen- 
uineness rests on the very same basis as the other por- 
tions of the narrative. It was manifestly the opinion 
of Moses that the vale of Siddim was submerged. An- 
other point in the narrative demands attention. The 
route of the invading host is traced. They attacked 
the Bephaim in Bashan. then marched southward 
through Moab and Edom to Paran, on the west side of 
the Arabah. opposite Edom. There they turned, and 
after resting at the fountain of Kadosli, they swept the 
territory of the Ainalekites on the south of Judah, and 
of the Ainorites “who dwelt in Engedi.” Having thus 
ravaged all the countries surrounding the cities of the 
plain, they descended upon their territory from the 
west. The inhabitants now came out against them, 
and were marshalled in the vale of Siddim. The exact 
locality of the vale is not described. It may have been 
north or it may have been south of Engedi. One thing, 
however, is certain: if the western shores of the sea 
were then ns they are now, no army could have marched 
along them from Engedi to Jericho. On the other hand, 


from Engedi there is a good path southward. It is said, 
moreover, that “the vale of Siddim was full of bitumen 
pits” (ver. 10). There is no part of the valley north of 
the sea to which this would apply; nor, indeed, is there 
any plain or vale along its shores “full of bitumen pits” 
at the present day. These facts render it impossible 
that the vale of Siddim could have been on the plain of 
Jericho, and they seem to confirm the previous state- 
ment that Siddim w r as submerged. See Siddim. 

(3.) The third passage is Gen. xix, 24, 25: “Then the 
Lord rained upon Sodom and upon Gomorrah brimstone 
and fire from the Lord out of heaven ; and he overthrew 
those cities, and all the plain, and all the inhabitants 
of the cities, and that which grew upon the ground.” 
Abraham, w hen, on the succeeding morning, he reached 
the mountain -brow’, “looked towards Sodom and Go- 
morrah, and towards all the land of the plain, and be- 
held, and lo, the smoke of the country went up as the 
smoke of a furnace” (ver. 28). As Abraham was at this 
time residing at Hebron, the view’ towards the south 
end of the Dead Sea would have been much more dis- 
tinct than to the northern end, although the lake itself 
is visible from Beni-Naim (the traditionary site of Abra- 
ham’s interview with Jehovah) through gaps in the 
western mountains (Robinson, Bib. lies, ii, 189). See 
Sodom. 

2. The physical facts ascertained by scientific research 
are as follows: The formation of the great valley of the 
Jordan must have been long antecedent to historic times, 
and coeval with the existing mountain-ranges; the val- 
ley w as, at some remote period, filled with w’atcr to the 
level of the ocean ; the water has gradually decreased, 
apparently by evaporation, and has left a number of 
shore-lines, traced by terraces along the mountain-sides, 
all antecedent to historic times: the portion of the Dead 
Sea north of el-Lisan forms a distinct basin, and appears 
to have done so from a time long anterior to Abraham. 
The southern section is different: it is very shallow’; 
its bottom is slimy. “Sulphur springs stud its shores; 
sulphur is strewn, whether in layers or in fragments, 
over the desolate plains; and bitumen is ejected, in 
great, floating masses, from the bottom of the sea, cozes 
through the fissures of the rocks, is deposited with grav- 
el on the beach, or, as in the Wady Mahawat, appears, 
with sulphur, to have been precipitated during some 
convulsion” (Tristram, p. 358). and that at a period long 
subsequent to the latest diluvial formation, and appar- 
ently within the historic period. 

There can be no doubt that the destruction of the 
cities was miraculous. A shower of ignited sulphur 
w r as rained upon them. May we not connect this his- 
toric fact with the observed fact just stated? Again, 
it is said that “the plain of Siddim w r as filled with bi- 
tumen pits.” Bitumen is inflammable, and, when ig- 
nited by the fiery shower, would burn fiercely. May 
we not also connect this with the phenomena of Wady 
Mahawat, of which Tristram says, ‘’The whole appear- 
ance points to a shower of hot sulphur, and an irruption 
of bitumen upon it, which would naturally be calcined 
and impregnated with its fumes?” (p. 356). The sa- 
cred writer further says that the vale of Siddim became 
the Salt Sea, or was submerged. The southern part of 
the lake is now’ a muddy flat, covered with a few’ feet of 
w’ater. Suppose the vale to have sunk a few’ feet, or the 
water to have risen a few’ feet, after the miraculous de- 
struction of the cities: either supposition would accord 
with the Biblical narrative, would not be without a par- 
allel in the history of countries exposed to earthquakes, 
and would not lie opposed to any results of modern ob- 
servation; it would accord, besides, with the views of 
ancient writers and with uniform Jewish tradition (Jo- 
sephus, .4 nt. i, 9; War, iv, 8,4; Reland, p. 254 sq.). 

This was the view’ suggested by Dr. Robinson, and 
sanctioned by the distinguished geologist, Leopold von 
Buch. In his latest work, published since his death, 
Robinson says: “It seems to be a necessary conclusion 
that the Dead Sea extended no farther south than the 


SALT SEA 


269 


peninsula, and that the cities destroyed lay on the south 
of the lake as it then existed. Lot tied from Sodom to 
Zoar, which was near (Gen. xix, 20) ; and Zoar, as we 
know, was in the mouth of Wady Kerak as it opens 
upon the neck of the peninsula. The fertile plain, 
therefore, which Lot chose for himself, where Sodom 
was situated, and which was well watered, like the land 1 
of Egypt, lay also south of the lake ‘as thou comest 
to Zoar’ (Gen. xiii, 10, 11). Even to the present day, 
more living streams How into the Ghdr at the south 
end of the sea, from wadys of the eastern mountains, 
than are found so near together in all Palestine be- 
sides. Tracts of exuberant fertility are still seen along 
the streams, though elsewhere the district around the 
southern bay is almost desert" (Physical Geogr. of the 
Holy Land , p. 213). Notwithstanding the arguments 
and almost contemptuous insinuations of some recent 
writers, not a single fact has been adduced calculated 
to overthrow this view; but, on the contrary, each new 
discovery seems as if a new evidence in its favor. 

3. Later and Modern Notices . — It does not appear 
probable that, with the above exception, the condition 
or aspect of the lake in ancient times was materially 
different from what it is at. present. Other parts of 
Syria may have deteriorated in climate and appear- 
ance, owing to the destruction of the wood which once 
covered them ; but there are no traces either of the an- 
cient existence of wood in the neighborhood of the lake, 
or of anything which would account for its destruction, 
supposing it to have existed. A few spots — such as 
Ain-Jidy, the mouth of the Wady Zuweireh, and that 
of the Wadyed-Draa — were more cultivated, and, con- 
sequently, more populous, than they are tinder the dis- 
couraging influences of Mohammedanism. But such at- 
tempts must always have been partial, confined to the 
immediate neighborhood of the fresh springs and to a 
certain degree of elevation, and ceasing directly irri- 
gation w r as neglected. In fact, the climate of the shores 
of the lake is too sultry and trying to allow of any con- 
siderable amount of civilized occupation being conduct- 
ed there. Nothing will grow without irrigation, and 
artificial irrigation is too laborious for such a situation. 
The plain of Jericho, we know, was cultivated like a 
garden ; but the plain of Jericho is very nearly on a 
level with the spring of Ain-Jidy, some GOO feet above 
the Ghor el-Lisan, the Ghor es-Safieh, or other cultiva- 
ble portions of the beach of the Dead Sea. Of course, 
so far as the capabilities of the ground are concerned 
(provided there is plenty of water), the hotter the cli- 
mate, the better; and it is not too much to say that 
if some system of irrigation could be carried out and 
maintained, the plain of Jericho, and still more the 
shores of the lake (such as the peninsula and the south- 
ern plain), might be the most productive spots in the 
world. But this is not possible, and the difficulty of 
communication with the external world would alone be 
(as it must always have been) a serious bar to any great 
agricultural efforts in this district. 

When Machicrus and Callirrhoe were inhabited (if, 
indeed, the former was ever more than a fortress, or 
the latter a bathing establishment occasionally resorted 
to), and when the plain of Jericho was occupied with 
the crowded population necessary for the cultivation 
of its balsam-gardens, vineyards, sugar-plantations, and 
palm-groves, there may have been a little more life on 
the shores. But this can never have materially affect- 
ed the lake. The track along the western shore and 
over Ain-Jidy was then, as now, used for secret maraud- 
ing expeditions, not for peaceable or commercial traffic. 
What transport, there may have been between ldum:oa 
and Jericho came by some other channel. Josephus 
appears to state that the Moabites crossed the sea to in- 
vade Judah (.1 nt, ix, 1,2); and he informs us that the 
Romans used boats against the fugitive Jews (War, iv, 
7, G; comp, iv, 8, 4). A doubtful passage in Josephus 
(see Relaud, Paleest. p. 252), and a reference by Edrisi 
(ed. Jaubert, in Ritter, Jordan , p. 700) to an occasional 


SALT, VALLEY OF 

venture by the people of “Zara and Dara" in the 12th 
century, are all the remaining allusions to the naviga- 
tion of the lake known to exist, until Englishmen and 
Americans launched their boats on it for purposes of 
scientific investigation. The temptation to the dwell- 
ers in the environs must always have been to ascend to 
l the fresher air of the heights, rather than descend to 
the sultry climate of the shores. It is not strange that 
the Dead Sea was never navigated to any extent: fish 
do not exist in it, and the sterile character of the shores 
made water transit of little importance. 

Costigan, an Irish traveller, was the first, in modern 
times, to navigate this Sea of Death. Having descend- 
ed the Jordan in a little boat, he crossed to the peninsu- 
la of Lisan. For three days he had no fresh water, and 
he was carried to Jerusalem to die. No record of his 
journey has been found. In 1837 Moore and Beek had 
a light boat conveyed from Jaffa. They succeeded in 
visiting some points, and making a few' experiments 
with boiling-water, which were t lie first to prove that 
the lake was below the level of the ocean. Ten years 
later, Lieutenant Molyneux, of the British navy, took a 
boat down the Jordan, visited the peninsula, and took 
some soundings. He was able to return to his ship, but 
died shortly afterwards. A brief record of his voyage 
is given in the Journal of the II. G. S. vol. xviii. The 
expedition of Lynch, in 1848, w r as the only one crowned 
with success. This was in part owing to the superior 
organization and strength of the party, and in part to 
the fact that it was undertaken at a comparatively cool 
season — April and May. Even this, however, was too 
late; several of the party took fever, and one — Lieuten- 
ant Dale — died. The unfortunate expeditions of Cos- 
tigan and Molyneux were made in July' and August re- 
spectively'. Winter is the proper season for any such 
undertaking. Rain seldom falls on the shores; the air, 
during the depth of winter, is fresh and balmy, and cold 
is almost unknown. 

Josephus gives a brief description of the Dead Sea 
(IFc/r, iv, 8, 4) : and several Greek and Roman authors, 
scientific as well as geographical, speak of its w'onders. 
Extracts from the principal of these may be seen in 
Reland’s Pakestina (p. 238-258). Among modern writ- 
ers, the following may r be consulted with advantage: 
Seetzcn, in Zaeh’s Monatliche Correspondenz.x ols. xvii, 
xviii. xxvi, xxvii ; Burckhardt, Travels in Syria ; Irby 
and Mangles, Travels; Wilson, Lands of the Bible; Rit- 
ter, Pal. mid Syr. ii, 557-780; I’oole, in Journal of R. 
G. S. vol. xxvi. The books containing the fullest and 
latest accounts are: Robinson, Bib. Res. i, 501-523; ii, 
187-102; and Physical Geogr. of Pal. p. 187-21 G; I)e Saul- 
c y. Voyage autourde la Mer Morte, and Voyage en Terre - 
Sainte; Tristram, The Land of Israel, p. 242-366 ; Land 
of Moab (1873) ; Lynch, Official Report , which contains 
Anderson’s Geological Reconnaissance (published at the 
National Observatory. Washington, 1852) ; Ridgawav, 
The Lord's Land, p. *344-464. There is an old mono- 
graph on the Dead Sea by' Wiihner, I)e nb^n 
(Helmst. 1712); and a recent one by Kraas, Das todfe 
Meer (Stuttg. 1867). See De.\i> Sea. 

SALT, VALLEY OF (lleb. nbfZ Gey Melach, 
but twice with the article, nb^*! y ; Sept. VfjieXift, 
Ffj koc\u£ [or 0«pay£] rCov dXwr; v. r. Vt)fia\a , 
TatpeXa; Yulg. Vail is Salinarum), a certain valley— or 
perhaps more accurately a “ ravine,” the Hebrew' word 
gey appearing to bear that signification— in which oc- 
curred tw'o memorable victories of the Israelitisli arms. 

1. That of David over the Edomites (2 Sam. vi ii. 13; 
1 Clirou. xviii. 12). It appears to have immediately 
followed his Syrian campaign, and was itself one of the 
incidents of the great Edomitish war of extermination. 
The battle in the Valley of Salt, appears to have been 
conducted by Abishai (1 Chron. xviii, 12), but David 
and Joab were both present in person at the battle and 
in the pursuit and campaign which followed: and Joab 
was left behind for six months to consummate the 


270 


SALTZMANN 


SALT, VALLEY OF 

doom of the conquered country (l Kings xi, 15, 10; 
Psa. lx, title). The number of Edomites slain in the 
battle is uncertain : the narratives of Samuel and Chron- 
icles both give it at 18,000. but this figure is lowered in 
the title of l’sa. lx to 12,000. See David. 

2. That of Amaziah (2 Kings xiv, 7 ; 2 Chron. xxv, 
11), who is related to have slain 10,000 Edomites in this 
valley, and then to have proceeded with 10,000 prison- 
ers to the stronghold of the nation at htis-Sela, the Cliff, 
i. e. Petra, and, after taking it, to have massacred them 
by hurling them down the precipice which gave its an- 
cient name to the city. See Edom. 

Neither of these notices affords any clue to the situ- 
ation of the Valley of Salt, nor does the cursory men- 
tion of the name (“Gemela” and “Mela”) in the Ono- 
masticon. I3v Josephus it is not named on either oc- 
casion. Seetzen (Reisen, ii, 356) was probably the first 
to suggest that it was the broad, open plain which lies 
at the lower end of the Dead Sea, and intervenes be- 
tween the lake itself and the range of heights which 
crosses the valley at six or eight miles to the south. 
The same view is taken (more decisively) by Dr. Rob- 
inson {Bib. Res. ii, 109). The plain is in fact the ter- 
mination of the Chur or valley through which the Jor- 
dan flows from the Lake of Tiberias to the Dead Sea. 
Its north-west corner is occupied by the Ivhashm Us- 
dum, a mountain of rock-salt, between which and the 
lake is an extensive salt marsh, while salt streams and 
brackish springs pervade, more or less, the entire west- 
ern half of the plain. Without presuming to contra- 
dict this suggestion, which yet can hardly be affirmed 
with safety in the very imperfect condition of our 
knowledge of the inaccessible regions south and south- 
east of the Dead Sea, it may be well to call attention 
to some considerations which seem to stand in the way 
of the implicit reception which most writers have given 
it since the publication of Dr. Robinson’s Researches. 
(So Van de Velde, Memoir, p. 346 ; also Keil on 2 Kings 
ocir, 7.) See Sodom. 

(</.) The word Gey (X“'5>), employed for the place in 
question, is not elsewhere applied to a broad valley or 
sunk plain of the nature of the lower Ghor. Such 
tracts are denoted in the Scripture by the word Emek 
or Biku'ah , while Gey appears to be reserved for clefts 
or ravines of a deeper and narrower character. See 
VALLEY. 

(5.) A priori, one would expect the tract in question 
to he called in Scripture by the peculiar name uniform- 
ly applied to the more northern parts of the same val- 
ley, ha -A raba h. in the same manner that the Arabs 
now call it el-Ghor, “ f Jhdr” being their equivalent for 
the Hebrew “Arabah.” See Auahaii. 

(c.) The name “ Salt,” though at first sight conclu- 
sive, becomes less so on reflection. It does not follow, 
because the Hebrew word melach signifies salt, that 
therefore the valley was salt. A case exactly parallel 
exists at cl-AIilh, the representative of the ancient Mo- 
ladah, some sixteen miles south of Hebron. Like me- 
lach, milh signifies salt ; but there is no reason to be- 
lieve that there is any salt present there, and Dr. Rob- 
inson {Bib. lies, ii, 201, note) himself justly adduces it as 
“an instance of the usual tendency of popular pronun- 
ciation to reduce foreign proper names to a significant 
form.” Just as el-Milh is the Arabic representative of 
the Hebrew Moladah, so possibly was Gey Melach the 
Hebrew representative of some archaic Edomitish name. 

(if.) \\ hat little can be inferred from the narrative as 
to the situation of the (ley Melach is in favor of its be- 
ing nearer to Petra. Assuming Sclah to be 1’etra (the 
chain of evidence for which is tolerably connected), it 
seems difficult to believe that a large body of prisoners 
should have been dragged for upwards of fifty miles 
through the heart of a hostile and most difficult conn- ! 
try merely for massacre.— Smith. See Pktha. 

It would seem probable from the above considera- 
tions that the sacred writers do not refer to the Arabah, 


or great plain south of the Dead Sea, but rather to one 
or other of the passes leading from it, either up into 
Judah, on the one side, or Edom, on the other. Wady 
Znweireb, a well-known pass at the northern end of the 
salt range of Usdum, might be the one meant, though 
the scope of the narrative would rather seem to locate 
it nearer Edom. — Ivitto. Schwarz ( Palest . p. 21, 22) 
fixes the valley at the same point, the south-west ex- 
tremity of the Dead Sea, and thinks that Zoar is called 
the “City of Salt” in Josh, xv, 62, because of the salt 
mountain near it. See Salt, City of. 

Salter, Richard, D.I)., a Congregational minister 
of New England, was born in Boston, Mass., in 1723. In 
due time he entered Harvard College, from which he 
graduated with honor, 1739. lie studied and practiced 
medicine, but afterwards chose the ministry for his life 
work. He was settled in Mansfield, Conn., and ordain- 
ed, June 27, 1744. Not long after Salter's settlement, a 
serious difficulty commenced in his church, in conse- 
quence of some of the members declaring in favor of 
the “ Separatists” (q. v.), and the difficulty was protract- 
ed through several years. Peace was restored only after 
twenty-four of the members were expelled. He contin- 
ued actively engaged until 1787. when his strength began 
perceptibly to decline. In 1771 he was elected a fellow 
of Yale College, and was presented, 1782, by the same 
college with the degree of D.D. In 1781 he gave, by 
deed, a farm to Yale College “ for encouraging and pro- 
moting the study of the Hebrew language, and other 
Oriental languages.” lie was twice married, but had 
no children. He preached the Connecticut Election 
Sermon (1768), which was published. He died in 1793. 
See Sprague, A nnals of the Amer. Pulpit , i, 421 sq. 

Salter, Samuel, D.D., a learned English divine, 
was born at Norwich, and educated at the free school of 
that city, at the Charter House, and at Benedict Col- 
lege, Cambridge, of w hich he was elected a fellow. He 
became rector of Burton College, Lincolnshire, and preb- 
endary of Norwich ; minister of Great Yarmouth, 1750 ; 
preacher at Charter House. 1754 : rector of St. Bartholo- 
mew the Less, London, 1756; and master of the Charter 
House, 1761. lie died 1772. Several sermons of his 
were published (Lond. 1755, 1762). See Darling, Cy- 
clop. Bibliog. s. v. 

Saltmarsh, John, an Antinomian divine, was born 
in Yorkshire, England. He was educated at Magdalen 
College, Cambridge, became minister of Brasted, Kent, 
and chaplain in the army under Essex. He subse- 
quently settled at Ilford, Essex, where he died in 1647. 
He published a number of works: The Smoke in the 
Temple (Lond. 1646, 4to) : — Free Grace (ibid. 1645, 
4to) : — Sparkles of Glory (ibid. 1647, 12mo), and oth- 
ers. See Alii bone, Diet, of A ut hors, s. v. 

Saltzmann, Friedrich Rudolf, an eminent, and 
once very popular, Protestant author, was horn at Stras- 
burg, March 9, 1749. He studied in the gymnasium, 
and then in the University of Strasburg. After his 
graduation in 1773, he journeyed through Italy and 
Germany, and then took charge of the education of the 
young Baron (afterwards Prussian minister) von Stein. 
Subsequently he lectured on history in Strasburg, but 
without great success. He next edited a political 
paper, and thereby came into suspicion of aristocratic 
tendencies among the radicals and terrorists of the 
French Revolution. lie was forced to flee and to live 
in disguise until the downfall of Robespierre, meantime 
suffering the seizure and appropriation of his large prop- 
erty in Strasburg. During this period of trials his re- 
ligions life came to rapid maturity. Raised in strict 
Protestant principles, he now came into contact w ith 
French mystics and theosopl lists. At the close of the 
Revolution he returned to Strasburg, and began the pub- 
lication of a series of religious and mystical works, 
which made him many friends, and which enjo3*ed a 
very wide circulation. Among these publications were, 
Das christliche Erbauungsblatt, which was issued for 


SALU 


271 


SALUTATION 


many years, from 1805 and on: — Es wlrd Aiks neu 
icerden (1802-10), a work in seven instalments, consist- 
ing of essays upon, and extracts from, the chief mystics 
anti theosopliists— Rusbroeck,Terstegcn, Catherine of Si- 
enna, Mesdames Bourignon, Guyon, Lcade, and Browne, 
also Swedenborg, and Bromley : — On the Last Things 
(1806) : — Glances at God's Dealings with Man front the 
Creation to the End of the World (1810), in which the 
author gives a survey of human history during the first 
six thousand years, and then, with the help of geolo- 
gy and astronomy, forecasts the consummation of all 
things, which will be preceded by the millennium and 
terminated bv the restoration of Paradise : — Religion 
tier Bibel (1811), relating largely to the millennium:— 
Geist mid Wahrheit (1816), a work much esteemed by 
Schubert, and treating of the so-called double-sense of 
Scripture. In all of these writings Saltzmann mani- 
fests the highest reverence for the Bible and the most 
childlike faith in God. And yet, with all his Bible- 
stiuly, he seems to find confirmation only for the views 
of the writers of the mystical school. But he is a mys- 
tic of the milder type; and he was entirely free from 
the “occult science” of a Bohme and a Schbnherr. 
During his whole active career, Saltzmann continued 
his political editorship, and it was but his leisure 
moments that he gave to his theological studies. In 
his last years, when Schubert visited him in 1820, he 
had ceased all outward activity, and was patiently 
awaiting his call into the spirit- world. See La Revue 
d'A Isace, 1860 ; Ilerzog, Real-EncyU. xiii, 337-341. (J. 

P. L.) 

Sa'lu (Heb. Salu’, weighed; Sept. 2«Xw v. r. 

2a\/iwi'),a prince and head of a house among the chil- 
dren of Simeon; father of the Zimri who was slain by 
Phinehas for bringing the Midianitish woman into the 
camp of Israel (Numb, xxv, 14; see ver. 7 sq.). B.C. 
ante 1618. 

Sa'lum, a Greek form found in the Apocrypha of 
the Hebrew name Shallum (q. v.) : a. (Na\ ofqioc v. r. 
N«Xi//u)c; 1 Esdr. viii, I) the father of llilkiah (Ezra 
vii, 2) ; b. (SaXovfJi ; 1 Esdr. v, 28) a temple “ porter” 
(Ezra ii, 42). 

Salus (heedth, p>r asperity, well-being), in some degree 
synonymous with the Greek Hygeia, in Roman mythol- 
ogy, was primarily the goddess of physical health, but 
afterwards also of the public weal or prosperity of the 
state. A temple was built in her honor after the con- 
clusion of the Samnite war by C. Junius Bubulcus. 

Salut, an evening office, which took its origin in 
Southern Europe (Spain and Italy), consisting of an ex- 
position of the Sacrament, accompanied with chanting 
and a brilliant display of tapers. It varies in different 
churches; at Lyons it is not followed by benediction, 
and in France generally is only used in a solemn form 
on the eves of great festivals. The Roman rite requires 
the sign of the cross to be made with the monstrance in 
silence; but in some parts of France the priest uses a 
form of benediction. See Walcott, Sacred A rehteology, 
s. v. 

Salutation (from the Lat. salus , health, i. c. a wish- 
ing well ; in the A. V. “ salute” is the rendering of “ “2. 
bur ah, to bless; shadl, to inquire; but more prop- 

erly of DlP'b, shalom , peace [q. v.]; in the N. T. of 
cwiraCofiai , to embrace), a term which, in the Bible, in- 
cludes two classes or modes of address. (In treating 
these, we chiefly use the matter in the dictionaries of 
Kitto and Smith. See Courtesy. 

I. Conversation. — The frequent allusion in Scripture 
to the customary salutations of the Jews invests the 
subject with a higher degree of interest than it might 
otherwise claim ; and it is therefore fortunate that there 
are few scriptural topics which can be. better under- 
stood by the help of the illustrations derivable from the 
existing usages of the East. 


1. The/mms of salutation that prevailed among the 
Hebrews, so far as can be collected from Scripture, are 
the following: 

(l.) The salutation at meeting consisted, in early 
times, of various expressions of blessing, such as “God 
be gracious unto thee” (Gen. xliii, 29) ; “Blessed be 
thou of the Lord” (Ruth iii, 10; 1 Sam. xv, 13); “The 
Lord be with you,” “The Lord bless thee” (Ruth ii. 4) ; 
“The blessing of the Lord be upon you; we bless you. 
in the name of the Lord” (I’sa. cxxix, 8). Hence the 
term “bless” received the secondary sense of “salute,” 
and is occasionally so rendered in the A. V. (1 Sam. 

xiii, 10; xxv, 14; 2 Kings iv, 29; x, 15), though not 
so frequently as it might have been (e. g. Gen. xxvii, 
23 ; xlvii, 7, 10 ; 1 Kings viii, 66). Most of the expres- 
sions used in meeting, and also those which were used 
in parting, implied that the person who employed them 
interceded for the other. Hence the word “"22, bardic, 
which originally signified “ to bless,” meant also “ to sa- 
lute” or “to welcome,” and “to bid adieu” (Gen. xlvii, 
8-1 1 ; 2 Kings iv, 29 ; x, 13 ; I Chron. xviii, 10). 

(2.) The blessing was sometimes accompanied with 
inquiries as to the health either of the person addressed 
or his relations. In countries often ravaged, and among 
people often ruined, by war, “ peace” implied every bless- 
ing of life; and this phrase had, therefore, the force of 
“ Prosperous be thou.” This was the commonest of all 
salutations (Judg. xix, 20 ; Ruth ii, 4; 1 Sam. xxv, 6; 
2 Sam. xx, 9 ; Psa. cxxix, 8). Hence the Hebrew term 
used in these instances (- shalom) has reference to 
general well-being, and strictly answers to our “welfare,” 
as given in the text (Gen. xliii, 27 ; Exod. xviii, 7). 
It is used, not only in the case of salutation (in which 
sense it is frequently rendered “to salute,” c. g. Judg. 
xviii, 15; 1 Sam. x, 4; 2 Kings x, 13), but also in other 
cases, where it is designed to soothe or to encourage a 
person (Gen. xliii, 23; Judg. vi, 23; xix, 20; 1 Chron. 
xii, 18; Dau.x, 19; comp. 1 Sam. xx, 21, where it is op- 
posed to “ hurt;” 2 Sam. xviii, 28, “all is well;” and 2 
Sam. xi, 7, where it is applied to the progress of the 
war). The salutation at parting consisted originally 
of a simple blessing (Gen.xxiv, GO; xxviii, 1 ; xlvii, 10; 
Josh, xxii, 6) ; but in later times the term shalom was 
introduced here also in the form “Go in peace,” or, 
rather, “ Farewell” (I Sam. i, 17 ; xx, 42 ; 2 Sam. xv, 9). 
This was current at the time of our Saviour’s ministry 
(Mark v, 34; Luke vii, 50; Acts xvi, 36), and is adopt- 
ed by him in his parting address to his disciples (John 

xiv, 27). It had even passed into a salutation on meet- 
ing, in such forms as “ Peace be to this house” (Luke x, 
5), “Peace he unto you” (Luke xxiv, 36; John xx, 19). 

The more common salutation, however, at this period 
was borrowed from the Greeks, their word \aipeu> (to 
be joyful or in good health) being used both at meet- 
ing (Matt, xx vi, 49; xxviii, 9; Luke i, 28) and proba- 
bly also at departure. In modern times, the ordinary 
mode of address current in the East resembles the He- 
brew : Es-seldm a ley him, “ Peace be on you” (Lane, 
Mod. Egypt, ii, 7) ; and the term “ salam” has been intro- 
duced into our own language to describe the Oriental 
salutation. Accordingly, we have the exclamation \'«7- 
pe, yofpfrf , Joy to thee ! Joy to you ! rendered by Ilail f 
an equivalent of the Latin Are! Salve! (Matt, xxvii, 
29; xxviii, 9; Mark xv, 18; Luke i, 28; John xix. 3). 

A still stronger form of this wish for the health of 
the person addressed was the expression “Live, my 
lord” (^:1X iTirt), as a common salutation among the 
Phoenicians, and also in use among the Hebrews, but 
bv them onlv addressed to their kings in the extended 
form of “Let the king live forever!” (I Kings i, 31), 
which was also employed in the Babylonian and Per- 
sian courts (Dan. ii, 4; iii. 9; v. 10; vi, 6, 21 ; Neb. ii, 
3). This, wliicli in fact is no more than a wish for a 
prolonged and prosperous life, has a parallel in the cus- 
toms of most nations, and does not differ from the “ Vi- 


272 


SALUTATION 


SALUTATION 


vat r of the Latin, the “ Vive le roi !" of the French, or 
our own “ forever!” 

± Esc of these E.r press i ons . — The forms of greeting 
that we have noticed were freely exchanged among 
persons of different ranks on the occasion of a casual 
meeting, and this even when they were strangers. 
Thus Iioaz exchanged greeting with his reapers (Knth 
ii. 1), the traveller on the road saluted the worker in 
the tield (l*sa. cxxix. 8), and members of the same fam- 
ily interchanged greetings on rising in the morning 
(Trov. xxvii, 14). The only restriction appears to have 
been in regard to religion, the Jew of old, as the Mo- 
hammedan of the present day, paying the compliment 
nnlv to those whom he considered “ brethren,” i. e. mem- 
bers of the same religious community (Matt, v, 47 ; 
Lane. Mod. Egypt . ii, 8; Niebuhr, Descript, p. 43). Even 
the apostle John forbids an interchange of greeting 
where it implied a wish for the success of a bad cause 
(2 John 11). In modern times the Orientals are famed 
Ibr the elaborate formality of their greetings, which oc- 
cupy a very considerable time; the instances given in 
the Bible do not bear such a character, and therefore 
the prohibition addressed to persons engaged in urgent 
business, “ Salute no man by the way” (2 Kings iv. 29; 
Luke x. 4), may best be referred to the delay likely to 
ensue from subsequent conversation. This, perhaps, 
must not be understood literally, as it would be churl- 
ish and offensive. But there is so much insincerity, 
flattery, and falsehood in the terms of salutation pre- 
scribed by custom that our Lord rebuked them by re- 
quiring his followers, as far as possible, to avoid them 
(see Thomson. Land and Booh, i. 533 sq.). 

3. Modem Parallels. — As already intimated, the 
usages involved in these oral salutations seem not only 
similar to, but identical with, those still existing among 
the Arabians. These, indeed, as now 7 observed, go upon 
the authorit} 7 of religious precepts. But it is known 
that such enactments of the Koran and its commenta- 
ries merely embody such of the previously and imme- 
inoriallv existing usages as the legislature wished to 
be retained. 

(1.) Oral Forms . — Their most common greeting, as 
among the Jews, is, “ Peace be on you!” to this the 
reply is. “On you be peace!” to which is commonly 
added, “and the mercy of God and his blessings!” 
This salutation is never addressed by a Moslem to one 
whom he knows to be of another religion; and if he 
find that he has by mistake thus saluted a person not 
of the slime faith, he generally revokes his salutation: 
so also he sometimes does if a Moslem refuses to return 
his salutations, usually saying, ** Peace be on us and on 
(all) the right worshippers of God !” This seems to us 
a striking illustration of Luke x, 5, 0; 2 John 11. Va- 
rious set compliments usually follow 7 this salani; which, 
when people intend to be polite, are very much ex- 
tended and occupy considerable time. Hence they are 
evaded in crowded streets, and bv persons in haste, as 
was the case, for the same reason doubtless, among the 
Jews (2 Kings iv, 29; Luke x, 4). Specimens of this 
conventional intercourse are given by Lane (Mod. Egypt. 
i,253>, who says that to give, the whole would occupy 
a dozen of his pages. There are set answers, or a 
choice of two or three answers, to every question; and 
it is accounted rude to give any other answer than that 
which custom prescribes. They are such as those by 
which the Israelites probably prolonged their inter- 
course. If one is asked, “ 1 low r is your health ?” he re- 
plies, “ Praise be to God!” and it is only from the tone 
of his voice that the inquirer can tell whether he is 
well or ill. When one greets another with the com- 
mon inquiry, “ Is it well with thee?” (see 2 Kings iv, 
2fi ) the answer is, “God bless thee!” or “God preserve 
thee!” An acquaintance on meeting another wdiom he 
has not seen for several days, or for a longer period, gen- 
erally says, after the salani, “Thou hast made us desolate 
by thv absence from us;” and is usually answered, “May j 
God not make us desolate by thy absence !” 



Oriental Salutation by Bending or Prostration to a Supe- 
rior. 

(2.) The gestures and inflections used in salutation 
varied with the dignity and station of the person sa- 
luted, as is the case with the Orientals at this day. 
See Attitude. The obeisance with which this is ac- 
companied varies according to the degree of respect de- 
signed to be shown to the person addressed, and this 
rises nearly according to the following scale: 1. Plac- 
ing the right hand upon the breast; 2. Touching the 
lips and the forehead or turban (or the forehead and 
turban only) with the right hand; 3. Doing the same, 
but slightly inclining the head during the action; 4. 
The same as the preceding, but inclining the body also; 
5. Still the same, with the addition of previously touch- 
ing the ground with the right hand; 6. Kissing the 
hand of the person to whom obeisance is paid; 7. Kiss- 
ing his sleeve; 8. Kissing the skirt of his clothing; 
9. Kissing his feet; and 10. Kissing the carpet or ground 
before him. Persons distinguished by rank, wealth, or 
learning are saluted by many of the shopkeepers and 
passengers as they pass through the streets and mar- 
ket-places of Eastern cities, and are, besides, often greet- 
ed with a short ejaculatory prayer for the continuance 
of their life and happiness. Such were “the salutations 
ami greetings in the market-place” of which the sciibes 
w ere so extravagantly fond (see Mark xii, 28). When 
a very great man rides through the streets, most of the 
shopmen rise to him and pay their respects to him by 
inclining the head and touching the lips and forehead 
or turban w'ith the right hand. It is usual for the per- 
son who returns the salutation to place at the same 
time his right hand upon his breast, or to touch his lips, 
and then his forehead or turban with the same hand. 
This latter mode, which is the most respectful, is often 
performed to a person of superior rank, not only at first 
with the salam, but also frequently during a conversa- 
tion. In some cases the body is gently inclined, w hile 
the right hand is laid upon the left breast. A person 
of the lower orders in addressing a superior does not 
always give the salam, but shows his respect to high 
rank by bending down his hand to the ground, and 
then putting it to his lips and forehead. See Bow- 
ing. 

It is a common custom for a man to kiss the hand 
of his superior instead of his own (generally on the 
back only, but sometimes on both back and front), and 
then to put it to his forehead in order to pay more par- 
ticular respect. Servants thus evince their respect 
towards their masters. Those residing in the East find 
their own servants ahvavs doing this on such little occa- 
sions as arise beyond the usage of their ordinary service; 
as on receiving a present, or on returning fresh from 
the public baths. The son also thus kisses the hand 
of his father, and the w ife that of her husband. Very 
often, however, the superior does not allow this, but 
only touches the hand extended to take his, where- 
upon the other puts the hand that has been touched to 
his own lips and forehead. The custom of kissing the 


SALVATION 


SALUTATION 273 



Oriental Salutation by Kneeling and Kissing the Hand to 
a Sovereign. 

beard is still preserved, and follows the first and pre- 
liminary gesture; it usually takes place on meeting af- 
ter an absence of some duration, and not as an every- 
day compliment. In this case the person who gives 
the kiss lays the right hand under the beard, and raises 
it to his lips, or rather supports it while it receives his 
kiss. This custom strikingly illustrates 2 Sam. xx, 9. 
In Arabia Petnea and some other parts it is more usual 
for persons to lay the right sides of their cheeks to- 
gether. These acts involved the necessity of dismount- 
ing in case a person were riding or driving (Gen. xxiv, 
64; 1 Sam. xxv, 23; 2 Kings v. 21). The same cus- 
tom still prevails in the East (Niebuhr, Descript, p. 39). 
Among the Persians, persons in saluting often kiss 
each other on the lips; but if one of the individuals is 
of high rank, the kiss is given on the cheek instead of 
the lips. This seems to illustrate 2 Sam. xx, 9; Gen. 
xxix, 11, 13; xxxiii, 4; xlviii, 10-12; Exod. iv, 27; 
xviii, 7. See Kiss. 



Oriental Salutation by Kissing or Bowing to a Respected 
Equal or Intimate Friend. 

Another mode of salutation is usual among friends 
on meeting after a journey. Joining their right hands 
together, each of them compliments the other upon his 
safety, and expresses his wishes for his welfare by 
repeating, alternately, many times the words selamdt 
(meaning, “I congratulate yon on vonr safety”) and 
taiyibin (“I hope you arc well”). In commencing this 
ceremony, which is often continued for nearly a minute 
before they proceed to make any particular inquiries, 
they join their hands in the same manner as is usually 
practiced by us; and at each alternation of the two ex- 
pressions change the position of the hands. These cir- 
cumstances further illustrate such passages as 2 Kings 
iv, 19; Luke x, 4. See II and. 

II. The epistolary salutations in the period subse- 
quent to the Old Test, were framed on the model of the 
Latin style: the addition of the term “peace” may, 
however, be regarded as a vestige of the old Hebrew 
form (2 Mace, i, 1). The writer placed his own name 
first, and then that of the person whom he saluted; it 
1X.-S 


was only in special cases that this order was reversed 
(2 Macc. i, 1 ; ix, 19; 1 Esdr. vi, 7). A combination of 
the first and third persons in the terms of the salutation 
was not unfrequent (Gal. i, 1.2: Philcm. 1 ; 2 Pet. i, 1). 
The term used (either expressed or understood) in the 
introductory salutation was the Greek ^aiptiv in an el- 
liptical construction (1 Mace, x, 18; 2 Macc. ix, 19; 1 
Esdr. viii, 9; Acts xxiii, 20); tins, however, was more 
frequently omitted, and the only apostolic passages in 
which it occurs arc Acts xv, 23 and James i, 1. a coin- 
cidence which renders it probable that James composed 
the letter in the former passage. A form of prayer for 
spiritual mercies was also used, consisting generally of 
the terms “grace and peace,” but in the three pastoral 
epistles and in 2 John “ grace, merev, and peace,” and 
in J ude “ mercy, peace, and love.” The concluding sal- 
utation consisted occasionally of a translation of the 
Latin valete (Acts xv, 29; xxiii, 30), but more general- 
ly of the term daTcd^opai, “ I salute,” or the cognate 
substantive, accompanied by a prayer for peace or grace. 
Paul, who availed himself of an amanuensis (Rom. xvi, 
22), added the salutation with his own hand (1 Cor. xvi, 
21 ; Col. iv, 18; 2 Tlicss. iii. 17). The omission of the 
introductory salutation in the Epistle to the Hebrews 
is very noticeable. There arc Latin monographs on 
the subject in general by Mayer (Grvph. 1703), Allgow- 
er (Ulm, 1728), Schmersclil (Jena, 1739), Heyrenbaeh 
(Vien. 1773), and Purmann (Frankf.-on-the-Main, 1749). 
See Eiustle. 

SALUTATION, Ritual. In the Romish Church, 
the words of the angel to Mary are called the Avyelic 
Salutation. The latter clause, *• Sancta Maria, mater I >ei, 
ora pro nobis peccatoribus,” was added, they tell us, in 
the fifth century; but the last words, “Nunc ct in hora 
mortis nostra*, ” were inserted by order of pope Pius A". 
It is sometimes repeated at the beginning of a sermon, 
ending with a prayer or a pro nobis , and bells arc tolled 
to put people in mind of it. See Salve Regina. 

In the Chnrch-of-England service a species of saluta- 
tion occurs. “ Having all repeated our Creed, . . . we 
now prepare ourselves to pray. And since salutations 
have ever been the expressions and badges of that mut- 
ual charity without which we are not lit to pray, there- 
fore we begin with an ancient form of salutation, taken 
out of the Holy Scripture; the minister commencing, 
salutes the people with 1 The Lord he with you,’ and 
they return it with a like prayer, ‘And with thy Spirit.’” 
See Hook, Church Did. s. v. 

Salutatorium ( place of salutation ), a room con- 
nected with an ancient church, where the bishop and 
clergy sat to receive the salutations of the people as 
they came to solicit prayers on their behalf or to con- 
sult them about important business. 

Salvador, JosEm, a Jewish physician, was born at 
Montpelier, France, in 1790, and died at Versailles, 
March 17, 1873. lie is the author of l.oi de Moysc,ou 
Systeme Rcliy. ct Polit. des llibreux (Paris, 1822) ; re- 
published under the title Uistoire des Institutions de 
Moise et du People Ilebreu (Paris, 1828, 3 vols.) ; Ger- 
man transl. Geschickte der mosaischeu Institutionen , etc., 
by Essena, with a preface by G. Ricsscr (Hamburg, 
1830, 3 vols.) : — Jesus- Christ et sa Doctrine, etc. (Paris, 
1838, 2 vols.); German transl. by Jacobson, Das Leben 
Jesu vnd seine Lehre (Dresden, 1841, 2 vols.): — Ilis- 
toire de la Domination Romaine en Judee et de la Ru- 
ine de Jerusalem (Paris, 1847, 2 vols.); German transl. 
by Eichler, Geschichte der Rome rherrsch aft in Judiia , 
etc. (Bremen, 1847, 2 vols.) : — I'aris, Rome, Jerusalem, 
on la Question Reliyieuse an XIXe Siecle (Paris, 1800, 

2 vols.). See Fiirst, liibl. Jml. iii, 230 ; Winer, iland- 
buch der theol. Literatur, ii, 740; Zuchohl, Dibl. Theol. 
p. 1109 sq. ; Zeitnny des Judenthnms. 1873. (B. P.) 

Salvation (properly (norqpia, both mean- 

ing originally delirerance or safety). No idea was more 
ingrained in the Jewish mind than the truth that God 


SALVATION 


274 


was a Saviour, a Helper, a Deliverer, a Ecscucr, a De- 
fender, and a Preserver to his people. Their whole his- 
tory was a history of salvation, and an unfolding of the 
nature and purposes of the Divine Being. Israel was a 
saved people (Dent, xxxiii, 29); saved from Egypt 
(Exod. xiv, 30), delivered from enemies on every side, 
preserved in prosperity, and restored from adversity — 
all by that One Person whom they had been taught to 
call Jehovah. Though human instruments were con- 
stantly used as saviors — as, for instance, the judges — the 
people were always taught that it was God who saved 
by their hand (2 Sam. iii, 18; 2 Kings xiii, 5; xiv, 27 ; 
Xeh. ix, 27), and that there was not power in man to be 
his own savior (Job xl, 14 ; Psa. xxxiii, 10; xliv, 3, 7), 
so that he must look to God alone for help (Isa. xliii, 

1 1 ; xiv, 22 ; 1 los. xiii, 4, 10). This the Scriptures ex- 
press in varied forms, usually in phrases, in which the 
Hebrews rarely use concrete terms, as they are called, 
but often abstract terms. Thus, instead of saying, God 
saves them and protects them, they say, God is their 
salvation. So, a voice of salvation, tidings of salvation, 
a word of salvation, etc., is equivalent to a voice declar- 
ing deliverance, etc. Similarly, to work great salva- 
tion in Israel signifies to deliver Israel from some immi- 
nent danger, to obtain a great victory over enemies. 
Most of these phrases explain themselves, while others 
are of nearly equal facility of apprehension, e.g.the ap- 
plication of -the cup of salvation” to gratitude and joy 
Lr deliverance (Psa. cxvi, 13) ; the “ rock of salvation” to 
a rock where any one takes refuge, and is in safety (2 
Sam. xxii, 47); “the shield of salvation” and “helmet 
of salvation” to protection from the attack of an enemy 
(Psa. xviii, 35; Isa. lix, 17); the “horn of salvation” 
to the power by which deliverance is effected (Psa. xviii, 
2) ; “ the garments of salvation” to the beauty and pro- 
tection of holiness (Isa. Ixi, 10); the “wells of salva- 
tion” to the abundant sources of the mercies of salva- 
tion, free, overflowing, and refreshing (Isa. xii, 3). See 
each of these associated terms in its alphabetical place. 

“When we come to inquire into the nature of this 
salvation thus drawn from God, and the conditions on 
which it was granted during the Old-Test. dispensation, 
we learn that it implied every kind of assistance for 
body and soul, and that it was freely offered to God’s 
people (Psa. xxviii, 9 ; lxix, 35); to the needy (Psa. 
ixxii, 4, 13), to the meek (Psa. lxxvi, 9), to the contrite 
(Psa. xxxiv, 18), but not to the wicked (Psa. xviii, 41) 
unless they repented and turned to him. Salvation 
consisted not only of deliverance from enemies, and 
from the snares of the wicked (Psa. xxxvii,40; lix, 2 ; 
cvi. 20), but also of forgiveness (Psa. lxxix, 9), of an- 
swers to prayer (Psa. lxix, 13), of spiritual gifts (Psa. 
Ixviii, 19), of joy (Psa. li, 12), of truth (Psa. xxv, 5), and 
of righteousness (Psa. xxiv, 5; Isa. xiv, 8 ; xlvi, 13 ; li, 
5). Many of the beautiful promises in Isaiah refer to 
an everlasting and spiritual salvation, and God described 
himself as coming to earth to bring salvation to his 
people (Isa. Ixii, 1 1 ; Zech. ix, 9). Thus was the way 
prepared for the coming of him who was to be called 
Jesus, because he should save his people from their sins. 
See Messiah. 

“ In the New Testament the spiritual idea of salva- 
tion strongly predominates, though the idea of temporal 
deliverance occasionally appears. Perhaps the word 
‘restoration’ most clearly represents the great truth 
of the tiospel. The Son of God came to a lost world to 
restore t ho.se who would commit themselves unto him 
to that harmony with God which they had lost by sin. 
He appeared among men as the Bcstorer. Disease, 
hunger, mourning, and spiritual depression fled from 
before him. All the sufferings to which the human 
race is subject were overcome by him. Death itself, 
the last eneinv, was vanquished; and in his own resur- 
rection Christ proclaimed to all believers the glad tid- 
ings that God’s purpose of bringing many sons unto 
glory was yet to he carried out. During his lifetime 
Jesus Christ was especially a healer and restorer of the 


SALVE, FESTA DIES 

body, and his ministrations were confined to the lost 
sheep of the house of Israel; but by his death for the 
sins of the whole world, and by his subsequent resur- 
rection and exaltation, he was enabled to fulfil the 
mission for which he had taken our nature, lie be- 
came generally the Saviour of the lost. All who come 
to him are brought by him to God; they have spiritual 
life, forgiveness, and peace, and they are adopted into 
the family of God. Their bodies arc made temples of 
the Holy Ghost, by whose inworking power Christ is 
formed within them. Their heart being purified by 
faith in him as the Son of God, they receive from him 
the gifts and graces of God, and thus they have an 
earnest of the final inheritance, the complete restora- 
tion, which is the object of every Christian’s hope. If 
it be asked when a man is saved, the answer is that the 
new life which is implanted by faith in Christ is salva- 
tion in the germ, so that every believer is a saved 
man. But during the whole Christian life salvation is 
worked out , in proportion to our faith, which is the con- 
necting link between the Saviour and the saved — the 
vine and the branches. Salvation in its completion is 
‘ ready to be revealed’ in the day of Christ’s appearing, 
when he who is now justified by Christ’s blood shall be 
saved from wrath through him, and when there shall 
be that complete restoration of body and soul which 
shall make us fit to dwell with God as his children for 
evermore” (Fairbairn). See Saviour. 

SALVATION, INFANT. See Infant Salvation. 

Salve. See Medicine; Unguent. 

Salve, caput cruentatum, is the beginning of 
one of Bernard’s seven passion-hymns. The original, in 
fifty lines, in five stanzas, addressed to the face of Christ 
(“Ad laciem Christi in eruce pendentis”), is the best of 
the seven passion-hymns, and runs thus in the first 

stanza . it g a | VCj capu t cruentatum, 

Totum spinis corona turn, 

Conquassatnm, vulneratum, 

Arnndine sic verberatum. 

Facie sputis illita. 

Salve, eujus dulcis vultus 
Immutatus et incnltus 
Iimmitavit snum florem, 

Totus versus in pallorem, 

Quern eoeli tremit cura.” 

There are different English renderings of this hymn, as 
by Airs. Charles, Christian Life in Song, p. 159 : “ Hail, 
thou Head! so bruised and wounded,” which is also 
found in Schaff’s Christ in Song ; by Alford in the 
Year of Praise, No. 102: “ Ilail! that Head with sor- 
rows bowing;” by Baker, in Hymns, Ancient and Mod- 
ern, No. 97 : “ O Sacred Head, surrounded.” There are 
a number of German translations, but the best is that by 
Gerhardt : “O Ilanpt voll Blut und Wundcn,” which 
again has been translated into English by Alexander 
anil others. (B. I’.) 

Salve, festa dies, toto venerabilis Aivo, is 
the beginning of a resurrection-hymn by Venantius 
Fortunatus. “In this sweet poem, the whole nature, 
born anew in the spring, and arrayed in the bridal gar- 
ment of hope and promise, welcomes the risen Saviour, 
the Prince of spiritual and eternal life.” The original, 
as given by Daniel (i, 170), has fourteen stanzas, of 
three lines each. Trench gives only ten lines, and so 
likewise Blissler, Bambach, and Simrock in their col- 
lections. Daniel remarks, “Ex hoc suavissimo poema.te 
ecelesia decern versus sibi vindicavit, qui cfficcrent 
canticum triumphale Paschatis.” We give the first 
stanza : 

“ Salve, festa dies, toto venerabilis aevo, 

Qua l)eus infernum vicit et astra tenet. 

Salve, festa dies, toto venerabilis aevo.” 

There arc different English renderings, as by Mrs. 
Charles, Christian Life in Song, p. 135: “Ilail, festal 
day! ever exalted high;” in Lyra Eucharist ica, \\ 1G: 
“ Ilail, festal day! for evermore adored;” in Schaff 
Christ in Song, p. 235 : “ Hail, Day of Days! in peals of 


SALVE JESU 


275 


SALVIATI 


praise.” German translations are given by Rambach, 
Biissler, Simrock, anil Fortlage. (B. 1*.) 

Salve Jesu, summe bonus, is the beginning of one 
of St. Bernard’s passion-hymns, and is addressed to the 
side of Christ. It has been translated into English by 
Thompson in Lyra Messianica, p.293 : 

“Jesu, hail ! supremely Good, 

On the branches of the Rood, 

How thy limbs, all anguish-worn, 

Bitterly were scorched and torn, 

(B. P.) Thou that but too gracious art !” 

Salve Regina (I/ail, 0 Queen, i. e. Virgin Mary) is 
the name of an antiphony long in use in the Roman 
Catholic Church. Composer and date are unknown, 
though it is attributed to either Peter, bishop of Com- 
postella in the 10th century, or to Hermannus Con- 
tractus, a Benedictine, in the 11th. The Chronicles of 
Spires state that St. Bernard, when at Spires in the ca- 
pacity of apostolical delegate, added the closing words, 
“ O elemens, O pia, O dulcis Virgo Maria !” by which it 
received its present form ( Chronic . de Urbe Spirensi, lib. 
xii). Pope Gregory directed, in 1239, that it be recited 
in the daily offices after the eorapletorium (q. v.). In 
modern usage, it is employed during the interval be- 
tween Trinity and Advent Sundays; and it also forms 
a part of the usual private devotions of believers, espe- 
cially on Saturdays. In many dioceses the ritual in use 
directs the recitation of the Salve Regina at funerals, 
after the burial-service, with a view to supplicate the 
maternal intercession of the Blessed Virgin for the souls 
in purgatory. St. Bernard discusses the subject-matter 
of this antiphony in his works, laying special emphasis 
on the mercy and power of Mary as here set forth {Op- 
era [Antw. 1616], p. 175G, s. v.). — Wetzer u. Welte, Kir- 
chen-Lex. ix, 589. 

Salvete, flores martyrum, is the beginning of 
the famous hymn written by Prudentius of Spain (q. v.), 
and which is used in the Latin Church on Innocents’ 
Day, the second day after Christmas. This hymn, of 
which the first stanza runs thus, 

“ Salvete, flores martyrum, 

Quos lueis ipso in limine 
Christi iusecutor sustulit, 

Ceu turbo nascentes rusas,” 

has been translated into English by Chandler, IJymns 
of the Primitive Church , “Hail, infant martyrs ! new- 
born victims, hail !” by Caswall, Hymns and Poems , 
Original and Translated, “ Flowers of martyrdom, all 
hail!” and Neale, “ All hail, ye infant martyr-flowers!” 
German translations are given in Biissler, Konigsfeld, 
Rambach, and Simrock; while the original is found in 
Trench (p. 121), Daniel (i, 124), Simrock, Rambach, 
Biissler, and Konigsfeld. (B. P.) 

Salvi mundi salutake, another of these passion- 
hymns, is addressed to the pierced feet of Christ, the 
original of which is given in Trench, Sacred Latin Po - 
etry, p. 137, while Mrs. Charles, in Christian Life in 
Sony , p. 1G1 , has given an English rendering, “ All the 
world’s Salvation, hail!” to which we may add another 
translation by Kynaston in Lyra Messianica, p. 194, 
“Jesus, hail ! the world’s Salvation.” A German ren- 
dering is found in Rambach, A ntholoyie, i, 275, and in 
Konigsfeld, flymnen mid Gesanyc . ii, 191. That part of 
the hymn which is addressed to the knees of the Sav- 
iour and commences, “ Salve, salve, rex sanctorum,” 
Thompson has rendered in Lyra Messianica, p. 288, 
“Hail, O hail! high King of Saints;” who also ren- 
dered that part addressed to the hands, and commenc- 
ing, “ Salve, salve, Jesu bone,” in Lyra Messianica, p. 
301, “ Hail ! () Jesu, kind and good.” (B. P.) 

Salvi, Giovanni Battista, an Italian painter of 
the Roman school, was born July 11, 1605. He studied 
at first with his father, at his home in Sassoferrato, and 
afterwards went to Rome and Naples. In the latter 
city he became a pupil of Domeniehino, whom lie re- 
sembled in many respects. Salvi died Aug. 8, 1685. 
He left a great number of copies after Guido, Baraccio, 


and Raphael. Of his original compositions, there are, 
in the museum at Naples, a Holy Family , and The. 
Workshop of Si. Joseph.— lloefer, Four. Biog. Gene rale, 

s. v. 

Salvi, Niccolo, an Italian architect, was born, in 
1699, at Rome. lie was of wealthy parentage; and, 
having received a brilliant education, he applied him- 
self in turn to poetry, mathematics, philosophy, and even 
medicine, but finally decided upon architecture, which 
had always been his favorite study. 1 1 is master, Ca- 
nevarius, leaving Rome, Salvi was left, in charge of 
many important works. He designed several beauti- 
ful altars and constructed villas; but his great work is 
the Fountain of Trevi, which was commenced bv or- 
der of Clement XII and finished under Benedict XIV. 
He died at Rome in 1751.— lloefer, Xouv. Biog. Gene- 
rale, s. v. 

Salvianus, an elegant ecclesiastical writer of the 
5th century, was born in the neighborhood of Treves. 
Whether reared as a Christian is uncertain; but shortly 
after his marriage with Palladia, a pagan lady of Co- 
logne, they both appear as earnest Christians. Alter t he 
birth of a daughter, he joined his wife in making a vow 
of monkish chastity. He now removed to the south of 
France, and acted as presbyter of the Church at Marseilles. 
Here he stood in close relations with bishop Eueherius 
of Lyons, to whose sons he gave instruction. The pe- 
riod of his death is uncertain, but he lived at least until 
490, for Geunadius wrote of him in 490-495, “Vivit 
usque hodie senectute bona.” Salvianus was a prolific 
author. Besides various treatises which have perished, 
the following are still extant: Adcer'sus Avaritiam Li- 
bri IV ad Ecclesiam Catholicam (about 440 [it was 
printed by Sichardus, at Basle, in 1528; its object was 
to induce the laity' to greater liberality to the Church]): 
— De yiibernatione Dei et de Justo Pnesentiqve Judicio 
(451-455 [it was printed by Frobcnius, Basic, 1530; it 
was written at the time of the ravages of the Northern 
barbarians, and was designed, like the Civitus Dei of 
Augustine, to remove the doubts against the providence 
of God to which those calamities had given rise]): — 
Epistolce IX, which had been addressed to friends on 
various familiar topics. These letters were first print- 
ed, with the author’s collective works, in 1580. The col- 
lective works of Salvianus were printed by P. Pithoeus 
(Paris, 1580, 8vo), by Rittershusius (Altdorf, 1611), and 
by Balusius (ibid. 1663-69-84). See lleyne, Opuscula 
A cademica, vol. vi : Smith, Diet, of Biog. and Myth, iii, 
700, 701 ; Herzog, Real-Encykl. xiii, 342, 343. (J. P. L.) 

Salviati, Alamanno, an Italian cardinal, was 
born at Florence, April 20, 1668. He was prothonotary 
of the Holy See, afterwards vice-legate of Avignon, and 
in 1717 was made legate of Urbino, which eliarge he 
held till he was created cardinal in 1730. lie died at 
Rome, Feb. 24, 1733. This prelate was the author of 
a dedicatory epistle addressed to the grand-duke Jean 
Gaston, and which is at the beginning of the Vocabola- 
rio of the Academy of Crusca. 

Salviati, Antonio Maria, an Italian cardinal, 
nephew of Bernardo .and Giovanni, was born in 1507. 
In 1561 he became bishop of Saint-Papoul, a diocese 
which had been held by his two uncles; hut he relin- 
quished it in 1563, and was sent by Pins IV as am- 
bassador to the court of France. Gregory XIII also 
employed him in various capacities, and in 1583 invest- 
ed him with the purple. Salviati was afterwards leg- 
ate at Bologna, and, on account of his virtues, was called 
the “great cardinal Salviati.” He died at Rome, April 
28, 1602. — lloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Salviati, Bernardo, an Italian cardinal of the 
same family as the preceding, was born at Florence in 
1-192. As a knight of St.John of Jerusalem he took 
part in several expeditions against t lie barbaric cor- 
sairs, and reached the rank of general of the galleys, 
lie undertook a campaign in the Peloponnesus when 
the island of Rhodes was in the hands of Soliman; he 


276 


SALZBURGERS 


SALVIATI 

laid Tripoli in ruins, destroyed tlie forts along the canal 
of Fngiera, besieged and took Cordon, in the Morea, and 
ravaged the island of Scio. Thus in a short time his 
name became a terror to the Turks. Being sent to 
Barcelona, to Charles V, he pleaded in vain for the lib- 
erty of his country, then torn by revolutions. Having 
gone to the court of France, he followed the advice of 
his relative, Catherine de’ Medicis, entered the ecclesi- 
astical life, and was made almoner of the queen. In 
1519 Salviati became bishop of Saint-Papoul, and. at 
the request of Catherine de’ Medicis, received lrom Pius 
IV the cardinal’s hat. together with the bishopric of 
Clermont. He died at Pome, May 6, 156S.— Hoefer, 
Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Salviati, Francesco Rossi de’ (called Ceechi- 
no de Salviati), an Italian painter, was born at Flor- 
ence in 1510. lie was first taught by his father, Filip- 
po I loss), but afterwards became a pupil of Bugiardini, 
and frequented the studios of the artists Eaffaello da 
Brescia and Andrea del Sarto. After lie had gained 
some reputation, be was called to Home by cardinal 
Giovanni Salviati, who became his patron, and whose 
name he took. He died at Home in ^563. In his fres- 
cos, Salviati shows a richness of invention and purity 
of design which have made him justly celebrated. His 
paintings are to be found in many of the principal cities 
of Europe. In the Louvre are a Holy Family, a Visita- 
tion, and The Unbelief of Thomas.— Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. 
Irene rale, s. v. 

Salviati, Giovanni, an Italian cardinal, was born 
at Florence. March 24, 1490. He became cardinal in 
1517. then administrator of the Church at Fermo, and, 
in 1520, bishop of Ferrara. Ilis cousin, Clement VII, 
sent him to quiet the troubles in Parma, and also, in 
1520, on a mission to Charles V at Madrid, to solicit the 
release of Francis I and the recall of the imperial troops 
which had invaded the Papal States. Not being able 
to prevent the sack of Home by the soldiers of the con- 
stable de Bourbon, Salviati went to implore the aid of 
the king of France in favor of the Ilolv See. By his 
mediation the treaty of the Holy League was signed, 
May 29, 1527, between Clement VII, Francis I, and Hen- 
ry VII ; and, in spite of many obstacles, he also brought 
about a peace between Charles V and the Holy See. 
From Francis I he. received, in 1520, the diocese of Ole- 
ron, and, in addition, that of Saint-Papoul, besides sev- 
eral rich abbeys. In 1543 he became bishop of Albano, 
and in 1540 of Porto. The home of Salviati at Rome 
was the resort of men of genius, who always found in 
him a generous patron. lie died at Ravenna, Oct. 28, 
1553. — Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Salvini, Salving, an Italian scholar, was born, in 
1607. at Florence. He was educated at Pisa, and gave 
himself to the study of belles-lettres and the antiquities 
of his country. He was canon of the cathedral of Flor- 
ence, and member of several literary associations. He 
died at Florence, Nov. 29, 1751. His works were nu- 
merous, but not of a religious character, as Fasti Conso- 
lari dell ’ Accademia Fiorentina . — Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. 
Generate, s. v. 

Salzburgers, this, is a term applied in Protestant 
history to the evangelical inhabitants of the duchy of 
Salzburg, who, after ages of persecution, finally, in 
1731-32, gave up their property and homes, and found 
refuge in Eastern Prussia. Salzburg, in the Middle 
Ages, was a powerful archbishopric, and its archbishop 
the most important prelate of Germany. It lay in the 
mountains in the south-west of Austria. Its population 
was Christianized by St. Rupert in the 0th century. 
The doctrines of llnss early obtained a footing, but the 
severe measures of archbishop Eberhard III in 1420 
suppressed them, though it is probable that the good 
leaven still worked secretly in many hearts; for at t he 
first dawn of the Reformation Salzburg warmly wel- 
comed it, and many of its priests began to teach as Lu- 
ther. Eminent among these was the venerable friend 


of Luther, Dr. Staupitz, who, in 1518, became the court 
preacher of the ducal archbishop of Salzburg. In 1520, 
however, he was silenced by the archbishop. Another 
eminent evangelical priest was Paul Speratus, who was 
driven into banishment. A third was Stephen Agric- 
ola, also a court preacher; after three years of impris- 
onment he escaped (1524), and became a pastor at 
Augsburg. A fourth was George Scharer, who was ac- 
tually put to death for his earnest preaching of the 
Gospel. In 1588 archbishop Dietrich issued a decree 
that all non -Catholic Salzburgers should within one 
month either become Catholics or leave the duchy. As 
the most of them chose the latter, another decree was 
issued confiscating their lands. Under his successor a 
similar measure was executed in 1614, During the 
whole period of the Thirty-years’ "War (1618-48), Salz- 
burg was relatively quiet, and actually increased in 
material prosperity, while disorder and ruin prevailed 
elsewhere. But a tolerant archbishop was a rare ex- 
ception. Accordingly the harsh measures broke out 
afresh under Gandolph in 1085. This was occasioned 
by the discovery of a rural parish which was wholly 
Lutheran, save that occasionally it held a public mass. 
All the evangelical books of this society were at once 
gathered up and burned, and the single choice offered of 
submission to Home or exile, with loss of property and 
children. More than a thousand persons saw themselves 
forced in midwinter to leave their homes and children. 
Earnest remonstrances were made by Prussia and other 
Protestant powers against this direct violation of the 
provisions of the Peace of Westphalia. While this dip- 
lomatic correspondence was taking place, the arch- 
bishop died (1086). Under his two successors there was 
less persecution, and the Lutheran-minded among the 
inhabitants practiced more caution, concealing their 
Bibles and other books in the mountains, and resorting 
to secret places in the night and celebrating their sim- 
ple worship, armed with axes, and with outstanding 
guards. But the final storm came at last, when the 
miserly and ambitious Leopold Anton became arch- 
bishop (1728). This man was anxious for two things — 
to stand in high favor at Home, and to fill his treasury. 
Both objects he thought would be reached by a severe 
course against all open or secret heresy. Accordingly 
he flooded his land with Jesuit spies. All heretics were 
at once arrested and cast into prison, and tormented 
with hunger and tortures. Meantime a few of the chief 
lion-Catholies fled secretly to Ratisbon and to Prussia, 
in hope of effecting forcible intervention on their be- 
half. They were warmly welcomed by Frederick "Will- 
iam I of Prussia, and were promised homes and protec- 
tion for all who should be forced to abandon their coun- 
try. But before their return the archbishop had resorted 
to a more extreme measure. The nonconformity of the 
non-Catholics was represented to Austria as rebellion, 
and from 4000 to 6000 troops were obtained, and then 
quartered on the persecuted Lutherans; and then, in or- 
der to terrify the rest into submission, some 800 of the 
most prominent members were violently arrested, and 
required within eight days to leave the country. But 
the effect w r as the contrary of what had been expected: 
they behaved so heroically and resolutely as to inspire 
the whole body of non-Catholics with a like enthusiasm. 
In December, 1731, they crossed the Bavarian frontier. 
A few days later another company of 500 followed them. 
By April, 1732, the number of the exiles had reached 
more than 14,000; and some of the best districts W'ere 
almost desolated. The sole substantial help was given 
to the exiles by Prussia. The king issued a decree in 
February, 1732, requiring his officers to furnish them 
with money to make their journey, acknowledging 
them as Prussian subjects, pledging his goyernment to 
see that recompense should be made for their lands, 
and threatening to confiscate Catholic property in his 
own dominions in case the archbishop did not proceed 
with more moderation. Denmark, Sweden, and Holland 
made similar remonstrances and threats in tlieir behalf. 


SAM 


277 


SAMARIA 


At the suggestion of George II of England a collection 
was taken up for the sufferers throughout Protestant- 
dom. It amounted to some 900,000 tlorins. The place 
of refuge assigned to them was in the wilds of Lithua- 
nia. The course of their march through Nuremberg, 
Erlangen, Leipsic, llalle, Wittenberg, Magdeburg, Pots- 
dam, and Berlin was almost like a triumphal procession, 
so great was the sympathy which their long-endured 
sufferings had everywhere excited. At Potsdam the 
old king, Frederick William, received them into the 
palace gardens; and, with his queen, mingled among 
them very familiarly, asking them questions in regard 
to their faith, and giving them advice for the future, 
lie was highly gratified with them, gave them money, 
and, assuring them that he would treat them in the 
best possible manner, bade them a hearty godspeed. 
From Berlin the exiles took their way to Stettin, where 
they took ship and sailed to Konigsberg. Thence they 
marched bv land to Lithuania, where wild lauds awaited 
them, and* which their industry speedily transformed 
into a flourishing colony of towns and farm-houses. 
The number who positively settled there was over 
20,000. They cordially welcomed the Lutheran pas- 
tors who were furnished to them at Berlin. The several 
millions of thalers which the king spent upon them 
proved no less a wise commercial investment than had 
been the case with the help given to the banished 
Huguenots by his grandfather, the great elector. 

While Prussia profited so richly from the persecu- 
tions of these Salzburgers, the persecuting archbishop 
was foiled in his real, sole purpose. Instead of filling 
his treasury, he actually emptied it. It was only im- 
perfectly that he could supply his deserted fields and 
mines with new laborers; ami those whom he did ob- 
tain were, many of them, indolent and mendicant. In 
addition, there came upon him a debt of 11,000,000 flor- 
ins for the Austrian troops which he had employed to 
oppress and expel his subjects. The results were an 
impoverished land and a heavier taxation upon the re- 
maining Catholics, while the. emigrants were entirely 
freed from all imposts and taxes for full ten years. Also 
other lands profited from this persecution. Wiirtem- 
berg, Holland, Sweden, Russia, England, and America 
(Georgia) received large numbers of the exiles; so that 
the number actually lost to Salzburg by the folly of 
archbishop Anton was over 30,000. Since this sera of 
persecution Salzburg has held a much less prominent 
place in European history. The territory was secular- 
ized in 1802. In 1815 the most of it was given to Aus- 
tria. In 1849 it became a separate crown-land of Aus- 
tria. See Gockling, Emiyrationsgeschichte von Salz- 
burg (Leips. 1734) ; Pause, Geschichte der A uswandertmg 
der evangeliscken Salzburger (ibid. 1827) ; Herzog, Real- 
Encyklop. xiii, 340-359. (J. P. L.) 

Sam, Conrad, known in German history as “the 
Reformer of Ulm,” was born at Rothenacker in 1483. 
lie studied Latin at Ulm, and in 1498 matriculated at 
Tubingen. In 1520 he was preacher at Brackenheim, 
near Heilbronn, and thoroughly devoted to the Refor- 
mation. Luther corresponded with him, and sent to 
him regularly his publications. Copies still exist with 
Luther’s autograph : “An den Sam, Pf. zu Brackenheim, 
M. Luther, Dr.” In 1524 he was driven away from 
Brackenheim, but found protection in Ulm, and an open 
door to preach the new doctrines. Here his labors re- 
sulted in the complete victory of Protestantism. His 
stentorian voice, his popular style and wit, filled the 
great cathedral with the eager populace. But soon 
great trials began. The eucharistic strife broke out. 
Sam gradually turned from Luther’s views to the sim- 
pler and more radical doctrine of Zwingli, with whom, 
as also with Blarer, Bucer, and (Ecolampadius, he en- 
tered into close correspondence. After many struggles, 
the local authorities of Ulm were brought to consent to 
a formal reformation of Church rites and doctrine. The 
mass was abolished, images removed, cloisters closed, 
and the Zwinglian doctrines accepted. But victory, 


after seven years 'of valiant contest, was in its results 
for Sam fully as serious and full of danger as had been 
the open contest. So soon as the crown of victory was 
gained, the interest of the masses in religion cooled oil’; 
attendance on the sermons declined; vice reigned among 
high and low; the duties of Sam taxed his powers to 
the utmost; and, worse than all, the zeal of the op- 
; pressed party burst forth with new life. Romanists 
flocked out to even 7 neighboring village to join in their 
I old rites; and High Lutherans labored in the same di- 
rection. In 1533 the health of the laborious preacher 
began to break down. Twice he rose from his siek-bed 
to proclaim the Gospel afresh. It was too much. On 
June 20 he. rested from his labors. See Keim, Reform . 
der Reichsstadt Elm (1851) ; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. xx, 
G70-G82. (J. P. L.) 

Sam'ael (flapafjX v. r. 2a\a/m)\), a corrupt form 
(Judith viii, 1) of the lleb. name (Numb, i, G) Suelu- 

IUIEL (q. V.). 

Samai'as (Nn/tnic, hut v. r. in Tobit Scjufar* Nt- 
pe\tag, etc.), a Gnecized form for the name Siik.maiaii 
(q. v.): a. a Levite (1 Esdr. i, 9), in the reign of Josiah 
(2 Chron. xxv, 9); b. an Israelite (1 Esdr. viii, 39) of 
t lie “sons” of Adonikam (Ezra viii, 13); c. a “great” 
personage, father of Ananias and Jonathas (Tobit v, 

j 1^)’ 

Samanaeans, in Chinese mythology, are an order 
of saints who are given to self-contemplation. Fo, or 
Fold, teaches that the essence of all things consists in 
j the nothing and the vacuum, and that men return into 
the nothing, there first to attain to blessedness. The 
Samanaeans occupy the last stage in the progress to- 
wards this nihilistic blessedness. He who has advanced 
to this stage need no longer worship the gods; he is 
delivered from his passions, lives in a state of constant 
self-contemplation, and dies only that he may be incor- 
porated with the great soul of the world. — Vollmer, 
Wbrterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Samanera is the name given to a novice among 
the Buddhists, Tt is derived from sraniana , an ascetic. 
He must be at least eight years of age, and must have 
received the consent of his parents to his abandonment 
of the world. He cannot receive ordination until he is 
twenty years of age, nor before he has reached that 
age can lie perform any religious rite, nor is he allow- 
ed to interfere in matters of discipline or government. 
The vow of a Samanera is in no case revocable. — Gard- 
ner, Faiths of the World, s. v. 

Sama'ria [strictly Samari'a], City of (Heb. 
Shomei'on ', ‘|"T7w, watch, so called probably from its 
commanding site, as well as by alliteration witli its 
original owner’s name; Chald. Shomru'yin, 

Ezra iv, 10, 17; Sept,, New Test., and Josephus, usually 
Eapdpeia, as Ptokmy; but some copies of the Sept, 
often have Sapcipia, and occasionally 'Styijptov or No- 
popiov; and Josephus once [J nt. viii, 12, 1] lepapew r), 
an important place in Central Palestine, famous as the 
capital of the Northern Kingdom, and later as giving 
name to a region of the country and to a schismatic 
sect. (The following account is in part compiled from 
the articles in the dictionaries of Kitto and Smith.) 
See Israel, Kingdom of. 

I. History . — The hill of the same name, which the 
city occupied, was purchased for two talents of silver 
from the owner, Shemer (q. v.), after whom the city 
was named (1 Kings xvi, 23, 24). by Omri ((j. v.), king 
of Israel, for the foundation of his new metropolis. B.C. 
cir. 925. The first capital after the secession of the ten 
tribes had been Shechem itself, whither all Israel had 
come to make Rehoboam king. On the separation be- 
ing fully accomplished, Jeroboam rebuilt that city (1 
Kings xii, 25), which had been razed to the ground by 
Abimelech (Judg. ix, 45). But he soon moved to Tir- 
zah, a place, as 1 >r. Stanley observes, of great ami pro- 
verbial beauty (Cant, vi, 4), which continued to be the 


SAMAllIA 


273 


SAMARIA 


royal residence until Zimri burned tlie palace and per- 
ished in its ruins (1 Kings xiv, 17 : xv, 21, 33; xvi, 6 - 
ltS). Oniri, who prevailed in the contest for the king- 
dom that ensued, after “reigning six years” there, trans- 
ferred his court and government to a new site, being 
under the necessity of reconstructing somewhere, and 
doubtless influenced by the natural advantages of the 
position, and desirous of commemorating his dynasty 
by a change of capital. Samaria continued to be the 
metropolis of Israel for the remaining two centuries of 
that kingdom’s existence. During all this time it was 
i lie scat of idolatry, and is often as such denounced by 
the prophets (Isa. ix, 8; Jer. xxiii, 13, 14; Ezek. xvi, 
46-55; Amos vi, 1 ; Mie. i, 1), sometimes in connection 
with Jerusalem (especially by Ilosea). Ahab built a 
temple to Baal there (1 Kings xvi, 32, 33) ; and from ' 
this circumstance a portion of the city, possibly fortified 
by a separate wall, was called “ the city of the house of 
Baal” (2 Kings x, 25). It was the scene of many of 
the acts of the prophets Elijah and Elisha (q. v.), con- 
nected with the various famines of the land, the unex- 
pected plenty of Samaria, and the several deliverances 
of the city from the Syrians. Jehu broke down the 
temple of Baal, but does not appear to have otherwise 
injured the city (ver. 18-28). Samaria must have been 
a place of great strength. It was twice besieged by the 
Syrians, in B.C. 301 (1 Kings xx, 1) and in B.C. 892 
(2 Kings vi, 24-vii, 20); but on both occasions the siege 
wa» ineffectual. On the latter, indeed, it was relieved 
miraculously, hut not until the inhabitants had suffered 
almost incredible horrors from famine during their pro- 
tracted resistance. The possessor of Samaria was con- 
sidered to be de facto king of Israel (xv, 13, 14); and 
woes denounced against the nation were directed against 
it bv name (Isa. vii, 9, etc.). Although characterized 
by gross voluptuousness, as well as other sins incidental 
to idolatry, its inhabitants did not entirely lose that 
generosity which had early characterized Ephraim, in 
evidence of which note the event that happened during 
the reign of the last but one of its kings (2 Chron. xxviii, 
G-15). In B.C. 720 Samaria was taken, after a siege 
of three years, by Shalmane- 
ser (or, rather, by his successor 
Sargon), king of Assyria (2 
Kings xviii, 9, JO), and the 
kingdom of the ten tribes was 
destroyed. The city doubtless 
was demolished by the con- 
queror. Col. Iiawlinson, in- 
deed, has lately endeavored to 
show that Samaria was not at 
once depopulated (/l thenceum 
[Loud.], Aug. 22, 1863, p.246); 
and this was doubtless true as 
regards the country around; 
but his application of the ar- 
gument to the city itself (evi- 
dently in order to square with 
the hypothesis of a twofold 
Ancient Egyptian Eepre- invasion of Judah also during 
sentatioiiof the People the reign of llezekiah [q.v.]) 
of Samaria. is based upon reasons so obvi- 

ously inconclusive that they need not he here examined 
in detail. See Samaritan. Samaria is only called 
Heth-KInimi'i in the earlier euneatic inscriptions (q.v.), 
but from the time of Tiglath-Pileser 11 the term used is 
Tsanririn (Bawlinson, I list. Evidences, p. 321). The 
people are figured on the Egyptian monuments among 
the captives with the hieroglyph Asmori attached 
(Wilkinson, A nr. Egyptians, i, 403). See Captivity, 
Assyrian. 

After this capture Samaria appears to have continued, 
for a time at least, the chief city of the foreigners brought 
to occupy the places of the departed natives, although 
Sheehem soon became the capital of the Samaritans as 
a religious sect. From this it would seem that the city 
of Samaria had meanwhile been but partially rebuilt. 


n 



We do not, however, hear especially of the place until the 
days of Alexander the Great, B.C. 333. That conqueror 
took the city, which seems to have somewhat recovered 
itself (Euseb. Chron. ad ami. Abr. 1684), killed a large 
portion of the inhabitants, and suffered the remainder 
to settle among their compatriots at Sheehem (q.v.). 
He replaced them by a colony of Syro-Macedonians, and 
gave the adjacent territory (HHapapsiriQ x<'V> a ) to the 
Jews to inhabit (Josephus, c. Ap. ii, 4). These Svro- 
Maeedonians occupied the city until the time of John 
Hyrcanus. It was then a place of considerable impor- 
tance, for Josephus describes it {Ant. xiii, 10, 2) as a 
very strong city ( 7ro\i< ; 6 -^vpiorarij). John Ilyreanus 
took it after a year’s siege, and did his best to demolish 
it entirely. lie intersected the hill on which it lay with 
trenches; into these he conducted the natural brooks, 
and thus undermined its foundation. “In fact,” says 
the Jewish historian, “he took away all evidence of the 
very existence of the city.” This story at first sight 
seems rather exaggerated, and inconsistent with the 
hilly site of Samaria. It may have referred only to the 
suburbs lying at its foot. “ But,” says Pridcaux ( Con- 
nection , B.C. 109, note), “ Benjamin of Tiulela, who was 
in the place, tells us in his Itinerary (no such passage, 
however, exists in that work) that there were upon the 
top of this hill many fountains of water, and from these 
water enough may have been derived to fill these trench- 
es.” It should also be recollected that the hill of Sama- 
ria was lower than the hills in its neighborhood. This 
may account for the existence of these springs. Jose- 
phus describes the extremities to which the inhabitants 
were reduced during this siege, much in the same way 
that the author of the book of Kings does during that 
of Benhadad (comp. ir«r, i, 2, 7 with 2 Kings vi, 25). 
John llyrcanus’s reasons for attacking Samaria were the 
injuries which its inhabitants had done to the people of 
Clarissa, colonists and allies of the Jews. This confirms 
what was said above of the cession of the Samaritan 
neighborhood to the Jews by Alexander the Great. The 
mention of Marissa in this connection serves to explain 
a notice in the earlier history of the Maccabees. The 
Samaria named in the present text of 1 Mace, v, GG (?) 
i lapdptia ; Yulg. >S ’umurui) is evidently an error. At 
any rate, t lie well-known Samaria of the Old and New 
Testaments cannot be intended, for it is obvious that 
Judas, in passing from Hebron to the land oi the Philis- 
tines (Azotus), could not make so immense a detour. 
The true correction is doubtless supplied by Josephus 
(A nt. xii, 8, 6), who has Marissa (i. e. Mareshah [q. v.]) 
a place which lay in the road from Hebron to the Phi- 
listine plain. One of the ancient Latin versions exhibits 
the same reading, which is accepted by Ewald ( Gesch . 
iv, 3G1) and a host of commentators (see Grimm, Kurzy . 
exey. Ilandb. on the passage). Drnsius proposed Shaa- 
raim; but this is hardly so feasible as Mareshah, and 
has no external support. 

After this demolition (which occurred in B.C. 129), the 
Jews inhabited what remained of the city; at least, we 
find it in their possession in the time of Alexander Jan- 
tueus (Josephus, Ant. xiii, 15, 4), and until Pompevgave 
it back to the descendants of its original inhabitants 
(roi£ one?) ropin'). These o iKtjroptg may possibly have 
been the Syro-Macedonians, but it is more probable that 
they were Samaritans proper, whose ancestors had been 
dispossessed by the colonists of Alexander the Great. 
By directions of Gabinius, Samaria and other demolish- 
ed cities were rebuilt (ibid, xiv, 5, 3). But its more ef- 
fectual rebuilding was undertaken by Herod the Great, 
to whom it had been granted by Augustus, on the death 
of Antony and Cleopatra (ibid, xiii, 10, 3 ; xv, 8, 5 ; War, 
i, 20, 3). lie called it tiebaste, = A nyvsta, af- 

ter the name of his patron (Josephus, Ant. xv, 7, 7). 
Josephus gives an elaborate description of Herod’s im- 
provements. The wall surrounding it was twenty stadia 
in length. In the middle of it was a close, of a stadium 
and a half square, containing a magnificent temple ded- 
icated to the Ciesar. It was colonized by G000 veterans 


SAMARIA 


279 


SAMARIA 


and others, for whose support a most beautiful and rich 
district .surrounding the city was appropriated. Herod’s 
motives in these arrangements were probably, first, the 
occupation of a commanding position, and then the de- 
sire of distinguishing himself for taste by the embellish- 
ment of a spot already so adorned by nature (ibid, xv, 
8, 5, 117/7', i, 20, 3, 21, 2). 

How long Samaria maintained its splendor after 
Herod’s improvements, we are not informed. In the 
New Test, the city itself does not appear to be men- 
tioned, but rather a portion of the district to which, even 
in older times, it had extended its name. Our version, 
indeed, of Acts viii, 5 says that Philip the deacon “went 
down to the city of Samaria;” but the Greek of the pas- 
sage is simply eig 7ro\iv rpg Hapapeiag. It is hardly 
safe to argue, however, either from the absence of the 
definite article, or from the probability that, had the 
city Samaria been intended, the term employed would 
have been Seboste, that some one city of the district, the 
name of which is not specified, was in the mind of the 
writer (as Olshausen, Neander, DeWette, Meyer, etc.); 
for the genitive is one of apposition (Winer), 7 ro\t£ be- 
ing sufficiently defined by it (Ilackett), and the city was 
well known in that day by this name (see Josephus, A nt. 
xx, 0, 2). The evangelist woidd naturally have re- 
sort ed first to the chief city, where also Simon Magus 
probably was. In ver. 9 of the same chapter “ the peo- 
ple of Samaria” represents to t$vog rpg 'Sapaptiag\ 
and the phrase in ver. 25, “many villages of the Samari- 
tans,” shows that the operations of evangelizing were 
not confined to the city of Samaria itself (comp. Matt, x, 
5. “ Into any city of the Samaritans enter ye not;” and 
John iv, 4, 5, where, after it has been said, “And he 
must needs go through Samaria,” obviously the district, 
it is subjoined, “' Then cometh he to a city of Samaria 
called Svchar”), Henceforth its history is very un- 
connected, although it is occasionally noticed in the 
reigns of the Roman emperors (Ulpian, Ley. I. de Cen - 
sibus, quoted by Dr. Robinson). Various specimens of 
coins struck on the spot have been preserved, extend- 
ing from Nero to Geta, the brother of Caraealla (Yail- 
lant, in Numiftm. Imper. , and Nons, quoted by Reland; 
Kekhel, iii, 440; Mionnet, Med, Antiq. v, 513). Septi- 
mius Severus appears to have established there a Ro- 
man colony in the beginning of the 3d century (Cel- 
larius, Xot. Orb. ii, 432). Eusebius scarcely mentions 
the city as extant ; but it is often named by Jerome and 
other writers of the same and a later age (adduced in 
Reland’s Pakest. p. 979-981). But it could not have 
been a place of much political importance. We find in 
the Codex of Theodosius that by A.D. 409 the Holy 
Land had been divided into Pakestina Prima, Secunda, 
and Tertia. Pahestina Prima included the country of 
the Philistines, Samaria (the district), and the northern 
part of Judaea; but its capital was not Sebaste, but Cass- 
area. In an ecclesiastical point of view it stood rather 
higher. It was an episcopal see probably as early as 
the 3d century. At any rate, its bishop was present 
among those of Palestine at the Council of Nica?a. A.D. 
325, and subscribed its acts as “Maximus (al. Marinus) 
Sebastenus.” The names of some of his successors 
have been preserved; the latest of them mentioned is 
Pelagius, who attended the synod at Jerusalem, A.D. 
530. The title of the see occurs in the earlier Greek 
Xotitue and in the later Latin ones (Reland, Pakest. 
p. 214-229). 

Jerome, whose acquaintance with Palestine imparts 
a sort of probability to the tradition which prevailed so 
strongly in later days, asserts that Sebaste, which he in- 
variably identifies with Samaria, was the place in which 
John the Baptist was imprisoned and suffered death. 
(See below.) He also makes it the burial-place of the 
prophets Elisha and Obadiah (see various passages cited 
by Reland, Palwst. p. 980, 981 ). Epiphanius is at great 
pains, in his work A dr. f/trreses (lib. i). in which he 
treats of the heresies of the Samaritans with singular 
minuteness, to account for the origin of their name. He i 


interprets it as (pbXaiceg , or “keepers.” The 

hill on which the city was built was, he says, designated 
Somer, or Soinoron (Swpijp, 'Siofu’ipiov'), from a certain 
Somoron the son of Somer, whom he considers to have 
been of the stock of the ancient Perizzites or Girgash- 
ites, themselves descendants of Canaan and Ham. But, 
he adds, the inhabitants may have been called Samari- 
tans from their guarding the land, or (coming down 
much later in their history) from their guarding the 
law, as distinguished from the later writings of the Jew- 
ish canon, which they refused toallow. See Samaritan*. 

The city, along with Nablus, fell into the power of 
the Moslems during the siege of Jerusalem, A.D. 614; 
and we hear but little more of it till the time of the 
Crusades. At what time the city of Herod became deso- 
late no existing accounts state, but all the notices of the 
4th century and later lead to the inference that its de- 
struction had already taken place. The Crusaders es- 
tablished a Latin bishopric at Sebaste, and the title was 
continued in the Romish Church till the 14th century 
(Le Quien, Oriens Christ, iii, 1290). Saladin marched 
through it in A.D. 1184, after his repulse from Kerak 
(Abulfeda, Annul. A.H. 580). Benjamin of Tudela de- 
scribes it as having been “formerly a very strong city, 
and situated on the mount, in a fine country, richly 
ivatered, and surrounded by gardens, vine\*ards, orchards, 
and olive-groves.” He adds that no Jews were living 
there ( I finer, [ed. Asher] p. 66). Phocas and Brocar- 
dus speak only of the church and tomb of John the Bap- 
tist, and of the Greek church and monastery on the sum- 
mit of the hill. Notices of the place occur in the trav- 
ellers of the 14th, 16th, and 17th centuries; nor are they 
all so meagre as Dr. Robinson conceives. That ofMori- 
son,for instance, is full and exact (Voyaye du Mont Si- 
nai , p. 230-233). The description of Sandvs, likewise, 
is tpiite circumstantial (see Kitto, Phys. Hist, of Palest. 
p. cxvii sq.). Scarcely any traces of the earlier or later 
Samaria could then be perceived, the materials having 
been used by the inhabitants for the construction of their 
own mean dwellings. The residents were an extremely 
poor and miserable set of people. In the 18th century 
the place appears to have been left unexplored, but in the 
present century it has often been visited and described. 

II. Desniption. — In the territory originally belonging 
to the tribe of Joseph, about six miles to the north-west 
of Shechem, there is a wide basin-shaped valley, encir- 
cled with high hills, almost on the edge of the great 
plain which borders upon the Mediterranean. In the 
centre of this basin, wdiich is on a lower level than the 
valley of Shechem, rises a less elevated oblong hill, with 
steep yet accessible sides, and a long fiat top. The sin- 
gular beauty of the spot may have struck Omri, as it af- 
terwards struck the tasteful Idumiean (Josephus, H7/r, 
i, 21 , 2; Ant. xv, 8, 5). All travellers agree that it would 
be difficult to find in the whole land a situation of equal 
strength, fertility, and beauty combined. “ In all these 
particulars,” says Dr. Robinson, “ it has greatly the ad- 
vantage over Jerusalem” (Bibl. Researches, iii, 146\ In 
the valley there is an abundance of excellent water all 
the year round, but on the hill itself there is not so much 
as a single fountain. This is its only and great disad- 
vantage as a site for a city, and a most serious one it 
must have been, especially in the time of siege. This 
was a want which Samaria shared in common with the 
capital of Judah; but the deficiency in both eases was 
so amply supplied by cisterns under the houses and else- 
where that, in the severe sieges we never read of either 
city suffering from a scarcity of water. See Jerisalem. 
The hill of Samaria itself is of considerable elevation 
and very regular in form, and the broad deep valley in 
the midst of which it lies is a continuation of that of 
Nablus (Shechem), which here expands into a breadth 
of five or six miles. Beyond this valley, which com- 
pletely isolates the hill, the mountains rise again on 
every side, forming a complete wall around the city (as 
referred to in 2 Kings vi, 17). They are terraeed to the 


SAMARIA 


280 


SAMARIA 



General View of bebustiyeh (Samaria) from the south-east, showing the Ruins ot the Church of St. Johu to the right, 
and the Terraces of the Hill to the left. (From a photograph by the Editor.) 


tops, sown in grain, and planted with olives and figs, in I 
the midst of which a number of handsome villages ap- 
pear to great advantage, their white stone cottages con- 
trasting strikingly with the verdure of the trees. The 
hill of Samaria itself is cultivated from its base, the ter- 
raced sides and summit being covered with corn and 
with olive-trees. About midway up the ascent the hill 
is surrounded by a narrow terrace of level land, like a 
belt, below which the roots of the hill spread oft more 
gradually into the valleys. Higher up, too, are the 
marks of slight terraces, once occupied, perhaps, by the 
streets of the ancient city. The ascent of the hill is 
very steep, and the narrow footpath winds among the 
mountains through substantial cottages of the modern 
jN 'ebnxtiyeh (the Arabic form of Sebaste), which appear 
to have been constructed to a great extent of ancient 
materials, very superior in size and quality to anything 
which could at this day be wrought into an Arab habi- 
tation. The houses are all of stone, though erected with 
little or no regard to order and regularity. These, with 
their inmates, present the same unclean appearance that 
is met with among all the Felahin of the country; and 
the inhabitants are remarkably rude, but more indus- 
trious than most of their race. Thjftviow from the sum- 
mit is most interesting. Beneath, *to the north and east, 
lie its own immediate fertile valleys; and, turning west- 
wardly, the eye wanders over rich plains to Sharon and 
the blue Mediterranean ; and even in the present impov- 
erished state of the country the scene lifts the mind of 
the beholder with delight. 

On the summit, the first object which attracts the 
notice of the traveller, and, at the same time, the most 
conspicuous ruin of the place, is the church dedicated 
to .John the Baptist, erected on the spot which an old 
tradition (noticed above) fixed as the place of his buri- 
al, if not of bis martyrdom. It is said to have been 
built by the empress Ilekuia; but the architecture lim- 
its its antiquity to the period of the Crusades, although 
a portion of the eastern end seems to have been of ear- 
lier date. There is a blending of Greek and Saracenic 
styles, which is particularly observable in the interi- 
or, where there are several pointed arches; others are 
round. The columns follow no regular order, while the 
capitals and ornaments present a motley combination 
not to be found in any church erected in or near the 
age of Constantine. The length of the edifice is 153 
feet inside, besides a porch of 10 feet; and the breadth 
is 75 feet. The eastern end is rounded, in the common 
Greek style; and, resting, as it does, upon a precipitous 
elevation of nearly 100 feet immediately above the val- 


lev, it is a noble and striking monument. Within the 
enclosure is a common Turkish tomb; and beneath it, 
at a depth reached by twenty-one stone steps, is a sep- 
ulchre, three or four paces square, where, according to 
the tradition, John the Baptist was interred after he 
had been slain by Ilerod. There is no trace of this 
tradition earlier than the time of Jerome; and if Jose- 
phus is correct in stating that John was beheaded in 
the castle of Machierus, on the east of the Dead Sea 
{Ant. xviii, 5, 2), his burial in Samaria is very improba- 
ble. See John tiik Baptist. 

On approaching the summit of the hill, the traveller 
comes suddenly upon an area once surrounded by lime- 
stone columns, of which fifteen are still standing and 
two prostrate. These columns form two rows, thirty- 
two paces apart, while less than two paces intervene 
between the columns. They measure seven feet nine 
inches in circumference; blit there is no trace of the 
order of their architecture, nor are there any founda- 
tions to indicate the nature of the edifice to which they 
belonged. Some refer them to Herod’s temple to Au- 
gustus, others to a Greek church which seems to have 
once occupied the summit of the hill. The descent of 
the hill on the W.S.W. side brings the traveller to a 
very remarkable colonnade, which is easily traceable by 
a great number of columns, erect or prostrate, along the 
side of the hill for at least one third of a mile, where it 
terminates at a heap of ruins, near the eastern extrem- 
ity of the ancient site. The columns are sixteen feet 
high, two feet in diameter at the base, and one foot 
eight inches at the top. The capitals have disappear- 
ed ; but tbe shafts retain their polish, and, when not 
broken, arc in good preservation. Eighty-two of these 
columns are still erect, and the number of those fallen 
and broken must be much greater. Most of them are 
of the limestone common to the region ; but some are 
of white marble, and some of granite. The mass of 
ruins in which this colonnade terminates towards the 
west is composed of blocks of hewn stone, covering no 
great area, on the slope of the hill, many feet lower 
than the summit. Neither the situation nor extent 
of this pile favors the notion of its having been a pal- 
ace, nor is it easy to conjecture the design of the edi- 
fice. The colonnade, the remains of which now stand 
solitary and mournful in the midst of ploughed lields, 
may, however, with little hesitation, be referred to the 
time of IJcrod the Great, and must be regarded as be- 
longing to some one of the splendid structures with 
which he adorned the city. In the deep ravine which 
bounds tbe city on the north there is another colon- 


SAMARIA 


281 


SAMARIA 



Ruins of Herod’s Colonnade surrounding the Hill of Samaria. (From a photograph by the Editor.) 


nade, not visited by Dr. Robinson, but fully described | SAMARIA, Region of (usually 2apapeia, the same 
by Dr. Olin ( Travels , ii, 371-373). The area in which as the city; but when distinguishing it from the latter, 
these columns stand is completely shut in by hills, with the Sept, and Josephus write 2apapeiriQ or Xwpa 2a- 
the exception of an opening on the north-east; and so 1 papetjv; sometimes 2apapi, as Ptolemy). This term 
peculiarly sequestered is the situation that it is only at first included all the tribes over which Jeroboam 
visible from a few points of the heights of the ancient made himself king, whether east or west of the river 
site, by which it is overshadowed. The columns, of Jordan. Hence, even before the city of Samaria exist- 
which a large number are entire and several in frag- ed, we find the “old prophet who dwelt at Bethel” de- 
ments, are erect, and arranged in a quadrangle 196 scribing the predictions of “ the man of God who came 
paces in length and 64 in breadth. They are three from Judah,” in reference to the altar at Bethel, as di- 
paces asunder, which would give 170 columns as the rected not merely against that altar, but “against all the 
whole number when the colonnade was complete. The I houses of the high-places which are in the cities of Sa- 
columns resemble, in size and material, those of the col- maria ” (1 Kings xiii, 32), i. e., of course, the cities of 
onnade last noticed, and appear to belong to the same which Samaria was, or was to be, the head or capital, 
age. These also probably formed part of Herod’s city, In other places in the historical books of the Old Test, 
though it is difficult to determine the use to which the (with the exception of 2 Kings xvii, 24, 26, 28, 29) 
colonnade was appropriated. Dr. Olin is possibty right Samaria seems to denote the city exclusively. But the 
in his conjecture that this was one of the places of pub- prophets use the word, much as did the old prophet of 
lie assembly and amusement which Herod introduced Bethel, in a greatly extended sense. Thus the “calf 
into his dominions. “A long avenue of broken pil- of Bethel” is called by Hosea (viii, 5, 6) the “ calf of 
lars” (says dean Stanley), “apparently the main street Samaria;” in Ainos (iii, 9) the “ mountains of Samaria” 
of Herod’s city, here, as at Palmyra and Damascus, are spoken of; and the “captivity of Samaria and her 
adorned by a colonnade on each side, still lines the daughters” is a phrase found in Ezekiel (xvi, 53). 
topmost terrace of the hill.” But the fragmentary as- But, whatever extent, the word might have acquired, 
pect of the whole place exhibits a present fulfilment of it necessarily became contracted as the limits of the 
the prophecy of Micah (i, 6), though it may have been kingdom of Israel became contracted. In all probabili- 
fulfilled more than once previously by the ravages of j ty the territory of Simeon and that of Dan were very 
Shalmaneser or of John Hyrcanus: “I will make Sa- early absorbed in the kingdom of Judah. This would 
maria as a heap of the field, and as plantings of a vine- be one limitation. Next, in B.C. 771 and 740 respective- 
yard: and I will pour down the stones thereof into the j lv, “ Pul, king of Assyria, and Tilgath-pilneser, king of 
valley, and I will discover the foundations thereof” (Mic. | Assyria, carried away the Reuben ites, and the Gadites, 

i, 6; comp. Hos. xiii, 16). and the half-tribe of Manasseh, and brought them unto 

See Robinson, Researches, iii, 136-149; Olin, Travels , llalah, and Ilabor, and Ilara. and to the river Gozan” 

ii, 366-374; Buckingham, Travels in Palestine, p. 512- i (1 Cliron. v, 26). This would be a second limitation. 

517; Richardson, Travels, ii, 409-4 13; Schubert, Morgen- But the latter of these kings went further: “He took 
land* iii, 156-162; Raumer, Paliistina, p: 144-148 (notes), j Ijon, and Abel-beth-maachab, and Janoah, and Kcdesh, 
158; Maundrell, Journey, p. 78, 79; Reland, Paleestina, and llazor, and Gilead, and Galilee, all the land of 
p. 344, 979-982; Van de Velde, Syria and Palestine , i, Naphtali,and carried them captive to Assyria” (2 Kings 
363-388; ii, 295, 296; Stanley, Sinai and Palestine, p. xv, 29). This would be a third limitation. Nearly a 
242-246; De Saulcy, Dead Sea, ii, 272 sq. ; llackctt, //- century before, B.C. 860, “the Lord had begun to cut 
lust. p. 183 sq. ; Schwarz, Palest, p. 149 ; Thomson, Land Israel short,” for “ 1 Iazael, king of Syria, smote them in 
and Book, ii, 197 sq.; Porter, (handbook, p.337 sq.; Ridg- all the coasts of Israel: from Jordan eastward, all the 
away^ The Lord's Land, p. 541 sq.; Conder, Tent Work land of Gilead, the Gadites, and the Reubenites, and 
in Palestine, i, 88 sq. See Samaria, Region of. J the Manassites, from Aroer, which is by the river Aruon, 



SAMARIA 


282 


SAMARITAN 


even Gilead and Bashan” (2 Kings x, 32, 33). This, 
however, as we may conjecture from t he diversity of 
expression, had been merely a passing inroad, and had 
involved no permanent subjection of the country, or de- 
portation of its inhabitants. The invasions of Pul and 
of Tilgnth-pilneser were utter clearances of the popula- 
tion. The territory t bus desolated by them was proba- 
bly occupied by degrees by the pushing forward of the 
neighboring heathen, or by straggling families of the 
Israelites themselves. In reference to the northern 
part of Galilee, we know that a heathen population pre- 
vailed. Hence the phrase “Galilee of the nations” or 
“Gentiles” (Isa. ix, 1 ; 1 Mace, v, 15). No doubt this 
was the case also beyond Jordan. But we have yet 
to arrive at a fourth limitation of the kingdom of 
Samaria. It is evident from an occurrence in Ilezeki- 
ali’s reign that just before the deposition of Hoshea, 
the last king of Israel, the authority of the king of Ju- 
dah, or. at least, his influence, was recognised by por- 
tions of Asher, Issaehar, and Zebulnn, and even of 
Ephraim and Manasseh (2 Citron, xxx, 1-2G). Men 
came from all those tribes to the Passover at Jerusalem. 
This was about B.C. 726. In fact, to such miserable 
limits had the kingdom of Samaria been reduced, that 
when, two or three years afterwards, we are told that 
“ Shalmaneser came up throughout the land,” and after 
a siege of three years “ took Samaria, and carried Israel 
away into Assyria, and placed them in Halali, and in 
I labor by the river Gozan, and in the cities of the 
Medes” (2 Kings xvii, 5. 6). and when again we are 
told that “ Israel was carried away out of their own 
land into Assyria” (2 Kings xvii, 23), we must suppose 
a very small fleld of operations. Samaria (the city), 
and a few adjacent cities or villages only, represented 
that dominion which had once extended from Bethel 
to Dan northwards, and from the Mediterranean to the 
borders of Syria and Ammon eastwards. This is fur- 
ther confirmed by what we read of Josiab’s progress, in 
B.C. 628, through “ the cities of Manasseh and Ephraim 
and Simeon, even unto Naphtali” (2 Chron. xxxiv, 6). 
Such a progress would have been impracticable had the 
number of cities and villages been at all large. — Smith, 
On the capture of the city of Samaria, and the final 
overthrow of the kingdom of Israel by Shalmaneser or 
Sargon (B.C. 720), the Jews were removed, and stran- 
gers were brought from Assyria “and placed in the 
cities of Samaria” (2 Kings xvii, 24 ; comp. Ezra iv, 10). 
These colonists took the name of their new country. 
Sec Samaritans. Instead of a kingdom, Samaria now 
became a province. Its extent cannot be exactly as- 
certained. The political geography of Palestine was 
undergoing changes every year, in consequence of inces- 
sant wars and conquests ; and it was not until the period 
of Bo man dominion that the boundaries of provinces be- 
gan to he accurately defined. Josephus describes the 
province as follows: “The district of Samaria lies be- 
tween Judiea and Galilee. Commencing at a village 
called Gimen. situated in the Great Plain.it terminates 
at the territory of the Acrabatenes” ( War, iii, 3, 4). 
Ginaja is identical with the modern Jenin, on the south- 
ern side of the plain of Esdraelon. It is evident, there- 
fore, that, the northern border of Samaria ran along the 
foot of the mountain-range, beginning at the promon- 
tory of Carmel on the west, and terminating at the Jor- 
dan, near the site of Succoth. Its southern border would 
probably correspond pretty nearly to a line drawn from 
Joppa eastward through Bethel to the Jordan (see Be- 
laud, Palnst. p. 11)2). Thus it comprehended the ancient 
territory of Ephraim, and of those Manassites who were 
west of Jordan. “Its character,” Josephus continues, 
“is in no respect different from that of Juda'a. Both 
abound in mountains and plains, and are suited for agri- 
culture, and | reductive, wooded, and full of fruits both 
wild and cultivated. They are not abundantly water- 
ed; but much rain falls there. The springs arc of an 
exceedingly sweet taste; and, on account of the quanti- 
ty of good grass, the cattle there produce more milk 


than elsewhere. But the best proof of their richness 
and fertility is that both are thickly populated.” The 
accounts of modern travellers confirm this description by 
the Jewish historian of the “good land” which was allot- 
ted to that powerful portion of the house of Joseph which 
crossed the Jordan, on the first division of the territory. 
The geographical position of the province is several 
times incidentally mentioned in the New Test. Thus 
in Luke xvii, 11 it is stated that our Lord, in proceed- 
ing to Jerusalem from northern Palestine, “ passed 
through the midst of Samaria and again, when he left 
Judaea and went to Galilee, St.John says, “He must 
needs go through Samaria” (iv,4). So also, when Paul 
and Barnabas were sent on a special mission from Anti- 
och to Jerusalem, “ they passed through Phenice and 
Samaria” (Acts xv. 3). They followed the road along 
the sea-coast, doubtless calling at the great cities ol‘ 
Sidon, Tyre, and Ciesarea. 

After the time of Homan rule in Syria, the name of 
Samaria as a province appears to have passed away. It 
is used by Pliny and Ptolemy, and is mentioned by Jer- 
ome. It is not found, however, in the Notit'ne Ecclesi - 
asticee, nor in any later work ; and it is now wholly un- 
known to the natives of the country. The name of the 
ancient city has even given place to the Arabo-Greek 
Sebustiyeh. — Kit to. 

On the history and natural features of the region in 
question, see Israel, Kingdom of; Palestine; Sa- 
maria, City of. 

Samar'itan (Hob. Shomeroni ', from Sho- 

meron , the Heb. name of Samaria ; Sept., New Test., Jo- 
sephus, and other Greek writers, ZafutpatniQ, fern. £«- 
papelriQ', by the later Jews, D^P^S, i. e. Cuthites 
[q. v.] ; by themselves, CH’ETL', Skomertm, watchers [by 
a play upon their original name], i. e. keepers of the 
law, as interpreted by Epiphanius, Ilceres. i, 9), a term 
which in its strictest sense would denote an inhabitant 
of the city of Samaria. But it is not found at all in this 
sense, exclusively at any rate, in the Old Test., nor per- 
haps elsewhere. In fact, it only occurs there once, and 
then in a wider signification, in 2 Kings xvii, 29. There 
it is employed to designate those whom the king of As- 
syria had “placed in (what are called) the cities of Sa- 
maria (whatever these may be) instead of the children 
of Israel.” Were the word Samaritan found elsewhere 
in the Old Test., it would have designated those who 
belonged to the kingdom of the ton tribes, which in a 
large sense was called Samaria. As the extent of that 
kingdom varied, which it did very much, gradually di- 
minishing to the time of Shalmaneser, so the extent of 
the word Samaritan would have varied. In the New 
Test, it is applied, strictly speaking, to the people or sect 
who had established an independent worship of their 
own in a temple or synagogue at Nablus. (In the fol- 
lowing account of this community, we adopt in part 
the statements found in the dictionaries of Kitto and 
Smith.) See Sects of the Jews. 

I. Origin of this People. — As we have seen in the pre- 
ceding articles, Shalmaneser, or Sargon, his successor (2 
Kings xvii, 5, 6, 26), carried Israel, i. e. the remnant of 
the ten tribes which still acknowledged Iloshea’s author- 
ity, into Assyria. This remnant consisted, as lias been 
shown, of Samaria (the city) and a few adjacent cities 
and villages. Now («). did he carry away all their in- 
habitants, or not? (b) Whether they were wholly or 
only partially desolated, who replaced the deported pop- 
ulation? On the answer to these inquiries will depend 
our determination of the questions, Were the Samari- 
tans a mixed race, composed partly of Jews, partly of 
new settlers, or were they purely of foreign extraction? 
Upon few Biblical questions have scholars arrived at 
conclusions more opposite. 

1 .Arguments in Favor of an Exclusively Heathen 
Oriyin of the Samaritans. — The great advocate of this 
view is Ileiigstenbcrg, who states not only the Biblical 
reasons, but continues the examination through Sirach. 


SAMARITAN 


283 


SAMARITAN 


the Maccabees, and the New Test. (.4 uthentie des Penta- 
teuch, i, 3-28). In favor of the purely Assyrian origin 
of the people, Hengstenberg quotes Mill, Schultz, K. 
Simon, Ueland, and Elmacin. To this list others add 
Suieer, Hammond, Drusius, Maldonatus, Hiivernick, 
Robinson, and Trench ( Parables , p. 310 sip). In ancient 
times, Josephus, Origen, Eusebius, Epiphanius, Chrys- 
ostom, and Theodoret are quoted on the same side. The 
following is an outline of this position : 

It has been asserted that the language of Scripture 
admits of scarcely a doubt. “ Israel was carried away” 
(“2 Kings xvii, 6, 23), and other nations were placed “in 
the cities of Samaria instead of the children of Israel” 
(2 Kings xvii, 24). There is no mention whatever, as 
in the case of the somewhat parallel destruction of the 
kingdom of Judah, of “the poor of the land being left 
to be vine- dressers and husbandmen” (2 Kings xxv, 
12). It is added that, had any been left, it would have 
been impossible for the new inhabitants to have been so 
utterly unable to acquaint themselves with “the man- 
ner of the God of the land” as to require to be taught 
by some priest of the captivity sent from the king of 
Assyria. Resides, it was not an unusual thing with 
Oriental conquerors actually to exhaust a land of its in- 
habitants. Comp. Herod, iii, 149 : “ The Persians drag- 
ged (aay))Vf:vaavTi<S) Samos, and delivered it up to Sy- 
loson, stripped of all its men and, again, Herod, vi, 31, 
for the application of the same treatment to other isl- 
ands, where the process called oayi\vtvuv is described, 
and is compared to a hunting-out of the population (tK- 
SijpEvav). Such a capture is presently contrasted with 
the capture of other territories to which (jaygrEoeiv was 
not applied. Josephus’s phrase in reference to the cit- 
ies of Samaria is that Shalmaneser “ transplanted all the 
people” (Ant. ix, 14, 1). A threat against Jerusalem, 
which was, indeed, only partially carried out, shows how 
complete and summary the desolation of the last relies 
of the sister kingdom must have been : “ I will stretch 
over Jerusalem the line of Samaria, and the plummet of 
the house of Ahab: and I will wipe Jerusalem as a man 
wipeth a dish : he wipeth and turneth it upon the face 
thereof” (2 Kings xxi, 13). This was uttered within 
forty years after II. C. 721, during the reign of Manas- 
seh. It must have derived much strength from the re- 
centness and proximity of the calamity. 

lienee it is concluded by the advocates of this view 
that the cities of Samaria were not partially, but wild- 
ly, evacuated of their inhabitants in B.C. 720, and that 
they remained in this desolated state until, in the 
w r ords of 2 Kings xvii, 24, “ the king of Assyria brought 
men from Babylon, and from Cuthah, and from Ava 
(Ivali, 2 Kings xviii, 34), and from Hamath, and from 
Sepharvaim, and placed them in the cities of Samaria 
instead of the children of Israel : and they possessed 
Samaria, and dwelt in the cities thereof.” Thus the 
new Samaritans— for such w T e w r ould now call them — 
w r ere Assyrians by birth or subjugation, w r ere utterly 
strangers in the cities of Samaria, and were exclusively 
the inhabitants of those cities. An incidental question, 
however, arises: Who was the king of Assyria that ef- 
fected this colonization? At first sight, one would sup- 
pose Shalmaneser; for the narrative is scarcely broken, 
and the repeopling seems to be a natural sequence of 
the depopulation. Such would appear to have been 
Josephus’s view; for he says of Shalmaneser, “When 
he had removed the people out of their land, he brought 
other nations out of Cuthah, a place so called (for there 
is still in Persia a river of that name), into Samaria and 
the country of the Israelites” (Ant. i-x, 14, 1 and 3; x, 
9,7); hut he must have been led to this interpretation 
simply by the juxtaposition of the two transactions in 
the Hebrew text. The Samaritans themselves (in Ezra 
iv, 2, 10) attributed their colonization, not to Shalma- 
neser, but to “ Esar-haddon, king of Assnr,” or to “ the 
great and noble Asnapper,” either the king himself or 
one of his generals. It was probably on his invasion 
of Judah, in the reign of Mauasseh, about B.C. 077, that 


Esar-haddon discovered the impolicy of leaving a tract 
upon the very frontiers of that kingdom thus desolate, 
and determined to garrison it with foreigners. The 
fact, too, that some of these foreigners came from Bab- 
ylon would seem to direct us to P'.sar-haddon, rather 
than to his grandfather Shalmaneser: it was only re- 
cently that Babylon had come into the hands of the 
Assyrian king. There is another reason why this date 
should be preferred: it coincides with the termination 
of the sixtv-five years of Isaiah’s prophecy, delivered 
B.C. 742, within which “Ephraim should be broken 
that it should not be a people” (Isa. vii, 8). This was 
not effectually accomplished until the very land itself 
was occupied by strangers. So long as this had not 
taken place, there might be hope of return; after it had 
taken place, no hope. Josephus (Ant. x, 9,7) expressly 
notices this difference in the cases of the ten and of the 
two tribes. The land of the former became the posses- 
sion of foreigners, the land of the latter not so. 

These strangers, who are thus assumed to have been 
placed in “ the cities of Samaria” by Esar-haddon, were, 
of course, idolaters, and worshipped a strange medley of 
divinities. Each of the five nations, ‘says Josephus, who 
is confirmed by the words of Scripture, had its own god. 
No place was found for the worship of Him who had 
once, called the land his own, and whose it was still. 
God’s displeasure was kindled, and they were infested 
by beasts of prey, which had probably increased to a 
great extent before their entrance upon it. “ The Lord 
sent lions among them, which slew some of them.” On 
their explaining their miserable condition to the king 
of Assyria, he despatched one of the captive priests to 
teach them “how they should fear the Lord.” The 
priest came accordingly; and henceforth, in the lan- 
guage of the sacred historian, they “feared the Lord, 
and served their graven images, both their children and 
their children’s children: as did their fathers. so do they 
unto this day” (2 Kings xvii, 41). This last sentence 
was probably inserted by Ezra. It serves two purposes: 
1st, to qualify the pretensions of the Samaritans of Ez- 
ra’s time to be pure worshippers of God — they were no 
more exclusively his servants than was the Roman em- 
peror, who desired to place a statue of Christ in the 
Pantheon, entitled to be called a Christian; and, 2dly, 
to show how entirely the Samaritans of later days dif- 
fered from their ancestors in respect to idolatry. Jose- 
phus's account of the distress of the Samaritans, and of 
the remedy for it, is very similar, with the exception 
that, with him, they are afflicted with pestilence. 

Such, according to one view of the history, was the 
origin of the post-captivity, or new Samaritans — men 
not of Jewish extraction, but from the farther East. 
“The Cnthieans had formerly belonged to the inner 
parts of Persia and Media, but were then called 4 Sa- 
maritans,’ taking the name of the country to which 
they were removed,” says Josephus (Ant. x, 9, 7). 
Again, he says (Ant. ix, 14, 3) they .are called, “in He- 
brew, ‘Cutlneans,’ but in Greek, ‘Samaritans.’” Our 
Lord expressly terms them dXXoye l-tlc (Luke xvii, 18); 
and Josephus’s whole account of them shows that he be- 
lieved them to have been gtruiKot oXXotS’cri'c, though, 
as he tells ns in two places (.4 nt. ix, 14, 3 ; xi, 8, G) , they 
sometimes gave a different account of their origin. 

2. Arguments in Faroe of a Mixed Origin of the Sa- 
maritans. — The above views have been strongly com- 
bated by Kalkar (in the Theologische Mitarhciten , 1840, 
iii, 24 sq.); and weighty names are on this side, e. g. 
De Sacv, Gesenius, Winer, Dbllinger (Uevlenthum u. 
Judenthum , p. 739), Davidson, Stanley, Rawliuson, etc. 
The arguments for their views are substantially as 
follows : 

(1.) It is evident that a considerable portion of the 
original Israelitish population must still have remained 
in the cities of Samaria; for we find (2 Chron. xxx, 
1-20) that llezekiah invited the remnant of the ten 
tribes who were in the land of Israel to come to the 
great Passover which he celebrated, and the different 


SAMARITAN 


284 


SAMARITAN 


tribes are mentioned (ver. 10, 11) who did or did not 
respond to the invitation. Later, Ksar-haddon adopted 
the policy of Shalmaneser, and a still further deporta- 
tion took place (Ezra iv,2); but even after this, though 
the heathen element, in all probability, preponderated, 
the land was not swept dean of its original inhabitants. 
Jusiah, it is true, did not, like llczekiah, invite the Sa- 
maritans to take part in the worship at Jerusalem ; but, 
finding himself strong enough to disregard the power 
of Assyria, now on the decline, he virtually claimed the 
laud of Israel as the rightful appanage of David’s throne, 
adopted energetic measures for the suppression of idola- 
try. and even exterminated the Samaritan priests. But 
wiiat is of more importance as showing that some por- 
tion of the ten tribes was still left in the land is the fact 
that, when the collection was made for the repairs of the 
Temple, we are told that the Levites gathered the money 
“of the hand of J lanasseh and Ephraim , and of all the 
remnant of Israel” as well as “of Judah and Benjamin” 
(2 Chron. xxxiv, 9). So, also, after the discovery of the 
book of the law, Josiah bound not only “all who were 
present in Judah and Benjamin” to stand to the cove- 
nant contained in it; but he “took away all the abom- 
inations out of all the countries that pertained to the 
children of Israel, and made all that were present in Is- 
rael to serve, even to serve Jehovah their God. All his 
days they departed not from serving Jehovah the God 
of their fathers” (2 Chron. xxxiv, 32, 33). 

Later yet, during the vicerovaltv of Gedaliah, we 
find still the same feeling manifested on the part of the 
ten tribes which had shown itself under Ilezekiah and 
Josiah. Eighty devotees from Shechem. from Shiloh, 
and from Samaria, came with all the signs ol mourn- 
ing, and bearing offerings in their hand, to the Temple 
at Jerusalem. They thus testified both their sorrow 
for the desolation that had come upon it, and their 
readiness to take part in the worship there, now that 
order was restored. This, it may be reasonably pre- 
sumed, was only one party out of many who came on a 
like errand. All these facts prove that, so far was the 
intercourse between Judah and the remnant of Israel 
from being imbittered by religious animosities, that it 
was the religious bond which bound them together. 
Ilcnce it would have been quite possible during any 
portion of this period for the mixed Samaritan popula- 
tion to have received the law from the Jews. 

This is far more probable than that copies of the 
Pentateuch should have been preserved among those 
families of the ten tribes who had either escaped when 
the land was shaven by the razor of the king of As- 
syria, or who had straggled back thither from their 
exile. If even in Jerusalem itself the book of the law 
was so scarce, and had been so forgotten, that the pious 
king Josiah knew nothing of its contents till it was ac- 
cidentally discovered, still less probable is it that in 
Israel, given up to idolatry and wasted by invasions, 
any copies of it should have survived. 

On the whole, we should he led to infer that there 
had been a gradual fusion of the heathen settlers with 
the original inhabitants. At first the former, who re- 
garded Jehovah as only a local and national deity like 
one of their own false gods, endeavored to appease him 
by adopting in part the religious worship of the nation 
whose land they occupied. They did this in the first 
instance, not by mixing with the resident population, 
but hv sending to the king of Assyria for one of the 
Israeiitish priests who had been carried captive. But 
in process of time the amalgamation of races became 
complete, and tbe worship of Jehovah superseded the 
worship of idols, as is evident both from the wish of the 
Samaritans to join in the Temple worship alter the cap- 
tivity, and from the absence of all idolatrous symbols 
on Gerizim. So far, then, the history leaves us alto- 
gether in doubt as to the time, at which the Pentateuch 
was received by the Samaritans. Copies of it miyht 
have been left in the northern kingdom after Shalma- 
neser’s invasion, though this is hardly probable ; or 


they might have been introduced thither during the 
religious reforms of Ilezekiah or Josiah. Till the re- 
turn from Babylon there is no evidence that the Sa- 
maritans regarded the Jews with any extraordinary 
dislike or hostility. But the manifest distrust and sus- 
picion with which Nehemiah met their advances when 
he was rebuilding the walls of Jerusalem provoked their 
wrath. From this time forward they were declared and 
open enemies. The quarrel between the two nations 
was further aggravated by the determination of Nehe- 
nfiah to break off all marriages which had been con- 
tracted between Jews and Samaritans. Manassch, t he 
brother of the high-priest (so Josephus calls him, Ant. 
xi, 7, 2), and himself acting high-priest, was one of the 
offenders. He refused to divorce his wife, and took 
refuge with his father-in-law. Sanballat, who consoled 
him for the loss of his priestly privilege in Jerusalem 
by making him high-priest of the new Samaritan tem- 
ple on Gerizim. With Manasseh many other apostate 
Jews who refused to divorce their wives fied to Sama- 
ria. It seems highly probable that these men took the 
Pentateuch with them, and adopted it as the basis of 
the new religious system which they inaugurated. See 
Pentateuch. 

(2.) That the country should be swept clean of its 
inhabitants on the downfall of Samaria seems most im- 
probable. It is true Eastern conquerors did sometimes 
utterly destroy cities, and occasionally extirpate whole 
islands (llcrod. iii, 149). And some have thought that 
such was the general treatment of the conquered by the 
Assyrians (Layard, Nineveh and its Remains , ii, 374); 
but, as Kawlinson justly remarks, “it appears by the 
inscriptions that towns were frequently spared, and that 
the bulk of the inhabitants were generally left in the 
place” {Five Great Monarchies , i, 304, note). Should 
it be argued that the conduct of the residents of the 
city of Samaria was of a character to draw upon them 
the severest chastisement of their conquerors — an indis- 
criminate slaughter, with impalement or slavery await- 
ing the prisoners — there is no reason to suppose that 
the cities and towns of the provinces met with the same 
fate. According to the Assyrian inscriptions of Sargon, 
this removal consisted of only 27,280 families — amount- 
ing, let us say, to 200,000 individuals — which certainly 
would not exhaust the land. 

It is popularly said and credited that those Assyrians 
were placed in Samaria b}' Shalmaneser soon after the 
fall of the kingdom ; but this is a mistake. It arose 
probably from Josephus’s statement, who, it seems, was 
led into this error from the juxtaposition in which the 
two events are related in the Hebrew text. It is doubt- 
ful whether Shalmaneser conducted the siege to its end, 
for there is a supposition that he was treacherously 
slain by the emissaries of Sargon, who had usurped the 
throne during his master’s absence, and that the siege 
was terminated under the command of one of his lead- 
ers. The following expression is remarkable, and would 
tend to confirm this opinion: “Shalmaneser, king of 
Assyria, came up against Samaria and besieged it. And 
at the end of three years they took it” (2 Kings xviii, 9. 
10). Sargon, according to the Assyrian inscriptions, 
claims the victory to himself, .as well as the removal of 
the Samaritans to Assyria (Kawlinson, Herodotus , i, 
472; comp. Isa. xx, 1). It is a curious and interesting 
fact, for the knowledge of which we are indebted to Sir 
11. Kawlinson, that Sargon penetrated far into the inte- 
rior of Arabia, and, carrying off several Arabian tribes, 
settled them in Samaria. This explains how Gcshem 
the Arabian came to be associated with Sanballat in the 
government of Juda*a, as well as the mention of Ara- 
bians in the army of Samaria {Illustrations of Egyptian 
History , etc., in the Trans, of the Roy. Soc. Lit. 1 8 GO, 
i, 1 4<s, 149). See Sargon. Be this as it may, it is 
(piitc certain that some time elapsed from the fall of 
Samaria to the removal of the Assyrians into its cities. 
In the Assyrian inscriptions we have a list — probably a 
complete one — of the monarchs of the latter half of the 


i 


SAMARITAN 


285 


SAMARITAN 


8th and the first half of the 7th century B.C., namely, 
Tiglath-pileser IT, Shalmaneser II, Sargon, Sennache- 
rib, and Esar-haddon. Now r the Samaritans themselves 
attribute their removal to this last-named monarch, 
“ Esar-haddon, king of Assur,” “the great and noble As- 
napper” (Ezra iv, 2, 10); and of this there can be no 
reasonable doubt. lie invaded Judah in the reign of 
Manasseh, about B.C. 077, and probably it was this ex- 
pedition that moved him to place these his subjects in 
Samaria. As he is conjectured to have died in B.C. 
GOO, the transmigration must have taken place some 
time between these dates. Let us suppose that it oc- 
curred B.C. G70, and that king Josiah began his refor- 
mation B.C. 628. This would have given the strangers 
a residence of forty-two years. The question now arises, 
Were these colonists so numerous as to repeople the cit- 
ies of Israel, from Bethel even to Naphtali? and was it 
over these that Josiah exercised his authority? Now, 
we have no means of arriving at any estimate of the 
number of these aliens; but, whatever it may have been, 
it is highly improbable that king Josiah would have 
had the imprudence to interfere with any subjects of 
the king of Assyria, especially as that government had 
already laid a heavy hand upon Judah (2 Kings xviii, 
13-15). Neither had he any religious jurisdiction over 
them. It seems far more likely that Josiah carried out 
his reform ostensibly among the remaining Israelites, 
the majority of whom not unlikely placed themselves 
under his rule. Israel was not at any time all given to 
idolatry. In one of its unholiest periods (under Ahab) 
there were 7000 faithful men who had not bowed their 
knees unto Baal (1 Kings xix, 18). Again, when Hez- 
ekiah sent his delegates to visit the nation, although 
the majority of the people “mocked them, nevertheless 
divers of Asher and Manasseh and of Zebulon humbled 
themselves and came to Jerusalem” (2 Chron. xxx, ll). 
The residue of the ten tribes would be still more at- 
tached to the government of Judah after the destruc- 
tion of their own. 

(3.) On the whole, therefore, notwithstanding the 
force of the counter-arguments, we conclude that, al- 
though the city of Samaria itself was probably razed to 
the ground, and its population wholly carried away, yet 
a considerable remnant of the inhabitants of the adjoin- 
ing country was left. Consequently in later times the 
people, in their origin, were a mixed race. Doubtless 
the heathen element prevailed, because the colonists 
were greatly superior in numbers. When they came, 
they found none but the dregs of the populace, whom 
the victors had left. All power was in the hands of 
the colonists. All that the words in 2 Kings xvii, 24 
prove is that the colonists who had been transplanted 
thither took the place of the deported Israelites as own- 
ers of the soil. The Israelites were no longer the chief 
inhabitants. The petition of the heathen colonists does 
not show that the last remnant had been removed by 
the Assyrians. From the removal of all the priests, it 
does not follow that all the inhabitants had been carried 
away ; and the petition of the inhabitants merely speaks 
of sending a priest , of whom it was thought that he 
alone could offer worship acceptable to a local deity. 
The people wanted priests to teach them the right wor- 
ship of the God of the land ; nor is aught said of giving 
the inhabitants the rudest idea of the manner of wor- 
shipping such a deity. According to the analogy of 
similar deportations, such as that of Judah by Nebu- 
chadnezzar, we must suppose that the principal inhab- 
itants of Israel — those fit for war, the priests, and others 
— were carried away; leaving the poor, weak, and aged, 
in the country districts, who had little or nothing to do 
with war. The prophetic expressions in Jeremiah and 
Zechariah speak only of the Israelites as a whole, of 
their rejection and banishment. The fact that the Sa- 
maritans in Ezra iv, 1, etc., do not mention their Isra- 
elitish origin is easily explained, because heathen blood 
had overpowered the Israelitisli element. Had the 
latter retained its distinctive existence, they would ! 


probably have referred to their origin ; but as it had 
become almost extinct, the wiser policy was to make 
no allusion to descent. The very fact, however, of their 
application for admission to the national worship of the 
Jews, and all their subsequent history in connection 
with this people, imply an Israelitisli element in their 
origin. Had they been of pure heathen descent, what 
propriety was there in the application? What had 
they to do with Jewish worship, on the supposition 
that they were mere heathens? How is it that the 
Samaritans always claimed descent from Ephraim and 
Manasseh? Have they been continuous liars in mak- 
ing this pretension? If so, their history proves an un- 
accountable imposture. Was there ever before a hea- 
then people so desirous to unite with the worshippers 
of the true Jehovah as to become implacable enemies 
to their recusants? Moreover, the writers of the New 
Test., with the Jews of that period, looked upon them 
in the light of a schismatical community from them- 
selves, rather than a distinct nation. Though the Sav- 
iour calls the Samaritan leper whom he healed a stran- 
ger, aWoyevtiQ , he used the expression more for the 
purpose of contrasting the unthankfulness of the nine 
Jews with the gratitude of the Samaritan, than of 
ethnological distinction (Luke xvii, 11-19). For it is 
certain that he did not class the Samaritans with the 
Gentiles, but made a marked distinction between them 
(Matt, x, 5). Notwithstanding the animosity of the 
two peoples, there are some few' circumstances on record 
which indicate that, they felt themselves to be in truth 
brethren and coreligionists. Thus, during the feasts 
they were admitted like the Jews to the Temple (Jose- 
phus, Ant. xviii, 2, 2). Their food also W'as by the Jew 
deemed cosher, or lawful (John iv, 8-40). Circumcision 
performed by a Samaritan was held to be valid. Down 
to the time of the Mishnic authors a Samaritan w r as re- 
garded as a brother; nor did the Talmudists all agree 
in his condemnation, for while some looked upon him 
as a heathen, others treated him in every respect as an 
Israelite. 

II. History. — As already seen, the new inhabitants 
of Samaria carried along w-ith them their idolatrous 
worship. In the early period of their settlement they 
were attacked by lions, w'hich they regarded as a judg- 
ment inflicted by the deity of the land, w hom they did 
not worship. Accordingly, they applied to the Assyr- 
ian king Esar-haddon for an Israelitish priest to teach 
them the proper w'orship of the local god. The request 
w r as granted. One of the transported priests w r as de- 
spatched to them, w'ho came and dw'elt at Bethel, and 
instructed them in the worship of Jehovah. He was 
not a Levitical priest, but an Israelitish priest of the 
calves; because there had been no Levitical ones in the 
kingdom when the inhabitants w'ere carried away, and 
because Bethel, where he settled, w’as the chief seat of 
the calf- worship. 

On the return of the Jews from the Babylonian cap- 
tivity, the Samaritans wished to join them in rebuild- 
ing the Temple at Jerusalem, saying, “Let us build 
with you: for w r e seek your God as ye do; and we do 
sacrifice unto him since the days of Esar-haddon, king 
of Assur, which brought us up hither” (Ezra iv, 2). It 
is curious, and perhaps indicative of the treacherous 
character of their designs, to find them even then call- 
ed, by anticipation, “ the adversaries of Judah and l>en- 
jamin” (Ezra iv, 1), a title which they afterwards fully 
justified. But, so far as professions go, they are not 
enemies; they are most anxious to be friends. Their 
religion, they assert, is the same as that of the two 
tribes; therefore they have a right to share in that 
great religious undertaking. But they do not call it 
a national undertaking. They advance no pretensions 
to Jewish blood. They confess their Assyrian descent, 
and even put it forward ostentatiously, perhaps to en- 
hance the merit of their partial conversion to God. 
That it was but partial they give no hint. It may 
have become purer already, but we have no information 


SAMARITAN 


286 


SAMARITAN 


that it had. But the proffered assistance was declined. 
Thenceforward they threw all obstacles in the way of 
the returned exiles. Nor were their efforts to frustrate 
the operations of the Jews entirely unsuccessful. Two 
Persian kings were induced to hinder the Jews in their 
rebuilding; and their opposition was not finally over- 
come till the reign of Darius Hystaspis, B.C. 519. 

The enmity which began at the time when the co- 
operation of the Samaritans in rebuilding the Temple 
was refused continued to increase till it reached sueh a 
height as to beeome proverbial in after-times. It is 
probable, too, that the more the Samaritans detached 
themselves from idols and became devoted exclusively 
to a sort of worship of Jehovah, the more they resented 
the eontempt with which the Jews treated their offers 
of fraternization, blatters at length came to a climax. 
About B.C. 409, in the reign of Darius Xothus, one Ma- 
nasseh, of priestly descent, was expelled from Jerusalem 
by Xehemiah for an illegal marriage, and took refuge 
with the Samaritans. Whether the temple on Mount 
Gerizim was actually built in the days of Mauasseh is 
doubtful. Probably he labored to unite the people in 
a common worship. The temple is not said to have 
been erected till the time of Alexander the Great, who 
gave permission to build it. If so, it did not exist till 
about one hundred years after Manasseh. It is diffi- 
cult to make a consistent and clear aeeount of the mat- 
ter out of Josephus, who has evidently fallen into error, 
since he is inconsistent with Nell, xiii, 28, etc. The 
establishment of a separate worship made the breach 
existing between the Jews and Samaritans irreparable. 
From this time malcontent Jews resorted to Samaria; 
and the very name of either people became odious to 
the other. About the year B.C. 129, John llvrcanus, 
high-priest of the Jews, destroyed the city of the Sa- 
maritans. The Cutha?an Samaritans had possessed only 
a few towns and villages of the large area generally 
known as Samaria, and these lay almost together in 
t lie centre of the district. Sheehem, or Syehar (as it 
was contemptuously designated), was their chief settle- 
ment. even before Alexander the Great destroyed the 
city of Samaria, probably because it lay almost close to 
Mount Gerizim. Afterwards it became more promi- 
nently so, and there on the destruction of the city of 
Samaria by Alexander they had built themselves a 
temple, which remained till the capture of Gerizim by 
John llyreanus (Joseph. Ant. xiii, 9, 1). See Siieciiem. 

The only thing wanted to crystallize the opposition 
between the two races — viz. a rally ing-point for sehis- 
matical worship — being now obtained, their animosity 
became more intense than ever. The Samaritans are 
said to have done everything in their power to annoy 
the Jews. They would refuse hospitality to pilgrims 
on their road to Jerusalem, as in our Lord’s case. They 
would even waylay them in their journey (Joseph. Ant. 
xx, 0, 1) ; and many were compelled through fear to 
take the longer route by the east of Jordan. Certain 
Samaritans were said to have once penetrated into the 
Temple of Jerusalem, and to have defiled it by scatter- 
ing dead men’s bones on the sacred pavement (ibid. 
xviii, 2, 2). We are told, too, of a strange piece of 
mockery which must have been especially resented. 
It was the custom of the Jews to communicate to their 
brethren still in Babylon the «xaet day and hour of the 
rising of the paschal moon by beacon-tires commencing 
from Mount Olivet, and Hashing forward from hill to 
hill until they were mirrored in the Euphrates. So 
the Greek poet represents Agamemnon as conveying 
the news of Troy’s capture to the anxious watchers at 
Mycenae. Those who “sat by the waters of Babylon” 
looked for this signal with much interest. It enabled 
them to share in the devotions of those who were in 
their fatherland, and it proved to them that they were 
not forgotten. The Samaritans thought scorn of these 
feelings, and would not nnfre(|uently deceive and dis- 
appoint them by kindling a rival tin me and perplexing 
the watchers on the mountains. “This fact,” says Dr. 


Trench, “is mentioned by Makrizi (see De Saev, Chrrst. 
Arabe, ii, 159), who affirms that it was this which put 
the Jews on making accurate calculations to determine 
the moment of the new moon's appearance (comp. 
Schdttgen, I/or. I/eb. i, 344).” Their own temple on 
Gerizim the Samaritans considered to be much superi- 
or to that at Jerusalem. There they sacrificed a pass- 
over. Towards the mountain, even after the temple on 
it had fallen, wherever they were, they directed their 
worship. To their copy of the law they arrogated an 
antiquity and authority greater than attached to any 
copy in the possession of the Jews. The law (i. e. the 
five books of Moses) was their sole code; for they re- 
jected every other book in the Jewish canon. They 
professed to observe it better than did the Jews them- 
selves, employing the expression not unfrequently, “ The 
Jews indeed do so and so; but we, observing the letter 
of the law, do otherwise.” The Jews, on the other 
hand, were not more conciliatory in their treatment of 
the Samaritans. The copy of the law possessed by that 
people they declared to be the legacy of an apostate 
(Manasseh), and east grave suspicions upon its genu- 
ineness. Certain other Jewish renegades, as already 
observed, had, from time to time, taken refuge with the 
Samaritans. lienee, by degrees, the Samaritans claim- 
ed to partake of Jewish blood, especially if doing so 
happened to suit their interest (Joseph. Ant. xi, 8, 6; ix, 
14, 3). A remarkable instance of this is exhibited in a 
request which they made to Alexander the Great, about 
B.C. 332. They desired to be excused payment of trib- 
ute in the sabbatical year, on the plea that as true Is- 
raelites, descendants of Ephraim and Manasseh, sons of 
Joseph, they refrained from cultivating their land in 
that year. Alexander, on cross-questioning them, dis- 
covered the hollowness of their pretensions. (They 
were greatly disconcerted at their failure, and their dis- 
satisfaction probably led to the conduct which induced 
Alexander to besiege and destroy the city of Samaria. 
Sheehem was, indeed, their metropolis, but the destruc- 
tion of Samaria seems to have satisfied Alexander.) 
Another instance of claim to Jewish descent appears in 
the words of the woman of Samaria to our Lord, John 
iv, 12: “Art thou greater than our father Jacob, who 
gave us the well?” a question which she puts without 
recollecting that she had just before strongly contrasted 
the Jews and the Samaritans. Very far were the Jews 
from admitting this claim to consanguinity on the part 
of these people. They were ever reminding them that 
they were, after all, mere Cuthteans, mere strangers 
from Assyria. They accused them of worshipping the 
idol-gods buried long ago under the oak of Sheehem 
(Gen. xxxv, 4). They would have no dealings with 
them that they could possibly avoid. This prejudice 
had, of course, sometimes to give way to necessity, for 
the disciples had gone, to Syehar to buy food while onr 
Lord was talking with the woman of Samaria by the 
well in its suburb (John iv, 8). From Luke ix, 52 we 
learn that the disciples went before onr Lord at his 
command into a certain village of the Samaritans “to 
make ready” for him. Perhaps, indeed (though, as we 
see on both occasions, our Lord's influence over them 
was not yet complete), we are to attribute this partial 
abandonment of their ordinary scruples to the change 
which his example had already wrought in them. 
“Thou art a Samaritan and hast a devil” was the mode 
in which the Jews expressed themselves when at a loss 
for a bitter reproach. Everything that a Samaritan 
had touched was as swine’s flesh to them. The Sa- 
maritan was publicly cursed in their synagogues; could 
not be adduced as a witness in the Jewish courts; 
could not be admitted to any sort of proseivtism; and 
was thus, so far as the Jew could affect his position, 
excluded from hope of eternal life. The traditional 
hatred in which the Jew held him is expressed in Kcclus. 
1, 25, 20, “ There be two manner of nations which my 
heart abhorreth, and the third is no nation : they that 
sit on the mountain of Samaria; and they that dwell 


SAMARITAN 


287 


SAMARITAN 


among the Philistines; ami that foolish people that 
dwell in Sichem.” So long was it before such a tem- 
per could be banished from the Jewish mind that we 
tind even the apostles believing that an inhospitable 
slight shown by a Samaritan village to Christ would 
be not unduly avenged by calling down tire from heav- 
en. “Ye know not what spirit ye are of,” said the 
large-hearted Son of Man ; and we tind him on no one 
occasion uttering anything to the disparagement of the 
Samaritans. Mis words, however, and the records of 
his ministrations confirm most thoroughly the view 
which has been taken above— that the Samaritans were 
not Jews. At the lirst sending-forth of the twelve 
(Matt, x, 5, 6), he charges them, “ Co not into the way 
of the Gentiles; and into any city of the Samaritans 
enter ye not, but go rather to the lost sheep of the 
house of Israel.” So, again, in his tinal address to them 
on Mount Olivet, “ Ye shall be witnesses to me in Je- 
rusalem and in all Jiultea, and in Samaria, and unto the 
uttermost part of the earth” (Acts i, 8). So the nine 
unthankful lepers, Jews, were contrasted by him with 
the tenth leper, the thankful stranger (d\Xoytm)c), who 
was a Samaritan. So, in his well-known parable, a 
merciful Samaritan is contrasted with the unmerciful 
priest and Levite. And the very worship of the two 
races is described by him as different in character. 
“ Ye worship ye know not what,” this is said of the Sa- 
maritans: “\Ve know what we worship, for salvation 
is of the Jews” (John iv, *22). 

Such were the Samaritans of our Lord’s day: a peo- 
ple distinct from the Jews, though lying in the very 
midst of the Jews; a people preserving their identity, 
though seven centuries had rolled away since they had 
been brought from Assyria by Esar-haddon, and though 
they had abandoned their polytheism for a sort of ultra- 
Mosaicism; a people who — though their limits had been 
gradually contracted, and the rallying-place of their re- 
ligion on Mount Gerizim had been destroyed one hun- 
dred and sixty years before, and though Samaria (the 
city) had been again and again destroyed, and though 
their territory had been the battle-field of Syria and 
Egypt — still preserved their nationality, still worship- 
ped from Shechem and their other impoverished settle- 
ments towards their sacred hill, still could not coalesce 
with the Jews. 

Under Vespasian, the city of Siehem received the 
new name of Neapolis, which still remains in the Ara- 
bic form Nablus. At the time of Pilate a tumult was 
excited among the Samaritans by an adventurer who 
persuaded the common people to follow him to the sum- 
mit of Gerizim, where lie pretended that Moses had 
buried the golden vessels. But Pilate dispersed the 
multitude with troops, and put the heads of the sedi- 
tion to death. In consequence of the Samaritans com- 
plaining of his conduct to Vitellius, Pilate was deposed 
and sent to Koine (Joseph. Ant. xviii, 4, l). Josephus 
relates ( War, iii, 7, 32) that while Vespasian was en- 
deavoring to subjugate the neighboring districts, tbe 
Samaritans collected in large numbers and took up their 
position on Mount Gerizim. The Koman general at- 
tacked and slew 11, GOO. Under Septimius Severus they 
joined the Jews against him; and therefore Neapolis 
was deprived of its rights. In the 3d and 4th centu- 
ries, notwithstanding their former calamities, they seem 
to have greatly increased and extended, not only in the 
East, but in the West. They appear to have grown 
into importance under Dositheus, who was probably an 
apostate Jew. Epiphanius (.1 dv. Ihereses, lib. i), in the 
4th century, considers them to be the chief and most 
dangerous adversaries of Christianity, and he enumer- 
ates the several sects into which they had by that time 
divided themselves. They were popularly, and even 
by some of the fathers, confounded with the Jews, inso- 
much that a legal interpretation of the Gospel was de- 
scribed as a tendency to ’S.afiapurarpo^ or ’ lovcaiopif. 
This confusion, however, did not extend to an identifi- 
cation of the two raees. It was simply an assertion 


that their extreme opinions were identical. But the 
distinction between them and the Jews was sufficiently 
known, and even recognised in the Theodosian Code. 
In the 5th century a tumult was excited at Neapolis, 
during which the Samaritans ran into the Christian 
church, which was thronged with worshippers, killing, 
maiming, and mutilating many. The bishop, Terebin- 
thus, having repaired to Constantinople and complained 
to the emperor, the latter punished the guilty by driv- 
ing them from Mount Gerizim and giving it to the 
Christians, where a church was erected in honor of the 
Virgin. Under Anastasius an insurrection headed by a 
woman broke out, and was soon suppressed. Under 
Justinian there was a more formidable and extensive 
outbreak. It is related that all the Samaritans in Pal- 
estine rose up against the Christians and committed 
many atrocities, killing, plundering, burning, and tort- 
uring. In Neapolis they crowned their leader, Julian, 
king. But the imperial troops were sent against them, 
and great numbers, with Julian himself, were slain. 
In the time of the Crusaders, Neapolis suffered, along 
with other places in Palestine. In 1184 it was plun- 
dered by Saladin. After t lie battle of llattin, in 1187, 
it was devastated, and the sacred places in the neigh- 
borhood were polluted by Saladin’s troops. Having 
been several times in the hands of the Christians, it 
was taken by Abu ’Aly in P2T4, since which it has re- 
mained in the power of the Mohammedans. No Chris- 
tian historian of the Crusades mentions the Samari- 
tans; but they are noticed by Benjamin of Tudela in 
the 12th century, who calls them Cuthites, or Cutha?- 
ans. In the 17th century Della Valle gives an ac- 
count of them ; subsequently, Maundrcll and Morison. 
After an interest in the people had been awakened by 
the reception of copies of their Pentateuch, their an- 
swers to the letters which Joseph Sealiger had sent to 
their communities in Nablus and Cairo came into the 
hands of John Morin, who made a Latin translation of 
them. The originals and a better version were pub- 
lished by De Sacv in Eiehhorn’s Repertorium , vol. xiii. 
In 1G7I a letter was sent by the Samaritans at Nablus 
to Hubert Huntington, which was answered by Thomas 
Marshall of Oxford. The correspondence thus begun 
continued till 1688. De Sacv published it entire in 
Correspond! nice des Samaritains , contained in Notices et 
Extraits des MSS. de la Bibliotheque du Roi . vol. xii. 
The correspondence between Ludolf and the Samaritans 
was published by Cellarius and Bruns, and is also in 
Eichhorn’s Repertorium , vol. xiii. These letters are of 
great arehajological interest, and enter very minutely 
into the observances of the Samaritan ritual. Among 
other points worthy of notice in them is the inconsist- 
ency displayed by the writers in valuing themselves on 
not being Jews, and yet claiming to be descendants of 
Joseph. In 1807 a letter from the Samaritans to Gre- 
goire, the French bishop, came into De Sacv's hands, 
who answered it. This was followed by four others, 
which were all published by the eminent French Orien- 
talist. 

At Nablus the Samaritans have still a settlement, 
consisting of about two hundred persons. Vet they ob- 
serve the law, and celebrate the Passover on a sacred 
spot on Mount Gerizim, with an exactness of minute 
ceremonial which the Jews themselves have, long in- 
termitted. The people are very poor now, and to all 
appearance their total extinction is not far distant. In 
recent times many travellers have visited and given ail 
account of the Samaritan remnant, such as Pliny Fisk, 
Kobinson, ami Wilson. See also Shelaby, Notices of the 
Modern Samaritans (Loud. 1855). One of the late no- 
tices is that of M. E. Kogers, in Domestic Life in Pales- 
tine (1863, 2d ed.), eh. x. Another and fuller account 
is given in Mill, Three Months' Residence in Nablus, 
and an A cconnt of the Modern Samaritans ( 18G4, 1 2mo) ; 
see also Barges, Les Samaritains, de Naphmse (Paris, 
1855, 8vo). Mr. Grove has given an account of the 
ceremonial of their atonement, in Vacation Tourists for 


SAMARITAN LANGUAGE 288 


SAMARITAN LANGUAGE 


1801 ; and Stanley, of their Passover, in Lectures on the 
Jewish Church , Append, iii, and still more minutely in 
Sermons in the East , Append, ii. For older monographs 
on the Samaritans, see Volbeding, Index Programmutum , 
p. 44. See Samaritan Language, Literature, and 
Liturgy; Samaritans, Modern. 

SAMARITAN LANGUAGE. The Samaritan is 
chiefly a compound of the Hebrew, Chaldee, and Syriac. 
Among the words derived from these sources are to be 
recognised a great number of Cuthiean words, imported, 
doubtlessly, by the new colonists. We must therefore 
not be surprised that Greek, Latin, Persian, Arabic, and 
possibly other languages as well, have each contributed 
something to enrich the vocabulary. The grammar 
bears all the signs of irregularity which would charac- 
terize that of an illiterate people; the orthography is 
uncertain ; there is a profusion of quiesccnts, and a 
complete confusion between the several gutturals and 
cognate letters respectively; the vowels are uncertain, 
the A sound being most prominent. ►Such is the dia- 
lect which was spoken in Samaria till the Arabian con- 
quest of the country in the seventh century A.D., when 
the language of the victors was introduced, and by its 
superior vigor gradually overpowered its rival, till, 
probably by about the 8th or 9th century, it had en- 
tirely taken its place. The old language, however, still 
continued to be understood and written by the priests, 
so that, like the Jews, they had two sacred languages, 
which, however, they had not the skill completely to dis- 
tinguish from each other. The u Hebrew,” consequent- 
ly, which appears in the correspondence of Samaritans 
with Europeans is largely impregnated with Aramaisms; 
Arabisms also are not by any means nnfrequent. 

Orthographic Elements,— T he Samaritan language, or, 
as the Samaritans call it, the “ Hebrew,” like all Shem- 
itic languages, is read from right to left. The alphabet 
consists only of consonants (twenty-two in number), as 
in the adjoining table. 

Save some points and scanty orthographical signs, 
there are in Samaritan no accents or other diacritical 
marks, as in Hebrew. There are no vowel-points, as in 
other Shemitic languages; but in order to supply this 
want and to indicate somewhat the pronunciation, some 
consonants are used as vowels, viz.: 

a fit rt 2 
e N ^ 

i i 

« (oo) 1 

Of two consonants beginning a word, the first is pro- 
nounced as if it were a slight and indistinct vowel, 
similar to the Hebrew Sheva. 

The only diacritical sign is a stroke over the con- 
sonant (e. g. X) serving to distinguish two different 
words written in the same manner, or two different 
forms derived from one and the same root, or to indi- 
cate some letter added or omitted. When placed over 

or 1, the stroke indicates that these letters are real 
consonants, not representing vowels. Words cannot be 
separated at the end of the lines, hence the two letters 
ending the last word are separated from the others and 
placed at the end of the line; but in printing this is 
generally avoided by diminishing or enlarging the spaces 
between the words. 

As to punctuation, a point is put by the side of the 
final letter of a word. Resides t his, the following signs 
have been introduced by the transcribers: 

1 or • or A at the end of a sentence. 

- - (also •) at the end of part of a sentence, like our 
colon. 

= .; or — <: more seldom — etc., or compound 
— <: = •: etc., at the end of a longer sentence or 
section. 

or similar signs, sometimes again and 
again repeated, between the end of one section, 


paragraph, or chapter, and the beginning of the 
other. 

The numbers are written as in Hebrew. 

Grammars. — Chr. Crinesius, Lingua Samaritica ex 
Script ura Sacra Jidel iter eruta (Altdorphi, s. a.) ; Chr. 
ltavis, A Discourse of the Oriental Tongues , viz. Ebrew , 
Sitmaritane, etc., together with a Grammar of the said 
Tongues (Loud. 1649); Moriui, Opuscula I/ebrceo-Sama- 
ritana (Paris, 1657); Hilligerius, Summarium Linguce 
Aramcece, i. e. Chaldeo - Syro - Samaritance (Witteb. 
1679); Cellarius, Iloree Sanun'ititnce (Cizse, 1682 ; Fran- 
cof. et Jena 1 , 1705); Otho, Synopsis Institutiomim Suma- 
i ritunarum , Rabb, etc. (Francof. 3d ed. 1735) ; Maseleff, 

| Grammatica Uebraica : access, tres Grammuticce, Chal- 
I t taica, Syriacu, et Samaritana (Paris, 2d ed. 1743, 2 vols. 
l2mo); Stohr, Theoria et Praxis Lingitarum Sacrurum , 
sc. Samaritame, IJebr., et Syr. eammque Harmonia (Aug. 
Vind. 1796); Uhlemann, Institutiones Linguie Samari- 
ttuue : uccedit Chrestomathia SamaHtana Glossario Lo - 
cupletata (Lips. 1837); Nieholls, A Grammar of the 
' Samaritan Language, with Extracts and Vocabulary 
(Lond. 1858) ; Petermann, Bi-eris Linguce Samaritame 
Grammatica, etc. (Berolini, 1873). 

Lexicons. — Castelli, Lexicon lleptuglotton (Lond. 1669 
fol.) ; Young, Samaritan Root-book (Edinburgh, s. a.). 
See also Kolin, Samaritanische Studien, and Zur Sprache 
der Samaritaner, p. 206 sq. (B. P.) 


Form.* 

Name. | 

Hebrew, 

Power. 

Numerical Value. 

A 

SZ 

Alaf 

K 


1 

a 

& 

Bith 

a 

b, bh, v 

2 

i 


Gainful 

a 

g 

3 



Dal at . 

"i 

d 

4 



I 

n 

- 

5 



Ba 

i 

u, w, b 

6 



Sen 

7 

z 

7 



it 

n 

- 

S 



Tit 

“j 

tt,t’ 

9 

m 


Jud 

n 

it j 

10 s 

x 


Kaph 


k, ch 

20 

z 


Labtid 


1 

30 

ja 


Mini 

£ 

m 

40 


& 

Nun 

D 

n 

50 

£ 


Simciit 

0 

8 

GO 

V 

*7 

In 


- 

70 

3 


Phi 

s 

f,P 

SO 

fti 

tm 

Sadi 

'A 

ss, ts 

90 

p 

¥ 

Qoph 

P 

k 

100 


A 

Bish 

“l 

r 

200 



Shan 

V 

sh 

300 

A 


Tnv 

n 

t, tli 

400 


* The form in the first column is that of manuscripts and print, the sec- 
ond is that found on monumeuls. 


SAMARITAN LITERATURE 2S9 SAMARITAN LITERATURE 


SAMARITAN LITERATURE. Under this head 
we propose to enumerate the works known to European 
scholars, somewhat in distinction from those current 
with the Samaritans themselves, which will be found 
under Samaritans, Modern. 

1. Grammar and Lexicography.— In this department 
we have to mention three grammatical treatises, which 
were published from a MS. at Amsterdam, by Nbldeke, 
in the Gbttinger Nachrichten, 1862, p. 337, 385. They 
are built entirely on the philological views of Arabic 
grammarians, some sections (such as those on transitive 
and intransitive verbs) being copied word for word from 
their works. From the transcriptions of Hebrew words 
into Arabic, we may judge of the Samaritan pronuncia- 
tion of the eleventh century. As to the present system 
of pronunciation, Prof. Petermann, of Berlin, has tran- 
scribed the whole book of Genesis after the manner in 
which it is now read in the synagogue of Nablus, and 
from this transcription the present system of pronuncia- 
tion may be known, although it is difficult to decide 
whether the present system is due to genuine tradition, 
or whether it has become influenced by the Syriac anil 
Arabic. According to Petermann's transcription, the 
first verse in Genesis would read thus: “ Baraset bara 
eluwem it assamem wit aares.” (Comp. AbhandUtngen 
fur die Kunde des Morgenlandes d. D. M. G. 1868, vol. v, 
No. 1.) 

In the matter of lexicography there is little informa- 
tion to give; of dictionaries proper none has as yet 
come to light. At Paris (Bibl. Nat. Anciens Funds, 6, 
Peiresc) there is a concordance of forms occurring in the 
Scriptures with the corresponding Arabic and Samar- 
itan words in parallel columns, and a similar one is pre- 
served at Cambridge (Christ’s College Library), in which, 
however, the Samaritan equivalent is omitted. Of late 
the Imperial Library at St. Petersburg has obtained 
fragments of grammatical works and of Ilebrew-Arabic 
dictionaries, or “ Tardeschemans” (interpreters), as they 
are termed by Samaritans and Arabs, which will be de- 
scribed in the catalogue to be issued by Mr. Ilarkavy. 

2. Calendars. — In this branch there are some astro- 
nomical tables, two of which were published by Scali- 
ger, and one was edited with a translation by De Sacy 
(Not. et Extr. xii, 135, 153). Several more MSS. have 
found their way to Europe — one written A.D. 1750, 
another written 1689, a third dated 1724 (see Journ. 
Asiatiqne , 1869, p.467,468). The Imperial Library of 
St. Petersburg also possesses several specimens. 

3. Legends. — The British Museum possesses a MS. 
(Add. MS. 19,657), a commentary on the “ legends as- 
cribed to Moses.” It has been translated by Dr. Leit- 
ner in Heidenheim’s Vierteljahrsschrift , iv, 184 sip It 
borrows largely from Jewish sources. Of a similar type 
is the Jewelled Necklace in Praise of the Lord of the 
Human Race, composed in 1537 by Ismail Ibn-Badr Ibn- 
Abu-l-Tzz Ibn-Rumaih (Brit. M us. Add. MS. 19,021) in 
honor of Moses. It sets forth his divine nature, and 
extols the glories of his birth and miracles. With this 
may be classed a tract in which is contained a “com- 
plete explanation of the chapters on Balak” by Gliazal 
Ibn-ad-’Duwaik (MS. xxvii, Bibl. Acad. Reg. Scient. 
Amst. p. 265-289) ; and another small tract (ibid. p. 
292, 293), by the famous Abu Said, explaining the cause 
of the fear felt by Jacob on his way to Egypt (Gen. 
xlvi, 1, 3), and by Abraham after the conquest of the 
five kings (ibid, xv, 1), with a third (p. 294-296), by an 
unknown author, in which the fifteen occasions are 
quoted from Exodus and Numbers when the Israelites, 
by their complaints and abuse of Moses and Aaron, 
tempted God, and the times are mentioned at which 
the divine glory appeared. 

4. Commentaries. — Of great importance, especially for 
ascertaining the doctrinal views of the Samaritans, are 
their commentaries on the Pentateuch. The oldest 
extant is perhaps the one in the Bodleian Library (Add. 
MS. 4to, 99, and described by Neubauer in the Journ. 
Asiatiqne , 1873, p. 341 sq.), composed A.D. 1053 by an 

IX.— T 


unknown Samaritan for the benefit of a certain Abu 
Saul Levi. In this commentary we find quotations 
from the Pentateuch, the former aiul later prophets, Ne- 
hemiah, the Mishna, etc., but not from the Samaritan 
Targum. All anthropomorphisms are avoided. 

Another interesting and important c alimentary is one 
preserved at Berlin, from which large extracts were 
given by Geiger in the Zeitschrift d. 1). M. G. xvii, 723 
sq. ; xx, 147 sq.; xxii, 532 sq. In it the national feel- 
ing as exhibited in opposition to the Rabbinic school 
of thought among the Jews is thoroughly represented. 

An anonymous commentary on Genesis, brought from 
the East by bishop Huntington, and preserved in the 
Bodleian Library (Hunt. MS. 3(Jl), is of the same type as 
the preceding. The forty-ninth chapter was published 
by Schnurrer in EichhorrHs Repertorinm, xvi, 151-199. 

To this class we must also reckon a hagadic com- 
mentary on the Pentateuch containing Genesis and 
Exodus, termed the Dissipater of Darkness from the 
Secrets of Revelation , written in 1753-54 by Gliazal Ibn- 
Abu-s-Surur al-Ghazzi (Brit. Mus. Add. MS. 19,657), 
and another containing fragments of a commentary on 
Genesis, Exodus, and Leviticus, often quoted by Castel- 
lus in his notes on the Samaritan Pentateuch (Brit. 
Mus. Ilarl.MS. 5495). 

A number of fragments of such commentaries are also 
preserved at St. Petersburg. Other writers seem to 
have devoted their energies to the same subject, but 
nothing now remains to us but their names and the 
titles of their books (Amst. MS. xxvii, p. 309,314 sq.). 

5. Chronicles. — Here we mention: 

(<7.) The Samaritan Chronicle or Book of Joshua , sent 
to Scaliger by the Samaritans of Cairo in 1584. It was 
edited by Jnynboll (Leyden, 1848), and his acute in- 
vestigations have shown that it wrs redacted into its 
present form about A.D. 1300, out of four special docu- 
ments, three of which were Arabic and one Hebrew 
(i. e. Samaritan). The Leyden ISIS, in 2 pts.. which 
Gesenius (De Sam. Theol. p. 8, n. 18) thinks unique, is 
dated A.H. 764-919 (A.D. 1362-1513); the Cod. in the 
Brit. Museum, lately acquired, dates A.H. 908 (A.D. 
1502). The chronicle embraces the time from Joshua 
to about A.D. 350, and was originally written in, or sub- 
sequently translated into, Arabic. After eight chapters 
of introductory matter begins the early history of “Is- 
rael” under “ King Joshua,” who, among other deeds of 
arms, wages war, with 300,000 mounted men — “half 
Israel” — against two kings of Persia. The last of his 
five “royal” successors is Sliimshon (Samson), the hand- 
somest and most powerful of them all. These reigned 
for the space of 250 years, and were followed by five 
high-priests, the last of whom was Usi (‘? = Uzzi, Ezra 
vii, 4). With the history of Eli, “the seducer,” which 
then follows, and Samuel, “a sorcerer,” the account by 
a sudden transition runs off to Nebuchadnezzar (ch. xlv). 
Alexander (ch. xlvi), and Hadrian (ch. xlvii), and closes 
suddenly at the time of Julian the Apostate. The He- 
brew of this ehronicle is given by Kirchheim in his 
Karme Shomron. 

(b.) The El- Tholidoth, or “The (book of) Genera- 
tions.” It professes to have been written by Eleazar 
ben-Amram in A.H. 544 (A.D. 1149), copied and con- 
tinued by Jacob ben-Ismael 200 years later, and carried 
down by other hands to 1859, when the present MS. 
was written by Jacob ben- Aaron, the high-priest. It 
was published by Neubauer in the Journal Asiatiqne 
for 1869, p. 385 sq. lie gives the Samaritan, or rather 
Hebrew, text with notes and translation, citing the 
Arabic translation when the sense is not clear. His 
text is that of the Bodleian ]\IS. numbered Bodl. Or. p. 
651. collated in some passages with one belonging to a 
private owner. A German translation with explana- 
tions has been given by lleidenheim in his Yierteljahrs- 
schrift fur deutsch - und englisch-theolog. Forschnng n. 
Kritik , iv, 347 sq. The chronicle is of interest to geog- 
raphers, as, while mentioning the various Samaritan 
families settled in Damascus, Palestine, and Egypt, it 


SAMARITAN LITURGY .290 


incidentally introduces the names of a considerable 
number of places inhabited by them. As to the im- 
portance of this chronicle for comparison with the 
“ Book of Jubilees,” comp. Rbnsch, Das Buck der Jubi- 
Iden (1874). p. 361. 

(c.) The Chronicle of A bul fath is a compilation from 
the Samaritan chronicle, as well as from various sources, 
Jewish or Rabbinical. It is full of fables, and contains 
little useful matter. The history in it extends from 
Adam to Mohammed, and was composed in the 14th 
century — i. e. in 1355, or 750 A. 1 1. — at Nablus. Five 
MSS. of it are known— one at Paris, another at Oxford, 
procured by Huntington, and three in Berlin; but one 
of the last three consists of nothing but a few fragments. 
Schnurrer gave a long extract from the Oxford copy, 
with a German translation, in Paulus, Xeues Reperto- 
riumfiir biblische und rnorgenlihtdische Literatar (1790, 
Theif i, 120 sq.); and in Paulus, Memorabilia (1791, 2 
vols.) ; so, too, l)e Sacy, in his Arabic Chrestomuthy , and 
Notices et Extraits des Mannscrits de la Bibliotheque du 
Roi , tom. xii. With an English translation by R. Payne 
Smith, it was printed in lleidenheim’s Journal, ii, 304 
sq. ; 432 sq. Recently it has been published by Vilmar, 
with the title, Abnlfathi Annales Samaritavi , qnos A ra- 
bice edidit, cum Proll. Latine vertit et Comment ario illus- 
trarit (Gotha?, 1865), after a collation of the various 
MSS., and with learned prolegomena. 

G. Miscellaneous. — To this belongs a work of Abn-1- 
Ilasan of Tyre, relating to lawful and forbidden meats, 
or “of force” (Bodl. MS. Hunt. 24; comp, also Journal 
Asiat. 1869, p. 468). In it the peculiar dogmas of the 
Samaritans as differing from those of the Jews are set 
forth and supported by arguments drawn from the 
Pentateuch. Closely resembling this is a work entitled 
“a book sufficing to those who desire the knowledge 
of the book of God,” by Muliaddib Eddin Jussuf Ibn- 
Salamah Ibn-Jussnf al-Askari, commenced in A.D. 1041. 
It is an exposition of the Mosaic laws, and preserved in 
the Brit. Museum (Add. ISIS. 19,656 [2]). 

Another work by Abu-l-Ilasan relates to the future 
life, with arguments drawn from the Pentateuch (Bodl. 
MS. Hunt. 350 [1]). 

An Abridgment of the Mosaic Law according to the 
Samaritans , by Abul Farag lbn-Isliag lbn-Kathar, is 
preserved at Paris (Bibl. Nat. Anciens Fonds, 5. Peiresc); 
a work on penance, in Amst. (IMS. xxvii, p. 304), which 
MS. also contains a treatise on the nature of God and 
man, etc. (ibid. p. 223), and questions and answers, with 
interpretations from the Pentateuch (ibid. p. 297). 

The St. Petersburg collection also contains fragments 
of Samaritan law-books (F. iv, 18); twenty-two docu- 
ments in Arabic, relating to civil matters, and ranging 
from the 17th to the 19th century; about seventy con- 
tracts of marriage; and six amulets. 

See Petermann, Yersnch einer hebr. Eormenlehre vach 
der Anssprache der hentigen Samaritaner (Leips, 1868), 
introduction; Juvnboll, Comment atii in Historiam Gen - 
(is Samaritame (Litgd. Bat. 1846), p. 58 sq.; Nbldeke, 
Ceber einige sanuiritanisch - arab. Schriften , die hebr. 
Spj-ache IxtrejJend (Gottingen, 1862); Geiger, Die he- 
brdische Grammatik bei den Samar itanern, in Zeitschr. 
d. D. M. G. (1863), xvii, 748; llcidenlieim, Yierteljahrs- 
schrif , in loc. cit. ; Petermann, in Herzog, Real-Encgkl. 
xiii, 37(5 sq. ; Theologisches V nicer sal - Lexikon, s. v. 

Samaritanische Litoratnr;" Nutt, .4 Sketch of Samari- 
tan History , p. 134 sq. ; Rclandi Dissertt. Miscell. ii, 14; 
Smith, J/ict. of the Bible , iv. 2811 sq. ; Kitto, Cyclop. 
in, 751 ; Kirchheim, Karme Shomron (Frankfort, 1851), 
p. 28 sq. (B. P.) 

SAMARITAN LITURGY. Under this bead we pro- 
pose to treat of the formal ritual of the Samaritans, in- 
cluding their most important doctrines, usages, etc., as 
gathered from documentary sources; reserving some ad- 
ditional details as to their present practice for the art. 
Samaritans, Modern. 

I. Ritual. — The liturgical literature of the Samaritans 
is very extensive, and not without a certain poetical 


SAMARITAN LITURGY 

value. It consists chiefly of hymns and prayers for 
Sabbath and feast days, and of occasional prayers at 
nuptials, circumcisions, burials, and the like. The Brit- 
ish Museum possesses nineteen volumes of prayers and 
hymns, which are described by Heidetiheim in his 
Yierteljahrsschrift , i, 279 sq.; 408 sq. Several have 
also been published by Heidenheim, e. g. A llymn for 
the Day of Atonement (ibid, i, 290 sq.); A Petition of 
Xanah ben-Marka (ibid. p. 432) ; A Petition of Mesh al- 
ma of Daphne {ibid. p. 438 sq.); The Prayer of A b. 
Gelugah, from a Vatican MS. {ibid, ii, 213 sq.) ; The 
Litany of Market, the end of which runs thus: 

“ Lord, for the sake of the three perfect ones ! 

For the sake of Joseph, the interpreter of dreams! 

For the sake of Moses, chief of the prophets ! 

For the sake of the priests, the masters of the priests ! 
For the sake of the Torah, most sacred of books! 

For the sake ofMonnt Gerizim, the everlasting hill! 

For the sake of the hosts of angels ! 

Destroy the enemies and foes ! 

Receive our prayers ! 

O Everlasting ! 

Deliver us from these troubles ! 

Open to ns the treasure of heaven ;” 

A Prayer of the JHyli-Priest Pinchasfor the Celebration 
of the New Moon (contained in Cod. 19,020 Add. MSS.); 
Two Hymns for the Day of A tenement, one by the priest 
Abraham, the other by the priest Tobias {ibid, iv, 1 10 sq. ; 
contained in Cod. 19,009 Add. MSS.); The Prayer of 
Marka and that of A mrarn , both contained in the Vatic. 
MS. {ibid, iv, 237 sq.; 390 sq.). Of the hymns for the 
Passover we will speak farther on. In Gesenins, Car- 
mina Samaritana, fragments of litnrgies from Damascus 
were published, which Kirchheim has published with 
emendations in his Karme Shomron. One hymn on the 
Unity of God, and headed “ins ttbs PlbN P*>b, i. e. 
“ there is no God but one,” runs thus: 

1. 

iTG^rp D n Ftbx The everlasting God, 

*12 D^pT Who liveth forever; 

‘pb' i n bz bz pbtt God above all powers, 

cbvb “iD And who thus remaiueth for- 

ever. 

2 . 

ymna rQ“i In thy great power shall we 

' ' trust, 

*p?3 IP rxi For thou art our Lord ; 

P“H25<“1 In thy Godhead ; forthouhast 

created 

mr“H *jE iTabs? The world from beginning. 

3. 

PPD3 “jrwna Thy power was hidden, 

"pFTal And thy glory and mercy. 

PlPiOODl PPN^b^ pb^ Revealed are both the things 
1 that are revealed, and those 

that are un revealed, 

pPinbN “i-blTU Before the reign of thy God- 
' head, etc. 

Petermann lias published three “prayers of Moses and 
Joshua” and live “prayers of the angels” in his G ram- 
mat ica Samaritami, p. 418 sq. A volume of prayers is 
also in the Paris Bibl. Nat. Anciens Fonds, 4, Peiresc. 
The present Samaritans have two collections, which 
they call Durrtin (“string of pearls”) and Defter 
(“book”), the latter comprising the former, the ar- 
rangement of which they ascribe to Amran-ez-Zeman 
or Amram-Dari. The language in which they are 
written varies; some are in almost classical Hebrew, 
others in a dialect resembling that of the Targnms, 
containing an admixture of Arabisms and Hebraisms. 
The metre also differs considerably. 

II. Doctrines. — From the various hymns and docu- 
ments extant, it appears that the Samaritans had five 
principal articles of faith, viz.; 

1. God is one, without partner or associate, without 
body and passious, the cause of all things, filling all 
tilings, etc. 


SAMARITAN LITURGY 291 SAMARITAN LITURGY 


2. Moses is the one messenger and prophet ot God for 
all time, the end of revelation, the friend and familiar 
servant of God; none will arise like him. 

3. The law is perfect and complete, destined for all 
time, never to be supplemented or abrogated by later rev- 
elation. 

4. Gerizim is the one abode of God on earth, the home 
of eternal life; over it is Paradise, thence comes all rain. 

5. There will be a day of retribution, when the pious 
will rise again ; false prophets and their followers will 
then be cast iuto the tire and burned. 

Other points in their creed may be noticed. From 
the prayer of Tobiah v, 24, it seems that the Samaritans 
believed in original sin. “ For the sake of Adam and 
because of the end of all flesh, forgive and pardon the 
whole congregation.” From a prayer for the Day of 
Atonement we see that the doctrine concerning the 
Logos was known among them, for which see Ileidcn- 
heim, Vierteljahrsschri/t , iv, 120 sq. They believe in 
angels and astrology, which may be seen from a prayer 
given by lleidenheim, l. c. p. 545 sq. 

The belief in a coming Messiah, or “Restorer,” who 
should be the son of Joseph, was current among the 
Samaritans at a very early age, and this belief is based 
upon such Messianic prophecies as Gen. xv, 17 ; xlix, 
10; Numb, xxiv, 17 ; and Deut. xviii, 15. All that they 
had to say concerning this point is contained in the let- 
ter of March ib Ibn-Jakub addressed to Thomas Marshall, 
where we read: “ You have spoken of the arrival of the 
great Prophet. This is he who was announced to our 
father Abraham, as it is said there appeared ‘ a smoking 
furnace and a burning lamp’ (Gen. xv, 17) ; ‘ to bim shall 
the people submit themselves’ (ibid, xlix, 10) ; of him 
also it is said (Numb, xxiv, 17), ‘ be shall destroy all the 
children of Sheth, and Israel shall do valiantly;’ of him, 
‘the Lord thy God shall raise thee up from amidst thy 
brethren a prophet like unto me; unto him shall ye 
hearken’ (Dent, xviii, 15). Our teachers have said on 
this point that this prophet shall arise, that all people 
shall submit to him and believe in him and in the law 
and Mount Gerizim; that the religion of Moses, son of 
Amram, will then appear in glory; that the beginning 
of the name of the prophet who will arise will be M : 
that he will die and be interred near Joseph, ‘the fruit- 
ful bough that the Tabernacle will appear by his 
ministry and be established on Gerizim. Thus it is 
said in our books and in the book of Joshua, the son of 
Nun” (Eichliorn, Repertoriam , ix, 1 1 sq.). What has 
been said in this and other letters and works is merely 
an extract from a hymn composed by the high-priest 
Abisha ben-Pinchas for the Dav of Atonement, and con- 
tained in Cod. 19,(151 Add. MSS. of the British Museum 
(comp, lleidenheim, v, L70 sq.). As to the time of his 
appearance the Samaritans were formerly uncertain. 
“ No one knows bis coming but Jehovah,” says Ab 
Zehuta in 1589 (comp. Eichhorn, xiii, 206); “it is a 
great mystery with regard to Messiah who is to come 
and who will manifest his spirit: happy shall we be 
when he arrives,” writes Salameh, in 1811 (see De Sacv, 
Not. et Extr. xii, 122). “The appearance of Messiah,” 
writes Petermann, in 1860, “is to take place 6000 years 
after the creation, and these have just elapsed; conse- 
quently he now, though all unconsciously, is going 
about upon earth. In 1853 the Samaritans expected a 
great political revolution ; but in 1X63 the kings of the 
earth will, according to them, assemble the wisest out 
of all nations in order by mutual counsel to discover the 
true faith. From the Israelites, i. e. Samaritans, will 
one be sent, and he will be the Taeb. He will gain the 
day, lead them to Gerizim, where under the twelve 
stones they will find the ten commandments (or the 
whole Torah), and under the stone of Bethel the Temple 
utensils and manna. Then will all believe in the law, 
and acknowledge him as their King and Lord of all the 
earth. lie will convert and equalize all men, live 110 
years upon earth, then die and be buried near Gerizim; 
for upon that pure and holy mountain, which is fifteen 
yards higher than Ebal, no burial can take place. Af- 
terwards will the earth remain some hundreds of years 


more till the 7000 are completed, and then the last judg- 
ment will come ill” (Herzog, R.-Encykl. xiii. 373 sq.). 

III. Usages . — At the present day the Samaritans 
celebrate seven feasts in the year, although only one, 
the Passover, is observed with its former solemnities. 
A minute and interesting account of the ceremonies of 
this feast, as celebrated in 1853, is given by Petermann, 
in Herzog, R.-Encgkl. xiii, 378; also by Stanley, Hist, of 
the Jewish Church , i, 513 sq. The liturgy for tins least 
is very rich; thus every evening during the least the 
“dream of the priest Abisha” is read, to hear which 
only the elders are permitted. This dream is contained 
in Cod. 19,007 Add. MSS. Brit. Museum. There are 
Passover hymns composed by the high-priests Marka, 
Pinchas, and Abisha (q. v.), given by lleidenheim, iii, 
94 sq., 357 sq., 475 sq. There exists also a Ilistoi'g of 
the Exodus, a so-called Pesach-IIaggadah, which Dr. S. 
Kohn published with a German translation in Abhand- 
lungen der L). M. G. v, No. 4 (Leips. 1876). 

The second feast, celebrated on the 2 1st of Nisan, or 
last day of Unleavened Bread, is marked by a pilgrim- 
age to Gerizim. The third feast is Pentecost ; the fourth 
that of Trumpets; the fifth is the Day of Atonement. 
The first and eighth days of Tabernacles count for the 
remaining feast-days. The Sabbath, moreover, is kept 
with great strictness; the years of jubilee and release 
are also still observed. 

The Samaritans have two more days of assembly, 
though they do not count them as holidays, termed 
n?22£. Summoth, on which the number of the congre- 
gation is taken, and in return every male over twenty 
years of age presents the priest with half a shekel (three 
piasters), in accordance with Exod. xxx, 12-14, receiv- 
ing from him a calendar for the coming six mouths 
prepared from a table in his possession — originally, it is 
said, composed by Adam and committed to writing in 
the time of Phinehas. From these offerings, the tenth 
of the incomes of the congregation, and other small 
gifts, the priest gains his living. He may consecrate 
any of his family that he pleases to the priesthood, pro- 
vided the candidate be twenty-five years of age and 
never have suffered his hair to be cut. Like other 
Orientals, he never removes his turban, and thus is not 
easily to be distinguished from the rest of the congrega- 
tion; but, in accordance with Lev. x, 6, he does not 
“rend his clothes” by wearing a slit on his sleeve as 
other Samaritans; and when the roll of the law is taken 
from the ark, he, like his assistants, places a cloth, 
which they call rH3I3, tallith, around his head. They 
wear white turbans; ordinarily they are compelled, by 
way of distinction from Mohammedans, to wear them of 
a pale- red color. They may cut their hair or not, as 
they please, but not their beards, this being forbidden 
in Lev. xix, 27 ; xxi, 5. Women must let their hair 
grow, and wear no earrings, because of them the golden 
calf was made. For fear of scandalizing the Moham- 
medans, none but the old ones venture to attend the 
synagogue. When a boy is born, great rejoicing is 
held; his circumcision always takes place on the eighth 
day after birth, even though it be a Sabbath. Boys 
marry as early as fifteen or sixteen, girls at twelve. 
The Samaritans may marry Christian or Jewish girls, 
provided they become Samaritans. When a man has a 
childless wife he may take a second; but if she also be 
barren, not a third. Divorces, though permitted, are un- 
common. The dead are prepared for burial by their own 
friends; the whole body is washed, but especially the 
hands (thrice), mouth, nose, face, ears, both inside and 
out (all this in Mohammedan fashion), and lastly the feet. 
The burial takes place, if possible, before sunset the same 
day, accompanied with the recitation of the law and 
hymns. The following is a part of a litany for the dead : 

. -pm . "jn . . c-nbx . n-rr . 

. . crrcx . 

"■ci . nr*s . 


292 


SAMARITAN PENTATEUCH 


SAMARITAN PENTATEUCH 


Lord Jehovah, Elohim, for thy mercy, and for thine 
own sake, and for thy name, and for thy glory, and for the 
sake of our Lords Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, and our 
Lords Moses and Aaron, and Eleazar, and Ithamar, and 
Phinehas, and Joshua, and Caleb, and the lloly Angels, 
and the seventy Elders, and the holy mountain of Gerizim, 
Beth El. If thou acceptest [D^wT] this prayer [N“ip - 
— reading], may there go forth from before thy holy 
countenance a gift sent to protect the spirit of thy ser- 
vant, [N. the son of N.], of the 

sons 01 [ ], daughter L ] from the sons of [ — ]. 

O Lord Jehovah, in thy mercy have compassion on him 
(*| [or] have compassion on her), and rest his (her) soul 

in the garden of Eden; and forgive him (^| [or] her), 

and all the congregation of Israel who flock to Mount 
Gerizim, Beth El. Amen. Through Moses the trusty. 
Amen, Amen, Amen. 


These readings are continued every day to the next 
Sabbath, the women of the family watching near the 
grave. On the Sabbath it is visited by the whole con- 
gregation (except the near relations), who eat there 
together, reciting part of the law and singing hymns, 
finishing the recitation later in the day with the rela- 


tions. 

From the usages among the Samaritans we. see that, 
on the whole, they strictly adhere to Jewish customs, 
and yet we And numerous enactments against them in 
the Talmud. There is especially one whole treatise 
which bears upon this subject, entitled Massecketh Ku - 
thim, which Kirchheim published with six others (Frank- 
fort, 1851). From this treatise we see “that Jews are 
not allowed to suffer them to acquire immovable prop- 
erty, nor to sell them sheep for shearing, nor crops to 
cut, nor timber still standing. They are also forbidden 
to sell them weapons or anything which could damage 
persons, or to give or to take wives from them. A 
daughter of Israel may not deliver a Samaritan woman 
nor suckle her son, but a Samaritan woman may per- 
form these offices for a daughter of Israel in her (the 
Israelite’s) house.” These are some of the main points 
contained in that treatise, which concludes in the fol- 
lowing words : 

“And why are the Cuthim not permitted to come into 
the midst of the Jews? Because they have mixed with 
the priests of the heights (idolaters). R. Ismael says: 
‘They were at first pious converts (p“122 =real 

Israelites), and why is the intercourse with them pro- 
hibited ? Because of their illegally begotten children, 
and because they do not fulfil the duties of (marry- 
ing the deceased brother’s wife);’ a law which they un- 
derstand to apply to the betrothed only. 

“‘At what period are they to be received (into the 
community)?’ ‘When they abjure the Mount Gerizim, 
recognise Jerusalem (viz. its superior claims), and believe 
in the Resurrection.’ ” 

See Gesenius, Samarit. Theolog. (I lake, 18-22); Atiec- 
dota Exon. (Lipsiiv, 1824) ; Kirchheim, Karme Shomron , 
p. 10 sq. ; Retcrmann, in Herzog, xiii, 370 sq.; Nutt, 
Sketch of Samaritan History , p. 05 sip, 142 sq ; Fried- 
rich, I)e Chrisfoloyia Samar. (Lipshe, 1821); .lost, 
Grach. <1. .Indent h. u. s. Secten, i, 50 sq. ; Westcott, Intro- 
duction to the Study of the Gospels, p. 1 72 ; Adams. History 
of the Jews, ii, 257 sq.; Langen, J)as Judenthum in Palas- 
tina (Freiburg. 1800), p. 00 sq., 185 sq., 232 sq., 200 sq., 
407 sq. ; Appel, (parst tones de rebus Samaritanorum 
((hitting. 1874), and Ceber Samarit truer, in .Hid. l.itera- 
turhlali , 1878, No. M sq.; Kitto, Cyclop, iii, 751 sq.; 
Smith, Did. of the Bible , p. 2810 sq. (lb P.) 

SAMARITAN PENTA'PETCl 1. This is one of the 
most important relies of the Samaritan literature that 
have come down to our times. We therefore give it a 
large critical treatment, following the results of Gcsc- 
nius’s investigations, as they have been presented hv 
Lee in his Prolegomena; Davidson, in Kitto’s Cyclop .; 
and Deutseh, in Smith's Diet, tf the Bible. The latter 
two. also giving the results of Kirchheim, we have es- 
pecially used in this abstract, making sueh corrections 
and additions as appeared necessary. Sec Pisntateucii. 


I. History . — It had been well known to early Jewish 
and Christian writers that a recension of the Pentateuch, 
(littering in important respects from that in use among 
the Jew's, was in possession of the Samaritan communi- 
ty. Hut these writers regarded it in a different light 
respectively. Thus the Jew's treated it with contempt 
as a forgery. “You have falsified yonr law” — 

CErHin — says R. Eliezer ben-Simcon ( Jer . Sotuh, vii, 
3; Sotah , p. 33 b), “and you have not profited aught by 
it,” referring to the insertion of the w f ords “opposite 
Shechom” in Dent, xi, 30. On another occasion they 
are ridiculed on account of their ignorance of one of the 
simplest rules of Hebrew grammar, displayed in their 
Pentateuch, viz. the use of the M locale (unknown, hou r - 
ever, according to Jer. Meg. 6, 2, also to the people of 
Jerusalem). “ JI7<o has caused you to blunder ?” said R. 
Simeon ben-Eliezer to them; referring to their aboli- 
tion of the Mosaic ordinance of marrying the deceased 
brother’s wife (Dent, xxv, 5 sq.) — through a misinter- 
pretation of the passage in question, which enjoins that 
the wife of the dead man shall not be “without” to a 
stranger, but that the brother should marry her: they, 
however, taking PlSinfi ( — ■pnb) to be an epithet of 
rrx, “wife,” translated “the outer wife," i. e. the be- 
trothed only (Jer. Jebam. 1, 6; comp. Frankel, Fors/w- 
dien, p. 197 sq.). 

Early Christian writers, on the other hand, speak of 
it with respect, in some cases even preferring its author- 
ity to that of the Mosaic text. Origen quotes it under 
the name of rb rain yiapaptiTutu *E/3|OfnK:oj', giving its 
various readings in the margin of his llexapla (e. g.ou 
Numb. xiii. 1 ; comp, xxi, 13, and Montfancon, 11 ex a p). 
Prelim, p. 18 sq.). Eusebius of Ciesarea, noticing the 
agreement in the chronology of the Sept, and Samari- 
tan text as against the Hebrew', remarks that it was 
written in a character confessedly more ancient than 
that of the latter (1 Chron.xvi, 1-11). Jerome ( \n Pref- 
ace to Kings') also mentions this fact, and in his com- 
ment on Gal. iii, 10 he upholds the genuineness of its 
text over that of the Masoretic one, but in his Qiuest. 
in Gen. iv, 8 he speaks more favorably of the Hebrew' ; 
while Georgius Syncellus, the chronologist of the 8th 
century, is most outspoken in his praise of it, terming it 
“ the earliest and best even by the testimony of the 
Jew's themselves” (to twv ^apapeiriov ap^aiorarou 
Kai x a P aKr, lP ffl dioWarrov b Kai otXift'tQ that kcu 
npioTOV 'E/3p«7ot Ka$opo\oyoi’Giv [Chronogr, p. 85]). 

Down to within the last two hundred and fifty years, 
how'ever, no copy of this divergent code of laws had 
reached Europe, and it began to be pronounced a fiction, 
and the plain words of the Church fathers— the better 
know'll authorities — who quoted it were subjected to 
subtle interpretations. Suddenly, in 1010, Pietro della 
Valle, one of the first discoverers also of the cuneiform 
inscriptions, acquired a complete codex from the Sa- 
maritans in Damascus. In 1023 it w r as presented by 
Aehille Harley de Saucy to the Library of the Oratory 
in Paris, and in 1G28 there appeared a brief description 
of it by J. Morinus in his preface to the Roman text of 
the Sept. Three years later, shortly before it w’as pub- 
lished in the Paris Polyglot — whence it w'as copied, 
w'lth a lew' emendations from other codices, by Walton — 
Morinus, the first editor, wrote his Exercitationes Eccle- 
siastics in utrumque Samaritanorum Pentateuch utn , in 
which he pronounced the newly found codex, with all 
its innumerable variants from the Masoretic text, to be 
‘ infinitely superior to the latter; in fact, the uncondition- 
al and speedy emendation of the received text thereby 
w’as urged most authoritatively. And now’ the impulse 
w r as given to one of the fiercest and most barren litera- 
ry and theological controversies, of which more anon. 
Between 1020 and 1030 six additional copies, partly 
complete, partly incomplete, were acquired by Usher; 
live of which he deposited in English libraries, while 
one was sent to De Dieit, and has disappeared mysteri- 


SAMARITAN PENTATEUCH 293 SAMARITAN PENTATEUCH 


ously. Another codex, now in the Ambrosian Library 
at Milan, was brought to Italy in 1021. Pciresc pro- 
cured two more, one of which was placed in the Koval 
Library of Paris, and one in the Barberini at Koine. 
Thus the number of MSS. in Europe gradually grew to 
sixteen. During the present century another, but very 
fragmentary, copy was acquired by the Gotha Library. 
A copy of the entire (?) Pentateuch, with Targum (? 
Samaritan version), in parallel columns (4to), on parch- 
ment, was brought from Nablus by Mr. Grove in 1801, 
for the count of Paris, in whose library it is. Single 
portions of the Samaritan Pentateuch, in a more or less 
defective state, are now of no rare occurrence in Europe. 
Of late the St. Petersburg Library has secured fragments 
of about three hundred Pentateuch MSS. 

II. Description . — Respecting the external condition 
of these MSS., it may be observed that their sizes vary 
from 12mo to folio, and that no scroll, such as the Jews 
and the Samaritans use in their synagogues, is to be 
found among them. The letters, which are of a size 
corresponding to that of the book, exhibit none of those 
varieties of shape so frequent in the Masoretic text; 
such as majuscules, minuscules, suspended, inverted let- 
ters, etc. Their material is vellum or cotton-paper; the 
ink used is black in all cases save in the oldest scroll of the 
Samaritans at Nablus, the letters of which are in purple. 
There are neither vowels, accents, nor diacritical points. 
The individual words are separated from each other by 
a dot. Greater or smaller divisions of the text are 
marked by two dots placed one above the other, and by 
an asterisk. A small line above a consonant indicates a 
peculiar meaning of the word, an unusual form, a passive, 
and the like ; it is, in fact, a contrivance to bespeak at- 
tention. For example, !"l3n and and “12, 

and -inn, bx and bx, bziO and iaao, ang? and 
123 and 123, the suffixes at the end of a word, the 
n without a dagesh, etc., are thus pointed out to the 
reader (comp. Kirehheim, p. 34). 

The whole Pentateuch is divided into nine hundred 
and sixty-four paragraphs, or Kctzzin , the termination 
of which is indicated by these figures, =, ? or <. 

At the end of each book the number of its divisions is 
stated thus: 


(250) 31 ClPSPa 

(200) 

030) 

(218) rrn . p » 

(160) 1D1 . p “ 


: yiirann pso run 
i3rn “ “ 

">123^123!! “ “ 


■psp 


The Samaritan Pentateuch is halved in Lev. vii, 15 
(viii, 8, in Hebrew text),* where the words “ Middle of 
the Torah” (am man X3&B) are found. At the 
end of each MS. the year of the copying, the name of 
the scribe, and also that of the proprietor are usually 
stated. Yet their dates are not always trustworthy 
when given, and very difficult to be conjectured when 
entirely omitted, since the Samaritan letters afford no 
internal evidence of the period in which they were 
written. To none of the MSS., however, which have 
as yet reached Enrope can be assigned a higher date 
than the 10th Christian century. The scroll used in 
Nablus bears — so the Samaritans pretend — the follow- 
ing inscription : 

“I, Abisha, son of Phinehas, son of Eleazar, son of Aa- 
ron the priest — upon them he the grace of Jehovah— in his 
honor have I written this Holy Law at the entrance of the 
Tabernacle of Testimony on the Mount Gerizim, even 
Beth El, in the thirteenth year of the taking possession of 


* Mr. Deutsch, who copied here Kirehheim (p. 36), has 
overlooked the latter’s note, viz. that Lev. viii, S contains 
the two words which, according to the Masorites, consti- 
tute the middle of all the words in the Pentateuch. As it 
stands now it would lead to the supposition that Lev. vii, 
15 of the Samaritan Pentateuch corresponds to viii. 8 in 
the Hebrew text. 


the land of Canaan, and all its boundaries around it, by 
the children of Israel. I praise Jehovah.” 

(Letter of Meshalmah ben-Ab Sechnah, Cod. 19,791, 
Add. MSS. Brit.Mus. in lleidenheim, i,88. Comp. Epist. 
S a m . N ich emit a ru m ad Jobutn Lndolphum [Cizm, 1688] ; 
A ntiq. Eccl. Orient, p. 123 ; Iluntingtoni Epist. p. 49, 56 ; 
Eicbhorn, Repertorium f bill, uml more/. Lit. vol. ix, etc.) 
But no European has fully succeeded in finding it in this 
scroll, however great the pains bestowed upon the search 
(comp. Eicbhorn, Einleit. ii, 599) ; and even if it had 
been found, it would not have deserved the slightest 
credence. It would appear, however (see archdeacon 
Tattam’s notice in the Parthenon , No. 4, May 24, 1862), 
that Mr. Levysohn, who was attached to the Russian 
staff in Jerusalem, has found the inscription in question 
“going through the middle of the body of the text of 
the Decalogue, and extending through three columns.” 
Considering that the Samaritans themselves told Hun- 
tington “that tin's inscription had been in their scroll 
once, but must have been erased by some wicked hand” 
(comp. Eicbhorn, ibid.'), this startling piece of informa- 
tion must be received with extreme caution. Neverthe- 
less, Lieut. Cornier speaks as if he had actually seen the 
inscription on the venerable MS. ( Tent Work in Pales- 
tine. i, 50). 

This venerable roll is written on parchment, in col- 
umns thirteen inches deep and seven and a half inches 
wide. The writing is in a good hand, but not nearly 
so large or beautiful as in many book-copies which they 
possess. Each column contains from seventy to seven- 
ty-two lines, and the whole roll contains a hundred and 
ten columns. The skins of which the roll is made are 
of equal size, and each measures twenty-five inches in 
length by fifteen inches in width. In many places it 
is worn out and patched with rewritten parchment, and 
in many other places where not torn the writing is il- 
legible. About two thirds of the original writing is still 
readable. The name of the scribe, we are told, is writ- 
ten in a kind of acrostic, and forms part of the text run- 
ning through three columns of the book of Deuteronomy. 
In whatever light this statement may be regarded, the 
roll has the appearance of very great antiquity. 

HI. Critical Character . — We have briefly stated above 
that the Exercitationes of J. Morin, which placed the Sa- 
maritan Pentateuch far above the received text in point 
of genuineness — partly on account of its agreeing in 
many places with the Sept., and partly on account of 
its superior “lucidity and harmony” — excited and kept 
up for nearly two hundred years one of the most ex- 
traordinary controversies on record. Characteristically 
enough, however, this was set at rest once for all bv the 
very first systematic investigation of the point at issue. 
It would now appear as if the unquestioning rapture 
with which every new literary discovery was formerly 
hailed, the innate animosity against the Masoretic (Jew- 
ish) text, the general preference for the Sept., the defec- 
tive state of Shemitic studies — as if, we say, all these 
put together were not sufficient to account for the phe- 
nomenon that men of any critical acumen could for one 
moment not only place the Samaritan Pentateuch on a 
par with the Masoretic text, but even raise it, uncondi- 
tionally, far above it. There was, indeed, another cause 
at work, especially in the first period of the dispute; it 
was a controversial spirit which prompted J. Morin and 
his followers, Cappellus and others, to prove to the Re- 
formers what kind of value was to be attached to their 
authority — the received form of the Bible, upon which, 
and which alone, they professed to take their stand. 
It was now evident that nothing short of the Divine 
Spirit, under the influence and inspiration of which the 
Scriptures were interpreted and expounded by the 
Roman Church, could be relied upon. On the other 
hand, most of the “ Antimorinians” — De Muis, Hottin- 
ger, Stephen Morin, Buxtorf, Fuller, Leusden, Pfeiffer, 
etc. — instead of patiently and critically examining the 
subject and refuting their adversaries by arguments 
which were within their reach, as they are within ours, 


SAMARITAN PENTATEUCH 294 SAMARITAN PENTATEUCH 


directed their attacks against the persons of the Morin- | 
ians, and thus their misguided zeal left the question of 
the superiority of the new document over the old 
where they found it. Of higher value were.it is true, 
the labors of Simon, Le Clerc, Walton, etc., at a later 
period, who proceeded eclectically, rejecting many read- 
ings, and adopting others which seemed preferable to 
those of the old text. Uoubigant, however, with un- 
exampled ignorance and obstinacy, returned to Mori- 
nus’s tirst notion — already generally abandoned — of the 
unquestionable and thorough superiority. He, again, 
was followed more or less closely by Kennieott, Alex, a 
St. Aqnilino, Lobstein, Geddes, Bertholdt, and others. 
The discussion was taken up once more on the other side, 
chiefly by llavius, who succeeded in finally disposing of 
this point of the superiority (Exercitatt. Phil, in Houbig. 
Prol. [Lugd. Bat. 1755]). It was from his day forward 
allowed, almost on all hands, that the Masoretic text 
was the genuine one; but that in doubtful eases, when 
the Samaritan had an “ unquestionably clearer” read- 
ing, this was to be adopted, since a certain amount of 
value, however limited, did attach to it. Miehaelis, 
Eichhorn, Jahn. and the majority of modern critics ad- 
hered to this opinion. Here the matter rested until 
1815, w hen Gesenius (Ik Pent. Sam. Origine , Indole , 
et Auctoritate) abolished the remnant of the authority 
of the Samaritan Fentateuch. So masterly, lucid, and 
full are his arguments and his proofs that there has 
been, and will be, no further question as to the absence 
of all value in this recension, and in its pretended 
emendations. In fact, a glance at the systematic ar- 
rangement of the variations, of which he first of all be- 
thought himself, is quite sufficient to convince the read- 
er at once that they are for the most part mere blunders, 
arising from an imperfect knowdedge of the first ele- 
ments of grammar and exegesis. That others owe their 
existence to a studied design of conforming certain pas- 
sages to the Samaritan mode of thought, speech, and 
faith — more especially to show that the Mount Geri- 
zim, upon which their temple stood, was the spot chosen 
and indicated by God to Moses as the one upon w r hieh 
he desired to be worshipped. Finally, that others are 
due to a tendency towards removing, as well as linguist- 
ic shortcomings would allow, all that seemed obscure or 
in any way doubtful, and towards filling up all apparent 
imperfections either by repetitions or by means of new- 
ly invented and badly fitting words and phrases. It 
must, however, be premised that, except two alterations 
(Exod. xiii, 6, where the Samaritan reads “ Six days 
shalt thou eat unleavened bread,” instead of the re- 
ceived “Seven days,” and the change of the word RPRR 
“ There shall not be” into R^RR. “ live” Dent, xxiii, 
18), the Mosaic laws and ordinances themselves are no- 
where tampered with. 

We will now proceed to lay specimens of these once 
so highly prized variants before the reader, in order that 
he may judge for himself. We shall follow in this the 
commonly received arrangement of Gesenius, who di- 
vides all these readings into eight classes : 

I. The first class, then, consists of readings by which 
emendations of a grammatical nature have been at- 
tempted. 

(«.) The quiescent letters, or so-called matres lectio - 
nis, are supplied. Thus is found in the Samar, for 
E- of the Masoretic text; HI for R*-; for V; ER^>X 
for ER^X; rms: for RRXE, etc.; sometimes a 1 is 
put even where the Ileb. text has, in accordance with 
the grammatical rules, only a short vowel or a sheva : 
VSSIR is found for TEEIR (Lev. xvi, 12); HVEIX for 
JVEX (Deut. xxviii, f>8). 

(5.) The more poetical forms of the pronouns, proba- 
bly less known to the Sam., are altered into the more 
common ones. Thus 'ERD, EH, >XR, become 15R3X, 

rer, r^xr. 


(c.) The same propensity for completing apparently 
incomplete forms is noticeable in the flexion of the 
verbs. The apocopated or short future is altered into 
the regular future. In this manner 'IS HI becomes 
Tjrl (Gen. xxiv, 22); RE*) is emendated into R1E**! 
(xxv, 18); XR) (verb R b) into RXR* (xli, 33); the 
final *j T , of the 3d pers. fern. plur. fut., into RD. 

((/.) On the other hand, the paragogieal letters 1 and 
n at the end of nouns are almost universally struck out 
hy the Sam. corrector; e. g. *3EVC3 (Deut. xxxiii, 16) 
is shortened into "pill}, 1R*R into RPR (Gen. i, 24); 
and, in the ignorance of the existence of nouns of a 
common gender, he has given them genders according 
to his fancy. Thus masculine are made the words tn? 
(Gen. xlix, 20), RR1EJ (Deut. xv, 7, etc.), RDRE (Gen. 
xxxii, 9); feminine the words ]"RX (Gen. xiii, 6), “RR 
(Deut. xxviii, 25), IRBD (Gen. xlvi, 25. etc.) ; wherever 
the word RED occurs in the sense of “girl,” a R is 
added at the end (xxiv, 14, etc.). 

(e.) The infin. absol. is, in the quaintest manner pos- 
sible, reduced to the form of the finite verb; so lE-lE*! 
EV<E1 "pbR, “ the waters returned continually ,” is trans- 
formed into 1ECI *IS^R IBllE**), “they returned, they 
went and they returned” (Gen. viii, 3). Where the 
infin. is used as an adverb, e. g. pRRR (xxi, 16), “far 
off,” it is altered into Rp-’RRR. “she went far away,” 
which renders the passage almost unintelligible ; or it 
is changed into a participle, as ERD RVTPR (Gen. xliii, 
7) into the meaningless D ER^R. 

For obsolete or rare forms, the modern and more 
common ones have been substituted in a great number 
of places. Thus SIIJ for ER*E (Gen. iii, 10, II); Rb* 
for Rbl (xi, 30); EYRIES for the collective RIBS (xv, 
10); RlEX, “female servants,” for R1REX (xx, 18); 
RE* 1 !} "C RREE XR*R for the adverbial E^E (xlix, 
15); "'R^RE for ETPRE (Exod. xxvi, 26, making it 
depend from *D2E) ; EIRE, in the unusual sense of “ from 
it” (comp. 1 Kings xvii, 13), is altered into R2EE (Lev. 
ii, 2); R*n is wrongly put for h n (3d pers. sing. mase. 

of ^R— Jl^*) 5 “IE* -the obsolete form, is replaced by 

the more recent R*E (Numb, xxi, 15); the unusual fern, 
termination (comp. bE n EX, b*DTEX) is elongated 
into R*-; "1RIE is the emendation for V'lE (Deut. xxii, 
1); *RR for *RRR (xxxiii, 15), etc. 

2. The second class of variations consists of glosses or 
interpretations received into the text — glosses, moreover, 
in which the Sam. not unfrequentlv coincides with the 
Sept., the various versions, and Jewish commentaries, 
most of them therefore the result of exegetical tradition. 
Thus RETX1 IR^X, “man and woman,” used by Gen. 
vii, 2 of animals, is changed into REpDI RET, “male 
and female;” V’XDIE (Gen. xxiv, 60), “ his haters,” be- 
comes "PE'RX, “his enemies;” for RE (indefin.) is sub- 
stituted RE1XE ; XR* 1 , “he will see, choose,” is ampli- 
fied by a ib, “for himself;” R JR RSR is transformed 
into R*IDR REX R2R (Lev. xvii, 10); bx Vlbx RfJ*n 
EE*bE (Numb, xxiii, 4), “And God met Bileam,” be- 
comes with the Sam. E RX 'bx “xVe XSE^,“and 
an angel of the Lord found Bileam;” RCXR bE (Gen. 
xx, 3), “for the woman,” is amplified into RR1X bE 
R’wXR, “for the sake of the woman;” for *REDb*l, from 
RED (obsol., comp. jjCs). is put *RDDb, “ those that are 
before me,” in contradistinction to “ those who will come 
after me;” RRRiT, “and she emptied” (her pitcher into 


SAMARITAN PENTATEUCH 295 SAMARITAN PENTATEUCH 


the trough, Gen. xxiv, 20), has made room for ‘VHirfij 
“and she took down;” ‘'rn?13, “I will meet 

there” (A.V. Exod. xxix, 43), is made CD 
“I shall be [searched] found there;” Numb, xxxi, 15, 
before the words Hl£p2 bs cn^nn, “Have you 
spared the life of every female?” a Hisb, “Why,” is in- 
serted (Sept.); for XHpx mm DIT (Deut. xxxii, 
3), “ If I call the name of Jehovah,” the Sam. has Q'L'£, 
“ In the name,” etc. 

3. The third class consists of conjectural emendations 
of difficulties; e. g. the elliptic use of *lb*\ frequent both 
in Hebrew and Arabic, being evidently unknown to the 
emendator, he alters the HVp fiDU HIX*2 "pbi! (Gen. 
xvii, 17), “shall a child be born unto him that is a hun- 
dred years old?” into T“^1X, “shall I beget?” Gen. 
xxiv, 62, X“!£^ XD, “he came from going” (A. V. 
“ from the way”) to the well of Lahai-roi, the Sam. al- 
ters into *13 *173 2 X2, “ in or through the desert” (Sept. 
didrgg Ipggov). In Gen.xxx,34, "p“G“!2 n HP *lb “jH, 
“Behold, may it be according to thy word,” the lb 
(Arab. ^J) is transformed into xb, “and if not — let it 
be like thy word.” Gen. xli, 32, mb nil riaiSfT bsi. 
“And for that the dream was doubled,” becomes fib 21 
H rP2'£3, “The dream rose a second time,” which is 
both un-Hebrew and diametrically opposed to the sense 
and construction of the passage. Better is the emen- 
dation, Gen. xlix, 10, V'b^H "ppp, “from between his 
feet,” into “from among his banners.” ^bm ■pn’O. 
Exod. xv, 18, all but five of the Sam. codd. read Dbirb 
“forever and longer” instead of Tl**!, the com- 
mon form, “evermore.” Exod. xxxiv, 7, xb HlpDI 
Hp2^, “that will by no means clear the sin” becomes 
HlpJ^ ib Hi £31, “and the innocent to him shall be in- 
nocent,” against both the parallel passages and the ob- 
vious sense. The somewhat difficult 1ED 11 X>1, “and 
they did not cease” (A. V. Numb, xi, 25), reappears as 
a still more obscure conjectural “SOX?, which we would 
venture to translate, “they were not gathered in,” in 
the sense of “killed:” instead of either the *U£3£X, 
“congregated,” of the Sam. Vers., or Castell’s “conti- 
nuerunt,” or Houbigant’s and Dathe’s “convenerant.” 
Numb, xxi, 28, the “Ar” (Moab), is emendated 
into ^5, “as far as,” a perfectlj' meaningless reading; 
except that the “city,” it seems, was a word un- 
known to the Samaritan. The somewhat uncommon 
words (Numb, xi, 32) TTl 13 '£5 tnb inair* 1 !, “and 
they (the people) spread them all abroad,” are trans- 
posed into Hl-IITI? CSlb 1I3IT3P1, “and they slaugh- 
tered for themselves a slaughter.” Dent, xxviii, 37, 
the word {T2'l3b, “an astonishment” (A.V.), very rarely 
used in this sense (Jer. xix. 8; xxv, 9), becomes O’lib. 
“to a name,” i. e. a bad name. Deut. xxxiii, 6, i|"Pl 
H£0?2 Vrip, “May his men be a multitude,” the Sam., 
with its characteristic aversion to, or, rather, ignorance 
of, the use of poetical diction, reads H£0*0 IHX'O *'HP 1, 
“May there be from him a multitude,” thereby trying 
perhaps to encounter also the apparent difficulty of the 
word standing for “ a great number.” Anything 

more absurd than the IPX'S in this place could hardly 
be imagined. A few verses farther on, the uncommon 
use of “iP in the phrase “p^p*? " ( p (Deut. xxxiii, 11), 
as “ lest,” “ not,” caused the no less unfortunate altera- 
tion so that the latter part of the passage, 

“smite through the loins of them that rise against him, 
and of them that hate him, that they rise not again,” 
becomes “ who will raise them ?” — barren alike of mean- 


ing and of poetry. For the unusual and poetical 
(Deut. xxxiii, 25; A.V. “thy strength”), is sug- 

gested; a word about the significance of which the com- 
mentators are at a greater loss even than about that of 
the original. 

4. The fourth class consists of those readings where 
the Sam. is corrected or supplied from parallel pas- 
sages. Thus iTvLv’X X3 (Gen. xviii, 29) becomes xb 
mnrx, according to ver. 28. Proper names, which 
are variously written in Hebrew, are all conformed to 
one orthography, as 1HHP, Moses’s father-in-law. In 
Gen. xi, 8, “ and the tower” is added to the Hebrew text, 
taken from the fourth verse. 

5. The fifth class consists of larger interpolations 
taken from parallels, in which whatever was said or 
done by Moses as recorded in a preceding passage is re- 
peated; and whatever is said to have been commanded 
by God is repeated in as many words where it is re- 
corded to have been carried into effect. In this way 
Exodus is much enlarged by interpolations from itself, 
or from Deuteronomy. Gesenius thinks that these in- 
sertions were made between the date of the Sept, and 
Origen, because the Alexandrian father mentions a pas- 
sage of the kind (Pick, Horae Samarit.'). 

6. -The sixth class consists of corrections made in or- 
der to remove what was offensive in sentiment to the 
Samaritans, or what conveyed an improbable meaning- 
in their view. Thus in the antediluvian times none 
begets his first son after he is 150 years of age. Hence, 
from Jared, Methuselah, and Lamech, 100 years are sub- 
tracted at the time they are said to have their first son. 
In the postdiluvian times none is allowed to beget a son 
till after he is fifty years old. Accordingly some years 
are subtracted from several patriarchs and added to 
others. To make this intelligible, we subjoin from onr 
llorce Samaritance the following table of the Hebrew 
and Samaritan chronology, and where the first column, 
marked A, gives the years before birth of son; the sec- 
ond, B, the rest of life ; the third, C , the extent of whole 
life : 

Antediluvians. 



Hebrew. 

Samaritan. 


A 

B 

C 

A 

B 

C 

Jared 

1G2 

800 

962 

62 

7S5 

S47 

Enoch 


300 

365 

65 

300 

365 

Methuselah 

187 

782 

969 

G7 

653 

720 

Lamech 


595 

777 

53 

600 

653 


POSTDILUVIANS. 




Arphaxad 


403 

43S 

135 

303 

43S 

Eber 

34 

430 

464 

134 

270 

404 

Peleg 

30 

209 

239 

130 

109 

239 

Ren 

32 

207 

239 

132 

107 

239 

Serng 

30 

200 

230 

130 

100 

230 

Nahor 

29 

119 

148 

79 

69 

14S 


Under this head falls the passage in Exod. xii, 40: 
“ Now the sojourning of the children of Israel who dwelt 
in Egypt was 430 years.” The Sam. has “The sojourn- 
ing of the children of Israel and their fathers who dwelt 
in the land of Canaan and in the land of Egypt was 430 
years.” The same reading is in the Sept. (cod. Alex, 
and Josephus; comp, also Gal. iii, 17). In Gen. ii, 2 
is altered into the sixth. 

7. The seventh class comprises what we might briefly 
call Samaritanisms, i. e. certain Hebrew forms trans- 
lated into the idiomatic Samaritan; and here the Sam. 
codices vary considerably among themselves — as far as 
the very imperfect collation of them has hitherto shown 
— some having retained the Hebrew in many places 
where the others have adopted the new equivalents. 
Thus the gutturals and ahevi letters are frequently 
changed: 12’Tlil becomes LJT1X (Gen. viii, 4) ; “'XD is 
altered into ^’2 (xxiii, 18); HC'-a into (xxvii, 

19); ^bm stands for ibnt (Deut. xxxii, 24); the Hi is 
changed into HI in words like 3H13, C*HC3, which be- 
come 3HI3, Hi is altered into 5?—' "I^HI becomes 

The * is frequently doubled (? as a mater lecti - 


SAMARITAN PENTATEUCH 296 SAMARITAN PENTATEUCH 


onis): is substituted for X“P^X for 

;$TX; “'■'3 for n S. Many words are joined together: 
m-ni- stands for *111*7 1*2 (Exod. xxx, 23) ; 1X3112 
for “,X *j H2 (Gen. xli, 45); 2^12 in is always 
"■'7 The pronouns 11X and “jl-lX, 2d pers. fem. 
sing, and plur., are changed into ^TX and V'TX^the ob- 
solete Heb. forms) respectively ; the suft". Tj into ”X ; " 
into “p; the termination of the 2d pers. sing. fem. pret., 
n-, becomes ^P], like the 1st pers.; the verbal form 
Aphel is used for the Hiphil; “71127X for *>ni2 7n; 
the medial letter of the verb *1 V is sometimes retained 
as X or “h instead of being dropped as in the Hebrew. 
Again, verbs of the form Pi h have the h frequently at 
the end of the intin. fut. and part., instead of the Pi. 
Nouns of the schema (b2X, etc 0 are often spelled 
p-'Ep, into which the form bi-JP is likewise occasion- 
ally transformed. Of distinctly Samaritan words may 
be mentioned: “Pi (Gen. xxxiv, 31)=”" | X, “p<TJ 
(Chald.), “like;” C^PPI, for the Heb. 271 Ml, “seal;” 
rrT22, “as though it budded,” becomes 7*1113X2 = 
the Targ. PniEX 12, etc. 

S. Passages whieh have been conformed to the the- 
ology, hermeneuties, and worship of the Samaritans. 
Thus, to avoid the appearance of polytheism, the four 
passages where Elohim is construed with a plural are 
altered so as to present the singular (Gen. xx, 13 ; xxxi, 
53 ; xxxv, 7 ; Exod. xxii, 9). Again, whatever savors 
of anthropomorphism, or is unsuitable to the divine maj- 
esty, is either removed or softened. Wherever the Al- 
mighty himself is brought immediately into view as 
speaking to and dealing with men, “the angel of God” 
is substituted. Reverence for the patriarchs and Moses 
led to the alteration of Gen. xlix, 7 and Deut. xxxiii, 
12; for example, for “cursed is their anger,” 23 X 11 IX, 
the Sam. reads, “excellent is their anger,” 2EX I^IX; 
and instead of “the beloved of the Lord shall dwell,” 
PPPP l-H* 1 , it has “the hand, the hand of the Lord 
makes him to dwell,” which yields no sense. In like 
manner, voces honestiores are sometimes put when there 
is fancied immodesty, as in Deut. xxv, 11, I* 1 ’,22122 is 
changed into IP — 22. 

Here Gesenius puts the notable passage Deut. xxvii, 
4, where the Samaritans changed Ebal into Gerizim to 
favor their own temple. Some, as Whiston and Kenni- 
cott, have attempted to show that the Jews changed 
Gerizim into Ebal, but unsuccessfully (comp, on this 
point Lee’s Prolegomena , p. 29), 

From the immense number of these worse than worth- 
less variations Gesenius has singled out four which he 
thinks preferable, on the whole, to those of the Masoretic 
text, viz. Gen. iv, 8, where the Sam. adds, “Let us go 
into the field;” Gen. xxii, 13, PIPX, a, instead of “IPX, 
behind (also found in five fragments of old Jewish MSS. 
at St. Petersburg; see Journ. Asiat. 18fifi, i, 542); Gen. 
xlix, 11, where CIS, a bone, is D“15, bong; and Gen. 
xiv, 14, pP"1, instead of p1*1, i. e. he numbered* for he 
led forth. Even these have been thought emendations, 
and rejected by the majority of critics (comp. Frankel, 
Kinftnss, p. 242). 

Frankel has treated of the subject more by way of 
supplement to Gesenius than from an independent point 
of view. 1 1 is additions to the classes of the latter are 
small and unimportant, besides being pervaded by erro- 
neous conceptions of the age when the Samaritan Pen- 
tateuch originated. He adduces — 1. The use of the 
imperative for the third person, as 2Pp!P for 21P* 1 
(Exod. xii, 48) ; and to ignorance of the use of the in- 
finitive absolute, as 1127 for 1*27 (xiii, 3), 112X for 
1“EX (Numb, vi, 23), etc. 2. The characteristics of 


the Galilseo - Palestinian dialect, such as the inter- 
change of the ahevi letters, and of 2 for 3, of T for U, 
etc. Blit this peculiarity is simply owing to careless- 
ness of transcription in the copyists, who wrote as they 
pronounced, and softened the hard gutturals whieh were 
difficult to their organs. 3. The Aramiean coloring and 
orthography, as bEJ? and b^Ep. This is likewise ow- 
ing to transcription, and can hardly be ealled a charac- 
teristic of the Samaritan (Frankel, Einjluss, p. 238 sq.). 

Another classification of the Samaritan characteristic 
readings is given by Kirehheim, He makes thirteen 
classes, 0^1212 2n, as follows: 1.2^1312111 n*3ClHilb 
PIP nbrisb. additions and alterations in favor 
of Mount Gerizim, e. g. Deut. v , 21. 2. PlSCiniTJ 

niXP*2b, additions to fill up. 3, P1X2IP, explications 
or glosses. 4. tPD^2m CpbrEIP 7)1511, change of 
verbs and conjugations. 5. PTE-il Cjibn, change of 
nouns. 6. JlX112Jin, assimilation, or bringing irregu- 
lar forms into the same uniform type. 7. HP 12 IP 
ni^niXiP, permutation of letters. 8. 2“ l “ 1 *32, pro- 
nouns. 9. 1"'2n, gender. 10. I71S013S1 711* nx. let- 
ters added. II. Pl2IPm &n*Tl P1M1X, addition of 
qualifying letters, as articles, conjunctions, and preposi- 
tions. 12. 1113)11 p12plP, junction and separation. 
13. cbir r,V2H, chronological alterations ( Karme Shom- 
ron , p. 32 sq.). Comp, for No. 13, Pick, Iloree Samari- 
tans (Gen. v and xi, where the differences of the chro- 
nology in the lleb., Sept., Sam., and Josephus are ex- 
hibited). 

A third division is that adopted b} r Kohn ( De Pent. 
Sam. p. 9). He makes three divisions, viz. 1, Samari- 
tan forms of words; 2, corrections and emendations; 3, 
glosses and corruptions for religious purposes; and per- 
haps, 4, blunders in orthography. 

IV. Origin and Age . — In regard to these questions, 
opinions have been much divided. We shall enumerate 
the principal ones. 

1. That the Samaritan Pentateuch came into the 
hands of the Samaritans as an inheritance from the 
ten tribes, whom they succeeded — so the popular no- 
tion runs. Of this opinion are J. Morinus, Walton, 
Cappellns, lvennicott, Miehaelis, Eiehhorn, Bauer, Jahn, 
Bertholdt, Steudel, Mazade, Stuart, Davidson, and oth- 
ers. Their reasons for it may be thus briefly sum- 
med up: 

(1.) It seems improbable that the Samaritans should 
have accepted their code at the hands of the Jews after 
the Exile, as supposed by some critics, since there ex- 
isted an intense hatred between the two nationalities. 

(2.) The Samaritan canon has only the Pentateuch 
in common with the Hebrew canon : had that book 
been received at a period when the Hagiographa and 
the Prophets were in the Jews’ hands, it would be sur- 
prising if they hail not also received those. 

(3.) The Samaritan letters, avowedly the more an- 
cient, are found in the Samaritan code; therefore it 
was written before the alteration of the character into 
the square Hebrew — which dates from the end of the 
Exile — took place. 

Since the above opinion — that the Pentateuch came 
into the hands of the Samaritans from the ten tribes — 
is the most popular one, we will now adduce some of 
the chief reasons brought against it: and the reader 
will see, by the somewhat feeble nature of the argu- 
ments on either side, that the last word has not yet 
been spoken in the matter. 

(a.) There existed no religions animosity whatsoever 
between Judah and Israel when they separated; the ten 
tribes could not, therefore, have bequeathed such an an- 
imosity to those who succeeded them, and who, we may 
add, probably cared as little, originally, for the disputes 
between Judah and Israel as colonists from far-off coun- 


SAMARITAN PENTATEUCH 


297 SAMARITAN PENTATEUCH 


tries, belonging to utterly different races, are likely to 
care for the quarrels of the aborigines who formerly 
inhabited the country. On the contrary, the contest 
between the slowly Judaized Samaritans and the Jews 
only dates from the moment when the latter refused to 
recognise the claims of the former of belonging to the 
people of God, and rejected their aid in building the 
temple. Why, then, it is said, should they not first 
have received the one book which would bring them 
into still closer conformity with the returned exiles at 
their hands? That the Jews should yet have refused 
to receive them as equals is no more surprising than 
that the Samaritans from that time forward took their 
stand upon this very law — altered according to their 
circumstances — and proved from it that they and they 
alone were the Jews kcit *£oy/)u. 

( b .) Their not possessing any other book of the He- 
brew canon is not to be accounted for by the circum- 
stance that there was no other book in existence at the 
time of the schism, because many psalms of David, writ- 
ings of Solomon, etc., must have been circulating among 
the people. l?ut the jealousy with which the Samari- 
tans regarded Jerusalem, and the intense hatred which 
they naturally conceived against the post-Mosaie writ- 
ers of national Jewish history, would sufficiently account 
for their rejecting the other books, in all of which, save 
Joshua, -Judges, and Job, either Jerusalem, as the centre 
of worship, or David and his house, are extolled. If, 
however, Lowe has really found with them (as he re- 
ports in the Allgem. Zeitung d. Judenth . April 18, 1830) 
our book of Kings and Solomon’s Song of Songs — which 
they certainly would not have received subsequently — 
all these arguments are perfectly gratuitous. 

(c.) The present Hebrew character was not introduced 
by Ezra after the return from the Exile, but came into 
use at a much later period. The Samaritans might, 
therefore, have received the Pentateuch at the hands of 
the returned exiles, who, according to the Talmud, af- 
terwards changed their writing, and in the Pentateuch 
only, so as to distinguish it from the Samaritan. “ Orig- 
inally,” says Mar Sutra ( Sanhedr . 21 b), “the law was 
given to Israel in Jbri writing and the holy (Hebrew) 
language; it was again given to them, in the days of 
Ezra, in the Ashnrith writing and Aramaic language. 
Israel then selected the Ashurith writing and the holy 
language, and left to the ignorant ('lotwrai) the Ibri 
writing and the Aramaic language. Who are the ig- 
norant? The Cuthim (Samaritans). What is Ibri 
writing? The Libonai (Samaritan).” (See also Lnz- 
zatto, in Kirchheim, op. cit . p. 111.) It is well known, 
also, that the Maccabiean coins bear Samaritan inscrip- 
tions: so that “iJuorai” would point to the common 
use of the Samaritan character for ordinary purposes 
down to a very late period. 

2. The second leading opinion on the age and origin 
of the Samaritan Pentateuch is that it was introduced 
by Manasseh (comp. Josephus, Ant. xi, 8, 2, 4) at the 
time of the foundation of the Samaritan sanctuary on 
Mount Gerizim (Ant. van Dale, R. Simon, Prideaux, Ful- 
da, Ilasse, De Wctte, Gesenius, Hupfeld, llengstenberg, 
Keil, etc.). In support of this opinion arc alleged the 
idolatry of the Samaritans before they received a Jew- 
ish priest through Esar-haddon (2 Kings xvii, 24-33), 
and the immense number of readings common to the 
Sept, and this code against the Masoretie text. 

3. Other, but very isolated, notions are those of Mo- 
rin, Le Clerc, Poncet, etc., that the Israelitish priest sent 
by the king of Assyria to instruct the new inhabitants 
in the religion of the country brought the Pentateuch 
with him; further, that the Samaritan Pentateuch was 
the production of an impostor, Dositheus C'XaD'H in 
the Talmud), who lived during the time of the apostles, 
and who falsified the sacred records in order to prove 
that he was the Messiah (Usher) — against which there 
is only this to be observed, that there is not the slight- 
est alteration of such a nature to be found; finally, that 


it is a very late and faulty recension, made after the 
Masoretie text (6th century after Christ), into which 
glosses from the Sept, had been received (Frankel), or 
transcribed from a Hebrew copy into their own charac- 
ter, in the 10th. lltli, or Pith century (Tychsen). Both 
these conjectures are clearly refuted by the testimonies 
of Origen and Jerome, who affirm that the Samaritans 
had the Pentateuch in peculiar characters before their 
time. 

Y. Relation of the Samaritan Pentateuch to the Sep- 
tuagint. — From the time of the discovery of the Samar- 
itan Pentateuch, its striking resemblance in numerous 
passages to the Alexandrine version had been noticed 
bv all. Ilassencamp calculated some 1900 places in 
which the Samaritan Pentateuch agreed with the Sept. 
Gesenius thinks that there are more than 1000 such 
places. The most important places are given by Pick 
in his Iloi'ce Samaritans. 

It must, on the other hand, be stated also that the 
Samaritan and Sept, quite as often disagree with each 
other, and follow each the Masoretie text; also, that the 
quotations in the N. T. from the Sept., where they coin- 
cide with the Samaritan against the Hebrew text, are 
so small in number, and of so unimportant a nature, that 
they cannot be adduced as any argument whatsoever. 
See Pentateuch. 

The chief opinions with respect to the agreement 
of the numerous readings of the Sept, (of which no 
critical edition exists as yet) and the Samaritan Pen- 
tateuch arc: 

(1.) That the Sept, was translated from the Samar- 
itan (De Dieu, Seldcn, Ilottinger, Ilassencamp, Eich- 
liorn, Kohn). 

(2.) That mutual interpolations have taken place 
(Grotius, Usher, Ravins, etc.). 

(3.) That both versions were formed from Hebrew 
codices, which differed among themselves as well as 
from the one which afterwards obtained public author- 
ity in Palestine; that, however, very many wilful cor- 
ruptions and interpolations have crept in in later times 
(Gesenius). 

(4.) That the Samaritan has, in the main, been al- 
tered from the Sept. (Frankel). 

{a.) As to the first of these opinions— that the Sept, 
was translated from the Samaritan — it has been alleged 
on the evidence of Origen and supported by Jerome 
that in certain MSS. of the Sept, existing in their day 
the word PH ST' was retained in the ancient Hebrew 
(i. e. Samaritan) character, not in those used at their 
time, Ezra, according to tradition, having introduced 
other letters after the captivity (Origen, Hexapla [ed. 
Montfaucon], i, 86 ; Jerome, Epistola 136 ad Marcel- 
linn'). It is clear, however, from the statement made by 
Jerome on this point, that the remark of Origen can 
apply only to the Aramaic or square characters, not to 
those in use among the Samaritans. These are his 
words: “Nomen (viz. nomen Dei) est tetragrammnm, 
quod dveK(pdna]TOi', i. e. ineffabile putaverunt. quod his 
literis scribitur: Yod, E, Yav, E. Quod quidam non in- 
telligentes Pi Pi legere consueverunt and they explain 
how it came that some Greek copyists could make tutti 
out of the Hebrew SY1PP. That the argument based 
upon Origen’s words must fall to the ground is evident. 
Another reason alleged in support of the Sept, having 
been derived from the Samaritan original has been 
given on the supposition that the variations from the 
Hebrew text arose from a confusion between letters 
resembling each other in the Samaritan and not in 
the square alphabet. Rut this argument is untenable; 
for while we admit that such errors may have arisen 
from a confusion between similar letters in the Samar- 
itan, yet it is equally true that the same could have 
occurred as well in the square letters; thus, e.g., tl and 
n, and 1, 1 and T, 2 and D, 3 and 2 , “1 and 3, 5 and 
T and “i, could have been mistaken. A third argument 


SAMARITAN PENTATEUCH 298 SAMARITAN PENTATEUCH 


has been used : The Samaritans had already brought out 
for their own use a Greek translation, known under the 
name of to SapaptmKov; the Sept, finding this con- 
venient for their purpose, took it for their basis, altering 
here and there after the Hebrew original to suit their 
own ideas (so Kohn, p. 38 sq.). But there is this objec- 
tion to that theory: the Samaritan-Greek version was 
not translated belore the 3d or 4th century A.L). Be- 
sides, it is hardly possible that a people like the Samar- 
itans, who on all other occasions showed themselves 
powerless to invent, only capable of feeble imitation, 
should in this one instance have distanced their rivals 
in producing so great a literary work as a Greek trans- 
lation of the Pentateuch. For this reason we must give 
up this explanation of the similarity of the two texts. 

(6.) As to the second opinion, that mutual interpola- 
tions have taken place, or that the Samaritan Penta- 
teuch was corrected from the Septuagint, it is true to 
a certain extent : many passages occur in the former 
which bear all the marks of being interpolations from 
the Alexandrine version, e. g. Gen. xxiii, 2, 

23">5<i"!=feP 7ru\tt’Ap/3uK,y torn* tvrui koi- 
Xtjparr, Gen. xxvii, 27, nTOn = 6oy//) 

dypou 7r\j)povg; Gen. xliii, 28, "p“C 

= tvXoyyph'og 6 dvSpionog tKth'og rig ; 
Exod. v, 13, Czb “(TS “j!irn = r6 a^vpov tlicoro vpiv, 
etc. But how, moreover, on this supposition, are the 
equally numerous passages to be accounted for in which 
the Samaritan Pentateuch differs from the Sept., some- 
times in these cases agreeing with the Hebrew, at oth- 
ers departing from it *? 

(c.) The third opinion, advocated by Gesenius, that 
both the Samaritan and the Sept, were formed from 
Hebrew MSS., has the most probability. 

( d .) The fourth opinion, which claims that the Samar- 
itan has, in the main, been altered from the Sept., will 
have few, if any, supporters, since, according to Frankel, 
this should have been accomplished through a Greek 
translation of a Targum and the Greek version of the 
Samaritan Pentateuch. See Septuagint. 

VI. Copies. — 1. The following is a list of the MSS. of 
the Samaritan Pentateuch now in European libraries 
(Kennicott) : 

No. 1. Oxford (Usher), Bodl., fol., No. 3127. Perfect, 
except the lirst 20 and last 9 verses. 

No. 2. Oxford (Usher), Bodl., 4to, No. 3128, with an Ar- 
abic version in Samaritan characters. Imperfect. Want- 
ing the whole of Leviticus and many portions of the oth- 
er books. See Numbers and Deuteronomy. 

No. 3. Oxford (Esher), Bodl., 4to, No. 3129. Wanting 
many portions in each book, especially in Numbers and 
Deuteronomy. 

No. 4. Oxford (Usher, Land), Bodl., 4to, No. 624. De- 
fective in parts of Deuteronomy. 

No. 5. Oxford (Marsh), Bodl., 12mo, No. 15. Wanting 
some verses in the beginning; 21 chapters obliterated. 

No. 6. Oxford (Pocoek), Bodl., 24ino, No. 5328. Parts of 
leaves lost ; otherwise perfect. 

No. 7. London (Usher), Br. Mus. Claud. B. 8vo. Vellum. 
Complete. 254 leaves. Of great value. 

No. 8. Paris (Peiresc), Imp. Libr., Sam. No. 1. Recent 
MS. containing the Hebrew and Samaritan texts, with an 
Arabic version in the Samaritan character. Wanting the 
first 34 chapters, and very defective in many places. 

No. 9. Paris (Peiresc), Imp. Libr., Sam. No. 2. Ancient 
MS., wanting first 17 chapters of Genesis, and all Deu- 
teronomy from the 7th chapter, llonbigant, however, 
qnoies from Gen. x, 11 of this codex— a rather puzzling 
circumstance. 

No. in. Paris (llarl. de Saucy), Oratory, No. 1. The fa- 
mous MS. of P. della Valle. 

No. 11. Paris (Dom. Nolin), Oratory, No. 2. Made-up 
copy. 

No. 12. Paris (Libr. St. Genev.). Of little value. 

No. 13. Rome (Peiresc and Barber.), Vatican, No. 106. 
Hebrew and Samaritan texts, with Arabic version in Sa- 
maritan character. Very defective and recent. Dated 
the 7th century (?). 

No. 14. Rome (Card. Cobellertius), Vatican. Also sup- 
posed to be of the 7th century, but very doubtful. 

No. 15. Milan (Ambrosian Libr.). Said to be very an- 
cient; not collated. 

No. 16. Leyden (Golius MS.), fol., No. 1. Said to be 
complete. 

No. 17. Gotha (Ducal Libr.). A fragment only. 


No. 18. London (Count of Paris’s library). With ver- 
sion. 

No. 19. St. Petersburg (Imp. Libr.). 

A description of No. 19 is expected from Mr. Harkavv, 
while the others are described by Kennicott in his Vis - 
sertatio Generalise reprinted by Blayney in his edition 
of the Samaritan Pentateuch. 

All these are written on separate leaves; none are 
in the shape of rolls. At Nablus, however, as is well 
known, there is still preserved in the synagogue, and 
only brought out with much solemnity on certain fes- 
tivals, an ancient parchment roll, purporting, by its in- 
scription, to have been written by the hand of the 
great-grandson of Aaron himself, thirteen years after 
the original settlement of the Israelites in Canaan. It 
is written on the hair side of the skins of some twenty 
rams that served as thank-offerings (so says the priest). 
They are of unequal size, some containing five, some 
six, columns of writing. Other old MSS. are also men- 
tioned as existing there and elsewhere in Palestine ; one 
has the date of A.H. 35 (=A.D. G55) inscribed on it. 

2. Printed editions are contained in the Paris and 
Walton Polyglots; and a separate reprint from the lat- 
ter was made by Blayney (Oxford, 1790). A fae-simile 
of the 20tli chapter of Exodus, from one of the Nablus 
MSS., has been edited, with portions of the correspond- 
ing Masoretic text, and a Russian translation and in- 
troduction, by Levysohn (Jerusalem, 18G0) ; but the 
specimen is badly executed. 

VII. Literature. — Besides the Introductions of Eich- 
horn, Bertholdt, Jahn, De Wette, Haverniek, Keil, and 
Bleek, and the articles in the dictionaries of Kitto and 
Smith (which we have freely used here), the reader is re- 
ferred to Gesenius, De Pent. Sanmrit. Origine, Indole, et 
Aucforitate (II ala?, 1815, 4to); Journ. Sacr. Lit. July, 
1853, p. 298 sq. ; Morini (J.) Exerdtatione.s in utr uni- 
que Samarit. Pentuteuchum (Paris, 1631, 4 to) ; Usher, 
Syntagma de Sept. Interpretibus, Epistola ad L. Cappel- 
lum (London, 1G55, 4to) ; Poneet, Kouveaux Eclaircisse - 
ments sur VOrigine et le Pentateuque des Samarit ains 
(Paris, 17G0, 8vo); Le Clerc, Sentimens de quelques Theo - 
logiens de Jlollande sur VJIistoire Critique dit R. Simon 
(Amsterdam. 1G86, 8vo) ; Tychsen, Disputatio Ilistorico- 
pkilologico-critica de Pentateucho Ebrceo - Samarit ano, 
ab Ebrceo eoqne Masoretico Descripto Exemplari (Butzo- 
vii, 17G5, 4to) ; Prideaux, Old and New Testament con- 
nected in the History of the Jeics and Neighboring Na- 
tions (London, 1719, 8vo) ; Walton, Prolegomena (ed. 
Dathe, Leipzig, 1777, 8vo), xi, 9, 1 1 ; Cappelli Critica 
Sacru (ed. Vogel and Seharfenberg^Iake, 1775-8G.8vo); 
Ilasseneamp, Dev entcleckte wahre Ursprung der alien 
Bibelubei'setzungen mul der gerettete samar. Text. (M in- 
den, 1775) ; Kennicott, Second Dissertation (Oxford, 
1759); Rutherford, Letter to the Rev. Mr. Kennicott , in 
which his Defence of the Samaritan Pentateuch is ex- 
amined , and his Second Dissertation on the State of the 
Printed Hebrew Text of the 0 . T. is shown to be, in many 
instances, Injudicious and Inaccurate (Cambridge, 1761, 
8vo); Kennicott, Answer to a Letter from the Rev. T. 
Rutherford , 1).D. (17G1, 8vo); Rutherford, Second Letter 
to the Rev. Dr. Kennicott , in which his Defence of the Sec- 
ond Dissertation is examined (17G3, 8vo) ; Bauer, CHtica 
Sacra (Lipsia?, 1795); Steudel, in Bengel’s Archiv. iii, 
G2G, etc. ; 1L Simon, Ilistoire Critique du ) T. (Paris, 1 G85, 
4to); Fulda, in Pa ulus’s Memorabilia, vii; llasse, Aus- 
sichten zu kin f tiger A ufklarung iiber das A. T. (Jena, 
1785, 8vo) ; Pan lus, Comment ur iiber das N. T. (Liibeek, 
1804, 8vo), pt. iv; Hnpfeld, Belenchtnng dinger dnn- 
klen mid m issrerstandenen Stellcn der alttestamentliehen 
Textgeschichte, in the Studjen nml Kritiken , 1830, pt. ii ; 
Mazatle, Sur VOrigine , VAge, et VEtat Critique du Pent. 
Samar. (Geneva, 1830, 8vo) ; Hng, in the Freiburg.Zeit - 
sch rift, vol. vii ; Ilengstenherg, Die A u then tie des Pen - 
tateuchcs (Berlin, 183G,8vo), vol. i ; Stuart, in the North 
A mericun Review for 182G, and A mericcin Biblical Re- 
pository for 1832; Frankel, Vorstudien (Leipsic, 1841), 
and Ueber den Einfuss der pa last inis chen Exegese a if 


299 


SAMARITAN VERSIONS 


SAMARITAN SECTS 

die alexandrinische Ifermeneutik (ibid. 1851, 8vo) ; Lee, 
Prolegomena , in Bibiia Sacra, etc. (London, s. a.) ; Da- 
vidson, Treatise on Biblical Criticism (Edinburgh, 1852, 
8vo); ’VV2V-J Introductio in Librum Talma - 

dicum “De Samaritanis ,” scripsit Raphael Kirchheim, 
(Frankfort, 1851, 8vo) ; Walker, in the Christ. Exami- 
ner, May and September, 1840 ; Zeitschrift d. D. M . G. 
xiii, 275; xiv, 622; xviii, 582 sq.; xix, 611 sq.; Nutt, 
Samaritan History, p. 83 sq. ; Kohn, De Pentateucho 
Samaritano (Lipsice, 1865; reviewed in Frankel’s Mo- 
natsschrift , 1865, p. 356 sq.) ; Geiger, Nachgelassene 
Schriften (Berlin, 1877), iv, 54 sq. ; Pick, floj'te Samari- 
lance, or, A Collection of Various Readings of the Sa- 
maritan Pentateuch compared with the Hebrew and other 
Ancient Versions, in Biblioth. Sacra, 1876-77-78. See 
Samaritans, Modern. (B. P.) 

SAMARITAN SECTS. The most important infor- 
mation on the subject is given by Epiphanius {Iheres. 
[i, 28], followed by John Damascus \ibid. p. 79], and 
Nicetas [Thesaur. i, 35]). Epiphanius mentions four 
different sects — the Essenes, Sebuieans, Gorthenians, and 
Dositheans. With regard to the first of these bodies 
nothing- is known, nor is the information with regard 
to the Sebuseans (2s/3 ovaioi, n 5WQl!J) more satisfac- 
tory. They are said to have distinguished themselves 
by commencing the year in the early autumn; soon 
after this they held the Feast of Unleavened Bread, 
Pentecost later, and that of Tabernacles in the spring, 
when the Jews were celebrating their Easter. Of the 
Gorthenians, termed by Nicetas Sorothenians, nothing 
whatever is known. With regard to the last of the four 
sects and their leader Dositheus, it is impossible to rec- 
oncile the discordant testimony of Jewish, Christian, 
Mohammedan, and Samaritan writers. Epiphanius re- 
lates of them that they were believers in the resurrec- 
tion and austere in their manner of life, avoiding ani- 
mal food, some marrying but once, others not at all. As 
to the observance of circumcision, the Sabbath, avoid- 
ing contact with others, fasting and penance, they were 
not distinguished from the other Samaritans. Their 
founder was, he continues, a Jew who, for his learning, 
aspired to be chief among his party, but being disap- 
pointed in his ambitious schemes, went over to the Sa- 
maritans and founded a sect : later he retired to a cave, 
and there starved himself to death out of affected piety. 

What Epiphanius relates here concerning Dositheus 
fully accords with thg account of Abul-Fath concerning 
Dusis; but the austere life of his adherents can only re- 
fer to those of Dostan, of whom we shall have to speak 
further on. It seems that Epiphanius has confounded 
the two together, which has also been done by later 
writers. The statement of Abul-Fath is that a sect ap- 
peared calling themselves Dostan, or “ the Friends,” who 
varied in many respects the hitherto received feasts and 
traditions of their fathers. Thus they held for impure 
a fountain into which a dead insect (VTtU) had fallen; 
altered the time for reckoning the purification of women 
and commencement of feasts; forbade the eating of eggs 
which had been laid, allowing those only to be eaten 
which were found inside a slain bird; considered dead 
snakes and cemeteries as unclean; and held any one 
whose shadow fell upon a grave as impure for seven 
days. They rejected the words “ Blessed be our God 
forever” (Dbirb lmls “*nn), and substituted Elo- 
him for Jehovah; denied that Gerizim had been the 
first sanctuary of God; upset the Samaritan reckoning 
for the feasts, giving thirty days to each month, reject- 
ing the feasts and order of fasts, and the portions (due to 
the Levites). They counted the fifty days to Pentecost 
from the Sabbath the day after the first day of the Pass- 
over, like the Jews ; not from the Sunday, like the other 
Samaritans. Their priests, without becoming impure, 
could enter a house suspected of infection as long as he 
did not speak. When a pure and an impure house stood 
side by side, and it was doubtful whether the impurity 


extended to the former as well, it was decided by watch- 
ing whether a clean or unclean bird first settled upon it. 
On the Sabbath they might only eat and drink from 
earthen vessels, which, if defiled, could not be purified; 
they might give no food or water to their cattle : this, 
was done on the day previous. Their high-priest was 
a certain Zara, who had been turned out of his own 
community for immorality. 

At a later period lived Dusis. Being condemned to 
death for adultery, he was respited on the promise of 
sowing dissension among the Samaritans by founding a 
new sect. lie went to ’Asker, near Nablus, and formed 
a friendship with a Samaritan, distinguished for his 
learning and piety, by the name of *niT\ Compelled, 
however, to fly for his life on account of a false accusa- 
tion which he had brought against his friend, he took 
shelter at Shueike with a widow woman named Amentu, 
in whose house he composed many writings; but, find- 
ing that a hot pursuit after him ivas still maintained, he 
retired to a cave, where he peiished of hunger, and his 
body was eaten by dogs. Before his departure, how- 
ever, he left his books with his hostess, enjoining her to 
let no one read them unless he first bathed in the tank 
hard by. Accordingly, when Levi, the high -priest’s 
nephew — a pious, able man — arrived with seven others 
in search of him, they all bathed, one after the other, in 
the tank, and each, as he emerged from the water, ex- 
claimed, “ I believe in thee, Jehovah, and in Dusis, thy 
servant, and his sons and daughters;” Levi adding, 
when his turn came, “Woe to us if we deny Dusis, the 
prophet of God.” They then took the writings of Dftsis, 
and found that he had made many alterations in the 
law — more, even, than Ezra. They concealed them, 
and on their return to Nablus reported that Dusis had 
disappeared before they arrived, they knew not whither. 
At the next Passover, Levi had to read out Exod. xii, 
22 in the synagogue, but for “hyssop” (niT5<) he sub- 
stituted “ thyme” pP^). Corrected by the congrega- 
tion, he still persevered, crying, “This is right, as God 
hath said by his prophet Dftsis, on whom be peace ! Ye 
are all worthy of death for denying the prophetic office 
of his servant Dusis, altering the feasts, falsifying the 
great name of Jehovah, and persecuting the second 
prophet of God, whom he hath revealed from Sinai! 
Woe unto you that you have rejected and do not follow 
him !” Levi was stoned. His friends dipped a palm- 
leaf in his blood, and ordained that whoever would read 
Dnsis’s writings and see the leaf must first fast seven 
days and nights. They cut off their hair, shaved their 
beards, and at their funerals performed many strange 
ceremonies. On the Sabbath they would not move 
from their place, anil kept their feasts only on this day, 
during which they would not remove their hands from 
their sleeves. When one of their friends died, they 
would gird him with a girdle, put a stick in his hand 
and shoes on his feet, saying, “ If we rise, he will at once 
get up,” believing that the dead man, as soon as he 
was laid in the grave, would rise and go to Paradise. 
As to the age in which Dusis lived, it must have been 
long before Origen, for this father, in his Commentary 
on John xiii, 27 (ed. Lommatzsch, ii, 49), tells us that a 
“ certain Dositheus arose and claimed to be the Messiah ; 
his followers are called Dositheans, who have his books 
and tell wonderful stories of him, as if he had not died 
and is still alive somewhere.” This agrees with the 
statement of Abftl-Fath concerning Dusis. According 
to Origen, Dositheus must have lived long before him — 
probably in the 1st, or at least in the 2d century of the 
Christian sera. That he was the teacher or pupil of 
Simon Magus, as some have asserted, is an untenable 
conjecture. See Petermann in Herzog, xiii, 387 sq. ; 
Nutt, Samaritan History, p. 46 sq. ; Basnage, Histoire 
des Juifs (Taylor’s transl.), p. 94 sq.; Jost, Gesch. des 
Judenth . u. s. Secten , i, 62 sq. ; De Sacy, Chrestom. A rabe, 
i, 334 sq. (B. P.) 

SAMARITAN VERSIONS. There exist three dif- 


SAMARITAN VERSIONS 


300 


SAMARITAN VERSIONS 


ferent translations of the Pentateuch in Samaritan, two 
of which have been translated into Greek and Arabic 
respectively. 

I. Samaritan.— The origin, author, and age of the 
Samaritan version of the five books of Moses has hither- 
to — so Eiehhorn quaintly observes — “ always been a 
golden apple to the investigators, and will very prob- 
ably remain so, until people leave off venturing decisive 
judgments upon historical subjects wdiieh no one has 
recorded in antiquity” ( Einleitum /, ii, 320). Indeed, 
modern investigators, keen as they have been, have done 
little towards the elucidation of t he subject. According 
to the Samaritans themselves (De Sacv 3], Pau- 

lus, Winer), their high-priest Nathaniel, who died about 
B.C. 20, is its author. Gesenins puts its date a few years 
after Christ. Juynboll thinks that it had long been in 
use in the second post-Christian century. Frankel places 
it in the post -Mohammedan time, on account of the 
many Arabisms. Other investigators date it from the 
time of Esar-haddon’s priest (Schwarz), or either shortly 
before or after the foundation of the temple on Mount 
Gerizim. Kohn thinks that it was made by different 
authors. It seems certain, however, that it was com- 
posed before the destruction of the second Temple; and 
being intended, like the Targums, for the use of the 
people exclusively, it w’as written in the popular Sa- 
maritan idiom, a mixture of Hebrew, Aramaic, Syriac, 
and Arabic. 

As a whole, the version cannot be called a good one, 
since the translator seems to have been guided by no 
proper rules of exegesis. Hence he falls into many mis- 
takes. “ Elohim” or “Jehovah” is commonly avoided, 
and “ angel” put instead, to suit the supposed dignity of 
the divine being. The names of peoples, countries, cit- 
ies, mountains, and rivers are changed from the old into 
more modern names, as the following list of geographi- 
cal names will prove. Thus v'e read in 

Geu. viii, 4, for Ararat, Sarendib, Dm3 *10. 

x, 10, “ Shiuar, Tsofah, P1S122 (? Zobah). 

11, “ Asshur, Astuu, pUOD. 

“ Rehoboth, Satcau, ■JDOO (? Sitta- 
cene). 

“ Calah, Laksah, PlDph. 

12, “ Resen, Asfah, Pi EDO. 

30 , “ Mesha, Mesbal, boDD. 

xi, 9, “ Babel, Lilak, pb^b. 


Nnmb. xxi, 33, “ Bashau, Bathuin, p3PD (Batamea). 
xxxiv, 10, “ Shepham, ’Abamiab, PPODD (Apa- 
mrea). 

11, “ Shepham, ’Afamiah, PPOEO. 

Dent, ii, 9, “ Ar pj), Arshah, PIUPN. 

iii, 4, “ Argob, Rigobaah, (Ta^a/Ja). 

17, “ Cbinnereth, Genesar, PD231. 

iv, 4S, “ Sion, Tabar Telgah, Pl^bn PDU (Je- 
bel et Telj). 

The same is the case with proper nouns. Thus, “land 
of the tower” (Babylonia) ; Potipherah (Gen. xlvi, 20) is 
Cohenan ; Gad, “ a troop will depopulate,” as it is in the 
Samaritan, is here rendered “a despiser will despise.” In 
Gen. x, 31, for “these are the sons of Shem,” this version 
has du npibn phpi, “these are the portions of 

the sons of Shem.” Mistakes are numerous and glaring : 
thus for “ the two of them” (DPP3U, Gen. iii, 7), the ver- 
sion has pmbo mm, “pursuing them,” apparently 
because the translator read DmN3U. In Exod. xx, 26, 
“thou shalt not go up by steps” is rendered pen Nb 
pPpUD, “thou shalt not ascend with prevarications.” 
Tn Numb, xii, 14, Pt"DN, “her father,” seems to have 
been taken from N H D, for it is rendered “in bringing 
her.” In Gen. xlix, 11, PHm, “his colt,” is mistaken 
for “city,” and is therefore translated PlPiPp. In Gen. 
xxiv, 63, for “ Isaac went out to take a walk” (ITiub), 
the Samaritan has “ Isaac w ent out to pray” (HNblSDb), 
taking P11U as equivalent to PHU ; but in this it agrees 
with Onkelos. the Arabic, and Persian. Another char- 
acteristic of this version is the great number of glosses 
found in it. Thus, Gen. i, 15, D^DUil mp“>D is ren- 
dered PPOU plbs “lbs a, to which Morinus remarks, 
“his duabus dictionibns utitur ut firmamentum expli- 
cet;” Gen. v, 27, is rendered pD! NPD1; Gen, 

ii, 3, TDU by pcS buD; Gen. v. II, pU2 by pum 
C]1"J p; Gen. iii, 9. by pm NPp^l; Gen. v, 12, 

moo Pirr: by mo ^b nn:r,&n = the one which 
has been brought to me; Gen. v, 22, Dbob mi by mi 
ebrb pm (comp. Kohn, Samaritanische Studien, p. 32 
sq. The great similarity it has w’ith Onkelos occasion- 
ally amounts to complete identity ; for instance, the fol- 
lowing example, * 


Onkelos in Polyglot. (Nnmb. vi, 1, 2.) Samar. Version in Barbei iui Triglot. 

bmu* 1 Da bbo : *iomb nua do piiph bboi bNPU" 1 Da bbo ; mmb ptum Da mn^ bboi 
m: --jab umE“ l ma nppn in -ina pnb mmi m: -nab unrp iz pipn in ms pnb mmi 
bn tp pm 01 nn nono 5 mm DPp mob n"ptd ‘’an mm upni nan ‘a : mmb mnnab 
rnra bsi mar Nb pmo nann bm nn nann pDDo rmru ma ban npui Nb unm mm mm 
.bm^ n? pa^an pamn pa:an Nb pa:a| .b=^ Nb paan pomp pa:an nrmp Nb 


Gen. xiii, 3, 

“ Al, Ce frail, PHED (? Cephirah, Josh, 
ix, 17). 

xiv, 5, 

“ Aslneroth Karnaim, Afinith Karniah, 

“ Ilam, Li shall, nu^b. 

G, 

“ El Pnrnn, Pelisliah, etc., Ptubs DIPS 

sibsb. 

xiv, 14, 

“ Ban, Banias, DN'OD. 

15, 

“ HobatqFogab, nrs. 

17, 

“ Sliaveli, Mifneh, PI2ED. 

xv, 18, 

“ Euphrates, Shalmah, nNob'U. 

20, 

“ Rcphaim, Chasah, PNDPI. 

XX, 1, 

“ Gerar, Askclnn, pbpDO. 

xxvi, 2, 

“ Mitsraim, Nefik, pm3 (? Exod.). 

xxxvl, 8, 9, etc., 

“ Seir, Gablab, mDS (Jebal), 

37, 

“ Rehoboth, Fathi, TE. 


taken from a fac- simile by Blanchini ( Evangeliarnm 
Quadruplex, II, ii, after DC1V). On account of this 
similarity, many critics, such as Hettinger, Eiehhorn, and 
Kirchheim, have held it to have been copied from On- 
kelos. This, however, seems to be rather an overstating 
of the case. It is true that uwa% A eyogtva and words 
of uncertain meaning are often rendered by identical or 
similar expressions in both. Moreover, when Onkelos 
borrows from Jewish tradition, the Samaritan Targum 
often follows him. Yet the two are independent. The 
latter falls into serious blunders from wdiich the version 
of Onkelos should have protected it, it often retains dif- 
ficulties of the Hebrew text wdiere the other gives a 
translation. For instance, the word Pp 1 !, “ pestilence” 
(Exod. ix, 15), the Samaritan renders by bbo*3, “word,” 
as if it had read PDP, “a w'ord,” If it had followed 
Onkelos it could not have fallen into such a blunder, 
where the trne reading is “DYCD, i. e. “w’ith death.” 


SAMARITAN VERSIONS 


301 


In Dent, i, 44, we read D^ZI, “ bees,” where the Sa- 
maritan renders PP^'S, “words,” as if it read 3*121, 
which could not have been the case had it followed On- 
kelos, who renders it correctly by XI"P121, “bees.” 
That the Samaritan Targum has not followed the ver- 
sion of Onkelos may be also seen from the number of 
difficult Hebrew words, which, although intelligible to 
the Samaritan translator, he would not have retained 
had he followed Onkelos, who explained the same. Of 
such difficult words Winer mentions : Gen. ii, 12, D!T3 ; 
xlviii, 22, G212 ; xlix, 10, li, 29, “rn bw\b 2T; 

Exod. i, 16, bs* ; viii, 21, 313 ; xiii, 18, ; 

xxiii, 28, H312£ ; xxvi, 6, ■'Dip ; xxvii, 4, 1333 ; 
xxvi, 19, D'VHX; xxviii, 8, 3jri; xxxiii, 35, 312; 
Lev. i, 15, pb3; ii, 2, HPiZTX; ii, 14, 1313; v, 21, 
n“V3H, etc. (comp. p. 39 sq.). Under these circum- 
stances, we cannot but conclude that the Samaritan 
translator has not known the version of Onkelos, or that 
he lias not perused it; and we can only suppose that 
single passages have been interpolated from Onkelos; 
for, as Eichhorn has justly remarked, “ the Samaritan 
Paraphrase went through different hands, and was after- 
wards edited by one or more Samaritans” ( Introduction , 
vol. i, § 305). 

For purposes of exegesis the version is entirely use- 
less. It is simply interesting as faithfully representing 
the religions ideas and literary progress of the Samari- 
tans; it is valuable also for philological purposes, as being 
the most trustworthy monument of an important She- 
mitic dialect. The oldest MSS. hitherto known to ex- 
ist are both at Home — the Barberini Triglot and the 
Vatican. The former was bought by Peiresc at Damas- 
cus, in 1631, and bequeathed by him to cardinal Barbe- 
rini, in whose library it still remains. It is imperfect; 
the oldest parts were written in A.D. 1226, and the end 
of Deuteronomy was supplied by a later hand in 1482. 

The Vatican MS. was bought by Pietro della Valle at 
Damascus, in 1616. It is much later than the one just 
described ; it is on paper, dated A.D. 1514, with consider- 
able lacunae of words, and even verses (comp. Assemani, 
Bill. Vat. Catal . I, i, 464). This is the only text that 
has ever been published : it appeared in the Paris Poly- 
glot of 1645, and was thence copied, without, however, 
a fresh collation of the MS., into the London Polyglot 
of 1657, from which A. Br'ull reprinted it in Hebrew 
characters, and published it under the title D131P 
pnrn b3 ■’Ol'S'J (Frankfort-on -the- Main, 1875). 
Petermann, of Berlin, intended to publish an edition 
from MSS. collated by him at Nablus, but the first part 
only was published : Pentateuch us Samuritanus , ad 
jidem Librorum Manuscrip forum apud Nablusianos Re- 
pert onnn, edidit et varias Lectiones adscripsit H. Peter- 
mann. Fasciculus /, Genesis (Berolini, 1872). Frag- 
ments of a Samaritan Targum (Lev. xxv, 26, to the 
end of that book, and parts of Numbers), from a Bod- 
leian MS., were edited and published by Nutt (Loud. 
1874). The Imperial Library of St. Petersburg con- 
tains also many fragments of the Samaritan -Arabic 
translation, as well as of the Samaritan Targum. 

2. “The Samaritan” in Greek (to ^apapeiriKor). In 
the fathers of the 3d ami 4th centuries, as well as in 
MSS. containing the Sept., with fragments of Aquila, 
Symmachus, and Theodotion, we find scholia, or pieces 
of a Greek translation of the Pentateuch so designated. 
These fragments have been collected by Morin, Hettin- 
ger, and Montfaucon, and are in Walton’s Prolegomena. 
Castell, Vossius, and Ilerbst think that they are merely 
translated extracts from the Samaritan Version; while 
Gescnius, Winer, and Juynboll suppose them to be re- 
mains of a continuous Greek version of the Samaritan 
Pentateuch. On the other hand, Ilengstenberg and 
Havernick see in it only a corrected edition of certain 
passages of the Sept. The most probable of these opin- 


SAMARITANS, MODERN 

ions seems to be that which looks upon the notes or 
scholia as the Samaritan corrections of certain places in 
the Sept. 

3. In 1070 an Arabic version of the Samaritan Pen- 
tateuch was made by Abu Said in Egypt, on the basis 
of the Arabic translation of Saadias llag-gaon (q. v.). 
Like the original Samaritan, it avoids anthropomor- 
phisms and anthropopathisms, replacing the latter by 
euphemisms, besides occasionally making some slight 
alterations, more especially in proper nouns. It ap- 
pears to have been drawn up from the Samaritan text, 
not from the Samaritan Version, the Hebrew words 
occasionally remaining unaltered in the translation. 
Often, also, it renders the original differently from the 
Samaritan Version. Principally noticeable is its ex- 
cessive dread of assigning to God anything like human 
attributes, physical or mental. For C^Jlbx, 

“God,” we find (as in Saadias sometimes) Malak Al- 
lah, “ the Angel of God ;” for “ the eyes of God” we have 
(Dent, ix, 12) “ the beholding of God.” For “ bread 
of God,” “ the necessary,” etc. Great reverence is shown 
for Moses and the tribe of Levi; but envy of the tribe 
of Judah (Gen. xlix, 10). It is written in the common 
language of the Arabs, and abounds in Samaritanisms. 
An edition of this version was commenced by Kuenen 
at Leyden. Genesis was published in 1851 ; Exodus and 
Leviticus in 1854. In Syria it would appear that the 
Samaritans still used Saadias’s even after Abu Said’s had 
been made, for which reason Abul Baracat (about 1208) 
wrote scholia upon the latter in order to recommend it 
to the people. This must not be considered a new ver- 
sion, but a Syriac recension of the Arabic-Samaritan. 
The two recensions — the Syriac of Abul Baracat and the 
Egyptian of Abu Said — were mixed together in the 
MSS., and cannot now be properly separated. For fur- 
ther particulars we must refer to Juynboll and Eichhorn: 
the former in his Orient (din , ii, 115 sq.; the latter in the 
second volume of his Einhitung to the Old Test. Van 
Vloten described a MS. of Abu Said’s in the University 
of Leyden in 1803; and Juynboll notices the MSS. at 
Paris, especially Nos. 2 and 4, in the Orientulia , ii, 115 
sq. 

Literature. — Cellarius, Force Samaritans (Frank- 
fort and Jena, 1705, 4to, 2d ed.), p. 1-58; Uhlemann, 
Samaritan Chrestomathy (Lipsiie, 1837); Walton. Pro- 
legomena, ed. Dathe; Castell, Observations on the Sixth 
Volume of the London Polyglot; Eichhorn, Einhitung 
ins A. T. vol. ii ; Gesenius, Be Pentateuchi Samar it. 
Origine. etc. ; Winer, Be Versionis Pent at. Samar. Indole 
(ibid. 1817, 8vo) ; De Wette, Eiuleitung in das A. T.; 
Hiivernick, Einhitung , i, 1, Juynboll, Commentarii in 
Uistoriam Gentis Samaritance (Leyden, 1846, Ito); Da- 
vidson, Treatise on Biblical Criticism , vol. i ; Lee, Pro- 
legomena in Biblia Polgglotta Londinensia Minora, pro- 
legomenon ii, §1,3; Kohn, Be Pentateucho Samaritano, 
p.66 sq.; id. Samaritan ische Studien (Breslau, 1868); also 
Znr S pro die, Literatur n. Bogmatik der Sanuiritaner 
(Leipsic, 1876), Briill. Znr Geschichte u. Literatur der 
Samariter (Frankfort, 1876); Kcil, Introduction , ii, 278 
sq. ; Kaulen, Einhitung (Freiburg, 1876), i, 91 sq. ; Nbl- 
deke, in Geiger’s Zeitschrift, vi, 204 sq. ; Barges, Notice 
sur deux Fragments d'un I'entateuque Uebreu-Samari- 
tain , 1865, p. 15; Simon, Histoire Critique du U. T. p. 
261 ; Davidson, in Kitto’s Cyclop, iii, 750 sq.; Deulsch, 
in Smith’s Bid. of the Bible , iv, 2812 sq.; Nutt, Sketch 
of Samaritan History , p. 106 sq.; Petermann, in Her- 
zog’s Real- Encyklop. xiii, 375 sq. (B. P.) 

Samaritans, Modern. As already stated (un- 
der Samaritan), a small remnant of the old nation still 
dwell in their ancient capital, Shechem. There existed 
a tradition among them, which has yet hardly died out, 
that large numbers of their brethren were dwelling in 
various parts of the world— in England, France, India, 
and elsewhere — and they have instituted inquiries from 
time to time in the hope of becoming acquainted with 
these their brethren. In past ages we do find them 


SAMARITANS, MODERN 302 SAMARITANS, MODERN 


not only inhabiting various cities in Palestine, but even 
in Egypt and Constantinople (El-Masudi, Hist. Encycl. 
i, 114; Habbi Benjamin, Jtinera?‘y). They are now, 
however, confined to Nablus, the ancient Sheehem, and 
their sacred city through all ages. Here they live to- 
gether, Ghetto-like, on the south-western side of the 
town, at the very foot of Gerizim, their sacred mount. 
They have dwindled down to a very small number, 
consisting only of some forty families; and before many 
generations more have passed away, the ancient Samar- 
itan nation will have become extinct. In 1872 they 
numbered 135 souls, 80 of whom were males; bv the 
defection of Jacob Shcllaby and his family, they have 
been reduced to a total of 130 souls. Perhaps no people 
have been persecuted and oppressed from age to age 
more than they have, yet it has served to knit them the 
more closely together. Iu appearance they are supe- 
rior to their circumstances, as also to all others around 
them — a straight and high forehead, full brow, large 
and rather almond-shaped eyes, aquiline nose, some- 
what large mouth, and well-formed chin are their chief 
physiological characteristics; and, with few exceptions, 
they are tall and of lofty bearing. If the present small 
community is a fair specimen of what their nation was 
in ancient times, they must have been a fine race. 

A deep interest is attached to this people, not only 
because they are the oldest and smallest sect in the ; 
world, but principally because they retain the opinions, 
ceremonies, and habits of their forefathers, and are, like 
their Jewish brethren, a living evidence of the truth of 
Bible history, especially that of the Pentateuch. Our 
object will be, therefore, to give a summary account of 
all the principal features of their life and manners, as 
exhibited by these remaining votaries; and for this 
purpose we chiefly follow Mills's abridgment (in Fair- 
bairn's Dictionary) of bis larger account ( Three Months 
in Xahlus. Lond. 18G4). 

1. Domestic Life and Duties . — 1. Circumcision. — The 
first and most important is to admit the male child into 
the Abrahamic covenant by circumcision. This cere- 
mony must be performed on the eighth day, even should 
that be the Sabbath, as it was undoubtedly the practice 
of the Jews of old (John vii, 22) ; and not in the syn- 
agogue, but always in the bouse of the parents. The 
performance of the rite devolves upon the priest; but 
should he happen to be absent, any one acquainted with 
the mode of operating may do it. During the celebra- 
tion of the ceremony the name of the child is announced, 
as of old (Luke i, 59), and, when over, they celebrate it 
(as the Jews do) by a feast, enlivened by Arab music 
and singing. If the child be female, the only observ- 
ance is that of naming, which takes place on the third 
day at the parents’ house, without any particular rite 
or gathering of friends, the priest simply announcing it 
in the hearing of those who may happen to be present. 
Formerly, they used to redeem the first-born child, as j 
the Jews still do, according to the commandment (Exod. ! 
xiii. 13), but now the ceremony is discontinued on ac- 
count of the poverty of their people. 

2. Marriayc. — Like most Easterns, the Samaritans 
have a strong desire for offspring, a feeling which is j 
probably intensified by the paucity of their number. 
This, together with an early development in such a cli- 
mate, leads them, like all their neighbors, to marry at a 
very early age, the males being eligible at fourteen and 
the females at ten years of age. But they never inter- 
marry with persona of another creed, whether circum- 
cised or imeircumcised ; and never marry but on a 
Thursday, this in their estimation being a peculiarly I 
propitious day. They have no betrothing, and the mar- 
riage rite is very simple. Fpon the appointed day, two 
men who are witnesses of the agreement conduct the 
bride and her friends at midday to the bridegroom’s 
bouse, where the ceremony is performed by the priest. 
The service is in Hebrew — an unknown tongue to those 
most concerned — and consists of portions of the law in- 
terspersed with certain prayers; anti the marriage agree- 


ment is read, by which the young bridegroom has to 
pay a fixed dowry to the father of the bride. In the 
evening a feast is made, followed by music, singing, and 
dancing, performed, however, not by themselves, but by 
hired Mussulmans. Here we may observe that they 
are not given to polygamy. There is nothing in their 
theology prohibiting it, but this virtue has grown upon 
them from necessity, on account of the unequal distri- 
bution of the sexes. Their present rule, and one which 
has existed for some ages past, is that any one may 
take an additional wife if the first wife be willing, but 
on that condition only. 

3. Divorce. — The Samaritans are not given to di- 
vorcement, and in this matter they stand in singular 
contrast to their Jewish and Mohammedan neighbors. 
Their modern theology at least forbids it, except only 
for the cause of fornication, but their strict conformity 
to this dogma under all circumstances is very doubtful. 

4. Purifications . — There are seven things that partic- 
ularly defile a person, four of which relate to both sexes, 
the remaining three pertaining to the female: (1) the 
conjugal act; (2) nocturnal pollution; (3) touching any 
dead body; (4) touching unclean birds, quadrupeds, or 
reptiles; (5) a female from hemorrhage; (6) a female’s 
menstrual discharge, when she remains unclean for sev- 
en days; (7) child-birth, when the mother is accounted 
unclean for forty-one days if the child be male, but if 
female for eighty days. On account of these defile- 
ments they purify themselves most scrupulously. For- 
merly, when sacrifices used to be offered, the ashes of a 
burned heifer were kept to be mixed with running wa- 
ter and sprinkled on the unclean person by one that was 
clean according to the law (Numb, xix, 17-19). Now 
running water only is used. The washing of hands as 
a rite of purification at rising and before eating, etc., as 
the Jews do, is never observed by the Samaritans; they 
simply do it for the purpose of cleansing, and not as a 
religious ceremony (comp. Mark vii, 3, 4). 

5. Morning and Evening Prayer. — The first duty on 
rising is to repeat the morning prayer, which is long 
and tedious. It is generally offered by each individu- 
al in private, although there is no law against its being 
performed in the presence of the family. Any one is 
at liberty to repeat this or any other prayer as often as 
he pleases during the day, but the morning and even- 
ing orisons must on no account be neglected, and must 
be said in the early morning and at sunset. This, like 
all their other prayers, is a set one in the Hebrew 
tongue, and consequently not understood except by 
some one or two besides the priest. Still, the sacred- 
ness of the language, combined with the antiquity of 
the formula, imparts to it a kind of hallowedness, which 
has a strange hold upon the conscience of the people. 
During the prayer they always turn towards Mount 
Gerizim. 

6. Food. — When they sit to eat, a blessing is pro- 
nounced before the food is served. This duty devolves 
upon the head of the family. They make the broadest 
distinction in articles of diet; adhering faithfully to the 
law of Moses, and attaching the greatest importance to 
its observance. They never eat the flesh of any beast 
that does not chew the cud and divide the hoot (Lev. 
xi, 3-S; Dent, xiv, 0-8), and swine are held in the 
greatest detestation. All kinds of poultry, except those 
notified as unclean (Lev. xi, 13-25), are considered law- 
ful, as well as all fish that have fins and scales (Lev. xi, 
9-12). Like the Jews, they never partake of flesh and 
butter (or milk) at the same meal, nor do the}' even 
place them on the table at the same time. Six hours 
must elapse after partaking of nieat before milk or but- 
ter can be taken. The Jews found this custom on the 
passage, “ Thou shalt not seethe a kid in his mother’s 
milk” (Exod. xxiii, 19), but the Samaritans refuse it 
the importance of a law of Moses, and only observe it as 
a sanatory rule laid down by their sages. They hold it 
unlawful to eat anything prepared by either Jews or 
Gentiles, therefore they make their own bread, cheese, 


SAMARITANS, MODERN 


303 


SAMARITANS, MODERN 



Samaritans at Prayer on Mount Gerizim. (From a Photograph.) 


butter, etc. Cattle and poultry too must be slaughter- 
ed by their own shochet, or killer, who has to pass 
through a course of study and training before he is 
qualitied to kill according to the numerous rules pre- 
scribed by their sages. 

7. Duties towards the Dead. — The Samaritans, like the 
Jews, teach the dying person to say as his last words, 
“The Lord our God is one Lord.” This last utterance 
must be in the Hebrew, therefore all their people, wom- 
en and children, are most carefully taught this phrase. 
The relations of the dead never rend their clothes, as 
they consider it to be contrary to the will of God. Nor 
have they any fixed time to mourn, or formula to re- 
peat over the departed. With them it is simply a mat- 
ter of feeling; some mourn for a long and some for a 
shorter time. Ilut to indulge in grief is discouraged, 
forasmuch as the high-priest was forbidden to mourn 
for the dead (Lev. xxi, 10); so they consider the re- 
frainment from it to be a proof of a more thorough 
obedience to the will of God and a higher religious 
state of mind. As anciently, the house wherein the 
dead body lies is rendered unclean (Numb, xix, 14), and 
the priest carefully avoids crossing its threshold (Lev. 
xxi, 11). 

As soon as the dying person has expired, they per- 
form the ceremony of rnn^ (taka rah), purification, by 
washing the body carefully with clean running water. 
This is done by individuals appointed to that duty 
from among themselves, after which it is wrapped in a 
cotton shroud (John xi, 44), and then placed in a wood- 
en eotlin. It is curious to observe that no other natives 
of any creed use coffins; the Samaritans, however, 
scrupulously follow the example set them by their fa- 
ther Joseph (Gen. 1, 26). When a death is expected, 
the law is read in the chamber of the sick, not by the 
priest, but by one appointed for that purpose. As soon 
as all hope of recovery is given up, the reading begins, 
is continued to the patient’s death, and again resumed 
after the taharah, and continued to Numb, xxx, 1. 
After arranging the funeral procession, the reading is 
once more proceeded with until the whole law be read. 

II. Religion. — The Samaritan idea of religion is a 
national one. To them their faith and people are sy- 
nonymous. In this sense they are, according to their 
own belief, the only peculiar people of God, with whom 
the Almighty has entered into covenants, and which 
covenants they faithfully keep. These are seven in 
number, and are as follows: a, the covenant of Noah 


(Gen. ix, 14); h. the covenant of Abraham concerning 
circumcision (Gen. xvii, 9-14) ; c, the covenant of the 
Sabbath (Exod. xxxi, 12-17); d, the covenant of the 
two tables of the ten commandments (Exod. xx, 2-17); 
e , the covenant of salt (Numb, xviii, 19);/J the cove- 
nant of the Passover (Exod. xii, 2) ; g, the covenant of 
the priesthood (Numb, xxv, 12, 13). I»y virtue of these 
they are separated, on the one hand, from all the Gen- 
tiles, and, on the other hand, from the Jews, who, they 
assert, are cursed since the time of Eli. 

1. Constitution. — Their people, according to the above 
idea, constitute a national religious community, over 
which two officers preside. The chief is the priest 
(■Jins). Upon him devolves the performance of all the 
duties prescribed in the law of Moses as pertaining to 
the priestly office. These are now but nominal, as they 
have no sacrifice because they have no temple; but 
certain prayers are offered instead of sacrifices. These, 
together with the priestly blessings, are given on all 
occasions by the priest himself, who is in reality but a 
Levite, for the last of the descendants of Aaron, accord- 
ing to their own chronicle, died in A.D. 1631. The 
second officer is the minister. Ijn ( chazan ), who is a 
member of a younger branch of the same family. It is 
his duty to read the public service generally, both in 
the synagogue and out of it. Upon him also falls the 
work of educating the children and instructing them in 
the law. These two officers sitting in assembly consti- 
tute their m-2, or house of judgment. The priest 
sits supreme and the minister second, and before this 
tribunal all Samaritan matters, whether social or relig- 
ious, are settled. Should a question of any difficulty 
arise, the priest calls other members of the priestly fam- 
ily to assist in deciding the case; otherwise all kinds 
of questions are determined by the two officers alone. 

2. Creed. — The Samaritans have no formula of belief 
or set articles of faith, excepting four great tenets: (1) 
to believe in Jehovah as the only God ; (2) to be- 
lieve in Moses as the only lawgiver; (3) to believe in 
the min ( Torah ), Pentateuch, as the only divine 
book; (4) to believe in Mount Gerizim as the only 
house of God. These are the cardinal points of the 
Samaritan faith; but so far as a more detailed theologi- 
cal creed is concerned, the thirteen articles drawn up 
by Maimonides would as well express the Samaritan 
as the Jewish faith. These consist of a belief, in God 
as Creator and Governor; iu one God only; in his not 



SAMARITANS, MODERN 304 SAMARITANS, MODERN 

being corporeal; in Gocl being first and last of all 
things; in God as the only object of prayer; in the 
truth of prophecy; in the truthfulness and superiority 
of Moses; in the law as the enactment of Moses; in the 
unchangeableness of the law; in the omniscience of 
God; in rewards and punishments; in the coming of 
the Messiah; and in a general resurrection (British 
Jews, p. 68). Here it is important to observe that their 
only authority in theology is the Pentateuch — nothing 
is divine and binding but the Torah; all their dogmas 
are believed, whether rightly or wrongly, to be founded 
upon that sacred volume ; and they are, in fact, strict- 
ly and wholly the disciples of Moses. It becomes, 
therefore, a subject of no little interest to the Biblical 
student to observe bow many of the principal doctrines 
of revealed truth are held by the Samaritans to be the 
teaching of the law. For instance, they found the doc- 
trine of a future state upon Exod. iii. 6 — “ I am the God 
of thy father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, 
and the God of Jacob being the very passage quoted 
by the Saviour, and drawing from it the same conclu- 
sion that “he is not the God of the dead, but the God 
of the living” (Mark xii, 26, 27) ; and that of a resur- 
rection they hold to be clearly revealed in Gen. ix, 5 — 

“And surely vour blood of your lives will I require; 
at the hand of every beast will 1 require it, and at the 
hand of man; at the hand of every man’s brother will 
I require the life of man.” But we cannot help think- 
ing that the inliuence of Christianity is discernible 
in several points of modern Samaritan ism, as well as 
of modern Judaism; and that some doctrines may be 
regarded as affiliated to the Torah rather than induct- 
ed therefrom. Their doctrine concerning the Messiah, 
although infinitely below the conception of the New 
Test., is yet far superior to that of the Jews. They 
never call him Messiah — that name not being in the law 
— but Tahtbah, i“Qnr, or the Arabic equivalent, Al- 
Mudy , the Tiestorer. They believe him to be a man, a 
son of Joseph, of the tribe of Ephraim, according to the 
words of Moses (Dent, xxxiii, 1 6). The promise of his 
coming was made by Moses — “The Lord thy God will 
raise up unto thee a prophet from the midst of thee, of 
thv brethren, like unto me ; unto him ye shall hearken” 

(Dent, xviii, 15). He is to he not a king and conquer- 
or, but a great teacher. His mission is not to shed 
blood, but to heal the nations ; not to make war, but to 
bring peace. He will restore the law to its purity, 
preach it to the world, and bring all the nations over to 
its practice. Tn fact, he will be a great reformer, ex- 
pressly sent by the Almighty, and endowed with the 
necessary qualifications to perform so great and glori- 
ous a work. Folk, wing his direction, they believe that 
the congregation will repair to Gerizim. where, under 
the “twelve stones,” they will find the Ten Command- 
ments, and under the stone of Bethel the golden vessels 
of the temple and the manna. After one hundred and 
ten years the Prophet is to die and be buried beside Jo- 
seph in the valley. Soon afterwards, on the conclusion 
of seven thousand years from its foundation, the world 
is to come to an end. 

3. Synayoyue. — They themselves never call it syna- 
gogue. Sometimes they use the Arabic term hit Al- 
lah, house of God. but the common appellation is kin- 
shah, n w-p, place of assembly; equivalent to the Greek 
ffvvayojyij, and the Hebrew n "3. At present 

they have but one, a small and unsightly building, but 
large enough for their community. Its extreme length 
measures thirtv-seven feet five inches, with a breadth of 
eighteen feet. A part of the floor— namely, that of the 
right-hand division in the accompanying plan — is raised 
a foot higher than the remaining portion. On the left- 
hand side is a recess some four feet square. The ceil- 
ing is vaulted, and from it hang two very primitive 
chandeliers and a small oil-lamp. In the roof is a cir- 
cular, dome-like window to admit light and air, the 
only opening besides the door. The small, square rc- 


Plan of the present Samaritan Synagogue. 

cess is the mitsbah, or altar, which is considered to be 
the most sacred spot in the building. It is here the 
Torah, or Law of Moses, is kept, in the form of a roll, 
and in this respect the musbah answers to the Jewish 
click But it has a further sacredness attached to it. 
During the existence of the temple on Gerizim sacri- 
fices were slain on the altar, but since its demolition 
they are considered unlawful; therefore the musbah 
takes the place of the altar, and prayer that of sacrifice. 
Its place in the synagogue, therefore, fronts the spot 
whereon the temple formerly stood, so that when the 
worshippers, during service, look towards the sacred re- 
cess their faces may be turned to Mount Gerizim. A 
large, square veil hangs continually in front of the mus- 
bah, in order to screen it from the gaze of the people, 
as no one is permitted to enter it but the two officials. 
The congregation consists of males only; but in this 
particular the Samaritans do not stand alone, as it is 
common to the natives of all creeds, with the exception 
of the few Christian Protestants in the country. Should 
the females wish to be present, they are at liberty to 
gather outside the building in the court and listen to 
the service, but no more. On this point Jews and Sa- 
maritans agree, but not with regard to the number nec- 
essary to constitute a congregation. With the first 
there must be a minyan— i. e. ten males of full age — pres- 
ent before the congregation is legal and the service 
can be read ; but with the Samaritans there is no rule, 
but, like the Christian practice, it may be formed of 
any number met together to worship. They never as- 
semble in the synagogue during week-days except on 
the feasts and fasts. On the Sabbath they have three 
services. The first is a short one at sunset on Friday, 
at which time their Sabbath commences. The second 
is early on the following morning, and is much the 
longest and most important, for during this service the 
law is shown. The minister takes it out of the mus- 
bah, removes its covering, opens the silver-gilt ease in 
which it is kept, and exhibits to the congregation that 
column of the text which contains Aaron's blessing 
(Numb, vi, 24-27), when they step forward to kiss the 
sacred scroll. The last service is on Saturday after- 
noon a little before sunset, and consists of prayers inter- 
spersed with portions of the law, and arranged in one 
liturgy. The language being nil Hebrew, the people 
understand the service but very imperfectly, the offi- 
cials with one or two others excepted. It is performed 
in a kind of chant or cantillation most peculiar in its 
character. It differs nearly as much from the native 
Arab mnsie as from that of Europeans, and seems to 
have an origin both ancient and peculiar. They have 
seventy different melodics, composed, according to their 
tradition, by r the seventy T elders of Israel in the time of 


305 


SAMARITANS, MODERN 


SAMARITANS, MODERN 

Moses, which they have preserved and still use on va- 
rious occasions. 

4. Sacred Seasons. — An important part of the Sa- 
maritan religion consists of the observance of certain 
sacred seasons. These are as follows: 

(1.) The Sabbath. — Like the dews, they reckon their 
days from sunset to sunset, according to the expression' 
in Genesis — “And the evening and the morning were 
the first day.” The Sabbath, therefore, as already said, 
commences at sunset on Friday and ends at sunset, on 
Saturday. This day they keep most strictly as a day 
of rest, upon which no manner of work is to be done, 
according to the words of the law in Exod. xx, 8-10. 
To this command they adhere most faith fully, accepting 
it in its literal fulness. Unlike the Je>vs, they employ 
no point, or Gentiles, to light their fires or snuff their can- 
dles, but all within the gates keep the Sabbath alike. 
Consequently they never have any tire on that day, but 
scrupulously keep the command, “Ye shall kindle no 
fire throughout your habitations upon the Sabbath day” 
(Exod. xxxv, 3). Not a lamp or a candle ever burns 
in their houses or in the synagogue on that day. When 
darkness comes on during the reading of the opening 
service on Friday evening, they never introduce lights, 
but finish the service in the dark, and remain so in 
their houses until they retire to rest. Their first and 
great idea of keeping the Sabbath holy is to remain 
quiet — never to go out of their dwellings except to the 
synagogue ; and the second is, to live more generously 
than on ordinary days, but the cooking is all prepared 
on Friday. Although they carefully abstain from all 
kind of work, even the most trifling actions, they keep 
no such guard on their language nor check on their 
thoughts, but feel at liberty to talk about anything 
and everything; and of a higher and purer mode of 
sanctifying the day they have no idea. 

(2.) The New Moon. — Next in frequency, but not in 
importance, to the observance of the Sabbath is that of 
the new moon, the reosli hadesh, equivalent to the Jew- 
ish rosh chodesli. The new moon is sacredly watched 
for, and the afternoon immediately following its ap- 
pearance, about half-past four, the Samaritans assemble 
in the synagogue to perform the appointed service. It 
consists of prescribed prayers composed for the occasion, 
intermixed with portions of the law, especially those 
referring to the beginning of months (Numb, x, 10; 
xxviii, 11-14). During the recital of the service, the 
whole of which lasts about two hours, the minister ex- 
hibits one of the roll-copies of the Pentateuch to the 
congregation. 

(3.) The Feasts and Fasts. — The Samaritans are not 
given to festivals. In this they greatly differ from 
their Jewish brethren, as well as from some Christian 
communities. In the Jewish calendar there are above 
thirty such seasons of greater or less importance; but 
in the Samaritan only eight, six of which are com- 
manded in the law, the other two being less important. 
These are the following: 

(a.) Karaban Aphsah, or Jewish Pass- 

over. This is the memorial of their great national de- 
liverance from Egypt (Exod. xii). The time of its 
celebration is the fifteenth day of their month Nisan, 
in the evening of the day ; but should that happen to 
be a Sabbath, the feast is held on the previous day. 
Its place of celebration is Mount Gerizim, which they 
found upon Exod. iii, 18. Therefore, early on the morn- 
ing of the fourteenth day the whole community, with 
few exceptions, close their dwellings in the city, and 
clamber up the Mount, on the top of which, and in front 
of the ruins of their ancient temple, they pitch their 
tents in a circle. The lambs, five or six in number, and 
“without blemish,” are brought on the tenth day, and 
during the intervening days are carefully kept, and 
cleanly washed as a sort of purification to fit them for 
the paschal service (comp. John v, 2). On the sacred 
spot, near the tents, a fire is kindled, over which two 
IX.-U 



Plau of Mouut Gerizim. 


1. Fortress. 

2. “ Seven Steps of Adam out of Par- 
adise.” 

3. “ Scene of the Offering of Isaac” — 
a trough like that used for the pas- 
chal feast. 

4. “ Holy Place,” 

5. “ Joshua’s Twelvp Stones.” 

6. “Tomb of Sheik Ghranem,” or 
“ Schechem ben-Hamor.” 


7. “ Cave where the Tabernacle was 
built.” 

8. Hole where the paschal sheep are 
roasted. 

9. Trench where they are eaten. 

10. Platform for the celebration of 
the Passover. 

11. Hole w here the wster is boiled. 


caldrons full of water are placed. Another fire is kin- 
dled close by in a kind of circular pit sunk into the 
ground, where the lambs are to be roasted. At sunset 
the lambs are slaughtered by five or six young men 
dressed in blue robes of unbleached calico, having their 
loins girded, who dip their fingers in the streaming 
blood and with it mark the foreheads and noses of the 
children. The boiling water is carefully poured over 
the dead lambs, and, when fleeced, the right fore-legs, 
which belong to the priest, are removed and placed on 
wood already laid for the purpose, together with the 
entrails; salt is added, and they are then burned. The 
lambs are now spitted and lowered into the oven. The 
spit is a long pole thrust through from head to tail, 
near the end of which is placed a transverse peg to 
prevent the carcass from slipping off. At midnight 
the lambs arc taken up, when the paschal feast com- 
mences. A large copper dish filled with unleavened 
cakes and bitter herbs rolled up together is brought in 
and distributed among the congregation, all the adults 
wearing a kind of girdle around their waist, with staves 
in their hands, according to the command (Exod. xii, 
11). The lambs are then laid upon carpets and strewn 
over with bitter herbs, all the congregation, i. e. the 
men, standing in two rows, one on each side of the 
lambs. During all this time, a long and tedious service 
peculiar to the day is recited by the two officials in 
turn, and when the reading has arrived at a certain 
point, all the expectant auditors stoop at once, and, as 
if in haste and hunger, tear away the flesh piecemeal 
with their fingers, and carry portions to the females 
and little ones in the tents. In a few minutes the 
whole disappears except some fragments, which are 
carefully gathered up, not a particle being left, which, 
with the bones, are all burned in a fire kindled for that 
purpose (Exod. xii, 10). On the following day rejoic- 
ings continue; fish, rice, and eggs are eaten, wine and 
spirits are drunk, and hymns, generally impromptu, are 
sung. Here we may observe that those who are unable 
to keep the Passover on this day may do so on the same 
day of the following month ; but this second celebra- 
tion is not kept on the hill, but in their own quarter in 
the city. 

(6.) Moed Aphsah, answering to the Jewish 
msisn, or Feast of Unleavened Cakes. Although this 
feast is intimately connected with the former, still, strict- 
ly speaking, they are two distinct solemnities, the Feast 
of the Passover commemorating the protection given 
them when the first-born of the Egyptians were slain, 
and that of the Unleavened Dread commemorating the 
beginning of t heir march out of Egypt. The distinction 
of the two feasts is more marked in the Samaritan than 
in the Jewish mode of their celebration. On the pre- 
ceding day of the feast, every family removes all leaven- 


AMAR1TANS, MODERN 306 SAMARITANS, MODERN 


ed bread out of its dwelling, and a most careful search 
is made, so that the least fragment may not remain. 
Thus by the evening of the fourteenth day, all leavened 
bread and fermented drink are laid aside, and unleav- 
ened bread alone must be used during the seven follow- 
ing days, according to the law (Exod. xii, 18-20). This 
bread they call masat , equivalent to the Hebrew mats- 
tsoth; and the cake is made in the same form as the 
Jewish matstsoth, except that it is a little larger, but of 
the same thickness. The Samaritans, like some of the 
strict Jews, hang up some of the cakes in their houses till 
the next Passover, believing them to have the power 
of charms in warding off evils and drawing many bless- 
ings upon the family. The first and seventh days of 
the feast are kept holy, according to Exod. xii, 16, but 
the seventh is considered the most sacred of the two. 
At early morn they form themselves into a procession 
and clamber up Gerizim, “in honor of God.” There, on 
the sacred spot, the priest repeats the service for The 
day, which consists of lengthy portions of the law in- 
terspersed with prayers and songs. 

(c.) Chamsin , the “fiftieth,” equivalent to the neur?)- 
Koart], Pentecost , of the New Test. It is thus called be- 
cause it falls upon the fiftieth day after the morrow of 
the Sabbath of the Unleavened Bread. The Samaritans 
differ from the Jews in reckoning these days. The 
latter begin to count them from the second day of the 
Unleavened Bread, on whatever day of the week it may 
happen; but the Samaritans commence on the morrow 
of the Sabbath which falls within the days of that 
feast, and cite as their authority Lev. xxiii, 15, 16. It 
is kept as a day to “ rejoice before the Lord their God,” 
on account of the bounties of his providence and the 
liberty to enjoy them in their own promised land 
(Deut. xvi, 9-12). This day likewise they go up Ger- 
izim in procession, and on the same place as before the 
service for the day is gone through, which contains all 
the references made in the law to the harvest, as well 
as prayers and songs. 

( (I .) A nsh-sheni, similar to the Jewish Rosh-hashanah, 
and always falls on the 1st of Tisri, that month being 
the commencement of the civil year with the Samari- 
tans as with the Jews. They keep this day as a holy 
convocation, in which no servile work is done (Lev. 
xxiii, 24). They attend synagogue, and the service 
lasts about six hours; but they neither have “blowing 
of trumpets,” as in the Jewish synagogue, nor is the day 
regarded with the importance attached to it by the 
Jews. 

(e.) Kibbnrim , equivalent to the Jewish Yom Kippur , 
ET, Day of Atonement of the Jews, which 
is held on the tenth day of Tishri, according to the 
command (Lew xxiii, 27-32), In a strict point of view, 
this is the most important day in the Samaritan calen- 
dar. On the ninth day of the month, just two hours 
before sunset, all the community, both male and female, 
purify themselves by the free application of clean run- 
ning water, after which they partake of the last meal 
before the yreat fast . The meal must be finished at 
least half an hour before sunset, when a rigid fast is 
observed until half an hour afttr sunset on the follow- 
ing day, making altogether a fast of twenty-five hours. 
During this time neither man, nor woman, nor child — 
not even the sick or suckling — is permitted to taste a 
morsel of bread or a drop of water. No indulgence, 
however trifling it may be, is permitted, and the whole 
fast is kept with such rigor that even medicine to 
the sick would on no account be administered. The 
day is therefore looked forward to with no little anxie- 
ty. They assemble at the synagogue a little before 
sunset, when the service commences and is kept up in 
solemn darkness through the night. It consists of the 
reading of the law, together with special prayers and 
supplications, portions of which are sung to their an- 
cient melodies. The following morning they form a 
procession and visit the tombs of some of their proph- 


ets, where they repeat a portion of the service, and on 
their return at noon it is resumed in the synagogue. 
As it draws to a conclusion the principal ceremony 
takes place — namely, the exhibition of the ancient roll 
of the law, believed by them to be written by Abishua, 
the great-grandson of Aaron. Before the roll is cover- 
ed and replaced, all step forward with eagerness to kiss 
it, as the opportunity only ocenrs annually. The ser- 
vice is undertaken by the priest and minister alternate- 
ly, with the occasional help of one of the congregation. 
A little after sunset the anxious and tedious duties of 
the solemn day are over. 

(f.) Sekuth, the Jewish HIEE, Tabernacles. They 
begin this festival on the fifteenth day of the same 
month, and keep it for seven days, conforming literally 
to the injunctions in Lev. xxiii, 34-36, 40-43. On the 
eleventh day they begin the erection of the booths, 
which must be finished by the morning of the four- 
teenth. These are raised in the courts of their houses, 
in the open air. On each day of this feast sendee is 
held in the synagogue both morning and evening, and 
they make in procession a daily ascent of Gerizim, “in 
honor of God.” No servile work is done, nor is any 
business transacted during these days, of which the 
eighth and last is held the most sacred. 

Besides the sacred seasons already mentioned, they 
have two others of less important character. The first 
is Reosh-ashena, Rosh-hashanah of the Jews, the begin- 
ning of the year. It is held, not on the first day of 
Tishri, the beginning of the civil year, but on the first 
day of Nisan, the commencement of their ecclesiastical 
year. The day is not kept sacred, for they all follow 
their usual vocations; they simply attend a short ser- 
vice in the svnagogue both morning and evening. The 
next is Purim , not, like that of the Jews, held in the 
month Adar to commemorate the national deliverance 
through queen Esther, but held in the preceding month, 
Shebat, in commemoration of the mission of Moses to 
deliver the Israelites out of Egypt. 

4. Sacred Places . — The religious rites of Palestine, 
whether performed in honor of the true God or that of 
idols, were celebrated from the earliest ages on the top 
of the highest mountains. The Hebrew lawgiver felt 
it necessary to enjoin on the Israelites the duty of de- 
stroying all these sacred high places on their coming 
into possession of the land (Deut. xii, 2-5); but so 
deeply rooted was this form of worship in the religious 
feelings of Israel, as of the surrounding nations, that it 
proved a snare to them for many ages. It was these 
early sympathies that made Mount Gerizim so sacred 
to the children of Ephraim ever since the conquest, 
and in the same spirit have the Samaritans regarded 
it through all ages even to this day. Their great holy 
place is Gerizim. This mountain they hold to be the 
earth’s centre, the house of God, the highest mountain 
on earth, the only one not covered by the flood, the site 
of altars raised by Adam, Seth, and Noah, the Mount 
Moriah of Abraham’s sacrifice, the Bethel or Luz of Ja- 
cob’s vision, and the place where Joshua erected first an 
altar, next the tabernacle, and finally a temple. On its 
slope the cave of Makkedah is also shown, though now 
closed up. Just as the Jew in all parts of the world 
turns his face in prayer towards the Temple mount at 
Jerusalem, so does the Samaritan to Gerizim, his temple 
mount. To him it is “the house of God,” “the house 
of Jehovah,” “ the mountain of the world,” “ God’s moun- 
tain,” “the Sanctuary,” “the mountain of the Divine 
Presence,” and other such like titles — all flowing from 
their extravagant notions of its sacredness. They 
rarely write its name without the addition “the house 
of God.” It was this same spirit that moved the woman 
of Samaria to answer the Saviour with such an air of 
pride — “Our fathers worshipped in this mountain” (John 
iv, 20). See Gkkiziji. 

But Samaritanism has other holy places. These are 
the tombs of their early prophets and holy men — viz. 


SAMARITANS, MODERN 307 SAMARITANS, MODERN 


Joseph, Eleazar, Ithamar, Phinehas, Joshua, Caleb, tlie 
seventy elders, and Eldad and Medad. All these, ac- 
cording to their tradition, are buried in the neighbor- 
hood of Shechem, and oil certain occasions the congre- 
gation visit them, when portions of the law and prayers 
are repeated. This is especially the case with the 
tombs of Phinehas and Eleazar, but even more so with 
that of Joseph, which they visit frequently. 

111. Local Literature . — Before giving a summary of 
the books of the modern Samaritans, it is necessary to 
remark that they are, to a certain extent, a trilingual 
people. Of these languages the first is Hebrew. The 
fact of its being the language of the Law of Moses makes 
it to them, as to the Jews, the leshon hak-kodesh , or holy 
tongue. All their sacred books and their religious ser- 
vices are therefore in Hebrew, although it is to them, 
with few exceptions, a dead language. The second is 
the Samaritan. Its basis was the Hebrew, and it was 
thoroughly Shemitic in framework; but its superstruct- 
ure contained many anomalies, some of which were 
harsh and foreign. See Samaritan Language. From 
what now remains of it, its general construction seems 
very simple, and not unfrequentlv lucid and forcible; 
and, as pronounced by the Samaritans, it is much more 
euphonious than the Arabic. Soon after the Moham- 
medan conquest of Palestine, it gradually lapsed into a 
dead language. The only literature now remaining in 
it consists of the forms of the Pentateuch and a few 
other works, above noticed. The third tongue is the 
Arabic, the language of their conquerors. This soon 
supplanted the Samaritan, and has ever since remained 
their vernacular, and most of their works have been 
translated into Arabic for the sake of such of their peo- 
ple as understand no other. 

It is difficult, at this time, to determine to what ex- 
tent the ancient Samaritan literature was developed, 
though there is enough evidence to show that much 


mental activity existed among the people in former 
ages. Of their literary productions but little remains, 
owing in part to the destructive hand of time, but much 
more to the ravages they suffered during the first cen- 
turies of the Christian icra, and again under the Mo- 
hammedan rule. The works now known as extant 
may be classified under four heads, and we arrange the 
lists according to the Samaritan dates, including some 
already enumerated under Samaritan Literature. 

1. Theological. — 1 1 is to this class most belong, and 
the first on the list is the Torah, or Law of Moses. See 
Samaritan Pentateuch. 

Risalat Achbor Israil , a work explaining the feasts, their 
object, and manner of keepiug ihem, by Eleazar, a priest 
who is said to have lived in the 5th cennirv after the con- 
quest of Palestine by the tribes. (Composed in Hebrew, 
of which jhere is an Arabic translation.) 

Sharich , an exposition of the book of Exodus by vari- 
ous authors. (Written in Hebrew, with an Arabic trans- 
lation. No date, but ancient.) 

El- Amir, a commentary on portions of the law by 31a- 
raka, who flourished about fifty years before Christ. (He- 
brew, with au Arabic translation.) 

Shartch, au exposition of Genesis from the beginniug 
to ch.xxviii; the author uot known, but dates from the 
2d century of our mra. (Written iu Hebrew, but, like the 
former, has au Arabic translation.) 

El-Kaffi . This is a work discussing the doctrines con- 
tained in the law, written by Juseph el-Askari, A.D. 7U0. 
(Hebrew and Arabic.) 

Masatl Chilafi, a work discussing the differences be- 
tween the Jews and Samaritans, by Muiinji Naphes etl- 
Din, who lived in the 12th century. (Hebrew and Arabic.) 

El-Mulhalal ft en-Xikahi , au explanation of the laws of 
marriage, by Abul-Barakat, who lived in the 12th century. 
(Hebrew aud Arabic.) 

Kitab el-Mirath , a work on the laws aud regulations of 
wills and testaments. (Written by the same author, iu 
Hebrew, with an Arabic translation.) 

Shartch, a historical exposition of the law, showing 
how the ancients observed it ; written by El-llhabr Ja- 
cob in I he 12th century. (In Hebrew only.) 

Sharich, an exposition of the book of Exodus, by Gha- 
zal ed-Duik, of the 13th century. (In Hebrew and Arabic.) 

Sharich, a book explaining the blessings 
and cursings of the law, by Ibrahim el-Kaisi, 
of the Kith century. (Hebrew and Arabic.) 

Risalat el-Arshad , a book oil the days of the 
month upon which the feasts were uTbe held, 
written by Ibrahim il-Ahi, au author of the 
ISth century. (Hebrew aud Arabic.) 

Sharich, an exposition of the whole book 
of Genesis, written by Mnsalem el-31 urjam, 
of the last century. (Hebrew aiid Arabic.) 

Sharich, an exposition of the books of Le- 
viticus and Numbers, by Ghazal el-3Iatari, 
who lived iu the last century. (Hebrew and 
Arabic.) 

Sharich, a work concerning the Eternal, to- 
gether with certain social points, principally 
marriage and the Sabbath, by Ghazal ibu- 
Ilaniiynhli. (Hebrew and Arabic, but with- 
out date.) 

2. Liturgical. — This class comprises all 
tlie books relating to tlieir public and pri- 
vate services, such as the feasts and fasts, 
circumcision, marriage, and burial. They 
consist of passages from the Torah, inter- 
spersed with prayers and poetic composi- 
tions, the reading of which is principally 
performed with a kind of cant illation ; hence 
the term Tartil generally applied to these 
books. This class is nearly as extensive as 
the theological, and contains much interest- 
ing matter and many beautiful passages, but 
the works have not yet received the atten- 
tion they deserve. The most important are 
tlie services for the annual feasts and fasts, 
eleven in number — namely, one for the or- 
dinary Sabbaths throughout the year; one 
for the two Sabbaths preceding Passover; 
one for the Passover; one for the days of 
Unleavened Bread; one for the fifty days 
following Passover; one for Pentecost: one 
for the 1st of Tisri ; one for the Day of 
Atonement; one for the Tabernacles; one 
for the first day of the year, and one for the 
last day of the year. 


fr 2 of v ; • w*' w ' ♦ sa**’ v/fr-A* vv A 

*2 SK'HOT « 

Tit C M 

51 *4 A* 

Pi & ' • VO 1Wf A V)f3 uq«i <¥• 

(p £ ' SXrK "VOtKLtfr 

t0 w ':a£'bi*b 

vx cav-w?" m 9 

PVKirWi 'QkW iVtehil'A'W & 

tf 3 Wot •.% A 

** Mptfi v?5PA 2 V 

'WbBSc A 5 * - WO?<iS- B 

\2 'V'Wte 'Art/* & 2 

Specimen of an Ancieut Samaritan Peutateuch. (From a Photograph.) 

This is part of the so-called “Fire-tried Manuscript,” belonging to a poor widow in Jerusa- 
lem named Mrs. Ducat. She lent it to a German savnnt named Dr. Jacob Frederick 
Kraus, and his essay on the manuscript is kept with il. The whole consists of 217 leaves, 
containing the Torah, or law, from Gen. i, 29 to the blessing of Moses in Deuteronomy. 
Six leaves are added in n smaller hand on parchment at the beginning, the first being al- 
most illegible. The real manuscript only begins at Gen. xi, 11 ; three leaves are ndded at 
the end for protection, after Dent, xxix, 30. The whole is much worn, and measures 
eleven inches by nine inches, and three inches in thickness. The text is divided into par- 
agraphs, with verses, sentences, mid words separated by a single dot. Words nre not al- 
lowed to be broken by the line, but, in order to fill up the line, the last letters are farther 
apart, unless they form the word Jehovah, which is read E/wem. The letters nre not so 
small as those of Abishua’s roll (the oldest at Nablus), nor so large as those of the Inter 
roll. The hand is steady and uniform. The Deculogue is not numbered by marginal let- 
ters (in this respect it resembles Abishun’s roll), and so, also, the paragrnjths are neither 
numbered nor stated in either text. These points seem to show the Fire-tried Manuscript 
to be ancient (Conder, Tent Work in Palestine, i, 52). 


SAMATUS 


308 


SAMLAH 


All these liturgies exist only in Hebrew, as it would 
be unlawful to translate them into the vulgar tongue. 
They are all of ancient date, but the authors and com- 
pilers are unknown. See Samauita n Liturgy. 

3. Historical — In this class there are but few works; 
these are : 

Tarik. This is the Samaritan book of Joshua, as it is 
generally called, aud is pretty well known to European 
scholars since the time of Scaliger, who, in A. I). 1584, re- 
ceived a copy from the Samaritans of Cairo, an edition of 
which was brought out by Juynboll (Leyden, 1848), with 
a Latin version and valuable annotations. It contains a 
brief history of themselves from the close of the Penta- 
teuch down to modern times, aud comprising some 
amount of valuable information mixed up with much 
that is fictitious and exaggerated. 

Auother historical work is extant, partly compiled from 
the above, by Abul-Fatah, an author of the 14th century, 
but is not held in esteem by the Samaritans themselves. 

El-Tabak, a history of the Jews, principally relating the 
judgments that had befallen them ; written by Abu Ilas- 
san es-Suri in the 12th century. (Hebrew and Arabic.) 

Kitab es-Satir, a compendium of history from Adam to 
Moses. No author is named; but it is stated to have 
been written at the command of Moses. (Hebrew only.) 

I him Attawurik. This is simply a chronological table 
according to the Samaritan dates, extending from the cre- 
ation of man to the present time. It is well known that 
the Samaritan copy of the Pentateuch differs in its dates 
from both the Jewish Hebrew text and the Sept, version, 
thus causing a difference in the date of all subsequent his- 
torical events. Independently of this, there is a further i 
difference between this table and all other accepted data 
down to the commencement of the Christian sera. For 
example, the entrance of the Israelites into Canaan took 
place, according to common chronology, in A.M. 2553; 
but, according to the Samaritan, it was in 2794, making a 
difference of 241 years. The same chronology gives the 
age of the world at the commencement of the Christiau 
sera as 4438 A.M., while the accepied date is 4004, thus 
making a difference of 434 years. But from tiiis period 
the table generally agrees with our ordinary chrouology. 

4. Scientific .— Under this head may be comprised the 
following: 

El-Clmbs, an astronomical work treating of the rules 
regulating the first month of the year, and the conjunc- 
tions of the sun and moon. It was writ.teu, we are told, 
under the direction of Adam. (Hebrew.) 

Risalat. This is a sort of exposition of the former 
work, written by several authors, but whose names aud 
times are unknown. (Hebrew aud Arabic.) 

To the foregoing list may be added the following 
works extant and known in Europe, but not now in the 
possession of the Samaritans themselves — viz. Ghazal 
and Zadaka on parts of the law; Abul-llassan and Za- 
daka el-Isradi on religion and ceremonies; and Abu 
Said and Abu Itshak Ibrahim on language and gram- 
mar. 

Sam'atus ( ZapaToq ; Vulg. Seinedius ), given in 
the Apocrypha (1 Esdr. ix,34) as the name of the fourth 
of the six sons of Osora (i. e. Abiah or Mochnadebai) 
among those Israelites who bail married foreign wives 
after the captivity; but the lleb. list (Ezra x, 41,42) 
contains the names Shelemiah, Shemariah, and Shallum 
in the corresponding place. 

Samavarti, in Hindi) mythology, is an appellation 
of Dhama, the god of the under-world, who judges the 
dead and separates the good from the wicked. 

Samba, in Hindu mythology, was a son of Vishnu 
in the avatar of Krishna, born of Dshamty. the beauti- 
ful daughter of the king of the bears. Samba, guided 
by the counsel of his father, and in order to avert the in- 
fliction of a threatening curse to which he had impru- 
dently exposed himself, built, a city, to which he gave 
his own name, and introduced in it the worship of t he 
sun, to which he gathered the priests by conveying 
them on the saddle-horse (larudha, which was sacred to 
Vishnu. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol s. v. 

Sambation, a river mentioned in the Talmud as 
(lowing during the first six days of every week and dry- 
ing tip on the Sabbath. The rabbins arc not agreed as 
to the situation of the river, some placing it on the bor- 
ders of Ethiopia and some in India. — Gardner, Faiths 
of the World, s. v. See Sabuatical. Kivisr. 


Sam-beid, or Saman Veda, is the Hindi) title 
of the third section of the Vedas (q. v.). 

Samber, in Hindu mythology, is an evil daemon 
and king of giants, who brought under his power the 
beautiful Iieti, consort of the god of love, and sought to 
win her for himself, but was defeated by Kamadcwa, the 
sou of Krishna. 

Sambkara, synonymous with Samber (q.v.). 

Sambhava, in Hindu mythology, is the third of 
the twenty-eight Buddhas who have hitherto appeared 
to save the world. His symbol is a horse, which there- 
fore constantly appears with him in the representations. 

Sambiasi, Francesco, an Italian missionary to 
China, was born at Cosenza in 1582, and died in 1649. 

Sa'mech (prop. Sa'mek, 0 ; fully a P r0 P)> the 

fifteenth letter of the lleb. alphabet (Psa. cxix, 113). 
See Acrostic. 

Same'ius (So/iaoc, v. r. 'Zapaiog and 0a/ui7or). a 
corrupt Greek form (1 Esdr. ix, 21) of the name She- 
maiaii (q. v.) of the Heb. text (Ezra x, 21). 

Samerius, Henry, a Jesuit, was born in France in 
1540. For some time he was confessor to Mary queen 
of Scots. He died about 1610. He was the author of 
a work entitled Chronologia Sacra. 

Sam'gar-ne'bo (Heb. Xebu', 

sword of Xebo, or perhaps conqueror of Xebo; Sept. 
'£afiayad J v. r. 'SapayioS, Sapaycip), one of the princes 
or commanders of Nebuchadnezzar’s army against Jeru- 
salem at its downfall (Jer. xxxix, 3). B.C. 589. The 
Xebo (q.v.) is the Chaldtean Mercury: about the Sam - 
gat', opinions are divided. Von Bohlen suggested that 
from the Sanscrit sangara, <k war,” might be formed 
sdngara, “warrior, ’’ and that this was the original of 
Samgar. Furst suggests that nebo should perhaps he 
joined to the following word Sarsechini (q.v.), as in the 
Sept., since it is contrary to analogy for this to stand at 
the end of a name. See Nebuchadnezzar, etc. As 
in ver. 13 the chief of the eunuchs is called Nebu-siias- 
ban, it has been supposed that Nebn-Sarseehim is only 
another name of the same person, and that Samgar is 
but a name of his office. It may be compounded of the 
Persic chain, a ‘•cup,” and kur, a derivative particle, and 
so be equivalent to cup-bearer, or Iiabsbakeh (q.v.). 

Sa'mi (~apt, v. r. Saj3*i, T ; Vulg. Tobi), a cor- 
rupt Greek form (l Esdr. v. 28) of the name Suobai 
(q. v.) of the Heb. list (Ezra ii, 42). 

Sami, a species of hard-wood which the Jlindfts em- 
ploy in kindling the sacrificial fire. They believe that 
it contains a mysterious internal heat which must be 
called forth by rubbing, and the fire for sacrificial uses 
is accordingly never produced by any other method. — 
Vollmer, Worterb. d. J Igthol. s. v. 

Samia, in Greek mythology, is (1) a daughter of 
the river-god Majander, who was married to Anea?us, 
the son of Neptune and Astvpalea, and king of the Le- 
leges, to whom she bore Perilaus, Enudus, Samus, and 
Alitherses — ancestral heroes of the Samians — and also 
Parthenope; (2) a surname of Juno, derived from Sa- 
mos, where a primitive statue in the Egyptian style, the 
work of Smilis, was erected in her honor. 

Sa'mis (~aylc, v. r. ^opdg), a Greek form (1 Esdr. 

ix, 34) of the name Sjiiiuei (q.v.) of the Heb. list (Ezra 

x, 38). 

Samius, in Greek mythology, is an appellative of 
Xeptune, from his temple on Samos. 

Sam'lali (lleb. Satnlah', n^b, a garment ; Sept. 
£rt\a/io, 'E.afiad, v. r. S apaCa , Sej3X«)> a king who 
reigned in Edom before the Israelites had a king (Gen. 
I xxxvi, 36, 37; 1 Cbron. i, 47, 48). B.C. post 1618. He 
was the successor of Iladad or Hadar, and was of Mas- 
rekah, that being probably the chief city during his 
reign. This mention of a separate city as belonging to 


SAMMAEL 


309 


SAMOKltESTSCIiENTSI 


each (almost without exception) of the “kings” of 
Kiloin suggests that the Edomitish kingdom consisted 
of a confederacy of tribes, and that the chief city of 
the reigning tribe was the metropolis of the whole. 

Sammael, a daemon among the modern .lews, most 
commonly styled the Angel of Death. The rabbins 
allege that the removal from the present life of those 
who die in the land of Israel is assigned to Gabriel, 
whom they call an Angel of Merev. while those who 
die in other countries are despatched by the hand of 
Sammael, the prince of daemons. Several of the rabbins 
contidently assert that the latter has no power over the 
Jews, and God himself is represented as saying to him, 
“The world is in thy power except this people. I 
have given thee authority to root out the idolaters; 
but over this people I have given thee no power.” — 
Gardner, Faiths of the World , s. v. 

Saramans (Sciiamans). See Siiamans. 

Sammira. See Spice. 

Sam'mus (^apyovg v. r. 'Slaypov), a corrupt Greek 
form (t Esdr. ix, 43) of the name Shema (q. v.) of the 
Heb. text (Neh. viii, 4). 

Samoan (or Navigator’s) Islands, a group of 
nine inhabited islands, with some islets, in the Pacific 
Ocean, lying north of the Friendly Islands; population 
in 1869, 35,107. The soil, formed chiefly by the de- 
composition of volcanic rock, is rich, and the climate 
is moist. Among the Polynesian Islands, the inhabi- 
tants of the Samoan group rank, in personal appearance, 
second only to the Tongese. They are well formed, and 
easy and graceful in their movements. Polygamy is 
customary, but two wives seldom live in the same 
house. Women are considered the equals of men, and 
both sexes join in the family labor. The ancient re- 
ligion of the islanders acknowledged one great God, but 
less worship was paid to him than to some of their war- 
gods. They had, besides, a god of earthquakes, a god 
who upheld the earth, and gods of hurricanes, rain, and 
lightning, and also many inferior gods, who guarded 
certain localities. They also worshipped certain chiefs, 
to whose memory they erected carved blocks of wood 
and stone. The .first missionaries landed in Savaii in 
1830 from the Society Islands, and, in 1836, were joined 
by others from England. The first Roman Catholic 
missionaries arrived in 1846. The inhabitants are all 
now nominally Christians. There are schools and a 
church in every village. The children can generally 
read in their own language at the age of seven years, 
and most of the adult population ean read and write. 
The Bible has been translated and printed, as have hymn- 
books and other works, at the missionary printing-office. 
In 1869, the population was divided, denominationally, 
as follows: Independents and Presbyterians, 27,021; 
Wesleyans, 508*2 ; Roman Catholics, 3004. See Apple- 
ton, New A mer. Cyclop, s. v. ; Chambers's Encyclop. s. v. 

Samoan Version. The Samoan belongs to the 
Polynesian or Malayan languages, and is spoken in 
Samoa, or Navigator’s Islands. The translation of the 
Scriptures into that language appears to have been un- 
dertaken, in the first place, by the Rev. John Williams, 
assisted by other missionaries of the London Missionary 
Society, who, after the death of Williams, continued and 
completed it. In 1842 the Gospel of John was pub- 
lished, followed, in 1845, by the Gospel of Luke, trans- 
lated by Macdonald, and the Epistle to the Romans, trans- 
lated by Heath. In 1846, the entire New Test., includ- 
ing a revised translation of the Gospel of Matthew, was 
completed at press. In 1848, the missionaries sent a 
revised copy of the New Test, to London, and an edition 
of 15,000 copies was printed by the Ilritish and Foreign 
Bible Society. In the. year 1855, the translation of the 
Old Test, was completed and printed ; and as to the par- 
ticulars concerning this great work, we will quote the 
words of the Report (1856, p. clxiv) : 

“Previous to the com pie lion of .the New Test, some 


progress had been made in the translation of the Old ; 
and, in 1S4S, au edition of 10,000 copies of the book of 
Psalms was put through the press, bound, and circulated. 

“In 1840, editions of 10,000 each of the books of Gene- 
sis and Exodus were primed ; and in 1850 Leviticus, Num- 
bers, and Deuteronomy were also printed, in editions of 
7000 copies each. The* Pentateuch was then bouud in oue 
volume. 

“ In 1853, editions of 5000 each of the books from Joshna 
to 2 Samuel inclusive were printed, and in 1854 the re- 
maining historical books; and the whole were bound up 
in one volume, forming the second volume of the histori- 
cal books. 

“In the same year, editions of 3500 each of the books 
of Solomon, the Lamentations, and the minor prophets 
were pm through the press; and in March of the present 
year Ezekiel and Daniel were in circulation, Isaiah in the 
press, and Job ready for it. The only remaining hook 
to be revised was Jeremiah; so that before this time the 
whole of the Old and New Testa, will have been com- 
pleted and printed. The book of .Job, with those of Sol- 
omon and the Prophets, will, besides the book of Psalms, 
form the third volume of the Old Test. 

“The plan adopted in translation has been to assign to 
individuals separate books or portions for most careful 
translation. These portions have been further submit- 
ted to the criticisms of the other members of our Mis- 
sion, and finally revised for the press by a committee of 
not less than five, including the translators, and theu 
primed in every respect according to the decision of the 
committee. 

“ In the Old Test., our translations have been made from 
the Hebrew text sent out to us by the British and For- 
eign* Bible Society, and executed agreeably to the rules 
of the Society. Our English Authorized Version has been 
constantly before ns, and adhered to as nearly as possi- 
ble. Constant reference has been made to the Septna- 
gint and Vulgate, and the best use made of the van on 6 
Polynesian translations. With regard to the lexicogra- 
phy, criticism, and renderings of the sacred text, we have 
availed ourselves of the labors of Rosemn idler, Geseuius, 
Leo, Ainsworth, Blayuey, Henderson, Lowtli, Dathe, Pat- 
rick, Good, etc. 

“These translations and revisions have cost the mem- 
bers of our Mission many years of patient thought and 
labor; and it is a cause of great and most devout thank- 
fulness to God that some of ns who commenced the work 
on the Samoan group, and have from the beginning tak- 
en a part in the translating of the Saered Word into its 
language, have lived to be engaged in it to its comple- 
tion. To the great Head of the Church, who has enabled 
us to put this invaluable boon into the hands of the Sa- 
moan people, be all the praise.” 

Since that time new revised editions have been pub- 
lished. The last edition of the entire Bible left the 
press at London in 1873, under the editorship of the 
Rev. Dr. Turner. (B. P.) 

Samogitian Version. The Samogitian is a di- 
alect of the Lithuanian language, spoken in three dis- 
tricts of Lithuania — namely, Telcha, Scliaul, and Rosina. 
The Samogitians number about 1 12,000 individuals, and 
are, with few exceptions, of the Roman Catholic persua- 
sion, whence it. is also called the “Catholic dialect.” In 
1814, the New Test, had been for the first time trans- 
lated into this dialect by prince Gedroitz, bishop of 
Samogitia, who designed to print one thousand cop- 
ies at Wilna at his own expense. In 1816, a second 
edition left the press, and in 1831 a third one, printed 
by the monks in the monastery of St. Cazemir at Wil- 
na. Of the Old Test, nothing has as yet been trans- 
lated into this dialect. Comp. Dalton, Das Gebet des 
llerrn in den Sprachen Russlands, p. 41, 79; The Bible 
of Every Land, p. 313. (B. P.) 

Samoiede (or Samoyed) Mythology, the re- 
ligious system of three Arctic tribes which persist in 
heathenism, despite repeated efforts to convert them to 
Christianity. Their supreme being, who is regarded as 
the creator and director of the universe, is called Xttm. 
Innumerable subordinate spirits or gods, called Tatebi . 
are acknowledged, who combine both good and evil 
qualities in their natures. The priests govern the ele- 
ments and control the health of human beings. They 
perform ceremonies in connection with births, marriages, 
and deaths. The Samoieds build temples, hut do not 
set up representations of Num in them, as he is held to 
he invisible. The only images are those of subordinate 
deities. — Vollmer, Worterh. d. J fythol. s. v. 

Samokrestschentsi. See Samokrischtciuna. 


SAMOKPJSCHTCIIIXA 


310 


SAMOS 


Samokrischtchina, a sect of Russian dissenters, 
whose name signifies “self-baptizers,” and expresses the 
peculiarity by which they are distinguished from other 
Kaskoluiks. 

Samonas, archbishop of. Gaza, flourished about 
105(5. 1 1 is known work is Discussion with A chined con- 

cerning the Real Presence o f Christ's Body and Blood in 
the Sacrament, found in Bib/. Max. Patr. xviii, 577 ; 
Gr. and Lat. in Bill. Patr. Gallandi, xiv, 225. 

Sa'mos {Sdfioc, dist inyn ished), a noted island in the 
JEgean Sea, near the coast of Lydia, in Asia Minor, and 
separated only by a narrow strait from the promontory 
which terminates in Cape Trogyllium. This strait, in 
the narrowest part, is not quite a mile in width (Plinv, 
Hist. Xat. v, 34; Strabo, xiv, 034; comp. Leake, Map 
of. I sna Minor). For its history, from the time when 
it was a powerful member of the Ionic confederacy to its 
recent struggles against Turkey during the war of in- 
dependence, and since, we must refer to Smith’s Diet, 
of Gr. and Rom. Geoy. s. v. Samos is a very lofty and 
commanding island; the word, in fact, denotes a height, 
especially by the sea-shore : hence, also, the name of 
Samothracia, or •• the Thracian Samos, " for another sim- 
ilar island. Samos was illustrious at a period of remote 
antiquity, and was at one time mistress of the sea, but 
its greatness was of no long duration. Tradition as- 
cribes the birth of Pythagoras to this island, and Cre- 
ophiius. said to be the son-in-law of Homer, and himself 
a poet of no mean pretensions, was also a Samian. The 
period during which Samos enjoyed the greatest pros- 
perity was that occupied by the government of Polyc- 
rates, who made himself master of many among the 
surrounding islands. The island fell subsequently un- 
der the Athenian dominion, and was considered as one 
of the most valuable dependencies of Athens. The peo- 
ple of Samos were especially worshippers of Juno or 
llera. and her temple, called the Heneon, was enriched 
by some of the finest works of art known in Greece, par- 
ticularly statues by Myron, Polyeletus, and Praxiteles. 
The chief manufacture carried on by the inhabitants 
was that of pottery, the Samian ware being celebrated 
all over the civilized world. Jt was made of a fine 
smooth clay of a deep red color, anti many specimens of 
it remain to adorn the cabinets of archaeologists. It 
must be borne in mind, however, that the term Samian 
ware was soon applied to all of a similar character, 
wherever fabricated, just as at the present time all por- 


celain is called by the general name of china. The 
island is sometimes stated to have been famous for its 
wines, but, in fact, the wine of Samos was in ill repute. 
Strabo says expressly that the island was ovk tvoivoc. 
It now, however, ranks high for its Levantine wine, 
which is largely exported, as are also grapes and raisins. 
Samos, which is still called Samo, contained, some years 
ago, about 00,000 people, inhabiting eighteen large vil- 
lages and about twenty small ones. Vathi is the chief 
town of the island in every respect, except that it is not 
the residence of the governor, who lives at Colonna, 
which takes its name from a solitary column (about fifty 
feet high and six in diameter), a remnant of the ancient 
Temple of Juno, of which some insignificant remains are 
tying near. Various travellers (Clarke, Tournefort, Po- 
eocke, Dallawav, Ross) have described this island. See 
also Georgirenes, Description of Samos, etc. (Loud. 1678): 
Panofka, Res Sttmioi'innf Berlin, 1822); and especially 
Guerin, Description de Vile de Patmos et de Vile de Samos 
(Paris, 1850). 



Samos is briefly referred to in two places in Scripture. 
The Romans wrote to the governor in favor of the Jews, 
in the time of Simon Maccaba?us (1 Mace, xv, 23), and 
Paul touched there when going to Jerusalem, on his re- 
turn from his third missionary journey (Acts xx, 15). 
He had been at Chios, and was about to proceed to Mi- 
letus. having passed by Ephesus without touching there. 
The topographical notices given incidentally by Luke 
are most exact. The night was spent at the anchorage 
of Trogyllium, in the narrow strait between Samos and 
the extremity of the mainland ridge of Mycale. This 
spot is famous both . for the great battle of the old Greeks 
against the Persians in B.C. 479, and also for a gallant 
action of the modern Greeks against the Turks in 1824. 
Here, however, it is more natural (especially since we 
know r , as above from 1 Mace, xv, 23, that JewsTesided 



Port Tigaui, the Ancient llarbor of Samos. 


SAMOSATENES 


311 


SAMPSON 


here) to allude to the meeting of Herod the Great with 
Marcus Agrippa in Samos, whence resulted many privi- 
leges to the Jews (Josephus, Ant, xvi, 2, 2, 4). At that 
time and when Paul was there it was politically a u free 
city” in the province of Asia (q. v.). See Conybeare 
and Howson, tit. Paul , ii, IS; Lewin, tit. Paul , ii, 87 sq. 
See Paul. 

Samosatenes, or Samosatenians, the follow- 
ers of Paul of tiamosata (q. v.). 

Samostrigolschtschina, a sect of Prussian dis- 
senters, whose name signifies “ self-ordai tiers," and ex- 
presses the peculiarity by which they are distinguished 
from other Raskolniks. — Blunt, Diet, of tiects, s. v. 

Samothra'cia, or Samothrace (SafioSpaicrj), a 
famous island in the north-eastern part of the yEgean 
Sea, above the Hellespont, with a city of the same 
name. It was anciently called Dardana, Leucania, and 
also Samos; and, to distinguish it from the other Samos 
(q. v.), the name of Thrace was added, from its vicinity 
to that country, lienee, Samos of Thrace , Sdpog 
0jO«K//c> and by contraction S«/<o3pdfC/j, Samothrace. 
Samothrace is about twenty miles in circumference, and 
about twenty miles from the coast of Thrace. The 
island was celebrated for the mysteries of Ceres and 
Proserpine, and was a sacred asylum (Diod. Sic. iii, 55; 
v, 47; Ptolemy, Geog. v, 11; Pliny, Ulst. Nat. iv, 23). 
In ancient times it was the resort of numerous pil- 
grims, who regarded it as invested with peculiar sanc- 
tity. It was the seat of the worship and mysteries of 
the Cabiri — mysteries in which persons of the highest 
rank and consideration deemed it an especial honor to 
be initiated, and which have been a favorite subject for 
investigation among modern students. Samothrace is 
mountainous, and the central peak is the highest point 
in the northern part of the .Egean, and inferior only to 
Mount Athos on the mainland, llomer places upon it 
the throne of Neptune; it towers high over Imbros, 
and the plains of Troy are distinctly visible from its 
summit. Homer describes Jupiter as watching from 
hence the progress of the Trojan war. The traditions 
of Samothrace extend to the remotest antiquity; they 
refer to a period when the Hellespont, the Propontis, 
and the Bosphorus were but a series of inland lakes, and 
the Euxine was entirely shut away from the /Egean. 
It is the opinion of Niebuhr {Ancient Ethnography and 
Geography , i, 182) that Samothrace was the centre of 
the Pelasgic religion. Perseus took refuge here after 
his defeat by the Romans at Pydna. In later times 
Samothrace had, according to Pliny, the privileges of a 
small free state, though it was doubtless considered a 
dependency of the province of Macedonia. The island 
is now called tiamothraki , frequently corrupted into 
tiamandrichi (f£ to pavdptKi). It is but thinly peopled, 
principally by fishermen, and in many parts is covered 
with forests. It contains only a single village. The 
mountain is described in the Missionary Herald for 
1836, p. 246; comp. Rich ter, )V allfahrt , p. 438 sq. ; Smith, 


Diet, of Class. Geog. s. v. ; Conze, Peise avf d. Tnstln d, 
Thrakischen Metrs (Berl. 185‘J). 




Coin of Samothrace. 

The mention of this island in the account of Paul’s 
first voyage to Europe (Acts xvi, 11) is, for two rea- 
sons, worthy of careful notice. In the first place, 
being a very lofty and conspicuous island, it is an ex- 
cellent landmark for sailors, and must have been full in 
view, if the weather was clear, throughout that voyage 
from Troas to Neapolis. From the shore at Troas, 
Samothrace is seen towering over Imbros (llomer, //. 
xiii, 12, 13 ; Kinglake, Eothen , p. 64), and it is similarly 
a marked object in the view from the hills between Ne- 
apolis and Philippi (Clarke, Travels , ch. xiii). These 
allusions tend to give vividness to one of the most im- 
portant voyages that ever took place. Secondly, this 
voyage was made with a fair wind. Not only are we 
told tliat it occupied only parts of two days, whereas on 
a subsequent return voyage (Acts xx, 6) the time spent 
at sea was five : but the technical word here used (f<V3r- 
epoppoapeu') implies that they ran before the wind. 
Now the position of Samothrace is exactly such as to 
correspond with these notices, and thus incidentally 
to confirm the accuracy of a most artless narrative. 
Paul and his companions anchored for the night off 
Samothrace. The ancient city, and therefore probably 
the usual anchorage, was on the north side, which would 
be sufficiently sheltered from a south-east wind. It 
may be added, as a further practical consideration not 
to be overlooked, that such a wind would be favorable 
for overcoming the opposing current, which sets south- 
erly after leaving the Dardanelles, and easterly between 
Samothrace and the mainland. See Convbeare and 
Howson, Life and Ep. of tit. Paul, i, 282 sq. , Lewin, 
tit. Paul , i, 200. 

Samp'sames (Eap\pdpi]£ v. r. Sapipatcpc; Vulg. 
Lampsacus, tiamsatnes ), a name which occurs in the 
list of those to whom the Romans are said to have sent 
letters in favor of the Jews (l Macc. xv, 23). The name 
is probably not that of a sovereign (as it appears to be 
taken in the A. V.), but of a place, which Grimm iden- 
tifies with tiamsu n, on the coast of the Black Sea, be- 
tween Sinope and Trebizond. 

Sampson, Ezra, a Congregational minister, was 
born at Middleborough, Mass., Feb. 12, 1749. lie grad- 
uated at Yale College, 1773, and became pastor of the 
Congregational Church at Plvmpton, Mass., Feb., 1775. 
He also. officiated as chaplain in the Revolutionary 
army, and was settled at Hudson, N. 
Y., 1796. While there he became as- 
sociated with Rev. Harry Crosswell in 
the editorship of The Balance, one of 
the first literary journals in the United 
States (1801-4). He edited for a year 
(1804-5) the Connecticut Con rant , and 
became judge of Columbia County in 
1814. lie died in New York City, 
Dee. 12, 1823. lie was the author of 
Beauties of the Bible (1802 ): — Sham 
Patriot Unmasked (1803 ): — The His- 
torical Dictionary (1804 ): — The Brief 
Remarker on the Ways of Men (1817, 
1855). See Sprague, Annals of the 
American Pulpit, ii, 122. 

Sampson, Francis S., D.D., 
an eminent Presbyterian divine, was 
born near Dover Mills, Goochland Co., 



SAMPSON 


312 


SAMSON 


Ya., in Nov., 1814. At the age of sixteen he was 
placed in the family of his uncle, the Rev. Thornton 
lingers, of Albemarle. Finding himself now in a re- 
ligious atmosphere, he was induced to seek earnestly 
the salvation of his soul, made a profession of religion, 
and became a member of the Church in Charlottesville, 
Aug. 13, 1831. He graduated at the University of 
Virginia in 1836; subsequently studied theology at 
the Union Theological Seminary of Virginia; and, on 
the resignation of Prof. Ballantine, in the spring of 
1838, was appointed teacher of Hebrew, and from that 
time continued to perforin other duties of the Oriental 
department; was licensed by tbe East Hanover Presby- 
tery in Oct., 1839, and ordained as an evangelist by tbe 
same presbytery in Oct., 1841. In the summer of 1848 
lie visited Europe, spending his time chiefly at the uni- 
versities of Halle anti Berlin in the prosecution of his 
Oriental studies, and returned in August, 1849. In 
Oct., 1848, he was elected professor of Oriental literature 
and languages in the Union Theological Seminary, Vir- 
ginia, and in 1849 received the degree of I).L). from 
Hampden Sidney College. He died April 9, 1854. In 
1851 Dr. Sampson delivered, at the University of Vir- 
ginia, a lecture on The Authority of the Sacred Canon, 
and the Integrity of the Sacred Text , which was after- 
wards published, in connection with the series of which 
it formed a part; and in 1856 there was published, under 
the editorial supervision of his successor, Dr. Dabney, A 
Critical Commentary on the Epistle to the Hebrews. One 
of Dr. Sampson’s most striking and valuable traits was 
bis methodical industry. “That whatever is worth doing 
is worth doing well; that each task must be done with 
one's might in just so much time as is needed to do it per- 
fectly, and no more; that no task is to be left till all is 
perfected which can be done to advantage — these were 
the rules of working which he carried with him from 
t lie time of his boyhood to the school, the university, 
the study, and the lecture-room.” lie was eminently 
conscientious in everything. Family prayers were, in 
his house, no hurried, unmeaning form. The whole air 
and tone of the exercise showed deep, conscientious sin- 
cerity and earnestness. As an instructor, Dr. Robert L. 
Dabney says of him, “ I hesitate not to say that, as a 
master of the art of communicating knowledge, he was, 
in my view, unrivalled;” and again, “One of the foun- 
dation-stones of his success was his indisputable schol- 
arship. No man ever passed through one of bis classes 
without a profound and admiring conviction of this.” 
See Sprague, Annals of the American Pulpit , iv, 795; 
Allibone. Diet, of British and A mericun A uthors , s. v. 
(J. L. S.) 

Sampson, Henry, a Nonconformist divine, was 
horn in Nottinghamshire, and studied at Leyden and 
Padua. He was ejected at the Reformation, and sub- , 
sequentlv became an eminent London physician. lie 
died in 1705. lie published an edition of Porter on 
Divine Grace, and prepared materials for a history of 
Nonconformists. 

Sampson, Richard, LL.D., Bishop of Chichester 
in 1536. lie was transferred to Coventry and Lichfield, 
1542-43, and died at Eccleshall, 1554. lie is the author 
of Commentary on Romans , etc. (Lund. 15-16, 8vo) : — 
Reyii Sucelli (4 to). 

Sampson, Thomas, a Puritan divine, was horn 
(according to Strype) at l’layford, in Suffolk, 1517, and 
educated at Oxford. lie was ordained by archbishop 
Cranmer and bishop Ridley; was chaplain in the army 
of Lord Russell. In 1551 he was preferred to the rec- 
tory of All-hallows, London, and, in 1551, to the deanery 
of Chichester. During the reign of Mary he resided in 
Strasburg. Returning home on the accession of Eliza- 
beth, he refused the bishopric of Norwich, because dis- 
satisfied with the nature of the office. In Sept., 1560, 
he was made prebendary of Durham, and in Michael- 
mas term, 1561, he was installed dean of Christ Church, 
Oxford. So open and zealous was lie against clerical 


habits that in 1564 he was deprived of his deanery, and 
for some time imprisoned. Notwithstanding his non- 
conformity, he was presented, in 1568, with the master- 
ship of Wigston Hospital at Leicester, and had, accord- 
ing to Wood, a prebend in St. Paul’s. He resided at 
Leicester until bis death, April 9, 1589. He married 
bishop Latimer’s niece, by whom he had two sons, John 
and Nathaniel. Besides editing two Sermons of John 
Bradford (1574, 8vo), a translation into English of a 
Sermon of St. Chrysostom (1550, 8vo), he published 
several Letters, and a Brief Collection of the Church and 
Ceremonies thereof (1592, 16mo). 

Sam'son (lleb. Shbnshon' , sunlike, shin- 

ing ; Sept, and N. T. Sapif/wy, and so Josephus, Ant. 
v, 8, 4, according to whom, however, the word means 
“strong:” if the root shemesh has the signification of 
“awe,” which (iesenins ascribes to it, the name Sam- 
son would seem naturally to allude to the “awe” and 
“astonishment” with which the father and mother 
looked upon the angel who announced Samson’s birth 
[see Judg. xiii, 6, 18-20]), the name of the eekbrated 
champion, deliverer, and judge of Israel, equally re- 
markable for his supernatural bodily prowess, his mor- 
al infirmities, and his tragical end (B.C. 1185-65). (In 
the following account we freely use the articles in Kit- 
to, Smith, and Winer.) 

1. History. — Samson was the son of Manoah, of the 
tribe of Dan, and was born, B.C. cir. 1200, of a mother 
whose name is nowhere given in the Scriptures. The 
circumstances under which his birth was announced by 
a heavenly messenger gave distinct presage of an ex- 
traordinary character, whose endowments were to be of 
a nature suited to the providential exigencies in which 
he was raised up. The burden of the oracle to his 
mother, who had long been barren, was that the child 
with which she was pregnant was to be a son, who 
should be a Nazarite from his birth, upon whose head 
no razor was to come, and who was to prove a signal 
deliverer to his people. She was directed, accordingly, 
to conform her own regimen to the tenor of the Naza- 
ritish law, and strictly abstain from wine and all intox- 
icating liquor, and from every species of impure food. 
According to the prophecy going before upon him,” 
Samson was born in the following year; and his desti- 
nation to great achievements began to evince itself at a 
very early age by tbe illapses of superhuman strength 
which came, from time to time, upon him. 

As the position of the tribe of Dan — bordering upon 
the territory of the Philistines — exposed them espe- 
cially to the predatory incursions of this people, it was 
plainly the design of Heaven to raise up a deliverer in 
that region where he was most needed. The Philis- 
tines, therefore, became very naturally tbe objects of 
that retributive course of proceedings in which Samson 
was to be the principal actor, and upon which he could 
only enter by seeking some occasion of exciting hostil- 
ities that would bring the two peoples into direct colli- 
sion. Such an occasion was afforded by his meeting 
with one of the daughters of the Philistines at Tim- 
nath. whom he besought his parents to procure for him 
in marriage, assigning as a reason that she “pleased 
him well” — lleb. mir*\ She is right in 

mine eyes ; not beautiful, engaging, attractive, but right 
relative to an end, purpose, or object (see Gonsset, Lexi- 
con, s. v. Tu 1 , and comp. 2 Sam. xvii, 4; 1 Kings ix, 
12; 2 Chron. xii, 30; Numb, xxviii, 27). Thai he en- 
tertained a genuine affection for the woman, notwith- 
standing the policy by which he was prompted, we 
may, doubtless, admit; but that he intended, at the 
same time, to make this alliance subservient to the 
great purpose of delivering his country from oppres- 
sion, and that in this he was acting under the secret 
control of Providence, would seem to he clear from the 
words immediately following, when, in reference to the 
objection of his parents to such a union, it is said that 


SAMSON 


313 


SAMSON 


they “knew not that it was of the Lord that he sought 
an occasion against the Philistines.” It is here worthy 
of note that the Hebrew, instead of “against the Philis- 
tines,” has 11 of or from the Philistines,” apparently im- 
plying that the occasion sought should be one that orig- 
inated on the side of the Philistines. This occasion 
he sought under the immediate prompting of the Most 
High, who saw fit, in this indirect manner, to bring 
about the accomplishment of his designs of retribution 
on his enemies. His leading purpose in this seems to 
have been to baffle the power of the whole Philistine na- 
tion by the prowess of a single individual. The cham- 
pion of Israel, therefore, was not appointed so much to 
be the leader of an army, like the other judges, as to be 
an army in himself. In order, then, that the contest 
might be carried on in this way, it was necessary that 
the entire opposition of the Philistines should be concen- 
trated, as far as possible, against the person of Samson. 
This would array the contending parties in precisely 
such an attitude as to illustrate most signally the pow- 
er of God in the overthrow of his enemies. But how 
could this result be brought about except by means of 
some private quarrel between Samson and the enemy 
with whom he was to contend? And who shall say 
that the scheme now projected was not the very best 
that could have been devised for accomplishing the end 
which God had in view? To what extent Samson 
himself foresaw the issue of this transaction, or how 
far he had a plan distinctly laid, corresponding with the 
results that ensued, it is difficult to say. The probabil- 
ity, we think, is that he had rather a general strong im- 
pression, wrought by the Spirit of God, than a dejinite 
conception of the train of events that were to transpire. 
It was, however, a conviction as to the issue sufficiently 
powerful to warrant both him and his parents in going 
forward with the measure. They were in some way 
assured that they were engaged in a proceeding which 
God would overrule to the furtherance of his designs of 
mercy to his people and of judgment to their oppress- 
ors. From this point commences that career of achieve- 
ments and prodigies on the part of this Israelitish Her- 
cules which, passing gradually from the wonderful to 
the miraculous, rendered him the terror of his enemies 
and the wonder of all ages. 

(1.) On his first visit to his* future bride, he slew a 
lion without weapons; and on his second visit, to es- 
pouse her, he found the skeleton, denuded of the flesh 
by the birds and jackals, occupied by a swarm of bees 
(Judg. xiv, 1-8). The strange incident of a Nazarite 
eating honey out of the carcass of a dead lion has been 
examined by Tbeodoret (Quest, in Jud. 22). We must 
not attribute too scrupulous views to the times of the 
Judges. It is worthy of remark, however, that Jose- 
phus (Art?, v, 8, 6) says nothing of the eating of this 
honey by Samson and his parents. 

(2.) At his wedding-feast, the attendance of a large 
company of parauyinphs, or friends of the bridegroom, 
convened ostensibly for the purpose of honoring bis 
nuptials, but in reality to keep an insidious watch upon 
bis movements, furnished the occasion of a common 
Oriental device for enlivening entertainments of this 
nature. He propounded a riddle, the solution of which 
referred to his obtaining a quantity of honey from the 
carcass of a slain lion; and the clandestine manner in 
which his guests got possession of the clue to the enig- 
ma cost thirty Philistines their lives (Judg. xiv, 10-20). 

(3.) The next instance of his vindictive cunning was 
prompted by the ill-treatment which he had received 
at the hands of his father-in-law, who, upon a frivolous 
pretext, had given away his daughter in marriage to 
another man, and was executed by securing a multitude 
of foxes, or rather jackals (C'PZTViJ, shualim), and, by 
tying firebrands to their tails, setting fire to the corn- 
fields of his enemies. (See the Latin monographs on 
this subject bv Ililliger [Viteb. 1674], Gasser [Halle, 
1751], and Vriemoet [Franc. 1738].) The indignation 


of the riiilistines, on discovering the author of the out- 
rage, vented itself upon the family of his father-in-law, 
who had been the remote occasion of it, in the burning 
of their house, in which both father and daughter per- 
ished. This was a fresh provocation, for which Samson 
threatened to be revenged; and, thereupon falling upon 
them without ceremony, he smote them, as it is said, 
“ hip and thigh, with a great slaughter” (Judg. xv, 1- 
8). The original, strictly rendered, runs, “he smote 
them leg upon thigh” — apparently a proverbial ex- 
pression, and implying, according to Gcsenius, that he 
cut them to pieces so that their limbs — their legs and 
thighs — were scattered and heaped promiscuously to- 
gether; equivalent to saying that he smote and de- 
stroyed them wholly , entirely. Mr. Taylor, in his edi- 
tion of Cahnet, recognises in these words an allusion to 
some kind of wrestling combat, in which, perhaps, the 
slaughter on this occasion may have commenced. 

(4.) Having subsequently taken up his residence in 
the rock Etam, he was thence dislodged by consenting 
to a pusillanimous arrangement on the part of his own 
countrymen, by which he agreed to surrender himself 
in bonds, provided they would not themselves fall upon 
him and kill him. lie probably gave in to this meas- 
ure from a strong inward assurance that the issue of it 
would be to afford him a new occasion of taking ven- 
geance upon his foes. Being brought, in this apparent- 
ly helpless condition, to a place called, from the event, 
Lehi, a jaw, his preternatural potency suddenly put it- 
self forth ; and, snapping the cords asunder, and snatch- 
ing up the jawbone of an ass, be dealt so effectually 
about him that a thousand men were slain on the spot. 
That this was altogether the work, not of man, but of 
God, was soon demonstrated. Wearied with bis exer- 
tions, the illustrious Danite became faint from thirst; 
and, as there was no water in the place, he prayed that 
a fountain might be opened. Ilis prayer was heard: 
God caused a stream to gush from a hollow rock hard 
by; and Samson, in gratitude, gave it the name of En- 
hakker, a word that signifies “the well of him that 
prayed,” and which continued to be the designation of 
the fountain ever after. The place received its name 
from the circumstance of his having then so effectually 
wielded the jawbone pnb, Lehi) (Judg. xv, 15 sq.; see 
Bauer, /Jeb. Myth, ii, 65 ; A usjuhrl. Erkldr. des W. ii, 57 ; 
comp. Judg. iii, 31 ; 2 Sam. xxiii, 8, 18). The spring- 
ing-up of a fountain in the jawbone (ver. 19) has given 
great trouble to the interpreters; and some would re- 
move the passage from the text, or give it a very dif- 
ferent meaning. The most common is to render lechi, 
^nb , not jawbone, but Lehi, the name of a place in which 
the fountain sprang up; and maktesh, 'CHD'C, not the 
socket of the tooth , but the rift of the rock from which 
the water came. So the Targum, and Josephus (Ant. 
v, 8, 9 ; comp. Clericus in loc. ; Ortlob, De Funte Simsonis 
prope Maxillam [Lcips. 1703] ; Devliug, Observat. Sacr. 
i, 113 sq. ; Busing, in the hiblioth. Ilayana, ii, 505 sq. ; 
Herder, Geist der <br . Poesie, ii, 235, 255; Bosenmiiller, 
Schol. in loc.). It would seem that Lehi refers back to 
ver. 15, and the rendering of maktesh is assumed. It 
would be easier, with Studer, to take Lehi for the name 
of a wall of rock, an opening in which was called mak- 
tesh, tooth-cavity. Vet it seems to be doubtful whether 
maktesh alone could have this meaning. (See in gen- 
eral Gesenius, Thesaur. i i, 7 52.) Heine ( Dissertut . Sacr. 
p. 241 sq.) opposes another exegetical attempt on this 
passage, and clings to the entire miracle. Comp. Bo- 
chart, llieroz. i, 171 sq.). See Lehi. 

(5.) The Philistines were from this time held in such 
contempt by their victor that he went openly into the 
city of Gaza, where he seems to have suffered himself 
weakly to be drawn into the company of a woman of 
loose character, the yielding to whose enticements ex- 
posed him to the most imminent peril (Judg. xvi, 1-3). 
His presence being soon noised abroad, an attempt was 
made during the night forcibly to detain him by clos- 


SAMSON* 


314 


SAMSON 


ing the gates of. the city, and making them fast; but 
Samson, apprised of it, rose at midnight, and, breaking 
away bolts, bars, and hinges, departed, carrying the gates 
upon his shoulders to the top of a neighboring hill that 
looks towards lhbron (frzn “'SS b* ; Sept, ini rrpo- 
atbnov rov \fj3pwv, facing Hebron ). The common ren- 
dering, “before Hebron,” is less appropriate, as the dis- 
tance between the two cities is at least twenty miles. 
The hill lay, doubtless, somewhere between the cities, 
and in full view of both. Sec Gaza. 

(fi.) After this his enemies strove to entrap him by 
guile rather than by violence, and they were too suc- 
cessful in the end. Falling in love with a woman of 
Sorek, named Delilah, he became so infatuated by his 
passion that nothing but his bodily strength could equal 
liis mental weakness. (But see Oeder, l)e Simsone Cas- 
io [Onold. 171S].) The princes of the Philistines, aware 
of Samson’s infirmity, determined by means of it to get 
possession, if possible, of his person. For this purpose 
they propose a tempting bribe to Delilah, and she en- 
ters at once into the treacherous compact. She em- 
ploys all her art and blandishments to worm from him 
the secret of his prodigious strength. Having for some 
time amused her with fictions, he at last, in a moment 
of weakness, disclosed to her the fact that it lay in his 
hair, which, if it were shaved, would leave him a mere 
common man. Not that his strength really lay in his 
hair; for this, in fact, had no natural influence upon it 
one way or the other. His strength arose from his re- 
lation to God as a Nazarite ; and the preservation of his 
hair unshorn was the mark, or sign, of his Nazariteship, 
and a pledge, on the part of God, of the continuance of 
his miraculous physical powers. If he lost this sign, 
the badge of his consecration, he broke his vow. and 
consequently forfeited the thing signified. God aban- 
doned him; and he was thenceforward no more, in this 
respect, than an ordinary man. His treacherous para- 
mour seized the first opportunity of putting his decla- 
ration to the test. She shaved his head while he lay 
sleeping in her lap; and, at a concerted signal, he was 
instantly arrested by his enemies lying in wait. Be- 
reft of his grand endowment, and forsaken of God, the 
champion of Israel could now well adopt the words of 
Solomon: “I find more bitter than death the woman 
whose heart is snares and nets, and her hands are bands; 
whoso pleaseth God shall escape from her; but the sin- 
ner shall be taken by her.” Having so long presumpt- 
uously played with his ruin, Heaven leaves him to him- 
self, as a punishment for his former guilty indulgence, 
lie is made to reap as he had sown, and is consigned to 
the hands of his relentless foes. His punishment was 
indeed severe, though he amply revenged it, as well as 
redeemed, in a measure, his own honor, by the manner 
in which he met his death. The Philistines, having 
deprived him of sight, at first immured him in a prison, 
and made him grind at the mill like a slave (.Judg. xvi, 
4-21). As this was an employment which, in the East, 
usually devolves on women, to assign it to such a man 
as Samson was virtually to reduce him to the lowest 
state of degradation and shame. To grind corn for 
others was, even for a woman, a proverbial term ex- 
pressive of the most menial and oppressed condition. 
How much more for the hero of Israel, who seems to 
have been made grinder-general for the prison-house! 
(See Lehmann, he Simsone Molitore (Viteb. 1711].) 

(7.) In process of time, while remaining in this con- 
finement, his hair recovered its growth, and with it such 
a profound repentance seems to have wrought in his 
heart as virtually reinvested him with the character 
and the powers he had so culpably lost. Of this fact 
his enemies were not aware. Still exulting in their 
possesion of the great scourge of their nation, they 
kept him, like a wild beast, for mockery and insult. 
On one of these occasions, when an immense multitude, : 
including the princes and nobility of the Philistines, | 
were convened in a large amphitheatre to celebrate aj 


feast in honor of their god Dagon, who had delivered 
their adversary into their hands, Samson was ordered 
to be brought out to be made a laughing-stock to his 
enemies, a butt for their scoffs, insults, mockeries, and 
merriment. Secretly determined to use his recovered 
strength to tremendous effect, he persuaded the boy 
who guided his steps to conduct him to a spot where 
he could reach the two pillars upon which the roof of 
the building rested (see Thomson, Land and Book , ii, 
343). Here, after pausing for a short time while he 
prefers a brief prayer to Heaven, he grasps the massy 
pillars, and, bowing with resistless force, the whole build- 
ing rocks and totters, and the roof, encumbered with 
the weight of the spectators, rushes down, and the whole 
assembly, including Samson himself, are crushed to 
pieces in the ruin (Judg. xvi, 22 sq.). 

Thus terminated the career of one of the most re- 
markable personages of all history, whether sacred or 
profane. The enrolment of his name by an apostolic 
pen (Heb. xi, 32) in the list of the ancient worthies, 
“who had by faith obtained an excellent repute,” war- 
rants us, undoubtedly, in a favorable estimate of his 
character on the whole, while at the same time the 
fidelity of the inspired narrative has perpetuated the 
record of infirmities which must forever mar the lustre 
of his noble deeds. It is not improbable that the lapses 
with which he was chargeable arose, in a measure, from 
the very peculiarities of that physical temperament to 
which his prodigies of strength were owing; but while 
this consideration may palliate, it cannot excuse the 
moral delinquencies into which he was betrayed, and 
of which a just Providence exacted so tremendous a 
penalty in the circumstances of his degradation and 
death. (See Weissenborn, L)e Norte Simsonis [Jena, 
1705]; INlaichel, Simson ab Crimine Vindicate [Tubing. 
1739].) 

His relatives, we are told (Judg. xvi, 31), went and 
recovered his body, and interred it in the burying-place 
of his father IManoah. The consternation produced at 
Gaza by the catastrophe connected with his death, we 
can easily conceive, would render this easier of accom- 
plishment. See Philistine. 

2. Representative Relations. — Some of these have been 
in part touched upon in the foregoing narrative, but 
Samson was so striking a character that they need to 
be more specifically dwelt upon. 

(1.) As a judge his authority seems to have been 
limited to the district bordering upon the country of 
the Philistines, and his action as a deliverer does not 
seem to have extended beyond desultory attacks upon 
the dominant Philistines, by which their hold upon Is- 
rael was weakened, and the way prepared for the future 
emancipation of the Israelites from their yoke. It is 
evident from Judg. xiii, 1, 5; xv, 9-11, 20, and the 
whole history, that the Israelites, or at least Judah and 
Dan, which are the only tribes mentioned, were sub- 
ject to the Philistines through the whole of Samson’s 
judgeship; so that, of course, Samson’s twenty years of 
office would be included in the entire period of the 
Philistine dominion, which Usher and some others have 
hastily concluded was limited to the forty years of Eli’s 
administration. From the angel’s speech to Samson’s 
mother (Judg. xiii, 5) it appears further that the Isra- 
elites were already subject to the Philistines at his 
birth; and. as Samson cannot have begun to be judge 
before he was twenty years of age, it has erroneously 
been supposed that his judgeship must about have co- 
incided with the last twenty years of Philistine domin- 
ion. But when we turn to the first book of Samuel, 
and especially to vii, 1-14, we find that the Philistine 
dominion continued till the judgeship of Samuel. Hence 
it appears that Samson and Samuel were separated by 
the whole interval of Eli’s judgeship and of Samuel’s 
minority. See Cuuonolohy. There are, however, sev- 
; eral points in the respective narratives of the limes of 
' Samson and Samuel which indicate great similarity of 
j circumstances. First, there is the general prominence 


315 


SAMSON 


SAMSON 

of the Philistines in their relation to Israel. Secondly, 
there is the remarkable coincidence of both Samson anil 
Samuel being Nazarites (Judg. xiii, 5; xvi, 17; comp. 
1 Sam. i, 11). It looks as if the great exploits of the 
young Danite Nazarite had suggested to Hannah the 
consecration of her sou in like manner, or, at all events, 
as if for some reason the Nazaritish vow was at that 
time prevalent. No other mention of Nazarites occurs 
in the Scripture history till Amos ii, 11, 12; and even 
there the allusion seems to be to Samuel and Samson. 
Thirdly, there is a similar notice of the house of Dagon 
in Judg. xvi, 23 and l Sam. v, 2. Fourthly, the lords 
of the Philistines are mentioned in a similar way in 
Judg. xvi, 8, 18, 27, and in l Sam. vii, 7. The effect of 
Samson’s prowess must have been more of a preparato- 
ry kind, by arousing the cowed spirit of his people, and 
shaking the insolent security of the Philistines, than 
in the way of decisive victory or deliverance. There 
is no allusion whatever to other parts of Israel during 
Samson’s judgeship, except the single fact of the men 
of the border tribe of Judah, three thousand in number, 
fetching him from the rock Etam to deliver him up to 
the Philistines (Judg. xv, 9-13). The whole narrative 
is entirely local, and, like the following story concern- 
ing Micah (Judg. xvii, xviii) seems to be taken from 
the annals of the tribe of Dan, Still it does not follow 
that there were contemporary judges in other parts of 
the land. See Judge. 

(2.) As a Nazarite , Samson exhibits the law in 
Numb, vi in full practice. The eminence of such Naz- 
arites as Samson and Samuel would tend to give that 
dignity to the profession which is alluded to in Lam. 
iv, 7, 8. See Nazakite. 

(3.) A s an inspired person , Samson is one of those 
who are distinctly spoken of in Scripture as endowed 
with supernatural power by the Spirit of the Lord. 
Those specimens of extraordinary- prowess, of which 
even the slaying of the lion at Timnath without weap- 
ons was one, were doubtless the result of that special 
influence of the Most High which is referred to in Judg. 
xiii, 25 — “And the Spirit of the Lord began to move 
him at times in the camp of Dan, between Zorah and 
Eshtaol.” The import of the original word (DTSb) for 
moved is peculiar. As 02?B, the radical form, signifies 
an anvil, the metaphor is probably drawn from the re- 
peated and somewhat violent strokes of a workman with 
his hammer. It implies, therefore, a peculiar urgency , 
an impelling influence, which he could not well resist in 
himself, nor others in him. Ilut we do not know that 
this attribute, in its utmost degree, constantly dwelt in 
him. So, in later exploits, it is said, “ The Spirit of the 
Lord came mightily upon him, and the cords that were 
upon his arms became as flax burned with fire;” “The 
Spirit of the Lord came upon him, and he went down 
to Ashkelon, and slew thirty men of them.” Hut, on 
the other hand, after his locks were cut, and his strength 
was gone from him, it is said “lie wist not that the 
Lord was departed from him” (Judg. xiii, 25; xiv, 0, 
19; xv, 14; xvi, 20). The phrase “the Spirit of the 
Lord came upon him” is common to him with Othniel 
and Gideon (Judg. iii, 10; vi, 34) ; but the connection 
of supernatural power with the integrity of the Naza- 
ritish vow, and the particular gift of great strength of 
body, as seen in tearing in pieces a lion, breaking his 
bonds asunder, carrying the gates of the city upon his 
back, and throwing down the pillars which supported 
the house of Dagon, are quite peculiar to Samson. In- 
deed, his whole character and history have no exact 
parallel in Scripture. It is easy, however, to see how 
forcibly the Israelites would be taught by such an ex- 
ample that their national strength lay in their complete 
separation from idolatry and consecration to the true 
God; and that he could give them power to subdue 
their mightiest enemies, if only they were true to his 
service (comp. 1 Sam. ii, 10). (See the Eclectic Review, 
Nov. 1861.) 


(4.) .45 to Mythologictd Coincidences . — The narrative 
of Samson’s deeds has often been compared with the 
mythical story of the Greek Hercules. (See especially 
Vogel, in the Hall. Encyclop. ii, § vi, 8 sq.; Riskoff, Die 
Simsonsage u. d. Ilerakles-Myth us [ Leips. 1 86 1 ].) Th us, 
his combat with the lion is compared with the conquest 
of the Nemean lion (Diod. Sic. iv, 11; Apollod. ii, 5, 1), 
and another fearful lion on Mt. Cithreron (Apollod. ii, 4, 
9); his capture of the jackals with the capture of the 
stag of Diana (Diod. Sic. iv, 13; Apollod. ii, 5, 3), and 
of the Cretan bull (Apollod. ii, 5,7; Diod. Sic. iv, 13); 
his slaughter of his paranymphs’ friends with the over- 
throw of the king of the Min vie, Erginus,and his host, 
by Hercules, in a narrow pass (Apollod. ii, 4, 11 ; men- 
tioned, too, by Herod, ii, 45) ; his carrying-off the gates 
of Gaza with the carrving-away of the Cretan bull (Diod. 
Sic. iv, 13) ; but, above all, the destruction of Samson by 
his beloved Delilah has been compared with the over- 
coming of Hercules through Omphale (Diod. Sic. iv, 31 ; 
Apollod. ii, 6, 3: comp. Senec. Ilippol. p. 318 sip) ; in 
fine, Samson’s wonderful birth (Judg. xiii) with that of 
Hercules (see Hauer, ilebr. Myth, ii, 86 sq.). Those, 
however, have far less ground who identify Samson 
with the Phoenician Hercules, the sun-god. Hasing the 
view on the etymology of the name (see Vatke, Bill. 
Theol. i, 368 sq.), they labor, viewing the whole story 
of Samson as a myth, to explain the details by the 
course and operation of the sun (Horkhausen, in the 
Coburg. Annal. d. Theol. 1833, iii, 2, 3; iv, 1 ; comp. Je- 
rome, Ep. ad Philem. vii, 752). There are many other 
striking parallels in the Greek my thologv— e. g. in the 
Croton Milo and other strong men (Pliny, vii, 19); in the 
deeds of Theseus, especially the destruction of the wild 
; boar at Crommyon (Diod. Sic. iv, 59), and the carrving- 
away of a living bull to Athens (Hauer, l. c. p. 91 sq.); of 
king Nisus in Megara, who lost his kingdom at the 
1 same time with bis hair (Ovid, Met. viii, 8 sq., 84 sq.; 
i Virgil, Cir. 120 sq. ; Hygar. Fab. 198); of the fountain 
-Aganippe, which sprang from the footstep of Pegasus, 
etc. Hut there is no reason for rejecting the histori- 
cal existence of Samson ; and his character and deeds 
' accord well with the state of the Israelites in the 
time of the Judges. Yet the opinion is widely held 
that the traditions out of which the book of Judges is 
compiled have exaggerated his exploits (Hauer, Ilebr. 
Myth, ii, 69 sq.; Ilebr. Gesch. ii, 88 sq.). Hence some 
have undertaken to explain the account from natural 
causes and commonplace events most fruitlessly (Ha- 
renberg, in the Brew. it. Yerd. Biblioth. ii, 302 sq. ; Bern, 
in Sender’s Hall. Samml. i, iv, 1 sq.; Bezel, Schrift- 
forsch. i, 653 sq. ; Justi, in Eichhorn’s Repert. vii, 78 sq. ; 
also in his Verm. Abhandl. i, 146 sq. ; Diederich, Znr 
Gesch. Sims. [Gott. 1778]; Herder, Geist. d. ebr. Poes. 
ii, 235 sq., 252 sq.). Yet more trifling is the hypothe- 
sis of Kaiser ( Commentin' . in Priora Genes. Cap. p. 188 
sq.) that Samson was striving to mimic and mock the 
Philistine Hercules. Once more: “Hercules once went 
to Egypt, and there the inhabitants took him, and, put- 
ting a chaplet on his head, led him out in solemn pro- 
cession, intending to otter him in sacritice to Jupiter. 
For a while he submitted quietly; but when they led 
him up to the altar and began the ceremonies, he-put 
forth his strength and slew them all” (Kawlinson, lie- 
rod. ii, 45). 

The passage from Lycophron, with the scholion, 
quoted by Bochart ( llieroz . pars ii, lib. v, cap. xii), where 
Hercules is said to have been three nights in the belly 
of the sea-monster, and to have come out with the loss 
of till his hair , is also curious, and seems to be a com- 
pound of the stories of Samson and Jonah. To this 
may be added the connection between Samson , consid- 
ered as derived from Shemesh, - the sun,” and the des- 
ignation ofMoui, the Egyptian Hercules, as “ Son of the 
Sun,” worshipped also under the name Sent, which Sir 
G. Wilkinson compares with Samson. The Tyrian Her- 
cules (whose temple at Tyre is described by Herod, ii, 
44), he also tells us, “was originally the sun, and the 


SAMSOX 


316 


SAMUEL 


same as Baal” (Bawliuson, Herod, ii, 44, note 7). The 
connection between the Phoenician Baal (called Baal 
Sheraen, Baal Shemesh, and Baal Ilamman) and •Her- 
cules is well known. Gesenius (Thesaur. s. v. tells 
us that in certain Phoenician inscriptions, which arc ac- 
companied by a Greek translation, Baal is rendered 
Ilerakles, and that "the Tyrian Hercules” is the con- 
stant Greek designation of the Baal of Tyre. He also 
gives many Carthaginian inscriptions to Baal Ilamman, 
which he renders Baal Solaris; and also a sculpture in 
which Baal Hannnan’s head is surrounded with rays, 
and which has an image of the sun on the upper part 
of the monument (Mott. Phceit. i, 171 ; ii, tab. 21). An- 
other evidence of the identity of the Phoenician Baal 
and Hercules may be found in Bauli , near Baia*, a place 
sacred to Hercules (“locus Ilerculis,” Serv.), but evi- 
dently so called from Baal. Thirlwall {Hist, of Greece) 
ascribes to the numerous temples built by the Phoeni- 
cians in honor of Baal in their different settlements the 
Greek fables of the labors and journeys of Hercules. 
Bochart thinks the custom described by Ovid (Fast. 
liv) of tying a lighted torch between two foxes in the 
circus, in memory of the damage once done to the har- 
vest by a fox with burning hay and straw tied to it, 
was derived from the Plxeuicians, and is clearly to be 
traced to the history of Samson (Ilieroz. pars i, lib. iii, 
cap. xiii). From all this, however, arises little prob- 
ability that the Greek and Latin conception of Hercu- 
les in regard to his strength was derived from Phoeni- 
cian stories and reminiscences of the great Hebrew hero 
Samson. Some learned men connect the name Jlercu- 
Es with Samson etymologically (see Wilkinson’s note 
in Bawlinson’s Herod, ii, 43: Patrick, On Judg.xvi, 30; 
Cornel, a Lapide, etc.); but none of these etymologies 
are very convincing. Nevertheless, the following de- 
scription of Hercules, given by C. O. Midler (Dorians, 
bk. ii. ch. xii), might almost have been written for Sam- 
son: “The highest degree of human suffering and cour- 
age is attributed to Hercules: his character is as noble 
as could be conceived in those rude and early times; but 
he is bv no means represented as free from the blem- 
ishes of human nature; on the contrary, he is frequent- 
ly subject to wild, ungovernable passions, when the no- 
ble indignation and anger of the suffering hero degener- 
ate into frenzy. Every crime, however, is atoned for 
by some new suffering; but nothing breaks his invinci- 
ble courage until, puritied from earthly corruption, he 
ascends Mount Olympus.” Again: “Hercules was a 
jovial guest, and not backward in enjoying himself. . . . 
It was Hercules, above all other heroes, whom mythol- 
ogy placed in ludicrous situations, and sometimes made 
tiie butt of the buffoonery of others. The Cercopes are 
represented as alternately amusing and annoying the 
hero. In works of art they are often represented as 
satyrs who rob the hero of his quiver, bow, and club. 
Hercules, annoyed at their insults, binds two of them to 
a pole, and marches off with his prize. ... It also seems 
that mirth ami buffoonery were often combined with 
the festivals of Hercules: thus at Athens there was a 
society of sixty men. who, on the festival of the Dio- 
mean Hercules, attacked and amused themselves and 
others with sallies of wit.” The commentary of Adam 
t'larke presents us with the results of Do Lavour, an 
ingenious French writer, on this subject, from which it 
will be seen that the coincidences are extremely strik- 
ing, and such as would, perhaps, afford to most minds, 
an additional proof of how much the ancient mytholo- 
gies were a distorted reflection of the Scripture narra- 
tive. Phreuician traders, it is imagined, might easily 
have carried stories concerning the. Hebrew hero to the 
different countries where they traded, especially Greece 
and Italy; and such stories would have been moulded 
according to the taste or imagination of those who 
heard them. 

Whatever is thought, however, of such coincidences, 
it is certain that the history of Samson is a historical, 


and not an allegorical, narrative. It has also a distinct- 
ly supernatural element which cannot be explained away. 
The history, as we now have it, must have been written 
several centuries after Samson’s death (Judg. xv, 19, 20; 
xviii, 1,30; xix, 1), though probably taken from the 
annals of the tribe of Dan. Josephus has given it pret- 
ty fully, but with alterations ami embellishments of his 
own, after his manner. The older writers on Samson 
contribute nothing to the interpretation of the history 
(e. g. Marck, in his Dissert. Philol. Ex e get. p. 173 sq.). 
The effort, to rid the story of its miraculous air appears 
already in Stackhouse (Bill. Hist, iii, 776 sq.). The 
Wolfenbiittel Fragments (according to the specimens in 
Bayle and others) would simply degrade Samson; and 
Niemeyer (('harak. iii, 524 sq.) accomplishes nothing 
beyond showing that tins wilful and rough hero of the 
olden time, judged by the moral law, is unworthy of 
comparison with Christ (see Hauke, Be Simsone Typo 
C hr inti [Alt. 1740]). Samson was earnest and patriotic; 
to him his Nazaritish consecration was not a mere relig- 
ious veil, but a living impulse, and no one can properly 
deny him the dignity of a shophet , or judge (Bertheau, 
Buck der Richter , p. 14, Einleit.), unless he understands 
the word in a narrow and too modern sense. The moral 
significance of Samson's life has been first set forth by 
Ewald (Gesch. Jsr. ii, 401 sq.), but he seems to have 
idealized his hero too much (comp, the excellent re- 
marks of Bertheau, op. cit. p. 168 sq.). The only men- 
tion of Samson in the New Test, confirms his historical 
character, being that in Heb. xi, 32, where he is coupled 
with Gideon, Barak, and Jephthah, -and spoken of as 
one of those who “through faith waxed valiant in fight, 
and turned to flight the armies of the aliens.” 

For other monographs on Samson, see Darling, Cyclo- 
peedia Bibliograph ica, col. 285. 

Samson. Bkrmiakiux, a Franciscan monk, who 
plied the traffic in indulgences in Switzerland at the 
time ofTetzel’s exploits in Saxony, was a native of Mil- 
an, but the dates of his birth and death are not known. 
He is described by his contemporaries as an eloquent, in- 
solent monk. He was employed in the indulgence traf- 
fic by cardinal Forli, to whom Leo X had farmed out 
tiie territory of Switzerland. lie entered Switzerland 
in August, 1518, and passed from canton to canton with 
great success, assuming great state, and giving great 
offence to the local clergy. Meantime Zwingli was 
called as priest to Zurich. He had already raised his 
voice against the traffic, but now he was summoned by 
bishop Hugo to make a direct attack upon Samson. 
Others also were likewise summoned. As Samson had 
not duly presented his credentials to the bishop, the lat- 
ter ordered his whole diocese to exclude him from their 
churches. Samson retired into Baden, and met with 
great, success. In his zeal in urging the indulgences 
upon the people, he represented the souls thereby res- 
cued from purgatory as flying to heaven by swarms: 
“Ecce volant! Ecce volant!” In Feb., 1519, he went 
to Bremgartcn, but Henry Ballinger, the priest of the 
place, refused to admit him into his church. There- 
upon Samson pronounced the ban against him, and 
threatened to complain against him to the govern- 
ment at Zurich. On reaching Zurich, however, he was 
peremptorily ordered to absolve Bollinger, and to quit 
the country. In answer to a complaint of the Swiss 
authorities, pope Leo X announced (April 30, 1519) that 
he had already recalled Samson, and that in case their 
complaints were found corroborated, he should punish 
him. After Samson’s retiring to Italy, all trace of him 
is lost. See the authorities cited in Herzog, Real-En- 
cyklop. xiii, 392-394. (J. P. L.) 

Sam'uel (Heb. -d [on the significa- 

tion. see below] ; Sept, and New Test. 2apovi j\), the last 
of those extraordinary regents that presided over the 
Hebrew commonwealth under the title of judges (q.v.), 
and the first of the line of the prophets (q. v.) specifically 
so called (Acts xiii, 20). (In the following account we 


SAMUEL 


317 


SAMUEL 


freely use the articles in the dictionaries of Kitto and ' 
Smith.) See Shemuel. 

I. Xante. — Of this different derivations have been ' 
given: (l) bx D'j, “name of God ;” so apparently 
Origen (Euseb. ii. E. vi, ‘25), i. q. 0to K-Xijrof. (2) 

bx, “placed by God.” (3) bx bwi\ “asked of God” 
(1 Sam. i, 20). Josephus (who gives this interpreta- 
tion, Sa^om/Xoc, *1 nf . v > x > 3) ingeniously makes it cor- 
respond to the well-known Greek name Gtatjv/roi;. (4) 
bx -'J, “ heard of God.” This, which is the most 
obvious, may have the same meaning as the previous 
derivation, which is supported by the sacred text (l 
Sam. i, 20). 

II. History. — 1. Private Life . — The circumstances of 
his birth were ominous of his future career. lie was 
the son of Elkanah, an Ephrathite or Ephraimite, and 
Hannah or Anna. His father is one of the few private 
citizens in whose household we find polygamy. It may 
possibly have arisen from the irregularity of the period, 
but more probably from the sterility of his wile Hannah, 
whom, as she is always named first, and is known to 
have been the favorite, he probably married first. The 
usual effect of polygamy was felt in Elkanah’s house- 
hold. The sterility of Hannah brought upon her the 
taunts and ridicule of her conjugal rival, who “ provoked 
her sore, to make her fret, because the Lord had shut up 
her womb” (l Sam. i, G). The jealousy of Peninnah 
was excited also by the superior affection which was 
shown to Hannah by her husband. “To Hannah he 
gave a worthy portion; for he loved Hannah” (ver. 5). 
More especially at the period of the sacred festivals did 
the childless solitude of Hannah create within her the 
most poignant regrets, when she saw her husband give 
portions to all the sons and daughters of Peninnah, who, 
exulting in maternal pride and fondness, took advantage 
of these seasons to subject the favorite wife to a natural 
feminine retaliation. Hannah’s life was embittered, 
“she wept and did not eat” (ver. 7). See Hannah. 

The descent of Samuel’s father, Elkanah, is involved 
in great obscurity. In 1 Sam. i, 1 he is described as an 
Ephraimite. In 1 Chron. vi, 22, 23 he is made a de- 
scendant of Korah the Levite (see the table below). 
Hengstenberg (on Psa. lxxviii, I) and Ewald (ii, 433) 
explain this by supposing that the Levites were occa- 
Lineagr of Samfht.. 


Names. 

I 

I 

1 Chron. vi. j 

1 Chron. vi. 

Born B.C. 

Levi 

Hi 

1 

38 

1917 

Kohath 

1G 

1 

38 

? 1865 

Izhar 

18 

2, 18 

3S 

? 1820 

or Amminadab 


22 



Korah 

21 

22 

37 

? 17S0 

Assir I. 

24 

22 


? 1740 

Elkanah I 


23 


? 1700 

Ebiasaph 


23 

37 

? 1660 

Assir II 


23 

37 

? 1620 

Tahath 


24 

37 

? 15S5 

Uriel 


24 


? 1550 

or Zephaniah 



36 


Uzziah 


24 


? 1515 

or Azariah. ... 



36 


Shanl 


24 


? 1470 

or Joel I 



36 


Elkanah II 


25 

86 

? 1445 

Amasai 


25 

35 

? 1410 

Mnhath 



35 

? 1375 

or Ahimoth ? 


25 



Elkanah III 


26 

35 

? 1340 

Znph. . 



35 

? 1310 

or Zophai 


26 



Naha th 


26 


? 12S0 

or Toah 



34 


Eliab 


27 


? 1250 

or Eliel 



34 


Jeroham 


27 

34 

? 1220 

Elkanah IV 


27 

34 

? 1190 

Samuel 


28 


? 1142 

or Shemuel 



33 


Joel II 



33 

? 1115 

or Vashni 


28 



He man 



33 

? 1090 


sionallv incorporated into the tribes among whom they 
dwelt. The question, however, is of no practical im- 
portance, because, even if Samuel were a Levite, he cer- 
tainly was not a regular priest by descent. In virtue of 
his semi-sacerdotal lineage as a Levite, and especially 
by the authority of his office as a prophet, he hesitated 
not to perform priestly functions, like Elijah and others. 
The opinion was, nevertheless, in former times very cur- 
rent that Samuel was a priest — nay, some imagine that 
he succeeded Eli in the pontificate. Many of the fathers 
inclined to this notion, but Jerome affirms (Adeem. 
Jocin.), “Samuel prophota fnit, Judex fuit, Levita fair, 
non pontifex, ne sacerdos quidem” (( >rtlob, “ Samuel Ju- 
dex et Propheta, non Pont, ant Sacerd. Sacrificans,” in 
the Thesaurus Novus Tkeol. Philol. Ilasaei et Ikenii, i, 
587 ; Selden, De Success, ad Pontiff, lib. i, c. 4). The 
American translator of De Wette's Introduction to the 
Old Testament (ii, 21) says he was a priest, though not 
of Levitical descent, slighting the information of Chroni- 
cles, and pronouncing Samuel at the same time to be 
only a mythical character. 

Samuel’s birthplace is one of the vexed questions of 
sacred geography, as his descent is of sacred genealogy. 
See llAMATHAiM-zommi. All that appears with cer- 
tainty from the accounts is that it was in the hills of 
Ephraim, and (as may be inferred from its name) a 
double height, used for the purpose of beacons or out- 
lookers (1 Sam. i, 1). At the foot of the hill was a well 
(xix, 22). On the brow of its two summits was the city. 
It never lost its hold on Samuel, w ho in later life made 
it his fixed abode. 

The combined family must have been large. Penin- 
nah had several children, anil Hannah had, besides Sam- 
uel, three sons and two daughters. But of these noth- 
ing is known, unless the names of the sons are those 
enumerated in 1 Chron. vi, 26, 27. It is on the mother 
of Samuel that our chief attention is fixed in the ac- 
count of his birth. She is described as a woman of a 
high religions mission. Almost a Nazarite by practice 
(l Sam. i, 15), and a prophetess in her gifts (ii, I), she 
sought from God the gift of the child for which she 
longed with a passionate devotion of silent prayer, of 
which there is no other example in the Old Test.; and 
when the son was granted, the name which he bore, 
and thus first introduced into the world, expressed her 
sense of the urgency of her entreaty— Samuel, “the 
asked, or heard, of God.” Living in the great age of 
vows, she had before his birth dedicated him to the of- 
fice of a Nazarite. As soon as he was weaned, she her- 
self, with her husband, brought him to the tabernacle at 
Shiloh, where she had received the first intimation of 
his birth, and there solemnly consecrated him. The 
form of consecration was similar to that with which the 
irregular priesthood of Jeroboam was set apart in later 
times (2 Chron. xiii, 9) — a bullock of three years old 
(Sept.), loaves (Sept.), an ephah of flour, and a skin of 
wine (1 Sam. i, 24). First took place the usual sac- 
rifices (Sept.) by Elkanah himself; then, after the in- 
troduction of the child, the special sacrifice of the bul- 
lock. Then his mother made him over to Eli (vers. 25, 
28), and (according to the lleb. text, but not the Sept.) 
the child himself performed an act of worship. The 
hymn which followed on this consecration is the first of 
the kind in the sacred volume. It is possible that, like 
many of the psalms, it may have been enlarged in later 
times to suit great occasions of victory and the like. 
But ver. 5 specially applies to this event, and vers. 7, 8 
may well express the sense entertained by the prophet- 
ess of the coming revolution in the fortunes of her soil 
and of her country. 

From this time the child is shut up in the tabernacle. 
The priests furnished him with a sacred garment, an 
ephod, made, like their own, of white linen, though of 
inferior quality, and his mother every year, apparently 
at the only time of their meeting, gave him a little 
mantle reaching down to his feet, such as was worn only 
by high personages, or women, over the other dress, and 


SAMUEL 


318 


SAMUEL 


such as he retained, as his badge, till the latest times of | 
his life. He seems to have slept near the holy place (1 
Sam. iii, 3), and his special duty was to put out, as it 
would seem, the sacred candlestick, and to open the 
doors at sunrise. 

*2. Samuel's Call. — In this way his childhood was 
passed. It was while thus sleeping in the tabernacle 
that he received his first prophetic call. The stillness 
of the night, the sudden voice, the childlike miscon- 
ception, the venerable Eli, the contrast between the 
terrible doom and the gentle creature who has to an- 
nounce it, give to this portion of the narrative a uni- 
versal interest. It is this side of Samuel’s career that 
has been sowed caught in the well-known picture of Sir 
Joshua Reynolds. The degeneracy of the people at this 
time was extreme. The tribes seem to have adminis- 
tered their affairs as independent republics ; the national 
confederacy was weak and disunited ; and the spirit of 
public patriotic enterprise had been worn out by con- 
stant turmoil and invasion. The theocratic influence 
was also scarcely felt, its peculiar ministers being with- 
drawn, and its ordinary manifestations, except in the 
routine of the Levitical ritual, having ceased. The 
‘‘word of the Lord was precious in those days; there 
was no open vision” (1 Sam. iii, 1). The young de- 
votee, “ the child Samuel,” was selected by Jehovah to 
renew the deliverance of his oracles. According to Jo- 
sephus (Jk/. v, 10, 4), he was at this time twelve years 
old. As he reclined in his chamber adjoining the sa- 
cred edifice, the Lord, by means adapted to his juvenile 
capacity, made known to him his first and fearful com- 
munication — the doom of Eli’s apostate hous^. Other 
revelations speedily followed this. The frequency of 
God’s messages to the young prophet established his 
fame, and the exact fulfilment of them secured his 
reputation. The oracle of Shiloh became vocal again 
through the youthful hierophant (1 Sam. iii, 19-21). 
From this moment the prophetic character of Samuel 
was established. His words were treasured up, and Shi- 
loh became the resort of those who came to hear him 
(iii, 19-21). The fearful fate pronounced on the head 
and family of the pontificate was soon executed. Eli 
had indulgently tolerated, or leniently palliated, the ra- 
pacity and profligacy of his sons. Through their extor- 
tions and impiety “men abhorred the offering of the 
Lord,” and Jehovah’s wrath was kindled against the 
sacerdotal transgressors. They became the victims of 
their own folly, for when the Philistines invaded the 
land an un wort hj r superstition among the Hebrew host 
clamored for the ark to be brought into the camp and 
into the field of battle. Ilophni and Phinehas, Eli’s 
sons, indulging this vain and puerile fancy, accompa- 
nied the ark as its legal guardians, and fell in the terri- 
ble slaughter which ensued. Their father, whose sin 
seems to have been his easiness of disposition, his pas- 
sive and (piiescent temper, sat on a sacerdotal throne by 
the wayside, to gather the earliest news of the battle, 
for his “ heart trembled for the ark of God and as a 
fugitive from the scene of conflict reported to him the 
sad disaster, dwelling with natural climax on its mel- 
ancholy particulars — Israel routed and fleeing in pan- 
ic. Ilophni and Phinehas both slain, and the ark of 
God taken — this last and overpowering intelligence so 
shocked him that he fainted and fell from his seat, and 
in his fall, from the imbecile corpulence of age, “ brake j 
his neck and died” (iv, 18). In the overthrow of the 
sanctuary we hear not what became of Samuel. Ac- 
cording to the Mussulman tradition, Samuel’s birth was 
granted in answer to the prayers of the nation on the 
overthrow of the sanctuary and loss of the ark (l)’IIer- 
belot, s.v. Aschmouyl). This, though false in the letter, 
is true to the spirit of Samuel’s life. 

3. Sarnia Vs Civil Administration . — When the feeble 
administration of Eli, who had judged Israel forty 
years, was concluded by his death, Samuel was too 
young to succeed to the regency; and the actions of 
this earlier portion of his life are left unrecorded. The 


ark, which had been captured by the Philistines, soon 
vindicated its majesty, and, after being detained among 
them seven months, was sent back to Israel. It did 
not, however, reach Shiloh, in consequence of the fear- 
ful judgment upon Beth-shemesli (1 Sam. vi, 19), but 
rested in Kirjath-jearim for no fewer than twenty years 
(vii, 2). It is not till the expiration of this period that 
Samuel appears again in the history. Perhaps, during 
the twenty years succeeding Eli’s death, his authority 
was gradually gathering strength; while the office of 
supreme magistrate may have been vacant, each tribe 
being governed by its own hereditary phylarch. This 
long season of national humiliation was, to some ex- 
tent, improved. “All the house of Israel lamented af- 
ter the Lord ;” and Samuel, seizing upon the crisis, is- 
sued a public manifesto, exposing the sin of idolatry, 
urging on the people religious amendment, and prom- 
ising political deliverance on their reformation. The 
people obeyed, the oracular mandate was effect ual, and 
the principles of the theocracy again triumphed (1 Sam. 
vii, 4). The tribes were summoned by the prophet to 
assemble in Mizpeh; and at this assembly of the Hebrew 
comitia, Samuel seems to have been elected regent (vii, 
G). Some of the judges were raised to political power 
as the reward of their military courage and talents; but 
Samuel was raised to the lofty station of judge, from 
his prophetic fame, his sagacious dispensation of jus- 
tice, his real intrepidity, and his success as a restorer 
of the true religion. His government, founded not on 
feats of chivalry or actions of dazzling enterprise, which 
great emergencies only call forth, but resting on more 
solid qualities, essential to the growth and development 
of a nation’s resources in times of peace, laid the foun- 
dation of that prosperity which gradually elevated Is- 
rael to the position it. occupied in the days of David 
and his successors. This mustering of the Hebrews at 
Mizpeh on the inauguration of Samuel alarmed the 
Fhilistines, and their “lords went up against Israel.” 
Samuel offered a solemn oblation, and implored the im- 
mediate protection of Jehovah. With a symbolical 
rite, expressive, partly of deep humiliation, partly of 
the libations of a treaty, the people poured water on 
the ground; they fasted; and they entreated Samuel 
to raise the piercing cry for which he was known in 
supplication to God for them. It was at the moment 
that he was offering up a sacrifice, and sustaining this 
loud cry (compare the situation of Pausanias before the 
battle of Platjea, Herod, ix, 61), that the Philistine host 
suddenly burst upon them. He was answered by pro- 
pitious thunder, an unprecedented phenomenon in that 
climate at that season of the year (comp. 1 Sam. xii, 
18 : Josephus says [Ant. vi, 2, 2] that there was also an 
earthquake). A fearful storm burst upon the Philis- 
tines; the elements warred against them. “The High- 
est gave his voice in the heaven, hailstones and coals 
of fire.” The old enemies of Israel were signally de- 
feated, and did not recruit their strength again during 
the administration of the prophet-judge. Exactly at 
the spot where, twenty years before, they had obtained 
their great victory, a stone was set up, which long re- 
mained as a memorial of Samuel's triumph, and gave to 
the place its name of Eben-ezer, “the Stone of Help,” 
which has thence passed into Christian phraseology, 
and become a common name of Nonconformist chapels (1 
Sam. vii, 12). The old Canaanites, whom the Philistines 
had dispossessed in the outskirts of the Judjean hills, 
seem to have helped in the battle; and a large portion 
of territory was recovered (ver. 14). This was Sam- 
uel’s first, and, as far as we know, his only, military 
achievement. But, as in the case of the earlier chiefs 
who bore that, name, it was apparently this which 
confirmed him in the office of “judge” (comp, xii, 11, 
where he is thus reckoned with Jerubbaal, Bedan, and 
Jcphthali, and Ecelus. xlvi, 15-18). From an inciden- 
tal allusion (1 Sam. vii, 14), we learn, too, that about 
this time the Amorites, the Eastern foes of Israel, were 
also at peace with them — another triumph of a gov- 


SAMUEL 


SAMUEL 319 


ernment “ the weapons of whose warfare were not car- 
nal.” 

The presidency of Samuel appears to have been emi- 
nently successful. Its length is nowhere given in the 
Scriptures; but, from a statement of Josephus {Ant. vi, 
13, 5), it appears to have lasted twelve years (B.C. 1105 
-1003), up to the time of Saul’s inauguration. See 
Chronology. From the very brief sketch given us 
of his public life, we infer that the administration of 
justice occupied no little share of his time and atten- 
tion. He visited, in discharge of his duties as ruler, 
the three chief sanctuaries (Sept, iv tt dm rolg t'lytav- 
f.isvoiQ tovtoiq) on the west of the Jordan — Bethel, Gil- 
gal, and Mizpeh (I Sam. vii, 16). His own residence 
was still his native city, Hamah, or Eamathaim, which 
lie further consecrated by an altar (ver. 17), after the 
patriarchal model, like Abraham. Such a procedure 
was contrary to the letter of the Mosaic statute; but 
the prophets had power to dispense with ordinary usage 
(De Wette, Bib. Dor/mat. § 70 ; Knobel, Der Prophetism. 
der Ileb. i, 39; Ivbster, Der Prophet ism. d. A. und X. T. 
etc. p. 52). In this case, the reason of Samuel’s conduct 
may be found in the state of the religious economy. The 
ark yet remained at Kirjath-jearim, where it had been 
left in terror, and where it lay till David fetched it to 
Zion. There seems to have been no place of resort for 
the tribes, the present station of the ark not having 
been chosen for its convenience as a scene of religious 
assembly. The shrine at Shiloh, which had been hal- 
lowed ever since the settlement in Canaan, had been 
desolate from the date of the death of Eli and his sons 
— so desolate as to become, in future years, a prophetic 
symbol of divine judgment (Jer. vii, 12-14; xxvi, 6). 
In such a period of religious anarchy and confusion, 
Samuel, a. theocratic guardian, might, without any vio- 
lation of the spirit of the law, superintend the public 
worship of Jehovah in the vicinity of his habitation 
(Knobel, Der Prophetism. der Ileb. ii, 32). 

At Hamah Samuel married; and two sons grew up 
to repeat, under his eyes, the same perversion of high 
office that he had himself witnessed in his childhood 
in the case of the two sons of Eli. One was Abiah, 
the other, Joel, sometimes called simply “the second” 
(rashni, 1 Chron. vi, 28). In his old age, according to 
the quasi-hereditary principle already adopted by pre- 
vious judges, he shared his power with them ; and they 
exercised their functions at the southern frontier in 
lleersheba (I Sam. viii, 1-4). These young men pos- 
sessed not their father’s integrity of spirit, but “turned 
aside after lucre, took bribes, and perverted judgment” 
(ver. 3). The advanced years of the venerable ruler 
himself, and his approaching dissolution ; the certain- 
ty that none of his family could till his office with ad- 
vantage to the country; the horror of a period of an- 
archy which his death might occasion; the necessity 
of having some one to put an end to tribal jealousies, 
and concentrate the energies of the nation, especially 
as there appeared to be symptoms of renewed warlike 
preparations on the part of the Ammonites (xii, 12) — 
these considerations seem to have led the elders of Is- 
rael to adopt the bold step of assembling at Hamah 
with the avow’ed purpose of effecting a revolution in 
the form of the government. 

4. Retirement from Public Office. — Down to this point 
in Samuel’s life there is but little to distinguish his ca- 
reer from that of his predecessors. Like many charac- 
ters in later days, had he died in youth, his fame w’ould 
hardly have been greater than that of Gideon or Sam- 
son. He w f as a judge, a Nazarite, a warrior, and (to a 
certain point) a prophet. But his peculiar position in 
the sacred narrative turns on the events v r hich follows 
He is the inaugurator of the transition from wdiat is 
commonly called the theocracy to the monarchy. The 
misdemeanor of his own sons precipitated the catastro- 
phe w’hich had been long preparing. The people de- 
manded a king. Josephus {Ant. vi, 3, 3) describes the 
shock to Samuel’s mind “because of his inborn sense 


of justice, because of his hatred of kings as so far infe- 
rior to the aristocratic form of government, which con- 
ferred a godlike character on those v’ho lived under it.” 
For the whole night he lav fasting and sleepless, in the 
perplexity of doubt and difficulty. In the vision of that 
night, as recorded by the sacred historian, is given the 
dark side of the new r institution, on which Samuel dw’ells 
on the following day (I Sam. viii, 9-18). The proposed 
change from a republican to a regal form of government 
displeased Samuel for various reasons. Besides its be- 
ing a departure from the first political institute, and so 
far an infringement on the rights of the divine head of 
the theocracy, it was regarded by the regent as a virtu- 
al charge against himself, and might appear to him as 
one of those examples of popular fickleness and ingrati- 
tude w’hich the history of every realm exhibits in pro- 
fusion. Jehovah comforts Samuel in this respect by 
saying, “They have not rejected thee, but they have 
rejected me.” Being warned of God to accede to their 
request for a king, and yet to remonstrate w ith the peo- 
ple, and set before the nation the perils and tyranny of 
a monarchical government (viii, 10), Samuel proceeded 
to the election of a sovereign. Saul, son of Kish, “ a 
choice young man and a goodly,” whom he had met 
unexpectedly, was pointed out to him by Jehovah as 
the king of Israel, and by the prophet w r as anointed and 
saluted as monarch. Samuel again convened the na- 
tion at Mizpeh, again with honest zeal condemned their 
project, but caused the sacred lot to be taken. The lot 
fell on Saul. The prophet now r formally introduced him 
to the people, who shouted, in joyous acclamation, “ God 
save the king!” Not content wdth oral explanations, 
this last of the republican chiefs not only told the peo- 
ple the manner of the kingdom, “but w r rote it in a book, 
and laid it up before the Lord.” What is here asserted 
of Samuel may mean that he extracted from the Penta- 
teuch the recorded provision of Moses for a future mon- 
archy, and added to it such warnings and counsels and 
safeguards as his inspired sagacity might suggest. Saul’s 
first battle being so successful, and the preparations for 
it displaying no ordinary energy and promptitude of 
character, his popularity was suddenly advanced and 
his throne secured. Taking advantage of the general 
sensation in favor of Saul, Samuel cited the people to 
meet again in Gilgal, to renew the kingdom, to ratify 
the new constitution, and solemnly install the sovereign 
(xi, 14). The assembly was held at Gilgal, immediately 
after the victory over the Ammonites. The monarchy 
w'as a second time solemnly inaugurated, and (according 
to the Sept.) “Samuel” (in the Hebrew text, “Saul”) 
“and all the men of Israel rejoiced greatly.” Then 
takes place his farewell address. By this time the 
long, flow’ing locks, on which no razor had ever passed, 
w r ere white with age (xii, 2). He appeals to their 
knowledge of his integrity. Whatever might be. the 
lawless habits of the chiefs of those times — Hoplini, 
Phinehas, or his own sons — he had kept aloof from 
all. No ox or ass had he taken from their stalls — 
no bribe to obtain his judgment (Sept. iZiXcuypa ) — not 
even a sandal (i)7r oh]pct, Sept, and Ecclus. xlvi, 19). 
It is this appeal, and the response of the people, that 
have made Grotius call him the Jewish Aristides. lie 
then sums up the new situation in which they have 
placed themselves; and, although “the wickedness of 
asking a king” is still strongly insisted on, and the un- 
usual portent of a thunderstorm in May or June, in an- 
swer to Samuel’s prayer, is urged as a sign of divine 
displeasure (1 Sam. xii, 16-19), the general tone of the 
condemnation is much softened from that wdiich was 
pronounced on the first intimation of the change. The t 
first king is repeatedly acknowledged as “ the Messiah,” 
or anointed of the Lord (vers. 3, 5); the future prosperity 
of the nation is declared to depend on their use or mis- 
use of the new’ constitution; and Samuel retires with 
expressions of good-W'ill and hope: “I will teach you 
the good and the right wav . . . only fear the Lord . . .” 
(vers. 23, 24). It is the most signal example afforded 


SAMUEL 


320 


SAMUEL 


in the (3kl Test, of a great character reconciling himself 
to a changed order of things, and of the divine sanction 
resting on his acquiescence. For this reason it is that 
Athanasius is by Basil called the Samuel of the Church 
(Basil. Ep. S2). See Monarchy. 

5. Residue of Samuel's Life. — 11 is subsequent relations 
with Saul are of the same mixed kind. The two insti- 
tutions which they respectively represented ran on side 
bv side. Samuel was still, by courtesy at least, judge, 
lie judged Israel “ all the days of his life" (1 Sam. vii, 
lo), and from time to time came across the king’s path. 
But these interventions are chiefly in another capacity, 
which are unfolded below. The assertion may mean 
that even after Saul's coronation SammTs power, though , 
formally abdicated, was yet actually felt and exercised ( 
in the direction of state aftairs (Havernick, Einleit. in 
das .1. T. § 166). No enterprise could be undertaken 
without Samuel’s concurrence, llis was an authority 
higher than the king’s. We find Saul, having muster- 
ed his forces, about to march against the Philistines, 
yet delaying to do so till Samuel consecrated the un- 
dertaking. He came not at the time appointed, as Saul 
thought, and the impatient monarch proceeded to offer 
sacrifice — a fearful violation of the national law. The 
prophet arrived as the religious service was concluded, 
and, rebuking Saul for his presumption, distinctly hint- 
ed at the short continuance of his kingdom. Again, we 
find Samuel charging Saul with the extirpation of the 
Amalekites. The royal warrior proceeded on the expe- 
dition, but obeyed not the mandate of Jehovah. His 
apologies, somewhat craftily framed for his inconsist- 
encies, availed him not with the prophet, and he was by 
the indignant seer virtually dethroned. He had for- 
feited his crown by disobedience to God. Yet Samuel 
mourned for him. Ilis heart seems to have been set 
on the bold athletic soldier. But the breach was irrec- 
oncilable, and they must separate. The parting was 
not one of rivals, but of dear though divided friends. 
The king throws himself on the prophet with all his 
force; not without a vehement effort (Josephus, A nt.v\, 
7. 5) the prophet tears himself away. The long mantle 
by which he was always known is rent in the struggle; 
and, like Ahijah after him, Samuel was in this the omen 
of the coming rent in the monarchy. They parted, each 
to his house, to meet no more. But a long shadow of 
grief fell over the prophet. “ Samuel mourned for Saul.” 
“It grieved Samuel for Saul.” “How long wilt thou 
mourn for Saul?” (1 Sam. xv, 11, 35; xvi, 1). See 
Prophet. But now the Lord directed him to make 
provision for the future government of the country 
(xvi, 1). To prevent strife and confusion, it was neces- 
sary. in the circumstances, that the second king should 
be appointed ere the first sovereign’s demise. Samuel 
went to Bethlehem and set apart the youngest of the 
sons of Jesse, “and came to see Saul no more till the 
day of his death.” Yet Saul and he came near meeting 
once again at Naioth,in liamah (xix,24), when the king 
was pursuing David. As on a former occasion, the spirit 
of God came upon him as he approached the company 
of the prophets with Samuel presiding over them, and 
“he prophesied and lay down naked ail that day and all 
that night.” A religious excitement seized him; the 
contagious influence of the music and rhapsody fell 
upon his nervous, susceptible temperament and over- 
powered him. See Saul. 

The remaining scriptural notices of Samuel are in 
connection with David’s history. See David. 

G. Decease and Traditions. — The death of Samuel is 
described as taking place in the year of the close of 
David's wanderings. It is said with peculiar empha- 
sis, as if to mark the loss, that “ all the Israelites” — all, 
with a universality never specified before — “were gath- 
ered together” from all parts of this hitherto divided 
country, and “lamented him,” and “buried him,” not in 
anv consecrated place, nor outside the walls of his city, 
but within his own house, thus in a manner consecrated 
by being turned into his tomb (1 Sam. xxv, 1). His 


relics were translated “from Judaea” (the place is not 
specified), A.D. 406, to Constantinople, and received 
there with much pomp by the emperor Arcadins. They 
were landed at the pier of Chalcedon, and thence con- 
veyed to a church near the palace of Ilebdomon (see 
Acta Sajictorv?n , Aug. 20). 

The situation of Ramathaim, as has been observed, 
is uncertain. But the place long pointed out as his 
tomb is the height, most conspicuous of all in the neigh- 
borhood of Jerusalem, immediately above the town of 
Gibeon, known to the Crusaders as “Montjoye.” as the 
spot front whence they first saw Jerusalem, now called 
Xehy Samwil, “the Prophet Samuel.” The tradition 
can be traced back as far as the 7th century, when it 
is spoken of as the monaster)" of St. Samuel (Robinson, 
Bib. Res. ii, 142). See ZoruiM. A cave is still shown 
underneath the floor of the mosque. “He built the 
tomb in his lifetime,” is the account of the Mussulman 
guardian of the mosque, “but was not buried here till 
after the expulsion of the Greeks.” It is the only spot 
in Palestine which claims any direct connection with 
the first great prophet who was born within its limits; 
and its commanding situation well agrees with the im- 
portance assigned to him in the sacred history. See 
Mizpeii. 

His descendants were subsisting at the same place 
till the time of David. Ileman, his grandson, was one 
of the chief singers in the Levitical choir (1 Chron. vi, 
33 ; xv, 17; xxv, 5). 

The apparition of Samuel at Endor (1 Sam. xxviii, 
14; Ecclus. xlvi. 20) belongs to the history of Saul. 
We here follow the inspired narrative, and merely say 
that Saul strangely wished to see Samuel recalled from 
the dead, that Samuel himself made his appearance sud- 
denly, and, to the great terror of the necromancer, heard 
the mournful complaint of Saul, and pronounced his 
speedy death on an ignoble field of loss and massacre 
| (Henderson, On Divine Inspiration, p. 165; Hales, Chro- 
' nolorpj, ii, 323; Scott, On the Existence of Evil Spirits , 
etc. p. 232). 

It has been supposed that Samuel wrote a life of 
David (of course of his earlier years) which was still 
accessible to one of the authors of the book of Chroni- 
cles (1 Citron, xxix, 20); but this appears doubtful. 
Various other books of the Old Test, have been ascribed 
to him by the Jewish tradition — the Judges, Ruth, the 
two books of Samuel (the latter, it is alleged, being writ- 
ten in the spirit of prophecy). He is regarded by the 
Samaritans as a magician and an infidel (Hottinger, 
Hist. Orient, p. 52). 

The Persian traditions fix his life in the time of Kai- 
i-Kobad, second king of Persia, with whom he is said to 
have conversed (D’llerbelot, Biblioth. Orient, s. v. “ Kai- 
Kobad”). 

HI. Samuel's Character — So important a position did 
he hold in Jewish history as to have'given his name 
to the sacred book, now divided into two, which covers 
the whole period of the first establishment of the king- 
dom, corresponding to the manner in which the name 
of Moses has been assigned to the sacred book, now di- 
vided into five, which covers the period of the founda- 
tion of the Jewish Church itself. In fact, no character 
of equal magnitude had arisen since the death of the 
great lawgiver. 

1. Samuel’s character presents itself to us as one of 
uncommon dignity and patriotism. His chief concern 
was his country’s weal. Grotius compares him to Aris- 
tides, and Said to Alcibiades (Opera Theol. i, 119). To 
preserve the worship of the one Jehovah, the God of 
Israel, to guard the liberties and rights of the people, 
to secure them from hostile invasion and internal dis- 
union, was the grand motive of his life. Ilis patriotism 
was not a Roman love of conquest or empire. The sub- 
jugation of other people was only sought when they 
disturbed the peace of his country. He was loath, in- 
j deed, to change the form of government, yet he did it 
1 with consummate policy. First of all, lie resorted to 


SAMUEL 


321 


SAMUEL 


the divine mode of appeal to the Omniscient Ruler— a 
solemn sortilege — and brought Saul so chosen before 
the people, and pointed him out to them as peerless in 
his form and aspect. Then, waiting till Saul should 
distinguish himself by some victorious enterprise, and 
receiving him lresh from the slaughter of the Ammon- 
ites, he again confirmed him in his kingdom, while the 
national enthusiasm, kindled by his triumph, made him 
the popular idol. Samuel thus, for the sake of future 
peace, took means to show that Saul was both chosen 
of God and yet virtually elected by the people. This 
procedure, so cautious and so generous, proves how lit- 
tle foundation there is for the remarks which have been 
made against Samuel by some writers, such as Schiller 
(Xeue Thalia, iv, 94), Yatke (JiibL Theol. p. 3G0), and 
the infamous Wolfenbiittel Fragment ist (p. 200, ed. 
Schmidt). 

But there are two other points which more especial- 
ly placed him at the head of the prophetic order as it 
afterwards appeared. The first is brought out in his 
relation with Saul, the second in his relation with Da- 
vid. 

2. He represents the independence of the moral law, 
of the Divine Will, as distinct from regal or sacerdotal 
enactments, which is so remarkable a characteristic of 
all the later prophets. As we have seen, he was, if a 
Levite, yet certainly not a priest; and all the attempts 
to identify his opposition to Saul with a hierarchical in- 
terest are founded on a complete misconception of the 
facts of the case. From the time of the overthrow of 
Shiloh, he never appears in the remotest connection 
with the priestly order. Among all the places included 
in his personal or administrative visits, neither Shiloh, 
nor Nob, nor Gibeon (the scats of the sacerdotal caste) 
is ever mentioned. When he counsels Saul, it is not 
as the priest, but as the prophet; when he sacrifices or 
blesses the sacrifice, it is not as the priest, but either as 
an individual Israelite of eminence, or as a ruler, like 
Saul himself. Saul’s sin in both cases where he came 
into collision with Samuel was not simply that of in- 
truding into sacerdotal functions, but of disobedience to 
the prophetic voice. The first was that of not waiting 
for Samuel’s arrival, according to the sign given by 
Samuel at his original meeting at Ramah (1 Sam. x, 
8; xiii,S) ; the second was that of not carrying out the 
stern prophetic injunction for the destruction of the 
Amalekitcs. When, on that occasion, the aged prophet 
called the captive prince before him, and with his own 
hands hacked him limb from limb in retribution for 
the desolation he had brought into the homes of Israel, 
ami thus offered up his mangled remains almost as a 
human sacrifice (“before the Lord in Gilgal”), we see 
the representative of the older part of the Jewish his- 
tory. But it is the true prophetic utterance such as 
breathes through the psalmists and prophets when he 
says to Saul in words which, from their poetical form, 
must have become fixed in the national memory, “To 
obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the 
fat of rams.” 

3. 'Samuel is the first of the regular succession of 
prophets: “All the prophets from Samuel and those 
that follow after” (Acts iii,24) ; “Ex quo sanctus Sam- 
uel propheta cuepit, ct deinceps donee populus Israel in 
Babvloniam captivus veheretur, . . . totum est tempus 
prophetarnm” (Augustine, Civ. /M',xv ii, 1). Moses, Mir- 
iam, and Deborah, perhaps Elmd, had been prophets. 
But it was only from Samuel that the continuous succes- 
sion was unbroken. This may have been merely from 
the coincidence of his appearance with the beginning of 
the new order of things, of which the prophetical office 
was the chief expression. Some predisposing causes 
there may have been in his own family and birthplace, 
llis mother, as we have seen, though not expressly so 
called, was, in fact, a prophetess; the word Zophim , as 
the atfix of Ramathaim, has been explained, not unrea- 
sonably, to mean “seers;” and Elkanah, his father, is, 
by the Chaldee paraphrast on 1 Sam. i, 1, said to he “a 

IX.— X 


disciple of the prophets.” But the connection of the 
continuity of the otlice with Samuel appears to be still 
more direct. Tt is in his lifetime, long alter lie had 
been “established as a prophet” (1 Sam. iii, 20), that 
we hear of the companies of disciples, called in the Old 
Test. “ the sons of the prophets,” by modern writers 
“ the schools of the prophets.” All the peculiarities of 
their education arc implied or expressed — the sacred 
dance, the sacred music, the solemn procession (x, 5, 
10; l Chron. xxv, 1, 0). At the head of this congre- 
gation, or “church, as it were, within a church” (Sept. 
rijv tKKXijoiav, l Sam. x, 5, 10), Samuel is expressly de- 
scribed as “standing appointed over them” (xix, 20). 
Their chief residence at this time (though afterwards, 
as the institution spread, it struck root in other places) 
was at Samuel’s own abode, Ramah, where they lived 
in habitations (Xuiolh,x\x, 19, etc.) apparently of a rus- 
tic kind, like the leafy huts which Elisha’s disciples af- 
terwards occupied by the Jordan (Xaiolh = im habita- 
tions,” but more specifically used for “pastures”). See 
Naiotii. 

lu those schools, and learning to cultivate the pro- 
phetic gifts, were some whom we know for certain, 
others whom we may almost certainly conjecture, to 
have been so trained or influenced. Two eminent in- 
dividuals had a casual or remote connection with them. 
One was Saul. Twice at least he is described as hav- 
ing been in the company of Samuel’s disciples, and as 
having caught from them the prophetic fervor to such 
a degree as to have “prophesied among them” (1 Sam. 
x, 10, 11) and on one occasion to have thrown off his 
clothes, and to have passed the night in a state of pro- 
phetic trance (xix. 24) ; and even in his palace the 
prophesying mingled with his madness on ordinary oc- 
casions (xviii, 9). Another was David. The iirst ac- 
quaintance of Samuel with David was when he pri- 
vately anointed him at the house of Jesse. See David. 
But the connection thus begun with the shepherd boy 
must have been continued afterwards. David, at first, 
fled to “Naioth in Ramah,” as to his second home (xix, 
19), and the gifts of music, of song, and of prophecy, 
here developed on so large a scale, were exactly such as 
we find in the notices of those who looked up to Samuel 
as their father. It is, further, hardly possible to escape 
the conclusion that David there first met his fast friends 
and companions in after-life, prophets like himself— Gad 
and Nathan. In the prospect of a regal form of gov- 
ernment he seems to have made the prophetic otlice a 
formal institute in the Jewish nation. These academies 
were famous for the cultivation of poetry and music, 
and from among their members God might select his 
special servants (Grarnbcrg, Religions- Jd. ii, 2(54; Yi- 
tringa, Synay . Vet. i, 2, 7 ; We rente Is, IHss. de iScholis 
Propheiar .; Dc Wctte, Comm. iib. d. Psalm, p.,9).. For 
a different view of the schools, see Tholuck, Literal ' . 
Anzeiyer, 1831, i, 38. We are informed (1 Clirom ix, 
22) that the allocation of the Levites for the Temple- 
service was made by David and Samuel the seer; i. c. 
that David followed some plan or suggestion ot the de- 
ceased prophet. It is stated also (xxvi, 28) that the 
prophet had made some munificent donations to the 
tabernacle, which seems to have been erected at Nob, 
ami afterwards at Gibeon, though the ark was in Kir- 
jath-jearim. Lastly (xxix, 29), the acts of David the 
king arc said to be written in the book of Samuel the 
seer. See Prophets, Schools op. 

It is needless to enlarge on the importance-will] which 
these incidents invest the appearance of Samuel. lie 
there becomes the spiritual father of the Psalmist king. 
He is also the founder of the first regular institutions 
of religions instruction, and communities for the pur- 
poses of education. The schools of Greece were not yet 
in existence. From these Jewish institutions were de- 
veloped, by a natural order, the universities ol Christen- 
dom. It may be added that with this view the whole 
life of Samuel is in accordance. He is the prophet — 
the only prophet till the time of Isaiah — of whom we 


SAMUEL, BOOKS OF 3S 

know that he was such from his earliest years. It is this 
continuity of his own life and character that makes him 
so fit an instrument for conducting his nation through 
so great a change. 

Accordingly, Samuel is called emphatically “the 
Prophet” (Acts iii, ‘24; xiii, 20). To a certain extent 
this was in consequence of the gift which he shared in 
common with others of his time. He was especially 
known in his own age as “Samuel the Seer” (1 Chron. 
ix. *22: xxvi, 28; xxix, 29). “I am the seer,” was his 
answer to those who asked “Where is the seer?” 
“Where is the seer’s house?” (1 Sam. ix, 11, 18. 19). 

“ Seer,” the ancient name, was not yet superseded by 
*■ Prophet” (ch. ix). By this name, Samuel Videns and 
Samuel 6 fiXiTriov, he is called in the Acta Sanctorum. 
Of the three modes by which divine communications 
were then made, “ by dreams, Urim and Thummim, and 
prophets,” the first was that by which the divine will 
was made known to Samuel (iii, 1, 2; Josephus, Ant. v, 
10, 4). “The Lord uncovered his ear” to whisper into 
it in the stillness of the night the messages that were 
to be delivered. It is the first distinct intimation of the 
idea of “ Revelation ” to a human being (see Gesenius, in 
voc. n?>). He was consulted far and near on the small 
affairs of life; loaves of “ bread,” or “ the fourth part of 
a shekel of silver,” were gratuities offered for the an- 
swers (1 Sam. ix, 7, 8). See Present. 

From this faculty, combined with his office of ruler, 
an awful reverence grew up round him. No sacrificial 
feast was thought complete without his blessing (1 Sam. 
ix. 13). When he appeared suddenly elsewhere for the 
same purpose, the villagers “ trembled” at his approach 
(xvi, 4. 5). A peculiar virtue was believed to reside in 
his intercession. He was conspicuous in later times 
among those that “ call upon the name of the Lord” 
(Psa. xeix, 6; 1 Sam. xii, 18), and was placed with Mo- 
ses as “ standing” for prayer, in a special sense, “ before 
the Lord” (Jer. xv, 1). It was the last consolation he 
left in his parting address that he would “pray to the 
Lord” for the people (l Sam. xii, 19, 23). There was 
something peculiar in the long-sustained cry or shout 
of supplication, which seemed to draw dow n as by force 
the divine answer (vii, 8, 9). All night long, in agi- 
tated moments, “he cried unto the Lord” (xv, 11). The 
power of Samuel with God, as an intercessor for the 
people, is compared to that of Moses (Jer. xv, 1 ; Psa. 
xeix, 6). See Plumtre, Life of Samuel (Lond. 1842, 
18mo); Anon. Life ami Times of Samuel (ibid. 1863, 
12 mo). 

SAMUEL, First and Second Books of. These two 
historical portions of Scripture, in all the editions of the 
original and versions, immediately precede the books of 
Kings, and are intimately connected with them. (In 
the present article we freely use the dictionaries of 
Kit to. Smith, and Fairbairn, particularly the last.) 

I. Xante and Division. — The books so called received 
this name (which is now customarily attached to them 
in Hebrew printed texts) subsequently to the comple- 
tion of the Sept., in which their present name is Bcoti- 
XciciiF If (Hortj, HaoiXtLov Xtoripa ( First and Second 
of Kings) ; and similarly in the Yulg. Ilence they 
arc entitled in the English version “The First [or Sec- 
ond] Book of Samuel, otherwise called the. First [or 
Second] Book of the Kings.” The name may in some 
measure be explained and justified on the ground that 
the early part of the. first book is ch icily concerned 
about Samuel, and that the two kings Saul and David, 
whose reigns occupy all the rest of the books, were both 
anointed by Samuel to their office. 

In Hebrew* MSS. the work is one, and not two. The 
present division was first made in the Sept., and was 
thence adopted into the Yulg. But Origen, as quoted 
by Eusebius ( Hid. Eccles. vi, 25), expressly states that 
they formed only one book among the Hebrews. Je- 
rome (Prip/afio in. Libras Samuel et J f aluchmi) implies 
the oamc statement ; and in the Talmud (Baba Bat hr a. 


2 SAMUEL, BOOKS OF 

fol. 14, c. 2), wherein the authorship is attributed to 
Samuel, they are designated by the name of his hook, 
in the singular number CngD ZT3 After 

the invention of printing they were published as one 
book in the first edition of the whole Bible printed at 
Soncino in A.D. 1488, and likewise in the Compluten- 
sian Polyglot printed at Alcala, A.D. 1502-1517 ; and it 
w*as not till the year 1518 that the division of the Sept. 
w*as adopted in Hebrew*, in the edition of the Bible 
printed by the Bombergs at Yenice. The w*ork consti- 
tutes a separate and independent whole, and is not to 
be joined either with the book of Judges or with that 
of Kings, from which it differs by many important 
characteristics. 

II. Contents. — The statements of the books of Samuel 
belong to an interesting period of Jewish history. The 
preceding hook of Judges refers to the affairs of the re- 
public as they were administered after the conquest, 
when the nation was a congeries of independent can- 
tons, sometimes partially united for a season under an 
extraordinary dictator. As, however, the mode of gov- 
ernment w*as changed, and remained monarchical till 
the overthrow* of the kingdom, it w*as of national impor- 
tance to note the time, method, and means of the alter- 
ation. This change happening under the regency of 
the w isest and best of their sages, his life became a topic 
of interest. The first book of Samuel gives an account 
of his birth and early call to the duties of a seer, under 
Eli’s pontificate; describes the low* and degraded condi- 
tion of the people, oppressed by foreign enemies ; pro- 
ceeds to narrate the election of Samuel as judge; his 
prosperous regency; the degeneracy of his sons; the 
clamor for a change in the civil constitution; the in- 
stallation of Saul; his rash and reckless character; his 
neglect of, or opposition to, the theocratic elements of 
the government. Then the historian goes on to relate 
God’s choice of David as king; his endurance of long 
and harassing persecution from the reigning sovereign; 
the melancholy defeat and death of Saul on the field of 
Gilboa; the gradual elevation of the man “according 
to God’s own heart” to universal dominion; his earnest 
efforts to obey and follow* out the principles of the the- 
ocracy; his formal establishment of religious w*orship 
at Jerusalem, now the capital of the nation; and his 
series of victories over all the enemies of Juiltea that 
were wont to molest its frontiers. The annalist records 
David’s aberrations from the path of duty; the unnat- 
ural rebellion of his son Absalom, and its suppression ; 
his carrying into effect a census of his dominions, and 
the divine punishment which this act incurred; and 
concludes with a few characteristic sketches of his mili- 
tary staff. The second book of Samuel, while it relates 
the last w'ords of David, yet stops short of his death. 
As David was the real founder of the monarchy and ar- 
ranger of the religious economy; the great hero, legis- 
lator, and poet of his country; as his dynasty main- 
tained itself on the throne of Judah till the Babylonian 
invasion, it is not a matter of wonder that the descrip- 
tion of his life and government occupies so large a por- 
tion of early Jewish history. The books of Samuel 
thus consist of three interlaced biographies — those of 
Samuel, Saul, and David. The following are the de- 
tails : 

1. Israel under Samuel (1 Sam. i-xii; B.C. 1120- 
1093). — The parentage, birth, and consecration of Sam- 
uel (ch. i) ; 1 lannah’s prayer (ii, 1-10) ; the evil prac- 
tices of the sons of Eli; a man of God predicts the 
troubles which shall befall Eli (ii, 10-33); God calls 
Samuel in the night, and reveals to him the judgment 
of the house of Eli, to whom Samuel declares it (iii, 1- 
18); Samuel is established to be a prophet in Shiloh 
(iii, 19-iv, 1); a battle of the Philistines with the. Isra- 
elites between Aphek and Eben-ezer; the Israelites, be- 
ing defeated, send for the ark from Shiloh ; another bat- 
tle ensues, in which Israel is again smitten, the ark is 
taken, and the two sons of Eli slain ; the news is carried 


SAMUEL, BOOKS OF 3: 

to Eli, who dies; Iehabod is born (eh. iv) ; penalties in- 
tlietcd on the Philistines on account of the ark of God; 
it is sent back with presents to Israel, first to Bcth-she- 
mcsh, and then to Kirjath-jearim (v-vii. 1); the ref- 
ormation under Samuel and the national assembly at 
Mizpch (vii, 2-6) ; the Philistines again invade Israel, 
but at the cry of Samuel the Lord discomfits them with 
thunder, and they are smitten before Israel; their con- 
cpicsts restored to Israel from Ekron to Gath, and peace 
established (vii, 7-14); Samuel judges Israel in a cir- 
cuit of four cities yearly (vii, 15-17); becoming old, he 
makes his sons judges over Israel, but their conduct is 
bad (viii, 1-3); the elders of Israel come to Samuel at 
Iiamah and demand a king; Samuel protests, but by 
divine direction yields at length (viii, 4-22); Saul, son 
of Ivish, seeking the lost asses of his father, visits Sam- 
uel, who, forewarned by God of his coming, entertains 
him with honor, and on parting anoints him to be king, 
and gives him signs in confirmation, which come to 
pass; Samuel then calls an assembly at Mizpeh, and 
there Saul is publicly designated by lot to be king over 
Israel, but not acknowledged by all the people (eh. ix, 
x); the men of Jabesh-gilead, sending to Gibeah in 
their distress, Saul is roused to aid them, and gains a 
great victory over the Ammonites; then Saul is joyfully 
recognised as king by all the people at Gilgal, where 
Samuel renews the kingdom (ch. xi); there Samuel 
addresses the people, vindicates his own conduct, and 
exhorts them to fidelity to God and their king; the 
miracle of thunder and rain at wheat-harvest (ch. xii). 

2. Israel under King Saul (1 Sam. xiii-xxxi; B.C. 
1093-1053). — Saul forms an army of two thousand men 
under his own command at Miehmash, and one thou- 
sand under Jonathan at Gibeah; Jonathan smites the 
Philistine garrison at Geba, and the Philistines gather 
a great army; Israel is greatly distressed; Saul awaits 
Samuel at Gilgal, but begins to offer sacrifice before his 
arrival, for which act of disobedience he is rejected of 
God (xiii, 1-14) ; in the extremity of the times Jonathan 
and his armor-bearer discomfit the Philistines at Mieh- 
mash; in the general pursuit Jonathan tastes hone)'' 
contrary to the command of Saul ; his life is spared at 
the demand of the people (xiii, 15-xiv, 45); Saul’s suc- 
cesses in war against the neighboring tribes; his chil- 
dren and relatives named (xiv, 46-52); Saul, com- 
manded to exterminate Amalek, only partially obeys, 
and Samuel declares to him his rejection from the king- 
dom; Samuel and Saul finally part (ch. xv); Samuel is 
sent to Bethlehem to anoint David, son of Jesse, to be 
king (xvi, 1-13) ; in consequence of Saul’s malady, Da- 
vid is sent for to cheer him with music (xvi, 14-23); 
the Philistines and the Israelites arrayed for battle in 
the valley of Elah: Goliath challenges Israel, and is 
killed by David (ch. xvii); Jonathan and David make 
a covenant of friendship; Saul retains David near him, 
and sets him over his men of war; the women-singers 
give greater honor to David than to Saul, who is dis- 
pleased, and seeks to destroy David (ch. xviii); Jona- 
than takes David’s part and Miehal also ; David flees 
to Samuel at Iiamah ; they go together to Naioth ; Said 
sends messengers, and then goes himself to fetch David; 
they all prophesy (ch. xix); David visits Jonathan; 
they renew their covenant; Jonathan makes known to 
David by the device of the arrows Saul’s determination 
to kill him ; their parting (ch. xx); David flees to Nob, 
where he obtains the shewbread, and proceeds to Achish, 
king of Gath, and feigns madness; then to the cave of 
Adullam, to Mizpeh of Moab, and to Hareth; Saul kills 
Ahimelech and the priests by the hand of Docg the 
Edomite (eh. xxi, xxii); David saves Keilali from the 
Philistines, but leaves it on the approach of Saul, and 
abides in the wilderness of Ziph, where Jonathan visits 
him; Saul is recalled from the pursuit of David by an 
invasion of the Philistines (ch. xxiii) ; David in the 
wilderness of Engedi spares Saul’s life (ch. xxiv) ; Sam- 
uel’s death and burial; the narrative of Nabal and his 
wife Abigail (ch. xxv); David again spares the life of 


!3 SAMUEL, BOOKS OF 

Saul at Ilachilah; he goes with six hundred men to 
Aehish, king of Gath, who gives him Ziklag to dwell 
in; the Philistines encamp against Israel; Saul in vain 
seeks counsel from God, and then has recourse to the 
witch of Endor; the princes of the Philistines refuse 
David’s aid in battle (ch. xxvi-xxix) ; David returns 
to Ziklag and finds it desolated; he pursues the Amal- 
ekites and recovers the spoil (ch. xxx) ; the battle of 
Gilboa; Saul and his three sons die (ch. xxxi); the 
news of Saul’s death reaches David at Ziklag, and calls 
forth his touching dirge or lamentation over Saul and 
Jonathan (2 Sam. i). 

3. The Unsettled Succession. — Ishbosheth king of Is- 
rael, David of Judah (2 Sam. ii-v, 3; B.C. 1053-1046). 
— David is anointed king of Judah at Hebron; Ishbo- 
sheth is made king of Israel ; the fight between the fol- 
lowers of David and of Ishbosheth bv the pool of Gib- 
eon (eh. ii); David’s power increases in Hebron; six 
sons born to him there ; Abner forsakes Ishbosheth, and 
makes terms with David to transfer the kingdom of Is- 
rael to him ; is slain by Joab ; David’s lamentation over 
him (ch. iii) ; the head of Ishbosheth is brought by Re- 
chab and Baanah to David, who punishes them for the 
deed (eh. iv) ; the tribes of Israel make David their 
king (v, 1-3). 

4. Israel under King Ikivid (2 Sam. v, 4-xxiv; B.C. 
1046-1013). — David, after being king of Judah for seven 
years and a half, reigns thirty-three years in Jerusa- 
lem over all Israel; he captures the fortress of Zion 
from the Jebusite, forms a friendship with Hiram king 
of Tyre, defeats the Philistines at Baal-pcrazim, and 
again from Geba unto Gazer (ch. v); David brings up 
the ark of the Lord ; the breach of Uzzah ; the house 
of Obcd-edom is blessed ; the ark brought to Jerusalem ; 
Miehal derides David for dancing before the ark (ch. vi) ; 
David is forbidden to build a house for the Lord in a 
message brought to him by Nathan the prophet, who 
announces the establishment of his dynasty; David’s 
prayer (ch. vii); his victories over the Philistines, Mo- 
abites, Edomites, etc., recited (ch. viii) ; his kindness to 
Mephiboshcth (ch. ix); his victory over Bene-ammon 
(ch. x); his sin with Bathsheba and Uriah; Nathan’s 
parable; punishment denounced; David’s penitence; 
the child dies; Solomon is born; David captures Kab- 
bah of Bcne-ammon (ch. xi, xii); the affair of Amnon 
and Tamar; Absalom’s revenge and flight to Geslinr; 
Joab artfully procures his return after three years’ ab- 
sence (ch. xiii, xiv) ; the rebellion of Absalom and the 
flight of David; the ark, the priests, and Ilushai sent 
back to Jerusalem; the treachery of Ziba; the reviling 
of Shimci; conflicting advice given by Ilushai and 
Ahitophel to Absalom, and Ahitophel’s suicide (ch. xv- 
xvii); the battle in the forest of Ephraim; Absalom’s 
death; David’s great grief (ch. xviii); David’s return 
to Jerusalem; the conduct of Shimei, Mcphibosheth, 
and Barzillai; the rivalry between Judah and Israel in 
bringing back the king (ch. xix); the rebellion of She- 
ba; Joab slays Amasa ; Sheba’s head given to Joab at 
Abel (ch. xx) ; the three years’ famine, and the ap- 
peasement of the Gibconitcs; the burial of the bones of 
Saul and his sons; the giants of the Philistines slain by 
David’s servants (ch. xxi); David’s song (Psa..xviii) 
(ch. xxii); the last words of David; the names and 
exploits of his heroes (eh. xxiii); the numbering of the 
people and the pestilence (ch. xxiv). 

111. Origin and .Structure. — It is evident that Samuel 
could not be the author of the whole of these books, 
since his death is recorded in the 25th chapter of the 
first book, and the history continues after his death 
down to nearly the end of the reign of David, a period 
of perhaps forty-five years. There is a somewhat com- 
mon opinion that the first twenty -four chapters were 
written by Samuel and the rest by Gad and Nathan — 
an opinion founded on 1 C’hron. xxix, 29: “Now the 
acts of David the king, first and last, are they not writ- 
ten in the book of Samuel the seer, and in the book of 
Nathan the prophet, and in the book of Gad the seer?’’ 


SAMUEL, BOOKS OF 

There is much in the general structure of the books, 
and in the relation of the several parts to each other, to 
render it probable that different writers, living at differ- 
ent times, were concerned in their production, notwith- 
standing the degree of uniformity which the style and 
language exhibit. The most reasonable supposition is 
that they were the work of one compiler, who used his- 
torical records of various sources. This opinion, though 
held by nearly all modern critics, as Thenius, and even 
by Iliivernick and Iveil, is not new, as Diodorus of Tar- 
sus, Theodoret, St. Athanasius, and St. Gregory ob- 
served that the four books of Kings were historical 
abridgments of several books or memoirs of the proph- 
ets which are cited in them. The grounds on which 
this view of the origin of these books is based have, 
however, only in very recent times been fully expounded. 
Warning the reader against attaching undue importance 
to the evidence which lias been adduced in proof of this 
position, bis attention may nevertheless be directed to 
the following points : 

1. There is considerable difference in the manner of 
t lie writers; some portions contrasting in their brief, 
fragmentary, chronological character with others which 
are more full and copious, and (in one part at least) mi- 
nutely biographical (comp. 1 Sam. v, 1-16; viii; xx, 
15-22; xxiii, 8-29, with 2 Sam. xi-xx). 

2. In several places there may be perceived the con- 
clusion of the original documents, to which additional 
matter has been attached, yet without being so joined 
as to appear like a natural continuation. In some places 
the compiler has placed together what he found narrated 
by different writers respecting the persons whose histo- 
ries they wrote, w ithout having so worked them up into 
one narrative as to harmonize all their parts (1 Sam. vii, 
15-17; xiv, 47-52; 2 Sara, viii, 15-18; xx, 23-26). 

3. Of some events there appear to be double accounts 
recorded, and occasionally these accounts are different, 
and sometimes, apparently at least, inconsistent; as, for 
instance, how Saul became king (1 Sam. ix-x, 1G, and 
x, 17-27); how and why Saul was rejected (xiii, 8-14, 
and xv, 10-2G) ; how David became known to Saul 
(xvi, 14-21, and xvii, 55-xviii, 2); how David spared 
Saul's life (ch. xxiv and xxvi); how f David went over 
to the Philistines (xxi. 10-15, and xxvii, 1-4); how the 
proverb “Is Saul also among the prophets?” arose (x, 
9-13, and xix, 22-24). It should here be remarked that 
these alleged discrepant passages, as well as many more 
which sceptical critics have adduced, need to be ex- 
plained, whatever opinion may be held respecting the 
authorship of these books. As, for instance, the state- 
ment that Samuel (vii, 15-17) was all his life long judge 
over Israel, but according to viii, 1-3 bad surrendered 
the office to bis sons (but sec xii, 2); the occasion and 
the motives for demanding a king, as differently stated 
in viii, 5 and xii, 12 ; the two accounts of Goliath (xvii, 
1—10, and 2 Sam. xxi, 19); the double record of Sam- 
uel’s death (1 Sam. xxv, 1 and xxviii, 3); the two de- 
scriptions of the manner of Saul’s death (xxxi, 1-6 and 
2 Sam. i. 1-10); the twofold account of the battle with 
the Syrians (2 Sam. viii and x), etc. Such different, 
though not therefore discordant, portions of the work 
may probably be best explained on the assumption that 
the books consist of materials brought together from 
various sources. This origin may be granted, however, 
without admitting that there is any inconsistency or 
contradiction among the materials so joined together; 
just as in the case of the Gospel history, which is con- 
stituted by the separate narratives of four different, but 
not therefore discordant, writers. It is not the object 
of this article to explain the alleged inconsistencies, 
how r ever completely that might be done. They are 
here mentioned only as they bear upon the question of 
authorship, and as they seem to indicate the use of a 
variety of materials by the author or compiler of these 
books. 

4. The relation between tho books of Chronicles and 
the books of Samuel is thought to point to the same 


SAMUEL, BOOKS OF 

conclusion. It can scarcely be maintained that the au- 
thor of the Chronicles has derived from the books of 
Samuel all the materials for the narratives which are 
common to both w'orks. There arc so many variations 
between the history as related by the chronicler and as 
related in Samuel as to render it probable, not that the 
chronicler derived everything from Samuel, but that 
he had access to the sources used also by the compiler 
of Samuel. This may be explained by a comparison 
of 2 Sam. v, 1-10 and xxiii, 8-39 with 1 Giron, xi, xii. 
The chronicler has placed in continuous narrative Da- 
vid's anointing as king of Israel at Hebron, the capture 
of Jerusalem, the building of the city of David, and the 
list of David’s heroes, with their deeds, probably as he 
found them connected in the documents which he used ; 
while in Samuel they are detached, the list of heroes 
being placed separately in the history of the latest pe- 
riod of the life of David. So in 1 Chron. iii, the list of 
David’s children is given in a form probably drawn from 
some official register to which the writer of Samuel had 
access, as he gives the list in two portions to suit the 
course of his narrative (2 Sam. iii, 2-5; v, 14-16). 

5. The hand of a compiler is thought to be percepti- 
ble in certain detached observations here and there oc- 
curring in the course of the history, in the way of ex- 
planation of some portion drawn from the documents; 
as for example, in 1 Sam. ix, 9, the expression 
is explained: For “the prophet” of to-day was called 
; formerly “the seer.” 1 Sam. xvii, 14, 15, is regarded 
as an interposed remark, to connect this history with 
the account given in the previous chapter of the family 
of Jesse. 

IV. The Sources . — Should these books then appear to 
be a compilation from several original documents, the 
interesting question arises, Ilow far may it be possible 
to resolve the w hole work into its constituent parts, so 
as to obtain some idea of the nature of the sources 
whence the parts were derived? Thenius has attempt- 
ed to solve this difficult problem in the following way. 
On internal grounds he distinguishes five principal 
sources : 

(o.) A History of Samuel , contained in 1 Sam. i— vii, 
which seems to conclude naturally as a separate and 
independent narrative, in which Samuel is altogether 
the principal person. 

(6.) A History of Saul, comprised in the following 
portions: 1 Sam. viii ; x, 17-27; xi ; xii; xv; xvi; 
xviii, 6-14; xxvi; xxviii, 3-25; xxxi. The materials 
derived from this source are iutenvoven with others de- 
rived from a third source, viz.: 

(o.) A History of David, from which have been de- 
rived the following portions: 1 Sam. xiv, 52; xvii; 
xviii, in part; xix; xx ; xxi, in part; xxii; xxiii; 
xxiv; xxv; xxvii; xxviii, 1,2; xxix; xxx; 2 Sam. 
i-v; vii; viii. 

((/.) Another History of Saul, from which 1 Sam. ix; 
x, 1-1G; xiii; and xiv have been drawn. This is re- 
| garded as an older and more strictly historical docu- 
ment than b, that being considered as of much later 
origin, and as founded on tradition. 

(e.) Lastly, (/ Biography of David, embracing full de- 
tails of the second half of his life, and recounting his 
family history (2 Sam. xi ; xii, 1-25 ; xiii-xx). 

The relation of 2 Sam. xxi-xxiv to the preceding 
portions seems to be that of a supplement or appendix 
of matters not related in chronological order, nor having 
any close connection with each other. 

There is doubtless very much hvpereririeisra in this 
account of Thenius. So far as authorities or sources 
are quoted in the books themselves, the matter is much 
more simple. To only one work is direct reference 
made, viz. to the book of the upright (Jashcr), *"150 
(2 Sam. i, 18), elsewdiere also quoted only once 
(Josh, x, 13), and, as both the quotations arc in verse, 
the work is thought to have been a book of poems. 
See Jasiieu, Look or. 


324 


SAMUEL, BOOKS OF 325 SAMUEL, BOOKS OF 


There are, however, certain parts of the books of 
Samuel which must have been derived either from ver- 
bal tradition or from some written documents, such, 
for instance, as the following poetical pieces: the song 
of Hannah (L Sam. ii, l— 10) ; David’s lamentation over 
Saul and Jonathan (2 Sam. i, 19-27); David’s lament 
over Abner (iii, 39, 34) ; Nathan’s parable (xii, 1-4); a 
song or psalm of David (xxii, 2-51 [Psalm xviii]); the 
last words of David (xxiii, 1-8). To these must be 
added the lists of names and genealogies, etc. 

It is said in 1 Chron. xxix, 29, “Now the acts of 
David the king, first and last, behold, they are written 
in the book of Samuel the seer, and in the book of 
Nathan the prophet, and in the book of Gatl the seer.” 
The old opinion as to the authorship of Samuel, to 
which we have already alluded, was founded on this 
quotation. The prophets were wont to write a history 
of their own times. That Samuel did so in reference to 
the great events of his life is evident from the state- 
ment that he “wrote the manner of the kingdom in a 
book, and laid it up before the Lord” (l Sam. x, 25). 
The phrase bNlD'J “ words of Samuel,” may not 

refer to our present Samuel, which is not so compre- 
hensive as this collection seems to have been. It does 
not, like the treatise to which the author of Chronicles 
refers, include “ the acts of David, first and last.” The 
annals which these three seers compiled were those of 
their own times in succession (Kleinert, A echtheit d.Jes. 
pt. i, p.83); so that there existed a history of contem- 
porary events written by three inspired men. The por- 
tion written by Samuel might include his own life, and 
the greater part of Saul’s history, as well as the earlier 
portion of David’s career. Gad was a contemporary of 
David, and is termed his seer. Probably also he was 
one of his associates in his various wanderings (l Sam. 
xxii, 5). In the latter part of David’s reign Nathan 
was a prominent counsellor, and assisted at the corona- 
tion of Solomon. We have, therefore, prophetic mate- 
rials for the books of Samuel. Hiivernick (§ 1G1) sup- 
poses there was another source of information to which 
the author of Samuel might resort, namely, the annals 
of David’s reign — a conjecture not altogether unlikely, 
as may be seen by his reference to 2 Sam. viii, 17, com- 
pared with 1 Chron. xxvii, 24. The accounts of Da- 
vid’s heroes and their mighty feats, with the estimate 
of their respective bravery, have the appearance of a 
contribution by Seruiah, the scribe, or principal secre- 
tary of state. Out of such materials — ample and au- 
thoritative, some of them written and some of them 
oral — the books of Samuel appear to be made up (Bun- 
sen, Bibehcerk , pt. ii. p.49G ; Karo, Be Fontibus Librorum 
quie feruntur Samuelis [ 18G2]). 

V. Antiquity. — The external evidence carries the book 
only to the age of the Ptolemies, when the Sept, version 
was made, or possibly to the age of Nehemiah, if we 
may trust the apocryphal account of the foundation of 
a library by the latter (2 Macc. ii, 13). But the internal 
evidence is much stronger. The high antiquity of the 
books of Samuel, or of the sources whence they were 
principally derived, in comparison with that of the Kings 
and Chronicles, appears from the absence of reference to 
older sources or authorities in the former, such as is fre- 
quently made in the latter. It hence appears that the 
compiler did not live at any great distance from the 
events which he relates, and therefore does not deem it 
needful to refer his readers to sources already known to 
them ; while the original sources have for the most part 
all the marks of having been written by persons con- 
temporaneous with the events described. Against this 
opinion as to the early age of the books of Samuel, va- 
rious objections have been brought. The phrase “unto 
this day” is often employed in them to denote the con- 
tinued existence of customs, monuments, and names 
whose origin has been described by the annalist (1 Sam. 
v, 5; vi, 18; xxx, 25). This phrase, however, does not 
always indicate that a long interval of time elapsed be- 


tween the incident and such a record of its duration. 
It was a common idiom. Joshua (xxii, 3) uses it of the 
short time that Ileuben, Gad, and the half-tribe of Ma- 
nasseh had fought in concert with the other tribes in 
the subjugation of Canaan. So, again, he (xxiii, 9) em- 
ploys it to specify the time that intervened between the 
entrance into Canaan and his resignation of the com- 
mand on account of his approaching decease. Matthew, 
in his Gospel (xxvii, 8, and xxviii, 15), uses it of the 
period between the death of Christ and the composition 
of his book, lioference is made in Samuel to the cur- 
rency of a certain proverb (1 Sam. x, 12), and to the dis- 
use of the term seer (ix, 9), but in a manner which by 
no means implies an authorship long posterior to the 
time of the actual circumstances. The proverb, “ Is 
Saul also among the prophets?” was one which for 
many reasons would obtain rapid and universal circula- 
tion ; and, if no other hypothesis be considered satisfac- 
tory, we may suppose that the remark about the term 
“seer” becoming obsolete may be the parenthetical in- 
sertion of a later hand ; or, it may be that in Samuel’s 
days the term nabi came to be technically used in his 
school of the prophets. See Prophet. There is little 
reason for supposing that any part of the work was com- 
posed even so late as subsequently to the division of the 
kingdom. For the expression “Israel and Judah” (oc- 
curring 1 Sam. xi, 8; xvii, 52; xviii, 1G; 2 Sam. iii, 10; 
v. 5; xxiv, 1), which is claimed as proof of an origin 
after the division of the kingdom under liehoboam, has 
no such force (as must be obvious from 2 Sam. ii, 4, 9, 
10, 17, 28; xviii, 6, 7, 1G; xix, 9, compared with 12, 15, 
1G), from which it is clear that the phrase, if not already 
in use, originated in the circumstances that at first only 
the tribe of Judah adhered to David, while the remain- 
ing tribes under the common name of Israel formed a 
separate kingdom for seven years and a half, under Ish- 
bosheth, and afterwards for a short time under Absalom. 
There is, however, one passage, 1 Sam. xxvii, G, “There- 
fore hath Ziklag been to the kings of Judah till this 
dav,” which is not so clearly reconcilable with this view, 
unless it should prove to be a note added by a later 
hand. 

With this claim to high antiquity the other internal 
evidence, so far as it goes, entirely agrees. In the un- 
settled times of the judges the observance of the ritual 
enjoined in the books of Moses had fallen greatly into 
disuse. Sacrifices which were lawful only before the 
door of the tabernacle were offered at many places, as at 
Mizpeh and Gilgal. No disapprobation of this practice 
is expressed in Samuel, though it very often is so in 
Kings. The Pentateuch seems to exert little influence 
on the habits of the people as described in Samuel, or on 
the ideas and language of the writers. There are, in- 
deed, fewer allusions to Moses and his writings in Sam- 
uel than in any other of the early books of Scripture. 
But this may doubtless be in part accounted for by the 
disorganized and somewhat anomalous state into which 
matters fell in consequence of the capture of the ark by 
the Philistines, and the essentially new era which was 
shortly afterwards introduced by the institution of the 
kingdom, with the stirring events that followed in the 
personal histories of Saul and David. The name of 
Moses occurs fifty-six times in Joshua, in Judges three, 
in Samuel two, in Kings ten, in Chronicles thirtv-one. 
The law of Moses is never once named in Samuel. 

The language is distinguished by its purity, and this 
also is an argument for the early origin of these books. 
A considerable number of words and forms of words are 
peculiar to them, and several occur which are found only 
in one other book besides. But it is unnecessary here 
to give lists of them. 

VI. The Author or Compiler. — With the exception 
of a brief expression in the Talmud ( Egyptian Gemara , 
A.D. 500, Baba Bat lira, fol. 14), 11 2D HMD 
(“Samuel wrote his book”), there is no opinion express- 
ed by antiquity respecting the name of the author. No 


SAMUEL, LOOKS OF 320 SAMUEL, BOOKS OF 


mention is made of it in the books of Samuel, Kings, or 
Chronicles, or in any part of the Bible. Nor is it named 
in the Apocrypha or in Josephus. The work is gen- 
erally attributed to some competent historian, who 
availed himself of authentic documents in preparing it. 
Some writers, as Abarbanel and Grotius, ascribe it to 
Jeremiah, some to Ezra, and some to Isaiah. There is 
not nearly so much probability that Jeremiah compiled 
the books of Samuel (as is argued at some length by 
Hitzig, Die Psalmen, p. 48-85) as there is that he was 
the writer of the books of Kings. There is much great- 
er dissimilarity of language, style, and spirit between 
Samuel and Jeremiah than between Kings and Jere- 
miah. The great number of words and forms of words 
peculiar to this work point out a distinct author and 
age, and it would seem most likely that it was compiled 
in an early period after the death of David, and pre- 
viously to the rending of the kingdom under Rehobo- 
am ; unless the opinion which has widely prevailed in 
the Christian Church should be finally adopted, that the 
work begun by Samuel was carried on and finished be- 
fore the death of David by Nathan and Gad, or that it 
was the work of some member of tbe school of the 
prophets who had personal knowledge of the events 
which he narrates. If, however, this theory cannot 
be maintained, and there should be grounds for sup- 
posing that the compiler lived not earlier than the 
timns of Relioboam (see Thenius on 2 Sam. viii, 7 ; xiv, 
27), still it must be acknowledged that the materials 
which he used were of earlier date, and must for the 
most part have been written by persons who were con- 
temporaneous with the events. It appears certain that 
memoirs were written by Samuel, Nathan, and Gad (see 
2 Chron. xxix, 29), and perhaps also by other members 
of the schools of the prophets, although it may not be 
equally certain that those memoirs are identical with 
the present books of Samuel. The fact that a recorder 
or remembrancer (TITT'O), whose office it was to pre- 
pare memoirs or annals of passing events, is mentioned 
early among the household of David, is not without an 
important bearing on this question. It is clear that the 
authors of the original documents, if not of the work 
itself, must have occupied such positions of honor and 
influence as gave them ample opportunity of knowing 
the events of the times in which they wrote. Such 
minute details as we find, for instance, in the history 
of David, belonging rather to his private than to his 
public life — tbe story of Bathsheba, of David’s behavior 
on the death of her child, of Amnon and Tamar, of the 
secret sending to the priests from Mahanaim, etc. — be- 
speak perfectly well instructed writers, who had access 
to the best sources of information. 

Stiihelin ( Einleit . § 25, etc.) conjectures that a large 
portion of Samuel was written by the author of the 
Pentateuch and of the books of Joshua and Judges. 
But continuity of history in the same form does not 
prove identity of authorship, nor are the similar phrases 
found in these books sufficient in number or character- 
istic idiom to support the theory. Nay, Samuel is free 
from the so-called Chaldaisms of Judges and the archa- 
isms of the Pentateuch. The peculiar theory of Jahn, 
on the other hand, is that the four books of Samuel and 
Kings were written by the same person, and at a date so 
recent as the 30th year of the Babylonian captivity. 
His arguments, however, as well as those of Eichhorn 
( Einleit . § 408), and Ilerbst ( Einleit. ii, 1-139), who 
hold a similar view, are more ingenious than solid (in- 
troduction, § 40). The fact of all the four treatises 
being named “ Books of Kings” is insisted on as a proof 
that they were originally undivided and formed a single 
work — a mere hypothesis, since the similarity of their 
contents might easily give rise to this general title, 
while the more ancient appellation for the first two was 
The Books of Samuel. Great stress is laid on the uni- 
formity of method in all the books. But this uniformity 
by no means amounts to any proof of identity of author- 


ship. It is nothing more than the same Hebrew his- 
torical style. The more minute and distinctive features, 
so far from being similar, are very different. Nay. the 
books of Samuel and Kings may be contrasted in many 
of those peculiarities which mark a different writer: 

(a.) In Kings there occur not a few references to the 
laws of Moses; in Samuel not one of these is to be 
found. 

(5.) The books of Kings repeatedly cite authorities, 
to which appeal is made, and the reader is directed to 
the “Acts of Solomon,” “ the book of the Chronicles of 
Kings of Israel,” or “Judah.” But in the books of Sam- 
uel there is no formal allusion to any such sources of in- 
formation. 

(c.) The nature of the history in the two works is 
very different. The plan of the books of Samuel is not 
that of the books of Kings. The books of Samuel are 
more of a biographical character, and are more limited 
and personal in their view. 

(d.) There are in the books of Kings many later 
forms of language. For a collection of some of these 
the reader is referred to De Wette {Einleit. in das A.T. 
§ 185, note e). Scarcely any of those more recent or 
Chaldaie forms occur in Samuel. Besides, some peculi- 
arities of form are noted by De Wette (§ 180), but 
they are not so numerous or distinctive as to give a 
general character to the treatise (Hirzel, De Chaldaismi 
Bibl. Origine , 1830). Many modes of expression com- 
mon in Kings are absent from Samuel (Keil, Einleit . 
§ 53). See Kings, Books of. 

(e.) The concluding chapters of the second book of 
Samuel are in the form of an appendix to the work— a 
proof of its completeness. The connection between 
Samuel and Kings is thus interrupted. It appears, 
then, that Samuel claims a distinct authorship from the 
books of Kings. Stahelin, indeed, supposes that the 
present division between the two treatises has not been 
correctly made, and that the two commencing chapters 
of 1 Kings really belong to 2 Samuel. This he argues 
on philological grounds, because the terms “T 1 ** I i’ll 
•'P.bsm (1 Kings i, 38), CE5 -2*3 (i, 12), and Ills 
H5E5 (i, 29) are found nowhere in Kings but in the first 
two chapters, while they occur once and again in Sam- 
uel. There is certainly something peculiar in this affin- 
ity, though it may be accounted for on the principle 
that the author of the pieces or sketches which form the 
basis of the initial portions of 1 Kings not only com- 
posed those •which form the conclusion of Samuel, but 
also supervised or published the whole work which is 
now called by the prophet’s name. 

Thus the books of Samuel have an authorship of 
their own — an authorship belonging to a very early pe- 
riod. While their tone and style are very different from 
the later records of Chronicles, they are also dissimilar 
to the books of Kings. They bear the impress of a 
hoary age in their language, allusions, and mode of 
composition. The insertion of odes and snatches of po- 
etry, to enliven and verily the narrative, is common 
to them with the Pentateuch. They abound in minute 
sketches and vivid touches. As if the chapters had 
been extracted from a diary, some portions are more 
fully detailed and warmly colored than others, according 
as the original observer was himself impressed. Many 
of the incidents, in their artless and striking delinea- 
tion, would form a fine study for a painter. 

ATI. The Object. — So far as the compiler of these 
books might no conscious of a direct aim in his work, 
producing it, as doubtless he did, under the impulse and 
guidance of the lloly Spirit, it might be his endeavor to 
continue tbe history of the chosen people, and especially 
to record the remarkable change which was effected in 
the method of the divine government, when the God 
of Israel ceased to rule the people by judges, and per- 
mitted them to be governed by kings, as were the other 
nations of the earth. In pursuing this object the writer 
took care to point out the important distinction which 


SAMUEL, .BOOKS OF 327 SAMUEL, BOOKS OF 


was to be maintained between the kings of Israel and 
those of other nations, in the separation of the civil 
from the ecclesiastical, or the secular from the religious 
authority; and also to describe the origin and influence 
of the prophetical order in relation both to the mon- 
archy and to the people. The books of Kings are a 
history of the nation as a theocracy; those of Chron- 
icles have special reference to the form and ministry of 
the religious worship, as bearing upon its re-establish- 
ment after the return from Babylon. Samuel is more 
biographical, yet the theocratic clement of the govern- 
ment is not overlooked. It is distinctly brought to view 
in the early chapters concerning Eli and his house, and 
the fortunes of the ark; in the passages which describe 
the change of the constitution; in the blessing which 
rested on the house of Obed-Edom ; in the curse which 
fell on the Bethshcmites and Uzzah and Saul for intru- 
sive interference with holy things. 

VIII, — Particular Relation to the Books of Chronicles. 
— That portion of the history which is common to the 
books of Samuel and of Chronicles is found in 2 Sam. 
i-xxiv, and 1 Chron. x-xxi, beginning with the account 
of the death of Saul and ending with the story of the 
pestilence. Between these two narrations of the same 
period of history the following differences may be point- 
ed out. 

I. The book of Samuel contains, but that of Chron- 
icles omits: 

1. The story of David’s kindness to Mcpliiboshcth, 2 
Sam. ix. 

2. Of Bathsheba and Uriah, 2 Sam. xi, 2-xii, 25. 

3. The rebellion of Absalom, 2 Sam. xiii, etc. 

4. The surrender of seven of the sous of Saul to the 
Gibeonites, 2 Sam. xxi, 1-14. 

5. A war with the Philistines, 2 Sam. xxi, 15-17. 

0. David’s song (Psa. xviii), 2 Sam. xxii. 

7. The last words of David, 2 Sam. xxiii. 

2. The book of Samuel omits, but that of Chronicles 
contains : 

1. A list of David’s adherents. 

2. A list of those who chose David to he king at Hebron. 

3. David’s preparation for building the Temple. 

4. The arraugemeut of the Levites and priests for Temple 
service. 

5. David’s officers and heroes, etc. 

3. The two works present several portions of the his- 
tory in a different order, such as the following: 

2 Sam. v, 11-25 1 Chron. xiv. 

2 Sam. vi, 1-10 1 Chron. xi, 1-9. 

2 Sam. vi, 3-11 1 Chron. xiii. 

2 Sam. vi, 12-23 1 Chron. xv. 

2 Sam. xxiii, 8-10 1 Chron. xi, 10-47. 

4. The differences of verbal and grammatical forms 
in the narration of the same events in these two works 
are of such a nature as to indicate the greater antiquity 
of the books of Samuel. Nearly all the points in which 
Chronicles differ from Samuel may be distinctly ex- 
plained by the more recent origin of the former. Thej r 
are too numerous and minute to be here mentioned. 

5. Many of the numbers in Samuel and Chronicles 
differ, as 

2 Sam. x, 13, IS, 24, and 1 Chron. xix, 12, IS, 25. 

2 Sam. xxiii, S, “ 1 Chron. xi, 11. 

2 Sam. xxiv, 9, 13, “ 1 Chron. xxi, 5, 12. 

These discrepancies are doubtless to be accounted for on 
the ground of errors of transcription. Whether the num- 
bers in Samuel are generally right, and those in Chron- 
icles generally wrong, which is the common (but per- 
haps usually incorrect) opinion, or whether errors exist 
in both, cannot be determined until more careful atten- 
tion shall have been given to the subject, and a more 
critical edition of the Hebrew text shall have been pre- 
pared. See Chronicles, Books of. 

IX. Chronology. — One of the most striking points of 
difference between the books of Samuel and of Kings is 
the more sparing use of dates in the former. The means 
of determining the periods of time in which the vari- 
ous events recorded in them happened are exceedingly 
scanty. The most helpful are found in other parts of 
Scripture, Thus, in Acts xiii we find that Saul was 


king “by the space of forty years.” We know already 
that David reigned over Judah and all Israel forty 
years, and we have also calculated that Samuel must 
have lived about 110 years. If, then, Samuel died about 
live years before Saul, we find that the history covers a 
period of 155 years, except that brief portion of the life 
of David not contained in Samuel. These numbers 
agree with the usual dates assigned to the commence- 
ment and termination of the books of Samuel. See 
Chronology. 

X. Canonic ity, etc. — The historical credibility and ca- 
nonicity of these books need not be fully discussed in 
this place. The internal evidence of their truthfulness 
and the external evidence of their canonical authority 
arc both complete. The style in which they are writ- 
ten is simple, natural, and bold. Places, times, and oth- 
er minute details are freely and artlessly given. The 
course and connection of the history carry with them 
the proof of their truthfulness. The characters and 
events are in accordance with the times in which they 
are placed. Attempts to establish contradiction and dis- 
crepancy have not succeeded. The history contained in 
these books fits in and accords with the preceding and 
subsequent portions of the history of the Israelitish peo- 
ple, although the several portions were composed at long 
intervals and by different authors. Portions of them 
arc quoted in the New Test. (2 Sam. vii, 14, in Ilcb. i, 
5 ; 1 Sam. xiii, 14, in Acts xiii, 22). Deferences to them 
occur in other sections of Scripture, especially in the 
Psalms, to which they often afford historic illustration. 
The old objections of Hobbes, Spinoza, Simon, and Le 
Clerc are well disposed of by Carpzov (Iniroductio, p, 
215). Some of these supposed contradictions we have 
already referred to, and for a solution of others we refer 
to Davidson’s Sacred Hermeneutics , p. 544, etc. Some 
of the objections of Vatke, in his Bill. Theol. — “cujus 
mentio est refutatio” — arc summarily disposed of by 
Ilengstenberg ( Die Authentic des Pentat. ii, 1 15). See, 
in addition to the ordinary Introductions to the Old 
Test. — such as those of Horne, lliivernick, Keil, De 
Wette — the following later works : Bleek, Einleitung in 
das Alte Testament (Berk 1800), p. 355-308; Stahelin, 
Spccielle Einleitung in die kanonischen Bucher des Alien 
Testaments (Elberfcld, 1802), p. 83-105; Davidson, In- 
troduction to the Old Testament (Lond. and Edinb. 18G2), 
p. 491-530. 

XI. Commentaries. — The exegetical helps on the en- 

tire books of Samuel alone have not been numerous: 
Origen, Selecia (in Opp. ii, 479; also in Gallandii Bill. 
Pat rum, xiv) ; Ephrem Syrus, Explanatio (in Opp. iv, 
331); Theodoret, Queestiones (in Opp. I, i); Gregory, 
Expositions (in Opp. Ill, ii, 1); Jerome, Queestiones (in 
Opp. [ Spur. ], iii, 755); Eucherius, Commentaria (in 
Bill. J\Iax. Patr.x i); Procopius, Scholia [includ. other 
hist, books] (in Meursii Opp.x iii, 1); Isidore, Commen- 
taria (in Opp.) ; Babe, Expositio , etc. (in various forms, 
in Opp.) ; Angelomus, Enarrafiones (in Bill. Max. Patr. 
xv); Iliklebert, Versio Metrica (in Opp. p. 1191); Ra- 
ban, Commentarii (in Opp.) ; Rupert, Commentarii (in 
Opp. i, 345); Hugo Victor, Annotation** (in Opp. i); 
Abrabanel, [includ. other hist, books] '(s. 1. et a. 

[Pesaro, 1522]; Naples, 1513, fob; Leips. 1080, fob); 
Banolas, (Leiria, 1494, fob; also in the Rabbinic 

Bibles); Bugenhagcn, A dnotationes [includ. Deut. ] 
(Basil. 1524; Argent. 1525, 8vo); Mcnius, Commcn- 
tarius [on 1 Sam.] (Yitemb. 1532, 8vo); Brentins, Com- 
mentaria (in Opp. ii) ; Lambert, Comment arius (Argent. 
1520; Franeof. 1539, fob); Caussin [R. C.], Disserta- 
tions (Par. 1550, fob; Colon. 1552, 4to) ; Weller, Com- 
mentaria [includ. 1 Kings] (Franeof. 1555, 2 volts. 8vo); 
Peter Martyr, Commentarii (Tigur. 1507, fob); Strigel, 
Comment arius [includ. Kings and Chron.] (Lips. 1509, 
1583, fob; Ncost. 1591, 8vo); Borrhaus, Commeniarius 
[includ. other hist, books] (Basil. 1577, fob); Allschul, 
bW'2'y (Cracow, 1595, fob, and later); Ascheicb, 


SAMUEL B.-D. OTOLEXGO 


328 


SAN*AT 


r'lX-’iSn r.lSO’Z [includ. other hist, books] (Venice, 1 
1G0I,’ 1620, fob, and later); Pflackcr, Predigtvn (Tub. j 
1602, fob); LaHado, ^3 [includ. other hist, books] 
(Venice, 1603, fob); Bidemach, A uslegung (Tub. 1603, 
fob); Willet, Harmony (Cambr. 1606; Loud. 1607, 4to; I 
ibid. 1614, fob); Leonhart, llypomnete [includ. Kings | 
and Cliron.] (Erf. 1608, 1614, 8vo) ; Serarius [R. G.], 
Comment aria [includ. other books] (Lugd. 1613; Mo- 
gunt. 1617, fob) ; Laurent, Auslegung (Leips. 1615, 1616, 
fob); Drusius,.4 dnotat tones [on parts, includ. otlier books] | 
(France. 1618, 4to); Kangolius [ 11. C.], Commentarii | 
(Far. 1621-24, 2 vols. fob); I>e Mendoza [II. C.], Com- 
mentaria [on 1 Sam. i-xv] (Lugd. 1622-31,3 vols. fob) ; 
Sanchez [IJ.C. ], Commenturias (Autw. 1624; Lugd. 
1625, fob) ; Crommius [ R. C.], Theses (includ. other hist, 
books] (Lovan. 1631, 4to); De Vera [11. C.], Commen - 
taria (Lima?, 1635, fob) ; Bonfrere [R. C.], Comment arias 
[includ. Kings and Cliron.] (Tornaei, 1613, 2 vols. fob, 
and later): 'NVulffer, Prediyten (Nuremb. 1670, 4to); De 
Xaxera [11. C. ], Excursus (Lugd. 1672, 3 vols. fob); 
Osiander, Commentarius (Stuttg. 1687, fob); Schmid, 
Commcntarius (Argent. 1687-89, 2 vols. 4to) ; Molden- 
hauer, Erliinterung [includ. other hist, books] (Quedlinb. 
1774, 4to); Obornik, "iX3 [on 1 Sam.] (Vienna, 1793, 
8vo); Detmohl, (ibid. 1793, 8vo, and later); 

Ilensler, Erlanterung [on 1 Sam.] (Hamb. and Kiel, 
1795, 8vo); Horsley, Notes (in Bill. Criticism, i) ; Mul- 
der, 3 "7 "wX*) [includ. other hist, books] (Amst. 

1827, 8vo) ; Lindsay, Lectures (Land. 1828, 2 vols. 12mo) ; 
Kalkar, Qneestiones [on the authenticity of 1 Sam.] 
(Othin. 1835); Konigsfeldt, Annotations [on 2 Sam. 
and 1 Cliron.] (Havn. 1839, 8vo) ; Wellhausen, Der Text 
d. B. S. (Gbtt. 1841, 8vo) ; Thcnius, EtTldrung (in the 
Kurzgef. exeg. Ilandb Leips. 1842, 1864, 8vo); Keil and 
Delitzsch, Commentar (ibid. 1864; transl. in Clarke’s 
Library , Edinb. 1866, 8vo); Erdmann, Erlddrung (in 
Lange’s Bibelwerlc , Bielefeld, 1873, Svo). Sec Old Tes- 
tament. 

Samuel ben-David Otolengo. See Otolengo. 

Samuel ben-Isaac Oceda. See Oceda. 

Samuel the Little (*j3pn ^XVZr), a contem- 
porary of Gamaliel 11, is known in Jewish history as 
the author of the prayer against the Minim, or Jew- 
ish Christians. In the Talmud treatise Berakoth, fob 
28b, we read: -"non *pr*2r 

“ -x. men bv bx^z.- -,n nz-.a 
z'ix t"?z c'zrnp bx^z: *izn 
nrpr 1 - -,-jpn bx fc ~:j 73:* ? n rznn ‘prb; 

i.e. “Simon I’akuli arranged the eighteen benedictions 
before rabban Gamaliel, in Jabne, in their present order. 
Fab ban Gamaliel said to the sages, ‘Is there none who 
knows to prepare a benediction against the Zaddukim 
or SadduceesV’ Then arose Samuel the Little and pre- 
pared it.” This f'p’nun T3“!3, or, as it is generally 
called, P 313, “the benediction against the 

Minim, or Jewish Christians ,” is the twelfth of the so- 
called Slnnone Esre, or Eighteen Benedictions [ comp, 
the art. Synagogue ]. and originally read E“^Z^ 
rv.pr TIP Z^Z-babl, i. e. “let*thcre be no hope 
for the Minim and calumniators.” That this prayer 
was directed against Jewish Christians is testified by 
Kpiphanius ( Ep. adeersus Hares, xxix, 9; ed. Petav. 
p. 124), who states: of; poaov yap oi ribv T ovdaiwv 
7rai(t£ rrpbg tqvtovc [roiV N«7o;p«/ooc] K(KTijrai 
fdaoc, d\\a d fiord pt rot, tw$ tv rat piotjg ifpipag t cat 
77 tpl t>)v irrxipav, rpig rijg iipipac drt tt>\ui ; imriXov- 
riv iavrohj Iv rate; ovi uyioyair , PrapioVTai uvroig Kat 
draSepari'Covoi rpig r/Jt* gpipag tydoKorriQ on 'E7ri- 
KetTftpinjt o c’for ride N a%topaiovc, With regard to 
these words of Epiphanius, Griitz remarks that Epipha- 
nius, being by birth a Jew, is a competent witness that 
this formula was directed against the Jewish Christians. 


It will be seen that the remark of Dr. Ginsburg, in Kitto’s 
Cyclop, s. v. “Synagogue” (p. 906, note), is not justified 
either by the statement of Epiphanius or that of the 
Jewish historian Griitz. See Griitz, Gesch. d. Jaden, iv, 
434; Derenbourg, J/isioire de la Palestine, p. 344-846; 
Schurer, Lehrbuch der neutestamentlichen Zeitgeschickte, 
p. 502. (B. T.) 

Samuel Maroccanus. See Morocco, Samuel of. 

Samuel ben-Meir. See Fasiibam. 

Samuel Yeretz, an Armenian historian, was born 
at Ani (Armenia Major), and lived in the 12th century. 
Tie was a disciple of George Melrig, and was requested 
by Gregory IV, patriarch of Armenia, to prepare a chron- 
icle or universal history, which work he published under 
the title Samuelis, Presb. Aniensis, temjwrum usque ad 
suam Ratio. It is divided into two parts, commencing 
with the creation of the world and ending with the year 
1179. It is really a mere abridgment of the chronicles 
of Eusebius increased by matter found in the History 
of Armenia by Moses of Choren, and in earlier writings 
now 7 lost. The Latin translation was prepared by Dr. 
Zorab and Angelo May. — Iloefer, Xouv. Eioy. Gene rale, 
s. v. 

Samus, in Greek mythology, is an ancestral hero 
of the Samians, from whom both that people and the 
island Samo9 derived their names, lie was the son of 
Anca?us, king of the Leleges, and Sarnia, daughter of 
Mieander. Ilis brothers w r ere Pcrilaus, Enudus, and Ali- 
therses, and Parthenope was his sister. 

Sanabas'sar (Sai'afidooapog v. r. 'Zap av do va- 
por, 1 Esdr. ii, 12, 15), or Sanabas'sarus ( Zavafido - 
oapog, v. r. ^ajSardooapog, 1 Esdr. vi, 18, 20), the Greek 
form of the Heb. name Siiesiibazzar in the correspond- 
ing passages (Ezra i,S, 11 ; v, 14, 16). 

Sanadon, Xoel-I^tienxe, a celebrated Jesuit, was 
born at Rouen, Feb. 16, 1676. At the early age of 
twelve he w r as admitted to the Order of Jesuits, and car- 
ried on his studies at Caen, where he afterwards taught 
rhetoric. His first literary attempt was a Latin poem 
entitled Nicanor Mortens. He subsequently wrote and 
translated many Latin poems, one of which, a translation 
of Horace, is considered his best work. In 1712 Sanadon 
was elected professor of rhetoric in the College of Louis 
the Great, and in 1728 he became librarian of the same 
institution. lie died at Paris, Sept. 21, 1733. — Hoefer, 
Xouv. Blog, Gene rale, s. v. 

Sanagen, in Hindu mythology, is a rajah of the 
children of the moon, the father of Darmatuwassa and 
grandfather of Ivandikaiya. 

Sanakadi Sampradayis, one of theVaishnava 
sects among the Hindus. They worship Krishna and 
Radii a conjointly, and are distinguished from other sects 
by a circular black mark in the centre of the ordinary 
double streak of white earth, and also by the use of the 
necklace and rosary of the stem of the tulasai. The 
members of this sect are scattered throughout the whole 
of Upper India. They are very numerous about Mathu- 
ra, and they are also among the most numerous of the 
Vaishnava sects in Bengal. — Gardner, Faiths of the 
1 1 'arid, s. v. 

Sanarkumaren, in Hindu mythology, is one of 
the four perfect beings created by Brahma in order to 
recreate the destroyed human race; but as the pious off- 
spring did not achieve that object, the evil spirit became 
the prevailing power in coition. 

San'asib (favaoifi, v. r. Zara file, > Avaoti{3'), a 
head of the priests, “the sons of Jeddu, the son of 
Jesus,” who are said to have returned, to the number 
of 972, with Zerubhabel from the captivity (1 Esdr. v, 
24) ; evidently the 978 “children of Jedaiah, of the house 
of Jeshua,” in the lleb. texts (Ezra ii, 36 ; Noli, v ii, 39). 
the name Sanasib having been repeated fort lie “Scnaali” 
(Esdras, “ Annaas”) of the preceding verse. 

Sanat, in Finnish mythology, means songs of mag- 
ical power which are chanted by the priests of the hea- 


SANBALLAT 


329 


SANBORN 


then Finns for the purpose of producing storms, curing 
the sick, causing favorable weather, bewitching cattle, 
etc. 

Sanbal'lat (Heb. Snnballat ', -£225, a name of 
which the latter partis of uncertain etymology, but the 
first syllable is probably the Sanscrit san [Greek <nV], 
indicative of strength ; Sept, SavfiaWctr, Josephus, 2«- 
vafiaWtrtjQ), a Iloronite (q. v.), i. c. probably a native 
of llcronaim in Moab (Neh. ii, 10, 19 ; xiii, 28). There 
arc two very different accounts of him. 

All that we know of him from Scripture is that he 
had apparently some civil or military command in Sa- 
maria, in the service of Artaxerxcs (Neh.iv,2), and that, 
from the moment of Nehemiah’s arrival in Judaea, he 
set himself to oppose every measure for the welfare of 
Jerusalem, and was a constant adversary to the Tirsha- 
tha. B.C. 445. His companions in this hostility were 
Tobiah the Ammonite and Geshcm the Arabian (ii, 19; 
iv, 7). For the details of their opposition, sec Neh. vi, 
where the enmity between Sanballat and the Jews is 
brought out in the strongest colors. The only other 
incident iu his life is his alliance with the high-priest’s 
family by the marriage of his daughter with one of the 
grandsons of Eliashib, which, from the similar connec- 
tion formed by Tobiah the Ammonite (xiii, 4), appears 
to have been part of a settled policy concerted between 
Eliashib and the Samaritan faction. The expulsion 
from the priesthood of the guilty son of Joiada by Ne- 
hemiah must have still further widened the breach be- 
tween him and Sanballat, and between the two parties 
in the Jewish state. Here, however, the scriptural nar- 
rative ends — owing, probably, to Nehemiah’s return to 
Persia — and with it likewise our knowledge of Sanbal- 
lat. Sec Nehemiah. 

lint on turning to the pages of Josephus a wholly 
new set of actions, in a totally different time, is brought 
before us in connection with Sanballat, while his name 
is entirely omitted in the account there given of the 
government of Nehemiah, which is placed in the reign 
of Xerxes. Josephus, after interposing the whole reign 
of Artaxerxes Longimanus between the death of Nehe- 
miah and the transactions in which Sanballat took part, 
and utterly ignoring the very existence of Darius No- 
thus, Artaxerxes Mnemon, Ochus, etc., jumps at once to 
the reign of “ Darius the last king,” and tells us (Ant. 
xi, 7, 2) that Sanballat was his officer in Samaria, that 
he was a Gatineau (i.e. a Samaritan) by birth, and that 
he gave his daughter Nicaso in marriage to Manasseh, 
the brother of the high-priest Jaddna, and consequently 
the fourth in descent from Eliashib, who was high- 
priest in the time of Nehemiah. lie then relates that 
on the threat of his brother Jaddna and the other Jews 
to expel him from the priesthood unless he divorced 
his wife, Manasseh stated the case to Sanballat, who 
thereupon promised to use his influence with king Da- 
rius, not only to give him Sanballat’s government, but 
to sanction the building of a rival temple on Mount 
Gcrizim of which Manasseh should be the high-priest. 
Manasseh, on this, agreed to retain his wife and join 
Sanballat’s faction, which was further strengthened by 
the accession of all those priests and Levites (and they 
were many) who had taken strange wives. But just 
at this time happened the invasion of Alexander the 
Great; and Sanballat, with seven thousand men, joined 
him and renounced his allegiance to Darius (Ant. xi, 8, 
4). Being favorably received by the conqueror, he took 
the opportunity of speaking to him in behalf of Manas- 
seh. He represented to him how much it was for his 
interest to divide the strength of the Jewish nation, 
and how many there were who wished for a temple in 
Samaria; and so obtained Alexander’s permission to 
build the temple on Mount Gcrizim, and make Manas- 
seh the hereditary high-priest. Shortly after this, San- 
ballat died; but the temple on Mount Gcrizim remain- 
ed, and the Shcchemites, as they were called, continued 
also as a permanent schism, which was continually fed 


by all the lawless and disaffected Jews. Such is Jo- 
sephus’s account. If there is any truth in it, of course 
the Sanballat of whom he speaks is a different person 
from the Sanballat of Nehemiah, who flourished fully 
one hundred years earlier; but when we put together 
Josephus’s silence concerning a Sanballat in Nehemiah’s 
time, and the many coincidences in the lives of the San- 
ballat of Nehemiah and that of Josephus, together with 
the inconsistencies in Josephus’s narrative (pointed out 
by Prideaux, Connect, i, 288, 290, 395, 4GG), and its dis- 
agreement with what Eusebius tells of the relations of 
Alexander with Samaria (who says that Alexander ap- 
pointed Andromachus governor of J ud*a and the neigh- 
boring districts; that the Samaritans murdered him; 
and that Alexander, on his return, took Samaria in re- 
venge, and settled a colony of Macedonians in it, and 
the inhabitants of Samaria retired to Sichem [ Chron . 
Can. p. 346]), and remember how apt Josephus is to fol- 
low any narrative, no matter how anachronistic and in- 
consistent with Scripture, we shall have no difficulty in 
concluding that his account of Sanballat is not histori- 
cal. It is doubtless taken from some apocryphal ro- 
mance, now lost, in which the writer, living under the 
empire of the Greeks, and at a time when the enmity 
of the Jews and Samaritans was at its height, chose the 
downfall of the Persian empire for the epoch, and San- 
ballat for the ideal instrument, of the consolidation of 
the Samaritan Church and the erection of the temple 
on Gerizim. To borrow events from some Scripture nar- 
rative and introduce some scriptural personage, without 
any regard to chronology or other propriety, was the 
regular method of such apocryphal books. (Sec 1 Es- 
dras, apocryphal Esther, apocryphal additions to the 
book of Daniel, and the articles on them, and the story 
inserted bv the Sept, after 2 Kings xii, 24, etc.). To re- 
ceive as historical Josephus’s narrative of the building 
of the Samaritan temple by Sanballat, circumstantial 
as it is in its account of Manasseh’s relationship to Jad- 
dua, and Sanballat’s intercourse with both Darius Codo- 
manns and Alexander the Great, and vet to transplant 
it, as Pridcaux does, to the time of Darius Nothus (B.C. 
409), seems scarcely compatible with sound criticism. — 
Smith. See Samaritan. 

San Benito, the garment worn by the victims of 
the Inquisition on the occasion of the auto-da-fe. It 
was a yellow frock, with a cross on the breast and on 
the back, devils and flames also being painted upon it. 
Those who were to be burned alive had the flames point- 
ing upward, while those who had escaped this horrible 
fate had them pointing downward. 

Sanborn, E. C., a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born in Bath, N. II., June 12, 1794. 
Early impressed that it was his duty to preach, he hesi- 
tated for some time. At length a portion of one of his 
hands became maimed for life; that hand, while yet 
bleeding, he held towards heaven, and promised God 
that he would no longer resist his convictions of duty. 
In 1833 he joined the Genesee Conference, and contin- 
ued in effective work until 1844, when, through failing 
health, he was obliged to desist entirely from ministerial 
labor. He died at the residence of his son, lion. E. If. 
Sanborn, Niagara County, N. Y., April 20, 18G7. He en- 
tertained a high appreciation of the varied duties of the 
ministry, was a firm believer in the doctrines of his 
Church, and an ardent admirer of her polity. — Minutes 
of Annual Conf. 18G7, p. 214. 

Sanborn, Jacob, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in the town of Unity, 
N. II., May 1G, 1788. His pious parents deeply im- 
pressed the mind of their son by their religious instruc- 
tions, prayers, and holy life. At the age of seventeen 
years (1805), he was awakened, and found peace. Al- 
though of Baptist parentage, he united (Jan. 18, 180G) 
with the Methodist Episcopal Church. About five years 
after, he became impressed that it was his duty to preach, 
and on Aug. 14, 1SJ 1, he went to preach as a licentiate 


SAX B UK I CODEX 


330 


. SAXCROFT 


on the Landaff Circuit, N. II. In June. 181*2, lie united 
on trial Avith the New England Conference, and from 
this time onward until 1850, with the exception of one 
year’s location (1839-40), he performed effective labor. 
In 1850 he took a superannuated relation, which he re- 
tained until his death. lie nevertheless continued to 
preach until May 10, 18G3, when he delivered his last 
sermons in Pembroke. lie died March 1G, 18G7. Mr. 
Sanborn was a more than ordinary man. lie was a 
sound divine, good logician, able preacher, an eminent- 
ly good pastor, a man of prayer, and of strict integrity 
of purpose and honesty of heart. — Minutes of Annual 
Coif. 18G7, p. 59. 

Sanbuki Codes: is a Hebrew manuscript, now no 
more extant. Nothing is known of its author, the place 
where, and the time when it was written. According 
to Richard Simon ( Biblioih . Critic . i, 3G7), the name 
Sanbuki (^p"!Z2T) is derived from the owner of the 
MS., a Hungarian family. According to Hottinger (in 
Bibliothecurio Quadripartite, p. 158, cd. Turic. ), the 
name ought to be ^p“n2T instead of "’hick is 

equivalent to Zadduki, or Sadducce. For other con- 
jectures, see Wolf ( Bibl . I lehr, ii, 292, 293; iv, 79) and 
Tvchsen ( Tent amen , p. 249, 250). As to the codex it- 
self, some of its readings arc given in the margin of 
some MSS., as in Cod. Kennic. 415 ; Cod. Kennic.8 (Bibl. 
Bodl. Hunting. G9; comp. Brunsius, Ad Kenn. Biss. Gen. 
p. 345). Besides, this codex is quoted three times by 
Menachcm di Lonzano in his commentary Or Thora, as 
on Gen. ix, 14, (fol. 2 b, fin. ed. Amstcl) : - 

nriz aim 'izb soide i.c.in the 

Codex llillcl, the nun has only the sh'va (:), but in the 
Codex Sanbuki the s^’rawith th epatach; Lev. xiii,20, 
(fol. 14b), nr 2 n neh •'pin : tz bsr,i.e.in the 
Codex Sanbuki the 5 in is written with the pa- 
tach ; Lev. xxvi. 36, •'rXZl-V (fol. 15 b), 12222X1 DDE 

-p-zrtz* d”D2 wV’Pzi px iVz x^rn 

22"X*P, i. e. in Spanish and German MSS. there is a 
gaga (i. e. a metheg) under r, but not so in the Codd. 
ilillel, Jerusalem, and Sanbuki. See Strack, Prole- 
gomena Critica in Vetus Test . IJehr. (Lips. 1873), p. 22. 
Sec Manuscripts, Biblical. (B. P.) 

Sanchez, Gaspar, a learned Jesuit, was born at Ci- 
fuentes, in New Castile, about 1553. He was appointed 
to teach the learned languages and belles-lettres in the 
Jesuit colleges at Oropcsa, Madrid, and other places, 
and was at last chosen professor of divinity at Alcala. 
Here he spent thirteen years in commenting on the 
Scriptures, the result of which he published in various 
volumes in folio. lie died in 1G28. Sec Chalmers, 
Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Sanchez, Pedro Antonio, a learned Spanish 
ecclesiastic, was born at Vigo, in Gallicia, in 1740. lie 
entered the Church, obtained a canonry in the Cathedral 
of St. .lames, and was likewise appointed professor of 
divinity in that city. II is fame procured for him ad- 
mission into many learned societies. He was celebrated 
as a preacher ami admired for his benevolence, spending 
his income to aid the poor, so that, at his death in 180G, 
he left no more than was barely sufficient to defray the 
expenses of his funeral. Among his works are Kit nun a 
Theolog'nn Sacra 1 (Madrid, 1789, 4 vols. 4to) :— A nnules 
Sacra (ibid. 1781, 2 vols. 8vo) : — / list, of the Church of 
Africa (ibid. 1781,8vo): — A Treatise on Toleration, etc, 
(ibid. 1785, 3 vols. 4 to), and others. 

Sanchez, Thomas, a celebrated Roman casuist, 
was born at Cordova in 1550. Raised in Romish piety, 
he joined the Jesuits in his sixteenth year, lie studied 
philosophy, law, and theology with great success; was 
punctual in the fulfilment of all Church duties; and, 
at an early age. enjoyed a high reputation throughout 
Spain and Italy. 11 is fame as a casuist was so great 
that be was often personally applied to for the solution 


of specific cases. He died at Granada in 1G10. 1 1 is 

work Be Sacramento Matrimonii (Genua?, 1592, 3 
vols.) occupies a high place in Jesuitical casuistry. It 
treats of every variety of obscene and immoral ques- 
tions, and is justly regarded as indirectly contributive 
to the very immorality which it formally condemns. 
Pope Clement VIII used the work in preparing a solu- 
tion of a specific case, and pronounced upon it the high- 
est praise. But others have vigorously assailed it, even 
in the Roman Church. Arnauld of St. Cyr attacked it 
in his Vindicice Censurce Facultaiis Parisiensis (sec 
Bayle, Bictionnaire [art. “Sanchez”], iv, 134). After 
Sanchez’s death appeared Operis M oralis in Prceceptis 
Dei Tomus I (Venet. 1614) Consilia seu Opuscula Mo- 
ralia (Lugd. 1634). His complete works appeared at 
Venice in 1740, in 7 vols. See Wuttke, Christian Ethics 
(N. Y. 1873), i, 255-272; Herzog, Real-Encykloj). xiii, 
413. (J.P.L.) 

Sanchez de Arevalo, Rodertgo, generally 
known as Rodericus Sanctus. a Spanish prelate, was 
born at Santa Maria de Nieva, in the diocese of Se- 
govia, in 1404. After receiving his classical education 
at the University of Salamanca, and obtaining the de- 
gree of doctor, he entered the Church, and was made 
successively archdeacon of Trevino (in the diocese of 
Burgos), dean of Leon, and dean of Seville. About 1440 
John II of Castile sent him as ambassador to Frederick 
III, and he was afterwards sent by Ilenry IV of Castile to 
congratulate pope Calixtus III upon his accession. On 
the accession of Paul II, Sanchez, who had been pre- 
vailed upon by his predecessor to settle at Rome, was 
appointed by that pope governor of the Castle of St. An- 
gelo and keeper of the jewels and treasures of the Roman 
Church, and in* course of time promoted to the bishop- 
rics of Zamora, Calahorra, and Palcncia. lie died at 
Rome Oct. 10, 1470, and was interred in the Church of 
Santiago dci Spagnuoli. He wrote the following works : 
Speculum Yitce JJumance (Rome, 1468, fol.) : — Epistola 
de Expugnatione, etc. (fol.): — Compendiosa Jlistoria 
Hispanica (Rome, 1470, 4to; Frankfort, 1603): — Liber 
de Origine ac Differentia Principatus (Rome, 1521). 
Many other works in IMS. are in the Vatican Library. 
See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. ; Iloefer, None. Biog. Ge- 
nerate, s. v. 

Sanchoniatho (SnyxovrirtSwr), the supposed 
author of a Phoenician history of Phoenicia and Egypt, 
called fPoiyiKitcei . lie has been the subject of much 
i discussion involving his place of birth, his works, and, 
indeed, his very existence. Our principal information 
respecting him is derived from Philo Byblius. a Greek 
writer at the beginning of the 2d century A.D. Ac- 
cording to him, Sanchoniatho lived during the reign of 
Scmiramis, and dedicated his book to Avibalus, king of 
Berytus. The general nature of the work is in itself 
sufficient to prove it to be a forgery, and yet the ques- 
tion remains whether the name Sanchoniatho was a 
pure invention of Philo or not. Movers supposes that 
it was the name of the sacred books of the Phoenicians, 
and that its original form was San- Chon -iath, which 
might be represented in the Hebrew characters by ]D 
P.rr that is, “the entire law of Chon.” On this 
etymology we offer no opinion. According to Suidas, 
lie also wrote a book on the theology of the Egyptians. 
Sec Smith, Diet, of Gr . and Rom. Biog. s. v. 

Sancroft, William, P.D., an English prelate, was 
born at Fresingfield, Suffolk, Jan. 13, 1616, and educated 
at the grammar-school of Bury St. Edmunds, and at 
* Emanuel College, Cambridge. In 1642 Sancroft was 
elected a fellow of bis college, but in the following year 
was deprived of bis fellowship by the Puritans for re- 
fusing to subscribe to the famous “Engagement;” 
after which he went abroad. On the restoration of 
Charles II, 1660. he was appointed chaplain to Cosin, 
bishop of Durham. After several preferments he was 
(1668) made archdeacon of Canterbury, and in 1677 


SxVNCTA SANCTIS 


331 


SANCTIFICATION 


archbishop of Canterbury. When James II issued his 
declaration for liberty of conscience and required the 
clergy to sign it, Sancroft refused. With six other 
bishops who joined him in his refusal, he was sent to 
the Tower (1G88). lie refused to take the oath to 
William and Mary, and was deposed by an act of Par- 
liament, Aug. 1, 1689; but his actual departure from 
Lambeth did not take place until June 23, 1G91. He 
then retired to his native village, where he died, Nov, 
24, 1G93. He published some Sermons, and Letters to 
Mr. North. II is Modern Policies and Practices , from 
Machiavelli and others, was published in 1757. See 
Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Sancta Sanctis. See Trisagion. 

Sancte-bell, Saxctus-bell, SaintsVbell, Mass- 
bell, (old English forms, Sacring-bell, Saunce-bill ), a 
small bell used in the Homan Catholic Church to call 
attention to the more solemn parts of the service of the 
Mass, as at the conclusion of the ordinary, when the 
words “Sanctus, Sanctus, Sanctus, Dens Sabaoth” are 
pronounced by the priest, and on the elevation of the 
host and chalice after consecration. It is now usually, 
if not always, a small hand-bell carried by an attendant, 
and was generally of this kind in England previous to 
the Reformation, made sometimes of silver; but in some 
instances a larger bell was used, and was suspended on 
the outside of the church in a small turret, made to re- 
ceive it, over the archway leading from the nave into 
the chancel, and rung by a rope from within. Many 
of these turrets still exist, as at Isham, Roth well, and 
Desborough, Northamptonshire: Boston, Lincolnshire; 
Bloxham, Brize-norton, Swalcliffe, and Coombe, Oxford- 
shire, etc. ; a few still retain the bell, as at Long Comp- 
ton, Warwickshire. Occasionally, also, a number of 
‘“'little bells were hung in the middle of the church, 
which the pulling of one wheel made all to ring, which 
was done at the elevation of the hoste.” — Parker, Glos- 
sary of Architecture , s. v. 

Sancti, Sanctissimi, usual epithets of the bish- 
ops, signifying holy , most holy. Other epithets were 
“ beati, beatissimi,” blessed, most blessed; “ Deo earissimi,” 
dearly beloved by God. 

Sanctification, separation from ordinary use to 
a sacred purpose. The Hebrew word ITT)? and the 
Greek word dyioc, rendered “holy,” “hallowed,” and 
“sanctified,” are applied to certain times which were 
hallowed — as the Sabbath and the Hebrew festivals 
(Gen. ii, 3; Exod. xx, 8, 11; Lev. xxiii, 37 ; 2 Kings x, 
20) ; to the things said to be hallowed, as the sacred 
incense or perfume (Exod. xxx, 3G ; Matt, vii, G), the 
sacred vestments (Exod. xxviii, 2, 4), the saered uten- 
sils (Exod. xxx, 29; 1 Chron. xxii, 10; 2 Tim. ii, 21). 
the holy bread (Lev. xxi, 22; 1 Sam. xxi, 5), the altar 
(Exod. xxix, 37; xxx, 1, 10; Matt, xxiii, 19), and por- 
tions of the sacrilices (Lev. ii, 3, 10). So, also, of places 
said to be hallowed (Exod. iii, 5; Acts vii, 33), as the 
holy city, i. e. Jerusalem (Neh. xi, 1 ; Isa. xlviii, 2 ; Matt, 
iv, 5; xxiv, 15; xxvii, 53; Acts vi, 13; xxii, 28), the 
holy mountain, i. e. Zion (Psa. ii, G), the Tabernacle 
(Numb, xviii, 10); the Temple (Psa. exxxviii, 2), the 
most holy place, the oracle (Exod. xxvi,33; xxviii, 43; 
Heb. ix, 2, 3, 12 ; 1 Kings vi, 1G ; viii, G; Ezek. xli, 23). 
So, also, men are said to be hallowed, as Aaron and his 
sons (1 Chron. xxiii, 13 ; xxiv, 5 ; Isa. xliii, 28), the first- 
born (Exod. xiii, 2), and the Hebrew people (Exod. xix, 
10, 14; Dan. xii), also the pious Hebrews, the “saints” 
(Dent, x xxiii, 3; Psa. xvi, 3; Dan. vii, 18), like the 
word T-'On, rendered “saint” (Psa. xxx, 4; xxxi, 23; 
xxxvii, 28; 1,5; Hi, 9; Ixxix, 2; xc vii, 10), and “god- 
ly” (Psa. iv, 3). 

The terms are also used of those who were ceremoni- 
ally purified under the Mosaic law (Numb, vi, 11 ; Lev. 
xxii, 16, 32; Heb. ix, 13). But, though the external 
purifications of the Hebrews, when any one had trans- 
gressed, had to do with restoration to civil and national 


privileges, they did not necessarily induce moral and 
spiritual holiness. They, however, reminded the sin- 
cere Hebrew that he was unclean in the sight of God; 
and that the ceremonial cleansings, by which he had 
been restored to his civil and political rights, were sym- 
bols of those “good things that were to come” — spirit- 
ual and eternal salvation — which should accrue through 
the sprinkling of the blood of Christ and the gift of the 
Holy Spirit. He was thus assured that “without holi- 
ness no man shall see the Lord” (Ileb. ix, 14; xii, 14). 
Hence, sanctification is used to designate that state of 
mind indueed by the indwelling of the Iloly Spirit, 
thus producing internal and external holiness (John iii, 
5 ; 1 Cor. vi, 11 ; Eph. v, 2G ; 1 Tliess. iv, 3, 4, 7). It is 
true, sanctification is sometimes spoken of as the work 
of man himself (Exod. xix, 22; Lev. xi, 44; xx, 7, 8; 
1 Pet. iii. 15). When a person solemnly and unreserved- 
ly gives himself to God, he then may be said to sanctify 
himself. lie is then enabled to believe in Christ with 
his heart unto righteousness, and God instantly, by the 
communication of his Holy Spirit, sanctifies the be- 
liever. Thus the believer gives himself to God, and 
God, in return, gives himself to the believer (Ezek. 
xxxvi, 25-29; 1 Cor. iii, 1G, 17; vi, 19; 2 Cor. vi, 1G-18; 
Eph. ii, 22). This sanctification, which is received by 
faith, is the work of God within us. 

In a general sense, “sanctification” comprehends the 
whole Christian life (Gal. v, 22, 23; 1 Pet. i, 15, 1G, 22; 
Heb. xii, 10; James iv, 8). In 1 Thess. v, 23, the apos- 
tle prays for the sanctification of the entire Church in 
all its various departments. In 1 Cor. vii, 14, it is said, 
the unbelieving husband, or wife, is “sanctified” — that 
is, to be regarded not as unclean, but as specially claim- 
ing the attention of the Christian community. The 
term “ sanctified” is also used in the sense of expiation 
(Ileb. x, 10, 14, 29). See Ilagenbach, llist. of Doctrines , 
ii, 281, 288, 503; Oosterzee, Christian Dogmatics. See 
Holiness. 

SANCTIFICATION, Entire. One of the most in- 
teresting, and practically one of the most important, 
questions connected with the divine plan of salvation 
is, What degree of deliverance from sin is it scriptural 
for the believer to expect in this life? 

I. Preliminary Concessions and Distinctions. — There 
are several points upon which all schools of theology 
agree. 

1. One is that the complete sanctification of believers, 
their perfect deliverance from sin in every sense of the 
term, is an integral part of the great plan of redemp- 
tion. Differ as they may in regard to the time when 
it shall be accomplished, they unite in pronouncing sin 
a thing to be abhorred, a defilement from the last touch 
or taint of which God’s people are at some period to be 
delivered. 

2. Again, all Christians agree that the true followers 
of Christ hate sin, loathe it, and struggle, and are bound 
ever to struggle, for complete deliverance from it. 
Whether continuous victory or daily defeat attend the 
contest, that war must go on. 

3. All writers agree, also, in the convietion that no 
Christian in this life, attains absolute perfection. Some, 
indeed, hold that through the grace of God the be- 
liever may attain what the Scriptures call perfection: 
consequently, the word itself is not to he condemned, see- 
ing that it is employed hv those who “speak not in the 
words which man’s wisdom teacheth, but which tho 
Holy Ghost teacheth.” Nevertheless, the term perfec- 
tion is applicable only in a restricted sense to any part 
of the Church militant. The holy law demands tho 
absolute right, in word and deed, in thought and in- 
tention, in all obedience, love, and devotion. It requires 
payment of the debt, not only to “the uttermost far- 
thing,” but in coin in which there is no trace of alloy. 

But sueli service as this can be rendered only where 
there is perfect knowledge, not simply of the letter of 
the law, but of its practical application to the endlessly 
diversified and complicated events and circumstauces of 


SANCTIFICATION 


332 


SANCTIFICATION 


daily life. No mere man since the fall ever possessed 
such knowledge. The holiest of men are conscious 
that they are often at a loss to know what God and 
duty require at their hands, and that there are times 
when their uncertainty in matters of importance bur- 
dens and distresses them. Right and wrong sometimes 
seem to shade into each other, like the prismatic colors; 
and the sharpest eye cannot tell where the one ends 
or the other begins. The tendcrest conscience takes 
alarm the soonest, and the better taught is the less lia- 
ble to err; but the wisest and the most conscientious 
have occasion to pause now and then, waiting for clear- 
er light, and, perhaps, wait in vain. When Paul and 
Barnabas at Antioch were planning a tour among the 
churches, Barnabas had a very positive desire that 
“John whose surname was Mark” should accompany 
them. Paul had an equally decided conviction that 
Mark ought not to go, seeing that he had “departed 
from them from Pamphylia, and went not with them to 
the work.” Neither Paul nor Barnabas would yield ; 
and “the contention was so sharp between them that 
they departed asunder, one from the other.” Here one 
or both of them failed of the absolute right. Either 
Paul, without being conscious of it, was unjust to a fellow- 
disciple, or Barnabas, in his ignorance, was ready to im- 
peril the work of the Lord hv calling Mark to a posi- 
tion which he was not qualified to till. Perhaps, ip the 
sha r p contention, 7 r apo^vopoQ, they were unjust to each 
other, and thus another feature of wrong was introduced. 
If errors of judgment may thus lead to errors of action, 
when the holiest of men are counselling in regard to 
the holiest of causes, what may we expect of those who 
are immersed in the interests, prejudices, and collisions 
of common life? 

Service may also be defective in degree. Justice, 
truth, and love are due to our fellow-men ; hut a still 
higher and nobler duty is required at our hands. We 
are invited to the fellowship of our Lord Jesus Christ, 
and God the Father, and the communion of the Holy 
Ghost; and called to love and serve “in holiness and 
righteousness before him all the days of our life.” And 
who that ever by faith caught a glimpse of the glor}’ 
of God, the great, the holy, and the good, “'the Lord, 
the Lord God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering, and 
abundant in goodness and truth,” did not bow down in 
lowliest self-abasement, in view of the poor service 
which he renders? The Christian never feels in this 
world that his service is all that he would have it. 
Though faith may never utterly fail, nor obedience be 
forgotten, nor love grow cold, nor devotion die, yet the 
most obedient, faithful, and devoted child of God will 
liumble himself in the very dust at the remembrance 
of his infinite obligations to his Creator and Redeemer 
and the poor returns which he is daily making. Thus, 
if we assume that the intent is wholly right and the 
purpose all-controlling, the service rendered will be im- 
perfect in character, marred by lack of knowledge and 
errors of judgment, and deficient in degree; and sinless 
obedience, in the absolute sense of the term, is utterly 
impossible. 

4. Still another point needs recognition. As long as 
we remain in this world, however deep, fervent, and 
thorough our religious life, there are sources of danger 
within. There inhere in our nature as essential elements 
of it, at least in this present life, appetites, passions, and 
affections, without which man would be unfit for this 
present state of existence and would cease to be man. 
These, although innocent in themselves, are simply un- 
reasoning impulses over which we need to keep" con- 
stant watch and ward, ruling them by reason, conscience, 
and divine grace, else they lead to sin and death. By 
these “sin entered into the world, and death by sin.” 
When Eve, in Eden, “saw that the tree was good for 
food, and t hat it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to 
be desired to make one wise,” the temptation was a 
skilful appeal to elements in her nature which were 
pure from the hand of the Creator. The desire for 


pleasant food is not sin; nor is the higher taste which 
finds enjoyment in contemplating beautiful forms and 
colors. Nor can we condemn the still more elevated 
instinct of the soul which delights in mental activity 
and the acquisition of knowledge. If these aptitudes 
and instincts had not existed in original human nature, 
the temptation of Satan would have had no power. 
“ The deaf adder hears not the voice of the charmer, 
charm he never so wisely.” 

Consequently, in the work of sanctification, the vari- 
ous instincts and passions of original human nature do 
not need to be rooted out, but to be restrained, chasten- 
ed, disciplined, made to obey reason and the voice of 
God. The due enjoyment of pleasant, food is not the 
gluttony which the wise man condemns. A father may 
provide for his children by a wise foresight which is by 
no means the “ covetousness which is idolatry.” When 
foul outrage is done to the innocent and the defenceless, 
we may feel our souls flame with fiery indignation, and 
“ be angry and sin not.” God “ setteth the solitary in 
families” by the affections with which lie endowed man 
at the beginning; and nothing is more beautiful than 
the relations which grow out of them, where the divine 
intent rules, and nothing more debasing and destructive 
than their abuse. 

These elements of our nature survive the deepest 
work of grace. When the wondrous change has come 
to the penitent believer and he has “ put on the new 
man which, after God, is created in righteousness and 
true holiness,” he is still human, still nothing less than 
man. The world appeals to him, Satan assails him, and 
in himself is the tinder which the glancing sparks of 
temptation tend to kindle. “There is no discharge in 
that war.” Till life itself is done, some form of peril will 
remain. Youth may be tempted by fleshly lusts, man- 
hood may become ambitious and proud, age misanthrop- 
ic and avaricious. The innocent appetite to which, in 
Eden, the forbidden fruit appealed may be perverted 
into tbe despotic thirst of the inebriate; Eve’s delight 
in beauty may be the germ from which shall spring a 
life given up to frivolity and empty show; and the no- 
bler hunger for knowledge may break away from all 
authority and madly labor to reason God out of bis own 
creation. Nevertheless, these possibilities of evil do 
not prove that God’s children cannot in this world be 
saved from moral depravity, nor that the continuous 
commission of wilful sin must stain the lives of the 
holiest of them till the very hour of death. They are 
proof, rather, that conversion docs not end probation; 
and that it behooves every man, whatever progress be 
may have made in divine things, to “keep his body 
under, lest that by any means he should be a castaway.” 

5. One more point needs to be stated. Discussion 
on this subject lias often been rendered inconclusive 
and unsatisfactory by the misuse of terms. The West- 
minster Confession, as explained by tbe Exposition pub- 
lished by the Presbyterian Board of Publication, makes 
“original sin” include three wholly different things: 
(1) the guilt of Adam’s sin; (’2) the inherited de- 
pravity of soul; (3) tbe damage clone the body. Wes- 
ley also uses the term sin in three different senses: (1) 
the depravity inherited from Adam; (2) “voluntary 
transgression of known law;” (3) involuntary infrac- 
tions of the divine law. Owing to this confusion of 
terms, there have been hot controversies where there 
was little real difference of opinion : whole octavos have 
been wasted in refuting what nobody holds, and prov- 
ing what nobody doubts; and theological champions 
fight imaginary foes, and are happy in imaginary vic- 
tories. If matters not really belonging to the question 
of entire sanctification are ruled out, we shall find that 
just two points need investigation: ( a ) What script- 
ural ground is there for the belief that the Christian 
may in this life be delivered from the moral depravity 
which he inherited as a member of a fallen race? (J>) 
How far and in what sense may the believer be kept in 
i this life, through grace, from the commission of sin? 


SANCTIFICATION" 


333 


SANCTIFICATION 


II. Different Ecclesiastical Views on the Subject . — 
J. The Romish Theory. — The Council of Trent teaches 
that the sacrament of baptism, rightly administered, 
washes away guilt and depravity of every kind. It 
pronounces anathema against those who presume to 
think or dare to assert “ that, although sin is forgiven 
in baptism, it is not entirely removed or totally eradi- 
cated, but is cut away in such a manner as to leave its 
roots still lirmly fixed in the soul.” The Council, how- 
ever. declares that concupiscence, or the fuel of sin, re- 
mains. “Concupiscence is the effect of sin, and is 
nothing more than an appetite of the soul, in itself re- 
pugnant to reason. If unaccompanied with the con- 
sent of the will or unattended with neglect on our part, 
it differs essentially from the nature of sin.” 

The Catechism of the Council of Trent teaches also 
that “the commandments of Cod are not difficult of 
observance.” “As God is ever ready by his divine as- 
sistance to sustain our weakness, especially since the 
death of Christ the Lord, by which the prince of this 
world was cast out, there is no reason why we should 
be disheartened by the difficulty of the undertaking. 
To him who loves nothing is difficult.” 

2. The Calvinist ic Theoiy. — The Westminster Confes- 
sion of Faith has the following chapter on sanctitication : 

“They who are effectually called and regenerated, hav- 
ing a new heart and a new spirit created in them, are fur- 
ther sanctified, really and personally, through the virtue 
of Christ’s death and resurrection, by his word and spirit 
dwelling in them; the dominion of the whole body of 
sin is destroyed, and the several lusts thereof are more 
and more weakened and mortified; and they are more and 
more quickened and strengthened, in all saving graces, 
to the practice of true holiness, withont which no man 
shall see the Lord. 

“This sanctification is throughout the whole man, yet 
imperfect in this life; there abide still some remnants of 
corruption in every part, whence ariseth a continual and 
irreconcilable war, the tiesh lusting against the Spirit, and 
the Spirit against the flesh. 

“In this war, although the remaining corruption for a 
time may much prevail, yet, through the continual sup- 
ply of strength from the sanctifying spirit of Christ, the 
regenerate part doth overcome ; and so the saints grow in 
grace, perfecting holiness in the fear of the Lord.” 

In respect to the possibility of keeping the law, the 
following declarations of the Confession and the Larger 
Catechism of the Presbyterian Church are sufficiently 
explicit : 

“No man is able, either by himself or by any grace re- 
ceived in this life, perfectly to keep the commandments 
of God, but doth daily break them iu thought, word, and 
deed.” — Catechism. 

“This corruption of nature, during this life, doth re- 
main in those that are regenerated; and although it be 
through Christ pardoned and mortified, yet both itself 
and all the motions thereof are truly and properly sin.” — 
Confession, ch. vi. 

Thus the Calvinistic standards answer the two ques- 
tions by saying, in reply to t he first, that as long as a 
man lives on the earth “there abide still some rem- 
nants of corruption in every part” of his nature; and, 
in reply to the second, that every man, notwithstand- 
ing all the grace received, “doth daily break” the law 
of God “in thought, word, and deed;” and that this 
residue of corruption, “and all the motions thereof, are 
truly and properly sin.” Consequently there is no such 
thing as entire sanctification in this life, but the holiest 
of God’s children must of necessity remain corrupt, at 
least in part, and go on in the constant commission of 
actual sin as long as they live. Indeed, it is not en- 
tirely clear how “the saints,” as the Confession asserts, 
“grow in grace, perfecting holiness in the fear of the 
Lord,” seeing that the highest attainments possible in 
this life still leave them with corruption within, and an 
outward life marred by the constant commission of sin, 
“in thought, word, and deed.” 

3. Arminian Theories. — (1.) Arminius himself seems 
to have taken no very decided position on the subject, 
his chief fields of battle lying in other directions. Nev- 
ertheless, among “certain articles to be diligently exam- 
ined and weighed, because some controversy lias arisen 


concerning them, even among those who profess the 
Reformed religion,” lie makes a statement to the effect 
that “regeneration is not perfected in a moment, but by 
certain steps and intervals,” and that the regenerate 
man “still has within him the flesh lusting against the 
Spirit;” nor does he speak of any complete deliverance 
in this life. On the other point, lie affirms that “he 
who asserts that it is possible for the regenerate, through 
the grace of Christ, perfectly to fulfil the law in the 
present life, is neither a Pelagian, nor inflicts any injury 
on the grace of God, nor establishes justification through 
works.” He cites Augustine himself as declaring the 
abstract possibility of a man’s living in this world with- 
out sin, and as saying, “Let rdagius confess that it is 
possible for man to be without sin in no other way than 
by the grace of Christ, and we will be at peace with 
him.” Arminius can hardly be said to have held any 
well-defined theory on the subject. 

(2.) I Vesley's Theory. — Wesley’s views on the subject 
of entire sanctification were long in the process of for- 
mation, and it is no difficult task to find early state- 
ments which contradict others made at a later period. 
As enunciated in the latter part of his life, his views 
may be defined thus, lie taught in regard to the work 
wrought in us — 

1. That' man by nature is depraved, so that, aside from 
grace, he is unfitted for all good, and prone to all evil. 

2. That, through the grace of God, this moral depravity 
maybe removed in this life, and man live freed from it. 

3. That regeneration begins t lie process of cleansing, but, 
except in some exempt cases possibly, does not com- 
plete it, a degree of depravity still remaining in the re- 
generate. 

4. That the process of cleansing is in some cases gradual, 
the remains of the evil nature wearing away by de- 
grees; in others instantaneous, the believer receiving 
the blessing of “a clean heart” a few da} r s, or even 
hours only, after his regeneration. 

5. That this great gift is to lie sought for specificallv, and 
is to be obtained by a special act of faith directed to- 
wards this very object. 

6. That this second attainment is attested by the Holy 
Spirit, which witnesses to the completion oCthe cleans- 
ing, as it did to the regeneration which began it. 

7. That this gracious attainment, thus attested by the 
Holy Spirit, should be confessed, on suitable occasions, 
to the glory of God. 

S. That the soul may lapse from this gracious state, and 
become again partially corrupt, or even fall wholly away 
from God, and be lost forever. 

9. That it is the high privilege of every one who is born 
of God to live from that moment free from the sins 
which bring the soul into condemnation: that is, from 
“voluntary transgressions of known law;” but that in- 
voluntary errors and mistakes, neediug the atonement 
of Christ, remain to the end. 

This last item in the statement of Wesley’s views, as 
well as those numbered 1 and 2, is accepted by all classes 
of Methodist thinkers, and therefore need not be referred 
to again. 

(3.) The Theory of the English Wesley ans. — It is pre- 
sumable that the Compendium of Theology , recently 
published by the Lev. Dr. Pope, theological tutor in the 
Didsbury College, a school established by the Wesley - 
ans for the training of the young men who are to enter 
their travelling ministry, may be taken as a standard 
of the general sentiment of the Wesleyan body at the 
present time. In several important points he differs 
from Wesley. lie pronounces sanctification always a 
gradual work. “ It must be remembered that this final 
and decisive act of the Spirit is the seal set upon a pre- 
vious and continuous work. The processes may be 
hastened, or condensed into a small space; they must 
be passed through.” Instead of lying within the reach 
of any novice, to he attained at any moment, “Chris- 
tian perfection is the exceeding great reward of perse- 
verance in the renunciation of all things for God; in 
the exercise of love to God, as shown in the passive 
submission to bis will, and in the strenuous obedience 
of all his commandments.” lie intimates that the time 
when the work is completed is “known only to God;” 
or, “if revealed in the trembling consciousness of the 
believer, a secret that lie knows not how to utter;” con- 


SANCTIFICATION 


334 


SANCTUARY 


sequently there is no plaee for the confession of it. Dr. 
Pope teaches also that after the highest point is attained 
there still remains ‘‘something of the peculiar concu- 
piscence, or liability to temptation, or affinity with evil, 
which besets man in this world.” llis views are almost 
identical with those set forth by Wesley and the Con- 
ference of 1745, but are widely different from the doc- 
trine which Wesley began to preach in 1700. 

(1.) There is still another view, which expresses the 
convictions of not a few of the clearest thinkers in the 
Methodist Episcopal churches, and is accepted by many 
of the clergymen and people of other denominations. 
It is set forth in the following propositions: 

1. Moral depravity is a real aud positive quality of the uu- 
regeuerate human spirit. 

2. In the renewal of the soul at conversion, whereby man 
becomes a new creature , a new man , which after God is 
created in righteousness and true holiness , the inborn 
moral depravity is removed from the immortal nature, 
which, so far as the work of cleansing is concerned, is 
in that moment fitted for heaven itself.* 

3. From the very hour of justification the renewed soul is 
summoned to live a holy life, a life of continuous victory 
over sin, and of freedom from condemnation, and is, 
through grace, equipped for such a life, so that he who 
fails thus to live falls below both his high privilege aud 
his bounden duty. 

4. Such a life— holy, .freed .from sin, cleansed . from all un- 
righteousness— As liie Christian life, to which every child 
of God is summoned. 

5. The believer, thus renewed, is still human, nothing less 
than man, possessing all ttie innocent appetites, pas- 
sions, and a flections which belong to human nature; and 
that these, though in themselves innocent, need to be 
controlled by reason aud conscience, else they lead to sin. 

C. It is the privilege of the believer, thus renewed, to 
grow in grace and in the knowledge of God, gaining 
day by day more of spiritual strength and beauty, until 
he' becomes a jwrfect man , and reaches the measure of 
the stature of the fulness of Christ ; and that this is what 
is properly called maturity, or Christian perfection. 

III. Arguments on the Subject . — The evangelical 
churches, therefore, divide on this line; the Calvinists 
holding that believers must of necessity remain in some 
degree depraved, and go on daily committing sin, ‘‘in 
thought, word, and deed,” to the end of their lives; the 
Arminians, with some differences among themselves in 
regard to the time and the conditions, holding that en- 
tire sanctification, including the cleansing of the human 
spirit from moral depravity, and freedom from actual 
sin, in the sense of “ voluntary transgression of known 
law,” is attainable in this life. 

In support of the Arminian doctrine of entire sancti- 
fication, the following arguments are brought forward: 

1. To affirm that it is by the will of God that the 
Christian lives in sin, and sin lives in the Christian, and 
that God so orders it for his own glory and the good of 
men, is monstrous, being neither scriptural, nor good 
morals, nor good sense. 

2. The Word of God nowhere represents death as the 
hour, or the agent, that shall cleanse the heart, or relieve 
believers from the necessity of sinning against God. 

3. Scripture, reason, and the daily experience of God’s 
children show that holiness is the great need of the 
Church and of the individual Christian. 

4. The mission of Christ is to save his people from 
their sins, and to save them to the uttermost ; and this 
salvation is set forth as attainable in this life. 

5. God commands his children to be holy, and prom- 
ises to help them to be holy, declaring that his grace is 
sufficient for their spiritual needs, and that lie “ will not suf- 
fer them to be tempted above that they are able” to bear. 

G. Believers in general are everywhere in the Script- 
ures said to be holy , sanctified, purified, saints, new men , 
new creatures, created anew in righteousness and true 
holiness; and whenever any conduct inconsistent with 
this gracious state is charged upon any of them, it is to 
warn them of their lapsing from t he grace of God, and 
endangering their souls. 

* The great majority of Methodists, however, hold that 
thin depravity is not wholly removed at conversion, hut 
that it* last remains are (usually at least) taken away by 
a subsequent act of grace En. * 


7. Not a few of Gods faithful servants are named and 
described in the Scripture: Abel as righteous, Enoch as 
walking with God, .lob as perfect, Zacliarias and Eliza- 
beth as righteous before God, walking in all the com- 
mandments and ordinances of the Lord blameless; and 
there is not a word in the history to compel ns to take 
this description of them in any other than the exact, 
literal sense of the language employed. 

IV. Literature . — Many books have been published 
on the subject of entire sanctification and Christian per- 
fection, but most of them are devotional and practical 
manuals, rather than theological treatises. The follow- 
ing discuss the doctrine: Wesley, Plain Account of 
Christian Perfection ; Pope, Compendium of Theology ; 
Peck (14.), Christian Perfection ; Foster, Christian Pu- 
rity; Peck (J. T.), The Central Idea of Christianity ; 
Boardman (II. A.), The “ Higher-Life” Doctrine of Sanc- 
tification; Steele, Lore Enthroned; Franklin, -4 Critical 
Review of Wesleyan Perfection ; Huntington, What is it 
to be Holy ? or the Theory of Entire Sanctification ; 
Endsley and others, Our Holy Christianity, a series of 
essays; Crane, Holiness the Birthright of all God's Chil- 
dren; also, article in the Meth. Quar. Rev. Oet. 1878, 
on Christian Pet feet ion and the Higher Life ; Boardman 
(W. E.), The Higher Christian Life ; See, The Rest of 
Faith ; Atwater, The Higher Life and Christian Per- 
fection (article in the Presb. Quar. and Princeton Rev. 
July, 1877) ; Simpson, Encyclop . of Methodism , s. v. 
“Perfection, Christian,” p. 704. (J. T. C.) 

Sanctimoniales, a name given in early times to 
nuns on account of their profession of sacredness. They 
are also called Yirgines Dei, Virgines Christ i, Ancillce 
Dei, Sorores Ecclesice, etc. They must not be confound- 
ed with the ancient deaconesses. 

Sanction. See Pragmatic Sanction. 

Sanctuary is the occasional rendering, in the A. V., 
of two II eb. and one Greek term. A general term is 
tinp, kulesh (“sanctuary,” Exod. xxx, 13, 24; xxxvi, 
1, 3, 4, G; xxxviii, 25,. 2G, 27 ; Lev. iv, G; v, 15; x, 4; 
xxvii, 3, 25; Numb, iii, 28, 31, 32, 47, 50; iv, 12, 15; 

vii, 9, 13, 19, 25, 31, 37, 43, 49, 55, Gl, G7, 73, 79, 85, SG; 

viii, 19; xviii, 3, 5, 10; I Chron. ix, 29; Psa. xx, 2; 

lxiii, 2; Ixviii, 24; lxxiv, 3; Ixxvii, 13; cxiv, 2; cl, 1 ; 
Isa. xliii, 28; Lam. iv, 1; Ezek. xli, 21, 23; xlii, 20; 
xliv, 27 ; xlv, 2; Dan. viii, 13, 14; ix, 2G; Zeph. iii, 4), 
which properly means holiness (often so rendered, fre- 
quently as an attribute, and perhaps to be regarded as 
a concrete of the sacred edifice), and especially the 
“holy place” (as very often rendered). The more 
specific term is mikddsh (invariably rendered 

“sanctuary,” except Amos vii, 13. “chapel,” and twice 
in the plur. “holy place” [Psa. Ixviii, 35; Ezek. xxi, 
2]), which is from the same root, and signifies the lo- 
cal shrine. In the New Test, we have the correspond- 
ing llyiov (“sanctuary.” JJeb. viii, 2; ix, 1, 2; xiii, 11; 
elsewhere “holy place” or “holiest”), which is simply 
the neut. of iiyioc, a general term for anything holy. 
See Holy Place; Tabernacle; Temple. 

SANCTUARY. In popish times the privilege of 
sanctuary was common in Scotland. limes says: “In 
several English churches there was a stone seat beside 
the altar, where those fleeing to the peace of the Church 
were held guarded by all its sanctity. One of these still 
remains at Beverley, another at Ilexham. To violate 
the protection of the frit hstol (the seat of peace), or of 
the fertre (the shrine of relics behind the altar), was 
not, like other offences, to be compensated by a pecun- 
iary penalty: it was bot-leas, beyond compensation. 
That the Church thus protected fugitives among our- 
selves we learn from the ancient canons of the Seotican 
councils, where, among the list of misdeeds against which 
the Church enjoined excommunication, after the laying 
of violent hands upon parents and priests, is denounced 
‘the open taking of thieves out of the protection of the 
Church.’ The most celebrated, and probably the most 


SANCTUARY 


335 


SANDAL 


ancient, of these sanctuaries was that of the church of 
Wedale, a parish which is now called by the name of its 
village, 4 the Stow.’ There is a very ancient tradition 
that king Arthur brought with him from Jerusalem an 
image of the Virgin, ‘fragments of which,’ says a writer 
in the 11th century, ‘are still preserved at Wedale in 
great veneration.’ About the beginning of his reign, 
king William issued a precept to the ministers of the 
church of Wedale, and to the guardians of its ‘ peace,’ 
enjoining them ‘not to detain the men of the abbot of 
Kelso, who had taken refuge there, nor their goods, in- 
asmuch as the abbot was willing to do to them, and for 
them, all reason and justice.’” — Eadie, Eccles. Cyclop, s. v. 
See Asylum ; Chukcii. 

SANCTUARY, a name for the presbytery, or eastern 
part of the choir of a church, in which the altar is placed. 

Sanctus, St., is said to have been a physician, and 
a native of Otriculum (or Ocrieulum), a city of Central 
Italy, lie was put to death with great cruelty in the 
reign of iM. Aurelius Antoninus, A.D. about 150, and his 
memory is celebrated on June 2G. 

Sancus, in Okl-ltalian mythology (in its complete 
form Memo Sancus, commensurable with Fidivs), was an 
immigrant god who came from the Sabines to Rome and 
obtained a sanctuary on the Quirinal Hill. He was sub- 
sequently compared with Hercules, and called Hercules 
Sabinus. — Yol liner, Wbrterb. d. Mytkol. s. v. 

Sancy, Achille Harley de, a French diplomate 
and prelate, was born in 1581. In early life he gave 
himself to study, and, having taken orders, was in a short 
time made bishop of Lavaur. But in IGOL he gave up 
his ecclesiastical life and entered the army. After tak- 
ing part in several campaigns, he was made ambassador 
to Turkey. Here his conduct was such as to bring upon 
him the displeasure of the Turkish government, and he 
was bastinadoed. This closed his diplomatic career, and, 
returning to France, he devoted himself and his fortune 
to the cardinal Richelieu. Subsequently he went to 
England and was in favor with queen Henrietta. He 
died Nov. 20, 1G46. lie was a man of great learning, 
is said to be the author of several unimportant works in 
his native language, and collected many Oriental manu- 
scripts which are now in the Richelieu Library. — Iloefer, 
Four. Bioy. Generate, s. v. 

Sand (Vin, chol, from its tendency to slide or roll; 
dyyoc). A similitude taken from the aggregate sand 
of the sea is often used to express a very great multi- 
tude or a very great weight; or from a single sand, 
something very mean and trilling. God promises Abra- 
ham and Jacob to multiply their posterity as the stars 
of heaven and as the sand of the sea (Gen. xxii, 17; 
xxxii, 12). Job (vi. 3) compares the weight of his 
misfortunes to that of the sand of the sea. Solomon 
says (I’rov. xxvii, 3) that though sand and gravel are 
very heavy things, yet the anger of a fool is much 
heavier. Ecclesiasticus says that a fool is more insup- 
portable than the weight of sand, lead, or iron (Eeclus. 
xxii, 15). The prophets magnify the omnipotence of 
God, who has fixed the sand of the shore for the bounda- 
ries of the sea, and has said to it, “Hitherto sha\t thou 
come ; but here thou shalt break thy foaming waves, 
and shalt pass no farther” (Jcr. v, 22). Our Saviour 
tells us (Malt, vii, 2G) that a fool lays the foundation 
of his house on the sand; whereas a wise man founds 
his house on a rock. Ecclesiasticus says (xviii, 8) that 
the years of the longest life of man are but as a drop of 
w'ater or as a grain of sand. Wisdom says (vii, 0) that 
all the gold in the world, compared to wisdom, is but as 
the smallest grain of sand.— Calmet. See Dust. 

Sand, Christoph von den (Lat. Sandies), a Ger- 
man theologian, was born at Konigsberg Oct. 12, 1644. 
On account of his Socinian sentiments, and unwilling- 
ness to participate in the Lutheran services, he was ex- 
iled, and went to Holland, where he spent the greater 
part of his life. In later years his religious views seem 


to have changed, as he beeame a firm Arminian. He died 
at Amsterdam Nov. 30, 1G80. His principal works are : 
Nucleus llisforice Ecclesiastics, etc.: — Interpreted iones 
Paradoxce IV Ecunyeliorum : — Confession de Fuy con- 
formement a VEscriture: — Scriptura Trinit atis Iierela- 
trix: — Bibliotheca A nti- T rinituriorum. Sand also left 
a manuscript work, A uctuurium Operis Vossiani de His - 
toricis Latinis , and two shorter ones which prove his Ar- 
minian sentiments.— Iloefer, Four. Bioy . Generate , s. v. 

Sandacus, in Greek mythology, was a son of As- 
tynous and grandson of Fhaethon, who came from Syria 
to Cilicia, and there founded the town of Celenderis. 
lie married Phamace, the daughter of Megessares, and 
by her had a son whom he named Cinvras. 

Sandal oeenrs in the A. V. only, for the same Greek 
word oavbakiov, Mark vi, 9: Acts xii, 8; but it more 
properly represents the IJeb. br3, tidal; Sept, and New 
Test. ; rendered “shoe” in the English Bible. 

There is, however, little reason to think that the Jews 
really wore shoes, and the expressions which Carpzov 
(Apparat. p. 781, 782) quotes to prove that they did (viz. 
“put the blood of war in his shoes,” I Kings ii, 5; “make 
men go over in shoes,” Isa. xi, 15), are equally adapted 
to the sandal — the first signifying that the blood was 
sprinkled on the thong of the sandal, the second that 
men should cross the river on foot instead of in boats. 
The shoes found in Egypt probably belonged to Greeks 
(Wilkinson, ii, 333). The sandal appears to have been 
the article ordinarily used by the Hebrews for protect- 
ing the feet. It was usually a sole of hide, leather, or 
wood, bound to the foot by thongs; but it may some- 
times denote such shoes and buskins as eventually came 
into use. The above Hebrew term tidal implies a sim- 
ple sandal, its proper sense being that of confining or 
shutting in the foot with thongs; we have also express 
notice of the thong (q’nb; i /.tag] A.V. “shoe-latchet”) 
in several passages (Gen. xiv, 23; Isa. v, 27; Mark i, 
7). The Greek term vTruCijya properly applies to the 
sandal exclusively, as it means what is bound under the 
foot ; but no stress can be laid on the use of the term 
by the Alexandrine writers, as it was applied to any 
covering of the foot, even to the Roman calceus, or shoe, 
covering the whole foot. Josephus (JUttr, vi, 1-8) so 
uses it of the caliya, the thick nailed shoe of the Roman 
soldiers. This word occurs in the New Test. (Matt, iii, 
II ; x, 10; Mark i, 7 ; Luke iii, 1G; x, 4; John i, 27; 
Acts vii, 33 ; xiii, 25), and is also frequently used by 
the Sept, as a translation of the Hebrew term; but it 
appears in most places to denote a sandal. Similar ob- 
servations apply to aarCci\ior, which is used in a gen- 
eral, and not in its strictly classical sense, and was 
adopted in a Hebraized term by the Talmudists. We 
have no description of the sandal in the Bible itself, but 
the deficiency can be supplied from collateral sources. 
Thus we learn from the Talmudists that the materials 
employed in the construction of the sole were either 
leather, felt, cloth, or wood (Mishna, Jebam. xii, 1, 2), 
and that it was occasionally shod with iron (fiabb. vi, 
2). In Egypt various fibrous substances, such as palm- 



Ancient Egyptian Sandals. 


SANDAL 


336 


SANDAL-TREE 



Ancient Assyrian Sandals. 

1. Embroidered Shoe of Queen of Sardnnanaltxs 111. 2. Shoe of a Priest.— 
Both from Knynnjtk sculptures, Brilisn Museum. 3. Shoe of Jewish 
Captive. — Black Obelisk, from Nimrud. 4, 5, 6. Assyrian Sandals. — 
Sculptures, British Museum. 

leaves and papyrus stalks, were used in addition to 
leather (Herod, ii, 87 ; Wilkinson, ii, 33*2, 333), while in 
Assyria wood or leather was employed (Lavard, Xin. ii, 
323, 324). In Egypt the sandals were usually turned 
up at the toe like our skates, though other forms, round- 
ed and pointed, are also exhibited. In Assyria the heel 
and the side of the foot were encased, and sometimes 
the sandal consisted of little else than this. This does 
not appear to have been the case in Palestine, for a 
heel-strap was essential to a proper sandal {Jebam. xii, 
1). Ladies’ sandals were made of the skin of an ani- 
mal named tachash (Ezek. xvi, 10), whether a hyena 
or a seal (A. V. u badger 5 ') is doubtful; the skins of a 
fish (a species of llalicore) are used for this purpose 
in the peninsula of Sinai (Robinson, Bill. Res. i, 116). 
Ladies of rank especially appear to have paid great at- 
tention to the beauty of their sandals (Cant, vii, 1); 
though if the bride in that book was an Egyptian prin- 
cess, as most think, the exclamation, “ How beautiful 
arc thy feet with sandals, O prince’s daughter!” may 
imply admiration of a luxury properly Egyptian, as the 
ladies of that country were noted for their sumptuous 
sandals (Wilkinson, A nc. Egypt, iii, 364). But this taste 
was probably general; for at the present day the dress 
slippers of ladies of rank arc among the richest articles 
of their attire, being elaborately embroidered with flow- 
ers and other figures wrought in silk, silver, and gold. 
See Dress. The thongs, those at least in Hebrew times, 
were handsomely embroidered (.Judith x, 4; xvi, 9), as 
were those of the Creek ladies (Smith, Diet, of Antiq. 



s. v. “ Sandalium”). Sandals were worn by all classes of 
society in Palestine, even by the very poor (Amos viii, 
6), and both the sandal and the thong or shoe-latchet 
were so cheap and common that they passed into a 
proverb for the most insignificant thing (Con. xiv, 23; 
Kevins, xlvi, 19). They were not, however, worn at all 
periods; they were dispensed with indoors, and were 
only put on by persons about to undertake some business 
away from their homes, such as a military expedition 
(Isa. v, 27 ; Eph. vi, 15), or a journey (Exod. xii, 1 1 ; 
Josh, ix, 5, 13; Acts xii, 8); on such occasions persons 
carried an extra pair, a practice which our Lord objected 
to as far as the apostles were concerned (Matt, x, 10; 
comp. Mark vi, 9, and the expression in Luke x, 4, “do 
not carry,” which harmonizes the passages). An extra 


pair might in certain cases be needed, as the soles were 
liable to be soon worn out (Josh, ix, 5), or the thongs 
to be broken (Isa. v, 27). During meal-times the feet 
were undoubtedly uncovered, as implied in Luke vii, 
38; John xiii, 5, 6, and in the exceptions specially made 
in reference to the paschal feast (Exod. xii, 11); the 
same custom must have prevailed wherever reclining at 
meals was practised (comp. Plato, Sympos. p. 213). It 
was a mark of reverence to cast off* the shoes in ap- 
proaching a place or person of eminent sanctity: hence 
the command to Moses at the bush (Exod. iii, 5) and to 
Joshua in the presence of the angel (Josh, v, 15). In 
deference to these injunctions the priests are said to 
have conducted their ministrations in the Temple bare- 
foot (Thcodoret, ad Ex. iii, quaest. 7), and the Talmud- 
ists even forbade any person to pass through the Tem- 
ple with shoes on (Mislma, Berach. 9, § 5). This rever- 
ential act was not peculiar to the Jews; in ancient times 
we have instances of it in the worship of Cvbcle at 
Rome (Prudent. Peris. 154), in the worship of Isis as 
represented in a picture at Herculaneum {Ant. d'Ercol. 
ii, 320), and in the practice of the Egyptian priests, ac- 
cording to Sil. Ital. (iii, 28). In modern times we may 
compare the similar practice of the Mohammedans of 
Palestine before entering a mosque (Robinson, Bibl. Res. 
ii, 36), and particularly before entering the Kaaba at 
Mecca (Burckhardt, Arabia, i, 270); of the Yezidis of 
Mesopotamia before entering the tomb of their patron 
saint (Lavard, Xin. i, 282); and of the Samaritans as 
they tread the summit of Mount Gcrizim (Robinson, ii, 
278). The practice of the modern Egyptians, who take 
off their shoes before stepping on the carpeted leicdn, 
appears to be dictated by a feeling of reverence rather 
than cleanliness, that spot being devoted to prayer 
(Lane, i, 35). It was also an indication of violent emo- 
tion, or of mourning, if a person appeared barefoot in 
public (2 Sam. xv, 30; Isa. xx, 2; Ezek. xxiv, 17, 23). 
This, again, was held in common with other nations, as 
instanced at the funeral of Augustus (Sue ton. Aug. 100), 
anti on the occasion of the solemn processions which 
derived their name of Nudipedalia from this feature 
(Tort nil. Apol. 40). To carry or to unloose a person’s 
sandal was a menial office, betokening great inferiority 
on the part of the person performing it; it was hence 
selected by John the Baptist to express his relation to 
the Messiah (Matt, iii, 1 1 ; Mark i, 7 ; John i. 27 ; Acts 
xiii, 25). The expression in Psa. lx, 8; cviii, 9, “over 
Edom will 1 cast out my shoe,” evidently signifies the 
subjection of that country; but the exact point of the 
comparison is obscure, for it may refer either to the 
custom of handing the sandal to a slave, or to that of 
claiming possession of a property by planting the foot 
on it, or of acquiring it by the symbolical action of 
casting the shoe; or, again, Edom may be regarded in 
the still more subordinate position of a shelf on which 
the sandals were rested while their owner bathed his 
feet. The use of the shoe in the transfer of property is 
noticed in Rutli iv, 7, 8, and a similar significance was 
attached to the act in connection with the repudiation 
of a Lcvirate marriage (Dent, xxv, 9). Shoe-making, 
or rather strap-making (i. e. making the straps for the 
sandals), was a recognised trade among the Jews (Mish- 
na, Pesach. 4, § 6). — Smith; lvitto. See Shoe. 

Sandals, as insignia of office. They consisted of 
a sole so attached to the foot as to leave the upper part 
bare. Without these no priest was permitted to cele- 
brate mass; but after the 7th and 8th centuries we find 
them expressly mentioned as an episcopal badge, dis- 
tinct from that of the priests. They were supposed to 
indicate firmness in God's law and the duty of lifting 
up the weak. 

Sandal-tree {Sant alum album"), a tree which yields 
an aromatic wood, much used in the pagodas for pur- 
poses of fumigation, and which is, therefore, an impor- 
tant article of commerce. The llindfis also grind it 
to a fine powder, which they dilute with water taken 


SANDAL-WOOD 


337 


SANDERS 


from the Ganges until it becomes a thin paste, with 
wliieh they mark the forehead and breast each day, after 
bathing, in accordance with the particular worship they 
profess. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Sandal- wood. See Almug. 

Sandanam, in Hindu mythology, is one of the five 
trees which sprang from the bosom of the milk-sea when 
the mountain Mandu was turned in order to the pre- 
paring of the Anirita, and which bore the fruits of pros- 
perity and abundance. 

Sandanen, in Hindu mythology, was a celebrated 
king of the Middle Kingdom, friend to Siva, and ances- 
tor of the Ivurus and Randus. He fell in love with 
Gangs, the wife of Siva, and was punished by being 
turned into an ape. 

Sandanigen, in Hindi! mythology, was one of the 
five sons borne by Drowadei, the wife of the live 1 ’ami us, 
to her husbands. 

Sandemau, Robert, the founder of the Sandema- 
nians (q. v.), was born at Perth, Scotland, in 1718. lie 
studied two years at the University of Edinburgh, and 
then entered into business. He adopted Mr. Gins’s 
views in opposition to all National Church establish- 
ments; and, taking up his residence in Edinburgh, he 
married one of Mr. Glas’s daughters, joined the Glasites, 
and became an elder in the church that was formed in 
that city. In 1700 he removed to London, where he 
preached in various places, attracting much notice. He 
formed a congregation there in 17(5*2, and in 17G4 re- 
moved to the American colonies, where he continued 
till his death. His sympathy with the mother-country 
rendered him obnoxious to the colonists, and bis pros- 
pects for usefulness were in a great measure blighted. 
After collecting a few small societies, be died at Dan- 
bury, Conn., 1771. lie wrote, Letters on Theron and 
Aspasio (Edinb. 1757, 1803, 2 vols. l2mo): — Corre- 
spondence with Mr, Pike: — Thoughts on Christianity: 
— Sign of the Prophet Jonah: — Honor of Marriage, 
etc. : — On Solomon's Song . See English Cyclop, s. v. 

Sandemanians, the followers of Robert Sande- 
man (q. v.). The leading doctrine of this sect is thus 
expressed in the. epitaph on Mr. Sandeman’s tomb in 
Danburv: “Here lies until the resurrection the body of 
Robert Sandemau, who, in the face of continual opposi- 
tion from all sorts of men, long and boldly contended for 
the ancient faith that the bare death of Jesus Christ, 
without a deed or thought on the part of man, is suffi- 
cient to present the chief of sinners spotless before 
God.” lie describes justifying faith as nothing more 
nor less than “the bare belief of the bare truth” wit- 
nessed concerning the person and work of Christ. This, 
however, could only be entertained through divine 
teaching or illumination (see 1 Cor. ii, 14). The chief 
opinions and practices in which this seet differs from 
other Christians are their weekly administration of the 
Lord’s supper; their love-feasts, of which every mem- 
ber is not only allowed, but required, to partake, and 
which consists in their dining together at each other’s 
houses in the interval between the morning and after- 
noon services; their kiss of charity, used on the occa- 
sion of the admission of a new member, and at other 
times when they deem it necessary and proper; their 
weekly collection before the Lord’s supper for the sup- 
port of the poor, and paying their expenses; mutual ex- 
hortations; abstinence from blood anil things strangled; 
washing each other’s feet, when, as a deed of merer, it 
might lie an expression of love (the preeept concerning 
which, as well as other precepts, they understand liter- 
ally); community of goods, so far that every one is to 
consider all that he has in his possession and power lia- 
ble to the calls of the poor and the Church ; and the un- 
lawfulness of laying up treasures upon earth, by setting 
them apart for any distant, future, and uncertain use. 
They allow of public and private diversions, so far as 
they are unconnected with circumstances really sinful; 
IX.— Y 


but, apprehending a lot to be sacred, disapprove of lot- 
teries, playing at cards, dice, etc. They maintain a 
plurality ol elders, pastors, or bishops in each church, 
and tiie necessity ol the presence of two elders in every 
aet ol discipline and at the administration of the Lord’s 
supper. In the choice of these elders, want of learning 
and engagement in trade are no sufficient objection, if 
qualified according to the instructions given to Timothy 
and litus; but second marriages disqualify for the of- 
fice, and they are ordained by prayer and fasting, im- 
position of bands, and giving’the right hand of fellow- 
sbip. In their discipline they are strict and severe, and 
think themselves obliged to separate from the commun- 
ion and worship of all such religious societies as appear 
to them not to profess the simple truth for their only 
ground ol hope, and who do not walk in obedience to it. 
We shall only add that in every transaction they estei m 
unanimity to he absolutely necessary. This seet in 
England has considerably diminished, so that in 1851 
only six congregations were reported as belonging to 
the body, each having a very small attendance. They 
probably number less than 2000 throughout the world. 
ISee (lias, Testimony of the King of Martyrs; Sande- 
man, Letters on Theron and Aspasio (letter 11) : Backus, 
Discourse on Faith and its Influence , p. 7-30; Adams, 
1 iew oj Religions ; Bellamy, Nature and Glory of the 
Gospel (Loud. ed. notes), i, 05-125; Fuller, Letters on 
Sandemaniamsm ; Ilagenbaeh, Hist, of Doctrines, ii, 
430, 431. 

Sander, Antony, a Flemish ecclesiastic, was horn 
at Antwerp iq 1580, and died in 1004. He was the au- 
thor of several religious and historical works in Latin. 

Sander, Immanuel Friedrich Emil, Ph.D., 
a German divine, was born in 1797 at Schal'stiidt. For 
a time he preached in the University Church at Leipsic; 
then at Wichlinghausen, in Westphalia; and finally lie 
was pastor at Llberfelil, where he died in 1801. Besides a 
great many Sermons, he published, Der Kampf der eran- 
ge/ischen Kirche mit dem Rationalismus (Barmen, 1830); 
— Theologisches Gutachten iib< r die Predigerbibel des Ed. 
Hit Is maim (ibid. 1830): — Der Romanismus, seine Ten - 
denzen w. seine Methodik (Essen, 1843) : — Das Papstthum 
in seiner heutigen Gestalt , etc. (Elberfeld, 184(5): — JHe 
A bendmahlsgemeinschaft zwischen Lutherischen u. Refor- 
mist en (ibid. 1859). See Zuchold, Bibliotheca Theul. 
ii, 1113 sq. ; Winer, Handbuch der theol. Literutur , 
p. 747 ; Fiirst, Bill. Judaica, iii, 243. (B. 1\) 

Sandercock, Edward, an English dissenting min- 
ister, was born in 1703. He was pastor of an indepen- 
dent congregation in Spittal Square, London, in 1727, 
at Bartholomew Close in 1730, and at Rotherhithe in 
1738. He retired to York about 1702, where he died in 
1770. He published, Sermons (Loud. 8vo). 

Sanders, Billington McCarter, a Baptist min- 
ister, was born in Columbia County, Ga., Dec. 2, 1789; 
graduated at the South Carolina College Dec. 4, 1809; 
and about 1811 or 1812 was rector of t he Columbia 
County Academy. He was for one year a member of 
the State Legislature, and afterwards for several years 
one of the judges of the Superior Court. Finally he 
turned his attention to the ministry, and was ordained 
Jan. 5, 1825. After preaching for a time at Williams 
Creek and at Bine Grove, he became in 1820 pastor of 
the Union Church in Warren County. In Dec., 1832, 
he eommenceil, by the desire of the Georgia Baptist 
Convention, to lav the foundation of the Mercer Insti- 
tute, afterwards the Mercer University, of which he was 
appointed the first president, lie resigned this office in 
1839, after having conducted the institution successful- 
ly through the six years of its academic minority and 
the first year of its collegiate career, lie occupied 
highly honorable positions in divers societies, lie was 
for several years clerk of the Georgia Association, and 
for nine years its moderator. For six years he was 
president of the Georgia Baptist. Convention, and for a 
much longer time a member of its executive board. He 


SANDERS 


338 


SAN DIN I 


was often a delegate to the General Triennial Conven- 
tion, and, after the separation, was several times a dele- 
gate to the Southern Baptist Convention. He also edited 
for a year the Christum Index, and was an ardent sup- 
porter of temperance, foreign and domestic missions, Bible 
societies, and all kindred forms of Christian beneficence. 
He died March 12, 1854. — Sprague, Annals of the Amer. 
Pulpit , vi, 740. 

Sanders, Daniel Clarke, D.D., a Unitarian Con- 
gregational minister, was born in Sturbridge, Mass., May 
3, 1708. lie was prepared for college by Rev. Samuel 
West, admitted at Harvard in 1784, and graduated in 
1788. After his graduation he engaged in teaching, 
lie was licensed to preach by the Denham Association, 
and was ordained and installed pastor of the Congrega- 
tional Church in Vergennes, Vt., June 12, 1794. He con- 
tinued in this charge about six years, when he became 
president of the University of Vermont, which position 
he held fourteen years, lie was installed as pastor at 
Medfield, Mass., May 24, 1815. He was a member of 
the convention that revised the constitution ot Mas- 
sachusetts in 1820-21. He retired from bis pastoral 
charge in 1829. He died at Medfield, Oct. 18, 1850. , 
His published works consist of a History of the Indian ' 
Wars, etc. (Montpelier, Vt., 1812, 8vo), besides more! 
than thirty Sermons. — Sprague, A nnals of the Amer. j 
Pulpit , viii. 226 sq. 

Sanders, Edward, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was a native of Maryland, and grew 
up to manhood without religious influences. In early 
manhood, however, he was brought to see his condition, 
and found peace in believing. He entered the itinerant 
ministry as a member of the Philadelphia Conference in 
1834. and continued in that Conference until the New 
Jersey Conference was set off. The remainder of his 
effective ministry was passed in the latter Conference. 
While in charge of the River Church, his health failed, 
and, taking a supernumerary relation, he settled in 
Pennington, N. J., where he died, Dec. 31, 1859. Ilis 
life was a rebuke to infidelity and a comfort to Chris- 
tians. — Minutes of Annual Conf. 18G0, p. 39. 

Sanders, Nicholas, a prominent Roman Cath- 
olic writer of the lGth century. He was born at Charle- 
wood, in Surrey, about 1527, and educated at. Winchester 
school, whence he removed to New College, Oxford. 
He was made fellow of his college in 1548, and in 1550 
or 1551 took the degree of baehelor of laws. He de- 
clined the office of Latin secretary to queen Mary for 
the sake of study. In 1557 he was one of the professors 
of canon law, and delivered the Struggling Lectures (lect- 
ures not. endowed) until the, accession of queen Eliza- 
beth. when his principles induced him to leave England, 
lie arrived at Rome in 15G0, studied theology, became 
doctor of divinity, and was ordained priest by Dr. Thomas 
Goldwell, bishop of St. Asaph. Soon after cardinal Ho- 
sius made him a member of his family, using him as as- 
sistant in the Council of Trent. Returning to Flanders, 
he was settled at Louvain for twelve years, and in 1579 
be arrived in Ireland as papal nuneio. He died in 1580 
or 1581. Among his works are, Supper of Our Lord 
(Louvain, 1560-G7, 4to): — Treatise on the Images of 
Christ , ete. (ibid. 1 507, 8vo) : — The Hock of the Church 
(ibid. 1500 07, 8vo) Treatise on Usury (1500) : — and 
others. See Chalmers, liioy. Diet. s. v. 

Sanderson, Routin’, D.D., an English prelate, 
was born at Rotherham, Yorkshire, Sept. 19, 1587. 
Studied at Lincoln College, Oxford, became a fellow in 
1000, and reader in logic in 1008; ordained deacon and 
priest in 1011. lie was subrector in Lincoln College 
in 1013, 1014, and 1010; proctor of Oxford in 1010; 
bachelor of divinity in 1037 ; rector of Wilberton, Lin- 
colnshire, in 1018, and of Boothby Pannel for more than 
forty years from 1019; prebendary of Lincoln in 1029; 
chaplain to Charles 1 in 1031 ; rector of Muston, Leices- 
tershire, eight years from 1033: doctor of divinity in 
1G3G. In 1042 he was prebendary of Southwell and of 


Oxford, and regius professor of divinity, with the canon- 
ry of Christ Church. lie was unable to enter the pro- 
fessorship until 1040; was ejected from the last two ap- 
pointments in 1048, but restored in 1000, and conse- 
crated bishop of Lincoln the same year. He died Jan. 
29, 1062. The following are his principal works: Logi - 
civ Artis Compendium (1015, 8vo; new ed. Lond. 1841, 
12mo) : — Judicium Universitatis Oxoniensis (ibid. 1048); 
— De Obligatione Conscienthe Pralectiones (1047, 1000, 
8vo; it has passed through several later editions — the 
last at Cambridge [1856, 8voJ). Besides other disser- 
tations, he printed numbers of his Sermons , which 
were collected anil published, together with his Life by 
Izaac Walton (Lond. 1689, fol.). — Chalmers, Blog. Diet. 
s. v. See Cattermole, Lit. of the Ch. of England, ii, 10-34. 

Sandes, in Persian mythology, was a fabled Per- 
sian hero, supposed to be identical with Jemshid, and 
by his deeds a counterpart of Hercules. 

Sandford, Daniel, D.D., a Scotch prelate, was 
born at Delville, near Dublin, in 1760, and was educated 
at Christ Church, Oxford, where he won the prize for 
Latin composition in 1787. At Edinburgh, in 1792, he 
became minister of an Episcopal congregation for whom 
Charlotte Chapel was built in 1797, He joined the 
Episcopal Church of Scotland in 1803, and was or- 
dained bishop of Edinburgh in 1806. He consecrated 
for his own congregation the newly erected Chapel of 
St.John in 1818. Bishop Sandford died in 1830. He 
published, Lectures on Passion Week (Edinb. 1797, 8vo; 
1821, I2mo; 1826, 12mo): — Sermons p>*'eached in St. 
John's Chapel (ibid. 1819, 8vo) : — Remains and Sermons, 
etc. (ibid. 1830, 2 vols. 8vo). 

Sandford, David, an American Congregational 
minister, was born in New Milford, Conn., Dec. 11, 1737, 
and graduated at Yale College in 1755. Influenced by 
the wish of his father, he began the study of theology, 
but realizing that he had not the spiritual qualifications 
for the ministry, he relinquished his purpose in that 
direction. He settled upon a farm, where he remained 
a number of years, when, experiencing a change of life, 
he resumed the study of theology, and was ordained 
pastor of the church at Medway, Mass., April 14, 1773. 
Mr. Sandford served a short time as chaplain in the 
army. In 1807 he suffered severely from a stroke of 
paralysis, and never resumed his public labors. He 
died April 7, 1810. His only printed production is Two 
Dissertations (1810); one on The Xature and Constitu- 
tion of the Law given to Adam, etc., the other on The 
Scene of Christ in the Garden, etc. — Sprague, A nnals of 
the Amer. Pulpit, ii, 48. 

Sandford, Peter P., D.D., a Methodist Episco- 
pal minister, was born of respectable parents in Lodi, 
N. J., Feb. 28, 1781. At eighteen years of age he was 
converted, and still earlier had begun to hold religious 
services among his neighbors. In 1807 he entered the 
Philadelphia Conference, and in 1810 he was trans- 
ferred to the New York Conference, in which he held 
some of the most important appointments till his death, 
Jan. 14, 1857. He “was a thorough divine, an able 
preacher, a judicious administrator of discipline, and an 
eminently honest Christian.” — Minutes of Annual Con- 
ferences, 1857, p. 320. 

Sandiadevi, in Hindi! mythology, was a daugh- 
ter of Brahma, to whom he gave birth from his own 
person, after having assumed a human form of extraor- 
dinary attractiveness, in order that he might people the 
world with gods. 

Sandini, Anthony, an Italian ecclesiastical histo- 
rian, was born June 31, 1692, and became, by the inter- 
est of his bishop, cardinal Rezzonieo (who was after- 
wards pope Clement XIII), librarian and professor of 
ecclesiastical history at Padua, where be died, Feb. 23, 
1751. lie is known principally by his Vitce Pontifcnm 
Romanorvm (Ferrara, 1748; reprinted under the title of 
Basis JJistoriie Ecclesiastics ). lie also wrote llistorice 


SANDOMIR AGREEMENT 


339 


SANDOMIR AGREEMENT 


Families Sacra : — Ilist. SS. Apostolorum : — Disputa - 
tiones XX ex. Hist. Eccles ., etc. : — and Dissertations in 
De fence of his Hist. Fam. Sac., which father Serry had 
attacked. 

Sandomir (also Sendomir) Agreement ( Con- 
sensus Sendomh’iensis'), an accommodation reached by 
the Protestant churches of Poland in 1570, at a synod 
held at Sandomir, now the capital of the government of 
Kadom, by which existing differences were composed 
and a fraternal union was established. 

The Protestantism of Poland was of three types : 1, 
the Lutheran, introduced from Germany, and taking 
root chiefly in what is now Prussian Poland ; 2, the 
Swiss, or Reformed, dating its introduction nearly to 
the same period as the Lutheran, and prevailing chiefly 
in Cracow and the surrounding country; and, 3. the 
Bohemian, brought in by refugees from the persecutions 
which raged in their native land. The language and 
customs of these refugees resembled those of the coun- 
try in which they sought a home, and their Church 
possessed further advantages in its compact organiza- 
tion, thorough government, and rich hymnology, by 
which it was enabled to make rapid advances. These 
successes gave rise to the first disagreements with which 
the Polish Reformation was troubled, and furnished ev- 
idence of a wide division between the Lutherans and 
the Bohemian churches, the former charging the Bohe- 
mian Brethren with erroneous teaching, particularly in 
respect to the doctrines of justification and the Lord’s 
supper, and with intentional neglect of scientific cult- 
ure; and the latter retorting with reflections upon the 
absence of Church discipline and of moral restraints 
among their opponents. The progress of the Reforma- 
tion in Strasburg in the meantime furnished the Breth- 
ren with an opportunity to enter into relations with 
other Protestant churches; and a delegation from Bo- 
hemia, appointed in 1540 for that purpose, having been 
favorably received by Bucer, Iledio, Capito, Calvin, and 
other Reformers, served to establish an intimacy of 
friendship between the respective leaders which was 
carefully cherished by the Bohemian Church. 

The necessity of conciliating the opposing parties was 
apparent. The machinations of Romanism threatened 
them with a common danger; and it became important, 
after 1551, to check the progress of the antitrinitarian 
movement headed by Laslius Socinus; and the efficient 
organization of the Bohemian congregations, together 
with the fact that many of the foremost personages in 
the state were at least their friends and patrons, indi- 
cated that a closer relation with them was essential to 
the stability and required for the defence of the Refor- 
mation. The earliest attempt of which we have au- 
thentic information was made by Felix Cruciger, a 
supporter of the Swiss Confession and evangelical su- 
perintendent in Little Poland, through the medium of 
discussions on the state of the Church with representa- 
tive Bohemians. A compromise was ultimately effected 
at the general Synod of Kozminek in 1555, by which 
the Bohemian Confession was adopted, the liturgy of 
the Bohemians to be introduced, and their consent to 
be obtained to any undertaking. This agreement se- 
cured the approval of many theologians of the Reformed 
confessions in other lands, and of such men as Paul Ver- 
gerins and Brenz among the Lutherans. But the pro- 
visions of Kozminek were not executed with energy. 
John a Lasko, the eminent Reformer, whose high birth 
and former services gave him an assured influence, re- 
turned from exile (December, 155G) and discouraged 
further effort; and when, towards the close of the year 
1557, opinions adverse to the proposed union were re- 
ceived from Calvin, Bullinger, Yiret, and others of the 
Swiss Reformers, the compromise fell to the ground, 
having effected nothing that was expected from it, and 
leaving behind it the additional complication of excited 
feelings between the Reformed and the Bohemian par- 
ties. 

To remedy this failure, Lasko now proposed that a 


colloquy be held in Moravia for the purpose of discuss- 
ing the objections raised against the Bohemian Confes- 
sion, and the Brethren readily agreed. Lcipnik was 
chosen as the place of meeting. Fifteen points were 
presented for discussion, bearing chiefly against the 
view of the Lord’s supper taught by the Bohemian 
Church, and against the constitution of the Church it- 
self, the latter presenting the more difficult problem to 
be solved. The constitution of the Bohemian Brother- 
hood had adopted the Romish principle of a clcrocracy. 
The government, of the churches was placed wholly in 
the hands of a regularly ordained and graded officiary ; 
and if the lay element was recognised in the fact that 
the clergy were required to depend for their support, in 
part, on secular occupations, this was counterbalanced 
by the imposition of celibacy on the priesthood, thus 
securing to persons of that class not only a distinctive 
character, but also an appearance of superior sanctity. 
To change the constitution of the Church in this respect 
was impossible without giving up the principle of an 
organization to which the Brotherhood owed its preser- 
vation in the most trying times of persecution. The 
requirement of celibacy from their priests was explained 
as a prudential measure dictated by the greater liability 
of that class to persecution ; but the exclusion of the 
laity from the government of the Church admitted of 
no explanation satisfachny to a people whose nobles 
had been leaders in the Reformation and guides in the 
subsequent progress of the Church. The Conference of 
Leipnik closed without having effected any material re- 
sult ; and when a renewed effort to secure the approval 
of the Bohemian Confession by the Swiss theologians, 
Calvin and Musculus in particular, had failed, it was 
evident that all but hope was lost. The Synod of 
Xions (September, 15G0), at which the Evangelical 
Church of Poland was constituted, did something, how- 
ever, to keep that hope alive by admitting delegates 
from the Bohemian fraternity to its deliberations, and 
by adopting ecclesiastical terms peculiar to that Church, 
such as senior and consenior , into the new constitution. 

In Great Poland, where Lutheranism predominated, 
the Melancthonian party, headed by the brothers Eras- 
mus and Nicholas Gliczner, put forth earnest efforts in 
behalf of Protestant fraternity. A synod at Posen (15G0), 
composed of representatives from the Evangelical and 
Bohemian churches, as well as of Lutherans, developed 
a plan of union which subsequently became the basis of 
the Sandomir Agreement. In the following year a dis- 
cussion of doctrinal differences took place at Buzenin, 
the Lutherans being scantily represented, which led to 
the translation into Polish of the revised Bohemian Con- 
fession, and its submission for the approval of the Evan- 
gelical party; and it was resolved that delegates from 
either section should attend all synods without a formal 
invitation. The progress of the Antitrinitarian move- 
ment, headed by Ladins Socinus, together with the 
incursion of Anabaptist refugees from Bohemia and 
Moravia, likewise promoted the interests of fraternity 
among the Evangelicals by threatening to sweep away 
entire congregations from the orthodox faith. The 
Cracow congregation, acting under the advice of Cal- 
vin and Bullinger, met the emergency by adopting the 
Swiss Confession and form of government (15G0), and 
was followed in this measure by most of the congrega- 
tions in Little Poland, so that from this time the Poles 
must be regarded as Calvinists: and even the Lutherans 
of Great Poland and Lithuania took similar action by 
the substantial adoption of the resolutions of Xions, at 
a synod at Gostyn, in June, 15G5, reserving only the 
teaching of the Augsburg Confession on the Lord’s sup- 
per, and certain ecclesiastical usages. 

The rigid Lutherans, whose leading representative 
was Benedict Morgenstern, resisted the union move- 
ment at every step, and profited by the organization of 
the Polish Lutheran Church by the synod of Gostyn to 
give the opposition a more definite and vigorous form ; 
but the matter having— apparently by an oversight on 


SANDOVAL 


340 


SANDWICH ISLANDS 


their part — been referred to the University of Witten- ! 
berg, a reply adverse to their purposes was received 
(Feb. 1508). which rendered futile further opposition. 
The nobles of the land, alarmed by the successes of Hu- 
manism, now linked the cessation of strife between the 
factions of Protestantism. Edicts from the throne, then 
occupied by the vacillating Sigismund Augustus, had 
pointed out the real unity of belief held by the conflict- 
ing parties bv exempting them from a proscription de- 
creed against sectaries; and when the diet of Lublin 
(1500), at which the union of Poland and Lithuania 
came to pass, convened, the evangelical nobles present 
decided that a synod should be called to prepare the 
way for establishing a national Evangelical Church. 
After a number of preliminary conferences had been 
held, the synod assembled at Sandomir, April 0, 1570, 
and continued its session until April 15. Various at- 
tempts to establish the confession of one party as the 
common faith were made and set aside, until a compro- 
mise was effected by which each party was pledged to 
maintain fraternal relations with the others, while guard- 
ing its own confession and independent Church life. 

The Sandomir Agreement was not a measure designed 
to secure identity of doctrinal teaching, but a provision 
to effect a practical comity of intercourse between sep- 
arate churches. It recognises the independence of the 
several churches, but removes the principal source of 
trouble — the doctrine of the Lord’s supper — from the 
central position given to it by Lutheran polemics by 
emphasizing the agreement of the different confessions { 
with respect to the leading doctrines of the faith. It 
provides that the ministry of either Church might con- 
duct the worship and administer the sacraments in con- ] 
gregations of the other churches, though under restric- 
tion;? intended to guard the usages and discipline of 
such congregations. It, binds the contracting parties 
to avoid controversy and strife, and to make common 
cause against Romanism, sectarianism, and all other 
forces hostile to the Gospel ; and it provides, in conclu- 
sion, that all important matters affecting the churches 
in Poland, Lithuania, and Samogitia should be regulat- 
ed in common, and that deputies from all the churches 
should attend the general synods held by anv one of 
them. A synod subsequently held (May 20, 1570), at 
Posen, and largely attended, took further measures to 
secure the practical operation of the Consensus Sendomi- 
riensis ; and the course of events from that time has 
proved that agreement as constitntingthe mostimportant 
fact in the history of the evangelical churches in Po- 
land. Some opposition to the compromise was mani- 
fested, and more or less uneasiness was betrayed from 
time to time; but the action of the general synod at 
Thorn, in 1595, in re-enacting the Sandomir resolutions, 
brought the dispute to a final settlement. 

See Friese, Ileitraye zur Ref.-Gesch. in Polen ?/. Li- 
thanen ; Fischer, Vers, finer Gesclt. der Ref. in Polen 
(Griitz, 1855); id. Kirchenyesch. des Koniyreichs Polen ; 
Gindelv, Pontes Rerum A ustrincaram ; id. Fontes Re- 
rum Historiacarum ; Lbscher, IFistoria Mot Hum; Ilart- 
knocli, Prenss. K li chen - l/istbrie ; Jahlouski, IFistoria 
Consensus Sendominensis ; Cosack, Paul S per at us* Leben 
u. Lieder (1801); Schnaase, Cesch. der evany. Kir eke 
Danziys (Dantzic, 1803); Eichliorn, Per ermldndische 
lihehof u. Cardinal Ilosius (Mnycnce, 1851); Wenger- 
seins, Slavonia Reformat u. Also J. G. Walch, l list . u. 
theol. Eiul. in die Rel.-St re ifiylre ifen ; Zorn, Hist, der 
zu’ischen den Inth. u. ref. Theoloyis yehultenen Colloipti - 
orttm ; Beck, Symbol. J Richer der evanyel.-ref. Kirche; 
Niemcyer. Collectio Confessionum, etc., pref. p. Ixx; 
Nitzsch, Urkundenbuch der evany. Union, etc. — Herzog, 
Reid- Fury Hop. s. v. 

Sandoval, Fuay Piu dkncio dic, a Spanish prel- 
ate and historian, was horn at Valladolid about 1500. He 
was a Benedictine monk, and was appointed historiog- 
rapher to Philip HI, who employed him to continue 
the general history of Ambrosio Morales, which ap- 
peared under ( lie title of IFistoria de los Reyes de Castilla 


y de Leon. Among his other works are a IFistoria de la 
} Ida y II echos del Emperudor Carlos 1 ’, which is esteemed 
a standard work and has been translated into English, 
and a Cronica del Emperador de Espaiia , Don A lonzo 
VII. Sandoval was made bishop of Tuy in 1608, and 
of Pampehma in 1012. He died at Pampeluna, March 
17, 1621. See Iloefer. Now. Bioy. Generate, s. v. 

Sands, Elisha, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was horn in the city of New York, 1830, 
and was converted under the ministry of R. S. Foster. 
He entered the New York East Conference, and labor- 
ed in Orient, Greenport, Brooklyn (York and Warren 
streets). Jamaica, and Patchogue. By diligent study and 
natural gifts, he became an eloquent, impressive, and 
useful minister. He died in Brooklyn, N. Y., in 1808. 
— Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1809, p. 98. 

Sandusky, John, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was born in Jefferson (now 
Marion) County, I\v., Jan. 11, 1798. His connection 
with the ministry extended over a period of nearly, if 
not quite, fifty years, and embraced a time of arduous 
labor and little compensation. II is death took place 
Oct. 15, 1874, at the house of his daughter, Catharine 
Logan, at which time Mr. Sandusky was a member of 
the Kentucky Conference. lie was a man of marked 
character — brave, unselfish, just, and generous, lie was 
master of the system of theology of the Church to which 
he belonged, clear and forcible in preaching, and greatly 
gifted in prayer. — Minutes of A nnual Conferences, M. E. 
Ch., South, 1875, p. 223. 

Sandwich Islands, or Hawaiian Islands, the 
most northerly cluster of the Polynesian Archipelago, 
containing twelve islands. The chain extends about 
300 miles from south-east to north-west, and lies in the 
Pacific Oeean between lat. 18° 55' and 22° 20' N., and 
long. 154° 55' and 100° 15' W. The largest island is 
Hawaii, containing 4040 square miles; but Oahu, more 
central and having a good harbor, is the seat of govern- 
ment and the commercial centre. The population of 
the islands was estimated by Cook at 400,000 — doubt- 
less an exaggeration. In 1832 the official census gave 
130,313, in l850, .84,165 ; in 1800, 69,800; and in 1872, 
50,899. This decrease is due to many causes, of which 
those now principally active may be traced to their con- 
tact with the whites. “Before missionary operations 
commenced, the people were, if not in the lowest state 
of barbarism in which men are ever found, yet certainly 
in a very low state of intellectual, social, and moral de- 
basement. With no written language; with no com- 
fortable dwellings; with very little clothing; with the 
family constitution in ruins, unmitigated licentiousness 
universal, and every wild passion indulged without re- 
straint; the people were ‘a nation of drunkards,’ with no 
laws or courts of justice. The people of all ranks were 
much under the influence. of superstitious fears, and their 
religion, in connection with the cruel rites of idol-wor- 
ship, was in a great measure a tabu system — i.e. a sys- 
tem of religious prohibitions and consecrations, which 
had extended itself very widely, and had become ex- 
ceedingly burdensome under the direction of kings and 
priests who use the system to accomplish their own 
purposes” (Newcomb). Vancouver, who arrived with 
Cook in 1778, and returned in 1792, and again in 1794, 
made sincere attempts to enlighten the natives. His 
instructions were not forgotten, and, by a spontaneous 
movement, the whole nation rose up to destroy their 
idols and temples (1819-1820). The first missionaries 
to these islands were from America — Hiram Bingham 
and Asa Thurston, of Andover Theological Seminary. 
They arris r ed at Kailua, April 4, 1820, only a short time 
after the decisive battle had been fought which had 
subdued the party supporting idolatry. In 1822 the 
language was reduced to writing, since which time 
more than 200 works, mostly educational and religious, 
have been published in Hawaiian. The total number 
of Protestant missionaries sent to the islands, clerical 


SANDYS 


341 


SAXGEIl 


and lay, including their wives, is 15C — at an expense, 
up to *1809, of $1,220,000. The whole number of per- 
sons admitted to the Hawaiian Protestant churches up 
to 1873, inclusive, was 67,792; and the total member- 
ship of the same churches in 1873 was 12,283. In 1826, 
John Alexius Aug. Bachelot w T as appointed apostolic pre- 
fect of the islands, and arrived at Honolulu, July 7, 1827, 
with two other priests and four laymen. They landed 
without permission from the authorities, and counte- 
nanced and encouraged those who became their adher- 
ents in various violations of the laws. The government 
at last (Dec., 1831) sent them away to California; but 
in 1839 the French government sent a frigate to Hono- 
lulu, and compelled Kamehameha III to declare the 
Catholic religion free to all. The whole number of the 
Catholic population of the islands in 1872 was stated to 
be 23,000 — probably an exaggeration. An English lie- 
formed Catholic mission was sc*ut out in 1862, and met 
with favor from Kamehameha V. An Anglican bishop 
of Hawaii was appointed, who remained until 1870. 
Since his return in that year the interest in the mission 
has decreased and its success is small. See Appleton's Few 
A mer. Cyclop, s. v. ; Newcomb, Cyclop, of A fissions, s. v. 

Sandys (or Sandes), Edwin, D.D., an English 
prelate. He was born at Ilawkshead, Lancashire, Eng- 
land, in 1519, and educated at St.John’s College, Cam- 
bridge, w here he became influenced in favor of the Ref- 
ormation. lie was junior proctor of the university in 
1542, w r as elected master of Catharine Hall in 1547, 
and w r as about the same time vicar of llaversham, 
Bucks; made doctor of divinity and prebend of the Ca- 
thedral of Peterborough in 1548, and of Carlisle in 1552; 
vice-chancellor of Cambridge in 1553. Having espoused 
the cause of Lady Jane Grey, he was thrown into the 
Tower in 1553, and remained there twenty-nine weeks. 
He escaped and tied to the Continent in 1554, On the 
death of Mary, he returned to England, and w r as ap- 
pointed by Elizabeth one of the nine Protestant divines 
who were to hold a disputation before both houses of 
Parliament with the same number of the Romish per- 
suasion. He w as made bishop of Worcester in 1559, of 
London in 1570, and archbishop of York in 1576. He 
died July 10, 1588. He wrote Sermons on Various Oc- 
casions (Loud. 1585, 4to; 1616, 4to; Cambridge, 1841, 
8vo). He assisted in the translation of the Scriptures 
known as the “ Bishop’s Bible,” and was one of the com- 
missioners appointed to revise the Liturgy. See Whit- 
aker, Life of Edwin Sandy s ; Allibone, Diet. Brit, and 
A mer. A uthors , s. v. 

Sandys, Edwin, Sir, son of archbishop Sandys, 
■was born at. Worcestershire about 1561. He was edu- 
cated, under Hooker, at Corpus Christi College, Oxford; 
made probationer fellow in 1579, and prebendary of 
York in 1581. Having supported the succession of 
James I, he w F as knighted bv that monarch in 1603. 
lie was an influential member of the second London 
Company for Virginia, and w r as its treasurer in 1619; 
but Spanish influence w r as exerted against him, and in 
1620 king James forbade his re-election, lie was the 
author of a w r ork entitled Europee Speculum , or a View 
on Survey of the State of Religion in the Western Part 
of the World , etc. (1605, 4to, with numerous later edi- 
tions) : — The Sacred Hymns , consisting of Fifty Select 
Psalms of David , etc. (1615, 4to). It is uncertain 
whether this version was performed by Sir Edwin or 
by some other of the same name (Wood, A then. Oxon. 
[Bliss’s ed.], ii, 474). See Allibone, Diet. Brit, and A mer. 
A uthors , s. v. ; A ppleton’s Cyclop, s. v. 

Sandys, George, an Oriental traveller, w'as the 
seventh and youngest son of archbishop Sandys, and 
was horn at Bishopsthorpe in 1577. He entered St. 
Mary’s Hall, Oxford, and travelled in the East from 
1610 till 1612. In 1621 he succeeded his brother as co- 
lonial treasurer of Virginia, and while in that colony 
completed his translation of the Afetamorphoses of Ovid. 
Returning to England in 1624, he was appointed a gen- 


tleman of the king’s privy chamber. lie died at Bex- 
ley Abbey, Kent, the residence of his niece, Lady Mar- 
garet Wyatt, in 1644. 

San Erdeiil, in Lamaism, is one of the seven sa- 
cred objects which are placed before the idols in the 
temples of the Mongols, Kalmucks, and Thibetans. It 
represents a white elephant, an animal regarded with 
the utmost veneration by those peoples, insomuch that 
the loftiest title of the sovereigns of Birmah, China, and 
India (the former “Great Mogul”) is “lord of the white 
elephant,” and bloody w'ars have been waged to se- 
cure it as an exclusive right.— Vollmer, Worterb. d.My- 
thol. s. v. 

Sanford, David, a Congregational minister, was 
born at New Milford, Conn., in 1737, and graduated at 
\ale College in 1755. lie was ordained pastor of the 
Church at Medway, Mass., in 1773, which connection he 
retained until his death in 1810. He published, On the 
Future and Constitution of the Law given to Adam in 
Paradise: — On the Scene of Christ in the Garden of 
Gethsenuine (Boston, 1810, 8vo). 

Sanford, Hiram, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Cheshire, Conn., Feb. 
27, 1805. 1 1 is parents removed to Homer, N. Y., w hile 

he was a child. While quite young, he professed con- 
version and united with the Church. After about eight 
years spent in teaching and studying in Buffalo, he 
joined the Genesee Conference Oct. 14, 1835. He be- 
came supernumerary in 1851, and remained in this re- 
lation until 1854, when he was superannuated, and so 
continued until his death, which occurred in Phelps, 
May 16, 1865. Mr. Sanford was modest, very industri- 
ous, and faithful in every place he occupied. — Minutes 
of Annual Coif 1865, p. 240. 

Sanford, Joseph, a Presbyterian minister, was born 
in Vernon, Vt., Feb. 6, 1797. He became a communi- 
cant in the Church at the age of thirteen; pursued part 
of his preparatory course at Granville, Washington Coun- 
ty, N. Y., and part at Ballston, Saratoga County, N. Y. ; 
graduated at Union College in 1820, and at Princeton 
Theological Seminary, N. J., in 1823; was licensed by 
the Presbytery of New York in April, 1823; was pastor 
of the First Presbyterian Church. Brooklyn, L. L. from 
1823 till 1828, and of the Second Presbyterian Church, 
Philadelphia, from 1828 until his death, Dec. 25, 1831. 
Mr. Sanford’s only publication was a Farewell Sermon , 
delivered at. Brooklyn in 1829 (8vo). He w’as a model 
pastor and a most effective preacher. See Memoirs of 
Joseph Sanford, by the Rev. Robert Baird (Phila. 1836, 
12mo); Sprague, Annals of the A mer. Pulpit, iv, 655; 
Allibone, Diet. Brit, and A mer. A uthors , s. v. (J. L. S.) 

Sanga, a name given to the sacred pilgrimage of 
Isje, a central province of Japan. In Isje is t lie grand 
Mia, or temple of Tensio-Dai-Dsin , which is the model 
after which all the other temples are built. To this 
place the religious scot of the Siutoists requires each of 
its adherents to make a pilgrimage once a year, or at 
least once in their life. 

Sangallensis, Codex. See Gall (St.) MS. 

Sangarius (Soyyoptoc), a river-god, is described 
as the son of Ocean us and Tethys, and as the father of 
Ilecube. The river Sangarius (in Phrygia) itself is said 
to have derived its name from one Sangas, who had of- 
fended Rhea, and was punished by her by being changed 
into water. — Smith, Diet. Gr. and Bom. Mythol. s. v. 

Sanger, Zedekiah. D.I)., a Unitarian Congrega- 
tional minister, w-as horn at Sherburne, Mass., Oct. 4, 
1748; entered Cambridge July, 1767, and graduated 
with high honors in 1771, His theological studies were 
pursued under the direction of Rev. Jason Haven, of 
Dedham. On July 3, 177G, he was ordained and in- 
stalled pastor of the church in Duxbiirv. He resigned 
his charge in April, 1786, on account of impaired eye- 
sight, and engaged in secular pursuits for two or three 
years. On Dec. 17, 1788, he was installed as the col- 


SANGIIA 


342 


SANHEDRIM 


league of Rev. John Shaw. South Bridgewater, where 
he spent the rest of his days. He received the degree 
of I).D. from Brown University in 1807. He died, after 
a short illness, Nov. 17, 1820. His published works are 
live Ordination Sermons (1792-1812). — Sprague, A mails 
of the A mer. Pulpit , viii, 99. 

Sangha, an assembly or chapter of Buddhist priests. 

San-Gimignano, Vincenzo da, an Italian paint- 
er, was born in Tuscany, and flourished during the ear- 
lier part of the 10th century. He was one of the pupils 
of Raphael, who esteemed him very highly for the soft- 
ness of his coloring and the beautiful paintings in wax 
with which he ornamented the facades of several pal- 
aces. During the sack of Rome in 1527, Vincenzo fled 
to San-Gimignano, having lost almost all his works and 
•designs. He lived only a short time after this misfort- 
une. His works are very rare, one being in the Mu- 
seum at Dresden — a Madonna ivith the Infant Jesus and 
St.John. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

San-Giorgio, Gianantonto dt, an Italian prelate, 
was born at Milan in 1439. Having completed his 
studies at the University of Pavia, he opened a school 
of canonical law in that city, but at the end of six years 
returned to Milan. He there became a member of the 
College of Jurists, afterwards provost, of the basilica of 
St. Ambrose, and in 1479 was made bishop of Alexandria. 
In 1493 Alexander VI bestowed upon him the cardinal’s 
hat, and transferred him in turn to Parma, Frascati, Al- 
bano, and Sabina. This prelate was employed by the 
popes in various negotiations, and was a man of prudence 
and great learning. He died at Rome, March 14, 1509. 
He published several works, as Commentaria super 
quarto Decretalinm: — Be Appellationibus : — Be Usibus 
Feudornm : — Lecture super Becretales.—YAoofev, Nour. 
Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Sangra, in Ilindii mythology, was a daughter of 
Wiswakarma and wife of the Sun-god, who caused his 
long and shining hair to be clipped from his head in 
order that Sangra, who could not endure their brilliant 
light, might remain with him. 

Sangrid, in Norse mythology, was one of theAVal- 
kures, or messengers of Odin, who elect the warriors to 
be slain in battle. 

Sanhedrim (Hebraized [see Bnxtorf, Lex. Chat.- 
Talm. s. v.] Sanhedrin , ‘)" l “nn3D, from the Greek Syn- 
edrium, (Tindcpiov, as in the New Test. [Matt, v, 22; 
xxvi, 59; Mark xiv, 55; xv, 1 ; Luke xxii, 66; John 
xi. 47 ; Acts iv, 15; v, 21, 27, 34; vi, 12, 15; xxii, 30; 
xxiii, 1, 6, 15, 20, 28 ; xxiv, 20], and Josephus [Life, xii; 
A 7it. xiv, 9, 3 ] ; apocopated "i- [“Ifl 30, plural r'^-Hnzo), 
the supreme council of the Jewish nation in and before 
the time of Christ. In the Mishna it is also styled 
r-'S, Beth-Din, “ house of judgment;” and in the 
Apocrypha and New Test, the appellations yepovaia, 
senate, and TTpeafiorepiov, presbytery , seem also to be 
applied to it (comp. 2 Macc. i, 10; Acts v, 21; xxii, 5; 
1 Macc. vii, 33; xii, 35, etc.). As there were two kinds 
of Synedria, viz. the supreme or metropolitan Sanhe- 
drim, called nViia the Great Sanhedrim 

(Mishna, Sanhedrin, i. 5), ami provincial councils called 

— the Small Sanhedrim (ibid.') — -differing 
in constitution and jurisdiction from each other — we 
shall describe their respective organizations and func- 
tions separately, and close with an account of their 
history (basing our statements chiefly on Giusburg’s 
article in Kitto’s Cyclopedia). 

I. The Great Sanhedrim, or Supreme Council . — 1. 
Number of Members and their Classification. — The 
Great Sanhedrim, or the supreme court of justice (r^S 
b'nan ‘p'H) as it is called (Mishna, f/orajoth , i, 5; San- 
hedrin, xi, 4), or Kar pH r"3, the court of jus- 

tice, the judgment-half, because it was the highest eccle- 
siastical and civil tribunal, consisted of seventy-one 


members (Mishna, Sa7ihedrin, ii, 4 ; Shebuoth, ii, 2). This 
is the nearly unanimous opinion of the Jews as given 
in the Mishna (Sanhedrin, i, 6): “The Great San- 
hedrim consisted of seventy-one judges. How is this 
proved? From Numb, xi, 16, where it is said, ‘Gather 
unto me seventy men of the elders of Israel.’ To these 
add Moses, and we have seventy-one. Nevertheless, 
R. Judah says there were seventy.” The same differ- 
ence made by the addition or exclusion of Moses ap- 
pears in the works of Christian waiters, which accounts 
for the variation in the books between seventy and 
seventy-one. Baronius, however (.4c/ Ann. 31, § 10), 
and many other Roman Catholic writers, together with 
not a few 7 Protestants, as Drusius, Grotius, Prideaux, 
Jahn, Bretschneider, etc., hold that the true number 
w’as seventy-two, on the ground that Eldad and Medad, 
on whom it is expressly said the Spirit rested (Numb, 
xi, 26), remained in the camp, and should be added to 
the seventy (see Hartmann, Yerbindung des A . T. p. 182 ; 
Selden, Be Synedr. lib. ii, cap. iv.). 

These members represented three classes of the na- 
tion, viz. («) The priests, who were represented by 
their chiefs, called in the Bible the chief pi'iests PwXI 
= TrdvTtQ ol ap\tepe 7c), of wfliom there 
were most probably four-and-twenty (1 Chron. xxiv, 4, 
6; with Matt, xxvii, 1 ; John vii, 32; xi, 47 ; xii, 10). 
(6) The elders, D“'3)2T — 7rp€cr/3t'r€poj (Matt, xvi, 21 ; 
xxi, 23; xxvi, 3, 47, 57, 59; xxvii, 1, 3, 12, 20. 41; 
xxviii, 12; Mark viii, 31; xi, 27 ; xiv, 43, 53; Luke ix, 
22; xx, 1; xxii, 52; John viii, 9; Acts iv, 5,23; vi, 
12; xxiii, 14; xxv, 15); also called the eldei'S of the 
people (dpxoi'reg rov Xaov, Acts iv, S. with ver. 5), be- 
cause they were the heads of the families and tribes of 
the people, for which reason 7rpe<yfiur6poi and (ipyorreg 
are also svnecdochically used for fSovX)) and (rmdcpiov 
(Luke xxiii, 13; xxiv, 20; Acts iii, 17, etc.); these 
elders, who most probably were also twenty-four in 
number (Rev. iv, 4), were the representatives of the laity, 
or the people generally, (c) The scribes (q. v.) or 
lawyers (CHS'O = ypappareiif), who, as the inter- 
preters of the law in ecclesiastical and civil matters, 
represented that particular portion of the community 
which consisted of the literary laity, and most probably 
were twentv-tvvo in number. As the chief priests, el- 
ders, and scribes constituted the supreme court, these 
three classes are frequently employed in the New Test, 
as a periphrasis for the word Sanhedrim (Matt, xxvi, 3, 
57, 59; xxvii, 41 ; Mark viii, 31 ; xi, 27 ; xiv, 43, 53; 
xv, l; Luke ix, 22; xx, 1; xxii, 66; Acts v, 21 ; vi. 
12; xxii, 30; xxv, 15); while John, who does not. at 
all mention the Sadducees, uses the term Pharisees to 
denote the Sanhedrim (i, 24; iv, 1; viii, 3; xi, 46, 
etc.). 

2. Qualification and Recognition of J\ [embers. — The 
qualifications for membership were both very minute 
and very numerous. The applicant had to be morally 
and physically blameless. lie had to be middle-aged, 
tall, good-looking, wealthy, learned (both in the divine 
law and diverse branches of profane science, such as med- 
icine, mathematics, astronomy, magic, idolatry, etc.), in 
order that he might be able to judge in these matters, 
lie was required to know several languages, so that the 
Sanhedrim might not be dependent upon an interpreter 
in ease any foreigner or foreign question came before 
them (Menaehoth, 65 a; Sanhedrin, 17 a; Maimonides, 
lad Ila-Chezaka, llilchoth Sanhedrin , ii, 1-8). Very 
old persons, proselytes, eunuchs, and Nethinim were in- 
eligible because of their idiosyncrasies; nor could such 
candidates be. elected as had no children, because they 
could not sympathize with domestic affairs (Mishna, 
I I or a jot h, i, 4; Sanhedrin , 36 b); nor those who could 
not. prove that they were the legitimate offspring of a 
priest, Lcvite, or Israelite, who played dice, lent money 
on usury, Hew pigeons to entice others, or dealt in prod- 
uce of the Sabbatical year (Mishna, Sanhedrin, iii, 3). 


SANHEDRIM 


343 


SANHEDRIM 


In addition to all these qualifications, a candidate for 
the Great Sanhedrim was required, first of all, to have 
been a judge in his native town; to have been trans- 
ferred from there to the Small Sanhedrim, which sat at 
the Temple mount or at its entrance (P n ZH PH or 
r^ZPl -n PIPS), thence again to have been advanced 
to the second Small Sanhedrim, which sat at the en- 
trance of the Temple hall (PHTPH nr S or b^n), before 
he could be received as member of the seveutv-one 
{Sanhedrin, 32 a, 88 b; Maimonides, lad Ua-Chezaku , 
I lilchoth Sanhedrin , ii, 8). 

The ordination took place when the candidate was 
first appointed judge in his native place, in olden 
days every ordained teacher could ordain his disciples; 
afterwards, however, the sages conferred this honor 
upon Hillel 1, B.C. 30; it was then decreed that no one 
should be ordained without the permission of the presi- 
dent of the Sanhedrim (X^’wJ); that the president and 
the vice-president should not ordain in the absence of 
each other, but that both should be present ; and that 
any other member may ordain with the permission of 
the president and the assistance of two lion-ordained 
persons, as no ordination was valid if it was effected by 
less than three persons (Mishna, Sanhedrin , i, 3). The 
ordination was effected, not by the laving-on of hands 
on the. head of the elder, but by their calling him rabbi, 
and saying to him, “Behold, thou art ordained, and hast 
authority to judge even cases which involve pecuniary 
fines” (Maimonides, ibid, iv, 1-4). 

The Sanhedrim was presided over by a president 
called Nasi (SOw-) — prince , patriarch , and a vice- 
president styled PP3 ZX, the father of the house 
of judgment. The power of electing these high officials 
was vested in the corporate assembly of members, who 
conferred these honors upon those of their number who 
were most distinguished for wisdom and piety. The 
king was the only one disqualified for the presidential 
throne, because according to the Jewish law it is for- 
bidden to differ from him or to contradict his state- 
ment ; but the high-priest might be elected patriarch 
provided he had the necessary qualifications ( Sanhe- 
drin . , 18 b; Maimonides, lad 11a -Chezaka, llilchoth 
Sanhedrin , ii, 3). After the death of Hillel 1, however, 
the presidency became hereditary in his family for thir- 
teen generations. See Hillel I. The functions of the 
Nasi or the patriarch were more especially external. 
Being second to the king, the Nasi represented the 
civil and religious interests of the Jewish nation before 
the Koman government abroad, ami before the different 
Jewish congregations at home; while in the Sanhedrim 
itself he was simply the reciting and first teacher. The 
vice-president, on the other hand, had his sphere of 
labor more especially within the Sanhedrim. It was 
his office to lead and control their discussions on dis- 
puted points ; hence his appellation, “ father of the 
house of judgment.” Next to the vice-president, or the 
third in rank in the Sanhedrim, was the Czn, sage, 
referee , whose office it was to hear and examine the 
pending subject in all its bearings, and then to bring it 
before the court for discussion. This dignitary we first 
meet with under the presidency of Gamaliel II, the 
teacher of the apostle Paul [see Gamaliel], and his 
son Simon 11 {llorajoth, 13; Tosephta Sanhedrin, cap. 
vii ; Frankel, Monutsschrift , i, 318). Besides these high 
functionaries, there were sundry servants not members 
of the seventy-one, such as two judges’ scribes (“ 1 P£'iO 
■ppnn), or notaries , one of whom registered the rea- 
sons for acquittal, and the other the reasons for con- 
demnation (Mishna, Sanhedrin , iv, 3) ; and other menial 
officials, denominated I"PZ “'ZJ’C'Z' = v 7 np 

plrtjc, 7rpdicTiup (Matt, v, 25; xxvi, 58; Mark xiv, 54, 
G5; Luke xii, 58; John vii, 32, 45; xviii, 3, 12, 18, 22; 
xix, G; Acts v, 22, 2G; xxiii, 2, etc.). 


3. Place, Time, and Order in tchich the Sessions were 
held. — There seems not to have been any prescribed 
place for holding the sessions in the early part of the 
Sanhedrim’s existence. In all probability they were 
held in some place adjoining the Temple, as the neigh- 
borhood of the sanctuary was deemed specially appro- 
priate for the solemn assemblies which had to decide 
upon the most momentous questions affecting life and 
death, time and eternity. It was Simon ben-Shetach 
(B.C. 1 10-G5) who built the Hull of Squares (PZZ‘b 
r^H), or, more briefly, the Gazith (P^TS), where 
both the Sanhedrim and the priests permanently held 
their meetings. This basilica, the floor of which was 
made of hewn square stones — whence its name ( Yoma . 
25 a) — was situated in the centre of the south side of 
the Temple court, the northern part extending to the 
court of the priests (ZHp), and the southern part to 
the court of the Israelites (bin); it was thus lying be- 
tween these two courts, and had doors into both of them 
(Mishna, Sanhedrin, xi, 2 ; Pea, iii, G ; Middot h, v, 3, 4 ; 
llerzfeld, Geschichte des Volkes Israel, i, 304 sq. ; Jost, 
Geschichte des Judenthums , i, 145, 275). .See Temple. 
This hall henceforth became the prescribed court for 
the sessions of the Sanhedrim. The assembling of 
the Sanhedrim in the high-priest’s house was illegal. 
Equally illegal was the assumption of the presidency 
by this sacerdotal functionary over this supreme court 
recorded in the New Test. (Matt, xxvi, 3: Acts v, 21, 
27 ; xxiii, 2), as Gamaliel I was then the legitimate 
president ( Pesachim , 88 b). When it is remembered 
that this sacred office was at that time venial, and that 
the high-priest was the creature of the Homans, this 
priestly arrogance will not be matter of surprise. “For- 
ty years before the destruction of the Temple [i.e. while 
the Saviour was teaching in Palestine], the sessions of 
the Sanhedrim were removed from the Hall of Squares 
to the Halls of Purchase” {Sabbath, 15 a; Aboda Sara , 
8 b), on the east, side of the Temple mount. 

The Sanhedrim sat every day from the termination 
of the daily morning sacrifice till the daily evening sac- 
rifice, with the exception of the Sabbath and festivals, 
when they retired to the synagogue on the Temple 
mount and delivered lectures {Sanhedrin, 88 b; Mai- 
monides, lad JJa-Chezaka, llilchoth Sanhedrin, iii, 1). 
The order in which they sat was as follows: the presi- 
dent (X"'Z'2) sat in an elevated seat ; on his right hand 
sat the vice-president (“pi P^Z ZX), and at his left 
the chaka.ni (ZZn), or referee; while the members, 
seated on low cushions, with their knees bent and crossed 
in the Oriental fashion, were arranged, according to 
their age and learning, in a semicircle, so that they 
could see each other, and all of them be seen by the 
president and vice-president. The two notaries stood 
before them, one to the right and the other to the left. 
Before them sat three rows of disciples ( , 'T“ 1 Z?r) 
Z-'pzn), in places appropriate to their respective at- 
tainments. From the first of these rows the ranks of 
the judges were always filled up. When those of the 
second row took their seat in the first, those of the 
third took the seats of the second, while members of 
the congregation generally were selected to fill the 
lowest places vacated in the third row (Mishna, Sanhe- 
drin, iii, 3, 4; Maimonides, ibid, i, 3). Under ordinary 
circumstances all the seventy-one members were not 
required to be present in their seats, so that most of 
them could attend to their business, since twenty-three 
members formed a quorum. Less than this number 
during any part of the session was illegal; hence before 
one could go out he was obliged to look round in order 
to ascertain that there was the legal quorum without, 
him {Sanhedrin, 88 b; Tosephta Shekalim, at the end; 
Maimonides, llilchoth Sanhedrin , iii, 2). 

4. Jurisdiction of the Sanhedrim. — Being both legis- 
lative and administrative, the functions of the Sanhe- 
drim in the theocracy extended to the institution of or- 


SANHEDRIM 


344 


SANHEDRIM 



The Great Sanhedrim (according to Lamy). 


(finances and the definition of disputed points in ecclesi- 
astical matters, as well as to the adjudication of ecclesi- 
astical and secular questions, including even political 
matters. The tribunal had, in the first place, to inter- 
pret the divine law, and to determine the extension or 
limitation of its sundry enactments, inasmuch as the 
members of the Sanhedrim were not only the most 
skilled in the written word of God, but were the hearers 
of the oral law which was transmitted to them bv their 
predecessors, and which they again in succession handed 
down to the other members of this body. Tims the 
Sanhedrim had (a) to watch over the purity and legal- 
ity of the priests who ministered in holy things. For 
this purpose they appointed trustworthy persons to keep j 
family registers (’|“ , Cn : P “ 2 0,yenealoyies') of the priests 
in Egypt, I’abylon, and in all places where the Jews re- 
sided, stating the names, and giving all the particulars 
both of the head of the family and all his male descend- I 
ants, and to supply every priest with such a document 
attested hv the Sanhedrim, inasmuch as those priests 
who could not prove that they were not the issue of 
proscribed marriages were disqualified for ministering in 
holy things, and were ordered to divest themselves of 
their sacerdotal robes and put on mourning (Mishna, 
Sanhedrin, i, 5; M iddoth. v, 4; liechnro/h. 45 a; To- 
sephta ( 'hat/ iff a, cap. ii; Josephus, Cont. A pi on. i, 7). 
(b) To try cases of unchastity on the part of priests’ 
daughters, and married women who were accused hv 
their husbands of infidelity, which were questions of life 
and death (Mishna, Sofa , i, 4: Sanhedrin , 5*2 a), (r) 

To watch over the religious life of the nation, and to 
try any tribe which was accused of having departed | 
from the living God to serve idols (ibid, i, 5). (d) To j 
bring to trial false prophets or any heretic who pro- I 
mulgatcd doctrines contrary to the tenets of the scribes j 
or the Sanhedrim “Such a one is j 

not to he executed by the tribunal of his native place, 
nor l>v the tribunal at Jahne, hut by the supreme court 
of Jerusalem ; he is to be kept till the forthcoming fes- i 
tival, and to be executed on the festival as it is written , 


J (Deut. xvii, 13). “and all the people shall hear and fear, 
1 and do no more presumptuously” (Mishna, Sanhedrin , 
! xi, 3, 4; comp, also Matt, xxvi, 65; xxvii, 63; Jolm 
xix, 7 ; Acts iv. 2: v. 28; vi, 13). In accordance with 
this is the remark of our Savionr, “It cannot be that a 
prophet perish out of Jerusalem” (Luke xiii, 33, with 
Josephus, Ant. xiv. 9, 3). (e) To see that neither the 

! king nor the high-priest should act contrary to the law 
J of God. Thus the Talmud tells us that Alexander Jan- 
I mens was summoned before the Sanhedrim to witness 
[ the trial of his servant, who had committed murder 
(H.C. 80), under the presidency of Simon ben-Shetach 
( Sanhedrin , 19 a), and we know that Herod had to ap- 
pear before this tribunal to answer for his conduct (Jo- 
sephus, Ant. xiv, 9, 4). (f) To determine whether a 

war with any nation contemplated by the king is to he 
waged, and to give the sovereign permission to do so 
{Sanhedrin, i, 5; ii, 4). (y) To decide whether the 

boundaries of the holy city or the precincts of the Tem- 
ple are to be enlarged, inasmuch as it was only by the 
decision of the Sanhedrim that these additions could be 
j included in the consecrated ground (ibid, i, 5; Shebuoth , 
14 a), (h) To appoint the provincial Sanhedrim, or 

j courts of justice ( Sanhedrin , i, 5; Gemara, ibid. 63 b; 

Tosephta Sanhedrin , cap. vii; ibid. Chayiya , cap. ii ; 

! Jerusalem Sanhedrin, i, 19 b). (?) To regulate the cal- 

endar and harmonize the solar with the lunar year by 
, appointing intercalary days ( Sanhedrin , 10 b). This 
jurisdiction of the Sanhedrim was recognised by all the 
Jews both in Palestine and in foreign lands (Acts ix,2; 
xxvi, 10; with Mishna. J tanoth, vi, 10; Tosephta San- 
hedrin, cap. vii; Chayiya, cap. ii). Thereby this su- 
preme court secured unity of faith and uniformity of 
practice. 

5. M ode of Conductiny Trials, Punishments, etc. — The 
humane and benevolent feelings of the rulers towards 
the people whom they represented were especially seen 
in their administration of the law. They always acted 
upon the principle that the accused was innocent till he 
could he. proved guilty. Hence they always manifested 
an anxiety, in their mode of conducting the trial, to clear 
the arraigned rather than secure his condemnation, es- 


SAXIIEDKIM 


345 


SANHEDRIM 


peeially in matters of life and death. Their axiom was 
that “the Sanhedrim is to save, not to destroy life” 

(, Sanhedrin , 42 b). Henee no man could be tried and 
condemned in his absence (John vii, 51) ; and when the 
accused was brought before the tribunal, the president 
of the Sanhedrim at the very outset of the trial solemn- 
ly admonished the witnesses, pointing out to them the 
preciousness of human life, and earnestly beseeching 
them carefully and calmly to reflect whether they had 
not overlooked some circumstances which might favor 
the innocence of the accused {Sanhedrin, 37 a). Even 
the attendants were allowed to take part in the discus- 
sion, if a mild sentence could thereby be procured ; while 
those members of the Sanhedrim who, during the debate, 
once expressed themselves in favor of acquitting the ac- 
cused, could not any more give their votes for his con- 
demnation at the end of the trial. The taking of the 
votes always began from the junior member and grad- 
ually went on to the senior, in order that the lowest 
members might not be influenced by the opinion of the 
highest (ibid. 32 a). In capital offences, it required a 
majority of at least two to condemn the accused; and 
when the trial was before a quorum of twenty-three, or 
before the S/nall Sanhedrim , which consisted of this 
number, thirteen members had to declare for the guilt 
(Mishna, Sanhedrin , iv, 1 ; Gemara, ibid. 2 a, 40 a). In 
trials of capital offences, the verdict of acquittal could 
be given on the same day, but that o f guilty had to be 
reserved for the following day, for which reason such 
trials could not commence on the day preceding the 
Sabbath or a festival. No criminal trial could be car- 
ried through in the night (Mishna, ibid, iv, 1; Gemara, 
ibid. 32). The judges who condemned a criminal to 
death had to fast all day ( Sanhedrin , 63 a). The con- 
demned was not executed the same day on which the 
sentence was passed ; but the votes pro and con having 
been taken by the two notaries, the members of the 
►Sanhedrim assembled together on the following day to 
examine the discussion, and to see whether there was 
any contradiction on the part of the judges (Mishna, 
Sanhedrin, iv, 1 ; Gemara, ibid. 39 a). If on the way to 
execution the criminal remembered that he had some- 
thing fresh to adduce in his favor, he was led back to 
the tribunal, and the validity of his statement was ex- 
amined. If he himself could say nothing more, a her- 
ald preceded him as he was led to the place of execu- 
tion, and exclaimed, “A, son of B, has been found guilty 
of death, because he committed such and such a crime 
according to the testimony of C and I) ; if any one knows 
anything to clear him, let him come forward and de- 
clare it” (Mishna, ibid, vi, 1). Clemency and human- 
ity, however, were manifested towards him even when 
his criminality was beyond the shadow of a doubt, and 
when the law had to take its flnal course. Before his 
execution, a stupefying beverage was administered to 
the condemned by pious women to deprive him of con- 
sciousness and lessen the pain ( Sanhedrin , 43 a, with 
Matt, xxvii, 43; INI ark xv, 23, 36; Luke xxiii, 36; 
John xix, 29, 30). The property of the executed was 
not confiscated, but passed over to his heirs {Sanhe- 
drin, 48 b). The only exception to this leniency was 
one who gave himself out as the Messiah, or who led 
the people astray from the doctrines of their fathers 
(rPTEI r n O’0 = 7r/\«i'ota; ; Matt, xxvii, 63 ; Luke xiii, 
33; Acts iv, 2; v, 28). Such a one had to endure all 
the rigors of the law without any mitigation {Sanhe- 
drin, 36 b, 67 a), lie could even be tried and con- 
demned the same day or in the night {Tosei^hta Sanhe- 
drin, x ; Matt, xxvii, 1, 2). 

As to the different punishments which the Sanhe- 
drim had the power to inflict, though they were com- 
mensurate with the gravity of the offences which fell , 
within their jurisdiction to try, and embraced both cor- ' 
poral (Acts v, 40; Mishna, Manoth , iii, l-5) % and capi- ' 
tal punishments, yet even this supreme court was re- 
stricted to four modes of taking life — viz. by stoning, I 


burning, beheading, and strangling l“lb^pO 

p:m :~n). These four modes of execution were the 
only legal ones among the Jews from time immemorial 
(Mislma, Sanhedrin, vii, 1), and could be inflicted either 
by the Great Sanhedrim or by the Small Sanhedrim. 
According to the Gospel of John, however, the Jews de- 
clare o vk tZeoTiv (nroKTtivai ovdeva), “It is not 

lawful lor us to put anv man to death” (xviii, 31), 
which agrees with the remark in the Jerusalem Talmud 
that “forty years before the destruction of the Temple 
the power of inflicting capital punishment was taken 
away from Israel” {Sanhedrin, i, beginning; vii, 2, 
p. 24). But this simply means that without the con- 
tinuation of the sentence on the part of the Homan proc- 
urator, the Jews had not the power to carry the sen- 
tence of the Sanhedrim into execution. This is not 
only confirmed by Josephus, who tells us that the Phar- 
isees complained to the procurator Albinos about the 
assumption to execute capital punishment on the part 
of the Sadduea?an high-priest (Aw/, xx, 9, 1), but by the 
appeal of Paul to the chief captain (Acts xxii, 25-30), 
and especially bv the whole manner in which the trial 
of Jesus was conducted. The stoning of Stephen (vii, 
54, etc.) was the illegal act of an enraged multitude, as 
Josephus {Ant. xx, 9, 1) expressly declares the execu- 
tion ofthe apostle James during the absence of the proc- 
urator to have been. 

II. The Small Sanhedrim. — 1. Members, Constitution , 
etc. — This judicial eourt consisted of twenty- three 
members, who were appointed by the Great Sanhedrim 
( Mishna, Sanhedrin, i. 5, 6), and a president (fcAsvs, 
excellency ) as their head {ibid, i, 6; llorajoth. 4 b). 
They had the power not only to judge civil cases, but 
also such capital offences as did not come within the 
jurisdiction ofthe supreme eourt (Mishna, Sanhedrin, 
i, 4; iv, 1). Such provincial courts were appointed in 
every town or village which hpd no less than 120 rep- 
resentative men (‘pT’ , '2~ , £) — i. e. twenty- three judges, 
three ranks of disciples of twenty-three persons each 
(—sixty-nine), ten constant attendants in the synagogue 
(nODzn bia mrr ), two judges’ nota- 

ries, the one to write down the arguments for and the 
other the arguments against the accused's innocence; 
two eourt servants to administer the forty stripes save 
one, and to wait upon the judges; two judges, two wit- 
nesses, two counter-witnesses, two witnesses to gainsay 
the counter-witnesses, two almoners, and one additional 
to distribute the alms, one physician, one scribe (“bzb), 
and one schoolmaster for children — in all 120 {Sanhedrin, 
17 b; Mairaonides, lad Ua-Chezaka, JJilchoth Sanhe- 
drin, i, 10). 

2. Place, Time, and Order in which the Sessions u-ere 
Held. — In the provinces these courts of justice were at 
first held in the market-place, but afterwards in a room 
adjoining the synagogue {Jerusalem Sanhedrin , i, J ; 
Jiaba Metsia, li, 8), for the same reason which made 
the Great Sanhedrim hold their sittings in the Ilall of 
Squares, in the inner court of the Temple. They sat 
every Monday and Thursday, being market-days {Baba 
Rema, 82 a; Kathuboih, 3 a), from the termination of 
morning prayer till the sixth hour ( Maimonides, J/il- 
chofh Sanhedrin, iii, 1). The order in which they were 
ranged was the same as that of the Great Sanhedrim. 
There were two of these lesser courts of justice in Jeru- 
salem itself; one sat at the entrance to the Temple 
mount, and the other at the entrance to the Temple 
hall (Mishna, Sanhedrin, ix, 2), which on special occa- 
sions met together with the Great Sanhedrim (Sanhe- 
drin, 38 b). There was no appeal to the Great Sanhe- 
drim against the decision of thislesser Sanhedrim. Only 
when the opinion of the judges was divided did they 
themselves consult with the supreme court. The stripes 
to which offenders were sentenced were given in the 
synagogue by the nffieer already mentioned (Mark xiii, 
9, with Matt, x, 17 ; xxiii, 34), and it is evidently to 


SANHEDRIM 


346 


SANHEDRIM 


such a local Sanhedrim that reference is made in Matt, 
v, 22; x, 17; Mark xiii, 0. 

Besides these two courts, there was also one consist- 
ing of three judges. Within the jurisdiction of this 
court came suits for debts, robbery, bodily injuries, com- 
pensation for damages: thefts which involved a two- 
fold, fourfold, or fivefold value to the proprietor (Exod. 
xxii, 1-01; rapes, seduction, slander, and all minor of- 
fences (Mishna, Sanhedrin , i, 1-3; iii, 1). There were 
in Jerusalem alone 390 such Sanhedrims. 

III. Origin , Development , and Extinction of the San- 
hedrim. — According to the most ancient Jewish tradi- 
tion, the Sanhedrim was instituted bv Moses, when he 
appointed, according to the command of God, seventy 
elders, who, together with him as their president, were 
to act as magistrates and judges (Numb, xi, 16-24), 
thus constituting the first Sanhedrim with its seventy- 
one members (Mishna, Sanhedrin, i, 6; Gemara, ibid. 2). 
Hence the so-called Jerusalem Targum paraphrases 
Exod. xv, 27, “And they came to Elim, and there were 
there twelve fountains of water, answering to the twelve 
tribes of Israel; and seventy palm-trees, answering to 
the seventy elders of the Sanhedrim of Israel,” while the 
other Chaldee versions express the judicial courts and 
colleges of the remotest antiquity by the name Sanhe- 
drim (comp. Targum, Isa. xxviii, 6; Ruth iii, 1 1 ; iv, 1 ; 
Psa. cxI, 10: Eccles. xii, 12). Hence, too, the offices 
of president and vice-president are traced to Moses (Je- 
rusalem Sota, ix, 10). In the time of the kings, we are 
assured, Saul was president of the Sanhedrim in his 
reign, and his son Jonathan was vice-president (Moed 
Eaton , 2G a); and these two functions continued during 
the time of the later prophets (Pea. 2 b; Xasir, 56 b; 
Tosephta Yudayim , cap. xi). The Chaldee paraphrase on 
the Song of Songs tells us that the Sanhedrim existed 
even in the Babylonian captivity, and that it was re- 
organized bj T Ezra immediately after the return from 
the exile (comp. Song 'of Songs vi, l). But though 
this view has also been entertained hv some of the most 
learned Christian scholars (e. g. Selden, Leusdcn, Gro- 
tius, Belaud), and though allusion is made in Jeremiah 
(xxvi, 8, 16) to the several distinct classes which we af- 
terwards find constituting the Sanhedrim, while Ezekiel 
(viii, 11, etc.) actually 7 mentions the existence of seven- 
ty elders in his time, vet there seems to be little doubt 
that this supreme court, as it existed during the second 
Temple, developed itself in the Greek rule over Pales- 
tine. Livy expressly states (xiv, 32), “ Pronun datum 
quod ad statum Macedonia: pertinebat, senatores, quos 
synedros vocant, Iegendos esse, quorum consilio respub- 
lica administrarctur.” If the yepovaia tojv ’loviaiiov 
in 2 Mace, i, 10; iv, 44; xi, 27, designates the Sanhe- 
drim — as it probably does— this is the earliest historical 
trace of its existence. The Macedonian origin of the 
Sanhedrim is corroborated by the following reasons: 
(a) The historical books of the Bible are perfectly silent 
about the existence of such a tribunal. (5) The proph- 
ets, who again and again manifest such zeal for justice 
and righteous judgment, never mention this court of 
justice, but always refer the administration of the law 
to the ruling monarch and the magnates of t lie land, 
thus showing that this central administration belongs 
to the period of the second ’Temple, (r) The name 
Guvidpuiv, ovvfiptm iv. by which it has come down to 
us, points to the fact that this synod originated during 
the Macedonian supremacy in Palestine. It is true that 
Josephus does not. mention the Sanhedrim before the 
conquest of Judaea by Pnmpey (B.C. 63) ; but the very 
fact that it had such power in t lie time of Ilyrcanus II 
as to summon llcrod to answer for his unjust conduct 
(Josephus, Ant. xiv, 9,4) shows that it must then have 
been a very old institution to have acquired such de- 
velopment and authority, lienee Krankel rightly re- 
marks, “Upon more minute examination, we tind that 
the chronicler gives a pretty plain sketch of the Great 
Sanhedrim, as he mentions the existence in Jerusalem 
of a supreme court consisting of priests, Levites, and 


heads of families, with the high-priest as president (2 
Chron. xix, 8, 11). . . . Now the chronicler, as Zunz 
has shown (Gottesdienstliche Vortrdge , p. 32), lived as 
early as the beginning of the 2d century of the Seleuci- 
dean *ra, so that at that time the Sanhedrim did al- 
ready exist, and its beginning is to be placed at the pe- 
riod in which Asia was convulsed by Alexander and his 
successors of the Ptolemean and Scleucidean dynasties. 
Palestine, too, felt deeply the consequences of these re- 
cent convulsions, and to preserve its internal religious 
independence it required a thoroughly organized body 
to watch over both its doctrines and rights. This body 
manifested itself in the Sanhedrim, at the head of which 
was the high-priest, as is seen from Eccles. iv, 4, 5, and 
2 Chron. xix, 8, 11. The Sanhedrim seems to have 
been dissolved in the time of the Maccabnean revolt in 
consequence of the unworthy high -priests (comp. 2 
Mace.), but it was reconstructed after the overthrow of 
the Syrian yoke. As the people, however, were unwill- 
ing to leave the whole power in the hands of the Mac- 
cabees, who were already princes and high-priests, they 
henceforth placed at the head of the Sanhedrim a presi- 
dent and a vice-president” (I)er gerichtlicke Eeweis, 
p. 68, note). This is, moreover, corroborated by the tra- 
ditional chain of presidents and vice-presidents which 
is uninterruptedly traced from Jose ben-Joeser (B.C. 
170), as well as by the statement that with Simon the 
Just terminated the Great Synagogue (Aboth. i, 2), 
from which the Sanhedrim developed itself. The tran- 
sition from the Great Synagogue to the Great Sanhe- 
drim is perfectly natural. “The Macedonian conquer- 
or,” as Frankel justly states (Programm. p. 6, 1834), 
“with all his clemency towards Palestine, which resist- 
ed him so long and so obstinately, effected changes in 
the internal government of the people, and dissolved 
the Great Synagogue, which to a certain extent confer- 
red independence and a republican constitution upon the 
land. The people, however, valued highly their old in- 
stitutions, and would not relinquish them. Hence most 
probably in the confusions which broke out after Alex- 
ander’s death, when the attention of the lighting chiefs 
could not be directed towards Palestine, the supreme 
court was formed anew, assuming the name Svnhedrion, 
which was a common appellation among the Greeks for 
a senate.” It was this development of the Great San- 
hedrim from the Great Synagogue which accountsfor the 
similarity of the two names (POST, ‘pnplSO 

nbn:n). 

After the destruction of Jerusalem, when the holy 
city was no longer adapted to be the centre of religious 
administration, R. Joe liana n bcn-Zakkai transferred the 
seat of the Sanhedrim to Jabne or Jamuia (A.D. 68-80) ; 
it was thence transferred to Usha ( Kethuboth , 49; Sab- 
bath. 15; Posh Ifa-Shamt , 15 b), under the presidency 
of Gamaliel II, ben-Si mon II (A.D. 80-116); conveyed 
hack to Jabne and again to Usha ; to Shafran, under the 
presidency of Simon III.bcn-Gamalielll (A.D. 140-163); 
to Beth-Shearim and Sepphoris, under the presidency 
of Jell ltd ah I the Holy, ben-Simon III (A.D. 163-193; 
comp. Kethuboth , 103 !>; Nida. 27 a); and finally to Tibe- 
rias, under the presidency of Gamaliel 1 II, ben-Jchudah 
I (A.D. 193-220), where it became more of a consistory, 
but still retaining, under the presidency of Jehudah If, 
ben-Simon III (A.D. 220-270), the power of excommuni- 
cation in case any Israelite refused to abide by its de- 
cisions; while under the presidency of Gamaliel IV, ben- 
Jehudah 11 (A.D. 270-300), it dropped the appellation 
Sanhedrim, and the authoritative decisions were issued 
under the name Peth I I am- Midrush CL'PriSP r*'2). 
Gamaliel VI (A.D. 400-425) was the last president. 
With the death of this patriarch, who was executed by 
Theodosius 11 for erecting new synagogues contrary to 
the imperial inhibition, the title of Xasi, the last re- 
mains of the ancient Sanhedrim, became wholly extinct 
in the year 425. 

It was with reference to this Supreme Court that 


SAN-JASIIS 


347 


SANKHYA 


Christ chose seventy disciples (Luke x, 1), answering 
to the seventy senators composing the Sanhedrim, just 
as he chose twelve apostles with reference to the twelve 
tribes of Israel (Matt. xix. 28; Luke xxii, 80), to indi- 
cate thereby to the Jews that the authority of their 
supreme religious court was now taken away and was 
vested in the seventy of his own choice, and over which 
he himself was the president and supreme Lord. 

IV. Literature. — Mishna, Sanhedrin, and the Gemara 
on this tractate; excerpts of the Gemara tractate San- 
hedrin have been translated into Latin with elaborate 
notes by John Coch (Amst. 10*29); the monographs of 
Vorstius and Witsius, in Ugolino’s Thesaurus , vol. xxv; 
Maimonkles, I)e Sunhedriis et Poenis (ed. 11 outing. Amst. 
1095) ; Selden, l)e Synedriis et Preefecturis Juridicis Vete- 
rum Ebrceorum (Loud. 1050); Zunz, Die gottesdienst- 
lichen Yortrdge der Juden , p. 37 sq. (Berlin, 1832); ls- 
raelitisehe Annalen, i, 108, 131 sq. ( Frankfort -on -the- 
Main, 1839); Frankel, Der aerichtliche Beiceis iiach 
mosaisch-tulmvdischem Pechte, p. 08 sq. (Berlin, 1840) ; 
Kapaport, Erech Millin , p. 2 (Prague, 1852); Frankel, 
M onatsschrift fur Geschichte und Wissenschaft desJuden- 
thums, i. 344 sq. ; Levy, in Frankel’s 31 onutsschrift, iv, 
200 sq.. 301 sq. (Leips. 1855); Herzfeld, Geschichte des 
Volkes Israel, ii, 380 sq. (Nordhausen, 1855) ; Krochmal, 
in the Hebrew essays and reviews entitled He-Chaluz , 
iii, 118 sq. (Lemberg, 1850); Jost, Geschichte des Juden- 
thuws und seiner Sectcn, i, 123 sq., 270 sq. (Leips. 1857); 
Griitz, Geschichte der Juden. p.88 sq. (2d ed. Leips. 1803); 
Hartmann, Die Verbindung des Alien Testaments unit dem 
Neuen (Ilamb. 1831). Comp, also School, where all 
the presidents and vice-presidents of the Sanhedrim will 
be given in chronological order; and Synagogue, the 
Great, where the development of the Sanhedrim from 
this institution will be traced. F'or monographs on the 
civil powers of the Sanhedrim in onr Lord’s time, see 
Volbeding, Index Proyrammatum , p. 58. See Council. 

San-Jasiis, one of the three classes of Jar/ins. 
which latter are Brahmanic anchorets. They affect 
great abstinence, and refrain from marriage, betel, and. 
indeed, pleasure in general. They are allowed to make 
but one meal a day, and to live on alms, carrying with 
them a cup of earthenware only. Their clothes are dyed 
with red earth, and they have a long bamboo cane in 
their hands. They are forbidden to touch either gold 
or silver, much less to earn 7 any about them. They 
are not allowed to have any fixed residence, nor to lie 
two nights together in the same place, once a year ex- 
cepted, when they are suffered to continue two months 
in the same place: they then select such a spot as is 
thought, to be holy, and there they may remain for life 
if they wish. They are bound to be always ready to 
oppose six enemies, viz. Cama, lust ; C'roota, anger ; 
Lopa, avarice; Madda .pidde ; the love of things of this 
world ; and Matsara, thirst for revenge. — Border, Hist, 
of all Religions, p. 747. 

Sankara, or Sankaraciiarya, the name of one 
of the most renowned theologians of India. The time 
in which he flourished is unknown, tradition placing 
him at about B.C. 200, but II. II. Wilson assigns him 
to the 8th or 9th century after Christ. Most accounts 
agree in making him a native of Kerala or Malabar, 
and a member of the caste of the Namburi Brahmans. 
In Malabar he is said to have divided the four original 
castes into seventy-two, or eighteen subdivisions each. 
Towards the close of his life he repaired to Cashmere, 
and finally to Kedarnath, in the Himalaya, where he 
died at the early age of thirty-two years. In the course 
of his career he founded the sects of the Dasnami- 
Dandins. 1 1 is principal works, which are of consid- 
erable merit, and exercised a great influence on the re- 
ligious history of India, are his commentary on the 
Vedanta Sutras, on the Bhaga-vadgita, and the prin- 
cipal Upani shads. A number of works are enrrent in 
the south of India relating to his life, among them the 
Sankai a-dig- v iji lya, or the conquest of the world by 


Sankara. See Wilson, Sketch of Religions Sects of the 
Hindus; Chambers's Encyclop. s. v. 

Saiikhar, an evil spirit mentioned in the Jewish 
Talmud as having taken possession of the throne of 
Solomon. 


Sankhya (Sanscrit, synthetic reasoning'), the name 
of one of the three great systems of orthodox llindvt 
philosophy. Like the other systems, it professes to 
teach the means by which eternal beatitude, or the 
complete and perpetual exemption from every sort of 
ill, may be attained. This means is the discriminative 


acquaintance with tatum, or the true principles of 
all existence. Such principles are, according to the 
Sankhya system, twenty-five in number, as follows: 
(1) Prakriti or Pradhdna , substance or nature; it is 
the universal and material cause, eternal, productive 
but unproduced. Its first production is (2) Mahat (lit- 
erally the great), or Buddhi (literally intellect). From 
it devolves (3) A havkdra (literally the assertion of 
“/”), the function of which consists in referring the ob- 
jects of the world to one’s self. It produces (4-8) five 
tanmatra, or subtle elements, which produce the five 
gross elements [sec (20-24)]. Ahankara further pro- 
duces (9-13) five instruments of sensation, viz. the eye, 
ear, nose, tongue, and skin; (14-18) five instruments 
of action, viz. the organ of speech, the hands, the feet, 
the excretory termination of the intestines, and the or- 
gan of generation ; lastly (19), maims, or the organ of 
volition and imagination. The five subtle elements 
(4-8) produce (20-24) the five gross elements, viz. 
akdsa. space or ether, derived from the sonorous tan- 
matra; air, derived from the aerial tanmatra; fire, 
from the igneous tanmatra; water, from the aqueous 
tanmatra; lastly, earth, derived from the terrene tan- 
matra. The 25th principle is Pvrvsha , or soul, which 
is neither produced nor productive; it is multitudinous, 
individual, sensitive, eternal, unalterable, and immate- 
rial. 

Creation results from the union of Prakriti (1) and 
Purusha (25), and is either material or intellectual. 
Besides the twenty-five principles, the Sankhya also 
Teaches that nature has three essential gunas, or qual- 
ities. viz. satwa, the quality of goodness or purity; 
rajas (literally coloredness ), the quality of passion ; and, 
tamas, the quality of sin or darkness; and it classifies 
accordingly material and intellectual creation. From 
the foregoing summary it will be seen that the {San- 
khya proper does not teach the existence of a Supreme 
Being, by whom nature and soul were created, and by 
whom the world is ruled. Its opponents have therefore 
accused it of being atheistical: and it is the special ob- 
ject of the Yoga system to remove this reproach by 
asserting his existence and defining his essence. Its 
final object is not absorption in God, whether personal 
or impersonal, but “Moksha,” deliverance of the soul 
from all pain and illusion, and recovery by the soul of 
its true nature. The Sankhya system underwent a 
mythological development in the Puranas (q. v.) ; thus 
Prakriti, or nature, is identified with 3fdya, or the en- 
ergy of Brahma; and the Matsya-Purann affirms that 
Buddhi, or Mahat. the intellectual principle, through 
the three qualities goodness, passion, and sin, becomes 
the three gods — Brahma, Vishnu, and 8iva. The most 
important development, however, of the Sankhya is 
that by the Buddhistic doctrine, which is mainly based 
on it. 

The Sankhva philosophy is supposed to date from 
a period anterior to the 8th century B.C., and its reac- 
tion against Brahmanism became a popular movement 
in the 6th century in the Buddhistic reformation of 
Sankhvamimi, who taught the Yoga system with little 
change, and named its “deliverance of the soul from 
pain and illusion” the Nirvana. The reputed author 
of the actual Sankhya is Kapiln (literally tainaf), who 
is asserted to have been a son of Brahma; by others an 
incarnation of Vishnu. lie taught his system in Su- 


SAX KR A XD AN N A 


348 


SAXSCARA 


tras (q. v.), which, distributed in six lectures, bear the 
name of Bankhyd-Prurachanu. The oldest commen- 
tary on this work is that by Aniruddha ; another is that 
bv VijiiAnabhiksliu. They owe their preservation to 
Ishwara Krishna, who reduced them to writing, edited 
bv 11. II. Wilson. See Fitzedward Hall. Prelace to his 
ed. of Bankh yd- Pruruchana ; II. T. Colebrooke, Miscell. 
Essays (Fond. 1837), i, 227 sq.; 31 ax Muller, Chips from 
a German Workshop. 

Sankrandamia, in Hindu mythology, is “the 
variable one,” a surname of Indr a, the god of the heav- 
ens and of the air. 

Sanks, James, a minister of the Methodist Episco- 
pal Church, was born in Anne Arundel County, Md., 
June 12, 1806, and early removed to Virginia, In 
1828 he was received on trial in the Baltimore Con- 
ference, where he labored until 1858. when he was trans- 
ferred to the East Baltimore Conference and placed in 
charge of the Bellefonte district. In 1862 he was ap- 
pointed to York, Pa., but soon sank under the influence 
of disease, and died in the borough of York, Pa., June 
4, 1862 . — Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1863, p. 11. 

Sanbuman, in Hindu mythology, is a wise and 
pious king, who secured the welfare of his realm and 
then became a penitent. He received from Vishnu the 
promise that the god would become incarnate in liis 
family, which was fulfilled in his being born as Kama. 

Sanuak. See Kirjath-Sannaii. 

Sanngetal, in Norse mythology, is a surname of 
Odin. 

Sammwadi, in Hindu mythology, is one of the 
eight playmates of Ganga. 

Sanquhar Declaration. After Hall of Haugli- 
head had been killed at Queensferry, June 3, 1680, an 
unsigned paper was found in his possession, which was 
never recognised by the members of the Covenant. But 
on June 22, IC80, a party of twenty -one armed men 
boldly entered the little burgh of Sanquhar, and march- 
ed to the market cross, where they read and posted up 
a paper, throwing off all allegiance to the government, 
and proclaiming themselves in defiant rebellion. The 
Sanquhar paper was as follows: “It. is not among the 
smallest of the Lord’s mercies to this poor land that 
there have been always some who have given their tes- 
timony against every course of defection (that many are 
guilty of), which is a token for good that he doth not 
as yet intend to cast us off altogether, but that he will 
leave a remnant in whom he will be glorious, if they, 
through his grace, keep themselves clean still, and walk 
in his way and method, as it has been walked in and 
owned by him in our predecessors of truly worthy mem- 
ory, in their carrying-on of our noble work of reforma- 
tion in the several steps thereof, from popery, prelacv, 
and likewise Erastian supremacy, so much usurped by 
him who (it is true, so far as we know) is descended 
from the race of our kings; yet he hath so far departed 
from what he ought to have been, by his perjury and 
usurpation in Church matters, and tyranny in matters 
civil, as is known by the whole land, that we have just 
reason to account it one of the Lord’s great controversies 
against us that we have not disowned hitn.and the men 
of his practices (whether inferior magistrates or auv 
other) as enemies to our Lord and his crown, and the 
true Protestant and Presbyterian interest in these lands, 
our Lord’s espoused bride and Church. Therefore, al- 
though we be for government and governors, such as 
the Word of Cod and our covenant allow, yet we for 
ourselves, and all that will adhere to us, as the repre- 
sentatives of the true Presbyterian kirk and covenanted 
nation of Scotland, considering the great hazard of lving 
under such a sin any longer, do by these presents disown 
Charles Stuart, that has been reigning (or rather tyran- 
nizing, as we may say) on the throne of Britain these 
years by-gone, as having any right, title to, or interest 
in the said crown of Scotland lor government, as forfeit- 


ed several years since by his perjury and breach of cov- 
enant both to God and his kirk, and usurpation of his 
crown and royal prerogatives therein, and many other 
breaches in matters ecclesiastic, and by his tyranny and 
breach of the very leges regno nd i in matters civil. For 
which reason, we declare that several years since he 
should have been denuded of being king, rider, or magis- 
trate, or of having any power to act or to be obeyed as 
such. As also, we being under the standard of our Lord 
Jesus Christ, Captain of salvation, do declare a war with 
such a tyrant and usurper, and all the men of his prac- 
tices, as enemies to our Lord Jesus Christ and his cause 
and covenants; and against all such as have strength- 
ened him, sided with, or anywise acknowledge him in 
his tyranny, civil or ecclesiastic — yea, against all such 
as shall strengthen, side with, or anywise acknowledge 
any other in the like usurpation and tyranny — far more 
against such as would betray or deliver up our free 
reformed mother-kirk unto the bondage of antichrist, 
the pope of Kome. And by this we homologate that 
testimony given at Rutherglen, May 29, 1679, and all 
the faithful testimonies of those who have gone before, 
as also of those who have suffered of late. And we 
do disclaim that declaration published at Hamilton, 
June, 1697, chiefly because it takes in the king’s in- 
terest, which we are several years sinee loosed from, 
because of the foresaid reasons, and others which may 
after this (if the Lord will) be published. As also we 
disown, and by this resent, the reception of the duke of 
York, that professed papist, as repugnant to our princi- 
ples and vows to the most high God, and as that which 
is the great, though not alone, just reproach of our kirk 
and nation. We also by this protest against his suc- 
ceeding to the crowm ; and whatever has been done, or 
any are essaying to do in this land (given to the Lord) 
in prejudice to our vrork of reformation. And, to con- 
clude, we hope after this none will blame us for. or of- 
fend at our rewarding these that are against us, as they 
have done to us, as the Lord gives opportunity. This 
is not to exclude any that have declined, if they be will- 
ing to give satisfaction according to the degree of their 
offence. Given at Sanquhar, June 22, 1680.” — Eadie, Ec- 
cles. Cyclop, s. v. See Queensferry Declaration. 

Sansan'nah (lleb. Sansammh', iliCSD, palm- 
brunch; Sept. Savoavrd v.r.'S.&tvvaK), a town in the 
southern part of the territory of Judah (Josh, xv, 31). 
The corresponding lists of Simeon (Josh, xix, 5; l 
Chron. iv, 31) seem to call it Hazar-susaii (q. v.). It 
is identified by Schwarz with the village of Simsum, 
on a river of the same name, north-east of Gaza — a 
position which he acknowledges, however, to be rather 
in the lowlands than in the south of Judah ( Palest . 
p. 101, 123); but the boundary-line can easily be ac- 
commodated to this location. See Juoah, Tribe of. 
Wilton would identify it with the Wady es-Suny men- 
tioned by Kobinson {Bill. Res. i, 299, 300), not far south 
of Gaza, which he supposes to have been the first 
resting-place for horses after leaving Gaza on the way 
to Egypt; and he thinks a confirmation is found for 
this in the circumstance that various travellers, in pass- 
ing north from Egypt, have noticed that they first met 
with horses about that locality (A T egeb, p. 210). Lieut. 
Condor thinks (Tent -Work in Palest, ii, 339) that it 
was at Beit-susin , east of the valley of Sorek; but this 
could not possibly have been within the territory of 
Simeon. 

Salisbury (Sandsbitry, or Sansbry), John, a 
native of London, entered St. John’s College, Oxford, in 
1593, aged seventeen ; vicar of the Church of St. Giles, 
Oxford, in 1607; bachelor of divinity in 1608; buried 
in Jail., 1609. lie wrote, Ilium in Italiam: — Qjronia ad 
Protect ionem Regis sui Omnium Optimi Filia , etc. (Oxon. 
1008, lOmo). — Allibone, IHct. of Authors, s. v. 

Banscara, or Sanskaua (Sanscrit, completing), the 
name of one of the ten essential rites or ceremonies of 
the llindfts of the first three castes. They are the 


SANSCRIT VERSIONS 


349 


SANTALI VERSION 


ceremonies to lie performed before and at the birth of 
a child; of naming the child on the tenth, eleventh, or 
one-hundred-and-lirst day; of carrying the child out to 
see the moon on the third lunar day of the third light 
fortnight, or to see the sun in the third or fourth month ; 
of feeding him in the sixth or eighth month (or at 
other stated periods); the ceremony of the tonsure in 
the second or third year; of investiture with the string 
in the fifth, eighth, or sixteenth year, when he is hand- 
ed to a guru to become a religious student; and the 
ceremony of marriage, after he has completed his studies 
and is fit to perform the sacrifices ordained by the sacred 
writings. — Chambers’s Encyclop. s. v. 

Sanscrit Versions. A translation of the New 
Test, into the Sanscrit, the ancient and classical lan- 
guage of India, was commenced in the year 1803 and 
finished at the press in 1808. The man who had im- 
mortalized his name by this translation was the well- 
known I)r. Carey (q. v.). He had also commenced a 
translation of the Old Test., when the disastrous tire at 
Serampore in 1812 interrupted his labors, destroying 
not only a dictionary of the Sanscrit and various Indian 
dialects, but also his MSS. of the second book of Sam- 
uel and the first book of Kings. In 1815 Dr. Carev re- 
ceived an associate in Dr. Yates, and both carried on the 
work of translating the Old Test., which was finally com- 
pleted in 1822. In 1820 a second edition of the New 
Test, was undertaken at Seramporc, the former edition, 
consisting of only 600 copies, having been completely 
exhausted. In 1827 a second edition of the Old Test, 
was in press, but various circumstances retarded its com- 
pletion, and in 1834 the impression had been struck off 
only as far as the first book of Kings. As the first at- 
tempt of translating could only be defective, especially 
when undertaken at a period when the language had 
been little studied by Europeans, and no printed copies 
of the standard works were in existence, a statement as 
to the desirableness of a new and a more polished trans- 
lation was laid before the committee of the Society for 
the Promotion of Christian Knowledge in 1835. The 
committee entered into communication on the subject 
with the bishop of Calcutta, and the new translation 
was undertaken by Dr. Yates, formerly the associate of 
Dr. Carey, upon whom the mantle of the venerable 
translator seemed to have fallen. Dr. Yates began the 
work in 1840 by the publication of the Psalms; in 1844 
the Gospels were completed; and in 1846 the Proverbs 
and the New Test, were in the press. While prosecut- 
ing his work, Dr. Yates was overtaken by death in 
1845. On examining the state of the version, it was 
found that the books of Genesis, Psalms, Proverbs, and 
Isaiah had all passed through the press, and that the rest 
of the Pentateuch, and the books of Job, Ecclesiastes, 
Canticles, and Daniel, had been prepared i n MS. The 
work was now committed to the Rev. Mr. Wenger, the 
translator into the Bengalee, and in 1852 the second 
volume of the Old Test., containing the historical books 
from Judges to Esther inclusive, was completed. In 
1858 a third volume, bringing the translation up to the 
Song of Solomon, was finished; in 1863 the translation 
was continued as far as the end of Isaiah ; and in 1873 
the translation of the whole Bible was announced as 
completed. Besides the translation into Sanscrit prop- 
er, there exist versions into 

(a.) Sanscrit- Bengalee, i. e. reprints from the Sanscrit in 
Bengalee character — viz. Genesis (first published in 1855; 
2d ed. 1860), Psalms (1857), Proverbs (1855), St. Luke (1855). 

( b .) Sanscrit- Dev a Sagari. With regard to the Deva Na- 
gari character, the Deport of the British and Foreign Bible 
Society for 1877 states that “the Calcutta University has 
largely of late years so popularized this language and 
character that it has been thought desirable to print not 
only the book of Psalms, but also the book of Proverbs 
and the New Test.” Only the Psalms have as yet been 
printed. 

(c.) SavseHt-Oriya . In this character the same parts as 
under (a) have been published. 

See the Bible of Every Land , p. 86, and the Annual Re- 
ports of the Brit, and For. Bible Society. (B. P.) 


Sansom, James Green, a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, was born near Bedford, Bedford 
Co., Pa., May 13, 1794. So destitute was the place of 
educational and religions advantages, that Mr. Sansom 
did not hear a sermon nor enter a school-house until 
his thirteenth year. His early religious training was 
received from his mother, a member of the Presbyterian 
Church. In his seventeenth year he was brought into 
association with the Methodists, in 1818 was licensed to 
preach, and in 1819 was received on trial in the Balti- 
more Conference. In 1824 he went to Uniontown, Pa., 
which was soon after included in the Pittsburgh Confer- 
ence, and he became one of its members. From 1819 
till his death he was an earnest and effective minister, 
eighteen years serving as presiding elder. lie died in 
Brownsville, Pa., May 4, 1861. He was of a genial 
spirit, interesting as a preacher, wise as a counse llor. — 
Minutes of Annual Covf 1862, p. 44. 

Sanson, Jacques, a French ecclesiastical writer, 
was born at Abbeville, Feb. 10, 1596. He took orders 
as a Carmelite in 1619, under the name of Ignace-Jo- 
seph de Jesus-Marie. He was prior of the monastery 
at Paris, and afterwards had charge of the novices at 
Cbarenton and at Toulouse. While in the latter city 
he became confessor to the duchess of Savoy, and held 
the position until her death, in 1663. Returning to 
France, he assisted in founding two monasteries — one 
at Abbeville, the other at Amiens. He died at Charen- 
ton, Aug. 19, 1665. His writings are of very little ac- 
count except those which give some history of the prov- 
ince of Ponthieu. These arc, J/istoire Genealogique des 
Comtes de Ponthieu et des Maires d'A bberille, and llis- 
toire Ecclesiastique de la 1 'ille d’A bberille. — I loefer, Nouv. 
Biog. Generale , s. v. 

Sansovino, Andrea Contucci, an Italian sculp- 
tor and architect, was born in 1460 at Monte-Sansovino, 
in Tuscany, lie was the son of a poor peasant, but was 
sent to Florence through the liberality of a fellow-towns- 
man, and studied under Antonio del Pollajuolo. At the 
age of thirty he w r as called to Portugal, where he re- 
mained nine years, and constructed various edifices for 
John II and Emmanuel I. In Rome are the tombs of 
cardinals Sforza and Basso, executed by Sansovino, and 
in the Church of St. Anna the group The Madonna ami 
St. Ann, one of his best works. He also executed some 
beautiful bass-reliefs at Loretto. He died in 1529. — 
Hoefer, Nouv. Biog . Generale , s. v. 

Santa Casa (holy cottage). See Loretto, Holy 
House at. 

Santa Croce, Prospero de, an Italian prelate 
and diplomatist, was born at Rome in 1 513. He studied 
law at Padua, and afterwards entered the Church. 
Paul III gave him the bishopric of Castel-Chisamo, on 
the island of Candia. He was employed as papal nun- 
cio in Germany, Portugal, Spain, and France. While 
in the last-named country, he received, at the request 
of Catherine de’ Medici, the bishopric of Arles, and in 
1565 the cardinal’s hat. In 1573 he gave up his see in 
favor of his nephew, Silvio di Santa Croce, and returned 
to Rome. Sixtus V made him bishop ol’Alhano, but he 
lived only a few months after receiving the see. This 
cardinal introduced tobacco into Italy, and the name 
“Santa Croce” was given to the plant. Me died at 
Rome, Oct. 2, 1589. He wrote the Memoirs of his life, 
and of the civil wars in France, in Latin. These have 
been published in the Collectio Veterum Scripforum of 
Marten nc and Durand, under the title J)e Civilibus Gal- 
lic Dissensionibus Comm. Besides this, there are De- 
cisiones Rotce Romanic, Const it utiones lunette Artis in 
Urbe erectce , and many Letters in French and Italian 
concerning the affairs of France, which are published in 
the Synodes des Eglises Reformees . — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. 
Generale , s. v. 

Santali Version. Snntali is the langnagospoken 
by the Santhals of North-western Bengal. In tins Ian- 


SANTARELLI 


350 


gnage the Gospel according to St. Matthew was for the 
first time printed in 18G8, which was followed in 1873 
bv the Psalms, printed under the superintendence of the 
Calcutta Auxiliary BiLde Society. In 187G the Report 
of the British and Foreign Bible Society stated that the 
translation of St. Matthew had been revised, while the 
other Gospels and Acts were in the course of revision. 
In 1877 the Report stated that the Gospel of St. Mark 
had been printed, while St. Luke was in the press, and 
St. John and the Acts were ready for the press. All 
these portions were translated from the original by the 
missionaries of the Church Missionary Society. (B. P.) 

Santarelli, Antonio, an Italian Jesuit, was born 
in 15G9, at Atri, kingdom of Naples. At the age of six- 
teen he entered the Society of Jesus, and later taught 
belles-lettres and theology at Borne, lie died there 
Dec. 5, 1G49. lie was the author of a work which at 
the time attracted much attention — De Iheresi , tickis- 
mate, A post aaiti, et Sollicitutione in Saci'amento Pceniten - 
tier, et de Pot estate Summi Pontifeis in his Delictis Puni- 
endis. In 1G26 it was censured by the Sorbonne, and the 
Parliament of Paris condemned it to the flames. San- 
tarelli held that the power of the pope extended even 
above that of the sovereign, and the doctrine was even 
opposed by the Jesuits themselves when they saw their 
confrere denounced by the faculties of all the principal 
universities. Santarelli wrote some smaller works in 
Italian. — lloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Santer, John, a minister of the Methodist Episco- 
pal Church, was born in the city of Tettnang, kingdom 
of Wiirtemberg, Germany, May 18, 1812. He came to 
this country about 1835. Having been converted, he 
was licensed to preach, and in 1844 was sent to Rahway, 
X. .1., and after three months to Newark, N. J., where he 
labored with success for three years. In 1845 he was 
received into the New Jersey Conference, anti until 18G8 
was in active service, filling appointments successfully 
in the states of New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, 
and Maryland. From 18G8 to 1874 he sustained a super- 
numerary and superannuated relation. On March 17 he j 
received injuries on the railroad that proved fatal, death ; 
taking place March 24, 1874. Mr. Santer was a good 
man, a diligent worker, a faithful pastor, and a safe ad- 
viser . — Minutes of Annual Conf. 1875, p. 44. 

Santi (or SanzicP), Giovanni, an Italian poet and 
painter, was born at Colbordolo, duchy of Urbino. He 
was the father of the immortal Raphael, and his first 
master. It is snpposed that the elder Sanzio studied 
under Mantegna. 1 1 is designs, without being extreme- 
ly delicate, are carefully studied. Many of his works 
have disappeared, but there may be seen in the Museum 
of Berlin his Virgin Holding Jesus* and a Madonna with 
tit. Thomas Aquinas and tit. Catherine. He also com- 
posed a Chronicle in rhyme, in honor of one of the dukes 
of l T rhino. This is still preserved in the Library of the 
Vatican. lie died Aug. 1, 1494. — lloefer, Nour. Biog. 
Generate, s. v. 

Santo V olto ( holy countenance ). See Holy IIand- 

KKUC'IIIKF. 

Santos, Jo ao nos, a Portuguese missionary, was 
born at Evora, in the latter part of the lGtli century. Be- 
longing to the Order of St. Dominic, he obtained per- 
mission in 159G to carry the Gospel to Eastern Africa. 
He travelled through Caftraria, the coast of Natal, Sofa- 
la, Mozambique, and penetrated some distance into the 
interior. After spending eleven years in spreading the 
Christian faith and founding new colonies, he returned 
to Europe, and published Ethiopia Oriental e Varia 
J/isforia de Cousas Xotareis do Oriente. Notwithstand- 
ing the credulity which Santos shows, his work was 
lor a long time an authority upon geographical points, 
and he was the lirst to describe the manners of those 
countries of which he wrote. In 1617 he was sent to 
India and attached to the mission at Goa. lie died 
there in 1G22. 11 is Comment arios da Reyido dos Rios 


SAPIIIR 

de Cuama have never been published. — Hoefer, Xouv. 
Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Sanuto, Mirixo, called Torsello, an Italian chroni- 
cler, was born at Venice in the latter part of the 13th 
century. He was of an ancient family, which, under 
the name of Candiani, had for years occupied an im- 
portant position in the republic. In early life he trav- 
elled extensively in the East, explored Cyprus, Rhodes, 
Armenia and other countries, and on his return wrote 
his Liber tiecretorum Fidelium super Terree tiunctie Re- 
cupe?’afio?ie, in which he described the countries he had 
visited, and the various wars with the infidels. The 
book contained also lour maps of the Mediterranean, 
the Holy Land, and Egypt. Having finished his task, 
Sanuto went through Europe preaching a new crusade. 
All his efforts were useless, and he abandoned the proj- 
ect. He died about 1330. The book and letters of 
Sanuto were published in 1011 by Bongars-, in Gesta 
Dei per Franc os. ^Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Sanyasi, a Hindu ascetic of the most extreme 
kind, who assumes a state of silence, and gives up the 
use of fire, eats little, and asks but once in the day for 
food. “At the time,” says the Code of Mann, “when 
the smoke of the kitchen fires has ceased, when the pes- 
tle lies motionless, when the burning charcoal is ex- 
tinguished, when people have eaten, and when dishes 
are removed, let the Sanyasi bid for food.” lie feeds 
upon roots and fruits. In order to fit him for immor- 
tality, he endeavors to reach a state of indifference and 
entire freedom from passion and emotion of every kind. 
He must never walk without keeping his eyes upon the 
ground for the sake of preserving minute animals; and, 
for fear of destroying insects, he must not drink water 
until it has been strained. The only occupation suita- 
ble to his situation is meditation. — Gardner, Faiths of 
the World, s. v. 

Saon, in Greek mythology, was the son of Jupiter 
and a nymph, or of Mercury and Rhene, who is credited 
with having gathered the inhabitants of Samothraee 
j into towns and villages, and with having divided them 
into five tribes named after his sons, besides giving 
them laws. 

Saotes, in Greek mythology, was the preserver. 
I. A surname of Jupiter , applied to him in Thesphe. 
A monstrous dragon devastated that territory, and the 
oracle had directed that a youth be given the monster 
each year. When the lot fell on Cleostratus, his friend 
Menestratns caused a brazen coat of mail to he studded 
with barbed hooks and points, in which the victim went 
out to meet his fate. He lost his life, but so did the 
dragon, and Thespiie erected a bronze statue to its deliv- 
erer Jupiter. 2. A surname of Bacchus, under which 
he was worshipped at Troezene and about Lerna. 

Sapandomad, in Persian mythology, was the 
genius of the earth, a female angel of the highest per- 
fection, who, as one of the Amshaspands created by 
Ormuzd, is engaged in an incessant warfare with Astu- 
shad, one of the daemons of Ahriman. 

Saph (lleb. id, SD, a threshold, or dish, as often: 
Sept. v. r. Ne0£)> a Philistine giant of the race of 
Kapha, slain by Sibbeehai the Ilushathite (2 Sam. xxi, 
18). B.C. cir. 1050. In 1 Cliron. xx, 4 he is called 
Sippat. 

Sa'pliat (So^or), Saphati'as ( v. r. 
So (portai;), and Sa'phetli v. r. 2a0p37, 

0pi), Greek forms (respectively 1 Esdr. v, 9; viii, 34; 
and v, 33) of the name Siikpiiatiaii (q. v.) in the cor- 
responding lleb. lists (respectively Ezra ii, 4 ; viii, 8; 
and ii. 57). 

Sa'phir (lleb. Shaphir ', *1 fair; Sept, trans- 
lates as adverb, KaXibef), a place in the kingdom of Ju- 
dah, named only in Mic. i, 1 1. By Eusebius and Jerome 
( Onomast . s. v. “ Sapliir”) it is described as “in the moun- 
tain district between Eleutheropolis and Asealon.” But 
in this description Dr. Robinson thinks that the Ono- 


SAPP 


351 


SAP A 


masticon incorrectly takes it for one of the Ilazors of 
Josh, xv, 25, in the south of Judah (Bibl. Res. ii, 370). 
On the way from Jerusalem to Gaza, at Kuratiyeh, 
Robinson saw a place called by the Arabs es-SawaJir , 
X. 32° W., which seems to be a plural form for .Saphir 
(comp. Geseuius, Thesaur.s.v. VSd). Es-Sawalir lies 
seven or eight miles to the north-east of Ascalon, and 
about twelve west of Beit-Jibrin, to the right of the 
coast -road from Gaza (Van de Yelde, Syr. and Pal. 
p. 159). Tobler prefers a village called Saber, close to 
Sawatir, containing a copious and apparently veiy an- 
cient well ( Dritte Wanderung,p. 47). “In one impor- 
tant respect, however, the position of neither of these 
agrees with the notice of the Onomasticon , since it is 
not near the mountains, but on the open plain of the 
Shefelah. But as Beit-Jibrin, the ancient Eleutherop- 
olis, stands on the western slopes of the mountains of 
Judah, it is difficult to understand how any place could 
be westward of it (i.e. between it and Ascalon), and yet 
be itself in the mountain district, unless that expression 
may refer to places which, though situated in the plain, 
were for some reason considered as belonging to the 
towns of the mountains. See Keilaii ; Nezib, etc. 
Schwarz, though aware of die existence of Sawatir 
(p. 11(1), suggests as a more feasible identification the 
village of Safriyeh , a couple of miles north-west of 
Lydda (Palest, p. 13(1). The drawback to this is, that 
the places mentioned by Micah appear, as far as we can 
trace them, to be mostly near Beit-Jibrin, and, in ad- 
dition, that Safiriyeh is in clear contradiction to the 
notice of Eusebius and Jerome” (Smith). Van de Yelde 
inclines to identify Saphir with one of the two other 
villages named es-Saicafir south by east of Esdrid, and 
nearer to it ( Memoir , p. 34(5). 

Sapp, Resin, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born in Mt. Ycrnon, O., Feb. 9, 
1816. lie was licensed to preach in 1837; and in 
1858 he was admitted to the Michigan Conference, 
then embracing a part of Ohio. For more than thirty- 
four years Sapp served the Church, twenty-three of 
which were spent in the regular pastorate, and ten in 
the presiding eldership. II is last sermon was preached 
at Alaska, Mich., Jan. 12, 1873, and on May 5 be died, in 
holy triumph, at Grand Rapids. He was a laborious 
and able member of the General Conferences held at 
Boston, Indianapolis, Buffalo, and Brooklyn. lie was 
also a valuable contributor to the periodical literature 
of his Church. — Minutes of Annual Conf. 1873, p. 96. 

Sapphi'ra (Zaircptipii, a sapphire stone, or beauti- 
ful), the wife of Ananias, and his accomplice in the sin 
for which he died (Acts v, 1-10). A.I>. 30. Unaware 

of the judgment which had befallen her husband, she 
entered the place about three hours after, probably to 
look for him; and, being there interrogated by Peter, 
repeated and persisted in the “lie unto the Holy Ghost” 
which had destroyed her husband; on which the grieved 
apostle made known to her his doom, and pronounced 
her own — “ Behold, the feet of them who have buried 
thy husband are at the door and shall carry thee out.” 
On hearing these awful words, she fell dead at his feet. 
The cool obstinacy of Sapphira in answering as she did 
the questions which were probably designed to awaken 
her conscience deepens the shade of the foul crime com- 
mon to her and her husband, and has suggested to 
many the probability that the [dot was of her devising, 
and that, like another Eve, she drew her husband into 
it. — Kitto. The interval of three hours that elapsed 
between the two deaths, Sapphira’s ignorance of what 
had happened to her husband, and the predictive lan- 
guage of Peter towards her are decisive evidences as 
to the supernatural character of the whole transaction. 
The history of Sapphira’s death thus supplements that 
of Ananias, which might otherwise have been attrib- 
uted to natural causes. — Smith. See Ananias. 

Sapphire ("PSD, sappir [according to Geseuius, 


from its capacity for engraving ; but according to Fiirst, 
from its brilliancy') ; Sept, and N. T. aairQtipug; Yulg. 
sapphirus) , a precious stone, apparently of a bright-blue 
color; see Exod. xxiv, 10, where the God of Israel is 
represented as being seen in vision by Moses and the 
elders with “a paved work of a sappir stone, and as it 
were the body of heaven in its clearness” (comp. Ezek. 
i, 26). The sappir was the second stone in the second 
row of the high-priest’s breastplate (Exod. xxviii, 18) ; 
it was extremely precious (Job xxviii, 16) ; it was one 
of the precious stones that ornamented the king of 
Tyre (Ezek. xxviii, 13). In the Apocalyptic vision it 
formed the second foundation-wall of the New Jerusa- 
lem (Rev. xxi, 19). Notwithstanding the identity of 
name between our sapphire and the acnrfpttpog and 
sapphirus of the Greeks and Romans, it is generally 
agreed that the sapphire of the ancients was not our 
gem of that name, viz. the azure or indigo-bltie crys- 
talline variety of corundum, but our lapis- lazuli (ul- 
tramarine) ; for Pliny (A r . 11. xxxvii, 9) thus speaks 
of the sapphirus: “It is refulgent with spots of gold, 
of an azure color sometimes, but not often purple. The 
best kind comes from Media ; it is never transparent, 
and is not well suited for engraving upon when inter- 
sected with hard, crystalline particles.” The account of 
Theophrastus is similar (De Lapid. 23). This descrip- 
tion answers exactly to the character of the lapis-lazuli; 
the “crystalline particles” of Pliny are crystals of iron 
pyrites, which often occur with this mineral. It is, 
however, not so certain that the sappir of the Hebrew 
Bible is identical with the lapis-lazuli ; for the scriptu- 
ral requirements demand transparency, great value, and 
good material for the engraver’s art, all of which com- 
bined characters the lapis-lazuli does not possess in any 
great degree. Pliny calls it “inutilissculptura?.” King 
(Antique Gems, p. 44) says that intagli and camei of 
Roman times are frequent in the material, but rarely 
any works of much merit. Again, the sappir was cer- 
tainly pellucid: “sane apud Jiukeos,” says Braun (De 
Vest. Sac. p. 680, ed. 1680), “saphiros pellucidas notas 
fuisse manifestissimum est, adeo etiam ut pelluculum il- 
lornm philosophis dicatnr h V'BO, saphir.” Beckmann 
(Hist, of lucent, i, 472) is of opinion that the sappir of 
the Hebrews is the same as the lapis -lazuli ; Rosen- 
muller and Braun argue in favor of its being our sap- 
phire or precious corundum. 

The Oriental sapphire is a pellucid gem, little infe- 
rior in hardness to the diamond. The best are found in 
Pegu, and in the sand of the rivers of Ceylon. They 
are very seldom found of a large size. Their color is 
blue, varying through all the intermediate shades down 
to colorless. The deep blue are called male sapphires; 
the lighter, water sapphires, or female sapphires. The 
sapphire has been sometimes found red, and has then been 
mistaken for ruby. There is a gem called sapphiro- 
rubinus, which is a sapphire part blue, part ruby-color- 
ed : it is called by the Indians nihecundi. Precious 
stones were considered by the ancients to be emblemat- 
ical of some faculty or virtue. Pope Innocent III sent 
to king John a present of four rings: the sapphire, de- 
noting hope; the emerald, faith ; the garnet, charity ; 
the topaz, good works. The sapphire is the stone 
which, in the high-priest’s breastplate, bore the name 
of lssaehar. According to the Cabalists, the sapphire 
was fatal to serpents. The rabbins also have an absurd 
story about the engraving of the gem on the high- 
priest’s breastplate by means of a singular worm (see 
the Talmudieal treatises Sopha and Gittiu). The an- 
cients as well as moderns had many other superstitions 
and speculations concerning this stone* (See Jungen- 
dres, De Sapphira [Alt. 1705].) .See Gem. 

Sappir Codex. See Shapira Manuscript. 

Sa'ra ('Zappa), a Griecized form of the lleb. name 
Sarah (q. v.), applied to two women in the Apocrypha 
and New Test. 

1. The wife of Abraham (Heb. xi, 11 ; 1 Pet. iii, 6). 


SARAB 


352 


SARAH 


2 . The daughter of Kaguel and Edna, betrothed to 
her cousin Tobias, a native of Ecbatana in Media, in the 
apocryphal history of Tobit. As the story goes, she 
had been married to seven husbands, who were all slain 
on the wedding night by Asmodieus, the evil spirit, who 
loved her (Tob. iii, 7). This spirit the rabbins call 
Ashmedai, and say he was the incestuous offspring of 
Tubal-Gain by his s^tcr Naama, who became the moth- 
er of many devils: and that he was enamoured of the 
beauty of Sara as the angels were of the daughters of 
men ((Jen. v). See Asmoiveus. The breaking of the 
spell and the chasing-awav of the evil spirit by the 
*• fishy fume,” when Sara was married to 'I'obias, with 
whom she afterwards lived in peace, are told in ch. viii. 
See Tcibit. 

Sarab. Sec Biuer. 

Sarabaites, a vagrant class of monks among the 
Egyptians in the 4th century, designated Remboth. 
They lived together in very small communities, chiefly 
in cities where everything they did might attract at- 
tention. They turned religion into an art, and made a 
gain t> 3 r the exhibition of pretended miracles. Their 
dress was most disgusting and their conduct immoral 
(Jerome. Ep. ‘22 ad Eustoch). 

Sarabi'as (Sapn^/ae), a Greek form (l Esdr. ix, 
48 ) of the name Siierebiah (q. v.) in the Ileb. text 
(Neh. viii, 7). 

Saracens, originally the name of an Arab tribe, 
then applied to the Bedouin, and later to all the Moor- 
ish or Mohammedan people who invaded Europe, and 
against whom the Crusaders fought. The true deriva- 
tion of the word was long a puzzle to philologers: Du 
Cange deduced it from Sarah, the wife of Abraham; 
Ilottinger ( Biblioth . Orient.') from the Arab saraca, to 
steal; Forster (Journey) from a (thru, a desert; others 
from the Hebrew sarak, poor. The opinion most gen- 
erally prevalent is that the word was originally Shar - 
keyn (Arab. Eastern people), corrupted by the Greeks 
into yictpaic?]voi, from which the Homans derived their 
word Saraceni. See Crusades; Moors; Spain. 

Sa'rall, the name of two women in the Old Test., 
whose Hebrew names, however, are different. 

1. The wife of Abraham and mother of Isaac. 

1. Her Name . — The Hebrew form of Sarah is mb, 
Sarah , which is the regular feminine of lb, sar , a 
prince, often so used and rendered (Sept., Josephus, and 
New Test. “Sara” in the A. V. of the N. T.). 

Her original name, however, was Sakai (q.v.), which is 
usually regarded as of kindred etymology. The change 
of her name from “Sarai” to “Sarah” was made at. the 
same time that Abram’s name was changed to Abraham, 
on the establishment of the covenant of circumcision 
between him and God. That the name “ Sarah” signi- 
ties “princess” is universally acknowledged. But the 
meaning of “Sarai” is still a subject of controversy. 
The older interpreters (as, for example, Jerome, in Qutext. 
flebr., and those who follow him) suppose it to mean 
“my princess;” and explain the change from Sarai to 
Sarah as signifying that she was no longer the queen 
of one family, but the royal ancestress of “all families 
of the earth.” They also suppose that the addition of 
the letter H, as taken from the sacred tetragrammaton 
Jehovah, to the names of Abram and Sarai, mvsticallv 
signified their being received into covenant with the 
Lord. Among modern Hebraists there is great diversi- 
ty of interpretation. One opinion, keeping to the same 
general derivation as that referred to above, explains 
“Sarai” as “noble,” “nobility,” etc., an explanation 
which, even more than the other, labors under the ob- 
jection of giving little foree to the change. Another 
opinion supposes Sarai to he a contracted form of JT'^b 
(Seraydh). and to signify “Jehovah is ruler.” Sec Se- 
rajah. But this gives no force whatever to (be 
change, and, besides, introduces the clement Jah into I 


a proper name too early in the history. A third (fol- 
lowing Ewald, Ileb. Gram. § 324) derives it from PR'l?, 
a root which is found in Gen. xxxii. 28; llos. xii, 4, in 
the sense of “ to tight,” and explains it as “contentious” 
( streitsiichtiy ). This last seems to be, etymologically, 
the most probable, and differs from the others in giving 
great force and dignity to the change of name (see Ge- 
senius, Thesaur. p. 1338 h ; Pfeiffer, in the Stud. u. Krit. 
1871, i, 145 sq.). See Proper Name. 

2. Her Parentage . — She is first introduced in Gen. xi, 
29 as follows: “Abram and Nahor took them wives: 
the name of Abram’s wife was Sarai ; and the name of 
Nahor’s wife was Milcah, the daughter of Haran, the 
father of Milcah, and the father of Iscah.” In Gen. xx, 
12 Abraham speaks of her as his sister, the daughter 
of the same father, hut not the daughter of the same 
mother. The common Jewish tradition, taken for 
granted by Josephus ( J nt. i, 6, G) and by Jerome (Qucest. 
Hebr.ad Gene sin, iii, 323 [ed. Ben. 1735]) is that Sarai is 
the same as Iscah, the daughter of Haran and the sister 
of Lot, who is called Abraham’s “brother” in Gen.xiv, 
14, 1G. Judging from the fact that Hobekah, the grand- 
daughter of Nahor, was the wife of Isaac, the son of 
Abraham, there is reason to conjecture that Abraham 
was the youngest brother, so that his wife might not 
improbably be younger than the wife of Nahor. It is 
certainly strange, if the tradition be true, that no direct 
mention of it is found in Gen.xi, 29. But it is not im- 
probable in itself; it sup] dies the account of the descent 
of the. mother of the chosen race, the omission of which 
in such a passage is most unlikely; and there is no oth- 
er to set against it, except the assertion of Abraham 
himself that Sarai was his half-sister, “the daughter of 
my father, but not the daughter of my mother” (Gen. 
xx, 12) ; but this is held by many to mean no more than 
that Haran her father was his half-brother; for the col- 
loquial usage of the Hebrews in this matter makes it 
easy to understand that he might call a niece a sister, 
and a granddaughter a daughter. In general discourse 
“daughter” comprised any and every female descend- 
ant, and “ sister” any and every consanguineous rela- 
tionship. (See Stempel, De Abrahamo M atrimonium 
Dissimulante [Vitemb. 1714].) In that case Abraham 
was really her uncle as well as husband. See Brother. 

3. Her History . — This is substantially, of course, that 
of Abraham. She came with him from l T r to Haran, 
from Haran to Canaan, and accompanied him in all the 
wanderings of his life. Her only independent, action 
is the demand that Ilagar and Ishmael should be east 
out, far from all rivalry with her and Isaac; a demand 
symbolically applied in Gal. iv, 22-31 to the displace- 
ment of the Old Covenant by the New. The times in 
which she plays the most important part in the history 
are the times when Abraham was sojourning, first in 
Egypt, then in Gerar, in both which cases Sarah shared 
his deceit towards Pharaoh and towards Abimelech. On 
the first occasion, about the middle of her life, her personal 
beauty is dwelt upon as its cause (Gen. xii, 11-15); on 
the second, just before the birth of Isaac, at a time when 
she was old (thirty-seven years before her death), hut 
when her vigor had been miraculously restored, the 
same cause is alluded to as supposed by Abraham, but 
not actually stated (xx, 9-11). In the former ease the 
commendations which the princes of Pharaoh bestowed 
upon the charms of the lovely stranger have been sup- 
posed by some to have been owing to the contrast 
which her fresh, Mesopotamian complexion offered to 
the dusky hue of their own beauties. But, so far as 
climate is concerned, the nearer Syria could offer com- 
plexions as fair as hers; and, moreover, a people train- 
ed by their habits to admire “dusky” beauties were not 
likely to be inordinately attracted bv a fresh complex- 
ion. In both eases, especially the last, the truthfulness 
of the history is seen in the unfavorable contrast in 
which the conduct both of Abraham and Sarah stands 
to that of Pharaoh and Abimelech. She died at lie- 


SARAII 


353 


SARASA 


bron at the age of one hundred and twenty-seven years, 
twenty-eight years before her husband, and was buried 
by him in the cave of Maehpelah, B.C. 2027. Her 
burial-place, purchased of Ephron the llittite, was the 
only possession of Abraham in the Land of Promise. It 
has remained, hallowed in the eyes of Jews, Christians, 
and Mohammedans alike, to the present day; and in it 
the “shrine of Sarah” is pointed out opposite to that 
of Abraham, with those of Isaac and Pebekah on the 
one side, and those of Jacob and Leah on the other (see 
Stanley’s Led. on Jewish Church , app. ii, p. 484-509). 
See Abraham. 

4. Her Character . — This is no ideal type of excel- 
lence, like that of Abraham, but one thoroughly natural 
and truly feminine, both in its excellences and its de- 
fects. Her natural motherly affection is seen in her 
touching desire for children, even from her bondmaid, 
and in her unforgiving jealousy of that bondmaid when 
she became a mother; it) her rejoicing over her son 
Isaac, ami in the spirit which resented the slightest in- 
sult to him and forbade Ishmael to share his sonship. 
It makes her cruel to others as well as tender to her 
own, and is remarkably contrasted with the sacrifice of 
natural feeling on the part of Abraham to God’s com- 
mand in the last case (Gen. xxi. 12). To the same 
character belong her ironical laughter at the promise 
of a child, long desired, but now beyond all hope: her 
trembling denial of that laughter, and her change of it 
to the laughter of thankful joy, which she commemo- 
rated in the name of Isaac. It is a character deeply 
and truly affectionate, but impulsive, jealous, and impe- 
rious in its affection. 

Sarah, however, is so rarely introduced directly to our 
notice that it is difficult to estimate her character justly 
for want of adequate materials. She is seen only when 
her presence is indispensable; and then she appears 
with more of submission and of simplicity than of dig- 
nity, and manifests an unwise but not unusual prompti- 
tude in following her first thoughts, and in proceeding 
upon the impulse of her first emotions. Upon the 
whole, Sarah scarcely meets the idea the imagination 
would like to form of the life-companion of so eminent 
a person as Abraham. Nevertheless, we cannot fail to 
observe that she was a most attached and devoted wife. 
Iler husband was the central object of all her thoughts; 
and he was not forgotten even in her first transports of 
joy at becoming a mother (Gen. xxi, 7). This is her 
highest eulogiurn. 

It is asked whether Sarah was aware of the intended 
sacrifice of Isaac, the son of her long-deferred hopes. 
The chronology is uncertain and does not decide wheth- 
er this transaction occurred before or after her death. 
She was probably alive; and if so, we may understand 
from the precautions employed by Abraham that she 
was not acquainted with the purpose of the journey to 
the land of Moriah, and, indeed, that it was the object 
of these precautions to keep from her knowledge a mat- 
ter which must so deeply wound her heart. He could 
have the less difficulty in this if his faith was such as 
to enable him to believe that he should bring back in 
safety the son he was commanded to sacrifice (Heb. xi, 
19). As, however, the account of her death immediate- 
ly follows that of this sacrifice, some of the Jewish 
writers imagine that the intelligence killed her, and 
that Abraham found her dead on his return {Tary. 
Jonath ., and Jarchi on Gen. xxiii , 2 ; Pirke Eliezer , c. 
52). Hut there seems to be no authority for such an 
inference. 

Isaiah is the only prophet who names Sarah (li, 2). 
Paul alludes to her hope of becoming a mother (Horn, 
iv, 19) ; and afterwards cites the promise which she re- 
ceived (ix, 9) ; and Peter eulogizes her submission to 
her husband (l Pet. iii, 6). — Smith ; Kitto. 

2 . (Heb. He* rack, tTTJ; Sept. Sdper, “Sarah,” Numb, 
xxvi, 4G ; being there “in pause” Sdrach , PH‘,1!) the 
daughter of the patriarch Asher, elsewhere (Gen. xlvi, 
IX.— Z 


17 ; 1 Chron. vii, 30) more properly Anglicized Serah 
0l- W)- 

Sa'rai (Heb. Surat/'. jlT ; Sept. 'Edpa; Vulg. Su- 
nn), the original name of Sarah, the wife of Abraham. 
It is always used in the history from Gen. xi, 29 to 
xvii, 15, when it was changed to Sarah at the same 
time that her husband’s name from Abram became 
Abraham, and the birth of Isaac was more distinctly 
foretold. The meaning of the name appears to be. as 
Ewald has suggested, “contentious.”— Smith. See Sa- 
rah. 

Sarai'as (Sapatac v. r. [in No. 2] ’AZapaiag), the 
Greek form of Seraiaii (q. v.), namely: («) the high- 
priest (1 Esdr.v, 5); (5) the father of Ezra (I Esdr. 
viii, 1 ; 2 Esdr. i, 1 ). 

Sar'amel (S«pa//f\ v. r. ’AcrapapsA), the place 
where the assembly of the Jews was held at which the 
high-priesthood was conferred upon Simon Maeeabivus 
(1 Mace, xiv, 28). The faet that the name is found only 
in this passage has led to the conjecture that it is an 
imperfect version of a word in the original Hebrew or 
Syriac from which the present Greek text of the Mac- 
cabees is a translation. Some (as Castellio) have 
treated it as a corruption of Jerusalem; but this is in- 
admissible, since it is inconceivable that so well-known 
a name should be corrupted. Other conjectures are 
enumerated by Grimm in the Kurzyef. exeyetisches 
H audit, on the passage. A few only need be named 
, here, but none seem perfectly satisfactory. All appear 
: to adopt the reading Asaramel. (1.) Ila-hatsar Millo , 
| “the court of Millo,” Millo being not improbably the 
citadel of Jerusalem. See Millo. This is the con- 
I jeeture ofGrotius, and has at least the merit of ingenu- 
ity. (2.) Ila-hatsar A m-El , “ the court of the people of 
God, that is, the great court of the Temple.” This is 
due to Ewald ( Gesch . iv, 887), who compares with it the 
well-known Sarbeth Sabanui-El, given by Eusebius as 
the title of the Macenhaean history. See Macv.nrke. 

I (3.) IJas-shaar Ani-El, “the gate of the people of God,” 
adopted by Winer ( Iletilwh .). (4.) Hussar A m-El , 

I “prince of the people of God,” as if not the name of a 
place, but the title of Simon, the “in ” having been in- 
| serted by puzzled copyists. This is adopted by Grimm 
himself. It has in its favor the fact that without it 
Simon is here styled high-priest only, and his second 
title, “captain and governor of the Jews and priests” 
(ver. 47), is then omitted in the solemn official record — 
the very place where it ought to be found. It also 
seems to be countenanced by the Peshito-Svriae ver- 
sion, which certainly omits the title of “high-priest,” 
I but inserts llubbu tie- Israel, “ leader of Israel.” None 
of these explanations, however, can be regarded as en- 
tirely satisfactory. — Smith. 

Saran, in Hindu mythology, is a superlative how 
belonging to Vishnu, whose arrows never fail to reach 
their mark and return of themselves to Vishnu. 

Sarantari, in the Greek Church, are masses for the 
dead during forty days. 

Saraph. See Seraphim ; Serpent. 

Sa'raph (Hel). Saraph'. burning ; Sept, 

v. r. NmVr), named as one of the sons or de- 
scendants of Shelah the son of Judah (1 Chron. iv, 22), 
and he seems to have lived about the time of the Eisode, 
as he is said to have had the dominion in Moab. B.C. 
cir. 1618. “ Burrington (Geneal. i, 179) makes Saraph 

a descendant of Jokim, whom he regards as the third 
son of Shelah. In the Targum of B. Joseph, Joash and 
Saraph are identified with Mahlon and Chilion, ‘who 
married (A^*2) in Moab’” (Smith). 

Sarasa, Alphonse Antoine he, a Flemish Jesuit 
of the last century, was born at Nieuwpoort of Spanish 
parents. At the age of fifteen lie entered the Society 
of Jesus, and afterwards taught, in the College of Gaud. 
Later he gave himself to the study of mathematics, 


SARASWATI 


354 


SARDIS 


which he had studied under the famous Gregory de St. 
Vincent, and passed the remainder of his life in retire- 
ment. lie died at Anvers, July 5, 1607. He wrote 
A rs Semper Gaudendi , etc., which has been translated 
into French under the title IS Art de se Tranquilliser 
dans les Ednements de la Vie. This work was held in 
high regard by Leibnitz, Wolf, and others of their school. 
— lloei’er, Xouc. Bitty. Gene rule, s. v. 

Saraswati (or SakasvAti) is, in Ilindfi mytholo- 
gy, the name of the wife, or the female energy, of the 
god brahman, the first of the Ilindii Trimurti. or triad. 
{She is also the goddess of speech and eloquence, the pa- 
troness of music and the arts, and the inventress of the 
Sanscrit language and the Devanagari letters. She 
was induced to bestow these benefits on the human 
race by the sage Bharata, who, through his penance, 
caused her to descend from heaven, and to divulge her 
inventions. Hence she is called Bhdrati. She is also 
very white, hence another of her names, M ah as u- eta, or 
Mahdsukla (from makat , great, and sir eta, white). — 
Chambt rs's Kncyclop. s. v. 

tiamsvuti is also the name of a stream which flows 
into the Ganges at Hoogly. According to the myth, 
the goddess, being pursued, hid herself under the earth, 
and in the character of a stream forced her way until 
she reached the Ganges, her lover, with whom she was 
united. Another tradition makes Sarasvati the daugh- 
tei of Brahma, whose beauty captivated the god him- 
self. As she concealed herself behind him, he assumed 
five heads in order to look for her; but Siva, becoming 
angry, cut off one of them. She is usually represented 
as seated bv the side of Brahma. — Vollmer, Wbrterb.d. 
Mtfthtd. s. v. 

Saravia, Hadrian A., classed among the English 
divines, although of Spanish extraction, was born at 
Hisdin. in Artois, France, in 1531. In 158*2 he became, 
profosor of divinity and preacher to the French Church 
at Leyden. Influenced, doubtless, by his preference for 
episcopal government, he went to England in 1587, 1 
where he was well received by the prelates and divines. 
He first settled in Jersey, where he taught school and 
preached to his exiled countrymen there; afterwards he 
was master of the free grammar-school at Southampton. 
He was successively promoted to a prebend in the 
churches of Gloucester (1591), Canterbury (1595), and 
Westminster (1001). He showed great learning in de- 
fending the episcopacy against Beza, when the latter 
recommended its abolition in Scotland. He died in 
1613, and was interred in Canterbury Cathedral. A 
collective edition of all his works, which were in Latin, 
was published in 1611 (Lond. 1 vol. 4to), under the title 
of Ij trend Tract at us Theoloyite : lie. Dicers is Gradibus 
Afinistrornm Eranyelii. See Hagenbach, /list, of Doc- 
trines, ii. 168, 186. 

Sarcerius, Erasmus, an able practical theologian 
of the 16th century, was born at Aunaberg, in Saxony, 
in 1501. He studied first at Lei psic, then at the feet 
of Luther and Melancthon in Wittenberg. In 1530 
he left the university and became co-rector of a Latin 
school at Lnbeck. Laboring here with some interrup- 
tion until 1536, he then took charge of a similar school 
in Nassau. From 1538 he gave his attention exclusive- 
ly to the work of reforming the Church of Nassau, pre- 
siding at synods, instructing the clergy, and furnishing 
them with written works on practice and doctrine. 
But, unwilling to sanction the Interim (1548), he re- 
signed his position, retired to Anuaberg, and in 1519 
became a pastor in Lei psic. In 1553 he was called to 
he Church superintendent in Eislehen. In 1559 he ac- 
cepted a call as preacher at St.John’s in Magdeburg; 
but tbe high Lutheran clergy scented heresy in his 
mild ami genial sermons, and assailed him in pamphlets. 
Worn out with labor, he speedily succumbed, lie Hied 
in 1559 at the age of lifty-eight. In character, Saree- 
rius was (irm, conscientious, hlameless. A stranger to 
flattery, lie walked among princes as an equal, and 


never quailed before a foe. His works were highly es- 
teemed and much studied. We mention only, Anwei- 
sitngdie heiliye Bchrift zu interpretiren (Basle, 1528) : — 
Tructatus de Rat tone Discendce Theologite (1539) : — Con- 
dones Annuie (1541,4 vols.) : — De Consensu Verte Eccle- 
site et S.Patrum: — also Loci Communes Theoloyice 
(1542 ?) Pastorale (1559). (J. V. L.) 

Sarcerius, Wilhelm, the only son of the pre- 
ceding, was pastor at Eislehen, but lost his position be- 
cause of holding the opinions of Flacius (q. v.). lie 
went, thereupon, to Mansfekl, where he died as court- 
preacher. lie published, Leichen -, Lauf-, mid IFosse?- 
Prediyten : — Geistliches Herbarium : — Eechtschule Jesu 
Christ i : — Ilullischer Traueryesany . See Herzog’s Real- 
Encykinp. xx, 682-686. 

S arched 'onus (Sap^tiWoc, v* r. SayepcWo'c* 2a- 
XepSct)'), a Gnecized form (Tob. i, 21) for tlie name of 
the Assyrian king Esar-haddon (q. v.). 

Sardae'us (Eapdaioc, v. r. ZapcatoQ, ZepaXiac), a 
corrupt Greek form (1 Esdr. ix, 28) of the name Aziza 
(q. v.) of the Heb. list (Ezra x, 27). 

Sardessius, in Greek mythology, is an appellative 
of Jupiter , derived from the city of Sardessus, in Lyeia. 

Sardica, in Illyria. A council was held at this 
place in 347, by order of the emperors Constantins and 
Constans, whom Athanasius, persecuted by tbe Eusebi- 
ans, had petitioned to convoke a council. Twenty can- 
ons were drawn up, and regulations made concerning 
Easter. See Smith, Tables of Church Hist.; Lamlon, 
Manual of Councils , s. v. 

Sardine (c rdpctvog, apparently an adjeetive from 
adpdioi', which has the same signification), the name 
of a gem (Rev. iv, 3). See Saudius. 

Sar'dis (Sapeac, of uncertain etymology), a city 
of Asia Minor, the capital of the ancient kingdom of 
Lydia. It was situated about two miles to the south 
of the river Hermits, just below the range of Tinolus 
(Bos Dagh), on a spur of which its acropolis was Lmili, 
in a fine plain watered by the river l’actolus (Herod, 
vii, 31 ; Xenophon, Cgrop. vii, 2-11 ; Pliny, Hist. Xat. ; 
Strabo, xiii. 625). It is in lat. 38° 30' N., long. 27° 57' 
E. Sardis was a great and ancient city, and, from its 
wealth and importance, was the object of much cupidity 
and of many sieges. 

1. Ancient History. — Tbe Lydians, or Liulim, whose 
metropolis Sardis was, were the descendants of Lnd the 
son of Shem, and must not be confounded with the 
Ludim, the children of Lud the son of Misraim the son 
of Ham, who dwelt and settled in Egypt. These latter 
were the nation alluded to by Jeremiah (xlvi, 9) when 
he speaks of “the Lydians that handle the bow:” the 
distinction will appear the more clearly from the fact 
that the Lydians and the Libyans are mentioned to- 
gether as embracing the same cause. The Shemitie 
Ludim were a warlike, active, and energetic people, and 
established an empire extending as far east as the river 
Halys. The city of Sardis, although of more recent or- 
igin than the Trojan war (Strabo, xiii, 625), was very 
ancient, being mentioned by vEschvlus {Pers. 45); 
and Herodotus relates (i, 84) that it was fortified by a 
king Moles, who (according to the Chron. of Eusebius) 
preceded Candaules. The city itself was, at least at 
first, built in a rude manner, and the houses were cov- 
ered with dry reeds, in consequence of which it was 
repeatedly destroyed In* lire 4 but the acropolis, which 
some of the ancient geographers identified with the 
Homeric Hyde (Strabo, xiii, 626; comp. Pliny, v. 30; 
Eustath. ad Dion. Per. 830), was built upon an almost 
inaccessible rock. In the reign of Ardys, Sardis was 
taken by the Cimmerians, but they were unable to gain 
possession of the citadel. Over this realm a series of 
aide princes rilled, the last of whom, Cncsus, obtained a 
world-wide fame for his wealth, his misfortunes, and his 
philosophy. The earlier part of his reign was one of 
unusual glory; he extended his dominion over the 


SARDIS 


355 


whole of Asia Minor with the exception of Lycia and 
Cilicia, and displayed as much ability as an adminis- 
trator as he had done as a conqueror. Hut the rising 
power of Cyrus soon came into collision with his own, 
and, by the capture of .Sardis, the Persian prince brought 
the Lydian rule to a close. Croesus is said to have ad- 
vised the victor to discourage the martial spirit of the 
Lydians by restraining them from all warlike occupa- 
tions, and employing them in those arts only which 
minister to luxury and sensuality. Cyrus is reported 
to have taken the disgraceful advice, and the result 
was that, from ranking among the bravest and hardiest 
nations of antiquity, the Lydians became the most help- 
less and effeminate. 

After its conquest, the Persians always kept a garri- 
son in the citadel, on account of its natural strength, 
which induced Alexander the Great, when it was sur- 
rendered to him in the sequel of the battle of the 
Granicus, similarly to occupy it. Sardis recovered the 
privilege of municipal government (and, as was alleged 
several centuries afterwards, the right of a sanctuary) 
upon its surrender to Alexander the Great, but its fort- 
unes for the next three hundred years are very ob- 
scure. It changed hands more than once in the con- 
tests between the dynasties ^vhich arose after the death 
of Alexander. In the year B.C. 214 it was taken and 
sacked by the army of Antiochus the Great, who be- 
sieged his cousin A cine ns in it for two years before suc- 
ceeding, as lie at last did through treachery, in obtain- 
ing possession of the person of the latter. After the 
ruin of Antiochus’s fortunes, it passed, with the rest of 
Asia on that side of Taurus, under the dominion of the 
kings of Pergamus. w r hose interests led them to divert 
the course of traffic between Asia and Europe away 
from Sardis. Its productive soil must always have con- 
tinued a source of wealth ; but its importance as a cen- 
tral mart appears to have diminished from the time of 
the invasion of Asia by Alexander. After their victory 
over Antiochus it passed to the Romans, under whom it 
still more rapidly declined in rank and prosperity. 

In the time of the emperor Tiberius, Sardis was deso- 
lated by an earthquake (Strabo, xii, p. 579), together 
with eleven, or, as Eusebius says, twelve other impor- 
tant cities of Asia. The whole face of the country is 
said to have been changed by this convulsion. In the 
case of Sardis the calamity was increased by a pesti- 
lential fever which followed ; and so much compassion 
was in consecjiience excited for the city at Rome that 
its tribute was remitted for five years, and it received a 
benefaction from the privy purse of the emperor (Tac- 
itus, Ann. ii, 47). This was in the year A.D. 17. Nine 
years afterwards the Sardians are found among the 
competitors for the honor of erecting, as representa- 
tives of the Asiatic cities, a temple to their benefactor. 
See Smyrna. On this occasion they plead, not only 
their ancient services to Rome in the time of the Mace- 
donian war, but their well-watered country, their cli- 
mate, and the richness of the neighboring soil; there 
is no allusion, however, to the important manufactures 
and the commerce of the early times. In the time of 
Pliny it was included in the same conventvs juridicus 
with Philadelphia, with the Cadueni, a Macedonian col- 
ony in the neighborhood, with some settlements of the 
old Maeonian population, and a few other towns of less 
note. These Mmonians still continued to call Sardis by 



SARDIS 

its ancient name, Hyde , which it bore in the time of 
Omphale. 

2. Biblical Notice. — The inhabitants of Sardis bore 
an ill repute among the ancients for their voluptuous 
habits of life. Hence, perhaps, the point of the phrase 
in the Apocalyptic message to the city, “Thou hast a 
few names, even in Sardis, which have not defiled their 
garments” (Rev. iii, 4). The place that Sardis holds in 
this message, as one of the “ Seven Churches of Asia,” 
is the source of the peculiar interest with which the 
Christian reader regards it. From what is said, it ap- 
pears that it had already declined much in real religion, 
although it still maintained the name and external as- 
pect of a Christian Church, “ having a name to live, 
while it was dead” (Rev. iii, 1). 

3. Description and Modern Remains. — Sardis was in 
very early times, both from the extremely fertile char- 
acter of the neighboring region and from its convenient 
position, a commercial mart of importance. Chestnuts 
were first produced in the neighborhood, which procured 
them the name of fidXaj'oi 'Sapdiavoi. The art of 
dyeing wool is said by Pliny to have been invented 
there; and, at any rate, Sardis was the entrepot of the 
dyed woollen manufactures, of which Phrygia, with its 
vast flocks (jroXvTrpofiaTiDTCLTt), Herod, v, 49), furnished 
the raw material. Ilence we hear of the (poii’iKtfitg 
S apdiai'ai ; and Sappho speaks of the 7rouctAoc; pao- 
SX?)Q Avcioi* kciXov tpyov, which was perhaps some- 
thing like the modern Turkish carpets. Some of the 
woollen manufactures, of a peculiarly fine texture, were 
called xf/iXoraTriSeg. The hall through which the king 
of Persia passed from his state apartments to the gate 
where he mounted on his horse was laid with these, and 
no foot but that of the monarch w'as allowed to tread on 
them. In the description given of the habits of a young 
Cyprian exquisite of great wealth, he is represented as 
reposing upon a bed of which the feet were silver, and 
upon which these \piXord7ridtQ 'EapPtavat were laid as 
a mattress. Sardis, too, was the place where the metal 
electrum was procured (Sophocles, Antig. 1037); and it 
was thither that the Spartans sent in the Gth century 
B.C. to purchase gold for the purpose of gilding the face 
of the Apollo at Amycke. This was probably furnished 
by the auriferous sand of the Pactohis, a brook which 
came from Tmolus and ran through the agora of Sardis 
by the side of the great temple of Cvbele. But, though 
its gold-washings may have been celebrated in early 
times, the greatness of Sardis in its best days was much 
more due to its general commercial importance and its 
convenience as an entrepot. This seems to follow from 
the statement that not only silver and gold coins were 
there first minted, but there also the class of KaTnjXoi 
(stationary traders, as contradistinguished from the tp- 
Tropoi, or travelling merchants) first arose. It was also, 
at any rate between the fall of the Lydian and that of 
the Persian dynasty, a slave-mart. 

Successive earthquakes and the ravages of the Sara- 
cens and Turks have reduced this once flourishing city 
to a heap of ruins, presenting many remains of its former 
splendor. The habitations of the living are confined to 
a few miserable cottages, still found on the true site, of 
Sardis, at the foot, of Mount Tmolus, or Bnz-dag, as the 
Turks call it. Two or three shepherds inhabited a hut, 
and a Turk with two servants a mill, at the time of 
Arundel’s visit in 1826. In 1850 no human being found 
a dwelling in the once mighty and populous Sardis. 
The modern name of the ruins at Sardis is Sert-Kalessi. 
Travellers describe the appearance of the locality on ap- 
proaching it from the north-west as that of complete 
solitude. The Pactohis is a mere thread of water, all 
but evanescent in summer-time. The Wadis-tchai 
(Hermus), in the neighborhood of the town, is between 
fifty and sixty yards wide and nearly three feet deep ; 
but its waters are turbid and disagreeable, and are not 
only avoided as unfit for drinking, but have the local 
reputation of generating the fever which is the scourge 
of the neighboring plains. A countless number of se- 



SARDIS 


356 


SARDIUS 


pulchral hillocks, bevoml the Hermns, heighten the des- 
olateness of a spot which the multitudes lying there 
once made busy by their living presence and pursuits. 
The acropolis seems well to define the site of the city. 
It is a marked object, being a tall distorted rock of soft 
sandstone, rent as if by an earthquake. The acropolis 
is very difficult of ascent; it has a few fragments of 
ruinous walls on the summit, but no remains are visible 
of the temple which Alexander built there in honor of 
the Olympian Jove. The almost perpendicular wall 
towards the south was considered impregnable, and 
Cries us therefore, in defending his capital against Cyrus, 
omitted to guard it; but a Persian soldier, seeing a Lyd- 
ian descend by a path of steps cut in the rock in order 
to regain his helmet, which had fallen down, watched 
his proceedings, anil led a body of Persian troops into 
the acropolis itself. 


The remains of the ancient city are few and incon- 
siderable. The gerusia — called also the house of Croesus 
— lies westward of the acropolis. Arundel measured one 
of its halls, and found it one hundred and fifty-six feet 
in length by forty-three in breadth, and having walls 
ten feet in thickness. There are some portions of a 
theatre and of two churches, one of which, said to be 
dedicated to the Virgin, was carefully examined by Col. 
Leake, and found to consist almost wholly of fragments 
of earlier edifices; and from more recent investigations 
it appears that these were chiefly taken from the Tem- 
ple of Cybele, and if so they are among the oldest mon- 
uments now existing in the world, the temple having 
been built only three hundred years after that of Solo- 
mon. Of the few inscriptions which have been discov- 
ered, all, or nearly all, belong to the time of the Homan 
empire. Vet there still exist considerable remains of 
the earlier days. The massive Temple of Cybele still 
bears witness in its fragmentary remains to the wealth 
and architectural skill of the people that raised it. Mr. 
Cockerell, who visited it in 1812, found two columns 
standing with their architrave, the stone of which 
stretched in a single block from the centre of one to 
that of the other. This stone, although it was not 
the largest of the architrave, he calculates must have 
weighed twenty-five tons. The diameters of the col- 
umns supporting it are six feet four and a half inches at 
about thirty-five feet below the capital. The present soil 
(apparently formed by the erumbling-awnv of the hill 
which backs the temple on its eastern side) is more 
than twenty-live feet above the pavement. Such pro- 
portions are not inferior to those of the columns in the 
lleneum at Samos, which divides, in the estimation of 
Herodotus, with the Artemisinin at Ephesus the palm 
of pre-eminence among all the works of Creek art. 
And as regards the details, “ the capitals appeared,” to 


Cockerell, “to surpass any specimen of the Ionic he 
had seen in perfection of design and execution.” On 
the north side of the acropolis, overlooking the valley 
of the Hermus, is a theatre near four hundred feet in 
diameter, attached to a stadium of about one thousand. 
This probably was erected after the restoration of Sardis 
by Alexander. In the attack of Sardis by Antioehus, 
described by Polybius (vii, 15-18), it constituted one of 
the chief points on which, after entering the city, the 
assaulting force was directed. The temple belongs to 
the icra of the Lydian dynasty, and is nearly contempo- 
raneous with the Temple of Zeus Panhellenius in J£gi- 
na, and that of Here in Samos. To the same date may 
be assigned the “ Valley of Sweets” (y\uiei»c uyicdjv), a 
pleasure-ground, the fame of which Poly crates endeav- 
ored to rival by the so-called Laura at Samos. 

4. Authorities, — Ancient: Athenians, ii, 48; vi, 281; 

xii, 514, 540; Arrian, i, 17; 
Pliny, IL X. v, 29; xv, 23; 
Stephanus Pvz. s. v.'Voj/ ; Pau- 
sanias, iii, 9, 5; Diodorus Sic. 
xx, 107 ; Scholiast, Aristoph. 
Pac. 1 174 ; Herodotus, i, 69, 94 ; 
iii, 48; viii, 105; Strabo, xiii, 
§ 5; Tacitus, A mini, ii, 47 ; iii, 
63; iv, 55. Modern: I*bckh./«- 
scriptiones Graces, Nos. 3451- 
8472 ; Cockerell, in Leake’s 
A sia Minor, p. 843; Arundel, 
Discoveries in Asia Minor, i, 
26 - 28 ; Tchihatcheff, .4 sie Mi- 
neure, p. 232-242; Chandler, 
Travels in Asia Minor, p. olGsq. 
See also Smith, Hartley, Mac- 
farlane. Arundel, and Svoboda, 
severally, On the Seven Church- 
es of Asia; Storeh, Dissert, de 
Sept. Urh. A sia; in Apocal. ; 
Richter, Wallfahrten, p. 511 
sq. ; Prokesch, Denkiclirdigk. ii, 
31 sq. 

Sard'ite (Heb. Sardi', i'H'jO, used as a plur. with 
the art. prefixed; Sept. Sapsci), the patronymic title 
(Numb, xxvi, 26) of the descendants of Sered (q. v.), 
the son of Zebulon. 

Sardius (Ileb. D'lX, o'dem; Sept, and New Test., 
(T«pCior), one of the precious stones in the breastplate 
of the high-priest (Exod. xxviii, 17; xxxix, 10). So 
also Josephus (lP«r, v, 5, 7), who, however, in Ant. iii. 
7. 6, makes it the sardonyx (aapCorv^). Still, as this 
latter-named mineral is merely another variety of agate, 
to which also the sard or sardius belongs, there is no 
very great discrepancy in the statements of the Jewish 
historian. See Sardonyx. The ddem is mentioned 
by Ezek. (xxviii, 13) as one of the ornaments of the 
king of Tyre. In Rev. iv, 3, John declares that he 
whom he saw sitting on the heavenly throne “was to 
look upon like a jasper and a sardine stone.” The sixth 
foundation of the wall of the heavenly Jerusalem was a 
sardius (Rev. xxi, 20). There can scarcely be a doubt 
that either the sard or the sardonyx is the stone de- 
noted by ddem. 'Hie authority of Josephus in all that 
relates to the high-priest’s breastplate is of the greatest 
value; for, as Rraun ( De 1 \st. Sac. Ileb. p. 635) has re- 
marked, Josephus was not only a Jew, but a priest, who 
might have seen the breastplate with the whole sacer- 
dotal vestments a hundred times, since in his time the 
Temple was standing. The Vulgate agrees with his 
nomenclature. In Jerome’s time t he breastplate was 
still to be inspected in the Temple of Concord; hence it 
will readily be acknowledged that this agreement of the 
two is of great weight. The sard, which is a superior 
variety of agate, has long been a favorite stone for 
the engraver’s art. “ On this stone,” says King ( A nt . 
Gems, j>. 5), “all the finest works of the most cele- 
brated artists are to be found; and this not without 



Ruins of Sardis. 


SARDO 


357 


SARGON 


good cause, such is its toughness, facility of working, 
beauty of color, and the high polish of which it is sus- 
ceptible, and which Pliny states that it retains longer 
than any other gem.” Sards differ in color. There is a 
bright-red variety which, in Pliny’s time, was the most 
esteemed; and perhaps the Hebrew odem, from a root 
which means “to be red,” points to this kind. There 
is also a paler or honey-colored variety; but in sards 
there is always a shade of yellow mingling with the red 
(see King, A nt. Gems , p. fi). The sardius is the stone 
now called the carnelian, from its color (a came), which 
resembles that of raw flesh. The Hebrew name is de- 
rived from a root (2HN) which signifies redness. The 
sardius or carnelian is of the flint family, and is a 
kind of chalcedony. The more vivid the red in this 
stone, the higher is the estimation in which it is held. 
It was anciently, as now, more frequently engraved on 
than any other stone. The ancients called it sardius, 
because Sardis in Lydia was the place where they first 
became acquainted with it; but the sardius of Babylon 
was considered of greater value (Pliny, Hist. Mat. xxxvit, 
7). The Hebrews probably obtained the carnelian from 
Arabia. In Yemen there is found a very fine dark-red 
carnelian, which is called el-Akik (Niebuhr, Beschreib. 
p. 14*2). The Arabs wear it on the finger, on the arm 
above the elbow, and in the belt before the abdomen. 
It is supposed to stop hemorrhage when laid on a fresh 
wound. — Kitto ; Smith. See Tlieophr. De Lapid. c. 43 : 
Clea veland, Mineral, p. 250 ; Moore, A nc. Mineral, p. 1 53. 

Sardo, in Greek mythology, was the daughter of 
Sthenelus, whose name was given to the city of Sardis. 

Sar'donyx (trapdovv^, from adpdiov, the sardius , 
and oi'vt, the onyx) is mentioned in the New Test, once 
only — viz. in Rev. xxi, 20 — as the stone which garnish- 
ed the fifth foundation of the wall of the heavenly Jeru- 
salem. “By sardonyx,” says Pliny ( A r . II. xxxvii, G), 
who describes several varieties, “was formerly under- 
stood, as its name implies, a sard with a white ground 
beneath it, like the flesh under the finger-nail.” The 
sardonyx consists of “a white opaque layer, superim- 
posed upon a red transparent stratum of the true red 
sard” (King, A nt. Gems, p. 9). 1 1 is, like the sard, merely 
a variety of agate, and is frequently employed by en- 
gravers for the purposes of a signet-ring. — Smith. It 
is a species of onyx, distinguished from the common 
stone of that name by having its different colors, red 
and white, disposed in alternate bands. But there is an- 
other stone so called, whose tint is reddish yellow or 
orange, with sometimes a tinge of brown (Moore, Anc. 
Mineral, p. 1 53). 

Sardus, in Greek mythology, was the son of Ma- 
ceris, who was known as Hercules among the Libyans 
and Egyptians. He led a colony of Libyans to the 
island of Ichnusa, who settled there without driving 
away the original inhabitants. The Libyans subse- 
quently sent a statue of Sardus as a votive offering to 
Delphos, and gave his name to the island, which there- 
after was known as Sardinia. 

Sa'rea (Vulg. id., for the Greek text is not extant), 
one of the five scribes “ready to write swiftly” whom 
Esdras was commanded to take (2 Esdr. xiv, 24). 

Sarep'ta (Sdp(7TT(f; Vulg. Sarepta ; Syriac, Tsar- 
path), the Greek form of the name which in the He- 
brew text of the Old Test, appears as Zarepiiath 
(q. v.). The place is designated by the same formula 
on its single occurrence in the. New Test. (Luke iv, 2G) 
that it is when first mentioned in the Sept, version of 
I Kings xvii, 9, “ Sarepta of Sidonia.” 

Sareseok, in Persian mythology, is a bullock 
formed by Ormuzd out of the generative powers of the 
primitive ox which was slain by Ahriman. Sareseok 
supplied the world with animals, and became one of the 
greatest benefactors’of mankind. 

Sar'gon (Ileb. Sargon', *pSHD, either prince of the 


sun [Gesenins] or firm king [Bawlinson]; Sept. ’Apva 
v. r. Nrtpvd), a king of Assyria, whose general, Tartan, 
in the time of Hezekiah, besieged Ashdod. the key of 
Egypt, with the view of then invading that country 
(Isa. xx, 1, 4 sq.). B.C. 715. 

Sargon was one of the greatest of the Assyrian kings, 
llis name is read in the native cuneiform inscriptions 
(q. v.) as Sargbm (see Layard, Nin.and Bah. p. 148), 
while a town which he built and called after himself 
(now Khorsabad) was known as Sarghitn to the Arabi- 
an geographers. He is mentioned bv name only once 
in Scripture (as above), and then not in a historical 
book, which formerly led historians and critics to sus- 
pect that he was not really a king distinct from those 
mentioned in Kings and Chronicles, but rather one of 
those kings under another name. Yitringa, Ofterhaus 
(Spicileg. p. 125 sq.), Eichhorn, and Hupfekl (Be Rebus 
A ssyrior. p. 51) identified him with Shalmaneser; Gro- 
tius, Lowth, and Keil (comp, also Sehroer, Imper. Bahyl. 
p. 152) with Sennacherib; Perizonius, Kaliuskv, and 
Michaelis with Esar-haddon. All these conjectures are 
now shown to be wrong by the Assyrian inscriptions, 
which prove Sargon to have been distinct and different 
from the several monarehs named, and fix his place in 
the list — where it had been already assigned by Paulus, 
Kosenmiiller, Gesenius, Knobel, Ewald, and Winer — be- 
tween Shalmaneser and Sennacherib. He was certain- 
ly Sennacherib’s father, and there is no reason to doubt 
that he was his immediate predecessor (see Jour, of 
Sac. Lit. July, 1854, p. 398 sq.). He ascended the 
throne of Assyria, as we gather from his annals, in the 
same year that Merodach-Baladan ascended the throne 
of Babylon, which, according to Ptolemy’s canon, was 
B.C. 721. This is Col. Rawlinson’s date (Lond. Athe- 
neeum, Aug. 22, 18G3, p. 245). But the synchronism with 
the Hebrew annals [see Hezekiaii; Samaria] would 
locate Sargon’s accession in B.C. 720. G. Smith puts 
it in B.C. 722 (Hist, of Assyria, ch. ix), and so Prof. 
Bawlinson (Ancient Monarchies, ii, 141). He seems to 
have been a usurper, and not of royal birth, for in his 
■ inscriptions he carfully avoids all mention of his father. 
It has been conjectured that he took advantage of 
Shalmaneser’s absence at the protracted siege of Sama- 
ria (2 Kings xvii, 5) to effect a revolution at the seat 
of government, by which that king w’as deposed and he 
himself substituted in his room. See Shalmaneser. 
It is remarkable that Sargon claims the conquest of 
Samaria, which the narrative in Kings appears to as- 
1 sign to his predecessor, lie places the event in his 
first year, before any of his other expeditions. Perhaps, 
therefore, he is the “king of Assyria” intended in 2 
Kings xvii, 6 and xviii, 11, who is not said to be Shal- 
maneser, though we might naturally suppose so from 
no other name being mentioned. Or perhaps he Claim- 
ed the conquest as his own. though Shalmaneser really 
accomplished it, because the capture of the city occurred 
after he had been acknowledged king in the Assyrian 
capital. At any rate, to him belongs the settlement of 
the Samaritans (27,280 families, according to his own 
statement) in Ilalah and on the Habor (Khabur), the 
river of Gozan, and (at a later period, probably) in the 
cities of the Medes. 

Sargon was undoubtedly a great and successful 'war- 
rior. In his annals, wdiich cover a space of fifteen years, 
he gives an account of his warlike expeditions against 
Babylonia and Susiana, on the south; Media, on the east; 
Armenia and Cappadocia, towards the north; Syria, Pal- 
estine, Arabia, and Egypt, towards the west and south- 
west (see Records of the Past, vii, 25 sq.). In Babylo- 
nia he deposed Merodach - Baladan and established a 
viceroy ; in Media he built a number of cities -which he 
peopled with captives from other quarters; in Armenia 
and the neighboring countries he gained many victo- 
ries; while in the far west he reduced Philistia, pene- 
trated deep into the Arabian peninsula, and forced 
Egypt to submit to his arms and consent to the pay- 
ment of a tribute. In this last direction he seems to 


SxVRGOX 


358 


SARPEDOX 


have waged three wars— one in his second year, for the 
possession of Gaza; another in his sixth year, when 
Egypt itself was the object of attack; and a third in 
his ninth, when the special subject of contention was 
Ashdod, which Sargon took by one of his generals. 
This is the event which causes the mention of Sargon’s 
name in Scripture. Isaiah was instructed at the time 
of this expedition to “put off his shoe, and go naked 
and barefoot,” for a sign that “ the king of Assyria 
should lead away the Egyptians prisoners, and the 
Ethiopians captives, young and old, naked and barefoot, 
to the shame of Egypt” (Isa. xx, 2-4). We may gath- 
er from this either that Ethiopians and Egyptians form- 
ed part of the garrison of Ashdod, and were captured 
with the city, or that the attack on the Philistine town 
was accompanied by an invasion of Egypt itself, which 
was disastrous to the Egyptians. The year of the at- 
tack, it is thought, would fall into the reign of the first 
Ethiopian king, Sabaco 1 (Rawlinson, Herodotus , i, 386, 
note 7, 2d ed.), and it is in agreement with this Sargon 
speaks of Egypt as being at this time subject to Meroe. 
Resides these expeditions of Sargon, his monuments 
mention that he took Tyre, and received tribute from 
the Greeks of C} r p rus J against whom there is some rea- 
son to think that he conducted an attack in person. 
The statue of Sargon, now in the Berlin Museum, was 
found at Idalinin in Cyprus. It is not very likely that 
the king’s statue would have been set up unless he had 
made the expedition in person. 


It is not as a warrior only that Sargon deserves spe- 
cial mention among the Assyrian kings. He was also 
the builder of useful works and of one of the most mag- 
nificent of the Assyrian palaces. Tie relates that he 
thoroughly repaired the walls of Nineveh, which he 
seems to have elevated from a provincial city of some 
importance to the first position in the empire; and adds, 
further, that in its neighborhood lie constructed the pal- 
ace and town which he made his principal residence. 
I his was the city now known as “the French Nine- 
veh,” or “ Khorsabad,” from which the valuable series 
of Assyrian monuments at present in the Louvre was 
derived almost entirely. Traces of Sargon’s buildings 
have been found also at Nimrud and Kuvunjik ; and his 
time is marked by a considerable advance in the useful 
and ornamental arts, which seem to have profited by 
the connection that he established between Assyria and 
kffypC He left the throne to his son, the celebrated 
Sennacherib (q. v.). — Smith. The length of Sargon’s 
reign is variously reckoned by Assvriologists as from 
fifteen to nineteen years. See Chronology. Comp., 
in addition to the above, the following monographs bv 
Opport: Los Fautesde Sargon (Paris, 1863); Los Inscrip- 
tions des Sargon ides (ibid, cod.); also Strachev, Time of 
Sargon and Sennacherib (Loud. 185G). See Assyria. 


Sa'rid (Hcb. Sarid ', ‘V’H'IJ, survivor , as often 
[Fiirst, place of refuge]\ Sept. Zapid v. r. J£apcid, 
'Ztdcovxj etc.), the point of departure on the southern 
boundary of Zebulon, lying west of Chisloth Tabor, and 
south of Daberath and Japhia (Josli. xix, 10, 12). It 
was unknown to Eusebius and Jerome ( Onomast . s. v. 
“Sarith”), and the name has not been discovered by 
modern research. Knobcl, holding the word to mean 
an “incision,” thinks it designates merely the southern 
opening of the deep and narrow wady which comes 
down from the basin of Nazareth (q. v.), between two 
steep mountains (Scetzen, ii, 151 sq. ; Robinson, iii, 
183). Keil more definitely suggests that it may be 
found in one of the two heaps of ruins on the south 
side of the modern “Mount of Precipitation,” namely 
those near el-Mezrach, on the north-west. See Tribe; 
Zebulon. 

Sarigani. An Arabian sect of this name is men- 
tioned by Assemann. He considers them to have been 
a branch of the Men divans (q. v.). They held the opin- 
ions of Paul of Samosata and of Aritis, but were con- 
verted and admitted to Catholic communion by Mara- 
names, metropolitan of Adjabenus, in the year 760. 
Some, however, were found a hundred years later in 
Babylon. See Blunt, Diet, of Sects, s. v. 

Sarmentitii, one of the numerous opprobrious ep- 
ithets with which the enemies of the early Christians 
accosted them. It is derived from the word sarmenta, 
sarmina, the piles of fagots around the stake 
to which the martyr was fastened. 

Sa'ron (6 laptop v. r. aooapdjira, i. e. 
the Sharon), the district in which 
Lydda stood (Acts ix, 85) ; the Greek form 
of the name Sharon (q. v.) of the Old Test. 
“The absence of the article from Lydda, and 
its presence before Saron, is noticeable, and 
shows that the name denotes a district — as in 
‘ The Shefelah,’ and in our own ‘ The Weald,’ 
‘The Downs.’” — Smith. 

Saron, in Greek mythology, was a king 
of Troezene, who was fond of the chase, and 
built a temple to Diana. While pursuing a 
deer he fell into the gulf which was from that 
time known as the Saronian Gulf. He was 
buried in the grove of Diana. 

Saronis (Sapiovig), a surname of Artemis 
at Trcvzene, where an annual festival was cel- 
ebrated in her honor under the name of Saro- 
nia. See Saron. 

Saro'thie (SapioSik v. r. SajOto-97; Vulg. Caroneth), 
a person named (1 Esdr. v, 34) as one of the heads of 
the families of “Solomon’s servants” who returned from 
Babylon with Zerubbabcl ; but see the Hebrew lists 
(Ezra ii, 57 ; Neb. vii, 59). 

Sarpedon, in Greek mythology, was (1) a son of 
Jupiter and Europa, who quarrelled with his brother 
Minos and was compelled to leave Crete. He took pos- 
session iff Lycia, and was permitted by Jupiter to live 
the period of time allotted to three generations of men. 

(2.) A son of Jupiter and Laodamia. the daughter of 
Bcllerophon. His uncles were*engaged in a protracted 
dispute for the possession of the crown of Lycia, which 
was decided by the agreement that the realm should be 
awarded to him who should shoot a ring from the breast 
of a child without injuring the child. Laodamia pre- 
sented her son for this trial, and the generosity of the 
mother led to his being appointed king. When the 
Trojan war broke out, both parties sought his aid. He 
decided in favor of Priam, and inflicted great injury oil 
the Greeks when they landed and afterwards, lie slew 
Tlepolemus (being at the same time severely wounded 
himself), led the fifth part of the army in the storming 
of the fortifications, mounted the wall, slew Alema?on 
and opened the way for the advance of the Trojans, and 



Sargou in his Chariot. (From the Sculptures at Khorsabad.) 


SARPEDOXIA 


359 


SARUK 


covered Hector when stricken down by Ajax, but ulti- 
mately fell by the band of Patroclus. llis horses and 
armor became the spoil of the Greeks, but his bodj r was, 
by Jupiter’s command, borne to Lycia for honorable in- 
terment by the hands of Sleep and Death. 

(3.) A son of Neptune and brother of Foltvs, who 
lived in Thrace and was given to deeds of violence. 
He was slain by Hercules. 

Sarpedonia (SapirtfSovta), a surname of Artemis, 
derived from Cape Sarpedon, in Cilicia, where she had 
a temple with an oracle (Strabo, xiv, p. 676). See 
Smith, Diet, of Greek and Roman Mythology, s. v. 

Sarpedonius, a surname of Apollo in Cilicia. 

Sarpi. See Paul ( Father ). 

Sanitor, in Roman mythology, was a god of hus- 
bandry whose province was the hoeing and cultivating 
of the growing crops. 

Sar'sechim (llcb. Sarsekun ', probably 

prince of the eunuchs; Sept, [with great confusion] 
'Sa(3ovd\ap v. r. 'Sa^ovaap(ra\ip, etc.; Vulg. Sarsa- 
chim ), one of the generals of Nebuchadnezzar’s army at 
the taking of Jerusalem (Jer. xxxix, 3), B.C. 588. He 
appears to have held the office of chief eunuch, for Rab- 
saris (q. v.) is probably a title and not a proper name. 
In Jer. xxxix, 13, Nebushasban is called Rab-saris, 
“chief eunuch,” and the question arises whether Nebu- 
shasban and Sarscehim may not be names of the same 
person. Gesenius conjectures {Thesaur. s. v.) that Sar- 
sechim and Rab-saris may be identical, and both titles 
of the same office. See Samgar-nebo. 

Sartaba (NELJ'-iO), the name of a mountain on 
which the Jews anciently lighted the beacon-tire (the 
one next to the Mount of Olives) to herald the new 
moon (Reland, Palcest. p. 346). In one passage it is 
erroneously written Sartan, (Schwarz, Palest. 

p. 162). It is undoubtedly the present Kurn Surtahah 
(Horn of Sartaba), on the edge ol the Ghdr, or Jordan 
valley, not far north of Jericho (Robinson, Bill. Res. iii, 
242, new ed.). The summit still retains traces of the 
platform erected for building the beacon-fires, which 
Lieut. Conder of the English Engineers has mistaken 
for the remains of the memorial altar of Josh, xxii, 
10 ( Quar . Report of “ Pal. Explor. Fund Oct. 1874, 
p. 241 sq.). 

Sarto, Andre Vannucchi, called Del Sarto, an Ital- 
ian painter, was born at Florence about 1488. Having 
shown a taste for drawing, lie was placed with a gold- 
smith to learn engraving on plate. Giovanni Rarile, a 
painter, persuaded his father to intrust him to his care, 
and he remained with Barile three years; he was then 
placed by him with Pietro Cosimo. Leaving the school 
of Cosimo, he formed an intimacy with Francisco Bigio, 
with whom lie-executed some works in the public build- 
ings of Florence, which gained him considerable reputa- 
tion. We are told by Vasari that Sarto passed some 
time in Rome. After his return, he painted for the 
Monastery of the Salvi his admired pictures of the De- 
scent of the Holy Ghost , the Birth of the Virgin, and the 
Last Supper. Francis 1, king of France, desirous of 
procuring specimens of Italian art, Sarto was commis- 
sioned to paint a picture for his majesty, and sent in a 
Dead Christ , with the Virgin, St. John, and other figures, 
which arc now among the chief ornaments of the Gallery 
of the Louvre. The king invited him to Paris, where 
he obtained employment from Francis and the nobility. 
His wife urging his return to Florence, he obtained leave 
of absence, and was intrusted with a considerable sum 
of money for the purchase of statues, pictures, etc. Hav- 
ing spent the king’s money, as well as his own, he sank 
into poverty, and died of the plague in 1530. The. 
churches, convents, and palaces of Florence contain 
many of his best works. In the National Gallery are 
two pictures by him, the Holy Family and his own por- 
trait. See English Cyclop, s. v. 


Sartorius, Ernst Wilhelm Christian, one of 
the ablest, most fruitful, and genial theologian* of mod- 
ern orthodox Lutheranism, was born at Darmstadt, May 
10, 1707, and died at Konigsberg June 13, 1850. While 
studying at Gottingen (1815-18), he fell under the ear- 
nest religious influence of Planck. In 1810 he began 
to lecture in the University, and to produce the first of 
those numerous genial writings which have induced 
some to call him the St. John of Lutheranism. The 
first that appeared was three essays — one on the Pur- 
pose of Jesus in Founding the Church; the second on 
the Origin of the Gospels (afterwards disavowed); and 
the third on the Doctrine of Grace and Faith. Next 
followed (1821) the Lutheran Doctrine of Human In- 
ability, in which he opposed Selileicrmacher. In 1821 
he became professor of theology at Marburg. Ilerc he 
issued two works, The Doctrine of Protestants as to the 
Respect due to the Civil Magistracy, and Religion Outside 
of the Limits of Mere Reason. In 1824 he received the 
doctorate and accepted a call to Dorpat. Here appear- 
ed successively his Contributions to Evangelical Ortho- 
doxy, in which he opposed Rohr, Bret schneider, and Ra- 
tionalism in general. In 1831 he issued his Discussion 
of the Person and Work of Christ , which speedily passed 
through seven editions, and was translated into other 
languages. These two works attracted to him very 
general attention, as did also his contributions to Heng- 
s ten berg’s Church Journal, in which appeared from 1834 
to 1836 his vigorous assaults upon Mohler’s Symbolik. 
After eleven years of academic labor at Dorpat, he was 
called to Prussia in 1835, and appointed to the position 
of superintendent-general of the province of Prussia and 
director of the royal consistory. He entered upon his 
duties with a sermon in the royal court-church at Kb- 
nigsberg in December. In 1840 he began his work on 
moral theology, Die Lchre von der heiligen Liebe, which, 
with its modifications and its revisions for new editions, 
occupied him until 1856, and which he justly regarded 
as his chief title to a place in the world of theology. 
The movements of the fanatical “ Friends of Light” in- 
duced Sartorius to issue, in 1845, a work on the neces- 
sity and Obligatoriness of the Creeds. In 1852 appeared 
his work on Primitive Worship, the Pi'iesthood, and the 
Sacraments; in 1853 his Defence of the Augsburg Con- 
fession; and in 1855 his Meditations on the Glorious 
Manifestations of Goel in his Church and on the Presence 
of the Glorified Body of Christ in the Eucharist. After 
a ministry of twenty-four years, he died in the midst of 
his labors. The day before his decease he had labored 
upon a large polemical work against Romanism, pub- 
lished afterwards (1860) by his son, under the title Soli 
Deo Gloria! A Comparison of Lutheranism and Ro- 
manism in the Light of the Augsburg and the Tridentine 
Confessions , with Special Reference to Mahler's Symbolik. 
L T p to the end of his life he was a zealous contributor to 
Hengstenberg’s Church Journal. Some of his later pa- 
pers were of a very severe polemical character. Only 
a few of his sermons have been printed. See Kurtz, 
Church History (Eng. transl.), ii, 372; Wuttke, Chris- 
tian Ethics, i, 374; Herzog, Real- Encyklop. xiii, 420- 
428; Ilagenbach, Hist, of Doctrines, ii, 414, 406, 494. 
(J.P. L.) 

Sa'ruch (Sapony), the Greek form (Luke iii, 35) 
of the name of the patriarch Serug (q. v.), son of Ren. 

Saruk, Menachem, I bn-, an early Jewish scholar, 
was born about 910 at Tortosa, in Spain, and died about 
970 at Cordova. He is the author of a Biblical diction- 
ary called jT^Nb or ■jnrEnb, also sn:~ r“-rV2, 
including the Aramaean of Daniel and Ezra, with ex- 
planations in Hebrew. A grammatical introduction pre- 
cedes each letter (PHEn^S), and introductions relating 
to the preliminary grammatical studies, divided into ten 
chapters, supply in it the place of a grammar. Against 
this work Diinash bcn-Labrat (q. v.) wrote a critique, 
which elicited a rejoinder from Saruk. Saruk’s Lexicon 
has been edited by Philipowski (Loud. 1854). See Fiirst, 


SARUM 


360 


SATAN 


Bibl. Jnd. iii. 248 sq. ; Jut rod. to his Hebrew and Chaldee 
Diet. p. xxvi : Griitz, Geseh. d. Juden , v, 330 sq. : Braun- 
schweiger, Geschichte, p. 25 sq. ; Kimchi, Liber Radicinn , 
p. xxxi sq. (ed. Biesenthal and Lebrecht); De Iiossi, 
Dizionario Storico, p. 287 (Germ, trails}.); Kiimpf, 
Nichtandrdusische Poesie. p. 155 sq.; Pick, J femtehem 
Jbn-Sarnk (in Btb. Chr. Witness, Lond. 1877), p. 324 sq.; 
Gross, Menach em ben- Sarah (Breslau. 1872); and Geiger, 
Jiidische Z tit sch rift, 1872, p. 81 sq. (Ii. P.) 

Sarum, Use of. In former times eacli bishop had 
the power of making some improvements in the liturgy 
of his Church. In process of time different customs 
arose, and several became so established as to receive 
the names of their respective churches. The “use” or 
custom of Sarum derives its origin from Osmund, bishop 
of that see in A.D. 1078, and chancellor of England. In- 
fluenced bv difficulties arising from an attempt to do 
away with the ancient Gregorian chanting, Osmund 
collected together the clergy, and composed a book for 
the regulation of ecclesiastical offices, which was entitled 
the Custom Booh. The substance of this was probably 
incorporated into the missal and other ritual books 
of Sarum, and ere long almost the whole of England, 
Wales, and Ireland adopted it. When the archbishop 
of Canterbury celebrated the liturgy in the presence 
of the bishops of his province, the bishop of Salisbury 
(probably in consequence of the general adoption of the 
“ u?e” of Sarum) acted as precentor of the College of 
Bishops, a title which he still retains. See Hook, 
Church Diet. s. v. See Use. 

Sarvagna, in Hindu mythology, is the all-seeing 
one , a surname of Siva. 

Sarvastivadas, or Sarvastivadins (literally, 

those who maintain the reality of all existence'), is the 
name of one of the four divisions of the Vaibhashiha 
system of Buddhism. Its reputed father was Rahula, 
the son of the Buddha Sakyamuni. See Koppen, Die 
Religion des Buddha (Berlin, 1857); Wassiljew, Der 
Buddhismus u. seine Dogmen (St. Petersburg, 1860). — 
Chambers's Encyclop. s. v. 

Sas. See Worm. 

Sasnett, William Jeremiah, a minister of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church, South, was born in Han- 
cock County, Ga., April 29, 1820, and graduated at Ogle- 
thorpe Uni versitv in 1839. After graduation he studied 
law, but very early entered the ministry. His active 
work was soon interfered with by rheumatism. He 
then engaged in the work of education, and accepted, in 
1849, the chair of English Literature in Emory College, 
which he filled until 1858, when he became president of 
La Grange Female College. In Sept., 1859, he opened 
the East Alabama Male College, as its president. At a 
very early day its halls were tilled with young men, but 
the war coming on, so many of them entered the army 
that college exercises were necessarily suspended. Dr. 
Sasnett retired to his farm in Georgia, where he remain- 
ed until his death, Nov. 3, 18C5. As a scholar, the at- 
tainments of Dr. Sasnett were varied and extensive. As 
a preacher, his gifts were far from ordinary. Besides a 
large number of contributions to the periodical press, he 
published, Progress (18*55): — Discussions in Literature 
(I860). — Minutes of Annual Corf. Meth. Epis. Church , 
South, 1805, p. 574. 

Sason, Aaron ben -Joseph. See Aaron ben- 
Josepii Sason. 

Sasportas, Jacob ben-Aaron. a Jewish writer, 
was born in 1610 at Oran, North Africa. Very little 
is known about his early youth. In 1634 he became 
chief rabbi of six African communities, which position 
he held for two decades, when be was obliged to leave 
the country. In 1651 he arrived at Amsterdam, and a 
year later he was recalled by the emperor of Morocco, 
and charged with the ambassadorship to Spain. In 
1664 he appeared as chief rabbi of London, which he 
left in 1672 for Hamburg. In the same year he was 


called to Amsterdam, and so likewise in 1680, where he 
went in 1693, to be gathered to his fathers in 1698. He 
is best known as the author of Dp"* 1 rmblP, or in- 
dex of Biblical passages which are explained in haga- 
distic manner in the Jerusalem Talmud, being a sup- 
plement to the *pnj< of Ah. Pesaro (q. v.). 

He also wrote against the Pseudo-Messiah, Sabbatai 
Zebi (q. v.),in his (Amst. 1737). See 

Fiirst, Bibl.Jud. iii, 251 ; Jost, Gesch. d. Judenth. u. s. Sec- 
ten, iii, 168; Griitz, Gesch. d. Juden, x, p. 1 10 sq. (B. P.) 

Sassanidae, the dynasty which succeeded that of 
the Arsacidaj on the throne of Persia (q. v.). See 
Miiller, Chips from a German Workshop. 

Sassi, Francisco Gtrolamo, a noted monk, was 
born at Milan in 1673. He took orders in the brother- 
hood of the Oblates, and was made general of the order 
in 1700. He died at Milan, Nov. 2, 1731. He gave 
his life to religious instruction, and published several 
devotional works, among them Christi Laudes and Ma- 
r'ice Laudes. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generale, s. v. 

Sa'tan, the Scripture term for the chief of fallen 
spirits, and the arch -principle of evil. The doctrine 
of Satan and of satanic agency is to be made out from 
revelation, and from reflection in agreement with reve- 
lation. (In the following article we chiefly follow those 
in Kitto’s and Smith’s dictionary.) 

I, Scripture Names or Titles of Satan. — Besides Sa- 
tan, he is called the Devil, the Dragon, the Evil One, 
the A ngel of the Bottomless Pit, the Prince of this World, 
the Prince of the Power of the A ir, the God of this 
World, Apollyon, Abaddon, Belial, Beelzebub. “Satan” 
and “devil” are the names by which he is oftener dis- 
tinguished than by any other, the former being applied 
to him about forty times and the latter about fifty times. 
See each term. 

Satan is the Hebrew word safaw', 'transferred 

to the English. It is derived from the verb which 
means “ to lie in wait,” “ to oppose,” “ to be an adver- 
sary;” hence, the noun denotes an adversary, or opposer. 
The word in its generic sense occurs in 1 Kings xi, 14 : 
“The Lord raised up an adversary (satan; Sept, aardv) 
against Solomon,” i.e. Hadad the Edomite. In the 23d 
verse the word occurs again, applied to Rezan. It is 
used in the same sense in 1 Sam. xxix, 4, where David 
is termed an adversary, and in Numb, xxii, 22, where 
the angel “stood in the way for an adversary (satan) to 
Balaam,” i. e. to oppose him when he went with the 
princes of Moab. See also 2 Sam. xix, 22, 1 Kings v, 
4, xi. 25, Psa. cix, 6, where the Sept, has tTrifiovXoc, 
avTozaifiEvoQ, CuifiaXog, etc. In Zech. iii, 1,2, the word 
occurs in its specific sense as a proper name. “And he 
showed me Joshua the high-priest standing before the 
angel of the Lord, and Satan standing at his right hand 
to resist. And the Lord said unto Satan, The Lord re- 
buke thee, O Satan.” Here it is manifest, both from 
the context and the use of the article, that some par- 
ticular adversary is denoted. In Job i, ii, the same use 
of the word with the article occurs several times. The 
events in which Satan is represented as the agent con- 
firm this view, lie was a distinguished adversary and 
tempter. See also 1 Cliron. xxi, 1. In all these latter 
passages the Sept, has a ardv, and the Vulg. Satan. 

When we pass from the Old to the New Test., this 
doctrine of an invisible evil agent becomes more clear. 
With the advent of Christ and the opening of the 
Christian dispensation, the great opposer of that king- 
dom, the particular adversary and antagonist of the 
Saviour, would naturally become more active and more 
known. The antagonism of Satan and his kingdom to 
Christ and his kingdom runs through the whole of the 
New Test., as will appear from the following passages 
and their contexts: Matt, iv, 10; xii, 26; Mark iv, 15; 
Luke x, 18; xxii, 3, 31 ; Acts xxvi, 18; Rom. xvi, 20; 
2 Cor. xi, 14; Rev. ii, 13; xii, 9. Peter is once called 


SATAN 


361 


SATAN 


Satan, because his spirit and conduct, at a certain time, 
were so much in opposition to the spirit and intent of 
Christ, and so much in the same line of direction with 
the workings of Satan. This is the only application 
of the word in the New Test, to any but the prince of 
the apostate angels. In the New Test, the word is <m - 
Tctvac, followed by the Vulg. Satanas , except in 2 Cor. 
xii, 7, where aardv is used. It is found in twenty-five 
places (exclusive of parallel passages), and the corre- 
sponding word 6 didfioXog in about the same number. 
The title 6 apyio v rov Koapov rovrov is used three 
times; 6 7 rovtjpoQ is used certainly six times, probably 
more frequently, and 6 TmpaZiov twice. 

Devil (Ain/SoAot;) is the more frequent term of desig- 
nation given to Satan in the New Test. Both “Satan” 
and “devil” are in several instances applied to the same 
being (Kev. xii, 9), “That old serpent, the devil and 
Satan.” Christ, in the temptation (Matt, iv), in his re- 
pulse of the tempter, calls him Satan; while the evan- 
gelists distinguish him by the term “devil.” Devil is 
the word ch u/JoXof transferred from the verb <h«/3d\Au>, 
“to thrust through,” “to carry over,” and, tropically, 
“to inform against,” “ to accuse.” He is also called the 
accuser of the brethren (Rev. xii, 10). The Hebrew 
term Satan is more generic than the word devil, at least 
by its etymology. The former expresses his character 
as an opposer of all good ; the latter denotes more par- 
ticularly the relation which he bears to the saints, as 
their tradncer and accuser. Atdj3o X oq is the uniform 
translation which the Sept, gives of the Hebrew Sat cm 
when used with the article. Farmer says that the term 
Satan is not appropriated to one particular person or 
spirit, but signifies an adversary, or opponent in general. 
This is to no purpose, since it is also applied to the 
“devil” as an adversary in particular. There are four 
instances in the New Test, in which the word “devil,” 
diabolos, is applied to human beings. In three out of 
the four it is in the plural number, expressive of qual- 
ity and not personality (l Tim. iii, 11; 2 Tim. iii, 3; 
Titus ii, 3). In the fourth instance (John vi, 70), Jesus 
says to his disciples, “ Have not I chosen you twelve, 
and one of you is a devil?” This is the only instance 
in the New Test, of its application to a human being in 
the singular number;- and here Dr. Campbell thinks it 
should not be translated “devil.” The translation is, 
however, of no consequence, since it is with the use of 
the original word that this article is concerned. The 
obvious reasons for this application of SidfioXog to Ju- 
das, as an exception to the general rule, go to confirm 
the rule. The rule is that, in the New-Test, usage, the 
word in the singular number denotes individuality, and 
is applied to Satan as a proper name. By the excep- 
tion, it is applied to Judas, from his resemblance to the 
devil, as an accuser and betrayer of Christ, and from his 
contributing to aid him in his designs against Christ. 
With these exceptions, the usns loqnendi of the New 
Test. show r s 6 AuifioXoQ to be a proper name, applied to 
an extraordinary being, wdiose influence upon the hu- 
man race is great and mischievous (Matt, iv, 1-11; 
Luke viii. 12; John viii, 44; Acts xiii, 10; Eph. vi, 11 ; 
1 Pet. v, 8; 1 John iii, 8; Rev. xii, 9). See Devil. 

The term “devil,” which is in the New Test, the 
uniform translation of CictfioXoe, is also frequently the 
translation of dcemon , Saipwv, and dcemonion , Saipomov. 
Between these words and CidfioXog the English trans- 
lators have made no distinction. The former are almost 
always used in connection with demoniacal possessions, 
and are applied to the possessing spirits, but never to 
the prince of those spirits. On the other hand, didfio- 
Aof is never applied to the daemons, but only to their 
prince, thus showing that the one is used definitely as 
a proper name, while the others are used indefinitely as 
generic terms. The sacred writers made a distinction, 
which in the English and most modern versions is lost. 
See Daemon. 

II. Personality of Satan . — We determine this point 
by the same criteria that we use in determining whether 


Caesar and Napoleon w-ere real, personal beings, or the 
personifications of abstract ideas, viz. by the tenor of 
history concerning them, and the ascription of personal 
attributes to them. All the forms of personal agency 
are made use of by the sacred writers in setting forth 
the character and conduct of Satan. They describe him 
as having power and dominion, messengers and follow- 
ers. He tempts and resists; he is held accountable, 
charged with guilt ; is to be judged, and to receive final 
punishment. On the supposition that it was the object 
of the sacred writers to teach the proper personality of 
Satan, they could have found no more express terms 
than those which they have actually used. To suppose 
that all this semblance of a real, veritable, conscious 
moral agent is only a trope, a prosopopoeia, is to make 
the inspired penmen guilty of employing a figure in 
such a way that, by no ascertained laws oflanguage, it 
could be knowm that it was a figure — in such a way that 
it could not be taken to be a figure, without violence 
to all the rhetorical rules by w'hich they on other occa- 
sions are known to have been guided. A personifica- 
tion protracted through such a book as the Bible, even 
should w'e suppose it to have been written by one per- 
son, is altogether anomalous and inadmissible. But 
to suppose that the several w riters of the different books 
of the Bible, diverse in their style and intellectual habits, 
writing under widely differing circumstances, through a 
period of nearly tw'o thousand years, should each, from 
Moses to John, fall into the use of the same personifica- 
tion,^ to require men to believe that the inspired writ- 
ers, who ought to have done the least violence to the 
common laws oflanguage, have really done the most. 

But there are other difficulties than these general 
ones by which the theory of personification is encum- 
bered. This theory supposes the devil to be i\\o prin- 
ciple of evil . Let it be applied in the interpretation of 
tw'o or three passages of Scripture. “Then was Jesus 
led up of the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted 
of the devil” (Matt, iv, 1-1 1). Was Jesus tempted bv a 
real, personal being? or was it by the principle of evil? 
If by the latter, in w'hom or v'hat did this principle re- 
side? Was it in Jesus? Then it could not be true 
that in him w r as no sin. The very principle of sin was 
in him, which would have made him the tempter of 
himself. This is bad hermeneutics, producing worse 
theology. Let it also be remembered that this princi- 
ple of evil, in order to be moral evil, must inhere in 
some conscious moral being. Sin is evil only as it im- 
plies the state or action of some personal and accounta- 
ble agent. Again : “He was a murderer from the be- 
ginning, and abode not in the truth : he is a liar and 
the father of it” (John viii, 44). With what propriety 
could these specific acts of guilt be charged upon an ab- 
straction? An abstraction a murderer! a liar! Seri- 
ously to affirm such things of the mere abstraction of 
evil is a solemn fiction ; while to assert them of a fallen 
angel, w r ho beguiled Eve by falsehood, and brought death 
upon all the race of man, is an intelligible and affecting 
truth. 

It would be a waste of time to prove that, in various 
degrees of clearness, the personal existence of a Spirit of 
Evil is revealed again and again in Scripture. Every 
quality, every action, which can indicate personality, is 
attributed to him in language w'hich cannot be explain- 
ed away. It is not difficult to see why it should be thus 
revealed. It is obvious that the fact of his existence is 
of spiritual importance, and it is also clear, from the nat- 
ure of the case, that it could not be discovered, although 
it might be suspected, by human reason. It is in the 
pow r er of that reason to test any supposed manifestations 
of supernatural pow'er, and any asserted principles of 
divine action which fall within its sphere of experience 
(“the earthly things” of John iii, 12). It may by such 
examination satisfy itself of the truth and divinity of a 
Person or a book; but, having done this, it must then 
accept and understand, without being able to test, or to 
explain, the disclosures of this divine authority upon 


SATAN 


362 


SATAN 


subjects beyond this world (the “ heavenly things,” of 
which it is said that none can see or disclose them, save 
the “Son of Man who is in heaven”). 

It is true that human thought can assert an a priori 
probability or improbability in such statements made, 
based on the perception of a greater or less degree of ac- 
cordance in principle between the things seen and the 
things unseen, between the effects, which are visible, 
and the causes, which are revealed from the regions of 
mystery. But even this power of weighing probability 
is applicable rather to the fact and tendency than to 
the method of supernatural action. This is true even 
of natural action beyond the sphere of human observa- 
tion. In the discussion of the plurality of worlds, for 
example, it may be asserted without doubt that in all 
the orbs of the universe the divine power, wisdom, and 
goodness must be exercised; but the inference that the 
method of their exercise is found there, as here, in the 
creation of sentient and rational beings is one at best 
of but moderate probability. Still more is this the case 
iu the spiritual world. Whatever supernatural orders 
of beings may exist, we can conclude that in their case, 
as iu ours, the divine government must be carried on by 
the union of individual freedom of action with the over- 
ruling power of God, and must tend finally to that good 
which is his central attribute. But beyond this we can 
assert nothing to be certain, and can scarcely even say 
of any part of the method of this government whether 
it is antecedently probable or improbable. 

Thus, on our present subject, man can ascertain by 
observation the existence of evil— that is, of facts and 
thoughts contrary to the standard which conscience as- 
serts to be the true one, bringing with them suffering 
and misery as their inevitable results. If he attempts 
to trace them to their causes, he finds them to arise, for 
each individual, partly from the power of certain inter- 
nal impulses which act upon the will, partly from the 
influence of external circumstances. These circum- 
stances themselves arise, either from the laws of nature 
and society, or by the deliberate action of other men. 
lie can conclude with certainty that both series of causes 
must exist by the permission of God, and must finally 
be overruled to his will. But whether there exist any 
superhuman but subordinate cause of the circumstances, 
and whether there be any similar influence acting in the 
origination of the impulses which move the will, this 
is a question which he cannot answer with certainty. 
Analogy, from the observation of the only ultimate cause 
>vhich he can discover in the visible world — viz. the free 
action of a personal will — may lead him, and generally 
lias led him, to conjecture the affirmative; but still the 
inquiry remains unanswered bv authority. 

The tendency of the mind in its inquiry is generally 
towards one or other of two extremes. The first is to 
consider evil as a negative imperfection arising, in some 
unknown and inexplicable way, from the nature of mat- 
ter, or from some disturbing influences which limit the 
action of goodness on earth ; in fact, to ignore as much 
of evil as possible, and to decline to refer the residuum 
to any positive cause at all. The other is the old Per- 
sian or Manielircan hypothesis, which traces the exist- 
ence of evil to a rival creator, not subordinate' to the 
Creator of good, though perhaps inferior to him in power, 
and destined to be overcome by him at last. Between 
these two extremes the mind varied through manvgra- | 
dations of thought and countless forms of superstition. 
Kach hypothesis had its arguments of probability against 
the other. The first labored under the difficulty of be- 
ing insufficient as an account of the anomalous facts, 
and indeterminate in its account of the disturbing cause; 
the second sinned against that beliel'in the unity of God 
and the natural supremacy of goodness, which is sup- 
ported by the deepest instincts of the heart. But both 
were laid in a sphere beyond human cognizance: neither 
could be proved or disproved with certainty. 

The revelation of Scripture, speaking with authority, 
meets the truth and removes the error inherent in both 


these hypotheses. It asserts in the strongest terms the 
perfect supremacy of God, so that under his permission 
alone, and for his inscrutable purposes, evil is allowed to 
exist (sec, for example, Prov. xvi,4; Isa. xlv, 7; Amos 
iii, G; comp. Bom. ix, 22, 23). It regards this evil as 
an anomaly and corruption, to be taken away by a new 
manifestation of divine love in the incarnation and 
atonement. The conquest of it began virtually in God’s 
ordinance after the fall itself, was effected actually on the 
cross, and shall be perfected in its results at the judg- 
ment-dav. Still Scripture recognises the existence of 
evil in the world, not only as felt in outward circum- 
stances (“the world”), and as inborn in the soul of man 
(“the ffesh”), but also as proceeding from the inliuence 
of ail evil spirit, exercising that mysterious power of 
free-will, which God’s rational creatures possess, to rebel 
against him, and to draw others into the same rebellion 
(“ the devil”). 

In accordance with the “economy” and progressive- 
ness of God’s revelation, the existence of Satan is but 
gradually revealed. In the first entrance of evil into 
the world, the temptation is referred only to the serpent. 
It is true that the whole narrative, and especially the 
spiritual nature of the temptation (“to be as gods”), 
which was united to the sensual motive, would force on 
any thoughtful reader the conclusion that something 
more than a mere animal agency was at work; but the 
time had not then come to reveal, what afterwards was 
revealed, that “he who sinneth is of the devil” (1 John 
iii, 8), and that “the old serpent” of Genesis was “called 
the devil and Satan, who deceiveth the whole world” 
(Bev. xii. 9; xx, 23), 

Throughout the whole period of the patriarchal and 
Jewish dispensations, this vague and imperfect revela- 
tion of the source of evil alone was given. The Source 
of all Good is set forth in all his supreme and unap- 
proachable majesty: evil is known negatively as the 
falling away from him ; and the “ vanity” of idols, rather 
than any positive evil influence, is represented as the 
opposite to his reality and goodness. The law gives the 
“ knowledge of sin” in the soul, without referring to any 
external influence of evil to foster it; it denounces idol- 
atry, without even hinting, what the New Test, declares 
plainly, that such evil implied a “power of Satan.” 

Idle book of Job stands, in any case, alone (whether 
we refer it to an early or a later period) on the basis of 
“natural religion.” apart from the gradual and orderly 
evolutions of the Mosaic revelation. In it, for the first 
time, we find a distinct mention of Satan, the adver- 
sary of Job. But it is important to remark the em- 
phatic stress laid on his subordinate position, on the ab- 
sence of all but delegated power, of all terror, and all 
grandeur in his character. He comes among the “ sons 
of God” to present himself before the Lord; his malice 
and envy are permitted to have scope, in accusation or 
in action, only for God’s own purposes; and it is espe- 
cially remarkable that no power of spiritual influence, 
but only a power over outward circumstances, is attrib- 
uted to him. All this is widely different from the clear 
and terrible revelations of the New Test. 

The captivity brought the Israelites face to face with 
the great dualism of the Persian mythology, the con- 
flict of Ormuzd with Aliriman, the co-ordinate spirit of 
evil. In the books written after the captivity we have 
again the name of Satan twice mentioned; but it is 
confessed by all that the Satan of Scripture bears mi re- 
semblance to the Persian Aliriman. His subordination 
and inferiority are as strongly marked as ever. In 1 
Cl iron, xxi, 1, where the name occurs without the arti- 
cle (“an adversary,” not “the adversary”), the compari- 
son with 2 Sam. xxiv, 1 shows distinctly that, in the 
temptation of David, Satan’s malice was overruled to 
work out the “anger of the Lord” against Israel. In 
Zech. iii, 1. 2, Satan is o civtIciicoq (as in 1 Pet. v, 8), 
the accuser of Joshua before the throne of God, rebuked 
and put to silence by him (comp. Psa. cix, G). In the 
case, as of the good angels, so also of the evil one, the 


SATAN 


3G3 


SATAN 


presence of fable and idolatry gave cause to the mani- 
festation of the truth. See Angel. It would have 
been impossible to guard the Israelites more distinctly 
from the fascination of the great dualistic theory of their 
conquerors. 

It is perhaps not difficult to conjecture that the reason 
of this reserve as to the disclosure of the existence and 
nature of Satan is to be found in the inveterate tenden- 
cy of the Israelites to idolatry — an idolatry based, as 
usual, in great degree, on the supposed power of their 
false gods to inflict evil. The existence of evil spirits 
is suggested to them in the stern prohibition and pun- 
ishment of witchcraft (Exod. xxii, 18; Dent, xviii, 10), 
and in the narrative of the possession of men by an 
“evil” or “lying spirit from the Lord” (1 Sam. xvi, 14; 
1 Kings xxii, 22); the tendency to seek their aid is 
shown by the rebukes of the prophets (Isa. viii, 19, etc.). 
Cut this tendency would have been increased tenfold 
by the revelation of the existence of the great enemy 
concentrating round himself all the powers of evil and 
enmity against God. Therefore, it would seem, the 
revelation of the “ strong man armed” was withheld un- 
til “ the stronger than he” should be made manifest. 

In the New Test, this reserve suddenly vanishes. In 
the interval between the Old and New Test, the Jewish 
mind had pondered on the scanty revelations already 
given of evil spiritual influence. Ihit the Apocryphal 
books (as, for example, Tobit and Judith), while dwell- 
ing on “dannons” (< Jaiftowa), have no notice of Satan. 
The same may be observed of Josephus. The only in- 
stance to the contrary is the reference already made to 
Wisd. ii, 24. It is to be noticed also that the Targums 
often introduce the name of Satan into the descriptions 
of sin and temptation found in the Old Test., as, for ex- 
ample, in Exod. xxxii. 19, in connection with the wor- 
ship of the golden calf (comp, the tradition as to the 
body of Moses, Dent, xxxiv, 5, G; Jude 9). See Mi- 
chael. Ikit, while a mass of fable and superstition 
grew up on the general subject of evil spiritual influ- 
ence, still the existence and nature of Satan remained in 
the background, felt, but not understood. v 

The New Test, first brings it plainly forward. From 
the beginning of the Gospel, when he appears as the 
personal tempter of our Lord, through all the Gospels, 
Epistles, and Apocalypse, it is asserted or implied, again 
and again, as a familiar and important truth. To refer 
this to mere “accommodation” of the language of the 
Lord and his apostles to the ordinary Jewish belief is to 
contradict facts and evade the meaning of words. The 
subject is not one on which error could be tolerated 
as unimportant, but one important, practical, and even 
awful. The language used respecting it is either truth 
or falsehood; and unless we impute error or deceit to 
the writers of the New Test., we must receive the doc- 
trine of the existence of Satan as a certain doctrine of 
revelation. Without dwelling on other passages, the 
plain, solemn, and unmetaphorical words of John viii, 
44, must be sufficient : “ Ye are of your father the devil. 
. . . lie was a murderer from the beginning, and abides 
( y<TTi]icev ) not in the truth. . . . When he speaketh a 
lie, he speaketh of his own, for he is a liar and the father 
of it.” See ILemoniac. 

III. Xatural History. — 1. Of the original nature and 
state of Satan, little is revealed in Scripture. Most of 
the common notions on the subject arc drawn from mere 
tradition, popularized in England by Milton, but with- 
out even a vestige of Scriptural authority. He is 
spoken of as a “spirit” in Eph. ii, 2; as the prince or 
ruler of the “daemons” ( daifiovia ) in Matt, xii, 24-26; 
and as having “angels” subject to him in Matt, xxv, 
41; Rev. xii, 7, 9. The whole description of his power 
implies spiritual nature and spiritual influence. We 
conclude, therefore, that he was of angelic nature, a ra- 
tional and spiritual creature, superhuman in power, wis- 
dom, and energy; and not only so, but an archangel, 
one of the “princes” of heaven. See Archangel. 

The class of beings to which Satan originally be- 


longed, and which constituted a celestial hierarchy, is 
very numerous: “Ten thousand times ten thousand stood 
before him” (Dan. vii, 10). They were created and de- 
pendent (John i, 3). Analogy leads to the conclusion 
that there are different grades among the angels as 
among other races of beings. The Scriptures warrant 
the same. Michael is described as one of the chief 
princes (Dan. x, 13) ; as chief captain of the host of 
Jehovah (Josh, v, 14). Similar distinctions exist among 
the fallen angels (Col. ii, 15; Eph. vi, 12). It is also 
reasonable to suppose that they were created suscepti- 
ble of improvement in all respects except moral purity, 
as the} T certainly were capable of apostasy. 

2. As to the time when they were brought into being, 
the Ilible is silent; and where it is silent, we should be 
silent, or speak with modesty. Some suppose that they 
were called into existence after the creation of the 
world; among whom is Dr. John Dick. Others have 
supposed that they were created just anterior to the 
creation of man, and for purposes of a merciful minis- 
tration to him. It is more probable, however, that as 
they were the highest in rank among the creatures of 
God, so they were the first in the order of time; and 
that they may have continued for ages in obedience to 
their Maker, before the creation of man, or the fall of 
the apostate angels. 

We cannot, of course, conceive that, anything essen- 
tially and originally evil was created by God. We find 
by experience that the will of a free and rational creat- 
ure can, by his permission, oppose his will ; that the 
very conception of freedom implies capacity of tempta- 
tion; and that every sin, unless arrested by God’s fresh 
gift of grace, strengthens the hold of evil on the spirit 
till it may fall into the hopeless state of reprobation. 
We can only conjecture, therefore, that Satan is a fallen 
angel, who once had a time of probation, but whose 
condemnation is now irrevocably fixed. 

3, The Scriptures are explicit as to the apostasy of 
some, of whom Satan was the chief and leader. But 
of the time, cause, and manner of his fall, Scripture tells 
us scarcely anything. It limits its disclosures, as al- 
ways, to that which we need to know. The passage on 
which all the fabric of tradition and poetry has been 
raised is Rev. xii, 7, 9, which speaks of “Michael and 
his angels” as “fighting against the dragon and his an- 
gels,” till the “great dragon, called the devil and Satan,” 
was “cast out into the earth, and his angels cast out 
with him.” Whatever be the meaning of this passage, 
it is certain that it cannot refer to the original fall of 
Satan, The only other passage which refers to the fall 
of the angels is 2 Pet. ii, 4, “ God spared not the angels, 
when they had sinned, but having cast them into hell, 
delivered them to chains of darkness (ctipcuz Zotyov 
TaprapomaQ 7raptC(.oKev), reserved unto judgment,” 
with the parallel passage in Jude G, “Angels, who kept 
not their first estate (ti)v kavriov cipxv v), but left their 
own habitation, he hath reserved in everlasting chains 
under darkness unto the judgment of the great day.” 
In these mysterious passages, however, there is some dif- 
ficulty in considering Satan as one of the rest, for they 
are in chains and guarded ( Terijpijptvovi ;) till the great 
day; he is permitted still to go about as the tempter 
and the adversary, until his appointed time be come. 
This distinction, nevertheless, may be due to Satan’s 
eminence among his fellows. Those who adhered to 
Satan in his apostasy are described as belonging to 
him. The company is called “ the devil and his angels” 
(Matt, xxv, 41). The relation marked here denotes the 
instrumentality which the devil may have exerted in 
inducing those called his angels to rebel against Jeho- 
vah and join themselves to his interests. Aside from 
these passages, we have still to consider the declaration 
of our Lord in Luke x, 18, “ I beheld (idfiopow) Satan, 
as lightning, fall from heaven.” This may refer to the 
fact of his original fall (although the use of the imper- 
fect tense and the force of the context rather refer it 
figuratively to the triumph of the disciples over the 


SATAN 


364 


SATAN 


evil spirits); but. in any ease, it tells nothing of its 
cause or method. 'There is also the passage already 
quoted (John viii, 44), in which our Lord declares of 
him, that “ he was a murderer from the beginning,” that 
‘•he stands not (Hrrrjra) in the truth, because there is 
no truth in him,” that “he is a liar, and the father of 
it.” But here it seems likely the words an ctpx^Q refer 
to the beginning of his action upon man; perhaps the 
allusion is to his temptation of Cain to be the first mur- 
derer — an allusion explicitly made in a similar passage 
in 1 John iii, 0-12. The word ((ttijke (wrongly ren- 
dered “abode” in the A. V.) and the rest of the verse 
refer to present time. The passage therefore throws 
little or no light on the cause and method of his fall. 
Perhaps the only one which has any value is 1 Tim. iii, 
6, “lest being lifted up by pride he fall into the condem- 
nation (Kpipa) of the devil.” It is concluded from this 
that pride was the cause of the devil’s condemnation. 
The inference is a probable one; it is strengthened by 
the only analogy within our reach, that of the fall of 
man, in which the spiritual temptation of pride, the de- 
sire “ to be as gods,” was the subtlest and most deadly 
temptation. Still it is but an inference; it cannot be 
regarded as a matter of certain revelation. 

How Satan and his followers, being created so high 
in excellence and holiness, became sinful and fell is 
a question upon which theologians have differed, but 
which they have not settled. The difficulty has seemed 
so great to Sehleiermaeher and others that they have 
denied the fact of such an apostasy. They have untied 
the knot by cutting it. Still the difficulty remains. 
The denial of mystery is not the removal of it. Even 
philosophy teaches ns to believe sometimes where we 
cannot understand. It is here that the grave question 
of the introduction of evil first meets us. If we admit 
the fact of apostasy among the angels, as by a fair in- 
terpretation of Scripture we are constrained to do, the 
admission of such a fact in the ease of human beings 
will follow more easily, they being the lower order of 
creatures, in whom defection would be less surprising. 

4. In his physical nature , Satan is among those that 
are termed spiritual beings; not as excluding necessa- 
rily all idea of matter, but as opposed rather to the an- 
imal nature. The good angels are all ministering spir- 
its, nvevpara (lleb. i, 14). Satan is one of the angels 
that kept not their first principality. The fall produced 
no change in his physical or metaphysical nature. Paul, 
in warning the Ephesians against the wiles of the devil, 
tells them (Eph. vi, 12) that they contended not against 
flesh and blood, mere human enemies, but against prin- 
cipalities and powers; against the rulers of the dark- 
ness of this world ; against spiritual wickedness in high 
places, in which the contrast is between human and su- 
perhuman foes, the latter being spiritual natures, or 
spirits, in opposition to flesh and blood (Bosenmiiller, 
ad lac .). Satan is immortal, but not eternal; neither 
omniscient nor omnipresent, hut raised high above the 
human race in knowledge and power. The Persian 
mythology in its early stage, and subsequently the 
Gnostics and Manietueans, ranked the evil principle as 
coeval and co-ordinate, or nearly so, with God, or the 
good principle. The doctrine of the Jewish Church al- 
ways made him a dependent creature, subject to the 
control of the Almighty. By the modifications which 
Zoroaster subsequently introduced, the Persian angol- 
ology eame more nearly to resemble that of the Jews. 
Some have ascribed to Satan the power of working 
miracles, contending that there are two series of antag- 
onistic^ miracles running through the Bible. To the 
miracles of .Moses wore opposed those of the Egyptian 
magicians; and to those of Christ, and his apostles, the 
signs and wonders of false prophets and Antichrists — 
the divine and the satanie. Olshausen maintains this 
view, as do some of the older commentators ( Biblischen 
Commentar. i. 242). 'The evidence in support of such 
a belief has not been sufficient to proeure for it general 
acceptance (see Bosenmifller and Calvin on Matt, xxiv, 


24; 2 Thess. ii, 9 ; Hengstenberg, Egypt and the Boohs 
of Moses, ch. iii; also Bosenmiiller and Bush on Exod. 
ch. vii). With a substantial presence in only one place 
at one time, yet, as the bead of a spiritual kingdom, he 
is virtually present wherever his angels or servants are 
executing his will. 

5. Scripture describes to ns distinctly the moral char- 
acter of the Evil One. This is no matter of barren spec- 
ulation to those who, by yielding to evil, may become 
the “children of Satan” instead of “children of God.” 
The ideal of goodness is made up of the three great 
moral attributes of God — love, truth, and purity, or 
holiness — combined with that spirit which is the natu- 
ral temper of a finite and dependent creature, the spirit 
of faith. We find, accordingly, that the opposites to 
these qualities are dwelt upon as the characteristics of 
the devil. In John viii, 44, compared with 1 John iii, 
10-15. we have hatred and falsehood; in the constant 
mention of the “unclean” spirits, of which he is the 
chief, we find impurity; from 1 Tim. iii, 6, and the nar- 
rative of the temptation, we trace the spirit of pride. 
These are especially the “sins of the devil;” in them 
we trace the essence of moral evil and the features of 
the reprobate mind. Add to this a spirit of restless 
activity, a power of craft, and an intense desire to spread 
corruption, and with it eternal death, and we have the 
portraiture of the spirit of evil as Scripture has drawn 
it plainly before our eyes. 

More particularly, Satan’s character is denoted by 
bis titles, Satan, Adversary, Diabolos, False Accuser, 
Tempter, etc. All the representations of him in Script- 
ure show him to have nnmixed and confirmed evil as 
the basis of his character, exhibiting itself in respect to 
God in assuming to be bis equal, and in wishing to 
transfer the homage and service which belong only to 
God to himself ; and, in respect to men, in efforts to draw 
them away from God and attach them to his kingdom. 
The evil develops itself in all possible ways and by all 
possible means of opposition to God, and to those who 
are striving to establish and extend his dominion. The 
immutability of bis evil character precludes the idea of 
repentance, and, therefore, the possibility of recovering 
grace, “lie possesses an understanding which mis- 
apprehends exactly that which is most worthy to be 
known, to which the key fails without which nothing 
can he understood in its true relations — an understand- 
ing darkened, however deep it may penetrate, however 
wide it may reach. He is thereby necessarily unblessed ; 
torn away from the centre of life, yet without ever find- 
ing it in himself; from the sense of inward emptiness, 
continually driven to the exterior world, and yet with 
it, as with himself, in eternal contradiction; forever 
fleeing from God, yet never escaping him; constantly 
laboring to frustrate his designs, yet always conscious 
of being obliged to promote them ; instead of enjoyment 
in the contemplation of his excellence, the never satis- 
fied desire after an object which it cannot attain; in- 
stead of hope, a perpetual wavering between doubt and 
despair: instead of love, a powerless hatred against God, 
against his fellow-beings, against himself” (Twesten). 

1Y, Satan's Power and Action . — Both these points, 
being intimately connected with our own life and sal- 
vation, are treated with a distinctness and fulness re- 
markably contrasted with the obscurity of the previous 
subjects. 

The agency of Satan extends to all that he does or 
causes to be done. To this agency the following re- 
strictions have generally been supposed to exist: It is 
limited, first, by the direct power of God; be cannot 
transcend the power on which he is dependent for ex- 
istence; secondly, by the finiteness of bis own created 
faculties; thirdly, by the established connection of cause 
and effect, or the laws of nature. The miracles, which 
be has been supposed to have the power of working, are 
denominated lying signs and wonders (2 Thess. ii, 9). 
With these restrictions, the devil goes about like a roar- 
ing lion. 


SATAN 


3G5 


SATAN 


Hisageney is moral and physical. First, moral. He 
beguiled ourtirst parents, and thus brought sin and death 
upon them and t licir posterity (Gen. iii). lie moved 
David to number the people (1 (Jhron. xxi, 1). He re- 
sisted Joshua the high-priest (Zech. iii, 1). lie tempted 
Jesus (Matt, iv) ; entered into Judas, to induce him to 
betray his master (Luke xxii, 3); instigated Ananias 
and Sapphira to lie to the Holy Ghost (Acts v, 3); and 
hindered Paul and Barnabas on their way to the Thes- 
salonians (1 Thess. ii, 18). lie is the spirit that now 
worketh in the children ofdisobedience(Epli.ii,2); and 
he deceiveth the whole world (Rev. xii, 9). 

The means which he uses are variously called wiles, 
darts, depths, snares, all deceivableness of unrighteous- 
ness. He darkens the understandings of men, to keep 
them in ignorance. He perverts their judgments, that 
he may lead them into error. He insinuates evil 
thoughts, and thereby awakens in them unholy de- 
sires. He excites them to pride, anger, and revenge; 
to discontent, repinings, and rebellion. He labors to 
prop up false systems of religion, and to corrupt and 
overturn the true one. He came into most direct and 
determined conflict with the Saviour in the temptation, 
hoping to draw him from his allegiance to God, and 
procure homage for himself; but he failed in his pur- 
pose. Next, he instigated the Jews to put him to death, 
thinking thus to thwart his designs and frustrate his 
plans. Here, too. he failed, and was made to subserve 
the very ends which he most wished to prevent. Into 
a similar conflict does he come with all the saints, and 
with like ultimate ill success. God uses his tempta- 
tions as the means of trial to his people, and of strength 
by trial; and points them out as a motive to watchful- 
ness and prayer. Such are the nature and mode of his 
moral influence and agency. 

But his efforts are directed against the bodies of men, 
as well as against their souls. That the agency of Satan 
was concerned in producing physical diseases the Script- 
ures plainly teach (Job ii, 7 ; Luke xiii, 16). Peter says I 
of Christ that he went about doing good and healing all 
that were oppressed of the devil (Acts x, 38). llyme- 
nams and Alexander were delivered to Satan, that they 
might learn not to blaspheme (1 Tim. i, 20), where 
physical suffering by tbe agency of Satan, as a divine 
chastisement, is manifestly intended. 

The power of Satan over the soul is represented as 
exercised either directly or by his instruments, llis 
direct influence over the soul is simply that of a power- 
ful and evil nature on those in whom lurks the germ of 
the same evil, differing from the influence exercised by 
a wicked man in degree rather than in kind; but it has 
the power of acting by suggestion of thoughts, without 
the medium of actions or words — a power which is only 
in a very slight degree exercised by men upon each other. 
This influence is spoken of in Scripture in the strongest, 
terms as a real external influence, correlative to, but 
not to be confounded with, the existence of evil within. 
In the parable of tbe sower (Matt, xiii, 19), it is repre- 
sented as a negative influence, taking away the action 
of the Word of God for good; in that of the wheat and 
the tares (ver. 39), as a positive influence for evil, intro- 
ducing wickedness into the world. Paul does not hesi- 
tate to represent it as a power permitted to dispute the 
world with the power of God; for lie declares to Agrip- 
pa that his mission was “to turn men from darkness to 
light, and from the power ( *£ot><r»«c) of Satan unto 
God,” and represents the excommunication, which cuts 
men off from the grace of Christ in his Church, as a “de- 
liverance of them unto Satan” (1 Cor. v, 5 ; 1 Tim. i, 20). 
The same truth is conveyed, though in a bolder and 
more startling form, in the epistles to the churches of 
the Apocalypse, wdiere the body of the unbelieving Jews 
is called a “synagogue of Satan” (Rev. ii, 9; iii, 9), 
where the secrets offalse doctrine arc called “the depths 
of Satan” (ii, 24), and the “ throne” and “ habitation” of 
Satan are said to be set up in opposition to the Church 
of Christ. Another and even more remarkable expres- 


sion of tbe same idea is found in tbe Epistle to the He- 
brews, where the death of Christ is spoken of as intend- 
ed to baflie ( Karapytiv ) “him that hath the power (to 
K paroi ;) of death, that is, the devil;” for death is evi- 
dently regarded as the “wages of sin,” and the power 
of death as inseparable from the power of corruption. 
Nor is this truth only expressed directly and formally ; 
it meets us again and again in passages simply practi- 
cal, taken for granted as already familiar (see Bom. xvi, 
20; 2 Cor. ii, 11 ; 1 Thess. ii, 18; 2 Thess. ii, 9; 1 Tim. 

v, 15). The Bible does not shrink from putting the fact 
of satanic influence over the soul before us in plain and 
terrible certainty. 

Yet, at the same time, it is to be observed that its 
language is very far from countenancing, even lor a mo- 
ment, the horrors of the Manielwvan theory. The in- 
fluence of Satan is always spoken of as temporary and 
limited, subordinated to tbe divine counsel, and broken 
by the incarnate Son of God. It is brought out visibly, 
in the form of possession, in the earthly life of our Lord, 
only in order that it may give the opportunity of his 
triumph. As for himself, so for his redeemed ones, it is 
true tliat “God shall bruise Satan under their feet short- 
ly” (Bom. xvi, 20; comp. Gen. iii, 15). Nor is this all, 
for the history of the hook of Job shows plainly, what is 
elsewhere constantly implied, that satanic influence is 
permitted in order to be overruled to good, to teach hu- 
mility, and therefore faith. The mystery of the exist- 
ence of evil is left unexplained; but its present subordi- 
nation and future extinction are familiar truths. So 
accordingly, on the other hand, his power is spoken of 
as capable of being resisted by t lie will of man, when 
aided by the grace of God. “Resist tbe devil and be 
will flee from you” is the constant language of Scripture 
(James iv, 7). It is indeed a power to which “place” 
or opportunity “is given” only by the consent of man’s 
will (Eph. iv, 27). It is probably to be traced most 
distinctly in tbe power of evil habit — a power real, but 
not irresistible, created by previous sin, and by every 
successive act of sin riveted more closely upon the soul. 
It is a power which cannot act directly and openly, but 
needs craft and dissimulation in order to get advantage 
over man by entangling the will. The “ wiles” (Eph. 

vi, 11), the “ devices” (2 Cor. ii, 1 1), the “ snare” (1 Tim. 
iii, 7 ; vi, 9; 2 Tim. ii, 26) “of the devil” are expres- 
sions which indicate the indirect and unnatural charac- 
ter of the power of evil. It is therefore urged as a rea- 
son for “soberness and vigilance” (1 Pet. v, 8), for the 
careful use of the “ whole armor of God” (Eph. vi, 10- 
17); but it is never allowed to obscure the supremacy 
of God’s grace, or to disturb the inner peace of the Chris- 
tian. “ He that is born of God keepeth himself, and the 
wicked one toucheth him not” (1 John v, 18). 

Besides his own direct influence, the Scriptures dis- 
close to us the fact that Satan is the leader of a host of 
evil spirits, or angels, who share his evil work, and for 
whom the “everlasting tire is prepared” (Matt, xxv, 41). 
Of their origin and fall we kiiow no more than of his, for 
they cannot be the same as the fallen and imprisoned 
angels of 2 Pet. ii, 4, and Jude 6 ; but one passage (Matt, 
xii, 24-26) identities them distinctly with the Fcupona 
(A. V. “devils”) who had power to possess the souls of 
men. The Jews there speak of a Beelzebub (B«\£e- 
/3o»'A), “a prince of the daemons,” whom they identify 
with, or symbolize by, the idol of Ekron, the “god of 
flies” [see Reklzehit.J, and by whose power they ac- 
cuse our Lord of casting out daemons, llis answer is, 
“How can Satan cast out Satan?” The inference is 
clear that Satan is Beelzebub, and therefore the daemons 
arc “the angels of the devil;” and this inference is 
strengthened by Acts x, 38, in which Peter describes 
the possessed as KaTacvvatTTtvQui rovg vi to tov Atafio- 
\ov ; and by Luke x, 18, in which the mastery over the 
daemons is connected by our Lord with the “fall of 
Satan from heaven,” and their power included by him 
in the “power of the enemy” (tov t\5puv', comp. 
Matt, xiii, 39). For their nature, see D.oiox. They 


SATAN 


366 


SATAN 


are mostly spoken of in Scripture in reference to posses- 
sion; but in Eph. vi, 12 they are described in various 
lights, as “ principalities” (ctp\ai). “powers” (i^ovaiai). 
“rulers of the darkness of this world.” and “spiritual 
powers of wickedness in heavenly places” (or “ things”) 
(jit 7 TViVfiaTlKCi Ti}Q TCQVljpicig IV roi£ t7TOVpaVlOig) ; 
and in all as “ wrestling” against the soul of man. The 
same reference is made less explicitly in Rom. viii. 38 
and Col. ii. 15. In Rev. xii, 7-9 they are spoken of as 
fighting with “the dragon, the old serpent called the 
devil and Satan,” against “Michael and his angels,” and 
as cast out of heaven with their chiefs. Taking all these 
passages together, we find them sharing the enmity to 
God and man implied in the name and nature of Satan; 
but their power and action are but little dwelt upon in 
comparison with his. That there is against us a power 
of spiritual wickedness is a truth which we need to 
know, and a mystery which only revelation can dis- 
close: hut whether it is exercised by few or by many is 
a matter of comparative indifference. 

lhit the evil one is not only the “ prince of the daemons,” 
but also he is called the “prince of this world” (6 dp\ tov 
tov Korrpov tovtov) in John xii, 31 ; xiv, 30; xvi, 11, 
and even the “ god of this world” (<> Ssug tov ateovog 
tovtov) in 2 Cor. iv, 4; the two expressions being 
united in the words rovg tcoapotcpciTopag roc oieoTovg 
tov aitovog tovtov, used in Eph. vi, 12. (The word 
Korpoc, properly referring to the system of the universe, 
and so used in John i, 10, is generally applied in Script- 
ure to human society as alienated from God, with a ref- 
erence to the “ pomp and vanity” which make it an idol 
[see, e. g., 1 John ii, 15]; ett tov refers to its transitory 
character, and is evidently used above to qualify the 
startling application of the word Stog, a “god of an 
age” being of course no true God at all. It is used with 
Koffpog in Eph. ii, 2.) This power he claimed for him- 
self as a delegated authority in the temptation of our 
Lord (Luke iv, 0), and the temptation would have been 
unreal had he spoken altogether falsely. It implies an- 
other kind of indirect influence exercised through earth- 
ly instruments. There are some indications in Script- 
ure of the exercise of this power through inanimate in- 
struments, of an influence over the powers of nature, and 
what men call the “chances” of life. Such a power is 
distinctly asserted in the case of Job, and probably im- 
plied in the case of the woman with a spirit of infirmity 
(in Luke xiii, 1C), and of Paul’s “thorn in the flesh” (2 
Cor. xii, 7). It is only consistent with the attribution 
of such action to the angels of God (as in Exod. xii, 23; 
2 Sam. xxiv, 1C; 2 Kings xix, 35; Acts xii, 23). and, in 
our ignorance of the method of connection of the second 
causes of nature with the supreme will of God, we can- 
not even say whether it has in it any antecedent im- 
probability; but it is little dwelt upon in Scripture in 
comparison with the other exercise of this power through 
the hands of wicked men, who become “children of the 
devil,” and accordingly “do the lusts of their father.” 
(See John viii, 44; Acts xiii, 10; 1 John iii, 8-10; and 
comp. John vi, 70.) In this sense the Scripture regards 
all sins as the “works of the devil,” and traces to him. 
through his ministers, all spiritual evil and error (2 Cor. 
xi, 14. 15), and all the persecution and hindrances which 
oppose the Gospel (Rev. ii, 10; 1 Thcss. ii, 18). Most 
of ali is this indirect action of Satan manifested in those 
who deliberately mislead and tempt men, and who at 
last, independent of any interest of their own, come to 
take an unnatural pleasure in the sight of evil-doing in 
others (Rom. i. 32). 

The method of his action is best discerned by an ex- 
amination of the title by which he is designated in 
Scripture. He is called emphatically o cidfioXog, “ the 
devil.” The derivation of the word in itself implies 
only the endeavor to break the bonds between others 
and “set them at variance” (see. e. g., Plato, S’yntp. 
p. 222 e, ( tafidWfiv ipt nai \Ayd£<«mi); but common 
usage adds to this general sense the special idea of “set- 
ting at variance hg slander .” In the New Test, the word 


hafioXoi is used three times as an epithet (1 Tim. iii, 
LI; 2 Tim. iii. 3; Tit. ii, 3), and in each case with 
something like the special meaning. In the application 
of the title to Satan both the general and special senses 
should be kept in view. 11 is general object is to break 
the bonds of communion between God and man, and the 
bonds of truth and love which bind men to each other 
— to “set” each soul “at variance” both with men and 
God, and so reduce it to that state of self-will and self- 
ishness which is the seed-plot of sin. One special means 
by which he seeks to do this is slander of God to man 
and of man to God. 

The slander of God to man is seen best in the words 
of Gen. iii, 4, 5 : “ Ye shall not surely die : for God doth 
know that in the day that ye eat thereof your eyes shall 
be opened, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and 
evil.” These words contain the germ of the false notions 
which keep men from God, or reduce their service to 
him to a hard and compulsory slavery, and which the 
heathen so often adopted in all their hideousness, when 
they represented their gods as either careless of human 
weal and woe or “envious” of human excellence and 
happiness. They attribute selfishness and jealousy to 
the giver of all good. This is enough (even without 
the imputation of falsehood which is added) to pervert 
man’s natural love of freedom till it rebels against that 
which is made to appear as a hard and arbitrary tyranny, 
and seeks to set up, as it thinks, a freer and nobler stand- 
ard of its own. Such is the slander of God to man, by 
which Satan and his agents still strive against his re- 
uniting grace. 

The slander of man to God is illustrated by the book 
of Job (Job i, 9-11 ; ii. 4, 5). In reference to it, Satan 
is called the “adversary” (avrctfiKog) of man in 1 Pet. 
v, 8, and represented in that character in Zech. iii, 1,2; 
and more plainly still designated in Rev. xii. 10 as “the 
accuser of our brethren, who accused them before our 
God day and night.” It is difficult for us to understand 
what can be the need of accusation, or the power of 
slander, under the all-searching eye of God. The men- 
tion of it is clearly an “accommodation” of God’s judg- 
ment to the analogy of onr human experience; but we 
understand by it a practical and awful truth, that every 
sin of life, and even the admixture of lower and evil 
motives which taints the best actions of man, will rise 
lip against us at the judgment to claim the soul as their 
own, and fix forever that separation from God to which, 
through them, we have yielded ourselves. In that ac- 
cusation Satan shall in some way bear a leading part, 
pleading against man, with that worst of slander which 
is based on perverted or isolated facts; and shall be over- 
come, not by any counter-claim of human merit, but “bv 
the blood of the lamb” received in true and steadfast 
faith. 

Rut these points, important as they are, are of less 
moment than the disclosure of the method of Satanic 
action upon the heart itself. It may be summed up in 
two words — temptation and possession. 

The subject of temptation is illustrated, not only by 
abstract statements, but also by the record of the temp- 
tations of Adam and of our Lord. It is expressly laid 
down (as in James i, 2^4) that “temptation,” properly 
so called, i. e. “trial” (Trtipaapog), is essential to man, 
and is accordingly ordained for him and sent to him by 
God (as in Gen. xxii, 1). Man!s nature is progressive; 
liis faculties, which exist at first only in capacity (TWd- 
/ifi), must be brought out to exist in actual efficiency 
(h'fpyeqO by free exercise, llis appetites and passions 
tend to their objects, simply and unreservedly, without 
respect to the rightness or wrongness of their obtaining 
them ; they need to be checked by the reason and con- 
science, and this need constitutes a trial in which, if 
the conscience prevail, the spirit receives strength and 
growth; if it be overcome, the lower nature tends to 
predominate, and the man has fallen away. Resides 
this, the will itself delights in independence of action. 
Such independence of physical compulsion is its high 


SATAN 


367 


SATAN 


privilege; but there is over it the moral power of God’s 
law, which, by the very faet of its truth and goodness, 
acknowledged as they are by the reason and the con- 
science, should regulate the human will. The need of 
giving up the individual will, freely and by conviction, 
so as to be in harmony with the will of God, is a still 
severer trial, with the reward of still greater spiritual 
progress if we sustain it, with the punishment of a sub- 
tler and more dangerous fall if we succumb. In its 
struggle the spirit of man can only gain and sustain its 
authority by that constant grace of God, given through 
communion of the Holy Spirit, which is the breath of 
spiritual life. 

It is this tentabilit}’' of man, even in his original nat- 
ure, which is represented in Scripture as giving scope to 
the evil action of Satan, lie is called the “ tempter” (as 
in Matt, iv, 8; 1 Thess. iii, 5). lie has power (as the 
record of Gen. iii shows clearly), first, to present to the 
appetites or passions their objects in vivid and capti- 
vating forms, so as to induce man to seek these objects 
against the law of God “written in the heart;” and 
next, to act upon the false desire of the will for inde- 
pendence, the desire “to be as gods, knowing” (that is, 
practically, judging and determining) “good and evil.” 
It is a power which can be resisted, because it is under 
the control and overruling power of God, as is emphat- 
ically laid down in l Cor. x, 13 ; James iv, 7, etc.; but it 
can be so resisted only by yielding to the grace of God, 
and by a struggle (sometimes an “agony”) in relianee 
on its strength. 

It is exercised both negatively and positively. Its 
negative exercise is referred to in the parable of the 
sower, as taking away the word, the “engrafted word” 
(James i, 21) of grace, i. e. as interposing itself, by con- 
sent of man, between him and the channels of God’s 
grace. Its positive exercise is set forth in the parable 
of the wheat and the tares, represented as sowing actual 
seed of evil in the individual heart or the world general- 
ly; and it is to be noticed that the consideration of the 
true nature of the tares (ti Rennet) leads to the conclusion, 
which is declared plainly in 2 Cor. xi, 14, viz. that evil 
is introduced into the heart mostly as the counterfeit of 
good. 

This exercise of the tempter’s power is possible, even 
against a sinless nature. We see this in the temptation 
of our Lord. The temptations presented to him appeal, 
first, to the natural desire and need of food; next, to the 
desire of power, to be used for good, which is inherent 
in the noblest minds; and, lastly, to the desire of testing 
and realizing God’s special protection, which is the in- 
evitable tendency of human weakness, under a real but 
imperfect faith. The objects contemplated involved in 
no case positive sinfulness; the temptation was to seek 
them by presumptuous or by unholy means; the answer 
to them (given by the Lord as the Son of Man, and there- 
fore as one like ourselves in all the weakness and finite- 
ness of our nature) lay in simple faith, resting upon God, 
and on his word, keeping to his way, and refusing to 
contemplate the issues of aetion, which belong to him 
alone. Such faith is a renunciation of all self-confi- 
dence, and a simple dependence on the will and on the 
grace of God. 

But in the temptation of a fallen nature Satan has a 
greater power. Every sin committed makes a man the 
“servant of sin” for the future (John viii, 34; Rom. vi, 
lfi); it therefore creates in the spirit of man a positive 
tendency to evil, which sympathizes with, and aids the 
temptation of the evil one. This is a fact recognised by 
experience; the doctrine of Scripture, inscrutably mys- 
terious, but unmistakably declared, is that, since the fall, 
this evil tendency is born in man in capacity, prior to 
all actual sins, and capable of being brought out into ac- 
tive existence by such actual sins committed. It is this 
which Paul calls “a law,” i.e. (according to his universal 
use of the word) an external power “of sin” over man, 
bringing the inner man (the roue) into captivity (Rom. 
vii, 14-24). Its power is broken by the atonement and I 


the gift of the Spirit, but yet not completely east out; 
it still “lusts against the spirit” so that men “ cannot do 
the things which they would” (Gal. v, 17). It is to this 
spiritual power of evil, the tendency to falsehood, cruelty, 
pride, and unbelief, independently of any benefits to be 
derived from them, that Satan is said to appeal in tempt- 
ing us. If his temptations be yielded to without repent- 
ance, it becomes the reprobate (d^nn/ioc) mind, which 
delights in evil for its own sake (Rom. i. 28, 32), and 
makes men emphatically “children of the devil” (John 
viii, 44; Acts xiii, 10; L John iii, 8, 10) and “accursed” 
(Matt, xxv, 41), fit. for “the fire prepared for the devil 
and his angels.” If they be resisted, as by God’s grace 
they may be resisted, then the evil power (the “ flesh” 
or the “old man”) is gradually “crucified” or “mortified” 
until the soul is prepared for that heaven where no evil 
can enter. 

This twofold power of temptation is frequently re- 
ferred to in Scripture as exercised chiefly by the sug- 
gestion of evil thoughts, but occasionally by the dele- 
gated power of Satan over outward circumstances. To 
this latter power is to be traced (as lias been said) the 
trial of Job by temporal loss and bodily suffering (Job i, 
ii), the remarkable expression used by our Lord as to 
the woman with a “spirit of infirmity” (Luke xiii, 1G), 
the “thorn in the flesh,” which Raul calls the “messen- 
ger of Satan” to buffet him (2 Cor. xii, 7). Its language 
is plain, incapable of being explained as metaphor or 
poetical personification of an abstract principle. Its gen- 
eral statements are illustrated by examples of tempta- 
tion. (See, besides those already mentioned, Luke xxii, 
5; John xxiii, 27 [Judas] ; Luke xxii, 31 [Peter] ; Acts 
v, 3 [Ananias and Sappliira] ; 1 Cor. vii, 5; 2 Cor. ii, 11 ; 
l Thess. iii, 5.) The subjeet itself is the most startling 
form of the mystery of evil ; it is one on which, from our 
ignoranee of the connection of the first cause with sec- 
ond causes in nature, and of the process of origination 
of human thought, experience can hardly be held to be 
competent either to confirm or to oppose the testimony 
of Scripture. 

It is of no avail that there are difficulties connected 
with the agency aseribed to Satan. Objections are of 
little weight when brought against well -authenticated 
facts. Any objections raised against the agency of Satan 
are equally valid against his existence. If he exists, he 
must act; and if he is evil, his agency must be evil. The 
fact of such an agency being revealed as it is, is every 
way as consonant with reason and religious conscious- 
ness as are the existence and agency of good angtds. 
Neither reason nor consciousness could by itself estab- 
lish such a faet; but all the testimony they are capable 
of adducing is in agreement with the Scripture repre- 
sentation on the subject. 

On the subject of dtemonical possession (q. v.) it is 
sufficient here to remark that although widely different 
in form, yet it is of the same intrinsic character as the 
other power of Satan, including both that external and 
internal influence to which reference has been made 
above. It is disclosed to us only in connection with the 
revelation of that redemption from sin which destroys 
it — a revelation begun in the first promise in Eden, and 
manifested in itself at the atonement in its effects at the 
great day. Its end is seen in the Apocalypse, where Sa- 
tan is first “bound for a thousand years,” then set free 
for a time for the last conflict, and finally “cast into the 
lake of fire and brimstone ... for ever and ever” (xx, 2, 
7-10). 

V. Traditions . — According to the Mohammedans, who 
have derived their account from Jewish traditions, Sa- 
tan, or, as they sometimes call him, Eblis. was an arch- 
angel whom God employed to destroy the Jinns or Genii, 
a race intermediate between men and angels, who ten- 
anted the earth before the creation of Adam. In riches, 
power, and magnificence, the pre-Adamite sultans of the 
Jinns far surpassed any height to which monarchs of 
the human race have attained ; but the pride with which 
such glories inspired them filled them with impiety, and 


SATAN. DEPTHS OF 368 SATISFACTION 


their monstrons crimes at length provoked the wrath of 
the Omnipotent. Satan was then commissioned to de- 
stroy them; lie exterminated the greater part of the 
perfidious* race, and compelled the rest to seek refuge in 
the caves beneath the mighty Kaf, or mountain frame- 
work which supports the universe. This victory filled 
Satan with pride; and when God, after the creation of 
Adam, required all the celestial intelligences to worship 
the new being, Satan and his adherents peremptorily 
refused, upon which lie was driven from heaven, and 
the faithful angels threw great stones at him to accel- 
erate his fiight. Hence the common Mohammedan 
saying, “God preserve us from Satan who was stoned !” 
In revenge for this misfortune, Satan resolved to procure 
the expulsion of our first parents from paradise; but 
when he presented himself at the gate of the garden, 
he was refused admittance by the guard. On this he 
begged each of the animals, one after another, to carry 
him in, that he might speak to Adam and his wife; but 
they all refused him except the serpent, who took him 
between two of his teeth and thus carried him in. See 
D’Herbelot, Billiot h. Oriental e, s. v. See Superstition. 

VI. Literature. — Lists of works on this subject are 
given by Danz, Theol. Worterbuch,s. vv. “Satan,” “Teu- 
fel;” Darling, Cyclop. Bibl'togr. col. 1384. 1080 sq.; and 
Malcom, Theolog. Index , s. v. See also Tweedie, Satan 
an revealed in Scripture (Edinb. 18G2); Snope, Satanic 
Influence (Loud. 1854); Cowan, idem (ibid. 1801); and 
the monographs referred to under Daemon; Devil; 
Possessed. 

SATAN, Depths of (Rev. ii, 24), probably were the 
mysteries of the Xicolaitans, the Simonians, and other 
early Gnostics, who concealed their errors under deep 
abstruseness derived from wild speculations of Oriental 
philosophy, spoke of certain intelligences which created 
the world, but were in opposition to the Creator. They 
taught, a profound knowledge of the nature of angels 
and their different degrees. They seem to have had 
secret books, written in an abstruse and mysterious 
style. See Gnostics. 

SATAN, Synagogue of (Rev. ii. 0, 13), probably 
denotes the unbelieving dews at Smyrna, the false zeal- 
ots for t lie law of Moses, who at the beginning were the 
most eager persecutors of the Christians. They were 
very numerous at Smyrna, where Rolycarp was bishop, 
to whom John writes. See Smyrna. 

Satanael, a being whom the Bogomiles (q. v.) of 
the 12th century regarded as the first-born son of the 
supreme God, who sat at the right hand of God. holding 
the second place after him. To each of the higher 
spirits they believed that God had committed a partic- 
ular administration, while Satanael was placed over all 
his universal vicegerents; but, having apostatized, he 
persuaded his companions in apostasy to create a new 
heaven and a new earth, which should be an empire 
independent of the supreme God. lie ruled in the 
world which he had created, bringing many thousands 
to ruin by bis seductive wiles. But the good God re- 
solved to rescue men from the dominion of Satanael and 
to deprive him of power. This was accomplished by 
the Logos, who became incarnate, or, rather, took an 
ethereal body, which resembled an earthly 'body only 
in its outward appearance. Satanael was 'deprived bv 
Christ ol his divine power, and obliged to give up the 
name of El and retain only that of Satan. This doc- 
trine has a marked resemblance to that of the Euchites. 
— Gardner, Faiths of the World , s. v. 

Satanamis, a Hindu sect who profess to adore 
the true name alone, the one God. the cause and creator 
ot all things. They borrow their notions of creation 
from the Vednntic philosophy. Worldly existence is 
with them illusion, or the work of Maya. Thcv ac- 
knowledge t lie whole of the Hindi! gods, and, although 
they proles* to worship but one God, they pav reverence 
to what they consider manifestations of his nature vis- 
ible in the Avatars, particularly Rama and Krishna. 


They use distinctive marks, and wear a doable string 
of silk bound around the right wrist. They do not uni- 
formly employ frontal lines, but some make a perpen- 
dicular streak with ashes of a burnt-offering to Hanu- 
man. Their moral system approaches that of the Hindu 
Quietists or the Greek Stoics, consisting chiefly of a 
spirit of rigid indifference to the world, its pleasures and 
its pains, advantages and disadvantages; and a strict 
adherence to all ordinary social and religious duties, 
combined with the calm hope of final absorption into 
the one spirit which pervades all things. — Gardner, 
Faiths of the 1 1 'arid, s. v. 

Sataniaiis, a branch of the Messalians, who ap- 
peared about A.D. 300. They derived their name from 
the theory which they are alleged to have held, that 
the power of Satan over men makes it right for them to 
pray that he will not exercise it to. their harm. This 
opinion seems to be the same as that on which the wor- 
ship of the Yezedees (q. v.) is grounded. 

Satanniani. Heretics of this name are mentioned 
by the author of Pree.destinutus as having derived their 
name from Satanius, and as maintaining the opinion 
that the resurrection of the dead will be a restoration 
of bodies and souls to exactly the same condition in 
which they exist during the present life. This seems 
to be the same heresy which is numbered the eightieth 
by Philaster and the sixty-seventh by Augustine, and to 
whose adherents the name ^Ete males is given by Da- 
nseus in his tract on Augustine’s treatise on heresies. — 
Blunt, Diet, of Sects, s. v. 

Satanow, Isaac iia-Levi, a Jewish writer, was a 
native of Satanow, in Russian Poland, where lie was 
born in the year 1732. In 1772 he came to Berlin, 
where he began to issue those works for which he had 
prepared himself in his native place, and which have 
secured him a lasting memorial in Hebrew literature 
and Biblical exegesis. His works arc, a short Hebrew 
grammar, entitled rP2D1 T2I 1 O, The Joyful Lips (Bcrl. 
1773): — r -X r 5U3, a Hebrew dictionary in the man- 
ner of Kimcbi’s O (ibid. 1787 ; Prague, 1804); 

— C-nm, on the synonyms and homonyms of 
the Hebrew language (Berk 1787; Prague, 1804) ; — 
rHX, a Hebrew dictionary, also called D 

(Berl. 1787); — A Hebrew commentary on and German 
translation of Job (ibid. 1799). Besides these, Satanow 
has also written several works of gnomes and apo- 
thegms in imitation of the Psalms and Proverbs, as well 
as grammatical notes on all the difficult passages of the 
Old Test, which have not as yet been published. Sa- 
tanow died in 1802. See Fiirst, Bill.. Did. iii, 251 sq.; 
Delitzscb,Zwr Geschichte d.jiidischen Poesie, p. 115 s<p; 
Jost, Gesch. d. Judenth. u.s . Secten, iii, 398, etc.; Kitto, 
Cyclop, s. v. ; Etheridge, Inf rod. to Hebrew Lit. p. 395; 
Griitz, Gesch. d.Juden , xi, 132 sq. ; Steinschneider, Bil- 
ling r a ph. JIandb. p. 124; Cataloyus Libr. Ilebr. in Billi- 
ot h. Bodl. p. 2502. (Ik P.) 

Satervis, in Persian mythology, is a prince of the 
stars and good genius who protects the region of the 
west, and is a leader in the contest with Ahriman. He 
raises the water from the sea and spreads it over the 
land in the form of rain. 

Sathrabuza'nes ( 'EaSpafiovZeinig ), a Gnecized 
form (1 Esdr. vi, 3, 7, 27 [vii, 1]) of the Chaldee name 
(Ezra v, 3, 0; vi, 0, 13) Siietiiar-boznai (q. v.). 

Satisfaction (expressed in Hebrew by to Jill; 

V2'-, to satiate ; and IYH, to glut; in Greek [according 
to the A. V.] by less distinctive terms, xoftrd^o, to fod- 
der ; once [Col. ii, 23] 7 r\i](rpovi], satiety), in general, 
signifies tbe act of giving complete or perfect pleasure. 
In the Christian system it denotes that which Christ 
did and suffered in order to satisfy divine justice, to se- 
cure tbe honors of the divine government, and thereby 
make an atonement for the sins of his people (Ileb. 


SATNIUS 


3G9 


SATURDAY 


"£2, to atone for). This use of the word satisfaction 
is taken from the sense of the word in the Roman law, 
viz. contenting an aggrieved person b} T some considera- 
tion consistent with a remission of the debt or offence 
for which the satisfaction is offered. The death of 
Christ as an expiatory sacrifice was the satisfaction for 
the sins of the world (I John ii, 2; Rom. v, 11). Satis- 
faction is, in fact, propitiation and atonement. Christ’s 
satisfaction is vicarious and expiatory, being made for 
us and instead of us or our act, we having ourselves no 
power of offering satisfaction to the offended majesty 
of heaven. Satisfaction is distinguished from merit 
thus: The satisfaction of Christ consists in his answer- 
ing the demands of t lie law on man, which were conse- 
quent on the breach of it. These were answered by 
suffering its penalty. The merit of Christ consists in 
what he did to fulfil what the law demanded before 
man sinned, which was obedience. The satisfaction of 
Christ is to free us from misery, and the merit of Christ 
is to procure happiness for ns. Sec Owen, On the Satis- 
faction of Christ ; Gill, Body of Div. s. v. ; Stillingflect, 
On Satisfaction ; Watts, Redeemer and Sanctifier , p. 28, 
82; Ilcrvcv, Theron and Aspasio. See Atoxemext ; 
Propitiations 

SATISFACTION, Romisii. The catechism of the 
Council of Trent defines ‘'satisfaction” as “the compen- 
sation made by man to God by doing something in 
atonement for the sins which he has committed.” The 
satisfaction which Christ makes on the cross, it is 
declared, “gives to man’s actions merit before God.” 
“Canonical satisfaction” is something — prayer, fasting, 
or alms-deeds — “which is imposed by the priest, and 
must be accompanied with a deliberate and firm pur- 
pose carefully to avoid sin for the future.” This satis- 
faction is directed by the Council of Trent to be propor- 
tioned to the nature of the offence and the capability of 
the offender. It directly opposes the doctrine of justi- 
fication by faith only, and is closely connected with the 
Romish notion of the merits of good works. See Pen- 
axce. 

Satilius, in Greek mythology, was a son of Enops 
and the naiad or nymph of the stream Satnioi's. lie 
was slain by Ajax, the son of Oileus. 

Satrap (Hcb. achashdarpen' , ; Scpt.ca- 

rpa.7n]g and arparyyog; Yulg. satrapes ; A. V. “ ruler 
of provinces;” Esth. iii, 12; viii, 9; ix, 8; and with the 
Chaldee termination, Dan. iii, 2, 3, 27 ; vi, 2. 3). The 
genuine form of this name has been found in Indian in- 
scriptions to be ksatrapa , i.e. icarrior of the host (see 
Benfev, in Gott. Gel. Anz. 1839, p. 805 sq. ; Lassen, 
Zeitschrift f d. Moryenl. iii, 101), to which the Greek 
t^aTpc(7n]g or i^ai^pcnnjg corresponds (Bockh, Corp. 
I user. No. 2G91 c), from which the softer form satrapes 
gradually arose and passed into modern languages (Gc- 
senius, Thesaur. s. v.). “These satraps arc known in 
ancient history as the governors or viceroys of the prov- 
inces into which the Persian empire was divided. Strict- 
ly speaking, they had an extended civil jurisdiction over 
several smaller provinces, eacli of which had its own 
or governor. Thus Zerubbabcl and Neliemiah were 
‘governors’ of Judea under the Persian satraps of Syria 
(Ezra iv, 3, 0; Nch. ii, 9). The power and functions 
of the Persian satraps were not materially different from 
those of the modern Persian governors and Turkish 
pashas; and, indeed, the idea of provincial government 
bv means of viceroys intrusted with almost regal pow- 
ers in their several jurisdictions, and responsible only to 
the king, by whom they are appointed, has always been 
prevalent in the East. The important peculiarity and 
distinction in the ancient Persian government, as ad- 
mirably shown by Ilccrcn ( Researches , i, 489 sq.), was 
that the civil and military powers were carefully sepa- 
rated — the satrap being a very powerful civil and polit- 
ical chief, but having no immediate control over the 
troops and garrisons, the commanders of which were rc- 
IX— A a 


sponsible only to the king. The satraps, in their sev- 
eral provinces, employed themselves in the maintenance 
of order and the regulation of affairs; and they also col- 
lected and remitted to the court the stipulated tribute, 
clear of all charges for local government and for the 
maintenance of the troops (Xcnopli. Cyrop. viii, C, § 1-3). 
In later times this prudent separation of powers became 
neglected in favor of royal princes and other great per- 
sons (Xenoph. Anab. i, 1, § 2), who were intrusted with 
the military as well as civil power in their governments 
— to which cause may be attributed the revolt of the 
younger Cyrus, and the other rebellions and civil wars, 
which, by weakening the empire, facilitated its ultimate 
subjugation by Alexander” (Kitto). See Persia. 

Satrapes, in Greek mythology, was a name under 
which a bronze statue was erected to Neptune, first at 
Samicum, and afterwards in Elis, which was constantly 
covered with a robe of woollen, another of linen, and a 
third of byssus. 

Satshi, in Hindu mythology, was the wife of the 
sun-god Indra. 

Satterlee, Alfred Brown, a Baptist missionary, 
was born at Sheldon, N. Y., Oct. 20, 1823, and was a 
graduate of Brown University, in the class of 1852. lie 
pursued his theological studies at the Rochester Theo- 
logical Seminary, and received his appointment as a 
missionary of the American Baptist Missionary Union 
in 1853, and was set apart for the Arracan mission, lie 
reached the field of his labors, Akvab, in Sept., 1855. 
He ■was not permitted to perform much service for his 
Master. At the earty age of thirtv-two he died of the 
cholera, July 1, I85G. (J. C. S.) 

Satterpai, in Persian mythology, is the heaven of 
the fixed stars supposed to be situated below the heaven 
of the moon, and presided over by twelve genii of the 
twelve signs of the zodiac. 

Sattiawodi, in Hindu mythology, is a daughter 
of the king Dassaraycn, who was first married to Paras- 
sen and afterwards to Sandancn. 

Saturday (Saturn's day) was, next to the Lord’s 
day, held by the ancient Christians in great veneration, 
and, especially in the Eastern parts, honored with all 
the public solemnities of religion. This observance of 
the day was, doubtless, out of respect to the feelings of 
the Jews, who were generally the first converts to the 
Christian faith, and who still retained great reverence 
for the Sabbath. The Western Church regarded it as 
a fast, but the Greek Church observed it as a festival, 
one Sabbath (Saturday) only excepted. This was called 
the Great Sabbath, between Good-Friday and Eastcr- 
da} T , when our Saviour lay buried, upon which account 
it was kept as a fast throughout the whole Church. 
Athanasius ( Horn . de Semenie, tom. 1, p. 10G0) tells us 
that they assembled on Saturdays — not that they were 
infected with Judaism, but only to worship Jesus Christ, 
the Lord of the Sabbath. So far as concerns public wor- 
ship, Saturday was made in all things conformable to 
that of the Lord’s day. The Scriptures were read, as on 
the Lord’s day, sermons preached, and the communion 
administered. A preference, however, was given to the 
Lord’s day, for there were no laws forbidding lawsuits, 
pleadings, public shows, and games on that day. Nor 
were men obliged to abstain wholly from bodily labor, 
but, on the contrary, the Council of Laodicca (August. 
Ep. 118) has a canon forbidding Christians to Judaize, or 
rest on the Sabbath, any further than was necessary for 
public worship. The reason for the Latin Church keep- 
ing Saturday as a fast is given by pope Innocent in his 
epistle to the bishop of Eugubium : “ If we commemo- 
rate Christ’s resurrection not only at Easter, but every 
Lord’s day, and fast upon Friday because it was the day 
of his passion, wc ought not to pass by Saturday, which 
is the middle-time between the days of grief and joy.” 
He therefore concludes that Saturday ought to be kept 
as a fast (Innocent. Ep. ad Decium Eugubin. c. 4). This 


SATURN 


370 


SATURN 


was the general practice, and yet in Italy itself it was 
otherwise at Milan, where Saturday was a festival. The 
Saturdays in Ember weeks are called “ in XII Lections,” 
from the six Gospels read both in Latin and Greek. 
See Bingham, Antiq. of the Christ. Church , p. 1137 sq. ; 
Biddle, Christ. Antiq. p. 052 sq.; Walcott, Sacred Ar- 
ch ceol. s. v. 

Saturn, or Kronos, was a principal deity in Greek 
and Bonian mythology. The old Italic Saturn, whose 
name indicates that he was a god of harvests, and the 
old Grecian Kronos, a thoroughly symbolic being, which, 
like his brothers, the Titans, is suggestive of the pri- 
meval and uniform forces of nature, and has a probable 
though partial connection with the Phoenician Moloch 
(q. v.), are deities of two religions which often diverge 
from each other; and a modern learned mythology, 
which everywhere intermixes Greek and Iioman ele- 
ments, has met with but inditferent success in the en- 
deavor to combine the two gods into one. Kronos, the 
son of Uranus and Ga?a, was the most cunning of the 
Titans. His mother had given birth to the Centimani 
and the Cyclops, and Uranus had confined them in the 
underworld on account of their monstrons shapes and 
strength. Enraged by this action, Gcea proposed to her j 
younger children to avenge their brothers; but they all 
shrank from laying violent hands on their father, with 
the exception of Kronos, who hid himself, and at night 
emasculated Uranus and threw the generative organs 
down upon the earth, thereby fructifying it. Kronos 
then married the Titaness Bhea, from whom sprang the 
entire race of the gods who ruled the world. To avoid 
a prophecy by his parents which foretold that one of his 
children should dethrone him, he swallowed all his chil- 
dren immediately after their birth, excepting Jupiter, 
whom Bhea saved by giving Kronos a stone wrapped in 
cloths instead. The child grew rapidly, and attained in 
a single year to extraordinary size and strength. Metis 
(cunning) now gave him an emetic, which he adminis- 
tered to Kronos, with the result that he cast up all the 
children he had swallowed, together with the stone. 
The latter was placed for a memorial at the foot of 
Mount Parnassus, and Jupiter conspired with his broth- 
ers and sisters to dethrone their father, whom he muti- 
lated as Uranus had been; but when he sought to se- 
cure the throne for himself the Titans resisted, with the 
result that after ten years’ war Jupiter released the Cen- 
timani and the Cyclops, and with their aid overcame 
the Titans, whom he imprisoned in the dungeon where 
the Cyclops had lain. The division of authority was 
then determined among the Kronidse by lot, Pluto re- 
ceiving the earth, Neptune the sea, and Jupiter the 
heavens and supreme authority over all. The de- 
throned Kronos or Saturn, it is said, now fled to Italy 
and inaugurated the golden age. Men lived, like the 
gods, without care, in uninterrupted happiness, health, 
and strength ; they did not grow old ; and to them death 
was a slumber which relieved them of their present 
nature and transformed them into demons. The earth 
yielded every kind of fruit, and gave up all its treasures 
without cultivation and labor. Under the reign of Sat- 
urn men lived the life of paradise. To keep alive the 
recollection of this primitive life of innocence, freedom, 
and equality, the festival of the Saturnalia was insti- 
tuted at Borne, which began on Dec. 17, and contin- 
ued, first a single day, but afterwards for longer periods, 
until in the time of the emperors it extended over an 
entire week. During its continuance all business was 
interrupted; all distinctions between masters and slaves 
were laid aside, so that slaves sat at the sumptuous table 
and masters waited on them, and every form of recrea- 
tion was allowed. In Greece Kronos or Saturn possess- 
ed temples of extremely ancient date. 1 1 is temple at 
Rome stood at the foot of the Capitol, and served as an 
archive of the State and also as its treasury. The god 
is usually represented as bearing a sickle. The scythe, 
wings, and hour-glass, which are likewise often intro- 
duced in such representations, are added notions of more 


recent date, and resulted from a change in the mode of 
conceiving of the god. The Persians gave this deity an 
almost wholly animal representation : the lower parts 
of the body resemble those of swine, a human body with 
arms is added, and an animal head with crown completes 
the figure. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. See 
Smith, Diet, of Gr. and Rom. J fythol. s. v. 



Figure of Saturn. 

Saturn, the planet , seems to be named as an ob- 
ject of worship in Amos v, 2G, under the title Kiyun ', 
“l^S, where it is said of the Israelites in the wilderness, 
“Ye have borne the tabernacle of your Moloch and Chi- 
nn, your images,” etc.; for a similar word is the name 
of this star in both Syriac and Arabic (comp. Aben-Ezra, 
ad loc.), and it is known that the ancient Arabians strove 
to propitiate Saturn as a star of evil influence (see Po- 
cocke, Spec. IHst. A rob. p. 103, 120, ed. nov. ; comp. Nor- 
berg, Onomast. Cod. Nas. p. 78 sq. : Ephrem Syr. Opp. 
ii, 458; Propert. iv, 1, 104; Lucan, i, G52 ; Juvenal, vi, 
5G9), On account of its distance from the sun it was 
considered by the ancient astronomers as having a eokl 
nature (Pliny, ii, G, p. 75 ed. Hard.), and they ascribed to 
it heavy storms of rain (ibid. ii. 39; see lIarduin,aJfoc.; 
see also, on its evil influence, Macrobius, Saturn, i, 19, 
p. 95, 97 Bip. ; see also Molocii). The Sept, has 'Pm- 
comp. Acts vii, 43, where the MSS. vary much 
(see Griesb. ad loc. ; comp. O. Muller, in the Bill. Lubec. 
vii, 4G9 sq.), but the best read ‘P ijtyav. This is a Cop- 
tic word, as Kircher has shown from an Arabieo-Cop- 
tic inscription ( Liny . yEg. Rest'd, p. 49; (Edip. . Eg. p. 1, 
38G sq.). Seyffarth would derive it from Pc, to make or 
be, and ovoctr, light, i. e. shining (comp. Tatius Isag. in 
A rati Phien. e. 17). Jablonski, however ( Remph . yEgypt. 
Deus [Frankfort and Leips. 1731]. also in his Opusc. ii, 1 
sq., and in Ugolini Thesaur. xxiii), would deny that this 
and the other names of planets associated with it in the 
inscription are Egyptian, and renders the word as Ethi- 
opie, king of heaven, i. e. sun (comp. Opusc. i, 230 sq.), 
from ro, “ king,” and pheh, “heaven.” [Hence the true 
reading would be 'P optyaJ] Then we must understand 
the passage in Amos to refer to the worship of Osiris. 
But there is little evidence for the reading with p. Ign. 
Rossi {Ety mol. yEgypt. [Borne, 1808] p. 17G) explains 
'Pc ft<pd as meaning inhabitant of heaven, from pheh, 
“heaven,” and rem, “inhabitant” (comp. Coptic version 
of 1 Cor. xv, 48 sq.). But this is not striking. More 
recently, Hengstenberg agrees with Jablonski in re- 


SATURNALIA 


371 


SATYR 


jeering all glosses, and has returned to the old view 
that 'Yi)<pav is the mistake of a scribe for Kiyun , or 
Riyun ( Authent . des Rental, i, 110 sq.) ; yet this seems 
too hasty; and Kircher’s view is supported by some well 
acquainted with the Coptic, and is defended by Baur 
( Comment . ad loe.) and Winer, who considers the ren- 
dering of Hengstenberg ( Gestell eurer Bilder, i. e. the 
frame or support of your images) as without force, 
though Uitzig and Ewald adopt it. Gesenius ( Thesaur . 
ii, 669 sq.) renders statuam idolorum vestrorum , i.e. statue 
of your idols, which is without good reason. (Comp.* 
ill gen., Braun, Selecta Sacra, p. 477 sq.; Maius and 
Schwab, in Ugolini Thesaur . xxiii [but these are un- 
important] ; Schroder, De Tabernac. Mol . et Stella 
Dei Rempha [Marb. 1745].) Bosenmiiller denies that 
the Sept, renders Kiyun by ‘P ai<pdv, but refers it as a 
word of explanation to clohekem, your gods . 

But this is with little reason. An attempt has been 
made to connect Saturn with the Jewish Sabbath, as 
the day of Saturn. See, contra, Biihr, Symbol, ii, 584. 
Wolff’s JJiss. 1. de Chinn et Remph. (Leips. 1741) frs un- 
important. — Winer. .See Ciiiun. 

Saturnalia, the festival of Saturnus, to whom the 
people of Latium attributed the introduction of agricult- 
ure and the arts of civilized life. It was kept towards 
the end of December, as a sort of harvest-home, during 
which business was suspended; courts and schools were 
closed; no war was commenced or malefactor punished; 
slaves were relieved from ordinary labor, and, dressed in 
their masters’ clothes, were waited upon by them at the 
table. Saturnus being an ancient national god of Lati- 
um, the institution of the Saturnalia is lost in the most 
remote antiquity. One legend ascribes it to Janus, an- 
other (by Varro) to the Pclasgi, while a third tradition 
represented certain followers of Hercules, whom he had 
left behind on his return to Greece, as the authors of the 
festival. At first only one day was set apart for the 
sacred rites of Saturnus, but additions were gradually 
made until it occupied seven days. In reality, during 
the empire, three different festivals were celebrated. 
First came the Saturnalia proper, commencing on XYI 
Kal. Dec., followed by the Opalia, anciently coincident 
with the Sigilluria , so called from little earthenware 
figures ( sigilla oscilla ) exposed for sale at this season. 
See An thou, Classical Diet. s. v. 

Saturnia and Saturnius, in Greek mythology, 
were appellatives of Juno and Jupiter , derived from 
their father Saturn. 

Saturninians, Saturnians, or Saturnines, an 
early sect of Syrian Gnostics, followers of Saturninus (q. 
v.) or Saturnilus. The theories of Saturninus are only 
known through the work of Iremeus Against Heresies. 
In this he states that Saturninus, like Menander, taught 
that there is one supreme Unknown, the Father (Urm/p 
ayinoorog). The Father, he taught, was without or- 
igin, bodiless and formless, and never had in reality ap- 
peared to men ; the God of the Jews was only an angel. 
A number of spiritual beings were created by him in 
successive gradations, in the lowest of which eame the 
spirits of the seven planets. These seven, of whom 
the God of the Jews was chief, created the world, man, 
and all things. They had not power to make man an 
erect being, and so he continued to crawl upon the earth 
like a worm until the Supreme sent forth a spark of life, 
which gave him an erect posture, compacted his joints, 
and made him to live. Man now for the first time be- 
comes possessed of a soul, and the godlike germ is des- 
tined to unfold itself in those human natures where it 
has been implanted, to distinct personality, and to re- 
turn after a determinate period to the original Fountain 
of Life. Saturninus taught that the Saviour, whom he 
calls iEon, vovc, came to destroy the Demiurge, who 
was the God of the Jews; that he was without birth, 
without body, without figure, and only in appearance a 
man. lie accounted for the existence of good and evil 
men by affirming that they were originally created of 


two kinds, the one good, whom Christ came to save, the 
other wicked, whom the devils succor, and whom Christ 
will destroy. The Saturninians considered marriage to 
be of Satan ; they abstained from animal food, and taught 
that some prophecies came from the spirits who made 
the world, and some from Satan. Their doctrines led to 
a strict asceticism, and also to the celibacy of follow- 
ing times; they were based on dualism, and resembled 
those of the Doeetae. As these heretics are not men- 
tioned by St. Clement of Alexandria, it is probable that 
they were not much known out of Syria, and that they 
were few in number. See Blunt, Hist, of Sects, s. v. ; 
Gardner, Faiths of the World, s. v. ; Ucbcrweg, Hist, of 
Philos, i, 280 sq. 

Saturninus, a native of Antioch, in Syria, and a 
disciple of Menander. He was founder of a sect of 
Gnostics, called after him Saturninians (q.v.). lie flour- 
ished A.D. 117-138. 

Saturninus, a Christian martyr under Diocletian, 
was a priest of Albitina, in Africa, who, having been in- 
formed against for officiating in his clerical capacity, 
was apprehended and sent to Carthage to be examined 
before Amelin us. On his examination, Saturninus vin- 
dicated the Christian religion with great eloquence. By 
command of the proconsul he was tortured and remand- 
ed to prison, where he died of starvation, about A.D. 
305. — Fox, Booh of Martyrs, p. 48. 

Satyr, the rendering in Isa. xiii, 21 ; xxxiv, 14, of 
the lleb. word “V ^ V'£2,sair', which properly means hairy; 
hence a goat, especially a he-goat (comp. Lat. hircus.i rom 
hirsutus, hirius ), and is so rendered in Lev. iv, 24; 2 
Chron. xxix, 23, and often. The Sept, has, in the pas- 
sages in Tsaiah, daipomov, daemon ; and so the Eng. 
A. V., in 2 Chron. xi, 15, “devil.” These beings are 
mentioned in Isaiah as the inhabitants of desert places, 
but particularly the ruins of Babylon and Petra, where 
they dance and call to each other. The Greeks probably 
derived their belief in the existence of beings half men 
and half goats from the Eastern nations, w’hose mythol- 
ogy abounds with such fabulous animals, but there is no 
reason to believe that they formed any part of the Jew- 
ish superstitions. Yet it has been supposed by some 
that Isaiah alludes to the spectral beings which the an- 
cient Persians, the Jews, and the Mohammedans believe 
to haunt the ruins of Babylon. See Superstition. But 
in those passages where the prophet predicts the des- 
olation of Babylon, there is probably no allusion to any 
species of goat, whether wild or tame. According to the 
old versions, and nearly all the commentators, our own 
translation is correct, and satyrs — that is, daemons of 
woods and desert places, half men and half goats — are 
intended. Comp. Jerome (Comment, ad Isa. xiii) : “ Sei- 
rim vel incubones vel satyros vel sylvestres quosdam 
homines quos nonnulli fatuos ficarios voeant, aut da?mo- 
num genera intelligunt.” This explanation receives 
confirmation from a passage in Lev. xvii, 7, “They 
shall no more offer their sacrifices unto se'irim" and 



Cynocephalus (from the Egyptian monuments). 



SAT YUS 


372 


SAUL 


from a similar one in 2 Chron. xi, 15. The Israelites, 
it is probable, bad become acquainted with a form of 
goat-worship from the Egyptians (see Bochart, llieroz . 
iii, 825; Jablonski, Pant. lEgypt. i, 273 sq.). The opin- 
ion held by Michaclis ( Supp . p. 2342) and Lichtenstein 
( Commentat . de Simiarum, etc. § 4, p. 50 sq.), that the 
sei rim probably denote some species of ape, has been 
sanctioned by some modern scientists from a few pas- 
sages in ITiny (Hist. Xat. v, 8; vii, 2; viii, 54). See 
Aims. That some species of cynocephalus (dog-faced 
baboon) was an animal that entered into the theology 
of the ancient Egyptians is evident from the monu- 
ments and from what Ilorapollo (i, 14-16) has told us. 
The other explanation, however, has the sanction of 
(lesenius, Bochart, Bosenm tiller, Parkhurst, Maurer, 
Fiirst, and others. As to the ■•dancing” satyrs, comp. 
Virgil, Eel. v, 73. See Goat. 

Satyrs, in Greek mythology, were daemonic com- 
panions of Bacchus, who represented the unrestrained 
and luxurious life in the Bacchic circle. They are not 
mentioned in Homer, and Ilesiod does not describe their 
form, though he speaks of them as a useless race hav- 
ing no adaptability to labor. Later writers furnish a 
description about as follows : Bristly hair, a short, thick, 
and turned-up nose, pointed ears, the neck often marked 
with small lumps resembling horns, a horse-tail, some- 
times a goat-tail over the coccyx. The endowment of 
these beings with horns and goats’ feet was a miscon- 
ception of later days by which they were identified with 
pans, paniscs, and fauns. The satyrs were said to be 
sons of Mercury and Iphthimo, or of the naiads. The 
oldest and most prominent of them was named Sile- 
nus, and the older satyrs are called Silent collectively. 
Marsvas, too, was a satyr. In substance, the satyrs 
were companions of Bacchus; they were excessively 
fond of wine, and are accordingly represented as drink- 
ing, as reeling with the thyrsus, as overcome with sleep, 
as wine-pressers, or as playing on the flute or cymbal. 
Their attributes were the flute, the thyrsus staff, pan- 
dean pipes, the shepherd’s staff, drinking-vessels, and 
bottles. They were clothed in skins of beasts and 
crowned with vine-branches, ivy, and pine-twigs. They 
have frequently been the subject of artistic representa- 
tion, and always in company with Bacchus. The Latin 
word satira (a satire), originally satura, has not the re- 
motest connection with the Greek Safyri, and should 
not be in any way referred to them. — Vollmcr, WOrterh. 
d. Mythol. s. v. 

Sauces, a Coptic name, according to Jerome, given 
to the Coenobites, as distinct from the Anchorets. The 
name is sometimes Anglicized Sanches . Sec Bingham, 
Autiq. of the Christ. Chin ch, i, 243. 

Sauches. See Sauces. 

Saukwimir, in Xorse mythology, was one of the 
strongest jots, or giants. Odin slew his son, and at a 
subsequent visit to the jots narrated that he had killed 
the son of a giant and afterwards enjoyed the hospitali- 
ty of the father, without having discovered his true 
character, or even having excited the suspicions of his 
host. — Vollmcr. WOrterh. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Saumur, a Brotcstant theological seminary, located 
in a town of the same name, in the department of the 
Maine-et-Loire. It was suppressed in 1085, but during 
itscontinuancoexcrted considerable influence upon Frot- 
ostant thought in France. Its tendency was towards Ar- 
minianism. See llagenbaeh, llist. of Doctrines, § 222, 
n. 15, 225, 225 a, 217. 

Saul (lleli. ShaiiV, desired; Sept, and New 

Test. ikiouX ; Josephus, i.'«oi>\of), the name of several 
men, the following three of whom are thus known in 
the A. V. For the others see Shaul. 

1. An early king of the Edomites, successor of Sam- 
lah at Behoboth (Gen. xxxvi, 37, 88), elsewhere called 
‘•Shanl” (1 Chron. i, 48, 43). B.C. post 1618. 

2 . The first king of Israel (B.C. 1093-1053). (In the 


following account we make free use of the articles in the 
dictionaries of Kitto and Smith.) 

I. The Xante . — This first becomes prominent here in 
the history of Israel, though found before in the Edom- 
itish prince already mentioned, and in a son of Simeon 
(Gen. xlvi, 10; A. V. “Shaul”). It also occurs among 
the Kohathites in the genealogy of Samuel (1 Chron. vi, 
24, “Shaul”), and in Saul, like the king, of the tribe of 
Benjamin, better known as the apostle Paul (see below). 
Josephus (War, ii, 18, 4) mentions a Saul, father of one 
Simon who distinguished himself at Scythopolis in the 
early part of the Jewish war. The name in its applica- 
tion to the present character seems almost like a mock- 
ery of his history. 

II. Ilis Family .— On the following page is a general 
view of Saul’s pedigree. 

In This genealogy may be observed — 1. The repeti- 
tion in two generations of the names of Kish and Ner, 
of Xadab and Abi-nadab, and of Mephibosheth. 2. The 
occurrence of the name of Baal in three successive gen- 
erations; possibly in four, as there were two Mephibo- 
sheths. 3. The constant shiftings of the names of God, 
as incorporated in the proper names: («) A6-iel— .7e- 
liiel; (b) Malc/ii-shua — Je-shua ; (c) Esh-km/ = Ish- 
boshetk ; (d) Mephi- (or Meri-) baal ^Nephi-bosheth. 
4. The long continuance of the family clown to the 
times of Ezra. 5. Is it possible that Zimri (I Chron. 
ix, 42) can be the usurper of I Kings xvi — if so, the last 
attempt of the house of Saul to regain its ascendency? 
The time would agree. 

There is a disagreement between the pedigree in 1 
Sam. ix, I and xiv, 51, which represents Saul and Abner 
as the grandsons of Abiel. and 1 Chron. viii, 33 and ix, 
39, which represents them as his great-grandsons. If we 
adopt the more elaborate pedigree in the Chronicles, we 
must suppose cither that a link has been dropped be- 
tween Abiel and Kish, in 1 Sam. ix, 1, or that the elder 
Kish, the son of Abiel (1 Chron. ix, 3G), has been con- 
founded with the younger Kish, the son of Xer (I Chron. 
ix. 39). The pedigree in I Chron. viii is not free from 
confusion, as it omits among the sons of Abiel, Xer, who 
in 1 Chron. ix, 36 is the fifth son, and who in both is 
made the father of Kish. See Abiel. 

Saul’s more particular genealogy and lineage (so far 
a<* given) is ns follows: 


Names.. 

1 Sain. 
A. 1 xiv. 

l 

vii. 

Chrc 

viii. 

n. 

Ix. 

I 2 Sam. 

] ix. | iv. 

i 

Born B.C. 

Beniamin 

1 


c 





1 SOS ? 

Becher 



c 





1S7S ? 

! Abiah 



s 





1 S50 ? 

(Several unknown.] 









Aphiah 

1 







12S0 ? 

Bechorath 

1 







1250 ? 

Zeror 

1 







1 230 ? 

Abiel 

1 

51 






1200 ? 

or Jehiel 





35 




Ner 


51 


33 

36 



1175 ? 

Kish 

1 

51 


33 

39 



1145 ? 

Said 

2 

51 


33 

39 

6 

4 

1113 ? 

Jonathan 


49 


33 

39 

6 

4 

1093 ? 

Meribbaal 




34 

40 




or Mephibosheth . . 






6 

4 

1059? 

Micah 




34 

40 

6 


1038 ? 

Ahaz 




35 

41 



100S ? 

Jell o a da h 




36 




97S ? 

or Jarah 





42 




Zimri 




36 

42 



945? 

Moza 




36 

42 



910 ? 

Biuea 




37 

43 



SSO ? 

Bnpha 




37 




850 ? 

or Repliaiah 





43 



820 ? 

Elensah 




37 

43 



790 ? 

Eshek 




39 




770 ? 

I lam 




39 




710 ? 

Many sons mid 









Grandsons 




40 




650 ? 

Captivity 








5SS ? 


III. Saul's History. — 1.' Up to his Coronation . — The 
birthplace of Saul is not expressly mentioned; but as 
Zelah was the place of Kish’s sepulchre (2 Sam. xxi), 
it was probably his native village. There is no war- 
rant for saying that it was Gibeah, though, from its 
subsequent connection with him, it is called often “Gib- 


SAUL 


313 


SAUL 


GENERAL VIEW OF SAUL’S LINEAGE. 
Aphiah. (1 Stun, ix, 1.) 
Bechorath. 

Zeror. (Sept. Jaord.) 

Abiel or Jehiel = Maachnh. 


(1 Sam. ix, 1.) 
(t Chron. viii, 33.) 


(1 Chron. ix.) 


I I I I I I 

Abdou. Zur. Kish. Baal. Ner. Nadab. 

(1 Chron. ix, 2G.) 


Gedor. Ahio. Zeclmriah Aliklotti. 

(Zacher, (1 Chron. ix, 31.) 
1 Chron. viii). | 

Shimeah. 


Kish. Abner. 

I 

Ahinoam to SAUL to Rizpnh. 

(1 Chron. ix, 33.) 

Jonathan. Ishui. Malchi-shua. Abiiladab. Esh-baal. Merab. David to Mictial to Phaltiel. Arnioni. Mepliibosheth. 

| (1 Sam. Joshua (Jos. Ant. Ishbosheth. | 

Merib-baal xiv, 49.) vi, 6, 1). 5 sons. 

(Mepliibosheth, 1 Chron. ix, 34). 

Micah. 


Pithou. 


I 

Melech. 


Tahrea. Ahaz. 

Jehoadah (Tarah, I Chron. ix, 42). 


Aleineth. Azmaveth 


Zimri. 

Moza. 

Binea. 

I 

Kapha (Rephaiah, 1 Chron. ix, 43). 
Eleasah. 


Azel. 


nikam. 


Bocheru. Ishmael. Sheaiiah. Obadiuh. 


eah of Saul.” See Gibeah. (When Abiel, or Jehiel 
[1 Chron. viii, 29; ix, 35], is called the father of “Gib- 
eon,” it probably means founder of Gibeah.) 

Ilis father, Kish, was a powerful and wealthy chief, 
though the family to which he belonged was of little im- 
portance (1 Chron. ix, 1, 21). A portion of his property 
consisted of a drove of asses. In search of these asses, 
gone astray on the mountains, he sent his son Saul, ac- 
companied by a servant (“C3) who acted also as a guide I 
and guardian of the young man (ver. 3-10). After a 
three days’ journey (ver. 20), which it has hitherto 
proved impossible to track with certainty [see Ram ah], 
through Ephraim and Benjamin [see Siialim ; Siia- 
lisiia; Zuph], they arrived at the foot of a hill sur- 
rounded by a town, when Saul proposed to return home, 
but was deterred by the advice of the servant, who sug- 
gested that before doing so they should consult “a man 
of God,” “a seer,” as to the fate of the asses, securing 
his oracle by a present ( backshish ) of a quarter of a sil- 
ver shekel. They were instructed by the maidens at 
the well outside the city to catch the seer as he came 
out of the city to ascend to a sacred eminence, where a 
sacrificial feast was waiting for his benediction (1 Sam. 
ix, 1 1-13). At the gate they met the seer for the first 
time — it was Samuel. A divine intimation had indi- 
cated to him the approach and the future destiny of 
the youthful Benjamite. Surprised at his language, 
but still obeying his call, they ascended to the high 
place, and in the inn or caravansary at the top (Sept. 
to naTaXiifia, ver. 27) found thirty or (Sept, and Jose- 
phus, Ant. vi, 4, 1) seventy guests assembled, among 
whom they took the chief place. In anticipation of 
some distinguished stranger, Samuel had bidden the 


I 

Eshek. 

_J 

, , I ! 

Hamm. Ulam. Jehush. Eliphelet. 

150 descendants. 

cook reserve a boiled shoulder, from which Saul, as the 
chief guest, was bidden to tear off the first morsel (Sept. 
1 Sam. ix, 22-24). They then descended to the city, and 
a bed was prepared for Saul on the housetop. At day- 
break Samuel roused him. They descended again to 
the skirts of the town, and there (the servant having 
left them) Samuel poured over Saul’s head the conse- 
crated oil. and with a kiss of salutation announced to 
him that he was to be the ruler and (Sept.) deliverer 
cf the nation (ix, 25-x, 1). From that moment, as he 
turned on Samuel the huge shoulder which towered 
above all the rest (Sept, x, 9), a new life dawned upon 
him. Tie returned by a route which, like that of his 
search, it is impossible to make out distinctly ; and at 
every step homeward it was confirmed by the incidents 
which, according to Samuel’s prediction, awaited him 
(x, 9, 10). At Rachel’s sepulchre he met two men, who 
announced to him the recovery of the asses — his lower 
cares were to cease. At the oak of Tabor [see Plain; 
Tabor] he met three men earn ing gifts of kids and 
bread and a skin of wine, as an offering to Bethel. Two 
of the loaves were offered to him as if to indicate lr.s 
new dignity. At the hill of God” (whatever may be 
meant thereby, possibty his own city, Gibeah) he met 
a band of prophets descending with musical instru- 
ments, and he caught the inspiration from them as a 
sign of his new life (Ewald, iii, 28-30). 

This is what may be called the private, inner view 
of his call. The outer call, which is related indepen- 
dently of the other, was as follows. An assembly was 
convened by Samuel at Mizpeli, and lots (so often prac- 
tised at that time, see Aristot. Polit. vi, 1 1 ; Virgil, ACn. 
ii) were cast to find the tribe and the family which was 


SAUL 


374 


SAUL 


to produce the king. Saul was named, and, by a di- 
vine intimation, found hidden in the circle of baggage 
which surrounded the encampment (1 Sam. x, 17-24). 
His stature at once conciliated the public feeling, and 
for the first time the shout was raised, afterwards so 
often repeated in modern times, “Long live the king!” 
(ver. 23, 24) and he returned to his native Gibeah', ac- 
companied by the fighting part (^Plfj) of the people, 
of whom he was now to be the especial head. The 
murmurs of the worthless part of the community who 
refused to salute him with the accustomed presents 
were soon dispelled by an occasion arising to justify 
the selection of Saul. The words which close 1 Sam. 
x, 27 are, in the Hebrew text, “ he was as though he 
were deaf;” in Josephus, .4 nt. vi, 5, 1, and the Sept, (fol- 
lowed by Ewald), “ and it came to pass after a month 
that . . .” 

The corrupt administration of justice by Samuel's 
sons furnished an occasion to the Hebrews for rejecting 
that theocracy of which they neither appreciated the 
value, nor, through their unfaithfulness to it, enjoyed 
the full advantages (1 Sam. viii). The prospect of the 
event related below seems also to have conspired with 
the cause just mentioned and with a love of novelty in 
prompting the demand for a king (xii, 12) — an officer 
evidently alien to the genius of the theocracy, though 
contemplated as a historical certainty, and provided 
for by the Jewish lawgiver (ver. 17-20; Deut. xvii, 
14-20; on which see Grotius’s note; also De Jure Belli, 
etc. i, 4, 6, with the remarks of Gronovius, who [as Puf- 
feudorf also does] controverts the views of Grotius). 
An explanation of the nature of this request, as not 
only au instance of ingratitude to Samuel, but of rebell- 
ion against Jehovah, and the delineation of the man- 
ner iu which their kings— notwithstanding the restric- 
tions prescribed in the law — might be expected to con- 
duct themselves ZiS'JE, Sept. Sucatuipa rov 

fiaaiXswg; 1 Sam. viii, 11; x, 25), failed to move the 
people from their resolution. See Samuel. Both pre- 
viously to that election (ver. 16), and subsequently, 
when insulted by the worthless portion of the Israelites, 
he showed that modesty, humility, and forbearance 
which seem to have characterized him till corrupted 
by the possession of power. The person thus set apart 
to discharge the royal function possessed, at least, those 
corporal advantages which most ancient natious desid- 
erated in their sovereigns — what Euripides calls the 
worthy form of royalty. His person was tall and com- 
manding, and he soon showed that his courage was not 
inferior to his strength (ix, 1; x, 23). His belonging 
to Benjamin also, the smallest of the tribes, though of 
distinguished bravery, prevented the mutual jealousy 
with which either of the two great tribes, Judah and 
Ephraim, would have regarded a king chosen from the 
other. 

2. Confirmation of Saul’s Appointment. — He was 
(having, apparently, returned to his private life) on his 
way home, driving his herd of oxen, when he heard 
one of those wild lamentations in the city of Gibeah, 
such as mark in Eastern towns the arrival of a great 
calamity. It was the tidings of the threat issued by 
Nahash, king of Ammon, against Jabcsh -gilead. See 
Ammon. For, in the meantime, the Ammonites, whose 
invasion had hastened the appointment of a king, hav- 
ing besieged Jabesh in Gilead, and Nahash their king 
having proposed insulting conditions to them, the el- 
ders of that town, apparently not aware of Saul's elec- 
tion (1 Sam. xi, 3), sent messengers through the land 
imploring help. The inhabitants of Jabcsh were con- 
nected with Benjamin by the old adventure recorded 
in Judg. xxi. It was as if this one spark was needed 
to awaken the dormant spirit of the king. “The Spir- 
it of the Lord came upon him,” as on the ancient 
judges. The shy, retiring nature which we have ob- 
served vanished never to return. In this emcrgcnc}', 
he had recourse to the expedient of the earlier days 


by the message of the bones of two of the oxen from 
the herd which he was driving. Saul thus acted with 
wisdom and promptitude, summoning the people, en 
masse, to meet him at Bezck; and having, at the head 
of a vast multitude, totally routed the Ammonites (ver. 
11) and obtained a higher glory by exhibiting a new 
instance of clemency, whether dictated by principle or 
policy — “Novum imperium inclioantibus utilis clcmcn- 
tiie fama” (Tacitus, Hist, iv, 63), “For lowliness is young 
ambition’s ladder” — he and the people betook them- 
selves, under the direction of Samuel, to Gilgal, there 
with solemn sacrifices to reinstall the victorious leader 
in his kingdom (1 Sam. xi). If the number set down 
in the Hebrew' text of those who followed Saul (ver. 8) 
can be depended on (the Sept, more than doubles them, 
and Josephus outgoes even the Sept.), it would appear 
that the tribe of Judah was dissatisfied with Saul’s 
election, for the soldiers furnished by the other tribes 
were 300,000, while Judah sent only 30,000; whereas 
the population of the former, compared with that of 
Judah, appears, from other passages, to have been as 
about five to three (2 Kings xxiv,9). Yet it is strange 
that this remissness is neither punished (1 Sam. xi, 7) 
nor noticed. At Gilgal Saul w'as publicly anointed and 
solemnly installed in the kingdom by Samuel, who took 
occasion to vindicate the purity of his own administra- 
tion — which he virtually transferred to Saul— to cen- 
sure the people for their ingratitude and impiety, and 
to warn both them and Saul of the danger of disobedi- 
ence to the commands of Jehovah (ch. xii). The effect 
of this military success was instantaneous on the peo- 
ple; the punishment of the murmurers was demanded, 
s but refused by Saul, and the monarchy was inaugu- 
rated anew (xi, 1-15). It should be observed, however, 
that, according to 1 Sam xii, 12, the affair of Nahash 
preceded and occasioned the election of Saul. lie be- 
came king of Israel. But he still so far resembles the 
earlier judges as to be virtually king only of his own 
tribe, Benjamin, or of the immediate neighborhood. 
Almost all his exploits are confined to this circle of ter- 
ritory or associations. 

These were the principal transactions that occurred 
during the first decade of Saul's reign (which we vent- 
ure to assign as the meaning of the first clause of ch. 
xiii — “ the son of a year was Saul in his reigning;” the 
emendation of Origcn, “Saul was thirty years old,” be- 
ing required by the chronology, for he seems, at the next 
event, to have been forty years old) ; and the subse- 
quent events happened in the second decade, which 
may be the meaning of the latter clause. 

3. Saul’s First Trial and Transgression. — Samuel, 
who had up to this time been still named as ruler with 
Saul (1 Sam. xi, 7, 12, 14), now withdrew, and Saul be- 
came the acknowledged chief. The restrictions on 
which he held the sovereignty had (x, 25) been fully 
explained as well to Saul as to the people, so that he 
was not ignorant of his true position as merely the lieu- 
tenant of Jehovah, king of Israel, who not only gave all 
the laws, but whose will, in the execution of them, was 
constantly to be consulted and complied with. The 
first occasion on which his obedience to this constitu- 
tion was put to the test brought out those defects in 
his character which showed his unfitness for his high 
office, and incurred a threat of that rejection which his 
subsequent conduct confirmed (xiii, 13). Saul could 
not understand his proper position, as only the servant 
of Jehovah speaking through his ministers, or confine 
himself to it ; and in this respect he was not, what Da- 
vid with many individual and private faults and crimes 
was— a man after God’s own heart, a king faithful to 
the principles of the theocracy. 

In the twentieth year of his reign (as the age of 
Jonathan evidently requires; the text being corrupt; 
see Keil, ad loc .) Saul began to organize au attempt to 
shake off the Philistine yoke which pressed on his coun- 
try ; not least on his own tribe, where a Philistine of- 
ficer had long been stationed even in his own field (1 


SAUL 


375 


SAUL 


Snm. x, 5 ; xiii, 3). Having collected a small standing 
army, part of which, under Jonathan, had taken a fort 
(or slain the officer) of the Philistines, Saul summoned 
the people to withstand the forces which their oppress- 
ors, now alarmed for their dominion, would, upon this 
signal, naturally assemble. But so numerous a host 
came against Saul that the people, panic-stricken, fled 
to rocks and caverns for safety — years of servitude hav- 
ing extinguished their courage, which the want of 
arms, of whieh the poliey of the Philistines had de- 
prived them, still further diminished. The number of 
chariots, 30,000, seems a mistake; unless we suppose, 
with Le Clerc, that they were not war-chariots, but 
baggage-wagons (an improbable supposition), so that 
3000 may be the true number. Apparently reduced to 
extremity, and the seventh day having come, but not 
being ended, the expiration of which Samuel had en- 
joined him to wait, Saul at least ordered sacrifices to be 
offered — for the expression (ver. 9) does not necessarily 
imply that he intruded into the priest’s office (2 Sam. 
vi, 13; 1 Kings iii, 2-4), though that is the most obvi- 
ous meaning of the text. Whether that which Saul 
now disregarded was the injunction referred to (1 Sam. 
x, 8) or one subsequently addressed to him, this is evi- 
dent, that Saul acted in the full knowledge that he sin- 
ned (xiii, 12) ; and his guilt, in that aet of conscious dis- 
obedience, was probably increased by its clearly involv- 
ing an assumption of authority to conduct the war ac- 
cording to his own judgment and will. But just after 
the sacrifice was completed Samuel arrived and pro- 
nounced the first curse on his impetuous zeal (ver. 5-14). 
Samuel, having denounced the displeasure of Jehovah 
and its consequences, left him, and Saul returned to Gib- 
eah (the addition made to the text of the Sept. ver. 15, 
where, after “from Gilgal,” the clause, “and the rest of 
the people went up after Saul to meet the enemy from 
Gilgal to Gibeah,” etc., being required apparently by 
the sense, which, probably, has been the onl} r authority 
for its insertion). Left to himself, Saul’s errors multi- 
plied apace. See Samuel. 

Meanwhile the adventurous exploit of his son brought 
on the crisis which ultimately drove the Philistines back 
to their own territory. Jonathan, having assaulted a gar- 
rison of the Philistines (apparently at Miehmash [l Sam. 
xiv, 31], whieh therefore must have been situated near 
Migron in Gibeah [ver. 1], and within sight of it [ver. 
15]), Saul, aided by a panic of the enemy, an earth- 
quake, and the co-operation of his fugitive soldiers, ef- 
fected a great slaughter; but by a rash and foolish de- 
nunciation, he (1) impeded his success (ver. 30), (2) in- 
volved the people in a violation of the law (ver. 33), and 
(3), unless prevented by the more enlightened conscience 
of the people, would have ended with putting Jonathan 
to death for an aet which, being done in total igno- 
rance, could involve no guilt. See Jonathan. This 
campaign was signalized by two remarkable incidents 
in the life of Saul. One was the first appearance of 
his madness in the above rash vow which all but cost 
the life of his son (ver. 24, 44). The other was the 
erection of his first altar, built either to celebrate the 
victory, or to expiate the savage feast of the famished 
people (ver. 35). This sneeess against the Philistines 
was followed, not only by their retirement for a time 
within their own territory, but by other considerable 
successes against the other enemies of his country — 
Moab, Ammon, Edom, the kings of Zobah, the Amalek- 
ites, and the Philistines — all of whom he harassed, but 
did not subdue. These wars may have occupied two 
or three years, about the middle of Saul’s reign (B.C. 
1073-71). 

4. Saul's Second Transgression. — The expulsion of 
the Philistines (although not entirely completed [1 
Sam. xiv, 52]) at once placed Saul in a position higher 
than that of any previous ruler of Israel. Probably 
from this time was formed the organization of royal 
state, whieh contained in germ some of the future 
institutions of the monarchy. The host of 3000 has 


been already mentioned (xiii; xxiv, 2; xxvi,2; eomp. 
1 Cliron. xii, 29). Of this Abner became captain (1 Sam. 
xiv, 50). A body-guard of young, tall, and handsome 
Benjamites (Josephus, Ant . vi, G, G; vii, 14) was also 
formed of runners and messengers (see 1 Sam. xvi, 15, 
17 ; xxii, 14, 17 ; xxvi, 22). Of this David was after- 
wards made the chief. These two were the principal 
officers of the court, and sat with Jonathan at the king’s 
table (xx, 25). Another officer is incidentally mentioned 
— the keeper of the royal mules— the comes stabuli, the 
“constable’’ of the king — such as appears in the later 
monarchy (l Chron. xxvii, 30). lie is the first instance 
of a foreigner employed about the court — being an 
Edomite or (Sept.) Syrian, of the name ofDoeg (1 Sam. 
xxi, 7; xxii, 9). According to Jewish tradition (Je- 
rome, Qu. llivb. ad loe.) he was the servant who accom- 
panied Saul in his pursuit of his father’s asses — who 
counselled him to send for David (1 Sam. ix, xvi), and 
whose son ultimately killed him (2 Sam. i, 10). The 
high-priest of the house of Jtharaar (Ahimelech or Ahi- 
jah) was in attendance upon him with the ephod, when 
he desired it (1 Sam. xiv, 3). and felt himself bound to 
assist his secret commissioners (xxi, 1-9; xxii, 14). 
The king himself was distinguished by a state not be- 
fore marked in the rulers. He had a tall spear of the 
same kind as that described in the hand of Goliath, and 
the same that now marks the Bedouin sheik. This 
never left him — in repose (xviii, 10; xix, 9), at his 
meals (xx, 33), at rest (xxvi, 1 1), in battle (2 Sam. i,6). 
In battle he wore a diadem on his head and a bracelet 
on his arm (i, 10). lie sat at meals on a seat of his own 
facing his son (1 Sam. xx, 25 ; Sept.). He was received 
on his return from battle by the songs of the Israelitish 
women (xviii, G), among whom he was on such occa- 
sions specially known as bringing back from the enemy 
scarlet robes, and golden ornaments for their apparel (2 
Sam. i, 24). 

The warlike character of his reign naturally still pre- 
dominated, and he was now able not merely, like his 
temporary predecessors, to aet on the defensive, but to 
attack the neighboring tribes of Moab, Ammon, Edom, 
Zobah, and finally Amalek (1 Sam. xiv. 47). The war 
with Amalek is twice related, first brielly (ver. 48), and 
then at length (xv, 1-9). Its chief connection with 
Saul’s history lies in the disobedience to the prophetical 
command of Samuel, shown in the sparing of the king, 
and the retention of the spoil (B.C. 1070). In this event 
another trial was afforded Saul before his final rejection 
— namely, by the command to extirpate the Araalekites, 
whose hostility to the people of God was inveterate 
(Dent, xxv, 18; Exod. xvii, 8-16 ; Numb, xiv, 42-45; 
Judg. iii, 13; vi, 3), and who had not by repentance 
averted that doom which had beeu delayed 550 years 
(1 Sam. xiv, 48). The extermination of Amalek and 
the subsequent execution of Agag belong to the general 
question of the moral code of the Old Test. See Agag. 
There is no reason to suppose that Saul spared the king 
for any other reason than that for which he retained the 
spoil — namely, to make a more splendid show at the sac- 
rificial thanksgiving (xv, 21). Such was the Jewish 
tradition preserved by Josephus (Ant. vi, 7, 2), who ex- 
pressly says that Agag was spared for his stature and 
beauty, and such is the general impression left by the 
description of the celebration of the victory. Saul rides 
to the southern Carmel in a chariot (Sept.), never men- 
tioned elsewhere, and sets up a monument there (Deb. 
“a hand” [2 Sam. xviii, 18]), whieh in the Jewish tra- 
ditions (Jerome, Qu. Jl<eb. ad loe.) was a triumphal arch 
of olives, myrtles, and palms. In allusion to his crown- 
ing triumph, Samuel applies to God the phrase, “The 
victory (Ynlg. triumph ator) of Israel will neither lie nor 
repent” (1 Sam. xv, 29; and comp. I Chron. xxix, 11). 
The apparent cruelty of this commission was not the 
reason why it was not fully executed, as Saul himself 
confessed when Samuel upbraided him, “ I feared the 
people and obeyed their voice” (1 Sam. xv, 24). This 
stubbornness in persisting to rebel against the direc- 


SAUL 


37G 


SAUL 


tions of Jehovali was now visited by that final rejection 
of his family from succeeding him on tbe throne which 
had before been threatened (xiii, 13, 14; xv, 23), and 
which was now significantly represented, or mystically 
predicted, by the rending of the prophet’s mantle. The 
struggle between Samuel and Saul in their final parting 
is also indicated, as he tears himself away from Saul’s 
grasp (for the gesture, see Josephus, A nt. vi, 7, 5), and 
by the long mourning of Samuel for the separation — 
‘•Samuel mourned for Saul.” “How long wilt thou 
mourn for Saul?” (1 Sam. xiv, 35; xvi, 1). After this 
second and flagrant disobedience, accordingly, Saul re- 
ceived no more public countenance from the venerable 
prophet, who now left him to his sins and his punish- 
ment; “nevertheless the Lord repented that he had 
made Saul king” (xv, 35). See Samuel. 

5. Saul's Conduct towards David. — 'flic rest of Saul’s 
life is one long tragedy. The frenzy which had given 
indications of itself before now at times took almost en- 
tire possession of him. it is described in mixed phrases 
as “an evil spirit of God” (much as wc might speak of 
“religious madness”), which, when it came upon him, 
almost choked or strangled him from its violence (1 
Sam. xvi, 14; Sept.; Josephus, Ant. vi, S, 2). The de- 
nunciations of Samuel sank into the heart of Saul, and 
produced a deep melancholy, which either really was, or 
which his physicians (l Sam. xvi, 14, 15; comp. Gen. 
1, 2) told him was, occasioned by a supernatural influ- 
ence; unless we understand the phrase In JT“P, an 
evil spirit, subjectively, as denoting the condition itself 
of Saul’s mind, instead of the cause of that condition 
(Isa. xxix, 10 ; Numb, v, 14 ; Rom. xi, 8). We can con- 
ceive that music might affect Saul’s feelings, might 
cheer his despondency, or divert his melancholy; but 
how it should have the power to chase away a spiritual 
messenger whom the Lord had sent to chasten the mon- 
arch for liis transgressions is not so easily understood. 
Saul’s case must probably be judged of by the same 
principles as that of the demoniacs mentioned in the 
New Test. See Demoniac. In this crisis David was 
recommended to him by one of the young men of his 
guard (in the Jewish tradition groundlessly supposed to 
be Doeg [Jerome, Qu. Ileeb. ad loe.]) on account of his 
skill as a musician (1 Sam. xvi, 1G-23). But the nar- 
rative of his introduction to Saul, his subsequently kill- 
ing Goliath, Saul’s ignorance of David's person after he 
had been his attendant and armor-bearer, with various 
other circumstances in the narrative (xvi, 14-23; xvii; 
xviii, 1-4), present difficulties which neither the arbi- 
trary omissions in the Sept, nor the ingenuity of subse- 
quent critics has fully succeeded in removing, and which 
have led many eminent scholars to suppose the exist- 
ence of extensive dislocations in this part of the Old 
Test. The change proposed by Hales and others seems 
to be the most ready, which would place the passage 
xvi, 14-23 after xviii, 9; yet why should Saul’s attend- 
ants need to describe so minutely a person w'hom he and 
all Israel knew so well already ? Also, how can u r e con- 
ceive that Saul should love so much (xvi, 21) a person 
against whom his jealousy and hatred had been so pow- 
erfully excited as his probable successor in the kingdom? 
(xviii, 9). Besides, David had occupied alread}” a much 
higher position (ver. 5) ; and, therefore, his being made 
Saul’s armor-bearer must have been the very opposite 
of promotion, which the text (xvi, 21) supposes it was. 
The most rational solution of the difficulty appears to 
be the supposition that David had in the interim grown 
so much that the monarch did not now' recognise him. 
See David. 

Though not acquainted with the unction of David, 
yet having received intimation that the kingdom should 
be given to another, Saul soon suspected, from his ac- 
complishments, heroism, wisdom, and popularity, that 
David was his destined successor; and, instead of con- 
cluding that his resistance to the divine purpose would 
only accelerate his own ruin, Saul, in the spirit of jeal- 


ousy and rage, commenced a series of murderous at- 
tempts on the life of his rival that must have lost him 
the respect and sympathy of his people, which they se- 
cured for the object of his malice and envy, whose noble 
qualities also they both exercised and rendered more 
conspicuous, lie attempted twice to assassinate him 
with his own hand (1 Sam. xviii, 10, 11; xix, 10); he 
sent him on dangerous military expeditions (xviii, 5, 13, 
17) ; he proposed that David should marry first his elder 
daughter, whom yet he gave to another, and then his 
younger, that the procuring of the dowry might prove 
fatal to David; and then he sought to make his daugh- 
ter an instrument of her husband’s destruction; and it 
seems probable that unless miraculously prevented he 
would have imbrued his hands in the blood of the ven- 
erable Samuel himself (xix, 18), while the text seems to 
intimate (xx, 33) that even the life of Jonathan was not 
safe from his fury, though the subsequent context may 
warrant a doubt whether Jonathan was the party aimed 
at by Saul. The slaughter of Ahimelech the priest (eh. 
xxii), under pretence of his being a partisan of David, 
and of eighty-five other priests of the house of Eli, to 
whom nothing could be imputed, as well as the whole 
inhabitants of Nob, ■was an atrocity perhaps never ex- 
ceeded ; and yet the wickedness of the act was not 
greater than its infatuation, for it must have inspired 
his subjects not only with abhorrence of their king as 
an inhuman tyrant, but with horror of him as an im- 
pious and sacrilegious monster. This crime of Saul put 
David in possession of the sacred lot, which Abiathar, 
the only surviving member of Eli’s priestly family, 
brought with him, and by which he was enabled to ob- 
tain oracles directing him in his critical affairs (xxii, 
21-23; xxiii, 1,2). 

Having compelled David to assume the position of 
an outlaw, around whom gathered a number of turbu- 
lent and desperate characters, Saul might persuade him- 
self that he was justified in bestowing the hand of Da- 
vid’s wife on another, and in making expeditions to ap- 
prehend and destroy him. A portion of the people were 
base enough to minister to the evil passions of Saul (1 
Sam. xxiii, 19; xxvi, 1), and others, perhaps, might 
color their fear by the pretence of conscience (xxiii, 12). 
But his sparing Saul’s life twice, when he was complete- 
ly in his power, must have destroyed all color of right 
in Saul’s conduct in the minds of the people, as it also 
did in his own conscience (xxiv,3-7 ; xxvi), which two 
passages, though presenting many points of similarity, 
cannot be referred to the same occasion without deny- 
ing to the narrative all historic accuracy and trust- 
worthiness. Though thus degraded and paralyzed by 
the indulgence of malevolent passions, Saul still acted 
with vigor in repelling the enemies of his country, and 
in other affairs wherein his jealousy of David was not 
concerned (xxiii, 27, 28). In Saul’s better moments, 
also, he never lost the strong affection which he had 
contracted for David, “lie loved him greatly” (xvi, 
21). “Saul would let him go no more home to his 
father’s house” (xviii, 2). “ Wherefore eometh not the 

son of Jesse to meat?” (xx, 27). “ Is this thy voice, my 
son David? . . . Return, my son David ; blessed be thou, 
mv son David” (xxiv, 1G ; xxvi, 17, 25). Occasionally, 
too, his prophetical gift returned, blended with his mad- 
ness. lie “prophesied” or “raved” in the midst of his 
house — “ he prophesied and lay down naked all day and 
all nighL” at Ramah (xix, 24). But his acts of fierce, 
wild zeal increased. The massacre of the priests, with 
all their families — the massacre, perhaps at the same 
time, of the Gibeonites (2 Sam. xxi, 1), and the violent 
extirpation of the necromancers (1 Sam. xxviii, 3, 9), 
are all of the same kind. 

G. Saul's L<tst Offence and Death . — At length the 
monarchy itself, which he had raised up, broke down 
under the weakness of its head. The Philistines re- 
entered t he country, and with their chariots and horses 
occupied the plain of Esdraelon. Their camp was 
pitched on the southern slope of the range now called 


SAUL 


377 


SAUL 


Little Hermon, by Shunem. On the opposite side, on 
Mount Gilboa, was the Tsraelitish army, clinging, as usu- 
al, to the heights which were their safety. It was near 
the spring of Gideon’s encampment, hence called the 
spring of Harod, or “trembling*,” and now the name as- 
sumed an evil omen, and the heart of the king as he 
pitched his camp there “trembled exceedingly” (1 Sam. 
xxviii, 5). The measure of Saul’s iniquity, now almost 
full, was completed by an act of direct treason against 
Jehovah the God of Israel (Exod. xxii, 18; Lev. xix, 
31; xx, 27; Dent, xviii, 10, 11). Saul, probably in a 
fit of zeal and perhaps as some atonement for his dis- 
obedience in other respects, had executed the penalty 
of the law on those who practised necromancy and div- 
ination (l Sam. xxviii, 3). Now, however, in the loss 
of all the usual means of consulting the divine will, he 
determined, with that way ward mixture of superstition 
and religion which marked his whole career, to apply 
to one of the necromancers who had escaped his perse- 
cution. Forsaken of God, who gave him no oracles, 
and rendered, by a course of wickedness, both desperate 
and infatuated, he requested his attendants to seek him 
a woman who had a familiar spirit (which is the loose 
rendering in the English Bible of the expression oc- 
curring twice in ver. 7, -IX rtj’S IyJx, a woman a 
mistress of Ob; Sept, iyyaarpipv^oc, i. e. a ventrilo- 
quist; Vulg. habens Fythonem , i. e. a Pythoness [see 
Necromancy]), that he might obtain from her that 
direction which Jehovah refused to afford him. She 
was a woman living at Endor, on the other side of Lit- 
tle Ilermon. According to the Hebrew tradition men- 
tioned by Jerome, she was the mother of Abner, and 
hence her escape from the general massacre of the nec- 
romancers (see Leo Allatius, De Evgastrimutho , cap. 6 in 
Critici Sacri , vol. ii). Volumes have been written on 
the question w'hether in the scene that follmvs we are 
to understand an imposture or a real apparition of Sam- 
uel. Eustathius and most of the fathers take the for- 
mer view (representing it, however, as a tigment of the 
devil); Origen, the latter view*. Augustine wavers 
(ibid, ut supra,p. 10C2-11I4). The Sept, of 1 Sam. 
xxvii, 7 (by the above translation) and the A. V. (by 
its omission of “himself’ in xxviii, 14, and insertion of 
“when” in ver. 12) lean to the former. Josephus (who 
pronounces a glowing eulogy on the woman, Ant. vi, 14, 
2, 3) and the Sept, of 1 Chron. x, 13, to the latter. At 
this distance of time it is impossible to determine the 
relative amount of fraud or of reality, though the obvi- 
ous meaning of the narrative itself tends to the hypoth- 
esis of some kind of apparition. She recognises the 
disguised king first by the appearance of Samuel, seem- 
ingly from his threatening aspect or tone as towards 
his enemy. Saul apparently saw nothing, but listened 
to her description of a godlike figure of an aged man 
wrapped round with the royal or sacred robe. On 
hearing the denunciation which the apparition convey- 
ed, Saul fell the whole length of his gigantic stature 
(see 1 Sam. xxviii, 20. margin) on the ground, and re- 
mained motionless till the woman and his servants 
forced him to eat. 

Assured of his own death in the coming engagement, 
and that of his sons, of the ruin of his army and the 
triumph of his most formidable enemies, whose invasion 
had tempted him to try this unhallowed expedient — 
all announced to him by that same authority which 
had foretold his possession of the kingdom, and whose 
words had never been falsified — Saul, in a state of de- 
jection which could not promise success to his follow- 
ers (comp. Thomson, Land and Hook, ii, 168), prepared 
as best he could to meet the enemy in Gilboa, on the 
extremity of the great plain of Esdraelon (on the locali- 
ties of this battle, etc., see llackett, Illustrations of 
Script, p. 178 sq.). 

The next day the battle came on, and, according to 
Josephus {Ant. vi, 14, 7), perhaps according to the spir- 
it of the sacred narrative, his courage and self-devotion 


returned. The Israelites were driven up the side of 
Gilboa. The three sons of Saul were slain (1 Sam. 
xxxi, 2). Saul himself with his armor-bearer was pur- 
sued by the archers and the charioteers of the enemy 
(ver. 3; 2 Sam. i, 6). lie was wounded in the stomach 
(Sept. 1 Sam. xxxi, 3). Ilis shield was cast away (2 
Sam. i, 21). In his extremity, having in vain solicited 
death from the hand of his armor- bearer (Doeg the 
Edomite— the Jews say, k *a partner before of his mas- 
ter’s crimes and now of his punishment”), Saul perished 
at last by his own sword (1 Sam. xxxi, 4). According 
to another account (less trustworthy, or, perhaps, to be 
reconciled with the former by supposing that it de- 
scribes a later incident), an Amalekite came up at the 
moment of his death-wound (whether from himself or 
the enemy) and found him “fallen” but leaning on his 
spear (2 Sam. i, 6, 10). The dizziness of death was 
gathered over him (ver. 0), but he was still alive; and 
he was, at his own request, put out of his pain by the 
Amalekite, who took off his royal diadem and bracelet 
and carried the news to David (ver. 7-10). Not till 
then, according to Josephus {Ant. vi, 11, 7), did the 
faithful armor- bearer fall on his sword and die with 
him (1 Sam. xxxi, 5). The body, on being found by 
the Philistines on the morrow*, was stripped and decapi- 
tated. . The armor was sent into the Philistine cities, 
as if in retribution for the spoliation of Goliath, and 
finally deposited in the temple of Astarte, apparently in 
the neighboring Canaanitish city of I’ethshan ; and 
over the walls of the same city was hung the naked, 
headless corpse with those of his three sons (ver. 9, 10). 
The head was deposited (probably at Ashdod) in the 
temple of Dagon (1 Chron. x, 10). The corpse was re- 
moved from Beth &han bv the gratitude of the inhabi- 
tants of Jabesli-gilead, who came over the Jordan by 
night, carried off the bodies, burned them, and buried 
them under the tamarisk at Jabcsh (1 Sam. xxxi, 13). 
It is pleasing to think that even the worst men have 
left behind them those in whom gratitude and affection 
are duties. Saul had those who mourned him, as some 
hand was found to have strewn flowers on the newly 
made grave of Nero. After the lapse of several years, 
his ashes and those of Jonathan were removed by Da- 
vid to their ancestral sepulchre at Zelah in Benjamin 
(2 Sam. xxi, 14). 

IV. Saul's Character. — There is not in the sacred 
history, or in any other, a character more melancholy to 
contemplate than that of Saul. Naturally humble and 
modest, though of strong passions, he might have adorn- 
ed a private station. In circumstances which did not 
expose him to strong temptation, he would probably 
have acted virtuously. But his natural rashness was 
controlled neither by a powerful understanding nor a 
scrupulous conscience; and the obligations of duty and 
the ties of gratitude, always felt by him too slightly, 
were totally disregarded when ambition, envy, and jeal- 
ousy had taken possession of his mind. The diabolical 
nature of these passions is seen, with frightful distinct- 
ness, in Saul, whom their indulgence transformed into 
an unnatural and bloodthirsty monster, who constantly 
exhibited the moral infatuation, so common among 
those who have abandoned themselves to sin. of think- 
ing that the punishment of one crime may be escaped 
by the perpetration of another. In him, also, is seen 
that moral anomaly or contradiction, which would be 
incredible did we not so often witness it, of an individ- 
ual pursuing habitually a course which his better nat- 
ure pronounces not only flagitious, but insane (1 Sam. 
xxiv, 16,22). Saul knew* that that person should be 
king whom yet he persisted in seeking to destroy, and 
so accelerated his own ruin. For it can hardly be 
doubted that the distractions and disaffection occasion- 
ed by Saul’s persecution of David produced that weak- 
ness in his government which encouraged the Philis- 
tines to make the invasion in which himself and his 
sons perished. “I gave thee a king in mine anger, 
and took him away in my wrath” (llos. xii, 11). In 


SAUNDERS 


378 


SAURIN 


the prolonged troubles and disastrous termination of 
this first reign, the Hebrews were vividly shown how 
vain was their favorite remedy for the mischiefs of 
foreign invasion and intestine discord. 

Saul’s character is in part illustrated by the fierce, 
wayward, fitful nature of the tribe [see Benjamin], and 
in part accounted for by the struggle between the old 
and new systems in which he found himself involved. 
To this we must add a taint of madness, which broke 
out in violent frenzy at times, leaving him with long 
lucid intervals. His affections were strong, as appears 
in his love both for David and his son Jonathan, but 
they were unequal to the wild accesses of religious zeal 
or insanity which ultimately led to his ruin. He was, 
like the earlier Judges, of whom in one sense he may 
be counted as the successor, remarkable for his strength 
and activity (2 Sam. i, 23); and he was, like the Ho- 
meric heroes, of gigantic stature, taller by head and 
shoulders than the rest of the people, and of that kind 
of beauty denoted by the Hebrew word “good” (1 Sam. 
ix, 2), and which caused him to be compared to the ga- 
zelle — “ the gazelle of Israel.” 1 1 was probably these ex- 
ternal qualities which led to the epithet which is fre- 
quently attached to his name, “chosen” — “whom the 
Lord did choose” — “See ye (i. e. Look at) him whom 
the Lord hath chosen!” (1 Sam. ix, 17; x, 24; 2 Sam. 
xxi, G). 

V. Literature. — See the treatises referred fo in Dar- 
ling, Cyclop. Bibliograph. col. 200-302; Stanley, Jewish 
Ch . ii, lect. xxi; Ewald, / list, of Israel , ii, 15 sq.; Nie- 
mever, Char ah v, 75 sq. ; Ilasse, Konig Saul (Gries. 
1854); Richardson, Saul, King of Israel (Edinb. 1858); 
Miller, Saul, First King of Israel (2d cd., Loud. 1SGG); 
Brooks, King Saul ([a tragedy], N. Y. 1871); and the 
monographs on his interview with the witch cited by 
E first, Bibliotheca Judaica , iii, 23G. See King. 

3. The Jewish name of Paul (q. v.). This was the 
most distinguished name in the genealogies of the tribe 
of Benjamin, to which the apostle felt some pride in 
belonging (Rom. xi, 1 ; Phil, iii, 5). He himself leads 
us to associate his name with that of the Jewish king 
by the marked way in which he mentions Saul in his 
address at the Pisidian Antioch : “ God gave unto them 
Saul the son of Cis, a man of the tribe of Benjamin” 
(Acts xiii, 21). These indications arc in harmony with 
the intensely Jewish spirit of which the life of the 
apostle exhibits so many signs. The early ecclesias- 
tical writers did not fail to notice the prominence thus 
given by Paul to his tribe. Tertullian (.1 dt\ Mare, v, 
1) applies to him the dying words of Jacob on Benja- 
min. And Jerome, in his Kpitaphinm Paulas (§ 8), al- 
luding to the preservation of the six hundred men of 
Benjamin after the affair of Gibcah (Judg. xx, 49), 
speaks of them as “trcecntos [sic] viros propter Apos- 
tolum reseruatos." See Benjamin. 

Nothing certain is known about the change of the 
apostle’s name from Saul to Paul (Acts xiii, 9). Two 
chief conjectures prevail concerning the change. (1) 
That of Jerome and Augustine, that the name was de- 
rived from Sergius Paulus, the first of his Gentile con- 
verts. (2) That which appears due to Light foot, that 
Paulus was the apostle’s Roman name as a citizen of 
Tarsus, naturally adopted into common use by his biog- 
rapher when his labors among the heathen commenced. 
The former of these is adopted bv Olshausen and Meyer. 
It is also the view of Ewald (Gesch. vi, 419, 420). who 
seems to consider it self-evident, and looks on the ab- 
sence of any explanation of the change as a proof that 
it was so understood by all the readers of the Acts. 
However this may be, after Saul has taken his place 
definitively as the apostle to the Gentile world, his Jew- 
ish name is entirely dropped. Two divisions of his life 
are well marked by the use of the two names. — Smith. 

Saunders, William T., a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, was born, of Roman Catholic 
parents, in Dublin, Aug. 1G, 183G. In his sixteenth year 
he emigrated to America, landing at New Orleans, April 


13, 1852. In Sept., 1853, he was converted at a camp- 
mecting, and joined the Methodist Episcopal Church. 
He spent one term at Meadville- College, but for five 
years after led an unsettled life. In 1859 he was ad- 
mitted on trial in the South-eastern Indiana Conference 
and appointed to Vernon Circuit. He also served at 
New Washington ; Patriot Circuit; Belleview; as chap- 
lain of the Eighty-third Indiana Volunteers ; Roberts 
and Trinity churches, Madison; Vcvay; and Rising 
Sun. He continued to fill his pulpit until within four 
weeks of his death, which took place July 29, 1871. Mr. 
Saunders was a man of diligent study, careful prepara- 
tion for the pulpit, faithful as a pastor, while his piety 
was of the healthy, fruit-bearing kind. — Minutes of An- 
nual Conferences, 1871, p. 184. 

Sauqua Behkr {Socquabeh-),m Norse mythology, 
was the stream of death, a place where Saga dwelt, and 
which Odin visited each day in order to become drunk 
on the precious mead which she possessed, and to en- 
joy her love. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. s.v. 

Sauras, a Hindu sect who worship only Snryapati, 
or the sun-god. They are few in number, and scarcely 
differ from the rest of the Hindus in their general ob- 
servances. Their mark on the forehead is made in a 
particular manner, with red sandal-wood, and their neck- 
lace is of crystal. They eat one meal without salt ev- 
ery Sunday, and on every occasion of the sun’s entrance 
into a sign of the zodiac ; and they cannot eat till 
they have noticed the sun. — Gardner, Faiths of the 
\ ) "or Id, s. v. 

Saure, Conrad, a minister of the German Reformed 
Church, was born in Germany, and emigrated to this 
country in 1845. lie studied theology privately, and 
commenced preaching in Cincinnati in 185G; two years 
later he was regularly ordained, and installed as pastor 
of the Salem church. His first sermon, it is said, was 
preached to six hearers. At the time of his death, in 
1873, his congregation numbered between seven and 
eight hundred members. He was an acceptable and 
earnest preacher, and a faithful, laborious, and successful 
pastor. See the Ref. Ch. Mess. June 4, 1S73. (D. Y. 1 1 .) 

Saurin, Elie, a French Protestant theologian, was 
born Aug. 28, 1G39, at Ussean, Danphiny. He was the 
son of a village pastor, who conducted his education, and 
at last sent him to study theology at Geneva. Admit- 
ted to the ministry in 1GG1. he preached first atVente- 
rot, and was called to the church at Embrun in the suc- 
ceeding year. Having refused to uncover his head be- 
fore a priest who was carrying the sacrament to a sick 
person, Saurin was banished from the country. He re- 
tired to Holland, where he took charge of a church at 
Delft, in JGG5. lie was employed to examine tlie re- 
ligious opinions of the mystic Labadie, and offered to 
refute them publicly. So well did Saurin succeed that 
he procured the deposition of his opponent, and, in order 
that he should not be suspected of any personal interest 
in the affair, obtained for Labadie the church atMiddlc- 
bnrg. In 1G71 Saurin accepted the place of Wolzogcn 
at Utrecht. Here he lived for two years, during the 
French occupation, in continual agitation caused by his 
disputes with Jurieu. He began the contest by stating 
that some of the doctrines of Jurieu were heterodox 
and very dangerous. Efforts were made to reconcile 
the two pastors, and the synod of Leeuwarden forbade 
their writing against each other on pain of excommu- 
nication, but all to no effect. The last years of Saurin 
were devoted to the publication of theological works, 
lie died at Utrecht, on Eastcr-Sundav, 1703. We have 
from his pen, Examen de la Theologie de Jurieu: — De- 
fense de la Doctrine de VEglise Ref or nice, etc. : — Traite 
de V Amour de Dieu : — Reflexions sur les Droits de la 
Conscience: — and a posthumous work. Traite del' A mour 
du Proclaim. — Hoofer, Xouv. Biog. Gene rale, s. v. 

Saurin, Jacques, the most eloquent preacher of 
French Protestantism, was born at Nimes Jan. 6, 1G77. 


SAUIilN 


379 


SAVAGE 


In his eighth j r ear his family, fleeing from the persecu- 
tions of Louis XIY, settled in Geneva. Quitting school 
at the age of sixteen, he joined a regiment of Savoy- 
ards in the general war against the French tyrant, and 
served nearly four years, till the Peace of Kyswick, in 
1G97. Oil his return, he took up the study of theology 
under Tronchin, Pictet, and Turretin. It was only after 
many inner struggles that he contjuered his frivolity 
and scepticism, and passed through the throes of the 
new birth. Once clearly converted, his life and influ- 
ence were radically changed. His subsequent renown 
for eloquence began to take form even before his grad- 
uation. 3 1 is mere schoolboy exercises in sermonizing 
attracted great attention. Entering the ministry in 
1700, lie took charge of a society of French Walloons in 
London, and preached with great success for four years. 
In 1705, while on a journey of recreation in Holland, he 
preached a few sermons and made such an impression 
as to occasion a call to labor at the Hague. This call 
he accepted; and here, for the remainder of his life — 
twenty-live years— he labored with equal fame and use- 
fulness. He soon became known as “the great Saurin,” 
the “Chrysostom of Protestantism.” The large church 
in which he preached was constantly overcrowded. It 
was not merely his eloquence, his fine manner, his melo- 
dious voice, which thus held and charmed fur a quarter 
of a century all classes of society, but it was chiefly the 
weighty substance of what he said and the holy earnest- 
ness with which he said it. Learned men (Clericns) 
and cold critics often went to hear him with deep preju- 
dice, but uniformly they came away glad and captivat- 
ed. The celebrated Abbadie exclaimed, after first hear- 
ing him, “Is it a man, or is it an angel!” Saurin was 
not a mere preacher, but also an organizer. He found- 
ed schools and asylums, and planned a grand scheme of 
missionary work throughout the Dutch colonics. lie 
was also a systematic writer. In 1722 he issued an ed- 
ucational work, A brege de la Theologie et de la Morale 
Ckretienne. In 1724 he issued his Catechisme , which 
enjoyed a long popularity in Holland and at Geneva. 
In 1725 appeared at the Hague L'Etat du Christianisme 
en France, a collection of letters in favor of his fellow- 
Protcstants of F ranee. A work which appeared between 
1720 and 1728, Discours Jlistoriques , Critiques , Theolo- 
giques et Morceavx sur les Evenements les plus M emorablcs 
du Vieux et du Nouveau Testament , though an able work 
in itself, had the unfortunate result of calling upon Sau- 
rin such a series of envious criticisms from his brother- 
pastors as to embitter his last years and even to hasten 
his death. It is a memorable instance of the well-known 
odium theologicum. It had no other basis or pretext 
than a few unguarded expressions in regard to the so- 
called falsehood of necessity. 

But the posthumous fame of Saurin rests upon his 
Sermons. Of these he himself published (1707-25) five 
volumes. After his death, his son edited, from his 
papers, seven additional volumes. The whole twelve 
volumes have been several times reissued. The best 
edition is that of the Hague, in' 1749; the most recent 
is that of Paris, in 1835. A good selection was pub- 
lished by Weiss, at Paris, in 1854, Sermons Choisis de 
Saurin , avec une Notice sur sa Vie . Most of these ser- 
mons have enjoyed great popularity in other languages. 
Five volumes of the Sermons were published in English 
by R. Robinson, in 1775. As to the form of Saurin’s 
sermons, they are too systematic and scholastic for the 
taste of the present; they are encumbered with too much 
of learned citation. Much that they contain would be 
more appropriate in the professor’s chair than in the 
pulpit. As compared with the great Catholic sermon- 
izers, Saurin lacks the exquisite polish of Bossuct; nor 
does he search the secret recesses of the heart with as 
sharp an eve as Bourdaloue ; nor are his appeals as 
pathetic as those of Massillon ; but he surpasses them 
all in this, that he preaches the whole Gospel of Christ, 
and that he is unconscious of dependence on any other 
external authority than the simple Word of God. In 


manner, Saurin was impetuous in the extreme; greater 
self-control would have given him greater power. He 
sometimes spent so much force of voice in his opening 
prayer and exordium as to be very much exhausted be- 
fore the close. Sometimes his voice would almost fail. 
The chief defect in his manner was a certain lack of 
unction. The understanding was convinced, the con- 
science was awakened, the will was aroused, but the 
heart was not fully subdued. After Saurin’s death, his 
great work, Disccurs (2 vols. fob), was continued by 
Roques and Beausobre, so that the whole consisted of 
six volumes. See Van Oostcrzec, Jacques Saurin (Bros. 
I85G) ; Savous, Hist, de la Litter. Franq. ii VEtr. ; Weiss, 
I/ist.des Ref. Prof. de France ; Herzog, Reul-Encykl. 
xiii, 437-444. (J. P. L.) 

Saurus, in Greek mythology, was a noted highway 
robber on the borders of Elis, who was killed by Her- 
cules. 

Saussay, Andre de, a French prelate, was horn at 
Paris in 1589, and died Sept. 9, 1075, at Toul. His par- 
ents being poor, lie was educated at the Hospital of the 
Holy Spirit, and on completing his studies took orders, 
lie employed himself in preaching and controversy; 
was in favor at the court; and became cure of Saint- 
Lcu, apostolic prothonotary, almoner of the king, and 
grand vicar of the Church of Paris. Elected bishop of 
Toul in 1049, he did not take possession of his sec until 
1057, on account of ecclesiastical troubles with its chap- 
ter. lie held this office till his death. Saussay was the 
author of several religious works in Latin, which show 
great learning, but little judgment or critical acumen — 
as Gemalogie des II critiques Sacrementaires, etc.: — De 
Saero Ritu Pnrferendi Crueem , etc. — Iloefer, Naur. 
Biog. Generale , s. v. 

Sautrantika is the name of the second of the four 
great schools or systems of Buddhism, the three others 
being called Vaibhashika , M adhyamika, and Yogachara. 
They recognise the authority of the Suti'as (q. v.), but 
reject that of the Abhidharma. See Kbppcn, Die Re- 
ligion des Buddha (Berlin, 1857) ; Wassiljew, Her Buddli - 
ismus , seine Dogmen , Geschichte und IAteratur (St. Peters- 
burg, 1800). — Chambers's Encyclop. s. v. 

Savagarad is the cap of an Armenian priest, made 
of cloth of gold, with an orb and cross on the top. 

Savage, Henry, D.D., an English divine, was born 
at Eldsfield, Worcestershire, in 1004. lie entered Ba- 
liol College, Oxford, as a commoner in 1021 ; took the 
degree of B.A. in Nov., 1625; in 1028 was made proba- 
tioner fellow; and in 1030 completed his master’s de- 
gree. On the commencement of the Rebellion, he trav- 
elled into France with William (lord) Sandys, whose 
sister, lady Mary, he afterwards married. He obtained 
the mastership of his college Feb. 20, 1650, and took his 
degree of D.D. the next year, lie was made prebend- 
ary of Gloucester in 1605, and rector of Bladen, in Ox- 
fordshire. He died, master of Baliol College, June 2, 
1072, and was buried in the chapel. He published some 
pamphlets- on infant baptism against John Tombcs, and 
on Church reformations against Cornelius Burgess; but 
is best known by his Baliofergus ; or , A Commentary 
upon the Foundation, Founders, and A fairs of Baliol 
College (Qxon. 1068, 4to). 

Savage, Isaac Aylswortli, a minister of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church, was born in Edinburgh, 
Saratoga County, N. Y., Dec. 28, 1814. He embraced 
religion at the age of sixteen, graduated at the Wesley- 
an University in Aug., 1841, and, having been already 
received on trial in the New England Conference, went 
immediately to South Boston. He was ordained deacon 
in 1843 and elder in 1845. He occupied appointments 
in Lowell, Springfield, Boston, and Ilolliston until 1854, 
when, after a protracted illness, lie fell asleep on Feb. 16. 
Mr. Savage was an excellent scholar, an able and faith- 
fid minister, a devoted friend.— Minutes of Annual Covf 
1854, p. 359. 


SAVAGE 


3S0 


SAVIOUR 


Savage, John, D.D., an English divine of the last 
century, was a member of Emanuel College, Cambridge, 
where "he took his degrees, and was D.D. of both uni- 
versities. lie was rector, tirst of Bygravc, then of Clot- 
ball, Herts, and lecturer of St. George’s, Hanover Square, 
London, lie was at one time president of the famous 
club at Koyston. He died March 24, 1747, from a fall. 
Besides a visitation and an assize sermon, there are at- 
tributed to him the following: The Turkish History 
(abridged from Knolles and Rycaut [1701,2 vols. 8vo]): 
— Collection of Letters of the A ncients, etc. (1703, 8vo). 

Savage, John Adams, D.D., a Presbyterian di- 
vine, was born in Salem, Washington County, N. Y., Oct. 
9, 1800. lie received his preparatory training in Salem 
Academy; graduated at Union College, Schenectady, 
N. Y., in 1822; studied theology privately; was licensed 
to preach by Washington Associate Reformed Presby- 
tery in 1825, and ordained by the same presbytery in 
1827. His tirst charge was at Fort Covington, Frank- 
lin County, N. Y., where lie remained until 1832, when 
he was called to the church in Ogdensburg, N. Y. Here 
his labors were abundant and successful. lie remained 
at Ogdensburg nearly twenty years, and probably no 
man ever exerted so wide and powerful an influence for 
religion and for Presbyterianism in Northern New York 
as he. In 1850, at the earnest solicitation of Dr. Van 
Rensselaer, then corresponding secretary of the Board 
of Education, he went to Wisconsin, and took charge 
of Carroll College, at Wauketa, then in its infancy. 
Here he labored arduously in founding and building up 
a college in a new country. The charter had been ob- 
tained, and some little progress made in the enterprise 
before his arrival, but properly Dr. Savage is to be re- 
garded as the founder of Carroll College. lie died Dec. 
13, 1864. Dr. Savage was a man of great sagacity, deep 
piety, and excellence of character; as a preacher, able 
and instructive; as a theologian, clear, sound, and 
scriptural, well meriting the honorary degree of D.D. 
conferred on him by his alma mater after his assump- 
tion of the presidency of the college. See Wilson, Fresh . 
Hist. Almanac, 1866, p. 167. (d. L. S.) 

Savage, Samuel Morton, D.D., a learned In- 
dependent minister, was born in London in 1721, and 
educated under Dr. Jennings. He became professor of 
divinity at lloxton ; assistant minister of St. Mary Axe, 
London, in 1747; and sole pastor in 1756. He died in 
1791. lie published Sermons on several evangelical 
and practical subjects (Taunton, 1796, 8vo). 

Savage, Thomas, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Boston, Mass., Sept. 2, 1794. He pursued his 
preparatory studies at Phillips Academy, in Andover; 
graduated with honor at Harvard University, Cam- 
bridge ; and studied theology at the divinity school con- 
nected with that institution. In 1815 he accepted an 
invitation to become a private tutor in Louisiana, in the 
vicinity of Baton Rouge, where he continued to teach 
and preach for nearly seven years. In 1824 he returned 
to Boston, and on duly 5, 1826, was installed pastor of 
the church in Bedford, N. II., which pastorate lasted 
forty years. He died May 8, 1866. Mr. Savage pos- 
sessed a truly symmetrical character. His ministry 
was in conformity with such a character. lie was a 
practical and impressive preacher, and an accurate 
scholar — excelling perhaps in the classics, but familiar 
with the best models of his native tongue. See Wil- 
son, Fresh. Hist. Almanac, 1867, p. 196. (d. L. S.) 

Sav'aran {-avapdv v. r. A vapor), an erroneous 
form (1 Mace, vi, 43) for A varan (q. v.), an epithet of 
the Maccabce Eleazar (q.v.). 

Savary, N., a French writer and traveller. In 1776 
he visited Egypt, and studied the antiquities and man- 
ners of the country. On his return he visited the Ar- 
chipelago, and in 1780 published his translation of the 
Koran, which was succeeded by his Travels in Egypt, 
Letters on Crcece , and a Grammar of the Modern Arabic. 
lie died in 1788. 


Savastano, Francesco Eulalia, an Italian poet, 
was born in 1657 at Naples, where he died Oct. 23, 1717. 
lie was a Jesuit, preached successfully, and taught 
rhetoric, philosophy, and theology in the College of 
Naples, lie is the author of a Latin poem entitled Bo - 
tanicorum Liber. — lloefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Savi'as a corrupt Grsecized form (1 Esdr. 

viii, 2) of the lleb. name Uzzi (q.v.), the ancestor of 
Ezra (Ezra vii, 4). 

Savigni, Order of, a religions body connected 
with the Romish Church, founded in the 12th century 
by Vitalis dc Mortaiu, a disciple of the famous Robert 
of Arbiscelle, who instituted the Order of Fontevraud. 
The Order of Savigni, after continuing for a time, be- 
came merged in that of the Cistercians (q. v.).— Gard- 
ner, Faiths of the World , s. v. 

Saviour, a title applied in Scripture, in its highest 
sense, to Jesus Christ, but in a subordinate way to 
earthly deliverers. (In the present article we substan- 
tially adopt that found in Smith’s Diet, of the Bible.') 

I. The Word itself. — The term “Saviour,” as applied 
to our Lord Jesus Christ, represents the Greek soter 
(ow//p), which in turn represents certain derivatives 
from the Hebrew root yashd (3?^), particularly the 
participle of the Ilipliil form moshia (^dl^i), which is 
usually rendered “Saviour” in the A. V. (e. g. Isa. xlvi, 
15 ; xiix, 26). In considering the true import of “ Sav- 
iour,” it is essential for us to examine the original terms 
answering to it, including in our view the use of soter 
in the Sept., whence it was more immediately derived 
by the writers of the New Test., and further noticing 
the cognate terms “to save” and “salvation,” which 
express respectively the action and the results of the 
Saviour’s office. See Jesus. 

1. The term soter is of more frequent occurrence in 

the Sept, than the term “Saviour” in the A. V. of the 
Old Test. It represents not only the word moshia above 
mentioned, but also very frequently the nouns yesha 
(rd?) and yeshudh which, though properly 

expressive of the abstract notion “salvation,” are yet 
sometimes used in a concrete sense for “ Saviour.” We 
may cite as an example Isa. lii, 11,“ Behold, thy salva- 
tion cometh, his reward is with him,” where evidently 
“ salvation” — Saviour. So again in passages where 
these terms are connected immediately with the person 
of the Godhead, as in Psa. Ixviii, 20, “the God our Sav- 
iour” (A. V. “ God of our salvation”). Not only in such 
cases as these, but in many others where the sense does 
not require it, the Sept, has soter where the A. V. has 
“salvation;” and thus the word “Saviour” was more 
familiar to the ear of the reader of the Old Test, in our 
Lord’s age than it is to us. 

2. The same observation holds good with regard to 
the verb aib'Cuv, and the substantive oo)Tt)pia, as used 
in the Sept. An examination of the passages in which 
they occur shows that they stand as equivalents for 
words conveying the notions of well-being, succor, peace, 
and the like. We have further to notice <nor?ipia in 
the sense of recovery of the bodily health (2 Macc. iii, 
32), together with the etymological connection supposed 
to exist between the terms mortjp and aiopa, to which 
Paul evidently alludes in Eph. v, 23; Phil, iii, 20, 21. 

3. If we turn to the Hebrew terms, we cannot fail to 
be struck with their comprehensiveness. Our verb “to 
save” implies, in its ordinary sense, the rescue of a per- 
son from actual or impending danger. This is undoubt- 
edly included in the Hebrew root yashd , and may be 
said to be its ordinary sense, as testified by the frequent 
accompaniment of the preposition min (*)12 ; comp, the 
rrojrm enrd which the angel gives in explanation of the 
name Jesus, Matt, i, 21). But yashd , beyond this, ex- 
presses assistance and protection of every kind — assist- 
ance in aggressive measures, protection against attack; 
and, in a secondary sense, the results of such assistance 
— victory, safety, prosperity, and happiness. We may 


SAVIOUR 


381 


SAVIOUR 


cite as an instance of the aggressive sense, Dent, xx, 4, 
“To fight for you against your enemies, to save you;” 
of protection against attack, Isa. xxvi, 1, “ Salvation will 
God appoint for walls and bulwarks;” of victory , 2 Sam. 
viii, 6, “The Lord preserved David,” i. e. gave him vic- 
tory; of prosperity and happiness, Isa. lx, IS, “Thou 
shalt call thy walls Salvation;” Isa. lxi, 10, “He hath 
clothed me with the garments of salvation.” No better 
instance of this last sense can be adduced than the ex- 
clamation “Ilosanna,” meaning, “ Save, I beseech thee,” 
which was uttered as a prayer for God’s blessing on any 
joyous occasion (Psa. cxviii, 25), as at our Lord’s entry 
into Jerusalem, when the etymological connection of the 
terms Ilosanna and Jesus could not have been lost on 
the ear of the Hebrew (Matt, xxi, 9,15). It thus ap- 
pears that the Hebrew and Greek terms had their posi- 
tive as well as their negative side; in other words, that 
they expressed the presence of blessing as well as the 
absence of danger, actual security as well as the re- 
moval of insecurity. The Latin language possessed in 
the classical period no proper equivalent for the Greek 
< ro)ri]p . This appears from the introduction of the Greek 
word itself in a Latinized form, and from Cicero’s re- 
mark (in Yerr . Act. 2, ii, 63) that there was no one 
word which expressed the notion qui salutem dedit. 
Tacitus (.1 tin. xv, 71) uses conservator, and Pliny (xxii, 
5) servator. The term salt: at or appears appended as a 
title of Jupiter in an inscription of the age of Trajan 
(Grutcr, p. 19, No. 5). This was adopted by Christian 
writers as the most adequate equivalent for < noTtjp , 
though objections were evidently raised against it (Au- 
gustine, Serm. 299, § 6). Another term, salutijicator, 
was occasionally used by Tertullian (I)e Rtsiirr. Cam. 
47 ; l)e Cam . Chr . 14). 

4. The historical personages to whom the terms are 
applied further illustrate this view. The judges are 
styled “ saviours,” as having rescued their country from 
a state of bondage (Judg. iii, 9, 15, A. V. “deliverer;” 
Neh. ix, 27); a “saviour” was subsequently raised up 
in the person of Jeroboam II to deliver Israel from the 
Syrians (2 Kings xiii, 5); and in the same sense Jose- 
phus styles the deliverance from Egypt a “salvation” 
(,4ttf. iii, 1, 1). Joshua, on the other hand, verilied the 
promise contained in his name by his conquests over 
the Canaanites: the Lord was his helper in an aggres- 
sive sense. Similarly, the office of the “ saviours” prom- 
ised in Obad. 21 was to execute vengeance on Edom. 
The names Isaiah, Jeslnia, Ishi, Hosea, Iloshea, and, 
lastly, Jesus, are all expressive of the general idea of 
assistance from the Lord. The Greek sotfr was in a 
similar manner applied in the double sense of a deliv- 
erer from foreign foes, as in the case of Ptolemy Soter. 
and a general protector, as in the numerous instances 
where it was appended as the title of heathen deities. 

5. There are many indications in the Old Test, 
that the idea of a spiritual salvation, to be effected by 
God alone, was by no means foreign to the mind of the 
pious Hebrew. In the Psalms there are numerous pe- 
titions to God to save from the effects of sin (e. g. xxxix, 
8; lxxix. 9). Isaiah, in particular, appropriates the 
term “saviour” to Jehovah (xliii, 11), and connects it 
with the notions of justice and righteousness (xlv, 21 ; 
lx, 16, 17) : he adduces it as the special manner in which 
Jehovah reveals himself to man (xlv, 15) : he hints at 
the means to be adopted for effecting salvation in pas- 
sages where he connects the term “saviour” with “re- 
deemer” (goel), as in xli, 14; xlix, 26; lx, 16, and again 
with “ransom,” as in xliii, 3. Similar notices are scat- 
tered over the prophetical books (e. g. Zech. ix, 9; IIos. 
i, 7), and though in many instances these notices ad- 
mitted of a reference to proximate events of a temporal 
nature, they evidently looked to higher things, and thus 
fostered in the mind of the Hebrew the idea of a “ Sav- 
iour” who should far surpass in his achievements the 
“saviours” that had as yet appeared. The mere sound 
of the word would conjure up before his imagination 
visions of deliverance, security, peace, and prosperity. 


II. The Work of the Saviour . — This we propose to 
trace as developed in the several portions of the New 
Testament. 

1. The first three evangelists, as we know, agree in 
showing that Jesus unfolded his message to the disci- 
ples by degrees, lie wrought the miracles that were 
to be the credentials of the Messiah; he laid down the 
great principles of the Gospel morality, until he had 
established in the minds of the Twelve the conviction 
that he was the Christ of God. Then, as the clouds of 
doom grew darker, and the malice of the Jews became 
more intense, he turned a new page in his teaching. 
Drawing from his disciples the confession of their faith 
in him as Christ, he then passed abruptly, so to speak, 
to the truth that remained to be learned in the last few 
months of his ministry, that his work included suffering 
as well as teaching (Matt, xvi, 20, 21). He was instant 
in pressing this unpalatable doctrine home to his disci- 
ples from this time to the end. Four occasions when 
lie prophesied his bitter death are on record, and thev 
are probably only examples out of many more (ver. 21). 
We grant that in none of these places does the word 
“sacrifice” occur; and that the mode of speaking is 
somewhat obscure, as addressed to minds unprepared, 
even then, to bear the full weight of a doctrine so re- 
pugnant to their hopes. Hut that he must (£et) go and 
meet death; that the powers of sin and of this world 
are let loose against him for a time, so that he shall be 
betrayed to the Jews, rejected, delivered by them to the 
Gentiles, and by them be mocked and scourged, cruci- 
fied, and slain ; and that all this shall be done to achieve 
a foreseen work, and accomplish all things written of 
him by the prophets — these we do certainly find. They 
invest the death of Jesus with a peculiar significance; 
they set the mind inquiring what the meaning can be 
of this hard necessity that is laid on him. For the an- 
swer we look to other places; but at least there is here 
no contradiction to the doctrine of sacrifice, though the 
Lord does not yet say, “I bear the wrath of God against 
your sins in your stead ; I become a curse for you.” Of 
the two sides of this mysterious doctrine — that Jesus 
dies for us willingly, and that he dies to bear a doom 
laid on him as of necessity, because some one must bear 
it — it is the latter side that is made prominent. In all 
the passages it pleases Jesus to speak, not of his desire 
to die, but of the burden laid on him, and the power 
given to others against him. 

2. Had the doctrine been explained no further, there 
would have been much to wait for. But the series of 
announcements in these passages leads up to one more 
definite and complete. It cannot he denied that the 
words of the institution of the Lord's supper speak most 
distinctly of a sacrifice: “Drink ye all of this, for this 
is my blood of the new covenant;” or, to follow Luke, 
“ the new covenant in my blood.” We are carried back 
by these words to the first covenant, to the altar with 
twelve pillars, and the burnt-offerings and peace-offer- 
ings of oxen, and the blood of the victims sprinkled on 
the altar and on the people, and the words of Moses as 
he sprinkled it: “Behold the blood of the covenant 
which the Lord hath made with you concerning all 
these words” (Exod. xxiv). No interpreter has ever 
failed to draw from these passages the true meaning: 
“ When ray sacrifice is accomplished, my blood shall be 
the sanction of the new covenant.” The word “sacri- 
fice” is wanting; but sacrifice, and nothing else, is de- 
scribed. And the words are no mere figure used for il- 
lustration, and laid aside when they have served that 
turn. “ Do this in remembrance of me.” They are the 
words in which the Church is to interpret the act of Je- 
sus to the end of time. They are reproduced exactly 
by Paul (1 Cor. xi, 25). Then, as now, Christians met 
together, and by a solemn act declared that they count- 
ed the blood of Jesus as a sacrifice wherein a new cove- 
nant was sealed ; and of the blood of that sacritice they 
partook by faith, professing themselves thereby willing 
to enter the covenant and be sprinkled with the blood. 


savioui 


382 


SAVIOUE 


3. So far we have examined the three “synoptic” 
Gospels. They follow a historical order. In the early 
chapters of all three the doctrine of our Lord’s sacrifice 
is not found, because he will first answer the question 
about himself, “ Who is this?” before he shows them 
“ What is his work.” 13ut at length the announce- 
ment is made, enforced, repeated; until, when the feet 
of the betrayer are ready for their wicked errand, a 
command is given which secures that the death of 
Jesus shall be described forever as a sacrifice and noth- 
ing else, sealing a new covenant and carrying good to 
many. Lest the doctrine of atonement should seem to 
be an after-thought, as, indeed, De Wctte has tried to 
represent it, John preserves the conversation with Nic- 
odem us, which took place early in the ministry; and 
there, under the figure of the brazen serpent lifted up, 
tbe atoning virtue of the Lord’s death is fully set forth. 
“As Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even 
so must the Son of Man be lifted up; that whosoever 
believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal 
life” (John iii, 14, 15). As in this intercessory act the 
image of the deadly, hateful, and accursed (Gen. iii, 14, 
15) reptile became by God’s decree the means of health 
to all who looked on it earnestly, so does Jesus in the 
form of sinful man, of a deceiver of the people (Matt, 
xxvii, 63), of Antichrist (xii, 24 ; John xviii, 33), of one 
accursed (Gal. iii, 13), become the means of our salva- 
tion ; so that whoever fastens the earnest gaze of faith 
on him shall not perish, but have eternal life. There 
is even a significance in the words “ lifted up ;” the Lord 
used, probably, the word rjp'l, which, in older Hebrew, 
meant to “lift up” in the widest sense, but began in the 
Aramaic to have the restricted meaning of “lifting up 
for punishment.” With Christ the lifting- up was a 
seeming disgrace, a true triumph and elevation. But 
the context in which these verses occur is as important 
as the verses themselves. Nicodenms comes as an in- 
quirer; he is told that a man must be born again, and 
then he is directed to the death of Jesus as the means 
of that regeneration. The earnest gaze of the wound- 
ed soul is to be the condition of its cure; and that gaze 
is to be turned, not to Jesus on the mountain or in the 
temple, hut on the cross. This, then, is no passing al- 
lusion, but it is the substance of the Christian teaching 
addressed to an earnest seeker after truth. 

Another passage claims a reverent attention — “If 
any man eat of this bread, he shall live forever : and the 
bread that 1 will give is my flesh, which I will give for 
the life of the world” (John vi, 51). lie is the bread; 
and he will give the bread. If his presence on earth 
were the expected food, it was given already ; but would 
he speak of “drinking his blood” (ver. 53), which can 
only refer to the dead? It is on the cross that he will 
afford this food to his disciples. We grant that this 
whole passage has occasioned as much disputing among 
Christian commentators as it did among the Jews who 
heard it; and for the same reason — for the hardness of 
the saying. But there stands the saying; and no can- 
did person can refuse to see a reference in it to the 
deatli of him that speaks. 

In that discourse, which has well been called the 
prayer of consecration offered by our Iligh-priest, there 
is another passage which cannot be alleged as evidence 
to one who thinks that any word applied by Jesus to 
his disciples and himself must bear in both cases pre- 
cisely the same sense, but which is really pertinent to 
this inquiry — “Sanctify them through thy truth: thy 
word is truth. As thou hast sent me into the world, 
even so have I also sent them into the world. And for 
their sakes I sanctify myself that they also might be 
sanctified through the truth” (John xvii, 17-19). The 
word ayict'C (in, “sanctify,” “consecrate,” is used in the 
Sept, for the offering of sacrifice (Lev. xxii, 2) and for 
the dedication of a man to the divine service (Numb, 
iii, 15). Here the present tense, “I consecrate,” used 
in a discourse in which our Lord says he is “ no more 


in the world,” is conclusive against the interpretation 
“ 1 dedicate my life to thee ;” for life is over. No self- 
dedication, except that by death, can now be spoken of 
as present. “ I dedicate m} r self to thee, in my death, 
that these may be a people consecrated to thee;” such 
is the great thought in this sublime passage, which 
suits well with his other declaration that the blood of 
his sacrifice sprinkles them for a new covenant with 
God. To the great majority of expositors from Chrys- 
ostom and Cyril the doctrine of reconciliation through 
the death of Jesus is asserted in these verses. 

The Bedeemer has already described himself as the 
Good Shepherd who la\ T s down his life for the sheep 
(John x, 1 1, 17, 18), taking care to distinguish his death 
from that of one who dies against his will in striving 
to compass some other aim — “ Therefore doth my Fa- 
ther love me, because I lay down my life that I might 
take it again. No man taketh it from me, but 1 lay it 
down of myself. I have power to lay it down, and I 
have power to take it again.” 

Other passages that relate to his death will occur to 
the memory of any Bible reader. The corn of wheat 
that dies in the ground to bear much fruit (John x, 24) 
is explained by his own words elsewhere, where he says 
that he came “ to minister, and to give his life a ran- 
som for many” (Matt, xx, 28). 

4. Thus, then, speaks Jesus of himself. What say 
his witnesses of him? “Behold the Lamb of God,” 
says the Baptist, “which taketh away the sin of the 
world” (John i, 29). Commentators differ about the 
allusion implied in that name. But take any one of 
their opinions, and a sacrifice is implied. Is it the pas- 
chal lamb that is referred to? Is it the lamb of the 
daily sacrifice? Either way the death of the victim 
is brought before us. But the allusion, in all probabil- 
ity, is to the well-known prophecy of Isaiah (eh. liii), to 
the Lamb brought to the slaughter, who bore our griefs 
and carried our sorrows. See this passage discussed 
fully in the notes of Meyer, Lange ( Bibelicerke ), and Al- 
ford. The reference to the paschal lamb finds favor 
with Grotius and others; the reference to Isaiah is ap- 
proved by Chrysostom and many others. The taking- 
away of sin (ctlpeiv) of the Baptist, and the bearing it 
(0tj otiv, Sept.) of Isaiah, have one meaning and answer 
to the Hebrew word X ; w3. To take the sins on him- 
self is to remove them from the sinners; and how can 
this be through his death except in the way of expia- 
tion by that death itself? 

5. The af>ostles, after the resurrection, preach no mor- 
al system, but a belief in and love of Christ, the cruci- 
fied and risen Lord, through whom, if they repent, men 
shall obtain salvation. This was Peter’s preaching on 
the day of Pentecost (Acts ii) ; and he appealed boldly 
to the prophets on the ground of an expectation of a 
suffering Messiah (iii, 18). Philip traced out for the 
eunuch, in that picture of suffering holiness in the well- 
known chapter of Isaiah, the lineaments of Jesus of 
Nazareth (Acts viii; Isa. liii). The first sermon to a 
Gentile household proclaimed Christ slain and risen, 
and added “that through his name whosoever believ- 
eth in him shall receive remission of sins” (Acts x). 
Paul at Antioch preaches “a Saviour Jesus” (xiii, 23); 
“through this Man is preached unto you the forgive- 
ness of sins, and by him all that believe are justified 
from all things from which ye could not be justified by 
the law of Moses” (ver. 38, 39). At Thessalonica all 
that wc learn of this apostle’s preaching is “that Christ 
must needs have suffered and risen again from the 
dead; and that this Jesus, whom 1 preach unto you, is 
Christ” (xvii, 3). Before Agrippa he declared that he 
had preached always “that Christ should suffer, and 
that he should be the first that should rise from the 
dead” (xxvi, 23) ; and it was this declaration that con- 
vinced his royal hearer that he was a crazed fanatic. 
The account of the first founding of the Church in the 
Acts of the Apostles is concise and fragmentary; and 


savioui 


383 


SAVIOUR 


sometimes we have hardly any means of judging what 
place the sufferings of Jesus held in tlio teaching of the 
apostles; but when we read that they “preached Je- 
sus,” or the like, it is only fair to infer from other pas- 
sages that the cross of Christ was never concealed, 
whether Jews or Greeks or barbarians were the listen- 
ers. And this very pertinacity shows how much weight 
they attached to the facts of the life of our Lord. 
They did not merely repeat in each new place the pure 
morality of Jesus as he uttered it in the Sermon on the 
Mount: of such lessons we have no record. They took 
in their hands, as the strongest weapon, the fact that a 
certain Jew crucified afar off in Jerusalem was the Son 
of God, who had died to save men from their sins; and 
they offered to all alike an interest, through faith, in 
the resurrection from the dead of this outcast of his 
own people. No wonder that Jews and Greeks, judg- 
ing in their worldly way, thought this strain of preach- 
ing came of folly or madness, and turned from what 
they thought unmeaning jargon. 

0. We are able to complete from the epistles our ac- 
count of the teaching of the apostles on the doctrine of 
atonement. “The Man Christ Jesus” is the mediator 
between God and man, for in him the human nature, 
in its sinless purity, is lifted up to the divine, so that 
he, exempt from guilt, can plead for the guilty (1 Tim. 
ii, 5 ; 1 John ii, 1, 2 ; Heb. vii, 25). Thus he is the sec- 
ond Adam that shall redeem the sin of the first; the 
interests of men are bound up in him, since he has 
power to take them all into himself (Eph. v, 29, 30; 
Itom. v, 12, 17; xii, 5; 1 Cor. xv, 22). This salvation 
was provided by the Father, to “reconcile us to him- 
self” (2 Cor. v, 18), to whom the name of “ Saviour” 
thus belongs (Luke i, 47) ; and our redemption is a sig- 
nal proof of the love of God to us (l John iv, 10). Not 
less is it a proof of the love of Jesus, since he freely lays 
down his life for us — offers it as a precious gift, capable 
of purchasing all the lost (1 Tim. ii, 6; Tit. ii, 14; Eph. 
i, 7 ; comp. Matt, xx, 28), But there is another side 
of the truth more painful to our natural reason. How 
came this exhibition of divine love to be needed? Be- 
cause wrath had already gone out against man. The 
clouds of God’s anger gathered thick over the whole 
human race; they discharged themselves on Jesus only. 
God has made him to be sin for us who knew no sin 
(2 Cor. v, 21) ; he is made “a curse” (a thing accursed) 
for us that the curse that hangs over us may be re- 
moved (Gal. iii, 13) ; he bore our sins in his own body 
on the tree (1 Pet. ii, 24). There are those who would 
see on the page of the Bible only the sunshine of the 
divine love ; but the muttering thunders of divine wrath 
against sin are heard there also; and he who alone was 
no child of wrath meets the shock of the thunder-storm, 
becomes a curse for us and a vessel of wrath ; and the 
rays of love break out of that thunder-gloom and shine 
on the bowed head of him who hangs on the cross, dead 
for our sins. 

7. We have spoken, and advisedly, as if the New Test, 
were, as to this doctrine, one book in harmony with it- 
self. That there are in the New Test, different types 
of the one true doctrine may be admitted without peril 
to the doctrine. The principal types are four in num- 
ber. 

(1.) In the Epistle of James there is a remarkable ab- 
sence of all explanations of the doctrine of the atone- 
ment; but this admission does not amount to so much 
as may at first appear. True, the key-note of the epistle 
is that the Gospel is the law made perfect, and that it 
is a practical moral system in which man finds himself 
free to keep the divine law. But with him Christ is 
no mere lawgiver appointed to impart the Jewish sys- 
tem. He knows that Elias is a man like himself, but 
of the person of Christ he speaks in a different spirit. 
He calls himself “a servant of God and of the Lord 
Jesus Christ.” who is “the Lord of glory.” He speaks 
of the Word of Truth of which Jesus has been the ut- 
tcrer. He knows that faith in the Lord of glory is in- 


consistent with time-serving and “respect of persons” 
(James i, 1, 18; ii, 1). “There is one lawgiver,” he 
says, “ who is able to save and to destroy” (iv, 12) ; and 
this refers, no doubt, to Jesus, whose second coming he 
holds up as a motive to obedience (v, 7-9). These and 
like expressions remove this epistle far out of the sphere 
of Ebionitish teaching. The inspired writer sees the 
Saviour, in the Father’s glory, preparing to return to 
judge the quick and dead, lie puts forth Christ as 
prophet and king, for he makes him teacher and judge 
of the world ; but the office of the priest he does not 
dwell on. Far be it from us to say that he knows it 
not. Something must have taken place before he could 
treat his hearers with confidence, as free creatures able 
to resist temptations, and even to meet temptations with 
joy. He treats “your faith” as something founded al- 
ready, not to be prepared by this epistle (i, 2, 3, 21). 
His purpose is a purely practical one. There is no in- 
tention to unfold a Christology such as that which 
makes the Epistle to the Homans so valuable. Assum- 
ing that Jesus has manifested himself and begotten 
anew the human race, he seeks to make them pray with 
undivided hearts, and be considerate to the poor, and 
strive with lusts, for which they, and not God, are re- 
sponsible; and bridle their tongues, and show their 
fruits by their works (see Neander, Pjlanzung , b. vi,c.3; 
Schmid, Theologie des N. T. pt, ii ; and Horner, Christo - 
logic, i, 95). 

(2.) In the teaching of Peter the doctrine of the person 
of our Lord is connected strictly with that of his work 
as Saviour and Messiah. The frequent mention of his 
sufferings shows the prominent place he would give 
them ; and he puts forward as the ground of his own 
right to teach that he was “a witness of the sufferings 
of Christ” (1 Pet. v, 1). The atoning virtue of those 
sufferings he dwells on with peculiar emphasis, and not 
less so on the purifying infiuenee of the atonement on 
the hearts of believers, lie repeats again and again 
that Christ died for ns (ii, 21 ; iii, 18; iv, 1); that he 
bare our sins in his own body on the tree (ii, 24). He 
bare them ; and what does this phrase suggest but the 
goat that “shall bear” the iniquities of the people off 
into the land that was not inhabited? (Lev. xvi, 22), or 
else the feeling the consequences of sin, as the word is 
used elsewhere (xx, 17, 19)? We have to choose be- 
tween the cognate ideas of sacrifice and substitution. 
Closely allied with these statements are those which 
connect moral reformation with the death of Jesus. He 
bare our sins that we might live unto righteousness. 
His death is our life. We are not to be content with a 
self-satisfied contemplation of our redeemed state, but to 
live a life worthy of it (l Pet. ii, 21-25; iii, 15-18). In 
these passages the whole Gospel is contained; we are 
justified by the death of Jesus, who bore our sins that 
we might be sanctified and renewed to a life of godli- 
ness. And from this apostle we hear again the name 
of “the lamb,” as well as from John the Baptist; and 
the passage of Isaiah comes back upon us with unmis- 
takable clearness. We are redeemed “with the pre- 
cious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and 
without spot” (i, 18, 19, with Isa. liii, 7). Every word 
carries us back to the Old Test, and its sacrificial sys- 
tem : the spotless victim, the release from sin by its 
blood (elsewhere [1 Pet. i, 2] by the sprinkling of its 
blood), are here ; not the type and shadow, but the truth 
of them ; not a ceremonial purgation, but an effectual 
reconcilement of man and God. 

(3.) In the inspired writings of John we are struck at 
once with the emphatic statements as to the divine and 
human natures of Christ. A right belief in the incarna- 
tion is the test of a Christian man (1 John iv, 2; John 
i, 14; 2 John 7) ; we must believe that Jesus Christ is 
come in the tlesh, and that he is manifested to destroy 
the works of the devil (1 John iii, 8). And, on the other 
hand, he who has come in the flesh is the one who alone 
has been in the bosom of the Father, seen the things 
that human eyes have never seen, and has come to de- 


SAVIOUR 


384 


clnre them unto ns (i, 2; iv, 14; John i, 14-18). This 
person, at once divine and human, is ‘‘the propitiation 
for our sins,” our “advocate with t lie Father,” sent into 
the world “that we might live through him;” and the 
means was his laying down his life for us, which should 
make us ready to lay down our lives for the brethren (1 
John i, 7; ii,‘l, 2; iii, 1G; iv, 9, 10; v, G, 11-13; John 
xi, 51). And the moral effect of his redemption is that 
“ the blood of Jesus Christ cleanseth us from all sin” (1 
John i, 7). The intimate connection between his work 
and our holiness is the main subject of his first epistle, 
“ Whosoever is born of God doth not commit sin (iii, 9). 
As with Peter, so with John; every point of the doc- 
trine of the atonement comes out with abundant clear- 
ness. The substitution of another, who can bear our 
sins, for us who cannot ; the sufferings and death as the 
means of our redemption, our justification thereby, and 
our progress in holiness as the result of our justifica- 
tion. 

(4.) To follow out as fully, in the more voluminous 
writings of Paul, the passages that speak of our salva- 
tion would far transgress the limits of our paper. Man, 
according to this apostle, is a transgressor of the law. 
His conscience tells him that he cannot act up to that 
law, which, the same conscience admits, is divine, and 
binding upon him. Through the old dispensations man 
remained in this condition. Even the law of Moses 
could not justify him : it only by its strict behests held 
up a mirror to conscience that its frailness might be 
seen. Christ came, sent by the mercy of our Father 
who had never forgotten us; given to, not deserved by 
us. He came to reconcile men and God by dying on 
the cross for them, and bearing their punishment in 
their stead (2 Cor. v, 14-21; Pom. v, G-8). He is “a 
propitiation through faith in his blood” (iii, 25, 2G; 
comp. Lev. xvi, 15) QXatrHjpiov means “victim for 
expiation”) — words which most people will find unintel- 
ligible, except in reference to the Old Test, and its sac- 
rifices. He is the ransom, or price paid, for the redemp- 
tion of man from all iniquity (Titus ii, 14). Still 
stronger in 1 Tim. ii, G, “ransom instead of” (drrt'Xu- 
rpon); also Eph.i, 7 (it7ro\vrpiocng) ; 1 Cor. vi, 20; vii, 
23. The wrath of God was against man, but it did 
not fall on man. God made his Son “to be sin for ns,” 
though he knew no sin ; and Jesus suffered, though men 
had sinned. By this act God and mail were reconciled 
(Pom. v, 10; 2 Cor. v, 18-20; Eph. ii, 1G; Col. i. 21). 
On the side of man, trust and love and hope take the 
place of fear and of an evil conscience; on the side of 
God, that terrible wrath of his, which is revealed from 
heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of 
men, is turned away (Pom. i, 18; v, 9; 1 Thess. i, 10). 
The question whether we arc reconciled to God only, or 
God is also reconciled to us, might be discussed on deep 
metaphysical grounds; but we purposely leave that on 
one side, content to show that at all events the inten- 
tion of God to punish man is averted by this “propitia- 
tion” and “ reconcilement.” See Pf.com’iliation. 

Different views are held about the authorship of 
the Epistle to the Hebrews bv modern critics, but its 
numerous points of contact with the other epistles of 
Paul must be recognised. In both the incompleteness 
of Judaism is dwelt on; redemption from sin and guilt 
is what religion has to do for men, and this the law 
failed to secure. In both, reconciliation and forgiveness 
and a now moral power in the believers are the fruits of 
the work of Jesus. In the Epistle to the llomans, Paul 
shows that the law failed to justify, and that faith in 
the blood of Jesus must he the ground of justification. 
In the Epistle to the Hebrews the same result follows 
from an argument rather different: all that the Jewish 
system aimed to do is accomplished in Christ in a far 
more perfect manner. The Gospel has a better priest, 
more effectual sacrifices, a more profound peace. In the 
one epistle the law seems set aside wholly for the sys- 
tem of faith ; in the other the law is exalted and glori- 
fied in its Gospel shape; but the aim is precisely the 


SAVIOUR 

same— to show the weakness of the law and the effectual 
fruit of the Gospel. 

8. We are now in a position to see how far the teach- 
ing of the New Test, on the effects of the death of Jesus 
is continuous and uniform. Are the declarations of our 
Lord about himself the same as those of James and 
Peter, John and Paul? ancl are those of the apostles 
consistent with each other? The several points of 
this mysterious transaction may be thus roughly de- 
scribed : 

(I.) God sent his Son into the world to redeem lost 
and ruined men from sin and death, and the Son willing- 
ly took upon him the form of a servant for this purpose; 
and thus the Father and the Son manifested their love 
for us. 

(2.) God the Father laid upon his Son the weight of 
the sins of the whole world, so that he bare in bis own 
body the wrath which men must else have borne, be- 
cause there was no other way of escape for them; and 
thus the atonement was a manifestation of divine justice. 

(3.) The effect of the atonement thus wrought is that 
man is placed in a new position, freed from the domin- 
ion of sin, and able to follow holiness; and thus the doc- 
trine of the atonement ought to work in all the hearers 
a sense of love, of obedience, and of self-sacrifice. 

In shorter words, the sacrifice of the death of Christ 
is a proof of divine lore and of divine justice , and is for 
us a document of obedience. 

Of the four great writers of the New Test., Peter, 
Paul, and John set forth every one of these points. 
Peter, the “witness of the sufferings of Christ,” tells us 
that we arc redeemed with the blood of Jesus, as of a 
lamb without blemish and without spot; says that 
Christ bare our sins in his own body on the tree. If we 
“have tasted that the Lord is gracious” (1 Pet. ii, 3), 
we must not rest satisfied with a contemplation of otir 
redeemed state, but must live a life worthy of it. No 
one can well doubt, who reads the two epistles, that the 
love of God and Christ, and the justice of God, and the 
duties thereby laid on us, all have their value in them; 
but the love is less dwelt on than the justice, while the 
most prominent idea of all is the moral and practical 
working of the cross of Christ upon the lives of men. 

With John, again, all three points find place. That 
Jesus willingly laid down his life for us, and is an advo- 
cate with the Father; that lie is also the propitiation, 
the suffering sacrifice, for our sins; and that the blood 
of Jesus Christ cleanseth us from all sin, for that who- 
ever is born of God doth not commit sin — all are put 
forward. The death of Christ is both justice and love, 
both a propitiation and an act of loving self-surrender; 
but the moral effect upon us is more prominent even 
than these. 

In the epistles of Paid the three elements are all pres- 
ent. In such expressions as a ransom, a propitiation, 
who was “ made sin for us,” the wrath of God against 
sin, and the mode in which it was turned away, are 
presented to us. Yet not wrath alone, “The love of 
Christ constraineth us; because we thus judge that if 
one died for all, then were all dead: and that he died 
for all, that the}' which live should not henceforth live 
unto themselves, but unto him which died for them and 
rose again” (2 Cor. v, 14, 15). Love in him begets love 
in ns, ancl in our reconciled state the holiness which we 
could not practice before becomes easy. 

The reasons for not finding in James similar evidence 
we have spoken of already. 

Now, in which of these points is there the semblance 
of contradiction between the apostles and their Master? 
Iq none of them. In the gospels, as in the epistles, Je- 
sus is held up as the sacrifice and victim, draining a cup 
from which his human nature shrank, feeling in him- 
self a sense of desolation such as we fail utterly to com- 
prehend on a theory of human motives. Yet no one 
takes from him his precious redeeming life; he lays it 
down of himself, out of his great love for men. But 
men are to deny themselves, and take up their cross and 


SAVIOUR, ST. 


385 


SAVONAROLA 


tread in his steps. They are liis friends only if they 1 
keep his commands and follow his footsteps. 

We must consider it proved that these three points 
or elements are the doctrine of the whole New Test. 
What is there about this teaching that has provoked in 
times past and present so much disputation? Not the 
hardness of the doctrine — for none of the theories putin 
its place are any easier — but its want of logieal com- 
pleteness. Sketched out for us in a few broad lines, it 
tempts the fancy to fill it in and lend it color; and we 
do not always remember that the hands that attempt 
this are trying to make a mystery into a theory, an in- 
finite truth into a finite one, and to reduce the great 
things of God into the narrow limits of our little field of 
view. To whom was the ransom paid? What was Sa- 
tan’s share of the transaction? How can one suffer for 
another? How could the Redeemer be miserable when 
he was conscious that his work was one which could 
bring happiness to the whole human race? Yet this 
condition of indefiniteness is one which is imposed on us 
in the reception of every mystery. Prayer, the incarna- 
tion, the immortality of the soul, are all subjects that 
pass far beyond our range of thought. Here we see the 
wisdom of God in connecting so closely our redemption 
with our reformation. If the object were to give us a 
complete theory of salvation, no doubt there would be 
in the Bible much to seek. The theory is gathered b}' 
fragments out of many an exhortation and warning; no- 
where does it stand out entire, and without logical flaw. 
But if we assume that the New Test, is written for the 
guidance of sinful 'hearts, we find a wonderful aptness 
for that particular end. Jesus is proclaimed as the sol- 
ace of our fears, as -the founder of our moral life, as the 
restorer of our lost relation with our Father. If he had 
a cross, there is a cross for us; if he pleased not himself, 
let us deny ourselves; if he suffered for sin, let us hate 
sin. And the question ought not to be, What do all 
these mysteries mean? but Are these thoughts really 
such as will serve to guide our life and to assuage our 
terrors in the hour of death ? • The answer is twofold — 
one from history an’d one from experience. The preach- 
ing of the cross of the Lord even in this simple fashion 
•converted the world. The same doctrine is now the 
ground of any definite hope that we find in ourselves of 
forgiveness of sins ’and of everlasting life. See Thom- 
son, essay on the “ Death of Christ,” in A ids to Faith. 

Saviour, St., Driver of, a name applied to the 
Order of St. Bridget (q. v.), because it was pretended 
that our Saviour personally dictated to the founders the 
rules and constitution of the order. — Gardner, Faiths of 
the World , s. v. 

Savonarola, Girolamo, an Italian monk, reform- 
er, and martyr, th? leader of an incipient reformation 
of the Church in the latter half of the 15th century, a 
man whose eventful life and tragic death have called 
forth the most contradictory judgments, and whose 
real character is even to this day a matter of dis- 
pute with certain historians. Savonarola was born of 
an honorable family at Ferrara, Sept. 21, 1452. His 
education was carefully conducted. It was intended 
that he should devote himself to natural and medical 
science, but’ his early religious development turned him 
into another course. He was fond of solitude, and 
avoided the public .walks of the ducal palace. Im- 
pressed with terror at the wickedness which he saw 
about him, he finally, in his twenty-third year, tied from 
his home and friends and took refuge in a Dominican, 
cloister at Bologna. Two days after his arrival in Bo- 
logna he wrote to his parents, begging their forgiveness 
and blessing, and averring as his excuse. that he was 
utterly unable to endure the spectacle of the wickedness 
of Italian society. He also declared that he had simply 
-followed out a divine impulse given him in prayer, and 
that he felt that he should be ready to stiller anything, 
even death, rather than disobey the voice of duty. 

At first Savonarola desired to be simply a lay brother, 
IX.— B b 


I and to perform the commonest menial services; but his 
superior saw his gifts, and charged him from the start 
1 with the teaching of what was then called philosophy 
and physics. His chief authorities in this teaching 
were the great Dominican theologian Thomas Aquinas, 
the Church father St. Augustine, and, above all, the 
Holy Scriptures. The latter he knew almost by heart. 
He was particularly fond of the Old-Test, prophets and 
! of the Apocalypse. It was in the study of these that 
his spiritual imagination nurtured itself, and attained 
such an intense vividness as to make it easy for him to 
| assume to himself too much of the prophetic character. 
His first attempts at preaching were without special 
results. His voice was harsh, his gestures awkward, 
his language clumsy and scholastic. His audience was 
not attracted. But, while on a visit to Brescia, his 
power broke forth suddenly, as waters from a pent-up 
fountain. The people flocked to him in great crowds to 
, hear his imaginative exposition of the Apocalypse; and 
the impression was not lessened when he made definite 
1 inferences (“non per rivelazione, ma per ragione delle 
j Scritture”) as to calamities which were soon to fall upon 
Italy. But his politico-reformatory labors began only 
in his thirty-eighth year (1490). when he was appointed 
as lector in the Dominican cloister of San Marco, Flor- 
ence. His two leading thoughts now were, reformation 
of the Church and emancipation of Italy. In carrying 
out these, he shook to its foundations the Florentine 
government, raised against himself the anathemas of 
the hierarchy, and finally fell himself a victim to the 
herculean task. 

The family of the Medici had raised Florence to a 
high degree of prosperity, and were enjoying princely 
power under the forms of a republic. Cosmo de’ Medici 
j (died 1464) was the Rothschild of the age. His gifted 
nephew Lorenzo (died 1492) followed in his footsteps, 
promoted commerce, letters, and philosophy, and made 
Florence the temporary centre of a golden age. But 
beneath the outward polish of refined culture, the moral 
corruption of high and low festered as an ulcer. In 
1492 Lorenzo’s son Pietro II followed him as master of 
Florence, while his younger son, Giovanni — who was 
made a cardinal at the age of twelve, four years before 
( his father’s death— aimed at the papal chair. Such was 
the" condition of Florence at the time when Savonarola 
J began his efforts at political and ecclesiastical reform. 
He began his lectures in the cloister; then transferred 
them to the cloister garden; and, when the multitude 
overflowed this, he repaired to a spacious church. Here, 
on Aug. 1, 1491, he commenced his elucidation of the 
Apocalypse before an immense multitude. “The Church 
must be renewed,” said he: “but previously God will 
send severe judgments upon Italy, and that, too, speed- 
ily.” He tore off the thin disguise of glory from the 
mueh-boasted Medieean age, and exposed the great gulf 
of moral rottenness beneath. He spared neither rank 
nor sex nor age; neither pope nor monk nor layman. 
“ Your sins,” exclaimed he, “ make me a prophet ! Hith- 
erto I have been but as Jonah warning Nineveh. But, 
if you heed not my words, I shall be as Jeremiah, pre- 
dicting your destruction, and weeping over the ruins: 
for God will renew his Church, and that will not take 
place without blood.” 

It was not a doctrinal, but amoral reformation, which 
he more immediately contemplated; and closely with 
this he connected the restoration of the former liberties 
of the republic. In the main he Was in accord with 
Catholic orthodoxy, and he carried the monkish princi- 
ples of abstinence and self-denial to an intense extreme. 
But he laid great emphasis on certain doctrines which 
the clergy of the age had greatly neglected, viz. that 
the Scriptures lead us chiefly to Christ, and not to the 
saints; that without the forgiveness of God no pricstl}” 
absolution is of any avail; and that salvation comes of 
faith and submission to the Redeemer, and not from out- 
ward works or educational polish. Still there was felt 
throughout his sermons rather more of the earnestness 


SAVONAROLA 


386 


SAVONAROLA 


of the law than of the gentleness of the Gospel. One 
year after his arrival in Florence lie was made prior of 
San Marco. Contrary to all precedent, Savonarola omit- 
ted to call and pay his respects to the civil ruler of the 
city, Lorenzo. This was all t he more singular as Lo- 
renzo had made large gifts to San Marco, and had always 
shown all respect to the priesthood, llut Savonarola 
saw in him simply the incarnation of worldliness, and 
the robber of his country’s liberties. lie feared his 
friendship more than his hatred. Lorenzo resorted to 
all the arts of cunning and flattery, but in vain ; he did 
not win the smiles of the stern preacher of righteous- 
ness. Lorenzo died April 8, 141)2. On his death-bed 
he sent for Savonarola and desired absolution. Savona- 
rola exacted three things: faith in Christ; the restora- 
tion of all ill-gotten property; and the re-establishment 
of the city’s liberties. To the first two he cheerfully 
assented; to the latter he demurred. Thereupon the 
stern prior of San Marco departed. This third demand 
is not mentioned by Politian ; it may be apocryphal. 

The death of Lorenzo was the signal for the outbreak 
of the storm. He was succeeded by his rash and ar- 
bitrary son, Pietro II. The same year the notorious car- 
dinal Borgia ascended the papal throne as Alexander 
VI. Savonarola continued his exhortations to repent- 
ance and his predictions of speedy judgments. “A 
storm will break in,” said be, “a storm that will shake 
the mountains; over the Alps there will come against 
Italy one like Cyrus of whom Isaiah wrote.” Soon 
thereafter Charles VIII of France actually came with a 
great army, not to reform the Church, however, but to 
take the vacant throne of Naples. Pietro Medici capit- 
ulated without resistance. Thereupon the wrath of the 
people broke out, and the Medici were forced to fly to 
Bologna. The senate pronounced them traitors, and set 
a price on their heads. But, as the aristocratic faction 
still desired to retain all political offices, Savonarola 
summoned a great popular assembly in the cathedral, 
and assumed the role of a theocratic tribune. By gen- 
eral consent he became the legislator of Florence. As 
the foundation of the new order of tilings, he proposed 
four principles: (1) fear God; (2) prefer the weal of 
the republic to thine own; (3) a general amnesty; (4) 
a council after the pattern of Venice, but without a doge. 
His political maxims he borrowed mostly from Aquinas. 
He was not opposed to monarchy, but he believed that 
circumstances called for a democracy in Florence. “God 
alone will be thv king, O Florence!” exclaimed lie; 
“even as he was king in Israel under the old covenant.” 
The ruling clement in this “city of God” was to be, not 
self-seeking, but love — love to God and love to the 
neighbor. “IIow can we have peace with God if we 
have it not with each other?” Viva Cristo , viva Fi- 
renze! responded the people to the proposition of the 
enthusiastic monk, and, in the beginning of 1495, com- 
mitted to him the remodelling of the state. With the 
details of the new order of things he did not, however, 
concern himself. His attitude was rather that of a 
judge in Israel, or of a Homan censor with dictatorial 
power. He regarded himself as the organ of Christ for 
the Christocratie republic. He guided it with his coun- 
sels, and breathed into it from his throne, the pulpit, a 
deep moral and religious earnestness. His influence 
over the people lasted for three years, and was of un- 
precedented power. This is the testimony not only of 
the prudent historian Guicciardini, but of the deep- 
seeing Machiavclli. The latter ascribes his downfall 
to the envy of the people, who can never long endure 
the spectacle of one great character towering above all 
the others. 

With the new constitution, a new spirit took pos- 
session of the people. Unrighteous gains were given 
up; deadly enemies embraced each other in love; secu- 
lar sports came to an end; vows of continence were 
made by husbands and wives; profane love songs gave 
place to hymns of love for Christ; artists cast their nude 
paintings into the fire; fasting became a delight; the 


communion was partaken of daily; never -wearying 
crowds thronged to the great cathedral, over whose pul- 
pit were inscribed the words: “Jesus Christ, the King 
of Florence;” committees traversed the city gathering 
up and destroying bad books, cards, and instruments of 
music; the carnival gave place to a Palm-Sunday pro- 
cession in which thousands of children and of adults, 
dressed in white, indulged in sacred dances and sang 
very odd Christian songs, of which the following verse 
is a fair sample : 

“Non fn mai piu bel solazzo, 

Piu giocondo lie maggiore, 

Che per zelo e per a more 
Di Gesu divenir pazzo. 

Osrnun grida com’ io grido. 

Semper "pazzo, pazzo, pazzo.” 

This popular excess Savonarola justified on the Monday- 
after Holy Week, 149(3, by citing the example of David 
dancing before the ark, and by the phenomena of Pen- 
tecost after the ascension. 

But all this was but a transient enthusiasm of an ex- 
citable populace. The general character of levity had 
been too deeply implanted by ages of prosperity and 
submission to demagogues to be able now to assume 
suddenly the self-control and steadfastness which are so 
essential to a religious and free government, and a re- 
action was inevitable. It came only too soon. The 
worldly spirit reasserted itself in the form of opposition 
to the monk’s regime at home and of alliance with the 
pope from without. No more violent contrast could be 
imagined than the austere Savonarola and the profligate 
and infamous pope Alexander VI. It was impossible 
that these two could live in peace at the head of neigh- 
boring states. Savonarola hesitated not to attack the 
character of the papal court as it deserved ; and be 
openly proclaimed bis hope that the reform begun in 
Florence would eventually embrace the whole of Italy-. 
The papal court saw the necessity of putting down so 
bold a foe. Strategy was at first resorted to. Savona- 
rola was invited to come to Rome; and a cardinal’s hat 
and the archbishopric of Florence were offered to him. 
He answered the pope in strangely prophetic words: “1 
desire none of your gifts; I will have no other red hat 
than that which y T ou have given to other servants of 
Christ — the red hat of martyrdom.” Then Alexander 
commanded him to come to Rome. Savonarola excused 
himself on the ground of his feeble health; and he con- 
tinued to preach against Rome. Thereupon the pope 
(in the autumn of 149G) forbade him further preaching 
on pain of excommunication, until the termination of his 
trial for heresy, which was now to be commenced. At 
the same time, the jealousy of the Franciscan order, at 
the prominence of this Dominican, fell upon him. Sa- 
vonarola ceased preaching for a time; but then, unable 
to restrain the spirit within him, recommenced. “The 
pope*” said he, “ is ill-informed and misguided. It is 
not the ideal pope who has forbidden me to preach ; the 
true pope is the incarnation of the spirit of Christ; and 
Christ cannot be against the spirit oflove, otherwise he 
would be against himself. This wicked order is, there- 
fore, not from the pope. I must preach, because God 
has called me thereto.” So reasoned Savonarola; so en- 
deavored he to reconcile disobedience to the visible pope 
with obedience to the Catholic Church. Meantime po- 
litical affairs took an unfavorable turn for Savonarola. 
Charles VIII was forced to retire from Ital^v in inglori- 
ous failure. Combined Italy- was hostile to Florence 
because of its alliance with the French. Also a pesti- 
lence and famine broke out in Florence (June, 1497), 
against which Savonarola could furnish no miraculous 
remedy-. The party- of the Medici made an attempt to 
seize the government; this failed, and ended with the 
execution (Aug. 21, 1497) of five prominent men. The 
avengers of their blood now watched for Savonarola’s 
life. Ilis followers now surrounded him with amarmed 
guard; it was only thus that he could reach his pulpit. 

The pope, learning of the decline of Savonarola’s 
popularity-, excommunicated him, first in May-, 1497, and 


SAVONAROLA 


387 


SAVOY 


then more emphatically in October, forbidding all Chris- 
tians to have any intercourse with him, and threatening 
the city with the interdict. Savonarola, encouraged by 
a favorable council which was elected Jan. 1, 1498, as- 
cended the cathedral pulpit, denied the charge of her- 
esy, declared null and void the excommunication, and 
appealed from the human pope to the heavenly head of 
the Chnreh. lie also boldly summoned the crowned 
heads of all Christendom to unite in calling a general 
council, to depose this pretended pope, and to heal the 
wounds of the Church. And yet Savonarola plainly 
foresaw the fatal result to himself of the present con- 
test. “ To the cause there can be no other outcome 
than victory; but to me it will be death.” An incau- 
tious step which Savonarola now took precipitated the 
end. F rom the balcony of San Marco he asked God to 
consume bira with tire if he had acted from unchristian 
motives. A Franciscan monk offered to stand the or- 
deal of tire against him. Savonarola hesitated. An 
enthusiastic monk of San Marco offered to undergo the 
test in Savonarola’s place; then the whole body of 
Dominicans declared themselves also ready. Savona- 
rola consented. The issue in controversy was the right- 
eousness of Savonarola and the invalidity of his excom- 
munication. A monk was selected from each order. 
Two great ranges of tire, close beside each other, were 
prepared on the great square. The two orders of monks 
marched in with song and banners through the innu- 
merable multitude; but, just as the moment arrived for 
the test, a violent disagreement arose as to whether the j 
parties standing the ordeal should bear the crucifix and 
host. The contest lasted until evening, when a violent 
rain put out the remnant of the tire. The people dis- 
persed amid loud murmurs, and the whole weight of 
their displeasure fell upon Savonarola. The fickle peo- 
ple now charged him with being an impostor and a 
coward, and it was due to his armed guards that he left 
the spot alive. On the next day — Falm-Sunday, 1498 
— his enemies besieged him in San Marco; he disdained 
earthly weapons, and fell upon his face in prayer. As 
he was taken and conducted to judgment he was greet- 
ed with all manner of abuse. His adherents were ex- 
pelled from the council, and a hasty trial was entered 
upon. On six successive days he was dragged forth and 
examined under the severest tortures. During the few 
days of his imprisonment he wrote a beautiful exposi- 
tion of the 51st Psalm, which Luther afterwards pub- 
lished as a tract. He was then examined again, by tort- 
ure, before a clerical tribunal ; it was but a mere form. 
He was sentenced to be hanged and burned. He was 
thus executed with and between two of his friends, May 
23, 1498. At the foot of the scatfold he had adminis- 
tered the enebarist to himself and his two friends. “My 
Lord was pleased to die for my sins; why should not i 
be glad to give up my poor life out of love to him?” 
With such words he closed his eyes upon the world and 
yielded to the gibbet and the flames. 

The Dominican order endeavored in later years to 
effect his canonization. Luther said that God had al- 
ready canonized him. Though not a dogmatic reform- 
er in the sense of Luther, Zwingli, or Calvin, Savonarola 
yet holds a most honorable place by the side of Wyc- 
liffe, IIuss, and Wessel, as a forerunner of the great Kef- 
ormation. Monuments were erected to Savonarola in 
San Marco, Florence, in 1873, and in Ferrara, May 23, 
1875. Savonarola left numerous writings. In his Tri - 
umphus Cruets ( Trionfo della Croce [1597]), he tries to 
turn the Church away from its modern corruptions to 
Christ as the centre of all moral povrer. In his De Di- 
visione Omnium Scientiarum he opposes pagan writers 
and praises the riches of the fathers. Recently (1845) 
his sermons (. Prediche ) were printed at Florence; also 
his poems ( Poesie ) in 1862. A portion of his works was 
published at Lyons, in six volumes, in 1633-40j His 
Life has been written by Carle (Paris, 1842); by Mad- 
den (Loud. 1853); bv Perrens (Paris, 1853, 2 vols.; 3d 
ed. 1859); by Villari '(Florence, 1859-61,2 vols.); of the 


latter, a French translation bj r G. Grayer (1874, 2 vols). 
His earlier biographers were: Ihirlamaechi (died 1519), 
G. F. Picodella Mirandola, and Bartoli. Excellent mod- 
ern German biographers are : Rudelbach [A. G.], Savo- 
narola (Hamb. 1835); Meier [F. K.], Savonarola (Perl. 
1836) ; Hase, Nate Propheten (Leips. 1851). See the his- 
torical works of Guiceiardi ni, Nardi, Roscoe, Maeliiavelli, 
Sismondi, and especially Villari, Ilistoyy of Savonarola 
(from the Italian, by Ilorner [Loud. 1863, 2 vols. 8vo]); 
Madden, Life of Savonarola (Lond. 1853, 2 vols. 8vo); 
also the Brit. Quarterly , Oct. 1849; Eclectic Review, Dec. 
1853; Christian Remembrancer, Oct. 1858; Prot. Episc . 
Review , Oct. 1860 ; Baptist Quarterly, Oct. 1873 ; London 
Qnar. Rev. July, 1856; Methodist Quar. Rev. Oct. 1867 ; 
Schaff in Herzog, Real- Encyklop. xiii,444,455. (J. P. L.) 

Savor (usually rpi), reach, a smell or scent, as else- 
where rendered; bapy), elsewhere “odor;” but a perfume 
is Chald. ron“0, nichbth, incense ; tmodtet; and a stink 
is Heb. dtf2). Besides its literal sense, this word is 
used metaphorically to imply character or reputation, 
and also the degree of acceptance with which any per- 
son or thing is received (2 Cor. ii, 14, etc.). In Matt, 
xvi, 23 ; Mark viii, 33, <ppovta), to think, is rendered 
“savor,” in the sense of being flavored with (or, as the 
old Saxon use of the verb seems to warrant, in the en- 
tirely different signification of being mended ; see Bible 
Educator, iv, 208). So in Matt, v, 13, pmpaivw, to be- 
come foolish, is applied to the loss of that sharp quality 
| in salt by which it renders other bodies agreeable to the 
taste. See Salt. 

Savory Meat (C'Sa^Ip'E, matammim r from 
to taste, Gen. xxvii, 4 sq. ; and so niErip’S, matammoth, 
“ dainties.” Prov. xxiii, 3, 6). The patriarchal cookery, 
like that of the modern Arabs, appears to have been gen- 
erally very simple, but in dressing a favorite joint the 
latter frequently use every variety of fruits and vegeta- 
bles which they can procure. “Among the more com- 
mon dishes,” says Mr. Lane, “are the following: lamb 
or mutton, cut into small pieces, and stewed with vari- 
ous vegetables, and sometimes with peaches, apricots, or 
jujubes and sugar; cucumbers, etc.; small gourds, or the 
fruit of the black or white egg-plant stuffed with rice 
and mince-meat, etc.; vine-leaves, or pieces of lettuce- 
leaf and cabbage-leaf, enclosing a similar composition; 
small morsels of lamb, or lamb and mutton, roasted on 
skewers, and called keebab: fowls simply roasted or 
boned and stuffed with raisins, pistachio-nuts, crumbled 
bread, and parsley; and various kinds of pastry and 
other sweets. The repast is frequently commenced with 
soup, and is generally ended with boiled rice mixed with 
a little butter and seasoned with salt and pepper; or after 
this is served a watermelon or other fruit, or a bowl of 
sweet drink composed of water with raisins, and some- 
times other kinds of fruit, boiled in it, and then sugar, 
and with a little rose-water added to it when cool. The 
meat, having generally little fat, is cooked with clarified 
butter, and is so thoroughly done that it is easily divided 
with the fingers” {Mod. Egyptians, i, 214). See Food. 

Savoy, Conference of. See Conference, Savoy. 

Savoy, Confession of, a declaration of faith and 
order on the part of the Independents, agreed upon at a 
meeting in the Savoy in 1658. Chapters i to xix of the 
Savoy Confession correspond verbally to the Westminster 
Confession; but chapter xx, “Of the Gospel and the 
Extent of the Grace thereof,” is additional: “in which 
chapter, what is dispersed and inserted by intimation in 
the Assembly’s confession is here brought together, and 
more fully, under one head.” Chapters xxi to xxvii 
correspond to chapters xx to xxvi of the Westminster, 
with the following exceptions: Clause four of chapter 
xx, clauses five and six of chapter xxiv, and the third 
clause of chapter xxvi are omitted; the third clause of 
chapter xxiii is modified; and chapter xxv is materially 
altered, a clause being added relating to the expecta- 
tions of the Church. Chapters xxx and xxxi are 


SAW 


388 


SAW 



omitted; but the remaining chapters correspond. The 
Westminster has thirty-three chapters; the Savoy thirty- 
two.— Eadie, Eccles. Cyclop, s.v. See Independency. 

Saw megerah , 2 Sam. xiii, 31; 1 Kings vii, 

9; I Chron. xx, 3; massdr, Isa. x, 15; elsewhere 

~ m >Z,garar, in the Pual ; xpiojv and Trpi^io). The He- 
brews knew and used not only wood-saws, but stone- 
saws also (1 Kings vii, 9; comp. Pliny, xxxvi, 29 ; xliv, 

48), both being of great antiquity (Rosellini, Momim . ii, 

35). Prisoners of war, especially leaders and princes, 
were sometimes executed with iron saws (2 Sam. xii, 31 ; 
l Chron. xx, 3; comp. Heb. xi,37 ; and Sept. in Amos i, 

3). and according to a tradition in the Anabaticon Jes. 

(ed. Lawrence, v, 11-14), and in the Church fathers 
(Justin Martyr, Origen, Epiphanius, Lactantius), this 
fate befell the* prophet Isaiah also, under King Manasseh 
(comp. Gesen. Jesa. i, 12 sq.). This terrible punishment 
was also known in other ancient nations, e.g. the Egyp- 
tians (Herod, ii, 139), the Persians (Ctesias, Peis. 54; 

Rosenmiiller, Morgenl. v, 96), the Thracians (Val. Max. 
ix, 2, extr. 4). There were even some instances of it 
under the Roman emperors (Sueton. Calig. 27), indicted 
on Jews (Dio Cass, lxviii, 32). — Winer. See Carpen- 
ter. 

Aiicieut Egyptian Saw. (From a bas-relief in the Great 
Temple at Thebes.) 

Ancient Egyptian saws, so far as has yet been dis- 
covered, were single-handed, though Jerome has been 
thought to allude to circular saws. As is the case in 
modern Oriental saws, the teeth usually incline towards 
the handle instead of away from it, like ours. They 
have, in most cases, bronze blades apparently attached 
to the handles by leathern thongs, but some of those in 
the llritish Museum have their blades let into them like 
our knives. A double-handed iron saw has been found 
at Nimrud ; and double saws strained with a cord, such 
as modern carpenters use, were in use among the Romans. 

In sawing wood, the Egyptians placed the wood perpen- 
dicularly in a sort of frame and cut it downwards. No 
evidence exists of the use of the saw applied to stone in 
Egypt, nor without the double-handed saw does it seem 
likely that this should be the ease; hut we read of sawn 
stones used in the Temple (I Kings vii, 9; Gesen. Thesaur. 
p. 305; Wilkinson, Anc. Egyp. ii, 114, 119; Brit. Mus. 

Egyp. Room , No. 6040; Lavard, A in. and Bab. p. 195; 

Jerome, Comm, in Is. xxviii , 27). The saws “under’’ 
or “in’’ which David is said to have placed his cap- 
tives were of iron. The expression in 2 Sam. xii, 31 
does not necessarily imply torture, but the word “cut” 
in l Chron. xx, 3 can hardly be understood otherwise 
(Gesen. Thesaur. p. 1326; Thenius on 2 Sam. xii and 
1 Chron. xx). A case of sawing asunder, by placing 
the criminal between boards and then beginning at the 
head, is mentioned by Shaw, True. p. 254. — Smith. See 
Handicraft. 

However simple the idea of such an instrument, it 
was not among the most ancient of inventions, doubt- 
less because it was one of the few which required from 
the very first to be constructed with iron. For this 
reason it is not known among savages; nor ivere even is not the least mention of a saw, although, if such an 
the comparatively cultivated nations of South America, , instrument had been then known, Calypso could as easily 


split with wedges into as many and as thin pieces as 
possible; and if it was found necessary to have them 
still thinner, they vrere hewn on both sides to the proper 
size.” This simple but wasteful process has continued in 
use down to a rather recent period, even where the saw 
has been known, in countries (Norway and Northern 
Russia, for instance) where w r ood is abundant, under the 
correct impression that boards thus hewn are much more 
durable, from having greater cohesion and solidity, than 
those which have had their fibres separated by the saw\ 
Probably the jawbone of a fish suggested the first idea 
of a saw. So the Grecian fable states, in which the 



Ancient Greek and Roman Saws. 

process of this invention is described. This fable, in its 
various versions, assigns the invention to the famous 
artist Dredalus, or rather to his nephew (called Talus 
by some, by others Perdix, while others leave him un- 
named), who, having found the jawbone of a fish (or of 
a serpent according to others), w^as led to imitate it by 
filing teeth in iron, and thus forming a saw r . The proc- 
ess is very probable; but there is nothing to say for the 
claim which the Greeks make to the honor of this in- 
vention. It does not appear to have been known to 
them in the time of Homer; for in the minute account, 
of the proceedings of Ulysses in building his boat, there 


being without iron, acquainted with its use. Beckmann 
states that, “In early periods, the trunks of trees were | 



have supplied it as she did the axe. the adze, the augers, 
and whatever else he required. The Greeks, probably, 
in common with other 
neighboring nations, 
borrowed the saw from 
the Egyptians, to whom 
it w as known at a very 
early period, as is proved 
by its appearance on 
their ancient sculpt- 
ures. The ultimate 
improvement w'hich 


SAWA 


389 


SAXE 



Modem Egyptiau Wood-Sawyers. 

the saw received in ancient times approximates it very ' 
nearly to the state in which we continue to use it. In 
the Antiquites d' llerculanum, i, pi. 100, there is an en- 
graving, after an ancient painting, which shows this in 
a very interesting manner. Beckmann (Inventions, i, 
366) has very accurately described it (see the cut) : | 
“Two genii (or winged Cupids) are represented at the 1 
end of a bench, which consists of a long table that rests 
upon two legs, like a stool.” Montfaueon gives, from 
Gruter, representations of two kinds of saws: one of 
them is without a frame, but has a handle of a round 
form; and the other has that high frame of wood which 
we see in the saws of our stone-sawyers. This reminds 
us to observe that Beckmann, following Pliny, cannot 
rind an instance of cutting stone with saws earlier than 
the 4th century B.C. ; overlooking the text 1 Kings 
vii, 9, where it is said that some parts of Solomon’s palace 
were constructed with “costly stones, according to the 
measure of hewed stones, sawed with a saw.” — Kitto, 
Piet . Diet, ad loc. See Mechanic. 

Sawa, in Arabic mythology, is a female deity, said 
to have been worshipped by the Arabs prior to the del- 
uge — a statement not to be reconciled with the fact that 
those people are descended from Ishmael, the son of 
Abraham and Ilagar. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 


and moral beauty, and his ministry was emi- 
nently- useful. See Minutes of Conferences, iv, 
2G6. * (J. L. S.) 

Sawyer, Isaac, a Baptist minister, was 
born in Iloosick, N.Y., Nov. 22, 1770. lie was 
left an orphan at the age of fourteen, and two 
years after bound himself out to a man who soon 
after removed to Monkton, Vt., where there was 
little or no religious influence. He was con- 
verted in 1793, and became a Baptist, serving in 
the capacity of deacon until he began to preach. 
In 1797 the Church called upon him to “exercise 
his gift,” hut he delayed a long time, because of 
a sense of his own unritness. On June 29, 1799, 
a council was called, and Mr. Sawyer was or- 
dained. lie tilled the following churches : Monk- 
ton, Vt., 1799-1812; Fairtield, Vt., March, 1812- 
13; Orwell, Vt., 1813-17; Brandon, Vt., 1818-25; 
Bethel, Vt., 1825-28; Westport, N. Y„ 1828-34; 
Knowlesville, N. Y., 1834; and was for a short 
time at Stockton, N. Y., and Lewiston, N. Y. 
He died Sept. 30, 1847. He baptized during his 
ministry upwards of 1100 persons. He was the 
first president of the Vermont Baptist Conven- 
tion, and a friend of education and temperance. 
See Sprague, Annals of the A mer. Pulpit, vi, 3G9. 

Sawyer, Janies W., a minister of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church, was born in Pal- 
myra, Me., Sept. 16, 1838. He removed when a 
child to Portland, where he was converted at the 
age of fifteen years. He was licensed to preach 
April 19, 1862, and was received on trial in the Maine 
Conference in April, 18G4. His ministerial life was 
short, terminating with death Dec. 23, 1869. Mr. Saw- 
yer was a deeply pious man, and a good preacher. — 
Minutes of Annual Conferences, 1870, p. 147. 

Sawyer, John, D.D., an eminent Congregational 
minister, was born at Hebron, Conn., Oct. 9, 1755. In 
1777 he entered the Revolutionary army, and, after 
serving for some years, entered Dartmouth College in 
1781. He graduated in 1786, then devoted himself to 
theology, and commenced preaching within one year 
after leaving college. In October, 1787, he accepted a 
call to become pastor of the Church at Oxford, Coos 
County, N. 11., on the condition of that Church relin- 
i (pushing the practice of baptizing children on what was 
termed the half-way covenant (tj. v.). He afterwards 
became successively pastor of a Church in Booth bay, 
Me., in 1790; of New Castle in 1806, in which latter 
place he commenced travelling in all directions as a 
home missionary; of Bangor in 1812, where he acted 
both as preacher and as schoolmaster; and finally of 
Garland, where he. remained until his death, Oct. 14, 
1858. Religion was the supreme governing principle 
of his life, and for nearly eighty years he labored faith- 
fully in bringing souls to God. — A mer. Cong. Year-book , 


Sawaku, in Caribbean mythology, is the man who 
first caused fire and lightnings. He was very power- 
ful; but, in order to prevent pursuit, he transformed 
himself first into a bird, and then into a star. The j 
lightnings are still occasioned by his blowing the celes- 
tial fire through a reed, so that it darts about to great 
distances. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Sawamangala, in Hindu mythology ( the highest, 
blessedness), is a surname of Parvati, the consort of 
Siva. 

Sawyer. Cyrus, a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was horn in Lower Canada Dee. 22, 1811, but the next 
year his parents removed to Western New York, lie 
was converted in 1822, licensed to preach in 1837, and 
received into the Michigan Conference, which then em- 
braced Knox County, O., where he resided. The range 
of his itinerant labors was within the limits of the North 
Ohio Conference. He died at Delaware, O., in January, 
1848. Air. Sawyer’s life was one of great excellence j 


1859, p. 131. 

Sawyer, Seymour B., a Methodist Episcopal 
minister, was born in North Carolina Dec. 8, 1808. He 
was converted Oct. I, 1821, under the ministry of t lie 
Cumberland Presbyterians, to which body he attached 
himself. In 1827 he was licensed to preach among 
them; but, dissenting from some of their doctrines, he 
returned his license, and removed to Mississippi, where 
he joined the Methodist Episcopal Church, and in 1830 
was licensed as a loeal preacher. In 1832 he was ad- 
mitted on trial in the travelling connection, and sta- 
tioned in Montgomery. lie filled with great accep- 
tability and usefulness many of the most important 
charges, until his death, which occurred Sept. 23, 1843. 
Air. Sawyer was a man of mild and gentle disposition. 
As a pastor, he was specially diligent and affectionate. 
His sermons were remarkable for their simplicity and 
spirituality. See Minutes of Conferences, iii, 593. 

Saxe, Alfred, a Methodist Episcopal minister, was 


SAXXOT 


390 


SAXON ARCHITECTURE 


born Sept. 5, 1814. lie was converted in 1830, licensed bury, which was used as the parish church. This is 
to preach in 1832, and graduated at the Wesleyan Uni- material evidence, considering that it was built by a 
versity in 1838. The succeeding eighteen months he royal prince in a town of so much importance. This 
was principal of the Middletown Preparatory School, church was existing in 1082, when a stone church was 
after which he became principal of the high-school in commenced by the father of Ordericus Vitaiis, who 
that city, where he remained until 1843, when he was records these facts. It is not improbable that these 
received on trial by the New York Conference, trails- primitive English churches may be among the earliest 
ferred to the Troy Conference, and appointed to Ferry stone churches of Western Europe after the time of the 
Street Station, Albany. In 1845 he was appointed to Romans. The Roman art of building had become ex- 
Xorth White Creek, and in 1846, on account of declin- tinct in all this part of Europe, and almost extinct in 
ing health, was placed on the superannuated list. He | Rome itself, by the 10th century, and the most ready 


died Oct. 8, 1846. Mr. Saxe was a 
sound and practical preacher, a dil- 
igent and laborious pastor, and a 
most affable man. In his last ill- 
ness he enjoyed the consolations of 
religion, and appeared cheerful and 
happy even while passing through 
the vale of death. See Minutes of 
Conferences , iv, 131. (J. L. S.) 

Saxnot, in German mytholo- 
gy, was a god whose name occurs 
in the oath taken by the Saxons 
after their violent conversion to 
Christianity by Charlemagne, by 
which they renounced the worship 
of Thunar (Thor), Woden, and Sax- 
not. He is supposed to have been 
the god of war, since the word Sax 
(Sachs), from which the Saxons took 
their name, denoted a sword. An- 
glo-Saxon genealogies point to a Saxneat, who was 
Woden's son. — Yollmer, Worterb. d. MythoL s. v. 

Saxon Architecture. The buildings of the 
Anglo-Saxons were usually of wood, rarely of stone un- 
til the lltli century, and consequently we must not ex- 
pect to find any great number of remains. The only 
dated examples of this style are about the middle of 
the 11th century, as at Deerhurst, Gloucestershire; with 
the exception of some slight remains at the mouth of 
the Tyne, which are of an earlier and distinct charac- 
ter, and Brixworth, which is possibly Roman work re- 
stored. The style agrees in many respects with that 
of the 11 tli century on the Continent, where the work 
has not been ornamented with sculpture in the 12th, as 
has been very frequently the case. There are, how- 
ever, some peculiarities about the buildings of this 
class which entitle them to the name of the Anglo- 
Saxon style, or, more correctly, perhaps, the primitive 
English style ; for it has been observed that they are 
far more numerous in the Danes’ land, or the eastern 
counties, than in other parts of England. In the neigh- 
borhood of Lincoln and Gainsborough almost all the 
old country churches 
partake of this char- 
acter. It has also 
been observed that 
the earlier examples 
are more like the work 
of carpenters than of 
masons. Such a tow- 
er as that of Earl’s 
Barton, for instance, 
has all the appear- 
mice of being copied 
• from a wooden tower, 
and this may very 
probably have been 
the case. Ordericus 
Vitaiis, who lived in 
the 11th century, 
mentions that Si- 
ward, the cousin of 
Edward the Confes- 
sor, lmilt a wooden 
Earl's Barton, Northamptonshire, church at Shrews- 




j; 

Corhampton Church, Hampshire. 

models which the English had to copy in the 11th cen- 
tury were their own wooden churches. It was just at 
that time that Canute ordered churches to be built of 
stone and lime in all the places where his father or 
himself had burned the wooden churches of the Anglo- 
Saxons. 

The class of buildings referred to as being considered 
to belong to this style contain some rather unusual feat- 
ures. The execution is rude and coarse : the walls are 
built either of rag or rubble, sometimes partly of her- 
ring-bone work, without buttresses, and in many cases, 
if not always, have been plastered on the outside. The 
quoins are usually of hewn stones placed alternately 
flat and on end — a kind of construction to which the 



Tower, Sompting, Sussex. 



SAXON ARCHITECTURE 


391 


SAXON ARCHITECTURE 


name “ long and short” has been given ; the walls are 
often ornamented externally with flat vertical strips of 
stone projecting slightly from the surface, resembling 
wooden framing, generally of the same “long and short” 
construction as the quoins. On towers there are some- 
times several tiers of these, divided from each other by 
plain strings or bands. Semicircular arches and trian- 
gles formed of similar strips of stone are also sometimes 
used as ornaments; and plain projecting blocks are fre- 
quently associated with these, either as imposts, or as 
bases for the vertical strips which often stand above 
them. The jambs of door-ways and other openings are 
very commonly of “long and short” work; and when 
imposts are used, as they generally are, they are usual- 
ly rude, and often extremely massive, sometimes con- 
sisting of plain blocks and sometimes moulded. Hound 
the arch there is very often a projecting course occupy- 
ing the situation of a hood-moulding, which sometimes 
stops upon the imposts, but more frequently runs down 
the jambs to the ground, forming a kind of pilaster on 
each side of the opening. It is usually flat, but is some- 
times rounded and occasionally notched on the edges, as 
at Dunham Magna, Norfolk; in some instances the im- 
post is arranged so as to form a capital to each of these 
projections on the jambs, and they are sometimes pro- 
vided with bases either formed of plain blocks or rude- 
ly moulded. The arches are generally plain, hut are 
occasionally worked with rude and massive mouldings, 
as the cliaucel-arch at Wittering Church. Northamp- 
tonshire; some archesare constructed with bricks (prob- 
ably all of them taken from some Homan building, as at 
Brixworth) or thin stones, and these usually have a 
course of stones or bricks laid upon the top of the arch, 
as at Britford Church, Wiltshire: the arches are always 
semicircular, but some small openings, such as doors 
and windows, have pointed or triangular heads formed 
of two straight stones placed on end upon t he imposts, 
and resting against each other at the top, as at Barnack. 
The windows are not large, and, when splayed, have 
often nearly or quite as much splav externally as in- 
ternally. In belfries and other situations where they do 
not require to be glazed, they are frequently of two or 
more lights, divided bv small shafts or pillars, which 
are very usually made like balusters, and encircled with 
bands of rude mouldings. In tbe old portion of St. Al- 
ban’s Abbey, erected in the latter half of the 11th cen- 
tury, specimens are seen. These generally have capi- 
tals, or imposts, formed of long stones reaching entirely 
through the wall ; in some instances the balusters are 
oblong in plan, as in the tower of St. Michael’s Church, 
Oxford, and in others two are placed together, one be- 
hind the other, in order to give bet- 
ter support to these long capitals. 


ings consist exclusively of this 
peculiar kind of construction, and 
are surmounted by pure Norman 
work which has been raised upon 
it subsequently to the first erec- 
tion, as at the tower of Claphara 
Church, Bedfordshire, and Wood- 
stone, near Peterborough. This 
last class of buildings appears to 






Window, with Ornaments on the Belfry Window, with 
Sill ; and Shaft, with Section. Section. 

Details of the Tower, Sompting, Sussex. 

The whole of these peculiarities arc not to he met 
with in any one building; and in some churches in 
which several of them are to he found they are associ- 
ated with other features, evidently original, which so 
clearly belong to the Norman style as to prove that 
these buildings are not of Saxon date, as at the church- 
es of Daglingworth, Gloucestershire, and Svston, Lin- 
colnshire. In other instances the lower parts of build- 


preponderate in favor of the Saxon theory ; for, although 
the Norman additions have been observed not to be re- 
markably early in that style, it is not very probable that 
so material a change would have been made in the ar- 
chitecture unless a considerable interval had elapsed be- 
tween the erection of the different parts. Some of the 
churches in which the peculiarities under consideration 
are found arc clearly Norman (and not early in the 
style), but it may reasonably be supposed that in many 
parts of the country the Saxon style would have lin- 
gered fora considerable time after the Norman invasion, 
and would have continued to he employed (with an in- 
creasing admixture of Norman features) in buildings 
erected by native workmen. 

The following is a tolerably complete list of exam- 
ples of the Saxon style : 

Bedfordshire — Knotting; Clapham, tower. 

Berkshire — Wickham, tower; Cholsey, tower. 
Buckinghamshire — Cnverstield, tower; Iver; Lavendon, 
tower, nave, and chancel. 

Cambridgeshire— St. Beliefs and St. Giles's, Cambridge. 
Cornwall — Tin tagel, 

Derbyshire — Kepton, east end, and crypt. 

Durham — Monks’ Wearmomh, tower; Jarrow, walls of 
church and chancel, and ruins near it. 

Essex — Boreham, church ; Colchester, TrinityClmrch, part 
of the tower, etc. ; Felstead, church ; Great Maplesteud, 
north door. 

Gloucestershire— Daglingworth Church, except the tower; 
Deerbnrst, tower; Miserden, church; Strettoq, north 
door-way ; Upleaden, chancel-arch. 

Hampshire — Boarhnnt; Corhampton ; Ileadbourne Wor- 
thy; Hinton Ampuer; Little Sombouni ; Kilmestou ; 
Tiehborne. 

He.it/onhihire— St. Michael’s, at St. Alban’s. 

Kent — Dover, part of the ruined church in the Castle; 

Swanscomhe, tower; Knotting. 

Leicestershire — Barrow on Soar; Barrow on Tnchy. 
Lincolnshire — Aukboroitgh ; Barton on the Hiiniber, St. 
Peter’s, tower ; Branston ; Cab urn ; Clee, tower; IIol- 
ton-le-Clay, tower and chancel-arch ; Ileapham : Lin- 
coln. St. Peter’s at Gowt’s; St. Mary-le-Wigford ; Nettle- 
ton ; Ropslev, part of the west end ; Roihwell ; Seartho; 
Skellingthorpe ; Skillington, part of the church; Spring- 
thorpe; Stow, transepts; Swallow; Ky.-ton, tower; 
Wnith, tower and chancel-arch : Winterton. 

Middlesex — Kingsbury, part of church (now hidden by plas- 
tering). 

Norfolk — Norwich, St. .Tnlien’s ; Beeslon St. Lawrence; 
Dunham Magna, church; Elmham, cuius of bishop’s 
palace; Howe; Newton, tower. 

Northamptonshire — Barnack, tower; Brigslock, church; 
Brixworth, church ; Earl’s Barton, tower; Green’s Nor- 
ton, west end ; Pattishall ; Stow-nine-ehurches ; Wit- 
terington, chancel. 

Northumberland — Bolttm, tower: By well, St. Andrew; 
Bywell; Corbridge; Hexham, crypt; Ovingbam ; Whit- 
tlngham. 



SAYINGS OF CHRIST 


392 

\ 


SAY 

Oxfordshire — St. Michael’s, Oxford, tower; Northleigh, 
tower. 

Shropshire — Barrow, chancel -arch ; Church Stretton ; 

Clee; Stanton Lacey, nave and transept; Stottesdon. 
Somersetshire — Cranmore, door-head ; Milhourue Port. 
Suffolk— Barham, part of church ; Debenhain; Claydon, 
part of church; Flixton ; Gosbeck, part of church; 
Hemingstoue ; Ilketshall ; I.eiston. 

Surrey- — A! l>n ry ; Stoke d’Abernon, some portions. 

Sussex — Bishopsione, church; Bosham, tower; St. Bo- 
tolph, chancel- arch ; Bnrwa»h ; Sompting, tower; 
Worth; Ynptmi. 

Wurivieksh i re — Wooten Wawen, substructure of tower. 
Wiltshire — North Burcombe. east end; Brytford, north 
and south doors; Bremhill, west end; Somerford 
Keynes. 

Worcestershire — Wyre Piddle, chancel-arch. 

Yorkshire — Bardsev; Kirkdale, west end and chancel- 
arch ; Kirk lloinerton ; Langhton-en-le-Morthen, north 
door-way; Maltby: Ripun minster, crypt, called Wil- 
fred’s Needle; York Cathedral, portion of crypt (BIox- 
ham) ; York, church of St. Mary, Bishop-hill Junior. 

— Walcott, Sacred A rchceology, s. v. 

Say, Samukl 11. . an English dissenting divine, was 
born in 1675. lie entered as a pupil in the academy of 
Kev. Thomas Rowe, London, about 1692. Finishing 
his studies, he became chaplain to Thomas Scott, Lv- 
minge, in Kent, in whose family he remained three years. 
Thence he removed to Andover, in Hampshire; then to 
Yarmouth, in Norfolk; and soon after to Lowestoff, in 
Suffolk, where lie labored for eighteen years. He was 
co- pastor with Rev. Samuel Baxter at Ipswich nine 
years, and succeeded Dr. Edmund Calamv in West- 
minster in 1734. He died in 1743. lie wrote, 

(Loud. 1736, 8vo): — Poems and Essays (ibid. 1745, 4to; 
1749, 4to). 

Saybrook Platform, a confession of faith and a 
compendium of rules for the government of the churches, 
adopteil by an assembly of Congregational ministers and 
lay delegates convened by order of the Legislature of 
Connecticut, at Saybrook, Sept. 9, 1708. The synod 
consisted of sixteen members — twelve clerical and four 
lay — who represented the councils of Hartford, Fairfield, 
New London, and New llaven counties. As to doctrine , 
they adopted for recommendation to the General As- 
sembly of the colony the confession assented to by the 
elders and messengers assembled at Boston, May 12, 
1680, which was the Savoy Confession with some small 
alterations, adding also the doctrinal parts of the West- 
minster Confession. In regard to Church government 
and discipline , they adopted fifteen articles, the sub- 
stance of which was to provide (1) for one or more con- 
sociations in each county, with appellate and final juris- 
diction, to which particular churches might refer in dif- 
ficult cases; (2) for one or more associations in each 
county, consisting of the ministers, who should meet at 
least twice a year to consult on the common interest of 
the churches, and to perform certain other offices, such 
as the examination and recommendation of candidates 
for the ministry; (3) for a general association, to be 
composed of one or more delegates from each of the dis- 
trict associations, to meet once a year. The proceed- 
ings of the synod were approved by the Assembly of the 
colony, Oct., 1708, and it ordained “ that all the churches 
within this government that are or shall be thus united 
in doctrine, worship, and discipline be, and for the fut- 
ure shall be owned and acknowledged, established l»v 
law; provided always that nothing herein shall lie in- 
tended or construed to hinder or prevent any society 
that is or shall he allowed by the law* of this govern- 
ment, who soberly differ or dissent from the united 
churches hereby established, from exercising worship 
and discipline in their own way, according to their con- 
sciences.” The decrees of the .Saybrook Platform, both 
as regards doctrine and government, are not binding on 
the churches, but are only advisory in their character. 
See Trumbull, Hist* of Connecticut, vol. i, eh. xix; Con- 
gregational Order; Bacon, J)iscourse at Norwich, Conn., 
June, 1859. 

Sayei, in Hindi! mythology, is the daughter of Wis- 
wakanna, and probably identical with Sangia. She was 


married to the sun-god, and bore him Jama, the god of 
the underworld. 

Sayer, Ezra, a minister of the Methodist Episcopal 
Church, was originally a member of the Troy Confer- 
ence, and was transferred to the Missouri Conference in 
1850. He preached at Shelbyvillo, Edina, Memphis, 
and Kirksvillo, but, in I860, he took a superannuated 
relation. He took up his residence near Shelbyvillo, 
preaching as his health would permit until the summer 
of 1864, when he died. Mr. Saver was a preacher of no 
common abilities, fulfilling the duties of his station so as 
to win the confidence and respect of all with whom he 
came in contact. — Minutes of Annual Conf 1865, p. 7. 

Saying, a distinct or sustained monotone in sacred 
music analogous to the old “ saying without note,” nei- 
ther singing nor reading. 

Sayings, Traditional, of Christ. There can be 
no doubt tli at, besides the words of Christ which are 
mentioned in the gospels, others of more or less signifi- 
cance were spoken by him, and what John (xx, 30; xxi, 
25) says of the works of Christ, we may equally apply 
to his words. Paul mentions (Acts xx, 35) a saying 
of Christ, fiaKapiov lari fiSorcu ?/ Xapifiai’tiv (i. e. 
“It is more blessed to give than to receive”), which 
we look for in vain in the canonical gospels. The fol- 
lowing examples contain those sayings of Christ which 
the ancient Church has designated as such ; and we put 
them together, not because we ascribe them altogether 
to apocryphal authors, but because they have no ca- 
nonical authority in their favor: 

1. “On the same day, having seen one working on 
the Sabbath, he said to him, O man, if indeed thou 
knowest what thou doest, thou art blessed; but if thou 
knowest not. thou art cursed, and art a transgressor of 
the law.” This very remarkable saying occurs in Cod. 
D and in Cod. Graje. j3 Rob. Stephani after Luke vi, 4. 
Whether or not these -words were originally in Luke’s 
Gospel, we cannot decide, but that they convey an evan- 
gelical meaning is certain (comp. Loiscll. Opusc. p. 20; 
Paulus Colomesius, Observation. Sacr. p. 143). 

2. “But ye seek to increase from little, and from 
greater to less. When ye go and are bidden to dinner 
( Sei7rvi}fTat ), sit not down in the highest seats, lest a 
more honorable man than thou come, and he that bade 
thee come and say to thee, Take a lower seat, and yon 
be ashamed. But when thou sit down in a lower scat, 
and a less honorable man than thou come, then he that 
bade thee will say unto thee, Go up higher, and this will 
be profitable to thee.” This saying is also found in Cod. 
D or Cantabrig. and in some other codd. after Matt, xx, 
28 (comp. Griesbach, X. T. ad loc. ; Tischendorf, X. T. 
ad loc.). That this addition was well known may be 
seen from the fact that Juvencus (q. v.), in his l/ist, 
Evang. 3, 613 sq., has given it in the following verses: 

“At vos ex minimis opibns trausscendere vnltis, 

Ft sic e summis l.ipsi comprenditis imos. 

Si vos qnisque vocat cteme convivia ponens 
Cornibus in summis deviiet pouere membra 
Qtiisque sapit, veniet for sail si nobilis alter, 

Turpiter eximio cogetur cedere cornu 
Quern tumor inflati cordis per summa locarat. 

Sin contentns erit mediocria prendere coena 
Inferiora dehinc si mox conviva inhibit, 

Ad potiora pudeus transibit strata tororum.” 

3. “The Lord says in the Gospel, If ye keep not that 
which is small, who will give you that which is great? 
For I say unto you that he who is faithful in very little 
is faithful also in much.” This is found bv Clem. Rom. 
( Epist . II ad. Corinth. 8 ; comp. Iren. A dr. //ceres, ii, 64). 

4. “And Jesus says, For t hose that are sick, I was sick ; 
and for those that hunger, I suffered hunger: and for 
those that thirst, I suffered thirst.” It is difficult to say 
whether this citation, which is found by Origen (Com- 
ment. in Matt. tom. xiii [tom. iii, 563, cd. De la Rue]), 
can claim any originality or not (comp. Matt, xxv, 35; 

1 Cor. ix, 20-22). 

5. “Ask great things, and the small shall be added 


SAYINGS OF CHRIST 


393 


SAYINGS OF CHRIST 


unto you ; ask heavenly things, and the earthly shall be 
added unto you.” This saying, which is found in Clein. 
Alex. (Strom. I, i, 416 [ed. Pott, ii, 488]; Orig. De 
Orat. ii, 43; Opp. i, 197, 219), seems not to be taken 
from an apocryphal gospel (comp. Grabe, Spicileg. i, 14), 
or from an interpolated codex (Fabricius, Cod. Ajmer. 
X. T. i, 329), but has been freely cited irom Matt, vi, 
33. Such license is often used in common life, when 
quoting the sentence of another, which is not done ver- 
batim, but with such words as the circumstances and 
the connection of speech require. 

6. “ Show yourselves tried money-changers” (yii'scr^e 
rpa7rss(r«t SoKtpot). This saying of Christ, which is 
found in Clement. Homil. ii, 51 ; iii, 50; xviii, 20; Epi- 
phan. Ilceres. xliv, 2; Orig. AdJoh. tom. xix, 8, 20, p.268; 
Jerome, Epist. 119 (ed. Yallars. i, 815); Socrates, 1 list. 
Eccl. iii, 16, is first cited without any authority (in the 
A postal. Constit. ii, 36), then as a passage of Scripture 
by Clem. Alex. (Strom. 1, i, 425), and also as an apos- 
tolic, but more especially Pauline, commandment (comp. 
Dionvs. Alex. ap. Euseb. Hist. Eccl. vii, 7 ; Cyrill. Alex. 
AdJes. ii, 56). Under these circumstances, it will be 
difficult to decide who the author of this saying is. 

7. “Let us resist all iniquity, and hold it in hatred,” 
quoted as the words of Christ bv Ilarnabas (Epist. Ca- 
tholics. 4); and ibid. 7 we read, “They who wish to see 
me and lay hold of my kingdom must receive me by 
affliction and suffering.” 

8. “If only one of Israel will repent, and believe in 
God through my name, his sins shall be forgiven. Af- 
ter twelve years go ye into the world, lest one should 
say, We have not heard.” In Clem. Alex. (Strom, [ed. 
Pott], vi, 762), Peter quotes these words as those of 
the Lord, and Eusebius (JJist. Eccl. v, 18) mentions this 
command of Christ, t7ri SwSekci treat pi) ^opia^rijvai 
Ti)Q '\tpovaa\))p. 

9. “The Lord said, Should yon be with me gathered 
in my bosom, and not do my commandments, I will cast 
you off, and say to you, Go from me, 1 know you not 
whence you are, workers of iniquity.” This we read in 
Clem. llom. (Epist. ad Corinth, ii, 4). In the same epis- 
tle (5), we read, 

10. “The Lord saith, Ye shall be lambs in the midst 
of wolves. But Peter answered him, What, then, should 
the wolves tear in pieces the lambs? Jesus said to Pe- 
ter, Let not the lambs fear the wolves after they are 
dead; and do you fear not those who kill you and can 
do nothing to you ; but fear him who after you are dead 
hath power over soul and body to cast them into hell- 
tire.” While there is some resemblance in this narra- 
tive with Matt, x, 16, 28; Luke xii, 4, 5, yet the whole 
manner of this conversation betrays too much its apoc- 
ryphal origin. 

11. “ Keep the flesh pure aqd the soul unspotted, that 
ye may receive (tnroXd f3)]Tt ; not as some read, tnroXd- 
fiioptp, “ that we may receive”) eternal life” (Epist. 8). 

12. “Our Lord Jesus Christ said, In whatsoever 1 may 
find you, in this will I also judge you.” This saying, 
which is found in Justin. Mart. (Dial. c. Trgph. [ed. 
MaramJ, p. 143), is ascribed by Clem. Alex. (Quis I lives 
Salcetur , § 40) to God; by Johannes Climacus (in Seals 
Paradisi, vii, p. 159, and in the Vita B. A ntonii, c. 15, in 
Vita* Patrum, p. 41) to the prophet Ezekiel (comp. Ezck. 
vii, 3, 8; xviii, 30, xxiv, 14; xxxiii, 20, with Fabri- 
cius, Cod. Apocr. i, 333). A comparison of the passages 
in Ezekiel will, however, prove that these parallels arc 
insufficient, and some apocryphal gospel is probably the 
authority for this saying. 

13. “The days will come in which vines shall spring 
up, each having ten thousand stocks, and on each stock 
ten thousand branches, and on each branch ten thousand 
shoots, and on each shoot ten thousand bunches, and on 
each hunch ten thousand grapes, and each grape when 
pressed shall give five -and -twenty measures of wine. 
And when any saint shall have seized one bunch, an- 
other shall cry, I am a better bunch ; take me; through 
me bless the Lord. Likewise also lie said that a grain 


of wheat shall produce ten thousand ears of corn, and 
each grain of wheat shall produce ten pounds of fine 
pure flour; and so all other fruits and seeds and each 
herb according to its proper nature. And that all ani- 
mals, using for food what is received from the earth, 
shall live in peace and concord with one another, subject 
to men with all subjection. And when Judas the traitor 
believed not, and asked, How, then, shall such produc- 
tions proceed from the Lord? the Lord said, They shall 
sec who shall come to these times.” This narrative of 
the millennium Irenaeus (Adv. Hares, v, 33) describes as 
delivered by John to Papias. Since, however, this tra- 
dition belongs to Papias, whom Eusebius (Hist. Eccl. iii, 
39) describes as an dr/pa opuepov top poor, we must 
deny from the very beginning the authority of Christ 
as having uttered these words. Besides, the whole tenor 
of this narrative so conflicts with the dignity contained 
in all the words of Christ, that, without the least shadow 
of a doubt, we can ascribe to it an apocryphal origin. 
The description of the millennium reminds us of the 
Rabbinic representations of the same, especially as we 
find it in the Jalkut Shimoni (ful. 7, col. 1, No. 20), and 
which is too trivial to be translated. A German trans- 
lation is given by Eisenmenger (Ent decides Judenthinn , 

ii, 309 sq.). An examination of the Koran (sur. 18,32; 
37,49; 38, 53; 56, 38, etc.) will also show that the Mo- 
hammedan representation of Paradise is less sensual than 
that given above from a Christian source. 

14. Pseudo-Linus (De Passione Petri ; comp. Fabrici- 
us, Cod. Apocr. X. T. i, 335, 775) quotes a mystical say- 
ing of the Lord: “Unless ye turn your right into the 
left and the left into the right, and that which is above 
into that which is below, and that which is before you 
into that which is behind, ye will not know the king- 
dom of God.” 

15. “ The Lord being asked by Salome when his king- 
dom will come, said, When the two shall be one, and 
that which is without as that which is within, and the 
male with the female neither male nor female.” This 
quotation, which is found by Clem. Rom. (Epist. ad Co - 
rinth. 12), is, according to Clem. Alex. (Strom, [ed. Pott], 

iii, 553), taken from the Gospel of the Egyptians. From 
the same gospel, Clem. (ibid. p. 532) has preserved the 
following conversation of Christ with Salome : 

16. “When Salome asked the Lord, How long shall 
men die? he said, As long as women bear children. 
Then Salome answered, I have done well that I did 
not bear (tcaXwg ovv t7rou)aa pt) rtKovoa ); but the 
Lord replied, Thou mayest cat of every herb, but of that 
which has bitterness do not eat.” And further on (p.540) 
he states, “ I am come to make an end to the works of 
the woman — of the woman, viz. the lust; to the works, 
viz. to the birth and death.” 

17. “ He that wanders shall reign, and he that reigns 
shall rest” (Clem. Alex. Strom, i, 453), from the Hebrew 
Gospel. 

18. “ I came to put an end to sacrifices ; and unless ye 
cease from sacrificing, God’s anger will not cease from 
you” (Prang. Ebion. ap. Epiph. //ceres, xxx, 16). 

19. “My mystery is for me and for the sons of my 
house” (Clem. Alex. Strom, v, 684). 

20. “In the Gospel according to the Hebrews, the 
Saviour himself says, Just now my mother, the Holy 
Spirit, took me by one of my hairs, and bore me away 
to the great mountain Thabor.” This very singular 
saying is quoted by Origen, in Joann, tom. ii (ed. De la 
Rue, iv, 64); Jerome, Comment, in Jes. 11, 2, lib. ii; in 
/Hicham, vii, 6. That the Holy Ghost should be present- 
ed here as a genus femimnum must not be looked for in 
the Gnostic idea of the Holy Ghost as female principle 
(comp. Fabricius, Cod. Apocr. i, 362 sq.), but finds its 
explanation in the words of Jerome (Comment, in Jes. 
40, 11), “Nemo autem in hae parte scandalizari debet, 
quod dicatur npud Hehrjvos spiritus genere feminino, 
cum nostra lingua npp< Hat ur genere masculino, ct Gra?co 
sermone neutro; in divinitatc on ini tiullus cst sexus.” 

21. “Never be joylul except when ve shall look on 


SAYUTSHIAM 


394 


SCALE 


your brother in love” — so from the Hebrew Gospel by 
Jerome ( Comment . ad Kphes. v, 4). 

See (irabe, Spicilegium , i, 12 sq.; Fabricius, Codex 
Apocr. iV. T. i, 321 sq. ; Kbrner, De Sermonibus Christ i 
(iypu(f>oic (Lips. 1776) ; Hoffmann, Bus Leben Jesu nuch 
den Apokryphen (ibid. 1851), p. 317 sq. ; Mestcott, In- 
troduction to the Study of the Gospels (Boston, 1867), 
p. 445 sq. (B. P.) 

Sayutsliiam, in Hindu mythology, is a degree of 
blessedness or godliness which relieves man from the 
necessity of being born again on earth. It may be at- 
tained bv solitude, virtue, and self-examination, and is 
at all times assured to such Brahmins as become Yogis, 
their state being so exalted as to make them more than 
equal to the gods and to exempt them from every form 
of trial. — Yollmer, Wurterb. d. My that. s. v. 

Sazoma, in Lamaism, is one of the two legal wives 
of Cio Conciva or Xaka, the second person in the trini- 
ty of Lamaism. 

Scab (-^3, gardb , Deut. xxviii, 27 ; elsewhere 
“scurvy,” a diseased scurf on the skin; nnss*3, mis- 
pdchath , Lev. xiii, 6, 7, 8; a harmless cutaneous erup- 
tion; sappdchath , ver. 2; xiv, 56, the mange 

in the hair causing it to fall out; kindred with these 
last two is nS'J for H50, saphdch, to “smite with a 
scab,” Isa. iii. 17. i.e. premature baldness; D2^, yalle- 
pheth , Lev. xxi, 20; xxii, 22, an itching or tetter in the 
skin). See Disease; Leprosy. 

Scabbard (“i?Pl, tdar, Jer. xlvii, 6 ; elsewhere 
“sheath”). See Sword. 

Scasits, in Greek mythology, was one of the twelve 
sons of Hippocobn, who expelled Icarius and Tyndareus 
from Lacedaemon, hut were afterwards themselves over- 
come and slain by Hercules. 

Scaffold OVPS, kiyor, 2 Chron. vi, 13; elsewhere 
used of the “laver” and “pans” for the sacred service), 
a platform ox pulpit (q. v.) for public speaking; proba- 
bly raised from the door, but whether round (as the 
name would seem to denote) or square (as the dimen- 
sions would imply) is uncertain. 

Scala Santa (Ital. for holy stair'), a celebrated 
staircase, consisting of twenty-eight white marble steps, 
in a little chapel of the Church of St.John Lateran at 
Iiome. Romanists assert that this is the staircase 
which Christ several times ascended and descended 
when he appeared before Pilate, and that it was carried 
by angels from Jerusalem to Pome. Multitudes of pil- 
grims creep up the steps of the Seala Santa on their 
knees with roses in their hands, kissing each step 
as they ascend. On reaching the top, they repeat a 
prayer. The performance of this ceremony is regarded 
as being particularly meritorious, entitling the de- 
vout pilgrim to plenary indulgence. It was while thus 
ascending these holy stairs that Luther thought he 
heard the words “The just shall live by faith,” and, 
mortified at the degradation to which his superstition 
had brought him, tied from the spot. 

Certain churches in England had similar staircases, 
which enjoyed the privilege of affording composition 
for a visit to Borne — at Westminster Abbey, in 1504; 
.St. Mary’s Chapel, at Boston; St. Mary’s Chapel in the 
Austin Canons’ Church, Norwich; and at Windsor, with 
a college of ten priests, until 1504. 

Scale : l,of fishes kuskeseth , Lev. xi, 0. 

10, 12; Deut. xiv, 10; Ezek. xxix, 4; so of the lamimv 
of a coat of “mail.” 1 Sam. xvii, 5); similarly XtTric (a 
Jlake) of incrustations from the eyes (Acts ix, 18); but 
in Job xli, 15 (lleb. 7) the scaly armor of the crocodile 
is figuratively denoted (C^-J strong ones of 

shields, A. V. “scales”); 2, of balances (ois, piles, in 
the sing, only, “ weight,” Prov. xvi, 1 1 ; “scales,” Isa. 
xl, 12; always associated with the balance 


proper); 3, as a verb, to scale the walls of a eity (!!?:?, 
olah, Prov. xxi, 22, to go up, as elsewhere often). See 
Ladder. 

Before the introduction of coins, balances were of the 
utmost importance for the weighing of gold and silver 
in every commercial transaction (Gen. xxiii, 16; xliii, 
21 ; Isa. xlvi, 6 ; Jer. xxxii, 9), so that a balance was re- 
quired to be of exquisite delicacy. Allusions to this 
are found in Isa. xl, 15 ; Ecclus. xxviii, 29, “ small dust of 
the balance,” “ a little grain of the balance ;” and all dis- 
honesty in the treatment of the scales is sternly forbid- 
den and denounced (Lev. xix,35 ; Hos. xii, 7 ; Amos viii, 
5; Mic. vi, 11 ; Prov. xi, I ; xvi, 11). Hence arose the 
Babbiuic rule that the scales should be made of marble 
which could not wear away. The above term ’Op^, pi- 
les (rendered “weight” Prov. xvi, 11 [Sept, po7r//], and 
“scales” Isa. xl, 12 [Sept, is said by Kimchi 

(on Isa. xxvi, 7) to be properly the beam of the balance. 
In his Lexicon he says it is the part in which the 
tongue moves, and which the weigher holds in his 
hand. Gesenius ( Thesaur . s. v.) supposed it was a 
steelyard. That the steelyard was an invention known 



Trutina, or Steelyard. (From the Museum of Lhe Capitol 
at Rome.) 

to the ancients is certain, for specimens of them, elab- 
orately adorned, have been found at Pompeii and Her- 
cnlanenm (J Bis. Borbon . i, 55). Still it was probably 
not known until the Roman a?ra, and indeed is said to 
have been called Trutina Campana, from its invention 
in Campania (Smith, Bid. of Class. A nt. s. v. “ Trutina”). 
No traces of its use have been found either in the tombs 
or temples of Egypt or Assyria, and this is a sufficient 
proof that the instrument was unknown in those coun- 
tries. Hence there is no evidence that this instrument 
was known to the Hebrews. Of the material of which 



SCALIGER 395 SCANDINAVIAN VERSIONS 


the balance was made we have no information. See 
Balance. 

It is thought that the Jews knew the constellation 
Libra as one of the signs of the zodiac (2 Kings 
xxiii, 5 ; Job xxxviii, 32). See Astronomy. 

Scaliger, Joseph Justus, son of Julius Ctesar Seal* 
iger, a learned critic, and his rival in learning and ar- 
rogance, was born, in 1540, at Agen, and was educated 
at the college of Bordeaux, and, finally, by his father 
and Turnebus. Languages he acquired with wonder- 
ful ease, and is said to have been master of no less than 
thirteen. His friends denominated him “an ocean of 
science,” and “the masterpiece of nature.” He died in 
1609, professor of belles-lettres at Leyden. His works, 
most of which are commentaries on the classics, are nu- 
merous. Of his other productions, one of the most 
valuable is the treatise De Emendatione Tempo rum. 

Scall (invariably pP3, nethek , the mange, or dis- 
eased falling-out of the hair of the head or beard, Lev. 
xiii, 30 sq.). See Leprosy. 

Scalp hulked, Psa. xlviii, 21 ; “pate,” Psa. 

vii, 16; the crown of the head [as elsewhere rendered], 
so called from the parting of the hair at that spot), 

Scamander, in Greek mythology, was (1) a son 
of Oceanus and Tetliys, a river-god in Troas, originally 
named Xanthus. lie married the nymph Idiea, and 
became the father of Teucer and Glaucia. Hector’s 
son, ordinarily called Astvanax, bore the appellative 
Scamandrius, derived from the name of this deity. (2) 
A nephew of the above, the son of Glaucia and Deima- 
chus. 

Scamandrodice, in Greek mythology, was the 
name occasionally given to Calgce , the mother of Cyc- 
nus. 

Scamilli, plain blocks or subplinths, placed under 
columns, statues, etc., to elevate them. They differ 
from ordinary pedestals in having no mouldings about 
them, and in being usually of smaller size. 

Scandinavia, a large peninsula in the north of 
Europe, bounded on the north by the Arctic Ocean ; on 
the west by the Atlantic, North Sea, Scager Back, Cat- 
tegat, and Sound , on the south and east by the Baltic 
Sea, Gulf of Bothnia, and Finland, with which it is con- 
nected by an isthmus 325 miles wide. This peninsula 
includes the two kingdoms Norway (q. v.) and Sweden 
(q. v.). The ancient Scandinavia, or Scandia, included 
Northern Denmark as well as the peninsula that still 
retains the name. It is first mentioned by Pliny, who, 
unaware that the peninsula was attached to Finland on 
the north, considered Scandinavia as an island. 

Scandinavian Architecture. Many of the 
earlier Norwegian and Swedish cathedrals were built 
by English or French workmen. There were six basil- 
icas in Norway, with towers at the end of the choir- 
aisles. In Denmark there are eight round churches 
and one octagonal. Koeskilde, Kibe, and Thorsager 
are apsidal; but the general characteristics of the Dan- 
ish churches are a square east end, and an immense 
south porch and parvise. The wooden churches of Nor- 
way are probably of Byzantine origin, the plans having 
been brought back by the Varangians. — Walcott, Sa- 
cred Archaeology, s. v. 

Scandinavian Mythology. See Norse My- 
thology. 

Scandinavian Versions.— 1. The Norse or Ice- 
landic. — The first version into this language was made 
bv Oddur Gotshalkson, son of a bishop of Holum, in 
Iceland. He attended the lectures of Luther and Me- 
lancthon, and on his return to Iceland entered upon a 
translation of the Scriptures. To avoid persecution, he 
commenced his work in a small cell in a cow-house, and 
completed the New Test, in 1539. Finding it difficult, 
from the state of public opinion, to print it in Iceland, 


he sailed for Denmark, and published it at Copenhagen, 
under the patronage of Christian 111. The translation, 
made from the Vulgate, corrected in some cases accord- 
ing to Luther’s translation, was published in 1540. From 
this time on, parts of the Old Test, were published, 
until at length, in 1584, the entire Bible w r as printed in 
Icelandic at Holum. The work was conducted by Gud- 
braml Thorlakson, bishop of Holum, and lias been called 
“ a faithful mirror of Luther’s German version and, on 
account of the purity of its diction, it is still held in 
high esteem. In 1609 a revised edition of the New 
Test, was published by bishop Gudbraud at Holum, with 
the title Thud Nyia Testamentum , a Islendsku yfersied 
og lesid epter theim riettustu Utleggingum , sew til hafa 
feingist (prentad a Holum i Hialltndal, anno MDCIN). 
In 1644 a revised edition of the entire Bible was pub- 
lished by Thorlak Skuleson, the grandson of Gudbrand, 
and his successor in the episcopate. In 1728 another 
edition was published, under the inspection of Stein 
Jonson, bishop of Holum. Following the Danish Bible 
too closely, this edition, on account of Danicisms, was 
found to be scarcely intelligible to the Icelanders, anil 
hence never obtained much circulation. In 1747 a fourth 
edition, according to the text of 1644. was published at 
Copenhagen; a fifth in 1750; a sixth in 1807, chiefly 
at the expense of the British and Foreign Bible Society; 
and a seventh in 1813 by the same society, and often 
since. Since the year 1863 a revised edition of the 
New Test, and Psalms has been circulated by the Brit- 
ish and Foreign Bible Society, and in 1867 the entire 
revised Bible, which is now in circulation, left the press 
at the expense of the same society. 

2. Danish. — The earliest translation of any portion 
of the Scriptures into Danish is contained in a MS. pre- 
served in the Koval Library of Copenhagen, supposed 
to have been written in the 13th or beginning of the 
14th century. It proceeds no further than the second 
book of Kings. In 1515, Pedersen, who is said to have 
been the first Lutheran clergyman in Zealand, published 
at Paris a Danish version of the Gospels and Epistles 
appointed to be read in churches. It was reprinted at 
Lcipsic in 1518. The whole New Test., Det Nye Testa - 
mente, was translated by Hans Mikkelsen, sometimes 
called John Michaelis, and published at Leipsic in 1524, 
and reprinted at Antwerp in 1529. This version was 
executed by the command and under the patronage of 
Christian II. An improved edition of Mikkelsen’s New 
Test. w r as published by Pedersen in 1529 at Antwerp, 
and republished, with the Psalms, in 1531. In 1550 the 
whole Bible was published in Danish at Copenhagen. 
This translation was undertaken at the suggestion of 
Bugenhagen, the celebrated Keformer, who had been in- 
vited to the court of Copenhagen to assist in the cor- 
rection of ecclesiastical abuses. A revision of the entire 
version was undertaken in 1586 by the command of 
Frederick II, which was published in 1589, with Lu- 
ther’s notes, under the title Biblia det er den gantske 
hellige Serif t, paa lhinske igen ojj'rerseet oc prentet ef- 
ter salige oc lloglojfiige Ikukomnielse, Kong Frederichs 
den II Befahring. Met Register, a lie 1). Lutheri For- 
taler, ham Udlegning i Broedden, oc I 'iti Theodori Stun- 
marier (prentet i Kjobenhavn aff Matz Vingaardt, 
anno 1589, fol.). In 1604 king Christian IV appoint- 
ed Dr. Kesen, bishop of Zealand, to superintend a fresh 
revision of the Scriptures, which was published in 1607, 
with the title Biblia pan lhinske, etc. In 1633 an 
edition from the revised text of 1589 was published 
at Copenhagen — Biblia det er den gantske hellige Serif, 
etc. — and in 1647 a revised edition from Kesen’s Bible, 
designated “Swaning’s Bible,” so called after the cor- 
rector llans Swaning, archbishop of Zealand, w as pub- 
lished, w hich was again edited in 1670. In 1714 a Col- 
lege of Missions was established at Copenhagen, which 
issued several editions of the Scriptures according to 
Swaning’s text: one in 1717, a second in 1718, followed 
in 1722 by a third, and in 1728 by a fourth issue. In 
1728 the mission press was destroyed by fire, and the 


SCANDINAVIAN VERSIONS 396 SCANDINAVIAN VERSIONS 


Orphan House then obtained the exclusive privilege 
of printing the Danish Bible; and several editions 
wore published by that institution between the years 
173*2 and 17-15. In the meantime efforts were made 
to obtain a more correct and faithful edition of the 
Scriptures, and in 17-48 the committee appointed by 
roval authority published a revised New Test.; and 
si nee that time numerous other editions were printed 
before the formation of the Danish Bible Society in 
18U. In the year 1810 the British and Foreign Bible 
Society printed an edition of the Danish New Test, 
from the Copenhagen edition of 1790, the press being 
superintended by the Bev. XV. F. Hosing, minister of 
the Danish church in London. A second edition was 
published in 1814. In the following year another revi- 
sion of the Bible was commenced at Copenhagen by 
royal authority. Bishop Mucuter, together with live 
learned professors, constituted the commission of revi- 
sal; and in 1819 an edition of the New Test., as cor- 
rected and revised bv them, was published, followed by 
a fourth edition of the entire Bible in 1824. The com- 
mittee of the Danish Bible Society has been engaged 
for several years past in the task of revising the Danish 
Old Test., and in 1871 a thoroughly revised text of the 
Danish Bible was published, which has also been adopted 
by the British and Foreign Bible Society. The facili- 
ties for the circulation of the Protestant Bible in the 
kingdom of Denmark have within recent years been 
greatly increased by an arrangement happily come to 
between the British and Foreign Bible Society of Lon- 
don and the Orphan Institution at Copenhagen, which 
latter body possesses by law the exclusive right to print 
the Scriptures within the Danish realm. Prior to 1855 
all editions of the Scriptures produced at Copenhagen 
were accompanied by the Apocrypha and explanatory 
notes, and hence the Bible Society was by its rules pre- 
cluded from taking any part in their circulation. In 
that year, however, at the instance of the London so- 
ciety, the directors of the Orphan House agreed to pro- 
duce the New Test, free from all notes and Apocryphal 
references. The concession thus happily obtained was 
at once acted on, and an edition of 10,000 Danish New 
Testaments was produced for the London society under 
the auspices of the Copenhagen Orphan Institution, and 
passed into rapid circulation. In 1859 a subsequent 
edition of 5000 was found necessary to meet the demands 
made upon the society’s agency, which increase from 
year to year. As to the circulation of the entire Bible, 
without Apocrypha and explanatory notes, the society 
was prevented from doing so until 1872, when, after 
many negotiations, permission was obtained to circulate 
Bibles according to the rules laid down by the society, 
but with the conditions: 1. That the summaries and the 
references to parallel passages (with the exception of 
those which relate to the Apocryphal hooks) which are 
found in the editions of the Orphan House be also in- 
serted in the editions published by the society in Den- 
mark. 2. That the title-page of these editions be as 
follows: II Helen eller den Ilellige Shrift, indeholdenck 
det Gamle 07 det A 't/e Testamentes Kanomskc Boger 
(“The Bible, or the Ilolv Scriptures, containing the 
Canonical Books of the Old and New Testaments”). 3. 
The fee to be paid to the Orphan House is provisionally 
fixed atone mark for each copy. We have stated above 
that the revised Danish text which was published in 
1871 has also been adopted hv the British and Foreign 
Bible Society. This was done after those marginal ren- 
derings which savor of “note or comment” had been 
stricken out. The annual report of 1874 stated the fact 
that “the first edition of the revised Danish Bible lias 
left the press, the proofs having been read by the Bev. 
J. Pleitge. This is the first edition of the complete 
Bilile printed by the Orphan House at Copenhagen di- 
rectly for the society.” 

3. Xonregiun . — Although the Norwegian and Danish 
Bibles were, originally the same, yet the revisions of 
later times have made them different. Since about 1800 


the Norwegian Bible, with slightly revised text, was 
published both by the Norwegian and the British Bible 
Society. A revision of the New Test, was begun about 
the year 1871, at the expense and by the authority of 
the Norwegian Bible Society, with the sanction of the 
chief of the Koval Church and Education departments. 
The changes introduced rarely touch the interpretation 
of the text, but are chiefly intended to express the same 
sense as before, only in language more conformed to the 
requirements of modern usage. Of the Old. Test., the 
Pentateuch, in a revised form, was published in 1873. 

4. Swedish . — A version oft lie Scriptures into Swedish 
is said to have been made in the 14th century by order 
of St. Brigit, or Bridget, who. about the year 1344, 
founded the religious order called, from her, the Brigit- 
tines. A translation of the New Test., according to 
Luther’s German version (the tirst Swedish version 
of which we have any definite account), was under- 
taken. by command of Gustavus Vasa, in 1523, by Lau- 
rentius Andreas, and printed in 1523, in folio, at Stock- 
holm, with the title Thet Nyia Test ament it pa Swen- 
sho. The first Swedish version of the entire Bible was 
published at Upsala in 1541, with the Apocrypha, the 
Old Test, being translated by Laurentius and Glaus Pe- 
tri from Luther’s German version of 1534, and the New 
Test, was that of Laurentius Andreas, printed in 1523. 
Another version of the New Test., prepared by Around 
Laurent, was published at Stockholm in 1550, and again 
in 1301 and 1G2I ; and in the course of subsequent years 
several editions of the Psalms were printed. At the 
commencement of the 17th century, Charles IX ordered 
Jonas Petri, bishop of Stregnaes, and other learned men, 
to collate Luther’s editions of 1534 and 1545, noting 
such discrepancies as appeared to them of any impor- 
tance, with the view of producing an improved edition 
of the Swedish translation. These notes, when com- 
pleted, were called Observationes Stregnenses ; and it 
was decreed in the Synod of Stockholm, in 1302, that 
they should be incorporated with t lie old version in a 
new edition of the Bible. From various causes, this 
new edition was not published until 1318, when it was 
printed in folio at Stockholm, with the following 'title : 
Biblia thet aer all then llelgha Scii ft pa Stcevsho. Kff- 
ter fbrre Bibliehs Text , oforandrat medh Fursprdh p<i 
the Boeher iher Jbrr inge woro , medh Summarier for 
Capitelen , M arginalier, fere Concord untier, samt nyt- 
lighe Forhlaringar och Register , etc., formentt och efter 
then stoj'machtigeste hogborne Forstes och Her res, llerr 
Gustajf Adolfs, Sicerihes Gothes och 1 1 ’endes Kouvngs, 
Befulning (tryckt i Stockholm, anno 1318). In 1622 
not a copy of this edition remained on sale, and a re- 
print was therefore issued at Lubeck, followed by sev- 
eral successive editions at Leyden, and by two editions 
(in 1G3G and 1G4G) at Stockholm. In 1350 the Stregnaes 
Bible was printed under the care of bishop jMatthia, 
which was executed very negligently. The edition of 
1318 was also reprinted several times, but with many de- 
viations from the text. A revised edition of the entire 
Bible was undertaken under the reign of Charles XII, 
which was published ill 1703, with the title Biblia thet 
dr all then I/eliga Scrijft ]>d Stcensho, efter Konung 
Carl then Tolftes Befulning (Stockholm, 1703). Another 
revised edition appeared in 1709 at the same place. The 
preparation for this edition was begun by John Gezel, 
bishop of Abo, who died in 1G90, but the work was com- 
pleted and published by his son. In the course of the 
18th century so many editions of the Danish Scriptures 
appeared that the country was generally considered well 
supplied with Bibles. When, however, in 1808, Dr. 
Paterson visited the country, the fact was ascertained 
that the poorer inhabitants, on account of the high price 
of Bildes, were almost destitute of the Word of God. 
The consequence was the formation of the Evangelical 
Society, which issued several editions for the poor, aided 
by grants from the British and Foreign Bible Society. 
In 1815 the Swedish Bible Society was formed, which, 
with its numerous auxiliary societies, continues the im- 


SCAPE-GOAT 


397 


portant work of printing and disseminating the Script- 
ures. Till 1826 it received much assistance from the 
British and Foreign Bible Society, when the decision of 
the Apocryphal question in London severed the connec- 
tion between the two societies, hi order to maintain 
the circulation of Bibles in Sweden without the Apoc- 
rypha, several editions of the Old and New Testaments 
have been issued by the British and Foreign Bible So- 
ciety. Their first edition, which was stereotyped, was 
published in 18*28. The text adopted was that of the 
last edition of the Swedish Bible Society. Several edi- 
tions from the same text have since been printed by 
the same society in London, and likewise at Stockholm, 
through the medium of their agency maintained there. 
A revision of the old text is now under preparation. 
The total number of copies of Swedish Scriptures issued 
by the British and Foreign Bible Society up to March 
3*1, 1877, amounted to 2,599,201, of which 452,879 were 
Bibles, 1,912,782 New Testaments and New Testaments 
with the Psalms, 218,050 portions of the Old Test., and 
14,950 portions of the New Test. 

5. Faroese. — Into this dialect only the Gospel of St. 
Matthew has been translated, about the year 1817, by 
the Rev. Mr. Schroeter, rector of one of the churches 
in the Faroe Isles. It was corrected by Mr. Lyngbye, 
of Jutland, who also superintended the printing of St. 
Matthew’s Gospel, of which 1500 copies were issued. 
This is the only book of the New Test, that has ever 
been printed or translated into Faroese. 

See Lorck, Bibe Igesch i ch te, i, 203 sq., 208 sq., 399 sq. ; 
Goze, Summlung merkwii rdiger Bibeln, p. 277 sq. ; Index 
Bibliornm in Christiana- Ernestina Bibliotheca , p. 13, 42, 
66 ; Bibliotheca Biblicn , oder 1 ' erzeichniss der Bibel- 
Sammlung der Herzog in von Braunschweig , etc., p. 182 
sq. ; The Bible of Every Land , p. 214 sq.; Schinmever, 
Yersuch einer Geschichte der schmedischen Bibel-Ueber - 
setznngen und Ausgaben (Flensburg, 1777). (B. P.) 

Scape -goat (Heb. Azazel) is the name 

given in the A. V. to one of the two goats used in 
the sin-oflfering for the entire community of Israel on 
the great day of atonement, the goat which was to be 
sent away into the wilderness. To determine which of 
the two goats was to be slain, and which sent alive into 
the wilderness, it was ordered that the priest should 
“cast lots upon the two goats; one lot for the Lord [Je- 
hovah], and the other lot for the scape-goat” (Lev. xvi, 
8), but literally for Azazel (b TXT S’ 5), a word nowhere 
else used. There can be no doubt that this has the 
appearance of being some sort of personage, or interest 
personified, standing over against Jehovah, or somehow 
contradistinguished from him. But opinions have from 
early times been divided on the subject. 

1. The one followed by our translators, which regards 
it as a name for the goat itself, is of great antiquity, and 
has numbers on its side — Symmachus (jpetyog cnrEpyo- 
pevog), Aquila (rpciyog aTroXEXvppivog), the Vulgate 
( hircus emissarius), Luther, and many moderns, also re- 
cently Hoffmann. The term so understood is viewed 
as a compound of IV, goat, and btX, to go awag. The 
chief objections to it are that is never used precisely 
of a goat ; in the plural it bears the sense of goafs gener- 
ally, but in the singular it designates onl y sh e-goat ; and 
in Lev. xvi, 10 and 26, the goat and Azazel are express- 
ly distinguished from each other, “the goat ("n~t£!n) 
for Azazel.” These are fatal objections, and have led to 
the general abandonment of the view. 

2. By others it has been taken as the name of a place, 
either some mountain in the desert (Pseudo-Jonathan, 
Aben-Ezra, Jarchi), or a lonely and desolate region (Bo- 
chart, Deyling, Carpzov, Jahn). But this, also, is at va- 
riance with the natural import of the statements, espe- 
cially with the expression in ver. 10, “to let him go for 
Azazel into the wilderness,” which would then mean, for 
the wilderness into the wilderness. Nor could Jehovah 


SCAPE-GOAT 

on the one side, and a place on the other, form a proper 
antithesis. 

3, Others, again, have taken the word as a pealpal 
form of the Arabic verb bfT, to remove, formed by mod- 
ification from Vrb_Tr, so that the meaning comes to be 
for a complete removing or dismissal (Tholuck, Steudel, 
Winer, Biihr). Grammatically, no objection can be 
urged against this view; and it undoubtedly accords 
well with the general import of this part of the rite. 
“The true expiation,” to use the words of Biihr, “was 
effected by the blood of the first goat, which was set 
apart for Jehovah; on the other hand, the ceremony 
with the other goat appears as a mere addition made 
for special reasons, a kind of complement to the wiping- 
away of the sins which had already been effected by 
means of the sacrifice. , . . After the expiation had been 
accomplished by the sprinkling of the blood, the sin was 
still further to be carried away into the desert. What 
the first goat, which died as a sin-offering, was no longer 
in a condition to set forth was supplied bv the second, 
which was, as it were, one with the first, inasmuch as it 
carried the sin which had been covered entirely away, 
and that into the desert or desolate place, where it was 
quite forgotten ; so that the idea of expiation, or the ex- 
termination of sin, was rendered thereby absolutely per- 
fect” (Mic. vii, 19). In this view of the matter, the cast- 
ing of the lots had for its object the assigning of one 
goat to Jehovah, namely, for an atonement to bis jus- 
tice, and the other to complete removal or bearing away 
into the oblivion of the desert — namely, of the sin which 
had been atoned ; an explanation which accords well 
with the general idea of the transaction, and does no 
•violence to the language. The objection of Ilengsten- 
berg, that it gives a cold and empty appearance to the 
peculiar word Azazel, a word coined for the occasion, to 
suppose it to have expressed only the comparatively 
common idea of complete removal, may perhaps be ob- 
viated by conceiving this idea to have been for the oc- 
casion invested with a kind of personified existence — 
much as Sheol, the region of departed spirits, became 
personified — the one the coverer or dark receptacle of 
people’s lives, the other of their (forgiven) sins. Hence 
also, probably, the reason of the word being confined to 
this one occasion, there being no other in respect to 
which such utter personified oblivion could be predi- 
cated. 

4. But there is still another class of writers who are 
disposed to claim for the word a more distinctly person- 
al existence, and who would refer it directly to Satan. 
This view is certainly of high antiquity, and is express- 
ed in the reading of the Sept. a7ro7rof.i7raiog, which 
means, not scape-goat, or sent away, but the turner aunty, 
the averter. The expression of Josephus is somewhat 
dubious (Ah/, iii, 10, 3), but it seems also to favor the 
same view; and it was very common with the rabbins, 
as in later times it has the support of many authorities 
— Spenser, Ammon, Roseumuller, Gesenius, etc., who 
hold it to be equivalent to the Roman a verminous, or 
evil daemon, which was supposed to inhabit desert places, 
and who needed to be propitiated; but adopted also, 
though purged of this idolatrous connection, by Witsius, 
Meyer, Alting, Hengstenberg (in his Bucher Moses, 
transl. by Robbins, N. Y. 1843); also quite recently by 
Yaihinger (in Herzog) and Kurtz ( Sacrificial Worship 
of the Old Testament). These writers hold that the view 
in question best preserves the contrast between the two 
goats — one for Jehovah, and one for the great adversary 
Azazel — the latter a being as well as the former, and a 
being who (as daemons generally) w f as supposed to have 
his peculiar dwelling in the desert. The goat, however, 
that was sent to this evil spirit— emphatically the re- 
moved or separate one — was no sacrifice, but rather a 
witness that the accepted sacrifice had been made. It 
proclaimed, as it were, “that the horrible wilderness, 
the abode of impure spirits, is alone the place to which 
the sins of the people, as originally foreign to human 


SCAPULAR 


398 


SCARLET 


nature and society, properly belong; that Azazel, the 
abominable, the sinner from the beginning (John viii, 
44), is the one from whom they have proceeded, and to 
whom they must again with abhorrence be sent back, 
after the solemn atonement and absolution of the con- 
gregation have been accomplished” (Vaihinger). No 
doubt, as thus explained, the leading import of the trans- 
action with this goat is in proper accordance with the 
service of the day; but it cannot appear otherwise than 
strange that, in t he most sacred rite of the old covenant, 
Satan should be so formally recognised as, according to 
this view, he must have been; that he should there be 
recognised under a name which suggests a quite differ- 
ent idea concerning him than that under which he is 
elsewhere presented; and that, notwithstanding he was 
so publicly and so regularly associated with this name, 
it should never again be employed as a personal desig- 
nation. Such peculiarities are rather startling, and dis- 
pose us, on the whole, to concur in the view which ranks 
third in the list of opinions now exhibited. — Fairbairn, 
s. v. See Azazel. 


Scapular, or Scapulary (Lat. scapula , the shoul- 
der-blade), originally a small garment without sleeves, 
a part of the habit of several religious orders in the 
Church of Horae. The several fraternities are distin- 
guished by the color, shape, and material of these holy 
badges. It was first introduced by St. Benedict in lieu 
of a heavy cowl for the shoulders. Beirut informs us 
that “the badge which is called the holy scapulary is 
made of two small pieces of woollen stuff, about the ex- 
tent of a hand, hanging by two little laces down from 
the neck upon both the breast and back of the devout 
person who wears it.” The scapular usually has on it 
a picture of the Virgin Mary or the initials 1. H. S.” on 
one piece, and “ J. M. J.” (for Jesus, Mary, and Joseph) 
or two hearts on the other. It appears to have been 
invented by an English Carmelite friar named Simon 
Stock, in 1251. According to the Homish legend, he 
received the original scapular from the Virgin as a dis- 
tinguishing badge of the Carmelite order. It is much 
worn by strict Romanists, in the belief that the devil 
dreads this terrible weapon. It is supposed to effectu- 
ally preserve against death by drowning or by fire, and, 
indeed, against all that might injure either the soul 
or the body. Besides this “Scapular of Mount Car- 
mel,” there are three others, like- 
wise made of two pieces of wool- 
len cloth. The four scapulars may 
all be worn at once. In this case, 
each of the two parts is composed 
of four pieces, which are sewed to- 
gether like the leaves of a book; 
and the two parts are joined to- 
gether by two tape strings about 
eighteen inches long. Of these 
four leaves or pieces in each part, 
the “Scapular of Mount Carmel” 
is brown and about four inches 
square; the “Scapular of our Lady 
of the Seven Dolors” is black and 
somewhat smaller; the “Scapular 
of the Immaculate Conception” is 
_ , t blue and still smaller; the “Scapu- ' 

Pn Carmel 1" of tl.e Most Holy Trinity” is 
white and the smallest, with a 
cross of red and blue wool in the middle of it (Bar- 
num, Romanism as it Js, p. 538). Many graces and in- 
dulgences are attached to the wearing of the scapula- 
ries by many papal bulls; one of these, the bull Sabba- 
tina , secures to the wearer, by direct promise from the 
Virgin to pope John XXI, deliverance from purgatorial 
fire on the first Saturdav after death. 



Scarf, a piece of silk or other material, hanging 
from the neck, worn over the rochet or surplice. It is 
not mentioned in the rubric of the English ritual, but 
is worn by our bishops and dignitaries of the Church. | 


It has been used from the primitive ages by the clergy, 
when the presbyters and bishops wore a scarf in the 
administration of the sacraments, and on some other 
occasions. According to Walcott (Sacred A rchceology ), 
it properly belonged to the doctors of divinity and dig- 
nitaries, is called talaga in Italy and Malta, and is worn 
by the doctors of theology. 

Scarlatti, Alessandro, an Italian musical com- 
poser, was born at Naples in 1659. He received a good 
musical education, and, at the age of twenty-one, wrote 
his first opera. Little is known of his life except that 
he was master of the royal chapel under Christina of 
Sweden in 1680, and after her death filled the same of- 
fice in the church of Santa Maria Maggiore in Rome. 
He also taught in various musical conservatories. He 
died Oct. 24. 1725. His principal works are about thir- 
ty in number, chiefly upon secular subjects, but among 
them are several oratorios, one called The Sacrifice of 
Abraham: — two renderings of the Stabat Mater: — and 
six Masses, See Fet is, Biog. U niv. des M usiciens . — Hee- 
ler, Noui\ Biog, Generale , s. v. 

Scarlet often occurs in Scripture associated with 
purple and blue. The words so translated occur in the 
following forms ; 1. shani ', and D "3 wj, shanim', 

alone, Gen. xxxviii, 28-30; Josh, ii, 18-21 ; 2 Sam. i, 
24; Prow xxxi, 21 ; Cant, iv, 3; Jer. iv, 30; Sept, kok- 
kivov, Vulg. coccinum ; Isa. i, 18, (poiviKovv, coccinum. 
2. r.rV.H, toldath shani' , Exod. xxv, 4; xxvi, 
1, 31, 36; xxvii, 16; xxviii, 5, 6, 8, 45; xxxv, 6, 23, 25; 
xxxviii, 18, 23; xxxix, 3; Numb, iv, 8, kokkwov, and 
kokkivqv with CittXovv, kekXloo -fisvov, kXiotov , CiavE- 
vrj(Tf.iEvov, Vulg. bis tinefus , coccus bis t met us, and ver- 
miculus . 3. "3‘j, sheni toldath , Lev. xiv, 4, 6, 

49,51,52; Numb, xix, 6; Sept, kokkivov, with kekXwg- 
fiEvov, and kXmgtov ; vermiculus, coccus, and with bis 
tinctus. 4. zAin, told, alone, Isa. i, 18, kokkiuou, ver- 
miculus; Lam. iv, 5, Vulg. croceis ; Nah. ii, 3, coccineis . 
In the New Test., Matt, xxvii, 28; Heb. ix, 19; Rev. 
xvii, 3, 4, xviii. 12, 16; kokkivoq, coccineus . The first 
of these words, shani', is by some derived from shanah ', 
nrj. “to repeat,” and is thus interpreted to mean 
“double dyed,” but which, Gesenius observes, is appli- 
cable only to the Tyrian purple (see Braunius, De Vest. 
i, 15, § 214, p. 237; Bochart, IJieroz. i, 3, p. 525-527). 
Gesenius prefers an Arabic root meaning to shine , because 
scarlet garments were admired for their brightness: but 
Jerome asserts that the word means coccinum ( Epist . 
ad Fabiolam). It is certain that told denotes a worm, 
grub, or insect, and the Sept, and Vulg. plainly under- 
stood by it the coccus , from which the ancients procured 
a blood-red crimson dye, the Coccus ilicis of Linnaeus, 
class iVjTetragyma, the kermez of the Arabians, whence 
used to be derived the French word cramoisi, and our 
crimson; but Kihan gives carmensinum, because made 
from a worm, which, in the Phoenician tongue, is called 
carmen. Hesychius defines coccus as that from which 
the Phoenician dye is obtained. It was the female of 
this remarkable insect that was employed ; and though 
supplanted by the cochineal (Coccus cacti), it is still 
used for the purpose in India and Persia. It attains 
the size and form of a pea, is of a violet- black color, 
covered with a whitish powder, adhering to plants, 
chiefly various species of oak, and so closely resembling 
grains that its insect nature was not generally known 
fur many centuries. According to Beckman, the epithet 
vermiculotus was applied to it during the Middle Ages, 
when this fact became generally understood, and that 
hence is derived the word vermilion. Hence the Hebrew 
words mean both the coccus itself, and the deep red or 
bright rich crimson which was derived from it (as in 
Cant, iv, 3, “thy lips are like a thread of scarlet”); and 
so the word “scarlet” signified in the time of our trans- 
lators, rather than the color now called by that name, 
and which was unknown in the time of James I. This 



SCARLET 


399 


SCATTERGOOD 


insect is widely distributed over many of the south- 
eastern countries of the ancient world. It occurs abun- 
dantly iu Spain (Kirby and Spence, Introduction to En- 
tomology [1828], i, 319, 320). It is found on the Quercus 
cocci/era, or kermes oak, in Palestine (Kitto, Physical 
History, p. 219). Pliny speaks of the coccus as a red 
color much esteemed, which he distinguishes from pur- 
ple (Hist. Nat. ix, 05), and describes as a gay, red, 
lively bright, approaching the color of fire (ibid, and 
xxi, 22). All the ancients concur in saying that this 
dye was made from a sort of little grains which were 
gathered from the holm-oak (Theophrast. I list. Plant. 
iii, 10; Pliny, xvi, 12; Dioscorides, iv, 48; Pausan. x, 
30). They not only call them grains, but speak of them 
as the vegetable productions of the oak itself (Plutarch, 
Thesaur. p.7); and Pliny (Hist. Nat. xvi, 12) calls them 
cuscidia, from the Greek kogkvWhv, which signifies “to 
cut little excrescences,” because they cut or scrape off 
these small grains of the oak. Yet he was not entirely 
ignorant of their insect character, for he speaks of it be- 
coming a worm (xxiv,4). It seems, however, that the 
color thus obtained was not durable (xxii, 3). It was 
known at a very early period in Canaan (Gen. xxxviii, 
28) ; it was one of the colors of the high-priest’s ephod 
(Exod. xxviii,G), and of its girdle (ver.8), of the breast- 
plate (ver. 15), and of cloths for sacred uses (Numb, iv, 
8); it was used in cleansing the leper (Lev. xiv, 4), to 
indicate, as Abarbanel thinks, that a healthy complex- 
ion was restored to him. It was the dress of females in 
the time of Saul (2 Sam. i, 24); of opulent persons in 
later times (Lam. iv, 5); of the Babylonian and Median 
soldiers, who also wore red shields (Nah. ii, 4; comp. 
“ Scuta lectissimis coloribus distinguunt,” Tacitus, De 
M or. Germ. c. 6 , and Philostratus, Epist.de Lacedeemoniis). 
Three mistranslations of the word occur in our version, 
“She is not afraid of the snow for her household: for all 
her household are clothed with scarlet” (Prov. xxxi, 
21). Since there is no connection between the color and 
a defence from the cold, it would be better rendered, 
as in the margin, “double garments.” (Comp. Sept. 
ivdfdvpkvof, Yulg. vestiti duplicibus .) The next verse 
of the Sept, begins Anrrrde % Xaivat ; tTrohjoi rty dvftpt 
avrijc , She hath made double garments for her husband. 
In Isa. i, 18 and Jer. iv, 30 the word should be ren- 
dered “ scarlet,” and not “crimson.” The final reference 
to scarlet is in regard to pagan Home, which, like all 
cities, is represented as a female; and since everybody 
w r ore scarlet in Rome, and especially during war, she is 
described as being arrayed in that color. In Exod. 
xxxix, 3, it is said, “They did beat gold into their 
plates, and cut into wires, to work in the blue, and in 
the purple, and in the scarlet, and in the fine linen,” 
which is explained to mean that these five kinds — blue, 
purple, scarlet, fine linen, and gold — were tw’isted into 
one thread; thus a thread of gold with six threads of 
blue, and so with the rest, after which they twisted all 
these threads into one (Brannius, i, 17, 20). It seems 
plain, from Exod. xxxv, 25, that the blue and purple 
and scarlet were spun by hand from v’ool already dyed 
of these colors. The white ground was invariably des- 
ignated by the term “ fine linen.” The cloth u'as thus 
in stripes or checks of different materials. Wilkinson 
remarks that the color w r as in like manner imparted by 
the Egyptians to the thread, etc. — that is, cloth was not 
dyed after being woven (Manners and Customs, iii, 125). 
It will have been perceived that great difficulty attends 
the attempt to determine the precise distinctions of 
colors known to the ancients by the various preceding 
names. The only possible method whereby they could 
have conveyed them to our minds would have been by 
comparing them to the colors of natural objects, w T hose 
appearance was immutable and whose identity was be- 
yond question. Such an attempt has been made by 
bishop Wilkins in his Real Character . We may illus- 
trate the utility of these requisites by the color blue, 
which is defined to mean “the color produced or ex- 
posed to the view by the blowing aw ? ay, or clearing 


away, or dispersing of the clouds” (Encyclop. Metropol.'). 
But, as is well known, the shades of ethereal blue vary 
in different countries, and even in di Horen t altitudes of 
the same country; hence the won! blue, if illustrated 
by this standard, would convey a different idea to the 
inhabitants of different regions. It is most likely that 
all our ideas of sensible impressions are liable to errors 
of association. It is, however, satisfactory to know' that, 
like all other dubious matters, these are of minor im- 
portance. We add a further reference to Goguet, Ori- 
gin of Lutes, A rts, and Sciences, ii, 95, etc. (Edinb. 1704). 
— Kitto. See Color. 

The natural history of the kokkoq may be thus sum- 
med up. It is a genus of insects belonging to the or- 
der Homoptera, of which the males have a single pair 
of wings and an obsolete month; while the females 
have no wings, but a perfect mouth (rostrum) formed 
for piercing plants and sucking their juices. They live 
on trees and plants of various kinds. Upw ards of thirty 
species are included in the catalogue of British insects; 
but of these many have probably been introduced on 
exotic plants. There are numerous species, many of 
which are known to yield 
rich dyes, and several have 
been employed in the arts. 

Up to the time of the dis- 
covery of America none 
could compete with the spe- 
cies which infests the ever- 
green oaks (Coccus ilicis ) ; 
but that has been thrown 
into the shade by the su- 
perior productiveness, if not 
the superior color, of a 
Mexican species (C. cacti). 
whence w r e obtain cochi- 
neal. The insect called ker- 
mes by the Arabs is abun- 
dant wherever the tree on 
which it lives is common. 

All over the south of Eu- Excrescences on the Oak 
rope and throughout West- n,ade ,J - V the Cum,s ihcis - 
ern Asia this occurs in extensive forests. The hills 
of the south of Judah about Hebron, the sides of Car- 
mel and of Tabor, the slopes of Gilead and Bashan, 
besides many other localities in Palestine, are sheeted 
with forests and groves of the evergreen oaks, from 
which a copious harvest of coccus may be annually 
gathered. It is no wonder, then, that the dye was so 
early familiar to the people of Canaan. It is in that 
stage of the insect when the larva is about fully grown 
that it contains the coloring matter in greatest abun- 
dance. The little scales are picked from the tree and 
simply dried, when they yield their dye by infusion in 
w'ater. To make this permanent, what is called a mor- 
dant is added — a substance wdiich, having no coloring 
faculty in itself, acts chemically as a bond of union be- 
tween the dye and the textile material, and often mod- 
ifies the tint. The ancients used an impure alum for 
this purpose. Pliny tells us that thus w r as obtained 
from the kokkoc a color of the most brilliant character 
(Hist. A r at. ix, 05; xxi, 22). The hue now produced 
by the Kermes coccus with alum is a rich blood -red; 
but. if the same mordant be used as with cochineal — 
solution of tin — it yields a scarlet fully as brilliant 
as that rich American dye, and perhaps more perma- 
nent (Bancroft, Perm . Col. i, 404). The far greater 
proportion of coloring matter to the bulk in the latter 
will always, however, prevent the kermes from regain- 
ing its commercial importance. — Fairbairn, s. v. Sec 
Crimson. 

Scattergoocl, Samvel, an English clergyman of 
the latter part of the 17th century, was a fellow of 
Trinity College, Oxford, vicar of Blockly, Worcester- 
shire (1G78), and died in 1090. A volume of his Ser- 
mons w r as published (Loud. 1723, 2 vols. 8vo; reprinted 
1810). 



SCAURUS 


400 


SCEPTICISM 


Scaurus, M. /Emilius, a Roman governor of Syria | 
in New-Test, times, was the eldest son of bis father of 
the same name, and stepson of the dictator Sulla, whom 
his mother, Oneida, married after the death of his fa- 
ther. Xu the third Mithridatic war, he served under 
Pompev as quaestor. The latter sent him to Damas- 
cus with an army, and from thence he marched into 
Judaea to settle the disputes between the brothers Ilvr- 
canus and Aristobnlus. Both of them offered him large 
sums of money : but he decided for Aristohulus, prob- 
ably because he bid the highest, B.C. 04. After driving 
Hvrcanus out of Judaea, Scaurus returned to Damas- 
cus. Upon Pumpey’s arrival at this city in the follow- 
ing year, an accusation was brought against Scaurus of 
having been bribed by Aristobnlus; but, though Pom- 
pev reversed his decision and placed Hvrcanus upon the 
throne, he took no notice of the charges, and left Scau- 
rns in the command of Syria with two legions. Scau- 
rus remained in Syria till IX. C. 59, when he was suc- 
ceeded by L. Marcius Philippus. During his govern- 
ment of Syria lie made a predatory incursion into Ara- 
bia Pe trait, but withdrew on the payment of three hun- 
dred talents by Aretas, the king of the country. 

On his return to Home he became a candidate for 
the curule iedileship, which he held in B.C. 58, the year 
in which P. Godins was tribune. The extraordinary 
splendor with which be celebrated the public games 
surpassed everything of the kind that had been pre- 
vious! v witnessed in Home, and it is by them that his 
name has been chiefly handed down to posterity. The 
temporary theatre which lie built accommodated 80,000 
spectators, and was adorned in the most magnificent 
manner. Three hundred and sixty pillars decorated 
the stage, arranged in three stories, of which the lowest 
was made of white marble, the middle one of glass, and 
the highest of gilt wood. Between the pillars there 
were three thousand statues, besides paintings and oth- 
er ornaments. The combats of wild beasts were equal- 
ly astonishing. A hundred and fifty panthers wore ex- 
hibited in the circus, and five crocodiles and a hippopot- 
amus were seen for the first time at Home, But Scaurus 
purchased the favor of the people in these shows rather 
too dearly. So costly were they that they not only ab- 
sorbed all the property which his father had left him 
and the treasures which he had accumulated in the 
East, but compelled him to borrow money of the usurers 
in order to defray the expenses. 

In B.C. 5G Scaurus was prator, during which year he 
presided in the court in which P. Sestius was accused, 
who was defended by Cicero. In the following year 
he governed the province of Sardinia, which he plun- 
dered without mercy, as he wanted money both to pay 
his debts and to purchase the consulship. On his re- 
turn to Rome in B.C. 54, lie became a candidate for the 
consulship; but before the consular elections took place 
his competitors, at the beginning of July, got P. Valeri- 
us Triarius and three others to accuse him of repetundre 
in Sardinia, thus hoping to get rid of a formidable op- 
ponent. His guilt was certain, there were numerous 
witnesses against him; and M. Cato, who presided as 
pnetor, was not to be corrupted, and was favorable to 
Triarius. Still, Scaurus did not despair. lie was de- 
fended by Cicero and Hortensius, as well as by four 
other orators. Many of the most distinguished men at 
Rome, and among them nine persons of consular rank, 
pleaded on bis behalf; while the tears of Scaurus him- 
self, and his appeals to the splendor of his aulileship, 
produced a powerful effect upon the judices. Thus, 
notwithstanding his guilt, he was acquitted oil the 2d 
of September, almost- unanimously. Soon afterwards, 
and in the course of the same year, lie was again ac- 
cused by Triarius on a charge of ambitus (Cicero, Ad 
Att.iv, 10,7,8: iv, 17, 2; Ad Q. Fr. iii,2, 3). Drumaun 
says that be was condemned in this year and went into 
exile. But this appears to be a mistake; for although 
it is evident from the preceding passages in Cicero’s 
letters that Scaurus was accused of ambitus in B.C. 54, 


it is equally clear from the testimony of Appian (Z?. C. 
ii, 24) that he was condemned in the third consulship 
of Pompev, B.C. 52. Hence it is probable that Scaurus 
was acquitted in B.C. 54, and accused again in B.C. 52 
under Pompey’s new law against ambitus. From this 
time the name of Scaurus does not occur again. He 
married Mucia, who had been previously the wife of 
Pompev, and by her he had one son (Josephus, A nt. 
xiv, 3-5 ; War, i, 7 ; Appian. Syr. 51 ; Cicero, Pro Sest. 
54} De Off. ii, 10; Pliny, II. X. xxxvi.2; xxxvi, 15, s. 
24, et alibi ; Val. Max. ii. 4, 6 ; Cicero, Ad Q. Fr. ii, 15, 4 ; 
ii, 10, 3 ; iii, 1,4, 5; iii, 2, 3 ; A d Aft. iv, 15, 7, 9 ; iv, 10, 
7, 8; iv, 17, 2: De Off. i, 39 ; Ascon. Argum. in Scaur. ; 
and the fragments of Cicero's oration for Scaurus). 

The following coin was struck in the curule redile- 
ship of Scaurus and his colleague, P. Plautius llypsieus. 
The subject of the obverse relates to Hypsieus, and that 
of the reverse to Scaurus. The former represents Jupi- 
ter in a quadriga, with p. hypsaevs. aed. cvk. c. hvp- 
sae. cos. preiver. captv. ; the latter part of the legend 
referring to the conquest of Privernum by C. Plautius 
Hypsneus, in B.C. 341. On the obverse side is a camel, 
with Aretas kneeling by the side of the animal, and 
holding an olive-branch in his hand. The subject re- 
fers to the conquest of Aretas by Scaurus mentioned 
above. The legend is m. scavr. aed. cvr. ex. s. c., 
and below rex aretas (Eckhel, v, 131,275). — Smith, 
Diet, of (Jr. and Pom. Biog. s. v. See Aretas. 



Coiu of M. iEmilius Scaurus, Jnu. 


Scenophylaces. See Ceimeli archie. 

Scenophylacium, the innermost part of the din - 
conicum , or vestry of the church, and the repository of 
the sacred vessels and such anathemata or presents as 
were reputed among the chiefest treasures of the church. 
It was otherwise called Secretarium, because, as Du 
Fresne conjectures, the consistory or tribunal of the 
church was kept here. See Bingham, Antiq. of the 
Christian Church , i, 3 11. 

Scephrus, in Greek mythology, was a son* of Te- 
geates, king of Tegea. He had an interview with 
Apollo in the temple at Tegea, and his brother Limon, 
believing that its object -was to lodge a complaint 
against himself, slew him. Limon was himself slain 
by an arrow from Diana’s quiver; but a great dearth 
came to pass, nevertheless, and the oracle advised that 
mourning ceremonies be observed in memory of Sce- 
phrus. Games were accordingly instituted in honor of 
Apollo and Diana, in which a priestess of the latter, 
armed with bow and arrow, was expected to pursue any 
individual, in imitation of the pursuit of Limon by Di- 
ana. — Vollmer, Wortcrh. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Scepticism (from Gr. oKkirTOfiai, I consider') strict- 
ly denotes that condition in which the mind is before it 
has arrived at conclusive opinions — when it is still in 
the act of investigating or reflecting. Scepticism is 
therefore the opposite of dogmatism. Disbelief is quite 
a secondary meaning of the term. The Sceptics (dis- 
ciples of Pyrrho of Elis) aimed at' an undisturbed tran- 
quillity of mind, to be attained by a constant balancing 
of opposing arguments, thus reducing everything to a 
state of uncertainty and doubt. Popularly, the word is 
employed to signify the rejection of all religion — infi- 
delity. 

Scepticism has assumed several forms, of which the 
following are among the most common, (i) Pantheism, 
or antisupernaturalism. Spinoza, the leader of this 
class, talks of nothing less than demonstration, and of 
being infallibly led to each conclusion by arguments 
which admit of no reply; a geometrical method ofdem- 


SCEPTICS 


401 


SCIIAATS 


onstration, the use of which, he said, made it unnecessa- 
ry to attend to the arguments of opponents, (ii) The 
academic form, which originated with the Sophists, and 
which Bayle revived, the essence of which consists in 
opposing all the systems of speculative belief to each 
other. Academic doubt is ever seeking, for the avowed 
purpose of never finding; and perpetually reasoning, in 
order that it may never come to any conclusion, (iii) 
The absolute form, which strikes at the root of all opin- 
ions, and appears to found a system of universal doubt 
in the human understanding itself. Of this kind of 
scepticism the writings of 11 ume furnish the great and 
unrivalled example in modern times, (iv) Ridicule. 
This contains no philosophy, but is a mere series of 
doubting and jesting. Such was the scepticism of 
Voltaire, (v) The historical form: this is contained 
in a narrative relating to the times and circumstances 
with which religion is chiefly concerned; and while 
preserving an outward regard to morals, misrepresents 
with irony the miraculous history of the Bible, and 
takes care, without absolutely falsifying facts, to place 
it in an absurd and improbable point of view. The 
history of Gibbon, dealing much in insinuation and 
very little in argument, is, perhaps, the most dangerous 
production in this class which has yet appeared, be- 
cause it least admits of a reply. For who, as Palev ob- 
serves, “ can refute a sneer?” (vi) Sentimental infidel- 
ity. Such was the unbelief of Bousseau. Other infi- 
dels would destroy Christianity without having fixed 
on any other system to substitute in its place; but, if 
Rousseau has no system, he has abundance of “senti- 
ments” and imaginations, and has a dim poetical deity 
of his own to worship, though he can assign no definite 
attributes to it, nor form any positive conception of his 
shadowy god. See Eden, Theol. Diet. s. v. 

The most modern form of scepticism is rationalism 
(q. v.), which strictly signifies that method of thought 
which, in matters of religion, not only allows the use 
of reason, but considers it indispensable. The term 
has now, however, acquired a wider meaning, and stands 
in opposition to supcrnaturalism (q. v.), or the belief in 
that which transcends, or, as others view it, contradicts 
both nature and reason — as, for example, miracles. 

Sceptics. See Scepticism. 

Sceptre (Heb. ske'bet ), in its primary signifi- 

cation, like the equivalent rnci}7rrpov (for the root of 
the Hebrew and Greek words seems identical ; comp, 
also English shaft), denotes a staff of wood (Ezek. xix, 
1 1), about the height of a man, which the ancient kings 
and chiefs bore as insignia of honor (Homer, Iliad, i, 
234, 245; ii, 185 sq.; Amos i, 5; Zech. x, 11 , Wisd, x, 
14; comp. Gen. xlix, 10; Numb, xxiv, 17 ; Isa. xiv, 5; 
wand, Lev. xxvii, 32). As such it is thought by some 
to have originated in the shepherd’s staff, since the 
first kings were mostly nomad princes (Strabo, xvi, 
783; comp. Psa. xxix). There were, however, some 
nations among whom the agricultural life must have 
been the earliest known ; and we should not among 


on, as repre- j 
the Egyptian t /-v 
s, are various. J\ S 
iris was a flail / \ f 

(Wilkinson, U 1 / 



itres— 1, 
: Queens. 


them expect to find the shepherd’s staff advanced to 
symbolical honor. Accordingly, Diodorus Siculus (iii, 
3) informs us that the sceptre 
of the Egyptian kings bore the 
shape of a plough. The symbols 
of dominion, as repre- 
sented on the Egyptian 
monuments, i 
That of Osiris 
and crook 

A nc. Egypt, i, 257) ; that , . ^ 

of the (lueens besides Ancient Egyptian Sceptn 
ot tne queens, oesutes c f Osms ; 2, of the Que< 

the crown (q. v.), was 
two loose feathers on their head (ibid, i, 270). A carved 
ivory stall' discovered at Nimrfid is supposed to have been 
a sceptre (Layard, A’ in. and Dab. 
p. 195). A golden sceptre — that 
is, perhaps, one washed or plated 
with gold — is mentioned in Ezek. 
iv, 1 1 (comp.Xenophon,C , y?' 07 ?. viii. 
7, 13 ; Ilomer, Iliad, i, 15 ; ii, 268 : 
Odyss. xi, 91). Other decorations 
of Oriental sceptres are noticed by 
Strabo (xvi, 746). Inclining the 
sceptre was a mark of kingly fa- 
vor (Esth. iv, 11), and the kissing 
it a token of submission (v, 2). 
Saul appears to have carried his 
javelin as a mark of superiority 
(2 Sam. viii, 14; comp. 1 Sam. xv, 
10; xxii,6). The use of the staff 
as a symbol of authority was not 
confined to kings, it might be 
used by any leader, as instanced in 
Judg. v, 14, where for “ pen of the 
^ , , , writer,” as in the A. V., we should 

P SSX ‘ ** lender." In- 

! rud. deed, no instance of the sceptre 

being actually handled by a Jewish 
king occurs in the Bible; the allusions to it are all of a 
metaphorical character, and describe it simply as one of 
the insignia of supreme power (Psa. xlv, 6; Bar. vi, 14). 
j The term shebet is rendered in the A. V. “ rod” in two 
I passages where sceptre is substantially meant, viz. in 
j Rsa. ii, 9, where “sceptre of iron” is an expression for 
strong authority, and in Psa. exxv, 3 ; a use derived 
j from the employment of the same word as an ordinary 
“rod” of correction (Exod. xxi, 10, and often), and even 
for beating out grain (Isa. xxviii, 27). See Rod. 

Sce'va (properly Skeuas, Swung), a Jew residing at 
Ephesus at the time of Paul’s second visit to that city 
(Acts xix, 14-16), A.D. 52. He is described as a 
“ high-priest” («py<epei/(;), either as having exercised 
the office at Jerusalem, or as being chief of one of the 
twenty-four classes. Ilis seven sons attempted to ex- 
orcise spirits by using the name of Jesus, and on one oc- 
casion severe injury was inflicted by the dnemoniac on 
two of them (as implied in the term dpcporepiov, the 
true reading in ver. 16 instead of avru )v). — Smith. 




Group of Egyptian Sceptres. (From the mouumeuts.) 
IX.-C c 


Scliaaf, Charles, a German Orientalist, was 
born at Huys, electorate of Cologne, in 1646. He 
was educated at Duisburg, and became professor 
of Oriental languages in that university in 1677. 
In 1679 he took the same position in the univer- 
sity at Leyden, where he continued until 1729, 
when he died of apoplexy. Ilis works are, Opus 
A ramman. (1686, 8vo): — Novum Ttstamentum 
Syriacum, cum Versione Latina (170K, 4to): — 
Epitome Grammatical Hrbraicre (1716, 8vo): — 
Sermo A cademicus de Linyuarum Orientalium 
Scientia. In 1711 he prepared a catalogue of all 
the Hebrew, Chaldee, Syriac, and Samaritan 
books and MSS. of the Leyden University Li- 
brary. — Chalmers, Bioy. Diet. s. v. 

Schaats, Gideon, the second pastor of the 
Reformed Church in Albany, N. V., was born in 


SCHADE 


402 


SCHARTAUANS 


Holland in 1597, and at first was a schoolmaster at Beest. 
Having been ordained by the Classis of Amsterdam, he 
was sent to this country with the Rev. Samuel Drisius, 
a man of great learning, who preached in Dutch, Eng- 
lish, and French, and was one of the ministers of the 
Dutch Church in New York from 1652 to 1671, being col- 
league with Dr.JolinMegapolensis. Drisitis had previous- 
ly been pastor of a Reformed Dutch Church in London. 
In addition to preaching in New York, he used to go 
once a month to Staten Island to preach to the French 
Yaudois or Waldenses, who had tied to Holland from 
persecutions in Piedmont, and were by the liberality of 
the city of Amsterdam enabled to emigrate to the New 
Netherlands. Mr. Schaats was forty-five years old when 
he came to this country, and his ministry here extended 
over thirty years. One of his three children — his eldest 
son — was killed in the massacre and burning of Sche- 
nectady, Feb. 10, 1690. During his pastorate in Albany, 
the governor (Sir Edmund Andross) compelled dominie 
Schaats to receive as a colleague the Rev. Nicholas Van 
Ranslaer, a Church-of-England-man, who was recom- 
mended to Andross by the duke of York, and who at- 
tempted to obtain a living by laying claim to the pulpit 
and also to the manor of Rensselaerwyck. Van Ranslaer 
officiated for about a year, when he died. The people 
refused to acknowledge him, as also did the Classis of 
Amsterdam. He was strongly suspected of being a pa- 
pist in disguise. Mr. Schaats was aided in the contro- 
versy with Andross by Rev. William Van Niewenhuysen 
of New York, who was sent to Albany for the purpose, 
and incurred the governor’s bitterest enmity on this ac- 
count. The latter part of Mr. Schaats’s ministry was 
marked by congregational and domestic troubles. He 
died in 1674. See Rogers, Historical Discourse (1858); 
Corwin, Manual of Reformed Ch.; Murphy, Anthology 
of Xew Netherlands. (W. J. R. T.) 

Schade, Georg, a Danish jurist in Altona, after- 
wards in Kiel, was born in 1711. He was the author 
of a deistical work, Die unwandelbare und ewige Reli- 
gion der altesten Naturforscher , etc. (Leips. 1760), in 
which he attempts an absolute demonstration of the 
chief doctrines of faith and practice, independently of 
all revelation. He even constructs a complete theory of 
the resurrection of the body and of the future life. Soon 
after this book appeared, a pretended refutation of it was 
published at Altona by a so-named professor R. Goisee, 
with the evident design of simply calling attention to 
the first work. The magistracy of Hamburg honored 
Schade’s book with a public burning, and the king of 
Denmark deposed him from his office and banished him. 
It was only on the accession of Christian VII (1766) 
that he was recalled and restored to office. Thence- 
forth he devoted himself exclusively to his judicial du- 
ties, until his death in 1795. See Herzog, Real-Ency- 
klop. xx, 686-688. (J. I\ L.) 

Schade, Johann Caspar, an eminent pietist, 
was born in 1666. He studied at Leipsic (1685-89), 
came into intimacy with Franeke, and shared in the re- 
ligious awakening of which Franeke was subsequently 
a leader. In 1690 Schade was called to the Church of 
St. Nicolas, in Berlin. Spener had just previously be- 
gun his fruitful ministry in this church. The two other 
colleagues were also pietistically- minded. Here now 
began for Schade a very laborious ami fruitful ministry. 
His zeal was seraphic, his temperament ascetic. He 
abstained from marriage that he might be more wholly 
devoted to Christ. Soon there arose dillerences between 
him and Spener. Schade knew no moderation in the 
pursuit of what he regarded as duty. He raised his 
voice against the abuses of private confession, and 
Spener refuted him. After much agitation, a govern- 
mental decision of 1698 removed the exaction of private 
confession and absolution, and permitted a merely gen- 
eral public confession in its place. But Schade did not 
live to enjoy this release from what had been to him 
an oppressive duty. He died in July of the same year. 


See Evangelische Kirchenzeitnng , 1860, No. 489 sq. ; Her- 
zog, Real-Encyklop . (J. 1\ L.) 

Schadow, Fkiei>ricu Wilhelm von, a German 
painter, was born at Berlin, Sept. 6, 1789. II is early 
studies in art were directed by his father, hut in 1806 he 
abandoned them for the military service, in which he 
remained for four years. 1 n Rome he afterwards studied 
under Cornelius and Overbeck, became a convert to Ca- 
tholicism, and assisted his masters in the decoration of 
several villas and churches. In 1819 he became a mem- 
ber of the Academy of Fine Arts at Berlin, and in 1827 
he was made director of the Academy at Diisseldorf. 
Here his peculiar religious views and mystical tenden- 
cies led to a break with his pupils, and his school 
was divided, the seceding party being led by Lessing. 
Schadow was made a nobleman in 1843. He published 
a pamphlet entitled Snr V Influence du Christianisme stir 
les Arts (Diisseldorf, 1842): — and Der Moderne Vasari 
(Berlin, 1854). lie died in 1862. Of his paintings in 
Rome, the most remarkable are A Holy Family , The 
Virgin Mary, and The Union of Poetry and Sculpture. 

In Berlin is his Four Evangelists , and at Frankfort The 
BT.s'e Virgins and The Foolish Virgins. See Uechtriz, 
Blicke in das Diisseldorfer Kiinstlerleben ; Piitmann, Die 
Diisseldorfer Malerschule. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Gene- 
rale , s. v. 

Schall, Johann Adam von, a Jesuit missionary to 
China, was born at Cologne in 1591. He entered the Jes- 
uit order in 1611, and was selected, partly because of his 
knowledge of mathematics and astronomy, to form one 
of the mission to China in 1620. He not only formed a 
successful mission, but, on account of his learning, was 
invited to the imperial court at Pekin. Through his 
influence with the emperor, he obtained an edict author- 
izing the building of Catholic churches and liberty of 
preaching throughout the empire. In the space of four- 
teen years the Jesuit missionaries are said to have re- 
ceived 100,000 proselytes. Upon the death of the em- 
peror the edict was revoked. Schall was thrown into 
prison and sentenced to death, was released, again im- 
prisoned, and died Aug. 15, 1669. A large MS. collec- 
tion of his remains in Chinese, amounting to fourteen 
volumes in 4to, is preserved in the Vatican Library. 
See Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generale, s. v. 

Schalling, Martin, a Lutheran divine, was born 
at Strasburg, April 21, 1532. He studied at Wittemberg, 
and was pastor at Regensburg, Vilseck (in Upper Pala- 
tine), and Amherg. In the latter place he was deposed 
because he would not subscribe to the Formula Concor- 
dia \ lie died at Nuremberg, being pastor of St. Mary’s, 
Dec. 29, 1608. He was a pious man, of whose hymn, 
Herzlicli lieb' hab' ich dich, 0 Herr (Eng. trail si. in SchaflTs 
Christ in Song , p. 609, “O Lord! I love thee from my 
heart”), Gellert said that it was “worth more than many 
volumes of new hymns, which have no other merit than 
that of a smoother language.” The hymn which we 
have mentioned, and which is based on Psa. xviii and 
lxxiii, was a favorite of Spener, Gellert, the duchess of 
Orleans (daughter of Louis Philippe), and others. See 
Koch, Gesch. des deutschen Kirchenliedes , ii, 282 sq. ; viii, 
265; Knapp, Evangel. Liederschatz , p. 1342, s. v. ; Rit- 
telmever, Die erangelischen Kirchenliederdichter des El- 
sasses (Jena, 1856), p. 52 sq. (B. P.) 

Schamyl. See Shamyl. 

Scliartauaiis, a recent sect in Sweden, named af- 
ter Schartau, a clergyman, whom they profess to follow'. 
When Schartau died, he left some skeletons of sermons * 
and a largo number of devoted followers. An idolatry 
of the man and his skeleton sermons commenced, and 
with it a new jora of Christian development, especially 
in Southern Sweden. It is neither Iligh-Church nor 
Low-Church nor Broad-Church, but a hard, stony stere- 
otype form — a certain way of preaching, talking, look- 
ing, and ’moving. The Scliartauaiis dislike all lay activ- 
ity — will join in no missionary w r ork, in no Bible society 


SCI1EDIUS 


403 


SCIIEFFLER 


— because that is to yoke with unbelievers; nor will they 
speak with any one on religious subjects unless he is an 
exclusive Schartauau. Another distinguishing feature 
is a great horror of the Moravians, founded on some un- 
pleasant experience of Scliartau’s own. Schartauism 
crept into Gothenburg about twenty years ago. 

Schedius, in Greek mythology, was (1) the son of 
Iphitus and grandson of Nanbolus, who led the Pho- 
cians, in connection with his brother Epistrophus, to 
Troy. lie fell by Hector’s hand in the stead of Ajax. 
(2) A son of Perimides, likewise leader of the Phocians, 
and killed by Hector. 

Scheelstrate, Emmanuel i>e, a Belgian antiquari- 
an and theologian, was born at Antwerp in 1649. In his 
youth he became much interested in ecclesiastical his- 
tory, and travelled in France and Italy for the purpose 
of meeting with the learned men of his day. His first 
work — on the pontifical prerogative — gained for him a 
canonrv and the position of chorister in the cathedral at 
Antwerp. Innocent XI called him to Home, and made 
him librarian of the Vatican and canon of St. John Lat- 
eral!. He died in Rome April 6, 1692. Scheelstrate 
was a great scholar and a most prolific writer, in most 
of his works maintaining the great dignity of the 
pope and endeavoring to extend his jurisdiction. Of 
his works we mention, A ntiquitas Illustrata circa Con- 
cilia Generalia, etc. (Antwerp, 1678, 4to): — Ecclesia Afri- 
cana sub Primate Carthaginiensi (ibid. 1679, 4to), in 
which he endeavored to prove that this Church recog- 
nised the pope as patriarch : — Acta Constant iensis Con - 
cilii (ibid. 1683): — De Auctoritate Patriarchali et Me- 
tropolitica (ibid. 1687, 4to). See Dupin, A uteurs Ec- 
clesiast.; Niceron, Memoirs. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Ge- 
nerate, s. v. 

Scheffer, Auy, a French painter, was born at Dort, 
in Holland, Feb. 18, 1795. His studies were carried on 
in Paris under baron Guerin, and in 1812 his first pict- 
ure appeared. His earlier pieces were in the line of 
historical and genre painting, and have become well 
known through engravings as The Death of St. Louis, 
The Sister of Char it g, and The Soldier's Widow. In 
the romantic style which was so prevalent at the time, 
Scheffer did not succeed so well, and felt that his power 
lay in a different direction. The inspiration given to 
his pencil by the works of Goethe and Byron is shown 
by his pictures Giaour , Faust , and a series of others. In 
religious painting, his Christ the Comforter and Christ 
the Remunei'ator , The Shepherds Led bg the Angel, Christ 
in the Garden, show a deep religious feeling, and are 
works of power and great beauty. One of his finest 
sentimental pieces is Francesca di Rimini and her Lover 
Meeting Dante and Virgil in Hell. As a portrait-painter 
he achieved great success, and the portraits of Lafay- 
ette, Lamartine, and others show his power. Scheffer 
worked incessantly, and his drawing is truthful and full 
of grace, his touch firm and well adapted to his style, 
and his color, though often wanting in mellowness, is 
still very beautiful. He was undoubtedly a great artist, 
and received the honor due to his talent. He was made 
commandant of the Legion of Honor in 1848, and died 
June 15, 1858. 

Schefller, Johann ( A ngelus Site sins ), a Catholic 
mystic of Germany of great speculative power and 
poetic fervor, was born at Breslau in 1624, of Polish 
Protestant parents, and received his early schooling at 
the Elisabethanum of that city. In 1643 he went to 
Strasburg to study medicine, but soon afterwards retired 
to Holland, where he spent several years, partly at Ley- 
den. Here he became interested in the writings of 
Jacob Bbhme, which exerted a decided influence on his 
subsequent life, llis religious studies did not, however, 
interrupt bis professional preparation, and in 1647 he 
went to the University of Padua, where he graduated 
July 9, 1648. Returning to Silesia, he served three 
years as family physician to a duke. Here ft soon be- 
came evident that he could not content himself with the 


stiff Lutheranism of the day, and he soon became sus- 
pected by the local clergy. The court preacher, Freitag, 
forbade the publication of his poems because of their 
mystical tone. lie found a patron, however, in Franck- 
enberg, a Silesian nobleman, who was also attracted by 
Bbhme. A poem which he published in memory of 
Franckenberg in 1652 seems to have brought him into 
trouble. Soon afterwards he left the service of the 
duke, and on June 12, 1653, entered the Catholic Church 
at Breslau, at the age of twenty-nine. His conversion 
raised no little outcry against him. II is motives were 
assailed. This led him to publish at Olmiitz, in 1653, 
liis Fundamenttd Reasons for Quitting iAitheranism, in 
which he gave fifty-five reasons for regarding Lutheran 
doctrine as erroneous and eighty-three for accepting 
Catholicism. “ In the whole matter,” said he, “ 1 have 
acted simply as an honest, conscientious Christian.” Af- 
ter his conversion he remained in Breslau, occupied with 
religious meditation and writing. In 1657 appeared si- 
multaneously his two chief works, Der cherubinische 
Wanders maun and Geistliche Hirtenlieder . In 1661 he 
was consecrated to the priesthood, and thenceforth acted 
as an almost bigoted champion of Romanism. In 1664 
he was made the intimate counsellor of the bishop of 
Breslau. For seven or eight years he was now engaged 
in embittered controversies with the Protestant Church. 
Among his assailants were Chemnitz of Jena and Al- 
berti of Leipsic. Abuse, caricature, and violence char- 
acterized both sides of the controversy. Many of these 
later writings he collected and published under the title 
Ecclesiologia (Neisse and Glatz, 1677, fob). His contro- 
versial activity seems to have rapidly consumed his 
strength, as he died at the early age of fifty-three. Of 
permanent results of his attacks upon Protestantism 
there is no trace. His writings soon fell into neglect, 
and it is only in quite recent times that they have met 
with full appreciation. They bear the stamp of deep 
conviction, and give evidence of wide acquaintance with 
the writings of the fathers and the mystics (see Grupp, 
Die romische Kirche [Dresden, 1840], and, on the Cath- 
olic side, Wittmann, A ngelus Silesius [Augsburg, 1842]). 
But it is more as a poet than as a polemic that Schefller 
holds a place in literature. His work Der cherubinische 
Wandersmann consists of a collection of 1675 brief ut- 
terances, mostly in Alexandrine verses of two to four 
lines each, unconnected and without systematic se- 
quence. The title explains itself from the fact that the 
book aims at pointing out the way whereby man, es- 
tranged from God by sin and buried in the love of the 
world, is to find his way back to communion with God. 
The undertone of these brief verses is of a strongly mys- 
tical character, and is entirely free from confessional 
distinctions. That we can return to God only bv pro- 
found contemplation of God ; and that the more we gaze 
upon God with open face and submit ourselves to him 
in perfect resignation and patience, so much the more 
are we essentially united to God and made possessors of 
all that is God’s — such is the thought that constantly 
recurs under a thousand images, and spreads a fragrance 
over every page. The Christian element in this thought 
is found in the fact that Schcffler presents the incarna- 
tion and redemption as the effective means of our return 
to God : but he also insists, myotic-like, that the process 
of incarnation must in some degree repeat itself in us, 
so that we also may become sons of God like Christ. 
That some of Scheffler’s utterances have a leaning tow- 
ards pantheism (e. g., “ I am as great t as God, and he is 
as small as 1;” “When 1 love God more than myself, 
then I give to him as much as he gives to me”) is not 
to be denied. But this may be explained partly from 
the intensely aphoristic form of expression at which the 
author aims, and partly from actual inconsistency of 
thought. In his second edition he earnestly repudiates 
all pantheism, and asserts that he never intends to im- 
ply the cessation of the creatural character of man, but 
only that our regenerated nature may become so filled 
with grace as that God shall be, to us, all and in all. Be- 


SCHEID 


404 


SCHELLING 


sides, he constantly emphasizes the distinctness of the 
world from God and the moral freedom of man. With 
all their defects, these aphorisms are unquestionably 
among the richest fruits in the whole literature of Chris- 
tian mysticism. They were highly esteemed by Arnold 
of Giessen, and by Leibnitz. In recent times the Wan- 
dersmann has received the warmest praises from Fried- 
rich Sehlegel, and has been reissued in whole (Sulz- 
bach. 1829) or in extracts (F. Horn, Yarnhagen von Ense, 
W. Muller, and others). But the poetic fame of Schef- 
fier rests still more upon his volume of hymns, Seelenlust 
(1G57-68; latest ed. Stuttgart, 1846), many of which have 
found a permanent place in the whole Protestant Ger- 
man Church. The latest of Schcffier’s poetic works 
consists of a very realistic presentation of the Last 
Things (Schweidnitz, 1G75), but it adds nothing to his 
fame. As to personal character, Scheffler is not without 
great inconsistencies. It is hard to believe that the pro- 
found sweetness of the poet and the fanatical zealotry 
of the controversialist could dwell in the same heart. 
Evidently the two natures of the man dwelt side by 
side, neither entirely mastering the other. The sources 
for the life of Scheffler are given in A. Kahlert’s A ngelns 
Silesius (Breslau, 1853). See Herzog, Real- Encyklop. xiii, 
478-485; Gervinus, Lit. Gesch.; Westminster Rev. Oct. 
1853 ; Hagenbach, 1 list, of Doctrines, ii, 204. (J. P. L.) 

Scheid, Eve hard, an eminent Dutch philologist, 
was born at Arnheim in 1742, and became professor of 
Oriental literature at Leyden. He died in 1795. Among 
his works are, An Arabic Grammar: — Dissertation on 
the Song of Hezekiah in Isaiah (Leyden, 1759): — Book 
of Genesis Revised: — Minerva, seu de Causis Latina: 
Linguce. See Thomas, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Schein, Johann Hermann, was born Jan. 20, 1587, 
at Gruenhahn, near Zwickau. He studied philosophy 
and theology at Leipsic. Being, however, besides, an 
excellent musician, he was called in 1615 as precentor 
to the famous Thomas School at Leipsic, where he died 
Nov. 19, 1630. He is the author of the beautiful hymn 
Mach ’s mit inir , Gott , nach deiner Guet' (Engl, transl. 
“ Deal with me, God, in mercy now,” in the Choral Book , 
No. 191). See Koch, Gesch. des deutschen Kirchenliedes , 
iii, 83 sq. ; viii, G24; Knapp, Evangel. Liederschatz , 
p. 1342, s. v. (B. P.) 

Schell, Levt, a Lutheran minister, was born Sept. 
9, 1823, at Berne, Schoharie County, N. Y. Having 
prepared himself for the ministry at Hartwick Semina- 
ry, he was licensed in 1853, and accepted a call as pas- 
tor of St. Thomas’s Lutheran Church at Churchtown, 
N. Y., where he spent twelve years and a half, laboring 
with all the enthusiasm and intensity of his ardent nat- 
ure. In 1866 he followed a call to the Clay and Cicero 
pastorate in Onondaga County, which he soon exchanged 
in 1867 with West Sandlake, in Kensselaer County. Hav- 
ing spent six years at West Sandlake, he accepted in 
1873 a call to West Camp, where, however, his valuable 
and successful labors were interrupted in 1876 by sick- 
ness of so serious a character that he was compelled to 
discontinue preaching. In 1877 he again entered upon 
his duties, but in May, 1878, he was obliged to close his 
pastoral labors, lie entertained the hope that he would 
again be enabled to resume his loved work of proclaim- 
ing the tidings of salvation, but his impaired constitu- 
tion had finally to succumb, and he died Dec. 27, 1878, 
at the age of fifty-five years, and after twenty-five years 
of arduous and successful labor iu the ministry of Jesus 
Christ. (B. P.) 

Schelling, Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph von, one 
of the four (Kant, Fichte, Schelling, llegcl) great spec- 
ulative philosophers of modern Germany, was born at 
Leonberg, near Stuttgart, in 1775. II is father, though 
but a rural clergyman, was an eminent scholar in 
Oriental and Rabbinical literature. Young Schelling 
showed early indications of his great powers. At fif- 
teen he entered the University of Tubingen, intending 
to make theology his profession. Here he formed an 


intimate friendship with the student (afterwards rival) 
llegel who was five years his senior, as also with the 
unfortunate poet Holderin. Lessing, Herder, and Kant 
were the admired heroes of these young geniuses. Also 
they were enthusiastically stirred by the new political 
ideas of the outbreaking French Revolution. 

Writings. — Schelling’s first attempt at authorship 
was his essay for his master’s degree in his eighteenth 
year, Antiquissimi de Prima Malorum Origine Philoso- 
phematisexplicandi Gen. iii Tentamen Criticum (1792). A 
year later he published a paper, Ueber Mythen (on the 
myths and sagas of antiquity), which shows how deeply 
the religious ideas of the aneients were already occupy- 
ing the young scholar. The year 1794, in which Fichte 
began his philosophical fame at Jena, was a turning- 
point in the history of Schelling. Fichte’s UTssch- 
schaftskhre at once set into ferment the kindred specu- 
lative powers of Schelling, who, from thenceforth for 
two decades, sent forth a rapid succession of works 
which have assured him a place among the great spec- 
ulatists of the race. Adopting Fichte’s idealism, he 
spiritedly defended it in the following papers: Ueber 
die Moglichkeit einer Form dev Ph ilosophie ( 1794) : — 1 'om 
Ich als Princip der Philosophie (1795): — Pkilosophische 
Brief e iiber Dogmatismus uml Kriticismus (1795) : — Xeue 
Deduktion des Xaturrechts ( 1795) : — A llgemeine Uebersicht 
der neuesten philosophiscken Literatur (1795). These 
papers show a gradual advance towards independence 
of thought and towards the chief features of the au- 
thor’s subsequent peculiar positions. In 1796 Schelling 
went to Leipsic and gave special attention to the study 
of physics. Here he began to meditate that peculiar 
Philosophy of Nature which took so striking a form 
when he began to lecture at Jena in 1798. At first he 
taught side by side with Fichte; and when Fichte went 
to Berlin, in 1799, he remained the chief philosophical 
star at Jena. Hardly could there be conceived a more 
favorable place for the young philosopher than Jena at 
this time was. It was the philosophical focus of Ger- 
many. Reinhold had there expounded Kant; Goethe’s 
spirit hovered over the place; Schiller, Humboldt, and 
the Schlegels were closely related to the university. 
Circumstances combined to invest philosophy here with 
an atmosphere of poetry. Sehelling’s Philosophy of 
Nature, which was partly a creature and partly a creator 
of this atmosphere, was therefore very enthusiastically 
received. It was presented in a variety of writings: 
Ideen zn einer Philosophie der Xatar (1797) : — Von der 
Weltseele (1798): — System der Xatnrphilosophie (1799). 
While elaborating these works, Schelling also subjected 
the Fichtean philosophy of the Ego to a further devel- 
opment, positing the Ego as an antithesis to Xatui'e(see 
his System des transcendent alen Idealismus [1800]). 
But, unable to rest in this dualism, he attempted to con- 
ciliate the antithesis in a higher unity in his Identitats- 
system (1801). This thought is the inspiration of a 
fresh series of works: Bruno, oder iiber das gOttliche und 
das weltliche Princip der Dinge ( 1 802) : — Vorlesnngen iiber 
die Metkode des akademischen Stadiums (1803) : — Philo- 
sophie und Religion (1804) : — Darlegung des wahren Ver- 
hdltnisses der Xatnrphilosophie zur verbesserten Fichie > - 
schen I.ehre (1806). How great was the influence of 
Schelling in this period is vividly depicted in the pages 
of such men as Steffens, Schubert, and Schlosser. In 
1803 Schelling was called by the Bavarian government 
to the University of Wiirzburg; here he wrought in the 
same spirit as at Jena. On account of political changes 
he left this post after two years, and retired to Munich, 
where, in 1807, he was made secretary of the Academy 
of Sciences. 

This is a transition period in the philosophy of 
Schelling. His greater originality and independence 
lie in his Jena period. He now begins to drift towards 
syncretism and a mystical theosophy. It is an effort 
to escape from pantheism towards Christianity, or rath- 
er to find a system which shall express the truth of 
both. The works which give expression to this ten- 


SCHELLING 


405 


deucy — they appear less frequently than previously — 
are: Das Verhiiltniss der bildenden Kiiuste zur Natur 
(1807): — Das Wesen der menschlichen Freiheit (1809): 
— the harsh work against Jacobi, Denkmal der JSchrift 
von den gottlichen D ingen (1812) ; and essays in the AU- 
genu Zeitschrift (Munich, 1813). 

After the year 1815 there begins an almost uninter- 
rupted silence of nearly forty years in Schelling’s life. 
In 1820 he lectured for a brief period at Erlangen. In 
1826 he was made professor of philosophy at the new 
University of Munich. His lectures here formed an 
epoch in the life of many rising young men. In 1841 
he accepted a call to llerlin. The lectures here deliv- 
ered formed a strong antithesis to the dominant Hege- 
lianism, and are the best expression of his later system. 
His last years were devoted to editing his later form 
of doctrine for the press. Death overtook him in Aug. 
1854, while seeking relief at the baths of I’agaz, in 
Switzerland, at the age of seventy- nine. Soon after 
his death (1850) the publication of his collective works 
was begun by his son (a clergyman), K. F. A. Schelling. 
They embrace a first division of ten volumes and a sec- 
ond of four volumes (Stuttgart and Augsburg, 1856 sq.). 

Philosophy . — The philosophy of Schelling does not 
present a definite, self-consistent unity. It was in an 
almost constant state of self-modification. But it pre- 
sents two pretty definite, crystallizing climax-points — 
his early pantheistic idealism and his later Christum 
theosophy . Between these climax-points lies his long 
period of almost total retirement from public life. As 
a whole, however, the growth of his thoughts may be 
distributed under the following five phases: 

(1.) Schelling as a disciple of Fichte. 

(2.) His philosophy of nature and his transcendental 
idealism. 

(3.) His system of identity. 

(4.) His transition period. 

(5.) His theosopliic apjtroach to Christianity . 

(1.) Schelling began his thought-system by absorb- 
ing and championing the reigning philosophy of the 
day — to wit, the system of Kant as modified by Fichte. 
By Fichte the idealism of Kant was emphasized into 
exclusive validity. According to Fichte, there is no 
other reality than the absolute activity of the Ego. It 
is true, this activity of the Ego is conditioned by an ob- 
ject — the Not-me. But this Not-me cannot be derived 
from any reality exterior to the Ego; that is, from any 
thing per se. On the contrary, the Not-me, the exter- 
nal world of thought and observation, is really an un- 
conscious creation of the Ego, which the Ego then sub- 
sequently raises to an object of conscious contemplation. 
But which is the absolute reality with Fichte, the Ego 
as unconscious or as conscious? If as unconscious , then 
God. the All, is unconscious; and the empirical con- 
sciousness of man is delusive and unreal, and is destined 
to vanish into unconsciousness. If as couscious y then 
God, the supreme reality, has no existence save in the 
transitional flux of vanishing, finite Egos: he is in eter- 
nal process of becoming and of passing away. Between 
these two consequences Fichte’s system constantly os- 
cillated, tending at the one pole to self-annihilation, 
and at the other to self- deification. The latter ten- 
dency prevailed more in his earlier, and the former in 
his later, life. It was as an enthusiast for this rigid ideal- 
ism of Fichte that Schelling made his philosophical debut. 
With Fichte hedenied self-consciousness and personality 
to the absolute being; and he insisted that for the idea 
of a divine revelation there can be no place, save in the 
mythological phraseology of the populace. The histo- 
ry of religions he regarded as only a “progressive, sym- 
bolical manifestation of the ideas of the absolute rea- 
son.” The philosophies and religions of the ancient 
world present in an imperfect and, as it were, uncon- 
scious form that which modern thought has developed 
in full consciousness of its own processes. Perhaps the 
chief feature in which Schelling differed from Fichte 
from the very outset was that he found a deeper sig- 


SCHELLING 

nificance in the different forms of religion than Fichte 
had done. 

(2.) Schelling’s second phase (1796-1800) sprang from 
his growing conviction that a mere subjective idealism 
could not do justice to the empirical objective world by 
which we are met on every hand. Jle did not mean 
by this to give up the results of his idealism ; he only 
meant to reach the same results upon another path— to 
rediscover the reason of the subject in the objective 
reason of the world of nature. Thereby he introduced 
a new stadium into his philosophy : constructive or cre- 
ative knowledge was put into the place of the previous 
critical knowledge. As previously the Ego had con- 
centrated itself absolutely upon itself, so now this Ego, 
the subject, was to expand itself over the universe ami 
find the laws of its own intuitions there reflected. Out 
of subjective idealism sprang, thus, an objective idealism. 
From the standpoint of this idealism the moral element 
loses its importance, and speculative knowledge is the 
one thing important. The intention of Schelling in 
his Philosophy of Nature was simply to complement 
the idealism of Fichte; but in reality it grew into a 
direct antithesis to it. With Fichte, nature was merely 
a means for the development of the subject. With 
Schelling, it was a manifestation-form of the absolute 
Ego, and had essence and significance in itself. Nature 
was spirit visible ; spirit was nature invisible. This con- 
ception seemed strikingly new and important. It was 
hailed with very great enthusiasm. Nature was to 
Schelling a perpetual movement of self-balancing force. 
By the varied interaction of attraction and repulsion 
are produced the infinitely varied forms of organic life. 
Matter is balanced force. Nature, when rising above 
the antithesis of attraction and repulsion, becomes light. 
Light is, as it were, the soul, the thought of nature. 
Under the influence of light, matter evolves itself dy» 
namically in the phenomena of magnetism, electricity,, 
chemistry. The antithesis of crude matter and light is 
harmonized in the higher stage of organic life. Here 
light inheres in the objects; it is their vitality, their 
life. Matter becomes here a mere incident of the vital- 
izing principle. The stages of the dynamic process con- 
stitute the great divisions of organic life. The prepon- 
derance of objectivity or of subjectivity 7 determines the 
characteristics of the three great kingdoms of organic 
nature — the vegetable, the animal, and the human or 
moral. Matter is the background upon which these 
three kingdoms stand out as higher stages of evolved 
being. Through it they 7 stand related and are united 
into a unitary cosmos. 

In his Philosophy of Nature Schelling thus traces the 
objective world in its ascent from the crudest objective 
stage to the highest subjective; that is, from matter to 
moral freedom (so far as the latter exists). But, not 
content with this, he now reverses the. process. He 
starts from the highest point reached by natural philos- 
ophy 7 — to wit, self-conscious man — and reconstructs the 
whole system of philosophy 7 from a subjective stand- 
point. In this — his Transcendental Idealism — he traces, 
accordingly 7 , the objective as rising from the subjective. 
He divides his subject-matter here into the theoretical, 
the practical, and (that which unites the two) the ar- 
tistic. In the theoretical part Schelling considers the 
various stadia of knowledge in their relation to the va- 
rious stadia of matter. Matter is extinct mind. The 
acts and phases* of self-consciousness are rediscoverable 
in the forces of nature and in the stages of their devel- 
opment. All the forces of the world are ultimately 7 re- 
ducible to powers of ideal representation. Organiza- 
tion is necessarv; for intelligence must view itself in 
its productive, successive transition from cause to effect. 
This it cannot do without making that succession per- 
manent or representing it as at rest ; and succession 
represented as at rest is organization. Intelligence is 
a never-ending effort at self-organization. Among the 
successive stages of organization there must be one 
which the subject is forced to regard as identical with 


SCIIELLIXG 


406 


SCIIELLIXG 


himself. It is only through the fact that there are 
other intelligences than myself that the world is made 
objective to me. It is only through commerce with 
other individuals that 1 can come to the consciousness 
of my freedom. The intercommunication of rational 
individuals through the medium of the objective world 
is the condition of freedom. But whether all free be- 
ings shall, or shall not, confine their action within such 
limits as leave free play to the freedom of each other 
is not left to chance, but is safeguarded by the higher 
law of justice. Justice rules in the interests of freedom 
with ail the inviolability of a law of nature. All at- 
tempts to supplant the reign of absolute justice by an 
arbitrary, artificial statute code have ever proved futile 
and abortive. 'The guarantee of a good constitution in 
each state must lie, in the last resort, in the subordina- 
tion of all states to the common law of absolute right- 
eousness. The gradual approach towards a realization 
of righteousness is the substance of history. History, 
as a whole, is a progressive realization and manifesta- 
tion of the Absolute. It is only through history as a 
whole that the full proof of God’s existence can become 
manifest. All single intelligences may be regarded as 
integrant parts of God or the moral order of the world. 
This divine order will fully exist as soon as individual 
intelligences establish it. Towards this consummation 
history is constantly advancing in consequence of a pre- 
established harmony between the objective necessary 
and the subjective free. This harmony is conceivable 
only on the supposition of the existence of a higher 
element, superior to both, as being the ground of the 
identity of the absolutely subjective and the absolutely 
objective, the conscious and the unconscious, whose 
original separation took place simply in order to the 
phenomenal manifestation of free action. If the phe- 
nomenal manifestation of freedom is necessarily un- 
ending, then history itself is a never-completed revela- 
tion of the Absolute, which disrupts itself, in view of 
this manifestation, into the conscious and the uncon- 
scious; but which is, in the inaccessible light in which 
it dwells, the eternal identity of both and the eternal 
ground of their harmony. To this higher element of 
identity no predicates can be given. Hence it cannot be 
an object of knowledge, but only of practical postula- 
tion — that is, of faith or religion. If we turn our atten- 
tion exclusively to the orderliness of the objective world, 
we fall into a system of fatalism. If, on the contrary, 
we regard only the subjective, we laud in irreligion 
or anarchy. But if we rise to the thought of that 
higher identity of both we attain to a system of provi- 
dence— i\\ut is, of religion in the true sense of the word. 
It is true, Schelling leaves here untouched the very per- 
tinent question how this higher Absolute to which no 
predicates can be assigned can lie described as provi- 
dent. How be would have met the question we leave 
undecided. 

The transcendental idealism of Schelling had grown 
under his hands into a complete system of philosophy. 
It was therefore not only co-ordinate with his philosophy 
of nature, but also super-ordinate. But with this two- 
fold presentation of his system from the two poles of 
the finite (Nature, and t lie Ego) Schelling was not sat- 
isfied. He now felt that what he had found as the goal 
of his highest previous effort— to wit, the principle of 
absolute identity — should be laid as the beginning at 
the foundation. This brings us to the third stage of 
his philosophizing. 

(3.) The epoch of his System of Identity. In this 
system everything is derived from the absolute reason, 
taken in the sense of the absolute identity of subject 
and object. The highest law of this principle is its 
identity with itself (A = A). It is absolutely infinite 
and one. Whatever is, is this absolute itself. Single 
finite things exist only in reflection. As this absolute 
identity is everything, it is at the same time the total- 
ity o( everything. It, is not the source or the cause of 
everything, but it is itself everything. In his concep- 


tion of this absolute identity, Schelling seems to in- 
volve himself in a shadow of self-contradiction. He 
makes it, on the one hand, an absolute indijfere?ice ; as 
such it is purely negative, and hence cannot be made 
the basis of a positive universe. On the other hand, he 
makes it the identity of everything — that is, he makes 
it the most positive of all things. In this absolute iden- 
tity, Schelling distinguishes essence and form. In re- 
spect to form, it is an infinite self-knowing; it can know 
itself, however, only as subject and object. But as this 
subject and object spring from identity, their only dif- 
ference must be quantitative, not qualitative; that is, 
the absolute identity can differentiate and posit itself 
under a preponderance of the subjective or of the ob- 
jective, but not under a form from which one of the 
elements is entirely absent. Any equation that can 
be contrasted with A = A must be simply equivalent 
to A = B. The whole conception may therefore be ex- 
pressed under the form of an unending magnetic line 
with one indifference-point and two poles, at the one 
of which A preponderates, and at the other B, thus: 

4 - + 

A=B A=B 

A=A 

At every point in this line all three elements are present. 
Every single object is therefore one of the forms of the 
essence of the absolute, and in each of these forms the ab- 
solute identity is entire, seeing that it is per se indivisi- 
ble. The preponderance of the objective or real isnatin'e. 
The first relative totality in nature is matter; and the 
ideal antithesis of matter is light; and from the combi- 
nation of matter and light springs organic life. But it 
is only in an infinite self-knowing that the absolute 
identity is actu real, and hence only in the sphere of 
the subjective and ideal. This sphere Schelling identi- 
fies with the true, the good (religion), and the beautiful 
(art). The absolute identity is therefore the essence 
of nature simply in that it is the ground of its actual 
existence. Everything is nature which falls outside 
of absolute being. This differentiation of essence as, on 
the one hand, the actuality of things, and as, on the other, 
simply the ground of their actuality, was justly regarded 
by Schelling as one of the most important connecting 
links between his earlier and his later system. 

The filling-up of the outlines of his system of iden- 
tity Schelling left incomplete; he gave chiefly the ob- 
jective phase. Of the subjective or spiritual phase we 
have only fragmentary sketches. As filled out in his 
oral lectures, this phase contained the germs of his later 
and more theistic system. Religion is presented, not 
as a product of development from a state of barbarism, 
but as a product of instruction from higher beings. 
But Christianity is regarded as inferior to the great 
religions of the Orient; and yet Schelling insists, as 
against illuminism and the subjective moralism of Kant, 
on the necessity of the chief theological ideas of the 
Bible. 1 1 is thoughts are these: As the universe differ- 
entiates itself, as real and ideal, into nature and history, 
so history itself is likewise divided. The Oriental and 
pagan world is the nature side of history; Christianity, 
on the contrary, is the ideal or moral side. The pagan 
religions are religions of nature; the gods are but forces 
of nature; the infinite is subordinated to the finite; 
lienee the multitudinousness of deities. But in Chris- 
tianity the finite is subordinated to the one infinite; 
hence the unity of the divine nature. In Christianity 
mythology can only rise from deterioration and pop- 
ular ignorance. In paganism mythology is primitive, 
and religion can rise only from an intellectual advance 
beyond the primitive elements. The stream of his- 
tory rises through three stages. The stage of nature 
came to its climax in the religion and poesy of the 
Greeks: it was a time of unconscious identity with nat- 
ure, and nature was regarded as a manifestation of 
eternal necessity. The period of catastrophe, or of con- 
flict between natural necessity and moral freedom was 


SCHELLING 


407 


SCIIELLING 


the tragic age of the decline of ancient civilization. 
The period of harmonization , or of providence , was in- 
augurated by Christianity. (This division corresponds 
in part with the one made in the author’s Transcen- 
dental Idealism.') It is only in Christ that God be- 
comes truh' objective. Hut this is an eternal process, 
and the incarnation is not a merely temporal, empirical 
act; Christ offers up in his own person the finite, and 
thereby renders possible the coming of the Spirit as the 
light of the new world; this spirit brings, conducts, 
the finite back to God. From philosophic speculation 
Schelling looked for the new birth of essential, or eso- 
teric, Christianity, and the proclamation of the absolute 
Gospel. 

Connected with these views is Schelling’s next spec- 
ulative work, Philosophy and Reliyion (1804). It is a 
self-defence against Eschenmayer. In it religion is pre- 
sented as the ‘‘conciliation of the finite with God;” but 
the finite is regarded as per se fallen. God is not the 
positively creative cause of the finite; the finite cannot 
directly spring of the absolute, and it sustains to the 
absolute no direct relation.” The finite is regarded 
simply as not real , as delusive. The general back- 
ground of this work is an idealistic mysticism, derived 
in part from Plato and Plotinus, but also much resem- 
bling the transmigration systems of the Orient; it fails 
to do justice to the ideas of morality and freedom. 

(4.) With this work on Philosophy and Religion Schel- 
ling begins his transition to a more positive Christianity. 
All of his works subsequent to his System of Identity 
bear a more or less mystical coloring and become less 
and less rigidly systematic in form; at first the mys- 
ticism resembles that of the Eleusinian mysteries and 
of Neo- Platonism ; subsequently it approaches Chris- 
tianity on the footsteps of Bbhine. But this appropri- 
ation of mystical views was entirely independent on the 
part of Schelling; he seems to have been forced into 
them by a growing feeling of incomplete satisfaction 
with his previous views. And it is to be regretted that 
he did not openly concede the erroneousness of his earlier 
system or systems, but constantly represented his later 
system as simply complementive of his previous ones. 

But his change of view is very radical. It came to 
definite expression for the first time in 1809, in his dis- 
cussion of the nature of human freedom. Here is to be 
found in embryo the very essence of his final system. 
Schelling gives up monism. Monism cannot solve the 
riddle of good and evil, and gives no play to creatural 
freedom. Idealism must be complemented by realism. 
Idealism is the soul of philosophy ; realism is its vital 
body; it is only from the union of the two that a vital 
whole can result. A few of Schelling’s positions here 
are these: As nothing exists before or outside of God, 
so he has the ground of his existence within himself. 
This ground of his existence is not God per se, but it is 
a nature in God ; this nature is inseparable from God, 
but yet it is distinguishable; it is not actually, but only 
logically, antecedent to God. It is only from this nat- 
ure in God that the diversity and multiplicity of finite 
things is explicable. In order that these things be 
other than God, it must be that they have the ground 
of their existence in something which is not God; that 
is, in that in God which is not God himself. The fur- 
ther development of these thoughts brings ns to 

(5.) Schclling’s Later System. The thoughts here 
met with are unquestionably among the most brilliant 
and suggestive that are anywhere to be found in the 
field of the philosophy of religion. At the threshold of 
this system we meet with an examination of the impli- 
cations of creatural freedom. Among the fruitful con- 
clusions here reached is this, that purely rational, logical 
thought is incapable of leading us to a knowledge of 
reality. This conclusion leads to a distribution of phi- 
losophy into negative and positive. By this distinc- 
tion, Schelling comes into sharp antithesis to Hegel, 
who endeavored to comprehend the real by the processes 
of mere abstract thought. In the view of Schelling, 


this is impossible. Bure thought, pure reason, cannot 
a priori comprehend the existence of the objective 
world of reality. What a thing is and that it is {quid 
sit et quod sit) are clearly to be distinguished. The 
udiat, the essence of a thing, may be expressed in 
thought, in ideas. But the knowledge that it exists is 
given by something outside of thought — to wit, its ex- 
istence itself. This knowledge comes to us from expe- 
rience, and not from reason. Existence cannot, there- 
fore, be demonstrated ; it can only be experienced. It is 
only through this knowledge from experience that 
thought reaches to true knowledge. A negative or 
ideal philosophy has to do only with the possible . It is 
only a positive philosophy that can rise to contact with 
the real and with that which springs from the real — to 
wit , freedom and free action. But as the whole of the 
results of freedom is not yet complete, a positive phi- 
losophy cannot be presented in as rounded a systematic 
form as is possible with the negative. The highest at- 
tainment of negative philosophy is to show how the 
highest principle is in idea. The connecting link which 
leads over from the negative to the positive form of 
philosophy is the conviction, forced upon us by expe- 
rience, that God must be more than mere idea — that is, 
that he is real. As negative philosophy is the a-pri- 
orism of the empirical, so positive philosophy is the em- 
piricism of the a-prioristic — that is, it is philosophical 
empiricism. 

Positive philosophy can assume a starting-point al- 
most anywhere — thus: “I will that which is higher 
than substance, to wit, the Lord of all being.” From 
this initial assumption it then proceeds deductively, and 
the experience which results reacts as verification of 
the assumed starting-point. The world is here the 
posterius; the unconditioned prius is God. And the 
whole drama of human history is an accumulative proof 
that this posterius is from this prius. It is only in the 
sphere of positive philosophy that we reach the field of 
religion — that is, of a real (not merely ideal) relation of 
man to God. The transition from a negative to a posi- 
tive philosophy is like that from the law to the Gospel. 
For a purely rational science, the idea of an objective 
religion does not exist. Beligion originates practically 
through a longing and desire of the spirit, which cannot 
be satisfied with the merely ideal God of speculation. 
This longing is not an expression of the practical reason , 
as Kant would have it, but rather of the individual per- 
sonality. It is not the generic, but the specific, that leads 
to God; for it is not the generic element of man (the 
reason), but the specific (the personality), that calls for 
happiness. The individual, as personality, calls for a 
person who is outside of and above the world — a Heart 
— with which it may commune. The object and con- 
tent of positive philosophy are furnished by revelation. 
But revelation is not philosophy, even as a ledge of 
rocks is not geology ; it becomes philosophy only when 
thought digests and constructs it. Revelation is as es- 
sential to religious knowledge as the crust of the earth 
is to geological knowledge, hence the absolute defect 
of rationalism; reason is not competent to judge as to 
what revelation should be, but only to construct the 
revelation w hich is. 

Having speculatively reached the ideal of the Abso- 
lute Being, and being forced by the heart to assume 
that this Being is objectively real, the philosopher is 
now ready for the predicate of this highest real i tv. 
This Being would not be perfect if he had not the lib- 
erty of positing himself outside of himself; but this is a 
liberty, and not a necessity. God is, before the world, 
master o/'the world ; that is, he is able to posit it or not 
to posit it. The world is therefore a consequence, not 
of the divine nature, but of the divine will. But God 
does not posit himself into the world. God does not be- 
come real in consequence of creation ; and yet he would 
not be real without the power of creation. Monotheism 
is true, but not in the sense of theism. Theism admits 
God as a personality, but this personality is an empty 


SCIIELLING 


408 


SCHENCK 


undifferen listed infinity, and has within itself no poten- 
tiality, no basis for a world outside of God. God is per 
se a plurality of potencies, and he is the totality of these 
potencies. And the great error of pantheism is not that 
it holds that there is no being outside of God, and that 
all existence is God’s existence, “ for all hearts cheer- 
fully and joyously concede this;” but it consists in as- 
signing to God a necessary and involuntary identity 
with whatsoever is. It is only from this idea of mono- 
theism as distinguished from theism and pantheism that 
a transition to the truth of the trinity is possible. The 
entire God — that is, God as the totality of the divine 
potencies — is the Creator, the Father; and he is Father 
only in that he confronts the possibility of what is to 
be; and his fatherhood is fully realized only with the 
full actualization of creation. In the act of creation the 
absolute personality evolves its own self-existing es- 
sence out of itself. This act of creation is a generating , 
and the divine essence so evolved is the Son. A second 
evolution constitutes the Spirit. The fatherly potency 
furnishes the material of creatural objects; the Son 
their form ; the Spirit their perfection. 

Revelation in the Old Test, lingers under the forms 
of mythology. In the New Test, these forms are en- 
tirely dispensed with. The focus of the new religion is 
the person of Christ, not as teacher or legislator, but as 
content. The person of Christ is both historical and pre- 
historical ; as prehistorical he presided over pre-Chris- 
tian history; as historical he laid aside his glory and 
identified himself with man in order to raise human 
nature into communion with God. Christ resumed the 
glory which he had laid aside only gradually and by 
moral process. This process began at his baptism. It 
is only on the complete victory of Christ over death 
that he could send the Spirit as comforter. 

Schclling closes his philosophy of revelation with a 
glance at the history of the Church. He distinguishes 
here a prehistorical, a historical, and a post-historical 
Church. The latter will not appear in the present aeon. 
The condition of the prehistorical is that of a merely 
subjective (negative) unity; that of the historical is a 
state of division as preparatory to its transition to a 
state of free, positive unity. The historical stage of the 
Church begins at the point where Christianity attains 
to domination in the Roman empire. Here it had to 
face, under a new form, all the might of the once defeat- 
ed Evil Spirit. In giving itself an outer constitution, 
the Church appeared at first as a mere realistic, mate- 
rial, formal unity; as such it was of a merely authori- 
tative legal character, and the more rigidly this legal 
character developed itself, so much the more was the 
ideal (spiritual) character driven into the background. 
But at the Reformation the ideal element came to open 
revolt with the realistic , and it then inaugurated a new 
phase of Church history. Both Christ and the apostles 
place the advance of the Church in a growth in knowl- 
edge ; and the character of this new phase is, and will 
be, that mankind recognise more and more the supreme 
fact that Christianity is the highest stadium of human 
science. The three conditions of the Church are typi- 
fied in the three apostles— Peter, Paul, and .John. Peter 
has the violent, aggressive nature that characterizes ev- 
ery beginning; Paul is steady and constructive; John 
has the gentle repose of maturity. The true Church is 
neither of the three, but the synthesis of all ; its founda- 
tion was laid by Peter; its body was edified by Paul; 
its content was breathed into it by John. Even as God 
consists not simply of one person, so the Church is not 
embodied simply in one apostle. Peter is rather the 
apostle of the Father: he secs most deeply into the past. 
Paul is really the apostle of the Son : he is full of light. 
John is the mouth-piece of the Spirit: he has the deep 
“words” of spiritual truth and warmth. 

As a whole, no system of modern philosophy has more 
fully allied itself with Christianity than that of Schcl- 
ling; he, of all the great spcculatists, has alone treated 
this religion as “real history.” To Schclling Chris- 


tianity is a higher, a supernatural stream of history 
flowing upon the bosom of the ocean of cosmic history. 
He treats this history, not atomistically, but genetically. 
This genetic method of theologizing has become the 
prevalent characteristic of modern theology. Schleier- 
macher, Nitzsch, Rothe, Lange, Martensen, have all 
practiced it. Its general trait is an earnest endeavor to 
co-ordinate the parts into the whole, and to grasp the 
whole as a vital unity; and its stimulative relation to 
contemporary theological thought is an evident result 
of this its chief trait; and that in its details it may fre- 
quently be erroneous, or that many of its speculations 
are over-presumptuous, does not destroy its value as a 
whole. 

Few thinkers have had more enthusiastic disciples 
than Schelling. G. M. Klein espoused his system of 
identity. J. J. Wagner defended the earlier Schelling 
against the so-called later. G. A. F. Ast applied his 
method to the study of Plato. T. A. Rixner became a 
fruitful student of the history of philosophy. L. Oken 
applied Schelling’s thoughts to an elaborate philosophy 
of nature; Nees von Esenbeck applied them to the 
phj^siology of plants; B. 11. Blaschc, to pedagogics aad 
religious philosophy ; J. P. V. Troxler, to the science of 
cognition. A. K. A. Eschenma} T er received here his 
fundamental inspiration. J. Gdrrcs adapted Schelling 
to Roman Catholic tendencies. G. H. Von Schubert re- 
flected him in a popular Christian mysticism. Iv. F. 
Burdach made large use of his philosophy of nature. 
K. G. Carus represented him in psychology and crani- 
ology; II. C. Oersted, in physics; K. W. F. Solger, in 
aesthetics; II. Steffens, in general religious philosophy ; 
J. E. Von Berger, in the philosophy of law. F. Von 
Baader developed and remoulded Schelling’s later views 
into a very rich and elaborate system of Christian the- 
osophy. K. C. F. Krause applied Schelling’s views to 
general literature and freemasonry. F. G. Stahl was 
largely influenced by the later Schelling in his philoso- 
phy of law and in his discussion of the relations of 
Church and State. Coleridge received much inspiration 
from the early Schelling, and through Coleridge this in- 
fluence went over into the pantheistic traits of Words- 
worth. Agassiz was inspired by Schelling’s views of 
nature. And many of the brilliant hypotheses which 
have played so large a role in modern physics— such as 
the metamorphosis of plants, the homologies of the 
skeleton, the origin of species — are really found in germ 
in the early works of Schelling. 

On Schelling, consult Herzog, Heal -Ency Hop. xiii, 
503-551; Ueberweg, / list, of Philosophy , vol. ii; 11a- 
genbach , Hist, of Doctrine ; Hurst, Hist. of nationalism; 
Bowen, Modern Ph ilosophy ; and all works on modern 
German speculation. (J. P. L.) 

Schelling, Joseph F., general superintendent at 
Maulbrunn in Wtirtemberg, was born in 1737, and died 
in 1812. Among his contributions to Biblical literature 
are the writings of Solomon translated into Latin, with 
notes (Stuttgart, 1806), and a Dissertation on the Use of 
the Arabic to a Thorough Knowledge of Hebrew (Stutt- 
gart, 1771). 

Schenck, George, a (Dutch) Reformed minister, 
was born at Mattewan, N. Y., Jan. 27, 1816, and gradu- 
ated at Yale College, August, 1837. During his boy- 
hood he was crippled for life by a severe fall while skat- 
ing. llip-discase ensued in its most painful form. He 
was helpless for three or four years, and was never after 
able to walk without crutch or cane and a high boot. 
But this affliction was sanctified to his conversion dur- 
ing his collegiate life. He studied theology in the New 
Brunswick Seminary, and after graduation, in 1840, set- 
tled as pastor of the Reformed Church of Bcdminster, 
N. J. This was his only charge — a very large, intelli- 
gent, well-trained country congregation, which has en- 
joyed a long succession of able ministers. Air. Schenck 
was distinguished as a preacher of unusual power in the 
exposition of Scripture and in the application of it to 


SCHENK 


409 


SCHICK A RD 


the consciences of his hearers. He was at times brill- 
iant, always earnest, and “ never feared the face of clay.” 
Ilis fine social qualities, deep piety, and skill as a phy- 
sician of souls, endeared him to his people. Ilis energy 
was marvellous. “ What he began, he expected to do. 
His body was like a little craft driven by a tremendous 
engine; and for just that reason, no doubt, the timbers 
so soon fell apart. He preached, as he wrote to a friend, 
‘with all his might.’ lie was no less zealous as a pas- 
tor.” His tastes were refined, literary, scholarly. Hut 
everything was bent to his life-work as a minister. In 
the general affairs of the Church, in the temperance 
cause and educational movements, he was conspicuous 
for “zeal with knowledge.” Ilis ministry was greatly 
blessed in conversions and revivals, and in the edifica- 
tion of the Church, lie died in 1852, of palsy, which 
struck him down just after he came from a Sabbath 
afternoon lecture and a visit to a sick man. With 
characteristic modesty, he never but twice consented to 
frequent requests to appear in print. A Sermon on the 
Second Coming of Christ (1843) and an Address on 
Music (in which he was a proficient) (1849) are all of 
his publications. See Memorial Sermon , bv Dr. T. W. 
Chambers; Letter of Rev. H. D. Ganse; Sprague’s A n- 
nals of the Amer . Pulpit. (W. J. R. 4'.) 

Schenk, Hartmann, a Lutheran divine, was born 
April 7, 1634, at Ruhla, near Eisenach. He studied at 
Helmstiidt and .Jena, and was pastor at Bibra and Volk- 
ershausen. Ilis motto was, “ Mea Haired it as Servator,” 
and he died May 2, 1681. He was a man of prayer, 
who not only prayed himself, but also taught others 
how to pray. He wrote some hymns, which are still 
in use in the German churches. See G. Ludovici, De 
Ilymnis et Hynmopceis Hennebergicis ( Schleusingen, 
1703), p. 27; Wezel, Hymno-pceographia (llerrnstadt, 
1724), iii, 49; Koch, Gesch. des deutschen Kirchenliedes , 
iii, 427 ; Knapp, Evangel. IAederschatz , p. 1343. (B. 1\) 

Schenk, Heinrich Theobald, a Lutheran 
hvmn-writer, was born at Alsfeld, and became head- 
master of the school at Giessen, and afterwards chief 
pastor there, where he died in 1727. He is the author 
of ) Ver sind die vor Gottes Throne (based on Rev. vii, 
13-17), transl. into English by E. Cox, in Hymns from 
the German , p. 91, “Who are these, like stars appear- 
ing.” See Koch, Gesch. des deutschen Kirchenliedes , iv, 
535; Knapp, Evangel. IAederschatz, p. 1343. (B. P.) 

Schermerhorn, John F., a (Dutch) Reformed 
minister, was born about 1785, graduated at Union Col- 
lege 1809, and entered the ministry of the Congrega- 
tional Church, which he left in 1813 for the Dutch Re- 
formed Church. He was first settled at Middleburgh, 
N. Y., 1817-27. In 1817 he visited Upper Canada with 
Rev. Jacob Van Vechten, and labored three months 
among the Dutch churches there. He was appointed 
Secretary of Domestic Missions, 1828 or 1829, by the 
Northern Board of the Missionary Society of the Re- 
formed Dutch Church to call forth the resources of the 
Church and determine the proper missionary fields. 
Subsequently he was appointed general agent for the 
whole Church. Ilis energy and zeal gave a new im- 
petus to the benevolence of the Church. Among the 
substantial fruits of his labors was the organization of 
the Reformed churches in Utica, Ithaca, and Geneva, 
besides others in less prominent places. But serious 
difficulties embarrassed his administration, and he re- 
signed the office in 1832. lie never afterwards held a 
pastoral charge, but was frequently a leading member 
of the ecclesiastical assemblies, and continued to interest 
himself in the benevolent movements of the Church. 
In 1832 president Jackson, of whom he was a warm 
personal and political friend, appointed him one of a 
commission to remove the Cherokee and Chickasaw In- 
dians beyond the Mississippi. This work also brought 
with it some unhappy complications, which hindered 
his subsequent usefulness, lie was a powerful preach- 
er, a public debater of unusual mental vigor, acuteness, 


tact, and argumentative ability. His restless brain was 
always teeming with great schemes, which often were 
Utopian in their results. In conversation he was enter- 
taining and suggestive beyond most men. His sympa- 
thies were tender; and, when preaching or conversing on 
the great themes of the Gospel, he not only felt deeply, 
but possessed great power over the hearts and consciences 
of his hearers. He labored much and successfully in 
revivals of religion as a helper to his brethren. In per- 
son he was very large, robust, and commanding, lie 
died in 1850 after a short illness. See Memoir of Peter 
Labagh, D.D., by G. A. Todd, D.D., p. 52, 120, 161-163. 
(W. J. R. T.) 

Schermerhorn, Richard E., a Methodist Epis- 
copal minister, was born in Nassau, Rensselaer County, 
N. Y., experienced religion at the age of nineteen, was 
received on trial by the New York Conference in 1826, 
transferred in the same year to the Maine Conference, 
admitted into full connection in 1828, and successively 
appointed to the Scarborough and Gotham circuits, and 
Belfast, Ilallowell, Bangor, Buxport, and Gardiner sta- 
tions. In 1834-35 he was appointed to Augusta dis- 
trict, and also elected as delegate to the General Confer- 
ence. He djed April 18, 1836. He was a man well 
read, of uniform and deep piety, good preaching talents, 
and successful in the great object of the ministry. !See 
Minutes of Conferences, ii, 409. 

Scheuchzer, John James, a Swiss naturalist and 
physician, was born in 1672, at Zurich, where he was 
professor of mathematics and natural philosophy. He 
died in 1733. lie was the author of several scientific 
works: Natural History of the Bible, in Latin and Ger- 
man (1732-37, 8 vols. fol.) : — Natural History of Switz- 
erland (1708, 3 vols.). 

Schian, Johann Robert, a German Protestant di- 
vine, was born Oct. 31, 1828, in Loewen. In 1852 he 
completed his theological studies at Breslau, was ap- 
pointed deacon at Liegnitz in 1858, and afterwards first 
deacon in the same place, where he died, Jan. 16, 1876. 
lie was one of the most prominent ministers in .Silesia; 
and, besides a number of sermons, he wrote, Ratio qua? 
iutercesserit inter M elanchthonem et Lutherum explicatur 
et quid attribuerit ad Ecclesiam Ecangelicam constituen- 
dam exponitur (Gottingiv, 1855). See Zuchold, Bibli- 
otheca Theol. ii, 1137; Theologisches Jahrbuch, 1877, 
p. 228. (B. P.) 

Schiavone, Andrea Medula (or Medola), an 
Italian painter anil engraver, was born at Sebenico, in 
Dalmatia, in 1522. He was of obscure parentage, and 
went to Venice at an early age, where he gained a liveli- 
hood as a house-painter. In his leisure hours he studied 
the works of Giorgione and Titian. The latter artist, 
hearing of his poverty and seeing his ability, employed 
him, with Tintoretto and others, in ornamenting the 
grand hall of the library of San Marco. His designs 
were good, but the drawing so defective as to render him 
unable to compete successfully with his rival Tintoretto. 
It was only after his death that his works were appre- 
ciated. Ilis life was miserable. He died in Venice 
in 1582. His principal works are, The Eternal Father 
among the Angels: — John the Baptist in the Desert : — 
The Visit of the Virgin to Elizabeth: — The Death of 
Abel: — and The Assumption of the Virgin. Etchings 
by him are found after his own compositions, and cop- 
ies of Raphael and others. 

Schickard, Wilhelm, a learned German Oriental- 
ist and distinguished astronomer, was born at Ilerren- 
herg, near Tubingen, April 22, 1592. When lie had fin- 
ished his theological course, he was for a while vicar in 
his native town, but in 1613 returned to Tubingen, and 
there gave lessons in Hebrew. In 1616 he was pastor 
at Niirtingen, continuing his studies in various lan- 
guages. An acquaintance which sprang up between 
him and Kepler led to his turning his attention to math- 
ematics, to which he afterwards gave much of his time. 


SCIIINCKE 


410 


SCHISMS 


To occupy his spnre moments, he learned the art of en- 
graving upon wood, and made use of this acquirement 
in constructing a celestial globe and astronomical charts. 
In 1618 he became professor of Hebrew at Tubingen, 
and added to his knowledge of languages by studying 
Syriac, Arabic, Chaldee, Turkish, and Persian, all with- 
out any teacher or instruction save what he gained 
himself. In 1628 he was made member of the College 
of Arts, and in 1 <>29 was elected inspector of the schools 
at Stuttgart. He occupied in 1631 the chair of astron- 
omy at Tubingen, without giving up his Hebrew pro- 
fessorship. After the battle of Tubingen he retired to 
Austria, but returned later only to meet the plague, 
which bereft him of nearly his entire family, and finally 
terminated his own life, Oct. 23, 1635. IJis writings are 
numerous, all relating either to Oriental languages or 
astronomy. His most valuable work is Jus Regium 
Ihbneorum , or Z32wTE, especially in the edition 

ofCarpzov (Leips. 1674). See Vita Schickardi ; Balth. 
Viassus, Apotheosis Schickardi; Fttrst, Bibliotheca Ju - 
daica, iii, 270 sq. ; Steinschneider, Bibliographisches 
J Jandbuch , p. 125 sq. ; Catalogus Lib ro rum Hebr. in 
Bibl. Bodleiana , p. 2565 ; R. Simon, Hist. Critique , p. 474 ; 
Dicstel, Gesch. des alien Testaments, p. 322 sq., 334, 449, 
501, 521 ; Hoefer, Now. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Schincke, Johann Christian Gotthilf, a Ger- 
man theologian, was born in 1782 at Querfurt, and died 
in 1839 as pastor of Wispitz, in Anhalt-Kothen. He 
wrote, Metakritische Beobachtungen liber die preuss. 
A gende (Halle, 1824): — Jesus ChristUs, ein Erbauungs - 
buck (ibid. 1826): — Evangelische Gesch ich ten und Reden 
in frontmen Dichtergaben (ibid. 1826) : — Biblische Alter - 
thvmskunde in alphabetischer Folge (Neustadt, 1837-40): 
— Sammlung von auserlesenen Gebeten (Halle, 1843). 
See Regensburger Real - Enegklop. s. v. ; Zuchold, Bibl. 
Theolog. ii, 1 140. (15. P.) 

Schindler, Valentin, who died in 1604, is the au- 
thor of the first polyglot lexicon, containing the He- 
brew, Chaldee, Syriac, Talmudico-Rabbinic, and Arabic. 
It was first published at Hanau in 1612, and in a fourth 
edition in 1695. Besides, he also wrote, Tractatus de 
A ccentibus Hebr. etc. (Wittenberg, 1596) : — Compendium 
Grammatical Hebraicce (ibid. 1602; 2ded. 1613), and oth- 
er linguistic treatises. See Fiirst, Bibliotheca Judaica , 
iii, 274; Steinschneider, Bibliographisehes Handbuch, 
p. 127 ; Catalogus Libromm Hebr. in Bibl. Bodleiana , 
p. 2566 sq. ; Gesenius, Geschichte der hebr. Sprache, § 34; 
Diestel, Gesch. des alten Testaments, p. 447, 452. (B. 1\) 

Schinraeyer, Johann Adolf, a Lutheran divine 
and doctor of divinity, was born in 1733 at Stettin. 
Having completed his studies, be was appointed in 1757 
deaeon at Itzehoe; in 1764 he was made archdeacon and 
professor of Oriental languages at Stettin; in 1774 he 
became pastor of the German congregation at Stock- 
holm; and in 1778 he was appointed general superin- 
tendent at Greifswakle. In 1779 he was called for the 
same office to Lubeck, where he died May 3, 1796. Be- 
sides his Lebensbeschreibungcn der drei schwedischen Re- 
furmatoren, des Kanzlers Lor. A ndersen, Olaf Petersen 
und Lor. Petersen (Lubeck, 1783), he published Yersvch 
einer vollstandigen Geschichte der schwedischen Bibeliiber- 
setznngen und A nsgaben, mit A nzeige vnd Beurtheilung 
Hires Werthcs (Fleusburg, 1777), the best work on the 
earlier Swedish Bible versions. (15. P.) 

Schinner, Matthew, a Romish bishop in Switzer- 
land, and a cardinal just before the outbreak of the Ref- 
ormation, was born in 1470. He studied at Zurich and 
Como, and became early noted for shrewdness and schol- 
arship. In 1509 he was made bishop of Sion, and soon 
thereafter was called into diplomatic service by Leo X. 
In 1511 he received the cardinal’s hat. He intrigued 
against the French in Italy, and was the agent for pro- 
curing an army of 20,000 Swiss by which, in 1512, the 
French were expelled from Lombardy. For this service 
the pope heaped titles and wealth upon Schinner, and 


gave to the Swiss for all time to come the appellation 
Defensores Ecclesiusticce Liberia t is. Zwingli took part 
in the campaign, and depicted in bright colors the glory 
of the occasion. Schinner now made his headquarters 
as papal legate at Milan. Fresh dangers from France 
arising again, he hastened to England (1514), and en- 
deavored, by his Oratio Philippica ad excitandos contra 
Galliam Britannos , to entangle Henry VIII in war with 
Francis I. On his return, he inspired the Swiss to re- 
sist the French at Marignano. When the Reformation 
began in Switzerland, this cardinal-statesman gave it 
at first a warm greeting. Zwingli met him at Einsie- 
deln and Zurich, and showed him from the Scriptures 
his reasons for rejecting tiie errors of popery, and the 
cardinal expressed himself as very desirous of co-oper- 
ating in the work of renovation. When Luther’s life 
was in danger in Germany, the cardinal joined with 
those who offered him safety and refuge. On reading 
Luther’s works, he exclaimed, “Dispute! Eccius quantum 
velit, Lutherus veritatem scribit!” But temporal in- 
terests held him fast to the old Church. He was even 
induced actively to oppose the new doctrines. His last 
few years were spent in Rome. He died soon after as- 
sisting in the election of Adrian VI, Oct. 2, 1522. See 
Herzog, Real- Enegklop. xx, 691-694; Hoefer, Xouv. 
Biog. Generate , s. v. (J. P. L.) 

Schinos. See Mastic. 

Schirmer, Michael, a Lutheran minister, was born 
at Leipsic in 1606. In 1636 he was called as master of 
the (5 ray friars’ Grammar-school at Berlin, where he 
died May 4, 1673. On account of his many troubles, he 
was called “the German Job.” He is the author of 
some hymns, the most popular of which is his O heiVger 
Geist kehr’bei uns ein (Engl, transl. in Choral Book for 
England, No. 70, “O Holy Spirit, enter in”). See Diete- 
rieb, Berlinische Kloster- und Schul-Ilistorie (Berlin, 
1752); Bachmann, A I. Schirmer nach seinem Leben u. 
Dichten (ibid. 1859); Koch, Gesch. des deutschen Kirchen - 
liedes, iii, 333 sq.; viii, 8, 92; Knapp, Evangel. Lieder - 
schatz, p.1343. (B. P.) 

Schism. See Heresy. 

Schism Bill, an act passed in the reign of queen 
Anne rendering Nonconformist teachers of schools liable 
to three months’ imprisonment. It was also laid down 
as imperative upon every schoolmaster that he should 
receive the sacrament of the Church of England, take 
the oaths, and teach only the Church catechism. If he 
should attend a conventicle, he was incapacitated and 
imprisoned. The queen, however, died on the very day 
that the act was to have received her signature, and 
consequently, though it had passed both houses, it fell 
to the ground. — Gardner, Faiths of the World, s. v. 

Schism Oveiture, an overture which came be- 
fore the Scottish General Assembly of 1766, and was 
produced by alarm at the rapid spread of secession. 
The overture affirms that a hundred and twenty meet- 
ing-houses had been erected, and raised the question, 
What shall be done to remedy so great an evil? also, 
whether a committee might not be appointed to corre- 
spond with presbyteries and gentlemen of property and 
influence, and report? The overture was rejected by a 
vote of 19 to 85. The argument turned chiefly on the 
law of patronage. 

Schisms. Various great schisms are found in the 
history of the Church. There was the great schism 
which divided the Eastern and Western churches. In 
the Western Ghurch there were early schisms — (1) the 
schism of Hippolgtns at Rome , A. I). 220-235 [see Calix- 
tus; II ii»po lytus ] ; (2) the schism of Eelicissimus at 
Carthage, about A.I). 250, which was in reality an oppo- 
sition to the episcopal authority of Cyprian under the 
lead of Novatus [see Novatians]; (3) the schism of 
Novation , a presbgter at Rome, A.D. 251. There was 
also the schism of Aide tins. The Popish Church was 
rent by a great schism in the 14th century. Seventy 


SCHLATTER 


411 


SCfILEIERMACHER 


years did the popes reside at Avignon, and after this one 
party chose Urban VI and another party Clement VII. 
France held by the last and England by the first, and 
for the next half century the rival popes claimed each 
to be the infallible head of the Church. — Eadie, Eccles . 
Cyclop, s. v. 

Schlatter, Michael, a Swiss missionary, was born 
at St. Gall, July 14, 1716. Educated at St. Gall, he be- 
came a clergyman, and in 1746 offered himself to the 
synods of North and South Holland as a missionary to 
the German Reformed emigrants in Pennsylvania, lie 
was pastor of the Reformed churches of Philadelphia 
and Germantown from 1746 to 1751, and organized 
churches in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Maryland, and 
Virginia. He effected the organization of the Synod of 
the German Reformed Church in America in Sept., 1747. 
He revisited Europe in 1751, and secured six other min- 
isters for the United States. In 1757 he acted as chap- 
lain to an expedition to Nova Scotia against the French, 
and, espousing the cause of the colonists when the Rev- 
olution broke out, was imprisoned in 1777. He died 
near Philadelphia in October, 1790. 

Schlegel, Johann Adolf, a German preacher 
and poet, was born at Meissen Sept. 18, 1721. His early 
studies were carried on at Pforte, and in 1741 he entered 
the University of Leipsic, where he became acquainted 
with Gellert, Rabener, Gaestner, and many other writers 
of talent. In 1744 he edited, in concert with several 
friends, Bremisehe Beit rage and Vermischte S 'chriften 
(1744 and 1757), which aided in purifying the German^ 
literary taste. In 1751 he w'as professor in the school 
at Pforte, but in 1754 left to teach theology at Zerbst. 
There his sermons gained for him a fine reputation for i 
eloquence. He became pastor at Hanover in 1759, and | 
in 1780 w T as promoted to the office of ecclesiastical super- ! 
intendent. He died at Hanover Sept. 16, 1793. 11 is 

poems have not been very highly esteemed, though some 
of his chants are yet sung in the Protestant churches of 
Germany. Besides these, he wrote, Sammlung einiger 
Predigten (Leips. 1754-64): — Predigten iiber die Leidens - 
geschichte Jesu Christi (ibid. 1773-74, 3 vols. 8vo). 11 is 

two sons, August Wilhelm and Karl Wilhelm Friedrich 
(q. v.), acquired great celebrity. See Schliclitegroll, 
Nekrolog. — lloefer, Noav. Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Schlegel, Karl Wilhelm Friedrich von, a 
German author, was born in Hanover, March 10, 1772. 
He studied at Gottingen and Leipsic. In 1808 he, togeth- 
er with his wife, embraced the Roman Catholic religion, 
and went to Vienna, where he w'as appointed imperial 
secretary at the headquarters of the archduke Charles. 
He accompanied the duke to the battle-field, issuing 
patriotic proclamations against Napoleon. He w'as af- 
terwards secretary of the Austrian embassy till 1818. 
The rest of his life he spent in lecturing in Vienna and 
Dresden, lie was especially remarkable as a critic and 
thinker of great originality, and his principal w'orks are, 
Griechen und Romer (1797): — Geschichte der Poesie der 
Griechen und Romer (1798): — Ueber die Sprache und 
Weisheit der Inder (1808) : — Yorlesungen iiber die nenere 
Geschichte (1811): — Philosophie des Lebens (1828): — 
Philosophic der Geschichte (1829, 2 vols.): — and Philo- 
sophie der Sprache (1830). 

Schleiermacher, Friedrich Daniel Ernst, was 
a theologian of the Reformed Church of Germany, who, 
standing on the border-line between the decline of ra- 
tionalism and the birth of the new evangelical school 
of Germany, exerted an influence For good in all the 
higher fields of thought which has rarely been equalled 
by any mind in any age (‘ ; the greatest divine of the 
19th century,” says P. Schaff, Creeds , i, 451). lie was 
born at Breslau. Nov. 21, 1768. His father was an hum- 
ble army chaplain of Calvinistic faith, upright life, and 
rather cold and harsh temper. 11 is mother (nee Stuben- 
rauch), a pastor’s daughter, was sprightly, prudent, and 
pious. Young Scldeiermacher’s health was delicate. 
His education up to his fifteenth year w'as derived 


chiefly from his parents. In 1783 he w r as sent to the 
school of the Moravian Brethren at Niesky. Here he 
made rapid strides in knowledge; but he also began to 
be troubled with religious doubts. At the age of seven- 
teen he entered the higher school of the same brethren 
at Barbv. Here he w T as brought face to face with a 
body of doctrine w hich, not being able to command his 
full assent, had the effect of forcing him to begin tbe 
construction of a system of his own. His first chief 
doubts related to the substitutional atonement of Christ 
and the eternity of future punishment. The attempts 
of his teachers to remove these doubts had no other ef- 
fect than to sadden him, and to convince him that his 
religious life would have to be nurtured outside of Mo- 
ravian circles. He w as frank enough to open his heart 
and explain his doubts to his dry, traditional father. 
The father rudely answered him, “O foolish son, who 
has bewitched thee that thou obeyest not the truth 
and erucifiest the Saviour afresh?” Subsequent cor- 
respondence, however, brought the father into a more 
Christian frame of mind, and finally led each to esteem 
and respect the other in a far higher degree than be- 
fore. With great difficulty having obtained his father’s 
consent, lie entered the University of Halle in the spring 
of 1787. While thus breaking his outward connection 
with the Moravians, he yet bore away with him from 
them a spirit of tender, subjective religiousness which 
ever after lingered like a heavenly aroma over every- 
thing which he printed or spoke. In Halle he lived 
with an uncle, and studied and heard lectures just as he 
pleased. He was not very methodical. He heard the 
aged rationalist Sender, devoured the works of Wolf, 
Kant, and Jacobi, became familiar with modern lan- 
guages, and pursued mai hematics. At this time hew’rote: 
“l am not sure that 1 can construct the whole field of 
knowledge into such a system that I can readily assign 
to every question its place and its solution; but I am 
sure that the nearest approach to it will be made by a 
candid hearing of the reasons on both sides , and by not 
settling upon anything with positiveness until this has 
previously been done.” These w’ords of the youth tru- 
ly express the spirit that led him throughout fife. 
While not in every case attaining to definitive results, 
he yet incessantly wmrked towards that goal; and his 
one life-aim was to ascertain as nearly as practicable 
tbe limits of attainable human knowledge. Leaving 
Halle in 1790, he passed his theological examination in 
Berlin, and, on the recommendation of F. S. G. Sack, be- 
came private instructor in the pious family of the count 
Dohna-Schlobitten in East Prussia. Differing, ultimate- 
ly, with the count on certain pedagogic principles, he 
returned to Berlin and taught, for a while, an orphan 
school (1793), then preached as vicar to pastor Schu- 
mann at Landsberg, on the Wartha (1794), and final- 
ly w'as made one of the tw r o pastors at the Chari te, 
the chief hospital iii Berlin, a position which he rilled 
until 1802. From 1796 onwards, his intellectual life 
took on a marvellous richness of flow' and depth. Sur- 
rounded with such persons as Brinkmann, Scharnhorst, 
Alexander Dohna, Henrietta Herz, Dorothea Veit, he 
breathed the most stimulating atmosphere of the Prus- 
sian capital. In his scientific and philosophical studies 
he made vast acquisitions. By his intimacy with the 
younger Schlegel he was partially imbued with the 
spirit of the romantic school in art. From this influ- 
ence the clearness of his moral consciousness was mo- 
mentarily disturbed. Hence arose his Letters upon 
Schlegel’s romance, Lucinde ( Vertraute Briefe , 1801), 
which, though w'ell-meant and full of moral earnest- 
ness, brought upon him no little odium. They can, at 
best, be called only a beautiful commentary to a bad 
text, lienee, also, sprang his romantic friendship with 
Leonore Grunow, the childless wife of a Berlin pastor, 
which was absolutely broken olT only in 1805. Much 
satisfactory light is throw'll upon this single shadow' in 
his life by his letters to his sister Charlotte and to Hen- 
rietta llerz. These incidental matters did not interfere 


SCHLEIERMACHER 


412 


SCHLEIERMACHER 


with the steady maturing of his intellectual and theo- 
logical systems. It was, perhaps, the richest develop- 
ment period (from his twenty-eighth to his thirty-sec- 
ond year) in his life. Hence it is to be explained that 
with so little previous literar}’- experience (he had only 
helped Sack translate Blair’s /Sermons , and himself 
translated Fawcett’s Sermons and contributed a few es- 
says to periodicals) he was able at once to electrify the 
nation by such a master-work as his Reden (discourses 
on religion [1799]) and his Monologen (1800). Leav- 
ing behind him these earnest protests against the prev- 
alent spirit of irrcligion, he now repaired (1802) to the 
post of court preacher at Stolpe, in East Pomerania. 
Here he passed two laborious years, and wrought upon 
his German translation of Plato. Here appeared his 
first strictly philosophical work, Kritik alter bisherigen 
Sittenlehren (1803). In 1804 he was transferred to 
Halle and made professor extraordinary of theology. 
It was a trying change; his own system of theology 
was not yet matured in his mind; and nothing but 
the great practical wisdom and originality of a Schlei- 
ermacher would have succeeded under the circum- 
stances. lie began at once to lecture in a very origi- 
nal manner on New-Test, exegesis, dogmatics, and eth- 
ics. He also preached frequently, re-establishing the 
academic worship which had fallen into neglect. He 
was soon made professor in ordinary. Although he at- 
tracted general attention, yet he was not congenial to 
the members of the theological faculty. Only Niemey- 
er and Vater drew near to him ; Knapp and Nosselt did 
not appreciate him. Ilis lectures and sermons made 
strange and contradictory impressions. Was he an 
atheist, a Spinozist, or a super-orthodox pietist ? Some 
thought the one ; some the other. At this period he 
produced his Weihnachtsfeier (1808) and his commenta- 
ry on Timothy (1807). The ravages of the French in- 
vasion interrupting now his labors at Halle, he returned 
to Berlin (autumn of 1807) and became pastor of Trin- 
ity Church (Dreifaltigkeitskirche). In 1808 he mar- 
ried the widow of his young friend. Von Willich. In 
1810 he was made professor in ordinary of the new Uni- 
versity of Berlin and a member of two scientific asso- 
ciations. Here the most influential half of his life be- 
gins. He was of the small circle of great men who call- 
ed the new university into being and gave to it fame. 
Here he passed from a rhapsodical to a dogmatic theo- 
logian; from a proclaiiner of religious philosophy to an 
expounder of the Word of God. It is not a revolution, 
however, but only a growth. Besides his scholastic 
labors, Schleiermacher took a lively part in the troubled 
politics of his country. In the darkest hours of Napo- 
leonic oppression, he was unwearied in. pulpit labors, 
counselling patience and inspiring with hope. He gave 
also much thought to the Church agitation which af- 
terwards culminated in the “ Union” of the Lutherans 
and the Reformed. The most important production of 
his first ten years in Berlin was his Glaubenslehre. 
From 1818 to 1822 he labored with De Wctte and Liicke 
in editing the Theologische Zeitschrift, which, ignoring 
the vulgar difference between rationalism and supernat- 
uralism, represented a more general and a higher form 
of religious and philosophical science. Though not 
one of the founders of the Studien und KHtiken (1828), 
yet his contributions to its earlier numbers helped to 
give it its high character. But it was to his actual 
work of teaching that the strength of his life was given. 
He lectured from two to three hours per day, except 
Saturdays. His intercourse with the other members of 
the university — with Fichte, Savigny, and Hegel, with 
Buttmann, Bbckh, and Lachmann, with De Wctte, Mar- 
heineke, and Neander — was deeply beneficial on both 
sides. The subjects which he taught were hermeneu- 
tics, ethics, dogmatics, dialectics, psychology, and phi- 
losophy, besides other incidental subjects. To his ser- 
mons he gave but a few moments on Saturdays, rarely 
throwing upon paper more than a few outlines. The 
majority of his published sermons arose from notes taken 


down by his auditors and then revised by himself. In 
society Schleiermacher took great delight, though not 
always himself the greatest talker. Society did not 
weary, but recreate him. To the students he w r as by 
far not so familiar as Neander, but the time he gave to 
them left indelible impressions. In his domestic life 
he was peculiarly happy. Only the death of his sole 
son (1829) cast a shadow into his life from which he 
seemed never fully to recover. Still he fulfilled all his 
offices and was busy witli his pen to the very last. His 
oft-expressed wish that he might die in the full posses- 
sion of his consciousness was graciously granted to him. 
Early in February, 1834, he was attacked with inflamma- 
tion of the lungs, which closed his life on the 12th. 
His dying hours were those of a resigned, joyous fol- 
lower of Christ. His very last act and words were the 
administering of the encharist to himself and his friends. 

From these outlines of Schleiermacher’s outward life 
we pass to a brief notice of his chief literary and theo- 
logical productions, following in the main the article 
(forty-four pages) by Gass in Herzog’s Real-Encyklop. 
xiii. He stood, as we have said, between the death 
and the birth of two ages. Combining the tendencies 
of the two — the rationalistic and the evangelical — in 
his own person, he helped to bury the one and to in- 
augurate the other. Yet he himself belonged to nei- 
ther. He gave the death-blow to rationalism, cast 
away the rubbish, and laid the foundations of the new 
evangelical edifice; but he did not fully build it. His 
intellectual history is the history of the Christian con- 
sciousness of his epoch. It is a growth. It has a dawn, 
a crystallizing period, and a philosophic maturity. It 
can be traced distinctly in the thirty-one volumes of 
his collective works as edited by his friend Jonas and 
others, from 1834 to 1864. 

His career was opened by his Reden , addresses to 
cultivated unbelievers (1800). This work made an 
epoch in the German nation. It called the cultivated 
circles away from their pride in a high-sounding philos- 
ophy and from their contempt of what they called re- 
ligion. There is no incongruity, said the young proph- 
et, between culture and religion. The culture that de- 
spises religion is but shallow presumption; the religion 
that despises culture is but a caricature. The founda- 
tions of religion are as deep as intuition and as broad as 
humanity. Each individual of the race is a vital mem- 
ber of the universe. By the universe he is sustained 
and furthered. In every life there come moments 
when this dependence on the universe is thrust upon 
the consciousness and made the very life of the soul. 
Such moments are as a conception, a birth, of the Eter- 
nal and Absolute within the limits of the finite and de- 
pendent. Religion is art, taste, a consciousness of the 
All. In becoming conscious of the Infinite we have 
the sentiment of our immortality. Religion is not mere 
dogmas and systems. It is the deepest and truest life 
of humanity itself. Men may sneer at religion, but they 
cannot get away from religion. Scorners turn from 
dry dogmatics to living nature. But what do they re- 
vere in nature? Not dead matter, not prosy, chemical 
elements, but rather nature’s orderly march, its adapta- 
tion of means to ends. But this is, after all, the very 
essence of religion; it is a sympathy with the eternal 
basis of all being. Religion is thus universal. We can 
escape it only by putting out our reason. It is not 
from wholeness, but. only from partialness, of vision that 
the cultivated turn aside from religion. The first three 
of the discourses treat, thus, of the nature of religion in 
general. The last two give a survey of religion in its 
historical reality. As the essence of religion is com- 
munion of feeling with the Absolute, the One, so its 
tendency is to organize man into communities and to 
express itself in organized worship. As there arc in- 
finite varieties of manifestation in nature, so the appre- 
hension of the Infinite in the soul of man takes place 
under endless varieties. Hence the multiplicity of his- 
torical religions. But there are here points of greater 


SCHLEIERMACHER 4 1 3 SCIILEIERM ACHER 


and of less approximation. Ancient Israel stood excep- 
tionally close to the Infinite. In Jesus of Nazareth, the 
One, the Infinite reached its (or his) intensest manifes- 
tation. Such is the general drift of these celebrated 
Reden. They were accused of a tendency to pantheism, 
though Schleiermacher resented the imputation. They 
were certainly not positively Christian. But they tend- 
ed towards Christianity, and they unquestionably pro- 
duced a more fruitful effect on the specific audience 
'which they addressed than if they had been of more 
confessioually orthodox form. This effect was sudden 
and immense. In his preface to the third edition (1821) 
Schleiermacher had occasion playfully to remark that 
there was then really a greater call for discourses to the 
over-righteous and the creed-worshippers among the 
cultivated than to unbelievers. The Monologen , with 
which Schleiermacher greeted the dawn of the 19th 
century, stand, as an ethical work, by the side of the 
religious tendency of the Reden. They are a self-scru- 
tinizing and self-exhorting journey through the relig- 
ious consciousness. Man should not be simply one of 
the monotonous members of the universe ; but he should, 
by self- concentration and self- virtualization, develop 
himself into a rich and relatively independent individ- 
ual. Means to this are reflection, meditation, retire- 
ment from too great absorption in dissipation, business, 
and external routine — in other words, the due conse- 
crating of our secular life with the devotional element. 
As in the Reden an influence of Spinoza has been no- 
ticed, so in the Monologen some have found a trace of 
Fichte. These two works present their author in the 
first stadium of his development. The Christmas Cele- 
bration (Weihnacktsfeier [1806]) is a transition step to- 
wards positive theology. It is a charming dialogue, in 
the fashion of Plato, on the significance of the birth of 
Christ. The three speakers defend, each his peculiar 
view. Neither of them represents the author’s exclu- 
sive views, but rather all of them in turn. 

When we pass to Schleiermacher’s critical treatment 
of the Bible, we meet with his least satisfactory works. 
And yet there was combined with his rather negative 
tendency very much which has enriched the results of 
exegelics. Ignoring the dogma of inspiration, he laid 
free hand upon the sacred book, just as upon the dia- 
logues of Plato, or any other ancient documents. But 
he did not doubt the substantial genuineness of the 
Bible, and he w r as confident that critical science is ca- 
pable of drawing the line between the essential and 
the non-essential. II is posthumously edited lectures 
on introduction to the New-Test, hermeneutics and 
criticism have not fully auswered all expectations. 

In his outlines of theology ( Kurze Darstellung des 
theologischen Studiums), which appeared first in 1810, 
and then, enriched with notes, in 1830, Schleiermacher 
assumes very positive dogmatic ground. He bases him- 
self upon the objective fact of the Protestant Christian 
consciousness. Theology is a positive science, the ele- 
ments of which are evolved from the Christian con- 
sciousness and from the exigencies of Church govern- 
ment. It is not a branch of philosophical science in 
general. With philosophy it must neither interfere nor 
by philosophy he dominated. Its truth is ascertained 
by historical criticism and by the comparative study of 
other religions. This forms the philosophical part. Its 
product is the historical , and out of the philosophical 
and historical parts results directly the practical part. 
This little work is of great originality, and has exerted 
wide influence. Its classification, however, has not been 
extensively followed. 

The richest product of Schlciermacher’s life is his 
dogmatics (Der christ liche Glauhe nach den Grundsatzen 
der evangelischen K ire he), which was first published in 
1821 (2 vols.),then, in a much enriched and revised edi- 
tion, in 1831. It is a monument of genius, and has been 
called the greatest theological product of the 19th cen- 
tury. Dogmatics is here presented, not as a speculative 
science, hut as the systematized contents of the Prot- 


estant Christian consciousness. Tl\e essence of this con- 
sciousness is defined, not as knowledge or action, but as 
feeling , and as a feeling differing from all others in be- 
ing a direct consciousness of the absolute. More specif- 
ically, it is a feeling of absolute dependence. This feel- 
ing is for the first time clearly realized in Christian 
monotheism. The principal defect of this definition is 
that it makes no adequate room for creatural freedom. 
A second definition is given of the specifically Christian 
consciousness. Thus, qualitatively it is a transition 
from the moral condition of unhappiness into that of 
happiness; historically, it is an effect of the life of 
Christ. The two elements must stand in perfect union. 
This union gives the limits within which the healthy 
Christian life must move, and beyond which lie the 
shoals of all error and heresy. Redemption is infringed 
upon by any view of human ability which overlooks the 
absolute necessity of redemption. Christ is infringed 
upon by any view which makes him either too near to 
or too remote from the ordinary conditions of human 
life. Accordingly, we find, in fact, two opposite chris- 
tological and two anthropological heresies — the Ebion- 
ite and the Docetic, the Pelagian and the Manichcean. 
From this starting-point, and within these limits, the 
dogmatic theologian has free movement. It is his 
privilege to seize the historical results of the past, to 
shape them into self-consistency, and to impress upon 
them in turn the historical coloring of the present. 
Thus the body of Christian doctrines is at no point de- 
finitively complete, hut is in constant process of matur- 
ing. The dogmatics of Schleiermacher made an epoch 
in theology. It superseded old modes of defending 
Christianity, and inaugurated new’ and better ones. It 
did not begin with dry proofs of the existence of God; 
it found God already given in the Christian conscious- 
ness. It did not make Christ simply a part of the 
Christian system; it made him its beginning, its mid- 
dle, and its end. In the distribution of the subject- 
matter of his work, Schleiermacher studies (1) man as 
conscious of God prior to the experience of the antith- 
esis of sin and grace; next, after becoming conscious of 
such an antithesis, as (2) the subject of sin, and (3) as 
the subject of grace: or the states of innocence, sin, 
and grace. Each of these divisions is subdivided in a 
threefold manner, describing respectively the condition 
of man, the attributes of God, and the constitution of the 
world, as they relate to the three above-named states. 
Thus Schleiermacher’s method departs from all previous 
methods. While the schoolmen begin with God and 
his attributes, and then pass to man; while the reform- 
ers usually begin with the rule of faith, the Bible, and 
then, passing to the Deity, proceed in the scholastic 
manner, Schleiermacher, on the contrary, begins and 
ends with the human consciousness and its contents. 
The development of this scheme showed clearly that 
the old form of rationalism was shallow and worthless. 
It emancipated religion from its entanglement with 
philosophical systems and placed it in the realm of feel- 
ing. It showed that spiritual insight — an awakened 
heart — is just as necessary to the appreciation of Chris- 
tian theology as aesthetic insight is to the enjoyment of 
art. But with these healthful principles Schleiermacher 
associated consequences which were of damaging ten- 
dency. As he made the human intuitions the criterion 
of absolute appeal in art and morals, so he made the col- 
lective Christian consciousness the ultimate test of re- 
ligions truth. The value of the apostolic testimony in 
Scripture arises, therefore, not from its being an abso- 
lute objective standard, but from its being the clearest 
existing expression of the Christian consciousness in the 
earliest and purest age. The Church existed before the 
New f Testament. The New Testament appeals to the 
religious consciousness, but does not dictate to it. In- 
spiration is not mere genius: it is the outgoing of the 
religious consciousness ; it is hut a higher degree of what 
is common to the pious intuitions of saintly men in all 
ages. The Bible is a record of religious truth, not its 


SCHLEIERMACHER 


414 


SCHLEIERMACHER 


formal organ. It is a reflection of the Christian con- 
sciousness of the apostolic age, but not a mechanical 
criterion for all ages. By such views as these Schleier- 
macher made himself absolutely dependent upon the ut- 
terances of the religious consciousness. Hence he is un- 
able fully to appreciate such points of doctrine as are not 
clearly given in this consciousness. Thus sin is under- 
stood rather as unholiness than as guilt before God; re- 
demption rather as sanctification than as justification ; 
Christ’s death as a simple incident in his life of self-sac- 
rifice; atonement as the setting-forth of the union of 
God with man; the mode of attaining to salvation as a 
spiritual realization of this union through the embrac- 
ing of Christ in love (see Farrar, Free Thought , p. 245- 
217). The Holy Ghost is presented as simply the col- 
lective Spirit of the Church, as resulting from the union 
of human nature with the divine. With the exception 
of the doctrines of immortality, eternal life, and retribu- 
tion, all the other opinions in regard to man’s future are 
questions of mere hope and speculation. The doctrine 
of the Trinity is not a direct utterance of the religious 
consciousness, nor was it a separate article of the early 
Christian faith ; hence it does not really possess the 
character of an independent dogma, which the Church 
afterwards gave to it. The Trinity is, in fact, not a des- 
ignation of Deity, but rather of the revelation of Deity. 
Schleiermacher inclines to an improved Sabellianism. 
The scholastic idea of a tripersonal God is, in his view, 
an undogmatic philosopheme, while the simpler old Prot- 
estant conception is a logical self-contradiction (see 
Theol. Zeitschri/t, pt. ii ; [transl. in Bible Repos. Ando- 
ver, vol. v]). The reception which the public gave to 
Schleiermaclier’s dogmatics was very varying. Ration- 
alism was displeased: the first volume was too specula- 
tive, the second too pietistic. Wegschcider regarded it 
as a pious representation of essential orthodoxy. The 
orthodox party warmly welcomed it, though without 
full approval. Braniss and Delbriick criticised it sharp- 
ly. The latter declared it inconsistent with the founda- 
tions of Protestantism. But it speedily recovered from 
these shocks; and within a few years it numbered among 
its disciples such men as Twesten, Liicke, Nitzsch, Ull- 
mann, Baumgarten-Crusius, Schwarz, and Gass. These 
men studied it, elucidated it, wrote upon it. It came to 
honor in nearly all the German universities. In some 
of them it was made the basis of special courses of lect- 
ures. But it speedily became evident that the body 
of disciples might be divided into three chief groups. 
Some held more to the negative, critical elements; oth- 
ers to the evangelically positive; others to the middle 
course of the master. Among the more positively evan- 
gelical of his disciples were Twesten, Nitzsch, Julius 
Milller, Hagenbach, Tholuck, Sack, Bleek, Usteri, Ols- 
hausen, Dorner, Erbkam, Marteusen, Liebner, Lange, 
Eberard, Auberlen, Kothe, Schoberlcin, Palmer, and a 
host of others. 

In the field of ethics the influence of Schleiermacher 
was only less than in that of dogmatics; but he was not 
privileged to bring his thoughts to satisfactory comple- 
tion and consistency. Tie began with a revolutionary 
and nnhistorical criticism of previous systems in his 
Kritik oiler bisherigen Sittenlehren in 1803. His per- 
sonal views he began to elaborate in a series of essays 
in 1819. The substance of his lectures on ethics was 
edited by Schweizer ( Entwurf der Sittenlehre ) in 1835, 
also more briefly by Twesten ( Grundriss der philoso- 
phischen Ethik) in 1841. 1 1 is positively Christian eth- 

ics ( Die christliche Sitte) was edited by Jonas in 1843. 
From these varied presentations it is difficult, if not im- 
possible, to derive a single consistent view. The classi- 
fication is artificial and unsatisfactory (see a severe criti- 
cism upon it in Wuttkc’s Christian Ethics [Engl, transl.], 
i, 361 371). The fruitfulness of Schleiermacher in this 
field was rather in furnishing impulses to other authors 
than as the creator of a finished system. 

Next in importance stand his works on pedagogics 
( Erzieh ungsleh re ) , edited by C. Platz in 1849, and his 


Practical Theology ( Praktische Theologie), edited by Fre- 
richs. Of less worth are his lectures on Church history 
( Kirchengeschichte ), edited by Bonnel in 1840. For the 
light thrown upon his inner religious life, none of Schlei- 
ermacher’s writings are more interesting than his ser- 
mons. There are thus far published ten volumes. Of 
these four were revised by the author, and six have been 
prepared by others, mostly by Dr. Sydow. These ser- 
mons are from every period of his life, and of every 
class. The larger number, however, are not textual or 
cxegctical, but synthetic, the regular development of a 
theme. In contents they stand midway between the 
instructive and the hortatory. The great preacher 
placed himself on the same level as his audience, and, 
while enriching their conception of Christianity, en- 
deavored to inspire them to a fuller realization of it in 
their lives. The uniform central point of his utterance 
was Christ, the Redeemer. Dr. Schaff (see Creeds of 
Christendom , i, 880) ascribes this intense love of Christ 
in Schleiermacher to his early Moravian education. He 
says, “It is a remarkable fact that the great German 
theologian Schleiermacher was cradled in the Moravian 
community, and conceived there his love for Christian 
union and personal devotion to Christ, which guided 
him through the labyrinth of speculation and scepti- 
cism, and triumphed on his death-bed. lie shook al- 
most every dogma of orthodoxy, and was willing, if 
necessary, to sacrifice all if he could only retain a per- 
fect and sinless Saviour.” He is inexhaustible in the 
variety and novelty of ways in which he impresses this 
vital point. This singleness of aim, however, does not 
imply monotony, but is consistent with very wide va- 
riety of matter. There is scarcely a single point in the 
circle of Christian doctrine which is not the theme of 
some of these sermons; hence they are often read from 
a merely dogmatic interest. They will long be es- 
teemed among the richest fruits of the German pulpit. 

Among the latest volumes edited from Scldeier- 
macher’s remains are his lectures on psychology (Psy- 
chology), by George (1864) and his Life of Jesus (Le- 
ben Jesu), by Butenik (1864). His correspondence with 
J. C. Gass was edited by W. Gass in 1852, and that with 
other friends appeared under the title Schleier- 
macher's Leben (1858-62, 4 vols.). A brief autobiogra- 
phy, reaching only to 1794, was issued in Niedner's Zeit- 
schrift in 1851. 

For sources for Schleiermacher’s life (besides his own 
writings and letters), see G. Bauer, Karaktenstik, in 
Stud. u. Krit. 1859 ; Auberlen, Kin Karukterbild (Basle, 
1859); Kosack, Jugendleben (Elberf. 1861); K. Schwarz 
(Gotha, 1861); E. Maier (1863); Baxmann (Bonn, 
1864); Dilthey (1867) ; Schenkel (1868). On his doc- 
trines, see Braniss, Ceber Schleiermacher' s Gluitbenslehre 
! (Berl. 1822); F. Delbriick, Erorterungen (Bonn, 1827); 
j C. Baur, Primce Rationalismi et Supranaturalism i Jlis- 
I toriee Capita Potiora (1827); Baumgarten-Crusius, 
I Schleiermacher' s Denkart u. Verdienst (1834); Liicke, 
Erinnerungen , in Stud. u. Krit. 1834; H. Schmid, Ueber 
Schleiermacher' s Glaubenslehre (Leips. 1835); Rosen- 
kranz, Kritik (1836); Baur, Die christliche Gnosis (Tii— 
bingen, 1835) ; Weissenborn, Darstellintg u. Kritik der 
Glaubenslehre (1849); Schuller, Vorlesungen iiber Schlei- 
ermacher (Halle, 1844). On his ethics, see Twesten’s 
preface to his edition of Schleiermacher’s Phil. Ethik ; 
Vorliimler, Schleiermacher' s Sittenlehre (1851); Herzog, 
in Stud. v. Krit. 1848; Reuter, in Stud. u. Krit. 1844. 
On his sermons, see Stud. u. Krit. 1831, 1848. See also 
Schilrer, Religionsbegrif (Leips. 1848); P. Schmidt, 
Spinoza u. Schleiermacher (Berl. 1868); also Opuscules , 
bv Carl Beck (Reutlingen, 1869); F. Zachler (Breslau, 
1869) ; W. Bender (Worms, 1868) ; P. Leo (Jena, 1868) ; 
Ilossbach (Berl. 1868); also article in Christ. Exam. vol. 
liii; 1 1 'estm. Rev. July, 1861 ; Meth. Qrnir. Rev. April, 
1869; Brit, and For. Evang. Rev. April, 1862; July, 
1866 ; Oct. 1876 ; Princeton Rev. April, 1866 ; Universal - 
ist Rev. April, 1869; Mercersh. Rev. April, 1871; Presb, 
Quar. Rev. Oct. 1868. (J. P. L.) 


SCIILEUSXEIi 


415 


scmiiD 


Schlensner, John Frederic, D.D.. professor of the- 
ology in Wittenberg, was born in Leipsic Jan. 16, 1756, 
and studied theology and philology in the university 
of that city. He was appointed professor of theology 
in Gottingen in 1784, and in 1795 professor of theology 
and provost of the college church in Wittenberg, lie 
devoted himself principally to the lexicography of the 
Greek Scriptures. After the removal of the University 
of Wittenberg, he was associate director of the theo- 
logical seminary. lie died Feb. 21, 1831. Among his 
principal works are, Lexicon Grceco-Lat . in Novum Tes- 
tamentum (Leips. 1792; last ed. 1819, 2 vols.): — Thesau- 
rus , sive Lexicon in LXX (Leips. 1821, 5 vols.), reprinted 
in Glasgow (2 vols.) and London (3 vols.). The lexicon 
on the New Test, has been superseded by later works, 
but that on the Sept, has yet found no substitute. 

Schlurick, Friedrich Julius Hermann, doctor of 
theology and member of the Evangelical Lutheran Con- 
sistory in Dresden, was born at Dresden in 1815. From 
1838 to 1841 he was professor at the Kreuzschule of his 
native place; from 1841 to 1851 he labored in Meissen; 
and from 1851 he was superintendent in Tirna, where he 
died, June 3, 1875. See Zuchold, Bibliotheca Theol. ii, 
1148 ; Theolog. Jahrbuch , 1876, p. 365. (B. B.) 

Schmalkald, League of, the name given to the 
defensive alliance concluded provisionally for nine years 
at Schmalkalden, Feb. 27, 1531, between nine Protes- 
tant princes and eleven imperial cities, with whom 
live other princes and ten imperial cities subsequently 
made common cause; and the elector of Saxony and 
the landgrave of Hesse were appointed chiefs of the 
league and empowered to manage its affairs. The ob- 
ject of this formidable alliance — which included the 
whole of Northern Germany, Denmark, Saxony, and 
Wiirtemberg, and portions of Bavaria and Switzerland — 
was for the common defence of the religion and political 
freedom of the Protestants against t he emperor Charles 
V and the Catholic states. The league was not ren- 
dered superfluous by the religious peace of Nuremberg 
in 1532; and on the rumor that the emperor was medi- 
tating new hostile measures against the Protestants, 
another meeting of the confederates was held Dec. 24, 
1535, which resolved to raise a permanent army of 
10,000 foot and 2000 cavalry, and to prolong the league 
for ten years. The confederation was further consoli- 
dated by articles of guarantee which were drawn up by 
Luther at Wittenberg in 1536, and, being subscribed by 
the theologians present at the meeting of the league at 
Schmalkalden in February, 1537, were called the Arti- 
cles of Schmalkald. Against the league the emperor, 
engaged as he was at the time in contests with the 
Turks and French, found himself unable to contend, 
though supported by the Holy League, a Catholic con- 
federation formed (in 1538) in opposition to the Prot- 
estant one. But impolitic management, mutual jeal- 
ousies, and conflicting petty interests dissipated their 
energies and prevented united action. The u War of 
Schmalkald” commenced by the advance of the army 
of the league, under Sebastian Schartlin, into Swabia, 
to bar the approach of the imperial army from Italy. 
Schartlin forced his way to the banks of the Danube, 
but the miserable jealousy of the Saxon princes para- 
lyzed his action. The emperor, by a proclamation 
bearing date July 20, 1546, put the two chiefs of the 
league under the ban of the empire; Maurice, duke of 
Saxony, took possession of the electorate by virtue of 
an imperial decree; and the Protestant army was forced 
to retreat. The elector of Saxony reconquered his elec- 
torate in the autumn of 1546; but meantime the impe- 
rial army subdued the northern members of the League 
of Schmalkald, and advanced into Franconia to meet the 
combined armies of Saxony and Hesse. The latter were 
totally routed at Miihlberg (April 24, 1547), and both 
chiefs fell into the emperor’s hands. This defeat, which 
has been ascribed to treason, and was, perhaps, as much 
owing to this cause as to weakness, finished the war. 


The object of the league — the guarantee of the liberty 
of religion to the Protestants — was subsequently effect- 
ed by Maurice, now elector of Saxony, who, by a brill- 
iant feat of diplomacy and generalship, compelled the 
emperor to grant the treaty of I ’assau (July 31, 1552), 
by which this freedom was secured. — Chambers's Ency - 
clop. s. v. 

Schmaltz, Moritz Ferdinand, doctor of theology, 
born in 1785 at Stolpen, near Dresden, was first pastor 
in Wehlen. In 1816 he was called as evangelical min- 
ister and member of consistory to Vienna, where he 
remained till 1819, when he was called to the pastorate 
in Ncustadt, Dresden, which position he occupied until 
1833, when he was called to become the head pastor of 
St. Jacobi in Hamburg, where he died, Feb. 15, 1860. 
Schmaltz published a great many sermons, which make 
a library in themselves. See Zuchold, Bibl. Theolog. ii, 
1149 sq. ; Winer, Bandbuch der theol. Liter atur , i, 75; 
Hagenbach, Hist, of Doctrines , ii, 210, 212. (B. P.) 

Schmalzgruber, Franz, a Jesuit, was born in 
1663 at Griesbach. He first lectured on logic and mor- 
al theology at Ingolstadt, then on canon-law, and died 
in 1735. He wrote Index Ecclesiasticus (Ingolst. 1712): 
— Judicium Ecclesiasticum (ibid. 1712) : — Clerus S (ecu la- 
ris et Regular is (ibid. 1714, 2 vols.) : — Sponsuliu et Ma- 
trimonium (ibid. 1716): — Crimen Fori Ecclesiastici (ibid. 

1718, 2 vols.): — Jus Ecclesiasticum Universum (ibid. 

1719, 6 vols.; Home, 1833-45, 12 vols.): — Consilia seu 
Responsa Juris (Ingolst. 1722, 2 vols.). See Regensbur- 
ger Real-Encyklop. s. v. (B. P.) 

Schmeidler, Johann C. Hermann, a Protestant 
divine, was born at Breslau, Aug. 28, 1807, where he also 
died Aug. 16, 1867, after having occupied some of the 
most important ecclesiastical positions in his native 
place. He wrote, Der Untergang des Reiches Juda 
(Breslau, 1831) : — Urkundliche Beit rage znr Geschichte 
der Haupt-Pfarrkirche St. Maria Magdalena zu Bres- 
lau vor der Reformation (ibid. 1838): — Urkundliche 
Geschichte der evang. ffaupt- v. Pfarrkirche ztt St. 
Bernhardin in Breslau, etc. (ibid. 1853). See Zuch- 
old, Bibl. Theolog. ii, 1152; Winer, Handbuch der theol . 
Literatur, i, 75. (B. P.) 

Schmid, Christian Friedrich, a professor of 
theology at Tubingen, was born at Bickelsberg, 1794. 
Educated at Maulbroun and Tubingen, he began to 
lecture at the latter place in 1819. In 1826 he became 
professor in ordinary, and labored as such till his death, 
in 1852. Not prolific as an author, he has yet exerted 
a very great and evangelical influence on the clergy 
of Wiirtemberg. A supernaturalist from the start, he 
worked fruitfully by the side of the more negative 
Baur, defending vigorously the fundamentals of Chris- 
tianity, and utilizing the better results of modern Chris- 
tian speculation. Men like Dorner and Oehler have 
given public expression to their indebtedness to Schmid. 
His labors embraced practical, exegetical, and moral the- 
ology. His lectures were models of systematic Chris- 
tian thought. He was not, however, simply a scientific 
theologian, but his influence was also deeply and posi- 
tively Christian. His Biblische Theologie des nenen 
Test, appeared in 1853 (4th ed. by Dr. A. Heller, Gotha, 
1868); it has enjoyed a wide popularity. His Christ- 
liche Moral, by the same editor, was published in 1861. 
See Erinnerung an C. E. Schmid, by Palmer and others 
(Tubingen, 1852); Stud. u. Krit. 1856; Wuttkc, Chris- 
tian Ethics, i, 374 ; Hauck, Jaliresbericht, 1869 ; Herzog, 
Real-Encyklop. xiii, 604-606. (J. P. L.) 

Schmid, Konrad, a coadjutor of Zwingli in the 
reformation of Switzerland, born in 1476; died (with 
Zwingli, on the battle-field of Cappel) October, 1531. 
After studying at Basle, he entered a monastery at 
Kussnacht, and in 1519 became its commander. This 
same year Zwingli came as preacher to Zurich, and 
with him Schmid entered at once into close intimacy. 
In 1522 he threw aside Latin and preached at Zurich a 


SCIDIID 


41C 


SCIIN ECKEN BURGER 


stirring sermon in “good German,” in which he opposed 
the excessive claims of the pope and the abuses of image- 
worship. In a religious conference at Zurich, October, 
1523, he acted as mediator between the violent icono- 
clasts and the conservatives. “Let the weak have the 
images,” said he, “as a sort of staff to lean upon until 
they have taken hold upon Christ; when they once 
have done this, they will let go the staff as being no 
longer needful.” Also he blamed the coarse manner in 
which some spoke of the mass, as if it were a mere in- 
vention of the devil. At the close of his discourse on 
this occasion, lie recommended to the civil authorities 
great moderation, and urged them to provide a thorough 
religious education of the masses. When Zwingli at- 
tended the conference with Luther at Marburg (Oct. 
1529), Schmid tilled his place as preacher in the cathe- 
dral of Zurich. He was an able and holy priest of God. 
See Bullinger, Reformat ionsyeschichte ; Herzog, Real- 
Encyklop. s. v. (J. 1\ L.) 

Schmid, Sebastian, D.D., a native of Alsatia, 
was born Jan. 6, 1617, at Lampcrheim, and died Jan. 9, 
1696, at Strasburg. where he was professor of theology 
and canonicus. lie was a voluminous writer. His prin- 
cipal Biblical works were his translation of the Bible : 
Biblia Sacra V. T. et X. ex Linguis Original, in Ling. Lat. 
translata (Strasb. 1696, 1708 ; New Test. 1715): — and his 
commentaries : On Genesis (Strasb. 1697 ) : — Judges (ibid. 

1684, 1691, 1706): — Ruth (ibid. 1696): — Kings (ibid. 
1687): — Job (ibid. 1670, and often): — Coheletk (ibid. 
1704 ) : — Isaiah ( Hamb. 1702 ) : — Jeremiah ( Strasb. 
1685; Frankf. 1697, 1706): — Minor Prophets (Leips. 

1685, 1687, 1698 ): — Ilosea (Frankf. 1687): — Romans , 
Galatians, and Colossians, etc. (llamb. 1704): — Ephe- 
sians (Strasb. 1684, 1699) : — Hebrews (ibid. 1680; Leips. 
1693, 1722): — 1 John (Frankf. and Leips. 1687, 1707, 
1726). Some of these were posthumous publications; 
they are all much valued for sound and learned exe- 
gesis. — Kit to. 

Schmidt. Erasmus, a German scholar, was horn in 
Delitzsch, April 27, 1560. He became professor of Greek 
and mathematics at Wittenberg, and died in that city 
Sept. 22, 1637. His chief work is Concordantice Novi 
Test. (Vitemb. 1638, fob). It was republished in Glas- 
gow (2 vols.8vo) and in London (1830, 48mo). He also 
published a highly improved edition of Beza’s version 
of the New Test. 

Schmidt, Johann Eusebius, a Lutheran min- 
ister, was born in 1669 at Ilohenfeld, in Thuringia. A 
friend and pupil of A. H. Frankc, he lived from 1697 as 
pastor in Siebleben, near Gotha, until his death, in 1745. 
Schmidt was a tine hvmn-writer, and some of his hymns 
belong to the best of German hymnologv, as Es ist roll - 
bracht,so rvft. am Kreuze (transl. into Engl, by Mills in 
his Ilora>, Germanicce , No. 161, “’Tis finished ! thus in 
tortures dying”) : — Fahre fort, fuhre fort (Engl, transl. 
in Monthly Rel. Mag. 1866, xxxv, 363, “Onward go, 
onward go”). See Koch, Gescliichte des deutschen Kir - 
chenliedes, iv,402 sq. ; viii, 141 ; Knapp, Evangel. Licder- 
scluitz , p. 1343. (II. P.) 

Schmolck, Benjamin, a gifted German hymnolo- 
gist, was born in Liegnitz, 1672. He studied theology at 
Lcipsic from 1693 to 1697, became assistant pastor to his 
father at Liegnitz in 1701, but the next year accepted a 
call to Schweidnitz as dean. Here he spent the rest of 
his life as a laborious pastor, exerting himself manfully 
to counteract the intrigues of the Jesuits and to preserve 
his people in their evangelical faith. In 1708 he was 
made archdean, in 1712 senior, and in 1714 pastor prima- 
rius. After a pastorate of thirty-live years, he entered 
into rest, 1737. By his hymns and songs, which appear- 
ed in various editions from 1704 and on, he has obtained 
an honorable place among the poets of his Church and 
nation. Their general tone is that of gentleness and 
simplicity, and of ardent love to Christ. Many of them, 
however, betray marks of carelessness in rhetoric and 
of lack of polish. A complete edition of his poems ap- 


peared at Tubingen in 1740. A selection was published 
by L. Grote at Leipsic in 1860. For his life, see this 
work of Grote and Herzog, Real-Encyklop. xiii, 608, 609. 
(J. P. L.) 

Schmucker, Peter, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Michelstadt, grand- 
duchy of Hesse -Darmstadt, Aug. 24, 1784. His par- 
ents removed to this country while he was yet an in- 
fant, and settled in Virginia. He was converted in his 
eighteenth year, and entered the ministry of the Lu- 
theran Church in 1814. We cannot specify the congre- 
gation he served, but his name is found in 1817 in the 
printed list of the members of the Evangelical Lutheran 
Synod of North Carolina; and in 1820 he was one of 
the delegates who met at Hagerstown, Md., to form the 
General Synod of the Evangelical Lutheran Church of 
the United States. Still later we find him recorded as 
a member of the Evangelical Lutheran Synod of West- 
ern Pennsylvania. In 1832 he joined the Methodist 
Church, and in 1838 entered the Ohio Conference to 
take charge of the German Mission in Cincinnati. In 
1840 he was appointed to Louisville, Kv., and in 1842 
sent to New Orleans to begin work among the Germans 
there. He continued to labor in different parts of the 
United States until 1848, when ill-health disabled him. 
From that time he suffered greatly, until relieved by 
death, Dec. 9, 1860. — Minutes of Annual Conferences , 
1861, p. 165. 

Scknappinger, Bonifacius M., a Homan Catho- 
lic divine, was born at Neuburg, in Bavaria, Oct. 5, 1762, 
was first lecturer of theology at Wiirzburg, then profess- 
or of exegesis at Heidelberg, and from 1807 professor 
of dogmatics at Freiburg. He died Dec. 6, 1832. He 
published the Neiv Test, with annotations (Mannheim, 
1807): — Doctrina Dogmatvm Eccles. Christ. Cath. ad 
usum Acad. (Augsburg, 1818) : — Entwurf einer kathol . - 
christl. Religions- v. Dogmengeschichte zu akad. Yorlesun- 
gen (Carlsruhe, 1807). See Winer, Handbucli dev theol. 
Literatur , i, 175, 306, 593 ; ii, 761. (B. P.) 

Schneckenburger, Matthias, an eminent mod- 
ern theologian, born Jan. 17, 1804; died June 13, 1848. 
He studied Latin at Tuttlingen, Wurtemberg. In 1819 
he began the study of theology at Urach. In 1824 
he entered upon more thorough studies at Tubingen. 
Here his teachers were Steudel, Schmidt, Baur, Hang, 
and others. Philosophical theology was his favorite 
study; and the book which delighted him most was 
Sehleiermachcr’s Glaubenslehre. He reached his mas- 
ter’s degree in his twentieth year, and held the highest 
place in a group of thirty-eight competitors. In 1826 
lie w ent to Berlin to continue his studies under Scldeier- 
.macher, Neander, Marheinccke, and llegel. With Ne- 
ander and Marheineeke he formed very close relations, 
as also with other eminent literary men, e. g. Chamisso 
and Gans. In 1827 he returned to Wiirtembcrg and 
began to lecture at Tubingen. Among his pupils were 
Strauss, Vischer, and Marklin, In 1831 he entered into 
the ministry as preacher at Herrenberg. Although a 
gifted speaker, he soon felt that not the pulpit, but the 
professor’s chair was his place. In 1834 he accordingly 
entered the new theological faculty at Berne. By his 
side stood llundeshagen, Lutz, and others, llis field 
here was Church history, dogmatics, and exegesis; but 
it was especially in dogmatics that his greatest interest 
lay. Here his position was that healthy union of prac- 
tice and theory which was so characteristic of Zwingli. 
When the Strauss commotion broke out in Germany 
(1839), Schneckenburger faced the whole series of ques- 
tions which it called forth, and began a course of lect- 
ures on the influence of philosophy upon theology and 
on the collisions between modern speculation and Chris- 
tianity. Ilis position was that of a positive theist and 
an opponent of Hegel. Very fruitful among his labors 
in the following years were his studies in comparative 
dogmatics, llis general tendency was unionistic. He 
did not confine himself to academic labors, but took also 


SC1I0CK 


417 


SCHNEIDER 

an active part in the Church affairs of the canton of 
Berne. 

In character Schneckenburger was as simple and un- 
assuming as a child. His great defect was a deficiency 
of self-assertion. In his wedded life he was very un- 
fortunate. 1 1 is relation to his childless wife was very 
similar to that of Salmasius to his domineering “ Juno.” 
Seeking relief from his domestic unhappiness in a still 
greater devotion to study, his health soon broke down. 
He died at the early age of forty-four. It was character- 
istic of his wife that his valuable papers were for a num- 
ber of years kept under lock and key. It was only af- 
ter she had fled from justice to America that they came 
into the hands of his colleague, Hundeshagen. Among 
Schneckenburger’s writings are the following: Ueber 
Glauben , Tradition und Kircke (Stuttg. 1827) : — Ueber 
das Alter der jiidischen Proselytentanfe (Berlin, 1828) : — 
Annotatio ad Epistolam Jacobi (Stuttg. 1832): — Einlei- 
tung ins Neue Test. (ibid. 1832) : — Ueber das Evangelium 
der Aegypter (Berne, 1834): — Ueber den Begrijf der Bil- 
dnng (ibid. 1838): — Stapferi , Theologi Bernensis , Chris- 
tologia (ibid. 1842): — l)e Falsi Neronis Fama (ibid. 
1843) : — Znr kirchlichen Christologie (Pforzheim, 1848) : 
— Vergleichende Darstellung des lutherischen und re- 
formirten Lehrbegriffs (edited by Glider, Stuttg. 1855, 
2 pts.). Also numerous contributions to the Tiibinger 
Zeitschrift, the Studien und Kritiken , the Theologische 
Jahrbiicher, and others. See Herzog, Real-Encyklop. ; 
Gedachtnissrede von l)r. Gelpke (Berne, 1848). (J. P. L.) 

Schneider, Benjamin, DD., a missionary of the 
American Board of the Congregational Church, was 
born in New Hanover, Pa., Jan. 18, 1807. lie joined 
the Church in Norristown in 1820, and soon after enter- 
ed Hamilton College, in N. Y. Having remained awhile 
here, he went to Amherst, where he graduated in 1830. 
From Amherst he went directly to Andover, and enter- 
ed the seminary, where the question of becoming a for- 
eign missionary soon took possession of his mind. In 
June, 1832, he says, “ Blessed be God for the prospect I 
have of consecrating myself to the good work of mis- 
sions.” With this thought uppermost, lie pursued his 
studies. After graduating in 1833, he was married to 
Miss Abbott, lie was ordained in 1833, and Dec. 12 of 
the same year he sailed from Boston for Smyrna. From 
1834 to 1849 he was stationed at Broosa, the ancient 
capital of the Turkish empire, about ninety miles south 
ol Constantinople. Though a region rich and grand in 
natural scenery, it was hard to cultivate. The princi- 
ple of toleration had not been established in the empire, 
and the missionary was subjected to endless annoyances 
and persecutions. His chief labors were with the Greek 
population, and they were far less susceptible to Gospel 
influences than the Armenian. In 1849 he was called 
to take up his abode at Aintab, where he had labored 
for a time previously, and where a wonderful work had 
begun among the Armenians. Here Dr. Schneider la- 
bored until 1808, a period of nineteen years, and his la- 
bors were crowned with abundant success, lie instruct- 
ed the candidates for the ministry, and many of the na- 
tive preachers in Central Turkey received their theo- 
logical training at his hands. Though he had many 
things to occupy his attention in laying the foundations, 
his chief delight was in telling the simple story of the 
cross to the listening multitudes. Gentle and winning 
in his manners as he was scholarly, he attracted thou- 
sands by his fluency and fervor. Dr. Schauftler, another 
veteran missionary, in speaking of him, said, “Always 
when I can, 1 go to hear Dr. Schneider.” The pulpit 
was his throne, the place of his power. In 1808 it was 
thought advisable that lie should return to Broosa and 
resume his labors there; and a few years later he seemed 
to be pointed out by Providence, on account of his schol- 
arly attainments and fitness, as the person to be put in 
charge of the theological seminary at Marsovan. While 
laboring here, such was his incessant toil that his health 
gave way. He was a man of eminent gifts and quali- 
fications, an exact scholar, especially as a linguist. He 
IX.— D d 


mastered with ease all the foreign tongues he was called 
to use, and spoke with remarkable ease and fluency. 
11 is whole heart was in his work, because he loved it. 
Thus he lived and died. “ llis record is in heaven, and 
his testimony on high.” He died in Boston Sept. 4, 
1877. (W. P. S.) 

Schneider, Johann Jacob, was born Feb. 8, 
1797, at Basle, where he also pursued his theological 
studies. In 1819 he was called to Grenzach,in Baden, 
and since that time he supplied the pulpit in different 
places until, in 1859, he was called to Betberg, whore he 
intended to remain. Bodily infirmities came over him 
and ended his life March 24, 1859. Besides a number 
of hymns which lie composed, he published Die christ - 
lichen Sanger des 19. Jahrhunderts (Basle, 1817). See 
Zuvi A ndenken an ./. J. Schneider, Pfarrer zu Betberg 
(Basle, 1859); Koch, Geschichte des deutschen Kirchen- 
liedes, vii, 307 sq. ; Knapp, Evangel. Liederschatz, p. 1344; 
Zuchokl, Bibliotheca Theolog. ii, 1167. (B. P.) 

Schnepf, Erhard, an assistant in the Lutheran 
Reformation, born of a noble family at Hcilbronn, No- 
vember, 1498. lie studied first at Erfurt, then at Hei- 
delberg, As soon as Luther appeared, Schnepf wel- 
comed his teachings. He preached first at Weinsberg, 
then (1523) at Wimpen, where he married. In 1525 
he was called by Philip 111 of Nassau to introduce the 
reformation at Weilburg. Here his familiarity with 
Scripture enabled him to triumph in a disputation over 
Dr. Tervich, of Treves. In 1528 Philip made him a 
professor in his new university of Marburg, whence he 
exerted a reformatory influence into Westphalia. He 
accompanied his patron to the diet of Spire in 1529, and 
to Augsburg in 1530. In 1534, at the request of duke 
Ulrich of Wiirtembcrg, he united with Blaurer in the 
reformation of this country. His seat of operation was 
Stuttgart, while that of Blaurer was Tubingen. In 
1544 he accepted a professorship in Tubingen, and rep- 
resented the more rigid views of Luther in a Zwinglian 
community. Schnepf refused to accept the interim , 
and in 1548 gave up his position and fled to Hcilbronn. 
At the suggestion of Johann Friedrich of Weimar, he 
became prolessor of Hebrew at Jena in 1549, and soon 
had more than sixty students. Here he became, along- 
side of Amsdorf and Strigel, one of the most eminent 
theologians in that region. Up to 1555 he had lived 
in peace with the synergistic Melancthonians at Wit- 
tenberg; but now he became involved in the rigid Lu- 
theran party of Flacins, and he assumed a milder posi- 
tion only at the instance of the duke Johann Friedrich. 
In the midst of labors abundant, he died at Jena, No- 
vember, 1558. See Jo. Rosre,Z)e Vita Schnepf i (Leips. 
1562); Heyd, Blaurer, and Schnepf, in the Tub. Zeit- 
schHft , 1838; Herzog, Real-Encyklop. xti, 018-620; 
llagenbach, Hist, of Doctrines, ii, 314. (J. P. L.) 

Schnurrer, Christian Friedrich, an eminent Ori- 
entalist, professor and preacher at Tubingen, was born at 
Cannstadt Oct. 28, 1742. lie studied at Tubingen, Got- 
tingen, Jena, and Leipsic. Among his teachers were 
Michaelis, Ernest i, Dathe, Semler, Toller, and Gellert. 
He visited England and France to extend his familiari- 
ty with Oriental MSS. On his return in 1770 he be- 
came professor at Tubingen, and began the exegesis of 
the Old Test. But when, in 1772, he was placed at the 
head of the theological training-school, he was in the 
place for which his talents and learning best fitted him. 
Here he labored with great success for thirty-two years. 
In 1806 he was made a prelate and brought into close 
connection with the government, lie died at Stutt- 
gart Nov. 10, 1822. Among the many writings of 
Schnurrer are, Bibliotheca Arabica (1799-1800,7 parts): 
— Academic Addresses (in Latin [Tub. 1828]) :—Er lau- 
ier itngen (historical [Tub. 1798]). See Weber, Schnur- 
rer's Leben (1823); llerzog, Real-Encyklop. xx, 714-718. 
(J. P. L.) 

Schock, Charles, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Stuttgart, Germany, 


SCHOLASTIC PHILOSOPHY 418 SCHOLASTIC THEOLOGY 


July I, 1812, and emigrated to Philadelphia, Pa., 1820. 
Removing to Wilmington, Del., he there united with 
the Methodist Episcopal Church, lie joined the Phila- 
delphia Conference in 1838. lie became supernumerary 
in 1855, and so remained until his death, which occurred 
in Philadelphia, March 24, 1872. — Minutes of Annual 
Conferences , 1873, p. 18. 

Scholastic Philosophy. See Scholasticism. 

Scholastic Theology, a term used to designate 
that peculiar phase of theological development which 
lies between the patristic age and the age of the Refor- 
mation. The apostolic age had founded Christianity as 
a regenerative principle in human society; the patristic 
age had crystallized the teachings of Christianity as 
ecclesiastically sanctioned dogmas. The scholastic age 
now developed and defended and harmonized the dog- 
mas which already were authoritatively accepted and 
taught by the Church. 

The patristic age died away at about the close of the 
Gth century. The age from the Gth to the 1 1th cen- 
tury is a period of transition from the patristic to the 
scholastic age. The scholastic age proper extends from 
the age of Anselm (died 1100) to the outbreak of the 
Reformation. In the scholastic age we may readily 
distinguish three phases — the period of inception and 
youth; the period of greatest strength and glory; and 
the period of decline and dissolution. 

On the threshold of scholastic theology stands un- 
questionably the celebrated archbishop of Canterbury, 
Anselm. He was the first to recognise distinctly the 
central principle of scholastic theology and to reduce it 
to masterly application. This principle is the unques- 
tioning acceptance of the traditionally and officially 
sanctioned body of orthodox doctrine, and the earnest 
defence of the same by all the resources of logic and 
reason. The scholastic theologians were therefore not 
pat res, generators, of dogmas, but only doctores , teach- 
ers and defenders; and they were not docto7'es in gen- 
eral, but only doctores ecclesite. They taught not mere- 
ly in the Church, hut for the Church and in defence of 
the Church. Their central task was to conciliate, or at 
least to cast a bridge over the gulf which lies between, 
faith and knowledge. The instrument which they 
chiefly used was formal logic — syllogistic argumenta- 
tion. Anselm plainly sets before himself a twofold task 
— to safeguard theology from the charge of inculcating 
an absolutely blind and irrational faith, and to reprove 
the presumption of a too haughty and self- confiding 
reason. The first error — the too servilely traditional- 
istic tendency — had characterized the period since the 
decline of the patristic age. The second error was rep- 
resented by some of the early scholastic philosophers, 
such as Roscelin. Rut in his attempt to find a sys- 
tem midway between these extremes, Anselm does not 
himself escape unconsciously vibrating, at times, into 
one and then into the other. At one time he makes 
knowledge positively dependent upon faith; at another 
he goes so far as to assume that reason can of itself dem- 
onstrate the absolute necessity of each and every dog- 
ma of the whole faith of the Church. In this he uncon- 
sciously accepts the very essence of rationalism; and 
yet nothing is further from his main tendency than 
an excessive reliance upon mere reason. On the con- 
trary, he is so thoroughly in bondage to the merely 
formal dogmas of orthodoxy that he is unable to reach 
any independent appreciation of either the simple word 
of Scripture or the direct intuitions of the moral con- 
sciousness. As a general result his writings are charac- 
terized largely by an unsatisfactory logical formalism. 
Philosophically, Anselm is a Platonic realist. 

The same antithesis between faith and knowledge 
which occupied Anselm’s attention reappears after his 
time. But while with Anselm the traditional, philo- 
sophical, and ethical elements were hold in comparative 
equipoise, with some of his successors the centre of grav- 
ity was seriously lost. This is particularly the ease with 


Bernard of Clair vaux and Abelard. Of the two, Ber- 
nard (died 1153) was by far the more churehly-minded. 
He looked upon the speculations of Abelard as daring 
innovations; be was a man of faith rather than of sci- 
ence; he bowed with awe before the body of Christian 
dogmas as held by the historical Church; and yet he 
was not a mere unthinking traditionalist. But he en- 
deavored to appropriate the traditional system with a 
vital and intelligent faith. His spirit, however, is of 
a mystical rather than of a philosophical cast. The 
intellect cannot take by storm the mysteries of salva- 
tion; it is only by means of ecstatic contemplation 
that, distant glimpses of their meaning ean be obtained. 
What the soul sees in its mystic soarings are true fore- 
sights of what will lie open before ns in onr state of 
eternal bliss. This position of Bernard led him into 
violent personal opposition to his great contemporary 
Abelard. 

Abelard (died 1142) had devoted himself at first to 
dialectics, i. e. philosophy, and had adhered primarily to 
t lie nominalists and subsequently to the realists; and 
those opposite standpoints are frequently clearly rec- 
ognisable in his writings. Indeed, it is probable that 
Abelard himself never came to a clear decision between 
the two systems. II is general position, however, seems 
to have been that which held the vniversalia in re, and 
which is best designated by the term conceptualism. 
On devoting himself to theology, Abelard subjected 
the whole series of dogmas to a vigorous philosophical 
treatment, endeavoring to commend them to the under- 
standing by a elear presentation of their harmony with 
reason. He seriously complains of a failure to do this 
on the part of his predecessors, and insists that the ex- 
acting of faith in doctrines before the reasonableness of 
the doctrines has been explained ean only lead to cre- 
dulity and superstition. Such a course also deprives 
the Christian subjeet of the means of convincing the 
doubter and of refuting the opponent. Moreover, it 
rests upon an unwise rejecting of the benefits of world- 
ly science growing out of an ungrounded fear of its 
misuse. But Abelard is not a thorough rationalist ; he 
does not make intellectual processes the generator of 
faith. He holds simply that philosophical arguments 
may facilitate the acceptance of Christian doctrine, 
while the final producer of converting faith is the in- 
fluence of the Holy Spirit. He further holds that no 
true and full knowledge ean arise without the help of 
personal faith. Nevertheless, it is the plain duty of the 
believer to strive after a scientific comprehension of that 
which the Church presents as a system of formal doc- 
trine. But Abelard differs from Anselm in this — that 
while Anselm assumes at once the absolute truth of the 
official system of orthodox doctrines, and tests all phi- 
losophy bv the touchstone of formal dogmas, Abelard, 
on the contrary, regards the official doctrines as simply 
a human development of what exists in germ in the 
Holy Scriptures, while these Scriptures themselves, to- 
gether with the primitive creeds, are the real source and 
norm of all Christian truth. In his work Sic et Non , 
Abelard presents a series of contradictory authorities on 
the several dogmas with this express purpose — to show 
that the Church fathers are to be read, not cum credendi 
necessitate, sed cum judicandi liberf ate. He even gave 
much offence by insisting that the Bible itself is not to 
be fully appreciated without a discriminating exercise 
of the understanding. II is general tendency was to 
embrace the natural and the supernatural in a single 
view, and to establish a bond of unity between all sys- 
tems of religions faith. His standpoint was that of a 
formal supernaturalism with a noticeable tendency to 
material rationalism. The polemical conflicts in which 
his life was involved prevented him from coming to any 
very elear self-eonsistencv of system. They also led 
him, in some eases, to aim rather at a momentary dia- 
lectical triumph than at a solid development of Chris- 
tian truth. 

The sharp antitheses of tendency between the mvsti- 


SCHOLASTIC THEOLOGY 


419 SCHOLASTIC THEOLOGY 


cism of Bernard and the dialectics of Abelard led to 
mediatory efforts. Prominent here is the school of the 
St. Victors. Hugo St. Victor (died cir. 1140) held to 
the Anselmic position that Scripture and tradition are 
the objective, and faith the subjective, norm of theo- 
logical science; but he deviates from Anselm in making 
a broad distinction between alia ex ratione , alia secun- 
dum rationem , afiti supra rat hue m, and alia contra ra- 
tionem , i. e. between necessa ria, probabif ia, mirabilia , and 
incredibilia. What falls under the first and the fourth 
head is not an object of faith, but only what falls under 
the second and third. Under the second head fall the 
so-called doctrines of natural religion. Here faith is 
helped by reason ( ratione adjuvatur ), as also reason is 
perfected by faith ( ratio fide perficitur ). Under the 
third head fall the specifically Christian doctrines of 
Scripture and tradition. Here ratio does not help faith, 
because the object is beyond its range, though it may 
offer grounds for revering the faith which grasps that 
which is above it. Thus Hugo St. Victor rejects the 
endeavor of Anselm to demonstrate the rationabilis ne- 
cessitas of the orthodox dogmas, and concedes only our 
philosophical ability to strengthen the probabilitas of 
the dicta of natural religion. And this is essentially 
the role which reason plays in all subsequent mediieval 
theology. The motive of Hugo in thus restricting the 
role of reason was (1) to put a check to the subtle and 
fruitless freaks of dialectics, and (2) to assure room for 
full play for his own mystical system. 11 is real position 
was this: inasmuch as scholastic dialectics is unable to 
attain to absolute truth, therefore there must be a proc- 
ess of immediate intuition whereby the absolute truth 
is directly laid hold upon with the certainty of actual 
vision. He further held that there are progressive de- 
grees in which this truth is grasped, depending upon 
the progress of our subjective sanctification through 
personal communion with God. In carrying out his 
system Hugo is guilty of unconsciously transgressing 
the bounds he had set up for reason, for he subjects the 
official form of doctrine to no little free criticism; and 
he endeavors to make clear to reason the grounds of the 
revealed system of truth. This is simply what was to 
be expected ; for Hugo was to some considerable degree 
a genius of really productive power. His mystical sys- 
tem as a whole had, however, more indirect than direct 
influence on his age; it served as a powerful check to 
the mad freaks of uncurbed dialectics. He. has greater 
significance as the first systematizer of the whole body 
of Christian doctrine. In his Summa Sententiarnm he 
treats successively of all the dogmas of the Church, sus- 
taining them bv citations from Scripture and from the 
fathers, adducing, then, the various objections of oppo- 
nents, and finally deciding each case according to Script- 
ure and tradition. His work De Sacrament is, though 
of more speculative power than the Summa, has been 
much less read. And though his Summa was subse- 
quently largely displaced by the Summa of Peter Lom- 
bard, yet the work of Hugo exerted a very important 
influence upon later scholastics, particularly upon Lom- 
bard himself and upon Thomas Aquinas, but very es- 
pecially upon theologians of a mystical tendency, such 
as Bonaventura and Gerson. 

'fhe contemplative or mystical element of Hugo is 
carried much further by his pupil Richard St. Victor 
(died 1173). According to Richard there arc six kinds 
of contemplation. “We know, 1, by the imagination 
(the sensible impressions made by creation); 2, by rea- 
son (perception of law and order in creation); 3, in rea- 
son according to imagination (symbolical knowledge of 
nature as a mirror of the spiritual) ; 4, in reason and ac- 
cording to reason (the internal referred to the internal 
without a sensible image); 5, above and not against rea- 
son (rational knowledge carried to a higher stage by 
revelation); 6, above and (apparently) against reason 
(as, e. g., the mystery of the Trinity). In discussing the 
Trinity, Richard makes large use of the trias of power, 
wisdom , and love ; but he lays greatest stress upon the 


latter, to which he ascribes the generation of the Son. 
There is nothing more perfect than love. But love 
(amor), in order to be charity (caritas), must have for 
its object not itself, but something else. Hence in or- 
der to charity there must be a plurality of persons. 
But love towards creatures is not sufficient, for God can 
fully love only that which is worthy of the highest love. 
Hence the divine love must have a divine object (the 
Son). But even this is not the highest love, for love 
is essentially social. The two who love each other 
must desire that a third party be as fully loved by each 
as each loves the other; hence the Father and Son 
agree in loving a third (the Spirit). And since this 
love to the third party, in order to be perfect, must have 
a perfect object, hence this third party is equal to the 
other two. Each is equally divine, and there is no su- 
periority of the one to the other (see llagenbach, Hist, 
of J)oct . i, 420, 4(37). Richard agreed with Hugo in 
regarding theology as the central science, and as the 
mother of all other sciences. 

But the drift of the age was averse to the deep ami 
rich speculations of the St. Victors: it tended rather to 
concentrate all intellectual acumen upon the logical de- 
fence of the formal orthodoxy of the official Church. 
Hence 'it led mainly to the production of collections of 
dogmatic authorities ( sinnnue sententiarnm). The first 
real collector of such “sentences,” sententiarius, was 
Hugo St. Victor, though the germs and forerunners of 
them are found as far back as in Vincent of Lerinum 
(died cir. 450), Gennaditis of Marseilles (died cir. 493), 
and in Isidore of Seville; but it is only with Hugo 
that the process becomes of a really scientific character. 
The one motive of these real sententiarii is to bring dia- 
lectics into close service to orthodoxy. Thus they are 
not mere slavish compilers of the dicta of the fathers, 
on the one hand, nor rash speculators, on the other; but 
they hold the midway between them. 

Among the earliest successors of Hugo was Robert 
Pnlleyn, in his Sententiarum Libri Odo. He was arch- 
deacon of Rochester, teacher in Paris and Oxford, and 
finally cardinal (died 1150). 1 1 is chief polemical en- 

deavor was to counteract the too daring speculations of 
Abelard ; but Robert was far surpassed by the great 
magister sententiarum , Peter Lombard (died 1164). Of 
his Sententiarum Libri Quatinor, Hase says, “ It was not 
so much on account of the ingenuity and depth dis- 
played in the work as because of the position of the au- 
thor in the Church, and his success in harmonizing an- 
tagonisms, as also because of the remarkable perspicuity 
of his work, that it became the manual of the 12th 
century and the model of the 13th.” The chief themes 
of his work are the Trinity , creation , the incarnation , and 
the sacraments. As a whole, it is a synopsis of the whole 
movement of scholastic theology. “ With it,” says Banr, 
“ really commences the systematization of scholasticism, 
the endless commenting upon the sentences of the mas- 
ters.*’ It initiated the movement of tiresome question- 
ing and answering; of laying down theses and antithe- 
ses. arguments and counter-arguments; of dividing and 
splitting up the matter of doctrines ad infinitum. Lom- 
bard was very successful in keeping the mean way be- 
tween the blind copyists of tradition (sa'utatores) and 
the rash reasoners ( garruli ratiocinatores). lie uses rea- 
son in the modest role of removing the seeming contra- 
dictions in Scripture and tradition. These differences 
he states very frankly, somewhat in the manner of 
Abelard’s Sic et Non, but with a much more intent en- 
deavor to reconcile them. He purposely avoids all am- 
bitious philosophizing, as this seemed to him to jeopard- 
ize the dignity and independence of theology. On the 
whole, therefore, the tendency of Lombard was towards 
the enslaving of speculation in the ruts of formal tradi- 
tion. 'Phis influence was felt even by writers of much 
greater originality, and such as had entirely broken with 
the whole method of the sententiarii, as e. g. Thomas 
Aquinas. 

Close upon the steps of Lombard followed the gifted 


SCHOLASTIC THEOLOGY 420 SCHOLASTIC THEOLOGY 


Peter of Poitiers; and from him on there follow a whole 
series of commentators upon Lombard, prominent among 
whom are Alexander Hales, Duns Scotus, and Occam. 

But the way opened by Lombard Avas not docilely 
followed in by all. Alanus of Jiyssel (died 1202), in his 
A rs Cath. Fidei , presents the successive doctrines of the 
Church as a series of logical steps, endeavoring to de- 
velop the one directly from the other. “ Heretics and 
sceptics,” says he, ‘‘cannot be won over by citations of 
authorities, therefore we must urge upon them rational 
arguments.” But he wisely adds: “Ha? vero rationes 
si homines ad credendum inducant, non tamcn ad tidem 
capessendam plene sulliciunt.” In this his position is 
related to that of Anselm. Lombard was also opposed 
for his use of Aristotelian logic. Walter St. Victor ac- 
cuses him of drawing his whole inspiration from this 
secular fountain (uno spiritu Aristotelico afflatus). So 
also Joachim of Fioris. A still more prominent voice 
against the great current of scholastic theology was that 
of John of Salisbury. lie accused it of fruitlessness, 
absurdity, and presumption. It sacrificed the essence 
for the form, the truth lor logic; but his critical ability 
Avas not supplemented by an adequate productive pow r er. 
Hence he was unable materially to check the general 
drift towards scholastic subtleties. 

Scholastic theology reached its highest development 
in the 13th century. Many circumstances contributed 
to this, especially the more full access to the writings 
of Aristotle, which was occasioned by the fall of Con- 
stantinople ( 1204). These writings, falling into the 
hands of a number of well-trained men, served to give 
theology a much wider and richer scope than it had as 
yet taken. The whole series of fundamental questions 
was now elaborately examined afresh. Among the 
problems discussed were, the sources of our knowledge of 
theology ; the nature and necessity of revelation in con- 
trast with reason and philosophy; the relation of faith 
to knowledge; whether theology is a science proper; 
whether it is a theoretical or a practical science; what 
is its proper object {materia de qua ) in its contrast with 
philosophy; wherein Christianity per $e differs from 
other religions, etc. The form which theology now as- 
sumed was partly that of commentaries upon the sen- 
tences of Lombard, and partly that of more original pro- 
duction. It is distinguished, on the. one hand, for the 
immense increase of matter treated of (ethical and dog- 
matical, metaphysical and physical), and, on the other, 
by the perfection of the scholastic method, according 
to w'hich, on every successive point, the authorities and 
reasons are cited pro et contra and a resolutio or conclu- 
sio duly drawn. The wdiole is followed by a refutation 
in detail of all contrary view's. Yet upon the basis 
of this uniformity there is manifested a large range of 
individual peculiarity. This sprang in part from the 
individual genius of the theologians, but also largely 
from their personal rivalry; and particularly from the 
rivalry and hostility that existed between the great 
monastic orders of Dominicans and Franciscans, and be- 
tween the schools of the realists and the nominalists. 
Another characteristic of this climax period of scholasti- 
cism consists in the fact that it for the first time brought 
the whole body of specifically Catholic doctrine to its 
complete formal expression. 

First in time, of the scholastic theologians of this pe- 
riod, is Alexander Hales (died 1245). He won the title 
of Doctor 1 rref rugabilis. II is Summa U nicer see Theo- 
logke shows great breadth of thought; it makes large 
use of Aristotle, is very methodical in form, and treats 
of all the fundamental questions; but it introduces a 
vast amount of irrelevant matter, and, in its attempt to 
meet every possible point, raises many trivial and even 
foolish questions. As a whole it lacks real speculative 
power. It also favors some of the extreme inferences 
of Roman doctrine, such as the thesaurus praties and the 
immaculata conceptio passiva Yirginis Marne, and it 
betrays an occasional Bclagianizing tendency. 

Hales is, in many respects, surpassed by the noted 


Dominican Albertus Magnus (died 1280). He made a 
much larger use of Aristotle. His commentaries on 
Aristotle and on Lombard and his Summa Theologies 
exhibit an astounding universality of knowledge. His 
familiarity with mathematics and with the whole body 
of the natural science of the age Avon for him the repute 
of a magician. It is with injustice that some ha\'C 
styled him the Simia Aristotelis. He does not simply 
ape Aristotle, he merely makes free use of his materials; 
but he also combines therewith not a few r of the concep- 
tions of Plato and of the Neo-Plat onists. It is true, he 
does not control his physical facts by an adequate criti- 
cism, and he fails to give full development to his specu- 
lations. But speculative power he really has, and from 
the midst of the mass of his chaotic materials there fre- 
quently dart forth surprising anticipations of great law’s 
which subsequent scientists have fully developed — a fact 
which Alexander Humboldt has cheerfully conceded. 
As to Albert’s specifically theological standpoint, he 
holds that theology is a practical science ( scientia de his 
quee ad salutem pertinent ), treating of God and of his 
Avorks. It is a science, hotvever, not in the interest of 
science, but in the interest of eternal bliss. It has for 
its subject-matter the objective fflles catholica , Avhich 
faith rests originally upon a supermundana illuminaiio. 
This illuminaiio he attributes not only to prophets and 
apostles, but also to the fathers. He recognises the two 
forms of faith — faith as the objective matter to be be- 
lieA’ed, and faith as a subjective activity of the individ- 
ual; and upon this latter he bases the capability of at- 
taining to real Christian knowledge. He regards reve- 
lation and reason, theology and philosophy, as absolute- 
ly in harmony, notwithstanding any seeming conflicts, 
for they both rest upon experience — theology upon our 
experience of the supernatural, and philosophy upon our 
experience of the natural; and the supernatural and the 
natural, though essentially different, rest both upon the 
harmonious plan and Avill of the one God. The super- 
naturalism of Albertus Magnus stands in close connec- 
tion with his Platonizing derivation of all creatures, by 
a descending emanation, from the absolute God. Super- 
natural grace is needed by the creature per se , and irre- 
spectiA'e of sin. Without this grace man, eA’en had he 
not sinned, could not have lifted himself up out of his 
finiteness into likeness to the infinite God. 

But Albertus Magnus did not fully develop his super- 
naturalism in all its bearings; thisAvas done by his dis- 
tinguished scholar, the greatest and most influential of 
all the scholastic theologians, Thomas Aquinas (died 
1274). Thomas Aquinas Avas very successful in vindi- 
cating to theology the character of a true science. He 
set before man as his highest good, as the goal of his 
blessedness, the vision of God (visio Dei). But this su- 
permundane goal lies beyond the scope of creatural abil- 
ity, for the natural cannot reach up to the divine. The 
highest that reason can attain to is a mere mediate 
know’ledge of God through and from his Avorks; and 
this is the furthest limit to which any of the old philos- 
ophers reached. These general religions notions form 
a sort of prccumbula Jidei. They can be reached, thought 
Aquinas, by way of logical demonstration; e. g. that 
there is a God, that God is one, etc. But to the super- 
natural end of man, as presented in Christianity, Ave can 
attain only through supernatural revelation. The seal, 
t ho Avitncss, of this revelation are t lie* miracles Avhich at- 
tend it. Theology is the science Avhich is based on rev- 
elation and guided by the light of faith; whereas the 
other sciences are based on nature and guided by the 
light of reason. The fact that theology has for its ob- 
ject a something that is to be accepted on authority — 
viz. faith — docs not hinder it from being a science. All 
other sciences do the same thing; they accept their 
subject-matter as an objecth'e reality Avithout proof, 
and then deA'elop themselves therefrom as from an ax- 
iom. The axioms of theology are the dogmas of the 
Church. From these it evolves and proves additional 
truths and consequences. This gives Aquinas’s vieAv 


SCHOLASTIC THEOLOGY 


421 


SCHOLASTIC THEOLOGY 


of the relation of reason to faith. Reason cannot prove 
the articles of faith, for the latter spring from revelation, 
which is above reason. But rational ami theological 
truths cannot possibly be in conflict, for they both come 
from God — the one indirectly and the other directly. 
Yet they do not overlap each other; they stand in dif- 
ferent spheres. The rational truths do not reach up 
to the theological ( dejiciiuit ab eis) ; they are only a 
prcmmbula to them. Natural reason serves, therefore, 
as a preparation for faith; but Thomas Aquinas else- 
where in his system robs reason of even this conceded 
service, for he really attributes the so-called truths of 
natural reason to former half-remembered revelations, 
and regards them as implicitly containing the whole 
series of Christian dogmas. Another service (so teach- 
es Aquinas) which reason renders to faith is to eluci- 
date the doctrines of faith by means of natural analo- 
gies. The possibility of this rests on the fact that all 
natural objects retain a certain faint resemblance to 
their Author. Still another use of reason lies in con- 
vincing our adversaries. The I ingnlaris modus eonvin- 
cendi adversarios is really ex auctoritate Script u rce divi- 
tiitus conjinnata miracidis. If the adversary concedes a 
part of the Christian system, his remaining errors may 
be removed by developing the implications of the par- 
tial truths which he does accept. If he rejects the 
whole, there remains no other resource than an indirect 
procedure, viz. by evolving the absurdities which are 
implied in his errors. 

The form which Aquinas thus impressed upon theol- 
ogy was of the greatest influence upon all subsequent 
theological thought. It retained its sway in German 
orthodoxy down to the time of Schleiermacher. In the 
rest of Christendom, Catholic and Protestant, it largely 
prevails even to the present. Its essential feature is the 
sharp distinction made between that religious knowl- 
edge which is attainable by reason and that which we 
owe to revelation, as also the designating of revealed 
truth as supra sed non contra rationem. It is within 
the range of this narrow field that Aquinas usually con- 
fines his thoughts. At times, however, he breaks forth 
in what might have proved very fertile speculations 
but for the hampering effects of his self-imposed yoke. 
Occasionally, however, he makes a real sophist’s use of 
this yoke, calling in abruptly the help of mere ecclesi- 
astical authority to veil the absurd consequences to 
which some of the official definitions of doctrine seemed 
to lead. In philosophical respects Thomas Aquinas was 
equally attracted by the opposed systems of Aristotle 
and Plato, lie seems to have oscillated not a little be- 
tween the central differences of these systems — the real- 
istic ideas ol Plato and the unicersalia in re of Aristotle. 
Under this influence he sometimes assigns too high a 
role to natural reason (c. g. to demonstrate the existence 
of God), and at others he almost robs it of any power 
whatever (e. g. when he attributes the truths of natural 
religion to forgotten revelations). In his ontology Aqui- 
nas leans somewhat to the emanation of his master, Al- 
bertus Magnus. lie does not clearly distinguish be- 
tween will and nature in God; and his system, as a 
whole, is deterministic in its implications. In form it 
is an ideal of artistic construction. It is, however, not 
merely its form, but also and chiefly the rich fulness of 
its matter, which secured to it its long ascendency over 
the theological activity of the Church. 

Contemporary with Aquinas was the gifted and elo- 
quent Bonaventura (died 1274). He is peculiar for the 
completeness with which he combined the scholastical 
element with the mystical. II is masters were Aris- 
totle and the St. Victors. Less speculatively original 
than Aquinas, lie is distinguished by a moderation which 
preserves him from dogmatic extremes, and by a warm 
religious element which lends to his pages an enduring 
attraction. This latter element saves him from the 
trivial subtleties into which his contemporaries so gen- 
erally fell, and induces him to give great prominence to 
the simple practical elements of scriptural piety. Well 


did he merit the encomium of Gerson : “ Reeedit a curi- 
ositate quantum potest, non immiscens posit iones extra- 
neas, vel doctriuas terminis philosophicis obumbratas 
more multorum, sed dum studet illuminationi iutellec- 
tus, totnm refert ad pietatem et. ad religiositatem affec- 
tus.” Hence to Bonaventura theology, though specu- 
lative as to its object, is yet predominantly a merely 
practical science. As to his mysticism, it does not ma- 
terially affect the form of his theology; rather is it sim- 
ply an attending complement serving to supplement the 
inadequacy of the formally logical element. As a whole, 
his influence, though permanent, was not so immediate- 
ly effective as that of Ravmund Lull (died 1315). Lull’s 
A rs Generalis was a laudable endeavor to simplify and 
to render more practically effective t he whole arsenal 
of scholastic resources. The enthusiasm with which 
he undertook to frame a system which would absolutely 
annihilate the scepticism of the Averrhoists, and demon- 
strate Christianity with the evidence of a simple syllo- 
gistic inference, is only to be compared with the kindred 
ambition of Wolf in the 18th century. But the results 
did not justify his hopes. And though he had a long 
series of enthusiastic disciples, his logical rationalism 
failed to produce any long-lasting benefits. 

But' the figure which stands as a worthy rival of 
Thomas Aquinas, and whose subtleties brought scholas- 
tic theology not only to its meridian of glory, but also 
to that stage of excessive development which broke 
the way for its decline, is the Franciscan monk Duns 
Scotus (died 1308). Scotus was unquestionably an orig- 
inal, creative genius. He impressed upon the course of 
theological development a specifically new character, 
lie was not merely a personal rival of Aquinas, but he 
was an independent master. He shared, with the other 
scholastics, the conviction of the absolute truth of the 
official orthodoxy of the Church. He differed from 
Aquinas in making a less impassable gulf between faith 
and knowledge. He reduced the claims of philosophy, 
and in the same measure enlarged the scope of theol- 
ogy. With him theology is the science of man in his 
relations to God, and of God in his relations to the uni- 
verse. He comes to a clearer conception and a larger 
use of man as an image of God than is previously met 
with. From the fact that man is in the likeness of 
God follows the consequence that man is able to know 
God, and that the intuitions of essential truth lie in 
germ in the very nature of the soul. Upon the path 
of man’s likeness to God, Duns Scotus was led to a more 
clear distinguishing of will from nature in God than had 
previously been done, as also to the assigning to God’s 
freedom a very large role. The creation of the universe 
was not a matter of pantheistic necessity, but was the 
result of a special divine volition. God might even 
have made the world other than as it is, and he might 
have given to man a different moral law. He might 
also have adopted a different plan of salvation. Thus, 
while teaching the great truth of the divine freedom 
and combating the determinism of Aquinas, Scotus did 
not guard the divine freedom against irrational arbitra- 
riness by representing it as finding its norm of action 
in the divine wisdom. This great defect in Scotus’s 
system led directly to the defeat of the most earnest 
endeavor of his life — viz. to settle Christian science 
upon an absolutely solid foundation ; for it sapped the 
rational ground of the universe, and thus planted in the- 
ology a germ of universal scepticism, 'flic reason of 
this failure lay not in a lack of ability in Scotus, but in 
the fundamental mistake of the whole body of scholastic 
theologians, viz. in the uncritical assumption of the ab- 
solute correctness of the formal dogmas of the official 
Church. This assumption shut, them off at once from 
any adequate appreciation of the two true sources of all 
theology and philosophy, viz. Scripture and experience. 

It was by developing the consequences of the scho- 
lastic method to their dangerous extremes that Duns 
Scotus has the merit of having at the same time raised 
scholastic theology to its fullest glory and also given an 


SCHOLASTIC THEOLOGY 


422 


SCHOLASTICISM 


impulse towards its dissolution. Earliest among those 
who became conscious of the radical defectiveness of the 
whole scholastic method was linger Bacon (died 1294). 
Bacon declaimed, in an almost Protestant spirit, against 
t lie enslavement of theology to human authorities, and 
pointed towards the Scriptures and experience as the 
real fountains of truth. But his influence towards the 
decline of scholasticism had a less potent effect to that 
end than the further development of scholasticism itself. 

Of this third stage in the scholastic movement we 
can mention but the most prominent features. First 
of note stands the acute and independent-minded Du- 
rand of St. Pourgain (died 1333). Durand held an 
eclectic relation to the opposed systems of Aquinas and 
Scot us. lie was a nominalist like Scotus, but his nom- 
inalism had a realistic background. With Aquinas, he 
held that man is by nature incapable of knowing the 
laws of God. The intuitions and generalizations of the 
human mind have only subjective validity. The true 
knowledge of God can be derived only from the Script- 
ures, as officially interpreted by Borne. Theology aims 
not at the knowledge of the nature of God, but only at 
such a practical knowledge of God as leads to salvation. 
Theology relates to the will, and is hence a purely prac- 
tical science. Faith cannot be begotten by arguments, 
but is a simple virtue; and its meritoriousness is in pro- 
portion to its difficulty. Durand denies even that the 
light of the Spirit shows ns the evidence of Gospel truth. 
This also would destroy the merit of faith, lie agrees 
with Aquinas in exalting the transcendental position of 
God in regard to man, and with Scotus in giving arbi- 
trary play to the divine will and grace. The outcome 
of his whole system was to discourage the activity of 
human reason, and to promote a spirit of unquestioning 
."ubmissiveness to the official Church. It denied all 
worth to philosophy, and reduced theology to a mere 
method of practice. 

This attitude of theology was now more fully devel- 
oped by Occam (died 1347). A disciple of Scotus, he 
yet varies from him in many points. He boldly op- 
posed some of the claims of t lie popes, and substituted 
nominalism for the prevalent scholastic realism. This 
was a necessary logical outcome. Scholastic realism 
had utterly failed to resolve the truths of philosophy 
and theology into any unitary substratum of general 
knowledge. Hence its sole resource in order to attain 
to unity of thought was to give up all effort at knowing 
things per se, and to reduce our highest intuitions and 
ideas to mere creations of our own subjectivity, desti- 
tute of objective value. Our highest ideas are mere 
fdianes, abstractions. This nominalism was so strong 
with Occam that it gave to his whole system a posi- 
tively sceptical tendency. Thenceforth nominalism 
reigns almost without rival in the waning life of scho- 
lastic theology. 

After the time of Occam the development of theology 
becomes fitful and sporadic. The intluence of Scotus 
led to a constantly more pronounced Pelagianism. The 
intluence of Aquinas occasioned various attempts at a 
revival of Angustinian determinism. In a few cases, 
e. g. Wycliffe and Huss, it became a herald of the Defor- 
mation. The last scholastic proper, Gabriel Biel (died 
1495), made earnest but fruitless endeavors to prop up 
the tottering superstructure of the old system. Further 
attempts in the same direction — by Baimund ofSabunde, 
Nicolas de Cusa, Gerson, and others of a less scholastic 
character — were equally unsuccessful, and served only 
to show the need of a thorough reformation of the whole 
body of theology. 

The latest phenomena in theological science imme- 
diately before the Deformation were these three: An 
effort to revive an earnest Christian mysticism (Gerson 
ami others); a revival of an Aristotelianism of a scep- 
tical tendency (Pomponatius) ; and a syncretistic and 
fanciful Neo-Platonism (Ficiuus, Picus Mirandula). Of 
these three, the first, was necessarily impotent in its main 
endeavor, as it still held fast to the old scholastic foun 


dation, while the second and third served only, by their 
sceptical and pagan tendencies, to give a final thrust at 
the entire elTete system. 

The so-called ante-Keformers — Wycliffe, Huss, Jerome, 
Savonarola, Wessel — still linger under the dominion of 
scholastic forms and traditions. It was only the radi- 
cally revolutionary spirit of the Beformers themselves 
that gave to scholastic theology its definitive death- 
blow. But even subsequently to this point there have 
appeared not a few (though unimportant) scholastics, 
scholastici post scholasticismnm . Luther himself con- 
fesses his indebtedness to scholasticism: “Ego scholas- 
ticos non clausis oculis lego, non rejicio omnia eornm, 
sed non probo omnia.” So also JMelancthon. And it 
is only the shallowness of rationalism or the bigotry of 
ignorance that can declaim (as is often done) against 
the worthlessness of scholastic theology as a whole. 
Philosophers like Leibnitz, Hegel, Bitter, Cousin, Be- 
musat, and Haureau, and theologians like Engelhardt, 
Bettberg, Liebner, llasse, Gass, Neander, and Baur. have 
spoken in a very different tone; and have contributed, 
in some degree, to acquaint modern times with a part 
of the rich treasures of thought and speculation which 
it contains. The dry, superficial 18th century mocked at 
the scholastics from the simple reason of its ignorance 
and its incapacity to appreciate them. The revival of 
theological originality since the time of Sehleiermacher 
and the contemporary new birth of art in the romantic 
schools of Germany and France have awakened a very 
different state of mind. Even Semler has frankly de- 
clared that many a modern theologian who has abused 
the scholastics would not have been able to serve them 
as a mere amanuensis. 

Faint reproductions of the scholastic period of Cath- 
olic theology have appeared in Protestantism. The 17th 
century was for the Lutheran and Deformed churches 
a really scholastic age. The systematic theologians of 
that century stood in the same relation to the fathers 
of Protestantism as the mediaeval scholastics to the 
pat res of Catholicism. So is it with each of the most 
insignificant sects of Protestantism. Whenever any 
Church begins to let the writings of any of its eminent 
ministers stand between it and a free and direct inter- 
pretation of the Scriptures in the light of intuition and 
experience, that moment it enters into its scholastic 
stage. See Neander, Church Hist. vol. iv; Hagenbach, 
Hist, of J)oct rines; and especially Herzog, Real-Ency- 
klop . (J. P. L.) 

Scholasticism (Scholastic Philosophy — Phi- 
losophy of the Schoolmen), a notable phase of spec- 
ulation which prevailed throughout the Middle Ages 
whenever any activity of thought was displayed, and 
which gave a distinctive character to the reasonings, to 
the controversies, and to the whole intellectual habit of 
those centuries. Scholasticism especially denotes the 
pecidiar mode of argumentation then practiced, and the 
spirit by which it was guided. The Scholastic Philos- 
ophy designates the whole body of diverse and often 
conflicting doctrine which was generated under the 
scholastic procedure. The Philosophy of the School- 
men signifies the same thing, but directs attention par- 
ticularly to the very remarkable succession of acute and 
profound inquirers who applied and developed the scho- 
lastic method. The schoolmen were the theologians, 
the metaphysicians, the dialecticians, the encyclopae- 
dists, the thinkers, and the teachers of the mediaeval 
period. The scholastic philosophy represented the am- 
ple and often bewildering, but always systematic, results 
of their labors, especially after their method had attain- 
ed its curious but consummate perfection. Scholasti- 
cism was the peculiar process of investigation and dem- 
onstration pursued bv the schoolmen, with various thor- 
oughness but unvarying uniformity, for much more than 
half a millennium. The schoolmen have long fallen into 
disrepute; little more than their names are remembered 
by t lie majority even of educated persons. Their works 
are unread and lie mouldering and undisturbed oil the 


SCHOLASTICISM 


423 


SCHOLASTICISM 


dusty shelves of ancient libraries. Their system lias 
been for nearly three centuries the constant butt of 
ignorant censure and stolid pretension. Yet a system 
which endured so long, which engrossed so many minds 
of wide culture and of marvellous penetration, which at- 
tracted so much of contemporaneous regard, which en- 
listed such intense and general enthusiasm, which tilled 
the intellectual atmosphere for long generations, which 
almost “ruled the court, the camp, the grove,’’ in the 
persons of Anselm and Occam and Abelard, cannot be 
dismissed with a sneer or safely repudiated with indif- 
ference. llallam, following in the wake of Brucker, 
with whom he was probably unacquainted, has repeated 
the stale reproaches against the scholastics, though ac- 
knowledging that he had read neither the works of the 
schoolmen themselves nor the historians of their philos- 
ophy ( Middle Ayes , ch. i x, pt. ii). But the second-hand 
censures of llallam are rendered ridiculous by the meas- 
ured commendations of Leibnitz, to which he inade- 
quately refers, and bv the candid admiration of Sir 
William Hamilton and other competent judges. Sir 
William, speaking of Reid’s repetition of the current 
abuse, observes: “This is the vulgar opinion in regard 
to the scholastic philosophy. The few are, however, 
now aware that the human mind, though partially, was 
never more powerfully developed than during the Mid- 
dle Ages” (Keid, Works [ed. Hamilton], p. 2(58, note; 
comp. Hamilton, Discuss, p. 54, note; 2d ed. St. Hilaire, 
De la Loyique d' A r is tote, pref. vol. i, p. v; Remusat, 
Abelanl , ii, 282, 548). St. Hilaire justly designates 
“ La scolastique — bereeau de l’intelligence moderne.” 
The world cannot afford to disown any of the laborious 
services hv which knowledge and civilization have been 
advanced, no matter how strange they may now appear. 
Nor can it wisely forget those who have labored long 
and earnestly in its behalf. It may always be pre- 
sumed that whatever occupied the ardent endeavors of 
many generations had some serious meaning, whether 
this meaning does or does not lie open to hasty appre- 
hension ; and that it solved some serious difficulties of 
the time and ministered to their removal from the on- 
ward path of humanity. It is certainly blindness and 
arrogance to reject, without careful examination, what 
we do not understand, because we do not understand it ; 
and not to understand it, because unwilling to make an 
effort to understand it. There is much which is un- 
suited to modern habitudes of thought, much whieh is 
strange and bewildering under modern associations, and 
which is futile, perverse, or erroneous in the writings of 
the schoolmen; much that may be judiciously aban- 
doned as having served its turn and prepared and disci- 
plined modern intelligence. But, as Richard Baxter 
and Leibnitz — very dissimilar minds — both recognised, 
there will still remain much that is valuable and de- 
serving of sedulous appreciation. Indeed, to those who 
have sipped from the original fountains, who have pon- 
dered over the divisions of Aquinas or grappled with 
the distinctions of Duns Scotus, there will appear no ex- 
travagance in the question of a recent writer: “What 
doubts have since been mooted — what difficulties sug- 
gested in morals, religion, or politics during three cen- 
turies of unfettered religious inquiry which they, the 
schoolmen, have not anticipated and dissected with the 
eahnuess of scientific anatomists?” (Brewer, Letters and 
Papers in the lteiyn of Henry VIII, vol. iii, p. ccccxiii. 
Comp. Proudhon, Creation de VOrdre dans l' I lumunite, 
III, iii, § 203). 

I. Oriyin of the Term Scholasticism. — The word “scho- 
lastic” (<Tyo\tt'TrifC''>c) does not occur in classic Greek 
in the sense so familiar from its customary application 
to the philosophers of the Middle Ages. Bavle (s. v. 
“Aristotle”) says that it was not used in Aristotle’s time 
to “signify a scholar, a student, or a schoolman.” It 
occurs four times in Aristotle himself, always with the 
meaning of idle or disengaged — once in distinct opposi- 
tion to practical. No distinct instance of its mediaeval 
usage is discoverable in Stephens’s Thesaurus. The ear- 


liest approximation to it presents itself in Posidonius 
(Athen. Deipnos. V, xlviii); but it still clings to its pri- 
mary meaning of unemployed, leisurely. It must be re- 
membered that “school” had originally the same import, 
and that its Latin name was ludus (play). Gradually 
“scholastic” came to mean “characteristic of the school,” 
particularly a school of rhetoric — the master of such a 
school, a teacher of rhetoric, an advocate in the courts 
of law. • It is employed in this last sense in a rescript 
of the emperor Constantins II {Cod. Theod. viii, x, 11). 
It is sometimes with reference to a forensic vocation, 
sometimes with reference to elegant culture (which the 
word afterwards denoted), sometimes with reference to 
rhetorical instruction, that the Eastern Greeks spoke of 
Eulogius scfadasticusy Leontius scholasticus , Sozomeu 
scholasticus, Evagrius scholasticus, etc. The term, how- 
ever, gradually lapsed into new signilications, so that in 
the amusing account which Anna Comnena in the 12th 
century givesof John Italus {Alexiad, V,viii), it is put in 
contrast with polite, rhetorical accomplishment, and sig- 
nilies a dialectician. The word is translated “umbrati- 
Iis,” by Possinus, in his version of Anna, in accordance 
with its classical sense; and this rendering is not changed 
in the revision of this version by Schopen in the Bonn 
edition. It is impossible, however, to ignore its indica- 
tion oflogical pursuits. It probably received this signif- 
icance by importation from the contemporaneous usage 
in the schools of the West. The fortune of the word in 
the Latin language was similar to its experiences in the 
Greek; but there is greater facility in tracing the mu- 
tations of its meaning. It does not occur in Cicero. 
The younger Pliny gives umbraticus as its equivalent 
(ix, Ep. ii). In Quintilian, in the Dialoyne on Orators , 
and in Aulus Gellius, it denotes “appertaining to rhetor- 
ical schools.” In Petronius it designates the pupils of 
such a sehool. In the 4th century it was used for ele- 
gant, cultivated, refined (“scholasticus, ad Grtecas mun- 
ditias eruditus” [Capitolin. Maximin. Jr. c, iii]). In the 
5th century it meant eloquent (“scholastic! ae diserti” 
[Salvian, De Cub. Dei , pra?f.]). Several of the meanings 
were, no doubt, concurrent. The predominant meaning, 
under the empire of Rome in the West, was a person 
accomplished in the studies of a school of rhetoric, 
whether as disciple, teacher, or graduate. Rhetorical 
education, as the preparation of Cicero and the Institutes 
of Quintilian abundantly attest, had early become uni- 
versal or encyclopaedical instruction. As rhetorical 
pursuits declined and as other studies waned, while log- 
ic gradually acquired a notable preponderance in the 
Church and in the ecclesiastical schools, as afterwards 
in the rising universities of Western Europe, scholasti- 
cism beeame identified with logic. Logic, however, em- 
braced, or assumed to embrace, all subjects in its rigid 
grasp, as is shown by the commentaries of the g rearer 
schoolmen on all the works of Aristotle, and by their 
violent application of the logic of the schools to all de- 
partments of knowledge and action. But the universal 
range claimed by rhetoric in the Roman schools of 
rhetoric was never renounced by those who retained the 
name of scholastics while substituting logic for rhetoric. 
The process of the transmigration of meanings is easily 
discernible. School study is the pursuit of those who 
have leisure and therefore opportunity for learning. 
Rhetoric became the predominant and exclusive object 
of school instruction, but comprehended all knowledge. 
Logic supplanted rhetoric. Analysis and demonstra- 
tion took the place of rhetorical elegance of expression, 
and aspired to the dominion of all knowledge. The 
new teachers and pupils retained the established name; 
and thus the scholastic of the Middle Ages emerged out 
of the idler of classical antiquity. The name is early 
applied to the masters of the cathedral schools. 

II. Nature of Scholasticism. — The inquiry into the 
changing import of the name scholastic is equally nec- 
essary for the due apprehension of the ordinary employ- 
ment of the term and for understanding its appropria- 
tion by the scholastic philosophers. There is a large 


SCHOLASTICISM 


424 


SCHOLASTICISM 


class of words which denote shifting conditions, social 
fluctuations, expanding or altering forms, that can be 
duly appreciated only by attention to their historical 
modifications. Civilization is a word of this kind, scho- 
lasticism is another. The definitions of scholasticism 
given in the dictionaries are for the most part tautolog- 
ical — idem per idem — and habitually partial. They con- 
vey little information to those not already acquainted 
with the subject; they generally proceed bv cross-refer- 
ence. The inquirer is battled by a game of verbal bat- 
tledore and shuttlecock between the reciprocally impli- 
cated terms scholasticism, scholastic philosophy, and 
schoolmen. The distinctions of the historians of phi- 
losophy are of course more satisfactory, but they are 
seldom adequate. Brucker enters imo the history of 
the term; but Ueberweg is almost dumb on this point. 
He says (Hist. Phil, i, 355), “ Scholasticism was the re- 
production of ancient philosophy under the control of 
ecclesiastical doctrine, with an accommodation, in cases 
of discrepancy between them, of the former to the lat- 
ter.” Then Abelard, who did not touch theology till 
an advanced period of his career, was not a scholastic 
during his brilliant course at Paris. Others, who never 
touched theology at all, were never scholastics. Occam, 
and those who rejected ecclesiastical authority in whole 
or in part, were not scholastics. Then Albertus Magnus 
and Thomas Aquinas and Duns Scotus ceased to be scho- 
lastics when composing their vast commentaries on Ar- 
istotle: but became so, suddenly, when commenting on 
Peter Lombard and submitting their speculations to the 
discipline of the Church. Then Roger Bacon would 
not be a schoolman. Evidently there is no such com- 
pendious definition of scholasticism as Ueberweg and 
many of his fellow-historians suppose. The application 
of the Aristotelian logic to the exposition of Christian 
doctrine, and the subordination of the logical deductions 
to the orthodox dogmas of the Church, characterized 
the most brilliant period of scholasticism, and consti- 
tuted scholastic theology. See Scholastic Theology. 
But these characteristics did not belong to the whole 
period, nor to all the schoolmen, nor to all the labors 
of theological scholastics in any period. John Scotus 
Erigena with his Platonism, ami Pico di Mirandola with 
his Cabalism were schoolmen as much as Bonaventura 
or Bradwardine. So also were essentially the Jew 
Maimonides and the Saracen Avicenna. It is necessary 
to regard the wavering import of the term scholasti- 
cism, to note its various use, and to trace the progress of 
the scholastic procedure, in order to obtain a full knowl- 
edge of its meaning, and to detect the grounds of its di- 
verse, and particularly of its most familiar, application. 

Scholasticism, so contemplated, will be found to have 
meant, under the emperors of Home, the functions of a 
teacher of rhetoric, embracing all knowledge in his 
course, then the possession of such knowledge with the 
refinement which it was supposed to bestow. As uni- 
versal learning shrank up, even in the times of Cassio- 
dorus, to the Triviuni and Quadrivium, scholasticism 
suffered eclipse, but still claimed dominion over all the 
learning of the time. When rhetoric was supplanted 
by logic, scholasticism became the application of deduc- 
tive reasoning to all departments of inquiry; and, at a 
later time, in accordance with the temper, associations, 
and necessities of what is regarded as distinctively the 
scholastic period, pre-eminently, though never exclu- 
sively, to theology. 

Scholasticism will thus be the employment of logic, 
not the Peripatetic philosophy as such, in all depart- 
ments of learning, whether suited to them or not — the 
substitution of dialectics for investigation, of authority 
for facts. Lord Bacon did much, but very much less 
than his followers, to confirm the delusion that Aristotle 
handled everything in subservience to the logical sci- 
ence which he had created. Such an error can never 
be entertained by any one who has read his Natural 
History , his Parts of Animals, his Politics , or even his 
Rhetoric or his Pthics. This exclusive application of 


logic to all subjects and on all occasions was alike the 
defect and the characteristic of the schoolmen, practiced, 
even w hen condemned and opposed, by Roger Bacon. 

III. Origin of the Scholastic Mode of Philosophizing. 
— The notices of the origin of the name and of the nat- 
ure of scholasticism furnish indications of the genetic 
development of that notable method of speculation. 
They do not supply the historical explanation of its 
growth, nor reveal its relation to the changing circum- 
stances in the social and intellectual condition of the 
darkening ages which determined its appearance and 
progressive ascendency. Several writers, among whom 
may be named Brucker, St. Hilaire, Remusat, have rec- 
ognised in John of Damascus the progenitor of the scho- 
lastic system. He flourished in the earlier half of the 
8th century. Long before him, germs of scholasticism 
and scholastic tendencies may be detected in both Chris- 
tian and pagan writers. There are many evidences in 
Aulus Gellius that eristic dialectics constituted an ha- 
bitual occupation of scholars before the middle of the 
2d century (see especially Noet. Att. I, ii). There is a 
manifest disposition in Tertullian and other fathers of 
the early Church to treat religious topics in a manner 
analogous to that pursued a thousand years later by the 
most illustrious among the schoolmen. Scholasticism 
was a natural growth, not an arbitrary invention. It 
may be deemed to have been inevitable that this mode 
of intellectual procedure should be pursued when a re- 
vealed religion, appealing exclusively to faith in the 
revelation, and whose fundamental tenets “came not bv 
observation,” was disseminated amid a highly cultivated 
but sceptical society, in antagonism to previously ex- 
isting systems of religious belief, and to all the conclu- 
sions of its past thought and experience. Authority, 
divine authority, was the basis of the new truth, and 
furnished the premises for controversy and for apolo- 
getics alike. The inspired Scriptures were the expres- 
sion of this divine authority, and w ere neither to be es- 
tablished by observation nor tested by experiment. In 
exegetics as well as in polemics there was thus a neces- 
sity of proceeding from the maxims of faith to the con- 
sequences of such maxims, w hich could be reached only 
by deduction. The need of accommodating the argu- 
ments adduced to the hostile temperaments and adverse 
habitudes of a pagan age would naturally soften and 
obscure the sharp precision and harsh angularities of 
dialectical demonstration. But the scholastic method, 
and even the scholastic subtleties and quodlibets, very 
soon appeared, and may be discerned in early patristic 
literature. When Christianity became prevalent and 
was established as the religion of the State, especially 
as there w r as a coincident decay of general culture and 
secular letters, the logical spirit, with its texts, its ab- 
stractions, its distinctions, its divisions, and its refine- 
ments, became predominant. This tendency is very 
pronounced in the Confessions of St. Augustine, in his 
other writings, and in the productions of his contempo- 
raries and immediate successors. It is not without rea- 
son that Augustine has been signalized as one of the 
chief promoters of the scholastic method. As letters 
continued to shrivel lip, and as cultivation of intellectual 
graces and refinements became impossible or mistimed 
in the midst of social anarchy, barbarian incursion, and 
general wretchedness, the deductive method of argu- 
mentation and exposition would unavoidably prevail. 
The extension of the practice and the exclusiveness of 
such pursuits would also be greatly favored by the re- 
striction of study to the ecclesiastical circle, and by the 
mighty task imposed upon the whole mediaival period 
of converting the pagan barbarians who had occupied 
the Western empire, and of civilizing them through the 
instrumentality of the Christian faith to which they 
were to be converted. Of course, as logic was the chief 
method of theological persuasion, the influence of Aris- 
totle and of the Aristotelian spirit grew’ with the prog- 
ress of time and with the progress of theological dispu- 
tation, for there neither is nor ever can be any logic 


SCHOLASTICISM 


425 


SCHOLASTICISM 


but that of Aristotle. There does not seem to be any 
sufficient evidence of the total oblivion of Aristotle and 
of Aristotle’s dialectics at any period of the Middle Ages. 
The testimony of Ingulph may be spurious, but there 
are other indications of a meagre acquaintance with 
Aristotelian logic through secondary channels; and it 
is admitted that the version of Porphyry’s Introduction, 
by Boethius, was known at all times. After the con- 
version of tike pagans in the new kingdoms, and the 
definite establishment of the ecclesiastical ascendency 
of the Iloman Church throughout the Western empire, 
a fresh demand and a constant provocation for the in- 
tervention of scholastic procedure arose in the ever-mul- 
tiplying and often pernicious heresies which occupied 
provincial councils, and engaged the most zealous and 
astute minds in their promulgation, their refutation, and 
their defence. A very cursory perusal of the impugned 
opinions, whose statement opens the several articles in 
the Summit of Aquinas, or of any similar summit, will 
show what a countless number and endless variety of 
dogmas required to be examined and settled for the es- 
tablishment of the religious and ethical doctrine of the 
times. It was an inestimable service which was ren- 
dered in the long and agonizing period of the Middle 
Ages, in a society without other intellectual discipline 
or moral control, by the proposition, the ventilation, the 
discussion, the establishment, or the reprobation of the 
multitudinous perplexed problems in theology — often 
affecting government, society, and private conduct. It 
is not a question here whether the reasoning adopted, 
the arguments adduced, the conclusions drawn, or the 
decisions affirmed were correct or pernicious. The 
process was necessary, the task indispensable, for the 
effective development of European intelligence. The 
system does not accord with modern requirements, nor 
approve itself to modern modes of thought; but it in- 
augurated those requirements and bred those modes. 
Feudalism had to be swept away to make room for the 
growth of society and its larger expansion ; but feudal- 
ism was a blessing at a time when the imperative de- 
mand of society was for confirmed authority and grad- 
uated subordination. Any “good custom will corrupt 
the world;” and no human custom is absolutely good 
or free from the taint of wrong and prospective mis- 
chief. The errors and the defects of scholasticism are 
nowadays manifest to all, and are habitually exagger- 
ated. The good, “ that was buried with it,” is not 
equally apparent or as willingly sought. It requires 
some knowledge of the schoolmen, of their works, and 
of their times — a transference of thought from our cir- 
cumstances and points of view to theirs, and dispassion- 
ate reflection — to estimate their difficulties, their aims, 
and their achievements. One inestimable result of 
their labors — it is only one — was the definite establish- 
ment of the terms of reasoning, metaphysics, and theol- 
ogy, and, as a consequence of their procedure, the en- 
forcement of logical coherence of thought and of preci- 
sion of language. These things were indispensable pre- 
liminaries for the development of modern tongues, mod- 
ern knowledge, modern enterprise, modern society, and 
modern government. 

That this explanation of the rise and progress of scho- 
lasticism is correct is in some measure confirmed by the 
exhibition of the same tendencies, under analogous cir- 
cumstances, in the contemporaneous speculation of the 
Jews and Arabs; for it is a mistake to regard scholasti- 
cism as either an ethnical or a theological idiosyncrasy. 

In the manner stated, and by steps which can be only 
obscurely traced, scholasticism gradually assumed that 
form in which it is usually contemplated by the histori- 
ans of philosophy; and acquired the fulness, abundance, 
energy, precision, and predominance which character- 
ized the scholastic philosophy in its most vigorous man- 
ifestation. 

IV. Systematic Development of Scholasticism . — John 
Seotus Krigena, towards the close of the 9th century, is 
generally regarded as the first of those distinctively en- 


titled schoolmen, though, as has been shown above, he 
should not be considered the earliest scholastic. The 
historians of philosophy have variously distributed the 
course of scholastic philosophy into periods. Ueber- 
weg, who may be taken to represent the latest prevalent 
view, divides the scholastic age into two parts only: 
1. From Seotus Erigena to Amalric, or from the 9th to 
the 13th century; 2. From the 13th century to the Re- 
naissance. lie thus omits both the preliminary tenden- 
cies and the expiring efforts, important as the origin 
and the decadence of the system must be. Sir William 
Hamilton (lieid, 1 1 T orks, Appendix, note II, p. 815) notes 
John Major, of St. Andrew’s (1409-1547), as “the last 
of the regular schoolmen ;” but the spirit survived far 
into the next century. Brueker does not neglect the 
early manifestations of scholasticism, but observes that 
it was conceived during the centuries extending from 
the 5th to the 8th; that the 9th and 10th were the time 
of its gestation and formation; that it was born in the 
lltli ; that it passed its boyhood and youth in the 12th ; 
and that it attained full manhood in the loth. He com- 
mences the treatment of what he holds to be the scho- 
lastic philosophy proper with the beginning of the 12th 
century, and divides the history into three periods: 1. 
From Lanfrane, or Abelard and his disciple Peter Lom- 
bard, to the middle of the 13th century, ami to Albertus 
Magnus; 2. From 1220 to Durand of St. Pou^ain ; 3. 
From 1330 to (labriel Biel and the close of the 15th cen- 
tury. 

That a great change took place in the scholastic phi- 
losophy at the opening of the second period, through 
the rivalry and energy of the recently instituted orders 
of the Dominicans and Franciscans, is proved by the 
character and career of the great schoolmen, and hv 
Roger Bacon’s curious vituperation of the “youngsters” 
who were teaching at Paris. These youngsters — “ pu- 
eri duorum ordinum studontium” (Compend. Studii, v) — 
were Albertus 31 agnns, Thomas Aquinas, and their col- 
leagues. f Fhe third period is rendered memorable by 
the names of Duns Seotus and William of Occam, and 
was marked by an excess of ingenuity, an extravagance 
of distinctions, and a perverse subtlety which degener- 
ated into vain and puerile captiousness in their succes- 
sors. It is from the diseased state of scholasticism in 
its moribund age that the general estimate of the sys- 
tem has been formed. But there is little justice in ap- 
plying to the whole philosophy the reproaches merited 
by it in the years of its impotent decline. 

For an acquaintance with the character and conse- 
quences of the application of scholasticism to theology, 
for the peculiarities of the sects of the scholastics and 
of the leading schoolmen, for their rivalries and their 
antagonisms, reference should be made to the names 
of the schoolmen in this Cyclopedia ; to Nominalism, 
Realism, and Scholastic Tiikologv. 

V. Literature.— The literature of scholasticism is so 
extensive that it would be equally impracticable and 
vain to undertake to give here any adequate enume- 
ration of the principal works that have illustrated it. 
Among the chief sources of information are obviously 
the opera omnia, of all the more notable schoolmen and 
their predecessors, from Joannes Damascenes to (lerson 
and Petrus AUiacus, or even down to Philip Melancthon. 
Next in order would come all the chief historians of 
philosophy. Among works of more special and im- 
mediate interest on the subject may be named — Cou- 
sin, Frogmens Philosophiques ; Phil. Scolastique (Paris, 
1840); Rousselot, Eludes sur la Phil, dans le Mo yen 
Age (ibid. 1840-42) ; Jonrdain, Reclierehes Critiques sur 
VAge et VOrigine des Traductions Latines d'Aristote 
(ibid. 1843); Caraman, Hist, des Per. de la Phil, en 
France (ibid. 1845-48); Kaulich, Gesch. der scholast. 
Philosophic (Prague, 1853); Haureau. La Philosophic 
Scolastique (Paris, 1858); Hampden, The Scholastic Phi- 
losophy, etc. (Oxford, 1 8G2 ) ; Erdmann, Der Entwicke- 
lungsgang der Scholast ik, in Zeitschrift fur wissenschaftl. 


SCHOLASTICS 


426 


SCIIONIIERI 


Theologie (Halle, 18G5), vol. viii ; Michaud, Guillaume 
de Champeaux et lea Ecoles de Paris (Paris, 1807) ; De 
Cupel v, Esprit de la Philosophic B colast ique (ibid. 1808). 
(G. F.ll.) 

Scholastics. See Scholastic Theology. 

Scholefield, Arnold, a Methodist Episcopal min- 
ister, was born in Nova Scotia; united himself with the 
Methodist Episcopal Church while quite a youth; was 
admitted on trial in May, 1810, from which time lie trav- 
elled ami labored in the work of the ministry with 
great. acceptance and usefulness until his health failed 
in 1828. In 183*2 he was again reported effective, and ! 
appointed to travel on Troy district, but had not trav- t 
elled long before he was again rendered ineffective by l 
paralysis, and died in 1837. Ue was an able and la- 
borious minister of the Gospel, and very ardent in his 
religious feelings. 1 1 is sermons were characterized by 
a peculiar richness and pleasing variety, and were usual- 
ly delivered with much pathos. See Minutes of Confer- 
ences, ii, 495; Bangs, Hist . of the M. E . Church, iii, 252. 

Scholia, short notes of a grammatical or exegetical 
nature. Many scholia are found on the margin of man- 
uscripts, or interlined, or placed at the end of a book. 
They have also been extracted and brought together, 
forming what is called Catena Patrum . See Commen- 
tary. 

Scholiasts, writers of such brief notes on passages 
of Scripture. Many of the ancient Christian fathers 
wrote scholia (q. v.), wdiich have come down to us, and 
show- the views entertained of various portions of the 
sacred volume. Their value, of course, depends on the 
learning and critical acumen of the authors. Theodo- 
rer, Theophylact, and (Ecumenius are among the best 
of them. 

Schonemann, Karl Traugott Gottlieb, from 
1700 doctor of law and professor of philosophy at Gottin- 
gen, w r as born in 1700 at Eisleben, and died May 2, 1802. 
lie is known as the editor of Epistolte Romanorum Pon- 
tificum et quce ad eos Scriptce sunt, a S. Clemente I usque 
ad Innocent. Ill , etc. (Gottingen, 1790). He also pub- 
lished Bibiotheca I list. -liter. Patrum Latmornm a Ter- 
tulliano principe usque ad Gregorium Magnum et Isidor. 
Hispal. (Lips. 1792-04, 2 vols.). See Winer, IJandbuch 
der theolog. Literatur, i, 094, 854 ; ii, 703. (13. 1\) 

Schoner, Johann Gottfried, a Lutheran minis- 
ter, was born April 15, 1749, at Riiglieim, near Schw'ein- 
furt, where his father was the pastor of the plaee. He 
studied at Leipsic and Erlangen, and was deacon of St. 
Lawrence’s at Nuremberg. In 1799 he was taken sick, 
and died June 18, 1818. lie was an excellent, pious man 
and pastor ; and besides other hymns, he wrote the beau- 
tiful German hymn IIiinmelan, nur himmelan, w hich has 
been translated by Mills, in his //co re Germamctp, No. 130, 
“ Ileavemvard, still heavenward.” See Sonntagsbibli- 
othek (Bielefeld), vi, 4; Koch, Geschichte. d. deutschen 
Kirchenliedes, vi, 399 sq. ; viii, 570; Knapp, Evangel. 
Liederschatz, p. 1844. (Ii. l\) 

Schongauer, Martin, called Martin Schon, a Ger- 
man painter and engraver, w-as born about 1420, and 
died at Colmar Feb. 2, 1488. The paintings attributed 
to this artist are very numerous, but there are only a 
few' which can be proved to be his work; among them 
is a panel in the church of St. Martin at Colmar. As 
an engraver his reputation w r as very' high. His style 
is much more elevated than that of the other early Ger- 
man artists, and many of his heads are full of relined 
sentiment. His Carrying the Cross is a masterpiece; 
and the Temptation of St. Anthony is held in high es- 
teem. — 1 loefer, None. Bitug. Generate , s. v. 

Schonlierr, Johann Heinrich, a very remark- 
able and influential German theosophist, w r as born at 
Memel November 30, 1770. At the age of fifteen he 
was sent Konigsberg to engage in trade. After 
a year of trial he concluded that he had not found 
his calling. By great self-denial he succeeded in en- 


tering and passing through a gymnasium eourse, so 
that at the age of twentv-tw'o be was ready for the 
university. Even in his gvmnasial course he be- 
came interested in those deep problems to which bis 
subsequent life was given. lint as yet it was a pe- 
riod of inner commotion. His early reverence for the 
Bible and orthodoxy w'as shaken by contact with the 
Kantian philosophy. At first intent on studying the- 
ology', lie now w’avered and began with jurisprudence. 
Soon be broke off from Kantian principles and endeav- 
ored, in his ow r n v\ay, to solve the problem of destiny 
and immortality'. After a year at Konigsberg be made 
an extensive journey 7 , stopping a while at Greifswald 
and Rostock, and finally studying a whole year at the 
University of Einteln. Here at Rinteln his system of 
theosophy' began to take shape. It w'as rooted in a 
reaction against Kant’s abstract idealism, and was a 
fervent grasping after realism. He imagined that in 
the simple words of revelation be had found a complete 
philosophy 7 of being. “I even saw into the mystery 
J of the Trinity,” says he; “and 1 discovered that the 
w’orld is a structure that leads to perfection.” Leaving 
Rinteln in 1793, be passed through Gottingen, Erfurt, 
and Jena, and finally stopped at Leipsic to continue the 
1 studv of philosophy 7 . Here he led a quiet, studious life 
j until February, 1794, and show'ed no signs of eecentrie- 
| ity. But of a sudden one morning he came into the 
, room of a friend and inquired the w r ay 7 to the highest 
mountain of Thuringia, affirming that he must repair 
, thither at once. His manner awakened a belief of his 
j insanity 7 , and he w'as at once taken to an asylum. Here 
' he at first refused all food. After a month he w 7 as re- 
leased. He returned to Konigsberg in the full convic- 
! tion that lie had discovered a new 7 system of religious 
truth, and w ith the full determination to devote his life 
to its propagation. To university 7 studies he gave no 
further attention, but, gaining his daily 7 bread by pri- 
vate instruction, he explained his thoughts in private, 
and gradually gathered to himself a little circle of ad- 
mirers. His earnest assaults upon the prevalent ration- 
alism, and his absolute enthusiasm for the literal writ- 
ten w'ord of God, made a happy impression upon many 
a youthful heart. Two regular weekly 7 meetings were 
held, Wednesday and Sunday 7 evenings, at which were 
had animated discussions on the prolbundest problems 
of philosophy 7 and religion. They extended far into 
the night, sometimes until daybreak. Ladies also at- 
tended. Usually 7 they closed with a hymn and a sim- 
ple meal. These meetings were held not so much 
simply 7 to impart a fully 7 developed system as in or- 
der to develop and mature on all sides a number of 
fundamental principles which were regarded as already 7 
settled and certain. Hence Schonlierr was also him- 
self a seeker of light as well as a giver. As to his out- 
w'ard manner, he was as unpretentious as a child, show- 
ing no trace of a desire to rule or to he held in extraor- 
I dinarv esteem, lie was simply a thoroughly convinced 
j believer. He believed that he had found the key 7 to a 
| fuller understanding of revelation and a deeper insight 
into nature, and he felt that a great regeneration of 
Christendom would go out from his teachings. But he 
had not the least intention of forming a sect; on the 
contrary, lie w'as very constant in his attendance upon 
the regular Church services, and he joined in them w ith 
j fervent devotion. Although the private meetings at 
Schon lierr’s house w r ere never very 7 large, still their very 7 
regularity and the striking appearance of Schonlierr 
j himself attracted the attention of the police to them. 
Measures w 7 ere about, to he taken for their suppression, 

J when a casual meeting of Schonlierr with t lie minister 
j of public worship made such a favorable impression as 
to cause the matter to he dropped. Thenceforth he 
was left to labor unmolested until his death. 

Among the young friends of Schonlierr none contrib- 
uted more than J. W. Ehel (q. v.) to bring his teachings 
, into public notice. Ehel had studied at Konigsberg 
i and received the degree of Pli.D, at Leipsic. In 1810 


SCIIONHERR 


427 


SC1IONIIERI 


he obtained a place as preacher in Ivonigsbcrg, where 
his intimacy with Schdnherr was renewed. 11 is preach- 
ing soon invited general attention. His manner was at- 
tractive, his language imaginative, and his chief themes j 
(’conversion and personal holiness) almost novel. Twice ' 
the clerical authorities were impelled to call him to give | 
account of his doctrines and of his relations to Schdn- 
herr. But no good reason could yet be seen for inter- 
fering with him. These failures to find aught against 
him, especially the last one, in 1814, contributed to give 
even greater prominence to his ministry and his theo- 
sophic views. In 181(5 he attained to the most promi- 
nent place in the Church of the city. This prominence 
soon opened the way for the conversion of not a few 
eminent persons. Even professors of the university 
and noble dukes and ladies were brought into close in- 
timacy with Schdnherr. In the year 1819, however, 
a violent disagreement arose between Ebel and his mas- 
ter. Ebel had ripened into spiritual independence, and 
could no longer concede the infallibility to Schdnherr 
which the whole circle had hitherto passively admitted. 
Besides, he could not admit the seripturalness of some 
of the later developments of his master’s system. And 
when Schdnherr actually proposed physical castigation 
as a means of hastening on the kingdom of (lod, and 
endeavored to sanction it by Scripture texts, Ebel took 
direct issue with him, and ventured to intimate to him 
that, while starting well, he had stopped short and was 
yet entangled in the flesh. Thenceforth there were 
two parties, the larger one following Ebel. Schdnherr 
continued with his diminished circle just as before. In 
1823 he made a journey to St. Petersburg, and the next 
year another to Berlin; but he made no permanent im- 
pression. In 1825 he fell upon the insane notion of 
constructing a ship which was to move without sail 
against wind and stream, and to serve as a place of 
refuge for his followers amid the terrible judgments that 
were soon to fall upon the world. lie actually con- 
structed it. On being launched, it went to pieces amid 
the derision of the witnessing multitude. This came 
near entirely breaking up his little band of followers; 
yet it did not in the least shake his faith in the truth 
of his system or in his divine call. But his career was 
now about run. Broken down in health by his sell- 
mortitications and labors, he retired to Spittelhof, in the 
environs of Kouigsberg, and there died of consumption, 
Oct. 15, 182G, attended only bv a single maid-servant, 
who was faithful to him to the last. 

What are the outlines of Sehonherr’s system? lie 
never fully reduced them to writing. Only two small 
tractates are all he ever published: Der Xiey tier yott - 
lichen OJenbarum /, and low iSiey der yott lichen 0 Jen- 
bit runy (both Ivonigsbcrg, 1804). But these essays 
contain only the embryo of his system. In addition 
there were found among his posthumous papers some 
brief notes, mostly aphoristic in form. De la Cheval- 
erie, a disciple, also published abstracts of some of 
his lectures (Kouigsberg, 1835). All these data were J 
used in preparing the book Grundzuye. (Leipsic, 1852). 
From these sources, and from the works of Ebel and 
Diestel, Schonherr’s most prominent disciples, the fol- 
lowing not very clear outlines of a system may be gath- 
ered. The actual universe consists of a dualism; but 
the dualism can and should rise to unity. At the basis 
of the universe there are two primitive principles or 
beings. They are equally primitive and are personal 
and free. These beings exist in space, have a globular 
form, and are of the colors white and black. There is 
but one difference between them: the one is strong, the J 
other weak. 'Phis difference, rightly taken, is a differ- 
ence of activity and passivity. The co-operation of the 
two generates the world of reality. As the system grew 1 
towards self-consistency, the two principles assumed the ; 
forms of spirit and nature. But in Schonherr’s thought 
they were rather of the nature of water (the weaker) 
and fire (the stronger). Fire and water lie at the basis 
of all reality. From their union and interaction arise 


the universe and God. The fire poured its light upon 
tiie water, and thus became self-conscious. By the mut- 
ual action of the two a mutual effect was wrought — 
namely, the Word. The outer form of the Word is Day. 
The two first principles are the Mosaic Elohim. The 
stronger one is Jehovah; the weaker one is matter. 
From the absolute submissiveness of the latter to the 
former results t lie absolute harmony and order of the 
universe. To preserve and virtualize this harmony is 
the object of creation and providence. Creation is but 
another word for the plastic operation of the stronger 
upon the feebler principle. The Trinity is thus ex- 
plained: the primitive essence of God is tire or light; 
this is the Spirit. The immanent power of God is the 
Father. The product of the essence and the power is 
consciousness, or the Word — that is, the Son of God. 
The contact of the Spirit with matter produced not 
only the Son of God, but also the whole series of spir- 
itual beings. The kingdom of evil was produced by 
one of these highest beings turning away from light 
and allying himself with matter. The origin of sin in 
man is explained in the most realistic manner. Man, 
tempted by Lucifer, took into his blood the destructive 
substance of the tree of good and evil. Through the 
blood the evil is propagated as depravity in all after- 
generations. The theory of redemption is also very re- 
alistically conceived. By the fall man disturbed the 
harmony of the two principles of being. By redemp- 
tion this harmony is re-established. But how? By a 
realistic implantation into nature of a healthful, har- 
monious leaven. Yet how? Thus: man’s life lies in 
his blood. By the corruption of man’s blood the whole 
I life of nature is*poisoned and depraved. Inside of hu- 
I inanity there is, therefore, no healthful starting-point. 
I The healthful leaven must then be furnished from on 
( high. It is furnished in the ideal human person of 
Jesus Christ, in whom the absolute mastery of the ac- 
tive over the passive principle is realized. The health- 
ful, undepraved blood of Jesus is the redeeming princi- 
ple. When he permitted the spirit of disorder to shed 
iiis precious blood on the cross, this blood flowed out 
and over into the realm of rtature, or passivity and sin; 
and there it became the potent leaven which will ulti- 
mately transfigure, and glorify, and introduce order into 
the whole field of darkness. As the spilling of the act- 
ual blood of Jesus upon the lap of nature is the means 
of regenerating the cosmos, so the right partaking of 
the blood of Christ in the eucharist is the means «>f re- 
generating the depravity of human nature. As with 
redemption, so with the resurrection, the ascension, and 
the outpouring of the Holy Ghost. All are explained 
in a realistic and physical manner. 

As to the proximate coming of the kingdom of God 
on earth, Schdnherr had peculiar and very detailed 
views. How soon the state of perfection should break 
in depended largely on the use of human freedom. To 
freedom a very high role is attributed. By freedom 
man, in some sense, takes the place of God. By free- 
dom he interferes with omnipotence and omniscience. 
How he will help to shape the future history of the 
universe is not absolutely foreknown even by God. It 
lies within the discretion of man, by fidelity to his own 
possibilities, to inaugurate a new phase in the history 
of humanity. But there are two absolutely differing 
classes of men. There are central natures and subser- 
vient natures. The latter revolve about the former as 
planets about the sun. Let a central nature only be 
faithful, and lie carries a whole galaxy with him into 
the realm of light. As such a central nature Schdnherr 
unquestionably regarded himself, faith in himsell 
was the very essence of his character. Nor did he ever 
waver in this. Hence his oft -expressed anticipation 
of a speedy transformation of humanity. He would be 
faithful, and would carry his brethren with him over 
into the realm of light. 

After the death of Schdnherr, the pastor Ebel took 
up the work of his master. It was a principle of the 


SCHOOL 


428 SCHOOL BROTHERS AND SISTERS 


whole system that the essential thing is not knowledge, 
but faithfulness. Upon this maxim Ebel proceeded. 
In the pulpit and before the multitude he preached 
only the common doctrines of the catechism ; but in 
private he gathered about his own person an elect cir- 
cle of the initiated. Among them were great lords and 
ladies, professors and students. Best known among 
them are pastor Dicstel and the commentator Olshau- 
sen. These were mostly “central natures;” while the 
uninitiated masses were but subordinate natures. The 
two corresponded to the two primitive principles of be- 
ing, the active and the passive. But the main leader 
of the circle was Ebel. As the circle drew closer around 
him, the personal confession of every secret sin was in- 
troduced as a special means of rapid advancement in 
holiness. This gave Ebel an almost papal power over 
the consciences of the circle. It proved the means of 
a violent outburst which took place in 1826. Many of 
the chiefs of the circle left it and at once began an as- 
sault upon Ebel. For a while Ebel was prostrated bv 
sickness, and dropped from the public attention. In 1834 
lie came again before the public. But a fresh storm 
broke out, and very soon involved Ebel and Dicstel in 
one of the most notorious lawsuits of modern times. 
The two preachers were charged with nnchurchly doc- 
trines, immoral practices, and heresy. The trial lasted 
from 1835 to 1841, and resulted in deposing the accused 
from office, but in acquitting them of intentional immo- 
rality. The result was to entirely discredit the theos- 
ophy of Sell onh err. Thenceforth it has had no organ- 
ic existence, though isolated theologians have, here and 
there, studied it with more or less admiration. See, 
besides the works already mentioned, Die Sehutzicehr 
(Konigsberg, 1834); Geyenseitige IJebe (ibid. 1834); I 'er- 
st and u . Vernunft ini Bunde (Leipsic, 1837); Dicstel, 
Ein Zengenverhor (ibid. 1838); Grundziige (ibid. 1852) 
from Schbnberr’s papers; Compos de Route (Kbnigs- 
berg and Mohrungen, 1857), vol. i ; Life of Rudolf Stier 
(N. Y. 1874), p. 141, 142; Herzog, Real- Eney klop. xiii, 
620-647; Hahncnfeld, Die religiose Bewegung zu Ko- 
nigsberg (Leipsic, 1858). (J. P. L.) 

School occurs in the A. V. but once (Acts xix, 9) 
as the rendering of the Greek <r\o\r] (from which the 
English word is derived), meaning originally leisure; 
hence, a place of tuition. See Tyrannus. 

School Brothers and Sisters, collective names 
of numerous associations in the Homan Catholic Church, 
devoted to the education of the young. The first (the 



School Brother, iu Travelling Dress. 


Ursulines) were established at Brescia, 1537. See Ig- 

NOtt ANTI NES. 

I. Bcbool Brothers. — In the present article only those 
congregations are mentioned whose members are not 
priests. The most important school brotherhoods are: 
1. The “Brethren of the Christian Schools,” founded by 
Jean Baptiste de la Salle. 2. The “Christian Brothers,” 
founded by Lev. E. Bice, at Waterford, Ireland. These 
have their central house and superior-general in Dublin, 
and numerous establishments in Great Britain, Ireland, 
and the British colonies. 3. The “ Brothers Marists,” or 
“Christian Brothers of the Society of Mary,” founded at 
Bordeaux, France, in 1817, by abbe Guillaume Joseph 
Cheminade; approved by pope Gregory XVI in 1839. 
The society was introduced into the United States by 
archbishop Purcell in 1849, and had in 1874 23 establish- 
ments in Ohio, Illinois, New York, Pennsylvania, Mary- 
land, Louisiana, and Texas. 4. The “ Lamennaisian 
Brothers,” or “Congregation of Christian Instruction,” 
founded in Brittany, in 1820, by abbe Jean de la Men- 
nais. They reckoned in 1875 about 800 members and 
150 establishments in France. 5. The “ Brothers of the 
Sacred Heart of Jesus and Mary,” founded in 1821 at 
Le Puv, France, by abbe Coindrin. They started in the 
United States at Mobile iu 1847, and in 1874 had estab- 
lishments in Mississippi, New' Orleans, Kentucky, and 
Indiana. 6. The “Xaverian Brothers,” founded at 
Bruges, Belgium, in 1839, by Theodore Jacques Kyken. 
They were especially intended to labor in the United 
States, and were introduced by archbishop Spaulding 
into Louisville in 1854. In 1875 they had six schools 
there, one in Baltimore, and the St. Mary’s Industrial 
School for Bovs near the city. 7. The “Brothers of 
Charity,” founded in Belgium in 1809, by canon P.Triest, 
for the education of blind and deaf mutes and train- 
ing of orphans. In January, 1874, they took charge of 
the Industrial School of the Angel Guardian in Boston, 
Mass. 

II. School Sisters. — The following are the most 

important of these congregations: 1. The “Ursulines” 
(q. v.). 2. The “ Sisters of the A r isitation of Our Lady,” 

founded at Annecy, Savoy, in 1610, by St. Francis of 
Sales and St. Jeanne Framboise de Chantal. In 1641, 
at the death of the latter, the order numbered 87 estab- 
lishments, and in 1700 160 establishments, with 6600 
members. Its first establishment in the United States 
w r as in Washington, in 1808; and it had in 1875 monas- 
teries and schools in Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, 
Kentucky, New York, Delaware, and Minnesota. It was 


School Sister, in Outdoor Dress. 




SCHOOL, SUNDAY 420 SCHOOLS, HEBREW 


first approved by pope Urban VIII in 1626. 3. The “ Sis- 
ters of Notre I)ame.” See Notre Dame, Congrega- 
tion of. 4. “Sisters of Notre Dame de Namur,” found- 
ed at Amiens, France, in 1804, by pore Joseph Desire 
Varin, Julie Billiart, and Marie Louise Framboise Biin 
de Bourdon, and transferred to Namur, Belgium, in 1809. 
Its object was to educate girls of the mitldle class; and 
it was approved by pope Gregory XVI June 28, 1844. 
It spread rapidly through Belgium, France, Great Brit- 
ain, and Ireland; and the English government intrust- 
ed to the order the direction of normal schools for lio- 
man pupil-teachers. They were called to Cincinnati 
in 1840 by archbishop Furcell, to Oregon by arch- 
bishop Blanchet in 1843, to California in 1851, and to 
Guatemala in 1859. In 1871 they had 82 establish- 
ments (20 in the United States) and 20,000 pupils. 5. 
“Ladies of the Sacred Heart.” See Sacred Heart, 
Ladies of the. These have as their primary object the 
teaching of young girls; others add the care of orphans, 
visitation of sick and poor, and the direction of hospi- 
tals. Such are (1) the “ Ladies of the Incarnate Word,” 
founded in 1625 by Jeanne Marie Chezard de Matel, and 
approved by Urban VIII in 1633. They have many es- 
tablishments in France, and eight in Texas. (2) The 
"•Poor Handmaids of Jesus Christ,” founded Aug. 15, 
1849, at Dernbach, Nassau, b} r Katharine Kaspar; ap- 
proved by Pius IX in 1860, and confirmed in 1870. 
They first established themselves in this country at 
Fort Wayne, Ind., August, 1868. In 1875 they num- 
bered 45 sisters and five houses. (3) The “Sisters of 
Our Lady of Charity,” or “Eudist Sisters,” founded at 
Caen, Normandy, by abbe Jean Eudes in 1641. In 
1835 they became known as the “ House of the Good 
Shepherd.” See Shefiierd, House of the Good. (4) 
The “Presentation Nuns,” founded at Cork, Ireland, in 
1777, by Miss Nano Nagle, for visiting and teaching, 
but have since become strictly cloistered. Their first 
establishment in America was at St.John’s, Newfound- 
land: and in the United States, in New York city, Sept. 
8, 1874. (5) “ Sisters of Mercy” (q. v.). (6) “ Sisters of 
Charity.” See Charity, Sisters of. (7) The “Gray 
Nuns,” or “ Sisters of Charity of Montreal.” See Char- 
ity, Sisters of. (8) “Sisters of St. Joseph” (q. \\). 
See Appletons ’ Cyclop, s. v. ; Bar nu m, Romanism as 
it Is. 

School, Sunday. See Sunday-school. 

Schoolmaster is the inexact rendering in Gal. Hi, 
24,25 of 7raiSayojyog (“instructor,” 1 Cor. iv, 15), which 
does not signify a piedagogue in the modern sense, but 
a person, usually a slave or freedman, to whose care the 
boys of a family were anciently committed at the age 
of six or seven years, who watched over their physical 
and moral training and accompanied them to the pub- 
lic schools and elsewhere, or provided them with teach- 
ers {7raidopaBeig, Quintilian, i, 1 1), but did not himself 
instruct them. See Smith, Did. of Class. Antiq. s. v. 
“ Pedagogue.” 

Schoolmen. See Scholasticism. 

Schools, Alexandrian. See Alexandrian 
Schools. 

Schools, Christian. At a very early period, 
schools were established in connection with the church- 
es; and if no building was provided for this purpose, 
the schools were taught in the baptistry and the vestry. 
This is evident from the observation which Socrates 
makes upon the education of Julian the Apostate — “ that 
in his youth he frequented the church, where, in those 
days, the schools were kept.” He speaks of the schools 
of grammar and rhetoric, which, it seems, were then 
taught at Constantinople in some apartment belonging 
to the church. Catechetical and charity schools were 
also established, especially for instruction in scriptural 
knowledge. The second Council of Chalons, in 813, en- 
acted that bishops should set up schools to teach ordi- 
nary literature and a knowledge of the Scriptures. The 


sixth General Council of Constantinople recommended 
the setting-up of charity schools in all the country 
churches. One of its canons is to this purpose: “that 
presbyters in country towns and villages should have 
schools to teach all such children as were sent to them, 
for which they should exact no reward nor take any- 
thing, except the parents of the children thought fit to 
make them any charitable present by way of voluntary 
oblation. Another of those canons speaks of schools 
in churches and monasteries, subject to the bishop’s 
care and direction; from which we may conclude that 
schools were anciently very common appendants, both 
of cathedral and country churches” (Bingham, Antiq. of 
the Christ. Church , i, 314). See IUed agogics. 

Schools, Hebrew. As this subject is intimately 
connected with the question of education and mode of 
instruction, which cannot he well dealt with separately, 
we propose to discuss historically these three topics in 
the present article (in which we principally follow that 
of Ginsburg in Kitto’s Cyclop ., with important additions 
furnished by the Kev. B. Pick). See Education. 

I. In the Patriarchal Period. — We have nothing in- 
dicative of any place of public instruction in Scripture 
earlier than the Book of Samuel. But it is reasonable 
to suppose that, as the world became peopled, some 
measures were taken for the instruction of the young 
in all those parts of learning that were then known ; 
and particularly among those persons who had the 
knowledge of the true God, who would naturally be 
anxious that the seeds of religious learning should be 
timely sown in their children’s minds, and that they 
should be instructed in everything appertaining to di- 
vine rites and worship, of which we have reason to be- 
lieve that singing and sacred poetry formed a large part. 
The Jewish doctors, indeed, have given us decided as- 
sertions on the subject of primitive teaching. They say 
that Adam instructed his posterity, and that Enoch suc- 
ceeded him in the office. Enoch, we know, was a proph- 
et (Jude 14); and in the later parts of the Old Test, we 

j shall see that prophets were public instructors. The 
Arabians have traditions of Enoch under the name of 
Edris; that he wrote thirty volumes of revelations; 
that he was the first who knew astronomy and arith- 
metic, and wrote with the pen. Eusebius says he 
was the first who taught the knowledge of the stars, in 
which he was instructed by the angels of God [see 
Enoch]; that on his translation to heaven he was 
succeeded by Noah, a preacher, or teacher, of righteous- 
ness (2 Pet. ii, 5). The next great public instructor, ac- 
cording to the rabbins, was Abraham, concerning whom 
Josephus relates {Ant. i, 8) that he taught the Egyp- 
tians astronomy and arithmetic. The ancient histori- 
ans Berosus and Hecatons commend his learning; and 
Eupolimus writes “that he was superior to all men 
in wisdom, and taught astronomy to the Phoenicians.” 
The Targum also countenances the idea that Abraham 
taught in llaran. Jacob, according to the Jewish doc- 
tors, devoted himself to teaching instead of living the 
life of a hunter, like Esau ; for (Gen. xxv, 27) “ he was 
a plain man, dwelling in tents,” is expressed by the 
Targums “he was a perfect man, a minister of the 
house of doctrine” (i.e. a school of instruction) ; but all 
this is mere fancy. 

I I. From the Exode to the Captivity. — Being under a 
theocracy, and engaged almost exclusively in pastoral 
and agricultural pursuits, it was most important that 
the Hebrews, in the early stages of their existence, 
should educate their youth in a pre-eminently religious, 
practical, and simple manner. The parents, upon whom 
the education of the children at first devolved, were 
therefore strictly enjoined to instruct their offspring in 
the precepts of the law, in the fear of God (Dent, iv, 9, 
10; xxxi, 13; xxxii, 46), and in the symbols which rep- 
resented the dealings of Providence with their nation in 
past days, and which were evidently designed to excite 
the curiosity of the children and to elicit inquiry, thus 
furnishing the parents with pictorial illustrations to fa- 


SCHOOLS, HEBREW 430 SCHOOLS, HEBREW 


cilitate the education of those committed to their care 
(Exod. xii. 26, 27 : xiii, 8, 14, 15; Dent, vi, 8, 9, 20, etc.). 
This work of education was not to be put off for certain 
occasions, but was to be prosecuted at all times; no op- 
portunity was to be lost. The father was enjoined, in 
sitting down with his family at the table, at home,- 
abroad, before retiring in the evening, and after getting 
up in the morning, to train his children in the nurture 
and admonition of the Lord (ver. 7). The law of God 
powerfully supported the authority of parents in this 
task by the injunction of filial obedience contained in 
the decalogue, as well as by the heavy punishment in- 
dicted upon refractory children (Exod. xx, 12; xxi, 15; 
Lev. xx, 9; Dent, xxi, 18-21). Still the rigor of pa- 
rental authority was not to be the sole operative power 
in the education of children. Parents are reminded 
that their example may lead their children to happiness 
or misery (Exod. xx, 5, 6 ; Dent, iv, 10; v, 9; xxx, 19; 
xxxii, 40,47). The force of example in the education 
of children is most beautifully described in the praise 
of a royal mother who, with “ the law of love upon her 
tongue,” instilled noble sentiments into the heart of her 
children (Prov. xxxi, 1-9, 25); and such loving words 
are represented as producing an indelible impression in 
the picture of a son who. with pious gratitude, dwells 
upon the w-holesome lessons which his father imparted 
to him in early youth (iv, 3, etc.). Parents are, more- 
over. advised not to adopt the same indiscriminate proc- 
ess of teaching with all children, but to adapt their in- 
struction to even" youth “'S 52) according to 

his age and inclination, so that he may abide thereby 
(xxii. 6). 

That reading and writing must have formed part of 
education from the very settlement in Palestine is evi- 
dent from the fact that the Israelites were commanded 
to write the precepts of the law upon the door-posts and 
gates of their respective houses [see Mezuzaii], in order 
to be continually reminded of their obligations to their 
Creator (Deut. vi, 9; xx, 20). They were, moreover, 
enjoined to write the injunctions upon great stones 
*“!X3) very plainly, immediately upon their cross- 
ing the Jordan (xxvii. 2-8), so that they might easily 
be read by every Israelite. Now these admonitions un- 
questionably presuppose that the people at large could 
read plain writing; that the deciphering of these me- 
morials was a religious duty; and that it must, there- 
fore, have formed an essential part in the strictly relig- 
ious education of children. Besides, the manner in 
which some parts of the sacred oracles were written 
clearly indicates that the inspired writers reckoned upon 
the ability of the people to read. Thus the frequent play 
upon words, as, for instance, in Gen. vi, 8, where “Noah 
found favor,” is obtained by a transposition of the let- 
ters in the name H2 into “(11; Gen. xxxviii, 7, where “Er 
. . . w T as wicked” is obtained by a transposition of the 
letters in the name into 2“>; the alphabetical por- 
tions of the Old Test. (Psa. ix, x, xxv, xxxiv, xxxviii, 
cxi, cxii, cxix, cxlv; Prov. xxxi, 10, etc.; the Lam.), 
which were intended to assist the memory and mark 
the gradation of ideas; the substitution of “*212 for 
533 (Jer. xxv, 26; li, 4),“'*Zp 25 for C“H*23 (li, 1), by 
taking the letters of the alphabet in their reverse order, 
would have been utterly useless and most unintelligible 
bad not the people for whom they were intended been 
able to read. If we bear in mind that the understand- 
ing of the sacred oracles was not the peculiar preroga- 
tive of the priestly caste, but was enjoined upon every 
Israelite, it becomes self-evident that the knowledge of 
reading and writing, which, as we have seen, is so insep- 
arable from the understanding of the Scriptures, must 
have formed a prominent part in the education of chil- 
dren whose sole training was the understanding of the 
Scriptures. For the same reason arithmetic must have 
been taught; as the days of the week, the months, the 
festivals, etc., were not designated by proper names, but 


by numerals. The numbers occurring in the Old Test, 
reach to hundreds of thousands; and we have, moreover, 
instances of addition (Numb, i, 22, etc.; xxvi, 7, etc.), 
subtraction (Lev. xxv, 27; xxviii, 18; Numb, iii, 19, 43, 
46), multiplication (Lev. v, 8; xxvii. 1G-I8; Numb, iii, 
46-50), and division (Lev. xxv, 27-50). In fact, every 
art or science which occurs or is alluded to in the Old 
Test., and upon the understanding of which depended 
the understanding of the Scriptures, must to some ex- 
tent have formed a part of the strictly religious Jewish 
education. 

We have already seen that the education of the chil- 
dren devolved upon the parents. They were the teach- 
ers in ordinary cases. This natural duty must have 
been a pleasant task, a welcome occupation, and a pas- 
time to a people who led a rural life, and whose Sabbaths 
and festivals freed them from labor a sixth part of the 
year. See Festival. In these leisure hours the par- 
ents, who were strictly forbidden to engage in any secu- 
lar work, were in constant contact with their children; 
and the many symbols, rites, and ceremonies on those 
occasions were used by them as so many illustrated nar- 
ratives of the dealings of God. We need, therefore, not 
wonder that the name school does not occur in the Bi- 
ble previous to the Babylonian captivity; before the 
Jews were entangled in foreign affairs; before commer- 
cial transactions with other nations and other matters 
had taken so many of the people away from (heir homes 
and deprived their children of their natural teachers. 
The traditional opinion that by “'2‘Cin P rZ'O (2 Sam. 
xxxiii, 8) is meant a sort of academy (the Midrash, the 
Chaldee Paraphrase, Kirnchi, etc.), or that “ , rr5T (Prov. 
viii, 34) denotes *2““rzn r^3 (see Rashi, ad loc .), is 
purely gratuitous. 

But though there were no national or elementary 
schools before the exile, there were cases in which pro- 
fessional teachers had to be resorted to, e. g. when the 
high position or official duties of the parents rendered 
parental teaching impossible, or when the parents were 
in any way incapacitated, when the child’s abilities to 
learn surpassed the father’s capabilities to teach, or 
where the son was preparing himself for a vocation dif- 
ferent from that of his father. For such exceptional 
cases teachers existed from a very early period, as we 
have seen above. We find that Bezaleel and Aholiab 
were qualified by God as teachers (13^3 “|T3 PTinbl) 
in certain departments. The Psalmist speaks of his hav- 
ing had many teachers b"*Q [cxix, 

99]). Both teachers and pupils are mentioned in con- 
nection with the temple choir (1 Chron.xv, 22; xxv, 8); 
and the prophets, who, by virtue of their superior piety, 
high attainments, large acquaintance with the political 
affairs of the world, delivered public lectures on the fes- 
tivals (2 Kings iv, 22, 23). instructed young men who 
aspired to a better education in order to fit themselves 
for public service (1 Sam. x,5, 10, etc.; 2 Kings ii, 3, etc. ; 
iv, 38, etc. ; vi, 1, etc.). 

As for the so-called school of projihefs , no such term 
occurs in the Old Test. The institution, however, is 
substantially referred to in several passages which speak 
of the “sons of the prophets” (1 Kings xx,35; 2 Kings 
ii, 5, etc.), showing some kind of a college for the instruc- 
tion of the prophetical order from the time of Samuel 
onward. The intimations on the subject are, indeed, 
obscure, yet sufficiently clear to warrant the general be- 
lief in their existence. In later times they were doubt- 
less merged in the regular svnagogical schools referred 
to below. See PnoniETS, Sons of. 

III. From the Babylonian Captivity to the Close of the 
Talmud. — A new epoch in the education of the Jews be- 
gan with their return from Babylon. In the captivity, 
the exiled Jews had to a great extent forgotten their 
vernacular Hebrew, and they became incompetent to 
understand their sacred oracles. Ezra, the restorer of 
the law, as he is called, found it therefore necessary, 


431 


SCHOOLS, HEBREW 


SCHOOLS, HEBREW 


immediately on their return to Jerusalem, to gather ' 
around him those who were skilled in the law, and 
with their assistance trained a number of public teach- 
ers. The less distinguished of these teachers went, into 
the provincial towns of Judaea, gathered disciples, and 
formed synagogues; while the more accomplished of 
them remained in Jerusalem, became members of the 
Great Synagogue, and collected large numbers of young 
men, whom they instructed in all tilings appertaining 
to the law, in the prophets, and in the sayings of the 
sages of old (Ecclus. ii, 9-11; Mishit a, A both, i, l). 
Scrolls were given to children upon which were written 
passages of Scripture, such as Shema (i. e. Deut. vi, 4), 
or the Ilallel (i. e. Psa. cxiv-cxviii, cxxxvi), the history 
of the creation to the deluge (Gen. i-viii, I), or Lev. i, 
18 (comp. Jerusalem Talmud, Megilla, iii, l ; Git tin , 60 a ; 
Sopherim, v, 9). The course of study pursued in the 
metropolis was more extensive (Prolog, to Ecclus. and 
Ecclus. xxxviii, 24, etc. ; xxxix, 1, etc.), that of provin- 
cial towns more limited, while the education of the small 
ami more remote places or villages almost exclusively 
depended upon what the inhabitants learned when they 
went up to Jerusalem to celebrate the festivals, and 
was therefore very insignificant. licuce the phrase 
DZ", country people, came to denote the unedu- 
cated, the illiterate; just as pay anus, or pagan, a coun- 
tryman or villager, is for a similar reason used for hea- 
then; while urbamts , urbane, or an inhabitant of a city, 
denotes an educated man. 

The schools now began to increase in importance; and 
the intercourse of the Jews with the Babylonians, the 
Persians, and the Greeks widened their notions of edu- 
cation, and made them study foreign languages and lit- 
erature and Hebraize their philosophy. The Essones, 
who found it necessary to separate themselves from the 
nation because of their foreign innovations, also devoted 
themselves to the education of the children; but their 
instruction was confined to the divine law and to mor- 
als (Josephus, War, xi, 8, 12). See Esskxes. Simon 
ben-Shefach (I1.C.80) has the merit of having introduced 
superior schools into every large provincial town, and 
ordained that all the youths from the age of sixteen 
should visit them (Jerusalem Kethuboth, viii, 11), intro- 
ducing government education. So popular did these 
schools become that while in the pre-exilian period the 
very name of schools did not exist, w r e now find in a 
very short time no less than eleven different expressions 
for school, e. g. — a\ao£, or OO^X = iXeog 

( Midrash Coh. 91); sblZDX, or “'blZOX = eryoXt/ 
(Midrash Shir flashir, 15 a) ; "D, or more fre- 

quently wj-rnsn IT'D (Yebam. 24 b; A both, v, 14); 
*j£3*lX TPD, house of learning (Jonatli. on Exod. x.rxiii, 
7); l£Dn r"D, the house of books (Midrash Echa, 70 
b) ; "i£1D r^D, the house of the teacher (ibid. 77 b); 
“pi PPD, the house of the master (Baba Buthra, 21 a) ; 
“71*2 bn ITD, the house of instruction (Gittin, 58 a); 

or xr.nTTO, the seat, i. e. where the disciples 
sat at the feet of their master; DID. the vineyard (Kashi 
on Yebam. 42 b) ; and 5010, an array, where the disci- 
ples w’ere arrayed according to their seniority and ac- 
quirements (Cholin, 173 b). The etymologies of some 
of these words, and the signification of the others, give 
us in a very striking manner the progressive history of 
Jewish education, and tell us what foreign elements 
w r ere introduced into Jewish pedagogy. Some idea 
may he formed of the deep root juvenile education had 
struck in the hearts of t lie Jews from the following dec- 
laration in the Talmud : “The world is preserved by the 
breath of the children in the schools;” “A town in which 
there is no school must perish;” “Jerusalem w T as de- 
stroyed because the education of children was neglect- 
ed” (Sabbath, 1 19, b). 

As the national education of this period is that which 


the apostles and the first disciples of Christ received, 
and as this must be of the utmost importance and in- 
terest to Christians of the present day, w'e shall now 
briefly state what the Talmud and the Midrashim con- 
sider to constitute the proper education of a respectable 
Jew', and give their notions of schools and the mode of 
instruction. We must begin with the schools. A school 
or teacher w r as required for every twenty-five children; 
when a community had only forty children, they might 
have one master and an assistant (Baba Bathra, 2L a). 
Schools must neither be established in the most densely 
crowded parts of the town (Pesachim, 112 a), nor near 
a river which has to be crossed by an insecure bridge 
(Baba Bathra, 21), so as not to endanger the health or 
lives of the children. The proper age for a boy to go 
to school is six years (Kethuboth, 50 a); before that 
time the father must instruct his son. Thus it is relat- 
ed that K.Chija ben-Abba would never eat Ins breakfast 
before he had repeated with his son the lesson which he 
gave him on the previous day, and taught him at least 
one new verse ( Kiddush . 30 a). At the age of five a 
boy had to study the Bible, at ten the Mishna, and at 
fifteen the Talmud (Aboth, v, 21). Great, care was tak- 
en that the books from which instruction was imparted 
should be correctly written (Pesachim, 112 a), and that 
the lessons taught, especially from the Bible, should be 
in harmony with the capacities and inclinations of the 
children (Aboda Zara, 19 a; Berach. 63 a), practical 
(Kiddush. 40 b), few r at a time, but weighty (Vayikra 
Rabba, ciii). The parents never ceased to watch that 
their children should be in the class at the proper time. 
We are told that Kabba ben- 1 lima never partook of 
his breakfast till he had taken his son to school (Kid- 
dush. 30 a). Josephus, therefore, did not at all ex- 
aggerate when, writing against Apion, he said, “Our 
principal care of all is to educate our children” (Apion, 
i, 12). “If any of us is asked about our law's, he will 
more readily tell them all than he wfill tell his own 
name, and this in consequence of our having learned 
them as soon as ever we became sensible of anything, 
and of our having them, as it w r ere, engraven on our 
souls. Our transgressors of them are but few', and it 
is impossible, when any do offend, to escape punish- 
ment” (ibid, ii, 19). In a similar manner Philo ex- 
presses himself: “The Jews looking upon their laws 
as oracles directly given to them by God himself, and 
having been instructed in this doctrine from their very 
earliest infancy, they bear in their souls the images of 
the commandments contained in these laws as sacred” 
(Legat. ad Cajum, § 31 , Mang. ii, 577). “ They are taught, 
in a manner, from their very swaddling-clothes, by their 
parents and teachers and instructors, and even before 
that by their holy laws, and also bv the unwritten max- 
ims and customs, to believe that there is but one God 
— their Father and the Creator of the world” (ibid. § 16, 
Mang. ii, 562). Of Timothy >ve are told that from a 
child he knew' the Holy Scriptures (htto fipityovg ra ispa 
ypdppara olfiag [2 Tim. iii, 15]); and a similar state- 
ment we find in the Apocryphal hook Susannah, ver. 3. 
From all this we can presume that the education and 
instruction of the children at first devolved upon the 
parents, who were the teachers, and who in their leisure 
hours, especially on Sabbaths and festivals, illustrated 
the many symbols, rites, and ceremonies which were 
used on different occasions. The importance of educa- 
tion having now become more and more realized, the 
foundation of schools became more and more a matter 
of necessity; and the man w'ho immortalized his name 
by establishing elementary schools was Jesus of Gimlo, 
who fell by the hands of the zealots during the siege of 
Jerusalem. Afler that time children were not allowed 
to go to school from one city into another; the inhabi- 
tants of each city could he obliged to have a school and 
a teacher (Baba Bathra, 21 a), and it was even forbid- 
den to live in a city wdiere there was no school (Sanhe- 
drin, 17 a). The number of schools now increased, and 
flourished throughout the length and breadth of the 


SCHOOLS, HEBREW 432 SCHOOLS, HEBREW 


land; and though it seems exaggerated -when the Tal- 
mud states that there were 400 elementary schools in 
Bechar, each having 400 teachers with 400 children each 
( Gittin, 58 b). and that there were 1000 pupils in the 
house of the father of Babban Simeon ben -Gamaliel 
who were instructed in the Thora, or law, and in the 
Greek ( Baba Kama, 83 a), it is certain that the number 
of schools, teachers, and pupils must have been large 
in every great place. Maimonides thus describes the 
school: “The teacher sat at the head, and the pupils 
surrounded him, as the crown the head, so that every 
one could see the teacher and hear his words. The 
teacher did not sit on a chair while the pupils sat on 
the ground, but all either sat on chairs or on the ground. 
Formerly it was customary for the teacher to sit and 
the pupil to stand; but shortly before the destruction 
of Jerusalem it was so arranged that both the teacher 
and scholar sat” ( Jad Ilachazaht II. T. T. iii, 2). No 
unmarried person could teach ( Kidditsh . 82 b), and no 
choleric person could be a teacher (J both, ii, 7). The 
teacher was to be respected by the pupil; yea, the latter 
was expected to show him greater respect than his own 
father, and to entertain for him a warmer attachment 
(Aboth, iv, 15; Pesachim , 22 b; Sabbath , 119 b; flora- 
yoth , 13 a ; Baba Met sin, 33 a). But, on the other hand, 
the teacher was, both by word and example, to incite his 
pupils to everything good and noble; he was to endeav- 
or to secure the confidence, the respect, and the affection, 
both of parents and children; the latter he was to treat 
rather with kindness than with rigor. As to the objects 
the teacher had to teach, the national literature of the 
people was the main object. As soon as the child could 
read, the teacher commenced reading Leviticus or To- 
ratli Cohanim, and the reason why this book was to be 
read first was because the little ones arc innocent and 
pure, and the sacrifices symbolize purity, therefore “let 
the pure ones come and study the law of restoring puri- 
ty by the sacrifice” ( Vayikra Rabbet, § vii). The cur- 
riculum in the study of the law being finished, that of 
the Mishna began, to be followed by that of the Gema- 
ra; the latter, however, belonged to the higher schools. 
Besides the national literature, languages were also 
taught, especially the Greek. Thus we read of Babbi, 
who said. “What is the use of the Syriac language in 
Palestine? Let any one study either the Hebrew or j 
the Greek” ( Gittin, 28 b; Sot ah , 49 a; Baba Kama, \ 
82 b). Besides the linguistic studies, they also studied I 
astronomy, mathematics, and natural sciences. It seems 1 
that gymnastic exercises also originally belonged to the 
curriculum, but were afterwards interdicted as leading 
to dangerous contact and assimilation with heathens 
(A boda Zara, 18 b). Beating, if necessary, with a strap, 
never with a rod, was to be the principal means of cor- 
rection; and an instance is mentioned where a teacher 
was deposed for too great severity. The alphabet was 
taught by drawing the letters on a board till the chil- 
dren remembered them. In reading, well - corrected 
books were to be used, and the child was to point to the 
words as he spelled them. The teacher was to make 
the lesson as plain as possible, and not to lose patience 
if it was not immediately understood. It was one of 
the principal duties of an instructor of youth to impress 
upon their minds and hearts the lessons of morality and 
chastity. To acquire fluency, pupils were to read aloud, 
and certain mnemonic rules were devised to facilitate 
the committing to memory. The number of hours 
during which junior classes were to be kept in school 
was limited. As the close air of the schoolroom might 
prove detrimental during the heat of the day, schools 
were closed between ten o’clock A 31. and three P.M. 
For similar reasons school- hours were limited to four 
hours a day during the period from the 17th Thainns 
to the 9th Ab, and the teacher forbidden to chastise his 
pupils during these months. The paramount impor- 
tance which public instruction had assumed in the life 
of the nation, we can see from sayings like those above 
cited: “Jerusalem was destroyed because the instruc- 


tion of the young was neglected” (Na66a^,I19b); “The 
world is only saved by the breath of the school-children” 
(ibid.) ; “A town in which there is no school must per- 
ish” (ibid.). The higher schools, or “ kallahs,” met dur- 
ing certain months in the year only. Three weeks 
before the term, the dean prepared the students for the 
lectures to be delivered by the rector; and so arduous be- 
came the task, as the number of the disciples increased, 
that in time no less than seven deans had to be appoint- 
ed. Yet the mode of teaching was not that of our mod- 
ern universities. The professors did not deliver lectures 
which the disciples, like the student in Faust, could 
“comfortably take home in black and white.” Here all 
was life, movement, debate. Question was met by coun- 
ter-question ; answers were given wrapped up in alle- 
gories or parables; the inquirer was led to deduce the 
questionable point for himself by analogy — the nearest 
approach to the Socratic method. The New Test, fur- 
nishes many specimens of this method of instruction. 
The extent of instruction imparted in these schools em- 
braced almost all sciences preserved in the Talmud. An 
important part of education, as we shall more particular- 
]y see below, was the learning of a trade. Thus we find 
among the most celebrated “doctors” tentmakers, san- 
dalmakers, weavers, carpenters, tanners, bakers, cooks. 

Besides the elementary schools, which were chiefly 
intended for popular education, there were, as already in- 
timated, also superior colleges, at first confined to Jeru- 
salem, under the management of the presidents and vice- 
presidents of the Sanhedrim, the Sopherim, or “scribes” 
and “ doctors,” as they arc called in the New Test., and 
members of the Sanhedrim, who made it one of their 
principal objects to train young men destined to become 
the teachers and judges of Israel, and the bearers of “ the 
traditions of the fathers” ( Aboth , i, 1). Gradually thefec 
academies were multiplied in the metropolis, and spread 
over all the countries where the Jews resided. Akbara, 
Lydda, Ushach, Sepphoris, Tiberias, Jabne, Nares, Nahar- 
dea, Machuza, Selki, Shakan-Zib (El-Sib), Pnmbaditha, 
Sora, and Alexandria, in the process of time, became dis- 
tinguished for their seats of learning. The following are 
the presidents and vice-presidents of the colleges which 
were the depositories of the traditions of the fathers and 
the supreme arbiters in the sphere of morals and educa- 
tion, together with the most distinguished masters and 
disciples under each presidency, both in Palestine and 
Babylon, to the close of the Talmud, in their chronolog- 
ical order (more briefly summarized in part under Puai- 
baditha; Sora; etc.): 


The Tan aim Epoch. b.o. 


a 

b 

c 

d 


Simon the Just or Pious 300 

Antigonns of Soho 200-170 

j Jose ben-Joeser of Zereda, and 
( Jose ben-Jochaiian of Jerusalem, the first pair, 170-140 
( Jehoshnah ben-Perachj.i, and 

(Natal of Arabela 140-110 

(Simon ben-Shetach, tbeir pupil, and 

t Jehudah ben-Tabai 110-65 

(Shema.pi, and 

(Abtalion 65-30 


Iiillel I, the Great, the Babylonian, in whose 
family the presidency became hereditary for 
fifteen generations (a.i>. 10-415). lie was 
first with Menachem and then with Sham- 
mai, who founded a separate school. . .n.o. 30-a.t>. 10 
The former was designated the school of Ilil- 
lel, which had eighty disciples, called the 
elders of the house of Billet , among whom 
were Jonathan ben-Uziel the Taegu mist, 

Dossri hen-llarchinas, Jonathan his brother, 
and Jochannn ben-Zakkai; while the hitter 
was denominated the school of Shammai, 
the immediate disciples or elders of which 
were Balia beu-Bnta, Dotal of Stome, and 


Zndok, the originator of the Zealots. a.d, 

Simon beu-Hillel 1 10-80 


Gamaliel I, ben-Simon I, called Ila-Znkeu the 


elder, the teacher of the apostle Paul 30-50 

Simon II, hen-Gamaliel 1 50-70 

Joehanan ben-Zakkai, founder of the school 
of Jabne or Jamnia 6S-S0 


SCHOOLS, HEBREW 433 SCHOOLS, HEBREW 


Palestine. 

A.D, 

Gamaliel IT, of Jabue, ben-Simon IT, and Eleazar 
ben- Azariah, who was for a little time presi- 
dent in the place of Gamaliel. Here are to be 
mentioned Eliezer ben -Hyrkanus, brother-in- 
law of Gamaliel, and founder of the school at 
Lydda, which continued the only seat of learn- 
ing in Southern Judaea for several centuries; 

Joshua ben-Chananja, who established a school 
at Bekiin, in the valley between Jabue and Lyd- 
da ; Ismael ben-Eliesa, the founder of the school 
known by the name Be-R. Ismael ; Aquila, the 
translator of the Bible; R. Ilai,R. Chaliphta, Bar- 
Cochba, the false Messiah 80-1 1G 

Simon II, ben-Gamaliel II, and R. Nathan, vice- 
president, author of the Mishna or Tosiphta 
which goes by his name, and of a commentary 
on Aboth. The distinguished men of this presi- 
dency are, R. Judah beu-Ilai,of Ushah ; R. Jose 
ben-Chaliphta, of Sepphoris, author of the his- 
tory called Seder Olam ; It. Jochanan, of Alexan- 
dria; It. Simon ben-Jochai, of Galilee, the re- 
puted originator of the Cabala and author of 
the far-famed Zoliar 140-163 

Jehudah I, the Iloly, Ila-Nasi, ben-Simon III, ed- 
itor of the Mishna, and called Rabbi, llis cele- 
brated disciples, who also became heads of 
schools, were called semi-Tanaim , and perfected 
their master’s work, the Mishna. These were 
R. Janai, whose school was at Akbara; R. Chi- 
ja=Achija; Ushnja the elder, surnamed “the 
father of the Mishna ;” and Abba Areka, snr- 
named Rab, the founder of the school at Pum- 
badita 163-193 

Gamaliel ITT, beu-Jehndah I, in whose presidency 
the college was transferred from Jabue to Tibe- 
rias 193-220 


Babylon. 

Nahardea, the centre of learning since the Baby- 
lonian exile, and the seat of the rector-general 
of all the Babylonian colleges. It was destroy- 
ed through the adventurer Papa beu-Nazar, in 
the year a.d. 259. 


R. Chanina, nephew of R. Josuah, formed a col- 
lege in Nachor-Pacor, in the neighborhood of 
Nahardea, of which he became president; and 
R. Nechanja or Achija was vice-president 13S— 140 


R. Shila was the rector-general at Nahardea; R. 

Nathan, the last 2\wa, and R. Chija were both 
educated here. Abba Areka, who also was a 
student here and afterwards went to Palestine 
to finish his studies under Jehudah I, brought 
with him on his first return to Babylon (a.d. 1S9) 
the complete Mishna of his master cir. 140-190 


Samuel the astronomer, also called Mar-Sanmel, 

Arioch, and Jarchini, succeeded R. Shila as rec- 
tor of the college at Nahardea 190-24T 


Tun Amouaim Epocu. 


Jehudah II, ben-Simon TIT, also called Rabbi , the 
teacher of Ori^en. The teachers of this period 
were, R. Chaninah, the most distinguished dis- 
ciple of Jehudah I, who founded a school at Sep- 
phoris ; R. Simlai, the celebrated Ilaggadist, 
who redneed the law of Moses to G13 command- 
ments ; R. Jose of Maon ; R. Chaggai, R. Jehu- 
dah beu-Nachmaui, etc 220-2T0 


Abba Areka, surnamed Rab, having returned to 
his native place a second time, founded a school 
at Sora, which maintained Us celebrity for near- 
ly S00 years, and which attracted about 1200 stu- 
dents in the lifetime of its founder. He was the 
president of it twenty-eight years 219-247 


Samuel Jarchini, rector of the college at Nnhar- 
dea, is elected rector-general of all the schools 
in Babylon 247-257 

R. liana became rector-general. He had only 800 
students, as, during his rectorate, R. Jehudah 
ben-Jecheskel founded a school at Pumbaditha, 
and R. Chasda founded another school at Sora, 
which attracted many of his disciples. Nahar- 
dea is destroyed (259); the students emigrate 
into the neighborhood of the Tigris and found 
a school 257-297 


Tiberms. a.d. Sora. a.d. 

Gamaliel I V, ben-Jehudah TI. 270-300 Chasda of Raphri, founder of 
Jehudah III, ben-Gamaliel IV, 300-309 this school, is rector 293-309 


Hillel II. ben-Jehudah III, 
introduced the new calen- 
dar, and is said by Epiphani- 
ns to have embraced Chris- 
tianity. The distinguished 
teachers of this period were 
R. Jona, R. Jose, aud Tan- 
chuma hen -Abba, the re- 
nowned Ilaggadist and re- 
puted author of the Midrash 
Tanchuma 330-365 


Kabba ben-Huna, succeeded 
Chasda to the rectory, and 
when he died the college 
was without a rector for 
nearly fifty years 309-320 


Pumbaditha. a.d. 

R. Jehudah ben - Jesheskel, 
founder of the school at 
Pumbaditha, is elected rec- 


tor-general of all the col- 
leges, and officiates two 
years 297-299 

Chasda of Kaphri,fonnderand 
rector of the school at Sora, 
is elected rector-general 299-309 

Rabba ben -Nachmani, who 
succeeded Chasda, revived 
the college to such a degree 
that he obtained 1200 stu- 
dents 309-330 


Joseph ben -Chija the blind. 

He translated the prophets 
ofthe Old Test, into Chaldee 330-333 

Abnji ben-Cajlil, surnamed 
Nachmani, the nephew of 


Rabba, succeeded R. Joseph 

the blind 333-338 

Rabba ben-Joscph, ben-Cha- 
ma, who founded the school 
at Machuza, was elected rec- 
tor after Abaji 338-352 

Nachman beu-Isaac held the 
rectorate four years 352-356 


IX.— E k 


SCHOOLS, IIEBItEW 434 SCHOOLS, HEBREW 


Tiberias— cojitinucd. A D 

Gamaliel V.ben-llillel II. The 
teachers of this period were 
K. Jeremiah, K. Jacob ben- 
Abun, etc 3G5-3S5 

Jehudah IV, beu-Gamaliel V.. 385-400 


Gamaliel the last 

ben-Jehudah IV. 400-425 


Sora— continued. 

A.l>. 

Ashi beu-Simai, snruamed 
Rabban ( our teacher ), resus- 
citated the college of Sora, 
and was its rector fifty-two 
years, during which time 
seven rectors died in Purn- 
baditha. Ashi immortalized 
his name by collecting the 
Babylonian Talmud 352-427 


Pumbaditha— continued. 

A.l), 

R. Chama of Nahardea, Nach- 
maui’s successor, held the 
rectorate nineteen years... 356-377 

R. Zebid ben-TJsbaja 377-3S5 

R. Dimi bcu-Chinena of Na- 
hardea 3S5-3SS 

Raphrem beu-Papa 3SS-400 

R. Kabana. The celebrated 
men of this period were 
Mar-Sutra, Pheluua beu-Na- 
thon, etc 400-411 

Mar-Sntra 411-414 


R. Jemar, or Mar-Jemar (con- 


tracted Maremar), succeed- 
ed R. Ashi as rector of the 
college, and officiated about 
five years 427-432 

R. Idi ben-Abin, a disciple of 
R. Ashi, officiated as rector 
for twenty years 432-452 

R. Nachman beu-IIuna 452-455 

Mar bar-R. Ashi, who contin- 
ued collecting the Talmud, 
which his father began 455-4GS 

RabbaTnsphan. Sora, where 
one of the oldest Jewish uni- 
versities stood, was now de- 
stroyed by the Persian king 
Firuz 4GS-474 

Rabina II, who, with R. Jose 
and his colleagues, complet- 
ed the Talmud 4GS-540 


R. Asha beu-Raba 414-419 

R. Gebiha of Be-Katil 419-433 


Rephrem II 433-443 

R. Rachamai 443-45G 

R. Sama beu-Raba 456-471 

R. Jose 471-520 

R. Samuel beu-Abalin. 


At first the organization of these schools or colleges 
was very simple. Besides the president or rector, who 
was the chief teacher, and an assistant, there were no 
offices or ranks. Gradually, however, superior and sub- 
ordinate ranks involuntarily developed themselves, and 
ultimately assumed the following form : The college, 
which met during certain months of the year, and was 
generally called Methiba (X-“r*2), seat of learning , was 
presided over by the chief rabbi, who was called Resh- 
methiba and was elected by the school. 

Next to this Resh-methiba or rector came the Resh-kal- 
la (nbw UXP), the chief of the assembly , whose office it 
was to expound or simplify to the students, during the 
first three weeks of the session, the theme upon which 
the rector had determined to lecture. In later times 
there were seven Rashe-kalloth (TVlbz such in- 

terpreters, composed of the associates (D* , “Cn) and mem- 
bers of the Sanhedrim, varying in rank. The president 
or teacher occupied a raised seat, the interpreters sat 
next to the rector on lower seats, while the disciples sat 
below them at the feet of their teachers (Acts xii,3). 

The mode in which instruction was communicated 
was chiefly' catechetical. After the master had deliver- 
ed his dictum or theme, the disciples in turn asked differ- 
ent questions (Luke ii, 4G), which he frequently' answer- 
ed by parables or counter-questions, a line of conduct 
also pursued by Christ in accordance with the custom 
of the time (comp. Matt, xxii, 17—22 ; Luke xx, 2-4, 
etc.). Sometimes the teacher introduced the subject 
by simply' asking a question connected with the theme 
lie proposed to propound; the replies given by the 
different disciples constituted the discussion, which the 
master at last terminated by declaring which of the 
answers was the most appropriate. Thus R. Jochanan 
bcn-Zakkai (B.C. 30), on one occasion, wanted to inform 
his disciples what was the most desirable thing for man 
to get. He then asked them, “ What is the best thing 
for man to possess?” One replied, “a kind nature;” an- 
other, “a good companion;” another, “a good neighbor;” 
another, “the power to foresee consequences;” while R. 
Eleazer said “a good heart.” Whereupon R. Jochanan 


remarked, “I prefer R. Eleazer’s answer to y'ours, for 
in it all y'our answers are comprehended” (A both, ii, 9). 
Who is not reminded thereby^ of the questions put by 
the Saviour to his disciples in Mark viii, 27-30? 

Allegories, riddles, stories, etc., formed another chan- 
nel whereby' instruction was communicated in these 
schools. The oppressive heat of the Eastern climate, 
which was especially' felt in the crowded college, where, 
as we have seen, twelve hundred disciples were some- 
times present, tended to make the students drowsy' when 
a hard subject was discussed. The wise teacher, there- 
fore, when he perceived that the attention began to flag, 
at once introduced a merry 1 ' anecdote or a monstrous 
story', or propounded a ludicrous riddle, which imme- 
diately aroused the disciples and enabled the master to 
go on with his theme. Hence the abundance of both 
sublime and ridiculous parables and stories dispersed 
throughout the Talmud and Midrashim which record 
these lectures; and hence, also, the parabolic mode of 
teaching adopted by' our Saviour. 

The extent of instruction, or what constituted educa- 
tion in these schools, can liardly f be defined. An unbi- 
assed reader will see from a most cursory 5 ' glance at any 
of the discussions recorded in the Talmud that all man- 
ner of subjects were brought forward in these colleges. 
Theology', philosophy', jurisprudence, astronomy', astrolo- 
gy', medicine, botany', geography', arithmetic, architect- 
ure, were all themes which alternately' occupied the at- 
tention of masters and disciples. In fact, the Talmud, 
which lias preserved the topics discussed in the colleges, 
is an ency'clopmdia of all the sciences of that time, and 
shows that in many' departments of science these Jew- 
ish teachers have anticipated modern discoveries. It 
would require far more space than the limits of this ar- 
ticle allow to quote instances in confirmation of this; we 
can therefore only refer the reader to the treatises quot- 
ed below. 

Besides the abstruse theological and scientific sub- 
jects, etiquette occupied a prominent part in the lect- 
ures of the college, and was regarded as forming an es- 
sential part of education. The most minute directions 
are given as to the behavior of students towards their 
parents, their teachers, their superiors in age or rank. 


435 


SCHOOLS, HEBREW 

Every one met in the street must be saluted (Aboth, iv, 
10). Not to respond to a salutation is characterized as 
committing a robbery (Berach. G b). An ordinary man 
is to be saluted with the words, “ Peace be with thee !” 
a teacher, “ Peace be with thee, my teacher and my mas- 
ter!” (Itashi on Berach. 27 b) ; and a king, “Peace be 
with thee, my king! peace!” (Git tin, G2 a). Salutations 
in the house of prayer are not allowed ( Derech Eretz, 10). 
One must rise before a learned man ( Kethuboth , 103 b), 
and before the hoary head, even if lie be a non-Israelite 
(Kiddush. 33 b). When three persons walk together, 
the superior is to walk in the middle (Erub. 54 b); the 
teacher must always be on the right of the pupil in 
walking ( Yoma , 37 a). One must not leave a friend 
without asking his permission ( Derech Eretz, 2); when 
leaving one’s teacher the disciple must say, “ I am dis- 
missed;” whereupon the response is, “ Depart in peace!” 

( Berach . G4 a). Never enter a house suddenly and with- 
out notice ( Kethuboth , G2 b) ; nor sit down before the 
superior has seated himself (Jerns. Kethuboth , 25); nor 
lean in the company of superiors (Derech Eretz , § vi). 
“Seven things are seen in the conduct of an educated 
man, and seven in the behavior of an uneducated per- 
son : 1. An educated man will be quiet in the presence 
of one more educated than himself; 2. Will not inter- 
rupt any one speaking; 3. Will not give a hasty reply ; 
4. Will ask appropriate questions; 5. Will give suitable 
answers; G. Will answer the first thing first, and the 
last thing last; and 7. Will candidly say when he does 
not know anything. The reverse of these things will 
be seen in the uneducated” (Aboth, v, 10). 

Another most essential part of education was the 
learning of a trade. Thus K. Gamaliel declares, “ learn- 
ing, no matter of what kind, if unaccompanied by a 
trade, ends in nothing and leads to sin” (Aboth, ii, 2). 
K. Judah ben-Ilai, called “the wise,” “the first orator,” 
had a trade, and used to say, “labor honors the laborer” 
(Nedarini, 40 b). K. Ismael, the great astronomer and 
poiverful opponent of Gamaliel II, was a needle-maker 
(Jerus. Berach. iv, 1); R. Jose ben-Chalaphta, of Sep- 
phoris, w r as a tanner (Sabbath, 49 b). These rabbins, 
like the apostle Paul, gloried in the fact that they could 
maintain themselves and teach independently of pay- 
ment, and hence took a pride in their respective trades, 
which were attached to their names, viz., rabbi Jocha- 
nan, the shoemaker; rabbi Simon, the weaver; rabbi 
Joseph, the carpenter. This will account for the appar- 
ent anomaly that the apostle Paul, a thorough student, 
should have been a tent-maker. 

Though female education was necessarily limited, ow- 
ing to the position which women occupied in the East, 
yet it must not be supposed that it w r as altogether neg- 
lected. The fact that mothers had to take part in the 
education of their children would of itself show that 
their own education must have been attended to. We 
are, however, not confined to this inference. The 31st 
chapter of Proverbs gives us a description of what w as 
the education of a woman and a house w r ife in the Old 
Test. In the Talmud we find the daughters of K. Sam- 
uel w’ere even first-rate students of the Ilalacha (Ketlin- 
loth, 23 a ; Jerus. ibid, ii, G). R. Jochanan ben-Xapucha 
not only urges the study of Greek as a necessary part 
of a man’s education, but recommends it also for w omen 
as a desirable accomplishment (Jerus. Sota , s. f.). To 
show the desirableness of uniting with Hebrew the 
study of Greek, this celebrated rabbi, in accordance with 
the ancient practice, illustrates it by a passage of Script- 
ure (Gen. ix, 23) : “ Because the two sons of Noah, Shem 
and Japheth, unitedly covered the nakedness of their 
father with one garment; Shem (representing the Jews) 
obtained the fringed garment, the Talith ; Japheth (rep- 
resenting the Greeks) got the philosopher’s garment, 
i. e. Pallium” which ought to be united again (Midrasli 
Rabbet [Gen. xxxvi]). Hence R. Abbalui w'as not only 
himself a consummate Greek scholar, but had his daugh- 
ter instructed in this classical language, since he regard- 
ed it as necessary to a good female education, and quot- 


SCIIOON MAKER 

ed R. Jochanan as an authority upon this subject (Je- 
rus. Sabbath, iii, 1 ; Sota, s. f.). 

Y. Literature. — The best works upon this subject are 
the Talmud and Mid rash im ; but as these are not gener- 
ally accessible, we mention the masterly w’orks of Zunz, 
Die gottesdienstlichen Yortrdge der Juden (Berlin, 1832); 
Frankel, Der gcrichtliche Beweis (ibid. 184G); Manats- 
schrift, i, 509, etc.; Wunderbar, Biblisch-talmudische 
Medicin (Riga and Leips. 1850-GO); Lewysohn, Die 
Zoologie des Talmuds (Frankfort-on-the-Main, 1858); 
Griitz, Geschichte der Juden, vols. iii and iv; Ben-Cha- 
nanja,\, 417,400,512; ii,G6,lG7,210,258; iii, 539; Eders- 
heim, History of the Jewish Nation, p. 297 sq. ; Schiirer, 
Lehrbuch der ncutcstanientlichen Zeii geschichte, p. 4GG sq. ; 
Hartmann, Die engc Verbindung des A. T. mit dem Xenen, 
p. 377-384; Gfrbrer, Jahrhundert des Beils, i, 15G-192; 
Van Gelder, Die Vol/csschule des judischen Altherihiuns 
nach talmudischcn nnd rabbinischen Quellen (Berl. 1872) ; 
Marcus, Zur S ch u l-Pada gogik des Talmud (ibid. 18GG). 

There are numerous monographs on the subject : 
Held, De Jud. Scholis (Norimb. 1GG4); Heubner, De 
Academiis Hebreeor. (Yitemb. 1703); Lund, De Scholls 
et Academiis lleb. (Upsal. 1707); Ueineccius, De Scholis 
Ilebr. (Weissenb. 1722) ; Sennert, De Scholis et J cademiis 
llebr. in his Jleptas Exercit. (Yitemb. 1G57) ; Sgambalo, 
De Acad. Jud. (Neap. 1703); Weisner, De Scholis et 
Academiis llebr. (lleidelb. 1782) ; Zorn, De Scholis Jud. 
(Sedin. 171G); and others cited by Volbeding, Index 
Program, p. 138. On the Schools of the Prophets: 
Ilernig, Von den Schulen d. Proph. (Bresl. 1777); Winck- 
ler, Vindicatio SchoUe Samuclis (Hildesh. 1754) ; Silber- 
rod, De Prophctarum Filiis (Jen. 1710). See Prophets, 
SCHOOLS OF. 

SCHOOLS, Parish. See Parish Schools. 

SCHOOLS, Singing. The high estimation in which 
singers w r ere held in the ancient Church appears from 
the institution of schools for iheir instruction and train- 
ing, and the great attention which w’as paid to these 
schools and their presidents. Such schools were estab- 
lished as early as the Gth century, and became common 
in various parts -of Europe, particularly in France and 
Germany. The most celebrated was that founded at 
Rome by Gregory the Great, which was the model of 
many others afterwards established. From these schools 
originated the famous Gregorian chant, a plain system 
of church music, which the choir and people sang in 
unison. The prior or principal of these schools was a 
man of considerable dignity and influence in the Church. 
The name of this officer at Rome w r as archicantor ecclc- 
sice Romance, and elsewhere primicerius (or prior) scholte 
cantorum. See Coleman, Christ. Antiq. p. 124; Riddle, 
Christ, A ntiq. p. 307. See Singing. 

Schoonmaker, Henricus, a (Dutch) Reformed 
minister, was born at Rochester, Ulster Co., N. Y., in 
1739. He was converted early in life under the minis- 
try of the Rev. Henricus Frelinghuysen, and studied 
theology' with the Rev. John II. Goetschius, who be- 
came his father-in-law. Dr. Schoonmaker w as one of 
the first ministers of the Reformed Church who were 
licensed by the ccctus, independently of the Church in 
Holland. He was called immediately (17G3) to the 
churches of Poughkeepsie and Fishkill. When the 
ministers arrived to ordain him, they found the church 
doors barred against them by the Conference party, 
and the service was conducted under the shade of a 
large tree in a wagon, in which upon his knees the can- 
didate took his vow’s in presence of a large congrega- 
tion. A ministry thus begun was not likely to be fruit- 
less. II is labors were greatly blessed, notwithstanding 
the opposition to which he was constantly exposed. In 
1774 he removed to Acquackanonck (now Passaic), 
N. J., and subsequently gave a portion of his services to 
the neighboring church of Toteroo (now r Paterson). In 
181 G he resigned bis charge, and died in 1820, having 
survived nearly all of his contemporaries. Ilis grateful 
people continued his salary for life. He w as the last 


SCHOONMAKER 


43G 


SCHOTTIN 


but one of the old Dutch clergy who preached only in 
the language of Holland. Dr. Livingston pronounced 
him the most eloquent preacher in that tongue whom he 
had ever heard in this country. He was always popu- 
lar in the pulpit, and his style was nervous, eloquent, 
and powerful. His life was blameless, and his minis- 
try of over, half a century was full of good fruits. See 
Sprague, A muds of the A mer. Pulpit ; Kip, Historical 
Discourse . (W. J. R. T.) 

Schoonmaker, Jacob, D.D., a son of the fore- 
going, was born May 11, 1777, at Acquackanonck (now 
Passaic), N. J. He graduated at Columbia College in 
1799, and pursued his theological studies under Drs. 
Solomon Frocligh and John II. Livingston. He was 
licensed in 1801, and the next year became the pastor 
of the united churches of Jamaica and Newtown, L. I. 
This associate relation lasted until 1849, when the 
Newtown church became independent. He remained 
pastor at Jamaica one year longer, when on Aug. 6, 
1850, he preached his farewell sermon, and then retired 
from the active ministry on account of age and infirmi- 
ties. He died April 10, 1852, finishing his course with 
joy. Dr. Schoonmaker was a large, portly man, with 
a very benevolent countenance and a sweet savor of 
cheerful piety in his whole aspect and demeanor, lie 
was dignified, courteous, discreet — a faithful preacher, a 
devoted pastor, a sound evangelical theologian of the 
Calvinistic school — an active supporter of the educa- 
tional institutions and benevolent agencies of the Church, 
and a workman who needed not to be ashamed. lie 
was a father among his people, and, while cherishing the 
most profound attachment to his own Church, was truly 
catholic in feeling towards all who love Christ. See 
Sprague, A nnals of the A mer. Pulpit , vol. i x. (W. J. R. T.) 

Schoonmaker, Martinus, a minister of the 
(Dutch) Reformed Church, was born at Rochester, 
Ulster Co., N. Y., in 1737. He studied under Goetsehius 
and Marinus, and was licensed to preach in 1765. His 
ministry was spent on Long Island, embracing the 
churches of Brooklyn, Flatbush, New Utrecht, Flat- 
lands, Bushwiclc, and Gravesend. From 1765 to 1783 
Ilarlem was also included in his extensive bishopric. 
All of these have long been separate and important 
churches, llis labors were necessarily very arduous, 
but he bore them with untiring zeal and energy down 
to his old age, which was so vigorous that at fourscore 
his sight, hearing, and other faculties were as perfect as 
in former years. He was universally beloved and re- 
vered, without an enemy, and yet living in troublous 
times, lie resided at Flatbush, while the care of all the 
churches of Kings County came upon him daily. Dur- 
ing the Revolutionary war he was an ardent patriot, 
and it is related that on his personal word and state- 
ment he secured from the Congress in session at Harlem 
the release of a person who was suspected and impris- 
oned as a Tory, lie preached only in the Holland lan- 
guage. II is memory is held in high esteem as one of 
the fathers of the Church and a relic of the old race of 
venerable Dutch dominies, lie died in 1824. See Cor- 
win, Munual of the Reformed Church . (\V. J. R. T.) 

Schopf, Joseph W., a Lutheran theologian, was 
born at Chemnitz, April 12, 1793, and died July 15, 1831, 
at Dresden. 1 le published, Die symbolischen Bucher der 
evangelisch-lutherischcn Kirchc , deutsch mit A nmerlcunf/cn 
und ErkUirimgen, etc. (Leips. 1828,2 vols.) : — Die Wider- 
leyuny der angsburgischen Confession, etc. (ibid. 1830): 
— Der GeistUche und unsere Zcit (Dresden, 1831). See 
Zuchold, Bibliotheca Theol. ii, 1173; Winer, Ilandbuch 
der theolog. Literal ur. (B. 1\) 

Schotanus, Christian, a Dutch savant and his- 
torian, was born at Sell eng, near Franeker, Aug. 16, 
1603. lie entered the Church, and in 1627 was pastor 
in his native village. He remained there till 1629, 
when he removed toCornjnm, where he spent ten years. 
At the end of that time he became professor of Greek in 
the Academy of Franeker, and subsequently added ec- 


clesiastical history to his other labors. His death, which 
occurred Nov, 12, 1671, was caused by extreme cold and 
exposure. His principal works are, Notce ad Evangelia 
et Epistolas (Leeuwarden, 1647, 12mo): — Catechesis 
(Franeker, 1653): — Collegium M iscellaneorum Theolo - 
gicorum (ibid. 1654, 12mo) : — Beschryvingvan Friesland 
(Leeuwarden, 1656-64, with plates and maps): — Biblio- 
theca Ilistorice Sacrce V. T. (Franeker, 1662-64, 2 vols. 
fol.) : — Ilectas Disputationum Theologicarum (ibid. 1664, 
4to): — and an Ecclesiastical and Civil History of Fries- 
land (down to 1558). — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Gene rale, s. v. 

Schott, Christian Heinrich, a German doctor 
of philosophy, was born at Schneeberg in 1803, and died 
May 1, 1840, at Boritz, near Meissen, where he had been 
pastor since 1 830. lie published, Biblische Handconcor - 
danz (Leips. 3827): — Ziige ans deni Leben der Christen 
der drei ersten Jahrhunderte (ibid. 1829) : — Das Leben 
unseres Ilerrn u. Heilandes Jesa Christi (ibid. 1830) : — 
Geschichte der deutschen Bibcliibersetzung Martin Luthers 
(ibid. 1835). See Zuchold, Bibliotheca Theol. ii, 1174 sq.; 
Winer, Ilandbuch der theol. Literatur, i, 764. (B.P.) 

Schott, Heinrich August, an eminent German 
theologian of the so-called superna^uralist school, was 
born at Leipsic, Dec. 5, 1780, and died Dec. 29, 1835. 
He began his university studies at the age of sixteen, 
and was soon distinguished for his fine Latin style and 
for his progress in theology. Among his teachers at 
Leipsic were Beck, Platner, Cams, and Keil. In 1801 
he began to give lectures, and in 1803 he became one of 
the university preachers, llis edition of the works of 
Dionysius of Halicarnassus (1804) gave him a place in 
the world of learning; still more so his edition of the 
New Testament with Latin translation (Leips. 1S05). In 
1809 he became professor of theology at Wittenberg, 
and lectured with great success on dogmatics, herme- 
neutics, and sacred eloquence, llis Epitome Theologue 
Christianas (1811) was an able work, but its usefulness 
was diminished by its complicated style. In 1812 he 
went to Jena, and there spent the rest of his fruitful 
life. The nucleus of a preachers' seminary which he 
there formed was richly endowed in 1817. llis lectures 
were delivered in Latin. llis work on eloquence, Die 
Theorie der Beredtsamkeit (Leips. 1815; 2d ed. 1828), 
is his best title to lasting fame; but his Isagoge His - 
torico-critica in Libros Novi Foederis Sacros (Jen. 1830) 
is abundant in erudition, and still deserves study. In 
character Schott was upright, simple, and deeply pious, 
llis motto expressed his life — “proving, believing, dili- 
gent.” He was a scholar and a theologian of the noblest 
type. He died in 1835. See his Life by Danz (Leips. 
1836); Herzog, Real-Encyklop. xiii, 698-701. (J. P. L.) 

Schott, Leopold, a German rabbi, was born at 
Randegg, Baden, June 27, 1807. Having finished his 
rabbinical studies at 1 lech ingen and Carlsruhe, in 1829 
he went to Heidelberg to attend the lectures at the uni- 
versity, at the same time pursuing his rabbinical stud- 
ies with Salomon F first. In 1831, after having passed 
his examination, he was appointed religious instructor 
in his native place. In 1833 he was appointed for the 
rabbinate of his native city. He died Jan. 20, 1869, at 
Buhl, Baden. lie contributed a number of essays to the 
Zeitung des Judenthums and the Orient, and published a 
number of Sermons. See Ffirst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 286 ; Ivay- 
serling, Bibliothek jiid. Kanzelredner, ii, 293 sq. (B. P.) 

Sckottin, Joiiann D. Fr., Dr., a German preacher, 
was born Jan. 4, 17S9, at Ileigendorf, in Weimar. He 
belonged to a Huguenot family, whose name was orig- 
inally Chaudien . which the father of Johann D. Fr. 
changed into Scliottin. Having completed his studies 
at Jena, he was in 1814 appointed pastor at Kbstritz, in 
Renss, where he remained till his end, May 16, 1860. 
lie was an excellent pulpit orator, but the many calls 
which he received from Hamburg, Bremen, and Jena he 
refused. He is best known as one of the most recent Ger- 
man hymn-writers. Besides, he published a number of 
devotional works. See Zuchold, Bibliotheca Theol. iii, 


SCHRADEI 


437 


SCIIROCKH 


1 17G ; Literarischer Ilandweiser , , 1866, p. 309; Koch, 
Geschichte des deutsclien Kirchenliedes , vii, 75. (B. P.) 

Schrader, Clemens, a Roman Catholic divine, 
was born in 1820 at Itzum, in Hanover. He studied 
philosophy and theology at the Collegium Germanicum 
in Rome. In 1843 he was made doctor of philosophy, 
in 1846 he received holy orders, and in 1848 he was 
made doctor of theology. In 1850 he was appointed 
professor of dogmatics in Louvain ; in 1851 he was called 
to Rome as professor of introduction to the New Test., 
where he afterwards also lectured on dogmatics; and 
in 1857 he was called to the Vienna University. This 
office he was obliged to resign, as he would not subscribe 
in 1868 to the new laws of the state. Since then he 
lived mostly in France, and died at Poitiers Feb. 23, 
1875. He wrote Theses Theological and De Unitate Ec- 
clesice. In popular writings he explained the Syllabus, 
etc. See Literarischer Ilandweiser , 1875, p. 158. (B. P.) 

Schrader, Johann Heinrich Ludolf, a Re- 
formed minister of Germany, was born July 12, 1800, at 
Gifhorn, in Liineburg, and died at Frankfort -on -the - 
Main Jan. 11, 1875, where he had been pastor since 1830. 
He published a number of Sermons. See Zuehold, Bill, 
TheoL ii, 1177 sq. ; Winer, Ilandbuch der theol. Literatur, 
p. 765 ; Theologisches Jahrbuch, 1876, p. 365. (B. P.) 

Schramm, Johann Conrad, doctor and pro- 
fessor of theology at Ilelmstiidt, where he died Feb. 25, 
1739, is the author of, De Usu et Abusu Originum Lin- 
gual Sanctce (Helmstadt, 1707) ; — Programma, quo Prea- 
liminaria Disputaiionum cum Judccis Traduntur (ibid. 
1718 ): — Disputatio de Mysteriis Veterum Judceorum 
Pkilosophicis (ibid. 1708 ): — Prolusio de Poesi Ilebreao- 
rum in Codice Sacro (ibid. 1723): — Introductio in Dia - 
lecticam Cabbaleorum , etc. ( Brunswick, 1703 ) : — Dis- 
putatio de Symboli Apostolici in Talmude Ruderibus 
(Helmstadt, 1706): — Program, de Lectione , Preacipuo 
Ling . Ilcbr. A djumento (ibid. 1708). See Fiirst, Bill. 
Jud. iii, 287 ; Steinschneider, Bibliogr. Ilandbuch , p. 
128; Winer, Ilandbuch der theol. Literatur, p. 765; sup- 
plement, p. 300. (B. P.) 

Schramm, Johann Heinrich, doctor and pro- 
fessor of theology, was born March 20, 1676, at Gerk- 
hausen. In 1701 he was appointed professor of elocu- 
tion, history, and Greek at Herborn; in 1707 he was 
made member of consistory and preacher at Dillenburg; 
in 1709 he was appointed professor of theology at Her- 
born; in 1721 he was called to Marburg, and in 1723 to 
Herborn, where he died, Jan. 20, 1753. He wrote, Dis- 
sertatio Inaug. ele Manipulo Ilordeaceo , cujus Oblatione 
Messem suam Auspicabantur Judeai ejusque Mysterio 
(Frankf. a. 0. 1706 ) : — Dissertatio de Ilolocaustis Judee - 
orumet Gentilium Kofco£;j\ia (Herborn ): — Dissertatio de 
Mysterio Ilolocaustorum (ibid .) : — Dissertatio de Bestia 
Arundineti ad Psa. Ixviii, 31 (ibid. 1713 ): — Dissertatio 
de Vigilibus Veterum (ibid.); etc. See Fiirst, Bibl. 
Jud. iii, 287 sq. ; Winer, Ilandbuch der theol . Literatur , 
p. 765. (B. P.) 

Schreck, William, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born near Osnabriick, Lower 
Prussia, about 1816. Emigrating to this country, he 
united with the Church, and was received into the In- 
diana Conference. He was afterwards a member of the 
South-west German Conference. He labored as an itin- 
erant minister for thirty-two years, and died on Herman 
Circuit, 111.,, March 30, 1874. He was a pious, liberal, 
energetic man, serving the Church with holy consecra- 
tion . — Minutes of A nnued Conferences, 1874, p. 88. 

Schreiber, Heinricii, a Roman Catholic divine of 
Germany, was bom July 14, 1793, at Freiburg, in Breis- 
gau, where he also completed his studies. In 1816 he 
received holy orders, in 1822 he was made president of 
the gymnasium, and in 1S26 he was appointed professor 
of moral theology at the university there. In 1831-34 
he published his Manual of Moral Theology (2 vols.), 
in which he protested against a life-long vow and celi- 


bacy. The archbishop was ordered to make him prom- 
ise to keep such views in future to himself, but against 
such a promise Schreiber publicly protested. He was 
obliged to resign his theological chair, but was given a 
chair in the philosophical faculty, until, in 1845, he had 
to resign this position also on account of his joining the 
German Catholic movement, and died Nov. 20, 1873. 
His most important work is his Ausfiihrliche Geschichte 
der Staelt and Universitdt Freiburg (1857-60, 7 vols.). 
He also wrote Der deutsche Bauernkrieg (Freiburg, 1 863— 
66,3 vols.); etc. See Theologisches Fniversal-Lexikon , 
s. v.; Literarischer Ilandweiser , 1873, p. 17; Winer, 
Ilandbuch der tlieologischen Literatur , i, 286, 484 ; ii, 765 ; 
Zuehold, Bibliotheca Theol. iii, 1179. (B. P.) 

Schrockh, Joiiann Matthias, a Protestant theo- 
logian of Germany of eminent culture and extended 
usefulness in the department of historical learning, was 
born at Vienna July 26, 1733, and was early destined for 
the pulpit. His education was obtained chiefly at the 
Lutheran Gymnasium of Presbnrg, the Steinmetz School 
at Klosterbergen, near Magdeburg, and the University 
of Gottingen. Mosheim and J. D. Michaelis were then 
in the faculty of the latter institution, and their influ- 
ence over Schrockh was such that his attention became 
predominantly fixed on history and the Oriental lan- 
guages, and he was led to form habits of independent 
research, and to cultivate an attractive historical style — 
qualities which adhered to him through life. After his 
graduation, he was associated with an uncle, Prof. Karl 
A. Bell, of Leipsic, in editing several learned periodi- 
cals; but he also found time to perfect his knowledge 
of Greek and Roman antiquities under the tuition of 
professors Christ and Ernesti. In 1756 he received the 
master’s degree, and became a tutor in the university, 
and subsequently custodian of the library, and in 1761 
he was made professor extraordinary. The uncertainty 
of further preferment in the University of Leipsic, and 
the unsatisfactory income which he derived from lite- 
rary labors, now decided him to accept a call to the 
chair of poetry in the University of Wittenberg, which 
he held until 1775, when he was transferred to the chair 
of history, in the duties of which station he spent the 
remainder of his life. He projected a three years’ 
course, in which he was accustomed to traverse not only 
the history of literature, the Church, the Reformation, 
theology, and Christian antiquities, but also that of Eu- 
ropean states, Germany and Saxony in particular, and 
also of diplomacy; and, in addition to these labors, he 
issued numerous reviews, editions of works written by 
his friends, and independent works of more or less im- 
portance. His fidelity to his work was acknowledged 
by the government at Dresden, who transmitted to him 
a testimonial in writing and an honorary donation, to- 
gether with the offer of a titular patent as councillor of 
state, which latter he declined. He was married to 
Frederica Pitzsehig, by whom he had four children, all 
of whom died in early childhood ; and he died Aug. 2, 
1808, in consequence of a fall experienced in his library, 
on the seventy-fifth anniversary of his birth. 

As a writer of history, Schrockh was thoroughly qual- 
ified by his learning, impartial love of truth and devo- 
tion to morality, untiring industry in the work of col- 
lection and research, and the clearness, simplicity, and 
logic of his style. He was deficient in the critical ap- 
prehension and philosophical penetration needed to dis- 
cover the internal connection of events; and his style, 
as a whole, lacks the picturesque coloring and preg- 
nancy of meaning which characterize a classical writer. 
He was not a master in the art of descriptive writing, 
but, nevertheless, a meritorious and successful author. 
His works were numerous, but have been superseded 
by more complete and thorough books of later origin. 
They include biographies of learned men, and of oth- 
er persons eminent in the history of the world ; text- 
books and manuals of history, and other similar works, 
none of which possess permanent value. The IHs- 
toria Religionis et Ecclesiea Christiania in Usum Lee- 


SCIIR0DE1 


438 


SCHUDT 


tionum , published in a seventh edition by Marheinecke 
in 1828, is noticeable chiefly because of its wealth of 
material, its judicious references to sources and helps, 
the systematic arrangement of its contents, and its ex- 
cellent Latin. The great work of his life, beyond ques- 
tion, is the Ausjuhrliche Geschichte der christlichen 
Kirche , in 45 vols., the last two of which were completed 
by Prof. Tzsehirner after the author’s death. The work 
covers eighteen centuries of the Christian Church, and 
is characterized by impartiality and completeness to a 
remarkable degree. No work has yet appeared which 
combines so great magnitude with so many advantages 
as does that of Schrockh, though the earlier volumes, 
being intended simply to furnish a comprehensive course 
of reading in Church history, leave much to be desired 
on the part of cultured readers. 

See an article by Schrockh in It. Ct. Bayer’s All- 
gem. Magazin fiir Prediger , etc., vol. v, No. 2, p. 209- 
222; Poiitz, J. M. Schrockh' s Nekrolog (Wittenberg, 
1808); and notices respecting the life of Schrockh con- 
tributed to the Allgem . Zeitung , 1808, Nos. 247 and 248, 
p. 9S5-9S9. A faithful and instructive delineation is 
given by his friend lv. L, Nitzsch in J. M. *S 'chrockh's 
Studienweise u. Maximen (Weimar, 1809). H. G. Tzschir- 
ncr’s J. M, Schrockh' s Leben, Karakter , u. Schriften was 
prefixed to pt. x of Schrockh’s Ktrchengesch ichte seit 
der Reformation , and has also been published separately 
since 1812, with portrait. A complete list of Schrbckh’s 
works is given in Menscl's Gelehrtes Deutschland , viii, 
314 sq. ; x, 627, and xv, 381. See also Wiihler, Gesch. 
d. hist. Forschung u. Kunst , vol. ii, pt. ii, p. 813 sq. ; 
Staudlin, Gesch. a. Lit. d. Ktrchengesch. (Hanover, 1827) ; 
Baur, Epochen d. christl. Kirchengesch.-Schreibung (Tiib. 
1852). — Herzog, Real-Encgklop. s. v. 

Schroder, Friedrich Wilhelm Julius, a Re- 
formed theologian of Germany, who died Feb. 27, 1876, 
at Elberfeld, where he had succeeded the celebrated 
Ivrummacher as pastor of the First Reformed Church, 
is the author of a Commentary on Genesis (Berlin, 1844) : 
— Yesperkldnge (ibid. 1846, 2 vols.): — a Commentary on 
Deuteronomy (prepared for Lange’s Bible-work [Elbcr- 
feld, 18GGJ): — a Commentary on Ezekiel (also prepared 
for Langes work). Besides, he published a number of 
Essays, Sermons, etc. See Zuchold, Bibl. Theol. ii, 11S2 
sq. ; Theol. Jahrbueh , 1S77, p. 228. (B. P.) 

Schroder, Johann Heinrich, a Lutheran min- 
ister of Germany, was born in 1666 at Ilallerspringe, in 
the principality of Calenberg, in Hanover. He was a 
pupil of the celebrated philanthropist A. II. Francke, 
and studied under him at Leipsic. In 1696 he became 
pastor at Merseburg, near Magdeburg. He wrote a few 
hymns which arc still in use in the German Church, 
and died June 30, 1G99. Of his hymns we mention, 
Kins ist Noth , ach Jlerr dies Fine (transl. by E. Cox, 
“One thing needful, then, Lord Jesus,” in Hymns from 
the German, p. 2IG) : — Jesu, hilf siegen, du Fiirst des Lc- 
bens (transl. by Mills, “Jesus, help conquer! thou Frince 
overliving,” in Hone Ger maniac, p. 126). Sec Har- 
nisch, in Evangel. Kirchenzeitung, 1857, No. 89; Koch, 
Gesch. d. deutsch. Kirchenliedes, iv, 3S1 sq.; viii, 42G sq. ; 
Knapp, Evangel. Liederschatz, p. 1314. (B. P.) 

Schroder, Nicolaus Wilhelm, professor of 
Oriental languages and antiquities at Groningen, was 
born at Marburg, Aug. 22, 1721, and died May 30, 1798. 
lie is known as the author of Comment. Philologico- 
criticusde Vest it u Mulierum Ebrtearum adJes. Hi. 10-24 
(Leyden, 1745). lie also published a number of treatises 
bearing on Oriental languages and certain sections of 
the Bible, as De Confusione Sermonis Babelica: — De 
Voto Jephtce : — De Tabernaculo Moloch i et Stella Dei 
Remphan , etc. See Fiirst, Bibl. Jttd. iii, 291 ; Stein- 
schneider, Bibliog. Hamlbnch, p. 128; Winer, Ilandbucli 
der theol. Literatur. (B. P.) 

Schubart, Christian Friedrich Daniel, a Lu- 
theran divine of Germany, was born at Obersontheim, 
in the county of Limburg, March 26, 1736, and died as 


court and theatre poet at Stuttgart, Oct. 10, 1791. He 
is the author of the beautiful hymn A lies ist euer ! O 
Woi'te des ewigen Lebens (transl. into English in Hymns 
from the Land of Luther, p. 61, “All things are jours, 
O sweet message of mercy divine”), and of Kommt heut' 
an eurem Stab (based on Luke ii, 22-32, which Mills 
translated in his Horen Germanica ?, p. 275, “Ye who 
with years are sinking”). See Schubart, Gesammclte 
Schriflen (Stuttgart, 1839-40), vol. i— viii ; Strauss, Schit- 
barts Leben in seinen Brief en (Berlin, 1849, 2 vols.); 
Koch, Gesch. d. deutsch. Kirchenliedes, vi, 376 sq. ; Knapp, 
Evangel. Liederschatz, p. 1344. (B. P.) 

Schubert, Gottlieb Heinrich von, a German 
philosopher and mystic, who for more than half a cen- 
turj r exerted a very extended and beneficent popular 
influence in almost every field of thought, was born in 
Saxony, April 26, 1780. His parents were pious and pe- 
culiar. In his fifth year he learned from his mother such 
a lesson on the death of Christ as remained a benedic- 
tion to him to his latest hour, lie studied at Greiz and 
Weimar, and at the latter place was taken into the house 
of Herder. lie also came into contact with Goethe and 
Jean Paul. In 1799 he began to study theology at Leip- 
sic, but in 1801 lie changed theology for medicine, and 
went to Jena. Here he came under the personal and 
scientific influence of Schelling — an influence that lasted 
during life — as also under that of the naturalist William 
Bitter. In 1803 he married, and began the practice of 
medicine at Altenbnrg, supplementing his scanty fees by 
private lessons and other makeshifts. Here he wrote a 
romance, T)ie Kirche und die Goiter. In 1805 he re- 
moved to Freiburg, where he began his great work Ahn- 
dnngen einer allgemeinen Geschichte des Lebens, in which 
he endeavored to reduce to uniform laws the whole field 
of nature and humanity. Schelling applauded, but manj r 
shook their heads in doubt. In 1807 he went to Dres- 
den and gave some public lectures, from which arose his 
strange and able work Ansichten von der Nachtseite der 
Naturwissenschaft. In 1809, by the help of Schelling, he 
was made rector of a scientific school at Nuremberg. Here 
he wrote his Symbolik des Traumes, also A lies und Neues 
aus dem Gebiet der inneren Seelenkunde (1815). This last 
work made a great sensation, and occasioned congratu- 
lations from Harms and Neander. Works in the same 
warmly religious vein are, Erzahlungen (4 vols.) ; — Bi- 
ograplnen und Erzahlungen (3 vols.) : — and Der Enverb 
(an autobiography, 3 vols.). His last work was Erin- 
nerungen an die Ilerzogin Ilelene von Orleans. Schubert 
left Nuremberg in 1816; in 1819 he became professor at 
Erlangen; in 1827 he went to the new University of 
Munich. His latter years were passed in peace and af- 
fluence. He died July 1, 1860. See Evangel. Kirchen- 
zeitung, 1860, No. 62 ; Herzog, Real-Encgklop. (J. P. L.) 

Schuderoff, Joiiann Georg Jonathan, a Ger- 
man Protestant minister, was born in 1766 at Gotha. 
In 1790 he was appointed minister at Drakendorf, near 
Jena; in 1797 subdeacon at Altenburg; in 1805 arch- 
deacon; in 1806 first pastor and superintendent at Ron- 
neburg, and in 1824 member of consistory. In 1836 he 
retired from the ministry, and died in 1843. He wrote: 
Ueber allgemeine Union der christl. Bekenntnisse (Neu- 
stadt, 1829): — Symboloklasmus oder Symbolatrie ? (ibid. 
1831) : — Ueber Consistorialverfassvng in der deutsch -pro- 
testantischen Kirche (ibid. 1831): — Glaube it. Vermmft in 
ihren 1 * erzweigungcn (ibid. 1843), etc. See Zuchold, Bibl. 
Theol. ii, 1188; Regensburgcr Real-Encyklop. s. v. (B. P.) 

Schudt, Johann Jakob, a German Jewish writer, 
was bom Jan. 14, 1664, at Frankfort -on -the -Main, 
where he also died, Feb. 14, 1722, as the rector of the 
gymnasium. Schudt is well known as the author of 
the Memorabilia Judaica, or Jiidisclie Merkwiirdigkei - 
ten (Frankf. 1714-17,4 pts.). This may be regarded 
as the most important of his works, which are enumer- 
ated by Fiirst in his Bibl. Jud. iii, 292 sq. Sec also 
Steinschneider, Bibliog. Handbuch, s. v. ; Winer, Jland- 
buch der theol. Literatur. (B. P.) 


SCHULTENS 


439 


SCIIULTIiESS 


Schultens, Albert, an eminent Dutch Oriental- 
ist, the father of modern Hebrew grammar, was born 
at Groningen, 1686, and early destined to a theological 
career. lie studied the original languages of the Bible — 
Chaldee, Syriac, and Rabbinic — and after a time Arabic. 
The earliest fruit of these studies was a public disputa- 
tion with Gussetius, at the age of eighteen, in which 
he maintained that the study of Arabic is indispensa- 
bly necessary to a knowledge of Hebrew. After com- 
pleting his studies, he visited Leyden and Utrecht, and 
became acquainted with Reland, through whom he 
published his first book, Animadv. rhilulog. in Jobum 
(Utreeht, 1708, 8vo). Having returned to his home, he 
became candidate in theology, and in the following year 
(July 4, 1709) received the degree of doctor in that 
science. He then returned to Leyden to make use of 
its library. In 1711 he assumed the pastorate of the 
Church at Wassenaer, but exchanged that post after 
two years for the chair of Oriental languages in the 
Academy of Franeker. In 1729 he was placed in charge 
of the Leyden Theological Seminary and made custodian 
of the Warner MSS. He served three years, doing the 
work of a professor without enjoying the title or re- 
ceiving any renumeration, after which period a chair 
of Arabic was specially created for him, with which the 
additional professorship of Hebrew antiquities was con- 
nected in 1740. lie held these positions without in- 
terruption to the time of his death, Jan. 26, 1750. 

The services w hi eh Schultens rendered to philological 
science are of great value. He was the first to overturn 
the notion that Hebrew is the original language given 
to man by God, by showing that that tongue is simply 
a branch of the Shemitic family, and finds an essential 
and indispensable aid in the comparison of the Arabic. 
Besides defending this position in his early disputation 
with Gussetius, he enforced its claims in the work Origi- 
nes Hebreece. This opened a new path to Hebrew gram- 
mar and Biblical exegesis, and also contributed materi- 
ally to the advancement of the study of Oriental lan- 
guages and the attainment of its subsequent indepen- 
dent position. Numerous pupils helped to spread the 
knowledge of his views and methods, and founded the 
Dutch school of grammar and exegesis. The faults of 
Schultens are too great readiness in the tracing of anal- 
ogies and the forming of combinations, and a lack of 
thorough criticism in the application of the Arabic. 

Of the writings of Schultens, aside from the purely 
Arabic — such as editions of the Rudimenta (1733) and the 
Grammaticu (1748) of Erpenius: — Vita Saladini (Lugd. 
Bat. 1733, fol.): — Monnm. Vetustiora Arab. (Levd. 1740, 
4to) : — J/istoria Joctinidarum (Harderov. 1786, 4to) — we 
mention those which have reference to Hebrew gram- 
mar and Biblical literature: Origines Ilebrecce, etc. (Fran- 
eker, 1734-38, 2 vols. 4to), and a preliminary work, l)e 
Defectibus Ilodiernce Lingurn Ilebr. (ibid. 1731, 4to; new 
ed. of both works, Leyd. 1761, 2 vols. 4to): — Instituti- 
ones ad Fundam . Linguae, Ilebr., etc. (Leyd. 1737, 1756, 
4to): — Vetus et Regia Via Ilebraizandi, etc. (Lugd. 
1738), a rejoinder to his opponents, which he carries 
further in Excursus Primus ad Caput Priinum Vue Ve- 
ter is et Regia: Ilebraizandi, etc., and Excursus Secundus 
and Tertius (Leyd. 1739, 4to) : — Institutiones Arameeee 
(Lugd. Bat. 1745-49), a work containing a Chaldee and 
Syriac grammar, without preface or other guide to in- 
quiry, and probably interrupted by the author’s death, 
as it is broken oft' in the middle. Of his exegeticai 
works the chief are, Liber Jobi , Nova Versione ad 
Ilebr. Fontem et Comment., etc. (Lugd. Bat. 1737, 2 vols. 
4 to) : — Proverbia Sulomonis, etc. (ibid. 1748, 4to), an 
abridgment of which was published by G.J.L. Vogel 
(Halle, 1769, 8vo). Ten separately printed disserta- 
tions and addresses were published by his son in Opera 
Minora , etc. (Ludg. 1769, 4to), and also a number of 
dissertations read before him by his pupils, in Sglloge 
Biss. Pkilolog.-exegei. (Lei doe et Leovard. pars i, 1772; 
pars ii, 1775, 4to). Schultens left also several commen- 
taries and a Hebrew lexicon in MS. See Yriemoet, 


Elogium Schultensii , in A thence Frisiacce, p. 762-771. — 
Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Schultens, Heinrich Albert, an Orientalist, the 
son of Johann Jacob, and grandson of Albert Schultens 
(q. v.), was born at llerborn, Central Germany, Feb. 15, 
1749. He began the study of Greek and Latin, under the 
direction of the most celebrated instructors of Leyden, at 
the age of seven years, and followed it with that ofOrien- 
tal languages and antiquities. He also became acquaint- 
ed with the English, French, and German among modern 
tongues. In 1772 he visited England to make use of 
the Bodleian Library; and on his return, though not yet 
twenty-four years of age, was made professor of Oriental 
languages in the Academy of Amsterdam, and in 1782 
he was inducted into the chair previously occupied by 
his father and grandfather. His literary labors were 
expended chiefly on Arabic authors, and the continued 
effort required to prepare the Proverbs of Meidani un- 
dermined his health. lie died of a slow fever, Aug. 12, 
1793. Everard Scheid, his friend and successor, deliv- 
ered his eulogium. For his life, comp. Series Continu - 
ata IListor. Batav. per Wagenaer, pars i, p. 364-380; 
also the unimportant sketch by Rink, II. A. Schultens, 
etc. (Riga, 1794, 8vo). — Herzog, Real-Encykloj). s. v. 

Schultens, Johann Jacob, a theologian and 
Orientalist, the son of Albert Schultens (q. v.), was born 
at Franeker, in the Netherlands, in 1716, educated under 
the eye of his father, and appointed professor of theology 
and Oriental languages in the Academy of Herborn in 
1742. He held that post during seven years, was then 
transferred to the Academy of Leyden, and five months 
afterwards became the successor of his father in the the- 
ological seminary. lie died in 1778. The only writings 
published by him were his inaugurals, Dissert.de Utilitate 
Dialect, ad tuendam Integritatem Codicis Ilebr , ( Leyd. 
1742) (also in the Syllog. Dissertat. p.231-439; see lit. art. 
“Albert Schultens”):— De Fruct.in Theol.Redunt antibus 
ex Peritiore Linguarum Orient. Cognitione (ibid. 1749) : 
— Dissert. Theol.Inaug.ad Locum A postoli Philipp. cap. 
ii, v. 5-11 {Syllog. Dissertat. p.443-518), and some new 
editions of single works written by his father. — Her- 
zog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Schultetus. See Scultetus. 

Sckulthess, Johannes, Dr., the Swiss compeer 
of Paulus and Rohr in the advocacy of the older ra- 
tionalism, was born Sept. 28, 1763, and received a pre- 
dominantly philological training. His earliest labors 
were expended in behalf of reforms in the public schools 
(see Schweizer Schulfreund, 1812, etc.). His Kinder - 
bibel des cdten Testaments and his Schweizer Kinder- 
freund were highly esteemed as text-books. He be- 
came a professor of the Zurich gymnasium, and preb- 
endary in 1816, and from that time devoted himself 
to the department of New-Test, exegesis. He endeav- 
ored to ground his rationalism on the Bible itself, even 
at the cost of violence to the text. In 1824 he pub- 
lished a commentary on the Epistle of St. James, and in 
1822 he gave to the world his dogmatical views, in a 
pamphlet entitled Rationalism, u. Supranaturalism. Ka - 
non, Tradition u. Scription, a work in which Orelli par- 
ticipated. His Revision d. Hr chi. Lehrbegriffs (1823-26) 
served a similar purpose. From 1826 to 1830 he edited 
the Annalen founded by Wachler, Schwarz at Heidel- 
berg at the same time publishing a periodical in the 
interests of his peculiar theological views. In the re- 
vived conflict (1820 sq.) respecting the Lord’s supper 
between the Lutheran and Reformed churches, he gave 
himself out as the defender of true Zwinglianism (comp, 
his Evangel. Lehre vom heil. Abendmahl [Leips. 1824]). 
He likewise felt himself called to resist the movements 
of his time towards ultramontanism, but no less all 
tendencies towards “mysticism and pietism.” He had, 
in short, a thoroughly polemical nature, which involved 
him in controversies with all who would not adopt his 
frequently venturesome hypotheses, rationalists no less 
than orthodox theologians; but in the privacy of social 


SCHULTING 


440 


SCHULZE 


intercourse he displayed, especially in his later years, 
a friendly, genial spirit, in which nothing of the con- 
troversialist was apparent. He also combined with his 
rationalism a simple piety whose centre was a firm faith 
in the all-controlling goodness of God. After the Uni- 
versity of Zurich had been founded, in 183S, Sehulthess 
became ordinary professor in that institution, lie had 
received the degree of doctor in theology from Jena, 
Nov., 1817. He died Nov. 10, 1836, leaving, as his most 
important legacy to theological science, an edition of the 
works of Zwingli which he had published in connection 
with Schuler. The clergymen trained by him gener- 
ally entered into different paths from those in which 
he walked — the older ones through the influence of 
Schleiermacher, and the younger under the gnidance 
of Nitzsch, Tholuck, Jul. Muller, etc. The most trust- 
worthy souree for his biography is the Denkschrift zur 
kundertjahr. Jubelfeier d. Sehulthess. Familienfonds , etc., 
by his son Johann (Zurich, 1859). — Herzog, Real-En - 
cyklop . s. v. 

Scliulting, Cornelius, a learned Dutch ecclesi- 
astic, was born at Steenwyk, Overyssel, about 1540. 
Ilis family was distinguished and honorable. After 
studying at Cologne, he took the ecclesiastical habit, 
taught philosophy in the college at Laurentianum, and 
afterwards became its principal. He had charge of the 
faculty of arts at Cologne, and was canon of the cathe- 
dral. He died April 23, 1604. His writings show eru- 
dition and a great range of reading. We mention, 
Bibliotheca Ecclesiastica , etc. (Cologne, 1599, 4 vols. 
fol.) : — Ecclesiasticce Discipline e, etc. (ibid. 1599, 8vo): — 
Bibliotheca Catholica (ibid. 1602, 2 vols. 4to) : — Ilierar - 
chica Anacrisis (ibid. 1604, fob). See Sweert, Athenie 
Belgicce ; Hartzheim, Bibl. Colon. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. 
Generate, s. v. 

Schulz, David, a German rationalist, was born 
in Lower Silesia, Nov. 29, 1779, and after protracted 
preliminary studies was admitted to the University of 
Halle in 1803, where he devoted himself largely to phil- 
ological studies and became strongly interested in the 
lectures of Fr. A. Wolf. In 1806 he received the degree 
of Ph.D. and the position of docent in the philosophical 
faculty of his alma mater. Soon afterwards the uni- 
versity was suspended, and Schulz followed a call to 
Leipsie in 1807 ; but on the restoration of the University 
of Halle he returned and tanght successful courses on 
the classical writers, the books of the New Test., and 
Roman antiquities. The government of Westphalia 
recognised his services in 1809 by conferring on him 
the position of extraordinary professor in theology and 
philosophy; but having obtained, through the influence 
of Wolf and W. von Humboldt, an ordinary professorship 
of theology at Frankfort-on-the-Oder, he left Halle for 
that place. In 1810 he received the theological doc- 
torate. In 1811 the university was transferred to Bres- 
lau, and from that period Schulz concentrated his en- 
ergies wholly on the science of theolog}\ His leetures 
extended over the greater portion of its field, and dis- 
cussed encyclopaedia, New-Test, introduction, criticism, 
and hermeneutics, exegesis of nearly the entire New 
Test., Church history, introduction to sj'stematic the- 
ology, dogmatics, and repeatedly, for students of the 
entire university, the nature of Christianity. He de- 
livered the academical address in connection with the 
tercentenary of the Reformation in 1817, and that of 
June 25, 1830, in commemoration of the submission of 
the Augsburg Confession. In 1819 he was made con- 
sistorial councillor, and soon afterwards director of the 
commission of examiners in science, as also director of 
the pedagogical seminary for learned schools. In 1845 
he imprudently signed a declaration against the efforts 
of “a small party in the evangelical Chureh, which yet 
was powerful by reason of support from without,” and 
in consequence was deprived of the position of royal 
eonsistorial councillor, though permitted to retain the 
title and emoluments of that office. Ilis influence de- 


clined after 1848, as did also his physical energies. 
The loss of sight compelled his withdrawal from aca- 
demical occupations during the last years of his life, and, 
after protracted sufferings, he died Feb. 17, 1854. 

Schulz’s theological attitude was that of ordinary ra- 
tionalism. He considered his mission to be the uni- 
fying of Christianity and humanity by more clearly 
apprehending and presenting the fundamental truths 
of the former, etc. He was not a pioneer, but a con- 
servative rationalist, and contributed greatly to protract 
the rule of the rationalist tendency. His exegetical 
writings are not without scientific value, but those of a 
polemical character are immoderately violent. All of 
his writings suffer from diffuseness and repetition. A 
certain force of individuality must be conceded to him, 
since he was able to attract large numbers of students 
to his lectures, which were entirely without arrange- 
ment, and was able to exercise an almost intolerable 
dominion over the entire Church of Silesia during a 
protracted period, so that the Lutheran separation in 
that province is often charged to his overbearing in- 
fluence. His passionate nature could not brook oppo- 
sition, and rendered it difficult for him to submit to the 
decrease of his party, which was apparent in his later 
years. 

The works of Schulz mostly belong to the depart- 
ments of exegesis and New-Test, text criticism, but are 
occasionally polemical writings. We mention, Brief 
an die Hebraer , etc. (Bresl. 1818) : — Parabel vom Ver- 
w alter, Luc. xvi, 1 sq. (ibid. 1821) : — Christl. Lehre vom 
heil. Abendmahl (Leips. 1824; 2d ed., with sketch of 
doctrine of Lord’s supper, ibid. 1831 ) : — TFas heisst 
Glauben, u. wer sind die Ungldubigen ? etc., with sup- 
plement discussing original sin (ibid. 1830, 1834) : — 
Geistesgaben d. ersten Christen , etc. ( Bresl. 1836 ) 
Prog, de Codice IV Evangel. Biblioth. Rhedigerianee, etc. 
(Vratisl. 1814): — Novum Test.Gi'azce, Textum ad Fidem 
Codd., Verss. et Patrum ree. et Lect. Yar. Adjecit J. J. 
Griesbach, vol. i, Evangelia eomplectcns; ed. tertiam 
emend, et anct. cur. D. S. (Berol. 1827) : — Disputatio de 
Codice D. Cantabrigiensi (Vratisl. 1833) : — De Doctoruni 
Academ. Officiis (ibid. 1827) : — Theol. Lehrfreiheit avf 
den evangel. Universitaten u. deren Beschrankung durch 
symbol. Bucher (Bresl. 1830) (Von Colin being joined 
with Schulz in the authorship of this work). — Herzog, 
Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Schulz, Johann Christoph Fr., a German doc- 
tor and professor of theology, was born May 18, 1747, at 
Wertheim. From 1783 he was professor at Giessen; in 
1786 he was made first preacher and superintendent of 
the Alsfeld diocese, and died Jan. 26, 1806. He wrote, 
Scholia in Vet. Test. (Norimb. 1797) : — Psalmus 49 Va- 
rietatibns Lectionis Observationibusque Philologicis Illus- 
tratus (Gottingen, 1769, 1771, 2 pts.) : — De Ellipsibus 
llebraicis , etc. (Lips. 1782-93) : — Der 2 te Brief Pauli 
an die Korinthcr (Halle, 1785, etc.). See Winer, Hand- 
buck der theol. Liter at nr, ii, 769; Fiirst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 
295 sq.; Steinschneider, Bibliograph. Ilandbuch, p. 130. 
(B.P.) 

Schulze, Benjamin Wilhelm Dan., a German 
theologian, was born at Berlin, Jan. 17, 1715, where he 
also died, March 17, 1790. He wrote, Comment atio et 
Dissertatio Apologetica, qua Inquiritur,mim Puncta Vo- 
calia Tip Kethib X Subjccta ad Keri sint Referenda : — 
Vollstiindigere Kritik iiber die gewohnlichen A usgaben der 
hebr. Bibel, etc. (Berlin, 1764): — Conjecture Historico - 
critical Sadducccoruni inter Judeeos Sectce Novani Lucent 
Accendentes (Halle, 1799): — Additamenta Variantium 
Lectionum e Gersoniana Sacri Codicis Editione Collect a- 
rum (ibid. 1768) : — Conjecturee Crit. ad Illustrationem 
Psa. xxii, 13 (ibid. 1769). See Winer, Ilandbuch der 
theol. Literatur, ii, 770 ; Fiirst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 296. (B. P.) 

Schulze, Ernst August, a German professor of 
theology, was born Aug. 8, 1721, at Berlin, and died May 
3, 1786, as pastor of the German Reformed Church at 
Fraukfort-on-the-Odcr. He wrote, Commentatio de Fic - 


SCIIULZE 


441 


SCHUREMAN 


its II ierosoly morum Privilegiis (Francof. 1750) : — Disser- I 
tatio de Varus Judceorum Erroribus in Descript lone Tern - | 
pli (ibid. 1758) : — Commentatio de Hebrceorum Antiqui- 
tatum Vestigiis in Iloratii Eclogis (Hague, 1774): — Dis- 
sertatio de Judo. Galilceo et ejus Secta (Francof. 17G1): — 
Dissertatio de Ilerodiana Puerorum Bethlehemiticorum 
Ccede (ibid. 17G5): — Compendium Archaeologies Ilebra- 
icee (Dresden, 1793). See Winer, Ilandbuck dev theol. 
Liter at ur, ii. 770 ; Fiirst, Bibl. Judaica, iii, 29G. (B. P.) 

Schulze, Johann Ludwig, a German doctor 
and professor of theology, was born at Halle, Dec. 17, 
1734, and died there, May 1, 1799. He wrote, Disser- 
tatio qua Mutationes in Textu Cod. Alexandrini a G ratio 
Fades ex Conjectura , ad Examen Revocantur (Halle, 
1768): — Chaldaicorum Danielis et Esrce Capitum Inter- 
pretatio Ilebraica (ibid. 1782): — Dissertatio ad Cohel . 
xii, 1-3 (ibid. 17G8). He also edited Simonis Lexicon 
Manuale and Altingii Synopsis Institutionum Ckaldeea- 
rum. See Winer, Ifandbuch der theol. Liter at ur, ii, 770 ; 
Fiirst, Bibl. Judaica , iii, 297. (B. P.) 

Schumann, Christian Heinrich, a German 
doctor of theology, was born at Neukirchen Dec. 25, 
1787. Ills first appointment was that of collaborator 
at Meissen. In 1815 he was made co-reetor at Anna- 
berg, in 1825 deacon, and in 1827 pastor there, until 
in 1835 he became superintendent. He died at Dresden 
Dec. 11, 1858. lie wrote, De Cultu Jesit (Annaberg, 
1841) : — Stimmen aits dem Ihuise eles llerrn iiber Zeit - 
ereignisse und Zeitbedihfnisse (ibid. 1849). See Winer, 
Ihtndbuch der theol. Literature Supplement, p. 301 ; Zueh- 
old, Bibl. Theol. ii, 1 1 99. (B. P.) 

Schumann, Gustav Adolph, a German theo- 
logian, was born at Weickelsdorf, near Zeitz, in 1803. 
In 182G he became academical private teacher; in 1829 
he was made professor extraordinary at Leipsie; and 
died at Meissen April 11, 1841. He wrote, Vita Mosis: 
Pars I, De Infantia Mosis (Lips. 182G): — De Libertate 
Interpret is Dissertatio (Meissen, 1840): — Melandhon 
Redivivus, oder der ideate Geist des Christentliums (Leips. 
1837). See Winer, Ilandbuck der theol. Literatur , ii, 
770; Supplement, p. 301 ; Fiirst, Bibl. Judaica , iii, 297 ; 
Zuchold, Bibl. Theol. ii, 1199. (B. P.) 

Schumman, Johannes, a distinguished clergyman 
of the (Dutch) Reformed Church, a medical practitioner 
of considerable skill, and a Revolutionary patriot whose 
services to his country were most vigorous and fearless, 
was born Aug. 18, 1712, of German parents, at West 
Camp, N. Y,, studied theology under Frelinghnysen and 
Goetscliius, and received and accepted a call to the 
united churches of Catskill and Coxsackie, N. Y., upon 
condition that, at their expense, he should go to Hol- 
land to complete his education. This he did in 1752; 
and in 1753, after a rigid examination, he was licensed 
and ordained by the Chassis of Amsterdam, and returned 
to take charge of the churches, in which he spent his 
entire ministry of forty-one years. His powerful voice, 
earnest manner, and burning fervor of piety, with un- 
compromising attachment to the principles of theology, 
his honest zeal, and indefatigable perseverance and in- 
dustry, were the secrets of his success. He was a warm 
coetus man in the great controversy of his Church re- 
specting independence of the mother Church in Hol- 
land. In the same spirit, his patriotism made him a 
famous leader of the people of the whole region of 
which Catskill is the centre against British rule. In- 
dians and Tories abounded in that country and around 
his own residence. Emissaries of George III were fre- 
quently passing through those river counties carrying 
messages between New York and Canada and stirring 
up the savages and the Tories to treacherous plots and 
deeds of cruelty. Of course he was the chief object of 
their hatred. But he prayed and thundered from his 
pulpit. He rode undaunted to discharge his official 
duties in his church at Coxsackie, fifteen miles distant 
from Catskill and through a wilderness that exposed 
him to constant dangers from his country’s foes. He 


aided in organizing committees of safety and in the mil- 
itary defences. He went armed, but his chief trust was 
in God. Nothing daunted or depressed his lofty daring 
for liberty and his native land. To this day Ulster, 
Greene, and Albany counties are full of traditions of his 
fame. He is the hero of a historical novel entitled The 
Dutch Dominie o f the Catskills , by the late Rev. David 
Murdock, D.D., who was his successor at Catskill, 1842- 
51. Ilis medical services were gratuitously rendered 
for the benefit of his people, “and without respect of 
persons.” A few days before he died he preached at 
Coxsackie his last sermon, on the Saviour’s words “ It 
is finished;” and then he went home to finish his own 
work in the full assurance of faith, May 16, 1794. See 
Sprague. A nnalsofthe A mer. Pulpit, vol. ix. (W. J. R. T.) 

Schupp, Johann Balthasar, a German pastor 
and critic, was born at Giessen in 1610. In his fifteenth 
year he entered the University of Giessen. At first he 
studied law, then theology. After a long journey 
among the German universities, he tarried at Rostock 
(1629-31) and took his master’s degree. Then he vis- 
ited Holland and heard Salmasius and Voss. On his 
return he acted as professor of history and oratory for 
ten years at Marburg. In 1643 he added to his duties 
that of a pastor. Desiring to give himself entirely to 
the ministry, he accepted the place of court preacher 
at Braubach in 1646. The landgrave of Hesse-Brau- 
bach commissioned him to take part in the negotiation 
of the Peace of Westphalia (1648). At Munster he 
had the honor of preaching the first sermon in com- 
memoration of the peace. Here a call came to him to 
the place of chief pastor of St. James’s, Hamburg. En- 
tering upon his duties in 1649, he labored the remaining 
twelve years of his life with great zeal and popularity. 
He was thoroughly evangelical, preaching not exclu- 
sively Christ for us, but Christ in ns, and insisting upon 
thorough heart-conversion. His manner was free and 
popular, a great contrast to the prevalent scholastic 
method. Ilis success turned his colleagues into spies 
and enemies. Bitter calumnies were invented against 
him. Satirical pamphlets flew on every hand. The 
magistracy interfered, and imposed silence on both sides. 
But the violence of the assaults broke down the health 
of the faithful man. He died in great joy, a truly can-* 
dula anima, in 1G61. Schupp published, Volumen Ora -» 
tionum Solemninni et Panegyricarum (1642) : — Traktaten 
iiber Staat , Kirche und Schule: — Morgen- und Abend- 
Lieder . His collective works were edited by his son 
(Hanau, 1663), and have had several editions. See In 
Schuppii Obitum (Francof. 1685); Herzog, Real-Ency- 
klop. xx, 749-755. (J. P. L.) 

Schureman, John, D.D., a (Dutch) Reformed min- 
ister, son of Hon. James Schureman, United States Sen- 
ator from New Jersey, was born near New Brunswick, 
N. J., Oct. 19, 1778. Of pious lineage, he devoted himself 
to Christ in early youth. At seventeen he graduated 
from Queen’s College (1795), and then studied theology 
with Dr. Livingston. He was licensed in 1800, settled 
at Bedminster, N. J., from 1801 to 1807, when he re- 
moved to the Church at Millstone, and in 1809 accepted 
a call to the Collegiate Dutch Reformed Church in 
New York at the same time with Dr. Jacob Brodhead. 
Here he sustained himself with satisfaction to his peo- 
ple, but, on account of feeble health, in 1811 he accept- 
ed the vice-presidency and chair of moral philosophy 
and belles-lettres in Queen’s College at New Brunswick. 
For a short time, 1813, he was pastor of the Dutch Re- 
formed Church in that city, but disease soon obliged 
him to desist. In 1815 the General Synod appointed 
him professor of ecclesiastical history and pastoral the- 
ology in the theological seminary under their care in 
New Brunswick. Here for live years he fulfilled his du- 
ties with profit to the institution and honor to himself. 
He died in 1818 of typhus fever. I>r. Schureman was 
blessed with a clear, vigorous, accurate, and well-dis- 
ciplined mind, and with an uncommonly amiable temper 


SClIURMANN 


442 


SCHWARZ 


which made him, like Daniel, “a man greatly beloved.” 
11 is piety was tender, devout, and universally acknowl- 
edged by all who knew him. Ilis preaching partook 
of these characteristics, and was always popular, but not 
strong or brilliant. lie was judicious, solid, calm, and 
full of unction. His short career gave promise of use- 
fulness and of power, but was blighted h) 1- early death, 
and yet makes his memory very precious among the 
departed worthies of the Reformed Church. See Lud- 
low, Memorial; Sprague, Annals of the A met'. Pulpit; 
De Witt, Historical Discourse. (W. J. Ik T.) 

Schiirmann, Anna Maria yon, a prominent disci- 
ple and supporter of Labadie (q. v.), was born at Cologne, 
Nov. 5. 1G07, of Reformed parents. Persecution drove 
her parents in 1610 to the district of Juliers, whence 
the family removed to Franeker, and, after the death 
of her father, to Utrecht. Anna Maria was possessed 
of extraordinary intellectual qualities, which were fur- 
ther developed by careful training and instruction, so 
that she became familiarly acquainted with many an- 
cient and modern languages — the Latin, Greek, Hebrew, 
Italian, Spanish, Arabic, Syriac, and Coptic — and was 
able to write letters in them all; was a proficient in 
mathematics and history; and was no less celebrated 
for her skill in the more ornamental branches of music, 
drawing, painting, carving, wax-work, and embroidery. 
Her attainments won for her the title of the Tenth Muse , 
the Celebrated Maid of Utrecht. The serious, pious 
temper, and the love for the word of God which she 
bad manifested from her childhood, now gave way to 
vanity; but the influence of Labadie, whom she en- 
countered when more than fifty years of age, led to a 
thorough conversion. She recalled all her writings, 
associated herself with Labadie in his home and life, 
defended him and his followers with her pen and sup- 
ported them with her purse. A peculiar mystical rela- 
tionship subsisted between her and Labadie, but no 
charge of improper conduct has ever been raised against 
her. After Labadie’s death she retired to Wievert, in 
Friesland, where she died in 1678, after a protracted and 
painful illness. Her last work, entitled Eukleria and 
containing a review of her life, its tendencies and re- 
sults, was completed just before her end. Sec Gdbel, 
Cesch. d. christl. Lebetis, etc., p. 272-280, 783. — Herzog, 
Reed-Encykhp, s. v. 

Sclmt, Cornelius, a Flemish painter, was born at 
Antwerp in 1597. He was a pupil of Rubens; and when 
he had finished his studies in 1619, he worked with great 
success in churches and convents. 1 1 is best painting 
is. in the cupola of the Cathedral of Antwerp, and repre- 
sents the Assumption of the Virgin ; and the Martyr- 
dom of St. George in the museum of the same city shows 
his skill. Sclmt possessed a brilliant imagination and 
great facility of execution, which, in a large measure, 
compensated for his feebleness of design. He is con- 
sidered one of the best of Rubens’s pupils. — Hoefer, 
A 'our. Bicg. G inter ale , s. v. 

SchUtz, Joiiann Jaoor, a German hvmnist, was 
born Sept. 7, 1G40, at Frankfort-on-thc-Main, where lie 
also died, May 22, 1690. lie was very intimate with 
Spener and Joachim Neandcr. The only hymn which 
he wrote was ascribed to Hugo Grotins. It is an orna- 
ment of German hymnology, the well-known Sei Lob 
vml Ehr ’ dem hochsten Gut (Engl, transl. in Lyra Ger- 
manica,\\. 196,“ All praise and thanks to God most high”). 
See Koch, Gesch. des deutschcn Kirchenliedes , iv, 218 sq. ; 
Rambach, Atdhologie christl. Gesdnge, iii, 229; Wange- 
mann, Kirchenlad. p, 298; Theologisches Universal- Lex- 
ikon, s. v. (It. 1 *.) 

Schwab, Johann Baptist, a Roman Catholic di- 
vine of Germany, born in 1811 at llassfurt, was made 
priest in 1834 and doctor of theology in 1839. In 1840 
lie was appointed professor of Church history and canon 
law at Wurzburg. In 1851 he was deposed on account 
of his heterodox views, and died Dec. 28, 1875, at Wurz- 


burg. He published, Paul von Samosata (Wiirzbnrg, 
1839): — Ueber das Verhaltniss der christlichen Beredt- 
samkeilzur antiker (1849) : — Johannes Gerson, Professor 
der Theologie und Kanzler der Universitdt Paris (1858). 
See Liierarischer Handweiset *, 1873, p. 18; Zuchold, 
Bill Theol. iii, 1202. (B.P.) 

Schwabe, Joiiann Friedrich Heinrich, a Prot- 
estant divine of Germany, was born in 1779 at Eichel- 
born, near Weimar. He studied theology^at Jena, and 
entered upon his first ministerial duties in 1802 at 
Wormstedt. From that time on till his death, which 
took place in 1834, he occupied the most important ec- 
clesiastical positions in the grand-duchy of Hesse. He 
wrote, Sjtecimen Theologice Comparativce. exhibens KXe- 
dvSovg vpvov eig Ala, cum Disciplina Christiana Com - 
paratum , etc. (Jena, 1819): — Verhiiltniss der sioischen 
Aforal zum Chrisienthum (ibid. 1820) : — Examen ausder 
Reformat ionsgeschichte (Neustadt, 1839). He also pub- 
lished several volumes of Sermons. See Zuchold, Bibl. 
Theol . ii, 1202 sq.; Regensburger Real-Encyklop, s. v. 
(B.P.) 

Schwartz, Christian Friedrich, a German 
missionary to India. He was born at Sonnenbnrg, in 
Brandenburg, Oct. 26, 1726, and educated at Halle. 
While there he studied the Tamil, in order to aid the 
missionary Schultz in translating the Bible. He was 
ordained at Copenhagen in 1749, and on Jan. 29, 1750, 
embarked from England for India as missionary. He 
reached Tranquebar July 30. lie remained there until, 
in 1767, he was transferred to the English society and 
stationed at Trichinopoly. In 1779 he went to Tan- 
jore, where he spent the remainder of his life. He was 
greatly esteemed by both Europeans and natives. The 
rajah of Tanjore committed to him the education of his 
son and successor, and Hyder Ali received him as am- 
bassador after refusing all others. He died in 1798. 
After his death the rajah of Tanjore and the East India 
Company each erected a monument to liis memory, 

Schwartz, Peter (in Latin Niger'), a German 
theologian, was born early in the 15th century. Ilis 
early history is unknown, except that he received a 
good education and entered the Order of St. Dominic. 
He travelled widely, and in every way endeavored to 
add to his knowledge of the laws and customs of the 
Jews. His knowledge of Hebrew was so great that in 
1474 he carried on a discussion with several rabbis in 
that language at Ratisbon. At that time he was teach- 
ing at Wiirzburg, but left to take charge of the College 
of Ihida, in Hungary. He died in 1481. Many of the 
works of Niger are lost — indeed, but two important ones 
remain : Traciatus ad Judeeorum Perfdiam Extirpan- 
dam Confcctas (Essling, 1477, fob; transl. into German 
under the title Stella Mess he [ibid. 1477, 4to]):— Cly- 
peus Thomistarum (Venice, 1482, fob). — Hoefer, Nom\ 
Biog. Generede , s. v. 

Scliwaitze, Moritz Gottiiilf, a German theo- 
logian, was born in 1802 at Weissenfels. He studied 
the Oriental languages, and was appointed professor of 
the Coptic language and literature at the University of 
Berlin. His death occurred in 1848. He published, 
Prolegomena in Rcligionem Veterum ACgyptorum (Berl. 
1832): — Das alle Aegypten (Leips. 1843) : — Psa fieri urn 
in Dialcctum Copticw Lingua; Memphiticam, etc. (ibid. 
1843) : — Qu at uor Evangel ia in Dialecto Lingua; Copticce 
Memphitica Perscripta , etc. (pars i, voh i, Evangelia 
Mat (had et Mat'd eontinens [ibid. 1846]): — Koptische 
Grammatik (ed. by II. Steinthal [Bcrh 1850]) : — Pistis 
Sophia (Coptic, with a Latin transl., ed. bv Petermann 
[ibid. 1851 ]). See the Regensburger Real-Encyklop. s. v. 
(B.P.) 

Schwarz, Charles, Dr., a German preacher, was 
born at Wreschen, in the duchy of Posen, in the year 
1817, of Jewish parentage. Having passed the gym- 
nasium, he entered the university at Berlin; and here 
, it was that, when twenty years of age, he openly pro- 


SCHWARZ 


443 


SCIIWARZENBERG 


fessed liis faith in Christ. lie now betook himself to 
the study of theology; went to Halle, where he attend- 
ed the lectures of Gesenius, Tholuck, Erdmann, and Ju- 
lius Muller, and afterwards to Berlin, where Neandcr, 
Hengstenberg, and Twesten were his teachers. Hav- 
ing completed his studies, he ottered himself to the Lon- 
don Jews’ Society, was ordained by the bishop of Lon- 
don, and appointed for Constantinople. On his way to 
the latter city, he went to Pcsth, in Hungary, where he 
stayed for about a year, in the meantime becoming ac- 
quainted with Dr. Duncan of Scotland. In Constanti- 
nople he only stayed one year, severed his connection 
with the London society, and entered the services of the 
Free Church of Scotland, which appointed him as a mis- 
sionary to Berlin, where lie labored from 184-4 till 1848. 
From Berlin he went to Amsterdam, where he soon 
attracted the attention of Jews and Christians. The 
church which he built there soon became the nucleus 
of Christian life for the whole city, and the weekly, 
which he issued under the title De Her nut , soon spread 
all over the Netherlands, liis labors in Amsterdam 
were greatly blessed — a circumstance which excited the 
hatred of the Jews, who boasted themselves of being 
the descendants of those exiles who came from Spain 
and Portugal, and who, in their fanatical ignorance, 
could not endure that some of their brethren should 
leave Judaism and become Christians. With incredible 
fanaticism the} 7 persecuted all converts. It was on Sun- 
day morning, Aug. I, 1S58, when Schwarz had entered 
the pulpit to preach to about 1200 people, that while in 
silent prayer he was stabbed in the side by a young 
Jew, who had followed the preacher without being seen. 
For a long time his life was endangered, but he finally 
recovered. lie continued for six years longer in his 
work at Amsterdam, when, in 1864, he exchanged the 
scene of his long labors for London. Here a large 
field was opened to him, in which he also labored till 
Aug. 24, 1870, when he was called to his rest. To Jews 
and Gentiles, Schwarz preached in English, Dutch, ami 
German, and many of those whom he led to Christ are 
now ambassadors of the cross. See Frieclensbote fur Is- 
rael, 1871 , p. 33 sq. ; Saat auf Iloffnimg , vii, 383 ; viii, 80 ; 
M issionsblatt fur Israel , 1874, p. 83 sq., 92 sq. (B. P.) 

Schwarz, J. C. E., a German doctor and professor 
of theology, was born at Halle, June 20, 1802. After 
1829 he labored at Jena, holding the highest ecclesiasti- 
cal positions, and died there May 18, 1870. He pub- 
lished a number of Sermons , which are all enumerated 
in Zucliold, Bibliotheca Theologica , ii, 1205. See also 
Winer, Ilanilbuch der theol. Literati/ r, ii, 772; Litera- 
rischer Ilandweiser , 1870, p. 491. (B. P.) 

Schwarz, Josef, a German Jew, was born Oct. 22, 
1804, at Floss, in Bavaria. When seventeen years of 
age he entered the University of Wurzburg. In 1833 
he arrived in Palestine, and died at Jerusalem Feb. 5, 
18G5. Schwarz is best known by his works on Pales- 
tine. Thus he published, Hebraische Karte iiber Pa- 
lestina (Wurzburg, 1829, and often) : — niX'QF, 
or A stronomical and Physical Explanations o f the Holy 
Land (Jerusalem, 1843 ) y “XU raCSr, or Geography 
of Palestine (ibid. 1845) 1 p “iXh or Natural 

History of the Holy Land (ibid. 1845) : — ^“ixn 
or History of Palestine till 1845 (ibid. 1845). Some of 
his works were translated into German. II is Geography 
was translated into English by Is. Leescr: A Descrip- 
tive Geography and Brief Historical Sketch of Palestine 
(Phila. 1850). See Fi'irst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 300 sq. (B. P.) 

Schwarz, William, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Obcrachern, grand-duchy 
of Baden, Germany, Feb. 14, 1826. He was brought up 
a Homan Catholic, and attended the high-schools of 
Rastadt and Freiburg, intending to prepare for the 
priesthood. He came to America in 1845, and united 
with the Church in New York the next year. In De- 


cember, 1846, he was licensed to preach, and in May, 
1848, was received into the New York Conference, lie 
was sent as missionary to Germany in 1858, and labored 
also in Switzerland and Paris. He was transferred to 
the East-German Conference, and arrived in the United 
States in May, 1874. liis appointment was Melrose, 
N. Y., where he died March 13, 1875. See Minutes of 
A nnual Conferences, 1875, p. 45. 

Schwarzburg - Rudolstadt, the name of two 
German hvmnists. 

1. ./Emilia Juliana, countess of Schwarzburg-Ru- 
dolstadt, daughter of the count Adalbert Friedrich von 
Barbv. was born Aug. 19, 1637, at Rudolstadt, where she 
died Dec. 3, 1706. She wrote over four hundred hymns, 
among others the well-known Wer weiss tcie nahe mir 
mein Ernie * (“ Who knows how near my end may be?” 
Lyra Germanicafn, 267), which is said to have been writ- 
ten on the occasion of the sudden death of duke George 
of Saxe-Eisenach while hunting. Iler Hymns have been 
published by Dr. Pasig (Halle, 1855). ‘Comp, also lvoch, 
Gesch. d. deutsch . Kirchenliedes , iv, 56 sq. 

2. Ludamilia Elisabeth. One of her hymns, Zeuch 
uns nach dir, so eilen v:ir, is found in an Engl, transl. in 
the Monthly Pelig. Mag. xxxvii, 1867, p. 338. See Lu- 
ll AM ilia. (B. P.) 

Schwarzenberg, Johann von, a prominent Ger- 
man statesman, warrior, and author of works for the peo- 
ple in the days of the Reformation, was born Dec. 25, 
1463, received a knightly training, and was not less dis- 
tinguished by herculean stature and physical strength 
than by courage and skill in the use of arms. A rebuke 
from his father determined him to avoid all frivolity 
and immorality of life, and with iron will he persisted 
through life in attaining to a high moral character. lie 
participated in the expedition to the Holy Land under- 
taken by the elector Frederick the Wise in 1493 (con- 
cerning which see Spalatin, Hist. Nachl., published by 
Neudeckcr and Preller, i, 76), and after his return ac- 
companied the emperor Maximilian in his German and 
Italian campaigns. But though he acquired the repu- 
tation of a brave and skilful soldier, he soon turned aside 
to the work of aiding to tit the State for the accomplish- 
ment of its great mission to promote peace and justice, 
and also the morality and prosperity of its subjects. His 
first field was in the episcopal principality of Bamberg, 
where he occupied the post of prime minister (Ilofmeis- 
ter') at the beginning of the 16th century, under the 
bishops llcnry III and George of Limburg; and his first 
notable work was the introduction of a reform in the 
execution of capital punishments, which subsequently 
became the law of the empire (the so-called Carolina 
of 1532). 

While recognising the need of reform in the State, 
Schwarzenberg was also convinced of the need of re- 
form in the Church ; and as he found opportunity to 
make himself felt for good in statesmanship, so he read- 
ily admitted the claims of duty on him from the side of 
religion and morality. He was thoroughly prepared for 
the beginning of the Reformation through zealous study 
of the Bible, which had, even before Luther appeared, 
revealed to him the vast difference between genuine 
Christianity and the actual life of the Church. He was 
profoundly impressed with the conviction that the creat- 
ure owes the most perfect obedience to the will of God 
as revealed in Scripture, and this conviction was the lead- 
ing motive of his life; but he had likewise learned to know 
the weakness of human nature, and therefore laid hold 
on the doctrines of grace in the Bible with all his heart. 
He naturally threw the weight of his official station, the 
convincing power of his speech, the iron energies of his 
will, and the combining and constructive powers of his 
statesmanship into the scale in favor of the Reforma- 
tion, and thus became a most powerful instrument for 
promoting its success. As its progress was rather pro- 
moted than hindered by the bishop George, Bamberg 
soon became a stronghold for the defence and also a ecu- 


SCHWARZENBERG 


444 


SCIIWEBEL 


tre from which to carry forward the extension of the 
evangelical cause. Schwarzenberg’s influence was pow- 
erfully felt even in the administration of the empire, lie 
had been the representative or companion of his prince 
in several diets, and had won a high reputation for abil- 
ity. In 1522-23 he was not only a member of the re- 
gency of the empire, but its soul (see II a like, Ref. Oesck. 
ii, 48 sq.) ; and it was that body which replied to the 
brief of pope Hadrian VI with a refusal to stamp out Lu- 
theranism as he had demanded, and urged instead that 
the estates be convoked in some German city to insti- 
tute reforms of evils conceded by the pope to exist — a 
measure which, with some slight modifications, became 
an edict of the empire early in 1523, and secured a pe- 
riod of quiet during which the Reformation might gath- 
er strength. 

While Schwarzenberg was thus laboring for the cause 
of religion in the political field, he was also busy in the 
domain of literature, and published a number of works 
designed for the elevation of morals among the people. 
The earliest of his popular writings was a poem entitled 
Kummertro&t , which was called forth by the death of his 
wife in 1502. He afterwards edited a collection of minor 
didactic poems under the title Memorial der Tugend , 
and published a poem in condemnation of the practices 
of the robber-knights, who sought occasion for quarrel 
that they might have opportunity for plunder, as also 
one denouncing the drinking usages of his countrymen. 
Another method adopted by him to promote virtue 
among the people was the publication of suitable clas- 
sical works, freely rendered, and accompanied with per- 
tinent remarks from his own pen. Among such works 
were Cicero’s De Officiis and the first book of Tusculan 
Questions , the De Senectute , and the De A micitia. Him- 
self unacquainted with the ancient languages, he would 
employ scholars to translate such works into German, 
and afterwards would popularize them, always using the 
language of a master, and adding rhymes and illustra- 
tions to give more force to the book. The Teutscke 
Cicero was frequently republished during the IGth cen- 
tury. 

Bishop George died in 1522 and was succeeded by 
bishop Wigand, who was at first undecided, then con- 
trolled by the Romish clergy, and finally (June, 1524) 
joined a league organized to enforce the Edict of Worms. 
Schwarzenberg at once took his daughter out of a con- 
vent in Bamberg, and frankly justified his conduct in a 
letter to the bishop by advancing his evangelical mo- 
tives (published, with a preface by An dr. Osiander, Nu- 
remb. 1524; comp. Luther’s Letter to Schwarzenberg, 
dated Dec. 21, 1524, in De Wette, ii, 581), and at the 
age of more than sixty years resigned his position in 
the principality. The controversy which had arisen 
broke out in his own family. II is son Christoph issued 
an anonymous book aimed against the Reformed teach- 
ing, and designed to counteract the determinative influ- 
ence of Schwarzenberg with the whole of the numerous 
family, to which the latter replied in 1524 with the fre- 
quently republished Beschworung der alten teufischen 
Schlange mil dem gottlichen Wort , a dogmatical work, 
intended to demolish the false authorities on which his 
son had built, and to set forth the teachings of the 
Scriptures in their purity. Some further discussion 
took place in this dispute, but without eliciting any ad- 
ditional work of importance. 

After leaving Bamberg, Schwarzenberg was employed 
in the Franconian principalities of Brandenburg in a ca- 
pacity similar to that he had just vacated. The two 
margraves, Casimir and George, were in sympathy with 
his ideas — the former through his purpose of securing a 
strong government, the latter through his unconditional 
devotion to the cause of the Reformation. Margrave 
George was absent from his territories, however; and 
when the emperor took measures to counteract the de- 
crees of the Diet of Nuremberg, the administration of 
the principality became less decidedly partial to the 
Reformation. The Peasants’ War, too. seemed to effect 


a change in Casimir’s attitude towards the new religion. 
In 1526, while the Diet of Spires was in session, Schwarz- 
enberg was at the court of duke Albert of Prussia to rep- 
resent his government on the occasion of the duke’s 
marriage (see Spies, Brandenburg MUnzbelustigungen, ii. 
29), and availed himself of the opportunity to plead 
the cause of the Reformation with king Sigismund of 
Poland and the bishop of Cracow. (Comp. Strobel, 
Joh. von Schwarzenberg , zween sehr nierfac. Brief e 
[Nuremb. 1775]). Duke Albert asked permission to 
retain Schwarzenberg at his court, at least for a single 
year, but without success. 

After returning to his home, Schwarzenberg demand- 
ed in the Territorial Diet, Oct. 1526, that organizations 
on the evangelical plan be formed, and offered sugges- 
tions towards that end. Casimir attempted to tempo- 
rize, but in vain, and accordingly joined the army of 
king Ferdinand in Hungary, where he died, Sept. 21, 

1527. IMargrave George now assumed the government, 
and at once took decided ground in favor of the Ref- 
ormation. In March, 1528, the first visitation of the 
churches was undertaken in connection with Nurem- 
berg. The objections of neighboring bishops, and the 
warnings of king Ferdinand were disregarded, and a pa- 
pal brief intended to change the margrave’s attitude 
was returned unopened. A delegated assembly from 
Franconia and Nuremberg met at Sehwabach June 15, 
and agreed on articles to govern the exclusion of un- 
evangelical persons from the Church. A meeting be- 
tween the margrave and the elector of Saxony, having 
relation to ecclesiastical matters, took place in October, 

1528, but Schwarzenberg was unable to be present be- 
cause of sickness, and on the 21st of that mouth he died 
at Nuremberg. 

See Rossbach, Verfasser d. Bamb ., Brandenb. it. d. heil. 
Reichs peinl. Gerichts, joh. Freih. r. Schwarzenberg , in 
Schott’s Jurist. Wochenbl.Sd year, p.273 sq.. and Longo- 
lius, Nachr . von Brandenburg- Culmbach, iv, 53 sq., who 
among older writers furnish isolated particulars only ; 
Christ, De Joh. Schwartzenbergico (Halle, 1726), has ref- 
erence only to the literary activity of its subject. A 
very inadequate sketch of the life of Schwarzenberg, 
which scarcely mentions his relation to the Reformation, 
appeared in Jagemann and Nollner’s Zeitschr.f. deutsch. 
Strafverfahren , i, 133 sq. See also Strdmer, Zween sehr 
merino. Brief e, already cited; Lith, Erldut. d. Ref- Hist, 
a. d. Brandenb ., in Onolzbaeh Archil », 1733; Ranke, 
Ref. Gesch. ut sup. ; and especially E. Herrmann, Joh. 
Freih. zu Schwarzenberg , etc. (Leips. 1841). The edi- 
tions of Schwarzenberg’s writings are given in Godeke’s 
Grundriss zur Gesch. d. deutschen Dich fling, i, 214. — Her- 
zog, Real-EncyMop. s. v. 

Schwebel, Johann (1), an evangelical theolo- 
gian and Reformer in the palatinate Zweibrueken, 
Rhenish Bavaria, was born in 1490 at Pforzheim, in 
Baden, and received his early education in the famous 
Latin school of that town, from which men like Capito 
Iledio, Grynaeus, Haller, etc., came forth. It is not 
known that Schwebel studied at any higher school. 
He entered the Order of the Holy Ghost while yet very 
young, and transferred to it the whole of his property, 
some part being afterwards returned to him through 
the intervention of the margrave Philip. In 1514 he 
was consecrated priest. He spent his time in studying 
the Scriptures and the writings of the fathers, and thus 
learned to know the perversions of doctrine and corrup- 
tion of practice in the creed and worship of the Church ; 
and his surroundings, as also the events of the time, 
aided to confirm the purpose he had formed of publicly 
antagonizing the evils he had found. The dispute of 
the Dominicans of Cologne with Reuchlin (q. v.) had 
united all the friends of classical and Biblical learning 
in an endeavor to combat scholasticism, monkish ob- 
scurantism, and the exaggerated demands of the Roman 
curia. Many reformatory spirits were then in Pforz- 
heim or that vicinity; e. g. Gerbel, Capito, Pellican and 
Sebastian Mynster, Bueer, (Ecolampadius, and Irenieus. 


SCHWEBEL 


445 


SCIIWEGLER 


Luther’s Theses became known in 1517, and in the fol- 
lowing 3 T ear, April 25, Luther himself was at Heidelberg 
engaged in the famous disputation. Melancthon, too, 
wrote frequently to Schwebel from Wittenberg, and 
sent him extracts from his lectures ou Matthew and 
Romans (Cent. Epist. p. 3), etc. 

Such influences served to prepare Schwebel for his 
reformatory career. He laid aside the garb of his order, 
and in 1519 became an evangelical preacher in his na- 
tive town, but was speedily expelled by the margrave 
Philip. He fled to Franz von Sickingen, and sought, 
from the asylum furnished by that stanch defender of 
the Reformation, to influence his countrymen by means 
of letters. Towards the close of 1522 he published a 
work entitled Ermahnung zu dem Quest ionieren, abzu- 
stetten iibetjlussige Kosten , in which he censured the 
abuses connected with the collection of alms in the 
Romish Church, all intended to secure money to the 
clergy, from the pope to the lowest monk. He was 
permitted to return to Pforzheim, and on April 10, 1524, 
preached there on the theme of the “ Good Shepherd.” 
A small evangelical congregation was thus gathered, 
and was at this time placed under the pastoral care of 
Johann Unger, who had been tutor in the family of Me- 
lanethon, and who remained its pastor until his death, 
in 1553 (Vierordt, l)e Johanne Ungero, Carolsr. 1844). 

While Schwebel was present in the Castle of Sickingen 
that nobleman introduced the celebration of the mass in 
the German tongue, and Schwebel heartily approved of 
the innovation {Cent. Epist . p. 337). In 1524 he mar- 
ried. and, like other Reformers, was censured for that 
step, but defended himself in two treatises on marriage, 
and particularly the marriage of priests. Sickingen’s 
unfortunate campaign against the elector of Treves and 
his allies (begun in September, 1522) necessitated the 
dismissal of his theological guests, and Schwebel went 
to Zweibriicken, where lie became court-preaehcr and 
superintendent of the churches of the duchy. He se- 
cured the conlidence of his patron, the count-palatine 
Louis II, and found powerful co-laborers in the persons 
of Jacob Schorr and Jerome Rock, who belonged to the 
train of that prince. In 1524 Schwebel expounded 
Matthew, John, and Romans, though he afterwards 
preached usually on the pericope assigned to the day. 
1 1 is discourses were founded on the Epistle to the Ro- 
mans. He taught that the chief elements of Christian 
doctrine are, (1) repentance (pcenitentia) ; (2) justifica- 
tion by faith; (3) love to God and our neighbor; (4) 
the doetrine of snffc rings (crux) as conservers of faith; 
(5) believing prayer in behalf of ourselves and others 
{ibid. p. 16). Elsewhere he says that works grow out 
of faith; man has free-will, but only to evil naturally, 
and only by grace to good {Teutsche Schriften , i, 81). 
He regards the sacraments as signs of the grace or the 
will of God towards ns, and as symbols of love among 
Christians. The bread and wine in the supper become 
a spiritual food when received by faith. 

Resides the German sermon, Schwebel introduced 
catechetical instruction covering the Decalogue, the 
Apostles’ Creed, the Lord’s Prayer, and the words of 
institution in the sacramental service; and he substi- 
tuted the singing of German for Latin hymns. In 1529 
he prepared a form of Church government, which was 
approved by Rneer {Cent. Epist. p. 133), and continued, 
in connection with the evangelical clergy of that re- 
gion, to give attention to this subject for many years 
{Teutsche Schriften , p. 317, 379, etc.). For ten years 
Schwebel guided the Reformation in Zweibriicken alone. 
His health began to fail and his strength to decline, and 
in 1533 he attempted to resign his office, in which pur- 
pose he was strengthened by the troubles caused by an 
assistant named Georgius, who denied original sin and 
infant baptism, and disturbed the peace of the Church, 
lie was, however, prevailed on to remain, and in that 
year Caspar Glaser and Michael 1 1 ilspach were called 
to his aid (comp. Croll, Hist. Scholar Ilomb . p. 18, 19). 
Schwebel was prohibited by his official position from 


attending any of the larger conferences in which relig- 
ious and ecclesiastical matters were discussed, but lie 
maintained a steady correspondence with most of the 
Reformers, particularly Melancthon, Bucer, and Capito. 
His advice was sought with reference to the desired 
settlement of the sacramental difficulty, which was at- 
tempted in the Concord of Stuttgart in 1534, and sought 
to be confirmed by the Wittenberg Concord. The latter 
document was signed by Schwebel and his colleagues, 
but with the reservation implied in the words ‘•Vidimus 
et legi mus exemplar concordia*.” He was essentially a 
man of peace, and not disposed to let usages and cere- 
monies cause divisions in the Church (see Cent. Epist. 
p. 297, 351). In few words, Schwebel occupied a posi- 
tion in dogmatics largely identical with that of Melanc- 
thon as represented in the Loci Communes and the Latin 
edition of his Articles of Visitation ; and in Church or- 
ganization he held to the Reformed system of a presby- 
terial and synodal constitution emanating from the con- 
gregation. If such organization was left uncompleted 
in his day, he had at least prepared the way for its ul- 
timate consummation. He fell a victim to the plague 
. when scarce fifty years of age, May 19, 1540, and his 
wife died two days later. 

Schwebel’s printed works are, Opera Theologiconim 
(pt. i, Biponti, 1595, 8vo) ; — Centuria Epistolarum (ibid. 
1597. 8vo) : — Scripta Theologica, etc., a mere reprint of 
the two previous works, with preface omitted (ibid. 1605, 
8vo) : — Teutsche Schriften (Zweibrhek. 1598) : — Ermah- 
nung zu. d. Quest, abzustellen iiberfuss. Kosten (1522): — 
Sermon on the Good Shepherd (1524). — Herzog, Real - 
Encgklop. s. v. 

Schwebel, Johann (2), a supporter of the Refor- 
mation in Strasburg, was born at Bischoflingen, near 
Breisach, in 1499, and was for a time a Cistercian monk 
at Thennenbach. lie left the convent in 1524, and, 
because of his familiarity with ancient languages, se- 
cured the position of teacher at Strasburg, where he 
died, in 1566. See Rdhrieli, Gesch. d. Ref. im Elsass, i, 
255; ii, 55; Vierordt, Gesch. der bad. Ref. i, 126. — 
Herzog, Real- Encgklop. s. v. 

Schwedler, Johann CnmsToni, a Lutheran min- 
ister of Germany, was born at Krobsdorf, Silesia, Dec. 
21, 1672. He studied at Leipsic, and in 1697 was ap- 
pointed assistant deacon in Niederwiese, in Upper Lu- 
satia. In 1701 he was appointed to the pastorate of 
that place, and died Jan. 12, 1730. He is the author of 
about 500 hymns, the most beautiful of which is his 
“ 1 Vollt ihr u'issen , was mein Preis” translated into 
English in JIgmnologia Christiana, No. 620, -Ask ye 
what great thing I know.” See Wezel, JIgmnop. iv, 
463 sq. ; Otto, Lexikon oberlausitzischer Schriftsteller t 
III, i, 248 sq.; Koch, Gesch. d. deutsch. Kirchenliedes , v, 
225 sq. ; Knapp, Evangel. Liederschatz, s. v. (B. 1\) 

Schwegler, Albert, a German rationalist, per- 
haps, after Baur, the leading representative of the mod- 
ern Tubingen school. His father was pastor in the vil- 
lage of Michelbach, Wiirtemberg, and there Albert was 
born, Feb. 10, 1819. llis early instruction was directed 
by his father, and was supplemented by the schools of 
Sehwabisch-Ilall and Schbnthal, so that he entered the 
evangelical seminary at Tiibingen in 1836 with rare 
preparatory acquirements. He immediately entered on 
the study of the Hegelian philosophy, and was so fasci- 
nated that he could find no pleasure in the study of 
Schleiermacher, which he had also undertaken, and con- 
sidered the relation of that theologian to Christianity 
as evidence of his intellectual narrowness. Philosoph- 
ical speculation was less suited to his mind, however, 
than historical inquiry. He was consequently mightily 
impressed on its appearance with Strauss’s Ltbtn Jesu, 
which he regarded as the culmination of the entire ten- 
dency in which the relation of theology to philosophy 
had been developed. The measures taken by the au- 
thorities against Strauss served only to heighten Schweg- 
ler’s enthusiasm lor that author. The longer he studied 


schweinitz 


44G 


SCHWENKFELDIANS 


that work, however, the more reason did he find for 
doubt. He believed that the text of the Gospels would 
afford a more solid historical basis than Strauss had 
found. II is philosophical opinions, too, were becoming 
uncertain ; he came to believe that the Hegelian system 
did not concede sufficient importance to the factor of 
personality, and questioned whether philosophy might 
not become more largely Christian than it then was; 
and in the end he acknowledged that he could not be 
certain that he should not become a pietist at last. 

While in this state of uncertainty he became a disci- 
ple of F. Chr. Baur, in whom he imagined that he had 
found what he desired. He thoroughly mastered that 
theologian’s theory of the conditions of early Christian- 
ity, ami subsequently elaborated it in various essays 
and treatises. While a student, he solved two problems 
set by the theological faculty — one of which concerned 
the relation of the ideal to the historical Christ, and the 
other the Montanist heresy — and obtained both prizes. 
A brilliant examination, supplemented by the reception 
of a first prize in homiletics and another in catechetics, 
brought his student life to a close in 1840. He re- 
mained at Tubingen, employed in literary labors, dur- 
ing nine months longer. In 1841 he published his 
prize essay on Montanism in an enlarged form, under 
the title I)er Montanismus u. cl. christl . Kirche cl. 2 ten 
Jahrhunderts , aud afterwards travelled through Ger- 
many to Holland and Belgium, with the result that he 
was confirmed in the tendency he had begun to culti- 
vate. On bis return to Tubingen in 1842, he was obliged 
to assume charge of the affairs of the Church at the 
neighboring village cf Bebenhausen ; but he had deter- 
mined on a literary and academical career, and contin- 
ued in that relation less than a year. In the autumn 
of 1843 he qualified himself for a tutorship in the theo- 
logical seminary by reading before the philosophical 
faculty an essay on the Symposium of Plato, but with- 
out obtaining the desired place. In 1844 he, with a 
number of friends, founded the Jcihrbiicket' tier Geyen - 
tcartf and became the actual editor. His rejection from 
the theological seminary had the effect to intensify his 
devotion to the system of Baur, as appears from the 
work entitled Ihis nachapostol. Zeitalter (Tub. 1840). 
This work was finished in six months, and is far inferior 
to the earlier work on Montanism. Its fundamental 
proposition is, that primitive Christianity was simple 
Kbionitism. In 1817 Schwegler published the Clemen- 
tine Homilies, and in 1852 the Ecclesiastical History of 
Eusebius. All his subsequent works are outside the 
field of theology — Aristot. Metaphysik (1847): — Gesch. 
cl. Philosophic (184 S):—Romische Gesch., of which vol. 
iii appeared in 1858, carrying the description forward 
to the Lieinian laws. This volume is preceded by a 
life of the author, from which the data for this article 
are obtained. Schwegler had in 1848 been made ex- 
traordinary professor for Roman literature and antiqui- 
ties, and afterwards obtained also the chair of ancient 
history. He died suddenly, Jan. 5, 1857. — Herzog, 
Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Schweinitz, Hans Christoph von, a German 
hymnist, was born in 1015 at Rudelsdorf, in the Silesian 
principality of Schweidnitz, and died in 1722. His 
hymn Wird das nieht French sein, which he wrote at 
the death of his first wife, Theodora, has become one of 
the gems of the German hymns. It has also been trans- 
lated into English, “ Will that not joyful be!” ( Hymns 
from the Land of Luther, p. 0). See Otto, Lexicon 
oherlavsitzischer Sehriftstclkr (Gdrlitz, 1803): Koch, 
Gesch. dc-s deutschen Kirchenlietlcs , iv, 31 sq. ; Knapp, 
Evan yd. Liederschatz , s. v. (B. P.) 

Schweinitz, Lewis David von, Ph.D., an 
American clergyman and botanist, was born in Bethle- 
hem, Pa., Feb. 13, 1780. He went to Germany in 1703, 
where he finished his education and remained till 1812, 
when he returned to America, and settled at Salem, 
X. C.j as clergyman and superintendent of the financial 


affairs of the Moravian Church, South. He returned in 
1821 to his native place — Bethlehem — and resided there 
until his death, Feb. 8, 1834. He was an enthusiastic 
scientist, making botany his special study. By bis own 
researches he added more than 1400 new species to the 
catalogues of the American flora, the greater part being 
fungi, which had been previously but little studied. His 
principal botanical works are the following: Conspectus 
Funyorum Lusatia (Leips. 1805): — Synopsis Funyo - 
rum Carolina; Superioris (edited by Dr. Schwergiehen, 
1818 ): — Specimen Flora America Septentrioncdis Crypt - 
toyamica (1821): — Monograph of the Gems Viola 
(1821 ) : — Catcdoyue of riant s Collected in the North-west 
Territory by Say (1824 ) : — Monograph upon the A uteri - 
can Species of the Genus Carex (1825) : — and Synopsis 
Funyorum in America Borecdi Media JJeyentium (1832). 

Schwenkfeld, Kaspar von, founder of the relig- 
ions sect named after him, Sell wenkfeldians (q. v.). 1 1 e 

was born in Ossig, Silesia, in 1490; was a nobleman of 
ancient lineage, councillor to the duke of Eiegnitz, and 
an earnest advocate of the Reformation. While hold- 
ing the chief Reformers in the highest esteem, he dif- 
fered from them on the following points: 1. Schwenk- 
feld inverted the words of Christ, “this is my body,” 
and read “my body is this” — i. e. such as this bread, 
which is broken and consumed; a true and real food, 
which nourisheth, satisfieth, and delighteth the soul. 
2. He denied that the external Word had any power to 
enlighten and renew the mind, but ascribed this power 
to the internal Word, which, according to his notion, 
was Christ himself. 3. lie would not allow Christ’s hu- 
man nature, in its exalted state, to be called a creature 
or a created substance, as such a denomination appeared 
to him infinitely below its majestic dignity, united as it 
is in that glorious state with the divine essence. lie 
died in Uhn about 15G1. His character was never 
impugned by any of bis opponents, and his numerous 
writings (including Belcenntniss unci Reckenschaft von 
clen Havptpunhten cles christlichen Glanbens [1547], and 
nearly 100 treatises) are among the most valuable sources 
of the history of the Reformation. 

Schwenkfeldians, or Schwenkfelders, a 
religious sect in the lGth century deriving its name 
from Kaspar Schwenkfeld (q. v.). He often declared 
his unwillingness to form a separate sect, but after his 
death numbers who had embraced bis views were sub- 
jected to severe persecution, especially from the Lu- 
theran clergy. In 1719 the Jesuits endeavored to effect 
the conversion of this people, but, failing, they reduced 
them to slavery. The}' fled into Lusatia and other 
parts of Saxony; but protection being withdrawn there 
after eight years (1734), a number of them emigrated to 
Altona, Denmark. Many others, by the permission of 
the English government, came to Pennsylvania; and 
though in 1742 they were all invited back to Silesia, 
with the promise of the return of their estates and the 
full enjoyment of toleration, none could ever be induced 
to return. They celebrated their arrival in Pennsyl- 
vania by a “festival in grateful memory of all mercies 
and divine favors manifested to them by the Father of 
mercies.” They still continue to celebrate the anniver- 
sary. Reference to the peculiarities of doctrine is made 
in the article Sciiwknk ficld (q. v.). This sect has a 
service in reference to infants unknown among other 
religious bodies. As soon as a child is born, a preacher 
is called in to pray for its happiness and prosperity, ex- 
horting the parents to bring it up in the fear of the 
Lord. A similar service is held in the church as soon 
as the mother is able to attend with the child. In their 
government they are Congregational, electing annually 
the minister, trustees, and other officers of their Church. 
They choose their pastors by lot, instructing them in 
their duties if uneducated when chosen. They number 
about 300 families, from 800 to 1000 communicants, 5 
ministers, and as many churches. The language for 
social intercourse and private worship is German. 


SCIIWESTRIONES 


447 


SCIENCE 


Schwestriones, a name of reproach, “ Sisterers,” 
given to the Lollards and Beghards (q. v.). 

Schyn, IIermaxn, author of the Ilistoria Mennoni- 
tamm [see Menno; Mennonites], was born at Amster- 
dam in 1GG2, and studied at Leyden and Utrecht, being 
made M.I). in 1G82. After settling at Rotterdam as a 
physician, he began the study of theology, and in 1G8G 
was chosen preacher bj r the congregation of Mennonites 
in that city. In 1G90 lie removed to Amsterdam, and 
entered on a career in which he administered the duties 
of the sacred office during thirty-seven years with fidel- 
ity and success, lie died in 1727. As a preacher he 
had a leaning towards the Coceeian tendency (cj. v.), and 
followed the farfetched analytieal-excgctical method of 
the time, but was none the less practical and fervent- 
somewhat given to the use of mystical phrases, as may 
be seen in the collection of his sermons, Ileiliye Keur- 
stojfen (1733). 

Schyn became known as a writer on practical themes 
through his Mensch in Christus (1721-25) and Deletselen 
d. Geestelyken Levens (1727), and also as an advocate of 
union among his coreligionists through the Ontwerptoe 
Yereeniging der Doopsgezinden (1723). His principal 
fame was obtained, however, in the publication of the 
Ilistoria Mennonitarum (Amst. 1723, 1729,2 vols. [first in 
Dutch, Korte Hist.J). See Blaupot ten Cate, Geschied . 
der Doopsgezinden , etc., ii, 13G, and the literature there 
given; Krohn, Gesch . der Wiedert (infer, p. 13G sq. — 
Herzog, Real-Enegklop. s. v. 

Sciadltis, in Greek mythology, was an appellative 
of Diana , who possessed a temple at Scia, in Arcadia, 
which had been built by Aristodcmus. 

Sciallius, in Greek mythology, was an appellative 
of Apollo. 

Sciamancy, or Sciomancy (Gr. and, a shadorc, 
and fiavrua , divination ), a species of divination, by 
which it was pretended the dead were brought from the 
shades below. See Divination ; Necromancy. 

Sciapddes was a name in Greek mythology. A 
fable of the ancient Greeks recites that a people lived in 
India whose feet were so large as to be capable of serv- 
ing as umbrellas. The Sciapodes {shadow-footed people) 
were accordingly in the habit of seating themselves and 
interposing a foot between the sun and their persons. — 
Yollmer, 1 Yorterh. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Scias, in Greek mythology, was a nymph from the 
forests of Tanagra, the wife of Cephissus anti mother of 
Elinus. Eunostos, a son of the latter, became notorious 
through his indifference towards Ochne, the daughter 
of Colonus. 

Science (" maddd ; Dan. i, 4, knowledge , as else- 
where rendered). In one passage only (1 Tim. vi, 20) 
this word has also been given by our translators as the 
equivalent of the Greek term yvCjotQ. a word which is 
used about thirty times in the New Test., but which in 
all other passages is properly rendered knowledge. It 
doubtless here refers to the so-called gnosis , or that af- 
fectation of spiritual knowledge which set itself in ar- 
ray against the Gospel of Christ, and which boasted of 
its superior insight into the nature of things. It was 
from this sort of pretentious knowing that the Gnostics 
derived their name, and they were among the earliest 
corrupters of the simplicity of the Gospel ol’Christ. See 
Gnostics. Many readers have erroneously supposed 
that Paul is speaking of something else than the ‘‘knowl- 
edge” of which both the Judaizing and the mystic sects 
of the apostolic age continually boasted, against which 
he so urgently warns men (1 Cor. viii, 1,7), the counter- 
feit of the true knowledge which he prizes so highly 
(xii, 8; xiii, 2; Phil, i, 9 ; Col. iii, 10). 

It was not until after the accession of David that the 
Jews became remarkable for their intellectual culture; 
but the patriarchs probably possessed a considerable 
knowledge of practical astronomy [see Astronomy], 


such as is still popular among pastoral tribes, prob- 
ably corrupting it by an admixture of judicial astrol- 
ogy'. See Astrology. The literature of the He- 
brews was chiefly limited to ethics, religion, the his- 
tory of their nation, and to natural history, on which 
Solomon wrote several treatises no longer extant. If 
the phenomena mentioned in Scripture had been de- 
scribed with the accuracy of modern physical science, 
they would have been unintelligible to the persons for 
whose use the sacred writings were originally designed. 
The most numerous references to Oriental science occur 
in the book of Job (see Schmidt, Dihlischer Dhysikus 
[Ziillichau, 1731, 1748]). 

In modern times the appeal of rationalists and semi- 
infidels has especially been to the discoveries of science, 
especially geology (q. v.), as militating against the Bi- 
ble; but in every instance a careful and candid compari- 
son has shown their compatibility. See Interpreta- 
tion, Birlical. 

SCIENCE and Revelation. It is an undeniable 
fact that there is a controversy between scientists and 
theologians, but we propose to answer in this article the 
question, Is there any antagonism between science and 
revelation V It may be well to define the position 
which -some of the most distinguished scientists take, 
and which they claim to be alone tenable. Prof. Hux- 
ley says, “There is but one kind of knowledge, and but 
one method of acquiring it;” that that kind of knowl- 
edge makes “scepticism the highest of duties, blind 
faith the one unpardonable sin.” lie describes all faith 
as “ blind” which accepts anything on any kind of au- 
thority but that of scientific experience. lie describes 
true religion as “ worship, ‘ for the most part of the silent 
sort,’ at the altar of the Unknown and Unknowable,” 
and proclaims “justification, not by faith, but by verifi- 
cation,” as the gospel of modern science ( Lay Sermon , 
read at St. Martin’s Hall, London, and published in the 
Fortnightly Review , Jan. 15, 18GG). He further says that 
“the improver of natural knowledge absolutely refuses 
to acknowledge authority as such,” and maintains that 
the method of the inductive sciences is the only method 
by which any human creature can arrive at any sort of 
truth. The natural consequence is that such men find 
themselves opposed to revelation, which assumes that 
man by searching cannot find all truth, and therefore 
teaches what is, otherwise, unknown and unknowable. 
Many scientists assert that their investigations prove 
the falsity of the statements and teachings of Scripture. 
That the conclusions of scientists may not harmonize 
with what they believe to be the teachings of Scripture 
we readily admit; but that the real facts taught in the 
one contradict, antagonize, those revealed by the other 
we as unhesitatingly deny. In fact, revelation, as we 
hope to show, really has no controversy with science. 
Let us glance at some of the alleged contradictions. 

1. Genesis. — The first chapters of this book have been 
the great bone of contention, theologians having been 
wont to assume that Moses asserts the formation of the 
entire universe, or at least of our own globe, with all its 
internal and superficial furniture, in six literal days; 
while scientists at present in the main contend for an 
immense period of astronomical and geological a*ras, 
which they claim that they read in the nebular reduc- 
tions, the rocky strata, and the vital evolutions. But 
a close inspection of the phraseology of Moses shows 
that he has not committed himself to either of these op- 
posite opinions, lie simply states in ver. 1 the fact of 
God’s creation of our own planet and its solar system, 
substantially as they now exist, without specifying any 
particulars as to the time, mode, or order of the process; 
and in the following verses he narrates successive stages 
of a subsequent special creation of the present vegetable 
and animal tribes, either over the earth generally or 
possibty in a particular locality only. The Bible and 
modern science thus appear to be discoursing upon two 
entirety different subjects, and cannot possibly contra* 
diet each other. 


SCIENCE 


448 


SCIOPPIUS 


2. The Antiquity of Man. — Tlie questions of the an- 
tiquity and unity of the human race upon the earth are 
indeed more explicitly touched upon in the Bible, but 
modern science has hitherto adduced nothing adequate 
to overthrow the Biblical testimony. Presumptions to 
the contrary, it is true, have been raised in some quar- 
ters by certain phenomena; but these admit of so ready 
an explanation on other grounds, and are rebutted by so 
many other facts, that scientists at large still hold fast 
to the opinion that man is of comparatively recent ori- 
gin, and must have sprung from a single family. 

3. The Flood. — The universality of Noah’s flood as to 
the surface of the globe, although we admit the first in- 
ference from the Biblical account, is found on a closer 
examination not to be necessarity intended by its lan- 
guage; and a consideration of its uselessness and im- 
practicability for the mere purpose of drowning a few 
thousands in a particular locality induced expositors to 
limit its prevalence long before the modern scientific 
objections were thought of. 

4. The Resurrect ion , etc. — The doctrine of the sur- 
vival of the soul after death, and of the resurrection of 
the body, are coming more and more to be seen to be 
not only not incompatible with physiological science, 
but to be almost necessary deductions from psychologi- 
cal and metaphysical reasoning, even apart from revela- 
tion. If the miraculous element be admitted into nat- 
ure, and hard facts demand its occasional intervention, 
as well as its primal impulse, all difficulty on physical 
grounds vanishes from these problems of the future 
world. The imperceptible but frequent renewal of the 
material organism actually furnishes a striking illustra- 
tion of the continuity of identity in the midst of appar- 
ent dissolution and atomic change. 

5. Alleyed Unscientific Statements. — But it is said that 
certain specific statements of Scripture are shown by 
science to be false. For instance, in natural history the 
coney and the hare are classed with the ruminants (Lev. 
xi, 5, 6; Deut. xiv, 7), whereas in fact they have no 
cud; and the ant with non-hybernating insects (Brov. 
vi, 6-8; xxx, 25), whereas in truth it lies torpid all 
winter. The answer to this is that the Scripture writers 
give a correct account of an actual phenomenon, although 
their descriptions are not couched in scientific terms. 
Their language is always optical, i. e. in accordance with 
the exterior or apparent phenomena. As, in the case of 
the hare, they undoubtedly refer to the constant motions 
of the lips, which seems like chewing the cud. They 
were uot mistaken as to the fact which they meant to 
state, nor do they use language which when properly 
interpreted conveys a false impression. If their hearers 
or readers already had an impression scientifically erro- 
neous in some respects, they were not bound to correct 
that impression, provided it did not interfere with the 
purpose or truth which they had in view. Popular lan- 
guage always uses this liberty, but it is not therefore 
chargeable with untruth. Science is simply system- 
atized knowledge, and therein it differs from popular or 
general information. The facts remain the same both 
to the scientific and unscientific man; they are only 
viewed in a different light and with different associa- 
tions. The Biblical writers, of course, having no scien- 
tific notions or standpoint after the Baconian school, ig- 
nore. its nomenclature, and express themselves in the 
plain language of fact or sensible phenomena. They 
broach no theories, they employ no technical terms; 
they coniine themselves to actual things in their phe- 
nomenal forms. This is a universal rule with them. 
Hence they seem to disagree with science whenever its 
rigid canon of verbal precision is applied to them, for of 
course their vocabulary is different; but the dispute is 
about words only, while the things meant are identically 
the same. The sacred writers, in scholastic phrase, if 
you please, use solecisms in grammar, inelcgancies in 
rhetoric, the aryumentum ad hominem in logic, an un- 
scientific terminology throughout — for such was their 
vernacular; but they never fall into error as to matter 


of fact. The conflict between science and revelation, 
when carefully scrutinized, is seen to be only a disagree- 
ment between particular theories of particular scientists 
and particular interpretations of particular passages of 
Scripture. And, furthermore, when the scientific princi- 
ple of thought is compared with the theological, or the 
unveiling of the lloly Ghost to men, they are found to 
be on two absolutely different planes, and unable, prop- 
erly compared, to clash with each other. The funda- 
mental error of the scientists of our day is in their 
method. It is mechanical, external, superficial, false. 
They exalt the senses, which are the mere servitors of 
mind, into the mind’s masters, and terrible is the bond- 
age to which they thus doom the spirit of man. Admit 
that mind is a force, and that there is an infinite mind, 
and then that in Scripture which to many scientists is 
most objectionable, viz. the miraculous, becomes nat- 
ural and easy of belief. The main body of scientists of 
the present day are firm believers in Christianity, and 
science has no warmer advocates than are to be found 
among Christian believers. See Reason and Religion. 

Scillus, in Greek mythology, was the father of 
Alesius, one of the suitors of the beautiful Ilippodamia. 
The town of Alesia, in Elis, is said to have derived its 
name from his sou. 

Sciomancy. See Sciamancy. 

Scioppius, Kaspau, a noted German controversial- 
ist, was born at Neumark, in the Palatinate, May 27, 
1576. lie studied at Heidelberg, Altdorf, and Ingol- 
stadt, and in 1597 visited Italy, Bohemia, Poland, and 
Holland. He had already become favorably known by 
his Latin verse and his notes upon different Latin au- 
thors. In 1598 he abjured Protestantism and became a 
Roman Catholic, in consequence of which the pope gave 
him the title of a knight of St. Peter, and soon after- 
wards made him Comes Apostolicus de Claravalle. He 
also settled upon him a pension of 600 florins. Sciop- 
pius, after becoming Roman Catholic, studied theology, 
and published some smaller 'works, partly to extenuate 
his own conduct, and partly to sustain the pope against 
the Protestants. Henceforth his career is a series of 
fierce onslaughts, chiefly against the Protestants, but 
also directed against all whom accident or malice led 
him to hate. The first person whom he selected was 
Joseph Scaligcr, who had left the Romish Church and 
espoused Protestantism. In 1607 he launched against 
him his Scaliyer Hypobolimams , in which he also at- 
tacks Henry IV of France. Sent in 1608 by the court 
of Rome to the Diet of Ratisbon for the purpose of ob- 
serving the religious condition of Germany, he pub- 
lished in the same year more than twenty pamphlets 
against the Protestants, recommending the Catholic 
powers to exterminate them. At Venice, in the follow- 
ing year, he was imprisoned for a short time (three or 
four days) because of his endeavor to persuade Paolo 
Sarpi to eome over to the pope’s party. He next visited 
Vienna, and the emperor, a devoted Catholic, gave him 
a favorable reception, made him councillor to his court, 
and raised him to the rank of count palatine. In 1611 
he published two works, one ealled Ecclesiasticns Auto- 
riiati Ser. 1). Jacobi, Maynee Britannia ? Reyis, Opposi- 
tus” and the other, Collyrium Beyium , Ser. D. Jacoho , 
Maynee Britannia} Reyi, etc., both being directed against 
James I of England, but the first also containing fresh 
attacks on Henry IV of France. Scioppius returned to 
Italy, but shortly (in 1613) went to Madrid, where he 
was dreadfully beaten by the servants of lord Digbv, 
the English ambassador, in retaliation for the abuse of 
his sovereign. He fled to Ingolstadt, where he pub- 
lished his Leyatus Latro against the ambassador. In 
1617 he settled in Milan, Italy, where he resided for the 
next twelve years. Returning to Germany in 1630, he 
requested from the Diet of Regensburg a pension, which 
being refused through the influence of the Jesuits, he 
became a bitter enemy to the order. He tirst attacked 
them anonymously, but in 1634 openly, in a work ealled 


SCIRAS 


449 


SCORPION 


Astrologia Ecclesiastica. llis life being endangered by 
these attacks, lie retired to Padua, where he began to 
occupy himself with writing a commentary on the 
Apocalypse; but before he had completed this work he 
died, Nov. 10, 1049. Of Scoppius’s works, the principal 
are, Pvemuta Vuria (Heideib. 1503): — Verisimilium 
Libri Quntuor , etc. (Norimb. 1506) :—Suspectie Lectiones 
(ibid. 1507): — De Arte Critica (ibid. 1597): — Symhola 
Critica in Apuleii Opera (Augsb. 1605): — Obseruationes 
Lingua Latina (Frankf. 1600): — De Rhetoricarum Ex- 
ercitationum Generibus (Milan, 1623) ; and others. 

Sciras, in Greek mythology, was an appellative of 
Minerva, a temple being dedicated to her under this 
name in Phalerum, the harbor of Athens, and another 
on Salamis. 

Sciron, in Greek mythology, was (1) a notorious 
robber who established himself on the rocks between 
Athens and Megara, where he compelled the passers-by 
to wash his feet, and afterwards kicked them into the 
sea, upon which a large turtle seized and devoured 
them. Theseus served him as he had fbrmerh r served 
others. (2) The son of Pvlas. lie married a daughter 
of Pandioti, and disputed with Nisus, a sou of Pandion, 
the supremacy over Megara. iEacus, being appointed 
to arbitrate between them, gave the government to Ni- 
sus. and the conduct of the army in time of war to Sci- 
ron. Others designate him as the husband of Chariclo, 
the father of Endeis, the son-in-law of Cyehreus, and 
the father-in-law of AEaeus. 

Sclavina, a long gown worn by Romish pilgrims. 

Sclavonic Versions. See Slavonic Versions. 

Scofield, Alanson, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Albany County, N. Y., Sept. 3, 1800, and worked 
at liis trade as a tanner until he was of age. He then 
commenced a course of study, and graduated at Union 
College, N. Y., in 1830. After studying theology about 
one year at Andover, Mass., he entered Princeton Sem- 
inary in the fall of 1831, and remained two years. He 
was licensed by the Presbytery of Albany Oct. 8, 1833, 
and dismissed Feb. 6, 1838, to the Presbytery of Geneva 
as a licentiate. He was in the service of the American 
Education Society for six years, and resided at Auburn, 
N. Y., until 1839. He was ordained Oct. 3 of the same 
year, and was pastor of the Church of West Fayette, Sen- 
eca Co., N. Y., from 1839 to 1845, and three years stated 
supply of the Church at Red Hunk, N. Y. In 1848 he 
removed to Michigan, and was stated supply fur two 
years at Augusta. Afterwards he served the Church at 
Stony Creek, in the Presbytery of Wastenaw. as pastor 
from 1849 to 1856. Then he was stated supply at Co- 
runna and Newlmrg, in the Presbytery of Saginaw, 
Mich., for a period of four years, first at Fremont, and 
afterwards at (Quincy. In 1864 or 1865 he was trans- 
ferred from the. Presbytery of Saginaw to that of Cold- 
water. About the year 1868 lie removed to California, 
Mich., where he resided during the remainder of his 
life, serving the Church in that place, the whole or part 
of liis time, as its stated supply. lie became in 1871, 
by a change in the presbyteries necessitated by the re- 
union, a member of the Monroe Presbytery. During 
the last four years of his life he was in the service of 
the Presbyterian Board of Publication as a missionary. 
He died suddenly of apoplexy on Sabbatli morning, 
June 18, 1876. Mr. Scofield was a man of immense 
physical vigor, of untiring energy, wonderful tenacity 
of purpose, skilled as a debater, genial and warm-heart- 
ed, earnest and sound in doctrine, and thoroughly de- 
voted to the interests of the Church. (W. P. S.) 

Scolitas, in Greek mythology, was a surname of 
Pan , whose brazen effigy stood at Megalopolis. 

Scoptzy. See Skoptzy. 

Scopus (£ko7toCi a watchman or mark'), the popu- 
lar epithet given by Josephus to an eminence at seven 
furlongs’ distance, on the north, from Jerusalem, whence 
Cestius approached the eitv from Gabaon (el-Jib), and 
IX. — F f 


Titus from Gophna (Jifna), the latter obtaining a fine 
view of the Temple (lEdr, ii, 19, 4; v, 2, 3). Dr. Rob- 
inson locates it on the high level tract and brow upon 
the Nablus road, being the extension of the Olivet 
range (Bib. Res . i, 407), a position in which Barclay 
(City of the Great King , p. 74) and Porter (Ihindb.for 
Syria, p. 118) coincide. According to Lieut. Cornier, 
this spot is still called by the equivalent Arabic name 
El-Meshdrif and answers to all the requirements of the 
military notices (Quar. Statement of the “Pal. Explor. 
Fund,” April, 1874, p. Ill ; comp. p. 94). See Jerusa- 
lem. 

Scoresby, William, D.D., an English clergy- 
man and Arctic explorer, was born at Cropton, York- 
shire, Oct. 5, 1789. He commenced a seafaring life at 
the age of ten, and in his twenty -first year succeeded 
his father as commander of the Resolution, and carried 
on the business of whale-fishing. In 1822 be explored 
the east coast of Greenland, and upon his return devoted 
himself to study, entering Queen’s Cpllege, Cambridge, 
from which he graduated as B.D. in 1834. In 1839 he 
received the degree of D.I)., and labored faithfully as 
chaplain of the Mariners’ Church in Liverpool, and af- 
terwards at Bradford, Yorkshire, till failing health com- 
pelled him to retire to Torquay. He here engaged in 
scientific and philanthropic labors. For the better pros- 
ecution of bis researches lie made a voyage to the United 
States in 1847, ami to Australia in 1853, returning from 
the last-named country in 1856, enfeebled by the ardu- 
ous labors which lie had undergone. He died at Tor- 
quay March 21, 1857. His principal works are, An Ac- 
count of the ,4 retie Regions (1820, 2 vols.) : — Journal of 
a Voyage to the Northern Whale Fishery (1823): — Dis- 
courses to Seumen (1831): — Zoistic Magnetism (1849): 
— Sabbaths in the Arctic Regions (1850); and others, 
liis Life has been written by bis nephew, R. E. Seores- 
by-Jackson (Loud. 1861). 

Scorpion (2*1 JTC, ukrdb , Dent, viii, 15; Ezek. ii, 
6; GKop7riog, Luke x, 19, xi, 12; Rev. ix, 3, 5, 10), a 
well-known injurious insect of hot climates, belonging 
to the class A rachnida and order Pvlmonariu , which is 
shaped very much like a lobster. It lives in damp 
places under stones, in clefts of walls, cellars, etc.; and 
in summer nights even creeps about in streets and on 
steps (Bussell, Aleppo, ii, 119). The head and breast 
are closely joined, and there are two large feelers in 
front. The eyes are arranged much as in the spiders — 
one pair in the centre of the thorax, the rest symmetri- 
cally on each side of the front. In the genus Scorpio 
proper there are six of these organs, in Buthus eight, 
and in Androctonus twelve. All these, however, may 
be quite correctly considered as scorpions. There are 
eight feet, covered with hair. There is a very active 
tail, of six joints, which ends in a crooked point (Blinv, 
xi,62) like a fowl’s claw (Schulz, Leitung, iv,351). They 
are carnivorous in their habits, and move along in a 
threatening attitude with the tail elevated. The sting, 
which is situated at the extremity of the tail, has at its 
base a gland that secretes a poisonous fluid, which is 
discharged into the wound by two minute orifices at 
its extremity. The scorpion makes a painful wound in 
men and beasts (Pliny, xi, 62; Dost, Mai'okko. p. 302; 
comp. Minutoli, True. p. 205) which produces fatal re- 
sults (Pliny, xi, 30 ; Sounini, Trar. ii,312; Prosp. Alpin. 
Rer.uEgyp. p. 206 ; comp. Latorde, Voyage, p. 50), unless 
speedy remedies be provided (such are scarifying the 
wound, sucking out the poison, etc. [Bussegger, Reis. II, 
ii, 223]). This is true, however, only of the Oriental 
scorpion (though Thomson, Land and Book , i, 379, says 
its bite is never fatal in Syria), that mentioned in the 
Bible (see description and plates in Rose}, Insecten-Be- 
lustig. iii, 370 sq., Tab. 65; comp. Sir. xxvi, 10 ; Ezek. ii, 
6); for the wound of the European, or Italian, scorpion 
is less dangerous. The former is distinguished by its 
shining black breastplate, which has given it the name 
Scorpio afer. (Many plates arc given in Ehrenberg’s 


SCORPION- 


450 


SCOTCH PHILOSOPHY 


Jeon, et Descript. Animal, Icon, i, Der Animal Evertebr . ; 
but without descriptions. Three kinds of scorpions are 
named in the Descript.de VEgypte, xxii, 409 sq.) The 
wilderness of Sinai is especially alluded to as being in- 
habited by scorpions at the time of the Exodus (Deut. 
viii, 15), and to this day these animals are common in 
the same district as well as in some parts of Palestine. 
Ehrenberg (Symb. Phys.) enumerates live species as oc- 
curring near Mt. Sinai, some of which are found also in 
the Lebanon. Ezekiel (ii, 6) is told to be in no fear of 
the rebellious Israelites — here compared to scorpions. 
There are many scorpions in Palestine — in the plains 
of Jordan, on the mountains of Judah, etc. (Troilo, Trav. 
p. 433; Schulz, Leitung , iv, 352, Thomson, Lund and 
Book , i, 378 sq.), and they are proverbially common in 
Banias (Ciesarea Philippi). A part of the mountains 
bordering on Palestine in the south was named from 
them A crubbim. See Bochart, llieroz. iii, 538 sq. ; Shaw, 
Trav. p. 108. On the scorpion of Asia Minor, see Van 
Lennep, Bible Lands, p. 309 sq. ; and on those of Egypt, 
Olivier, Voyage, v, 171. Those found in Europe seldom 
exceed two or three inches in length, but in the tropical 
climates they are occasionally found six inches long. 
Those of Palestine are from one to three inches in length. 
There are few animals more formidable, and none more 
irascible, than the scorpion ; but, happily for mankind, 
they are equally destructive to their own species as to 
other animals. Maupertius put about a hundred of 
them together in the same glass; and they scarcely 
came into contact when they began to exert all their 
rage in mutual destruction, so that in a few days there 
remained but fourteen, which had killed and devoured 
all the rest. But their malignity is still more apparent 
in their cruelty to their offspring. He enclosed a female 
scorpion, big with young, in a glass vessel, and she was 
seen to devour them as fast as they were extruded. There 
was only one of the number that escaped the general de- 
struction — by taking refuge on the back of its parent; 
and this soon after avenged the cause of its brethren 
by killing the old one in its turn. Such is the terrible 
nature of this insect; and it is even asserted that when 
placed in circumstances of danger, from which it per- 
ceives no way of escape, it will sting itself to death. 
Ordinarily, ho’vvever, it is said to be extremely fond of 
its young, w 7 hich it carries about on its back. 

A scorpion for an egg (Luke xi, 12) was probably 
a proverbial expression. According to Erasmus, the 
Greeks had a similar proverb (dvri Trepniji; (TKopTriov). 
But the creature has, of course, no likeness to an egg, as 
some have supposed that this passage implies (comp. 
Thomson, Land, and Book, i, 379 sq.). The apostles 
were endued with power to resist the stings of serpents 
and scorpions (Luke x, 19). In the vision of St. John 
(Rev. ix, 3, 10) the locusts that came out of the smoke 
of the bottomless pit are said to have had tails like unto 



Scorpions. 

1. BiUhus occitanut, Syria. 2. Scorpio Ccwar, West Africa. 


scorpions,” while the pain resulting from this creature’s 
sting is alluded to in ver. 5. The prophecy here has 
received many fanciful interpretations. See Revela- 
tion, Book of. The “ scorpions” of 1 Kings xii, 1 1, 14; 
2 Chron. x, 11, 14, have clearly no allusion whatever to 
the animal, but to some instrument of scourging, un- 
less, indeed, the expression is a mere figure. Celsius 
( llierob . ii, 45) thinks the “ scorpion” scourge was the 
spiny stem of what the Arabs call Iledek, the Solanum 
melongena, var. esculentum, egg-plant, because, according 
to Abul-Fadli, this plant, from the resemblance of its 
spines to the sting of a scorpion, was sometimes called 
the “ scorpion thorn but, in all probability, this instru- 
ment of punishment was in the form of a whip armed 
with iron points, “Yirga — si nodosa vel aculeata, Scor- 
pio rectissimo nomine vocatur, qui arcuato vulnere in 
corpus infigitnr” (Isidore, Orig.Lat . 5, 27 ; and see Jahn, 
Bibl. A nf. p. 287). In the Greek of 1 Macc. vi, 51, some 
kind of war missile is mentioned under the name <TKop - 
7n&oj'; but we want information both as to its form 
and the reason of its name. See Smith, Diet, of Class. 
Antiquities, art. “ Tormentum.” Another tropical use 
of the word is given in the Mishna ( Chelim , xii, 3). 

Scorpios, in mythological astronomy, v r as the 
t Scorpion in the circle of the zodiac, a monster which 
Diana sent to encounter Orion when pursued by the lat- 
ter. 

Scot, Reginald, was the younger son of John Scot 
of Scotshall, near Smeethe, Kent, England, and was 
born in the first half of the 16th century. lie studied 
at Oxford, and upon his return home devoted himself 
exclusively to learned pursuits. II is famous work, The 
Discorerie of Witchcraft, was published in 1584, and is 
designed to combat the prevalent belief on the subject. 
It called forth the Ihemonology of James I, who informs 
us that he wrote it “chiefly against the damnable opin- 
ions of Wierus and Scot, the latter of whom is not 
ashamed in public print to deny there can be such a 
thing as witchcraft.” Scot’s work passed through three 
editions and was translated into French and German. 
It was ordered to be burned by the common hangman, 
and copies of it are now extremely rare. He published 
A Perfect Platform of a Hop Garden (1576). His 
death occurred in 1599. 

Scotch Baptists. In Scotland a particular class 
of Baptists has long existed under this name. With 
the exception of baptism, they are nearly allied in sen- 
timent to the old Scotch Independents — followers of 
Robert Dale (q. v.). Mr. Carmichael, pastor of an 
Antiburgher congregation at Cupar, in Angus, having 
changed his views, was baptized in 1765 by Dr. Gill in 
London. Returning to Edinburgh, he administered 
that ordinance to five others. In 1769 he was joined 
in the pastorate by a Mr. M‘Lean, who bore an impor- 
tant part during the various internal dissensions which 
arose. Churches founded in Edinburgh, Glasgow, and 
Dundee, after great depression, gathered strength and 
influence, and in 1795 several societies were formed in 
the north of England. At the census of 1851 they were 
returned as having fifteen meeting-houses in England 
with 2037 sittings. The Scotch Baptists are Calvinists; 
are strictly congregational ; they observe the love-feast, 
and upon certain occasions the kiss of charity, and also 
wash one another’s feet when it is really serviceable as 
an act of hospitality; they abstain from eating blood 
and things strangled ; advocate plain attire; they hold, 
with respect to marriage, that, while one of the parties 
being an unbeliever does not dissolve that relation 
when once entered into, it is the duty of Christians to 
marry only in the Lord. For further information consult 
the w T orks of M‘Lean, Inglis, Braidwood, and Jones, and 
that of their great opponent, Andrew Fuller, Treatise on 
Sandemanianism. See Eadie, Eeeles. Cyclop, s. v. ; Blunt, 
Diet, of Sects, s. v. ; Ileligions of the 1 Vorld (Loud. 1877). 

Scotch Philosophy. See Scottish Puiloso- 
piiy. 


SCOTIA 


451 


SCOTLAND 


Scotia (gkotIo, dark), or Trochilus, a hollow mould- 
ing constantly used in the bases of columns, etc., in 



Scotia, Trochilus, or Casement; Baths of Diocletian, Rome. 

classical architecture. The old English name for a cor- 
responding moulding very frequently employed in Goth- 
ic architecture is casement . — Barker, Gloss, o/ Architect* 
s. v. See Column. 

Scotists, a philosophico- religious school which 
arose at the end of the 13th and the beginning of the 
1 Uh century. It derived its origin from John Duns 
Scotus (q. v.), and was especially opposed to the Thom- 
ists (q. v.). Scotus supposed that rational knowledge 
arose indirectly from divine illumination, in so far as 
the human mind discovers divine ideas in the objects 
of which they have been the types. Hence all science 
belongs to theologians. The struggle between the Scot- 
ists and the Thomists turned principally upon theolog- 
ical questions relative to liberty, grace, and predestina- 
tion. One great question in particular was keenly dis- 
cussed by the two rival sects fora long period, and indeed 
still divides the doctors of the Church of Rome at the 
] 1 resent day — viz. whether the sacraments confer grace 
morally or physically? The physical efficacy of the 
sacraments was maintained bv the Thomists, while their 
moral efficacy was inculcated by the Scotists. The fol- 
lowers of Duns Scotus alleged both original sin and 
grace to be the invariable attributes of all men, and 
thus they held them to be developments of the spiritu- 
al world in the ordinary course of providence. At the 
Reformation in the Hi th century, when the Protestant 
party had succeeded in directing the attention of the 
Church to these delicate points, the Jesuits adopted the 
views of the Scotists. The Scotists defend the pre- 
tended immaculate conception of the Virgin Mary. 
See Gardner, Faiths oj the World , s. v. 

Scotitas, in Greek mythology, was a surname of 
Jupiter in Laconia. / 

Scotland, one of the three kingdoms of the Brit- 
ish empire in Europe, and part of the island of Great 
Britain. In addition to the mainland, there are sever- 
al groups of islands on the north and west coast. The 
extreme north point of the islands is Unst, in the Shet- 
land group, lat. G0° 50', and their most, westerly point 
St. Kilda, in the Hebrides, long. 8° 35' \V. The greatest 
length of the mainland, from Dunuet Head, in the north, 
to the Mull of Galloway, in the south, is about 280 
miles; and its greatest breadth, from Buchan Ness, in 
the east, to Ardnanmrchan Point, in the west, about 170 
miles. Scotland is geographically divided into two dis- 
tinct regions — the Highlands, north of the Grampian 
Mountains, and the Lowlands, south of that range. Ge- 
ologically, Scotland is divided into three distinct re- 
gions: 1. The southern, or Older Paheozoic, which in- 
cludes the region between the southern boundary and 
a line running east-northeast from Girvan, on the Frith 
of Clyde, to the Siccar Point, on the east coast. 2. The 
central, or Newer Paheozoic, consisting of the Devonian 
or Old Red Sandstone and the Carboniferous formations, 
embraces the basins of the friths of Clyde, Forth, and 
Tav, with an area of about 5000 square miles. 3. The 
northern division, of crystalline and metamorphic rocks, 
comprises the whole of the remainder of Scotland, and 
has an area of 19,000 square miles. The climate is so 
tempered by the influence of the ocean that, notwith- 
standing the high northern latitude of the country, the 
thermometer rarely falls to zero, nor does it often rise 
above 80° in summer; the mean temperature is 47°. 


Political!//, the kingdom is divided into thirty-three 
counties, grouped in eight geographical divisions, with 
a total area of 30,103 square miles, of which the islands 
comprise about 5000. The population in 1871 was 
3.300,018, of whom 1,003,143 were males and 1,750,875 
females. The people arc divided into the Highlanders 
and the Lowlanders, two distinct stocks, differing in lan- 
guage, manners, and dress. The language of the High- 
landers is the Erse, or Gaelic, a Celtic dialect bearing 
no analogy to the English. The peculiarities of lan- 
guage, costume, etc., are gradually falling into disuse. 
Their chief vices are intemperance and unchastity; so 
that in 1872 nine per cent, of the births were illegiti- 
mate, the proportion rising to sixteen and four tenths 
per cent, in Banff. In general government Scotland 
forms an integral part of the United Kingdom, standing 
on the same footing with England, except in regard to 
law and law-courts and the form of Church govern- 
ment, upon which points express stipulations exist in 
the articles of union between the two kingdoms. The 
nobles elect of their own sixteen peers to represent them 
in the House of Lords, and in 1874 the country was 
represented in the House of Commons by sixty mem- 
bers. 

History . — The original Scotland (or Scotia) was Ire- 
land, and the Scots (or Scoti), at their first appearance 
in authentic history, were the people of Ireland. Scot- 
land was known to the Romans by the name of Cale- 
donia, and was inhabited by savage tribes of Celtic 
race. They were polygamists and idolaters, their re- 
ligion being druidical. They were hardy and brave, 
and offered to their Roman invaders a lierce and obsti- 
nate resistance. In the reign of Titus (A. D. 79 -81), 
Julius Agricola led a Roman army beyond the friths of 
Forth and Clyde, and in 84 defeated the Caledonians 
under Galgaeus. He and his Roman successors failed 
to thoroughly subdue the country, and withdrew in the 
early part of the 5th century. Between the two walls 
in the province Valentia (Northumberland, Dumfries- 
shire, etc.) dwelt five tribes who had become practically 
Romanized and civilized, and who, after the withdrawal 
of the Romans, formed a union called “Regnum Cum- 
brense.” The Saxons arrived in Scotland in 449. con- 
quered and settled the Lowlands, and one of their lead- 
ers, Edwin, founded the present capital, Edinburgh (Ed- 
winsburgh). About 503 the Scots, from Ireland, cross- 
ed over to Scotland and settled on the west coast, es- 
tablishing a kingdom under Fergus, son of Ere. His 
nation had been converted to Christianity by St. Pat- 
rick. Under Coual, his grandson, Columba began the 
conversion of the northern Piets. In the middle of the 
9th century the Scots act pi i red a predominance in the 
country, the Piets disappearing as a people (probably 
amalgamated and absorbed by the Scots) during the 
reign of Kenneth, who became king in 830. In 800 
the Danes, under the vikings, began to invade Scotland, 
and continued their incursions, until, in 1014, alter a se- 
ries of defeats bv Malcolm 11, they gave lip the contest. 
During the reign of Constantine (904-953), the seat of 
the ecclesiastical primacy was transferred from Dimkeld 
to St. Andrew’s, and the regal residence fixed at Scone. 
At the latter place, in the sixth year of his reign. Kel- 
lach, the bishop, and the Scots swore to observe the laws 
and discipline of the faith and the rights of the church- 
es and the gospels. This seems to indicate the meet- 
ing of some sort of council, civil or ecclesiastical, <>r, 
more probably, a combination of both, according to the 
form prevalent at this period both among the Celtic 
and Teutonic nations. During the reign of Malcolm 
III (1057-1093). a great social and political revolution 
occurred in Scotland. In 1072 William the Conqueror 
invaded Scotland and secured homage from Malcolm 
as his feudal superior, which homage became a source 
of much dispute between the two countries. Malcolm’s 
residence in England, and li is marriage with the Eng- 
lish princess Margaret, led to the introduction of Eng- 
lish customs, language, and population into the north- 


SCOTLAND, CHURCHES OF 4£ 

ern and western districts. King Kenneth transferred 
his residence to Forteviot, in Strathearn, which had 
been the Pictish capital, fixing, soon after, the ecclesias- 
tical metropolis of the United Kingdom at Dunkeld, 
w here he built a church dedicated to St. Columba. The 
condition of the country was greatly improved under 
David (1124-1153), the youngest son of Malcolm, who 
was all to Scotland that Alfred was to England. Con- 
forming to the rules of the Church and t he principles 
of religion, he never forgot that he, not the clergy, was 
to rule. He introduced a system of written law Super- 
seding the old Celtic traditionary usages. David was 
as great a reformer in the Church as in the State. lie 
established dioceses, encouraged the erection and en- 
dowment of parishes, provided for the maintenance of 
the clergy by means of tithes, and, displacing the old 
Celtic monastic bodies, introduced the Benedictine and 
Augustinian orders. There followed several centuries 
of internal strife and war with England, resulting in 
much distress and great disorder. During the reign of 
.lames V there were much religious agitation and dis- 
cord. The practical corruptions of the Church were 
greater than in almost any other country of Europe, 
and, as a consequence, the principles of the Reformation 
were pushed further than elsewhere. The Koman Cath- 
olic system being overthrown, a contest began between 
Episcopacy and Presbyterianism, James YI struggling 
hard to establish an absolute supremacy both in Church 
and State. The opponents of the crown bound them- 
selves together, first by the National Covenant, and af- 
terwards, in alliance with the English Puritans, by the 
Solemn League and Covenant. The Act of Union (with 
England) was formally ratified by the Parliament of 
Scotland Jan. 16, 1707; it continued unpopular for many 
years, but the discontent has gradually ceased. For 
further discussion of the mental and religious life of 
Scotland consult Church in Scotland , in the Westminster 
Rer. Jan, 1868; Religious Life in Scotland, ibid. July, 
1871 ; Rudloff, Hist, of Reformation, 

SCOTLAND, Churches of. See the following ar- 
ticles. 

SCOTLAND, Episcopal Church of. In the latter 
part of the 16th century, the Scottish nation, disgusted 
with the lasciviousness, inconsistency, and oppression of 
t he Romish clergy, became unanimous for reform. The 
papal party soon dwindled to nothing — their bishops 
forsook their sees and went abroad; but the ancient 
churches of St. Andrew’s, Glasgow, etc., still continued, 
and were presided over by archbishops and bishops, 
some of whom had been constituted before the Refor- 
mation. Of this old episcopate, James Heaton, arch- 
bishop of Glasgow, was the last survivor, dying April 
24, 1603. James l revived the order (October, 1610), 
when John Spottiswood, Andrew Lamb, and Gavin Ham- 
ilton were consecrated respectively bishops of Glas- 
gow, Brechin, and Galloway by the bishops of London, 
Ely, and Bath. But the Solemn League and Covenant 
followed soon after, and this succession came to an end 
in the person of Thomas Sydserf, bishop of Orkney, who 
died in 1663. Charles II was scarcely seated upon the 
throne when he was advised to restore episcopacy, and 
to suppress, if not all at once, yet by gradual encroach- 
ments, the Presbyterian government in the Scotch 
Church. By the advice of James Sharp, lord Claren- 
don, high in favor with the king, discouraged the re- 
call of t lie old Episcopalians who had been long absent 
from Scotland. The management of the whole affair 
was left to Sharp, who was placed at the head of the 
establishment as archbishop of St. Andrew's. On Dec. 
15 (or 16), 1661, James Sharp, Andrew Fairfull (Fair- 
foul), Robert Leighton, and .lames Hamilton were con- 
secrated to the sees of St. Andrew’s, Glasgow, Dunblane, 
and Galloway by the bishops of London, Worcester, 
Carlisle, and Llandalf. The selection was unfortunate. 
Sharp was chiefly known, through the whole period 
of his episcopate, as the unrelenting foe of the Presby- 


2 SCOTLAND, EPISC. CHURCH OF 

terians; Hamilton was good-natured and weak, and 
both lie and Fairfull had been zealous in past times to 
enforce the Covenant; Leighton was a man of primi- 
tive holiness and an accomplished scholar, but in other 
respects not qualified for his office. The conduct of 
Sharp, especially in forbidding the clergy to meet in 
their presbyteries “till such time as the bishops should 
appoint,” greatly irritated the people. The first act of 
the new Parliament vested the whole government and 
jurisdiction of the Church in the several dioceses in the 
bishops, whereas previously the presbyteries had pos- 
sessed a voice in the administration of the diocese. A 
proclamation was issued that all who had not obeyed 
the late act — that is, who held their livings only by 
virtue of a call from the people and an appointment by 
the presbytery — should desist from preaching and other 
ministerial functions. Above two hundred churches 
were closed in one day, often men of weight and ability 
being displaced by men unfit, by lack of education and 
morals, for the pulpit. The Conventicle Act (q.v.), 
passed by the English Parliament in 1663, was imme- 
diately adopted by the Scotch Legislature. Another 
act followed, substituting a national synod in the place 
of the General Assembly. The business of the synod 
was to be laid before it by the crown, and if agreed to 
by the president, t lie archbishop of St. Andrew’s, and 
sanctioned by the king, it then became one of the ec- 
clesiastical laws of the land. In 1666 the Covenanters 
rose in arms, but were entirely subdued, many of them 
being hanged for rebellion. The course of Sharp in se- 
curing hostile legislation and in persecuting the Cov- 
enanters was disapproved of by many of the clergy and 
bishops of the Church. A compromise was proposed 
by Leighton and approved of by Charles (1667). It 
was substantially to the effect that the Church should 
be governed jointly by the bishops and clergy assem- 
bled in ecclesiastical court, the bishop acting only as 
president; that the Presbyterian ministers, in taking 
their seats, might declare that their recognition of a 
bishop was made only for the sake of peace. Other 
concessions were made, so that the episcopacy was re- 
duced to the lowest point of authority compatible with 
its bare existence. But neither the Covenanters nor 
Episcopalians would accept the compromise, and mat- 
ters grew worse until, in 1679, Sharp was assassinated; 
then a rebellion, and fresh severities on the part of the 
government. In 1688 the Scotch Convention, in their 
claim of rights, stated the conditions upon which they 
admitted William, prince of Orange, to the vacant 
throne. They affirmed in this state paper that “all 
prelacy was a great and insupportable grievance.” The 
bishops retired from the convention, the Presbyterians 
were left to carry matters as they pleased, and episco- 
pacy was once more abolished. At this date the Epis- 
copal Church of Scotland stood thus: there were two 
archiepiscopal provinces — St. Andrew’s and Glasgow — 
with twelve bishoprics. The clergymen were about 
900, some of whom transferred their allegiance to Will- 
iam and Mary, but the greater part declined to do so, 
and formed a union with the Nonjurors of England, 
with whom their history is closely entwined for ninety 
years, until the latter disappeared. In 1702 queen Anne 
wrote to the privy council, expressing her desire that 
the Episcopal clergy should he permitted the free exer- 
cise of public worship — an act of generosity, as they still 
declined t he oath of allegiance to the reigning family. 
The next year the Episcopalians presented her an ad- 
dress, in which they mention the suffering of the clergy 
in 1688 and 1689, and to which the queen returned a 
kind and gracious answer. Such toleration gave great 
offence, and the General Assembly addressed their re- 
monstrances to the lord high commissioner. The Act 
of Union, by which England and Scotland were united, 
took place May 1, 1707, but did not immediately benefit 
the Episcopalians, even the English regiments stationed 
in Scotland not being allowed the use of the English 
Prayer-book. Queen Anne died in 1714, and the next 


SCOTT 


SCOTLAND, EP1SC. CHURCH OF 453 


year the rebellion broke out in behalf of the Pretender. 
The Episcopalians were supposed to be favorable to his 
cause, and were regarded with distrust, and met with 
very harsh usage. On taking the oath of allegiance, the 
Episcopal clergy were again permitted, by an act passed 
in 1719, to officiate in public and to use the English 
liturgy. They were undisturbed by the authorities un- 
til the second rebellion, in 1745, the principal cause of 
distraction being the controversy among themselves be- 
tween the Nonjurors (q. v.) and their opponents. The 
second rebellion of 1745 nearly completed the destruc- 
tion of Scotch Episeopalianism. The house of Hanover 
naturally regarded a Church whose bishops were ap- 
pointed by the Pretender with suspicion. An act was 
passed forbidding every Episcopal clergyman to officiate 
without taking the oaths to the government, and in 1740 
making more than four persons besides the clergyman’s 
family an illegal meeting. In 1748 it was enacted that 
none but English or Irish letters of orders should be 
deemed sufficient to qualify any minister for the exer- 
cise of his office in Scotland, and the clergy were only 
permitted to officiate in their own houses. This state of 
things continued till the accession of George III in 1700. 
In 1705 the communion office was revised by the bishops, 
and brought to its present state. From this period the 
Church has used the English liturgy, with the excep- 
tion of the communion office. From the time when the 
bishops met at Aberdeen and acknowledged George 111 
as their rightful sovereign, the Church ceased to be a 
Nonj tiring Church. In 1792 an act was passed which 
relieved them from the penalties imposed by the vari- 
ous acts of queen Anne, George I, and George II, but 
forbade the clergy from officiating in England “except 
in the ease of such as shall have been ordained by some 
bishop of the Church of England or of Ireland.” This 
prohibition was so far removed in 1840 as to allow them 
to thus officiate “only with the special permission of the 
bishop in writing, such permission extending only to 
two Sundays at a time.” The Scottish bishops early 
in the present century resumed t he titles which they 
had been compelled to lay aside, but these titles are not 
allowed by law. The Thirty-nine Articles of the Church 
of England were made the standard of faith, and in 1803 
the Prayer-book was adopted as the authorized service- 
book of the Episcopal Church, permission being given 
in certain cases to use the Scottish communion office. 
Several flourishing congregations of English Episcopa- 
lians still ( 1854) declined to recognise the authority 
of the Scotch bishops or hold communion with their 
Church, regarding its usages and doctrines on the sub- 
ject of the eueharist as unseriptural. In I8G4 all re- 
strictions on the clergy were removed, save that an 
English or Irish bishop might refuse institution to a 
Scottish clergyman on his first presentation to a bene- 
fice in England or Ireland. The dioceses of the Scot- 
tish Episcopal Church are seven, viz. Moray, Aberdeen, 
Brechin, Argyle, St. Andrew’s, Edinburgh, and Glas- 
gow. The bishops are chosen by the clergy of the dio- 
cese and by representatives of the lay communicants, a 
majority of both orders being necessary to a valid elec- 
tion. One of the bishops, under the name of “ primus,” 
chosen by the other bishops, presides at all meetings of 
the bishops, and has certain other privileges, but pos- 
sesses no metropolitan authority. The highest judicial 
body is the Episcopal College, composed of all the bish- 
ops. The highest legislative body is a General Synod, 
composed of two houses — the one of the bishops, and the 
other of the deans and the representatives of the clergy. 
Since 1834 the Church has increased quite rapidly. The 
livings are generally very small, the minimum fixed in- 
come being £100 a year, and very few rating higher, 
unless the ministers have private incomes. Few of the 
middling class are connected with the Episcopal Church, 
its members being made up principally of the wealthy 
nobles and the poor peasantry. In 1841 Trinity College 
was founded at Glenalmond, in Perthshire, and St. Nini- 
an’s Cathedral at Perth was consecrated by the bish- 


op of Brechin in 1851. See Burnet, Hist, of his Own 
Times; Spot tis wood. Hist, of the Church of Scotland 
(1G25; new ed. Edinb. 1847-51, 3 vols. 8vo): Collier, 
Eccles. Hist.; Bishop Skinner, Eccles. Hist, of Scotland. 
etc. (Loud. 1788. 2 vols. 8vo); Bussell, Hist, of the 
Church in Scotland (ibid. 1834, 2 vols. 8vo); Lathhury. 
Hist, of the Xvi jurors ; Cunningham, Church llist. of 
Scotland; Grub, Eccles. Hist, of Scotland ; also Mars- 
den, Diet, of Christian Churches , s. v. ; Ileliaions of the 
World (ibid. 1877). 

SCOTLAND, Presbyterian Churches of. For 
information respecting the Established Church of Scot- 
land, the Deformed Presbyterian Church, United Pres- 
byterian Church. Free Church of Scotland, see Presby- 
terian Churches. 

SCOTLAND, Belief Church or Synod of, one of 
the seceding bodies in Scotland which arose out of op- 
position to the system of Patronage (q. v.). A majority 
of the Presbytery of Dunfermline having refused to take 
part in the induction of a minister to the parish ofln- 
verkeitliing who was unacceptable to the people, thev 
were cited in 1752 before the General Assemblv and or- 
dered to proceed with the settlement of Mr. Biehardson, 
the minister mentioned. Although three formed a le- 
gal quorum, and it was well known that three members 
| of the presbytery were willing to comply with the com- 
mand of the assembly, yet the quorum was raised to 
five. Three ministers were present on the day appoint- 
ed for the settlement; but as they were not a quorum, 
nothing was done. Of the six who refused to comply 
with the appointment of the Supreme Court, it was re- 
solved that one should be deposed. On Saturday, the 
day after their report was presented to the assembly, 
each of the six was singly placed before the bar of the 
house. Three seemed to yield, two remained firm. 
Thomas Gillespie, minister of Carnock, came forward 
with a protestation defending his conduct, and as a re- 
sult was deposed from the ministry; the vote standing 
5G for deposition and 102 declining to vote. Biglitly 
judging that he was illegally and unrighteously de- 
posed, Mr. Gillespie preached next Lord’s day in the 
open air at Carnock. He went to Dunfermline a few 
months after, and the General Assembly refusing, the 
next year, to remove his sentence of deposition, he laid 
the foundation of a new secession. He labored alone 
until 1757, when a similar congregation was formed by 
Thomas Boston (son of Boston of Ettrick) at Jedburgh, 
in consequence of the forcible intrusion of a minister 
into that parish where the people desired that Boston 
should be appointed. A third congregation was formed 
from a similar cause in 17G0. The first Belief Presby- 
tery was formed Oct. 22, 1761, and consisted of Gillespie, 
Boston, and Thomas Colier, according to the words of 
the original minute, “for the relief of Christians op- 
pressed in their Christian privileges.” Its flrst synod was 
formed in Edinburgh in 1773, and in 1794 a hymn-book 
was sanctioned by the synod. In 1807 it numbered about 
GO congregations with 36,000 members, and in 1847,7 pres- 
byteries, 1 14 congregations, and about 45,000 members. 
In 1834 proposals were made for a union between the 
Secession and Belief synods, which was consummated, 
at Edinburgh, May 13, 1847, under the name of the 
United Presbyterian Church (q. v.). See Blunt, Hict. 
of Sects, s. v. ; Eadie, Eccles. Cyclop, s. v. See Pres- 
byterian Churches. 

Scotopites, one of the many names of the Cir- 
cumeellions (q. v. ). It is found in Isidore Ilispalui- 
sis, and in G rati all's Decretals, II, xxiv, 3. 

Scott, Andrew J., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Philadelphia, Pa., about 
1846. His conversion occurred when he was sixteen, 
and he was received on trial by the New Jersey Con- 
ference in 18GG. but was soon disabled by disease 
which resulted in his death, Jan. 2, 1871. Air. Scott 
was affable, kind, and sincere, and as a minister be- 


SCOTT 


SCOTT 454 


yowl reproach. See Minutes of Ann. Conferences , 1871, 

p. 08. 

Scott, Archibald, a Presbyterian minister, was 
a native of Scotland, and migrated in his boyhood and 
alone to the colony of Pennsylvania, about 1700. He 
is said to have been originally a laboring man, and to 
have pored over his books while his horses were feeding. 
Dr. Cooper, a worthy physician of the colony, being im- 
pressed with Scott’s remarkable aptitude for learning, 
was instrumental in introducing him into the family 
and school of a Mr. Finley, where he enjoyed the ad- 
vantages of a thorough academical education, which he 
compensated for in some measure by working on the 
farm. During the period of his connection with this 
school lie joined the Presbyterian Church, and, for the 
time, began to entertain some thoughts of entering the 
ministry. He was for several years a student of the- 
ology under the supervision of principal Graham, of 
Liberty Hall Academy, and during this period support- 
ed himself by conducting an academy of high reputation 
in Augusta County, Ya., at which Dr. Campbell laid the 
foundation of his accurate scholarship. He was licensed 
to preach by the Hanover Presbytery, Oct. 31, 1777, and 
was ordained and installed pastor of the united churches 
of Hebron and Bethel, in Augusta County, in December, 
1778, which relation continued for more than twenty 
years, and was at last dissolved by his death, March 4, 
1790. Air. Scott’s charge was a very scattered one, com- 
prehending a district some twenty miles square. Like 
most of his brethren, he also had a very inadequate sal- 
ary during the Revolution ; but he never suffered any- 
thing to divert him from his great work as a minister 
of the Gospel. ;i He entered warmly into the American 
cause, and exhorted his people to light for freedom. It 
was his practice to assemble all the children and youth 
of his charge in different neighborhoods on week-days, 
to attend to catechetical instruction. It. was in this 
employment that he was engaged on that memorable 
Saturday of June when the alarm of the approach of 
colonel Tarleton and his British dragoons spread con- 
sternation from Staunton throughout the surrounding 
valley of Virginia. It is said that Mr. Scott, like his 
two neighboring brethren, Graham and Brown, exhort- 
ed the stripling youths of his congregation to arm them- 
selves and go with their neighbors, to stand with their 
arms at Rock Fish Gap, on the Blue Ridge Mountains, 
to dispute the pass with the invader and his legion.” It 
was the recollection of that stand that gave occasion to 
those memorable words of general Washington — “If I 
should be beaten by the British forces, I will retreat 
with my broken army to the Blue Ridge and call the 
boys of West. Augusta around me, and there 1 will plant 
the Hag of my country.” Mr. Scott was greatly be- 
loved and esteemed in his day. He possessed a logical 
and discriminating mind, and was a strong, vigorous 
thinker; his preaching is said to have been in a high 
degree instructive, and often eloquent and powerful. 
He attached much importance and devoted much time 
to the religious instruction of the young. Besides the 
Shorter Catechism which he used, he introduced what 
was known as The Mother's Catechism, a work extend- 
ing to 3*2 pp. 8 vo, the appendix of which lie wrote him- 
self. See Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit , iii, 387 ; 
Allibone, Diet, of Brit . and A mer. A nthors , s. w; David- 
son, Ilist. of the Presh. Church in Kentucky , p. 29; Foote, 
Sketches of Virginia (2d series). (J, L. S.) 

Scott, Charles W., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Morgan County, O., May 
10, 1815, and joined the Church in his eighteenth year. 
He was admitted into the Pittsburgh Conference in 
1866; was superannuated in 1874, and died of consump- 
tion, Jan. 28, 1875. He was studious, careful, amiable, 
devout, and conscientious. See Minutes of Annual Con- 
ferences, 1875, p. 36. 

Scott, Daniel, a Dissenting minister, the son ol a 
merchant in London, was educated with Butler and 


Seeker under a Mr. Jones, at Tewkesbury, Gloucester- 
shire, from whose seminary he removed to LYrecht, in 
Holland, where he took the degree of LL.D. While 
there he changed his views concerning the mode of 
baptism, and became a Baptist. Returning to England, 
he settled in London, or Colchester, and devoted his 
time to writing. He was never married, and died sud- 
denly in retirement near London, March 29, 1759. II is 
works are, Essay towards a Demonstration of the Script- 
ure Trinity (Anon. 1725, 1738) : — A New Version of St. 
Matthew's Gospel, etc. (1741): — Appendix to II. Ste- 
phens's Greek Lexicon (1745, 2 vols. 4to). 

Scott, David, a Presbyterian minister, was born 
in Philadelphia, Pa., March 13, 1849. When a mere 
lad, his parents removed to New York citv, and there 
he received his early lessons in the public schools. At 
the age of fifteen lie entered the employ of the Manhat- 
tan Gas Company as a book-keeper, and until he was 
graduated spent his vacations in earning the money 
needed for his education. He was prepared for college 
at the Lawreneeville (N. J.) High -school, under the 
Rev. Samuel M. llamill, D.D. He united on profession 
of his faith with the Fifteenth Street Church (now the 
Phillips Memorial Church), New York city, at the age 
of fifteen. lie was graduated from the College of New 
Jersey in 1873, taking a fellowship in t he classics, one 
of the conditions of which is that the recipient shall 
spend one year abroad in some European university. 
Immediately after leaving college, Mr. Scott entered 
Princeton Theological Seminary and studied one year, 
at the end of which time he went to Leipsic, Germany, 
where he pursued the study of theology and philology 
for one year; then returning, he entered the middle 
class in the seminary, and, having finished the remain- 
ing two years, was graduated in 1877. He was licensed 
by the Presbytery of New York, April 4, 1876, and was 
ordained by the same presbytery as an evangelist, in 
the Fourteenth Street Presbyterian Church, June 24, 
1877. For nearly a year (from September, 1876, to June 
1877) Mr. Scott was tutor of Latin and Greek in Prince- 
ton College, N. J., while pursuing his studies in the sem- 
inary. Having been accepted as a missionary by the 
Presbyterian Board of Foreign Missions, he embarked 
with his wife, Sept. 1, 1877, for Teheran, Persia. There 
he remained about sixteen months, during which time 
he had well mastered the Persian language, when, on 
account of the continued illness of his wife, by the ad- 
vice of physicians and of the mission, he returned to the 
United States, intending again to resume his work at 
Teheran as soon as possible. He arrived in New York 
near the end of March, almost immediately afterwards 
grew ill, and died in that city, April 1, 1879. He was 
a young man of excellent abilities and of fine scholar- 
ship, and his death is regarded as a sad loss to the cause 
of foreign missions. (\V. P. S.) 

Scott, Elisha J., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was horn in Greensborougli, AT., 
Aug. 11, 1803, and joined the Baptist Church at the 
age of twelve. He continued in that Church about 
seven years, when he joined the Methodist Episcopal 
Church, and in 1828 entered the New England Confer- 
ence. lie was ordained deacon June 27, 1830, and 
elder Aug. 11. 1832. After fifteen years he was made 
supernumerary, and was then superannuated for nine 
years, when he became again effective, lie travelled 
the Montpelier District, Vermont Conference, for four 
years, ami took once more a superannuated relation, 
which he held until his death, at Montpelier, Jan. 24, 
1866. Me was for several years the Conference secre- 
tary, delegate to the General Conference in 1836, and 
editor of the Vermont Christian Messenger. See Min- 
utes of Annual Conferences , 1866, p. 129. 

Scott, Jacob, a minister of the Baptist denomina- 
tion, was burn in Boston, March 1,1815, and was a grad- 
uate of Brown University in the class of 1836, and of 
the Newton Theological Institution in the class of 1842. 


SCOTT 


455 


SCOTT 


I lift ordination occurred at Petersburg, Va., September, 
1842. He was pastor at Petersburg anil Hampton, Va., 
and for two years chaplain at the University ol' Virgin- 
ia. Subsequently he had charge of important churches 
in Portland, Me. ; Fall River, Mass.; and Yonkers, N. Y. 
lie was obliged, on account ol' his health, to retire from 
the ministry. For some time he was superintendent of 
schools in Malden, Mass., where he died, Dec. 10, 1871. 
(J. C. S.) 

Scott, James (l),D.D.,a (Dutch) Reformed minis- 
ter, was born Sept. 27, 1800. at Glasgow, Scotland, in the 
house in which Mary Queen of Scots took refuge after 
the battle of Langside. 11 is father, who was educated 
for the ministry, but never preached on account of ill- 
health, died when James was four years old. At fifteen 
he united with t he Church of Loclnvinnoch, and, although 
struggling with very limited means, he prosecuted his 
studies at the University of Glasgow for three years, 
and afterwards at the college in lkdfast, Ireland, for two 
years. Having married in Ireland, he removed to the 
United States in 1832, studied theology under care of 
the New York Presbytery, and was licensed by them 
in 1834. His first settlement was in the Presbyterian 
Church, German Valley, N. J., for eight years. In 1843 
he accepted the call of the First Reformed Church, 
Newark, N. J.. with which his remaining ministry was 
spent. Few men have achieved such thorough pas- 
toral success as he did in this Church, which was great- 
ly reduced and bruken down when he took it, and grew 
during his fifteen years of service to be next to the 
largest Church in its entire denomination, numbering 
over six hundred communicants, and flourishing out- 
wardly and spiritually. A large debt was removed, 
and three new and healthy churches grew out of it 
within this period. Dr. Scott’s mind was synthetic 
rather than analytical, lie was highly imaginative, a 
great lover of nature and art. literary in his tastes, and 
excelled in descriptive writing and in illustrative and 
pictorial address. His style teemed with figures. Rhe- 
torical in manner and vivid in coloring, with a large, 
robust frame, a clear, strong voice, a full, canny Scotch 
face lighted up with benevolent smiles, and an attrac- 
tive delivery, his preaching always drew large, popular 
audiences. But he was not content merely with this; 
his sermons were instructive, expository, free of theo- 
logical technicalities, earnest, full of cheering Gospel 
truth, pathetic, faithful, and finely adapted to times, 
seasons, and occasions. His range of topics was un- 
usually wide, embracing, among ordinary themes, full 
courses of pulpit lectures on Church history, prophecy, 
the religious condition of Europe, the Pentateuch, Ruth, 
Psalms, Canticles, harmony of the Gospels, Acts of the 
Apostles, Revelation, and an unfinished course on Esther. 
As a pastor he was almost unrivalled. He knew every- 
body among his people and all about them. Young 
people and children were his particular delight and 
care. Among the sick and poor and wretched his at- 
tentions were untiring. Beyond his own congregation 
he was so thoroughly well known and identified with 
every good public interest in Newark that he was just- 
ly called at his funeral the curate of the city. He de- 
voted himself with zeal to the organization of the ad- 
mirable Newark Library Association, to various educa- 
tional movements, such as the public schools of Newark, 
the endowment of Rutgers College, and the preparation 
of a series of school-books. In all evangelical mission 
work, like that among the Germans, Sunday-schools, 
and the poor, he was a leading spirit. Ilia disposition 
was remarkably cheerful, sunny, unsuspecting, frank, 
generous, self-conscious, anil pleasantly egotistical at 
times, upright, bold, and faithful. He wrote much for 
newspapers, conducted a constant foreign correspond- 
ence with eminent men, anil delivered literary lectures 
and addresses, and was always eminent for public spirit. 
The poet Robert Pollok was bis bosom friend. lie 
prepared an excellent life of this favorite author of The 
Coarse of Time , which was published by the Carters, 


New York, and has had a large circulation. He also 
wrote much in verse, and left a posthumous manuscript 
poem, with directions for its publication. But bis 
crowning distinction was bis thoroughly devoted Chris- 
tian ministerial life. It was radiant with the results of 
faithful service. 1 1 is death was sudden, lie rose from 
his bed and was going to his bath on a Saturday morn- 
ing, when he was seized with the fatal disease of which 
he had entertained frequent apprehensions. Immediate- 
ly he said, ‘‘This is paralysis — this is death. I am not 
afraid to die; 1 am ready.” Ilis last message, just be- 
fore he became unconscious, was, “ Give my love to all 
my people. Tell them they were in mv dying thoughts, 
and that when dying I sent my blessing to my young 
people.” In his own words respecting his friend Pol- 
lok, “There was no death-struggle, no agony, no con- 
vulsion. Ilis soul went out of the body all noiseless and 
fast, like Peter from the prison when the angel took 
off the fetters, opened the gate, and delivered him.” 
He died 31 ay 10, 1858. In addition to the above no- 
tice, see I rife, Letters , and Literary Remains of Robert 
Pollok (N. Y. 12mo). Dr. Scott published An Essay on 
the Course of Time: — The Guardian A nyel (N. Y. 12mo), 
a poem in three books: — he also bail a share in the 
series -of school-books produced by a literary association 
and entitled The American System of Education: — the 
article Malachi in the annual known as The Saviour , 
Prophets , and A pasties ; and wrote many papers in Brit- 
ish and American periodicals. See Wilson, Presb. 1/ist . 
Almanac, I860, p. 204; Loud. Critic , 1859; Allibone, 
Piet . of Brit, and A mer. A uthors , s. v. (\Y. J. R. T.) 

Scott, James (2), a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Armagh Count}*, Ireland, Aug. 1, 1825. He 
made a profession of religion in his sixteenth year, im- 
mediately began his preparatory studies for the ministry, 
and graduated with honor at the University of Glasgow, 
Scotland, in 1848. Soon after, he emigrated to Ameri- 
ca; graduated at Princeton Theological Seminary, N. J., 
in 1852; was licensed by Luzerne Presbytery in 1851; 
taught in the academy at Attleborough, Bucks Co., Pa., 
until 1853; was ordained pastor of the Church at Ilolmes- 
burgh, Pa.. June 6, 1854, which relation lasted for seven 
years, during which lime he was zealous and faithful. 
In 1859 he was a commissioner to the General Assem- 
bly of the Presbyterian Church, which met at Indian- 
apolis, Ind. He died Aug. 28, 1861. See Wilson, Presb. 
/list. A Imanac, 1862, p. 1 1 7. (J. L. S.) 

Scott, John (1), D.D., a learned English divine, 
son of Thomas Scott, (grazier), was horn in the parish 
of Chippenham, Wiltshire, in 1638. Not being intend- 
ed for a profession, he served an apprenticeship in Lon- 
don, much against his will, for about three years, lie 
quitted his trade and went to Oxford, entering as a 
commoner of New Inn in 1657. lie left the univer- 
sity without taking a degree, and being ordained, came 
to London, where he officiated in the perpetual curacy 
of Trinity in the Minories, anil as minister of St. Thom- 
as’s in Southwark. In 1677 lie was presented to the 
rectory of St. Peter le Poor in London, and was col- 
lated to a prebend in St. Paul's Cathedral in 1684. In 
1685 he was made both B.D. and D.D. In 1691 he 
succeeded Sharp, afterwards archbishop of York, in the 
rectory of St. Giles in the Fields; and in the same year 
was made canon of Windsor. lie died in 1691. and 
was buried in St. Giles's Church. lie wrote, The Chris- 
tian Life (pt. i, 1681. 8vo; pt. ii, 1685; pt. iii, 1686): — 
two pieces against the Romanists (1688) : — Sermons, etc. 
Ilis whole i I 'orks, including Sermons , etc., were pub- 
lished in 2 vols. ful. in 1704. See Chalmers, Biog. Did. 
s. v. 

Scott, John (2), a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was horn in Emmeso, Ireland. At the 
age of seventeen he was converted, and joined the 
Church. Coming to America, he united with the Meth- 
odist Church in St. John’s. N. B. lie was licensed to 
preach in 1822, and in 1825 was received on trial in the 


SCOTT 


456 


SCOTT 


Pittsburgh Conference. He was ordained deacon in 
1827, and elder in 18*29. The Erie Conference was 
formed in 183(1, and he became one of its members. 
He was made a superannuate in 1847, but became ef- 
fective the next year. In 1853 he was again superan- 
nuated, and held this relation until his death, Sept. 2, 
1861. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1862, p. 124. 

Scott, Milo, a minister of the Methodist Episco- 
pal Church, was born in New Berlin, Chenango Co., 
N. Y., in 1818, and joined the Church in 1836. lie was 
licensed to preach in 1842, and joined the Genesee Con- 
ference in 1843. After a brief illness of four days, he 
died Oct. 1, 1864. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 
1864, p. 210. 

Scott, Orange, a noted Methodist preacher, was 
born in Brookfield, Yt., Feb. 13, 1800, and up to his 
twentieth year had attended school but thirteen months, 
lie was converted at a camp-meeting, in September, 1820, 
and immediately joined the Methodist Church. Next 
year he commenced preaching on Bernard Circuit, and 
in 1822 he was received into the New England Confer- 
ence. His labors were crowned with abundant con- 
versions, and he studied hard to make up the defects 
of his early education. In 1830 he was made presiding 
elder of Springfield district, and in 1834 of the Provi- 
dence district. In 1832 he declined an offer to serve 
one of the wealthiest congregational churches in Rhode 
Island. The same year he was elected a delegate to 
the General Conference* About this time he became a 
controversial antislavery advocate, and in the General 
Conference of 1836 he carried through stringent reso- 
lutions on the subject, lie subsequently labored with 
great success as pastor in Lowell and elsewhere. Being 
dissatisfied with the action of the General Conference 
of 1840 on the subject of slavery, he retired from the 
Church, and was largely influential in the formation 
of the Wesleyan Methodist Church (q. v.), of which he 
was the book-agent till his death, which occurred in 
great peace at Newark, N. J., July 31, 1847. 

Scott, Robert, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, South, was born about 1805. lie was re- 
ceived into the Virginia Conference on trial in 1829. and 
was graduated to deacon’s and elder’s orders in 1831 and 
1833. For twenty-eight years he labored in the itiner- 
ant ministry, and in 1857 took a supernumerary rela- 
tion. He died in 1866. See Minutes of Annual Con- 
ferences , 1866, p. 7. 

Scott, Thomas, D.P., a clergyman of the Church 
of England, was a native of Lincolnshire. He was born 
Feb. 16, 1747, at Braytoft, a small farm-house five miles 
from Spilsbv. He was educated at Bennington from 
his eighth to his tenth year, and the following five years 
lie studied at Scorton. At the age of sixteen he was 
bound apprentice to a medical practitioner at Alford, 
but at the end of two months the master was dissatis- 
fied with his behavior, and sent him home, lie was 
now employed about the farm for some time, and com- 
pelled to labor in the most servile occupations — some- 
times tending the sheep, and at others following the 
plough. In this menial situation he continued for more 
than nine years, yet continually cherishing the wish of 
becoming a clergyman. Thoughts of the university, 
of learning, and of study often presented themselves to 
his mind; and he at length consulted a clergyman at 
Boston, who encouraged his attempt at qualifying him- 
self for the ministry; and having acquired a competent 
knowledge of Greek as well as Latin, he eventually ob- 
tained ordination from Dr. Green, bishop of Lincoln, 
Sept. 20, 1772. Ilis first curacy was that of Stoke Gold- 
ington and Gayhurst, Buckinghamshire, from which he 
removed in 1775 to Ravcnstonc. In the spring of 1777 
he settled in Weston Underwood, succeeding Mr. John 
Newton to the curacy of Olnev in 1781. In 1785 he 
was removed from Olnev to the chaplainship of the 
Lock Hospital, near Hyde Park Corner, and held, be- 
sides. two lectureships in the city. In 1803 he obtained 


the living of Aston-Sandford, in Buckinghamshire, which 
he held to the period of his death, April 16, 1821. It was 
an exceedingly small parish, but he could not be pre- 
vailed on to seek a larger, on account of the paucity of 
baptisms and burials which took place — a circumstance 
which, in some measure, relieved his scruples respect- 
ing the service as prescribed in the ritual. He first 
appeared as an author in a small volume entitled The 
Force of Truth (1779), in which he details the singular 
events which issued in bis change of mind and charac- 
ter. This little piece has gone through not less than 
twenty editions. But his most important work, and 
that which has rendered him one of the most influential 
divines of the present day, is A Family Bible, with Origi- 
nal Notes , Practical Observations , and Marginal Refer- 
ences (1796, 4 vols. 4to; 9th ed., with the author’s last 
corrections and improvements, 1825, 6 vols. 4to). He 
was also the author of a great number of pieces, which 
have recently been collected and published uniformly 
(10 vols. 8vo), including Remarks on the Bishop of 
Lincoln's Refutation of Calvinism : — Essays on Important 
Subjects: — Sermons, Tracts, etc. He left in MS., at the 
period of his decease, a copious account of his own life, 
replete with interest, which has been published by his 
son, and very extensively read. See Memoirs of 
Thomas Scott, by his son : Jones, Christian Biog. s. v. 

Scott, William C., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Martinsburg, Berkeley Co., Va., Jan. 13, 1817. 
lie was conducted through his academical course prin- 
cipally by bis father, the Rev. William N. Scott, who, 
to support his family and educate his own children, had 
opened a school, which he continued for twenty years, 
lie was converted in October, 1831, in a revival com- 
menced in connection with the meeting of the Synod 
of Virginia, and united with his father’s Church in the 
spring of 1832. It was about this time that he first felt 
his call to preach the Gospel. He graduated at South 
Hanover College, Iiuh, in 1837, and at the Union Theo- 
logical Seminary, Va., in 1840. Here the depth of his 
piety, the high literary merit of his performances, and 
the vigor and originality of his intellect marked him 
as a candidate for the ministry of no ordinary promise. 
In April, 1840, he was licensed by the presbytery of 
Winchester, and during the ensuing autumn became a 
stated supply to three churches on Staunton River — 
namely, Providence, in Halifax Co., and Cub Creek and 
Bethesda. in Charlotte Co. In 1842 he was ordained 
pastor of the churches of Providence and Bethesda, 
where he continued to labor till the spring of 1846, 
when He became pastor of the church in Farmville, Va. 
Before he had been three years in this charge, a bron- 
chial trouble had so far developed itself that he was 
compelled to resign his pastorate, and retired to a small 
farm which he owned among his first congregation. 
After two years’ abstinence from all public service, be 
was able again to preach, and was called with perfect 
unanimity to become a second time the pastor of the 
Bethesda church. Here he labored until bis death, 
which occurred Oct. 23, 1854. Mr. Scott was the au- 
thor of Genius and F dith, or Poetry and Religion in their 
Mutual Relations (N. V. 1853). This work is highly 
commended as “a treasury of invaluable thought, and 
in respect to which it is difficult to say whether the 
poetical, the philosophical, or the Christian element 
has the predominance.” His intellect was of a high 
character, and his preaching always marked by careful 
preparation, by uncommon elegance of composition, and 
by clearness and accuracy of statement. Sec Sprague, 
Annals of the Amer . Pulpit, iv, 802; Allibone, Diet . of 
Brit . and Amer . A nthors, s. v. (J. L. S.) 

Scott, William D., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was born in Mecklenburg 
County, Va., Feb. 1808. lie graduated at the Medical 
University, Philadelphia, March 2, 1830, moved to Tren- 
ton, and engaged in the practice of his profession. He 
was licensed to preach Aug. 15, 1840; admitted into the 


SCOTT 


457 


SCOTTISH PHILOSOPHY 


travelling ministry in 1841; ordained deacon Nov. 6, 
1842, and elder Nov. 25, 1844. In 1845, because of fail- 
ing health, he was superannuated, and in 1850 became 
effective again ; but in 1851 he was once more superan- 
nuated, and held that relation until his death, Oct. 3, 
1874. We record here as a part of his history that he 
bequeathed a hundred acres of land each to the Van- 
derbilt University and the Indian Mission Conference. 
See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1874, p. 63. 

Scott, William M., D.D., an eminent Presbyte- 
rian divine and educator, was born in Jefferson County, 
()., in 1817. He graduated at Jefferson College, Pa., 
and at Princeton Theological Seminary, N. J., in 1840. 
lie was licensed by the West Lexington Presbytery, 
and in 1847 was elected professor of languages in Cen- 
tre College, Danville, Ky. ; and, accepting a call of the 
First Presbyterian Church in that place, he was or- 
dained by the Transylvania Presbytery in 1848. In 
January, 1850, he became pastor of the Seventh Presby- 
terian Church, Cincinnati, O., which relation existed for 
two years, when, in 1850, the General Assembly elected 
him professor of Biblical literature and exegesis in the 
Theological Seminary of the North-west at Chicago, 
111. 1 1 is health had been gradually declining for some 

time, and in the autumn of 1801 he visited Princeton, 
N. J., where he hoped, among his kindred and friends, 
to recuperate his wasted energies; but his hopes were 
vain, and he died Dee. 22, 1801, at the residence of his 
father-in-law, Rev. Dr. Charles Hodge. The death of 
Dr. Scott produced a deep impression upon the Church. 
The boartl of directors of the Theological Seminary of 
the North-west adopted a series of resolutions, and the 
presbytery of Chicago the following minute: “As a 
teacher, he was thorough and accurate. Much of his 
time was given to the work of instruction, and he had 
fully prepared himself for it. ... As an expounder of 
God’s Word, he was at all times, whether in the lect- 
ure-room or the pulpit, lucid, impressive, and evangeli- 
cal, attracting all by the originality and freshness of 
his views. As a presbyter, he loved the courts of the 
Church; and being thoroughly conversant with the 
theory and practice of our system, he was an invalu- 
able member in all complex and difficult cases:” See 
Wilson, Presb, Hist. A Imanac, 1803, p. 204. (J. L. S.) 

Scottish Philosophy is an appellation currently 
applied to the method and principles of philosophizing 
and also to certain positive doctrines which were taught 
by several professors in the universities of Scotland. 
Prominent among these were 'Thomas Reid (171 0—0(5). 
professor of philosophy in King’s College, Aberdeen 
(1752-63), professor of moral philosophy in the Univer- 
sity of Glasgow (1763-96) : Dugald Stewart (1753-1828), 
professor of moral philosophy in the University of Ed- 
inburgh (1785-1810); Dr. 'Thomas Brown (1778-1820), 
colleague with Stewart as professor of moral philosophy 
(1810-20); and Sir William Hamilton (1788-1856), 
professor of logic and metaphysics in the University of 
Edinburgh (1836-56). Besides these coryphasi of the 
Scottish school, others should be named who were more 
or less conspicuous in the various metaphysical discus- 
sions whieh preceded or accompanied the lectures and 
writings of these leaders, whether favorable or adverse 
— viz.: Francis Hutcheson (1694-1747), professor of mor- 
al philosophy in the University of Glasgow (1729-46); 
George Turnbull (1698-1748), regent of Marisehal Col- 
lege, Aberdeen (1721-27); David Hume (1711-76); 
Adam Smith (1723-90), professor of logic in the Uni- 
versity of Glasgow (1751), professor of moral philosophy 
in the same (1752-63); James Beattie (1735-1803), pro- 
fessor of moral philosophy in Marisehal College (1760- 
1802); Thomas Chalmers (1780-1847), professor of mor- 
al philosophy in the University of St. Andrew’s (1823- 
27), professor of theology in the University of Edin- 
burgh (1827-43); John Wilson (1785-1854), professor 
of moral philosophy in the University of Edinburgh 
(1820-54); and James Frederick Ferrier (1808-64), pro- 


fessor of moral philosophy in the University of St. An- 
drew’s (1845-64). 

Of all these, Dr. Thomas Reid, by common consent, is 
the central, if not the most eminent, person in what is 
known distinctively as the Scottish school. He was 
the first to give a definite statement and a positive form 
to the principles which have given it a character and a 
name. He was aroused to this bv the conclusions which 
were derived by Berkeley and Hume from certain funda- 
mental doctrines of Locke’s Essay which had been gen- 
erally accepted as beyond question. Prominent among 
these were his doctrines of representative ideas in sense- 
perception and bis definition of knowledge, as also the as- 
sertion that sensation and reflection are the only sources 
of knowledge. These principles had been used by 
Berkeley, with certain additions of his own, to demon- 
strate that the material world is known to us only as a 
system of ideas which are made steadfast and trustwor- 
thy so far as they are held in being by the act and in the 
mind of God. Hume pushed Berkeley’s argument one 
step further, and proved that we have no more direct 
and certain knowledge of spirit than we have of mat- 
ter; and, moreover, that the relation of causation can- 
not be derived from either sensation or reflection, and 
is resolvable into custom, or the habitual association of 
ideas. Hume had also astonished and offended the 
community by his views of morality, miracles, and the 
usually accepted argument for the existence of God. 
Against these views, Reid asserted the doctrine of the 
direct perception of material qualities, and the positive 
suggestion or belief of material objects. He also insist- 
ed that there are certain original principles of belief 
whieh cannot be derived from either sensation or re- 
flection. These he called First 'Truths, First Principles, 
Principles of Common-sense, cte. Hence the Scottish 
philosophy was very generally styled the “Common- 
sense Philosophy.” Under this designation it was ex- 
pounded in a popular treatise by James Oswald (ob. 1793) 
and James Beattie (1735-1803). The principal works of 
Reid were, Inquiry into the Human Mind , or Principles 
of Common-sense (Lond. 1763) ; Essays on the Intellectmd 
Powers of Man (1785); Essays on the Active Powers of 
Man (1788). 

Next to Reid in significance is Dugald Stewart for 
his undeviating and almost literal adherence to the doc- 
trines of his teacher. He was more learned than Reid, 
more elegant, and more imaginative; but he did little 
else than illustrate and enforce the doctrines of Reid by 
examples and confirmations from his copious reading in 
a style whieh w r as ornate and carefully wrought. His 
influence was not confined to Great Britain. His lect- 
ures were attended by pupils from France, who subse- 
quently were active in the reform of philosophy in 
their own country. His treatises were more numerous 
than those of Reid. In 1792 he published vol. i of The, 
Elements of the Philosophy of the Human Mind ; in 1814 
vol. ii; in 1827 vol. iii; in 1793 The Outline of Moral 
Philosophy; in 1810 his Philosophical Essays, whieh are 
more severely and purely metaphysical than an v of his 
other writings; in 1815 and 1821 parts i and ii of his Gen- 
eral View of the Progress of Metaphysical, Ethical , and 
Political Science since the Revival of Letters, in which 
his critical taste and erudition are abundantly displayed; 
in 1828 The Philosophy of the Active and M oral Powers. 

Dr. Thomas Brown should be named next to Dugald 
Stewart, not only because he was his immediate suc- 
cessor, nor because his combination of subtle analysis 
with rhetorical exuberance made him immensely pop- 
ular for a time, but because he introduced new elements 
into the field of discussion, and gave an important im- 
pulse to a direction of thought which is now striving to 
displace the fundamental principles taught by Reid. 
We refer to the prominence given to the so-called as- 
sociation of ideas, to which Brown, following Stewart 
somewhat, assigned a very great significance in the ex- 
planation of psychological phenomena and philosophical 
beliefs. James Mill, John Stuart Mill, and Alexander 


SCOTTISH PHILOSOPHY 


458 


SCOTTISH PHILOSOPHY 


Bain were all influenced by the philosophizing of Brown. 
The modem doctrine of inseparable associations was re- 
ceived through Brown from llume till it arrayed itself 
in direct opposition to the so-called introspective theory 
of Hamilton in the criticism of his philosophy by John 
Stuart Mill. But although Brown in this and some 
other particulars deviated from the traditions of Reid 
and Stewart, he still held fast to the doctrine of irre- 
sistible beliefs as the foundation of philosophic truth. 
Though he aecepted II time’s conception of the causal 
relation, he did not, with Hume, resolve our belief in its 
constancy into custom or experience. H is analysis of 
the sense perceptions opened the way for the physiolog- 
ical psychology which lias since been so earnestly pros- 
ecuted. For these and other reasons Brown is a consid- 
erable tigure among the Scottish philosophers. 

Still more considerable is Sir William Hamilton, 
whose astonishing erudition, subtle logic, and massive 
strength revived the interest in the old questions which 
had begun to wane, and gave a new direction to the 
old inquiries and discussions, llis flrst published con- 
tributions were several articles in the Edhiburgh Re- 
view ; viz. the flrst on Cousin and the Ph ilosophy of the 
Conditioned (1827), others on t he Philosophy of Per- 
ception (1830), and Recent Publications in Logical Sci- 
ence (1833). In 1836 lie was elected professor of logic 
and metaphysics in the University of Edinburgh. In 
1856 lie published the first instalment of the works of 
Thomas Reid, with notes and illustrations, which re- 
mained unfinished till after his death. This work, in 
short foot-notes and long, learned appendices, contains 
some of his most valuable contributions to philosophy. 
Ilis Lectures on Metaphysics and Logic were published 
after his death under the direction of Rev. II. L. Man- 
gel and Prof. John Veitch (1850, I860, 4 vols.). Prof. 
Veiteh also published his Memoirs (1860). Hamilton’s 
philosophical teachings may be classed as follows. lie 
was true to Reid’s doctrine that eommon-sense is the 
foundation and the criterion of all true and trustworthy 
philosophy. He expended immense research in the 
effort to show that this view was sanctioned by the 
most eminent of ancient and modern philosophers. At 
the same time, he endeavored to formulate more ac- 
curate conceptions and more satisfactory definitions of 
common-sense and its relations to the criteria of truth. 
Ilis doctrine of the intuitions, or first principles, is a 
great advance upon that of Reid in philosophical exact- 
ness. Hamilton followed Reid in rejecting the doetrine 
of representative perception, tracing out with laborious 
erudition the several theories held by the advocates of 
this doctrine, and refuting them at every point. Ilis 
classification of these theories is a masterpiece of inge- 
nuity, acuteness, and learning. Ilis own theory is an 
attempt to reconcile the latest results of physiological 
research with the doctrine of natural realism as taught 
by Reid. While he held, with Reid, to the necessity 
of a priori or intuitive truths, he sought to reconcile 
or modify this position by his doctrine of the relativity 
of knowledge. His philosophy of the conditioned was 
the result of an effort to adjust the Scottish with the 
Kantian theory of the a priori element in knowledge. 
In tiding this, he coincided more nearly with Jacobi than 
with any other German philosopher, although he differ- 
ed from Jacobi in his fondness for scholastic distinctions 
and learned erudition. In formal logic he was eminent- 
ly at home, both in its subtle refinements and its special 
literature. He elaborated a new and original scheme 
of logical symbolization on the basis of the doctrine of 
the quant ificarion of the predicate, to which he attach- 
ed great importance. Whatever may be the fate of his 
peculiar teachings, his influence will long be felt and 
acknowledged in reawakening an interest in philosoph- 
ical speculation and a respect for profound metaphysi- 
cal studies in Great Britain and every English-speak- 
ing country. Sec Hamilton, Sin W illiam. 

Besides these four leaders of the Scottish school, 
Hutcheson deserves especial honor for anticipating in 


fact, though not with effect upon the course of specula- 
tion, some of the most important positions that were 
taken by Reid in dissent from Locke. It would seem 
as if Hutcheson had himself been influenced by a small 
but able school of Irish critics of Locke, whose home 
was in Trinity College, Dublin. George Turnbull should 
not be overlooked, who was the instructor of Reid, and, 
in some sense, anticipated many of his doctrines. The 
subtle and consequent David llume should not be for- 
gotten, for without llume the Scottish metaphysics 
would never have had existence. Hume not only 
waked Kant from his dogmatic slumber, but compelled 
Reid into the position of an earnest and patient inquirer 
into the correctness of the current philosophy received 
from Locke. To Hume’s acuteness and subtlety does 
the world owe the birth, beginnings, and character of 
the two most significant schools of philosophy in mod- 
ern times, viz. the German and the Scottish. Adam 
Smith did not fall into the ranks with Reid; but he 
wrote the ingenious Theory of Moral Sentiments , the 
ethical principles of which have been enforced in the 
present generation with a new accession of energy and 
zeal. Thomas Chalmers was not an originator of speeial 
philosophical opinions, but be expounded and enforced 
profound ethical and metaphysical principles with con- 
tagious energy and inspiring enthusiasm. John Wilson 
was more of a poet than a philosopher, but he brought 
rare gifts and rarer eloquence to the illustration of eth- 
ical themes. The acute and brilliant Ferrier may never 
have made a single convert to his theory of conscious- 
ness, but he could not fail to kindle a genuine interest 
in philosophical studies by his subtle analysis and his 
lucid statements. It does not fall within our task to 
characterize living teachers and writers; otherwise we 
might speak of Prof. Henry Calderwood, the daring 
eritic of Hamilton when Hamilton was in his prime; 
Prof. A. D. Frazer, the subtle and sympathizing biogra- 
pher and editor of Berkeley; Prof. Veitch, the genial bi- 
ographer of Hamilton and Stewart ; and the indomitable 
and tenacious Alexander Bain, whose zeal and learning 
must sooner or later arouse antagonists and critics who 
shall effectively protest against the extremes to which 
lie carries his associational theories. Two other writers 
should not be overlooked. James Hutchison Stirling, 
M.D., the author of the Secret of Hegel, the critic, of 
Hamilton, and the able antagonist of Huxley in bis 
As Regards Protoplasm ; and Prof. Simon S. Laurie, the 
ingenious author of Philosophy of Ethics and Notes 
Expository and Critical on Certain British Theories of 
Morals, give ample proof that the interest in philosoph- 
ical studies is not likely to die out, and that, in some 
form or other, a Scottish philosophy will continue to be 
taught and defended which will not be unworthy of Reid 
and Hamilton. Nor should we fail to give just honor 
to Dr. James M‘Cosh, who was trained in the Scottish 
philosophy, and has done so much to expound and 
defend, in an independent and critical spirit, its most 
important and distinctive principles in his well-known 
works, and has also written the history of the Scottish 
school with an enthusiastic interest and faithful research. 

The Seottish philosophy has had no inconsiderable 
influence on the Continent, especially in France. Du- 
gald Stewart attracted many pupils from that country, 
and among them the distinguished Royer Collard, who 
lectured in the Sorbonne in the years 1811-14, which 
lectures were the first significant indications of a reac- 
tion against the traditional system of Condillac. The 
fragments of these lectures were subsequently published 
in connection with a translation of the works of Reid 
made by Theodore Jonffrov. who, with Victor Cousin, 
was a pupil of Collard. The Eclectic and the more 
modern Historical French schools show abundant traces 
of indebtedness to the Seottish philosophy and the im- 
pulses which it received from the Scottish teachers with 
whom it began. This influence has been gratefully ac- 
knowledged by Royer Collard, Theodore Jouftroy, Victor 
Cousin, and many of Cousin’s pupils. 


SCOTUS 


450 


SCOTUS 


See M'Cosh, The Scottish Philosophy, Biographical, 
Expository, Critical, [from Hutcheson to Hamilton (N. Y. 
1875); Cousin, Philosophic Ecossaise (Paris, 1863,4th 
ed.) ; Ueberweg, History of Philosophy , ete., translated 
bv Prof. George S. Morris (N. Y. 1872-74), app. i, 
§27-46. (N.P.) 

Scotus, Duns. See Dctns Scotus. 

Scotus (Erigena'), John, a very notable philosopher 
of the Carlovingian period, who reanimated in his own 
person the long-slighted speculations of the Neo-Pla- 
tonists, and communicated the impulse which, after two 
centuries, eventuated in the earnest and brilliant labors 
of the schoolmen. The age in which Scotus Erigena 
lived is so distant; it is so obscure and confused, or, at 
least, presents so little to attract interest in modern 
times; his works are so unfamiliar and so rare, that his 
name is little regarded, and his career is seldom deemed 
worthy of consideration. Indeed, so slight is the gen- 
eral acquaintance with himself and his productions that 
he is at times confounded with the much later philoso- 
pher of somewhat similar name, Duns Scotus (q. v.). 
Yet John Scotus Erigena was a very remarkable phe- 
nomenon for the age in which he appeared, lie bisects 
the long interval between Boethius and William of. 
Champeaiix, and is the sole luminary — obscured and 
soon swallowed up by the gloom which irradiates the 
darkness of speculation in Western Christendom — during 
those centuries. There may be little of permanent val- 
ue in his doctrines; there may have been scarcely any 
direct influence exercised by them on his own age and 
on the ages that ensued; there may be a very imperfect 
appreciation of the philosophy which he revived, re- 
modelled, and transmitted ; there may be little profun- 
dity when he is compared with his eminent predecessors 
and his more illustrious successors; but there was great 
intellectual boldness in his career. There were vigor 
and originality in his profession and exposition of the 
elder and almost forgotten doctrines in a dull and de- 
clining day. A profound impression was communicated 
by him to his own and to subsequent times, though it 
was conveyed by devious and unnoted channels, and 
through long and strangely disguised modes of trans- 
mission. A full and penetrating appreciation of this 
lonely and memorable dreamer in relation to the creeds, 
the thoughts, the interests, and the fortunes of his times 
might throw unexpected light on the history of philos- 
ophy and of theology, and even upon the confused strug- 
gles — social, 'political, and intellectual — of the 9th and 
10th centuries, the dreariest because the least compre- 
hended period of Christian history. 

1. Life . — The origin, and the place and date of birth 
of John Scotus Erigena are all involved in obscurity and 
are wholly uncertain. According to one account, he was 
born on the western borders of England and was of royal 
Saxon blood. According to another tradition, he came 
from the western highlands of Scotland, and from the 
monastic establishments of St. Columba. The generally 
received opinion, however, is that he was Irish, and ac- 
quired his learning in the religious houses of Ireland, 
which then preserved a higher culture and education 
than were to be found elsewhere in Western Europe 
outside of the Saracenic schools in Spain. We may 
safely acquiesce in M. Guizot’s positive declaration that 
he was of Irish extraction and of Irish training; but 
this is a conviction, not an established fact. There is 
conjecture in the conclusion, as well as in M. Guizot’s 
other assumption, that he was called Scotus from his 
race, and Erigena from his country. Scotus, in the 9th 
century, meant distinctly an Irishman. Erigena was 
its Greek equivalent, and may have been adopted by 
John of Ireland as an Hellenic affectation in consequence 
of his Greek studies, Greek tastes, and translations from 
the Greek. It may have been assumed in order to dis- 
tinguish him from the multitude of other Irish Johns, or 
Scotch Johns; it may have been conferred in the same 
spirit in which Alcuin bestowed classical or Scripture 


names upon Charlemagne and his studious contempo- 
raries. These are only conjectures. Certain knowledge 
have we none on this subject, or on the place of his birth, 
or the time of his birth. He is supposed to have been 
born between 810 and 815; and no grave error will be 
committed by provisionally accepting the earlier as the 
correct date. Current rumors in his own day and gen- 
eration represented him as having acquired his singular 
and varied knowledge, like the elder Greek sages, by 
travels in Greece, Asia, Egypt, Italy, and France. Such 
traditions are unquestionable delusions; but that he did 
travel extensively is rendered probable by a citation 
from his works, adduced by M. Guizot, which seems to 
make distinct reference to such wanderings. The pe- 
culiar direction of his studies, the character of his learn- 
ing, the scheme of his philosophy, his addiction to the 
Greek and to the Neo-Platonic speculations, might all 
suggest personal acquaintance with the Greeks and the 
countries of the Greeks. It has scarcely been noticed 
that the Pythagorean sect, or, at any rate, the Pythago- 
rean doctrine, in connection with its Neo-Platonic de- 
velopments. continued to maintain itself, even beyond 
the 9th century, in Constantinople and in other parts 
of the Byzantine empire. This is clearly established by 
the declarations of Anna Comnena; but it escaped the 
regard of M. Guizot while he was awkwardly endeavor- 
ing to trace the dissemination of Neo-Platonic influences 
from the 5th to the 9th century. Wherever Scotus may 
have strayed, wherever he may have been educated, 
nothing is heard of him till he appears at the court of 
Charles the Bald of France. Whether an exile from his 
own country, or a pilgrim in search of knowledge or of 
sustenance, or invited by the king to aid in promoting 
liberal pursuits, he was cordially welcomed by the mon- 
arch, who made a zealous effort in a distracted time to 
renew the plans of his grandfather Charlemagne for the 
advancement of learning. Erigena went to Paris, and 
was placed at the head of the School of the Palace. 
There is no agreement of opinion in regard to the date 
of this migration. It is variously assigned to the years 
840, 843, 847, 850, and 870. It could not well have been 
before 843, when Charles ascended the throne. It could 
not have been later than 850, when the controversy in 
regard to Gottschalk was raging. Scotus Erigena would 
be between thirty and fort}', probably, at the time. We 
have little information in regard to his personal appear- 
ance. He was small in stature and slender in frame; 
but the physical deficiencies which would invite only 
contempt in that muscular age were compensated by 
the brilliancy of his mind, the amiability of his temper- 
ament, and the quickness of his wit in social intercourse. 
The French king became warmly attached to him, and 
made him his constant companion and intimate friend. 
Charles was himself devoted to letters. He invited 
teachers from other countries, and is said to have at- 
tracted many Greeks to his schools. Employment was 
found for Erigena beyond the Cathedra Palatina . lie 
was requested by the king to translate a treatise On the 
Celestial Hierarchy, falsely ascribed to Dionysius the 
Areopagite, who was just as erroneously identified with 
St. Denys, the supposed apostle of Christianity at Paris. 
The works of the alleged Areopagite had been sent in 
824, by the Greek emperor Michael the Stutterer, as a 
present to the Frank emperor Louis le Debonnaire. 
They were held in high regard in France— not the less 
high because they were Greek and unintelligible. John 
Scotus complied with the king’s request and translated 
the book into Latin, adhering, however, so closely to the 
words of his foreign text as to indicate that the knowl- 
edge which he had of the Greek, as of the Hebrew and 
Arabic, was neither elegant nor profound. His reputa- 
tion, or his position in the king’s favor, drew the regards 
of Hincmar, archbishop of Pheims, who was involved in 
the controversy respecting predestination between Ka- 
banus Maurus,* of Mentz, and Gottschalk. The arch- 
bishop requested John to refute the polemic of Gott- 
schalk. This task was executed with zeal, but it laid 


SCOTUS 


460 


SCOTUS 


him open to the charge of heresy and provoked fresh 
logomachy. His polemic was denounced by Prudent ius 
of Troyes and Floras of Lyons, who invited the censures 
of the Church on nineteen propositions corresponding to 
the nineteen chapters of the essay De Prredestinatione. 
We shall not enter into the nice distinctions of the dif- 
ferent species of predestination, which lead, by so many 
slightly divergent routes, to heresy. The controversial- 
ists, like “ the infernal peers,” 

“Reason’d high 

Of providence, foreknowledge, will, and fate; 

Fix'd fate, free-will, foreknowledge absolute; 

And found no end, in wandering mazes lost.” 

The master of the Palatine School added to his version 
of The. Celestial Hierarchy translations of the other 
works credited to Dionysius the Areopagite. At some 
subsequent time be completed his own system of philos- 
ophy under the title De Divisione Xaturtp, or, rather, 
with the Greek designation llqoi <pvaKt)Q ptfnapov. 
The controversial tracts of John had raised up antag- 
onists and enemies; his philosophical tenets occasioned 
perplexity and alarm. Pope Nicholas, in 867, com- 
plained to Charles the Raid that works of doubtful ten- 
dency— the versions of Dionysius Areopagita — had been 
promulgated by John Scotus without having been first 
submitted to the approval of the apostolic see. He re- 
quired the king, therefore, to send Scotus to Rome to 
explain and justify his procedure, or, at least, to dismiss 
him from the superintendence of the Palatine School. 
The king’s action is unknown : silentinm teyit altum. 
That he did anything is improbable; but Scotus Erig- 
ena drops almost entirely out of view after 867. lie 
is sometimes said to have withdrawn into seclusion in 
France. He is otherwise said to have returned to Eng- 
land after the death of Charles, and to have been placed 
by king Alfred at. the head of his new school at Oxford, 
whence he was driven bv the commotions of the stu- 
dents. According to Matthew of Westminster and Roger 
de Hoveden. he was intrusted with the school at the 
monastery of Mcldun, where, having enraged his pupils 
by his severity, he was murdered by them with their 
styles (stilettos). This last story has, however, been 
transferred to the philosopher from another and some- 
what later Joannes Scotus, who taught at Athelney. 
John Erigena seems to have ended his days in France, 
and to have died before 876. A letter written in that 
year to Charles the Raid by Anastasius Ribliothecarius 
speaks of him as if he were dead, lie passed away like 
a bright meteor flashing through the midnight dark- 
ness, visible only in a brief transit, undiscoverable in its 
earlier and in its later course. 

II. 1 1 'orks . — The principal works of Scotus Erigena — 
the works which gave him reputation and provoked 
censure — have been already mentioned, and will have to 
be noticed again in examining his doctrine. Several 
other tractates were written by him, or have been as- 
signed to him. We cannot determine the dates or the 
sequence of his intellectual labors. 11 is translations 
were probably communicated, in their progress, to the 
circle of curious inquirers with whom he was associated 
in the royal court, and might thus become partially 
known long before their completion. There was no 
such definite chronology in respect to literary produc- 
tions in the days of manuscript as has been usual since 
the introduction of printing. We cannot, therefore, ar- 
range the works of Erigena according to any chron- 
ological scheme. He translated all the works of the 
alleged Areopagite: The Celestial Hierarchy : — The Ec- 
clesiastical Hierarchy : — The Book of the Divine A 'times: 
— The Mystical Th color jy : — and his Ten Letters. Some 
of these may have been previously rendered into Latin. 
He translated the Scholia of Maximus on the writings 
of Dionysius. He composed a tractate On the Eucha- 
rist, in which he denied the dogma of the real presence, 
and anticipated the position of Ralph Cudworth, that 
the sacrament of the Lord’s supper is only a commemo- 
ration of his sacrifice: fanium memoria veri corporis et 


sanguinis ejus. It is not obvious how this opinion is 
consistent with the realistic or the pantheistic character 
of the philosophy of Scotus, but its coherence may be 
detected. Erigena is said to have left behind him a 
work On the Vision of God, and other disputations, which 
have been lost. The reveries of Plotinus, and the rev- 
ery upon reveries of Marcilius Ficinus, might enable us 
to recompose some image of the theory of the Vision of 
God if we could imitate the German fashion of recon- 
structing the unknown out of our inner consciousness. 
A treatise On the Duties of Man was ascribed to him by 
the abbot Trithemius, and several other productions 
have been attributed to him with little reason. 

111. Philosophy . — It is not proposed to enter further 
into the theological positions of Erigena than may be 
necessary to show their relations to his speculative doc- 
trine and to interpret it, or to be interpreted by it. 
There is a close correspondence between his theology 
and his philosophy, as must always be the case when 
different lines of thought are pursued by the same per- 
son with earnestness and sincerity. Moreover, the dis- 
tinctive character of any philosophical doctrine is easily 
and briefly determined, notwithstanding variety of man- 
ifestations and multiplicity of details, by detecting the 
fundamental or cardinal principle, which must control 
those manifestations and details if there be honesty of 
purpose and consecution of thought. Such a principle 
may be readily discerned in the tenets of Scotus Erige- 
na and in their developments. The essential unity of 
the divine nature is his central dogma, whence every- 
thing proceeds, and whence arises his heterodoxy in 
regard to the Trinity. Whether he reached this posi- 
tion by independent reflection, or deduced it from logical 
postulates, or derived it from Neo-Platonic suggestions, 
or from all sources unconsciously combined, this seems 
to be the prolific germ of his whole system. He dis- 
tinctly acknowledges his obligation to Dionysius; yet 
the obligation was not one of servile acceptance, but of 
original development. However the spirit may be dis- 
guised under hard dialectical forms and under derivative 
arguments and phrases, there is a genuine and vigorous 
originality in John Scotus which is evinced in many 
ways. The unity of the divine nature is his point of 
departure. Hence, all things proceed from God; all 
things subsist in God ; all things terminate in God. 
The procedure of Erigena is this, and it gives the title 
to his work On the Division of Nature. The generic 
division of nature is fourfold: (I) the nature that cre- 
ates and is not created; (*2) the nature that is created 
and creates; (3) the nature that is created, but does not 
create; (4) the nature which is neither created nor cre- 
ates. It will be observed that there is a gradual and 
delusive sliding of meanings in the application of the 
slippery and perplexing word “nature,” and that the 
term cannot be strictly applied to that which is not cre- 
ated ; therefore neither to the first nor to the fourth 
genus. It is necessary to note this, as the errors and 
heresies charged upon Erigena are in part due to the 
insufficiency and indistinctness of all language — defects 
which he strenuously asserts himself. Turning to his 
four divisions, it is obvious that the nature which cre- 
ates and is not created is the divinity; but the divinity 
as an abstract conception, a metaphysical entity, the 
Neo-Platonic Unnm or Unitas, not a personal God: that 
the nature which is created but creates is also a vague 
abstraction, but must mean the forces, or laws, or ideas 
regulating all secondary creation — operating, therefore, 
simply by the impulse and constraint of their Creator: 
that the nature which is created but does not create is 
the only one which corresponds with the ordinary con- 
ception of the term, and signifies the concrete result of 
the action of the laws imposed and of the forces com- 
municated ly the Supreme Nature — sustained, therefore, 
nv him, and subsisting in him because supported by his 
laws and by his continuous action: and that the nature 
which neither creates nor is created is a nonentity, an 
unknown and indefinable potentiality, possible but un- 


SCOTUS 


461 


SCOTUS 


imaginable — the impalpable and inapprehensible which 
lies beyond the present sphere of the existent or of the 
conceivable. This fourth nature might be altogether 
rejected, but it would make a fatal breach in this rare- 
tied scheme of philosophy. Erigcna justifies and pro- 
vides lor it in his first and most general division of 
things — into those which are and those which are not. 
There is a very marked Erigenism, or Ilibernicism, in 
the second category. It is necessary, however, to the 
doctrine; for he declares that even God is, in a certain 
sense, non-existent. lie is, and he is not. Absurd and 
blasphemous as such a proposition appears, it finds a 
parallel, as M. Caraman points out, in a similar utterance 
by Fenelon. What is meant is simply, as the context in 
both cases reveals, that all language is inadequate — all 
known qualities, perfections, characteristics, terms, im- 
proper — for the definition of the Divinity; that beyond 
all utterance, beyond all imagination, is everything ap- 
pertaining to the Divine Essence. So far as this perfect 
nature lies without the apprehensible realm of the cre- 
ated and of the uncreated, it is for us non-existent, since 
esse and scire are one and correlative. There may be 
extravagance of conception and exaggeration of ex- 
pression in such a thesis, but it is not necessarily either 
irreverent or absurd in its import. The fourth nature, 
then, as it is only in j)osse, belongs to the Divine Nat- 
ure, or to the yet un manifested operations of its re- 
served will and power. 

The tendency of this quadrifid nature is evidently to 
pantheism, if it is not already pantheistic. The tenden- 
cy is apparently pressed to its consummation in the de- 
velopment of the scheme, which is controlled in form 
and in statement by the text of Dionysius and the spirit 
of Neo-Platonism. Hence How these tenets: “God, who 
alone truly exists, is the essence of all things; as Di- 
onysius the Areopagite says, ‘God is the beginning, the 
middle, and the end: the beginning, because all things 
come from him and participate in his essence; the mid- 
dle, because all things subsist in him and by him; the 
end, because all things move towards him to attain re- 
pose, the limit of their motion, and the stability of his 
perfection,’ ” etc. “ Nothing subsists outside of the Di- 
vine Nature; it alone properly and truly exists in all 
things, and nothing properly and truly exists which it 
is not. . . . Creation is the procession of God through 
primordial causes to the invisible and visible effects of 
such causation. . . . Matter is only apparent; there is no 
real substance but the Divine Essence.” It is not sur- 
prising that Scotus Erigena has been frequently regard- 
ed as the precursor of Spinoza, though Hrucker distin- 
guishes between the pantheism of the former and the 
atheism which he erroneously attributes to the latter. 

If the language which Scotus employed is received 
literally; if the phraseology which he borrows from 
Neo-Platonic sources or from the shaping influences of 
Neo- Platonic mysticism is alone considered, it is impos- 
sible to regard his philosophy as anything else but pan- 
theism. His writings were, of course, accepted literally 
by his contemporaries so far as they were understood. 
The hazardous consequences of his doctrine were the 
more readily apprehended, as certain explicit dogmas 
were obviously at variance with the teachings of the 
Church, such as the denial of transubstantiation and the 
subordination of authority to reason. That such should 
he the censure of the 9th century is much more pardon- 
able than that metaphysicians of the 19th should rarely 
see in The Division of Nature anything hut crude and 
unmitigated pantheism. Crude it is not, for it is char- 
acterized throughout by acute penetration and vigorous 
thought. Unmitigated it is not, for there is a cautious 
asseveration of the restrictions and impotenev of the 
human mind and of language. The Divine Nature, in 
regard to which lie boldly speculates, is declared by him 
to be unutterable, ineffable, incomprehensible, superes- 
sential, supersubstantial. stiperdivine. In his struggles 
to grasp the inapprehensible, he invents terms transcend- 
ing all human appreciation, like a Ilyzantine emperor 


devising titles of hypei'superlatire dignity. Some palli- 
ation may be offered even for the apparent pantheism, 
which is, perhaps, more in the framework and phraseol- 
ogy of the doctrine — in the inevitable vagueness of the 
expression — than in the actual contemplation of the au- 
thor. It must, indeed, be acknowledged that all inac- 
curacies or imbecilities of language react upon those 
from whom they proceed, modify all subsequent deduc- 
tions, and infect the mind of the propounder without his 
cognizance and contrary to his design. Hut, while the 
immediate and derivative consequences of such aberra- 
tions should be fully recognised, they should he treated 
as aberrations, and, therefore, as undesigned. Such 
tenderness of consideration is merited by Scotus Erige- 
na, an earnest thinker, and the first original thinker in 
philosophy in mediaeval Christendom, when the mate- 
rials of thought and the materials of expression were as 
yet loose and indeterminate. Examining the De Di- 
visione Nuturce with the caution and reservations which 
such tenderness prescribes, it may be conjectured that, 
when Erigena speaks of God being all things and of all 
things being God, he really means little more than is 
implied in the Scripture phrase; “in whom we live, and 
move, and have our being;” that when he speaks of all 
things proceeding from God, and of all things returning 
to him, he does not intend to assert the mere evolution 
of Deity into shifting phenomenal forms, or the reab- 
sorption into his essence of the emanations which have 
streamed out from his nature, but only that the divine 
power of creation, in its eternal operation, accompanies 
all the developments of creation and attends the latest 
modes of change. Erigena asseverates creation through- 
lout; he does not identify the Divinity with created 
I forms, nor does he deny the separable character of such 
; forms in any of their stages. These views are incon- 
I sistent with intentional pantheism. These considera- 
tions can, however, only be suggested, not explained or 
developed. 

The absolute and transcendental perfection of the Di- 
vine Nature, which was regarded as indwelling in all 
derivative existence, led Erigena to deny the eternity 
of punishments. In the same manner maybe explained 
his anticipation of the doctrine of Leibnitz, that evil is 
not a positive entity, hut only the privation of good. 
J'o the same principle may also be referred his position 
in regard to predestination, which repudiated predesti- 
nation to damnation. 

Much of the questionable doctrine of Scotus Erigena 
sprang from his dialectical procedure. Following Aris- 
totle, hut imperfectly understanding him, he regarded 
division as the highest function of philosophy. Hence 
came the title and the treatment of his principal work. 
Haureau pointed out his identification of the degrees of 
abstraction with the grades of existence, and Ueberweg 
charges him with “ hypostatizing the Tabula Logical 
There is some truth in these charges, but they must not 
be pressed too far. It is, however, to this predominance 
of the dialectical procedure; to the conjunction of rea- 
son with authority; to the co-ordination of philosophy 
and theology; to the formal statement and refutation 
of objections; and to the array of scriptural, patristic, 
and other testimonies in support of his conclusions, that 
Scotus Erigena owes his title to be considered the pre- 
cursor of the schoolmen. He also furnishes the prelude 
to the great controversy between the Idealists and Nom- 
inalists by his doctrine of ideas and his qualified realism. 

IV. Influence. — M. Guizot conceives that the influ- 
ence of Scotus Erigena died with him. This is true in 
respect to his direct and ostensible influence, which was 
scarcely noticeable even in the maturity of his career, 
lie was outside of his age. Deep night and the obscu- 
ration of all philosophical inquiry followed his disap- 
pearance from the scone. Hut he had awakened reflec- 
tion, though soon diverted into other currents. He had 
scattered seeds which lay dormant, not dead, in the soil. 
The impulse communicated by him must have been ob- 
scurely transmitted to other times, since pope Iionorius 


SCOUGAL 


462 


SCREECH-OWL 


III, in 1225 — nearly four hundred years later — deemed 
it expedient to fulminate a pontifical censure against the 
Division of Nature. This was during the Albigensian 
crusades, when the pope ordered diligent search to be 
made for the work, and the burning of such copies as 
might be found. To this cause its extreme rarity may 
be referred. 

V. Authorities. — There has been no collected edition 
of the works of John Seotus Erigena. His several 
works have been published separately, at different times. 
The first edition of the De Divisione Naturce was edited 
by Gale (Oxon. 1(581. fob). It has since been edited by 
Sch litter (Munster, 1838), and by Floss (Paris, 1853), in 
Migne's Bibliotheca. 31. Guizot stated that he had been 
unable to find the De Divisione Nature in any of the 
libraries of Paris. He acknowledges the kindness shown 
him in searching for it. Ilis inquiries in England had 
been attended with like disappointment. He remarks 
that “many foreign writers who have spoken of this 
work have not had it before them any more than my- 
self in its entire state. Of this they ought to have made 
their readers aware.” as we now do, ex parte nostra, in 
regard to the complete texts of Erigena. 

Notices, more or less comprehensive and satisfactory, 
are to be found in Pagi, Crit. ad Annul. Baronii , Ann. 
850-51; Brucker, llist. Crit. Philosophic , iii, 0 14-025 ; 
Iljbrt, Johann Seotus Erigena, etc. (Copenhagen, 1823); 
Siaudenmaier, Johannes Seotus Erigena (Frankf. 1834) ; 
Saint-Rene Taillandier, Scot Erigene, etc. (Paris, 1843); 
id. Erigene et la Philos. Schol. (Strasb. 1843); Moller, 
Joh. Seotus Erigena (Mayence, 1844); Caraman, Hist, 
des Rev. de la Philosophic, etc. (Paris); Christlieb, 
Leben u. Lehre des Joh. Scot. Erigena (Gotha, 1800); 
Hermens, Das Leben des Seotus Erigena (Jena, 1808); 
Schmid, Der Mgstieismus des M it t clatters (ibid. 1824); 
Ampere, Hist. Lift, de France, tome iii, s. v. ; Guizot, 
Hist, de la Civ. en France, lety xxxix. (G. E. II.) 

Scougal, Henry, an eminent Scottish divine, the 
second son of Patrick Scougal, bishop of Aberdeen, was 
born in June, 1050, at Salton, in East Lothian. At the 
age of fifteen he entered the University of Aberdeen, 
and had no sooner finished his studies than he was pro- 
moted to a professorship (1600). At the age of twenty- 
three he was admitted into holy orders, and settled at 
Auchterless, near Aberdeen. In 1674 lie was appointed 
professor of divinity in King’s College, Aberdeen. He 
died at the early age of twenty-eight, June 20, 1078, ami 
w r as buried in King’s College Church, Old Aberdeen. 
Ilis principal work is entitled The Life of God in the 
Soul of Man (Anon. 1071, ed. by bishop Ihirnet). 

Scourge (usually some form of 12*1115, shut, to lash ; 
shot, Job v, 21 ; ix, 23; Isa. x, 20; xxviii, 18, a 
whip, as elsewhere rendered; I2^1T, shugit, Isa. xxviii, 
15; I2I2il5, shotet, Josh, xxiii, 13; hut in Lev. xix, 20, 
bikkoreth, chastisement in general; <ppayz\\ioi', 
the Lat. flagellum, or whip, John ii, 15; so the verb 
(j)f>ay(:\\(Ho, Matt, xxvii, 20; Mark xv, 15; pacrrtZ, a 
severe kind of whip. Acts xxii, 24; Ileb. xi, 30; trop- 
ically, “plague,” Mark iii, 10, etc.; so in a literal sense 
the verb paanyoM, Matt, x, 17; xx, 10; xxiii. 34; 
3 1 ark x. 31: Luke xviii, 33; John xix, 1 ; lleb. xii, 0; 
or parm^u), Acts xxii, 25). The punishment of scourg- 
ing was very common among the .lews. Moses ordains 
(l)eut. xxv. 1-3) that if there be a controversy between 
men, and they come to judgment, t lien the judges may 
judge them; and if the wicked man were found worthy 
to he beaten, the judge was to cause him to lie down, 
and to be beaten before bis face, according to his fault, 
by a certain number of. but not. exceeding forty, stripes. 
There were two ways of giving the lash — one with 
thongs or whips made of rope-ends or straps of leather, 
the other with rods or twigs. In later times the of- 
fender was stripped from his shoulders to his middle 
and tied by his arms to a low pillar, that he might lean 
forward and the executioner the more easily strike his 


back. Some maintain that they never gave more nor 
less than thirty-nine strokes, but that in greater faults 
they struck with proportionate violence. Others think 
that when the fault and circumstances required it, they 
might increase the number of blows. Paul informs us 
(2 Cor. xi, 24) that at five different times he received 
thirty-nine stripes from the Jews; which seems to im- 
ply that this was a fixed number, not to be exceeded. 
Tlie apostle also clearly shows that correction with rods 
was different from that with a whip, for lie says, “ Thrice 
was 1 beaten with rods.” The rabbins affirm that pun- 
ishment by the scourge was not ignominious, and that 
it could not be objected as a disgrace to those who had 
suffered it. They maintain, too. that no Israelite, not 
even the king or the high-priest, was exempt from this 
law. This must be understood, however, of the whip- 
ping inflicted in their synagogues, which was rather a 
legal and particular penalty than a public and shame- 
ful correction. Philo, speaking of the manner in which 
Flaccus treated the Jews of Alexandria, says he made 
them suffer the punishment of the whip, which, he 
remarks, is not less insupportable to a free man than 
death itself. Our Saviour, speaking of the pains and 
ignominy of his passion, commonly puts his scourging 
in the second place (3Iatt. xx, 19; 3Iark x, 34; Luke 
xviii, 32). The punishment of scourging was specially 
prescribed by the law in the case of a betrothed bond- 
woman guilty of unchastitv, and perhaps in the case of 
both the guilty persons (Lev. xix, 20). Women were 
subject to scourging in Egypt, as they still are by the law 
of the Koran for incontinence (Sale, Koran, ch. iv, note, 
and xxiv; Lane, Modem Egypt, i, 147 ; Wilkinson, An- 
cient Egypt, abridg. ii, 211). The instrument of punish- 
ment in ancient Egypt, as it is also in modern times 
generally in the East, was usually the stick, applied to 
the soles of the feet — bastinado (id. loc. cit.; Chardin, 
vi, 114; Lane, Modern Egypt, i, 140). See Bastinado. 
A more severe scourge is possibly implied in the term 
“scorpions,” whips armed with pointed balls of lead, the 
“horribile flagellum” of Horace, though it is more prob- 
ably merely a vivid figure. Under the Roman method 
the culprit was stripped, stretched with cords or thongs 
on a frame ( divdricatio ), and beaten with rods. Alter 
the Forcian law (B.C. 300), Roman citizens wore ex- 
empted from scourging, but, slaves and foreigners were 
liable to be beaten, even to death. This infliction, as a 
method of extorting a confession, was not unusual among 
i the Romans, and was sometimes practiced by the Jews 
themselves. The same punishment was also occasion- 
ally inflicted for ecclesiastical offences (31att. x, 17 ; Acts 
xxvi, 1 1), and sometimes as an instant mode of chastise- 
ment (John ii, 15). See Gesenius, Thesaur. p. 1002; Isi- 
dore, Orig. v, 27; Horace, 1 Sat. ii, 41 ; iii, 119; Rrov. 
xxvi, 3 : Acts xvi, 22, and Grotius, ad loc. xxii, 24, 25 ; l 
Kings xii, 1 1 ; Cicero, Ver. iii, 28, 29; Pro Rob. 4 ; Liv. 
x, 9; Sallust, Cat. 51 ; and the monographs of Krumb- 
holz, De Servatore Fustibns Ceeso (in the Bill. Brew. 
viii, 35 sq.) ; Sagittarius, De Flagellaiione Christi (Jen. 
1074); Strauch, De Ritn Flagellandi apvd JiaUeos (Vi- 
teb. 1(508); llilpert, id. (Ilclmst. 1052) ; Seypel. De Ritu 
Flagellandi apud Jtomunos (Yiteb. 1008); Sclidpf, De 
Flagellatioue Apostolorum (Yiteb. 1083). See Punish- 
ment : Whip. 

SCOURGING, a practice sanctioned by the Romish 
Church, whereby an individual, for the mortifying of 
the flesh, voluntarily scourges himself. This is resorted 
to in many monasteries at regular intervals, frequently 
as often as three times a week, and in many cases much 
oftener. The act is also performed at Rome on par- 
ticular days during Lent. See Flagellaxtks. 

Screech-owl (r^b n b, lilith, prob. from night, 
and so designating some nocturnal creature; Sept, oro- 
Ktyravpin ; Aquila, ; Symmachus. \apta ; Yulg. 
lamia; marg. “ night-monster”), a creature mentioned 
in connection with the desolation that was to mark 
Edom. According to the rabbins, the lilith was a noc- 


SCREECH-OWL 


4C3 


SCREEN 


turnal spectre in the form of a beautiful woman that 
carried off children at. night and destroyed them (see 
Bochart, Hieroz. iii, 829 ; Gesenius, Themur. s. v. ; Bux- 
torf, Lex. Chald. et Tabu. p. 1140). With the lilith may 
be compared the (/huh of the Arabian fables. The old 
versions support the opinion of Bochart that a spectre 
is intended. As to the ovoK&vravpot of the Sept, and 
the lamia of the Yulg. translations of Isaiah, see the 
llieroz . iii, 83*2, and Gesenius (Jesaia, i, 915-1)20). Mi- 
chaelis {Sup pi. p. 1443) observes on this word, “ In the 
poetical description of desolation, we borrow images 
even from fables.” Among Oriental nocturnal birds we 
have Strix ulula , S. brachyotus , or short-eared owl, like- 
wise found in Egypt and Arabia, as well as to the north 
of Syria, a bold, pugnacious bird, residing in ruined 
buildings, mistaken by commentators for the screech- 
owl, S. stridula, and supposed by some to be the lilith 
of the Bible. The spectral species, again, confounded 
with the goat-sucker, is, we believe, S. coromunda [see 
Night-hawk], and the same as S. orientalis of Hassel- 
quist, who makes it synonymous with massasa and with 
the Syrian bana, but apparently only upon the evidence 
of the vulgar, who believe in the “spectral lady” ap- 
pearance of the lilith and bana. and in its propensity to 
lacerate infants, of which this bird, together with the 
S. ulula and bubo of antiquity, is accused. The original 
version of the story, however, refers, not to an owl or 
goat-sucker, hut to the poetical Strix of the ancients, a 
lamia with breasts, that is, a harpy or a vampire, being 
a blood-sucking species of the bat family (Ovid, Fast. 
vi, 139, and the fables of C. Titinius, quoted by Gesner, 
Fe Striye, p. 738). See Bat. If, however, some ani- 
mal be denoted by the Hebrew term, the screech-owl 
(S. flammed) may well be supposed to represent it, for 
this bird is found in the Bible lands (see Tristram, Ibis , 
i, 26, 46), and is, as is well known, a frequent inhabiter 
of ruined places. The statement of Irby and Mangles 
relative to Petra illustrates the passage in Isaiah under 
consideration: “The screaming of eagles, hawks, and 
owls, which were soaring above our heads in consider- 
able numbers, seemingly annoyed at any one approach- 
ing their lonely habitation, added much to the singular- 
ity of the scene” (see also Stephens, Incid. of Trar. ii, 
76). Kitto {Piet. Bible, note ad loc.) might perhaps re- 
fer the lilith to the eagle-owl, or Bubo maximus, which 



Bubo maximus. 


is found in many parts of the world, and haunts old ru- 
ins and other places where it is not liable to interrup- 
tion. Like others of its tribe, it remains silent in its 
solitude during the day, but comes forth at night from 
its retreat, adding, by its strange appearance and dismal 
tones, to the gloom of the scenes which it delights to 
frequent. The ground color of its plumage is brown 
mingled with yellow, diversified with wavy curves, bars, 
and dashes of black. Its length is about two feet; the 
legs are feathered to the toes, and the iris of the eye 
exhibits a bright orange color. See Own. 

Screen, a partition, enclosure, or parclosc separat- 
ing a portion of a room or of a church from the rest. 
In the domestic halls of the Middle Ages a screen was 
almost invariably fixed across the lower end. so as to 
part off a small space, which became a lobby (with a 
gallery above it) within the main entrance doors, the 
approach to the body of the hall being by one or more 
doorways through the screen. These were of wood, with 
the lower part, to the height of a few feet, formed of 
close panelling, and the upper part of open-work. The 
passage behind the screen for the use of the servants 
was called “the Screens.” In churches, screens were 



Stanton Hai court, Oxfordshire, cir. T200. 


used in various situations, to enclose the choir, to sep- 
arate subordinate chapels, to protect tombs, etc. That 
at the w’est end of the choir or chancel was often called 
the rood-screen, from the rood having been placed over 
it previous to the Reformation. Screens were formed 
either of wood or stone, and were enriched not only with 
mouldings and carvings, but also with most brilliant 
coloring and gilding. The screens at the west end and 
sides of the choir in cathedrals and large churches were 
usually close throughout their whole height, as they 
also occasionally were in other situations; hut in gener- 
al the lower part only, to the height of about four feet 
from the ground, was close, and the remainder was of 
open-work. The oldest piece of screen-work that has 
been noticed is at Compton Church, Surrey ; it is of 
wood, of transition character from Norman to Early 
English, consisting of a series of small octagonal shafts 
with carved capitals supporting plain semicircular arch- 
es, and forms tiie front of an upper chapel over the east- 
ern part of the chancel. 

Of the Early English style the existing examples are 
almost invariably of stone. Some are close walls, more 
or less ornamented with panelling, arcades, and other 
decorations; and some are close only at the bottom, and 
have the upper part formed of a series of open arches. 
Specimens of wooden screens of very early Decorated 


SCRIBE 


464 


SCRIBE 



date remain at Stanton Harcotirt, Oxfordshire, and at 
Sparsholt, Berkshire, and in the north aisle of the choir 
of Chester Cathedral: these have the lower part of 
plain boarding, ami the upper of small feathered arches 
supported on circular banded shafts. Stone screens of 
this date are variously, and often very highly, enriched. 
Some have the upper part of open-work, similar to those 
of wood; and others are entirely close, and are enriched 
with arcades, panels, niches, pinnacles, diapering, and 
other decorations characteristic of the style: specimens 
remain at Lincoln and several other cathedrals and 
large churches. Perpendicular screens exist in great 
variety in very many churches, both of wood and stone. 
Some of them are profusely ornamented with panellings, 
niches, statues, pinnacles, tabernacle-work, carvings, and 
other enrichments. The lower part usually consists of 
close panels, and the upper part of open-work divided 
by mullions supporting tracery; but sometimes the whole 
is close, with the same general arrangement of panelling. 
The illustration given from Fvtield Church, Berkshire, 
is an example of a parclose. — Barker, Gloss, of Archi- 
tect. s. v. 


the high place assigned to 
them, side by side with the 
high -priest and the cap- 
tain of the host, implies 
power and honor. We 
may think of them as the 
king’s secretaries, writing 
his letters, drawing up his 
decrees, managing his fi- 
nances (comp, the work of 
the scribe under Joash, 2 
Kings xii, 10). At a later 
period the word again con- 
nects itself with the act 
of numbering the military 
forces of the country (Jer. 
lii, 25, and probably Isa. 
xxxiii, 18). Other asso- 
ciations, however, began 
to gather round it about 
the same period. The zeal 
of Hezekiah led him to fos- 


Aucieut Egyptian Scribe. 


ter the growth of a body of men whose work it was to 
transcribe old records, or to put in writing what had 
been handed down orally (Prov. xxv, 1). To this pe- 


Parcluse Screen, Fy field, Berkshire, cir. 14S0. 


Modern Oriental Street Scribe. 


Scribe ('*£3, sopher, a writer ; ypapparev^), a r j 0( j accordingly belongs the new significance of the 
word the early appearance of which in Heb. literature title. It no longer designates only an officer of the 
shows the antiquity of the art of writing. The name , king’s court, but a class, students and interpreters of 
of Kirjath - Sepher (“city of the book,” 

Josh, xv, 15; Judg. i, 12) may possibly con- 
nect itself with some early use of the title. 

In the song of Deborah (v, 14) the word 
appears to point to military functions of 
some kind. The “pen of the writer” of the 
A. V. has been thought to be the rod or scep- 
tre of the commander numbering or marshal- 
ling his troops; but it may naturally signify 
only that those unused to warfare in the 
emergency exchanged the pen for the sword. 

The title appears with more distinctness in 
the early history of the monarchy. They 
must not be confounded, however, with the 
w, shoterim (likewise literally record- 
ers) from whom they are expressly distin- 
guished (2 Chron. xxvi, 11), as the latter 
were rather inspectors than writers. See 
Officer. Three men are mentioned as suc- 
cessively filling the office of scribe under Da- 
vid and Solomon (2 Sam. viu, 17 ; xx, 25; I 
Kings iv, o, in this instance two simultane- 
ously;. Their functions arc not specified, but Scribes Willing down the Number of the Slaiu. (Koynujik.) 



SCRIBES, JEWISH 


465 


SCRIBES, JEWISH 

the law, boasting of their wisdom (Jer. viii, 8). — Smith. 
See Scribes. 

As in ancient times comparatively few could write, 
this was, in fact, a learned profession. Such persons, 
evidently official characters, are frequently depicted on 
the Egyptian monuments, as that nation was proverbial 
for recording everything relating both to public and 
private life. On the Assyrian monuments they like- 
wise appear, but less prominently, and only in the later 
sculptures (Layard, Nineveh, ii, 140). In the East to-day 
professional letter- writers may be found in the streets 
] dying their vocation in behalf of the uneducated. See 
Writing. 

SCRIBES, JKjvisif. These persons (called in Heb. 
D n *)2"D, sopherim ; Gr. ypappareig') were originally 
merely writers or copyists of the law, who followed this 
business as a mode of livelihood; but eventually they 
rose to the rank of a learned profession — becoming the 
doctors of the law and interpreters of the Scriptures. 
As such they frequently appear in the New Test., and 
occasionally in the later books of the Old; and their of- 
fice gradually became of still more importance after the 
dissolution of the Jewish commonwealth. (The follow- 
ing article is based upon that of Ginsburg in Kitto’s 
Cyclopaedia, with large additions from other sources.) 

The prominent position occupied by the scribes in the 
Gospel history would of itself make a knowledge of their 
life and teaching essential to any clear conception of our 
Lord’s work. It was by their influence that the later 
form of Judaism had been determined. Such as it was 
when the “new doctrine” was first proclaimed, it had 
become through them. Far more than priests or Le- 
vites, they represented the religious life of the people. 
Oil the one hand, we must know what they were in or- 
der to understand the innumerable points of contrast 
presented by our Lord’s acts and words. On the other, 
we must not forget that there were also, inevitably, 
points of resemblance. Opposed as his teaching was, 
in its deepest principles, to theirs, he was yet, in the 
eyes of men, as one of their order — a scribe among 
scribes, a rabbi among rabbins (John i, 40; iii,2; vi, 25, 
etc. Comp. Sehdttgen, //or. I/eb. ii, “ Christus Rabbino- 
rum Sum m us”). 

The rise, progress, and influence of the Jewish doctors 
and interpreters of the law are properly divided into five 
distinct periods, whieh are indicated bv the special ap- 
pellations under which they were designated in succes- 
sive times. 

I. The Sopiiertm, ov “ Scribes" properly so called . — 
I. The Name and its Signification . — In the earlier rec- 
ords of the Old Test, the name Sopher (“2D, participle 
of “3D, to ivrite, to count ) is given to officers of state 
whose functions were to write the king’s letters, draw 
up his decrees (2 Kings xii, 10; 2 Chron. xxiv, 11), and 
to number and write down the military forces as well as 
the prisoners (Judg. v, 14; 2 Kings xxv, 19; Isa. xxxiii, 
18 ; Jer. lii, 25). As learning was intimately connected 
with the art of writing, and as these two accomplish- 
ments were always associated together in ancient days, 
these scribes occupied a distinguished position. Hence 
they are mentioned side by side with the high-priest 
and the captain of the host (2 Kings xii, 10; 2 Chron. 
xxiv, 11) ; and hence, too, the term Sopher (“ISO) be- 
came in the post-exile period the honorable appellation 
of one who copied the law for himself or others, one 
skilled in the divine laic, an interpreter of the Script- 
ures (Jer. viii, 8; Ezra vii, 6, 12; Neh. viii, 1, etc.). The 
authority of most Hebrew scholars is with this etymol- 
ogy of the word (Gescn. s. v.). Ewald, however '{Poet. 
Buck, i, 12G), takes “2D as equivalent to D2'J, “a 
judge.” 

In their anxiety to preserve the text of IIolv Writ 
as well as to point out the import of its injunctions, 
these scribes counted every letter and classified every 
precept of the law. To indicate this, the Talmud, in I 
IX. — G o 


accordance with its general practice always to deduce 
from the name the various actions of the man, derives the 
appellation sopher from “i2D, to count, maintaining that 
this name was given to those who counted the letters 
of the law (Kiddush. 30 a), as well as from “20, to num- 
ber, to arrange , to class fy, submitting that the name was 
also given to them because they classified the precepts 
of Scripture (Jerus. Shekalim, v, 1). They had ascer- 
tained that the central letter of the whole law was the 
vav of 'jins in Lev. xi, 42, and wrote it accordingly in 
a larger character (Lightfoot, On Luke x). They count- 
ed up, in like manner, the precepts of the law that an- 
swered to the number of Abraham’s servants or Jacob’s 
descendants. 

The Greek equivalent answers to the derived, rather 
than the original, meaning of the word. The ypappa- 
rev c of a Greek state was not the mere writer, but the 
keeper and registrar, of public documents (Thucyd. iv, 
118; vii, 10; so in Acts xix, 35). The scribes of Jerusa- 
lem were, in like manner, the custodians and interpreters 
of the ypiippara upon which the p< lity of the nation 
rested. Other words applied to the same class are found 
in the New Test. 'SopiKoi appears in Matt, xxii, 35; 
Luke vii, 30; x, 25; xiv, 3; yopodiddoKaXoL in Luke v, 
17; Acts v, 34. Attempts have been made, but not 
very successfully, to reduce the several terms to a clas- 
sification. All that can be said is that ypapparevc ap- 
pears the most generic term ; that in Luke xi, 45 it is 
contrasted with vopucug ; that vopo CiSaoicaXoQ, as in 
Acts v, 34, seems the highest of the three. Josephus 
{Ant. xvii, 6, 2) paraphrases the technical word by ifyj- 
ytjrai vofitov, Lightfoot’s arrangement, though con- 
jectural, is worth giving {Harm. § 77). The “scribes,” 
as such, were those who occupied themselves with the 
Mikra. Next above them were the “ lawyers,” students 
of the Mishna, acting as assessors, though not voting in 
the Sanhedrim. The “doctors of the law” were ex- 
pounders of the Gemara, and actual members of the 
Sanhedrim. (Comp. Carpzov, A pp. Crit. i, 7 ; Lcusden, 
Phil, llebr. c. 23; Leyrer, in Herzog’s Real- Encyklo p. 
s. v. “ Schrifrgelehrte.”) 

2. Date and Institution . — The period of the Sopherim 
begins with the return of the Jews from the Babylonian 
captivity, and ends with the death of Simon the Just 
(B.C. cir. 458-300), embracing nearly a hundred and 
sixty years. Though there were popular teachers of 
the law in the Babylonian captivity, as is evident from 
Ezra viii, 1G, where these official instructors arc denom- 
inated skilled in the law (D^D^DD), and from the fact 
that Ezra himself was at the head of such a class (Ezra 
vii, 12, 21 ; comp. Neh. xiii, 13); yet the language in 
which the sacred oracles were written was gradually 
dying out, and Hebrew 7 ceased, in many instances, to be 
the language of the people (ver. 24). This rendered 
the understanding of the Scriptures by the people at 
large a difficult matter. Besides, the newly altered 
state after the return from the Babylonian captivity, 
which called for new enactments as well as for the ex- 
pansion and modification of some Rentateuchal laws, 
imperatively demanded that an authoritative body of 
teachers should so explain the law, which was regard- 
ed as the only rule of practice, as to adapt it to present 
circumstances. Hence Ezra, who reorganized the neAV 
state, also organized such a body of interpreters, of which 
he was the chief. It is for this reason that he is called 
Sopher = one occupied with books, interpreter of the Book 
(vii, G, 11, 12,21 ; Neh. viii, 1, 4, 9,13; xii, 2G, 36), that 
he is denominated the second Moses (Sanhedrin, 21 b; 
Tosiphta, ibid. cap. iv; Jerus. Megilla, i, 9) ; and that it is 
said “ when the Thora was forgotten by Israel, Ezra came 
from Babylon and restored it again” (&wcccr,20 a; comp. 
2 Esdras* xiv, 21-47). The skilled in the law, both 
from among the tribe of Aaron and the laity, who, with 
Ezra, and after his death to the time of the Tanaim, thus 
interpreted and fixed the divine law, are denominated 


SCRIBES, JEWISH 466 SCRIBES, JEWISH 


Sopherim — “scribes,” in the strict sense of the word. 
Many of these Sopherim were members of the Great 
Synagogue which was formed by Nehemiah after the 
death of Ezra; hence the terms Sopherim and the men 
of the Great Synagogue (nbTOfi T\ 033 ‘'ESX) are fre- 
quently interchanged ; and hence, too, the canons which 
were enacted during this period are sometimes recorded 
in the name of the former and sometimes in the name 
of the latter, though they proceed from one and the 
same body. Reserving those enactments which are re- 
corded in the name of the Great Synagogue for that 
article [see Synagogue, The Great], we shall here 
specify the most important acts and monuments which 
have come down to 11 s as proceeding from the Sopherim. 

3. The Work of the Sopherim. — At the outset, the 
words of Ezra vii, 10 describe the high ideal of the new 
office. The scribe is “to seek (Ojfl) the law of the 
Lord and to do it, and to teach in Israel statutes and 
judgments. 1 ’ This, far more than his priesthood, was 
the true glory of Ezra. In the eyes even of the Persian 
king he was “ a scribe of the law of the God of heaven” 
(vii, 12). lie was assisted in his work by others, chiefly 
Levites. Publicly they read and expounded the law, 
perhaps, also, translated it from the already obsolescent 
Hebrew into the Aramaic of the people (Neh. viii, 8-13). 
In the succeeding age they appear as a distinct class — 
“the families of the scribes,” with a local habitation 
(1 Chron. ii, 55). They compile, as in the two books 
of Chronicles, excerpta and epitomes of larger histories 
(1 Chron. xxix, 29; 2 Chron. ix, 29). The occurrence 
of the word mulrash (“the story” [margin, “the com- 
mentary”] “of the prophet Iddo”), afterwards so mem- 
orable, in 2 Chron. xiii, 22, shows that the work of com- 
menting and expounding had already begun. 

In the later period, it is not too much to say that the 
work of these Sopherim embraces the whole field of civil 
and religious law, both as it is contained in the written 
Word of God and as it obtained in the course of time; 
and that it is most essential to the criticism and inter- 
pretation of the Old Test, to understand these enact- 
ments, inasmuch as they materially affect the text of 
the Hebrew Scriptures. This will be evident from the 
following brief description of some of the Sopheric work. 

(1.) In accordance with the primary meaning of their 
name, the scribes, or Sopherim, copied the Pentateuch, 
the phylacteries, and Mezuzoth for the people ( Pesaehim , 
50 b), since it was only the codices which proceeded 
from these authoritative teachers that could be relied 
upon. 

(2.) They guarded the Bible against any interpola- 
tions or corruptions, and for this purpose counted the 
letters of the .Scriptures. Thus the scribes tell us that 
in five instances (Gen. xviii, 5; xxiv,35; Numb, xxxi, 
2; Psa. xxxvi, 7 ; Ixviii, 26), a vav crept into the text 
through a vitiated provincial pronunciation, for which 
reason these Sopheric corrections are called the emenda- 
tions of the scribes (D'HfilO T1I23?, Nedarim , 37 b [see 
Keri and Ketiiiis; Masorau]; Ginsburg’s translation 
of Jacob ben-Chajim's Introduction to the Rabbinic Bible. 

p. 12). 

(3.) They read the law before the people in the syna- 
gogues on stated occasions, for which reason Ezra, the 
chief scribe, is denominated (dvayvdxTTTjc) the prelec- 
tor of the law (1 Esdras viii, 8). Hence the usage of 
the word scribe, or Sopher (1EO), in post-Biblical He- 
brew to denote a public reader of the law ( Sabbath , 
31 a). Moreover, they indicated to the people when 
words were in pause or when they were in the plural 
or simply had dual forms, as is the case with 

etc. These indications are called the reading 
of the scribes (a^BIO X“pE). 

(4.) They propounded the duties inculcated in the 
Scriptures to the people at large on Sabbath and festi- 
vals, and delivered lectures to their disciples in the week- 
days in the colleges, on the profounder import of Holy 


Writ. These expositions are called Sophei'ic comments 

(D^nsi 0 •wnB). 

(5.) They defined the limits of each precept, and de- 
termined the manner in which the sundry commands 
of the divine law are to be performed — e. g. they fixed 
the passages of Scripture meant by “ the words of com- 
mand” which the Lord enjoined the Israelites “to bind 
for a sign upon their hands, and to be as frontlets be- 
tween their eyes” (Exod. xiii, 9, 16; Dent, vi, 8 ; xi, 18, 
with Menachoth , 34 b [see Phylactery]) ; the portions 
of the Bible to be recited at morning and evening prayer 
as indicated in the words “thou shalt talk about them 
. . . when thou liest down and when thou risest up” 
(Deut. vi, 7), etc. These definitions of the injunctions 
are denominated the measures of the scribes (*m5HS3 
Q"i“i£lD), which, though in theory they are distin- 
guished from the letter of the Bible (HTH *i*Q*l), yet 
in authority are equal to it, and are regarded as divinely 
legal (xrvm&ms). 

(6.) They fixed the traditional law, which was in the 
mouth and memory of the people. 

(7.) They enacted prohibitory laws, called fences 
(HT3t, 3PD, IT), to guard the Biblical precepts from 
being violated, and these enactments are st 3 ded the pre- 
cepts of the scribes or the Sopherim , the injunctions of the 
elders ; and in the New Test, the traditions of the elders 
(Matt, xv, 2; Mark vii, 3), the traditions of the fathers 
(Gal. i, 14). Hence, as the phrase ET210 is not 
only used to express the Sopheric expositions of the Pen- 
tateuch , but more especially to denote the definitions and 
hedges of the scribes superadded to the divine law , it is 
frequently identical with the phrase oral law (SlTH 
MS bV'2'22'). Hence, too, the remark which often oc- 
curs in the Talmudic writings, “ a subject the basis of 
which is in the words of the Pentateuch, but the defini- 
tion or superstructure of which is from the words of the 
scribes” ( Sanhedrin , 87 a; Jerus. ibid, xi, 4; Kiddush. 
77 a); when the simple letter of the inspired code is 
spoken of in contradistinction to the definitions and 
hedges of the scribes. 

(8.) They removed anthropomorphisms and other in- 
delicate expressions from the Scriptures by introducing 
alterations into the text, of which the following seven- 
teen instances are especially recorded : i. For the original 
reading, tm.SX ^3£b *1722 TT,:> IT, mi, “ and Jeho- 
vah still stood before Abraham" (Gen. xviii, 22), they 
substituted mm TSb T 22 1ST, 2 tm.EXl, “and 
Abraham still stood before Jehovah," because it appear- 
ed offensive to say that the Deity stood before the pa- 
triarch. ii. For the remark of Moses in his prayer, 
“ Kill me, I pray thee, . . . that 1 may not see (~r3-“"i!3) 
thy evil” (Numb, xi, 15) — i. e. the punishment where- 
with thou visitest Israel — they substituted “that I may 
not see (T212) my evil,” because it might seem as if 
Moses ascribed evil to the Deity, iii. They altered 
“Let her not be as one dead, who proceeded from the 
womb of (ID -^) our mother, and half of (13"dL'32) our 
flesh be consumed” (Numb, xii, 12) into “Let her not 
be as one dead-born, which, when it proceeds from the 
womb of (1EX) its mother, has half (1T£2) its flesh 
consumed.” iv. They changed “For his sons cursed 
(Embx) God" (1 Sam. iii, 13), which is still retained 
in the Sept., into “for his sons cursed (Ellb) themselves ,” 
because it was too offensive to say that the sons of Eli 
cursed God, and that Eli knew it and did not reprove 
them for it. v. “Will God see (ID^'E) with his eye?” 
(2 Sam. xvi, 12) they altered into “Will God look 
(^3*1:72) at my afiliction?” because it was too antliro- 
pomorphitic. vi. “To his God (Tnbxb), O Israel, . . . 
and Israel went (TJlbxb) to their God” (1 Kings xii, 
16), they altered into “To your tents (“pbnxb), 0 Is- 


SCRIBES, JEWISH 407 SCRIBES, JEWISH 


rael, . . . and Israel departed (I^PSlxb) to their tents;” 
because the separation of Israel from the house of Da- 
vid was regarded as a necessary transition to idolatry, 
it was looked upon as leaving God and the sanctuary 
for the worship of idols in tents, vii. For the same rea- 
son they altered 2 Chron. x, 1G, which is a parallel pas- 
sage. viii. “ My people have changed (1YD3) my glory 
for an idol” (Jer.ii, 11) they altered into “have changed 
(D^nDE) their glory into an idol,” because it is too of- 
fensive to say such a thing, ix. “They have put the 
rod to pEX) my nose” (Ezek. viii, 17) they changed 
into “They have put the rod to (DEX) their nose.” x. 
“They have changed (^TD3) my glory into shame” 
(IIos. iv, 7) they altered into “I will change their glory 
into shame” (n-'DX ■j'&pa DTHE), for the same rea- 
son which dictated the eighth alteration, xi. “ Thou 
diest not ” (n“P2n), addressed by the prophet to God 
(Hab. i, 12), they altered into “ We shall not die ” (*1*22), 
because it was deemed improper, xii. “The apple of 
(“'2"'“) mine eye” (Zech. ii, 12) they altered into “The 
apple of (IS -1 ^ 1 ) his eye,” for the reason which called 
forth the ninth emendation, xiii. “Ye make (“'niX) 
me expire” (Mai. i, 13) they altered into “Ye weary 
(IP IX) it” because of its being too gross an anthropo- 
morphism. xiv. “They have changed (^VCE) my 
glory into the similitude of an ox” (Psa. evi, 20) they 
altered into “They have changed (CY1D2) their glory 
into the similitude of an ox,” for the same reason which 
called forth the alterations in Jer. ii, 11 and IIos. iv, 7, 
or emendations eighth and ninth, xv. “Am I a burden 
(“pb*) to theeV ’ (Job vii, 20), which Job addresses to 
God, they altered into “ So that I am a burden (*^X) to 
myself J” to remove its offensiveness. xvi. “They con- 
demned (D-'nbx rx, or pin rx) God , or the divine 
justice ” (Job xxxii, 3), they altered into “They con- 
demned (DTX) Job,” for the same reason which called 
forth the fifteenth emendation, xvii. “Thou wilt re- 
member, and thy soul will mourn over me” ( n b> rPUir'l 
TjTl5S3 [Lam. iii, 20]), they altered into “and my soul is 
humbled within me” piTES because of the 

seeming impropriety on the part of the sacred w riter to 
say that God will mourn. These alterations are denom- 
inated the seventeen emendations of the sci'ibes (pb*2 h* 
D^"iE1D ppn), or simply Tikim Sopherini (ppn 
C"'“‘iE*iD) ~ tAe emendations of the scribes , and are given 
in the Massora Magna on Numb, i, 1 ; xi, 15 , Psa. evi, 
20; Ezek. viii, 17 ; Ilab. i, 12; and in the Massora Final is 
(ED), 13. (Comp. Pinsker in the Kerem Chemed [Ber- 
lin, 185G], ix, 52 sq.; Geiger, Urschrift nnd Uebersetz- 
wigen der 1 libel, p. 308 sq. ; Frensdorff, Ochlali W'ochlah 
[Uanover, 1864], p. 37 sq. ; Ginsburg, The Introduction 
of Jacob ben-Chajim to the Rabbinic Bible, Hebrew and 
English [Lond. 18G5], p. 28, etc.; Wcdell, De Emenda- 
tionibus a Sopherini in Libris V. T. Propositis [Vratis- 
lavia?, 18G9].) 

4. The Manner in which the Sopherini Transmitted their 
Work. — Their great reverence for the divine law, their 
extraordinary modesty and humility, as well as their 
fear lest any of their writings should be raised to the 
dignity of Holy Writ, prevented the scribes, or Sophe- 
rim, from embodying their expositions and enactments 
in separate treatises. Tins is the reason why there are 
no books of the scribes extant, and why they most scru- 
pulously abstained from dogmatizing, so much so that 
the phrase the laws of the scribes (D^“i£3D r.irbil) 
does not occur. It was the later doctors of the law 
(D’'X2n = Rojuo^i^d<7K , aXoi) w r ho canonized the opinions 
of the scribes (D“nS2D "HD^), which, it was claimed, 
had been transmitted orally and through diverse signs. 


These signs (C'lDD) or indications (D^tD^l) the scribes 
are said to have put down in the margins of the cop- 
ies of the Hebrew Scriptures to indicate to them the 
interpretations and definitions which their predeces- 
sors, contemporaries, and they themselves put on cer- 
tain passages, and these signs are held to have formed 
the foundation of the Keri and Kethib, plene and defec- 
tive, etc., of later times. Thus, for instance, from Exod. 
xxi, 8 they deduce that it is the bounden duty of the 
master to marry his maiden who was sold to him for 
this purpose, though the law tolerates an alternative, 
and to indicate this opinion the scribes put in the mar- 
gin against mi?*' xb “UL‘X, “whom he will not be- 
troth,” the word lb with 1 instead of X, i. e. whom he 
ought to betroth (comp. Bekoroth, 13 a ; Rashi on 
Exod. xxi, 8). Again, in Lev. xxv, 29, 30, it is enact- 
ed that if a house in a walled city has been sold and is 
not redeemed within a year, it becomes the absolute 
property of the purchaser. Now r , the scribes defined 
the phrase icalled city to mean a city which had w r alls 
in the time of the conquest of Canaan by Joshua, though 
these walls w r ere afterwards removed; and to indicate 
this they put in the margin against ilDin xb *HUX, 
“which had a wall,” the w r ord lb with 1 instead of X, 
i. e. which has no wall now (comp. Erachin, 32 a; She- 
buoth, 1G a; Rashi on Lev. xxv, 30, 31; Maimonides, 
lad Ila-Cliezaka llilchoth Shemita Ve-Jobel, xii, 15). 
They concluded from Lev. xxiii, 4 that the proclama- 
tion or fixing of the new moon devolved upon the su- 
preme court at Jerusalem (Mishna, Rosh-hashanah, i, 8, 
9; ii, 5, 7), and to indicate this the scribes w r rote the 
defective DFIX, “ye shall pronounce,” i. e. DJTlpD, “it 
is sanctified” [see New Moon], instead of the plene 
CPIX. The scribes also indicated that certain com- 
mandments are not to be restricted to Jerusalem, but 
are to be kept wherever the Jews reside, by writing in 
such instances the defective i. e. in your 

desolations, instead of the plene your 

dwellings (Lev. xxiii, 14, 31). These signs are the ba- 
sis of the Masorah, and account for many of the various 
readings which obtained in the course of time. For 
further information on this most important branch of 
the Sopheric work, w r e must refer to the elaborate treat- 
ise of Krochmal, entitled More Neboche JIa-Zeman, sec. 
xiii, p. 1G1, etc. 

5. The Authority of the Sopherini . — Though the scribes 
of this period themselves did not issue their expositions 
of what they believed to be the doctrines of Holy Writ 
with the declaration that “except every one do keep 
them whole and undefiled, without doubt he shall per- 
ish everlastingly,” or “except a man believe them 
faithfully, he cannot be saved,” but simply stated them 
as their opinions about the teachings of the divine law, 
yet the doctors of the law who succeeded the Sopherim 
accepted these expositions as final, and decreed that 
whosoever gainsays their authority commits a capital 
offence. As the penalty attached to the violation of 
some of the Mosaic injunctions and prohibitions was 
not very serious, inasmuch as the law distinguished be- 
tween the diverse kinds of transgression, w hile there is 
no distinction made in the Sopheric enactments, since 
the same amount of guilt and the same kind of punish- 
ment were incurred in case any one of their precepts 
was violated, the sages of the Mishna remark, “To be 
against the words of the scribes is more punishable than 
to be against the w r ords of the Bible; he who, in order 
to transgress the Scriptures, says phylacteries are not 
enjoined in Holy Writ, is acquitted, but he wdio says 
that there ought to be five compartments in the phy- 
lacteries, thus adding to the decisions of the scribes, is 
guilty” {Sanhedrin, xi, 3). Hence also the Talmudic 
exposition of Eccles. xii, 9, which is as follows: “Above 
these, my son, bew r are ; of making many books there is 
no end;” i. e. my son, take care of the decisions of the 


468 


SCRIBES, JEWISH 


SCRIBES, JEWISH 


scribes above the words of the Bible, for in the words of 
Scripture there are both (IT.22) injunctions and (50 
nci.’r) prohibitions [the transgression of some of these 
involves only a slight punishment], while the trans- 
gression of any one of the precepts of the scribes is a 
capital offence. And if thou shouldest say, seeing that 
they are so weighty, Why are they not written down? 
[reply] “To make many books there is no end” ( Erubin , 
-l b). It is probable, however, that these bold state- 
ments, which appear to exalt the expositions of men 
above the Word of Cod, are really due to the succeeding 
period, which we will characterize in its place, and to 
which we relegate much that relates to the office and 
i ts influence. 

IT. The Tax atm, or Teachers of the Law of New-Test. 
Times. — 1. Name and Date of the Tanaim . — The appella- 
tion Tanaim is Aramaic (S^SOPl, sing, *'5<2r, frequen- 
tative of the Chaldee ri:n = Hebrew nrr, to repeat), 
and literally denotes repeaters of the hue, or teachers of 
the law. The Hebrew equivalent for this title is 
m=bn, while ill the New Test, this class of teachers 
are denominated TopoStdcaricaXoi (Luke v, 17; Acts v, 
84). These teachers of the law are also called the sages, 
the wise <to0oi), elders (C“ipT, Trpe cr/3 v repo i, 

Succa, 4G ; Sabbath, 64), and in later times rabbanan 
(]--“! )—our teacher, rabbani ( = *Pa/3/3oin'i, Mark x, 
51; John xx, 1G), rabbon, and rabbi. See Rabbi, It 
is only rarely that the great doctors of this period are 
called D^STD, scribes (comp. Kelim, 13 b). The period 
of the Tanaim begins with the famous Antigonus of 
Soho (B.C. 200), and terminates with Gamaliel III ben- 
Jchudah I (A.D. 220), in whose presidency the Sanhe- 
drim, and with it the college, was transferred from 
Jabneh to Tiberias, thus extending over 420 years. 

2. The Work of the Tanaim. — The labors and tenets 
of these doctors of the law are of the greatest interest to 
the Christian student of the New Test., inasmuch as it 
was in their midst that our Saviour appeared ; and as 
both Christ and his apostles frequently refer to the 
teachings, and often employ the very language of the 
Tanaim. The chief aim of the doctors of the law dur- 
ing this period was — 

(1.) To flx and formularizc the views and expositions 
of their predecessors, the Sopherim, and to pass them as 
laws. Thus fixed and established, these views were term- 
ed Ualachoth (m2 bn) —laws: they are composed in He- 
brew and expressed in laconic and often enigmatical for- 
mula?. The formularizing of these Ualachoth was espe- 
cially needed, since the successive ascendency of the Per- 
sians, Egyptians, Syrians, and Romans over Palestine 
greatly influenced the habits and conduct of the Jewish 
people, and since the scribes themselves, as we have 
seen, did not set forth their opinions as final. The re- 
lation which the work of the Tanaim, or the vopocidd- 
(TKaXo i, in this department bears to that of the scribes 
will be better understood by an example. The scribes 
deduced from the words “When thou liest down and 
when thou risest up” "psirn, Dent, vi, 7), 

that it is the duty of every Israelite to repeat both morn- 
ing and evening the sections of the law (i. e. I)cut. vi, 
4-0; xi, 13-21) which proclaim the unity of God, with- 
out specifying the hours during which the passages are 
to be recited; while the vo/iodidaOTcaXoi, accepting this 
deduction of the scribes as law the time 

when this declaration about the unity of God is to he 
made by every Israelite, without mentioning the length 
of the section to be recited, or that it is a duty to do so, 
because they founded it upon the interpretation of the 
Sopherim (Mislnia, JJerakoth, i, 1-5). 

(2.) The Tanaim compiled exegetical rules (HlTa) to 
show how these opinions of the scribes, as well as the 
expansion of these views by doctors of the law, are to 
be deduced from the Scriptures. See Ismael bex- 


Elisa ; Scripture, Interpretation among the 
Jew's. The study of the connection between the opin- 
ions of the scribes formularized into Ualachoth and 
the Bible was called the Midrash, or exposition of the 
Scriptures (D^mrcP! umn). 

(3.) They developed the ritual and judicial questions 
hinted at in the Pentateuch in accordance with the re- 
quirements of the time and the ever-changing circum- 
stances of the nation. As the period over which the 
work of these teachers of the law extended was very 
long, and as the older doctors of this period expressed 
their definitions of the Ualachoth in extremely concise 
and sometimes obscure formulae, many of these Hala- 
ehoth, like the Scriptures, needed further elucidation, 
and became the object of study and discussion among 
the later Tanaim. These discussions, as well as the 
different modes of exposition whereby the sundry Hala- 
ehoth were connected with the Bible, which reflect the 
mental characteristics and idiosyncrasies of the partic- 
ular teachers and schools, were gradually collected and 
rubricated, and now constitute the contents of the Mish- 
na and the commentaries on the Pentateuch entitled 
Mcchilta, Siphra, and Siph?'i, a description of which is 
given in the article Midrash. For the other work of 
the most distinguished among these doctors of the law, 
we must refer to the article Sanhedrim. It must be re- 
membered that this supreme court and chief seat of learn- 
ing dates from the commencement of the Tanaic period. 

3. Development of Doctrine under the Tanaim . — (1.) 
It is characteristic of the scribes of the earlier period 
that, with the exception of Ezra and Zadok (Neh. xiii, 
13), we have no record of their names. A later age 
honored them collectively as the men of the Great Syn- 
agogue, the true successors of the prophets ( Pirke A both, 
i, 1); but the men themselves by whose agency the 
Scriptures of the Old. Test, were written in their pres- 
ent characters, compiled in their present form, limited 
to their present number, remain unknown to ns. Never, 
perhaps, was so important a work done so silently. It 
has been well argued (Jost, Judenthum , i, 42) that it 
was so of set purpose. The one aim of those early 
scribes was to promote reverence for the law, to make 
it the groundwork of the people’s life. They would 
write nothing of their own, lest less worthy words 
should be raised to a level with those of the oracles of 
God. If interpretation were needed, their teaching 
should be oral only. No precepts should be perpetuated 
as resting on their authority. In the words of later 
Judaism, they devoted themselves to the Mikra (i. e. 
recitation, reading, as in Neh. viii, 8), the careful study 
of the text, and laid down rules for transcribing it with 
the most scrupulous precision (comp, the tract Sop>he- 
rim in the Jerusalem Gemara). 

(2.) A saying is ascribed to Simon the Just (q. v.) 
(B.C. 300-290), the last of the succession of the men of 
the Great Synagogue, which embodies the principle on 
which they had acted, and enables us to trace the next 
stage of the growth of their system. “ Our fathers have 
taught us,” he said, “three things: to be captious in 
judging, to train many scholars, and to set a fence 
about the law” ( Pirke A both, i, 1 ; comp. Jost, i, 95). 
They wished to make the law of Moses the rule of life 
for the whole nation and for individual men. But it 
lies in the nature of every such law, of every informal, 
half-systematic code, that it raises questions which it 
does not solve. Circumstances change, while the law 
remains the same. The infinite variety of life presents 
eases which it has not contemplated. A Roman or 
Greek jurist would have dealt with these on general 
principles of equity or polity. The Jewish teacher 
could recognise no principles beyond the precepts of the 
law. To him they all stood on the same footing, were 
all equally divine. All possible cases must be brought 
within their range, decided by their authority. 

(3.) The result showed that in this, as in other in- 
stances, the idolatry of the letter was destructive of the 


SCRIBES. JEWISH 469 SCRIBES. JEWISH 


very reverence in which it had originated. Step by 
step the scribes were led to conclusions at which we 
may believe the earlier representatives of the order 
would have started back with horror. Decisions on fresh 
questions were accumulated into a complex system of 
casuistry. The new precepts, still transmitted orally, 
more precisely fitting into the circumstances of men’s 
lives than the old, came practically to take their place. 
The “ Words of the Scribes” (Z’HSID now used 

as a technical phrase for these decisions) were honored 
above the law (Lightfoot, If arm. vol. i, § 77; Jost, Ju- 
denth. i, 93). It was a greater crime to offend against 
them than against the law. They were as wine, while 
the precepts of the law were as water. The first step 
was taken towards annulling the commandments of 
God for the sake of their own traditions. The casuistry 
became at once subtle and prurient, evading the plain- 
est duties, tampering with conscience (Matt, xv, 1-G; 
xxiii, 16-23). The right relation of moral and ceremo- 
nial laws was not only forgotten, but absolutely in- 
verted. This was the result of the profound reverence 
for the letter which gave no heed to the “word abiding 
in them” (John v, 38). 

(4.) The history of the full development of these ten- 
dencies will be found elsewhere. See Talmud. Here 
it will be enough to notice in what way the teaching 
of the scribes in our Lord’s time was making to that 
result. Their first work was to report the decisions of 
previous rabbins. These, as we have just seen, were the 
JIalachotk (that which goes, the current precepts of the 
schools) — precepts binding on the conscience. As they 
accumulated, they had to be compiled and classified. A 
new code, a second coxpus juris , the Mishna (dtvrepio- 
(Tttg'), grew out of them, to become in its turn the sub- 
ject of fresh questions and commentaries. Here ulti- 
mately the spirit of the commentators took a wider 
range. The anecdotes of the schools or courts of law, 
the obiter dicta of rabbins, the wildest fables of Jewish 
superstition (Tit. i, 14), were brought in, with or with- 
out any relation to the context, and the Gemara (com- 
pleteness) filled up the measure of the institutes of 
Rabbinic law. The Mishna and the Gemara together 
were known as the Talmud (instruction), the “neces- 
sary doctrine and erudition” of every learned Jew (Jost, 
Judenih. ii, 202-222). 

(5.) Side by side with this was a development in an- 
other direction. The sacred books were not studied as 
a code of laws only. To search into their meaning had 
from the first belonged to the ideal office of the scribe, 
lie who so searched was secure, in the language of the 
scribes themselves, of everlasting life (John v, 39; see 
Pirke Aboth, ii, 8). But here also the book suggested 
thoughts which could not logically be deduced from it. 
Men came to it with new beliefs, new in form, if not in 
essence, and, not finding any ground for them in a lit- 
eral interpretation, were compelled to have recourse to 
an interpretation which was the reverse of literal. The 
fruit of this effort to find what was not there appears in 
the Midrash im (searchings, investigations) on the sev- 
eral books of the Old Test. The process by which the 
meaning, moral or mystical, was elicited was known as 
Ifagadah (saying, opinion). There was obviously no 
assignable limit to such a process. It became a prov- 
erb that no one ought to spend a day in the Beth-ham- 
Midrash (“the house of the interpreter”) without light- 
ing on something new. But there lay a stage higher 
even than the llagadah. The mystical school of inter- 
pretation culminated in the Cabala (reception, the re- 
ceived doctrine). Every letter, every number, became 
pregnant with mysteries. With the strangest possible 
distortion of its original meaning, the Greek word which 
had been the representative of the most exact of all sci- 
ences was chosen for the wildest of all interpretations. 
The Gematria ( = y eioperpia') showed to what depths 
the wrong path could lead men. The mind of the inter- 
preter, obstinately shutting out the light of day, moved 


in its self-chosen darkness amid a world of fantastic 
images (comp. Carpzov, App. Crit. i, 7; Schottgen, llor. 
Ileb. de Mess, i, 4; Zunz, Cottesdienstl . Yortrage , p. 42- 
61 ; Jost, Judenth. iii, 65-81). 

4. Some of the Distinguished Doctors of the Laxo of 
this Period and their Tenets. — As the presidents and 
vice-presidents of the chief seat of learning during the 
whole of this period are given in chronological order in 
the article Schools (Hebrew), we shall here only men- 
tion such of the doctors of the law as have influenced the 
Jewish mind and the religious opinions of the nation, 
and by their teaching prepared the way for Christian- 
ity. Foremost among these doctors of the law are to 
be mentioned: 

a. Antigonus of Soho (B.C. 200-170), whose famous 
maxim, according to tradition, gave rise to Sadducee- 
ism and Boetluisianism [see Sadducee], and who re- 
ceived the traditions of the fathers from Simon t he Just, 
and transmitted them to his successors (Aboth, i, 3). 
The tenet of the Sadducees, however, never commanded 
the adhesion of more than a small minority. It tended, 
by maintaining the sufficiency of the letter of the law, 
to destroy the very occupation of a scribe, and the class, 
as such, belonged to the party of its opponents. The 
words “scribes” and “Pharisees” were bound together 
by the closest possible alliance (Matt, xxiii, passim ; 
Luke v, 30). See Pharisee. Within that party there 
were shades and subdivisions, and to understand their 
relation to each other in our Lord’s time, or their con- 
nection with his life and teaching, we must look back 
to what is known of the five pairs (r“^7) of teachers 
who represented the scribal succession. Why two, and 
two only, are named in each case we can only conject- 
ure, but the Rabbinic tradition that one was always the 
nasi, or president, of the Sanhedrim as a council, the 
other the ab-beth-din (father of the House of Judg- 
ment), presiding in the supreme court, or in the Sanhe- 
drim when it sat as such, is not improbable (Jost, Ju- 
denth. i, 160). 

b. Jose ben-Joeser of Zereda and his companion, Jose 

ben-Jochanan of Jerusalem, who were the first of the 
four pairs (r.lilt) that headed the Sanhedrim and the 
doctors of the law as president and vice-president (B.C. 
170-140). Jose ben-Joeser was a priest, and played an 
important part in the Maccabrean struggles. He was 
the spiritual head of the Chasidim (Mishna, Chagigah, 
ii, 7), also called scribes (ypappaTtic, 1 Macc. vii, 12, 
13; 2 Macc. vi, 18), who afterwards developed them- 
selves into the Essenes [see Chasidim; Essenes]; was 
among the “company of Assidieans who were mighty 
men of Israel, even all such as were voluntarily devoted 
unto the law,” and the high- priest of the sixty who 
were slain by Bacchides through the treachery of Alci- 
mus (l Macc. ii, 42; vii, 12-16, with Chagigah, 18 b; 
Bereskith Rabba, § lxv). The grand maxim 

of Jose ben-Joeser was, “ Let thy house be the place of 
assembly for the sages, sit in the dust of their feet, and 
eagerly drink in their words” (Aboth, i, 4). Bearing in 
mind the distracted state of the Jewish people at that 
time, and the fearful strides which Hellenism made 
among the highest sacerdotal functionaries, and which 
threatened to overthrow the ancestral doctrines, this 
solemn admonition of the martyr that every household 
should form itself into a band of defenders of the faith, 
headed by sages — i. e. scribes, or doctors of the laxo — 
and that every Israelite should strive to be instructed 
in the religion of his forefathers (the phrase “to be en- 
veloped in the dust of their feet” has its origin in the 
ancient custom of disciples sitting on the ground and 
sometimes in the dust at the feet of their teachers), will 
be appreciated. This will also explain the maxim of 
his colleague Jose ben-Jochanan: “Let thy house be 
wide open, let the poor be thy guests, and do not talk 
too much with women” (A both, i, 5). To erect a wall of 
partition between the apostate Hellenists, who dese- 
crated the sanctuary, and the faithful, as well as to 


SCRIBES, JEWISH 470 SCRIBES, JEWISH 


prevent the resilience of Jews among the Syrians, and 
check Hellenistic luxuries, these two doctors of the law 
enacted that contact with the soil of any foreign coun- 
try, and the use of glass utensils, impart Levitical de- 
filement (Sabbath, 14 b). These rigorous laws of Le- 
vitical purity laid the foundation of the withdrawal of 
the Essenes from the community at large, and of the 
ritual and doctrinal difference between the Pharisees 
and Sadducces, as hitherto the differences of these two 
parties were chiefly political. Ilcnce the remark in the 
Mishna: “Since the death of Jose ben-Joeser of Zcre- 
ila and Jose ben-Jochanan of Jerusalem, the unity in 
the schools has ceased” (Sotah, ix, 0). The precepts 
ascribed to them indicate a tendency to a greater elab- 
oration of all rules connected with ceremonial defile- 
ment. Their desire to separate themselves and their 
disciples from all occasions of defilement may have fur- 
nished the starting-point for the name of Pharisee. 
The brave struggle with the Syrian kings had turned 
chiefly on questions of this nature, and it was the wish 
of the two teachers to prepare the people for any future 
conflict by founding a fraternity (the Chaberim , or as- 
sociates) bound to the strictest observance of the law. 
Every member of the order, on his admission, pledged 
himself to this in the presence of three Chaberim. They 
looked on each other as brothers. The rest of the na- 
tion they looked on as “ the people of the earth.” The 
spirit of scribedom was growing. The above precept 
associated with the name of Jose ben-Joeser pointed to a 
further growth (Jost, i, 233). It was hardly checked by 
the taunt of the Sadducees that “ these Pharisees would 
purify the sun itself’ (ibid, i, 217). See Pharisee. 

c. Jochanan, the high-priest and governor of Jerusa- 
lem, ben-Simon, bcn-Mattathias, commonly called John 
Jlyrcanus (B.C. 135-106), was a distinguished Pharisaic 
scribe, or doctor of the law. The enactments which he 
passed, as recorded in the Mishna, show his endeavors 
to render the Temple service uniform, his humane feel- 
ings, and his desire to alleviate the unnecessary burdens 
of the law. Though Ezra, to punish the Levites for their 
backwardness in returning from Babylon, deprived them 
of their tithes or transferred them to the priests (Ezra 
ii, 36-42; viii, 15; Nch. vii, 43-45 ; comp, with Mishna, 
J faaser Slieni , v, 15; Sotah , ix, 10; Babylon Talmud, 
Yebamoth , 86 b; Ketkuboth , 26 a), yet the formula con- 
sisting of Deut. xxvi, 13-15, and called confession (“'*ni), 
in which the Israelite had to declare in the Temple be- 
fore God that he had paid the tithes to the Levite , con- 
tinued to be recited at the time of the evening sacrifice 
on the last day of Passover. There was also a custom 
of singing every morning in the Temple Psa. xliv, 23- 
26 as part of the hymnal service, and of wounding the 
sacrifices on their head for the blood to run into their 
eyes, so as momentarily to blind them in order that 
they might be bound easily. Moreover, up to the time 
of Jochanan the high-priest=Jolm llvrcanus, the peo- 
ple worked during the middle days of the festivals. Sec 
Passover; Tabernacles, Feast of. “Now Jochan- 
an the high-priest did away with the confession about 
the Levitical tithes (because it was now inapplicable); 
he also ordered the discontinuance of chanting ‘Awake!’ 
(Psa. xliv, 23, etc., because the singing of it every 
morning made it appear as if God were asleep) and the 
wounding of the sacrifices (because it was cruel); in- 
terdicted working on the middle days of the festivals, 
since up to his days the hammer was busily at work in 
Jerusalem, and ordered buyers of questionable produce, 
whether it had been tithed or not, to tithe it” (Mishna, 
Maaser Sheni, v, 16; Sotah, ix, 10). 

d. Jchoshuah bcn-Perachja and his colleague, Natai of 
Arabela, who were the second of the four pairs (n*l^TT) 
that headed the Sanhedrim and the doctors of the law 
as president and vice-president ( B.C. 140-1 1 0). Though 
their surviving maxims are very few, yet they are in- 
dicative of the irreparable breach which was then made 
between the Pharisees and the Sadducces. In harmony 


with the wisdom, humanity, consistency, and leniency 
of John Hyrcanns, under whose pontificate and rule 
these two distinguished doctors of the law taught, Je- 
hoshuah ben-Perachja propounded the maxim, “ Procure 
for thyself a teacher, gain to thyself a friend, and judge 
every man by the rule of innocence” (.4 both, i, C). If, 
however, we render this saying thus: “Take to thyself 
a teacher ( Rob ), get to thyself an associate ( Chaber ), 
judge every man on his better side,” we shall see that, 
while its last clause attracts us by its candor, it never- 
theless shows how easily even a fair-minded man might 
come to recognise no bonds of fellowship outside the 
limits of his sect or order (Jost, i, 227-233). His col- 
league, Natai of Arabela, at all events, who regarded the 
foreign policy of the Sadducces as desecration of God’s 
holy heritage [see Sadducee], and as working into 
the hands of those very enemies whom they had only 
just driven from the holy city (1 Macc. xiii, etc.), 
taught : “ Keep aloof from wicked neighbors, have no 
fellowship with sinners, and reject not the belief in ret- 
ribution” ( Aboth , i, 7). It was this maxim which 
brought about the final separation between the Phari- 
sees and the Sadducces in the time of Hyrcanns. The 
gulf thus created was deepened by an unhappy circum- 
stance which made John Hyrcanns desert the ranks of 
the Pharisees and go over to the Sadducees, and which 
gave the first impulse to the bloody sufferings and the 
ultimate destruction of his country and people, for 
whose independence and religion he and his family 
fought so bravely. The circumstance is as follows: 
Having returned from a glorious victory, and being 
pleased with the condition of the people at home, Hyr- 
canus gave a banquet, to which he invited both Phari- 
sees and Sadducees. As he was enjoying himself in 
the midst of his guests, he, instigated by the Sadducces, 
asked the Pharisees to tell him whether there was any 
command which he had transgressed, that he might 
make amends, since it was his great desire to make the 
law of God his rule of life. To this one of the Phari- 
sees replied: “Let Hyrcanns be satisfied with the regal 
crown and give the priestly diadem to some one more 
worthy of it; because before his birth his mother was 
taken captive frotn the Maccabiean home, in a raid of 
the Syrians upon Modin, and it is illegal for the son of 
a captive to officiate as a priest, much more as high- 
priest.” The Sadducees, who had thus far succeeded, 
tried to persuade Ilyrcanus that the Pharisees did this 
designedly in order to lower him in the eyes of the peo- 
ple. To ascertain it, Ilyrcanus demanded of the San- 
hedrim to sentence the offender to capital punishment. 
But the Pharisaic doctors of the law, who had no spe- 
cial enactment against indignities heaped upon a sover- 
eign, who believed and taught that all men are alike in 
the sight of God, and whose very president at this time 
propounded the maxim of leniency, said that according 
to the law they could only give him forty stripes save 
one, which was the regular punishment for slanderers. 
It was this which made Hyrcanns go over to the Sad- 
dncees, massacre many of the Scribes, and fill the San- 
hedrim with Sadducees (comp. Josephus, Ant. xiii, 10, 
5, 6, with Kiddushin, 66 a; Griitz, Geschichte der Juden 
(2d ed.), iii, 453. 

e. This deplorable condition, however, soon passed by, 
and the Scribes were again in the ascendency in the 
reign of Alexander Jannaens, son of John Hvrcanus, when 
Simon ben-Shetach (q. v.), brother of queen Salome 
(Jiej'akoth, 48 a), was the president of the Sanhedrim, 
and Jchndah ben-Tabai vice-president (B.C. 110-65). 
Though Simon bcn-Shetach had for a time to quit the 
court and hide himself, because he was accused of trea- 
son against the sovereign, yet Alexander Jann.Tus rein- 
stated him upon the solicitation of the Parthian ambas- 
sadors, who missed at the royal table the wisdom of this 
scribe, which they had so much enjoyed on a former 
occasion. He allowed himself to be elected member of 
t lie Sanhedrim, which was then filled with the Saddn- 
cees whom John Ilyrcanus had put there, and by hia 


SCRIBES, JEWISH All SCRIBES, JEWISH 


wisdom repeatedly in the presence of the queen and 
king confounded these Sadducees by puzzling questions 
about the treatment, without tradition, of such legal 
cases as are not mentioned in the Mosaic law, so much 
so that they gradually quitted the supreme court, and 
Simon filled the vacancies with the scribes. The ca- 
lamitous event which happened at the Feast of Taber- 
nacles while Alexander Jannsens was officiating in the 
Temple [see Tabernacles, Feast of] checked for a 
time the progress of the scribes, but it was more than 
made up by the fact that this sovereign, on his death- 
bed, committed his wife to the care of the Pharisees 
(Josephus, Ant. xiii, 10, 1, 2). Under Simon ben-She- 
tacli and Jehudah ben-Tabai the Sanhedrim was en- 
tirely cleared of the Sadducees, and a festival day was 
instituted (March 17, B.C. 78) to commemorate the re- 
turn of the residue of the scribes (X^ISPO HU^S) 
who went into exile in the days of John Hyrcanus. 
The reconstruction of the Sanhedrim, however, was not 
the only important work effected by these two doctors 
of the law. To render divorce difficult, Simon ben- 
Shetach decreed that the money of marriage-settlement, 
which was at first deposited with the wife’s father, and 
afterwards laid out in household furniture — thus being 
no loss to the husband in case he divorced his wife — 
should amount at least to two silver mime (about £7 10s.) 
if the bride were a maiden, and half that sum to a 
widow; that the husband should invest it in his busi- 
ness, so as to render it a matter of great inconvenience 
and difficulty to draw it out, and that the whole of his 
property should be pledged for the payment of this set- 
tlement (i"Dir.D, ovyypafo)), thus precluding the pos- 
sibility of her being defrauded of it by unprincipled 
heirs (Babylon Kethuboth, 82 b; Jerusalem Kethuboth , 
cap. viii, end; Sabbath , xiv, G; xvi, 6). See Mar- 
riage. Simon ben-Shetach, moreover, introduced su- 
perior schools into every provincial town, and ordained 
that all the youths from the age of sixteen should visit 
them (Jerusalem Ketkubotk, viii, 11), which created a 
new epoch in the education of the nation. See Schools. 
Their zeal, however, to uphold the law in opposition to 
the Sadducees led them to commit rigorous acts towards 
their antagonists (Josephus, Ant. xiii, 16, 1); and on 
one occasion Jehudah ben-Tabai, to eradicate the Sad- 
ducean notions from the people [see Sadducee], con- 
demned to death a false witness in a capital trial (Mac- 
coth, v, b). But when Simon ben-Shetach reprimanded 
his colleague for this unlawful act, Jehudah ben-Tabai, 
who was then president of the Sanhedrim, was so truly 
penitent that he at once gave up the presidency, threw 
himself on the grave of the man he had condemned, 
crying most bitterly, and beseeching God to take his 
own life as an atonement for the one he had judicially 
taken away (ibid.). Th\g rash act taught him greater 
leniency for the future, and accounts for his precept to 
judges : “ Only as long as the accused stand before thee 
regard them as transgressors of the law; but regard 
them as innocent immediately after they are released, 
and have suffered the penalty of the law” (Aboth, i, 8). 
The following may be mentioned as an instance of Si- 
mon ben - Shetach’s extraordinary conscientiousness, 
which must have greatly impressed itself upon the 
minds of the people, and prepared the way for the re- 
ception of the truth as it is in Jesus. The Sadducees, 
out of revenge for his rigorous measures against them, 
suborned two witnesses, who testilied that his son com- 
mitted a capital crime. He was accordingly sentenced 
to death. As he was led to the place of execution, the 
witnesses, being filled with horror that they had con- 
demned innocent blood, confessed that they had borne 
false witness. But as the law from time immemorial 
had enacted that “the evidence once given and accept- 
ed cannot be revoked” (Maimonides, lad Jfa-Chezaka 
Ililchoth Eduth , iii, 5), and though Simon’s fatherly 
feelings for a moment made him hesitate about the pro- 
priety of the execution, yet his son, to uphold the dig- 


nity of the law, exclaimed to him, “Father, if thou 
wishest that salvation should come to Israel through 
thee, pay no regard to my life,” and accordingly the 
son died a martyr to the honor of the law (Jerusalem 
Chagigah , ii, 2; Sanhedrin , i, 5; vii, 3). This noble 
sacrifice on the part of Simon ben-Shetach evidently 
made him lay down the maxim, “Test witnesses most 
carefull}', and be cautious in questioning them, lest they 
learn therefrom how to impart to their falsehood the 
garb of truth” (Aboth, i, 9). No wonder that tradition 
celebrates Simon ben-Shetach as “the restorer of the 
divine law to its pristine glory” (Kiddushin). 

f Shemaja ( — 'Saftag, Josephus, Ant . xiv, 9, 4) 
and Abtalion (=IIoX\iwr, ibid, xv, 1, 1, 10, 4) are 
the two great doctors of the law who now succeeded 
to the presidency and vice-presidency (B.C, 65-30) as 
the fourth pair (rHSYT). They are generally considered 
as having been proselytes; but this is precluded by 
the fact that they were at the head of the Sanhedrim, 
and that according to the Jewish law no proselyte could 
even be an ordinary member of the seventy-one. In- 
deed, Griitz (iii, 481) has shown that they were Alex- 
andrian Jews, and that the notion of their having been 
proselytes rests upon the misinterpretation of a passage 
in the Talmud. Though very few of their enactments 
have come down to us, yet the influence which their 
great learning and unflinching integrity gave them 
among the people at large, and especially among the 
succeeding doctors of the law, was such as to secure for 
any question an authoritative reception if it could be 
traced to have been propounded by Shemaja and Ab- 
talion (Mishna, Edayoth , i, 3 ; Pesachim , G6 a), who were 
styled the two magnates of their day (’1'ntt ^TO). 
The two maxims of these distinguished scribes which 
have survived reflect the deplorable condition of the 
Jews under the Roman yoke. Thus Shemaja urged on 
his disciples, “ Love a handicraft, hate the rabbinate, 
and befriend not thyself with the worldly powers” 
(Aboth, i, 10); while Abtalion said, “Sages, be careful 
in your utterances, lest ye draw upon yourselves the 
punishment of exile, and vc be banished to a place 
where the water is poisonous [i. e. of seductive influ- 
ence], and the disciples who go with you drink thereof 
and die, and thus bring reproach upon the sacred name 
of God” (ibid, i, 11). Some idea may be formed of 
Shcmaja’s unflinching integrity from his conduct at the 
trial of Herod before the Sanhedrim. When this mag- 
nate was summoned before the supreme tribunal to an- 
swer the accusation of the mothers whose children he had 
slain, and when his armed appearance and his retinue of 
soldiers frightened the other members of the court into 
silence, Shemaja, the president, had the courage to pro- 
nounce the sentence of death against him (Josephus, A nt. 
xiv, 9, 4). When he showed himself to be irresistible, they 
had the wisdom to submit, and were suffered to continue 
their work in peace. Their glory was, however, in great 
measure gone. The doors of their school were no longer 
thrown open to all comers so that crowds might listen 
to the teacher. A fixed fee had to be paid on entrance. 
The regulation was probably intended to discourage the 
attendance of the young men of Jerusalem at the scribes’ 
classes; and apparently it had that effect (Jost, i, 248- 
253), On the death of Shemaja and Abtalion, there 
were no qualified successors to take their place. Two 
sons of Bethera, otherwise unknown, for a time occupied 
it, but they were themselves conscious of their incom- 
petence. A question was brought before them which 
neither they nor any of the other scribes could answer. 
At last they asked, in their perplexity, “ Was there none 
present who had been a disciple of the two who had been 
so honored ?” The question was answered by Hillel the 
Babylonian, known also, then or afterwards, as the son 
of David. He solved the difficulty, appealed to princi- 
ples, and, when they demanded authority as well as ar- 
gument, ended by saying, “ So have I heard from my 
masters Shemaja and Abtalion.” This was decisive. 


SCRIBES, JEWISH 472 SCRIBES, JEWISH 


The sons of Bethera withdrew. Hillel was invited by 
acclamation to enter on his high office. His alleged de- 
scent from the house of David may have added to his 
popularity. 

g. The name of Hillel (born cir. B.C. 112) has hardly 
received the notice due to it from students of the Gospel 
history. The noblest and most genial representative of 
his order, we may see in him the best fruit which the 
system of the scribes was capable of producing. It is 
instructive to mark at once how far he prepared the way 
for the higher teaching which was to follow, how far he 
inevitably fell short of it. The starting-point of his 
career is given in a tale which, though deformed by 
Rabbinic exaggerations, is yet fresh and genial enough. 
The young student had come from Golah, in Babylonia, 
to study under Shemaja and Abtalion. He was poor 
and had no money. The new rule requiring payment 
was in force. For the most part, he worked for his live- 
lihood, kept himself with half his earnings, and paid the 
rest as the fee to the college porter. On one day, how- 
ever, he had failed to find employment. The doorkeeper 
refused him entrance; but his zeal for knowledge was 
not to be baffled. He stationed himself outside, under 
a window, to catch what he could of the words of the 
scribes within. It was winter, and the snow began to 
fall, but he remained there still. It fell till it lay upon 
him six cubits high (!) and the window was darkened 
and blocked up. At last the two teachers noticed it, 
sent out to see what caused it, and, when they found 
out, received the eager scholar without payment. “For 
such a man,” said Shemaja, “one might even break the 
Sabbath” (Geiger, in Ugolini Thesaur. xxi ; Jost, i, 254). 
In the earlier days of his activity, Hillel had as his col- 
league Menachem, probably the same as the Essene Ma- 
naen of Josephus (A tit. xv, 10, 5). He, however, was 
tempted by the growing power of Herod, and, with a 
large number (eighty in the Rabbinic tradition) of his 
followers, entered the king’s service and abandoned at 
once his calling as scribe and his habits of devotion. 
They appeared publicly in the gorgeous apparel, glit- 
tering with gold, which was inconsistent with both 
(Jost, i, 259). The place thus vacant was soon filled by 
Shammai. The two were held in nearly equal honor. 
One, in Jewish language, was the Nasi, the other the 
Ab-beth-din, of the Sanhedrim. They did not teach, 
however, as their predecessors had done, in entire har- 
mony with each other. Within the party of the Phar- 
isees, within the order of the scribes, there came for the 
first time to be two schools with distinctly opposed ten- 
dencies — one vehemently, rigidly orthodox, the other 
orthodox also, but with an orthodoxy which, in the lan- 
guage of modern politics, might be classed as liberal- 
conservative. The points on which they differed were 
almost innumerable (comp. Geiger, ul sup.). In most of 
them — questions as to the causes and degrees of unclean- 
ness, as to the law of contracts or of wills — we can find 
little or no interest. On the former class of subjects 
the school of Shammai represented the extremest de- 
velopment of the Pharisaic spirit. Everything that 
could possibly have been touched by a heathen or an 
unclean Israelite became itself unclean. “Defilement” 
was as a contagious disease which it was hardly possible 
to avoid even with the careful scrupulosity described in 
Mark vii, 1-4. They were, in like manner, rigidly Sab- 
batarian. It was unlawful to do anything before the 
Sabbath which would in any sense be in operation dur- 
ing it, e. g. to put cloth into a dye-vat, or nets into the 
sea. It was unlawful on the Sabbath itself to give 
money to the poor, or to teach children, or to visit the 
sick. They maintained the marriage law in its strict- 
ness, and held that nothing but the adultery of the wife 
could justify repudiation (Jost, i, 257-2G9). We must 
not think of them, however, as rigid and austere in 
their lives. The religions world of Judaism presented 
the inconsistencies which it has often presented since. 
The “straitest sect” was also the most secular. Sham- 
mai himself was said to be rich, luxurious, self-indulgent. 


Ilillel remained to the day of his death as poor as in his 
youth (Geiger, loc. cit.). The teaching of Ilillel showed 
some capacity for wider thoughts. II is personal char- 
acter was more lovable and attractive. While on the 
one side he taught from a mind well stored with the 
traditions of the elders, he was, on the other, anything 
but a slavish follower of those traditions. lie was the 
first to laydown principles for an equitable construction 
of the law with a dialectic precision which seems almost 
to imply a Greek culture (Jost, i, 257). When the let- 
ter of a law, as e. g. that of the year of release, was no 
longer suited to the times, and was working, so far as it 
was kept at all, only for evil, he suggested an interpre- 
tation which met the difficulty or practically set it aside, 
llis teaching as to divorce was in like manner an adap- 
tation to the temper of the age. It was lawful for a 
man to put away his wife for any cause of disfavor, even 
for so slight an offence as that of spoiling his dinner by 
her bad cooking (Geiger, loc. cit.'). The genial charac- 
ter of the man comes out in some of his sayings, which 
remind us of the tone of Jesus the son of Sirach, and 
present some faint approximations to a higher teaching: 
“Trust not thyself to the day of thy death.” “Judge 
not thy neighbor till thou art in his place.” “Leave 
nothing dark and obscure, saying to thyself, I will ex- 
plain it when I have time ; for how knowest thou wheth- 
er the time will come?” (comp. James iv, 13-15). “He 
who gains a good name, gains it for himself; but he who 
gains a knowledge of the law, gains everlasting life” 
(comp. John v, 39; Aboth, ii, 5-8). In one memorable 
rule we find the nearest approach that had as yet been 
made to the great commandment of the Gospel: “Do 
nothing to thy neighbor that thou wonkiest not that he 
should do to thee.” The contrast showed itself in the 
conduct of the followers not less than in the teachers. 
The disciples of Shammai were conspicuous for their 
fierceness, appealed to popular passions, used the sword 
to decide their controversies. Out of that school grew 
the party of the Zealots, fierce, fanatical, vindictive, the 
political bigots of Pharisaism (Jost, i, 267-269). Those 
of Ilillel were, like their master (comp. e. g. the advice 
of Gamaliel, Acts v, 34-42), cautious, gentle, tolerant, 
unwilling to make enemies, content to let things take 
their course. One school resisted, the other was dis- 
posed to foster, the study of Greek literature. One 
sought to impose upon the proselyte from heathenism 
the full burden of the law, the other that he should 
be treated with some sympathy and indulgence. See 
Proselyte. One subject of debate between the schools 
exhibits the contrast as going deeper than these ques- 
tions, touching upon the great problems of the universe. 
“Was the state of man so full of misery that it would 
have been better for him never to have been? Or was 
this life, with all its suffering, still the gift of God, to be 
valued and used as a training for something higher than 
itself?” The school of Shammai took, as might be ex- 
pected, the darker, that of Hillel the brighter and the 
wiser, view (Jost, i, 264). 

Outwardly the teaching of our Lord must have ap- 
peared to men different in many ways from both. While 
they repeated the traditions of the elders, he “spake as 
one having authority,” “ not as the scribes” (Matt, vii, 
29; comp, the constantly recurring “I say unto you”). 
While the}’- confined their teaching to the class of 
scholars, he “had compassion on the multitudes” (ix, 
36). While they were to be found only in the coun- 
cil or in their schools, he journeyed through the cities 
and villages (iv, 23 ; ix, 35 ; etc.). While they spoke of 
the kingdom of God vaguely, as a thing far off, he pro- 
claimed that it had already come nigh to men (iv, 17). 
But, in most of the points at issue between the two par- 
ties, he must have appeared in direct antagonism to the 
school of Shammai, in sympathy with that of Ilillel. In 
the questions that gathered round the law of the Sab- 
bath (xii, 1-14; 2 John v, 1-16; etc.) and the idea of puri- 
ty (Matt, xv, 1-11, and its parallels), this was obviously 
the case. Even in the controversy about divorce, while 


SCRIBES, JEWISH 


473 


SCRIBES, JEWISH 


his chief work was to assert the truth, which the dispu- 
tants on both sides were losing sight of, he recognised, it 
must be remembered, the rule of llillel as being a true 
interpretation of the law (xix, 8). When he summed 
up the great commandment in which the law and the 
prophets were fulfilled, he reproduced and ennobled the 
precept which had been given by that teacher to his 
disciples (vii, 12; xxii, 34-40). So far, on the other 
hand, as the temper of the llillel school was one of mere 
adaptation to the feeling of the people, cleaving to tra- 
dition, wanting in the intuition of a higher life, the 
teaching of Christ must have been felt as unsparingly 
condemning it. 

h. It adds to the interest of this inquiry to remember 
that llillel himself lived, according to the tradition of 
the rabbins, to the great age of 120, and may therefore 
have been present among the doctors of Luke ii, 46, and 
that Gamaliel, his grandson and substantially his suc- 
cessor, was at the head of this school during the whole 
of the ministry of Christ, as well as in the early portion 
of the history of the Acts. We are thus able to explain 
the fact which so many passages in the gospels lead us 
to infer — the existence all along of a party among the 
scribes themselves more or less disposed to recognise 
Jesus of Nazareth as a teacher (John iii, 1 ; Mark x, 17), 
not far from the kingdom of God (xii, 34), advocates of 
a policy of toleration (John vii, 51), but, on the other 
hand, timid and time-serving, unable to confess even 
their half-belief (xii, 42), afraid to take their stand 
against the strange alliance of extremes which brought 
together the Sadductean section of the priesthood and 
the ultra-Pharisaic followers of Shammai. When the 
last great crisis came, they apparently contented them- 
selves with a policy of absence (Luke xxiii, 50, 51), pos- 
sibly were not even summoned, and thus the council 
which condemned our Lord was a packed meeting of the 
confederate parties, not a formally constituted Sanhe- 
drim. All its proceedings, the hasty investigation, the 
immediate sentence, were vitiated by irregularity (Jost, 
i, 407-409). Afterwards, when the fear of violence was 
once over, and popular feeling had turned, we find Ga- 
maliel summoning courage to maintain openly the pol- 
icy of a tolerant expectation (Acts v, 34). 

5. Education and Life . — (1.) The special training for 
a scribe’s office began, probably, about the age of thir- 
teen. According to the Pirke A both (v, 24), the child 
began to read the Mikra at five and the Mishna at ten. 
Three years later every Israelite became a child of the 
law ( Bar-Mitsvah ), and was bound to study and obey 
it. The great mass of men rested in the scanty teach- 
ing of their synagogues, in knowing and repeating their 
Tephillim, the texts inscribed on their phylacteries. For 
the boy who was destined by his parents, or who devoted 
himself, to the calling of a scribe, something more was 
required, lie made his way to Jerusalem, and applied 
for admission to the school of some famous rabbi, if he 
were poor, it was the duty of the synagogue of his town 
or village to provide for the payment of his fees, and in 
part also for his maintenance. 1 1 is power to learn was 
tested by an examination on entrance. If he passed it, 
lie became a “chosen one” (lire, comp. John xv, 16), 
and entered on his work as a disciple (Carpzov, App. 
Crit. i, 7). The master and his scholars met, the former 
sitting on a high chair, the elder pupils (CH^br.) on 
a lower bench, the younger (D^Iip) oil the ground, 
both literally “at his feet.” The class-room might be 
the chamber of the Temple set apart for this purpose, or 
the private school of the rabbi. In addition to the rab- 
bi, or head master, there were assistant teachers, and 
one interpreter, or crier, whose function it was to pro- 
claim aloud to the whole school what the rabbi had 
spoken iu a whisper (comp. Matt, x, 27). The education 
was chiefly catechetical, the pupil submitting cases and 
asking questions, the teacher examining the pupil (Luke 
ii). The questions might be ethical, “ What was the 
great commandment of all? What must a man do to 


inherit eternal life?” or casuistic, “ What might a man 
do or leave undone on the Sabbath?” or ceremonial, 
“What did or did not render him unclean?” We are 
left to wonder what were the questions and answers of 
the schoolroom of Luke ii, 46; but those proposed to 
our Lord by his own disciples, or by the scribes, as tests 
of his proficiency, may fairly be taken as types of what 
was commonly discussed. The Apocryphal gospels, as 
usual, mock our curiosity with the most irritating pue- 
rilities. (Comp. Evangel. Infant . c. 45, in Tischendnrf, 
Codex Apoc. A”. 7’.). In due time the pupil passed on 
to the laws of property, of contracts, and of evidence. 
So far he was within the circle of the Jlalachah, the 
simple exposition of the traditional “words of the 
scribes.” lie might remain content with this, or might 
pass oil to the higher knowledge of the Beth-ham-M id- 
rash, with its inexhaustible stores of mystical interpre- 
tation. In both cases, pre-eminently in the latter, par- 
ables entered largely into the method of instruction. 
The teacher uttered the similitude, and left it to his 
hearers to interpret for themselves. See Parable. 
That the relation between the two was often one of 
genial and kindly feeling we may infer from the saying 
of one famous scribe, “1 have learned much from the 
rabbins my teachers, I have learned more from the rab- 
bi ns *mv colleagues, I have learned most of all from my 
disciples” (Carpzov, .4/?/). Crit. i, 7). 

(2.) After a sufficient period of training, probably at 
the age of thirty, the probationer was solemnly admitted 
to his office. The presiding rabbi pronounced the for- 
mula, “I admit thee, and thou art admitted to the chair 
of the scribe,” solemnly ordained him by the imposition 
of hands (the ^0==yapo3’£<7<a), and gave to him, 
as the symbol of his work, tablets on which he was to 
note down the sayings of the wise, and the “key of 
knowledge” (comp. Luke xi, 52), with which he was to 
open or to shut the treasures of divine wisdom. So ad- 
mitted, he took his place as a Chaber , or member of the 
fraternity, was no longer aypappaTOQ tcai iCuoTtjQ (Acts 
iv, 13), was separated entirely from the multitude, the 
brute herd that knew not the law, the “cursed” “people 
of the earth” (John vii, 15, 49). (For all the details in 
the above section, and many others, comp, the elaborate 
treatises by Ursintis, A ntiqq. II eb ., and Heubner, De Aca- 
demiis Ilebrceorum , in Ugolini Thesaur. ch. xxi.) 

(3.) There still remained for the disciple after his ad- 
mission the choice of a variety of functions, the chances 
of failure and success, lie might give himself to an\ r 
one of the branches of study, or combine two or more of 
them. He might rise to high places, become a doctor 
of the law, an arbitrator in family litigations (Luke xii, 
14), the head of a school, a member of the Sanhedrim, 
lie might have to content himself with the humbler 
work of a transcriber, copying the law and the prophets 
for the use of synagogues, or Tephillim for that of the 
devout (Otho, Lex. Rabbin, s. v. “ Phvlacteria”), or a 
notary writing out contracts of sale, covenants of es- 
pousals, bills of repudiation. The position of the more 
1 fortunate was, of course, attractive enough. Theoreti- 
cally, indeed, the office of the scribe was not to be a 
source of wealth. It is doubtful how far the fees paid 
! by the pupils were appropriated by the teacher (Bux- 
| torf, Sgnag. Judaic, c. 46). The great Uillel worked as 
• a day-laborer. Paul’s work as a tentmaker, our Lord’s 
work as a carpenter, were quite compatible with the 
popular conception of the most honored rabbi. The in- 
direct payments were, however, considerable enough. 
Scholars brought gifts. Bicli and devout widows main- 
tained a rabbi as an act of piety, often to the injury of 
their own kindred (Matt, xxiii, 14). Each act of the 
notary’s office, or the arbitration of the jurist, would be 
attended by an honorarium. 

(4.) In regard to social position, there was a like con- 
tradiction between theory and practice. The older 
scribes had had no titles [see Babbi] ; Shemaja, as we 
have seen, warned his disciples against them. In our 


SCRIBES. JEWISH 474 SCRIBES. JEWISH 


Lord’s time the passion for distinction was insatiable. 
The ascending scale of Rab, Rabbi, Rabban (we are re- 
minded of our own Reverend, Very Reverend. Right 
Reverend), presented so many steps on the ladder of 
ambition (Serupius, De Tit. Rabbi , in Ugolino, ch. xxii). 
Other forms of worldliness were not far off. The later 
Rabbinic saving that “ the disciples of the wise have a 
right to a goodly house, a fair wife, and a soft conch” 
reflected probably the luxury of an earlier time (Ursini 
.1 ntiqq. llcb. c. 5, ul sup.). Tlfe salutations in the mar- 
ket-place (Matt, xxiii, 7), the reverential kiss offered by 
the scholars to their master, or by rabbins to each other, 
the greeting of Abba, father (ver. 9, and Lightfoot, llor. 
Ileb. ad loc.), the long aroXai, as contrasted with the 
simple %itiov and ipdnov of our Lord and his disciples, 
with the broad blue zizitli or fringe (the KpcannSov of 
Matt, xxiii, 5), the Tephillim of ostentatious size — all 
these go to make up the picture of a scribe's life. Draw- 
ing to themselves, as they did, nearly all the energy 
and thought of Judaism, the close hereditary caste of 
the priesthood was powerless to compete with them. 
Unless the priest became a scribe also, he remained in 
obscurity. The order, as such, became contemptible 
and base. For the scribes there were the best places at 
feasts, the chief seats in synagogues (ver. 0; Luke 
xiv, 7). 

(5.) The character of the order in this period was 
marked, under these influences, by a deep, incurable 
hypocrisy, all the more perilous because, in most cases, 
it was unconscious. We must not infer from this that 
all were alike tainted, or that the work which they had 
done, and the worth of their office, were not recognised 
by Him who rebuked them for their evil. Some there 
were not far from the kingdom of God, taking their 
place side by side with prophets and wise men among 
the instruments by which the wisdom of God was teach- 
ing men (Matt, xxiii, 34). The name was still honora- 
ble. The apostles themselves were to be scribes in the 
kingdom of God (xiii, 52). The Lord himself did not 
refuse the salutations which hailed him as a rabbi. In 
“Zenas the lawyer” (l’opucog, Tit. iii, 13) and Apollos 
mighty in the Scriptures,” sent apparently for the 
special purpose of dealing with the pa\ai ropucai which 
prevailed at Crete (Tit. iii, 9), we may recognise the 
work which members of the order were capable of doing 
for the edifying of the Church of Christ, 

III. The Anon aim, or Later Doctors of the Law . — 1. 
Name and Date . — The name Amorabn (C 1 X^“ , !‘CNl, sing. 

from to sap, to hold forth, to expound ), 

like the appellation Tanaim, is Aramaic ; it literally de- 
notes recorders, expositors, and was given, after the re- 
daction of the Mislina, to those “wise men” and “doc- 
tors of the law” w r ho alone constituted the. authorized 
recorders and expositors of the received Halachah. The 
period of the Amoraim begins with the immediate dis- 
ciples of R. Jehudah the Holy (A.D. 220), and termi- 
nates with the completion of the Babylonian Talmud 
(cir. A.I). 500), embracing nearly 270 years. 

2. The Work of the Amoraim . — As the title implies, 
these Amoraim had to examine, decide, and expound 
the import of the Mishna for general practice. After 
the redaction of the Mishna by Jehudah the lloly (A.D. 
1G3-193), this corpus juris became the canonical code, 
and constituted the source of study and the rule of prac- 
tice, both in Babylon, whither it was imported imme- 
diate! y after its appearance by the celebrated Rab 
(q. v.), and in Palestine. These commentaries and dis- 
cussions on the Mishna in the two countries are embod- 
ied in the two Talmuds, or more properly Gemaras, 
which are named after them — viz. Jerusalem and Baby- 
lon. The Jerusalem Talmud was made np in Tiberias 
about A.D. 400, because the Christian government took 
away from the doctors of the law the right of ordina- 
tion, thus causing the extinction of the patriarchate and 
the declension of the Palestinian school; while the Bab- 
ylonian Talmud was not closed iinally till the period 


of the Saboraim, as the schools were still greatly flour- 
ishing in Babylon under the presidency of Resh Methib- 
ta (XrC“TVD UP"!), or heads of schools, and the Resh 
Galutha (Smba UT“i), or the princes of the exiles, as 
they were called. See Midrasii ; Talmud. For the 
distinguished doctors of the law who occupied the pa- 
triarchate, and were the presidents and vice-presidents 
of colleges during this period, we must refer to the ar- 
ticle Schools, Jew ish, where they are enumerated in 
chronological order. 

IV. The Saboraim, or the Teachers of the Law after 
the Conclusion of the Talmud . — 1. Name and Date .< — 
The appellation Saboraim (D^JOlDOjrom the Aramaic 
“CD, to think, to discern , to judge ) properly signifies de- 
cisores, and was given to those doctors of the law who 
determined the law (i"cb»!) from a careful examination 
of all the pros and cons (t<“CD) urged by the Amoraim 
in their controversies on divine, legal, and ritual ques- 
tions contained in the Talmud. Hence the remark of 
Sherira Gaon (A.D. 968-998), “ Though no independent 
legislation existed after the cessation of the Amoraim, 
yet there continued exposition and weighing of the 
transmitted and prevalent opinions; and it is from this 
weighing of opinions that the doctors derive their name, 
Saboraim” (Griitz, v, 426). The period of the Saboraim 
extends from about A.D. 500 to A.D. 657. This period, 
however, is divisible into two parts, and it is only the 
first part — i. e. from the death of Rabina, A.D. 500, to 
the death of R. Giza and R. Simuna, A.D. 550 — which 
can properly be denominated the real Saboraim epoch ; 
while the second part, which consists of the interval be- 
tween the real Saboraim and the rise of the Gaonim, 
from A.D. 550 to 657, has no proper designation, because 
the doctors who lived at this time and the work which 
they did are alike unimportant and desultory. 

2. The Work of the Saboraim . — Unlike their prede- 
cessors the Tanaim and Amoraim, and their successors 
the Gaonim, these doctors of the law neither formed a 
succession of teachers nor were they engaged in any 
new work. They were a circle of literati and teachers, 
who supplemented and completed the work of the Amo- 
raim. They explained all doubtful questions in the 
Talmud, made new additions to it both from oral tradi- 
tions and MS. notes, inserted into it all the anecdotes 
which were current in the different schools, closed it, 
and wrote it down in the form in which we now have 
it. lienee their work had nothing to do with theories, 
but was pre-eminently practical. The chief men among 
these Saboraim which have come down to us by name 
are R. Giza, the president of the college at Sora, and R. 
Simnna, the president of the college at Pumbaditha and 
Rabai of Rob. Their disciples and successors who be- 
long to this period are unknown (Griitz, v, 15 sq.; 
422 sq.). 

V. The Gaonim, or the Last Doctors of the. Law in the 
Chain of Rabbinic Succession . — 1. Name and Date . — 
It is now difficult to ascertain the etymology of Gafin 
(•pX5), the title of the chief doctors of the law who suc- 
ceeded the Saboraim. One thing, however, is certain — 
namely, that it is not Hebrew, since both in the Bible 
and in the Talmud this word signifies pride, haughtiness, 
while here it is an honorable appellation given exclu- 
sively to the presidents of the two distinguished col- 
leges at Sora and Pumbaditha. Now, the period in which 
it originated may throw some light on the etymology 
of this title. Griitz (v, 139, 477) has shown that this 
title obtained A.I). cir. 658. When Ali, the son-in-law 
and vizier of Mohammed, was elected caliph (655), and 
the Islamites were divided into two parties, one for and 
the other against him, both the Babylonian Jews and 
the Nestorian Christians decided in his favor and ren- 
dered him great assistance. Maremes, who supported 
Ali’s commander-in-chief in the siege of Mosul, was 
nominated Catholicos, while R. Isaac, the president of 


475 


SCRIP 


SCRIBES, JEWISH 

the college at Sora, who at the head of several thousand 
Jews aided Ali in the capture of Firuz-Shabur (May, 
G57) , was rewarded wi tli the ti tie Gaon (excellence) . Ac- 
cordingly the title "pSO is either of Arabic or Persian 
origin, and properly belonged to the presidents of the 
Sora college, who alone bore the appellation at the be- 
ginning. The president of the subordinate sister col- 
lege at Pumbaditha was called the head of the college 
(Heb. 1380 , Aramaic * 30 ) by the 

Babylonians; and the appellation Gaon, whereby they 
were sometimes styled, obtained at first among the non- 
Babvlonian Jews, who were not thoroughly acquainted 
with the dignities of the respective colleges in Babylon. 
It was only after 917, when Pumbaditha became of equal 
importance with Sora, and especially after 942-1038, 
when Sora, after the death of Saadia, began to decay 
altogether, and Pumbaditha continued alone to be the 
college of the doctors of the law, that the presidents of 
its college, like those of Sora, were described by the 
title Gaon. The period of the Gaon ini extends from 
A.D. G57 to 1034 in Sora, and from G57 to 1038 in Pum- 
baditha, during which time the former college had no 
less than thirty -five presidents and the latter forty- 
three. See Pumbaditha; Sora. 

2. As to the organization of these colleges, the presi- 

dent of each school sat in front; next to him in rank was 
the superior judge (Heb. ‘j'O PPG GX; Aramaic 
803*1), who discharged the judicial functions, and was 
presumptive successor to the Gaonate. Then came the 
ten who constituted the more limited synod, seven of 
whom were at the head of the assembled students 
(ni^O i — XI), and three associates (GOGH) ; these sat 
with their faces towards the president. Then came the 
college of one hundred members, subdivided into two un- 
even bodies — the one consisting of seventy members and 
representing the Great Sanhedrim (q. v.\ the other con- 
sisting of thirty members and representing the Smaller 
Sanhedrim. Of these hundred, the seventy only were 
ordained; they bore the title of teachers ma- 

gistri), or the ordained sages (C^GlGDPl ^GZPI), and 
were capable of advancing to the highest office, while 
the other thirty were simply candidates (^GVp “03), 
and do not seem to have been legally entitled to a seat 
or voice. The seventy sat in seven rows, each consist- 
ing of ten, and being under one of the seven heads of 
the college. They transmitted their membership to 
their sons. 

3. The Work and Authority of these Colleges. — In later 
times these colleges assembled together for two months 
in the year — viz. in Adar (=March) and Elul ( = Sep- 
tember). In these sittings the members explained dif- 
ficult points in the Talmud, discussed and answered all 
the legal and ritual questions which were sent in dur- 
ing the vacation from the different Jewish communities 
abroad, and enacted new laws for the guidance and reg- 
ulation of the dispersed congregations, in accordance 
with the requirements of the ever-shifting circum- 
stances of the nation and the sundry localities. Eaeh 
member of the college took part in the discussions; the 
president summed up the various opinions, decided the 
question, and ordered the secretary to write down the 
decision. All the decisions which were passed through 
the session were read over again by the president before 
the assembly w f as dissolved, were signed in the name 
of the college, sealed with the college seal, and forward- 
ed by special messengers to the respective communities, 
who, in return, sent gifts to the college, which consti- 
tuted the extraordinary revenue of these schools for 
training the doctors of the law. Their ordinary income 
was derived from regular taxes ivhich the college fixed 
for those communities which were under their jurisdic- 
tion. Thus the jurisdiction of Sora extended over the 
south of Irak, with the two important cities Was it and 
Bassra, to Ophir (=Iudia), and its annual income, even 


when it began to decline, amounted to 1500 ducats; 
while that of Pumbaditha extended over the north of 
Irak up to Khorassan. The president, w ith the superior 
judge and the seven heads of the college, appointed 
judges for each district, and gave them regular diplo- 
mas. As these judges, or dayanini (G* 1 3*H), had not only 
to decide civil questions, but also to settle religious mat- 
ters; they w r ere also the rabbins of the respective com- 
munities, and selected for themselves, in each place, two 
learned members of the congregation, who w r ere styled 
elders (D^pT), and with them constituted the judicial 
and rabbinate college. This local college had to issue 
all the legal instruments— such as marriage contracts, 
letters of divorce, bills of exchange, business contracts, 
receipts, etc. Though each of the two imperial colleges 
had the power of governing itself and of managing its 
own affairs and dependencies, yet the College of Sora 
w T as, at first, over that of Pumbaditha, as may be seen 
from the following facts: (1.) In the absence of the 
prince of the exiles, the gaon of Sora was regent, and 
called in the taxes from all the Jewish communities. 
(2.) The College of Sora got two shares of the taxes, 
while Pumbaditha only got one share. (3.) The presi- 
dent of Sora took precedence of the president of Pmnba- 
ditha, even though the former happened to be a young 
man and the latter an old man. In later times, how- 
ever, the College of Pumbaditha rose to the dignity of 
Sora, and eventually eclipsed it. These seats of learn- 
ing, in which were trained the doctors of the law — the 
successors of the ancient scribes — and w r hich represent- 
ed the unbroken chain of tradition and ordination, were 
extinguished in the middle of the 11th century. 

VI. Literature. — Krochmal, More Neboche Ua-Seman 
(Lemberg, 1851), p. 1G1, etc. ; Frankel, Monatsschrift fur 
Geschichte nnd Wissenschaft des Judenthums (Dessau, 
1852), i, 203 sq., 403 sq. ; Steinschneider, Jewish Litera- 
ture (Loud. 1857), p. 9, etc.; Catalogus Libr. llebr. in 
Bibliotheca Bodleiana, p. 2G15, etc.; Griitz, in Frankel’s 
Monatsschrift (Leips. 1857), vii, 33G sq., 381 sq.; Ge- 
schichte der Juden, vols. iv and v; Frankel, Ilodegetica 
in Mischnam (Lips. 1859) ; and the Latin monographs 
of Svrbins (Yitemb. 1G70), Georgius (ibid. 1734), and 
Ilect ( Francof. 1737); also Pick, The Scribes in the 
Time of Christ (in the Lutheran Quarterly , 1878, p. 
249 sq.). 

Scrip, an old Saxon name for satchel (Bible Educa- 
tor, iv, 209), is used in the A. V. as a rendering of the 
Heb. E^p^j yalkut (from Gjpb, to collect; Sept. ov\\o- 
yij), in 1 Sam. xvii, 40, wdiere it appears as a synonym 
for “43 (ro Kcifiiov ro TroiptviKov), the bag in 

which the shepherds of Palestine carried their food or 
other necessaries. In Symmachus and the Vulg.pmt, 
and in the marginal reading of A.X. “scrip,” appear in 
2 Kings iv, 42 for the *jibp^, tsikldn, wdiieli in the text 
of the A. V. is translated husk (comp. Gesen. s. v.). The 
7r//j oa of the New Test, appears in our Lord’s command 
to Iris disciples as distinguished from the (wnj (Matt, 
x, 10; Mark vi, 8) and the fiaWdrriov (Luke x, 4; 
xxii, 35, 3G), and its nature and use are sufficiently de- 
fined by the lexicographers. The English word has a 
meaning precisely equivalent to that of the Greek. 
Connected, as it probably is, with scrape , scrap, the scrip 
was used for articles of food. It belonged especially to 
shepherds (As You Like It, act iii, sc. 2). It w T as made 
of leather (Milton, Comus, G2G). The later sense of 
scrip as a written certificate is, it need hardly be said, 
of different origin or meaning; the w'ord, on its first use 
in English, was w'ritten script (Chaucer). The scrip of 
the ancient peasants was of leather, used especially to 
carry their food on a journey (/) Sqm) rwc apron', Suid. ; 
Sippa rt dproipopoi Ammon.), and slung over their 
shoulders. In the Talmudic writers the word ^“>G“lPi 
is used as denoting the same thing, and is named as 
part of the equipment both of shepherds in their com- 


SCRIPTORIA 


476 


SCRIPTURE 


mon life and of proselytes coming on a pilgrimage to 
Jerusalem (Lightfoot, J/or. Ueb. on Matt, x, 10). The 
on the other hand, was the loose girdle, in the 
folds of which money was often kept for the sake of 
safety [see Girdle] ; the fiaWavnov (saccvlus, Vulg.), 
was the smaller bag used exclusively lor money (Luke 
xii, 33). See Hag. Lightfoot, on the authority of rabbi 
Nathan, describes the scrip as “a kind of vesture, which 
was a little upper garment in which were many places 
sewed, where they put anything they met with that 
they had occasion to use; so that this was a kind of 
apron with divers purses or pockets made in it, in which 
the Jews put their necessaries as we do in our pockets, 
which apron they could readily put off or on, wear or lay 
aside, as they saw occasion. As in such an apron they 
had their pockets, so in the scarf or girdle wherewithal 
they girded their undercoats they had their purses. 
Their girdles were ordinarily of linen, and in them they 
kept their money when they travelled or went from 
home on their business” ( Temple Service, ix, 121). See 
Purse. Notwithstanding the great hospitality of the 
Orientals, travellers cannot always calculate upon ob- 
taining a supply of food in their cottages, for most of 
the peasants are so poor that they can rarely afford to 
keep more provisions than will meet the immediate 
wants of their families. Pedestrian travellers and shep- 
herds are therefore accustomed to take with them a 
satchel, or wallet, in which the} r carry some dry food 
and other little articles likely to be useful on a journey. 
It was in such a bag that David carried the pebble with 
which he smote the boasting champion of the Philis- 
tines (1 .Sam. xvii, 40). When Christ sent forth his 
apostles, he forbade them to provide themselves with 
these satchels; and nothing can more forcibly show 
the completeness of their dependence on Divine Provi- 
dence, while executing their mission, than their neg- 
lecting to supply themselves with what all other travel- 
lers would have regarded as an indispensable requisite 
(Matt, x, 10; Mark vi, 8 ; Luke ix, 3; comp. Luke xxii, 
35,36). They were to appear in every town or village 
as men unlike all other travellers, freely doing without 
that which others looked on as essential. The fresh 
rule given in Luke xxii, 35, 30, perhaps, also, the facts 
that Judas was the bearer of the bag ( yXujoauKopov , 
John xii, G), and that when the disciples were without 
bread they were ashamed of their forgetfulness (Mark 
viii, 14-1 G), show that the command was not intended 
to be permanent. The scrip is often made of haircloth, 
and is of various forms. In Palestine, however, it is 
usually made of leather (Porter, Damascus , ii, 109). In 
the south of Spain, where many of the usages introduced 
b} r the Mohammedan conquerors are still retained, the 
scrip is usually of goat- skin, and is generally carried 
over the shoulder. The purse, which some inaccurate 
commentators have con- 
founded with the scrip, 
was always suspended 
from the girdle. A kind 
of sanctity is attributed 
to the scrip by some of 
| the Eastern Jews, as it 
preserves their food from 
being polluted by being 
brought in to con tact with 
those whom they are 
taught to regard as un- 
clean or profane (see Ilackctt, Illustrations of Scripture, 
p. 97). Thomson found the farmers, in the vicinity of 
the Lake of Genncsarct, carrying wallets made of the 
skins of kids stripped off whole and roughly tanned; 
and he supposes these to be the scrip of the Bible 
{Land and Look, i, 532 sq.). 

Scriptoria, the desks of religions houses at which 
the monks wrote in the scriptorium. 

Scriptorium. In the Middle Ages, when learning 
was neglected elsewhere, such literature as there was 



Modern Oiieutal Wallet. 


found a refuge in monasteries. In every great abbey 
there was an apartment called scriptorium, or domus 
antiquarii , where writers were constantly employed in 
copying psalters, missals, Church music, and such other 
works as they could obtain. The monks in these writ- 
ing-rooms were enjoined to pursue their occupations in 
silence, and cautiously to avoid mistakes in grammar, 
spelling, or pointing. In some cases authors prefixed to 
their works a solemn adjuration to the transcribers to 
copy them correctly. When a number of copies of the 
same work was to be made, it was usual to employ sev- 
eral persons at the same time in writing; each person, 
except the writer of the first skin, began where his fel- 
low was to leave off. Sometimes they wrote after an- 
other person, called the dictator, who held the original 
and dictated ; hence the errors in orthography in many 
ancient MSS. These scriptoria were ordinarily so ar- 
ranged that benches were placed one behind another 
for the copyists, so that, a master or person standing at 
one end and naming a word or musical note, it could be 
quickly copied by all, each naming it in succession. 
These writing monks were sometimes distinguished by 
the name of librarii , a term applied to the common 
scriptores who gained a living by writing, but their 
more usual designation was antiquarii. Isidore of Sev- 
ille says, “The librarii transcribed both old and new 
works, the antiquarii only those that were ancient ; from 
hence they derived their name.” It was the duty of the 
librarian, or precentor of the monastery, to provide the 
writing-monks with the books they were to copy, and 
with the materials necessary for their occupation ; they 
were also forbidden to write anything without his per- 
mission. The junior monks were usually employed in 
the transcription of ordinary books, but it was ordained 
that “ the gospels, psalters, and missals should be care- 
fully written by monks of mature age.” Nuns were oc- 
casionally employed in a similar way.— Farrar, Ecclcs. 
Diet. s. v. 

Scripturalists, a term sometimes applied to Prot- 
estants on account of their fundamental doctrine that 
the Scriptures are the only sufficient rule of faith and 
obedience. The Jews also occasionally use the same 
word to denote those who reject the Mishna and adhere 
solely to the Old-Test. Scriptures. 

Scripture (3T.S, kethdb, Dan. x, %\, writing, as else- 
where rendered; in the New Test. ypa<pij, of the same 
signification, but always rendered “Scripture”). The 
chief facts relating to the books to which, individually 
and collectively, this title has been applied, will be found 
under BtRLK; Canon; and Scriptures, Holy. It will 
fall within the scope of this article to trace the history 
of the word, and to determine its exact meaning in the 
language of the Old and New Tests. (In doing this we 
substantially adopt Plumtre’s art. in Smith's Did. of 
the Bible.') 

I. It is not till the return from the Captivity that the 
; word meets us with any distinctive force. In the ear- 
lier books we read of the law, the book of the law. In 
j Exod. xxxii, 1G, the commandments written on the 
I tablbs of testimony are said to be “ the writing of God” 
(y pa<f>i] ©con), hut there is no special sense in the 
wojrd taken by itself. In the passage from Dan. x, 21 
(H'lN: irra.^Sept. Iv.y patyy f/XijS’fi at;) , where the 
,A. V. has “the Scripture of truth,” the words do not 
probably mean more than “a true writing.” The 
thought of the Scripture as a whole is hardly to be 
found there: the statement there given was certainly 
not a quotation from any Biblical book. The allusion 
doubtless is to the divine purposes, which are figurative- 
ly represented as a book of destiny (comp. l’sa. cxxxix, 
1G ; Lev. v, I), See Book. This first appears in 2 Chron. 
xxx, 5, 18 Sept. Kara n)v ypa<pi)V — A. V. “as 

it was written”), and is probably connected with the 
profound reverence for the sacred books which led the 
earlier scribes to confine their own teaching to oral tra- 


SCRIPTURE 


477 SCRIPTURE, APOCRYPHAL 


dition,and gave therefore to “ the writing” a distinctive 1 
pre-eminence. See Semites. The same feeling showed J 
itself in the constant formula of quotation, “ It is writ- 
ten,” often without the addition of any words defining 
the passage quoted (Matt, iv, 4, G; xxi, 13; xxvi, 24). 
The Greek word, as will be seen, kept its ground in this 
sense. A slight change passed over that of the He- 
brew, and led to the substitution of another. The 
(kethubim= writings), in the Jewish arrange- 
ment of the Old Test., was used for a part, and not the 
whole, of the Old Test, (the Ilagiographa [q. v.]), while 
another form of the same root ( [kethib ) came to have 
a technical significance as applied to the text, which, 
though written in the MSS. of the Hebrew Scriptures, 
might or might not be recognised as ken, the right in- 
telligible reading to be read in the congregation. An- 
other word was therefore wanted, and it was found in 
the Mikra (SOp'O, Neh. viii, 8), or “ reading,” the thing 
read or recited, recitation. (The same root, it may be 
noticed, is found in the title of the sacred book of Islam 
\_Koran — recitation].) This, accordingly, we find as the 
equivalent for the collective ypa<pai. The boy at the 
age of five begins the study of the Mikra, at ten passes 
on to the Mishna ( Pirke Aboth, v, 24). The old word 
has not, however, disappeared, and “ the writ- 

ing,” is nsed with the same connotation {ibid, iii, 10). 

2. With this meaning the word y pa<pi\ passed into 
the language of the New Test. Used in the singular, it 
is applied chiefly to this or that passage quoted from 
the Old Test. (Mark xii, 10; John vii, 38 ; xiii, 18; xix, 
37 ; Luke iv, 21 ; Rom. ix, 17 ; Gal. iii, 8, et al.). In 
Acts viii, 32 (i) 7rqoioy?) rijg ypcHpijg) it takes a some- 
what larger extension, as denoting the writing of Isaiah ; 
but in ver. 35 the more limited meaning reappears. In 
two passages of some difficulty, some have seen the 
wider, some the narrower, sense. 

(1.) ndcra ypci(j>t) ^EOTrvevvrog (2 Tim. iii, 1G) has 
been translated in the A. V. “All Scripture is given by 
inspiration of God,” as if ypeufn), though without* the 
article, were taken as equivalent to the Old Test, as a 
whole (comp, Ttiiva oiKodopi), Eph. ii, 21; Travel Tqoo- 
c ToXvpa, Matt, ii, 3), and 5tb7rrEV(jrog, the predicate 
asserted of it. This is doubtless the correct construc- 
tion. Even if we should retain the narrower meaning, 
however, we might still take $£o7rr£uaroc; as the pred- 
icate. “Every Scripture — sc. every separate portion — 
is divinely inspired.” It has been urged, however, that 
this assertion of a truth, which both Paul and Timothy 
held in common, would be less suitable to the context 
than the assigning of that truth as a ground for the fur- 
ther inference drawn from it; and so there is a large 
amount of authority in favor of the rendering, “Every 
ypctipt]. being inspired, is also profitable ...” (comp. 
Meyer, Alford, Wordsworth, Ellicott, Wiesinger, ad loc.). 
But this renders the latter clause unbalanced, and the 
feat is evidently intended as a copulative, and not as 
a mere expletive adverb. There docs not seem any 
ground for making the meaning of ypaipi) dependent on 
the adjective ^EowrEWTog (“every inspired writing”), 
as if we recognised a ypa<J») not inspired. The usus lo- 
quendi of the New Test, is uniform in this respect, and 
the word y paQt) is never used of any common or secular 
writing. 

(2.) The meaning of the genitive in irdva 7rpo<f>iiTEla 
ypaipfig (2 Pet. i, 20) seems at first sight, anarthrous 
though it be, distinctly collective. “ Every prophecy 
of (i. e. contained in) the Old-Test. Scripture.” A closer 
examination of the passage will perhaps lead to a dif- 
ferent conclusion. The apostle, after speaking of the 
vision on the holy mount, goes on, “ We have as some- 
thing yet firmer, the prophetic word” (here, probably, 
including the utterances of New-Test. 7rpo<pi]Tai, as well 
as the writings of the Old Test.). So 6 7 rpo(p))TiKug 
Xoyog is used by Philo of the words of Moses {Leg. Al- 
leg. iii, 14; i, 95, ed. Mang.). He, of course, could rec- 
ognise no prophets but those of the Old Test. Clement 


j of Rome (ii, 11) uses it of a prophecy not included in 
I the canons. Men did well to give heed to that word. 
They needed one caution in dealing with it. They 
were to remember that no 7T t oo^reia ypa<pijg, no such 
prophetic utterance starting from, resting on, a ypa<j>i), 
came from the icia hriXvvig , the individual power of 
, interpretation of the speaker, but was, like the y pcifo) 
itself, inspired. It was the law of 7T/oo0/;reia, of the 
later as well as the earlier, that men of God spake 
“ borne along by the Iloly Spirit.” So in the only oth- 
er instance in which the genitive is found (Rom. xv, 4), 
i) 77ap(nc\i]vtg rutv ypatyiov is the counsel, admonition, 
drawn from the Scriptures. Aoyog 7r apatcXijveojg ap- 
pears in Acts xiii, 15 as the received term for such an 
address, the sermon of the Synagogue. Ilapd/cXq'Tic 
itself was so closely allied with npo^qrAa (comp. Bar- 
nabas = vtug 7rpo(j)f)rEiag = viog 7rapaKXi]VEU)g') that 
the expressions of the two apostles may be regarded as 
substantially identical. 

3. In the plural, as might be expected, the collective 
meaning is prominent. Sometimes we have simply ai 
ypatyai (Matt, xxi, 42; xxii,29; John v, 39; Acts xvii, 
11; 1 Cor. xv. 3). Sometimes 7rdvai ai ypatyai (Luke 
xxiv, 27). The epithets uyiai (Rom. i, 2), 7rpo(pt]riKai 

1 (xvi, 2G), are sometimes joined with it. In 2 Pet. iii, 
1G we find an extension of the term to the epistles of 
Paul ; but it remains uncertain whether ai Xonrai y pa- 
<pai are the Scriptures of the Old. Test, exclusively, or 
include other writings then extant dealing with the 
same topics. There seems little doubt that such writ- 
ings did exist. A comparison of Rom. xvi, 2G with 
Ephes. iii, 5 might even suggest the conclusion that in 
both there is the same assertion that what had not been 
revealed before was now manifested by the Spirit to the 
apostles and prophets of the Church, and so that the 
“prophetic writings” to which Paul refers are, like the 
spoken words of New-Test, prophets, those that reveal 
tilings not made known before, the knowledge of the 
mystery of Christ. 

It is noticeable that in the 2d Epistle of Clement of 
Rome (ch. xi) we have a long citation of this nature, 
not from the Old Test., quoted as 6 7rpo(}>i]TiK6g Xbyog 
(comp. 2 Pet.i, 19), and that in the 1st Epistle (ch. xxiii) 
the same is quoted as i) ypatpij. Looking to the special 
fulness of the prophetic gifts in the Church of Corinth 
(l Cor. i, 5; xiv, 1), it is obviously probable that some 
of the spoken prophecies would be committed to writing; 
and it is a striking coincidence that both the apostolic 
and the post -apostolic references are connected, first 
with that Church, and next with that of Rome, which 
was so largely influenced by it. 

4. In one passage, rd iqod ypdppava (2 Tim. iii, 15) 
answers to “ The Holy Scriptures” of the A. V. Taken 
by itself, the word might, as in John vii, 15; Acts xxvi, 
24, have a wider range, including the whole circle of 
Rabbinic education. As determined, however, by the 
use of other Hellenistic writers, Philo {Leg. ad Citium , 
ii, 574, ed. Mang.), Josephus {Ant. Proem. 3, x, 10, § 4; 
Coni. Apion. i, 26), there can be no doubt that it is ac- 
curately translated with this special meaning. 

SCRIPTURE, Apocryphal. The books which we 
now call Apocryphal were read in some of the early 
churches, but not in all. They were utterly forbidden in 
the Church of Jerusalem, as appears from Cyril {Catech. 
4, n. 22, p. GG, G7), where he directs the catechumens to 
read no Apocryphal books, but only the canonical, which 
he names as they are now found in the Bible, with the 
exception of Revelation, 'flic like determination was 
made for some other churches by the Council of Laodi- 
cea {Cone. Laodic. can. 59). In some churches they 
were allowed to be read with a mark of distinction, as 
books of piety and moral instruction, to edify the peo- 
ple ; but they were never named as inspired books, nor 
made use of to confirm articles of faith. They were 
sometimes spoken of as canonical, taking that word in a 
large sense for such books as were in the rule, or can- 
on, or catalogue of books authorized to be read in the 


SCRIPTURE, INTERP. OF 478 SCRIPTURE, INTERP. OF 


Church. — Bingham, Christian Antiq. bk. xiv, ch. iii, 
§15. See Apocrypha. 

SCRIPTURE, Interpretation of, Jewish. We 
here present some details supplementary to the art. In- 
terpretation (q. v.). 

I. Among the Rabbinic Jews. — Immediately after the 
close of the canon, the study of the Old Test, became 
an object of scientific treatment. A number of God- 
fearing men arose, who, by their instruction, encourage- 
ment, and solemn admonitions, rooted and buildcd up 
the people in their most holy faith. The first among 
these was Ezra, who read and explained the law to the 
people (Neh. viii, 8). As the Bible formed the central 
point around which their legends, sermons, lectures,- 
discussions, investigations, etc., clustered, a homiletico- 
exegetical literature was, in the course of time, devel- 
oped, which was called Mid rash This Mid- 

rash again developed itself in the Ihilaclmh (Uzbn), i. e. 
current law. fixed rule of life; also called Xn"Z'^, what 
was heard or accepted, and IJagadah (m^n), i. e. what 
was said , without having the authority of a law, i. e. 
free exposition , homilies , moral sayings , ami legends . 
Starting from the principle that Scripture, especially 
the Pentateuch, contained an answer to every question, 
the text was explained in a fourfold manner, viz.: 1, 
3 ‘22, in a simple, primary, or literal; 2, 13 Yl, second- 
ary, homiletic, or spiritual; 3, 1Z1, allegorical ; 4, *110, 
recondite or mysterious sense, which was afterwards des- 
ignated by the acrostic Pardes (q. v.). These four 
modes of interpretation were also espoused by the cele- 
brated Nicholas de Lyra (q. v.), which he describes in 
the well-known couplet — 

“ Littera gesta docet, quid credas Allegoria, 

Moralis quid agas, quo tendas auagogia.” 

Long before De Lyra, we also find a threefold mode of 
interpretation by Origen, viz. : <rc oparucog, \pvxvcoc;, 
and TTVEvpariKoQ (comp, irt.pi cipx&v, lib. iv, e. 2). 
As the Midrashic literature has already been treated in 
the art. Midrasii (q. v.),we can only refer to it. The 
fourfold mode of interpretation, however, was not suffi- 
cient for the explanation, and, according to the old say- 
ing that “the law can be interpreted in forty-nine dif- 
ferent modes” (^rs 'JZn min n, Midrash 

Rabb. Lee. § xxvi, p. 149 b), all impossibilities could be 
made possible. Hence the necessity arose for laying 
down and fixing certain laws for the interpretation of 
the Scripture. This was done by Ilillel the Great (q.v.) 
by his r,1‘T2 7, or seven rules , according to which the 
law was to be explained, viz.: 

1. Inference from minor to major (131111 7p). Thus, 
e. g., in Exod. xxii, 13 it is not said whether the bor- 
rower of a thing is responsible for theft. In ver. 9-11, 
however, it is declared that the depositary who can free 
himself from making restitution in cases of death or ac- 
cident must make restitution when the animal is stolen; 
while in ver. 13 the borrower is even obliged to make 
restitution in cases of death or accident. Hence the 
inference made from the minor (i. e. the depositary) to 
the major (i. c. the borrower) that he (in xxii, 13) is all 
the more responsible for theft (Baba Metsia, 95 a ; comp, 
also for other examples, Berakoth , ix, 5 raed. ; Beza.x, 
2; Sanhedrin, vi, 5 ; Eduyoth , vi, 2). 

2. The analogy of ideas or analogous inferences (111^T2 
nr:). This rule was employed by Ilillel himself 
against the sons of Batheira, who pretended not to know 
whether or not the Paschal lamb might be slain on the 
Sabbath, when the evening of the Passover happened 
to fall on that day. Ilillel affirmed this question on 
the ground of the analogous inference. In Numb, 
xxviii, 2 it is said concerning the daily sacrifice, “ to 
offer it in its time” (112133); and it is also said re- 
specting the Paschal lamb, “let the children of Israel 
keep it in its time” (111*1-3, Numb, ix, 2). lie thus 


concluded, since the daily sacrifice can be offered on the 
Sabbath, so likewise can the Paschal lamb ( Pesachim , 
vi, 2; Jcrus. Pesachim , CG a; Tosephta Pesachim , c. 

4 ). 

3. Analogy of two objects in one verse (3X “p-l 
1J1N 317133). Thus in Lev. xv, 4 two objects arc 
mentioned, the bed and the chair (313131 33133), 
which, though belonging to two different classes, have 
the common quality of serving for repose. And as these 
are declared to be unclean when touched by him who 
has an issue, and to have the power of defiling both 
men and garments through contact, it is inferred that 
all things which serve for resting may be rendered un- 
clean by him who has an issue, and then defile both 
men and garments. 

4. Analogy of two objects in two verses (3N *p33 
C“*3in3 *3133), e. g., though the command to light the 
lamps in the sanctuary (71113, Lev. xxiv, 4) is different 
from the command “ to put out of the camp every leper” 
(Numb, v, 2), inasmuch as the former is enjoined for all 
times (ver. 3), while the latter enjoins only the speedy 
carrying - out of the injunction (ver. 4) ; yet, because 
they both have in common the word 132, command, the 
conclusion is that every law with regard to which the 
expression 132 is used must at once and forever be car- 
ried out. 

5. General and special (I3l£1 ^Z). Hereby is meant 
that wherever a special statement follows a general one, 
the definition of the special is to be applied to the gen- 
eral use. Thus in Lev. i, 2 we read, “If any man of 
3 r ou bring an offering to the Lord, from cattle, from 
oxen, and from sheep.” Here cattle is a general ex- 
pression, and may denote different kinds of animals. 
Oxen and sheep is the special whereby the general is 
defined, and therewith it is rendered coextensive. Hence 
it is inferred that only oxen and small cattle may be 
brought as sacrifices, but not beasts. 

G. Analogy of another passage (Cip33 “p NSI^D 
ini>), being an extension of 3 and 4. 

7. The connection (13"323 1 3?n 131). Thus the 
prohibition in Lev. xx, 11, “Ye shall not steal,” only 
refers to stealing money, because the whole connection 
treats upon money matters. 

To these exegetical principles Nahum of Gimso (q. v.) 
not only added another canon, but he also maintained 
that certain defined particles employed in the text were 
to be looked upon as so man} r indications of a hidden 
meaning in the words. In this he was opposed by Ne- 
clninjah ben-lIa-Kanah (q. v.), on the one hand, and 
seconded by Akiba (q. v.), on the other, who not only 
adopted this principle, but went much beyond it. Start- 
ing with an erroneous notion of the character of inspi- 
ration, he refused to submit the sacred text to the same 
critical rules as other writings. He maintained that 
every sentence, word, and particle in the Bible must have 
its use and meaning. He denied that mere rhetorical 
figures, repetitions, or accumulations occurred in the Bi- 
ble. Every word, syllable, and letter which was not 
absolutely requisite to express the meaning which it 
was desired to convey, must, he maintained, serve some 
ulterior purpose, and be intended to indicate a special 
meaning. Akiba reduced his views to a system. The 
seven exegetical principles of Ilillel were enlarged into 
forty-nine, and were strictly applied to ever} r possible 
case, irrespective of the consequences of such conclusions. 
Great as the authority of Akiba was, yet as formerly 
Nechunjah bcn-IIa-Kanah had opposed the exegetical 
principles of Nahum of Gimso, so now rabbi Ismael ben- 
Elisa (q. v.) rejected those of rabbi Akiba, and kept by 
the rules of Ilillel, which he somewhat altered by re- 
jecting one, adding another, and subdividing a third 
into five parts. These principles of rabbi Ismael are 
known as his thirteen exegetical canons, the <1113213^13 


SCRIPTURE, INTEKP. OF 4’ 

ni*T3, by which alone the Scriptures arc to be inter- 
preted (Dil3 n33“fia nmnmr). and which are: 

1. Inference from minor to major (“3n*l bp). 2. The 
comparison of words or ideas (11*123 il*V'T3). 3. Building of 
the father, or the chief law from one verse , and the chief law 
from two verses (*3)2331 3X *p 321 IJIX 3in2tt 3X *p33 
4. General and special (l 3“I£*1 b^D). 5. Sjie- 
cial and general (b^El I31S). G. General , special, and gen- 
eral 1312*1 bbz). 7. A general subject which re- 

quires a special one , and a special which requires a general 
subject (bw -plan aisi 312 b "pisn bbz). s. 
When a special law is enacted for something which has al- 
ready been comprised in a general law , it shoivs that it is 
also to be applied to the whole class (bbE3 »"pn 23 “131 

X2P br l^bb xb l^bb bbzft *,3 X^l 

XIS'*' *jb*12 bbzVl b’J l^bb six). 9. When a subject 
included in a general description is excepted from it for an- 
other enactment , while it remains in all other respects like 
it, it is excepted to be alleviated , but not aggravated (131 

irara air.sa ins ‘parjb xari bba3 pp«t:j 

“PEIlilb xbl bpllb >. 10 . When a subject included 
in a general description is excepted from it for another en- 
actment, while it is also not like it in other respects, it is ex- 
cepted both to be alleviated and aggravated, i.e. its connec- 
tion with the general law entirely ceases (bbaE rPil23 131 

bpnb S3*i mzz xb33 ins *pr:a *pr-jb xn 

l-i^nnb*!). 11. If a subject included in a general descrip- 
tion has been excepted from it for the enactment of a new and 
opposite law, it cannot be restored again to the general class 
unless the Bible itself expressly restores it (Si* 1 nil? 131 

biD*' sirs *^x mnsi 1313 *p**nb xan bbzz 
35 * 11^23 3*ir,3n laiMrra ip ibbab *nitnnb). 

12. The sense of an indefinite statement must either be deter- 
mined from its connection, or from the form and tendency 
of the statement itself (Ittbn 131*1 *13^350 13bn 131 
*12*1033). 13. When two statements seem to contradict each 
other, a third statement ivill reconcile them (3*'3“1P3 *'323 
“>23^23n 31P2S1 X13^E3 IP HT PS PT 
tevna^i p*'i3"ii). 

This canon of Ishmael was soon followed by a more ex- 
tended one of Elieser hen- Jose the Galilean, of the 2d 
century, who laid down thirty- two rules, which are 
given in the art. Midrash (q. v.), § iv. 

Besides these rules, the Scripture was explained ac- 
cording to the Notaricon (q. v.), or according to the 
Gematria ( X’^lOO*'} ), a word borrowed from the 
Greek, either corresponding to ytwpsTpia or ypappa- 
TEici. The idea of this rule was, since every letter 
is a numeral, to reduce the word to the number it 
contains, and to explain the word by another of the 
same quantity. Thus from the words “Lo! three 
men stood by him” (Gen. xviii, 2), it is deduced 
that these three angels were Michael , Gabriel , and Ra- 
phael , because n23b2J Pam, and lo ! three men , and 
bXDl*l bx^lEi bxs^O *lbx, these are Michael , Ga- 
briel, and Raphael, are of the same numerical value, as 
will be seen from the following reduction to their nu- 
merical value of both these phrases : 

P 33 b 33 P 3 P *) 
5+300-1-30+300-1-5-1-504-54-6=701. 
b X l 1 3 * b X 0 'Elba 

30+1+10+200+2+3+30+1+20+10+40+G+30+1 

b X 3 1 "1 

+30+1+80+200+6=701. 

From the passage, And all the inhabitants of the earth 
were of one language (Gen. xi, 1), is deduced that all 
spoke Hebrew, PE23 being changed for its synonym 
yi23b, and 33lpn = 5 + 100+4 + 300=409, is substi- 
tuted for its equivalent r,PiX = l + 8 + 400 = 409. 


9 SCRIPTURE, INTERP. OF 

Another mode of interpretation was according to the 
^PpP bx, i. e. read not so, but so — a very important 
rule, which exhibits the beginnings of the Masorah (q.v.). 
In the 3d and 4th centuries nothing new was added to the 
exegetical canons, and the rabbins of this period did not go 
beyond their predecessors. The main study was devoted 
to that branch of literature which found its climax in the 
Mishna and Gemara, now constituting what is termed 
the Talmud (q. v.). In the 7th century, however, “we 
find ourselves with Jewish scholars who had begun to 
be awake to the importance of serious inquiry into the 
true meaning of the written Word of God, and men 
who brought to the task of such investigations minds 
not only teeming with the traditions of their forefathers, 
but educated in the severer science of their own age. 
Of this class the representative is Saadias (q. v.) Gaon, 
who was beyond compare, both as a philologist and the- 
ologian, the most competent expositor of Holy Scripture 
that had hitherto appeared in the schools of Judaism; 
and who was followed by men yet more powerful, in 
Aben-Ezra, Kashi, Kimchi, Abarbanel, and others, who 
have been, or will yet be, treated in this Cyclopedia. 
These commentators do not all adopt the same principle 
of interpretation. They teach the same doctriues sub- 
stantially, they write under the influence of similar 
prejudices more or less strong, and they aim at like ob- 
jects; but they go to work in different ways. One 
class address themselves to unfold what they consider 
to be the simple or literal meaning of the words of 
Scripture; and of this class, some not only attend to the 
idioms of the language and the lexicographic import of 
words, but descend to the niceties of the Masorah, and 
profess to show how different shades of meaning may 
be brought out of words by the diacritical use of the 
vowel-points and accents. Another class bring to their 
aid the mythical apparatus of the Midrashim, and crowd 
their pages with the legends and sagas of the Hagadoth. 
Others, again, advance from the literal into the allegor- 
ical mode of exposition, and consider the letter of the 
document as the signature or indication of a higher and 
more spiritual teaching; while a fourth school, disdain- 
ing all these lower modes of exegesis, seek the transcen- 
dental regions of the Cabala.” 

II. Among the Hellenistic and Alexandrian Jews . — 
While the Talmudic and Rabbinic Judaism, with all its 
dogmas and pharisaic decisions, stood upon the firm 
ground of the Old-Test, revelation, it was entirely dif- 
ferent with Hellenistic Judaism. Separated from their 
brethren of Palestine, the Jews of Egypt constituted ail 
almost independent sect. Left to themselves, and set 
free from those elements which led to the development 
of Rabbi nism in the mother country, the Alexandrian 
Jews pursued a different direction. They had to defend 
their faith from the attacks of a philosophical system 
apparently related to it, but claiming for those initiated 
into its mysteries a higher spirituality and a loftier ele- 
vation. To retain the truths of Platonism in Judaism, 
to vindicate them for, and to elicit them from, the Old 
Test., such was the first task of the Alexandrian Jewish 
apologist. The medium of allegorical exposition served 
for this purpose, as it necessarily comes into existence 
everywhere, when the religious faith has taken up an 
attitude of contradiction to tbe contents of those docu- 
ments which yet are received as divine, and are firmly 
retained (see Gfrorer, Philo, i, G9). 

The beginnings of this interpretation can be pointed 
out so early as B.C. 180, in the ’E^tjyijaeig rye M low's wq 
rpatyi'ic, by Aristobulus, an adherent of the Aristotelian 
philosophy. Homage was done to it by the Thera - 
peute (q.v.), who, according to Philo (De Vita Conteni- 
plativa [<kl. Mang.], ii, 483), regarded the entire vopo- 
Stola (that is, the Holy Scriptures) as a living being 
(£woi/), and held “the words to be the body, and the 
deeper sense, which is veiled under the words, to be the 
soul : into this the rational soul gazes, looking into very 
hidden thoughts by means of the words, as it were by a 


SCRIPTURE, INTERP. OF 480 SCRIPTURE, INTERP. OF 


mirror’ (see Gfrbrer, Philo , ii, 292 sq.). Josephus, it 
seems, also fancied this mode, as can be seen from his 
words in the preface to his Antiquities, that Moses, in 
his works, had only indicated some things, and others 
he had communicated in allegories worthy of the topics 
(rd piv aivi7T0f.it v ov rov ropoStrov, rd fit aWijy o- 
pof'uroc peril atpvoTijrog). But it reached its zenith 
in the writings of Philo (q.v.) of Alexandria, the whole 
of which are occupied with explanations or allegorical 
interpretations of the books of Moses. 

Like most Jewish theologians, Philo places the au- 
thority of Moses above that of the other inspired writ- 
ers, who are considered rather as his interpreters and 
followers than as his equals. But even in Moses we 
have to distinguish what he attained by philosophical 
acquirement from that which he received from God, 
either in ecstasy (a state more or less attainable by all 
initiated), in answer to his inquiries, or by direct com- 
munications. The results of all these are laid down in 
the Scriptures. But all deeper spiritual truths appear 
there veiled ; the letter conveying comparatively low 
and carnal views in order to condescend to the gross 
and carnal notions of the vulgar, so as to bring at least 
some truth to them, and perhaps gradually to attract 
them to higher and more spiritual views. It were im- 
possible, it is ridiculous, to interpret literally many 
scriptural statements, which, so understood, are contrary 
to reason, and would degrade Judaism below the level 
of heathen philosophy. In explaining the supposed 
allegories of Scripture, the Greek text of the Sept, is 
rigidly adhered to by Philo, though traces of an imper- 
fect acquaintance with the Hebrew occur. A good deal 
was, of course, to be left to the excgctical tact of each 
interpreter, but the following seem to have been some 
of the principles of Alexandrian exegesis: 1. The terms 
in the text may be expanded, and its statements applied 
to any or all topics to which the same expressions might 
figuratively be applied. Thus the word “place” might, 
besides its proper meaning, apply to the Logos, and even 
to God, who contains and tills all. 2. The idea con- 
veyed in the text may be educed from the words by 
showing a similar etymological derivation, and hence 
an affinity between the words and the idea. 3. Every- 
thing not absolutely requisite in the text was supposed 
to point to some special and hidden meaning. 4. At- 
tention was to be given to the excgctical traditions of 
the fathers, which especially showed itself in the expla- 
nation of proper nouns. 5. Above all, the commenta- 
tor may, by reaching the ecstatic state of the inspired 
writer, sympathize with and gain an immediate view 
of the same truth. 6. Several differing interpretations 
may all convey portions of truth. Such being the pro- 
cedure of Philo, the natural consequence was “that he 
completely altered the peculiar subject-matter and spirit 
of the religion of the old covenant, whose essential char- 
acter is constituted by the revelation of God in facts 
and history; and that he volatilized the truth of God 
into abstract ideas.” See Philo (Jud.eus). 

III. A mong the Cabalists . — An entirely different atti- 
tude towards the Old Test, was assumed by the Caba- 
lists, the Jewish theosophists of the Middle Ages; for 
they endeavored to lay a foundation for their theosoph- 
ic doctrine and theories formed by fusing Greek and 
Oriental speculations, together with the Old-Test, reve- 
lation, in allegorical and mystical interpretations of the 
Old Test., especially the history of creation in Genesis, 
and Ezekiel’s vision of the chariot of God. For this 
purpose they availed themselves of the artificial herme- 
neutical methods of the Talmudieal llagadah. They 
not only made use of the four modes of interpretation 
comprised in the mnemoteehuic Pavdcs , of the Notari- 
eon and Guimatria mentioned above, but also of the 
Tsiruph (CjTPIi), an anagram which consists in the 
change of any word into others by the transposition of 
the component letters, which form various words. Thus 
rViTSOn, “in the beginning,” has been anagramatized i 


wX *“0^13, “a covenant of fire,” to accord with Deut. 
xxxiii, 2; the Temurah (n^V^n), or permutation, or a 
change of the letters of the alphabet, by first reducing 
its twenty-two letters to eleven couples, coupling the 
first with the last, the second with the one next to the 
last, etc., as ^ 23 OH 31 2£H p*I “I} 133 TK, 
and then forming mysterious words from the substituted 
letters. They assert that Jeremiah, in order that he 
might not provoke the king of Babylon against him by 
making use of the word Babylon , artfully substituted 
”1313 (Jer. li, 41), and that it is the same as ^33. 
Without going into details, we will quote the Jewish 
writer Zunz, who (in his Gottesdienstliche Vortrage, p. 
403) characterizes the Cabalistic treatment of Scripture 
in the following manner: “The contents and significa- 
tion of the Biblical and Talmudieal doctrines were linked 
on to traditional or self-imagined laws for the regula- 
tion of the world in the mysteries of the Divine Maj- 
esty. The secrets of the law became now the deeper 
sense of the old precepts and opinions when this had 
been unriddled. It was believed that these secrets had 
been deposited in the letter of Scripture, but were legi- 
ble only to the initiated or inspired, who knew how to 
set free the spirits confined in the words. Thus, then, 
in all that was given by the Scripture and the Hagadah, 
men saw a sum of letters and signs, whose arbitrary com- 
bination led to the unveiling of mysteries, and as the 
use of similar means occurred already in the Hagadah, 
such a spiritualizing of the letter, by means of which the 
connection of Judaism with the eternal order regulating 
the heavens became known, was held to be the glory 
of the law, the highest attaiument of all exposition, and 
the final aim of all wisdom. The contents of the Holy 
Scriptures, the Halachah as well as the Hagadah, the se- 
cret doctrine and the results of philosophy — the whole 
was the bearer of an order which regulated the world; 
in whieh God and law were the foundation, the written 
Word was the symbol, but the alleged body of tradition 
was the truth. Into that domain of the ‘Mercabah’ and 
the ‘ Bereshith’ [‘the Chariot’ and 4 the Creation’], at 
one time kept at such a distance from the public, ev- 
erything of expository material which antiquity had 
bequeathed was gradually drawn in, and was extended 
into philosophico-mvstical systems of Judaism, in writ- 
ings of the most manifold description.” See Cabala. 

IV. A mong the Karaites . — Their opposition to Kabbin- 
ism would also lead them to a rejection of their mode 
of interpretation. They expounded the Old Test, sim- 
ply and naturally, and their expositions manifest an 
obvious effort to reach the true spiritual understanding. 
In general they have penetrated deeper into the spirit 
of the Old Test, than their opponents. 

See Hartmann, Die enge Yerbindung des Alten Testa- 
ments mit dem Neuen, p. 384-731 ; Ilirschfeld, Der Geist 
der talmadischen A uslegung der Bibel — Erster Theil, I la- 
in chi sche Exegese (Berlin, 1840); id. Die hagadische Ex- 
egese (ibid. 1847); Frankel, Vvrstudien zu der Septua - 
ginta , p. 163-203; id. Ueber den Einfluss der pa last inen- 
sischen Exegese auf die alexandrinische Hermeneutik and 
Programm zur Eroffnung des jiidisch-theolog. Seminars 
zu Breslau (1854); Welte, in the Tub. theol. Quartal- 
sehrift , 1842, p. 19-58; Hamburger, Real-Encyldop . s. v. 
“ Exegese Schiirer, Neutestamentliche Zeitgesckichte, p, 
446 sq.; Griitz, Gesch. d. Juden , iii, 175 sq. ; iv, 55 sq., 
427 sq. ; id. in Frankel’s Monutsschrift , 1851-52, p. 156- 
162; 1 'inner, Einkitung zur Uebersetzung des Tractates 
Berachoth , p. 17 b-20 a; Prcssel, in Herzog’s Real-En- 
cyldop. xv, 651 sq.; Zunz, Gottesdienstliche Vortrage , p. 
58 sq., 86 sq. ; Edersheim, llist . of the Jeicish Nation , p. 
182 sq., 570 sq. ; Eisenmenger, A 'euentdecktes Judenthum, 
i, 453 sq. ; Wahlner, A vtiquitates Ebneorum , i, 376-532; 
Ilottinger, Thesaur . Philolog . p. 560-562; Bodensehatz, 
Kirchl. Verfassung der heutigen Juden , iii, 237-246; 
D’Aquine [Ph.], YeUrum It abbot or um in Exponendo Pen- 
tateucho (Paris, 1622); Maimonides, More Nebuchim (see 


SCRIPTURES, HOLY 4S1 SCRIPTURES, HOLY 


Rosenmiiller’s Ilandbuch , iv, 124 sq.); Kcil, Introduction 1 
to the Old Test. ii, 380 sq.; Ginsburg, Kabbalah , p. 48 
sq.; id. Ecclesiastes , p. 30 sq. ; Margoliouth, Modern Ju- 
daism Jnvesfiyated, p. 13 sq. (B. I 1 .) 

SCRIPTURES, Holy, the term generally applied in 
the Christian Church, since the 2d century, to denote 
the collective writings of the Old and New Testaments. 
See Bible. The names Scripture, or “writing” (/) 
ypa(}»), 2 Pet. i, 20), Scriptures (ai ypa<pai, Matt, xxii, 
20; Acts viii, 24), Holy Scriptures (U/jd ypdppara , 2 
Tim. iii, 15), are those employed in the New Test, to 
denote exclusively the writings of the Old. See Tes- 
tament. About A.D. 180, the term The Holy Script- 
ures { al dy'iai ypeupai) is used by Theophilus {Ad Au- 
tolyc . iii, 12) to include the Gospels. Irenanis (ii, 27) 1 
calls the whole collection of the books of the Old and 
New Testaments The Divine Scriptures (3^7 ai ypa<pai), 
and The Lord's Scriptures (Dominic® Scriptnne, v, 20, 
2). By Clement of Alexandria {Strom, vii) they are 
called the Scriptures {ypa<pat), and the inspired Script- 
ures (ai 3£07ri/£tWot ypatyai ). From the end of the 2d 
and beginning of the 3d century, at which time a col- 
lection of the New -Test, writings was generally re- 
ceived, the term came into constant use, and was so 
applied as to include all the books contained in the ver- 
sion of the Sept., as well as those of the Hebrew eanon. 
See Scripture. 

I. Contents of the Scriptures. — The Scriptures are di- 
vided into the books held sacred by the .lews, and those 
held sacred both by Jews and Christians. The former 
are familiarly known by the name of the Old Test., and 
the latter by that of the New. Sec Bible. The Old 
Test., according to the oldest catalogue extant in the 
Christian Church, that of Melito, bishop of Sardis in 
the 2d century, consists of the live books of Moses, or 
the Pentateueh (viz. Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Num- 
bers, and Deuteronomy), Joshua, Judges, and Ruth; 
four books of Kings and two of Paralipomena (Chroni- 
cles) ; the Psalms of David; the Proverbs of Solomon, 
Ecclesiastes, Canticles, and Job; the prophets Isaiah 
and Jeremiah; the twelve Prophets; the books of Dan- 
iel, Ezekiel, and Ezra, under which head Nehemiah and 
Esther seem to be included (Eusebius, Hist. Eccles. iv, 
26). Origen, in the next century, reckons twenty-two 
books, calling them by their Hebrew names, which con- 
sisted generally of the initial word of the book, viz. 
Bresith, or Genesis; Walmoth, or Exodus; Waikra, or 
Leviticus; Ammesphekodeim, or Numbers; Ellahade- 
barim, or Deuteronomy; Joshua ben-Nun; Sophetim, 
or Judges and Ruth; Samuel; 'YVahammelech Dabid, 
or 3 and 4 Kings; Dibre I lajammin, or Chronicles ; Ezra, 
which included Nehemiah ; Sepher Tehillim, or Psalms; 
Misloth, or Proverbs; Koheleth, or Ecclesiastes; Sir 
Hasirim, or Canticles; Isaiah; Jeremiah, Lamentations, 
and the Epistle; Daniel; Ezekiel; Job; and Esther; 
“besides whieli,” he adds, “is Sarbath Sarbane El, or 
Maccabees.” He omits, perhaps by an oversight, the 
book of the twelve minor prophets. To the books enu- 
merated in the preceding catalogue, Origen applies the 
term canonical Scriptures, in contradistinction to secret 
(apocryphal) and heretical books. He does not, how- 
ever, include in these latter the deutero-canonical (iv 
cturepfp, see Cyril of Jerusalem, Catech. iv, 36) or ec- 
clesiastical books; to which he also applies the terms 
Scripture , the Divine Word, and the Sacred Hooks (De 
Princip. ii, 1 ; in Opp. i, 16, 79, ecc. , Cont. Cels, viii, in 
Opp. i, 778). Jerome enumerates twenty -two books, 
viz.; 1. The Pentateueh, which he terms Thora, or the 
Law . 2. The eight prophets, viz. Joshua, Judges and 

Ruth, Samuel, Kings, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and the 
twelve prophets. 3. Nine llagiographa, viz. Job, Psalms, 
Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Canticles, Daniel, Chronicles, 
Ezra, and Esther. Some, he adds, enumerate twenty- 
four books, placing Ruth and Lamentations among t lie 
Hagiographa. The other books, read in the churches, 
but not found in the canon, as Wisdom, Sirach, Judith, 
Tobit, and the Shepherd, he terms A pocryjdia. With 
IX.— II u 


this catalogue agrees his contemporary Rufinus, who 
accuses Jerome of compiling, or rather plundering (com- 
pilandi), the Scriptures, in consequence of the rejection 
by that father of Susanna and the Benedict te. Cyril 
of Alexandria divides the canonical books into five of 
Moses, seven other historical, five metrical, and five pro- 
phetical. 

With these catalogues the Jews also agree. Jose- 
phus enumerates twenty-two books — five of Moses, thir- 
teen prophets, and four books of morality. The proph- 
ets were divided by the ancient Jews into the early 
prophets (viz. Joshua, Judges, Samuel, and Kings) amt 
the later prophets, which were again subdivided into 
the greater (viz. Isaiah, Jeremiah, and Ezekiel) and the 
twelve lesser prophets. The Talmud and the modern 
Jews agree with Jerome’s division into eight prophets 
and nine Hagiographa ( Kethubim ). 

The eanon of the Alexandrian version includes the 
other books, called ecclesiastical, which we have already 
given in their order. See Deutero-canonical. As 
the early Christians (who, were not acquainted with 
Hebrew) received this version, for which they had the 
sanction of its employment by the New-Test, writers, 
and as from it flowed the old Latin and several other 
ancient versions, we must not be surprised at finding 
that all these books, being thus placed in the Bible 
without any mark of distinction, were received indis- 
criminately by the primitive Christians, and were, equal- 
ly with the canonical, read in the churches. Jerome, 
in his Latin translation of the Bible from the Hebrew 
in the 4th century, introduced a distinction by means 
of his prefaces, prefixed to each book, whieh continued 
to he placed, in all the MSS. and in the early printed 
editions of Jerome’s version, in the body of the text, 
from which they were for the first time removed to the 
beginning or end of the Bible after the decree of the 
Council of Trent in A.D. 1546 (see Rev. G. C. Gorham’s 
Letter to Va?i Ess [Loud. 1826]). Luther was the first 
who separated these books from the others, and re- 
moved them to a place by themselves in his translation. 
Lonicer, in his edition of the Sept., 1526, followed li is 
example, but gave so much offence by so doing that 
they were restored to their places by CephaUeus in 
1529. They were, however, published in a separate 
form by Plantin in 1575, and have been, since that pe- 
riod, omitted in many editions of the Sept. Although 
they were never received into the canon either by the 
Palestinian or Alexandrian Jews, yet they seem to have 
been, by the latter, considered as an appendix to the 
canon (De Wette, Einleituny). There are, besides these, 
many books cited which have long since perished, as 
the book of Jasher (Josh, x, 13; 2 Sam. i, 18), and the 
book of the Wars of Jehovah (Numb, xxi, 14). Some 
books bearing these names have been printed, but they 
are forgeries. The book of Jasher, however, published 
at New York in 1840, is not, as would appear from the 
appendix to Parker’s translation of De Wette’s Intro- 
duction, a reprint of the Bristol forgery, but a transla- 
tion of the much more respectable (though also spuri- 
ous) book of Jasher which we. have already referred to 
as published at Naples in 1625, and written in excellent 
Hebrew before the elose of the 1 5th century. See 
the American Christian Examiner for May, 1840. See 
Jasher. 

In regard to the order of the books, the Talmudists 
and the Masoretes, and even some MSS. of the latter, 
differ from each other. The Alexandrian translators 
differ from both, and Luther’s arrangement, which is 
generally followed by Protestants, is made entirely ac- 
cording to his own judgment. The modern Hebrew 
Bibles are thus arranged, viz. five books of Moses; Josh- 
ua, Judges, two books of Samuel, two books of Kings; 
Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and the twelve minor proph- 
ets; Psalms, Proverbs. Job, Canticles, Ecclesiastes, Esther, 
Daniel, Ezra, Nehemiah, and 1 and 2 Chronicles. The 
New Test, consists of the four Gospels, the Aets, Epistles 
of Paul, Catholic Epistles, and the Apocalypse ; these are 


SCRIPTURES, I10LY 4S2 SCRIPTURES, HOLY 


differently arranged in the Greek and Latin MSS. All 
these writings have been considered in the Christian 
Church from the earliest period as divinely inspired 
(SsoTTi'ciurroi, 2 Tim.iii, 14—16), as no doubt the books 
of the Old Test, were by the Jews (see Talmud, passim; 
Philo, De Yit. Afosis, vol. ii; Josephus, Cont. Apion. i, 
3; and the manner of their citation in the New Test.). 
The early Christian writers also constantly maintain 
their inspiration (Justin Martyr, Second A poloyy ; Ire- 
incus, 5, 4 ; Origen. Ilept ’Apycor, Prsef.), the only differ- 
ence of opinion being as to its limits. Some of the fa- 
thers maintain their verbal inspiration, others only that 
of the thoughts or sentiments, or that the sacred writ- 
ers were merely preserved from error ( Dupin, On the 
Canon). But the first controversy raised on this sub- 
ject was in the 16th century, when the theses of the 
Jesuits [see Maccabees], who had maintained the low- 
er notion of inspiration, were condemned by the facul- 
ties of Louvain and Douai. Jahn observes ( Introd .) 
that on this subject the entire Christian world was di- 
vided, and that the condemnation of the theses was not 
sanctioned by the Church or the Koman primate, and 
that the Council of Trent has pronounced no judgment 
on the subject. Henry Holden, doctor of the Sorbonne, 
published his Analysis Fidel in 1652, in whieh he de- 
fended that notion of the fathers which maintained 
only an exemption from errors appertaining to doctrine. 
Jahn further observes (loc. cit.) that most Protestants, 
until the middle of the 18th century, defended the most 
rigid notions of verbal inspiration; but that, from the 
litne of Tdllner and Sender, the idea of inspiration was 
frittered away and eventually discarded. The high no- 
tion of inspiration has been recently revived among 
Protestants, especially in the eloquent work of M. Gaus- 
sen, of Geneva, Theojmeustia ( 1842 ). The moderate 
view has been that generally adopted by English di- 
vines (Henderson, On Inspiration , Horne’s Introd .; ap- 
pendix to vol. i), while m America the extreme view 
of verbal inspiration has, until very recently, prevailed, 
— Kit to, s. v. 

II. History and Authenticity of the Holy Scriptures. 
— 1. The Old Testament. — The tirst Scripture, the Penta- 
teuch, was kept in a saered place, the tabernacle, both 
in the wilderness and in the land of Canaan; and the 
successive sacred writings that were produced before 
the building of the Temple of Jerusalem were commit- 
ted to the same safe custody; but when the Temple 
was built, Solomon removed into it these writings, and 
commanded that all succeeding Scriptures should be 
there preserved also. Though the Temple was burned 
bv Nebuchadnezzar, it does not appear that the MSS. 
were destroyed, for none of the succeeding sacred writers 
allude to anything of the kind, which they certainly 
would have done as a matter of deep lamentation. Dur- 
ing the eaptivity, Daniel (ix, 1 1. 13) alludes to the writ- 
ten law as in existence; and Ezra (Neh. viii, 5, 8) read 
the book of the law to the people on their return from 
Babylon. About the time of Ezra, inspiration closed; 
the Spirit departed from Israel with Malachi, the last of 
the prophets, or, as the Jews eall him, the seal of the 
prophets. Then the canon was formed by Ezra, and the 
Jews never dared to add, or allow anything to be add- 
ed, to it. The canon of the Scriptures, as collected by 
Ezra, is attested by Josephus in his book Contra A plan. 
wherein he mentions the number of the books, the ar- 
rangement, and the contents; and adds that after a long 
lapse of time no one has dared to add, diminish, or al- 
ter; and that it is implanted in all Jews from their 
birth to consider these books the oracles of God, and, 
if need recpiire, cheerfully to die for them. Five hun- 
dred years after Ezra, a complete copy of the canon of 
Hebrew Scripture was preserved in the Temple, with 
which all others might be collated. Although Christ 
often reproached the scribes and Pharisees for their 
erroneous glosses on Scripture, he never said that they 
had in any way falsitied the Scriptures. Paul (Bom. 
iii, 2) reckons among their privileges that “to them 


I were committed the oracles of God,” without implying 
that they ever abused their privilege by corrupting 
them. 

The Jewish canonical division of Scripture into three 
great parts — the law, the prophets, and the holy writ- 
ings (which commence with the Psalms) — is authorized 
by our Saviour (Luke xxiv,44) when he alludes to this 
threefold division: “All things must be fulfilled which 
were written in the law of Moses, and in the. prophets, 
and in the Psalms, concerning me.” 

The authenticity of the Old Test, is abundantly 
proved — (1) by the unintentional testimonies of profane 
authors, who speak in a corroborative manner of the 
persons and facts mentioned in it; such profane au- 
thors being unquestionably proved to have lived at a 
later period than the sacred writers whom they corrob- 
orate, such as Diodorus Siculus, Longinus, Porphyry, 
etc., who corroborate Moses; (2) by the fact testified 
by Grotius that there do not appear in any genuine 
ancient record any testimonies that contradict those 
produced in the Old Test.; (3) by the corroboration of 
many traditions preserved among different and remote 
nations; (4) by the collation of many hundreds of MSS. 
of the Old Scriptures written at different periods and by 
various persons, in all of which MSS. the most wonder- 
ful similarity is to be observed, the only variations be- 
ing some trifling ones easily accounted for and explain- 
ed, and no£ of the slightest consequence as to doctrine 
or fact (I)r. Kcnnieott collated seven hundred Ilcbrew r 
MSS. without finding one various reading of any actual 
importance); (5) by the agreement of ancient writings, 
such as the Samaritan Pentateuch, with the Hebrew, 
which, from the violent enmity between the Jews and 
Samaritans, could never have been by collusion (the 
old Chaldee Targums, or paraphrases, agree so remark- 
ably with the Hebrew as to be more properly transla- 
tions than paraphrases); (6) by the extraordinary can- 
dor of the Hebrew writers, who detail simply the frail- 
ties of their great men and their own national crimes, 
instead of seeking to exalt themselves and their nation 
like other historians. 

2. The New Testament. — From the time the canon of the 
Old Test, was completed till the publication of the last 
of the books of the New Test., about four hundred and 
sixty years elapsed. During the life of Jesus Christ, 
and for some time after his ascension, nothing on the 
subject of his mission seems to have been committed 
to writing, for the purpose of publication, by his follow- 
ers. During the period between his resurrection and 
the publication of the last of the books of the New 
Test., the churches possessed miraculous gifts, and the 
apostles and disciples were enabled to explain the pre- 
dictions of the Old Test., and to show their fulfilment. 
After the Gospel had attracted attention, and Christian- 
ity was planted, not only in Judaea, but in the cities of 
Italy, Greece, and Asia Minor, the Scriptures of the New 
Test, were written by the apostles and other inspired 
men, and intrusted to the keeping of the churches. Al- 
ready had others written narratives on the rise of the 
new religion, but they were not authenticated (Luke i, 
1). When authentic documents were required for the 
information of the churches, and for the promotion of 
life and godliness in every region, six of the apostles 
and two disciples, all of whom were contemporary 
with the Master, were divinely inspired to write them. 
The evangelists may. under divine guidance, have 
made use of the earlier narratives of others, also of 
public records, and even of private memoranda; but 
the fact must not be lost sight of that all the sacred 
writers were divinely guided as to what they should 
write. 

These several pieces which compose the Seriptures 
of the Neiv Test, were written in the Greek language, 
which was then almost universally understood. They 
were not only received by the churches with the high- 
est veneration, but were immediately copied and hand- 
ed about from one Church to another till each was in 


483 


SCRIVER 


SCRIPTURES, HOLY 


possession of the whole. From the manner in which ' 
they were at first circulated, some portions were neces- 
sarily longer in reaching certain places than others. 
While copies of each book would be extensively multi- [ 
plied, it is, at the same time, a certain fact that no other [ 
books besides those which at present compose the vol- 
ume of the New Test, were admitted by the early I 
churches. The original collection of the several books 
for the formation of the canon of the New Test, evi- 
dently took place in, or immediately after, the apostolic 
age; but it was not any council convened by any bish- 
op or Church that first, ascertained and determined | 
their canonical authority. Indeed, the books admitted ] 
into the canon were never supposed to derive their au- 
thority and validity from any council, inasmuch as the | 
authority of the books existed before any council, and : 
consequently prior to any official or ecclesiastical dec- j 
larations concerning them. As the several books were 1 
assumed to be of complete authority as soon as they [ 
were published by their inspired authors, the churches 
were eager for their possession, and had them tran- 
scribed and freely circulated everywhere. Thus, even i 
in the apostolic age. several churches would be in pos- 
session of all the writings of the New Test., for the gen- 
uineness and authenticity of which the}' bad all the 
requisite “evidence from the highest sources. Though 
the books of the New Test, were written in the Greek 
language, the writers were Jews, hence, as might be 
expected, their compositions evidence Jewish thought, 
which everywhere gives a Hebrew coloring to the style 
of their several w'ritings. We have no evidence that 
the books of the New Test, were ever corrupted; in- 
deed, as these books w ere the foundation of the Chris- 1 
tian faith, alterations w'erc both impossible and imprac- ( 
tieable without detection. These books are quoted or 
alluded to by a series of Christian writers, as well as by 
the adversaries of the Christian faith, who may be 
traced back in regular succession from the present time 
to the apostolic age. Some of the ancient versions, 
as the Syriac, and several Latin versions, were made at 
the close of the first, or at the commencement of the 
second, century. Now the New Test, must necessari- 
ly have existed previously to the making of those ver- 
sions; and a book which was so early and so univer- 
sally read throughout the East in the Greek and in the 
Syriac languages, and throughout Europe and Africa 
in the Latin, must be able to lay claim to a high an- 
tiquity; while the correspondence of those versions 
with our copies of the original Greek attests their gen- 
uineness and authenticity. 

Hut though the ancient MSS, of the Scriptures w'hich 
have descended to our times have not been wilfully al- 
tered, they have, nevertheless, been subject to the vicis- 
situdes incident to copying in the course of transmis- 
sion. Still, the uniformity of the MSS. which are dis- 
persed in so many countries and in so great variety of 
languages is truly astonishing. The various readings 
consist almost wholly in palpable errors in transcrip- 
tion, grammatical and verbal differences, such as the 
insertion or omission of a letter or article, the substitu- 
tion of a word for its equivalent, or the transposition 
of a word or two in a sentence. Taken altogether, they 
neither change nor affect a single doctrine or duty an- 
nounced or enjoined in the Word of God. From the 
recent herculean labors in examining the MSS. and col- 
lecting the variations, we have for the New r Test, the in- 
vestigations of Mill, Bengcl, Wettstein, Griesbach, Mat- 
tluei, Scholz, Lachmann, Tischendorf, Mai, Tregclles. 
and Scrivener, who have examined several hundreds of 
MSS. and compared their differences. The old versions 
also, such as the several Syriac copies, the Latin, Goth- 
ic, etc., have been compared and their supposed varia- 
tions added to the lists. Even the quotations found 
in the fathers have been subjected to the same ordeal, 
and all their discrepancies and peculiarities seized on 
and subjoined to the formidable catalogue. The vari- 
ous readings of Greek New-Test. Scriptures, thus multi- 


plied by the fidelity of collators, may now amount to 
more than a hundred thousand. This immense com- 
bination of labor has established so convincingly the 
astonishing preservation of the sacred text, copied, 
nevertheless, so many thousands of times — in Hebrew 
during thirty -three centuries, and in Greek during 
eighteen hundred years — that the hopes of the enemies 
of religion in this channel have been overwhelmed; 
while the faithful can rojoiee in the fact that they pos- 
sess in all their purity those writings which are aide to 
make them wise unto salvation. 

SCIil PTUEES, Use of, in the Early Cnrneii. 
We have seen above that great care was taken by the 
fathers of the Christian Church to secure a speedy trans- 
lation of the Scriptures into the languages of the sev- 
eral nations as they w'ere converted to Christianity. Eu- 
sebius ( l)e Prap. Evany, lib. xii,c. 1) says, ‘‘They were 
translated into all languages throughout the world 
while Theodoret (f)e Curand. Grcecor. A ffect. Serm. 5, t. 
4, p.555) declares “that every nation under heaven had 
the Scripture in its ow n tongue.” This translation was 
done to encourage its reading by the people, and, still 
further to secure this end, it was an ancient custom to 
have Bibles in the vulgar tongues laid in a convenient 
part of the church for t lie people at their leisure to em- 
ploy themselves in reading. Not only men and women 
w-ere allowed to read, but children also were encouraged 
and trained from their infancy to the reading of the 
Holy Scriptures, Catechumens were obliged to learn 
the Scriptures as part of their discipline ami instruction, 
and they formed the chief part of the studies of the cler- 
gy. Both t lie clergy and monks were accustomed to 
have them read to them at their meals, and many be- 
came so well versed in the Scriptures that they could 
repeat, them by heart. Nor w’ere the people denied the 
privilege of reading the Scriptures in their homes, hut 
were rather encouraged to thus prepare themsedves for 
the public services. In these latter the Scripture les- 
sons, which were always two at least, and sometimes 
three or four, were taken from both the Old and the New 
Test., except in the Church of Borne, where only epis- 
tle and gospel were read. Those who withheld the 
Scriptures from the people w'ere considered to be guilty 
of sacrilege; but such an offence was unknown to the. 
ancients. It was considered a crime to yield up the 
Scriptures to persecutors demanding them, and those 
thus guilty were styled traditores, or betrayers. See 
Bingham, Christian Antiq. (see Index). 

Scriver, Christian, a Lutheran clergyman and 
writer of devotional works in the 17th century, the con- 
temporary and friend of Spener, was born at Hendsburg, 
in Holstein, Jan. 2, 1(520. His childhood was spent un- 
der the care of a widowed mother in the trying period 
of the Thirty Years’ War ; but a w ealthy merchant— the 
brother of Scriver’s grandmother— finally made provi- 
sion for bis needs. After suitable preparatory studies, 
Scriver became a private tutor, and in 1(547 entered the 
University of linstock. In 1653 be was archdeacon at 
Stendal, and in 1667 pastor at Magdeburg, with which 
position be combined other offices, e. g. that of a schol- 
arch, and finally a senior in the government of the 
Church. He refused to leave Magdeburg in answer to 
repeated calls to Halhcrstadt, to Berlin, and to the court 
of Stockholm, but was in advanced age induced to ac- 
cept the post of court preacher at Quedlinburg. In 
165)2 he suffered an apoplectic stroke, and on April 5, 
1603, he died, lie bad been married four times, and 
had had fourteen children born to him, but lie outlived 
all his wives and children except one son and one 
daughter. 

The name of Scriver has lived among the common 
people through the publication of his Eeeleuschaiz (Mag- 
deburg and Lcips. 1737; Schalfhansen, 1738 sq., 5 parts 
in 2 vols. fill.), a manual of devotion which he dedi- 
cated to “the Triune God,” and which deserves high 
commendation. Another work deserving of mention is 


SCROBICULI 


484 


SCUDDER 


his Gotthold's ZufdJlige Amkichten (1st ed. 1671. and 
often), a sort of Christian parables, 400 iti number, 
which are based on objects in nature and ordinary oc- 
currences in life. The Siech- «. Siegesbette describes a 
sickness through which he passed, and the aids and 
comforts derived from God’s goodness in that time. 
l*i i tins has published a work of consolation, entitled 
Wilticentrost, from Scrivcr’s literary remains. 

For Scriver’s life, see ITitius’s preface to the Seelen- 
schatz ; Christmann, Biographic (Nuremb. 1829); 11a- 
genbach, 1 1 T esen ?/. Gesch. d. Reformat, iv; Ecang. Pro- 
testant ismus, ii, 177 sq. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Scrobiciili, a name given among the ancient Ro- 
mans to altars dedicated to the worship of the infernal 
deities. They consisted of cavities dug in the earth, 
into which libations were poured. 

Scroll ("iSD, sepher , Isa. xxxiv, 4, a book, as else- 
where; so also Rev. vi, 14), the form of an an- 

cient book (q. v.). 

SCROLL. (1.) A name given to a numerous class of 
ornaments, which in general character resemble a band 



Scroll Moulding. 


arranged in undulations or convolutions. (2.) It is also 
applied to a particular kind of moulding shown in the 
example from Dorchester church, called the scroll- or 
roll-moulding, a marked feature of the Decorated style. 
— Parker, Gloss, of Architect, s. v. 

Scrutiny, the inquiry into the faith and manners 
of candidates for baptism. It was made in the pres- 
ence of the congregation on seven days the last being 
Wednesday before Passion-Sunday, The name of each 
candidate was called; then the deacon bade him pros- 
trate himself five times and rise, in memory of the five 
wounds of Christ. The sign of the cross was made on 
his forehead by’ the sponsor and acolyte; lastly, he was 
sprinkled with ashes. The custom died out in 860. 

SCRUTINY is the name, also, of one of the three 
canonical modes of electing a pope in the Romish 
Church. It is the method almost invariably’ followed, 
and is thus managed; Blank schedules are supplied to 
each of the cardinals, who fills them up with his own 
name and that of the individual for whom he votes. If 
two thirds of the votes are not in favor of any one per- 
son, the cardinals proceed to a second vote by accessus 
(q. v.). See Gardner, Faiths of the World, s. v. ; Wal- 
cott, Sac. A rchceol. s. v. 

Scudder, Catharine Hastings, a missionary 
to India of the Presbyterian Church, was horn in Utica, 
N. Y., Aug. 22, 1825. She was the daughter of Prof. 
Thomas Hastings, known and honored throughout the 
churches of the United States for his successful efforts in 
raising the standard of church music. In her tenth year, 
she joined the Presbyterian Church under the pastorate of 
Dr. Krskinc Mason. The development of her piety gave 
early indications ot her destiny’ as a missionary'. When 
eleven y’ears old, her heart was deeply affected by the 
fact that, the missionaries who had charge of the Ceylon 
mission schools were obliged to disband some of them 
for want of funds, and to send hack to the darkness of 
heathenism many' of the native children, and her sym- 
pathy led to corresponding action. She prepared a con- 
stitution, and formed a family’ association to sow for the 
heathen, and this association continued in existence un- 
til she left home for India, and exchanged manual for 


mental and moral labor in behalf of those for whom she 
felt a life-long solicitude. From the time she deter- 
mined to devote herself to the missionary’ work, her 
character matured rapidly and with remarkable power, 
and the beauty of the Lord shone in and around her. 
In September, 1846, she was married to the Rev. Will- 
iam W. Scudder, son of the Rev. John Scudder, M.D., 
who was about to return to his native India as a mis- 
sionary’ in that field, so long the home of his honored 
father. Soon after, they’ embarked for India, on the 
ship Flavio . In mid -ocean there was a revival on 
board, in which several of the roughest sailors were 
converted. When 280 miles from Madras, a meeting 
was held, at which there were eight of the seamen 
hopefully' trusting in Christ for salvation. She united 
with the Church on the first Sabbath after her arrival 
on the shores of India, and enjoyed a delightful com- 
munion season with the Indian Church, full of gratitude 
to God for having permitted her to arrive on the field 
of her labors. Her allotted station was the island of 
Ceylon, and there, as soon as she could master a few 
words of the language, she commenced her work. She 
was permitted to prosecute her labors during the short 
period of two years only’. While on a journey’ with her 
husband, returning from Madura, she was attacked with 
cholera, and died March 11, 1849, declaring m her last 
words that she was happy in Jesus. (W. P. S.t 

Scudder, John, M.D., a celebrated missionary’ in 
Ceylon and India, was born at Freehold. N. J., Sept, o, 
1793, graduated at Princeton College in 1811. and at the 
College of Physicians and Surgeons in New York, in 
1815. He established himself at once in medical prac- 
tice in that city’ with success and lucrative prospects. 
In 1816 he married Miss Harriet Waterburv, the es- 
timable and efficient companion of his missionary’ life. 
In 1819, while waiting to see a patient, he picked up in 
the anteroom a tract called The Conversion of the World , 
or the Claims of Six Hundred Millions , and the A bilitg 
and Duty of the Churches receding them . Deeply’ im- 
pressed by r its appeals, he consulted with his wife prayer- 
fully, and with lasting and great deliberation. They 
gave themselves up to the foreign missionary’ service, 
offered themselves to the American Board, and prepared 
for their work. His friends were astounded that he 
should sacrifice his medical prospects of fame and fort- 
une for such a venture. But the vow was made, never 
to be recalled, and joyously’ to be fulfilled, lie was 
licensed bv the Classis of New York of the Reformed 
Dutch Church in June, 1819, and they sailed on the 8th 
of that month for their destination, with Messrs. Wins- 
low, Spalding, and Woodward, to reinforce the Cevhm 
mission at TiHigallv. Here he immediately began 
his career as a missionary’, physician, and minister, al- 
though he was not ordained until May 15, 1821, in the 
Wesleyan chapel at Jaffuapatam, by’ clergymen of the 
Congregational, Baptist, and Methodist denominations. 
In the large hospital which he established, cholera and 
jungle fever were treated with eminent success, as will 
as ordinary’ diseases of the climate. In 1822 a college 
was organized. In 1824 the mission enjoyed a wonder- 
ful revival of religion, which wrought with power at 
j Dr. Scuddcr’s schools. Ills influence added much to 
j the great prosperity’ of the Ceylon mission. In 1836 he 
anu Mr. Winslow were transferred to India to establish 
a printing-press at Madras for publishing the Scriptures 
and tracts in the Tamil language. The large printing 
! establishment of the Church Missionary Society fell into 
I their hands in 1838. Six millions ol pages were printed 
by’ these brethren the first year, and more in later y’ears. 
'riie.se were scattered through every’ open door far and 
wide among the natives. Dr. Scudder resided at Chin- 
tadrepettah, near Madras, anil out of these beginnings 
■ grew up the A rent Mission, which was received under the 
i American Board of Christian Foreign Mission in 1852, 
and subsequently passed into the care of the Reformed 
Church in America in 1853 as the Arcot Mission of the 
Reformed Church. After a residence of twenty-three 


SCUDDEI 


485 


SCULPTURE 


years abroad, his health having suffered from the cli- 
mate, Dr. Scudder returned to America in 1842, and re- 
mained until 1816. During these four years his time 
was employed in constant missionary service among the 
churches of this country. His labors among children 
and youth were memorable for the crowds that attended 
his public meetings, and his marvellous success in ad- 
dressing them and direct influence for their conversion 
and consecration to the mission work. Upon his return 
to India, he resumed his work with characteristic zeal 
and energy. For a short time (1840), he was tempo- 
rarily connected with the Madura mission. In Novem- 
ber of the same year Mrs. Scudder died, and but a few 
days previously his son Samuel also deceased at New 
Brunswick, N. J., where he was pursuing his theological 
studies preparatory to joining his father and brothers in 
India. The death of this promising young man, in his 
twenty-second year, called forth one of the most touch- 
ing appeals for men for his Held, and in their absence he 
resolved to make up for Samuel's loss by personally ren- 
dering extra service. This excessive labor brought on 
serious illness. In 1854, by medical advice, lie went to 
the Cape of Good Hope. The voyage reinvigorated 
him, and after a brief sojourn at Wynberg, where he 
was very useful in Christian labors among the English- 
speaking people, he arranged to return again to his 
Held. But only two days before the ship arrived, he 
died suddenly of apoplexy, Jan. 13, 1855. Of his 
fourteen children, nine survive. His seven sons and 
two daughters became missionaries in the same Held 
with their parents, and in the Arcot Mission of the De- 
formed Church. Two of the sons have since been 
obliged to leave India on account of ill-health, and have 
done good service to the Church at home. One of the 
daughters was, and the other still is, in missionary work 
(1870). Besides his numerous communications to the 
Missionary Herald and other serials for thirty-five years, 
Dr. Scudder issued several publications, which have all 
had a wide and useful circulation. Among these are, 
The Redeemer's Last Command : — The Harvest Perish - 
ing ; — An Appeal to Mothers: — Knocking at the Door: 
— Passing over Jordan: — Letters to Children , etc. I)r. 
Sciukler’s distinguishing traits were decision of charac- 
ter, martyr-like attachment to the truth, and steadfast- 
ness in prosecuting his plans. He had in him many of 
the highest elements of moral heroism, a sublime daring 
to do right irrespective of opposition, a supreme regard 
for first principles, a scorn of all that was mean and 
small, a “zeal according to knowledge, 1 ’ and a practical 
wisdom in accomplishing his purposes which easily 
overrode mere conventionalities of routine, llis intel- 
lect was robust, intensely active, and independent. Ilis 
will was most positive and all- controlling when once 
be believed himself to be right. Nothing daunted his 
brave soul. In early life be had for months been the 
victim of a most terrible spiritual conflict, which ended 
in a peace that nothing afterwards seriously disturbed. 
It was the grand victory of his life, which dwarfed all 
other contests and made self-sacrifice the easy law of his 
new being. When one told him that he should consult 
conscience lest he should overwork himself, he said that 
he had “quashed conscience of that sort long ago.” 
When asked in America, “ What are the discourage- 
ments of the missionary work?” he replied, “ I do not 
know the word. 1 long ago erased it from my vocabu- 
lary. 1 ' He fought the battles of temperance among the 
missions and people, and for the extirpation of caste m 
the churches of India, with heroic power and triumph, 
llis piety was sweetly expressed in saying to one of his 
sons “that his ambition w’as to be one of the inner circle 
around Jesus in heaven.” For years before his death 
he enjoyed unbroken “assurance of faith.” His pow-er 
and tact in personal religious conversation with almost 
every one that he met w ere wonderful. 1 le preached the 
Gospel in almost every large town in Southern India, 
lie made frequent and extensive tours for this purpose, 
preaching generally tv ice a day, and once “ he stood at 


his post eleven consecutive hours. He did not even 
stop to eat, but had coffee brought to him.” llis biogra- 
phy is full of stirring incidents illustrating these and 
other characteristics of this remarkable man. A J/c- 
moir of him has been published by his brother-in-law, 
Rev. J. B. Waterbury, D.D. (N. Y. 1870, 12mo); also a 
previous volume called The Missionary Doctor and his 
Family , by M. E. Wilmer (Board of Publication of the 
Reformed Dutch Church). See Sprague, A nnals of the 
Amer. Pulpit , vol. ix; Corwin, Manual of the Reformed 
Church in A merica , p. 204-210. (W. J. R. T.) 

Scudder, John B., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born near Princeton, N. J., June 8, 1810. He was the old- 
est son of Jacob Scudder, M.D. He was graduated at 
Princeton College in 1830, after which he spent one 
year in teaching in Virginia, and then returned to 
Princeton and entered the Theological Seminary. A 
failure of health prevented him from completing his 
theological course, and he went to Holmesville, Mass., 
for its recovery. While there he entered actively in 
the Sabbath-school and prayer and other religions meet- 
ings, making himself generally useful as a Christian. 
After the restoration of his health he had charge of 
several classical schools in Louisiana and at Memphis, 
Teiin., and also in Georgia and Florida. The last years 
of his life were spent in Georgia. Although he was not 
ordained, he sustained the relation of a lay preacher, 
and, while engaged as principal of a large school, was 
much occupied in conducting religions exercises, in dis- 
tributing religious tracts, and in other earnest and suc- 
cessful efforts to advance the kingdom of Christ in the 
world. As a colaborer, be was as useful as any in the 
ministry, and his labors of love w’ere highly appreciated 
and much blessed. Like Harlan Page, his personal ef- 
forts brought many into the kingdom who might have 
been beyond the reach of ministerial influence. On the 
morning of July 10, 1876. he was suddenly struck dow n 
by apoplexy, and, after exclaiming “How blessed a 
thing it is to be prepared to die!” he breathed his last. 
(W. P. SA 

Scull. See Skut.t* 

Sculpture, Hebrew. By the well-known law’ (in 
Exod. XX, 4 sq. ; Dent, iv, 16 sq. ; xxvii, 15; comp. Diod. 
Sic. Eclog . xi, l ; Strabo, xvi, 761 ; Josephus, Cont. A piou. 
ii, 6; Ewald, hr. Gesch. ii, 110 sq. ; Tacit. Hist, v, 5, 4. 
But see Bertheau, Isr. Gesch. p.248) the Israelites w r ere 
not forbidden to make any image in stone, wood, or metal 
(Michaelis, Mas. Recht, p. 150 sq.), for even in the sanc- 
tuary of Jehovah, on the ark of the covenant, there 
w'ere two cherubs of gold ; and flower-work as orna- 
ment w’as placed on the golden candlestick; and the 
large brazen bathing- vessel in the court (the so-called 
brazen sea [q.v.]) v r as supported on twelve brazen oxen 
(1 Kings vii, 25), though Josephus blames this arrange- 
ment as illegal (Ant. viii, 7, 5). In the w ilderness, too, 
even Moses set up a brazen serpent (Numb, xxi, 8), and 
the Philistines offered golden figures as an offering to 
Jehovah (1 Sam. vi, 17 sip). But the design w r as to 
forbid all worship of images, and also all images of Je- 
hovah (comp. Exod. xx, 5; Josephus, Ant. iii. 5, 5; Philo, 
Opp. ii, 591), for a sensual people would easily he led 
into idolatry by them, or at least would lose much of 
the spirituality of their ideas of Jehovah (comp. Philo, 
Opp. i,49G); and thus the golden calf of Aaron (Exod. 
xxxii,4), the graven image of the children of Dan (Jitdg. 
xviii, 31 ; comp, xvii, 4), and the two golden calves of 
Jeroboam (1 Kings xii, 28 sq.) were anti theocratic. Yet 
this Mosaic law’ prevented the great progress of sculpt- 
ure, which in all nations has received its greatest im- 
pulse from religious faith and worship. (Schnaase. 
Gesch. d. hild. Kiiuste , i, 257, thinks that the imagination 
of the Hebrews, as shown in their poetry, w-as too quick 
and mercurial for the patient work of sculpture.) Most 
of their works of brass of this kind were by Phoenician 
artists (1 Kings vii, 14). An example of sculpture not 
of a religious character occurs in the audience throne 


SCULPTURE 


4S6 


SCULPTURE 


of Solomon, which was supported and surrounded by 
fourteen finely wrought lions, the symbol of strength 
(1 Kings x. 19 sq. ; 2 Chron. ix, 19 sq.). After the ex- 
ile, stricter views prevailed; and the orthodox Jews, or 
followers of the Pharisees, interpreted the Mosaic prohi- 
bition of sculpture in general (Josephus, Ant. xv, 8, 1 ; 
xvii, 5, 2; xviii, 3, 1 ; IPo?', ii, 9, 2; conrfp, also Mai- 
monides in Hottinger, Jus. ffebr. 89), even of architectu- 
ral ornament (Josephus, )l'o/\ii, 10,4; comp. A nt. xvii, 
0, 2; Tacit. I list . v, 5, 5. Yet according to Josephus, A nt. 
iii, (J, 2, only the images of living creatures were pro- 
hibited). Accordingly, a palace of the tetrarch Herod 
in Tiberias, which was adorned with the figures of 
beasts, was burned by order of the Sanhedrim, simply 
because it was thought to violate their law (Josephus. 
Life , 12). Still less were images tolerated in the Tem- 
ple (id. ir«/*, i, 33, 2 ; Ant. xvii, G, 2). Even the im- 
age of the emperor, carried on the eagles of the sol- 
diers, could not be admitted into Jerusalem ( ibid. 
xviii, 3, 1, and 5, 3; comp. \Var y ii, 9, 2, Ant. xv, 8, 
1 sq.). Yet such rigid views were not universal ; at 
least, at an earlier period, John Hyrcanus adorned his 
castle beyond the Jordan with colossal animal figures 
(ibid. xii,4, 11 ); queen Alexandra had portraits of her 
children made (ibid, xv, 2, 6) ; and Herod Agrippa pos- 
sessed statues of his daughters (ibid, xix, 9, 1). — Winer. 

Hebrew sculpture, such as it was, no doubt was based 
upon, and sustained by, the art as practiced in Egypt. 
It was there governed by very strict rules, fixed pro- 
portions being established for every figure, which the 
statuary was not permitted to violate; and hence arises 
the great sameness in the Egyptian statues, and the 
stiffness for which they are all remarkable. Isaiah 
describes the process of idol -making very minutely. 
“The carpenter stretcheth out his ride; he marketh it 
out with a line; he titteth it with planes, and he mark- 
eth it out with the compass, and maketh it after the 
figure of a man, according to the beauty of a man ; that 
it may remain in his house” ( xliv, 13 ). The mode 
of proceeding will easily be understood by a reference 
to the accompanying engravings. When a proper 
block of marble or granite had been procured by the 
sculptor, the surface was first smoothed, and parallel 
lines drawn from top to bottom; other lines were then 
drawn, at equal distances, from side to side, so as to di- 
vide the whole into a series of squares. The size of 
these squares was proportioned to the size of the figure, 
but the number of them was invariable, whatever might 
be the dimensions of the figure ; nineteen of these 
squares, according to some authorities, and twenty-one 
and one fourth according to others, were allowed for 
the height of the human body; when smaller figures 




Standing Figure of a King (Fig, 1), and, like the former, 
painted to' represent granite. (Fins. 4, 6 are polishing 
it; and figs. 2 and 3 painting aud sculpturiug the hie- 
roglyphics at the back.) 

or ornaments were introduced, the squares were sub- 
divided into smaller squares, proportioned to the less 
figure. The outline was then traced, and its propor- 
tions were invariable. This, which to moderns would 
seem the most important part of the process, required 
no great exertion of skill in the Egyptian artist. It 
was then inspected bv the master-sculptor, who wrote 
on various parts of it, in hieratic characters, such direc- 
tions as he thought it necessary to give to the inferior 
artists who actually cut the figure. The colossal statue 
on which the workmen in the accompanying engraving 
are engaged appears so far advanced towards comple- 
tion that the instructions of the master-sculptor have 
been chiselled away. \Ye are informed by Diodorus 
Siculus that the most eminent statuaries always went 
to reside for a time in Egypt, as modern artists do iu 
Italy, to study the principles of their art. He partic- 
ularly mentions Telecles and Theodorus, the sons of 
Klioeeus, who made the celebrated statue of the Pythian 
Apollo at Samos, after what he calls “ the Egyptian 
fashion.” lie explains this fashion to be the separate 
execution of the parts, for the statue was divided into 
two parts, at the groin: one half was cut by Telecles at 
Samos, and the other by Theodorus at Ephesus; yet, 
when they were joined together, they fitted so exactly 
that the whole seemed the work of one hand. And 
this seemed the more admirable when the attitude of 
the statue was considered, for it had its hands extended, 
and its legs at a distance from each other, in a moving 
posture. We thus see that Egyptian sculpture was al- 
most wholly a mechanical process; the laws of the 
country prohibited the intervention of novelty in sub- 
jects considered sacred ; and the more effectually to 
prevent the violation of prescribed rules, it was ordained 
that the profession of an artist should not be exercised 
by any common or illiterate person. Wilkinson, in- 
deed, has shown the great probability of the higher 
artists having been included in the ranks of the priest- 
hood. In some instances, however, we find reason to 
believe that the Egyptian artists broke through these 
trammels. In the two granite statues of lions presented 
by lord Prudhoe to the British Museum, we perceive a 
boldness and freedom of execution scarcely compatible 
with a strict adherence to mechanical rule (see Wilkin- 
son, A ncient Egypt, ii, 342 sq.). 

SCULPTUBE, Christian, The art of sculpture has 
an antagonistic principle to overcome in the Christian 
conception of the world, and its progress lias been much 


SCULPTURE 


487 


SCULPTURE 


impeded bv that fact; for, while this art must deal pri- 
marily with physical forms, and, at the most, can only re- 
gard the spirit as, with the body, a co-ordinate part of a 
common whole, the Christian idea exalts the spirit, mak- 
ing of the body a mere instrument and medium of devel- 
opment, which is laid aside when the stage of a higher 
spiritual existence is reached; and in the measure in 
which Christianity coniines all ideality to the realm of 
spirit, so does it render impossible the attainment of 
its ideal to an art which aims to achieve in its repre- 
sentations a unity of spirit and body, of idea and phe- 
nomenon. The history of Christian sculpture down to 
the 16th century accordingly shows that the constant 
effort of artists was to discover a mode of conception 
and treatment, i. e. a style, which would enable them to 
be true to the Christian idea, and, at the same time, to 
the laws of the plastic art; and the several periods, as 
well as the sculptors and their productions, differ among 
themselves ehietiy as the consciousness of this task has 
become apparent and the problem been more or less 
successfully solved. 

Sculpture was neglected, however, during the first pe- 
riod in the history of Christian art (1st to 10th century) 
to a degree that permitted but a slight recognition of 
tins task. Tliedislikeof heathenism and its idolatries, in 
which service the noblest efforts of ancient art had been 
expended, was at first so great that a cultivation of the 
formative arts was out of the question; and when this 
aversion lost its controlling power, the energies of Chris- 
tian art were employed in painting rather than sculpt- 
ure, the only object being to bring before the faithful 
representations of scenes and incidents recorded in the 
Scriptures; and for this purpose paintings and mosaics 
were more suitable than sculptures. But four statues 
of a religious character may with certainty be attrib- 
uted to this period: (I) a marble statue of Hippolytus, 
bishop of Portus Romanus and martyr, in the former 
half of the 3d century, the figure seated and wearing a 
toga, the execution thoroughly ancient in the lower 
part of the sculpture, while the upper part is a modern 
renovation; (2) the celebrated bronze statue of St. Pe- 
ter whose feet the faithful are expected to kiss on fes- 
tival occasions at Rome, resembling the Hippolytus in 
style and character, and probably executed at Constan- 
tinople in the 5th century; and (3) two statues of the 
Good Shepherd, one belonging to the 5th or 6th cen- 
tury, and the other to a later period, when ancient 
Christian art was already in its decline. We have his- 
torical information respecting sculptures of a non-relig- 
ious character also, e. g. equestrian statues of Justinian 
and Theodorie the Great, but none have been preserved 
to this time. Such other relics of this period as are 
still extant belong to the class of sculptures in relief — 
e. g. the designs found on sarcophagi and tombs, of 
which a considerable number belonging to the 3d and 
6th centuries are known, among them the sarcophagus 
of Junius Bassus, the prefect ol Rome, who died in 359, 
soon after his conversion to Christianity — one of the 
most important remains of early Christian sculpture. 
The carvings in ivory, some of which may date back 
to the 4th century, also deserve mention. They were 
employed in the ornamentation of the diptvehs (q. v.), 
and of chairs, book-covers, and other articles. Similar 
work was done in silver and gold, which metals were 
largely employed in the ornamenting of doors in church- 
es, pulpits, etc. ; hut too little has been preserved to en- 
able us to judge of its value in the light of art, and the 
fact of its having been used so largely as it was serves 
only to illustrate the craving of the Church for external 
pomp and show, and the coarse taste of a period which 
could delight in an excess of glittering tinsel. 

The different works in relief which have been pre- 
served to us from the early Christian period all resem- 
ble each other in character in t lie fact that they ignore 
the peculiar demands of the plastic art as completely 
as do the representations in color in the art of painting. 
Both arts were treated in the same spirit and sty le — a 


style that was neither picturesque nor plastic, that did 
not aim at an organic blending of the diverse elements, 
nor yet at a modification of the antagonizing principles, 
but simply at a mechanical combination of the two by 
seizing on certain elements from either side and disre- 
garding others — specifically the early Christian style. 
The two arts went hand in hand in the further develop- 
ment of this method; but sculpture appears to have 
fallen into a decline earlier than painting, since it would 
seem that only sculptures in stone were executed in It- 
aly as early as the 7th century, and that all work in 
bronze was obtained from Constantinople. In Byzan- 
tium, too, the compromise of the council of 787, by 
which the Iconoclast controversy was brought to a 
close, hastened the decline of the art of sculpture by 
providing that only paintings and reliefs should he al- 
lowed in the churches, and that all statuary should be 
rigidly excluded. 

The Middle-age style differs from that of the pre- 
ceding period in that it no longer aims at a mechan- 
ical combination of the plastic and the picturesque, 
but executes all sculptures directly in the spirit ami 
method peculiar to the painter’s art. It therefore be- 
comes as picturesque as the architecture of that age, 
and, like painting, dependent on it. But the further 
development of this style led sculptors involuntarily 
to a mode of apprehension and execution more in 
harmony with the special laws of their art, and thus 
gave rise to the Romanesque in sculpture, which starts 
out with the traditional old Christian types, but en- 
deavors to impart to them more soul and feeling, and 
also a more natural form. The aim was not realized 
at once, hut the effort to achieve it gave to the work 
accomplished something of that plastic character which 
early Christian art had so persistently perverted and 
ultimately wiped wit. There are in Germany (on the 
so-called golden gate of the cathedral at Freiberg, in 
Saxony, and on the pulpit and altar of the church at 
Wechselburg) magnificent sculptures of this period, 
whose plastic beauty recalls to mind the masterpieces 
of antiquity. It is significant that Nicolo Pisano (about 
1230), called the father of Iialian sculpture, and, at all 
events, the leading sculptor of the Romanesque school 
in Italy, suddenly turned away from the old Christian 
(Byzantine) types and devoted himself to the study of 
the monuments of antiquity, at least with reference to 
form and apparel. The Romanesque style, however, 
was too much an exotic, and did not sufficiently retleet 
the ideas and tendencies of the Middle Ages to endure. 
The Gothic took its place, and with it came in a new 
aera, inasmuch as both painting and sculpture turned di- 
rectly to nature and to the actual world for their ideals. 
Figures in relief or in statues obtained greater individ- 
uality thereby, though beauty of form was entirely dis- 
regarded, and all emphasis was laid on adequate expres- 
sion of the inner life. The plastic character of the 
sculptor’s works was, of eourse, sacrificed by this meth- 
od, and it was only natural that the aid of colors should 
be called in to transform all figures into statuary paint- 
ings; but as the Gothic style aimed primarily to ex- 
press the fundamental truths of the Christian philoso- 
phy of the world and of the Christian moral life, and 
employed natural forms only as the vehicle of such 
expression, it was readily led to attach importance, in 
the end, to such beauty of physical form as would ade- 
quately represent the beauty of soul in which the ideal 
of its aspirations had been unified. The picturesque 
was, in consequence, so greatly modified in many of the 
later productions of this style that the testhetical im- 
pression does not suffer in any way. 

The third and most llourisliing period in the history 
of Christian art is characterized by the conscious effort 
to bring works of art into thorough harmony with the 
forms and principles of growth in nature, and with the 
conditions and requirements of art in general, and of 
every branch of art in particular, so that, independent- 
l lv of tradition and the Church, it may represent the 


SCULPTURE 


488 


SCUOPIIYLACIUM 


Christian ideal with artistic freedom and with adequate 
heauty of form. Sculptors now sought to reconcile the 
Christian idea with the requirements of their art, spe- 
cial attention being given to works in relief and to a 
combination of high with low reliefs in their represen- 
tations, as being most likely to secure the end in view. 
We can do little more in this place than mention a few 
of the more successful artists. 

In Italy, the celebrated Lorenzo Ghiberti (born at 
Florence about 1380, died after 1455), one of the great- 
est masters of Christian sculpture, deserves special men- 
tion, as does also his talented rival, Donato di Betto 
Bardi (1383-1466), called Donatello, and Luca della Rob- 
bia (1440-81), and several other Venetian artists. At the 
beginning of the 16th century a number of masters ap- 
peared bv the side of Leonardo da Vinci — the Florentines 
Giovanni Francesco Rustici and Andrea Contucci, and 
the Venetian Alonzo Lombardi — who succeeded in hon- 
oring the idealism of Christianity, and also in doing jus- 
tice to the claims of realism to natural and living rep- 
resentation in sculpture. Their works fall below the 
greatest masterpieces in painting by Raphael only as 
they are unable to represent the transcendental side of 
Christianity, the transformation of the human into the 
divine, with equal clearness. Michael Angelo Buona- 
rotti, however, soon displaced these masters in sculpt- 
ure by the success he secured in his strivings after 
the grand, overpowering, and extraordinary, in which 
he paid but little attention to ideal beauty of form or 
to the requirements of plastic art. The result was that 
in the middle of the 16th century Italian sculptors had 
adopted a style which aimed chiefiy at effect, and which 
was marred by ostentation and mannerisms, and often 
governed by a coarse naturalism. 

German sculptors were not favored with the advan- 
tages secured to their Italian compeers by the posses- 
sion of the models of antiquity; but their works never- 
theless attained to a degree of perfection during this 
period which renders them not unworthy to be placed 
by the side of the products of Italian art. Various 
monuments of stone erected to the dead in the cathe- 
dral at iMayence and other Rhenish churches exhibit 
a depth and ingenuity of concept ion and a beauty of 
form in the sculptures executed by unknown hands in 
the 15th and 16th centuries which are worthy of spe- 
cial note. The principal work of German sculptors, 
however, was done in bronze. The Nuremberg artist 
family, of which Peter Vischer (died 1529) was the 
most celebrated member, is especially prominent. The 
best works of the latter artist (especially those in St. 
Sebald’s Church at Nuremberg) will bear comparison 
with those of the Italian masters, and they even indi- 
cate a higher .stage in the development of art in Ger- 
many than is apparent in the paintings of such masters 
as Diirer and Holbein, since the works of these artists 
fail to show that ideality of physical shape and formal 
heauty which art imperatively requires. But Vischer 
and a few colleagues stand almost alone, and the height 
upon which they stood was not maintained by their 
successors. A rapid decline took place, and by the mid- 
dle of the 16th century German art. both sculpture and 
painting, had degenerated into a bare imitation of the 
Italian masters. 

This point marks the transition to the fourth peri- 
od in the history of Christian art. Great convulsions 
in the political and religious world gave rise to new 
impulses, but they affected sculpture less than paint- 
ing. The. products of the early part of this period dis- 
play warmth of feeling and passion combined with a de- 
cidedly naturalistic treatment, in both of which quali- 
ties they violate not only the Christian ideal, lmt the 
spirit and nature of plastic art itself; and as these qual- 
ities show that sculpture and architecture (q.v.) were 
similarly affected by causes then at work, so the prog- 
ress of events involved them in a similar degradation. 
In Italy, Lorenzo Bernini (1598-1680), celebrated both 
as a sculptor and an architect, an imitator of the style 


of Michael Angelo, introduced the same forced style 
into sculpture which he had given to his buildings, and 
it became the fashion to affect the imposing and osten- 
tatious, and by the use of all manner of curves and 
crooks to secure the idea of movement. France at once 
adopted the new style and added to it the feature of 
theatrical display. Spain, the Netherlands, and Ger- 
many clung to purer methods for a time, but in the 18th 
century likewise gave way to French taste and the Ro- 
coco style, which, from that point, increased in affected 
adornment, coquettish elegancies, and frivolous licen- 
tiousness. 

A better spirit was aroused by Winckelmann’s writings 
and a growing familiarity with the relics of antiquity. 
The painter Asmus Jacob Carstens (1754-98) was the 
first to gain a true conception of the beautiful, and left 
a number of drawings which are thoroughly penetrated 
by the spirit of antiquity. With his younger contem- 
porary, Antonio Canova (1757-1822), that spirit entered 
again into the domain of sculpture, though as yet impure 
and showing traces of the French style. It is purer in the 
German Johann Heinrich von Dannecker (1758-1841), 
and best of all in the gifted Bertel Thorwaidsen (1770- 
1844). All that has been done, however, though much 
of it is excellent, serves only to afford further proof that 
the Christian ideal and the Greek style are irreconcilable 
with each other; and fot this reason some sculptors (of 
Munich) have gone back to the position occupied by 
the great masters at the beginning of the ICth century. 
Nothing definite has been accomplished, and it remains 
for the future to determine whether Christian sculpture 
can be carried forward from that point to a higher per- 
fection. 

The only modern work dealing specially with the 
history of Christian sculpture that need be mentioned 
is Cicognara, Storia della Scultura , dal suo Risorgimento 
in Italia sino al Secolo di Napoleone (Venice, 1813, 3 
vols.), much of whose matter is, however, already an- 
tiquated. — Herzog. Real- Encyklop . s. v. 

Scultet(us), ( Schultz ), Abraham, was born at 
Grumberg, in Silesia, Aug. 24, 1556, and went to Breslau 
in 1582. Obliged to leave on account of his father’s 
loss of fortune, he took a situation as tutor in Freistadt, 
where he enjoyed the opportunity of hearing the ser- 
mons of Meiancthon and of Abraham Bucholtzer. In 
1584 he made a journey to Poland, and the year follow- 
ing to Gorlitz, in Lusatia, where he remained two years, 
attending public lectures and reading private lectures 
to others. In the same manner he employed himself 
in the University of Wittenberg and Heidelberg, till he 
was admitted into the Church in 1594. Olficiating in 
a village church for a few months, he was sent for by 
the elector to be one of his preachers. In 1598 he was 
appointed pastor of the Church of St. Francis, Heidel- 
berg, and two years after became a member of the Ec- 
clesiastical Senate, lie was appointed court preacher 
about 1615, which position he retained until he accept- 
ed the professorship of divinity in 1618. After the bat- 
tle of Prague he resolved to return to Heidelberg; but 
the fury of war had dispersed the students, and he 
retired to Emden in August, 1622, where he died, Oct. 
24, 1625. llis principal works are, Coifutatio Disputa - 
tionis Baromi de Bapiismo Constantini (Neost. 1607, 4to) : 
— A males Evangelii per Europam 15. Sceculi Renoruti 
(Ileidtdb. 1618, 8vo): — Axiomata Concionandi (Han. 
1619, 8vo) : — Obserrationes in Pauli Epistolas ad Timo- 
theum , Titnm,et Philemon: — Medulla Pair urn (1634,4to). 

Scum (l^Nbn, cheldh, strictly an overlaying ), rather, 
rust of a pot (Ezek. xxiv, 6, 1 1, 12). 

Scuophylacium (< TKevofpvXaKiov ), a recess near 
the altar corresponding with the medieval “anmbrve," 
in which the chalice, paten, and every utensil employed 
in offering the eucharistic sacrifice were anciently placed 
immediately after mass. Reference is made to such a 
receptacle by the councils of Laodicca and Agatha. — Lee, 
Gloss, of Liturgical and Eccles. Terms , s. v. 


SCURVY 


489 


SCYTIIIAN 


Scurvy gardb , from S'nj, to scratch), scurf 

on the skin (Lev. xxi, ‘20 ; xxii, 22), perhaps of a malig- 
nant kind (“scab,” Deut. xxviii, ‘27). So also the word 
ynllepheth, rendered “scabbed” (Lev. xxi, 20; 
xxii, 22), signifies a sort of itching scab, scurf \ tetter, so 
called as sticking fast. See Leprosy. The disease 
known by the name of scurvy in modern times is usu- 
ally caused by long confinement in cold and damp cli- 
mates, without fresh provisions, and a due quantity of 
acescent food. In the progress of the disease the skin 
becomes dry and scaly, livid spots appear, and the suf- 
ferer experiences great debility. 

Scutcheon (old form, scouchon ; Lat. scutum = a 
shield), besides signifying an escutcheon, is also an old 
name for the angles of buildings or parts of buildings, 
such as window -jambs, etc., but apparently for those 
only which are greater than right angles. — Parker, 
Gloss, of Architect, s. v. 

Scutum. See Pome. 

Scutum Fidei (shield of faith), a sacred device fre- 
quently represented in stone- and wood-carving, on mon- 
umental brasses, in stained glass, and ancient paintings, 
in which the doctrines of the Trinity in Unity and the 

Unity in Trinity 
were set forth for 
the instruction of 
the faithful. The 
example in the 
arcoin pa nv i ng 
wood-cut is from 
the south window 
of the south tran- 
sept of Thame 
Church, Oxford- 
shire (1820). It 
has since disap- 
peared. — Lee. 
Gloss, of Liturgi- 
Scntnin Fidei. ca i cmc [ Ecclesi- 

astical Terms, s. v. 

Scylla, in Creek mythology, was the daughter of 
Tvphon and Echidna, or of Neptune and the nymph 
Crata'is. The descriptions of this marine monster are 
sufficiently striking, though they were never followed 
in the formative arts. Homer makes her to dwell by a 
rock which reached to the skies, and whose brow was 
constantly crowned with clouds. The mountain could 
not be scaled because of its smooth surfaces, and the 
monster was accordingly able to dwell undisturbed in 
the cavern which the waves had washed at its foot, and 
thence to inflict destruction on all who might approach. 
The giantess had twelve feet, which, however, were less 
dangerous than might be supposed, because they were 


all fastened to the rock; but the horrible body had six 
long necks, surmounted by six terrible heads, which 
roared unceasingly under the impulse of hunger and 
ferocity. The mouth was armed with a triple row of 
teeth, and every form of creature afforded them a wel- 
come prey. In the absence of other food, they seizeil 
on dolphins and seals, but if a ship drew near, it was 
obliged to sacrifice a portion of its crew. Ulysses came 
prepared for a conflict, and sought in every way to 
drive off the monster with spear-thrusts and poles, but 
was at length obliged to pay for the temerity which led 
him to navigate the Sicilian straits with the loss of six 
of his most faithful companions. These waters (between 
Italy and Sicily) were at that time regarded as impas- 
sable because of Scylla and Chary bdis ( incidit in Scyl- 
lam cupiens r it ft re Charybdin), one of which was certain 
to destroy the navigator. Their terrors are now alto- 
gether dissipated, and no fishing-boat dreads these mon- 
sters. Scylla is usually represented as a gigantic female 
figure with an oar raised as if to strike, the body ending 
in two dolphin tails. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Scyllis, in Greek mythology, was a celebrated ar- 
chitect, who was supposed to be the son of Daedalus by 
a paramour of unknown name, whose father lived at 
Gortvs/in Crete. Many of the buildings in Sicily were 
attributed to him and his brother Dipcenns. 

Scyllius, in Greek mythology, was a surname of 
Jupiter in Crete. 

Scythes, in Greek mythology, was a son of Her- 
cules and Echidna. 

Scyth'ian (Eku.S-jjc) oecnrs in Col. iii, 11 as a gen- 
eralized term for a rude, ignorant, degraded person. In 
the Gospel, says Paul, “there is neither Greek nor Jew, 
circumcision nor uncircumcision, barbarian, Scythian, 
bond nor free; but Christ is all and in all.” It was an- 
ciently applied sometimes to a particular people, and 
sometimes to all the nomad tribes which had their seat 
to the north of the Black and Caspian seas, stretching in- 
definitely eastward into the unknown regions of Asia. It 
had thus much the same latitude as “ Tartars,” and was 
in like manner synonymous with Barbarian (llapfiapog). 
The same view of Scythian barbarism appears in 2 Mace, 
iv, 47 and 3 Macc. vii, 5, also in Josephus ( Cout . Apion. 
ii, 37 ) and Parmenio (up. A then, v, 221). For other 
similar testimonies, see Wettstein, Nov, Test, ii, 292. 
The Scythians were, in fact, the ancient representatives 
of the modern Tartars, and, like them, moved from 
place to place in carts drawn by oxen. It is from this 
circumstance that they, or a t ribe nearly allied to them, 
may be recognised on the monuments of Egypt. In the 
latter part of the 7th century B.C., they had become 
well known as a formidable power through the whole 
of Western Asia. Forced from their original quarters 
north of the Caucasian range bvthe inroads of the Mas- 




Ancient Representation of a Scythian Family. 


SCYTHIAN 


490 


SCYTIIOPOLIS 


sagetaj, they descended into Asia Minor, where they took 
Sardis (B.C. 629), and maintained a long war with the 
Lydian monarehs; thence they spread into Media (B.C. 
624), where they defeated Cyaxares. They then di- 
rected their course to Egypt, and were bribed off by 
Psammetichus ; on their return they attacked the Tem- 
ple of Venus Urania at Asealon. They were finally 
ejected B.C. 596, after having made their name a terror 
to the whole Eastern world (Herod, i, 103 sq.). The 
name of Seythopolis, by which Beth-shean was known 
in our Saviour’s time, was regarded as a trace of the 
Scythian occupation (Pliny, v, 16). This, however, is 
doubtful. See Scytiiopolis. The Hebrew records are 
silent respecting this Scythian invasion, though some 
scholars suppose it to be referred to by the prophets Joel 
and Zephaniah. The Scythians are described by classi- 
cal writers as skilful in the use of the bow (Herod, i, 73 ; 
iv, 13*2; Xenoph. A nab. iii,4, 15), and even as the invent- 
ors of the bow and arrow (Pliny, vii, 57); they were 



A Scythian Horseman. (From the .sculptures at Kertch.) 

specially famous as mounted bowmen ('nnroToZorcii, 
Herod, iv, 46; Thucyd. ii, 96); they also enjoyed an ill- 
fame for their cruel and rapacious habits (Herod, i, 106). 

With the memory of these events yet fresh on t he 
minds of his countrymen, Ezekiel seems to select the 
Scythians, under the name of (log (q. v.), as the symbol 
of earthly violence, arrayed against the people of God, 
but meeting with a signal and utter overthrow. He 
depicts their avarice and violence (xxxviii, 7-13), and 
the fearful vengeance executed upon them (ver. 14-23) 
— a massacre so tremendous that seven months would 
hardly suffice for the burial of the corpses in the valley 
which should thenceforth be named Hamon-gog (xxxix, 
11-16). The imagery of Ezekiel has been transferred 
in the Apocalypse to describe the final struggle between 
Christ and Antichrist (Lev. xx, 8). 

As a question of ethnology, the origin of the Scythi- 
ans presents great difficulties. Many eminent writers, 
with Niebuhr and Neumann at their head, regard them 
as a Mongolian, and therefore a non-Japhetic, race. It 
is unnecessary for us to enter into the general question, 



which is complicated by the undefined and varying ap- 
plications of the name Scythia and Scythians among an- 
cient writers. So far as the Biblical notices are concern- 
ed, it is sufficient to state that the Scythians of Ezekiel’s 
age — the Scythians of Herodotus — were in all probabil- 
ity a Japhetic race. They are distinguished, on the one 
hand, from the Argippad, a clearly Mongolian race (He- 
rod. iv, 23), and they are connected, on the other hand, 
with the Agathyrsi, a clearly Indo-European race (ibid, 
iv, 10). The mere silence of so observant a writer as He- 
rodotus as to any striking features in the physical con- 
formation of the Scythians must further be regarded as 
a strong argument in favor of their Japhetic origin. 
For the geographical and ethnographical relations of 
the term, see Smith, Diet, of Class. Geog. ii, 936-945. 
Perhaps it may be inferred from Col. iii, 11 that there 
were Scythians also among the early converts to Chris- 
tianity. Many of this people lived in Greek and Roman 
lands, and could have heard the Gospel there, even if 
some of the first preachers had not already penetrated 
into Scythia itself. — Kit to; Smith. See .Yutf. Quar . 
Rev. Dec. 1876; Jour. Sac. Lit. April. 1853. 

Scython, in Greek mythology, was a man whom 
the poets represent as possessed of the ability to change 
his sex at will. 

Scythop'olis (2kv$u>v 7rdXfe; Peshito- Syriac, 
Beisdn; Vulg. ciritas jScgtharinii), that is, “the city of 
the Scythians,” occurs in the A. V. of Judith iii, 10 and 
2 Mace, xii, 29 only. In the Sept, of Judg. i, 27, how- 
ever, it is inserted (in both the great MSS.) as the 
synonym of Beth-shean (q. v.), and this identification 
is confirmed by t he narrative of 1 Mace, v, 52, a parallel 
account to that of 2 Mace, xii, 29, as well as by the re- 
peated statements of Josephus (Jnf. v, 1, 22; vi, 14, 8; 
xii, 8, 5). He uniformly gives the name in the con- 
tracted shape (2/a;3’67ro\i(;), in which it is also given by 
Eusebius (Onomast. passim), Pliny (//, X. v, 18), Strabo 
(xvi), etc., and which is inaccurately followed in the 
A. V. Polybius (v, 70, 4) employs the fuller form of 
the Sept. Beth-shean has now, like so many other 
places in the Holy Land, regained its ancient name, 
and is known as Beisdn only. A mound close to it on 
the west is called Tell Shuk, in which it is perhaps just 
possible that a trace of Scytiiopolis may linger. But 
although there is no doubt whatever of the identity of 
the place, there is considerable difference of opinion as 
to the origin of the name. The Sept, (as is evident 
from the form in which they present it) and Pliny 
(//. X. v, 16) attribute it to the Scythians, who, in the 
words of the Byzantine historian George SynCellus, 
“Qverran Palestine and took possession of Baisan, which 
from them is called Seythopolis.” This has been in 
modern times generally referred to the invasion record- 
ed by Herodotus (i, 104-106), when the Scythians, after 
their occupation of Media, passed through Palestine on 
their road to Egypt (about B.C. 600 — a few years be- 
fore the taking of Jerusalem by Nebuchadnezzar), a 
statement now recognised as a real fact, though some 
of the details may be open to question (Rawlinson’s 
llerod. i, 246). It is not at all improbable that either 
on their passage through, or on their return after being 
repulsed by Psammetichus (Herod, i, 105), some Scythi- 
ans may have settled in the country (Ewald, Gesch. iii, 
694, note) ; and no place would be more likely to attract 
tliem than Beisan — fertile, most abundantly watered, 
and in an excellent military position. In the then 
state of the Holy Land they would hardly meet with 
much resistance. See Scythian. 

Reland, however (apparently incited thereto by his 
doubts of the truth of Herodotus's account), discarded 
this explanation, and suggested that Seythopolis was a 
corruption of Snccothopolis — the chief town of the dis- 
trict of Suceoth. In this he is supported by Gesenius 
( Xotes to Bnrckhnrdt , p. 1058) and by Grimm ( Exeg. 
llandbuch on 1 Macc. v, 52). Since, however, the ob- 
jection of Reland to tbe historical truth of Herodotus is 


SEA 


491 


SEA 


now removed, the necessity for this suggestion (certain- 
ly most ingenious) seems not to exist. The distance 
of Succoth from Beisan, if we identify the former with 
a S ukut , is ten miles; while if the arguments of Mr. Beke 
are valid, it would be nearly double as far. It is surely 
gratuitous to suppose that so large, independent, and 
important a town as Bet.h-shean was in the earlier his- 
tory, and as the remains show it to have been in the 
Greek period, should have taken its name from a com- 
paratively insignificant place at a long distance from it. 
Dr. Robinson ( Bib . Res. iii, 330) remarks with justice 
that had the Greeks derived the name from Succoth, 
they would have employed that name in its translated 
form as IZKip'ai, and the compound would have been 
Scenopolis. Reland’s derivation is also dismissed with- 
out hesitation by Ewald, on the ground that the two 
names Succoth and Skythes have nothing in common 
(Gesch. iii, 694, note). l)r. Kobinson suggests that, af- 
ter all. City of the Scythians may be right, the word 
Scythia being used, as in the New Test., as equivalent 
to a barbarian or savage. In this sense he thinks it 
may have been applied to the wild Arabs, who then, as 
now, inhabited the Ghor, and at times may have had 
possession of Beth-sliean. 

The Canaanites were never expelled from Beth-sliean, 
and the heathen appear to have always maintained a 
footing there. It is named in the, Mishna as the seat 
of idolatry (Aboda Zara, i, 4), and as containing a 
double population of Jews and heathens. At the begin- 
ning of the Roman war (A.D. Go), the heathen rose 
against the Jew's and massacred a large number, accord- 
ing to Josephus (ir</?-, ii, 18, 3) no less than 13,000, in 
a wood or grove close to the town. Scythopolis was 
the largest city of the Decapolis, and the only one of 
the ten which lay west of Jordan. By Eusebius and 
Jerome ( Onomast . s. v. “ Bethsan”) it is characterized as 
7 roXtg iizierjfioQ and m bs nobilis. It was surrounded by 
a district of its own of the most abundant fertility. It 
became the seat of a Christian bishop, and its name is 
found in the lists of signatures as late ns the Council of 
Constantinople. A.D. 536. The latest mention of it un- 
der the title of Scythopolis is probably that of William 
of Tyre (xxii, 16, 26). lie mentions it as if it w r as then 
actually so called, carefully explaining that it was for- 
merly Bethshan. — Smith. See Beth-siiean. 

Sea (Heb. DJ, yam; Chald. yamma; SctXaG- 
go), as opposed to land or earth (22!N, Ire/*, Gen. i, 10), in 
which all the waters of the earth are included, originat- 
ed by the. separation of its waters from those of the air, 
or the clouds (ver. 6 sq.). The sea is represented as 
deep (Psa. Ixviii, 23; Mi call vii. 19; Amos ix, 3; Job 
xxxviii, 16), wide (xi, 9), and mighty (Psa. civ, 25; Job 

vii, 12; Lament, ii, 13); surrounding the earth at its 
utmost bounds (Dent, xxx, 13; Psa. cxxxix, 9; comp, 
the ancient Greek view of oceamts, tbicearog, Fubiger, 
JIandb. d. alt. Geogr. i, 4) ; the earth, indeed, resting on 
the ocean (Psa. xxiv, 2). The surface (comp. fii&dg, 
the deep, 2 Cor. xi, 25) is roused by winds (Dan. vii, 2; 
comp. Jonah i, 11, 13) into waves (C'feSs Psa. lxv, 8; 
cvii,25; Isa. Ixviii, 18; Kvftara, Jude 13; i:\vdtitv, James 
i, 6), so that it roars and rages (Jer. vi, 23 ; 1, 42 ; Isa. v, 
30; lvii, 20; Psa. xevi, 11; 1 Chron. xvi, 32), and is 
only subject to God (Job xxxviii, 11 : Psa. lxxxix, 10). 
The countless inhabitants of the sea (James iii, 7 , Rev. 

viii, 8 sq.) are given to men for food (Gen. ix, 2 sq.),but 
the people of God may only eat those which are legally 
clean (Lev. xi, 9 sq.). On the coasts of the sea (Ueb. 
smnak', ITC'J) lie great lands; and the sand of the sea 
(bin; Gr. aggog) is proverbial for multitude (Gen. xxii, 
17 ; Josh, xi, 4; 2 Sam. xvii, 11 ; Job xxix, 18; Tics, i, 
10; 1 Macc. xi, 1 ; Rev. xx, 8, etc.; Homer, Iliad, ix, 
385; Callim. Rian. p. 252; Ovid, Trist. iv, 1, 55; Ars 
Am. i, 254. Comp. Pindar, Olymp. ii, 178; Calpnrn. ii, 
72. See also Gesen. Thesaur. p. 598 sq.). 

It may be remarked that almost all the figures of 


speech taken from the sea in Scripture refer either to its 
power or its danger, and among the woes threatened in 
punishment of disobedience, one ma} T be remarked as sig- 
nificant of the dread of the sea entertained'by a non-seafar- 
ing people, the being brought back into Egypt “in ships” 
(Deut. xxviii, 68). The national feeling on this subject 
may be contrasted with that of the Greeks in reference 
to the sea. No mention of the tide is found in Scripture. 

The above ileb. word, yam, is sometimes connect- 
ed with mnn, tehom (afloat og, abysst/s, “the deep,” 
Gen. i, 2; Jonah ii, 5). It also means the west (Gesen. 
Thesaur. p. 369, 598). When used for the sea, it very 
often, but not always, takes the article. Other wmrds 
for the sea (in the A.V. “deep”) are: nb^'2, metsuldh, 
or Plbi^p, metsoldh (only in the plural), or tsvldh 

simply (dfivGGog, fiaSog, abyssus, profumhnn ) ; 
mabbul (KaraicXuGgdg, diluvium , “ water -flood,” l’sa. 
xxix, 10). Smaller pools were distinguished into C5X, 
agam, a natural pool or pond (evii, 35: cxiv, 8; Isa. 
xxxv, 7 ; xli, 18, etc.), and berekuh, the same 

as the Arabic bir/ceh, an artificial pool or reservoir (2 
Sam. ii, 13; iv, 12; Nahum ii, 9). 

The following are the applications of the term yam 
in Scripture: 

1. The "gathering of the waters” (yammiii), encom- 
passing the lain!, or what we call in a more or less defi- 
nite sense “the Ocean.” In this sense the term is used 
in Gen. i, 2, 10, and elsewhere, as Deut. xxx, 13; 1 Kings 

x, 22; Psa. xxiv, 2; Job xxvi, 8, 12; xxxviii, 8; see 
Homer, Iliad, xiv, 301, 302; Hesiod, Theog. 107, 109; 
and 2 Pet. iii, 5. 

2. The word is used, with the article, of some definite 
part of the great circumambient water, viz.: 

(a.) Of the Mediterranean Sea, called the “hinder” 
Cjl^nX), the “western,” and the “utmost” sea (Deut. 

xi, 24; xxxiv, 2; Joel ii, 20); “sea of the Philistines” 
(Exod. xxiii, 31); “the great sea” (Numb, xxxiv, 6,7 ; 
Josh, xv, 47); “the sea” (Gen. xlix, 13; Psa. Ixxx, 11 ; 
evii. 23; 1 Kings iv, 20, etc.). See Mediterranean. 

(6.) Also frequently of the Red Sea (Exod. xv, 4; 
Josh, xxiv, 6), or one of its gulfs (Numb, xi, 31 ; Isa. 
xi, 15), and perhaps (1 Kings x, 22) the sea traversed 
by Solomon’s fleet. See Red Sea. 

The place “where two seas met”(ro7ro£ hSdXaaGoc, 
Acts xx vii, 41) is explained by Conybeare and Ilowson 
as a place where the island Snlmonetta, off the coast of 
Malta, in St. Paul’s Bay, so intercepts the passage from 
the sea without to the bay within as to give the appear- 
ance of two seas, just as Strabo represents the appear- 
ance of the entrance from the Bosphorus into the Euxine ; 
but it seems quite as likely that by the “place of the 
double sea” is meant one where two currents, caused hv 
the intervention of the island, met ami produced an 
eddy, which made it desirable at once to ground the 
ship (Conybeare and Howson, ii, 423; Strabo, ii, 124). 

3. The term is also applied to the great internal lakes 
of Palestine, whether fresh or salt ; e. g. 

(a.) The Sea of Chinnereth, rHS3 (Numb, xxxiv, 
11), called in the New Test. “ the Sea of Galilee” (Matt, 
iv, 18), the “Sea of Tiberias” (John xxi, 1), and “the 
sea (or lake) of Gennesareth” (Matt, xiv, 34; Mark vi, 
53; Luke v, 17), which last is but a variation of the 
Hebrew name. See Galilee, Ska of. 

(5.) The Dead Sea, called in Scripture the Salt Sea, 
rib's!! (Gen. xiv, 3), the Sea of the Plain, or the 
A rabah, E^ 1 (Deut. iv, 40), and the Eastern Sea, 

Cjn (Joel ii, 20; Ezek. xlvii, 18; Zech. xiv, 
8). It is not named or alluded to in the New Test. It 
is called by Josephus (B r or, iii, 10, 7) Xigvt] ’AGtyaXri- 
njg, by which name, or in the Latin form of Lacus As- 
phultites, it was known to the classical writers. See 
Salt Sea. 

(c.) The Luke Merom is named once only in Script- 


492 


SEAL 


SEA. MOLTEN 


lire, where it is called EW3 waters of Merom (Josh, 
xi, 5, 7). Bv Josephus it is called Semeehonitis (Ec/ie- 
ywiarit;, Aid. v, 5, 1), and at present bears the name of 
llnleh: this is the uppermost and smallest of the three 
lakes on the Jordan. See Mekom. 

4. The term yam , like the Arabic ba.hr, is also applied 
to great rivers, as the Nile (Isa. xix, 5; Amos viii, 8, 
A. V. “flood;” Nahum iii, 8; Ezek. xxxii, 2) and the 
Euphrates (Jer. li, 30). See Stanley, Syr. and Pal. 
App. p. 533; Hackett, Illust. of Script, p. 119. 

5. Finally, the great copper (TVwnp) or molten 
(p^*l -) laver, which stood in the court of Solomon’s 
Temple, is called a yam (1 Kings vii, 23-44; 2 Kings 
xvi, 17, etc.). See Brazen Sea; Laver. 

Sea, Molten. See Laver. 

Seabury, Samuel, D.D., an efficient Episcopal min- 
ister, and afterwards bishop of Connecticut, was born 
at Lcdvard, Groton, Conn., Nov. 30, 1729. and received 
his degree of A.B. at Yale College in 1748. In I75f 
he went to Scotland, and was ordained in Loudon in 
1753. On his return to America, he was successively 
rector of Christ’s Church, New Brunswick, N. J. , Grace 
Church, .lamaica, Long Island, N. Y. ; and St. Peter’s 
Church, Westchester ; and in 1704 was made A.M. by 
Columbia College, and D.I). by Oxford University. Eng- 
land. During the Revolutionary war he acted for a 
time as chaplain to the British army, and in 1783 was 
chosen bishop and went to England for consecration. 
Not being successful, he went to Scotland, where his 
application was granted, in 1784 at Aberdeen, which was 
thus the cradle of the American Episcopal Church. On 
his return he was made rector of St. .lames’s Church, New 
London, Conn., where he published A Communion Office, 
and aided in a general organization of the Episcopal 
Church of the United States. He died Feb. 25. 1796. 
His publications comprise Charges , Sermons , and Ad- 
dresses : — The Communion Office, etc.’- — The Duty of 
Considering our Ways: — Discourses on Several Subjects 
(1791, 2 vols.) : — An Earnest Persuasive to the Frequent 
Receiving of the Holy Communion (republished, 1816). 
See Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit, v. 149. 

Seager, Micah, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born in Simsbury, Conn., in July, 
1800, and was converted in 1816. In 1818 he was re- 
ceived on trial by the Genesee Conference, in which he 
performed more than thirty years of active service. He 
was superannuated in 1854, and held that relation until 
his death, May 26, 1872. See Minutes of Annual Con- 
ferences, 1872, p. 1 15. 

Seager, Schuyler, D.D., a minister and educator 
of the Methodist Episcopal Church, was born in Sims- 
bury, Conn., July 26, 1807. lie graduated from the 
Wesleyan University, Middletown, in 1836, and took 
his degree of M.A. in 1839. After his graduation he 
became principal of the Genesee Wesleyan Seminary, 
N. Y., and held that position until 1844. He was em- 
ployed in the pastorate from 1844 to 1853, and spent the 
next six years as principal of Genesee Wesleyan Semi- 
nary and Dansville Academy. He. then returned to the 
pastoral work, in which he continued until his death. 
Among the churches he served were the First Church 
and Asburv, Rochester; Pearl Street and Grace. Buffalo; 
Lock port, and Batavia. He was a delegate to the gen- 
eral conferences of 1844 and 1848. At the time of his 
death he was a member of the Western New York Con- 
ference. See Minutes of Ann. Conferences , 1875, p. 158. 

Seall (nNO. sedh, from the obsolete HJO, sadh, to 
expand), a Hebrew measure, properly for grain (A.Y. 
always “measure;” Gen. xviii, 6; 1 Sam. xxv. 18; 1 
Kings xviii, 32; 2 Kings vii, 1, 16, 18); containing, 
according to the rabbins, the third of an ephah, i. e. 
nearly one and a half pecks English; according to Je- 
rome {On Matt, xiii, 33), a modius and a half. From 
the Aramaean form has sprung the ctutov of the Sept., 
New Test., and Josephus. See Metrology. 


Seal (crin, Chatham, Gtypay'aj). The seal, together 
with the staff, has been in the East from the earliest 
times (Gen. xxxviii, 18) the favorite trinket of the men 
(see Car.t. viii, 6; Hag. ii, 23; Jer. xxii, 24; Sir. xvii, 
22; comp. Rosenmuller, Morgenl . vi, 252). Both are 
included in the attire of the Babylonians (Herod, i, 195; 
Strabo, xvi, 746). It was attached, as still in Persia, by 
a cord, and worn upon the bosom or in a finger-ring on 
the right hand (Gen. xli, 42; Esth. iii, 10,8; viii, 2; 
Jer. xxii, 24; comp. Chardin, iv, 23 ; v, 454 sq. ; Robin- 
son, i, 58, and see especially Longus, De A nnul. Sign. 
[Mail. 1615; Lips. 1709]). The art of graving seals is 
an ancient one (Exod. xxviii, II). The seal usually 
contains no figures (yet see the drawing of one found at 
Cusa, in Ker Porter, Trav. i, 425, pi. lxxx, 2), but simply 



Ancient Seals. (From originals in British Museum.) 

1. Sisrrwt cylinder. 2. Signet cylinder of Sennacherib. 

3. Seal of chalcedony, with Phtenician inscription. 

4. Seal of samphire chalcedony, with Assyrian inscription. 

5. Seal of chalcedony , with Persian inscription. 

6. Seal in form of a duck with the head resting nn the back. 

7. Clay impression from seal of Esarhaddon. (From Koyunjik.) 

8. Clay impression from seal — device, ear of wheat. (From Koyunjik.) 

9. Clay impression from seal — device, a scorpion. (From Koyunjik.) 

the name of the wearer, sometimes with a sentence from 
the Koran, and it is customary to give an impression of 
it instead of a signature (Chardin, i, 289, 355: iii, 112, 
362, 366. with plates; Olearius, Trav. p. 633: liosen- 
niiiller, Morgenl. iii, 205 sq. Comp. Curtius, iii, 6, 7 ; 
Herod, iii, 128). For this purpose the seal is moistened 
with a kind of black ink (Harmer, Obs. ii, 468, 470; 
iii, 478); but in sealing letters (1 Kings xxi, 8; comp. 
Josephus, Life, p. 44), bags (Job xiv, 17), and sacks 
(Mislina, Shabb. viii, 5), as well as doors, clay or sealing- 
earth was used {ibid.). Among the Jews the women 
also carried seal-rings {ibid, vi, 3). Eastern princes 
confer the dignity of minister or regent by the delivery 
of the state -seal, or a seal-ring (Gen. xli, 42; Esth. 
iii, 10; viii, 2: 1 Maec. vi, 15; comp. Curtius, x, 5, 4; 
Aristoph. Eq. 947; see Schulz, Leitung, iv, 218 sq.; 
Tournefort, Voyage, ii, 383), and sometimes they invest- 
ed successors in the same manner (Josephus, .4??/. xx, 2, 
3). In the later language of the Jews the word chothdm 
meant a counter or token, perhaps with a seal. Such 
were used in the second Temple (Mishna, Shekal. v, 3 
sq.), and a special officer of the seals was stationed there 
{ibid, v, I). — Winer. See Ring. 

The seal, with the owner’s name or some other device 
engraven upon it, was usually employed to authenticate 
public or private documents. Seals for this purpose, 
made of burned clay, or of copper, silver, gold, or pre- 
cious stones set in metal, were anciently used in the 
East. Sometimes the signet-ring was used for this 
purpose (Gen. xxxviii, 18; Jer. xxxii, 10). If a door 
had to be sealed, it was first fastened with some liga- 
ment, over which was placed some well-compacted clay, 


SEAL 


403 


SEARLE 


and then impressed with the seal, so that any violation 
of it would be discovered at onee (Job xxxviii, 14 ; Sol. 
Song iv, 12; Matt. xxvii, 66). Important documents 
were sometimes put in sealed bags and enclosed in earth- 
enware vessels for greater security (L)eut. xxxii, 34; 
Jer. xxxii, 14; Job xiv, 17). The seal, if a cylinder, 
was rolled on the moist clay, hence Job says, “it is 
turned as clay to the seal” (xxxviii, 14); and some- 
times the tablet or impression was placed in the furnace 
and baked. The term “ sealed” is sometimes used fig- 
uratively for that which is permanent (Isa. viii, 16) and 
confirmed (John vi,29 ; Rom. iv, 11), also for that which 
is to be kept secret until the appointed time (Dan. viii, 
2G; xii, 4, 9). So also the “book or roll sealed with 
seven seals” symbolized the plan of the divine govern- 
ment, which is impenetrable to every creature, but fully 
comprehended by the Saviour, who is exalted to the 
throne of the universe (Rev. v, 2-8). The “seal of the 
living God,” on which is supposed to be engraven the 
name of “Jehovah,” which was impressed upon the fore- 
heads of the faithful, symbolizes the indwelling of the 
Holy Spirit (vii, 2-17; E plies, i, 13, 14; vi, 30; 2 Cor. 
i, 2'i; Kzek. ix, 4, 6; 2 Tim. ii, 19). See Signet. 

SEAL, Abbatial, is the official formal seal of an ab- 
bot. 

SEAL, Consecration of an Episcopal. It was 
customary in many parts of the Church during the 31 id- 
dle Ages to consecrate the seal of a newly made bishop 
with his vestments and other episcopal insignia. The 
form of consecration was simple, the seal being blessed 
with holy-water. At the death of the bishop, his seal 
or seals (for he had usually more than one) were care- 
fully destroyed. 

SEAL, Decanal, is the official formal seal of the dean 
of a cathedral or collegiate church. 

SEAL (Ecclesiastical use of), a piece of metal or 
other hard substance, e. g. bone or ivory, usually round 
or elliptical, on which is engraved some device, used for 
making impressions on wax. The wax set or affixed 
to an ecclesiastical or legal instrument, duly impressed 
or stamped with a seal, is likewise designated by the 
same term. The use of seals as a mark of authenticity 
to letters and other instruments in writing is very an- 
cient, and was allowed to be sufficient without signing 
the name, which few could do of old. In 1237, owing 
to the prevalence of forgeries and the absence of public 
notaries in England, abbots, priors, deans, archdeacons, 
their officials and rural deans, capitular bodies, colleges, 
and convents, were required to have seals. If the office 
was perpetual, then the name of the man who bore it 
was engraved on the seal; but rural deans and officials 
whose office was temporary, had only the name of their 
office engraved upon it. They resigned their seals at 
the expiration of their tenure to him by whom they 
had been commissioned. The name seal is also given 
lo the little stone which covers the sepulchre of relics 
in an altar. 

SEAL, Episcopal, is the official formal seal of a bish- 
op, attached to letters of orders, licenses, deeds of in- 
stitution, induction, degradation, and other documents. 
They represent the arms of the diocese, impaled with 
the personal arms of the bishop. Bishops commonly 
have two official seals — a large and a small one. These, 
in England, on their death, are sent to Lambeth Palace 
to be defaced and destroyed under the direction of the 
archbishop’s official. 

SEAL of Baptism. Baptism was often called, in 
the early Church, “the seal of the Lord.” “the seal of 
Christ,” with allusion, perhaps, to Kph. i, 13: iv, 30; 
John iii, 33, and other similar passages, especially 2 Cor. 
i, 21, 22. This use of the word is taken from the cir- 
cumstance that the stamp or impression of a seal upon 
anything was regarded as a mark of property, or a token 
that it belonged to a certain owner, namely, the person 
whose seal it bore. Thus Gregory of Nazianzum (Or at. 


40) ealls baptism the seal and sign of sovereignty, or 
the token that the baptized person was subject to the 
dominion and government of God, and lived to obey his 
will. See Kiddle, Christian Antiq. p. 484. 

SEAL of Confession, a name for the obligation 
on a priest never to reveal the secrets of the confes- 
sional. See Lee, Gloss . of Liturgical Terms, s. v. ; Wal- 
cott, Sac. A rchceol. s. v. 

Sealed Books, certain printed copies of the re- 
vised Anglican Prayer-book, as settled at the Savov 
Conference, issued A.D. 1GG2, which, having been ex- 
amined by the commissioners appointed for that pur- 
pose, were certified by them to be correct. They were 
ordered by Parliament to be preserved in certain cathe- 
dral and collegiate churches. A folio reprint of the 
Sealed Book was issued by Pickering (1844), ami again 
by Masters (1848, 8vo). See Lee, Gloss, of Liturgical 
Terms, s. v. 

Seal-skin. See Badger. 

Seam occurs in Scripture only in the epithet r/ppu- 
0o q, “without seam,” applied to our Saviour’s inner 
garment (“coat”), which the soldiers at his crucifixion 
accordingly cast lots for (John xix, 23). Monographs 
on this fact are cited by Volbeding, Index Programma - 
turn, p. GO. 

Seaman, Richard, a minister of the Melliodi>t 
Episcopal Church, was born April 28, 1785. He studied 
medicine, and was admitted to practice in New York 
when about nineteen. He became a Christian in 1812, 
and in 1823 was received into t lie New York Conference, 
and was regularly appointed until 1845, when he was 
obliged to take a superannuated relation, lie continued 
to labor as his strength would permit, but for the last 
thirteen years of his life was a great sufferer from rheu- 
maiism. lie died Nov. 6, 1864. He was a man of sn- 
perior judgment, stern integrity, untiring energy, mod- 
est, generous, and evangelical. See Minutes of Annual 
Conferences, 18G5, p. 100. 

Sea-monster is the rendering in Lam. iv, 3 of 
the Ileb. “H, tan, where the margin has “sea-calves.” 
The root of the word is ":n, tandn, “to stretch out,” 
hence it seems to apply to a slim creature that extends 
itself, and some think it to mean a kind of serpent. 
Others would render it “jackal.” It is variously ren- 
dered in the A. V. (“whale,” “ serpent,” etc.), nor is it 
probable that it was very definite in its application. 
See Dragon. 

Sear occurs in Scripture only in the rendering of the 
word KavTijpiaZu), to brand (“sear with a hot iron”), in 
a tropical sense of the conscience (1 Tim. iv, 2). To 
sear the flesh is to cauterize or burn it, and thus deprive 
it of the power of sensation. In 1 Tim. iv, 2 the term 
denotes the effect of habitual sin, by which the con- 
science becomes so stupefied as to be insensible to the 
most enormous guilt and the most fearful threatenings 
of punishment. See Burning. 

Searle, Jeremiah, a (Dutch) Reformed minister, 
was born at Atkinson, N. II., in 1795. lie was educated 
in part at Bowdoin College. Me., and graduated at Union 
College, N. Y.. in 1820. He studied theology with Dr. 
Andrew Yates, and was licensed by the Congregational 
Association of Vermont in 1823. 1 1 is ministerial life 

was spent in the following Reformed churches: Rotter- 
dam, N. Y., 1823-25; Coxsackie, 1825-51 ; Keyport, 
N. J., 1851-53; Fallsburgh, N. Y., 1853-61. He was a 
man of great sweetness of spirit, amiable and beloved ; a 
minister ami a workman who needed not to be ashamed ; 
studious, careful in preparation, practical and experi- 
mental in preaching; solemn, and yet cheerful, in man- 
ner; catholic in his sentiments, yet firm in the faith, lie 
was president of the General Synod in 1850. He died 
in 1861. 1 1 is ministry was marked by truly missionary 

labors, and crowned with two notable revivals of religion. 
See Corwin, M anual of the ReJ. Church. (AY . J. R. T.) 


SEARLE 


494 


SEAT 


Searle, Moses C., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Byfield, Mass., Sept. 17, 1797. He graduated at 
the College of New Jersey, Princeton, in 1821, and at 
the Theological Seminary in that place in 1824; was 
licensed by the New Brunswick Presbytery, and, going 
East, began his labors in Grafton, Mass., being ordained 
by NewLmrvport Presbytery in 1826 as pastor of the Con- 
gregational Church, Grafton. He subsequently labored 
in New Hartford, N. Y. ; Dorset, Vt.; Haverhill, N. II. ; 
Bradford, and Bytield, Mass., where he died, Dec. 10, 
18G5. Mr. Searle was a man of deep piety and affec- 
tionate disposition, an excellent pastor and good preach- 
er. See Wilson, Presb . Hist . Almanac, 1868, p. 226. 
(J.L.S.) 

Searles, Isaac, a minister of the Methodist Episco- 
pal Church, was born in Hartford, Conn., Oct. 30, 1816, 
removed to Ohio at an early age, and professed conver- 
sion in his seventeenth year. He was received on trial 
into the Hock Kiver Conference, Aug. 25, 1841 ; ordained 
deacon in 1843, and elder in 1845. In 1848 the Wiscon- 
sin Conference was formed, and Mr. Searles became one 
of its members. He was superannuated for a short 
time, but became effective in 1852; superannuated in 
18GG, and active in 1867. II is last appointment was 
Brandon, Wis., where he died, Dec. 8, 1870. See Min- 
utes of Annual Conferences , 1871, p.273. 

Sears, Allen, a Methodist Episcopal minister, was 
born in New York State in 1806, received on trial in 
the Kentucky Conference in 1838, appointed to Tay- 
lorsville Circuit as junior preacher, and continued to 
travel within the bounds of that conference for seven 
years successively. In 1845 he was transferred to the 
Indiana Conference, and appointed to Vincennes Station; 
in 1846, to Spencer Circuit. He died Dec. 4, 1846. lie 
was a man of very strong faith, deep piety, a truly 
evangelical preacher, and a good pastor. See Minutes 
of Annual Conferences , iv, 185. 

Sears, Clinton W., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Chautauqua County, N. 
Y.. April 27, 1819. lie was educated at Yale College 
and Middletown Wesleyan University, lie was a mem- 
ber of the Cincinnati Conference, and had occupied sev- 
eral responsible stations, when, in 1862, he was appointed 
chaplain of the Ninety-lilt li Begiment ofOhio Volunteers. 
He was seized while in service with the camp dysentery, 
and returned to his home, July 15, 1863, and died Aug. 
25, 1863. Mr. Sears was a good scholar, an able preach- 
er, and a faithful pastor. See Minutes of Annual Con- 
ferences , 1863, p. 148. 

Season (properly P?, a fixed time; icawog, often 
rendered “ time” in general, and not specific of a portion 
of the year). The general division of the year by the 
Hebrews was into two seasons, “ Summer and Winter” 
(Psa. lxiv, 17; Zech. xiv, 8); but they appear also to 
have conveniently divided the year into six special sea- 
sons: “seed-time and harvest, and cold and heat, and 
summer and winter” (Gen. i, 14; viii, 22). The same 
division obtains among many Oriental nations, as the 
Hindus and Arabians, at this day. According to this 
division of the seasons in Palestine, they would seem to 
have been distributed in the following order: Summer, 
from the middle of August to the middle of October; 
Seed-time, from the middle of October to the middle of 
December: Winter, from the middle of December to the 
middle of February; Cold, from the middle of February 
to the middle of April; Heat, from the middle of April 
to the middle of August. See Agriculture. 

Seasons, Canonical. See Festivals. 

Seat (usually some form of 1^, yashdb, to sit; 
KctSfCpa). There is no mention made of chairs in 
the Old Test., but seats of various kinds are named. 
(!•) N32, kisseh (from P1D2 kasdh, to cover, also oc- 
curring twice, dob xxvi, 9^1 Kings x, 19, in the form 
i" 5 ??)} is a throne, a royal throne , as in Deut. xvii, 18; 


2 Sam. viii, 13, or the elevated seat of the high -priest, 
1 Sam. i, 9; iv, 13, but is sometimes applied to a seat in 
general, though usually with some honorary distinction, 
ns 1 Sam. ii, 8; Isa. xxii, 23. See Throne. (2.) 
moshdb (from 2*3 yashdb, to sit), means any seat, as 

1 Sam. xx, 18, 25; Job xxix, 7, hence the site of a city, 

2 Kings ii, 19; an assembly or session, as Psa. i, 1, and 
t lie dwelling of men, Gen. xxv, 49, and often. (3.) The 
word Pi, teknndh (from ’JID, takdn , to weigh), is 
rendered “seat” in the A. V., Job xxiii, 3, but means 
rather dwelling , abode. (4.) Finally, shebeth, rQ'J, is the 
infinitive of the verb yashdb, SUT' 1 (see No. 2, above), 
used substantively, as in Amos vi, 3. 

Orientals usually seat themselves upon mats or car- 
pets on the floor. In the houses of the wealthy there 
are spread pillows, or cushions, stuffed with cotton; and 
sometimes broad low sofas, or divans, are used, with 
i arms, stuffed cushions, and costly ornaments. Upon 
these divans, as well as upon the tloor, they sit with the 
legs bent under, and crossed in a half-kneeling posture. 
Among some of them Europeans have even introduced 
[ chairs. The Ancient Egyptians had chairs and otto- 
mans in great variety and of the most elegant forms, 



Ancieut Egyptian Chair. (Now in the British Museum.) 

much in the modern fashion (Wilkinson, A?ic. Egypt, i, 
58 sq.) ; and no doubt the wealthy Hebrews imitated 
them. See Handicraft. In later times the Hebrews 
adopted the custom of reclining upon couches at table 
(1 Sam. ix, 22; Amos vi, 4; Esth. vii, 8; Matt, xxiii, 
6; Luke vii, 37, 38). Among the Unmans a chair of a 
particular form was used by the magistrates when ad- 
ministering justice, and this is called “the judgment- 
seat” (Matt, xxvii, 19; Acts xviii, 12, 16; Bom. xiv, 
10). See Judgment-seat. 

The place in which a person is seated regulates, in 
Eastern nations, the degree of rank or precedence which 
he claims for himself or receives from others. In Persia 
the distance from t he throne within which the dignita- 
ries of the court and nobles may sit is regulated bv the 
strictest etiquette. The same particularity is observed 
in every department of public and private life, in the 
formal divan, in the social feast, and even in the retire- 
ment of the. domestic chamber. To this peculiarity 
there are many allusions in Scripture: thus “the seat 
of Moses,” in which the scribes and Pharisees sat. ex- 
presses metaphorically the dignity which belonged to 
their office as teachers or expounders of the law; “the 
seat of honor,” to which allusion is made in the Apocry- 
pha, was the highest seat in the synagogue so much 
coveted by the Pharisees. Thrones are mentioned only 
in reference to deity or sovereignty; every other kind 
of dignity is determined by the seat. It was usual for 
persons who were greatly respected to be employed as 
judges or arbitrators; and for such seats were provided 
in some public place, round which the people respect- 
fully stood, paying the most respectful reverence to the 



SEBA 


SEBA 


495 


person deemed worthy of occupying the seat. See At- 
titude. 

Se'ba (Heb. Seba', XSp ; Sept. So fid, occasionally 
Sor/io/, v. r. in Chron. Tafidr), the oldest son of Cush 
(B.C. cir. 2500), and hence a country and people among 
the Cushites (Gen. x, 7 ; 1 Chron. i, 9), named in con- 
nection with Egyptians, Cushites, and Arabians (Salae- 
ans) (Isa. xliii, 3; xlv, 14; l’sa. lxxii, 10), and in Isa. 
xlv, 14; Ezek. xxiii, 42, as a rich ami proud race. (The 
following account is based in part upon that of Poole, in 
Smith’s Diet. of the Bible.') 

1. Name. — Besides the singular form above, there is 
given the plural C’Npp (Sept. Tafiaeip, Z afiaeifi; 
Vulg. Sabaim), incorrectly rendered “ Sabteans,” a name 
given in the A. Y. with more probability to the 

(Joel iii, 8 [Heb. text, iv, 8]); and to Sheba, used for 
the people (Job i, 15) ; but it would have been better 
had the original orthography been followed in both 
cases by such renderings as “people of Seba,” “people 
of Sheba,” where the gentile nouns occur. See Saip- 
an; Sheba. 

If Seba be of Hebrew or cognate origin, it may be 
connected with the root X20, sabei, “he drank to ex- 
cess,” which would not be inappropriate to a nation 
seated, as we shall see was that of Seba, in a well-wa- 
tered country; but the comparison of two other similar 
names of Cushites, Sabtah (nnpp) and Sabtechah 
(X“Pipp), does not favor this supposition, as they were 
probably seated in Arabia, like the Cushite Sheba 
(XTp), which is not remote from Seba (X2p), the two 
letters being not unfrequently interchanged. Gesenius 
has suggested the Ethiopic subeay , “a man,” as the or- 
igin of both Seba and Sheba, but this seems unlikely. 
The ancient Egyptian names of nations or tribes, pos- 
sibly countries, of Ethiopia, probably mainly, if not whol- 
ly, of Nigritian race, Suhuba , Sahara (Brugseh, Geoyr. 
Jnschr . ii, 9, tav. xii, Iv. 1), are more to the point; and 
it is needless to cite later geographical names of cities, 
though that of one of the upper continents of the Nile, 
Astasobas, compared with Astaboras, and Astapus, seems 
worth}' of notice as perhaps indicating the name of a na- 
tion. The proper names of the first and second kings 
of the Ethiopian 25th dynasty of Egypt, Shebek (N*3) 
and Shebetek , may also be compared. Gesenius was led, 
by an error of the Egyptologists, to connect Sevechus, 
a Greek transcription of Shebetek , with Sabk or Sbak, 
the crocodile- headed divinity of Ombos {Lex. s. v. 
XI 0). 

2. Biblical Notices. — Besides the mention of Seba as 
the first in the list of the sons of Cush (Gen. x, 7 ; I 
Chron. i, 9), there are but three, or, as some hold, four, 
notices of the nation. In Psalm lxxii, which has evi- 
dently a first reference to the reign of Solomon, Seba is 
thus spoken of among the distant nations which should 
do honor to the king: “The kings of Tarsi) ish and of 
the isles shall bring presents; the kings of Sheba and 
Seba shall offer gifts” (ver. 10). This mention of Sheba 
and Seba together is to be compared with the occur- 
rence of a Sheba among the descendants of Cush (Gen. 
x, 7), and its fulfilment is found in the queen of Sheba’s 
coming to Solomon. There can be little doubt that the 
Arabian kingdom of Sheba was Cushite as well as Jok- 
tanite; and this occurrence of Sheba and Seba together 
certainly lends some support to this view. On the other 
hand, the connection of Seba with an Asiatic kingdom 
is important in reference to the race of its people, which, 
or at least the ruling class, was, no doubt, not Nigritian. 
In Isaiah xliii, Seba is spoken of with Egypt, and more 
particularly with Cush, apparently with some reference 
to the Exodus, where we read, “ I gave Egypt [for] thy 
ransom, Cush and Seba for thee” (ver. 3). Here, to ren- 
der Cush by Ethiopia, as in the A. V., is perhaps to miss 
the sense of the passage, which does not allow us to in- 
fer, though it is by no means impossible, that Cush, as 


a geographical designation, includes Seba, as it would 
do if here meaning Ethiopia. Later in the book there 
is a passage parallel in its indications: “The labor of 
Egypt and merchandise of Cush, and of the people of 
Seba, men of stature, shall come over unto thee, and 
they shall be thine” (xlv, 14). Here there is the same 
mention together of the t hree nations, and the same spe- 
cial association of Cush and Seba. 'Hie great stature 
and beauty of the Ethiopians are mentioned by Herod- 
otus, who speaks of them as by report the tallest and 
handsomest men in the world (iii, 20; comp. 114); and 
in the present day some of the tribes of the dark races 
of a type intermediate between the Nigritians and the 
Egyptians, as well as the Caucasian Abyssinians, are 
remarkable for their fine form, and certain of the former 
for their height. The doubtful notice is in E^zekiel, in 
a difficult passage: “and with men of the multitude of 
Adam [were] brought drunkards [C“'N2*1D; but the Keri 
reads ‘people of Seba’] from the wilderness, 

which put bracelets upon their hands, and beautiful 
crowns upon their heads” (xxiii, 42). The reading of 
the A. V. in the text is, “with the men of the common 
sort,” and in the margin, “with the men of the multi- 
tude of men.” The first clause would seem to favor the 
idea that a nation is meant, but the reading of the text 
is rather supported by what follows the mention of the 
“ drunkards.” Nor is it clear why people of Seba should 
come from the wilderness. 

3. Identification. — The list of the sons of Cush seems 
to indicate the position of the Cushite nation or country 
Seba. Nimrod, who is mentioned at the close of the list, 
ruled at first in Babylonia, and apparently afterwards in 
Assyria : of the names enumerated between Seba and 
Nimrod, it is highly probable that some belong to Ara- 
bia. We may thus conjecture a curve of Cushite set- 
tlements, one extremity of which is to be placed in Bab- 
ylonia ; the other, if prolonged far enough in accordance 
with the mention of the African Cush, in Ethiopia. 

The other passages we have examined seem to show 
(if we omit the last) that Seba was a nation of Africa, 
bordering on or included in Cush, and in Solomon’s time 
independent and of political importance. We are thus 
able to conjecture the position of Seba. No ancient 
Ethiopian kingdom of importance could have excluded 
the island of Meroe, and therefore this one of Solomon’s 
time may be identified with that which must have arisen 
in the period of weakness and division of Egypt that fol- 
lowed the empire, and have laid the basis of that power 
that made Shebek, or Sabaco, able to conquer Egypt and 
found the Ethiopian dynasty which ruled that country 
as well as Ethiopia. 

Josephus says that Saba (Tafia) was the ancient name 
of the Ethiopian island and city of Meroe (,4?//.ii, 10, 2), 
i but he writes Seba, in the notice of the Noachian settle- 
ments, Sabas {ibid, i, 6, 2). So, too, Strabo and Diodo- 
rus Siculus (see Mannert, Geoyr. p. 199). But the name 
Meroe is more probably Ethiopic, meaning the watered 
land (see Tuch, Gen. p. 222; comp. Knobel, Isa. p. 122, 
who gives Seba a similar meaning). This view of Seba, 
as identical with Meroe, has been adopted by all the 
moderns as suited to every passage where it is men- 
tioned (comp. Michaelis, Spied, i, 180 sq.). Certainly 
the kingdom of Meroe succeeded that of Seba; and the 
ancient city of the same name may have been the cap- 
ital, or one of the capitals, of Seba, though we do not 
find any of its monuments to be even as early as the 
25th dynasty. There can be no connection between 
the two names. According to Josephus and others, 
Meroe was named after a sister of Cambyses; but this is 
extremely unlikely, and we prefer taking it from the an- 
cient Egyptian Stern, an island, which occurs in the 
name of a part of Ethiopia that can only be this or a 
similar tract, Merit-pet, “the island of pet (I’lmt ?) = the 
bow,” where the bow may have a geographical refer- 
ence to a bend of the river, and the word island to t lie 
country enclosed by that bend and a tributary. See 


SEBAK 


496 


SEBAT 


Phut. It may be remarked that it seems certain that, 
from a remote time, Ethiopia below Meroe could never 
have formed a separate powerful kingdom, and was prob- 
ably always dependent upon either Meroe or Egypt. 

4. Description . — Meroe was a large island in Ethiopia, 
formed by the Astaboras, on the east (Atbara. Takazze), 
and Astapus (Bahr el-Asrak), on the west (alluded to in 
Zeph. iii, 10; Isa. xviii, 1), the two arms that unite to 
form the Blue Nile (Strabo, xvii, 821). See Nile. 
It is mountainous, but fruitful (Heliod. xEthiop. x, 5), 
and its chief city is also called Meroe. This has been 
from antiquity the seat of a priesthood with an oracle 
of Jupiter Ammon (Herod, ii, 29), and a trading-place 
for the caravans of Africa and Arabia (Strabo, xvi, 771 ; 
xvii, 786 sq. ; Pliny, ii, 75; v, 10; vi. 35; xxxvii, 15: 
Diod. Sic. i, 33; iii, 5 sq. ; Ptolem. iv, 8). It is noted 
by the ancients as remarkable for the fact that here the 
sun casts shadows part of the year southward and part 
northward (comp. Strabo, ii, 135 sq. ; Pliny, ii, 75; Lu- 
can, x, 300, 305, etc.: some think this is referred to in 
Isa. xviii, 1 ; Zeph. iii, 10). The city lay in the north- 
ern extremity of the island (seventy thousand paces 
from the entrance , i. e. the southern extremity — Pliny, 
vi, 35), five thousand stadia from Syene (Strabo, ii, 114; 
comp. Pliny, ii, 75), and ten thousand from Alexandria 
(Strabo, i, 62; ii, 114). The city of Meroe had gained 
control of the whole island, and sent colonies of priests 
to Upper Egypt to settle Thebes and Ammonium. In 
its nourishing period this kingdom was exceedingly 
powerful (Pliny, vi, 35), and was inhabited by farmers, 
shepherds, and hunters (Strabo, xvii, 821). Deserts of 
sand surrounded it (ibid.). The priesthood retained 
power until the third century before Christ, when it 
was overthrown by a king Ergamenes (under Ptolemy 
Philadelphus). Thenceforward the power of the city 
seems to have declined ; it disappears from the view of 
Western writers, and not until the time of Augustus do 
we begin to hear sparse, and on some points contradic- 
tory, accounts of a city somewhere in that region, under 
queens who bear the common name of Candace (comp. 
Pliny, vi, 35; Dion Cas. liv, 5; Euseb. If. E. ii, 1). But 
Meroe was deserted, a few houses only remaining. 

Modern travellers have striven to tind its site, and it 
is identified with some probability as the ruins almost 
twenty miles north-east of the Nubian city Shendy , in 
the Dar el-Atbara, a district near Assur forming a pe- 
ninsula, between the river Atbara, the Nile (Bahr As- 
rak), and the river Rahad. (See Russegger’s Charte von 
Xnbien, in his Reis., and ii, 1,476, 480 sq.; Bruce, Trar- 
els, iv, 542 sq. ; Burckhardt, Travels in A T ubia, p. 273 
sq. ; Riippcll, A rub. p. 1 14, 383. with plate v ; Cailliaud, 
1 oyaye a Meroe au E leu re Blanc [Paris, 1826], 4 vols. 
with plates; Hoskins, Travels hi Ethiopia, Exhibiting 
the State of the Country under the Dominion of Meroe 
[Bond. 1835], with plates.) This supposition is con- 
firmed bv the records of distances left hv the ancients, 
for from Syene to Assur the caravan road is 534 Eng- 
lish miles by Kusscgger’s account. 560 by Hoskins’s, 
while the ancient reckoning is equivalent to 568 or 590 
English miles — an unimportant, difference. So the dis- 
tance from the beginning of the island to the city was 
60 miles (see above), and Russcgger found the distance 
from Assur to the mouth of the Atbara 55, Hoskins 60 
miles. See Ludolf, Comment. Ilist. A'Jhiop. p. 88 sq. ; 
Delisle, in the Ilistoire de l' Academie ties Sciences in 
1708, p. 365 sq. ; Tzschucke, Ad Mel. Ill, i, 256 sq. ; 
Mannert, X, i, 182 sq.; Ilcercn, Jdeev, II. i, 352: For- 
biger, llandb. ii, 814 sq. ; Smith, Diet . of Class. Geoy. 
s. v. “Meroe.” See Ethiopia. 

Sebak. See Thicket. 

Sebald, St., a legendary wonder-worker of the Ro- 
misli Church, said to have been the son of a Danish 
king, or. by another tradition, of a peasant. He began 
his studies at Paris before he was fifteen years of age, 
and after a few years married a daughter of the king 
Dagobert, from whom, however, he separated with her 


consent after the lapse of a single day, in order to be- 
come a hermit and practice a rigid asceticism. After 
ten years he made a pilgrimage to Rome, and received 
authority to preach from pope Gregory II. While on 
the way to Germany he miraculously delivered St. 
Willibald from death by starvation, and after reaching 
Bavaria he wrought numerous conversions, gathered 
churches, and settled near Nuremberg as a hermit. The 
date of his death is uncertain, being given as A.D. 801, 
901, or 1070. He had directed that his body should be 
laid on a wagon drawn by four bullocks, and buried where 
the cattle should come to a stop. The place so indicat- 
ed was before St. Peter’s Chapel, at Nuremberg, which, 
accordingly, after having been transformed into a church, 
took his name. Many wonders were wrought by his life- 
less body, in consequence of which he was beatified by 
pope Gregory X, and canonized by Martin V (1425), 
while the town of Nuremberg chose him for its patron 
saint. The 19th of August is set apart for his com- 
memoration. A rich and artistic monument by Peter 
Vischer, erected to his memory, may be seen in the 
Church of St. Sebaldus, at Nuremberg. — Herzog, Real - 
Encyklop. s. v. 

Se-Baptists, a small and obscure sect which struck 
off from the Brownists (Independents) early in the 17th 
century. They received their name from the act of 
their leader, John Smith, of Amsterdam, in baptizing 
himself. After entertaining several views, he at last 
declared for the principles of the Baptists. Upon this 
he left Amsterdam and settled with his disciples at Ley, 
where, being at a loss for a proper administrator of the 
ordinance of baptism, he plunged himself and then per- 
formed the ceremony upon others. The Se-Baptists 
maintain that it is lawful for every one to baptize him- 
self; and the Samokrestschentsi (a small Russian sect 
of self-baptizers) give as a reason that there is no one 
on earth sufficiently holy to administer the ordinance 
aright. See Blunt, Diet, of Sects, s. v. ; Gardner, Eaiths 
of the 1 Tor Id. s. v. 

Sebaste. See Samaria. 

Sebastian, St., a Christian martyr under Diocle- 
tian, was born at. Narbonne, in Gaul, and educated at 
Milan. Although a Christian, he entered the Roman 
army, concealing his religion, with the view of being en- 
abled by his position to assist and protect the Christians, 
lie rose to high favor under Diocletian, and became a 
member of the emperor’s guard. At length he was 
informed against, and Diocletian used every effort to in- 
duce him to renounce the Christian belief, but in vain. 
He was condemned to be put to death by a troop of 
Mauritanian archers, who transfixed him with arrows 
and left him for dead. Some Christians coming to the 
place of execution to bury him found signs of life re- 
maining, and he was removed to the house of a Chris- 
tian lady, Irene, and recovered. lie would not yield to 
the persuasions of his friends to remain in seclusion, but 
intentionally placed himself in the emperor’s way. Dio- 
cletian condemned him to be beaten to death with clubs 
in the amphitheatre, and his body was filing into one of 
the sewers of the city. According to the Jc/s of Mar- 
tyrdom, it was discovered by means of ail apparition, 
and carried by a Christian lady, Lncina, to the cata- 
comb which is still called by his name. The day of 
his martyrdom was Jan. 20, 288, but by the Greeks the 
feast is held Dec. 20. 

There is another saint of the same name, who is said 
to have suffered martyrdom in Armenia. 

Se'bat, or rather Siikbat (Ileb. Shebat.', 133 w, a 
rod or tribe; Sept. 2a/3dr). the fifth month of the Jew- 
ish civil year, and the eleventh of the ecclesiastical year, 
from the new moon of February to that of March; or, 
according to others, corresponding to our January. See 
Month. The name is substantially the same in the 
Syriac and Arabic. The Jews began in this month to 
number the years of the trees they planted, the fruits of 


SEBBUN 


497 


SECIIUANA VERSION 


which were esteemed impure till the fourth year (Zech. 
i, 7). See Calendar, Jewish. 

Sebbun, in Japanese mythology, is a feast of puri- 
fication and of expelling the evil spirit, which is done 
shortly before the advent of the new year. This festi- 
val also serves as the date for the settlement of semi- 
annual payments. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol . s. v. 

Sebirin Cp“n-0), or imaginary readings , is a tech- 
nical term of the Masorites to denote that words in the 
Bible ought to be read so and so, but they are not. This 
expression is derived from sabar , *130, “ to believe, 
think;” thus we read in Dan. vii, 25 and he 

thought , and in the Chaldee paraphrase on Prov. xiv, 12, 
“there is a way which is right in the view of man,” we 
read “there is a way which man imagines” (’j’HZOH), 
etc. Now there are a number of such imaginary or 
supposed readings to be found in the Hebrew text of the 
Old Test., as the following examples will prove. Thus 
we read : 

these, is said to stand eight times for nbNn jas 
in Gen. xix, 25; xxvi, 3; Lev. xviii, 29, etc. 

thousand, is said to stand fonr times for C'Sbx, 
as in Exod. xxxii, 2S ; Jud. iv, 10, etc. 

and he said, is said to stand twelve times for 
“and they said,” as in Exod. xiv, 25; Numb, 
xxxii, 25, etc. 

■j/HN, into the land, is said to stand five times for 
H22HX, as in Gen. xiv, 25, etc. 

HwX, a wife, stands three times for “for a 

wife,” as in 2 Chron. xxi, 6; Ezra ii, G1 ; Neh. vii, 63. 

which, stands four times for "H2X3, “as which,” 
Exod. xiv, 13 ; Lev. vii, 36, 38 ; Numb, iv, 49. 

cis which, stands ten times for “which,” 

Dent, xvi, 1ft; xxiv, 8; Josh. ii, T; xiii, 8; xiv, 2; Jer. 
xviii, 27 ; Isa. Ii, 13 ; Hos. vii, 12 ; Jonah i, 14 ; Hag. i, 12. 

HTX, thou, stands three times for HP", “now,” as 1 
Kings i, IS, 20. 

*1333, from it, stands six times for “from her,” 

as Lev. vi, S; xxvii, 9; Josh, i, 7 ; Judg. xi, 34; 2 Kings 
iv, 39 ; 1 Kings xxii, 43. 

b>V, upon, stands nine times for HP, “until,” as Gen. 
xlix, 13; Josh, ii, 7; xiii, 16; Judg. vii. 22. 

bv, upon, stands twice for CP, “with,” as Gen. xxx, 
4ft; 1 Sam. xx, 8. 

Without enlarging upon this list, we will remark for 
those interested in that subject that these are 

given in alphabetical order by Frensdorlfin his Masso- 
ra Magna ,■ the first part is entitled Massoretisches IFJr- 
terbuch , p. 369 sq. See Buxtorf, Tiberias, p. 257 sq.; 
Levita, Massoreth II a- Massoreth (ed. Ginsburg), p. 
225 sq. (B. I*.) 

Sebonde (or De Sabunde), Baimond, a Spanish 
philosopher, was born at Barcelona during the 14th cen- 
tury; but his life is little known. He practiced medi- 
cine at Toulouse in 1430, and his death is placed in 1432. 
lie wrote, besides several IMS. works, Theologia Natu ra- 
ils (Deventer, 1487, fob and later), in wnich he sets forth 
the doctrine of Aquinas after the manner of Baimond 
Lully. The work was translated by Montaigne (Paris, 
1569, 8vo). Of Sebonde’s other essays, the principal is 
entitled De Natura Ilominis (Cologne, 1501, 4to), an 
abridgment of the Theologia Naturalis . See lloefer, 
Nonv. Bwy, Gene rale, s. v. 

Sebrasse, Gottlieb, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Prussia, Nov. 8, 1833, and 
came to the United States in 1852. He soon after was 
converted, and began to preach in 1856; but his health 
failing, after filling three or four appointments, he re- 
tired from the active ministry and settled near Bed 
Wing. He died, from the effects of a fall from his 
wagon, June 3, 1876. lie was a member of the North- 
IX.— 1 1 


west German Conference. See Minutes of Annual Con- 
ferences, 1876, p. 134. 

Sebueei. See Sebuans. 

Sebuans, the name given to the second of the four 
Samaritan sects named by Epiphanius, the other three 
being the Essenes, Gortlueans, and Dositheans. It was 
originated by Sebua, or Scbuiah ; and, partly to suit their 
own convenience, and partly through hostility to the 
Jews, kept the sacred festivals at different periods from 
them — viz. the Passover and Pentecost in autumn, and 
the Feast of Tabernacles in the time usually allotted for 
the Passover. This sect was not permitted to worship 
along with the other Samaritans in the temple on Mount 
Gerizim. Light foot, in his llorae Talmud icte, considers 
them to be identical with the Sabteans. 

Seca'cah [ many Sec'acah ] (Heb. Sekakah', JHT3D, 
thicket ; Sept. v. r. Aioyib^a ; Vulg. Sechacha, or 

Sachacha), one of the six cities of Judah situated in the 
Midbar (“ wilderness”), that is, the tract bordering on 
the Dead Sea (Josh, xv, 61). It occurs in the list be- 
tween Middin and han-Nibshan. It was not known to 
Eusebius and Jerome ( Onomast .). From Sinjil, among 
the highlands of Ephraim, near Seilun, Dr. Bobinson 
saw a place called Sekdkeh {Bib, Res, ii, 81, note); but 
this locality is, of course, out of the question. The 
place possibly corresponds to the site of Kusr Antar, 
one of two ruined towers on Wady Khureitun (Bobin- 
son, Bib. Res. ii, 182). 

Secchi, Giovanni Battista, called il Caravaggino, 
an Italian painter, born at Caravaggio in 1619. He left 
several important works at Milan; among them are, 
Adoration of the Magi, and a Pieta. 

Secession Kirk of Scotland. See Presby- 
teuian Churches; United Presbyterians. 

Secheni'as E^ym'iac), Apocryphal 

forms of the Heb. name Siiecmaniaii (q. v.); namely, 
(a) the father of Lettus (1 Esdr. viii, 29), or rather of 
one whose name has dropped out of the text (Ezra viii, 
3); (5) the “son” of Jezeluo (l Esdr. viii, 32) or Jaha- 
ziel (Ezra viii, 5). 

Se'chu (lleb. with the art. has-Seku', the 

loatch-ton'er, implying that the place was on or near an 
elevation; Sept. Seyt v. r. ZttpEt), a region in Bamah, 
containing a famous well (or rather cistern, "1*12), which 
Saul passed while in pursuit of David (1 Sam. xix, 22). 
“Assuming that Saul started from Gibcah (Tnleil el- 
Ful), and that Nebv Samwil is Bamah [?], then Bir 
Neballa (the well of Neballa), alleged by a modern trav- 
eller (Schwarz, Palest, p. 127) to contain a large pit, 
would be in a suitable position for the great well of 
Seehu. Schwarz himself (p. 157) would identify it 
with A ska?', on the south-east end of Mount Ebal, and 
the well with Jacob’s Well in the plain below; and Van 
de Velde {£>. and P. ii, 53 sq.) hesitatingly places it at 
Shuk, in the mountains of Judah north-east of Hebron; 
but this they are forced into by their respective theo- 
ries as to the position of Bamathaiin-Zophim” (Smith). 
Seehu is perhaps represented bv the present Khuraib 
er-Rtnn, which still contains a cistern (Bobinson, Later 
Res. p. 287), and lies near er-lhim (Bamah) directly on 
the road from Tuleil el-Ful (Gibeah of Saul). 

Sechuana Version. The Sechuana occupies a 
prominent place in the great Caft’re family of languages, 
and is the most important of all languages of Southern 
Africa. The first portion of the Sechnana version com- 
mitted to the press was the Gospel of St. Luke, printed 
at Cape Town in 1831, under the personal superinten- 
dence of Mr. Moffat. In 1841 the whole New Test, was 
printed in London at the expense of the British and 
Foreign Bible Society, under the eye of the translator. 
From that time on Mr. Moffat devoted himself to the 
translation of the Old Test., which was completed in 
1859. A revision of the entire Bible was commenced in 


SECKENDORF 


498 


SECRET DISCIPLINE 


1870 and completed in 1877. Up to March 30. 1878, 
7066 Bibles and 10,094 New Testaments with Psalms 
have been distributed. Comp. The Bible of Every Lund , 
but more especially the Annual Reports of the British 
and Foreign Bible Society, which are the only sources 
Ibr the more recent versions published since the prepa- 
ration of The Bible of Every Land. (B. P.) 

Seckendorf, Vitus Louis von, a noted German 
statesman of the Reformation period, was born at An- 
rach, a town of Franconia, Dec. 20, 1626. The great 
progress in his studies made in his youth coming to 
the ears of Ernest the Pious, duke of Saxe-Gotha, this 
prince brought him to Gotha to be educated with his 
children. After remaining two years, he went in 1642 
toStrasburg; and, returning to Gotha in 1646, was made 
honorary librarian to the duke. In 1651 he was made 
aulic and ecclesiastical councillor; and in 1663 council- 
lor of state, first minister and sovereign director of the 
consistory. The year after, he went into the service of 
Maurice, duke of Saxe-Zeist, as councillor of state and 
chancellor. He remained with him until his death, in 
1681, and led a life of retirement, writing many works. 
Frederick III, elector of Brandenburg, made him council- 
lor of state and chancellor of the University of Halle, dig- 
nities which he did not long enjoy. He died at Halle 
Dec. 18, 1692. The work of his held in the highest esti- 
mation for its utility is Commentarius Historictts et Apo - 
logeticusde Lutlieranismo (Lips. 1688-92), written in ref- 
utation of Maimbourg’s llistoire du Lutheranisme. See 
the literature referred to in Herzog, Real- Ency Hop. s. v. 

Seeker, Thomas, an eminent English prelate, was 
born in 1693 at Sibthorpe, Nottinghamshire. He be- 
longed to a family of Dissenters, but was influenced (by 
his own views and by the divisions and disturbances at 
that period prevailing among the Dissenters) to con- 
form. He therefore never practiced medicine, for 
which he had studied at London, Paris, and Leyden, 
but entered Exeter College, Oxford, in 1721. In De- 
cember, 1722, bishop Talbot ordained him deacon, and 
not long after, priest. He was presented by the bishop 
with the rectory of Houghton le Spring in 1724, where 
he remained until 1727, when he removed to Durham. 
In duly, 1732, Grafton, lord chamberlain, appointed him 
chaplain to the king. He was instituted to the rectory 
of St. James’s, May 18, 1733, and was consecrated bishop 
of Bristol Jan. 19, 1735. In May, 1737, Dr. Seeker was 
translated to the bishopric of Oxford; in December, 
1750, was promoted to the deanery of St. Paul’s; and 
confirmed archbishop of Canterbury April 21, 1758. 
He died in London, Aug. 3, 1768. His works comprise 
Sermons , Lectures, and Charges (Loud. 1811, 6 vols.), 
last edition with a memoir by bishop Porteous. 

Second Coming of Christ. See Advent, Sec- 
ond; Millennium. 

Second Marriage. In the early Church, not 
only did the more strict Novatians and Montauists es- 
teem a second marriage unlawful, but that, error was up- 
held by several councils {Cone. Nic. c. 8 ; A ncyran. c. 19 ; 
Laodic. c. 1 ; Neoc(esar. c. 3 ; Constit. A post. lib. iii, c. 2 ; 
Athenag. Legat. ; Theophil. Ant. A d A utol. Iit>. iii ; Iren. 
Ado. liter, lib. iii, c. 19). When the severity of this 
principle was relaxed with regard to lay members of 
the Church, it was still retained with reference to the 
clergy (Tertull. De Alonog. c. 11; Ad Uxor. lib. i, c. 7; 
l)e I'cenit. c. 9). At length this law was rendered nu- 
gatory by the enforcement of celibacy among the clergy. 
See Divorce, Marriage. 

Secondary, a clerk who, if learned and expert in 
music, was eligible for promotion, by the dean, to the 
place of vicar. lie was the canon’s personal attendant, 
and sat in the secondary row of stalls; hence his name. 
At Chichester the secondary sang the daily mass of 
requiem in the Ladv-chapcl. It was also a technical 
term for a cathedral dignitary of second rank and posi- 
tion — a minor canon, precentor. 


Second-first Sabbath (2dj3j3aTov dtvrepo-Trpit)- 
tov ; Vulg. Sabbatum secundum priniuni ; A. V. “ second 
Sabbath after the. first”) is an expression occurring only 
in Luke vi, 1, and apparently coined for the occasion, as 
the compound adj. Sevrepo-TrpmroQ is found nowhere 
else in all the range of Greek literature. The learned 
have therefore been greatly divided, or, rather, in doubt, 
as to its meaning, since it is in itself quite vague and 
ambiguous. The earliest opinion is that of Epiphanins 
{llceres. i, 30, 51), followed by Isidore of Pelusium (iii, 
110), Suidas (s. v. 'S.dfifiaTov), Theophvlact {ad loc .), and 
cited among later writers by Petavius (i, 61) and Scal- 
iger {Emend. Temp, vi, 551), viz. that the Sabbath thus 
indicated was that which immediately succeeded the 
Paschal festival; for (argue they) the “morrow after 
the Sabbath” [i. e. Passover] (rziTil rnnsp, i. e. « 7 ro 
devripag tov ndtxya) is the point from which the law 
orders the seven weeks to be reckoned till Pentecost. 
JJence all the weeks and Sabbaths of that interval are 
designated from this name (“ICC? PI H^PEO, dpiSpbg 
tov Opdyparoc, numerus manipuli, i. e. the number of 
the omer, or first-fruits presented as a wave-offering). 
This is the view embraced by most moderns, quoted in 
detail by Wolf {Curce in N. T. i, 619 sq., where several 
arbitrary opinions by various authors are likewise enu- 
merated) ; see also Kocher {Analect. ad loc.), Russ {Har- 
mon. Evangel. p. 639 sq.), Marsh {Notes to A lichaelis's In- 
trod. ii, 61). The circumstances of Luke’s narrative 
indicate that the day in question was not (as usually 
reckoned) the frst Sabbath after the second day of un- 
leavened bread, for that usually fell within the Passover 
week ; whereas our Lord, on the occasion referred to, 
had evidently left Jerusalem at the close of the entire 
festival, and was on his way back to Galilee. Nor 
would this have been a natural and appropriate term 
for such a day, since that would rather have been a 
“ first after the second” {irpioTO-^evrepog), if, indeed, it 
could have been called second at all, seeing it either 
was simply, or else preceded, the first Sabbath of the 
series of seven between Passover and Pentecost. It 
seems rather to have been the first of that series, but 
the second after the beginning of the Paschal week; 
which circumstance affords a simple and apposite ex- 
planation of the compound name. That the incident in 
our Lord’s history occurred at that season is evident 
from the fact that the grain stood ripe, but unreaped,in 
the fields; and a comparison of the evangelical narra- 
tives makes it apparent likewise that the “ feast” which 
John states (v, 1) that Jesus attended that year at Je- 
rusalem was the Passover. If this collocation is cor- 
rect, the Sabbath in question could not well have been 
the one occurring during the Paschal week, as that is 
preoccupied by John’s account (in the same chapter) of 
the cure at the pool of Bethesda. The only mode of 
escaping this conclusion is by the unnatural supposition 
that the former “Sabbath” was merely the Passover- 
day itself, which, as some claim, is metaphorically thus 
named in a few cases (Lev. xxiii, 11, 15 ; comp. Josh, v, 
1 1). See Mayer, Commentar, ad loc. , Hase, Leben Jesu, 
p. 142; Methodist Quarterly Review , 1850, p.492, also 
t he monographs l)e Sabbato Deuteroproto, b v AT tiller 
(Rost. 16(55), Goloner (Yiteb. s. a.), Van Til (L. B. 
1708). See Passover; Pentecost; Sabbath. 

Secret. See Mystery. 

Secret Discipline (Lat. arcani disci plina ), a 
term used to signify a practice of the early Christian 
Church of performing the rites of religion with se- 
crecy. J t was founded upon the words of Christ, “ Give 
not that which is holy unto the dogs,” etc. (Matt, vii, 
6), and began to be common shortly after the middle of 
the 2d century. The first reason for its adoption was 
to guard the more sacred and mysterious doctrines from 
popular misconception and blasphemy among the pa- 
gans. The discipline of the secret appears in several 
forms: (1.) Both unbelievers and catechumens were 


SECRET OF THE MASS 


499 


SECTS, CHRISTIAN 


dismissed from the church, when the ordinary service 
was closed, by one of the deaeons, who said , 11 Ite , missa 
est ” — “Go, the assembly is dismissed.” After this the 
sacrament was administered. (2.) The lectures address- 
ed by the presiding teacher to the body of catechumens 
in general were confined to the general doctrines of 
Christianity. The more mysterious doctrines, those 
which regarded the sacraments of baptism and the eu- 
charist, called “ Mvstagogic,” were only communicated 
at the close, and to those only who had undergone the 
preliminary probation. (3.) The eneharist, if referred 
to at all in the presence of the uninitiated, was spoken 
of in words so conceived as to conceal its nature. Some 
very curious examples of this concealment might be 
cited— e. g. Epiphanius, referring to the formula “this 
is my body,” writes, “ This is my that tiring” (Touro 
/jov tan ru$t). The mysteries thus specially guarded 
were baptism, the unction, or chrism ordination of 
priests, the Lord’s supper, liturgy, the knowledge of the 
lloly Trinity, the Creed, and the Lord’s Prayer. See 
Coleman, Christ . .1 ntiq . p. 35. See Arcani Disciplina. 

Secret of the Mass, a prayer in the canon of 
the mass before the preface, and having much the same 
tenor as the collect. Since the 10th century it is said 
in a low voice by the celebrant after the Orate f nitres. 
In France it was marked with the mystic letters V. D. 
St. Gregory calls it the Canon of the Secret. Accord- 
ing to some writers, it represents that the working of 
God in the holy communion passes man’s understand- 
ing; but, as Cranmer explains it, Christ’s secret conver- 
sation which he had with his disciples before his pas- 
sion. The bells in England were forbidden to be rung 
during this service in 1701. The secrets were formerly 
called super ohlata and may have taken their name 
from the secretion of gifts and oblations. — Walcott, 
Sacred A rchieol. s. v. 

Secretae, any prayers said secretly and not aloud. 
Anciently, at the commencement of the divine office, 
the Lord’s Prayer and Hail Mary were said silently, 
as also other portions of the same office. Put this rule 
was abolished in the English Church during the changes 
which took place three centuries ago, though it still 
obtains in the Latin communion. — Lee, Glossary of Li- 
turgical Terms , s. v. 

Secretaria, a name given to the sessions of the 
councils in the early Christian Church because they 
were held in the secretarium (q. v.). 

Secretarium (or Secretujm), a part of early Chris- 
tian churches, which was also called diaconicum (q. v.). 
It was called secretarium , as Dncange conjectures, be- 
cause the consistory or tribunal of the Church was here 
kept, the secret um or secretarium being a known name 
for the courts of the civil magistrate. Others suppose 
it derived its name from its being a place of safety, or 
the robing-room of the officiating clergy. 

Secretarius (1), the confidential correspondent of 
a bishop, abbot, head of a college, or other ecclesiastical 
dignitary. (2) A sacristan or sexton. 

Sect [in Biblical usage] (a'iptai£, i. e. decision; 
hence “ heresy,” Acts xxiv, 14; 1 Cor. xi, 19; Gal. v, 
20; 2 Pet. ii, 1), a religions party (Acts v, 17, etc.); 
hence discord (1 Cor. xi, 19, etc.). Among the Jews 
there were several sects mentioned in the New Test,, 
distinguished by their practices and opinions, yet united 
in communion with each other and with the body of their 
nation. See Sects, Jewish. Christianity was origi- 
nally considered as a new sect of Judaism; hence Ter- 
tullus, accusing Paul before Felix, says that he was 
chief of the seditious sect of the Nazarenes (Acts xxiv, 
5) ; and the Jews of Rome said to the apostle when he 
arrived in that city that, “as concerning this sect, we 
know that everywhere it is spoken against” (Acts 
xxviii, 22). Peter (2 Pet. ii, 1—10) foretells that false 
teachers should arise among them “who privily shall 
bring in damnable heresies [or sects], even denying the 


Lord that bought them, and bring upon themselves swift 
destruction.” He adds that these people, being great 
lovers of themselves, are not afraid to introduce new 
sects, where the word sect is taken in the same sense 
as heresy. See Heresy. 

Among the Greeks the philosophers were divided 
into different sects; as the Academics, the Stoics, the 
Peripatetics, the Cynics, the Epicureans, etc. The Jews, 
in imitation of the Greeks, began to divide themselves 
into sects about the time of the Maccabees; and it 
seems as if the Corinthians had a mind to introduce 
something like this into Christianity when they boast- 
ed, 1 am a disciple of Peter, 1 of Paul, f of Apollos (1 
Cor. i, 12; iii, 22, etc.). See Division. 

SECT [in ecclesiastical usage] (Lat. secta, cut off), a 
collective term comprehending all such as follow the 
doctrines and opinions of some divine, philosopher, etc. 
By the Roman Catholic Church it is applied to all those 
religious bodies which separated from her communion. 
By Protestants, generally, it is employed in no oppro- 
brious sense to signify the various organizations into 
which the Protestant churches are divided. Separate 
organization rather than difference of opinion is the 
meaning conveyed by the term; for great and known 
differences in opinion, when followed by no external 
breach in the society, are not considered as constitut- 
ing distinct sects. Thus High and Low Church are 
only called parties, because they have not formed sepa- 
rate communions. Among the Jews the term was dif- 
ferently understood, for among them there were no sep- 
arate communities erected, if we except the Samaritans. 
The same Temple and the same synagogues were at- 
tended alike by Pharisees and Sadducees. They were 
often of both denominations in the Sanhedrim and even 
in the priesthood. Another difference was, also, that 
the name of the sect was not applied to all the people 
who adopted the same opinions, but solely to the meu 
of eminence among them, who were considered as the 
leaders of the party. There have been, from time to 
time, a great number of sects, separating, often on points 
of no importance, from some other Church organization. 
These are treated of in separate articles, and it will only 
be necessary to add here that with respect to certain 
sects, especially those belonging to the first centuries, 
we have no other information than such as is afforded 
by their foes, who were not always scrupulous in their 
theological warfare. Their statements should, there- 
fore, often be taken with considerable allowance. See 
Sects, Christian. 

Sectarianism, devotion or adhesion to a sect, 
generally signifies that spirit which makes more of the 
sect or organization than of the cause of Christ. 

Sectaries, a term used to denote those who adhere 
to the same sect and maintain the | 

same doc trines. •1#jl 

Section, the representation of a h|||'ij;|^jSiGi!ii |j![r 
building cut asunder vertically so as ||| |j || | 
to show the interior ; also of a mould- 
ing or other member in architecture ||j; j I W 
cut asunder so as to show its profile. Ill II 
— Parker, Glossary of Architecture , Section of a 

s< v# Moulding. 

Sects, Christian. The various sects which have 
arisen in the Church from time to time are treated of 
under their several appropriate captions in this Cyclo- 
pedia. This article has to do simply with the idea of 
sectarianism, and with the ethical and legal aspects 
which the question assumes in certain lands. 

The word sect occurs in classical literature (in Cice- 
ro, Tacitus, etc.) in the sense of siquor, as involving the 
idea of separation to some leader rather than that oi 
separation from some body. It consequently might be 
applied to Christianity itself at the beginning, when de- 
votion to Jesus of Nazareth seemed to be the promi- 
nent trait of the new tendency. In a later period the 


500 


SECTS, CHRISTIAN 

word came to signify separation from , as if derived from 
secare, to cut of. This has continued to be its princi- 
pal meaning to onr day. Protestantism is evidently 
prohibited from employing the word in this sense by 
the fundamental principle which concedes the right to 
personal convictions and the free expression of beliefs; 
and it is a somewhat unusual term in the vocabulary 
of American ecclesiasticism, whose occurrence in almost 
every instance is explained by an implication of heresy 
as charged upon the ecclesiastical body to which the 
term is applied. 

In European countries where State churches have 
been established the case is different. Separation has 
there often been regarded an odious offence, and has 
sometimes been construed into a crime against the 
State. The Pietism of the 17th century did something 
to break down this prejudice by revealing to the world 
an orthodoxy and piety superior to those of the church- 
es, ami the pseudo-enlightenment of later days likewise 
contributed to this end by advocating an absolute free- 
dom of thought; but in both continental and insular 
Europe the term sect still carries with it a stigma, and 
to many minds involves the notion of heinous guilt. 

In the llomish Church this term is not in general 
use, and is employed only as the synonym of heresy or 
schism. This meaning was adopted by the Reformers 
and developed, so that Luther regards the sect as a 
mob and a fanatical clique. Both Lutherans and Re- 
formed refused to tolerate any deviation from scriptur- 
al standards as understood by themselves, an apparent 
inconsequence whose explanation lies in the fact that 
these men had attained to positive convictions of truth; 
they saw but a single and exclusive object on which 
faith might lay hold, and could not conceive of diver- 
sities of view respecting that object. The unhappy 
Peasants’ War confirmed Luther in his aversion to the 
idea of absolute toleration, and his influence contributed 
towards making sectarianism an offence against both 
Church and State. 

The efforts of men to prevent the development of 
sects were, however, always count eracted by principles 
which underlay the ecclesiastical systems held by them- 
selves. Not only does this apply to the principle of 
Protestantism, that freedom of religions belief is the 
right of every person, but it is shown in the results of 
territorkiUitm and colleyialism in the churches of Ger- 
many. The former of these systems had for its leading 
principle the notion that the ruling prince of any terri- 
tory should possess absolute power over the exercise of 
religion within his dominions, but that he should re- 
gard all religions as equal so long as none of them 
should endanger the welfare of the State. The latter 
system practically located all ecclesiastical power in 
the particular congregation. It is evident that neither 
of these systems was calculated to repress a tendency 
towards sectarianism. Another factor in the problem 
was furnished by the extensive changes made in the 
map of Europe at the close of the 18th century, the 
breaking-up of states and dividing of their populations 
insuring a more cosmopolitan character to the inhabi- 
tants of countries, and thus reacting on their relations 
to the Church. When, finally, it came to be understood 
that the only claim of an evangelical Church to recog- 
nition hv the State is that its roots strike down into 
the faith of the people, the last barrier in the way of 
complete toleration was practically overthrown. The 
logic of the situation is clear, and a hearty acceptance 
of the conclusion to which it leads is delayed only by 
prejudice and political considerations. In most of the 
countries of Protestant Europe, however, grave difficul- 
ties still prevent the exercise of ecclesiastical functions 
by dissenting ministers, ami the established churches 
are favored by existing laws. 

The relation of private conscience to the question of 
sectarianism regarded as a separation from an existing 
Church evidently demands consideration under every 
ecclesiastical system. Frequently the motive which 


SECTS, JEWISH 

leads to the separation of an individual from his Church 
is not a good one: he is devoted to some specialty which 
the general Church disregards in her teachings, e. g. 
Millenarianism, etc. , or he finds too much of worldli- 
ness, fashion, regard for wealth, etc., in the Church, and 
too many unworthy members. Clearly, separation from 
a Church of Christ in which the pure Word of God is 
preached and the sacraments are duly administered is 
allowable only in answer to the clear call of duty; and, 
as a general rule, separation should take place only bv 
compulsion, as in the case of the separation of Luther 
from the Romish and of Wesley from the Anglican 
Church. On the whole subject, see Herzog, Real-En - 
cyklop. s. v., and the literature there mentioned. 

SECTS, J ewish (.1 ncient ), These were of two kinds, 
arising from the fact that the differences of opinion, sen- 
timent, and conduct were sometimes of a theosophical 
and sometimes of a practical character; but, among the 
ancient Jews, so close was the connection of Church and 
State that all theological or philosophical views neces- 
sarily affected the civil and social relations. 

1. Reliy ions , — 1. The. Pharisees. — These were the or- 
thodox party, and our Lord testifies to the general cor- 
rectness of their creed (Matt, xxii, 3). It was chiefly 
in liturgical and ceremonial particulars that their ex- 
cessive regard for traditional observances was betrayed. 
In this regard the Rabbinical Jews of modern times are 
their acknowledged successors. See Eakiiinism. In 
external deportment they were scrupulously exact ; bur, 
their motive being a love of popularity and a pride of 
self-righteousness, they were sternly rebuked by our 
Lord as arch hypocrites and ecclesiastical tyrants. See 
Pharisee. 

2. The Sadducees. — These were next in importance, 
and of even more aristocratic influence, but they were 
the rationalists of their day (Acts xxiii, 8), They are 
represented by inimical writers as the originals of the 
modern Karaites (q. v.). See Sadducke. 

3. The Essenes. — These were rather a class of ascetics 
or Jewish hermits, who are not mentioned in the New 
Test., and are chiefly known from the description of 
Josephus, who at one time belonged to their fraternity. 
See Essenes. 

II. Political. — 1. The Zealots. — These are mentioned 
in the New Test, and by Josephus as the violent party 
who contended for native rights and independence from 
all foreign influence. They had their type in the Cha- 
sidim of earlier and later times. See Assid.ean. They 
largely contributed to the final collision of the Jews 
with the Romans. See Zelotes. 

2. The Jlerodians. — These appear, from the slight 
notices of them (Matt, ii, 16, etc.), to have been the 
temporizing party, who favored Gncco- Roman inno- 
vations. They had their originals in the apostates 
under Antiochus Epiphanes (Dan. xi, 35). See Heiio- 

DI AN. 

On the subject generally, see, in addition to the works 
cited under the articles on each of the above, Serarii, 
Drusii et Scaligeri Opusc. de Trih. Judteorum Sect is 
(Delph. 1703) ; separately, Drusi us, De Ilassidtvis (Fra- 
nek. 1603); l)e Sectis Juclaicis (Aruh. 1619); Serarius, 
De Tribus Sectis, etc. (Franck. 1603 ; Mainz, 1604) ; Scal- 
iger, De Tribus Jud. Ihcresibus (Franek. 1605; Arnh. 
1619); Lund, De Sectis Judteorum (Upsal. 1700); Geiger, 
Sadducder mid Pharisder (Bresl. 1863); Die Ebioniter 
ties Alien Testaments, in the J fonatsschr. fur Gesch. mid 
\ Viss. des Judenthums, Jan. 1869; Jleth. Qua?'. Rev. Jan. 

1868 , p. 128 . 

SECTS, Jewish (J fodern ). In the 17th century ex- 
isted the sect of the Sabbathaites, so called after Sab- 
bathai-Zobi (q. v.), whose apostasy to Islamism, and 
death in 1676, did not diminish the number of his fol- 
lowers, but rather increased it ; and as there is no cal- 
culating the obstinacy of human credulity, his follow- 
ers gave out that he had been transported to heaven, 
like Enoch and Elijah. Notwithstanding the constant 


SECULAR CLERGY 


501 


SECULARISM 


anti active opposition of the Jewish priesthood, the sect 
spread in all quarters, and numbered among its members 
men like Mose Chayim Luzzatto (q. v.). “ Sabbat ha- 

ism,” says IMilman, “ still exists as a sect of Judaism, 
though, probably, among most of its believers, rather 
supported by that corporate spirit which holds the fol- 
lowers of a political or religious faction together than 
by any distinct and definite articles of belief.” 

Hut, in the middle of the last century, an extraordi- 
nary adventurer named Jacob Frank (q. v.) organized a 
sect out of the wrecks of the Sabbat haic party, of which 
we will speak now, although in the order of time an 
earlier sect, that of the Chasidim, ought to be men- 
tioned. The sect which Frank organized assumed the 
name of Soharites or Cubalists , also of Frankists. As 
to the creed of this sect, it leaned towards Christianity 
rather than Islamism. It rejected the Talmud, but in- 
sisted on a hidden sense in the Scriptures. It admit- 
ted the Trinity and the incarnation of the Deity, but 
preserved an artful ambiguity as to the person in whom 
the Deity was incarnate, whether Jesus Christ or Sab- 
batliai -Zebi. With the death of Frank the whole 
movement seems to have abated. Of greater signifi- 
cance is the sect of the Hassidim, or Chasidim (q. v.),or 
New' Saints, or Pietists. The founder of this sect was 
liabbi Israel ben-Eliezer Baal-Shem, also called Besht, 
"Z'CVZ. from the initials of Z^Z E’l? ~VZ. As the ten- 
ets of these Saints, who still exist in Poland, Galicia, 
etc., are given in the article Ciiasidim, we can only re- 
fer to it. (II. P.) 

Secular Clergy, Parish priests and all who w’ere 
charged with the cure of souls were named clerici seen- 
lares, so called as living according to the manners of 
the time (seculum). They w'ere so called in contradis- 
tinction to regular clergy (q. v.), who belonged to the 
monastic orders or religious congregations. 

Secular Court, Delivering up to the, a pun- 
ishment peculiar to delinquent clergymen. The ancient 
law comprises it under the name of curia’ tradi , and 
gave to it a different meaning from that which modern 
use and practice has put upon it. Among the modern 
canonists it signifies delivering a clergyman up to the 
secular judge after degradation, to be punished tor some 
great crime with death, or such capital punishment as 
the Church had no power to inflict. In the old law the 
curia has a larger sense, not only to denote the judge’s 
court, but the corporation of anv city. In this there 
■were some servile offices; and when a clergyman was 
degraded for any offence and reduced to the quality of 
layman, he was obliged to serve the curia, or secular 
corporation of the city, and that, many times, only in 
some mean office and servile condition. This was looked 
upon as being a slave to an earthly power, and precluded 
him from ever regaining his clerical dignity again, for 
no euriule was allowed to enter the ecclesiastical state. 
Besides this, there was another way of delivering over 
delinquent clergymen to the secular courts, which was 
when they had committed crimes such as were properly 
of civil cognizance; for clergymen were considered in a 
double capacity — as ministers of the Church and as 
members of the commonwealth. See Bingham, A ntiq. 
of the Christ. Church , p. 1033. 

Secular Power. See Secular Court. 

Secular Sermons, in Homan Catholic terminol- 
ogy, are tliscourses preached at the centennial jubilee of 
any religious or benevolent institution, association, etc. 
Their purpose is to review the history and work of the 
agency in question, or to rehearse the displays of divine 
grace manifested in and through its life. The scope of 
such sermons will consequently be determined in each 
case by the character of the solemnities of which they 
form a part. An appropriate treatment of the theme 
selected will include the presentation of noteworthy 
features belonging to the subject, or the discussion of 
some religious topic which may be deduced from or il- 


lustrated by the occasion in which the celebration takes 
its rise, followed by direct application of the theme, and 
concluding with a prayer or doxology or a suitable ex- 
hortation. The style and mode of delivery should be 
solemn. When the celebration is on account of a non- 
religious subject, the nature of religious discourse re- 
quires that it be discussed in its religious or moral 
bearings. — Wetzer u. Welte, Kirchen-Lex. ix, 5(>7. 

Secularism, an atheistical movement which pre- 
vailed in England during the sixth decade of the 'pres- 
ent century to an extent that gained it many followers 
and excited much attention. Its leading apostle was 
George J. llolyoake, a friend to Hubert Owen and his 
socialistic views. Holvoakc and several like-minded as- 
sociates founded a journal named The Reusoner, in 1.N46, 
which speedily became the recognised organ of the 
! modern school of English freethinkers. Its governing 
I principle was atheism, though llolyoake and his friends 
preferred to designate the tendency they represented as 
non-theism , inasmuch as they simply refrained from in- 
quiring whether a Deity exist or not. The term Secu- 
larism was subsequently applied to the entire move- 
ment, whose professed aim was proclaimed to be “to 
live and die for the world, and to work for the welfare 
of men' in this world.” The ethics of the party was 
comprehended in the phrase “present human improve- 
ment by present human means,” its law' had regard 
simply to the natural, utilitarian, and artistic aspects of 
life ; its object was merely scientific culture and a suita- 
ble provision for the things of this life. The leading, 
and, indeed, the only principle of the morality of this 
movement is utility, and the movement itself may be 
characterized as a thoroughly consistent utilitarianism, 
and also as an “atheistical ethics built upon the ruins 
of religion,” since no supernatural element is permitted 
to exercise any infiuence whatever over the actions of 
these worldly moralists. 

'Flie dogmatics of Secularism, if the term may be ap- 
plied to a systematic negation of all positive doctrines, 
is analogous to its ethics in character. It denies that 
any competent knowledge concerning the existence of 
God is possessed by the world: matter, though self-ex- 
istent and eternal, is not God, since it lacks the constitu- 
ent factors of personality — self-consciousness and free- 
will. Experience teaches that there is no Providence, 
no Father in heaven. The teleological argument for 
God’s existence is valueless, yielding only a “confused 
reflection of man’s own image:” on the one hand, it leads 
only to uncertain analogies; on the other, it proves too 
much, as it becomes necessary, after postulating a most 
wise Creator of the most wisely arranged creation, to 
assume a still wiser originator, and so on without end. 
In this line of argument Holvoakc connects himself 
with the atheistical poet Shelley and the naturalist 
Geoffroy Saint-1 lilaire, and directs his criticism chiefly 
against Paley’s Natural Theology. The secularists as- 
sert that nothing is know'll respecting the world beyond 
the grave, and that we are therefore not to concern our- 
selves about its conditions; our moral efforts should be 
wholly expended upon the present world. “If other 
worlds exist to wdiich we are removed after this life is 
over, precisely they who have made it their one business 
to promote the common welfare of mankind in this world 
w'ill be best able to enjoy them ; if there he no hereafter, 
men evidently stand in their own light if they omit to 
enjoy this world.” (Comp. Holvoakc, The Logic of Death 
[Load. 1849]). 

It is to be remarked that the relation bctw'cen Secu- 
larism and the Positivism of Comte (q. v.) is such as to 
warrant the statement that Secularism is merely the 
French Positivism translated into English. 

See Positivismus u. Secuhtrismus , etc., in Nene Evan- 
gel. Kirchenzeitung , 1833, Nos. 19 and 20; Buchanan, 
Faith in God and Modern Atheism Compared (Loud. 
1857, 2 vols. ; The Theory of Secularism in ii, 223-291, 
also published separately); Christian Examiner for Nov. 
1859. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. See Secularists. 


SECULARISTS 


502 


SEDER OLAM 


Secularists, the name assumed by a sect of mod- 
ern unbelievers to express their fundamental tenet that 
the duties and interests connected with the world which 
we see around us are those with which alone we have 
any concern. The Secularists are atheists, so far as 
they consider the existence of a personal God an open 
question, for belief in which no sufficient proofs are ad- 
duced. They are pantheists, so far as they consider 
nature to be the only God whose existence can be at all 
demonstrated. Another essential article of their creed 
is that “science is the providence of men, and that ab- 
solute spiritual dependence may involve material de- 
struction.” Science they detine to be “those method- 
ized agencies which are at our command ; that system- 
atized knowledge which enables us to use the powers 
of nature for human benefit.” The doctrine, then, of 
the Secularists is that if men properly use the powers 
of nature which are within their reach, they have no 
need to resort to prayer, with the view of seeking as- 
sistance from heaven. On the subject of morality they 
maintain that “there exist, independently of Script- 
ure authority, guarantees of morals in human nature, 
intelligence, and utility.” The facts aud doctrines of 
Christianity are, of course, denied bv them. Although 
the Secularists profess to be independent thinkers, their 
principles are in reality nothing more or less than the 
echo of rationalism and positivism among the less edu- 
cated classes of thoughtful men. See Blunt, Diet, of 
Sects , s. v. ; Gardner, Faiths of the World , s. v. 

Secularization, of persons belonging to religions 
orders in the Homan Catholic Church, is a term which 
denotes the severing of the vows which bind to poverty 
and monastic obedience. Permission to this end can 
proceed only from the papal chair, and is but rarely 
granted. The persons affected thereby are clergymen 
in the higher orders of the ministry, who are thus trans- 
ferred to the secular clergy, and permitted to live out- 
side of their monasteries (clerici seen la re s') ; and nuns, 
and the lay brothers and sisters of suppressed convents, 
who have taken the vows of their orders upon them, 
and are by this act restored to the world, though salro 
roto castitatis. Secularization differs from laicizing, or 
entire dissolution of the rule imposed by the order, in 
that the latter absolves from the vow of chastity and 
makes marriage valid. — Wetzer u. Welte, Kirchen-Lex. 
s. v. 

Seculars. In the early Christian Church there 
existed a distinction between the clergy and laity, the 
latter being called not only laymen, but also fiuorucoi, 
“seculars” (Chrysostom, Horn. 3, in Laz. ; Horn* 23 in 
Korn. ; Horn . 35 in 1 Cor. xiv ; Theodoret, Coni, in 1 
Cor. xiv, 16). See Kiddle, Christian A ntiqnities, p. 191. 

Secuudiaus, a Gnostic sect of the 2d century, 
owning for their leader Secundus, “ who was born,” says 
Ilippolytus, “about the same time as Ptolemaeus,” and 
thus was contemporary with the immediate followers 
of Valentinus, lremeus represents the Secundians as a 
branch of the Valentinian school ( Uteres . i, 11, 2); but, 
although they emanated from that school (Ilippolytus, 
Refit, vi, 32, 33), they introduced a principle so distinct 
as to render Secundus more properly a rival than the 
disciple of Valentinus. Secundus placed at the head of 
his ikons, whom he appears to have considered as real 
substances or persons, two principles, Light and Dark- 
ness. “ lie divides the Ogdoad into a pair of Tetrads, 
a right hand and a left Tetrad, one Light and the other 
Darkness” (Tertulliaii, A dr. Valent. 38). This admission 
of the principle of dualism constitutes an essential dif- 
ference between the Secundians and the Yalentinians. 
It is evidently borrowed from tbe Oriental philosophy, 
and brings the Secundians so far nearer tbe Manielue- 
ans. Accordingly, Dorner classes as adherents of the 
dualism whose character was predominantly physical, 
the Ophites, Saturiiilus, Secundus, and subsequently 
the Maniehtuans; as adherents of pantheistic Monism, 
Valentinus and bis widespread school, especially llerac- 


leon his contemporary, Ftolema?us, and Marcus (Person 
of Christ, i. append, p. 448). There is also mentioned 
as a distinction between the Yalentinians and Secundus 
that the latter did not derive the power Acharnoth 
from any one of the thirty /Eons, but from the fruits 
which issued out of their substance (Tertulliaii, ut sup.). 
He invented first four more /Eons, and then four in ad- 
dition (Pscudo-Tertullian, xiii). The Secundians were 
Docetae. Augustine (Uteres. xii) and Auctor Prajdesti- 
nati (xii) charge them with gross immorality. The 
latter adds that they were condemned by Diodorus, 
bishop of Crete. — Blunt, Diet, of Sects, s. v. 

Secuiidlnus, the name of two persons in the early 
Christian Church. 

1. A Manicluean of Africa, who wrote against Augus- 
tine because of his departure from that heresy. Augus- 
tine replied to him, under date of about A.D. 405, in the 
tract Contra Secumlinum Manichceum, lib. i, showing 
why he had embraced orthodox views, and confuting 
the Maniclueans from the letter of his opponent (Migne, 
Putrologie, xlii, Op. A ugust. p. 578). 

2. A son of the Lombard Destitutes and Dareca, a 
sister of St. Patrick. He lived in Ireland from A.D. 
439, and died at the age of seventy-five, in 459. Secun- 
dums was bishop of Domnach, and composed an ode on 
St. Patrick during the life of the latter, which was long 
on the lips of the Irish. It is given in Migne ( Patro - 
logic, liii, 838j. Immediately after having composed 
the above ode, he died, thus verifying a prediction of 
St. Patrick. He was buried at Domnach (Acta Sancto- 
rum, March 17, p.523 sq., in the life of St. Patrick). — 
Wetzer n. Welte, Kirchen-Lex. s. v. 

Secundus (the Lat. word Gnecized, ZetcorvCog), a 
Christian of Thessaloniea, and one of the party who 
went with the apostle Paul from Corinth as far as Asia 
(dxpi rijg ‘A a tag), probably to Troas or Miletus (all of 
them so far, sooie farther), on his return to Jerusalem 
from his third missionary tour (Acts xx, 4). A.D. 55. 

Secundus (heretic). See Secundians. 

Securitas, in Roman mythology, was a personifi- 
cation of security, represented on coins as a quietly gaz- 
ing matron, with the nether limbs crossed, the left elbow 
braced against a column, and the right hand placed over 
the head. She is furnished with a spear, a cornucopia, 
and an olive or palm branch. 

Sedeci'as ( Scfciciag ), the Gnecized form of the 
Hebrew name Zodekiah (q. v.), applied in the Apoc- 
rypha to two men . 1. A person mentioned (Bar. i, 1) as 
the father of Maaseiah, himself the grandfather of Ba- 
ruch, and apparently identical with the false prophet 
Zedekiah in Jer. xxix, 21, 22; 2. The “son of Josiab, 
king of Judah” (Bar. i, 8), the Zedekiah under whom 
Jerusalem was destroyed by the Babylonians. 

Seder ha-Doroth. See IIeilprin, Jeciuel. 

Seder Kodashim. See Misiina. 

Seder Moed. See Misiina. 

Seder Nasliim. See Misiina. 

Seder Nezikin. See Misiina. 

Seder Olam “HO), or the Succession of the 

IKo/W’s Mstoiy, is an ancient Jewish chronicle, written 
hv K. Jose ben-Chalafta, of Scpphoris, who flourished 
about A.D. 100-150. In thirty chapters it professes to 
give the history of Israel up to the time of the author, 
or rather to the termination of the last Jewish war un- 
der llar-cochcba. At the close of the work there are 
some omissions, which, in part, are compensated by an- 
other historical work which hears the same title, but, in 
contradistinction to the Seder Olam, or the Seder Olam 
Rabba (R3"l D312 "HD )=-the Major Chronicle , it is 
designated the Seder Olam Zutta (SCilT cbir *^*10) = 
the Minor Chronicle. The best edition of the Seder 
Olam is that by Meyer (Amsterdam, 1699), which ap- 
peared together with the Seder Olam Zutta, a Latin 


SEDER TOHOllOTH 


503 


SEDILE 


translation, and very elaborate annotations. Sec Fiirst, 
Bibl. Juduica , ii, 107 sq. ; Zuuz, Gottesdienstl. 1 'orfraye, 

р. 85, 138; Griitz, Uesch . der Juden, iv, 53(5 sq. ; Eders- 

heim, Hist, of the Jewish Nation, p. 2G3 sq. ; Stcin- 
schneider, Jewish Literature , p. 32. (B. 1*.) 

Seder Tohorotk. See Mishna. 

Seder Zeraim. See Mishna. 

Sedes (Lat. a seat), a term used by the Latin ec- 
clesiastical writers to denote a bishop’s throne, which, 
with the thrones of his presbyters on each side of it, 
were arranged in a semicircle above the altar. Some 
suppose this to have been so arranged in imitation of 
the Jewish synagogues, in which, according to Mai- 
monides, at the upper end the law was placed in the 
wall in an arch, and on each side the elders were seated 
in a semicircle. The bishop’s seat was usually covered 
with some decent material, suitable to the dignity of 
his office and person. See Bingham, Antiquities of the 
Christiun Church, i, 299. 

Sedes Apostolica. See Apostolical. 

Sedes Impedita (a hindered see). An expression 
by which the canons designate the state of the papal or 
an episcopal office when its functions are seriously hin- 
dered or altogether interrupted by the force of difficul- 
ties from without. 

1. The interruption of episcopal functions (sedes epis- 
copalis impedita) may be occasioned (1) when outward 
foes (pagans or heretics) have seized the occupant of 
the chair and hold him prisoner. In this case the chap- 
ter administers the diocese, either directly or through a 
vicar, until the will of the pope can be ascertained (Sext. 

с. 3; De Suppl. Neyl. Prcel. i, 8). (2) When a bishop 

is removed from bis diocese and imprisoned bv the gov- 
ernment of his own country. The chapter must then im- 
mediately report the circumstance to the papal chair, and 
until the case is decided the administration will rest in 
the hands of the vicar-general on the spot (comp. Phil- 
lips and Gorres, I list ,-polit . Blatter, vol. ii, No. 3, p. 158 
sq.). (3) When the bishop has been suspended or ex- 

communicated, or when physical weakness or mental 
imbecility unfits him for the further exercise of bis of- 
fice. Since in the former case the action emanated di- 
rectly from the papal chair, and that action operates to 
destroy the official authority of the vicar-general at the 
same time (Sext. c. 1 ; De Off. Vicar, i, 13), the pope at 
once makes provision for the temporary government of 
the diocese. In the latter case an episcopal coadjutor 
must be appointed. 

2. Papal functions are interrupted (sedes apostolica 
impedita) when the pope is imprisoned and prevented 
from administering his office, in which case as many 
cardinals as may be available perform its functions so 
far as strict necessity requires, or as the provisional di- 
rections of the pope himself may allow; or when hostile 
powers prevent access to the papal chair or render it 
extremely difficult. In this case the authority of bish- 
ops within their dioceses is extended to take such pro- 
visional action as may become necessary, but in har- 
mony with the current practice of the apostolical chair. 
— Wetzer u. Welte, Kirchen-Lex. s. v. 

Sedes Vacans (a vacant see), strictly a vacancy 
of the papal or an episcopal chair, since the term sedes 
(Sporog) is applied only to apostolica, i. e. Roman and 
other episcopal sees; but it is in use extended to abbeys, 
prelatures, and all dignities to which the right of collat- 
ing to benefices belongs. For the rules which govern 
in the event of the vacation of the papal chair, see Car- 
dinal; Conclave; Pope. This article will be de- 
voted to the subject with reference to bishoprics only. 

A sedes vacans occurs by death, resignation, transla- 
tion, deprivation, etc., and continues until a successor 
has been regularly installed. The current business of a 
bishopric during such interim was formerly adminis- 
tered by its presbytery, but subsequently, after the 4th 
century, by an officer termed intercessor, inter ventor, 


visitator, or commendaior. A provision was made that 
the see should be filled within a year, in order to pre- 
vent the seizure of the office by the temporary admin- 
istrators, and also to hinder secular lords from appropri- 
ating the income of a vacant see. Still later the tem- 
porary administration was intrusted to the chapters, at 
first in spirit ualia , and afterwards in temporalities as 
well. The modern usage is based on the decisions of 
the Council of Trent and of the Conyreyatio Concilii. 
The episcopal jurisdiction during a vacancy inheres in 
the chapter, but is administered by one or more “cecon- 
omists” and a capitular vicar, who may be the general 
vicar of the late bishop, and all of whom must be ap- 
pointed within eight days after knowledge of the va- 
cancy has been obtained. The capitular vicar must be 
a doctor or licentiate of canon law, or else possess abili- 
ties in that direction, and must be taken from the chap- 
ter if a suitable person can be found. When there is no 
chapter, or when the chapter neglects to appoint ad- 
ministrators, the metropolitan is empowered to act in 
its stead if the church be a suffragan church, the oldest 
suffragan bishop if it be a metropolitan church, and the 
nearest bishop if it be an exempt church. The capitu- 
lar vicar is not the agent of the chapter in this instance, 
but administers independently ; and be is not liable to 
be deprived of his office without sufficient reason, the 
determining of which does not rest with the chapter, 
but with the Conyreyatio super Neyotiis Episcopal um. 
Certain general limitations, however, restrict his action. 
All episcopal rights which inhere in the ordo episcopa - 
Us, or are delegated by the pope, are in abeyance during 
the vacancy, except as provision for their exercise is 
otherwise made by the curia, or circumstances compel 
the employment of a neighboring bishop. A year of 
mourning ( annus luctus) is appointed, during which no 
orders may be conferred within the bishopric, except 
they become necessary to administer a benefice which 
has been, or is about to be, received. Nor may the ca- 
pitular vicar dispose of benefices which are subject to 
the bishop’s collation, or the income of the diocese be in 
any way employed, except perhaps to pay the salary of 
the administrator. No real estate may be transferred 
to other hands, and, in general, no change which might 
result in disadvantage to the future bishop may be in- 
troduced. The sedes vacans ends with the installation 
of tire new bishop, who is authorized to exact a com- 
plete account of the bishopric and its administration 
during the interim. A quasi vacans is distinguished 
from the sedes vacans. for which see Sedes Impedita. 

On the general subject, comp, the literature given in 
Piitter, Lit. des deutsch. Staatsrechts, vol. iii, § 14(51 ; in 
Kliiber’s Eortsetznny , vol. iv, § 14(51, p. 528, 529; Ferra- 
ris, Bibliotheca Canonicu, s. v. ; Bitter, Der Capitular- 
Vikar (Munster, 1842); Ban, Rechte der Domcapitel, 
etc., in the 77/5. theol. Qnartalschrift, 1842, iii, 3G5-412; 
II uller, Die jurist. Persunlichkeit.d. hath. Domcapitel in 
Deutschland (Bamberg, i860). — Herzog, Real- Encyklop. 
s. v. 

Sedgwick, Ohadiah, a Nonconformist divine, was 
born at Marlborough, in Wiltshire, England, in 1(500, 
and educated at Queen’s College ami at Magdalen Hall, 
Oxford, lie became chaplain to lord Horatio Vere, 
whom he accompanied to the Netherlands. Returning 
to Oxford, he was admitted to the reading of sentences 
in 1G29. lie preached at St. Mildred’s, London, until 
interrupted by the bishop, and in 1G39 became vicar 
of Coggeshall, Essex. In the rebellion he took part 
against the Church and State. In 1G4G he was preacher 
at St. Paul’s, Covent Garden; and, retiring to Marl- 
borough, he died there in January, 1G58. The princi- 
pal of his works are, The Fountain Opened (1(557) : — An 
Exposition of Psalm xxiii (1G58, 4to) The Anatomy 
of Secret Sim (1GG0) Parable of the Prodiyal (1GG0) : 
— Synopsis of Christianity. 

Sedild (plur. sedilia), the Latin name for a seat, a 
term which in modern times has come to be pretty gen- 


SEDILE 


504 


SEDULIUS 


e rally applied by way of distinction to the seats on the 
south side of the choir near the altar in churches, used 
in the Roman Catholic service by the priest and his at- 
tendants, the deacon and subdcacon, during certain parts 
of the mass; or in the Episcopal Church for the priests 
and deacons during the eucharistic service. Sedilia 
were sometimes movable, but more usually in England 
were formed of masonry and recessed in the wall like 
niches. Sedilia are comparatively rare on the Conti- 
nent, but very numerous examples remain in Great Brit- 


ain, a few of which are of as early date as the latter part 
of the 12th century; but the majority are later, extend- 
ing to the end of the Perpendicular style. The earliest 
form in the catacombs, and repeated at St. David’s, was 
a bishop’s throne Hanked by collateral seats. In gen- 
eral they contain three separate seats, but occasionally 
two, or only one, and in a few rare instances four, as at 
Roth well Church, Northamptonshire, and Furness Ab- 
bey; or five, as at Southwell Minster; sometimes a sin- 
gle seat under one arch, or formed on the back of a win- 
dow, is found, long enough for two or three persons. 
They are very commonly placed at different levels, the 
eastern seat being a step the highest and the western 
the lowest; but sometimes, when three are used, the two 
western seats are on the same level, a step below the 
other, and sometimes the two eastern are level and the 
western a step below them. The decorations used about 
them are various, and in enriched buildings they are 
occasionally highly ornamented, and sometimes sur- 
mounted with tab- 
ernacle-work, pin- 
nacles, ete. Some 
ancient sedilia con- 
sist of plain bench- 
es formed of masses 
of masonry project- 
ing from the wall, 
and it is not im- 
probable that such 
may have once ex- 
isted in some of the 
churches in which 
no traces of these 
seats are now to be 
found. At Lenham 
Church, Kent, is a 
single seat project- 
ing considerably 
Sedile, Lenham, Keut. from the wall 


(though the back is slightly recessed), with stone el- 
bows resembling an arm-chair: this is popularly called 
the confessional. At Beckley Church, Oxfordshire, is 
also a single stone seat with one elbow. — Parker, Gloss, 
of A related, s. v. 

Sedition. In the early Church, kings and em- 
perors were looked upon as political parents, whose 
authority and majesty were reputed sacred and su- 
preme under God. All disloyalty or disrespect shown 
them, either in word or action, was always severely 
chastised by the laws of the Church. For the tirst 
three hundred years, Christians gloried over the 
heathens in this, that though the emperors were 
heathen, and some of them furious persecutors of 
the Christians, yet there were never any seditions 
or disloyal persons to be found among them. The 
fourth Council of Carthage forbids the ordination 
of any seditious person. The fourth Council of 
Toledo orders all clergymen that took up arms in 
any sedition to be degraded from their order, and 
to be contined to a monastery to do penance all their 
lives. See Bingham Antiq. of the Christ. Church , 
p. 985 sq. 

Sedlnitzky, Leopold von, formerly prince- 
bishop of Breslau, was born July 29, 1787, at Gep- 
persdorf, in Austro - Silesia. Appointed for the 
Church, he was educated accordingly, and in 1798 
the cathedral chapter of Breslau already nomi- 
nated him as dean. In 1804 he commenced his 
studies at the Breslau University, where ex-Jes- 
uits or their pupils were his teachers. In 1830, 
Sedlnitzky (not Scldnitzky, as Dr. Kurtz has it) 
was made provost of the chapter, and in 1835 
prince - bishop. In the different positions which 
Sedlnitzky occupied, he had the best opportunity 
of seeing the doings of the hierarchy. A rupture 
with the see of Rome became finally a mere 
question of time, and on May 10, 1840, he resigned 
his bishopric. Frederick William IV, then king of 
Prussia, appointed him as member of the council of 
state, and thus he was obliged lo take up his abode at 
Berlin. He now studied Church history and symbolics. 
The authority of the councils lost its power with him, 
as not founded upon the Holy Scriptures. He saw 
that the faith in the free grace of God in Christ, and 
not the episcopal government, was the uniting link of 
the Church. At first he attended the divine service of 
his Church, but this he soon abandoned, and listened to 
the preaching in different evangelical churches. He 
had a great, desire for the Lord’s supper, and it was a 
great pain to him to be deprived of this communion 
with the Lord and the brethren. After many hard in- 
ward struggles, he resolved in 18G3 to join the evangel- 
ical Church, and in the church of Friedrich Werder he 
partook of the Lord’s supper. P’rom his own means he 
founded two institutions at Berlin — the Paulinum in 
18G2 and Johanneum in 18G4 — both for the education 
of teachers for the school and Church. In Breslau, also, 
he founded an institution for evangelical students of 
theology. Sedlnitzky died May 25, 1871, being the 
first Roman Catholic bishop who after the time of 
the Reformation became a convert to the evangelical 
Church. See Kurtz, Lehrhuch tier Kirchengesckichte 
(1874), ii, 262, especially the autobiography of Sedlnitz- 
ky, which was published in 1872, and which is an im- 
portant contribution to modern Church history. For 
a review of this biography, see llanck, Theologiscker 
J ahresbericht , 1871, vii, 700 sq. (Ii. P.) 

Sedulius, Caius Ccelius (or C/ECIlius), a priest 
and Christian poet in the reigns of Theodosius II and 
Valenti man III. Little is known respecting his parent- 
age and life. He is said to have taught philosophy and 
rhetoric in Italy, and to have subsequently become a 
priest in Acliaia, and ultimately a bishop. The year of 
his death is not known, lie obtains recognition chiefly 
as the author of a number of religious writings, among 



Chestertou, Oxfordshire. 



SEDULIUS 


505 


SEED 


them the hexameter poem Carmen Paschale, etc., in 
which Old-Test, miracles, the miracles of Christ’s life, 
and finally his death, resurrection, and ascension, are 
treated — the whole in opposition to the heretical views 
of Arius and Sabellius. Various editions of this poem 
have been published — by Cellarius (1704), Gallandi 
(1773), and others, the latest edition being by Arevalo, or 
Aurival (Home, 1794). In response to the request of 
the priest Macedonius, Sedulius translated the work into 
prose, and called it Opus Pasclmle. Two other hymns 
are also attributed to him — namely, Elegia, or Collado 
Veteris et Novi Testamenti, and A Solis Ortus Online , 
an acrostic on the life of Christ which is sometimes 
called the A becedarius. — llerzog, Real- Encyldop. s. v. 

Sedulius, Scotus (or Junior), a Christian writer 
of the 8th century, of whose works we possess, Collecta- 
nea in Omnes Epistolas S. Pauli (first published at Basle 
[1528], and afterwards in the Bibliotheca Max. [Lugd. 
1077] tom. vi) : — some exegetical labors on the first 
three Gospels published by cardinal A. INI ai in the 
Scriptonim Veterum Collecdo Nova , tom. ix : — and a 
political and religious w r ork entitled De Rectoribus 
Christianis et Convenient ibits Regulis, quibus Res Publica 
rite Gubernanda est (first published at Leipsic in 1019). 
The IMS. belonged to the library of the Heidelberg 
University, with which it was taken to Home in 102*2, 
and has been admitted into the Spicilegium Romanian 
Vaticanum (Horn. 1339-1844), tom. x, of cardinal Mai. 
In tom. viii of the latter work may also be found Ex- 
planationes in Prafationes S. Hieronymi ad Evangelia 
by Sedulius. Comp. Diet. Ilist. et Crif., par Pierre 
Bayle ( Kotterd. 1720), tom. xxx, p. 2562 sq. ; Biog. 
Universelle (Paris, 1825), tom. xli, p. 430 sq. — Herzog, 
Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

See (properly HIS:'!, rauh; tidov), a term used in 
Scripture not only of the sense of vision by which we 
perceive external objects, hut also of inward perception, 
of the knowledge of spiritual things, and even of the 
supernatural sight of hidden things — of prophecy, 
visions, ecstasies. Hence it is that those persons 
were formerly called seers who afterwards were called 
Nubi, or prophets, and that prophecies were called 
visions. See Seek. 

The verb to see is Ilebraisticallv used to express all 
kinds of sensations. It is said (Exod. xx, 18) that the 
Israelites saw voices, thunder, lightnings, the sound of 
the trumpet, and the whole mountain of Sinai covered 
with clouds or smoke. To see good, or goods, is to en- 
joy them. “ I believed to see the goodness of the Lord 
in the land of the living” (Psa. xxvii, 13), i. e. I hope 
that God will bring me back into my own country, into 
the land of Judaea, where J shall live in peace and pros- 
perity. Job says (vii, 7), “ I shall die, and see no more ; 
I shall no longer enjoy the good things of this world.” 
The psalmist says (Psa. iv, 0), “There be many that 
say, Who will show us auv good?” that is, to enjoy any 
happiness in this life. 

By an easy metaphor from this, to see the face of the 
king is to be of his council, his household, or to ap- 
proach him. The kings of Persia, to maintain their re- 
spect and majesty, seldom permitted their subjects to 
see them, and hardly ever showed themselves in public. 
None but their most intimate friends or their familiar 
domestics had the honor of beholding their faces (Esth. 
i, 10, 14). Frequent allusion is made to this custom in 
Scripture, which mentions the seven principal angels 
that see the face of the Lord and appear in his presence 
(Rev. i, 4).— Calmet. 

See (Lat. sedes, a seat), the seat of the bishop’s 
throne, and used also to denote the whole extent of his 
episcopal jurisdiction. 

SEE, Apostolical. This term, under the full form 
of “holy apostolical see,” is now used to designate the 
jurisdiction and power of the pope as bishop of Home. 
But anciently every bishop’s see was dignified with the 
title of sedes apostolica [see Apostolical], as deriving 


its authority through its succession from the apostles. 
See Apostolical Succession. Pope Siricius himself 
(Sirie. Ep. iv, c. 1) gives all primates the appellation 
apostolici. St. Augustine, Sidouius Apollinaris, and oth- 
ers make no distinction in favor of the bishop of Home. 
See Bingham, Antiq. of the Christ. Church , p. 22, 07. 

See, Andrew J., a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, South, was born Dec. G, 1832, and joined 
the Church when about fifteen. lie was licensed to 
preach in 1854, in the fall of which year he was admit- 
ted on trial into the Memphis Conference. He labored 
without intermission until his death, in 1871. See Min- 
utes of Annual Conferences , 1871, p. 577. 

Seed (2TT, zera ; enrippa). The seed-time of Pal- 
estine (Lev. xx vi, 5) for grain came regularly in Novem- 
ber and December (Lightfoot, J/or. Hebr. p. 340, 1003; 
Korte, Reis. p. 432). Since the harvest began in the 
middle of Nisan, the time of growth and culture was 
about four months (John iv, 35; see Liicke, ad loc.). 
But this was certainly a very general reckoning, and 
perhaps had become proverbial. (In this passage the 
word in, yet, does not seem to accord with this expla- 
nation; see also Anger, De Temp. Act. Ap. p. 24 sq.; 
Wieseler, Chronol. Synops. p. 210 sq.; Jacobi, in Stud, 
u. Ki lt. 1838, p. 858 sq.). See Agriculture. 

Sowing was done hv the hand, as often with us, 
though according to the Gemara ( Baba Metsia, fill. 105) 
the Jew-s used machines also for this purpose (Otho, Lex. 
Rab. p. 685). The seed when sown and the young 
plants have more enemies in the East than even here: 
not only drought, hail, mice (1 Sam. vi, 5), fire, but also 
grasshoppers and locusts (see these words), often destroy 
promising harvests. The following legal regulations are 
found in the Pentateuch : 

1. Two kinds of seed, as wheat and barley, must not be 
sown on the same land (Lev. xix, 19; comp. Josephus, 
Ant. iv, 8, 20). The Talmudists (Mishna, Chilaim, ii, 
8) say that between two fields sown with different seeds 
must intervene either fallow' ground or a ditch, path, or 
wall ; but the law* does not include garden beds (ibid. 
iii, 1; Shab. ix, 2). Micliaelis ( Mas. R. iv, 320 sq. ) 
strives to show that the law’givcr meant simply to re- 
quire a careful sorting of the seed, which is recommend- 
ed by the aneients as very advantageous (Virgil, Georg. 
i, 193 sq. ; Varro, R. R. i, 52, l), and which would ren- 
der impossible the springing-np of w'eeds (especially the 
Lolium temulentum). But this cannot be supported, and 
a custom so advantageous to the agriculturist did not 
need the authority of law. Lappenberg (in the Brem. 
u. Verdensch. Biblioth. v, 937 sq.) gives a purely theo- 
logical exposition of it; and perhaps other parts of the 
law furnish an easier explanation of this class of regula- 
tions than this one. See Diverse. The more exact 
requirements of the rabbins w ill be found in the Mishna 
(Chilaim, ch. i-iii). They are very trilling, and some- 
times show a disposition to evade the law; but even 
anciently it was not so strictly enforced as to prevent 
giving a field of barley a border of spelt (Isa. xxviii, 
25; see marg. A. V.). In general the rule is confined 
to Palestine, and the Jews do not refuse elsewhere to 
enjoy the fruit of mixed harvests (comp, llottinger, 
Hebr. Leges, p. 376 sq. ; Darsov, De Modis Seminandi 
Diversa Semina Hebr. Vet. [Viteb. 1095]). 

2. Lev. xi, 37 sq. provides that seed set apart for 
sowing should remain clean if the carcass of a creeping 
beast fell upon it; but if it had been w'ct, it should be 
made unclean, perhaps because wet seed takes up im- 
purities far ea’sier than dry (comp, the analogy, vcr. 34). 
Similar is the law of purification in the Zendavcsta (ii, 
335, Kleuker), and a similar distinction of wet and dry is 
observed among the Arabs still (Niebuhr, Beschr. p. 40). 
—Winer, ii, 340. 

By an easy metaphor, seed, as the prolific principle 
of future life, is taken in Scripture for posterity, w hether 
of man, beasts, trees, etc., all of which are said to he 
sow'n and to fructify as the means of producing a sue- 


SEED 


506 


SEELYE 


ceeding generation (Jer. xxxi, 27). Hence seed de- 
notes an individual, as Seth in the stead of Abel (Gen. 
iv. 25 etc.), and the whole line of descent ; as the seed 
of Abraham, of Jacob, etc., the seed royal, etc., much in 
the same acceptation as children. The seed of Abra- 
ham denotes not only those who descend from him by 
natural issue, but those who imitate his character (Horn, 
iv, 1G), for if he be “ the father of the faithful,” then the 
faithful are his seed by character, independent of nat- 
ural descent; and hence the Messiah is said to see his 
seed, though, in fact, Jesus left no children by descent, 
but by grace or conversion only (Isa. liii, 10). This is 
occasionally restricted to one chief or principal seed, one 
who by excellence is the seed, as the seed of the woman 
(Gen. iii, 15; Gal. iii, 16), the seed of Abraham, the 
seed of David — meaning the most excellent descendant 
of the woman, of Abraham, of David. Or understand by 
the “seed of the woman” the offspring of the female 
sex only, as verified in the supernatural conception of 
Jesus (Matt, i, 18, etc. ; Luke i, 26, etc.), and of which the 
birth of Abraham’s seed (Isaac) was a figure. See below. 

Seed is likewise taken figuratively for the Word of 
God (Luke viii, 5; 1 Pet. i, 23), for a disposition becom- 
ing a divine origin (t John iii, 9), and for truly pious 
persons (Matt, xiii, 38). — Calmet. 

SEED, Tiie One (Gal. iii, 16). The logic of this 
passage has eluded the search of our best critics, and 
yet it is worth pursuing, even against hope. Theques- 
tion involved is one purely of grammar, and particular- 
ly of Hebrew grammar — namely, How may we deter- 
mine the number of 3H7, when it is plural and when sin- 
gular ? This word, when representing the seed of plants, 
forms a regular plural like other masculine nouns; but 
when used for posterity, it never changes its form : in 
this use it resembles our English word sheep . We must, 
then, have recourse to the construction, and this is found 
to be very peculiar. The adjective is always singular, 
like itself, although the subject be numerous as the 
stars (Ezra ix, 2; Job v, 25; xxi, 8; l’sa. xxxvii, 25; 
cxii, 2). With verbs it is construed as a collective 
noun, the verb varying according to the circumstances, 
with no marked peculiarity. In connection with pro- 
nouns, the construction is entirely different from both 
the preceding. A singular pronoun marks an individual, 
an only one, or one out of many; while a plural pronoun 
represents all the descendants. This rule is followed in- 
variably by the Sept., which always puts the pronouns 
of enrippa in the const rnctio ad sensum, just as the apos- 
tle does in the text, icai Tift oTrippari cron* "02 lari 
Xpian'ig. Peter understood this construction, for we 
find him inferring a singular seed from Gen. xxii, 17, 18, 
when speaking to native Jews in the city of Jerusalem 
before Paul’s conversion (Acts iii, 26), as David had set 
the example a thousand years before (Psa. lxxii, 17). 
Head this in the Sept. 

J’TI, in the singular form, takes the pronouns plural 
in the following places: Gen. xv, 13; xvii, 7; Exod. 
xxx, 21 ; Lev. xxi, 17; 2 Kings xvii, 20; 2 Chron.xx, 
7, etc.; Neh. ix, 2, etc.; Psa. evi, 27; Isa. lxi, 9; Jer. 
xxiii, 8; xxxiii, 26; xlvi, 27; Ezek. xx, 5-11. I"TT, 
in the same singular form, has pronouns singular in the 
following: Gen. iii, 15; xxii, 17; xxiv, 60; 1 Sam. i, 
11; 2 Sam. vii, 12; 1 Chron. xvii, 11. These passages 
embrace seventy-one pronouns in all — twenty-three sin- 
gular and forty-eight plural. They are all the places 
where the pronoun represents 3>"TT. Pronouns merely 
in apposition do not come under the rule. This pre- 
sents a syntax different from the word, showing that 
seed has a. double construction. The distinction made by 
Paul is not between one seed and another, but between 
the one seed and the many; and if we consider him 
quoting the same passage with Peter ( loc . ci/.\ his argu- 
ment is fairly sustained by the pronoun “ his enemies.” 
Seed with a pronoun singular is exactly equivalent to 
son. It is worth noting that the Aramaean relatives of 


Rebekah have retained the peculiar syntax of the cove- 
nant, where our translators missed the mark, in Gen. 
xxiv, 60, “Those who hate him." Whether these Syr- 
ians understood the Messianic aspect of the promise, or 
whether, like the Sept., who did not see the o tp\6psvog, 
they merely followed the grammar, their language con- 
veys the idea of One among the thousands of millions 
who will subdue all II is haters. 

Isa. xlviii, 19, as it stands in our Hebrew Bibles, fur- 
nishes an exception to the principle laid down above. 
If we should attach importance to one exception, occur- 
ring in a composition highly poetical, against three- 
score plain examples, it is to he observed that the Sept, 
has a different reading, and Lowth prefers it — thus re- 
moving all difficulty in the case. 

With this clue to the Abrahamic covenant, and 
through it to the protevangel, we arrive with precision 
at the unity of the seed promised there — the lie that 
shall bruise Satan on the head. The masculine singu- 
lar copied by the Sept, is twice used in that promise. 
He is the God of peace who bruises Satan (Horn, xvi, 
20). (11. H.) 

Seeded, a phrase indicating that tapestry, hang- 
ings, or church vestments were, for their greater or- 
namentation, sprinkled over at regular intervals with 
pearls, anciently called “seeds.” 

Seekers, a small sect of Puritans which arose in 
England in 1645, and was afterwards merged in that of 
the Quakers. The Seekers derived their name from the 
employment in which they represented themselves as 
being continually engaged, that of seeking for the true 
Church, ministry, Scriptures, and ordinances, all of 
which, they alleged, had been lost. Baxter ( Life and 
Times , p. 76) says of them, “They taught that our 
Scripture was uncertain; that present miracles are nec- 
essary to faith: that our ministry is null and without 
authority, and our worship and ordinances unnecessary 
or vain.” They and the Rationalists were promoters 
of the deism of England. — Hagenbach, Hist, of Doc- 
trines, ii, 238. 

Seelen, Johann Heinrich von, a German theo- 
logian, was born Aug. 8, 1688, at Asel, near Stade. In 
1713 he was called as conrector to Flensburg, in 1715 
to Stade, and in 1718 as rector to Liibeck, where he 
died, Oct. 22, 1762. Seelen was a voluminous writer. 
Uis most important work is his Meditationes Exegeti- 
C(e,quibns Varia Utriusqne Test amenti Loci Expenduntur 
et Hlustrantur (Liibeck, 1730-37,3 pts.). He also wrote 
dissertations on different passages of the Scripture, for 
which see Fiirst, Bibliotheca .Judaica , iii, 305 sq. — Wi- 
ner, Ilandbuch der theologischen Literatur. (B. P.) 

Seel-stone, a mediaeval mason’s term for that stone 
which was placed or the top of a niche or tabernacle to 
crown and complete it. “Item, for garnvshing ye seel- 
stone, iis. iv</.” — Lee, Gloss, of Liturgical Terms , s.v. 

Seely, Amos W., a (Dutch) Reformed minister, was 
born in New York city in 1805. He graduated from 
Union College in 1828, and from Princeton Theological 
Seminary in 1831. His ministry was spent chiefly in 
the Reformed Church in Western New York, and was 
greatly blessed in its results. He was a plain, earnest, 
practical preacher; a man of guileless character and 
tender piety. He died in 1805. He published two 
works which passed through several editions, Doctrinal 
Thoughts and Practical Thoughts. See Corwin, Man- 
ual of the Reformed Church. (W. J. R. T.) 

Seelye, Edward E., D.D., a (Dutch) Reformed 
minister, was horn at Lansinglmrgh, N. Y., in 1819, and 
graduated at Union College in 1839, and at Princeton 
Theological Seminary in 1843. Until 1858 his minis- 
try was exercised in the Presbyterian churches of Still- 
water, N.Y., from 1843 to 1850, and Sandy H ill, N.Y., from 
1850 to 1858. At the latter date he removed to Sche- 
nectady as pastor of the First Reformed Church, where 
he died in 1865. Mr. Seely e’s physique was tall, large, 


SEEMILLEL 


507 


SEER 


rugged, and indicative of the best of health. His mind 
was vigorous, comprehensive, and direct. His preach- 
ing was orthodox, logical, scholarly, instructive, inter- 
esting, and warm-hearted. His delivery was impressive 
and popular, lie left a valuable posthumous work en- 
titled Bible Emblems , which has been printed by the 
American Tract Society. New York. Sec De Bann [Rev. 
J. A.], Tribute. ( W. J. II. T.) 

Seemiller, Sebastian, a Homan Catholic doctor 
of divinity, was born Oct. 17. 1752, at Yelden, in Lower 
Bavaria, and died April 25, 1798. lie wrote, Exercitt. 
Philol.-theologicev ad Illustranda et Vindicanda qumhtm 
Primi Capitis Geneseos Loca (Nuremb. 1776): — Ilerme- 
neutica Sacra (Augsburg, 1779) : — De Greeds Bibliorum 
V.T. Versionibus Dissertatio J/istorico-critiea (Ingolst. 
1788): — Septem Psalmi Pamtentiales (ibid. 1790): — 
Quindedm Psalmi Graduates (ibid. 1791). See Burst, 
Bibliath. Jud. iii, 307 ; Winer, llandbuch der theolog. Li- 
teratur. (B. P.) 

Seeney, Robert, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born Oct. 12, 1797. He graduated 
at Columbia College in 1817, and soon afterwards united 
with the Church. In 1820 he was received on trial in 
the New York Conference, and labored with great ac- 
ceptability in its most important stations. In 1852 he 
was placed upon the supernumerary list, but continued 
to preach until he received a paralytic stroke in the left 
side. On July 1 , 1854, he was attacked by a more violent 
stroke upon the right side, from which he could not rally. 
As a preacher, 31 r. Seeney was chaste, clear, and forcible ; 
as a Christian he was artless, affable, and faithful. Sec 
Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1855, p. 545. 

Seer is the almost invariable rendering in the A. V. 
of nin, chozeh (which is otherwise translated only in 
Isa. xxviii, 15, “ agreement xxx, 10, “ prophet;” xlvii, 
13, “gazer;” Ezek. xiii, 9, 16; xxii, 28, “ that see,” etc.), 
and occasionally (1 Sam. ix, 9-19; 2 Sam. xv, 27: 1 
Cbron. ix, 22; xxvi, 28; xxix, 29; 2 Citron, xvi, 7, 10) 
of roeh; while the tantamount and technically 

used prophet is usually denoted by “Q3, nabi (on the 
meaning and etymology of which see Hartmann, 3 d 
Exctirs. to his Uebers. d. M ichna , p. 2 1 9 sq. ; Paulus, Exe- 
get. Conservat. ii, 122 sq.; and the different views of 
Redslob, Der Begr.d. Nabi [Leips. 1839], Ewald, Proph. 
i, 6 sq., Havernick, Einleit . ins A. T. II, ii, 6 sq.). All 
three names are used, though applied to different per- 
sons (1 Chron. xxix, 29) ; and the Chronicles hold this 
distinction throughout — calling, e. g., Samuel roeh. Gad 
chozeh , and Nathan nabi — a distinction, to a great ex- 
tent, lost in the A. V., where the first two are confound- 
ed. According to 1 Sam. ix, 9, roeh was the older name 
for prophet, and it is especially applied to Samuel; nabi 
is the most usual word ; chozeh perhaps passed from the 
ritual language into that of history. It is found almost 
solely in Chronicles. 

These words were applied, in Hebrew antiquity, from 
Samuel’s time until after the return from captivity, to 
men inspired by God (comp. Amos iii. 7 ; 2 Pet. i, 21, by 
the spirit of Jehovah ; Ezek. xi, 5; xxxvii, I, expressed 
in different forms; iii, 14; 2 Chron. xxiv, 20; comp. 
Gesen. Comment zu Is. i, 338; Thesanr. ii, 742) who 
comprehended the principles of the theocracy, and were 
devoted to them, denouncing in energetic terms all that 
tended to undermine them ; though in earlier days the 
name of prophet had been given to those who stood in re- 
lations of confidence with God (Gen. xx, 7 ; Exod. vii, 1 ; 
xv, 20, etc.). Of the activity of these prophets among 
foreigners but one example is given (Jonah i, 2 sq.). At 
first they appear but occasionally, where the welfare of 
the people is in danger, or as counsellors of the theocratic 
kings (1 Sam. xxii, 5; 2 Sam. vii, 2 sq.); but when the 
kingdom was divided, a wider field was open to them 
(2 Kings xvii. 13 sq.). As the fate of the people drew 
near, they raised their voices the more earnestly — re- 
buking now idolatry, religious affectation, immorality; 


now the wicked and selfish government, and the false 
policy of the king and the grandees of the realm ; now 
warning or threatening the thankless people with the 
judgments of Jehovah ; now casting a glance to the en- 
nobled form of the theocracy again arising from this 
ruin of the national welfare and honor. Public places — 
markets (Amos v, 10; Isa. xxix, 21), streets, the courts 
of the Temple (Jer. vii, l: xix, 14; xxvi, 2; comp, xxix, 
26) — were usually the localities of their action (xxv, 2). 
But they also went, though not welcome then, to the 
palaces of kings and their noblemen (Isa. xxii, 15), 
shunning no danger or repulse (Ezek. xiii, 5). Thus 
their order formed a beneficial balance against the mis- 
use of the royal power, the narrow sympathies and tini- 
ness of the priests, the unthcoeratic tendencies of the 
people themselves, and accomplished a portion of that 
which is expected in modern times from representatives 
of the people and the free press. It would be proper 
to call the prophets demagogues , in the original and best 
sense, as popular leaders (De Wette, Christl. Sittenl. II, 
i, 32). Since in the theocracy religious and political 
elements were mingled, the subject and the aim of the 
efforts of the prophets belonged sometimes to the one 
class, sometimes to the other; but. was never merely po- 
litical, Since a religious reference is found in all. Their 
views could not be limited to the present, but extended 
to the future which should succeed it (comp. Von Raumer, 
Varies, iiber allgemeine Gesch. i, 153; Ewald, Proph. i, 
24); but usually not to a distant future, severed by cen- 
turies from the present. This we learn by an unpreju- 
diced examination of the prophecies yet remaining, and 
a comparison of their contents with the historical stand- 
point of the authors. Indeed, the minute prediction of 
very distant events, overleaping the immediate future, 
would have bad no purpose for the generation then liv- 
ing, nor would it have furthered the interests of the theoc- 
racy as a holy community. Yet Eiehhorn has pressed 
this view too far ( De Prophet. Poes. Ilebr. Paralip., in the 
Comment. Soc. Gotting. Rec. v). The image of th e future 
suggested by the prophets is naturally connected with 
the present of the author; hence we can often, as in the 
Chaldee period, trace a chronological progress from the 
indefinite and general to the definite and special. Only 
in one group of prophecies did they leave the relations 
and circumstances of their own times and direct the 
people to a distant ideal future, when, not satisfied with 
the immediate future, they speak of the Messiah and 
his blessed kingdom to come; and it was this hope of 
the Messiah and the renewal of their kingdom under 
him, set forth and cherished by the prophets, which 
gave the religious life of the nation that new, peculiar 
impulse which secured them so important a place in tlie 
history of religion and of man (comp. Crusius, AW. 77/e#/, 
p. 39 sq., 67 ; De Wette, Christl. Sittenl. II, i, 34). The 
form of the prophetic representations was simple and 
artless; sometimes in dialogue (Jer. xxviii), yet never 
without the rhythm which is so natural to the rapid 
speech of the Orientals; never without imaginative el- 
evation (comp. Ewald, A iisfuhr. Lehrb. d. Ilebr. Spr. p. 
138 sq. ; Umbrcit, De V. T. Prophetis Claris. Antiq, 
Temp. Orat. [Heidelb. 1832]: Ewald, Propheten. i, 49 
sq.), and often was poetical (Amos v, l sip; Isa. v, 1). 
The early prophecies seem to have been accompanied 
by music, which was used as an aid to religious feeling 
(2 Kings iii, 15), and all of them by energetic gestures; 
and often symbolic actions were connected with them 
(1 Kings xi, 29 sq. ; Jer. xix, 1 sq. ; xxviii; xxxv; 
xliii, 9 sq.; Ezek. iv; xii, 3 sq.; xxiv, 3 sq. ; xxxvii, 
15 sq.), or symbolic costume (Isa. xx, 2 sq. ; comp. Stfiud- 
lin, Neve Beitr. znr Erldut. d. bibl. Proph. p. 123 sq. ; see 
Jahn, Einleit. ii, 395; Gesen. Com. zu Is. i, 645). It 
should be borne in mind that the inhabitants of warmer 
climates are more prone to such off-hand oratory by 
their active imagination. Yet the comparisons some- 
times instituted between the Hebrew prophets and the 
Italian improvi sat ores or the Greek seers (gen rete ; ; 
Ritter, in Scherer’s Schriftforscli. i, 372 sq.) are worth- 


SEER 


508 


SEER 


loss (so De Wette, Pr. de Prophetar. in V. T. [Berl. 
1816]; also in liis Opusc. Theol. p. 16 sq. ; Stiekel, I)e 
Prophet . II eh., in Illgen’s Zeitschr.X , ii, 55 sq.). The 
impulse to speak in the Hebrew prophets must be 
sought deeper than in the natural activity of imagina- 
tion. 

At a later day (after the 9th century- B.C.; comp. Eieh- 
horn, in his Biblioth.f. bill. Lit. x, 1077 sq.) prophetic 
writing became connected with prophetic utterance 
(Ewald, fsr. Geseh. iii, 351 sq.), at first to preserve with 
certainty the contents of important predictions (Isa. viii, 
1, 16; comp, xxx, 8), or in obedience to a divine com- 
mand (Jer. xxx, 2; xxxvi, 2, 28; comp. Rev. i, 11, 19; 
xxi, 5) ; hence, perhaps, first simply records of their ut- 
terances to t lie people, and then often addresses penned 
as soon as conceived and given in writing to the people 
through amanuenses (corn}). Pries, De Prophetis et. A post. 
A manuens. Opera in Scribend. Usis [Rostock, 1757]), or 
even borne by messengers to a distance (Jer. xxix ; 
comp. 2 Chron. xxi, 12). The people attached great 
value to the intercession of the prophets with God (Jer. 
xlii, 2). This accorded with their relation to Jehovah 
and was part of their calling (vii, 16; xi, 14; xiv, 11 ; 
comp. Job xlii, 8, 10). Besides their labors for the pro- 
tection and advancement of the theocracy, the prophets 
were often useful to their countrymen and even to for- 
eigners (2 Kings v) by their medical and scientific 
knowledge and skill (ii, 19 sq. ; iv, 38 sq. ; xx, 7 sq. ; 
comp. 1 Kings xiv, 2 sq.). and, filled with the spirit of 
God, even wrought miracles [see Eltjaii; Elisha] 
(comp. Luke vii, 16). So there seem to have been the- 
ocratic historians, perhaps before the prophets became 
writers, who, sharing the views and sympathies of the 
prophets, wrote t lie history of a reign or of a period, 
mingling with it more or fewer prophetic utterances 
(2 Chron. ix, 29; xii, 15; xiii, 22; xxvi,22; xxxii, 32 ; 
comp. Gesen. Comment . zu Is. i, 24 sq,). 

The dress of the prophets was usually a long folding 
mantle (1 Kings xix, 13; 2 Kings ii, 8, 13) of coarse, 
hairy stuff (Zech. xiii, 4; 2 Kings i, 8), without care as 
to the cut (hence sal', pb, Isa. xx, 2), and held together 
by a leather girdle (2 Kings i,8) ; a dress which corre- 
sponded best with the serious nature of the prophet’s , 
calling (comp. Matt, iii, 4 ; see Henke, Mag. iv, 191 sq.; 
Nicolai, De Proph. Jud. Yestitu [Magdeb. 1744] ; comp. I 
the cloak or pallium of the Greek philosophers; Ferrar, 
De lie res/ 1 , ii, 4, 14. On the clothing of the Eastern 
dervishes, see Ilarmer, Observ. iii, 374 sq.). It is not 
strange that the prophets, on the one hand, were the 
objects of superstitious veneration (comp. 1 Kings xvii, 
18), and, on the other, by their bold reproof of all im- 
piety and wickedness, became, as the fate of the state 
grew certain, more and more subject to the opposition 
and open persecution of the priesthood and of despotic 
or idolatrous kings. In the kingdom of Israel they 
were first oppressed, and almost exterminated (xviii ; 
xix, 14, 19), sharing under Ahab the fate of all pious 
worshippers of Jehovah. Only under the pressure of 
necessity did the kings there apply to them (xxii, 7 sq.; 
2 Kings iii, 11 sq.; vi, 12 sq.) ; and they were forbidden 
to address the people (Amos vii, 10 sq.). This was a 
censorship wielded by the priests. From 2 Kings iv, 
23, we .see that on Sabbaths and new moons the pious 
Israelites met for worship with one of the prophets. 
But this was not so general as to justify ns in saving 
that the prophets took the place of the Levitical priest- 
hood (comp. ver. 42), although it is certain that the 
worship and knowledge of Jehovah in the kingdom of 
Israel were supported mainly through the prophets. In 
the kingdom of Judah the prophets were early met by 
infidel mockery (Isa. v, 19; xxviii, 10, 22), or by a sense 
of security that heeded no alarm (Mic. ii, G sq.). We 
are told that Manasseh slew some prophets every day 
(Josephus, Ant. x, 3, 1 ; comp. 2 Kings xxi. 16); it is 
more certain that Asa imprisoned the seer Ilanaui 
(2 Chron. xvi, 10); that under Jehoash and Joiachim I 


two prophets atoned for their boldness with their lives 
(xxiv, 20 sq. ; Jer. xxvi, 20 sq.); and that Jeremiah, 
above all, was the object of the bitter hate and active 
persecution of the united court and priesthood, who sup- 
ported themselves by false prophets. See Jekemiah. 
But the educated laity and the officers of state thought 
they had long outgrown the prophetic utterances, and 
that their views of state policy were deeper; and thus 
the state became ever more worldly. Afterwards, the 
remembrance of the abuse offered the prophets was a 
sad one for the people (Neh. ix, 26; Matt, v, 12; xxiii, 
31 ; Acts vii, 52 ; 1 Thess. ii, 15), which was little weak- 
ened by the zeal of the later Jews to seek out and adorn 
the tombs of the prophets. False prophets, or orators, 
who flattered the prevailing political principles, and 
even did homage to the abandoned wickedness of the 
times (Jer. xxiii. 14, 15; xxviii, 15), yet gave them- 
selves out as inspired by the Divine Spirit, appear, es- 
pecially in the last terrible period of the kingdom, in 
league with the priests (v, 13,31 ; vi, 13; viii, 10; xiv, 
14); and the true prophets of Jehovah not only came, 
at times, into open conflict with them (xxvi, 7 sq.; 
xxviii; comp, v, 15), but spoke by inspiration against 
them (xiv, 13 sq. ; xxiii, 16 sq.; xxvii, 9 sq. ; xxix, 31 
sq. ; Ezek. xiii, 2 sq.; xxii, 25; Ilos. ix, 7 sq. ; Mic. iii, 
1 1). In the law (Dent, xiii, 1 sq. ; xviii, 20) false proph- 
ecy was punished with death (Schroder, De Pseudopj'o- 
phetis [Marburg, 1720], ii, 4). 

The origin of the prophets, in the meaning we have 
unfolded, is to be referred to the end of the period of the 
Judges, or to the time of Samuel (comp. Acts iii, 24), 
who was himself a prophet (1 Sam. iii, 20), and may be 
considered as having founded the order by establishing 
schools of prophets (comp. esp. xix, 24), and to have 
pointed out its relations to the theocracy. Tholuck 
( Literar. Anzeiger, 1831, i, 38), indeed, makes these 
schools of the prophets to be merely a union of helpers 
of the prophets in their arduous office, such as Baruch 
was, who, besides the study of the law, busied themselves 
with sacred music; but this lacks support. Prophecy, 
indeed, could not be taught ; and, no doubt, many of the 
scholars never received the inner prophetic call. But 
this is true now in our theological schools, yet we do 
not, on this account, consider them mere institutions for 
educating clerks, etc. Moses, in the wilderness, had 
given instances, in his own person, of every kind of pro- 
phetic duty; but afterwards, when t lie great labor to be 
done was the establishment of the theocratic nation in 
Palestine, and the spirit of Jehovah raised up warriors 
(the Shophtim, or Judges ), there was little need of sacred 
oratory (Judg. iv, 4 sq.; vi. 8 sq.; 1 Sam. ii, 27 sq.), and 
the people saw in their prophets simply wise men, sooth- 
sayers (hence the older name roeh of prophets, which 
is applied even to Samuel [1 Chron. ix, 22; xxix, 29, 
etc.], though he is called also nabi [I Sam. iii, 20]), a 
view which prevailed up to Samuel’s time (ix, 8 sip), 
while even later the prophets were chiefly sought by 
the people as wonderful physicians and miracle-work- 
ers. It is clear that Samuel by no means first founded 
prophecy among the Hebrews, as, indeed, such a spirit- 
ual movement cannot be voluntarily inaugurated among 
a people; but that he was led on by the establishment 
of royalty to impart to the prophets his judicial relation 
(Judg. vi and 1 Sam.). On the schools of the prophets, 
see Vitringa, Synag. Yet. i, 2, 7 ; Buddei 1 list. Keel. I'. 
Test, ii, 276 sq.; Maii Exercit. i, 645 sq. ; Werenfels, 
Diss. de Scholls Proph. (Basle, 1701); Kahl, De Proph. 
Scholl. (Gott. 1737); Ilering, Abh. von. den Schul. der 
Proph. (Bresl. 1777); Staudlin, Geseh. der Sittenl. i. 203 
sq. They existed in various cities, those often which 
had an ancient character for sanctity, especially Ramah 
(1 Sam. xix, 19, 20), Jericho (2 Kings ii, 5), at Bethel 
(ver. 3), at Gilgal (iv, 38), all in the central part of the 
Holy Land. The pupils, who were not all young or un- 
married men (ver. I), lived together (vi, 1), sometimes 
in great numbers (ii, 16; comp. 1 Kings xviii, 4, 13), had 
common fare (2 Kings iv, 38 sq.),and provided together 


SEER 


500 


SEER 


for their wants. As to the nature of the instruction, we 
have no particulars. Music and singing were certainly 
among the subjects taught (1 Sam. x,5; comp. Forkel, 
Gesch. d. M ns. i, 238, 245, 248,438 sq.) ; but, perhaps, more 
for the cultivation of noble sentiments, and for awakening 
inner feeling, than as an accompaniment to their exhor- 
tations. The cultivation of lyric poetry by them can- 
not be altogether denied, yet the extent of it has been 
exaggerated, and the history derives the flourishing of 
this kind of poetry from a royal minstrel (Naelitigal, in 
Henke’s Mag. vi, 38 sq. ; see contra Bengel, Supplem. ad 
Introd. in Lib. Psalm. [Tiib. 181G] p. 5 sq. ; De Wette, 
Comm. iib. d. Psalm, p. 9 sq., 3d ed.). The chief subject 
of instruction was probably the law, not in its details in 
writing, but as a great whole, a theocratic conception.; 
and the awakening and cultivation of the true theocrat- 
ic spirit were the aim of all their labors. The pupils, 
when the impulse of the spirit eame upon them, some- 
times made excursions, during which others, who came 
near them, were momentarily influenced in the same 
way (1 Sam. x, 5 sq. ; xix, 20 sq.) ; and some were em- 
ployed, it would seem as a trial of them, as messengers 
of the prophets (2 Kings ix, 1). The comparison of the 
schools of the prophets with monkish cloisters (Jerome, 
Ep. 105, ad Rustic. Monach. and 58 .ad Paulin.) is wide 
of the mark (see Ilering, loc. cit. 71 sq.) ; and if any 
parallel is to be sought for anything so peculiar, that 
with Pythagorean union (Tennemann, Gesch. der Phil. 
i, 94 sq.) will be found more appropriate. Moreover, it 
is not to be supposed that all the prophets, or that the 
most influential of those known to us, were educated in 
these schools. It was open to every man or woman 
who felt an inward call to this office to assume the du- 
ties of a prophet (Amos vii, 14); and the prophetic in- 
spiration often broke forth suddenly (2 Chron. xx, 14 
sq.). There were also instances in which the calling of 
prophet seemed to be hereditary in one family (1 Kings 
xvi, 1 ; comp. Amos vii, 14 ; on Zeeh. i, 1, see Kosenmul- 
ler, ad loc.). Those who had been educated by older 
prophets seem usually to have been consecrated to their 
calling by anointing or the delivery of the prophet’s 
mantle (1 Kings xix, 16 sq. ; comp. 2 Kings ii, 13 sq.) ; 
but it was the inner voiee, or a vision, which directly 
impelled the prophets to step forward as sueh (Isa. vi: 
Jer. i, 2 ; Ezek. i). The eyele of prophetic activity was 
found, after the division, chiefly in the kingdom of Ju- 
dah, which, at least outwardly, had remained true to the 
theocratic constitution, the temple, the priesthood of Je- 
hovah, the dynasty of David; and even after the over- 
throw of this kingdom, and in exile, there were influen- 
tial pro) diets among the Jews. But in the kingdom of 
Israel (Eiehhorn, in his Biblioth.d. Bib!. Lit. iv, 193 sq.), 
whose establishment the prophets had aided, or, at least, 
not hindered (1 Kings xi, 29 sq.), their influence was 
interrupted and more of a negative character. In the 
changes of dynasties they not rarely took some part 
(xiv, 14 sq. ; xvi, 1 sq.; xxi, 17 sq.; 2 Kings ix, 1 sq.), 
in which they were actuated by religious views. It 
cannot be doubted that the activity of the prophets, in 
that long period, was one of the utmost value to the 
people; the spirit of the theocratic life was continually 
refreshed by them, and no other people of that age, or 
of modern times, has had anything comparable to them 
(comp. Eiehhorn, preface to his 4th vol. Einleit. ins 
A. T.). In this point of view, such laments as Psa. 
lxxiv, 9; Lam. ii, 9, find their full justification. 

The prophets mentioned in the Old Test, besides 
Moses ( Deut. xviii, 15; xxxiv, 10), and those whose 
books remain in the canon, are the following, nearly in 
chronological order: Samuel, Gad, Nathan [see these 
names], the two latter under David and Solomon ; Ahi- 
jali. Shemaiah, Iddo (1 Kings xi, 29; xii,22; xiv, 4 sq. ; 
2 Chron. xii, 15; xiii, 22), under Behoboam and Jero- 
boam ; Azariah, Ilananiah, Jehu, Mieah, Jehaziel, Eli- 
ezer, Oded (2 Chron. xv, 1, 8; xvi, 7 ; xx, 37 ; 1 Kings 
xvi, 1 ; xxii, 8), under Asa, Baasha, and Jeboshaphat; 
Elijah, Elisha, Micah, under Aliab and successors ; Zech- 


ariah (2 Chron. xxiv, 20), under Jehoash ; Jonah, under 
Jeroboam II (2 Kings xiv, 25); Oded, under Ahaz (2 
Chron. xxviii, 9); Uriah, under Joiachim (Jer. xxvi, 
20); besides three prophetesses— Deborah (Judg. iv, 4), 
lluldah, a married woman (2 Kings xxii, 14), and Noa- 
diah (Neh. vi, 14), a false prophetess. A far greater 
number are named, of both sexes, by Clement Alexan- 
drinus {Strom, i, 145; he gives thirty -/re), Epipha- 
nies (in Coteler’s Not. in Can. A post, iv, 6, serenty-hro), 
and the Jews {Seder Olam , p. 21, forty-eight projdiets , 
seven prophetesses). But they act in this without any 
settled principle, including almost every man of note in 
the Old Test, among the prophets. Prophecy disap- 
peared on the new establishment of the Jews in Pales- 
tine; and, indeed, the last prophets are thought to show 
less of the living inspiration than the earlier ones; and, 
alter the ereetion of the second Temple, no seer's voice 
was heard, although the return of the prophets was 
hoped for continually (1 Maec. iv, 46; xiv, 41). Ac- 
cording to the Talmudists the Bath kol sometimes took 
the place of prophecy. (Com]). Buxtorf, Lex. Talm. s. \% 
m, and Otbo, Lex. Rab. p. 82 sq. ; see also Schottgen, 
II or. Ilebr. i, 379, on the uneonseious soothsaying of the 
rabbins.. It has been applied to John xi, 51. That in 
1 Pet. i, 10 is different.) So entirely was the old in- 
spiration lost that even the patriotism of the Maccabees 
called forth nothing beyond military heroism. The 
birth and consecration of the Prince of the Prophets 
evoked inspired utterances from but two (Luke i, 67; ii, 
36). The appearance of Jesus even awakened false 
prophets, and, during the war of extermination between 
the Greeks and Bomans, “prophet” was synonymous with 
deceiver and seducer of the people. Only a few scat- 
tered utterances of soothsayers oeeur in the centuries 
following the captivity (Josephus, Ant. xiii, 10, 7; xiii, 
11,2; comp. War , vi, 5. 3). See Gtirtler, Systema Theol. 
Proph. (Amst. 1702); Witsii Miscel. Suer. bk. i, in 24 
chapters, on prophets and propheey ; Carpzov, Jntrod. in 
Y.T. p. 1 sq., ami his A ppar. p. 1 13 sq. ; Eiehhorn, Einleit. 
ins A. T. iv, § 512 sq. ; Jabn, Einleit. II, ii, 324 sq. ; Nie- 
meyer, Charakt. v, 245 sq. ; Herder, Geist der hebr. P. 
ii, 41 sq. ; Horst, Leber die Proph. der alten Welt , etc. 
(Gotha, 1798) ; Stutzmann, Geist v. Charakt. d. hebr. 
Proph. (Carlsr. 1805) ; Gramberg, Religiovsid. ii, 246 sq.; 
Von Colin, in Euphron. (1833) pt. i, ch. v; Knobel, Der 
Prophet ism. d. Ileb. (Bresl. 1837) ii, 8; Kbster, Die 
Prophet en d. A. n. N. Test, nach ihren Weseti u. Wirken 
(Leips. 1838) ; Ewald, Propheten d. alt. Bund. (Stuttg. 
1840) i, 1 sq. ; Hiivernick, Einleit. ins A. T. II, ii, 1 
sq. ; Baur, Amos (Giess. 1847), p. 1 sq. ; Hofmann, HV/s- 
sag. i, 253 sq. The writings of Dorotheus (ed. Fabric, 
[llamb. 1714]) contain traditions of the oldest prophets. 
So those of an unknown writer {Be Yitis Prophet .), some- 
times ascribed to Epiphanius. Comp. Hamaker, Com- 
ment. in Libr. de Vita et Morte Prophet. (Amst. 1833). 

On the meaning of the word “prophet” in the New 
Test., see the dictionaries. The name was given to 
certain Christians of both sexes (1 Cor. xi, 5; comp. 
Aets xxi, 9) who spoke in the publie assembly (1 Cor. 
xi, 4; xiv, 29), who were distinguished from apostles 
and teachers (xii, 28 ; xiv, 6 ; Eph. ii, 20 ; iv, 1 1 ; eomp. 
Acts xiii, 1 ; Neander. Pj/anz. i, 205). Prophecy was, 
among the charismata , a spiritual gift of the Holy 
Spirit (Bom. xii, 6; 1 Cor. xii, 10), and stood next to 
that of speaking with tongues (xii, 10; xiii, 8; xiv, 22; 
comp. Acts xix, 6), but is pointed out by I'anl as more 
efficacious for the edifying of the Church (1 Cor. xiv, 
3 sq., 22). See, in general, Van Dale, De ldolol. p. 201 
sq. ; Mosheim, De Ilf is qui Proph. 1 'ocantnr in X. T. 
(llelmst. 1732) ; also in his Dissert, ad Ilist. Eccl. ii, 125 
sq. ; Knapp [G.], De Dono Proph. in Eccl. X. T. (Ilalle, 
1755); Zacharias, De Donor. Proph. Yariis Grad, in 
Eccl. Christ. (Gott. 1767); Koppe, 3. Exc. zum Brief an 
die Eph. p. 148 sq. Thus prophets are those Christians 
who, seized by a momentary inspiration (Aets xix, 6), 
discoursed to the assembly in their own tongue (comp. 


SEETHING POT 


510 


SEILER 


1 Cor. xiv, 5, 24) oil divine things, perhaps not unlike 
preachers among the Quakers. (On the distinction be- 
tween these and those who spoke with tongues, see xiv, 
32; Neander, Pjlanz . c /. Christ, i, 52, 183 sq., 205.) The 
prediction of events to come was not the office of these 
prophets, yet they had some insight into the future of 
the Church. Comp, the Revelation of John ; Crusius 
[B.], Opusc. p. 101 sq. ; Lticke, Vollst. End. in die Ojenb. 
Joh. (Bonn, 1832). — Winer. See Proimiet. 

Seething Pot [not seeth big-put] “m, a pot 

blown , i. e. with a fanned tire under it), a kettle violently 
boiling (Job xli, 20 [lleb. 12]). Sec Pot. 

Sefer. See Seimier. 

Seforno. See Sforxo. 

Segelia, in Roman mythology, was a rural deity 
who secured growth to the germinating crops of grain. 

Segneri, Paolo (1), an Italian preacher, was born 
at Nettuno, March 21, 1024, of an old Roman family. 
In 1638 he entered the Order of the Jesuits at the Col- 
lege of St. Andrew, in Rome, where he taught grammar, 
and earnestly studied the Scriptures, the fathers, and 
the classical writers. Unable to obtain authority as a 
missionary to the Indies, he travelled on foot, from 1665 
to 1692, through Italy, especially in Perugia and Man- 
tua, gathering crowds to hear his discourses. Innocent 
XII called him to Rome in 1692 as his preacher in or- 
dinary ; but he was not so popular there, and was shortly 
appointed theologian to the penitentiary and examiner 
of bishops. His hearing, however, having failed, he 
died Dec. 9, 1694, worn out with labor, lie wrote sev- 
eral works on practical theology, which are enumerated 
in Hoefer, None. Biop. Generate, s. v. 

Segneri, Paolo (2), called the Younger , an Italian 
Jesuit, nephew of the foregoing, was born at Rome, Oct. 
18, 1673. He devoted himself to missions, and, after 
the earthquakes of 1708, he preached to the terrified Ro- 
mans. At the request of the archduke Como III, he 
occupied the pulpits of the principal churches of Flor- 
ence, Modena, and Bologna, and thus induced prince 
Frederick of Poland to abjure Lutheranism, lie died 
at Sinigaglia, June 15, 1713. He wrote a few works on 
practical religion. — Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Se'gub (lleb. Segub', 3 stab [v. r. in Kings Segib, 
elevated; Sc.pt. SeyocfS, v. r. in Chron. Sfpoux), 
the name of two Hebrews. 

1. The son of llezron, grandson of Judah. Ilis 
mother was the daughter of Macliir, the “father” of 
Gilead, and he was himself father of Jair (1 Chron. ii, 
21). B.C. cir. 1850. 

2. The youngest son of Iliel, the rebuilder of Jericho, 
who died for his father’s sin. according to Joshua’s pre- 
diction (1 Kings xvi, 34; comp. Josh, vi, 26). B.C. cir. 
910. According to Rabbinical tradition, he died when 
his father had set up the gates of the city. One story 
says that his father slew him as a sacrifice on the same 
occasion. 

Segur, Setii Willard, a Congregational minister, 
was born at Chittenden, Vt., Dec. 21, 1831. At fifteen 
years of age he united with the Church, and soon alter 
entered Royalton Academy, where he was fitted for col- 
lege. lie entered Middlebury College, and graduated in 
1859. After graduation he entered the Auburn (N. V.) 
Theological Seminary, and graduated in 1862. lie was 
licensed by the Royalton Association May 8, 1861, and 
soon after ordained, lie was installed over the Church 
in Tallmadgc, ()., June 8, 1862, and, after remaining 
nine years, resigned. Success attended his ministry, 
and during his pastorate one hundred and thirty-four 
were received into the Church. He was next settled at 
Gloucester, Mass., where he was installed June 14, 1871, 
and remained until 1873, when he resigned to accept a 
call to West Medway, over which Church he was duly 
installed. As a preacher his elocution was easy, grace- 
ful, and impressive, and many were drawn to the ways 


of righteousness. While on a visit to Tallmadge to at- 
tend a semi-centennial celebration of the Church he was 
taken sick, and after a short illness died, Sept, 24, 1875. 
(W. P. S.) 

Seguy, Joseph, a French Roman Catholic preacher, 
was born at Rodez in 1689. He was early remarkable 
for eloquence, and in 1729 was appointed to deliver be- 
fore the French Academy a eulogy on St. Louis, for 
which cardinal de Fleurv rewarded him with the abbey 
of Genlis. His success in other discourses was so great 
that the Academy, in 1736, gave him the prize for po- 
etry. Seguy bore the title of preacher to the king, and 
continued his ministry till advanced age, when he re- 
tired to a cauonicate that he held at Meaux. lie died 
March 12, 1761. Some of his sermons have been pub- 
lished. — Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Seho Dagung, in Hinduism, is the name of the 
magnificent pyramidal temple at Rangoon, almost en- 
tirely covered with gold, and dedicated to the supreme 
deity of the Birmanese. 

Seid, in Norse mythology, was a magical art uni- 
versally employed among the Vanes, in which Freva, 
who was descended from the Vanes, was particularly 
skilled, and in which she had received instruction from 
Odin. Nothing definite is known respecting the art it- 
self; but it would seem that a degree of knowledge in 
chemistry lay at its base, by which all kinds of elements 
became known. It was regarded as beneath the dig- 
nity of a man, however, and Odin was the only one who 
made use of it. — Vollmer, Wbrterb. d. Mgthol. s. v. 

Seidel, Caspar Timotheus, a Lutheran divine 
of Germany, was born Sept. 20, 1703, at Schoneberg, in 
Brandenburg, and died as doctor of divinity and abbot 
of Kbnigslutter, at llelmstadt, May 30, 1758. He wrote, 
Dissert at io, in qua ostendttur Pontijices in Ritu Confir- 
mationis a Praxi Ecclesiee Apostol. plane A berrare 
i (llelmstadt, 1732): — Programma de Quccstione an 
Christus Pascham suam Ultimam Uno Eodeinque Die 
cum Judceis comederet, necne ? (ibid. 1748): — Abhand- 
lung iiber die Sekte der Elcenseiten (ibid. 1749): — A n- 
iceisung zur Erkieirung der heit. Schrift. (Halle, 1759). 
See Fiirst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 308 ; Winer, IJandbuch der 
theol. Literatur. (B. P.) 

Seidel, Gotthold Emanuel Friedrich, a 

Lutheran theologian of Germany, born at Ezelwang, 
March 10, 1774, was appointed in 1802 deacon of St. 
/Egidius’s at Nuremberg, in 1817 pastor of the same 
church, and in 1829 dean of Nuremberg, where he died, 
Feb. 6, 1838. Seidel published several collections of 
sermons delivered at Nuremberg, which are enumerated 
in Zuchold, Biblioth. Theolog. p. 1211 sq. ; and in Winer, 
flandbuch der theol. Literatur. (B. P.) 

Seidel, Heinrich Alexander, a Lutheran the- 
ologian of Germany, was born Feb. 4, 1811, at Goldberg, 
in Mecklenburg-Schwerin. He studied at Rostock and 
Berlin, and in 1839 he was called to the pastorate at 
Berlin. In 1851 he was made pastor of St. Nicolai 
in Schwerin, but bodily infirmities obliged him to re- 
tire in 1859 from the pastorate, and he died Jan. 30, 
1861. Seidel is best known in German hymnology by 
his spiritual hymns, which he published in two collec- 
tions. entitled Kreuz und IJarfe (Schwerin and Ros- 
tock. 1839 and 1857). See Zuchold, Biblioth. Theolog. 
p. 1215; Koch, Geschichte des deutschcn Kii'chenliedes, 
vii. 294 sq. (B. P.) 

Seiler, Georg Fiuedricii, a German theologian, 
was born Oct. 24, 1733, at lvrenssen, near Bayreuth. In 
1761 he was deacon at Nenstadt-an-der-lleide, in 1764 
at Coburg; in 1770, professor of theology at Erlangen; 
in 1772, university preacher; in 1773, member of con- 
sistory and principal of an institute for morals and lib- 
eral arts, founded by himself at Erlangen. He died 
May 13, 1807. In theology he represented supranat- 
uralistic views, which he also propagated both as a 
teacher and a writer. His writings, mostly practical, 
arc many, and have often been republished. Of these we 


SEI1 


511 


SElll 


mention, Sermons (1769 sq. ; 4th ed. 1798) : — History of 
the Revealed Religion (1772; 9th ed. i860) : — Bibl. Kr- 
bauungsbuch (Erlangen, 1785-94, 17 vols.) : — Opuscula 
Academica (ibid. 1793), etc. See the Theol. Universal - 
Lexikon , s. v. ; Koch, Geschichte des deutschen Kirchen- 
liedes, vi, 223 sq. ; Zuchold, Bibl. Theolog. p. 1215 sq. ; 
F first, Jdibl. Jud. iii, 308. (B. I’.) 

Se'l’r ( Heb. Seir’, “l*C* w, hairy [i. e. rough , by a 
play upon the name of Esau , see Gen. xxv, 25]; Sept. 
Nig if), v. r. in No. 1 Nj/S’i'p, in No. 3 ’Acro-ap), the name 
of a man and of two mountains. 

1. A phvlarch or chief of the Horim, who were the 
former inhabitants of the country afterwards possessed 
by the Edomites (Gen. xxvi, 20, 21 ; l Chron. i, 38). 
B.C. ante I960. The region doubtless derived its name 
from him (comp. Josephus, 2attpa, Ant . ii, 1, 1). 

2. Mount Seir (T^b ^n,Gen.xiv,6 sq.),or Land 

of Seir (“P“b xxxii, 3 ; xxxvi, 30), was the 

original name of the mountain ridge extending along 
the east side of the valley of Arabah, from the Dead 
Sea to the Elanitic Gulf. The name ( = “the shaggy”) 
was probably in the first instance derived from Seir 
the Horite, who appears to have been the chief of the 
aboriginal inhabitants (xxxvi, 20), and then, second- 
arily, by a paronomasia frequent in such cases, from the 
rough aspect of the whole country. The view from 
Aaron’s tomb on Ilor, in the centre of Mount Seir, is 
enough to show the appropriateness of the appellation. 
The sharp and serrated ridges, the jagged rocks and 
cliffs, the straggling bushes and stunted trees, give the 
whole scene a sternness and ruggedness almost unpar- 
alleled. In the Samaritan Pentateuch, instead of 

the name i"li323 is used; and in the Jerusalem Targum, 
in place of “Mount Seir” we find fcOlU, Mount 

Gabla. The word Gabla signifies “mountain,” and is 
thus descriptive of the region (Reland, Palrest. p. 83). 
The name Gebala, or Gebalene, was applied to this 
province by Josephus, and also by Eusebius and Jerome 
(Josephus, A nt. ii. 1,2; Onomast. s. v. “ Idumaea”). The 
northern section of Mount Seir, as far as Petra, is still 
called Jebdl, the Arabic form of Gebal. The Mount 
Seir of the Bible extended much farther south than 
the modern province, as is shown by the words of Dent, 
ii, 1-8. In fact, its boundaries are there defined with 
tolerable exactness. It had the Arabah on the west 
(ver. 1 and 8): it extended as far south as the head of 
the Gulf of Akabah (ver. 8); its eastern border ran along 
the base of the mountain range where the plateau of Ara- 
bia begins. Its northern bonier is not so accurately de- 
termined. The land of Israel, as described by Joshua, 
extended from “the Mount Ilalak that goeth up to 
Seir, even unto Baal Gad” (Josh. xi. 17). As no part 
of Edom was given to Israel, Mount Ilalak must have 
been upon its northern border. Now there is a line of 
“naked” ( kulak signified “naked”) white hills or cliffs 
which runs across the great valley about eight miles 
south of the Dead Sea, forming the division between 
the Arabah proper and the deep Ghor north of it. The 
view of these cliffs, from the shore of the Dead Sea, is 
very striking. They appear as a line of bills shutting 
in the valley, and extending up to the mountains of 
Seir. The impression left by them on the mind of the 
writer was that this is the very “Mount Ilalak, that 
goeth up to Seir” (Robinson, Bib. Res. ii, 113, etc.; see 
Keil on Josh.xi , 17). The northern border of the mod- 
ern district of Jebal is Wady el-Ahsv, which falls into 
the Ghor a few miles farther north (Burckhardt, Syria , 
p. 401). 

In Dent, xxxiii, 2, Seir appears to be connected with 
Sinai and Paran; but a careful consideration of that 
difficult passage proves that the connection is not a 
geographical one. Moses there only sums up the sev- 
eral glorious manifestations of the divine majesty to 
the Israelites, without regard either to time or place 
(comp. Judg. v, 4, 5). 


Mount Seir was originally inhabited by the Ilorites, 
or “ troglodytes,” who were doubtless the excavators 
of those singular rock-dwellings found in such num- 
bers in the ravines and cliffs around Petra. They were 
dispossessed, and apparently annihilated, by the poster- 
ity of Esau, who “dwelt in their stead” (Deut. ii, 12). 
The history of Seir thus early merges into that of 
Edom. Though the country was afterwards called 
Edom, yet the older name, Seir, did not pass away: it 
is frequently mentioned in the subsequent history of 
the Israelites (1 Chron. iv, 42; 2 Chron. xx, 10). Mount 
Seir is the subject of a terrible prophetic curse pro- 
nounced by Ezekiel (ch. xxxv), which seems now to 
be literally fulfilled: “Thus saith the Lord God, Be- 
hold, O Mount Seir, I am against thee, and I will make 
thee most desolate. 1 will lay thy cities waste, . . . 
when the whole earth rejoieeth 1 will make thee des- 
olate. ... I will make tliee perpetual desolations, and 
thy cities shall not return, and ye shall know that 1 am 
the Lord.” — Smith. 

The southern part of this range now bears the appel- 
lation esh-Sherah, which seems no other than a modifi- 
cation of the ancient name. In modern times these 
mountains were first visited and described by Bitrck- 
hardt (Syria, p. 40), but they have often since been 
visited by other travellers, among whom Dr. Robinson 
has perhaps furnished the best description of them 
(Bib. Res. ii, 551, 552). At the base of the chain are 
low hills of limestone or argillaceous rock ; then lofty 
masses of porphyry, which constitute the body of the 
mountain; above these is sandstone broken into irreg- 
ular ridges and grotesque groups of cliffs; and again, 
farther back, and higher than all, are long elevated 
ridges of limestone without precipices. Beyond all 
these stretches off indefinitely the high plateau of the 
great eastern desert. The height of the porphyry cliffs 
is estimated by Dr. Robinson at about 2000 feet above 
the Arabah (the great valley between the Dead Sea 
and Elanitic Gulf); the elevation of Wady Musa above 
the same is perhaps 2000 or 2200 feet; while the lime- 
stone ridges farther back probably do not fall short of 
3000 feet. The whole breath of the mountainous tract 
between the Arabah and the eastern desert above does 
not exceed fifteen or twenty geographical miles. These 
mountains are quite different in character from those 
which front them on the other (west) side of the Ara- 
bah. The latter seem to be not more than two thirds 
as high as the former, and are wholly desert and ster- 
ile ; while those on the east appear to enjoy a sufficiency 
of rain, and are covered with tufts of herbs and occa- 
sional trees. The valleys are also full of trees and 
shrubs and flowers, the eastern and higher parts being 
extensively cultivated, and yielding good crops. The 
general appearance of the soil is not unlike that around 
Hebron, though the face of the country is very differ- 
ent. It is, indeed, the region of which Isaac said to his 
son Esan, “Behold, thy dwelling shall be [far] from 
the fatness of the earth, and the dew of heaven from 
above” (Gen. xxvii, 39). — Kitto. See Idum.fa. 

3 . An entirely different mountain from the foregoing 
formed one of the landmarks on the north boundary of 
the territory of Judah (Josh, xv, 10 only). It lay west- 
ward of Kirjath-jearim, and between it and Beth-shc- 
mesh. If Kuriet el-Enab be the former, and Ain-shems 
the latter of these two, then Mount Seir cannot fail to 
be the ridge which lies between the Wady Alv and the 
Wady Ghurab (Robinson, Bib. Res. iii, 155). A village 
called Saris stands on the southern side of this ridge, 
which Tobler (I)ritte Wanderung, p. 203) and Schwarz 
(Palest, p. 97 ) with great probability identify with Seir, 
notwithstanding considerable difference in the names. 
The Sa'irah , on the south of the Wady Surar (Robin- 
son, 1st ed. ii, 364), is nearer in orthography, but not so 
suitable in position. It is possibly the Nuipi/c, which, 
in the Alex. MS., is one of the eleven names inserted 
by the Sept, in Josh, xv, 59. The neighboring names 
agree. In the Vat. MS. it is 'Ew/3i/£. 


SE IK ATI I 


512 


SELAH 


How the name of Seir came to be located so far to 
the north of the main seats of the Sei rites we have no 
means of knowing. Perhaps, like other names occur- 
ring in the tribe of Benjamin, it is a monument of ail 
incursion by the Edomites which has escaped record. 
See Oi’iini, etc. But it is more probable that it derived 
its name from some peculiarity in the form or appear- 
ance of the spot. l)r. Kobiuson (iii, 155), apparently 
without intending any allusion to t lie name of Seir, 
speaks of the u rugged points which composed the main 
ridge” of the mountain in question. Such is the mean- 
ing of the Hebrew word Seir. Whether there is any 
connection between this mountain and Set rath (q. v.), 
or has-Seiruh, is not so clear. The name is not a com- 
mon one, and it is not unlikely that it may have been 
attached to the more northern continuation of the hills 
of Judah which ran up into Benjamin — or, as it was 
then called, Mount Ephraim. — Smith. 

Se'irath (Hcb. with the art. has-Setrah', 
the shayyy ; Sept. v. r. y.hr Hp<,o$d ; Vulg. Sei- 

rath). the place to which Blind tied after his murder 
of Eglon (Judg. iii, 2(5), and whither, bv blasts of his 
cow- horn, he collected his countrymen for the at- 
tack of the Moabites in Jericho (ver. 27). It was in 
"Mount Ephraim 1 ’ (ver. 27), a continuation, perhaps, 
of the same rough wooded hills (such seems to be the 
signification of Seir) which stretched even so far south 
as to join the territory of Judah (Josh, xv, 10). The 
definite article prefixed to the name in the original 
shows that it was a well-known spot in its day. — Smith. 
It is probably the same as Mount Seir (q. v.) just re- 
ferred to. fhe Saris of the present day. 

Seirim. See Satyr. 

Seite, in Lapp mythology, are deities whose office 
it was to promote the fertility of fields and herds. Very 
little is known respecting the form they assumed in the 
popular conception. They are said to have had feet 
like birds. 

Seitonji, in Prussian mythology, were the lowest 
class of priests, of whom each village had one or more. 
They were regarded with great awe, but did not, like 
the other priests, enjoy the respect of the people. 

Seja. in Roman mythology, is (1) a surname of For- 
tuna. to whom Servins Tullius dedicated a temple. (2) 
A Roman deity of sowing. 

Seja. in Hindi) mythology, is identical with .4»r7«- 
da, the noted serpent which was wound about the moun- 
tain Mandar in order to turn it into the 31 ilk Sea. 

Se'la (Ileb. with the art. has - Se'la, !>*bpn, the 
rock, as rendered in Judg. i, 80; 2 Chron. xxv, 12; 
Obad. 3; and by the Sept. [ //] 7rtrpn; A. A”. “Selah” in 
2 Kings xiv, 7), the name given in the above passages, 
and (in the A. V.) in Isa. xvi, 1, to the metropolis of 
the Edomites in Mount Seir. In the Jewish history it 
is recorded that Amaziah. king of Judah, ‘‘slew of 
Edom, in the valley of salt, ten thousand, and took 
Sela by war, and called the name of it Joktheel unto 
this day” (2 Kings xiv, 7). The parallel narrative of 2 
Chron. xxv, 11-13 supplies fuller details. From it wc 
learn that, having beaten the Edomitish army with a 
great slaughter in the "valley of salt” — the valley 
south of the Dead Sea — Amaziah took those who were 
not slain to the clift*. mid threw them headlong over it. 
This cliff is asserted by Eusebius (Onomast. iGrpn) to 
be "a city of Edom, also called by the Assyrians Re- 
kem ,” by which there is no doubt that he intends Petra 
(see ibid. ‘P tKf/i, and the quotations in Stanley's Sin. 
and Pal. p. 1)4, note). The title thus bestowed is said 
to have continued “unto this day.” This. Kcil re- 
marks. is a proof that the history was nearly contempo- 
rary with the event, because Amaziah’s conquest was 
lost again by Ahaz less than a century afterwards (2 
Chron. xxviii, 17). This latter name seems, however, 
to have passed away with the Hebrew ride over Edom, 


for no further trace of it is to be found; and it is still 
called by its original name by Isaiah (xvi, l). These 
are all the certain notices of the place in Scripture; for 
it may well be doubted whether it is designated in Judg. 
i, 30 and Isa. xlii, 1 1, as some suppose. On the ground 
of the sameness of signification, it is by common consent 
identified with the city later known as Petra , 500 Ro- 
man miles from Gaza (Pliny, vi, 32), the ruins of which, 
now called those of Wady J liisa, are found about two 
days' journey north of the top of the Gulf of Akaba, and 
three or four south from Jericho. This place was in the 
midst of Mount Seir, in the neighborhood of Mount llor 
(Josephus, J/if. iv, 4, 7), and therefore in Edomitish ter- 
ritory, but seems to have afterwards come under the 
dominion of Moab. In the end of the 4th century B.C. 
it appears as the headquarters of the Nabathieaus, who 
successfully resisted the attacks of Antigonus (Diod. 
Sic. [ed. Ilanov. 1004] xix. 731), and under them be- 
came one of the greatest stations for the approach of 
Eastern commerce to Rome (id. p. 94; Strabo, xvi, 
799; Apul. Flor. i, 0). About B.C. 70 Petra appears as 
the residence of the Arab princes named Arctas (Jose- 
phus, Ant. xiv, 1, 4; 5, l, War, i, G, 2; 29, 3). It was 
by Trajan reduced to subjection to the Roman empire 
(Dion Cass, lxviii, 14), and from the next emperor re- 
ceived the name of f/cnlriana, as appears from the legend 
of a coin (Roland, Pahest. p. 931). Josephus (.1 nt. iv, 4, 
7) gives the name of Arce (”Apic/j) as an earlier synonym 
for Petra, where, however, it is probable that 'Apm'ip or 
’Apicip (alleged by Eusebius, Onomast., as found in Jo- 
sephus) should be read. The city Petra lay, though at 
a high level, in a hollow shut in by mountain-cliffs, and 
approached only by a narrow ravine through which, 
and across the city's site, the river winds (Pliny, vi, 32; 
Strabo, xvi, 779). See Petra. 

Se'la-liammah'lekoth (Heb. Se'la hammach- 
lekoth'y nipbn^n 3.*bD; Sept. 7 rirpa i) pepiaSticrci ; 
Vulg. Petra diridens). a rock in the wilderness of Mann, 
the scene of one of those remarkable escapes which are 
so frequent in the history of Saul’s pursuit of David (1 
Sam. xxiii, 28). Its name, if interpreted as Hebrew, 
signifies the "rock of escapes.” or "of divisions.” The 
former is the explanation of Gesenius ( Thesatir . p. 485), 
the latter of the Targum and the ancient Jewish inter- 
preters (Midrash ; Rashi). The escape is that of Da- 
vid ; the divisions are those of Sauls mind, undecided 
whether to remain in pursuit of his enemy or to go after 
the Philistines; but such explanations, though appro- 
priate to cither interpretation, and consistent with the 
Oriental habit of playing on words, are doubtless mere 
accommodations. The analogy of topographical no- 
menclature makes it almost certain that this cliff must 
have derived its name either from its smoothness (one 
of the radical meanings of pbn) or from some peculiar- 
ity of shape or position, such as is indicated in the trans- 
lations of the Sept, and Vulgate. — Smith. The diri- 
sions characteristic of the mountain, or rather cliff (for 
such Sela properly means), probably were the seams or 
ranttes down its sides, which furnished David the means 
of escape. According to Lieut. Conder (Tent llor/; in 
Palestine , ii, 91), the name Mtildky is still applied to 
part of a rocky gorge between Ziph and Maon, “seamed 
with many torrent-beds.” 

Se'lah (2 Kings xiv, 7). See Sela. 

Se'lah (Hcb. id. nbol. This word, which is only 
found in the poetical books of the Old Test., occurs sev- 
enty-one times in the Psalms, and three times in Ilab- 
akknk. In sixteen psalms it is found once, in fifteen 
twice, in seven three times, and in one four times — al- 
ways at the end of a verse, except in Psa. Iv, 19 [20]; 
Ivii, 3 [4], and Hah. iii, 3, 9, where it is in the middle 
of a verse, though at the end of a clause. All the psalms 
in which it. occurs, except eleven (iii, vii, xxiv, xxxii, 
xlviii, 1. lxxxii, Ixxxiii, Ixxxvii, Ixxxix. exliii). have 
also the musical direction "to the Chief Musician” 


SELAH 


513 


SELAH 


(comp, also llab. iii, 19); and in these exceptions we 
find the words mizmdr (A. V. “Psalm”), Sliig- 

gaion, or Masehil, which sufficiently indicate that they 
were intended for music. Besides these, in the titles 
of the psalms in which Selah occurs, we meet with the 
musical terms Alamoth (xlvi), Altaschith (lvii, lix, 
lxxv), Gittith (Ixxxi, Ixxxiv), Mahalath Leannoth 
(Ixxxviii), Mich tarn (lvii, lix, lx), Neginah (Ixi), Ne- 
ginoth (iv, liv, lv, Ixvii, lxxvi ; comp. Ilah. iii, 19), 
and Shushan-eduth (lx); and on this association alone 
might be formed a strong presumption that, like these, 
Selah itself is a term which had a meaning in the mu- 
sical nomenclature of the Hebrews. What that mean- 
ing may have been is now a matter of pure conjecture. 
Of the many theories which have been framed, it is 
easier to say what is not likely to be the true one than 
to pronounce certainly upon what is. 

1. The Versions . — In the far greater number of in- 

stances the Targum renders the word by "ppbpP, “for- 
ever;” four times (Psa. xxxii, 4, 7 ; xxxix, 11 [12]; 4 
[6]) once (xiiv, 8 [9])’ ‘ppbp pbpb ; and 

(xlviii, 8 [9]) ’ppbp “ ! pbp with the same mean- 
ing, “for ever and ever.” In Psa. xlix, 13 [14] it has 

^,‘cbvb, “for the world to come;” in Psa. xxxix, 
5 [G] X^bp “^nb, “for the life everlasting;” and in 
Psa. cxl, 5 [G] JO'Hn, “continually.” This interpre- 
tation, which is the one adopted by the majority of 
Rabbinical writers, is purely traditional, and based upon 
no etymology whatever. It is followed by Aquila, who 
renders “ Selah” del ; by the editio quinta and editio 
sexto, which usually give respectively lunravrog and 
€i ’c oc; by Symmachus (tit; rbv aimva) and Theo- 
dotion (etc WXot;)? in Ilabakkuk ; by the reading of the 
Alex. MS. (tf’c rtXoe) in Hab. iii, 13; by the I’eshito- 
Svriac in Psa. iii, 8 [9] , iv, 2 [3] , xxiv, 10, and llab. 
iii, 13; and by Jerome, who has semper. In Psa. lv, 19 
[20] Clj?, kede.m selah , is rendered in the Peshito 
“ from before the world.” That this rendering is man- 
ifestly inappropriate in some passages, as, for instance, 
Psa. xxi, 2 [3]; xxxii, 4; Ixxxi, 7 [8], and llab. iii, 
3, and superfluous in others, as Psa. xliv, 8 [9] ; Ixxxiv, 
4 [5] ; Ixxxix, 4 [5], was pointed out long since by 
Aben-Ezra. In the Psalms the uniform rendering of 
the Sept, is didtpaXpa. Symmachus and Theodotion 
give the same, except in Psa. ix, 1G [17], where Theo- 
dotion has del, and Psa. Iii, 5 [7], where Symmachus 
has eig dei. In Hab. iii, 13 the Alex. MS. gives eig re - 
Xo£. In Psa. xxxviii (in the Sept.), 7 ; Ixxx. 7 [8], 
dtcnpaXpa is added in the Sept., and in Hab. iii, 7 in 
the Alex. IMS. In Psa. lvii it is put at the end of ver. 
2; and in Psa. iii, 8 [9]; xxiv, 10, Ixxxviii. 10 [11], it 
is omitted altogether. In all passages except those al- 
ready referred to, in which it follows the Targum, the 
Peshito-Svriac has dips , an abbreviation for cidxpaXpa. 
This abbreviation is added in Psa. xlviii, 13 [14]; 1, 15 
[16]; Ixviii, 13 [14]; lvii, 2, Ixxx, 7 [8], at the end 
of the verse; and in Psa. Iii, 3 in the middle of the verse 
after 31^*2 ; in Psa. xlix it is put after in ver. 14 

[15], and in Psa. Ixviii, after in ver. 8 [9], and 

after D*n’btfb in ver. 32 [33]. The Vulgate omits it 
entirely, while in Hab. iii, 3 the editio sexta and others 
give f. terafioXt) Ciail/dXparog. 

2. The Church Fathers . — These generally adopt the 
rendering heo^aXfia of the Sept, and other translators, 
although it is in every way as traditional as that of the 
Targum “ forever,” and has no foundation in any known 
etymology. With regard to the meaning of Cidxl/aXpa 
itself, there are many opinions. Both Origen {Comm, 
ad Psa., Opp. ed. Delarue, ii, 51 G) and Athanasius (Sy- 
nops. Script. Sacr. xiii) arc silent upon this point. Eu- 
sebius of Ca*sarea (Pnef. in Psa.) says it marked those 
passages in which the Holy Spirit ceased for a time to 
work upon the choir. Gregory of Nvssa (Tract. 2 in 
Psa. cap. x) interprets it as a sudden lull in the midst of 

IX,— -K K. 


the psalmody, in order to receive anew the divine inspi- 
ration. Chrysostom {Opp. ed. Montfaucon, v, 540) takes 
it to indicate the portion of the psalm which was given 
to another choir. Augustine (On Psa. iv) regards it as 
an interval of silence in the psalmody. Jerome (Ep. 
ad Marcellam ) enumerates the various opinions which 
have been held upon the subject; that diopsahnu de- 
notes a change of metre, a cessation of the Spirit’s in- 
fluence, or the beginning of another sense. Others, he 
says, regard it as indicating a difference of rhythm, and 
the silence of some kind of music in the choir; but for 
himself he falls back upon the version of Aquila. and 
renders Selah by semper , with a reference to the custom 
of the Jews to put at the end of their writings Amen, 
Selah, or Shalom. In his Commentary on Psa. iii he is 
doubtful whether to regard it as simply a musical sign, 
or as indicating the perpetuity of the truth contained in 
the passage after which it is placed; so that, he says, 
“ w'heresoever Selah (that is, diapsalma or semper) is put, 
there we may know that what follows, as w'ell as what 
precedes, belongs not only to the present time, but to 
eternity.” Theodoret (Preef. in Psa.’) explains diapsal- 
ma by piXovg ytrafioXi] or iraXXayi) (as Suidas), “a 
change of the melody.” On the whole, the rendering 
ctd\paXpa rather increases the difficulty, for it does not 
appear to be the true meaning of Selah, and its own sig- 
nification is obscure. 

3. Rabbinical Writers. — The majority of these follow 
the Targum and the dictum of Ik Eliezer (Talm. Baby]. 
Erubin , v, 54) in rendering Selah “forever;” but Aben- 
Ezra (On Psa. iii. S') showed that in some passages this 
rendering was inappropriate, and expressed his own 
opinion that Selah was a word of emphasis, used to 
give weight and importance to what was said, and to 
indicate its truth — “but the right explanation is that 
the meaning of Selah is like ‘.so it is,’ or ‘thus,’ and ‘ the 
matter is true and right.’ ” Kimchi (Lex. s. v.) doubted 
whether it had any special meaning at all in connection 
with the sense of the passage in which ii was found, 
and explained it as a musical term. lie derives it from 
bbo , to 1 'aisp, elevate, with ft paragogic, and interprets 
it as signifying a raising or elevating the voice, as much 
as to say in this place there w r as an elevation of the 
voice in song. 

4. Modern Writers. — Among these there is the same 
diversity of opinion. Gescnius (Thesaur. s. v.) derives 
Selah from nbo, saldh. to suspend , of which he thinks 
it is the imperative Kal, with H paragogic, nbp, in 
panse nbp. But this form is supported by no parallel 
instance. In accordance with his derivation, which is 
harsh, he interprets Selah to mean either “suspend the 
voice,” that is, “be silent,” a hint to the singers, or 
“raise, elevate the stringed instruments.” In either 
case he regards it as denoting a pause in the song, w hich 
w r as filled up by an interlude played by the choir of Le- 
vites. Ew'ald (Die Dichter eles A. 13. i, 179) arrives at 
substantially the same result by a different process, lie 
derives Selah from bbo, soldi, to rise, whence the sub- 
stantive bp, wdiich with n paragogic becomes in pause 
nbp (comp, nplri, from m tl, root npn, Gen. xiv, 
10). So far as the form of the word is concerned, this 
derivation is more tenable than the former. Ewald re- 
gards the phrase “lliggaion, Selah,” in Psa. ix, 16 [17], 
as the full form, signifying “music, strike up!” — an in- 
dication that the voices of the choir were to cease while 
the instruments alone came in. llengstenbcrg follows 
Gesenius, De Wette, and others, in the rendering Pause! 
but refers it to the contents of the psalm, and under- 
stands it of the silence of the music in order to give 
room for quiet reflection. If this were the case, Selah 
at the end of a psalm would be superfluous. The same 
meaning of pause or end is arrived at by Fiirst (Handle. 
s. v.), who derives Selah from a root Plbo, saleih , to cut 
off (a meaning w hich is perfectly arbitrary), whence the 


SELAI1 


514 


SELECTIONS OF PSALMS 


substantive io, set, which with Ft paragogie beeomes in 
pause nbo, a form which is without parallel. While 
etvmologists have recourse to such shifts as these, it 
can scarcely be expected that the true meaning of the 
word will be evolved by their investigations. Indeed, 
the question is as far from solution as ever. Beyond 
the fact that Selah is a musical term, we know abso- 
lutely nothing about it, and are entirely in the dark as 
to its meaning. Sommer ( Bibl . Abhandl. i, 1-84) has 
devoted an elaborate discourse to its explanation (trans- 
lated in the Bibliotheca Sacra , 1848, p. 66 sq.). After 
observing that Selah everywhere appears to mark crit- 
ical moments in the religious consciousness of the Israel- 
ites, and that the music was employed to give expres- 
sion to the energy of the poet’s sentiments on these 
occasions, he (p. 40) arrives at the conclusion that the 
word is used “ in those passages where, in the Temple 
Song, the choir of priests who stood opposite to the 
stage occupied by the Levites were to raise their trump- 
ets (bbo), and with the strong tones of this instrument 
mark the words just spoken, and bear them upwards to 
the hearing of Jehovah. Probably the Levitical min- 
strels supported this priestly intercessory music by vig- 
orously striking their harps and psalteries; whence the 
Greek expression £ia\pa\pa. To this points, moreover, 
the fuller direction, 4 liiggaion, Selah’ (Psa. ix, 16) ; the 
first word of which denotes the whirr of the stringed 
instruments (Psa. xcii, 4), the other the raising of the 
trumpets, both of which were here to sound together. 
The less important Uiggaion fell away, when the ex- 
pression was abbreviated, and Selah alone remained.” 
Ur. Davidson ( I at rod . to the Old Test, ii, 248) with good 
reason rejects this explanation as labored and artificial, 
though it is adopted by Keil in Iliivernick’s Einleitung 
(iii, 120-129). lie shows that in some passages (as Psa. 
xxxii, 4, 5; lii, 3; lv, 7, 8) the playing of the priests on 
the trumpets would be unsuitable, and proposes the fol- 
lowing as his own solution of the difficulty: “The word 
denotes elevation or ascent , i. e. loud , dear. The music 
which commonly accompanied the singing was soft and 
feeble. In cases where it was to burst in more strongly 
during the silence of the song, Selah was the sign. At 
the end of a verse or strophe, where it commonly stands, 
the music may have readily been strongest and loudest.” 
It may be remarked of this, as of all the other explana- 
tions which have been given, that it is mere conjecture, 
based on an etymology which, in anv other language 
than Hebrew, would at once be rejected as unsound. A 
few other opinions may be noticed as belonging to the 
history of the subject. Michaelis, in despair at being 
unable to assign any meaning to the word, regarded it 
as an abbreviation, formed by taking the first or other 
letters of three other words (Suppl. ad Lex. Jlebr.), 
though he declines to conjecture what these may have 
been, and rejects at once the guess of Meibomius, who 
extracts the meaning da capo from t lie three words 
which he suggests. For other conjectures of this kind, 
see Eichhorn, Bihliothek , v, 545. Mattheson was of 
opinion that the passages where Selah occurred were 
repeated either by the instruments or by another choir: 
hence he took it as equal to ritarndlo. Herder regard- 
ed it as marking a change of key, while Paulus Burgen- 
sis and Schindler assigned to it no meaning, but looked 
upon it as an enclitic word used to (ill up the verse. 
B.ixtorf (Jjex. Ilebr.') derived it. from Jib 3 , salah , to 
spread , lay low; hence used as a sign to lower the voice, 
like piano. In Eich horn’s Bihliothek (v, 550) it is sug- 
gested that Selah may perhaps signify a scale in music, 
or indicate a rising or falling in the tone. Kbster (Stud, 
u. Krit . 1831) saw in it only a mark to indicate the 
strophieal divisions of the Psalms, but its position in 
the middle of verses is against this theory. Augusti 
(Pract. Einl. in d. Psa. p. 125) thought it was an excla- 
mation, like Hallelujah l and the same view was taken 
by the late Prof. Lee (IJeb. Gr . § 243, 2), who classes it 


among the interjections, and renders it Praise! “For 
my own part,” he says, “ I believe it to be descended 
from the Arabic root salah, ‘he blessed,’ etc., and used 
not unlike the word Amen, or the doxology, among our- 
selves.” — Smith. Delitzsch thinks that the instrumen- 
tal accompaniment, while the psalm was sung, was soft, 
and that the Selah indicated loud playing when the sing- 
ing ceased (Psaltneu, i, 19). Ilupleld, the other most dis- 
tinguished scholar among recent commentators on the 
Psalms, agrees with Delitzsch in general that the Selah 
was the signal for the singing to cease and the instru- 
mental music to be performed alone; and he takes “an 
interlude” to be the meaning of the obscure word &a- 
\pa\pa, by which Selah has been rendered in the Sept. 
We conclude, therefore, as the general drift of modern 
interpretation, that Selah denotes a pause in the vocal 
performance at certain emphatic points, while the single 
accompanying instrument carried on the music. If any 
further information be sought on this subject, it may be 
found in the treatises contained in Ugolino (vol. xxii), 
in Noldius ( Concord . Part. Aim. et Yind. No. 1877), in 
SaalsehUtz (Hebr. Poes. p. 346), and in the essay of 
Sommer quoted above. See also Stolle, Selah Philo - 
logice Enucleatum (Wittenb. 1G85) ; Peucer, De H“0 
Ebi'ceorum (Naumb. 1739); Danville Review, 1864. See 
Psalms, Book of. 

Selav. See Quail. 

Selden, John, an eminent lawyer and antiquarian, 
was born at Salvington, a hamlet in the parish of West 
Farring, near Worthing, in Sussex, England, Dec. 16, 
1584. He received the rudiments of his education at 
the Free School of Chichester, and at the age of four- 
teen entered at Hert Mali. Oxford, where, although pos- 
sessing great abilities, he did not particularly distinguish 
himself. He entered himself at Clifford’s Inn in 1G02 
for the study of law, and in 1604 removed to the Inner 
Temple for the completion of his legal studies. He ac- 
quired very early a taste for antiquarian research, in 
i which department he afterwards became so eminent. 
He was, in fact, one of the most learned men of his age. 
He lived in stirring times, and was, almost inevitably, 
mixed up with the stormy polities of the period; but he 
belonged to no extreme party, although a friend of lib- 
erty and of the popular cause. lie died Nov. SO, 1654. 
II is works are very numerous and learned. The follow- 
ing are those which require special notice here: De 
Diis Syria Syntagmata L no (1G17), which contains a 
history of the idol deities mentioned in Scripture, and a 
summary of Syrian idolatry: — !)e Successione in Eomt 
Defuncti ad Leges Ebiaoivm (1631). An improved 
edition of this work appeared in 1686, including an ad- 
ditional treatise entitled J)e Smassione in Puntijivulvin. 
Ehrceonnn. Both these treatises were republished by 
the author, with additions, in 1638: — I)e Jure Natural i 
et Gentium juxta Jliscipliuam J.lravrvm JAbri StpUm 
(1640). In this work the author treats of the seven 
so-called precepts of Noah, and gives a digest of all the 
laws of the Jews, distinguishing those which belong to 
universal law from those which are merely national and 
local: — Uxor Ebraica ; sm de Nvpiiis et Divortiis ex 
\ Jure Civil ! , id cst JJirino et Tulmvdica , Yetervm Ebrce- 
| orum Ties JAbri (1646). Everything relating to mar- 
riage and divorce among the Jews will be found treated 
of here : — De Sguedriis et Prrrfecturis J nridicis Veferum 
Ebrcrorum (1650). In this work, on v hirh Selden spent 
twelve years, he sets forth everything recorded of the 
Sanhedrim, or juridical courts of the Jews, with collat- 
eral notices of similar institutions in other countries. — 
Kit to, s. v. 

Selections of Psalms. The Psalter, as it stands 
in the Prayer-book of the Church of England, is divided 
into sixty portions, agreeing with the average number 
of mornings and evenings in the month. There are 
also ten selections of Psalms, any one of which may be 
used instead of the regular psalms of the day. These 
are prefixed to the Psalter, and consist of one or more 


SELED 


SELEUCIA 


515 


Road from Autioch to Seleucia. 



psalms, chiefly on the same subject. The following are 
the subjects of the several selections: l, the majesty, 
greatness, and compassion of God; 2, God as an ail-sce- 
ing judge; 3, penitence and trust in God: 4, contrast 
between wicked and good; 5, blessedness of the right- 
eous; G, the Lord a refuge; 7, 8. the happiness and 
joy of those who wait upon the Lord, etc.; 9, God in- 
finite and worthy of all praise; 10, invitation to unite 
in praising God. 

Se'led (Heb. id. TbD, exultation ; Sept. 1a\dd v. r. 
’AXoraXdJ), a descendant of Jerahmecl, son of Ilezron, 
being the elder of the two sons of Nadab, and without 
children (l Chron. ii, 30). B.C. post 1G15. 

Selemi'a (Vulg. Selemia , the Gr. text being lost), 
the third named of the five rapid scribes whom Esdras 
was charged to select for taking down his visions (2 
Esdr. xiv, 24). 

Selemi'as (SfXqmnf) the Greek form (1 Esdr. ix, 
34) of the name of Siielemiaii (q.v.), one of the ‘‘sons” 
of Bani (Ezra x, 34). 

Selemnus, in Greek mythology, was a shepherd- 
bov of Achaia. He was found asleep among his herds 
by the nymph Argvra, and his youth and beauty led 
her to bestow on him her favor; hut the beauty of man 
is not constant like that of a nymph, who retains her 
youth and beauty always, and Argvra accordingly for- 
sook her lover when his charms were no longer fresh 
and blooming to her eyes. Venus herself endeavored to 
turn the hard heart of the goddess, but in vain, and .Se- 
lemnus pined away under the agonies of unrequited 
love. In her compassion Venus now changed him into 
a stream, on which she conferred the quality of inducing 
forgetfulness in the minds of all lovers who should bathe 
in its waters, so that they might he cured of their pas- 
sion. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythed. s. v. 

Selene (StXi/j '?/, the moon), a goddess worshipped 
hv the ancient Greeks, being the personification of the 
moon. She is called a daughter of Hyperion and Theia, 
and, accordingly, a sister of Helios and Eos. She is also 
called Phoebe , as the sister of Phrebus, the god of the 
sun. In later times Selene was identified with Arte- 
mis, and the worship of the two became amalgamated. 
Among the Romans she was called Luna, and had a 


temple on the Aventine at Rome. Selene is described 
as a very beautiful goddess, with long wings and a gold- 
en diadem, and iEschylus called her “the eye of night.” 
See Smith, Diet, of Greek and Roman Mythology, s. v. 

Seleuci'a [some wrongly Seleu'cia ] (SfXet'mo), 
a city of Syria, situated west of Antioch, on the sea- 
coast, near the mouth of the Orontes; sometimes called 
Seleucia Pieria, from the neighboring Mount Pierus; 
and also Seleucia ad Mare, in order to distinguish it 
from several other cities of the same name, all of them 
denominated from Seleucns Nicanor. Its ancient name 
was hirers of Water ("Vc^aroc noraf-ioi. Strabo, xvi. 2, 
8). It is full}” described by Polybius (5, 39). It was 
practically the seaport of Antioch (q.v.), as Ostia was 
of Rome, Neapolis of Philippi, Cenchreaj of Corinth, and 
the Piraeus of Athens. The river Orontes, after flowing 
past Antioch, entered the sea not far from Seleucia. 
The distance between the two towns was about sixteen 
miles, chiefly of broken ground, with a large mountain 
called Cory phrese uni on the north near the sea. We are 
expressly told that Paul, in company with Barnabas, 
sailed from Seleucia at the beginning of his first mis- 
sionary circuit (Acts xiii, 4); and it is almost certain 
that he landed there on his return from it (xiv, 2G). 
The name of the place shows at once that its history 
was connected with that line of Seleucidte who reigned 
at Antioch from the death of Alexander the Great to the 
close of the Roman republic, and whose dynasty had so 
intimate a connection with Jewish annals (1 Macc. xi, 8; 
Josephus, Ant. xviii, 9, 8). See Syria. This strong 



Coin of Seleucia. 

Olv. Female head, turreted, rifjht. Rev. 11 Of Seleucia the sacred and in^ 
dependent,” in Greek, 


SELEUCIA 


51G 


SELEUCIANS 



fortress and convenient seaport was, in fact, constructed 
by the first Seleucns (died B.C. 280), and here he was 
buried. It was taken by Ptolemy Euergetes on his 
expedition to Syria, but was recovered by Antiochus 
Epiphanes. It retained its importance in Roman times, 
and in Paul’s day it had the privileges of a free city 
(Pliny, II. i\\ v, 18). The remains are numerous, the 
most considerable being an immense excavation ex- 
tending from the higher part of the city to the sea; 
but to us the most interesting are the two piers of the 
old harbor, which still bear the names of Paul and Bar- 
nabas. The masonry continues so good that the idea 
of clearing out and repairing the harbor was entertained, 
but not executed, by one Ali Pasha, of Aleppo. Ac- 
counts of Seleucia were first given by Pococke (Observa- 
tions in the East, xxii, 182), and afterwards in the nar- 
rative of the Euphrates Expedition by general Chesnev, 
and in his papers in the Journal of the Royal Geograph- 
ical Society (viii, 228 sq.). and also in a paper by Dr. 
Yates in the Museum of Classical Antiquities. The 
harbor has still more lately been surveyed by captain 
Allen ( Dead Sea, etc.). See also Conybeare and How- 
son, St. Paul, i, 137 ; Lewin, St. Paul, i, 110 sq.; Smith, 
Diet, of Class. Geog. s. v. 

SELEUCIA (in Chaldmt ), Council of, was held in 
410, in order to re-establish ecclesiastical discipline in Per- 
sia and Mesopotamia. Twenty-seven canons were made. 

1. Orders prayers to be made for princes. 

2. Contains a profession of faith agreeing with that of 
Niciea. 

3. OrderR that the consecration of a bishop be performed 
by three bishops at least. 

5. Excludes from every ministration priests and deacons 
who do not observe strict continence. 

6. Ordains the same thing with respect to clerks guilty 
of usury. 

7. Excommunicates all who have dealings with en- 
chanters, etc. 

10. Directs that priests and other clerks shall eat iu a 
place distinct from the poor. 

11. Orders that their sleeping-rooms also shall be sepa- 
rate. 

15 and 16. Ordain that there shall be but one archdea- 
con in each diocese, who shall act as the arm and tongue 
of the bishop to publish and execute his will. 

20. Permits the archdeacon to celebrate the holy eucha- 
rist in the absence of the bishop, and gives him power to 
punish deacons under certain circumstances. 

25. Forbids bishops to ordain priests and deacons any- 
where save before the altar. 

See Mansi, Supp. vol. i, col. 285. — Landon, Manual of 
Councils , s. v. 

SELEUCIA (in Syria), Council of. This council 
was held in the Church of St. Tecla, Sept. 27, 359, by 


order of the emperor 
Constantins. One 
hundred and sixty 
bishops were pres- 
ent, of whom about 
one hundred and five 
were Semi-Arians, 
fortyAnomceans.and 
thirteen Catholics; 
among these was 
St. Hilary of Poi- 
tiers, who for four 
years had been ban- 
ished into Phrygia. 
Among the Semi- 
Arians were George 
of Laodicea, Silva- 
nus of Tarsus, Mace- 
donia of Constan- 
tinople, Basil of An- 
cvra, and Enstachi- 
us of Sebaste. The 
Anomceans formed 
ihe party of Acaci- 
us of Ciesarea. The 
thirteen Catholic 
bishops, who proba- 
bly came from Egypt, alone maintained the eonsub- 
stantiality of the Word. Leonas, the imperial quaestor, 
had orders to attend the deliberations of the assembly. 
The bishops forming the party of Aeacius, anxious to 
avoid any inquiry into the several accusations and 
complaints which they were aware would be brought 
against them, insisted that, first of all, the questions re- 
lating to the faith should be examined, and after some 
discussion they gained their point. In the very first 
sitting, however, they openly renounced the Council 
and the Creed of Niejea, and maintained that the Son 
was of a substance different from that of the Fathe r. 
A discussion ensued between them and the Semi-Arians, 
which ended in the Acacians leaving the assembly, dis- 
gusted with its decision, viz. that the formulary drawn 
up at Antioch in 341 should be adhered to. 

In the second sitting the formulary of Antioch was 
confirmed by the Semi-Arians, who were alone in the 
council; while the Acacians drew up a new formulary, 
condemning both the similarity of substance and the 
contrary. In the third sitting the dispute was contin- 
ued, Leonas having been deputed by the Acacians to 
attend for them, and to deliver their formulary of faith. 
In the fourth sitting the Acacians declared that they 
believed the likeness of the Son to the Father to consist 
in a likeness of will only, and not of essence. The oth- 
ers maintained a likeness of essence also, and no deci- 
sion was arrived at. 

In the fifth sitting the Acacians were summoned to 
attend to examine the case of St. Cyril, who appealed 
from the judgment of Aeaeius, by whom he had been 
deposed. They refused to attend; and, after having 
frequently summoned them, the council deposed Aca- 
cius, Eudoxius of Antioch, George of Alexandria, and 
several others. They reduced to the communion of 
their respective churches, Asterins, Eusebius, and five 
others, until such time as they should disprove the ac- 
cusations brought against them. Another bishop was 
elected to the see of Antioch. The sentence of the 
council was not, however, carried into effect, as the de- 
posed bishops were able to secure the favor of the em- 
peror. — Landon, Manual of Councils , s. v. 

Seleucians, the followers of Seleucns, a philoso- 
pher of Galatia, who, about the year 380, adopted some 
of the notions of the Valentinians. lie taught that 
Jesus Christ assumed a body only in appearance; that 
the world was not made by God, but was eternal; that 
the soul was only an animated fire created by angels; 
that Christ does not sit at the right hand of the Father 
in a human body, but that he lodged his body in the 


SELEUCIDIC iERA 


517 


SELF-DEFENCE 


sun, according to Psa. xix, 4; and that all the pleasures 
of happiness consist in corporeal delight. Augustine 
says that the Seleucians rejected the use of water in 
baptism, under the pretence that this was not the bap- 
tism instituted by Christ, because John, comparing his 
baptism with that of Christ, says, “ I baptize you with 
water; but he that cometh after me shall baptize you 
with the Holy Ghost and with fire.” They deemed a 
baptism of tire more suitable to the spiritual nature of 
man than a baptism of water, since they taught that 
the soul was a portion of living tire. — Farrar, Eccles. 
Did. s. v. See IIermians. 

Seleucidic Era is that chronology which dates 
from the victory of Seleucns over Antigonus and the re- 
covery of Babylonia (October, B.C. 312). This “aera of 
the Seleueidai” was at one time in general use through- 
out all Central and Western Asia. The Arabians, who 
called it the “a:ra of the two-horned ” (Dhulkaniaini), 
meaning Alexander, did not relinquish it till long after 
the religion of Mohammed had arisen, and the .‘era of 
the “ llegira” (the flight of Mohammed from Mecca to 
Medina) had been introduced. The Jews did not adopt 
this tera till after they passed from under the dominion 
of the Egypto-Greeks to that of the Svro-Greeks, when 
they w r ere obliged to employ it in their civil con- 
tracts, and therefore it was designated by them as the 
P*H 13 or “sera of contracts,” and D‘ , '3V' ’J“'373, or 
“Greek sera.” Thenceforth they retained its use up- 
wards of twelve centuries, and employed no other epoch 
till the final close of the schools on the Euphrates (A.D. 
1040), since when they date their aera from the creation. 
This Seleucidic aera is the same which in the Books 
of the Maccabees is designated as “the year of the king- 
dom of the Greeks” Q3a<Ti\tiag ‘E XKijvtav, 1 Macc. i, 
10), and both books compute by it. The student of 
history can very easily make use of the Seleucidic sera 
by bearing in mind that the first year of this aera corre- 
sponds to the first year of the 117th Olympiad, or to the 
year 442 ab urbe condita . or to the year B.C. 312. With 
this guide in his hand he will be enabled to find any 
year corresponding to that of the Seleucidic aera; thus 
the year 


1 B.C. 

is =312 Sel. 

.= 753 ab n. 

C. = 194,4 

1 A.D. 

“ =313 “ 

= 754 

= 105, 1 

70 “ 

“=3S2 “ 

= S23 “ 

= 212, 2 

100 “ 

“=412 “ 

= 353 “ 

= 210,4 

120 “ 

“=432 “ 

= S73 

= 224, 4 

130 “ 

“=442 “ 

= 833 “ 

= 2*27,2 

2ERA. 

(B. P.) 




Seleu'cus (2A zvkoq, a common Greek name), the 
name of several of the kings of the Greek dominion of 
Syria (q. v.), hence called that of the Seleucidte. See 
Antioch us. Of these one only is named m Scripture, 
although several are referred to m Dan. xi. 

Seleucus IV, surnamed Philopator (or Soter , in Jo- 
sephus, Ant. xii, 4, 10), styled “king of Asia” (2 Macc. 
iii, 3), that is, of the provinces included in the Syrian 
monarchy, according to the title claimed by the Seleu- 
cidae, even Avhen they had lost their footing in Asia 
Minor (comp. 1 Macc. viii, 6; xi, 13, xii, 39; xiii, 32), 
w r as the son and successor of Antiochus the Great (see 
Appian, Syria, iii, 45). He took part m the disastrous 
battle of Magnesia (B.C. 190), and three years after- 
wards, on the death of his father, ascended the throne. 
He seems to have devoted himself to strengthening the 
Syrian power, which had been broken down at Magne- 
sia, seeking to keep on good terms with Rome and 
Egypt till he could find a favorable opportunity for 
Avar. He was, however, murdered, after a reign of 
twelve years (B.C. 175), by Heliodorus (q. v.), one of 
his own courtiers, “ neither in [sudden] anger nor in 
battle” (Dan. xi, 20; see Jerome, ad loc.), but by ambi- 
tious treachery, without having effected anything of 
importance. His son Demetrius 1 Soter [see Deme- 
trius], whom he had sent, while still a boy, as hostage 
to Rome, after a series of romantic adventures gained 
the crown in B.C. 162 (1 Macc. vii, 1 ; 2 Macc. xiv, 1). 


The general policy of Seleucus towards the Jews, like 
that of his father (iii, 2,3, tzal SAmw), was concilia- 
tory, as the possession of Palestine w r as of the highest 
importance in the prospect of an Egyptian war; and he 
undertook a large share of the expenses of the Temple 
service (ver. 3, 6). On one occasion, by the false rep- 
resentations of Simon (q. v.), a Jewish officer, he was 
induced to make an attempt to carry aw r ay the treas- 
ures deposited in the Temple by means of the same 
Heliodorus who murdered him. The attempt signally 
failed, but it does not appear that he afterwards show- 
ed any resentment against the Jews (iv, 5, 6.) ; though 
his want of money to pay the enormous tribute due to 
the Romans may have compelled him to raise extraor- 
dinary revenues, for which eause he is described in 
Daniel as a “raiser of taxes” (xi, 20; comp. Livy, xii, 
19). — Smith. See Smith, Did. of Class. Biog. s. v. ; 
Manzini’s monograph (in Italian) on this prince (Mai- 
land, 1G34). 



Seleucus. See Seleucians. 

Seleznevtshini, asect of dissenters from the Russo- 
Greek Church resembling the Strigolniks (q. v.). 

Self-baptizers. See Se-Baptists. 

Self-deception, deception proceeding from, and 
practiced upon, one’s self, especially in forming judg- 
ments or receiving impressions of our own state, char- 
acter, and conduct. For example: 1. In judging of 
our own character we are very apt to enhance the good 
qualities w r e possess, to give ourselves credit for others 
that we really have not, and to ignore the evil qualities 
that should be seen by us. 2. In the matter of our eon- 
duct Ave are very prone to persuade ourselves either that 
our acts Avere not Avrong, or that the peculiar circum- 
stances under Avhich Ave A\ r ere placed Avere so extenuating 
as to remoA r e actual guilt. 3. There is a tendency to 
confound the non-appearanee of a vicious affection Avith 
its actual extirpation. 4. An improper estimate of the 
reality of our repentance, faith, Avorks, etc., or of the im- 
portance of the same. The range of objects as to which 
men deceive themselves is very wide, including God, 
Jesus Christ, the Holy Spirit, Scriptures, experience, 
etc. The results are great and dangerous, it renders 
men slaves of procrastination, leads them to o\ r errate 
themselves, flatters them Avith an easy victory, and con- 
firms their evil habits. The means of avoiding self- 
deception are strict self- inquiry, prayer, watchfulness, 
and diligent study of God’s Word. 

Self- dedication, the unreserved dedication of 
ourselves to God Avith the purpose of serving him in 
holiness and righteousness. 

Self-defence, the act of defending one’s self and 
property from injury. The right of self-defence has 
been questioned by many, and has also been stoutly ad- 
vocated. The secular law requires no man to submit 
passively to the infliction of evil upon his person, but al- 
Avavs allows him to defend himself. Of course, the vio- 
lence used must only he so much as is necessary for de- 
fence. Is the principle of self-defence contrary to the 
Gospel, or should a man choose rather to lose his oaa t ii 
life than to sa\ f e it at the expense of another’s? It 
may be ansAvered that Avhere there is reason to belie\ r e 
that life is at stake one is justified in taking the life of 
the AA T on]d-be murderer; for the reason that in attempt- 
ing a felony he has forfeited his life, and in preserving 
your oavu you spare the innocent. It is generally con- 


SELF-DENIAL 


518 . 


SELIG 


sidered lawful even to kill in the defence of chastity, 
provided there be no other way of preserving it. 

Self-denial, the forbearing to follow one’s inclina- 
tions or desires. In the scriptural sense it is the re- 
nouncing of all those pleasures, protits, view's, connections, 
or practices that are prejudicial to the true interests of 
the soul. The understanding must be so far denied as 
not to lean upon it independent of divine instruction 
(Prov. iii, 5, 6). The will must be denied so far as it 
opposes the will of God (Eph. v, 17). The affections 
must be denied when they become inordinate (Col, iii, 
5). The gratification of the members of the body 
must be denied when out of their due course (Rom. vi, 
12, 13). The honors of the world and praise of men 
must be foregone when they become a snare (Heb. xi, 
24-20) ; also worldly emoluments, when to be obtained 
in an unlawful w r av or when standing in opposition to 
religion and usefulness (Matt, iv, 20-22). Friends and 
relatives must be renounced, so far as they oppose the 
truth and would influence us to oppose it too (Gen. xii, 
1). Our ow’ii righteousness must be relinquished, so as 
not to depend upon it (Phil. iii, 8. 0). Life itself must be 
laid dow'n if called for in the cause of Christ (Matt, xvi, 
24, 25). In fine, everything that is sinful must be de- 
nied, how'ever pleasant and apparently advantageous, 
since, without holiness, no man shall see the Lord (Heb. 
xii, 14). See Buck, Theol. Diet. s. v. 

Self-examination, the act of examining one’s 
own conduct and motives. It is a duty commanded by 
God (2 Cor. xiii. 5), and, to result favorably, should be 
deliberate, frequent, impartial, diligent, wise, and with 
a desire of amendment. In self-examination reference 
should always be made to the Word of God as the rule 
of duty. 

Self-government, the w'ise and conscientious reg- 
ulation of all our appetites, affections, and habits on 
Christian principles. 

Selfishness, an inordinate self-love, prompting 
one, for the sake of personal gratification or advantage, 
to disregard the rights or feelings of other men. It is 
a negative quality — that is, it consists in not consider- 
ing w r hat is due to one’s neighbors through a deficiency 
of justiee or benevolence. Selfishness is contrary to 
the Scriptures, which command us to have respect for 
the rights and feelings of others, and forbids us to en- 
croach thereupon. 

Self-knowledge, the knowledge of one’s own 
nature, abilities, duties, principles, prejudices, tastes, 
virtues, and vices. This knowledge is commanded in 
the Scriptures (Psa. iv, 4 ; 2 Cor. xiii, 5). It is of great 
utility, as it leads to humility, contrition, prayer, self- 
denial, charity. When by self-knowdedge we become 
acquainted with our powers, resolution, and motives, 
then we secure self-possession. To secure self-knowd- 
edge there must be watchfulness, frequent and close at- 
tention to the operations of our own mind, study of the 
Scriptures, and dependence on divine grace. See Buck, 
Theol. Diet. s. v. 

Self-love (in Greek, tfuXavria), an element of char- 
acter which is to be carefully distinguished from self- 
ishness as being radically different, and not so in de- 
gree only. The former is demanded by the moral con- 
sciousness in man, while the latter is condemned, and 
the same distinction prevails in the Scriptures. The 
one is the basis for motives to self- examination, for 
prudence and carefulness of life, for self- renewal and 
improvement; the other the ground in which all “works 
of the flesh” (Gal. v, 19; comp. 1 Tim. vi, 10) are rooted. 

General or philosophical ethics requires self-love in 
the sense that each person should honor the idea of 
humanity or the human personality which underlies 
his own nature, and that he should develop it in every 
direction. The principle of humanity which asserts 
the dignity of human nature is the prevailing idea. 
Theological ethics treats self-love as a disposition which 


has for its object the Christian personality, which 
springs from love to God and Christ, w'bieh sanctities 
the Lord in the heart (1 Pet. iii, 15), protects against 
all contamination of the flesh and spirit (2 Cor. vii. 1), 
and seeks to be renewed in the spirit of the mind (Eph. 
iv, 23) in order that we may be glorified with Christ (2 
Cor. iii, 18). The regenerated personality, therefore, 
constitutes both subject and object in Christian self- 
love, while, in the natural sentiment, unregenerate man 
is the substituted entity, and Christian self-love alone 
is really virtuous, a personal disposition through which 
the Christian presents himself to God a holy, living 
sacrifice (Bom. xii, 1). 

The intimate relation subsisting between self-love 
and love to our neighbors is such that they are insep- 
arable and mutually condition each other. Not only 
does love for others limit our love of self, but the ego- 
tist degrades himself in proportion as he indulges in 
his egotism; and no person is capable of being useful 
to others in bis character and his life who does not in 
the best sense love and care for himself. Every duty 
to self may accordingly be view'ed as duty to our neigh- 
bors, and rice versa , if care he taken to guard against 
the eudaimonism which is so likely to intrude. 

In its manifestations Christian self-love assumes a 
twofold character in which the negative and positive 
elements predominate at different times. The former 
element corresponds to self-respect , w r hose influence leads 
the Christian to avoid everything that may wound, or 
in any way impair, the dignity conferred on him, and 
w'hieh impels him to cultivate the habit of spiritual 
watchfulness. Upon this ground the positive element 
in self-love carries forward the w'ork of renewal, includ- 
ing the whole of Christian development and perfection. 
And inasmuch as the entire man is concerned in these 
objects of self-love, it follow's that the body must share 
in the development and other benefits secured to the 
spirit, though simply as the spirit’s minister and instru- 
ment (1 Thess. v, 23). At this point Christian self- 
love passes over into spiritual discipline, and coincides 
to some extent with Christian asceticism. See Herzog, 
Real-Encyklop. s. v.; Fleming, Yocab. of Philos, s. v. 

Self-murder. See Suicide. 

Self-seeking. See Covetousness. 

Selig, Gottfried, a convert from Judaism, whose 
original name was Philipp Heynemann , w’as born at 
Weissenfels in 1722. LTp to his tenth year he enjoyed 
the lectures of a private Intor; after this time he was sent 
1 first, to Dessau and then to Fiirth,to attend the Talmtuli- 
cal lectures there. When he w f as thirteen years of age, 
his father wished him to become a merchant, but to this 
proposition he w'ould not yield. His father finally con- 
sented to give him a better education, and a candidate 
of theology was intrusted with his instruction in the 
German and Latin languages. At times the pupil, who 
w’as w r ell acquainted with the objections against Chris- 
tianity, propounded questions to his teacher w hich the 
latter could not answer, because he w'as not acquainted 
enough with the Hebrew' language. The teacher then 
invited a certain Ilerrlieh, who was w’ell acquainted 
with the Hebrew and Rabbinic literature, to meet 
Philipp several times in order to dispute with him 
about Christianity. The result w f as that the sting left 
in the Jewish heart became the impetus for further 
searching the Scriptures. About Christmas of 1737, 
Philipp went to pastor Schumann and handed to him a 
paper in which certain passages of the New' Test, w'ere 
w’ritten down, and of w’hieh he desired an explanation. 
This visit decided his future course, and Sept. 17, 1738, 
lie was baptized at Weissenfels, assuming the name 
Gottfried Selig. In 17C>7 he came to Leipsie, where 
Prof. I)athe examined him in Uebraieis , and Prof. Bos- 
seck in Talmudicis ei Rabbmicis , and thus he was ena- 
bled to commence his lectures in Rabbinic literature, 
lie died after 1792. lie wrote, Collectio abbreriatu- 
rarum llebraicarum ultra 4000 Assurgens (Leipsie, 


SELINGSTAD 


519 


SELYNS 


1781) : — Kurze und gritndliche Amveisung zu einer leich- 
teren Erlernung dcr jiidisch - deutscken Spruche (ibid. 
1767): — Der Jade (ibid. 1767-71, 9 voK), in which he 
describes the usages, customs, and doctrines of the Jews 
according to Rabbinic sources: — Compendia Yocum fle- 
braico-Rabbinicarum (ibid. 1780), See F "first, Bibl.Jud . 
iii, 309; Stcinsehneidcr, Bibliog. ffandbuch. p. 131; De- 
litzseh, Saat auf Uojfnung, viii, 159 sq, (B. 1\) 

Selingstad, Council of ( Concilium Salegunstadi- 
e?ise). This council was held in August, 1022, bv the 
emperor Henrv; Aribo, archbishop of Mayenee, presid- 
ing. Twenty canons were published. 

3. Forbids the celebration of mu mazes from Advent to 
the octave of the Epiphany, from Septuagesima to the 
octave of Easter, during the fourteen days preceding the 
Feast of John the Baptist, and on fast-davs and vigils. 

4. Forbids a priest having drunk anything after cock- 
crow in summer to say mass on the followiug day; allows 
of cases of necessity in winter. 

6. Stales that complaints had been made of the conduct 
of some very foolish priests who were in the habit of 
throwing the corporal into a tire for the sake of extin- 
guishing it, and strictly prohibits it. 

9. Forbids talking in church, or in the church porch. 

10. Forbids lay persons, and particularly matrons, to 
hear daily the gospel “In principio erat verbum;” and 
particular masses, such as the mass of the Holy Trinity 
or of St. Michael. The canon seems to imply that tins 
bad been done for the sake of divination. 

1(5. Forbids any person to go to Rome without first ob- 
taining the permission of his bishop or his deputy. 

IS.. Notices the folly of those who, being guilty of some 
crimes, despise the penance imposed by their own priests, 
and trust to obtaining a plenary absolution from the Ro- 
man pontiff". It declares that such indulgence shall not 
be granted to them, but that in future they shall first 
fulfil the penance imposed, and then go to Rome, if they 
choose, having first obtained leave from their own bishop. 

After the canons follows an appendix concerning the 
manner of celebrating a council. — Landon, Manual of 
Councils, s. v. 

Selinuntius, in Greek mythology, was a surname 
of A polio , derived from bis temple and oracle at Selinus. 

Selinus, in Greek mythology, was a son of Nep- 
tune, river- god and ruler of /Egialus, and father of 
Helice, who was married to Ion. 

Selleck, Bradley, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Danbury, Conn., Aug. 23, 
1784. At the age of twelve he professed conversion, 
and united with the Church. He received license as 
local preacher before he was twenty-one. In 1822 he 
joined the New York Conference, and continued to la- 
bor till 1851. lie made New York bis residence during 
t lie remainder of his life, and was much esteemed by 
ministers and laymen of his own and other churches, 
lie died in New York city, Nov. 4, 1860. See Minutes 
of Annual Conferences, 1861, p. 1 14. 

Selli, the priests among the ancient Greeks who 
delivered the oracles of Zeus at Dodona, They are 
mentioned by Ilonier as having observed a very rigid 
discipline. 

Selim an, Horace S., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Brown County, O., Jan. 
14, 1821. and professed conversion in 1844. For some 
time he served the Church as a layman, but in 1846 be 
entered the Ohio Conference. He preached about thir- 
teen years, when he was seized with hemorrhage of the 
lungs, and died Feb. 1, 1859. See Minutes of A nnual 
Conferences , 1859, p. 234. 

Selneccer, Nicholas, Dr., an early Lutheran poet 
and theologian, was born Dee. 6, 1530, at Hcrsbruck, near 
Nuremberg, and educated at Wittenberg. He was 
made court preacher at Dresden in 1557, but obliged to 
resign in 1561 because he was not in sympathy with 
the Melancthonian party, then in power. At Jena, 
where he obtained a professorship, the mildness of his 
views gave offence to the Flaciauists, who governed the 
university, and they had him deposed. 1 1 is next po- 
sition was at Leipsic (1568). In 1570 he was charged 
with the conduct of the Reformation in Brunswick, and 


aided in the founding of the University of Ilelmstiidt. 
Ilis preference for an unmodified Lutheranism led him 
at the same time to attempt the work of restraining the 
growth of Crvpto-Calvinism in Saxony, in which he 
sueeeeded temporarily by gaining the ear of the elector 
Augustus. lie also took a prominent part in the set- 
tling of the Formula of Concord (q. v.). translating it 
(after the attempt of Osiander) into Latin and furnish- 
ing it with a preface. He thus excited further oppo- 
sition from the Crypto-Calvinists, which resulted in his 
being again deposed on the succession of Christian I 
and the advent to power of Dr. Crell (q. v.). A brief 
period of literary activity now followed, first at Leipsic 
and afterwards at Magdeburg; but he was soon made 
superintendent at Ilildesheim, and intrusted with the 
ordering of ecclesiastical affairs in other places as well. 
In the performance of such duties his health gave way, 
and when the fall of Dr. Crell called him to Leipsic, the 
journey proved too fatiguing and brought about his 
death, May 24, 1592. 

Selneccer’s writings were numerous, but most of them 
have been forgotten. The more noteworthy are an ex- 
position of the book of Psalms, in various editions and 
revisions (last ed. Leipsic, 1593), and a large number of 
hymns* His poetical writings evince talent of no mean 
order, but are marred by the constant introduction of 
references to personal troubles, etc., an undue attention 
to details, and an incessant emphasizing of pure doc - 
trine, though the latter feature is preserved from be- 
coming offensive by the faet that it is in the main the 
expression of the writer’s heart. See Wetzel, Lieder- 
historie , vol. iii ; Giitze, Septem Uissertt. de A r . Seln. 
(1723) ; Koeh, Geschichte des deutschen Kirchenliedes , 
vol. i ; Miitzell, Geistl . Lieder der evang. Kircke aus dem 
l Q.Jahrhnndert (Berlin, 1855,3 vols.); Herzog, Real-En - 
cgklop . s. v. ; Hagenbaeh, Hist, of Doctrines, ii, 149-151. 

Seloure, a medieval term for a canopy; the inner 
roof of a room which is sealed or closed with planking.. 

Selvedge (ri^jr, hatsah ', an end, as often rendered), 
the edge of a piece of cloth (Exod. xxvi, 4). See Tab- 
ernacle. 

Selyns, Henry, a (Dutch) Reformed minister, was 
born in Amsterdam, Holland, in 1636. He was regular- 
ly educated in one of the imiYersities of that country 
for the ministry, and licensed by the Classis of Amster- 
dam as a proponent, or candidate, in 1659. In 1660 he 
accepted a call made by the Dutch West India Com- 
pany, through the Classis of Amsterdam, to become 
the minister of the Dutch Church of Breukkelin (now 
Brooklyn) for four years. lie was ordained in 1660 in 
Holland, and came to this country with Rev. Ilarmanus 
Blom, who was on his way to the Church of Kingston, 
N. Y. During his ministry at Brooklyn, Mr. Selyns. by 
special request of Gov. Stuyvesnnt, came over to New 
York and preached regularly on Sabbath evenings to 
the negroes and other poor people, on his farm, or Bouw- 
erg, and on the present location of St. Mark’s Episcopal 
Church, corner of Ninth Street and Second Avenue. 
His ministry at these places was very popular and use- 
ful. lie returned to Holland at the close of his fourth 
year, in 1G64, and took charge of a congregation of poor 
folks who earned their bread by gathering turf. He 
was happy in serving them, and declined a pressing in- 
vitation in 1670 to come to New York as colleague of 
the aged pastor of the Collegiate Church, Johannes 
Megapolensis. The call was renewed and accepted by 
him in 1682. The period was critical for the Dutch 
Church, in consequence of the English ascendency in 
the province and the establishment of the State Church. 
"The Dutch were only tolerated, according to capitu- 
lation, as dissenters. The governors attempted to ex- 
ercise arbitrary powers, hut the people resisted. Dom- 
inie Selyns was fully alive to the importance of the 
subject, and was rejoiced at the arrival of Gov. Dongan 
in 1683, who allowed full liberty of conscience.” An 
assembly of the people was soon called, which, among 


SEM 


520 


SEMI-ARIANS 


other matters, established the legal position of the de- 
nominations, allowing the churches to choose their own 
ministers. When Leisler usurped the governor’s chair, 
Mr. Selvns was one of his most formidable opponents, 
and preached a jubilant sermon over his fall. This 
conduct divided his congregation, and his salary was 
partly withheld for years; but he held his ground te- 
naciously and triumphantly, until by the charter of 
May 11* 1 GOG, he felt that the liberties of his Church 
were entirely secured. Not till then did he seek relief 
and a colleague in his large congregation. The Rev. 
Gualterus (Walter) Du Bois was called in 1 GOO, and for 
fifty-five years “ministered before the Lord” in that 
one church. Mr. Selvns died July, 1701. lie was 
the most eminent of the ministers who had yet come 
from Holland — prudent, sagacious, hold, earnest, of 
positive convictions, fearless of danger, a defender of 
the faith, and a peace-maker. He was a successful 
minister of the Gospel, and had probably more to do in 
determining the position of the Reformed Dutch Church 
in America than almost any other man. In spirit to- 
wards other churches he was liberal, kindly, and catholic, 
lie held friendly relations with the chief men of the 
state, and maintained correspondence with eminent lit- 
erary men of the colonies, such as the Mathers and oth- 
er notables. He was also a poet, versifying with equal 
ease in Latin and Dutch. Cotton Mather (in his Magno- 
lia Christ i A mericana , iii. 41) says of him that “ he had 
so nimble a faculty of putting his devout thoughts into 
verse that he signalized himself by the greatest fre- 
quency which perhaps ever man used of sending poems 
to all persons, in all places, on all occasions; and upon 
this, as well as upon greater accounts, was a David unto 
the flocks of our Lord in the wilderness.” Murphy, 
Anthology of New Netherland, contains much of his life 
and poetry.' See also De Witt, Hist. Discourse ; Sprague, 
Annals of the Amer . Pulpit , vol. ix; Corwin, Manual 
of the Reformed Church , p. 213-217. (W. J. I*. T.) 

Sem (S»j/t), the Gnecized form (Luke iii. 36) of the 
name of Siiesi (q. v.), the son of the patriarch Noah. 

Semachi'ah (Heb. in the prolonged form Sema- 
hya'hu , Jirr^’Ep, sustained of Jehovah ; Sept. Xaga\iaq 
v. r. Sa/Sayia), the sixth and last-named son of Shema- 
iah, the son of Obed-edom (1 Chron. xxvi, 7). B.C. cir. 
1013. 

Semag, or Semak. See Moses de Coucy. 

Semamith. See Spider. 

Semantra (<t t)yavrpa, signals), wooden boards, or 
iron plates fidl of holes, which the modern Greeks use 
instead of bells to summon the people to church. These 
instruments they hold in their hands, and knock them 
with a hammer or mallet. The same term is sometimes 
applied to a bell, or a metal drum used for the same 
purpose. 

Semargia, in Slavic mythology, was a goddess per- 
sonifving winter — the cold season of the year — and 
highly revered among the grand Pantheon at Kief by 
the Russians. 

Semaxii, a name mentioned by Tertullian as some- 
times applied to Christian martyrs by their persecutors, 
from the fact that those who were burned alive were usu- 
ally tied to a board or stake of about six feet in length, 
which the Romans called semaxis. — Bingham, Christ. 
Antiq. bk. i, ch. ii, § 10. 

Sembat, a Paulician who, about the year 840, 
formed a sect in the province of Ararat by a fusion of 
Parseeism and Paulicianism. lie established himself 
at Thondrac, from which place his sect was called 
Thondracians (q. w). 

Sembiani, a Christian sect who were so called 
from their leader, Sembianus, who condemned the use 
of all wine. He persuaded his followers that wine was 
a production of Satan, denied the resurrection of the 


body, and rejected most of the books of the Old Test — 
Buck, Theol. Diet . s. v. 

Sem'ei (Xtgei), the Grsecized form apparently of two 
Heb. names : 1. Siiimei (q. v.), spoken of as (a) one of the 
“sons of Asom” (1 Esdr. ix, 33), i. e. of Hashum (Ezra 
x, 33); ( h ) the son of Cisai and father of Jairus, among 
the ancestors of Mordecai (Esth. xi, 2, Xeyetae). 2. The 
son of Joseph and father of Mattathias in our Lord’s 
genealogy (Luke iii, 26, v. r. Xegeeiv), probably Shejia- 
i aii (q. v.), the son of Shechaniah and father of Neariah 
(1 Chron. iii, 22). 

Semele, in Greek mythology, was the mother of 
Bacchus and daughter of Cadmus and Harmonia. See 
Bacchus. 

Semel'lius (XegeWiog, v. r. XaptWiog, XtpiX- 
Xiog). a corrupt Greek form (1 Esdr. ii, 16, 17, 25, 30) of 
the name of Siiimsiiai (q. v.), the Samaritan scribe 
(Ezra iv, 8, 9, 17, 23). 

Sementlrae Feriae, or Sementina Dies, was kept 
in seed-time by the Romans for the purpose of praying 
for a good crop. It lasted only one day, and was fixed 
by the pontifex maximus. 

Semi-Arians, a sect which arose in the 4th cen- 
tury, holding a modified form of Arianism. It was 
founded by Eusebius of Gesarea and the sophist, Aste- 
rius. They were opposed alike to the strict definition 
of orthodox Nicene theologians like St. Athanasius, and 
to the equally strict definition which characterized the 
logical intelleetnalism of the old Arians. Its symbol 
was the Ilomoiousion, which they substituted for the or- 
thodox Homoousion ; that is, the Son was regarded not 
as of the same substance with the Father, but of a sub- 
stance like in all things except in not being the Father’s 
snbstance. They maintained, at the same time, that 
though the Son and Spirit were separated in substance 
from the Father, still they were so included in his glory 
that there was but one God. Unlike the Arians, they 
declared that our blessed Lord was not a creature, but 
truly the Son born of the substance of the Father; yet 
they would not allow him, with the orthodox, simply to 
be God as the Father was, but asserted that the Son, 
though distinct in snbstance from God, was at the same 
time essentially distinct from every created nature. 

The Semi-Arian party first came into prominence 
at the Council of Niea?a (A.D. 325), under the leader- 
ship of Eusebius, bishop of Gesarea. During the fifty- 
six years that elapsed between the Council of Nictea 
and that of Constantinople (A.D. 325-381 ) as many 
as eighty councils are on record, a large number of 
which were held by the Semi-Arian bishops in sup- 
port of their contests with the orthodox and with their 
own sects. The Semi-Arian party had not one uni- 
form definition of faith, but, differed from eaeh other 
on many important points; the only real bond of union 
was their opposition to the term which unequivocally 
expressed Catholic doctrine. Nothing, in fact, was more 
conspicuous than the unsettled variableness of the Semi- 
Arian creed. Two confessions of faith were drawn up 
at the Council of the Dedication (Socrates, Hist. Reel, ii, 
10), held at Antioch, A.D. 341 ; another by the bishops 
of Palestine, a few months afterwards (ibid, ii, 18) ; four 
years later (A. I). 345) at Antioch; at Sirmium (A.D. 
351 [see Sozomen, Hist. Reel, iv, 6]) ; and again at the 
same place seven years later (ibid.). From about this 
time a reaction went steadily on, until in A.D. 366 fifty- 
nine Semi-Arian bishops subscribed an orthodox formu- 
la, and were received into the Catholic Church (Socra- 
tes, Hist. Reel, iv, 12). There is no evidence of any large 
number of the party afterwards existing. Many others, 
doubtless, came back to the Church, not a few plunged 
into the heresy of the Macedonians [see 3Iacedonius], 
and some, like Eudoxius of Antioch, became avowed 
Anomoeans. Consult Blunt, Diet, of Theology; id .Diet, 
of Sects, s. v. ; 11 agenbaeh, Hist, of Doctrines, vol. i, § 92 ; 
Newman, Hist, of the Arians; Pusey, Councils of the 


SEMI-COPE 


521 


SEMI-PELAGIAXISM 


Church , ch. v; Gardner, Faiths of the World , s. v, See 
Arianisxi; Sabelhus. 

Semi-cope, an inferior kind of cope. This term is 
sometimes applied to a small cope; occasionally to the 
old black Sartim choral copes, like cloaks without sleeves ; 
and occasionally to a cope of linen, serge, or buckram, 
unornamented with embroidery. 

Semidolites, a sect of Acephali (q. v.), which 
sprang up originally under the name of Barsanians at 
the end of the 5th century. They had no succession of 
priests, and professed to keep up the celebration of a 
valid eucharist by placing a few crumbs of the bread 
which had been consecrated by Dioscurus in a vessel of 
meal (t TepidaXtg , whence their name), and then using as 
fully consecrated the bread baked from it. See Damasc, 
Ad Hmres. iii ; Baronius, Annul, ad ann. 535; Neale, 
Patriarchate of Alexandria , ii, 22. — Blunt, Diet, of 
Sects , s. v. 

Semi-double, an inferior or secondary ecclesiasti- 
cal festival, ranking next above a simple feast or bare 
commemoration. 

Semi-frater, a layman or a secular cleric who, 
having benefited a religious house by gifts or personal 
service, was regarded as in some way belonging to the 
order or fraternity, having a share in its prayers during 
life, and in mortuary masses after death. 

Semi-jejuma ( half-fasts ), a name given to the 
weekly fasts in the ancient Christian Church, because 
the services of the Church continued on these days no 
longer than till three o’clock in the afternoon, whereas 
a perfect and complete fast was never reckoned to end 
before evening. These half-fasts were also called Sta- 
tions (q. v.). — Gardner, Faiths of the World , s. v. 

Semi-Judaizers (l), a Socinian sect, originated 
in the 6th century by Francis David, a Hungarian, who 
was superintendent of the Socinian churches in Tran- 
sylvania. The principal doctrine which David and his 
followers maintained was that neither prayer nor any 
other act of religious worship should be offered to Jesus 
Christ. Faustus Socinus argued strongly against this 
tenet; and when all efforts to reclaim the Hungarian 
heretic were found to be fruitless, the public authorities 
threw him into prison, where he died at an advanced 
age, A.I). 1579. The sect, however, survived its found- 
er, and for a long time gave no little trouble to Socinus 
and his followers in Poland and Lithuania. Faustus 
Socinus wrote a book expressly against the Semi-Juda- 
izers, ’while at the same time he strongly admitted that 
the point in debate between himself and them was of 
no great importance, since in his own view it was not 
necessary to salvation that a person should pray to 
Christ. 

(2.) The name Semi-Judaizers was also given to a 
sect founded near the close of the 16th century by 
Martin Seidelitis, a Silesian, who promulgated various 
strange doctrines in Poland and the neighboring coun- 
tries. The chief points of this system were that God 
had indeed promised a Saviour ora Messiah to the Jew- 
ish nation, but that this Messiah had never appeared, 
and never would appear, because the Jev r s by their sins 
had rendered themselves unworthy of so great a deliv- 
erer; that of course Jesus Christ was erroneously re- 
garded as the Messiah ; that it was his only business 
and office to explain the laws of nature, which had been 
greatly obscured, and therefore that whoever shall obey 
this law as expounded by Jesus Christ will fulfil all the 
religious duties that God requires of him. While dif- 
fusing these erroneous opinions, Seidelius rejected all 
the books of the New Test, as spurious. 

(3.) In Russia, also, a small sect of Semi-Judaizers, 
called Sabatniki (q. v.), exists, which mixes up to a con- 
siderable extent Jewish and Christian rites. — Gardner, 
Faiths of the World , s. v. 

Semikin or Junctions , is a Ma sore tic 

term to denote “approaching, belonging together, con- 


nection,” of one word with another. Now, when two or 
more words are associated together through the addi- 
tion or diminution of a letter or word, or by the inter- 
change of words which are not in the habit of being 
joined in this manner, and if it only occurs so in one 
place, the Masorites remark thereon, i. e. 

“ not extant so joined.” Thus, on WPni “pTl, and com 
and wine (Gen. xxvii, 37), they remark “not extant so 
joined,” since in all other places where these two words 
occur the word *jYl has not the Yav conjunctive 
Tin-Tin “1 “'I); and thus the Masorah tinalis under the 
letter Tori’, p. 28 a, col. 2, 3, gives a list of sixtv-two 
pairs, both words of which have Yav conjunctive, ami are 
without parallel. The same remark is made on 
TY'iT, briers f thorns (Isa. xxvii, 4), since in all other 
places it is with Yav conjunctive. The sixteen pairs 
without the Vav conjunctive are given in the Masorah. 
The same remark is made on PE'J “pr-HT, Sabbatism f 
Sabbath (Exod. xvi, 23), since in all other passages in 
which these two words are joined they are inverted. 
Thus in ver. 23 we read HSIS “pPITJ, but every- 
where else ’prQ’J P3U5. A list of thirty -nine in- 
stances’which occur in this connection is given by the 
Masorah in the part entitled Various Readings (" l E*'bn 
HX-np). See Frensdorff, Ochlah we-Ochlah , § 253, 
p. 50, 139 sq.; § 252, p. 50, 138 sq.; § 273, p. 53, 147 
sq.; Levita, Massoreth Ila-Massoreth (ed. Ginsburg), 
p. 212 sq. ; Bnxtorf, Tiberias , sive Comment arius Maso- 
reticus , p. 258 sq. (B. P.) 

Seminarist, a Roman Catholic priest who has been 
educated in a seminary. 

Seminary-priest, a name given in England to 
Roman Catholic clergy during the 17th century, on ac- 
count of their having been educated and prepared for 
holy orders in one of the foreign seminaries — e. g. 
Rheims, Douai, or Toulouse. 

Semiophorus (2i//iao0ojooc;), a Greek term for a 
worker of miracles. 

Semi-Pelagianism, the name invented by the 
schoolmen to mark the middle line of opinion held by 
the Pelagians (q. v.), on one side, and the predestina- 
rian theory of Augustine, on the other. As early as 
A.D. 426 the monks of Adrumetum, in Bvzacene Africa, 
having read Augustine’s letter to Sixtus ( Ep . 194), were 
astounded at the doctrine therein propounded, viz. that 
men were disposed of eternally, either in the way of 
happiness or misery, by an arbitrary decree. To their 
strictures Augustine answered by putting forth his two 
works De Gratia el Libero A rbitrio and De Correptione 
et Gratia. The task of harmonizing these conflicting 
systems of theology was attempted by John Cassianus 
(q. v.), and he became the real founder of Semi-Pelagi- 
anism. Cassianus acknowledged the universal deteri- 
oration of human nature by the fall; but he assigned 
also an unlimited scope to the divine goodness and love 
that wills the salvation of all, and bends everything to 
that end. He expressly condemns the main position 
of Pelagius: “Let no one imagine that by this we give 
support to the profane notion of some who assert that 
the sum of salvation is in our own power, and b} r as- 
cribing everything to free will make the grace of God 
to be dispensed according to each man’s merit” (Coll. 
xiii, 16). He entirely ignores irresistible grace and ab- 
solute decrees of divine predestination, though his doc- 
trine with respect to preventing grace agrees generally 
with that of Augustine. In fact, he can neither agree 
with those who make the gift of grace dependent upon 
human merit, nor with others who deny that man has 
any power in himself to originate good in his own heart. 
These opinions doubtless helped to form a general dis- 
like for the theory of irresistible grace and divine pre- 
destination. Stanch partisans opposed the Semi -Pe- 
lagians. the master-spirit among them being Prosper of 


SEMIS 


522 


SEMLE1 


Aquitania (q. v.); while on their side we find certain i 
great names, especially Vincentius of Lerius (q. v. ). 
His Com monitor iu m was directed principally against 
the doctrinal development of Augustine as being un- 
supported by the Catholic tradition of the Church 
(Voss, Hist. Relay. i, 10). In this work he brought for- 
ward his three famous tests of the truth of a doctrine, 
viz. antiquity, universality, and general consent. An 
appeal to Celestine, the Homan bishop, against the 
Semi- Pelagians having been unsuccessful, Prosper pub- 
lished several writings in refutation of their doctrines; 
and upon the death of Celestine, he endeavored to pre- 
vail upon Sixtus, his successor, to repress the Semi-Pe- 
lagians. Failing in this, Prosper wrote several tracts 
on behalf of Augustiniau doctrine. Shortly after the 
middle of the 5th century, a question arose between 
Lucidus, a presbyter, and Faustus, bishop of liicz, in 
Provence. The bishop admonished Lucidus in person, 
and afterwards wrote him a letter, setting forth in brief 
terms his own view of the doctrine of grace. By the 
advice of the council held at Arles (475). he published 
a work on the disputed points, Lie Gratia et Humance 
J lentis Libero Arbitrio. The book was answered half 
a century later by Ca^sarins of Arles in a treatise of sim- 
ilar title. lie Gratia et Libero Arbitrio, which, however, 
is lost. In 520 some Scythian monks assailed the work 
of Faustus, and presented their confession of faith to 
the legates of pope llonnisdas in Constantinople, in 
which they affirmed their belief that the will of man 
was powerless for any other object than to “discern and 
desire carnal and worldly matters,’’ etc. They met with 
a cold reception from the legates, and fared no better 
with llonnisdas, to whom they appealed. A council 
was held at Aransio (Orange), in France, July 3, 520, at 
which twenty- live articles concerning grace and free 
will, and directed against the Semi-Pelagian doctrine, 
were drawn up, and subsequently confirmed by Boniface 
II. A similar expression of doctrine was made hv a 
council at Valence, in the province of Vienne, but the 
problem remained unsolved how to reconcile the oppos- 
ing motives — powers of grace and free will. Augustine 
continued to he regarded as the great light of the West- 
ern Church, although in the Middle Ages there was an 
occasional tendency to dispute his authority. See 11a- 
genbach, Hist, of Doctrines (see Index)-, M oiler, in 
Herzog’s Real - Fncyklop. s. v.; Neander, Kirch engesch. 
(2d cd. llarnb. 1847), ii, 1 173-1217 ; Gardner, Faiths of 
the World, s. v.; Blunt, Did. of Theoloyy , s. v. See PE- 
LAGIA NIS.W. 

Se'mis (Sf/xic, v. r. Sf/ieic, 2mxfi'c)» a Grocized 
form (1 Ksdr. ix, 23) of the name Shimei (q. v.) the 
Levite after the return from Babylon (Ezra x, 23). 

Semi-separatists, a name given to certain per- 
sons in the 17th century who would listen to the ser- 
mons of the Church of England clergymen, hut not to 
the common prayer. They would remain outside of 
the churches until the prayers were done, and then rush 
in and hear the sermon. See Pagitt, lleresiographg 
(ed. KIC2), p. 91. — Blunt, Diet, of Sects , s. v. 

Semitic Languages. See Shkmitic Lan- 

guages. 

Semi -Universalists, an appellation given by 
Mosheim to those Dutch divines of the LVformed 
Church in the 17th century who maintained that God 
indeed wishes to make all men happy, hut only on the 
condition of their believing; and that ibis faith origi- 
nates from the sovereign and irresistible operation of 
God, or from the free, unconditional election of Gotl. 
Those are sometimes called Hypothetical or Conditiomd 
Cnirersalists, and scarcely differ, except in words, from 
/ tfralap&ariam (q. w). — Gardner, Faiths of the World, 

H. V. 

Semler, Joiiaxn Salomo, a German theologian in 
the latter half of the 18 th century, who became notori- 
ous as the founder of the modern school of so-called 


historical critics of the Bible. lie was born in 1725 
at Saalfeld, where his father held the office of deacon; 
and from his earliest childhood came under the influ- 
ence of the pietism of Halle. In obedience to its urgent 
exhortations, he formed the habit of earnest prayer. 
His student life at Halle, where he matriculated in 
1743, was spent amid similar surroundings; hut he fail- 
ed to obtain peace of mind. lie was specially attracted 
towards Baumgarteu (then professor) on account of his 
massive learning, but appears to have been even too 
little influenced by the Wollian logical schematism of 
that scholar. He devoured books without digesting 
them, and obtained, as a principal result of his studies, 
a suspicion which subsequently became the fundament- 
al idea in his theology — namely, that a difference exists 
between theoloyy and religion. In 1750 he was made a 
master, and soon afterwards began the congenial work 
of editing the gazette of his native town; but in the 
following year he was called to the chair of hisiory at 
Altorf, and six months later to a theological chair at 
llalle. lie delivered lectures on hermeneutics and 
Church history; and ere long reached the conclusion 
that “the historical interpretation really belongs to the 
first century as representing the sum and contents of 
the conceptions of that age, and must be distinguished 
from the present application of Scripture, as correctly 
interpreted, to the instruction of Christians of to-day.” 
His discoveries were submitted to Baumgarteu, who en- 
couraged him to continued independence of thought, 
hut warned him that lie would thereby arouse the op- 
position of a class of people who might work material 
injury to his prospects. 

On the death of Baumgarteu, in 1757, Semler became 
the most prominent member of the faculty at Halle, and 
enjoyed an unequalled popularity despite the confusion, 
and even barrenness, of his deliveries. As he became 
bolder in the presentation of his views, he was violently 
opposed by the orthodox party — periodicals were tilled 
with invectives, and ministerial associations entertain- 
ed charges against him; but all this served only to in- 
crease his popularity, until none of his colleagues could 
venture to dispute his pre-eminence, though the list in- 
cluded such names as J. G. Knapp, Nbsselt, and Gruner, 
J. L. Schulze, A. Frevlinghausen, G. Chr. Knapp, and A. 
II. Niemayer. In 1779 he wrote a reply to the Wol- 
fenbiittel Fragmentist, however, and also a critique of 
Bahrdt’s Confession of Faith (A ntwort anf das Buhrdt - 
sche Gluubembekenntniss), in which he zealously contend- 
ed for the doctrines of the Church and thereby under- 
mined his position. II is friends at once charged him 
with duplicity, and the government, acting through 
the minister Zedlitz (the patron of Bahrdt), deprived 
him of the directorship of the theological-pedagogical 
seminary, on the ground that his recent course had de- 
stroyed his hold on the confidence of the public. A 
number of writings from His pen. devoted, on the one 
hand, to the promotion of free thought, ami, on the oth- 
er, to the defence of churchly orthodoxy, were issued in 
the period immediately following, and did much to in- 
tensify the opposition raised against him from every 
side, and when he became a believer in alchemy, in 
the last years of his life, it was accepted by many as a 
proof of impaired vigor in bis mind. lie died in 1791. 

Sender’s criticism was directed against two points: 
(l) the traditional view with respect to the canon of 
the Bible; and (2) the ordinary treatment of Church 
history, particularly that of the earlier period. His 
merit consists in having destroyed many errors in con- 
sequence of his investigations, and in having opened 
the way to more correct opinions. 

1. Sender's Exposition of the Canon. — The traditional 
view regarded the canon as constituting a unit which 
is everywhere equally inspired ; and this view had been 
shaken in his own mind by the studies of K. Simon, 
Clericns, and Wettstein, and also by bis own investiga- 
tions. lie became convinced that the opinions of re- 
cent times did nut correspond with those of the earlier 


SEMLEI 


523 


SEMLER 


ages, and that theological views are subject to constant 1 
changes (his desultory mind was incapable of attaining 
to the idea of a progressive development in theology). I 
With respect to the canon, he came to think that the ' 
original idea was not that of a tixed norm of doctrine | 
which should be binding for all ages, but rather that of 
“a catalogue of the books which were read in the as- i 
semblies of Christians.” These books were brought to- [ 
gether through the force of accidental considerations I 
rather than in pursuance of a definite plan. The early 
Christians decided to accept as divine those books of 
the OKI Test, (whose canon was already variously es- 
tablished by the Palestinians, the Samaritans, and the 
Alexandrians) which should be found in the Septuagint 
translation, the latter being regarded as inspired; and 
as the enumeration of canonical books belonging to the 
New Test, varied in the early Church, the bishops, for 
the sake of uniformity, agreed upon a definite number 
of books which should be used as a canomca lectio in the 
worship of the Church. Sender's investigations into 
the character of the Old and New Test, texts likewise 
contributed to overturn the traditional idea of the 
inspiration of the Scriptures; for while that theory as- 
sumed that the text of the Bible had descended unalter- 
ed through the centuries to 11 s, he urged that the Holy 
Spirit had himself caused a revision of the Scriptures 
by the hand of Ezra, and that it could not be supposed, 
in the face of historical and diplomatic data, that an ex- 
traordinary divine supervision had been exercised over 
copyists. He insisted, further, that the Scriptural writ- 
ings show on their face that they were not intended to 
be a norm of doctrine for all men, since the Old Test, 
was written for Jews whose religious apprehension w’as 
but limited, the Gospel by Matthew for extra-Palestini- 
an Jews, that by John for Christians possessed of Gre- 
cian culture. He argues that it w*as necessary to ac- 
commodate the teachings of Christianity to the needs 
of these various classes, which explains the appeal to 
miracles and the use of “stories” by Jesus and some of 
the apostles — the (rdp%, according to his opinion — and 
the emphasizing of the Trvtvjjta by Paul. The latter 
apostle sought to adapt his writings to the Jewish 
modes of thought so long as he entertained the hope of 
gaining over the Jews in considerable numbers to the 
new' religion — the Epistle to the Hebrew's being an illus- 
tration; but he eventually abandoned this hope, and so 
became the first to make Christianity a religion for the 
world. The Catholic epistles, finally, were intended to 
unite the tw r o ancient parties of Christendom — the Jew- 
ish and the more liberal Pauline. The very beginnings 
of the historical criticism thus present in outline the 
results attained by the most recent Tubingen school. 
With respect to the Apocalypse, Sender regarded it as 
a sort of Jewish mythology — “the production of an ex- 
travagant dreamer” — and wrote much to demonstrate 
its unfitness for the place it holds in the canon. 

Having postulated the theory of accommodation by 
which the Old Test., and much of the New, lost their 
authoritative character, Sender w’as obliged to show 
what, if any, element of binding truth remains to Chris- 
tianity after all that is merely local and temporary has 
been stripped off from the Bible. He finds it in “that 
which serves to perfect man’s moral character,” but de- 
clares that even this cannot be comprised in any definite 
set of truths, since different individuals are stimulated 
to virtue by different portions of the Scriptures. What- 
ever develops a new and better principle, that leads to 
the veneration of God in the soul, is Christianity; and 
that is inspired or divine which’ convinces rentiers “ that 
they know more respecting spiritual changes and per- 
fections, and are able to derive more actual profit from 
such changes, than before.” He contends that there is 
such a thing as objectire truth in Christianity, but that 
there can be no definite test to indicate whether any in- 
dividual has apprehended it or not, since the decision 
can only be the expression of a moral judgment. He 
even thinks that nothing more than a difference in the 


form of expression is involved when the higher moral' 
truths of Christianity are characterized as a revelation, 
or as a progressive development of the natural reason (see 
Schmid, Die Theol. Senders , p. 167). 

It is evident that Sender’s theories remove the last 
distinctions between Christianity and Naturalism or 
Deism; but he nevertheless protests vigorously against 
being classed with Naturalists, and it was zeal against 
Naturalism that had led him to enter the lists against 
the WolfeubiUtel Fragmentist and the Confession of 
Bahrdt, though he had previously (in 1750, in his intro- 
duction to Baumgarten’s Glaubenslehre , p. 51-57) re- 
duced the distinguishing peculiarity of Christianity to 
a better morality. The solution of this contradiction 
must be found in the distinction Sender made between 
private religion and the publicly acknowledged teaching 
of the Church. He w’as open to religious impressions, 
given to prayer and the singing of religious hymns, and 
earnestly engaged in efforts to promote a Christian mo- 
rality. He assured his students that an inward power, 
the peculiar privilege of those who possess a Christian 
knowledge of God, shall be realized by those who form 
the habit of prayer, and urged them to make the trial. 
It was, doubtless, owing to these consequences of his 
early religious training that he condemned all inter- 
ference with the authoritatively established doctrines 
of the Church, though his separation of the faith of a 
private person from the teaching of the Church is open 
to the suspicion that he was too servile to sacrifice ma- 
terial prosperity in order to uphold a privately recog- 
nised truth. He asserted that a private scholar has the 
right to defend new opinions in the department of his 
labors; but that, as a teacher appointed by superior au- 
thority, it is his duty to follow the beaten track, when 
required, or else to resign his office. And it is certain 
that he thus expressed his serious convictions, and that 
his view’s in this respect grew out of his religious tem- 
perament. 

2. Sender's Researches in Church History produced 
less durable results. lie lacked the necessary qualities 
for thorough work in this field — a philosophical and pro- 
foundly Christian spirit, a philosophical and religious 
pragmatism, and especially an unbiassed judgment, lie 
brought to light an abundance of new material, how- 
ever, and became the father of the history of doctrines; 
w'hile his restless scepticism contributed towards a more 
satisfactory settlement of many incidents, and prepared 
the way for more unprejudiced views respecting many 
historical phenomena. 1 1 is faults are, that he is inca- 
pable of rising to the conception of a historical develop- 
ment, and therefore prefers the arrangement by centu- 
ries; that he has no philosophical apprehension of dog- 
ma; and that he gauges past centuries by the tests of 
his own time — e. g. enlightenment and tolerance, liber- 
ality and morality. Being convinced that the charac- 
ter of private religion must necessarily differ with the 
multitudes of individuals, he is continually outraged to 
find all independence of private thought repressed by 
the pov’er of the Church. Lacking a profound faith 
himself, he naturally stamps every appearance of mysti- 
cism as fanaticism; and as he is never able to escape 
the suspicion of priestly cunning and despotism, the im- 
pression derived from his survey of Church history is 
but dreary at the best. The martyrs were people 
“whose minds v r ere unsettled, monks and hermits were 
madmen, the bishops chiefly intriguers, Augustine keen 
and crafty, Tertullian highly odd and fanatical, Theod- 
oret superstitious, Bernard sanctimonious.” Pelagius 
alone (whose Epp. ad Demetriadem he published with 
notes in 1775) meets with his approval. 1 1 is method, 
too, was chaotic and confused, resulting in lengthy pref- 
aces and numerous additions, appendices, and supple- 
ments to his w'orks, most of w hich suffer, in addition, 
from the absence of indexes, and even of tables of con- 
tents. He tells 11 s, how'ever, that he was accustomed to 
deliver four or five lectures per day; and yet he man- 
aged to write no less than one hundred and seventy-one 


SENDERLING 


524 


SEMNE 

books, though but one or two of them passed iuto a sec- 
ond edition. 

The views of Semlcr on the canon of Scripture and 
connected subjects are developed in numerous works, 
prominent among which are the Abhandlung row. freien 
Gebranck des Kanons (1771-75,4 vols.): — with which 
connect his Neue Untersuchungen iiber die A pocalypse 
( 1776) : — Vorbereit ungen zur Ilermeneutik ( 1760 ) : — 
Brief e zur Erleichterung der Pn vat-Religion der Chris- 
ten (1784) : — Von freier (Inters, des Kanons: — Erkldnmg 
iiber theol. Censuren: — Vorbereit ung auf die konigl. 
grossbritt. Aufgabe von d. Gottheit Christi (1787). — On 
Church history, Select a Capita Histories Ecclesiastics : 
— Versuch eines Auszugs aus d. Kirchengeschichte : — 
Comment arii I/istorici de Antique Christ ianor uni Statu: 
— and Neue Versuche die Kirchenhist . d. ersten Jahrh . 
mehr aufzukldren. 

Sources. — Sender’s Selbstbiographie (1781, 2 pts.); 
Eichhorn, Leben Semlers in the Bibliothek , pt. v; Tho- 
luck, Venn. Schriften , ii, 39 ; Schmid, Die Theologie 
Senders (1858). — llerzog, Real- Encyklop. s. v. See 
Katioxalism. 

Semne (IV// b//, revered ), a Greek term for a nun. 

Semnion (2i/moi'), a Greek term for a monas- 
tery. 

Semnium (Se//j'f7or, a temple ), a name given by 
Philo to places of worship of the Therapeutic (q. v.). 
lie says, “ In every one of their dwellings there is a 
sacred house or chapel, which they call their semnium , 
or monastery, where they perform the religious mys- 
teries proper to their holy lives” (Bingham, Christ. A n- 
tiq. vol. vii, ch. ii, § 11). Monasteries came afterwards 
to be called semnia , as Suicerus shows out of Balzamon, 
Methodius, and Suidas. — Bingham, Christ. Antiq. vol. 
vii, ch. ii, § 14. 

Semnos (^epvbg), a Greek term for a monk. 

Sempecta, a term for a monk who had passed fif- 
ty years in a monastery. He was excused from regu- 
lar duties, and at Westminster and Crowland lived in 
the infirmary and had a young attendant. — Walcott, 
Sacred A rchceol. s. v. 

Semphycrates, in Gneco- Egyptian mythology, 
was a being which represented Hercules in combina- 
tion with the Egyptian Harpocrates. It has been re- 
garded as symbolical of the germinating period, in and 
through which germs make their appearance, or of the 
union of time and life. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. 
s. v. 

Sempiternitas (Lat. semper, “always,” and eter- 
nitas, “eternity”), an everlasting state of existence, hav- 
ing a beginning, but no end. It is used in speaking of 
angels and the souls of men in distinction from the eter- 
nity of God. — Hagenbach, Hist, of Doctrines, § 166. 

Semple, Kobert Baylor, a Baptist minister, was 
born at Hose Mount, King and Queen Co., Va., Jan. 20, 
1769. After completing his academical course, he com- 
menced the study of law; but having been induced to 
join the Baptist Church, he turned his attention to the 
ministry, and on Sept. 20, 1790, he was ordained pastor 
of Bruington Church, King and Queen County, which 
position he held until his death, Dec. 25, 1831. He is 
identified with the earliest efforts of the Baptist Church 
to send the Gospel to the heathen. lie was a member 
of the first Baptist General Convention; president for 
a number of years of the Virginia Baptist Missionary 
Society; was often moderator of the General Associa- 
tion of Virginia, and president of its board of managers. 
He was also an earnest friend of the Colonization Soci- 
ety; and when the Columbian College in the District 
of Columbia became involved, he accepted the charge 
of its financial concerns (in 1827), accomplishing his dif- 
ficult task with great discretion and energy. He pub- 
lished a Catechism (1809): — a History of Virginia Bap- 
tists (1810): — and various Memoirs and Letters. See 
Sprague, Annals of the Amer . Pulpit, vi, 805. 


Sena Panthis, a Hindu sect which was estab- 
lished by Sena, the third of the disciples of Kamanand, 
but is now almost, if not quite, extinct. For some time, 
however, Sena and his descendants were the family gu- 
rus of the rajah of Bandoogur, and from that circum- 
stance enjoyed considerable authority and reputation. 
— Gardner, Faiths of the World , s. v. 

Sen'aah [some Sena'ah ] (Heb. Senaah', f"5X!3, 
thorny ; Sept. Stvaa, Havana, Naaya, etc.), the name 
of a man (B.C. ante 445) whose descendants, or (more 
probably), if a town (but none like it is elsewhere men- 
tioned), whose inhabitants (given in various numbers, 
all apparently exaggerated by erroneous transcription) 
returned from Babylon (Ezra ii, 35; Neh. vii, 38) and 
rebuilt the Fish -gate at Jerusalem (Neh. iii, 3, Heb. 
with the art. has-Senaah' ; Sept. ’Aaavad ; A. V. “ Has- 
senaah”). 

Senagen, in Hindu mythology, is a king Belonging 
to the race of Children of the Sun, who is connected 
with the fables relating to the tyrant of Ceylon (Lan- 
ka), the noted Havana, and consequently with the story 
of Kama. Havana having demanded a vessel filled with 
blood from certain holy devotees, it was afterwards bur- 
ied by the gigantic demon in the territories of Senagen 
because it brought him trouble. Senagen found it, and 
discovered in it a beautiful child which he recognised 
as an embodiment of the goddess Lakshmi. She was 
subsequently married to Hama, an incarnation of her 
consort Vishnu. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Senate (yepovota, eldei'ship , used bv classical writ- 
ers for a deliberative or legislative body, and by the 
Sept, for the collective mass of the Jewish elders, and 
later for the Sanhedrim) is used once in the New Test. 
(Acts v, 21) for some portion of the Sanhedrim, appar- 
ently the elders, who constituted its main element. See 
Elder; Sanhedrim. 

Senatorium, a place in some churches where are 
the seats appropriated to the use of emperors, kings, 
magistrates, and other persons of distinction. Some 
think that it is so called because the bishop and pres- 
byters, who form the senate of the church, were seated 
there. 

Senault, Jean Francois, a French preacher and 
religious writer, was born at Anvers, near Pontoise, in 
1601. After studying at Douai, in 1618 he entered the 
then young congregation of the Oratory, and being des- 
ignated to the office of preaching, he prepared himself 
by an earnest study of the Scriptures, the Church fa- 
thers, and the best French authors. For forty years he 
preached with success at Paris, to the court, and in the 
provinces. He was made superior of the Seminary of 
St. Magloire, and in 1662 was elected superior-general 
of the Oratory, an office which lie administered gratu- 
itously and with great prudence till his death, Aug. 3, 
1672. He wrote several religious biographies and prac- 
tical works, for which see Hoefor, Nouv. Biog. Generate, 
s. v. 

Sendai. See Senpel. 

Sendel, a kind of taffeta, frequently used of old in 
the making of ecclesiastical garments and banners. The 
clergy in 1343 were forbidden to wear their hair rolled 
with fur or sendel. 

Senderling, John Z., D.D., a Lutheran minister, 
was born Nov. 12, 1800, at Philadelphia, Pa. Having 
in early life a thirst for knowledge and a desire to be 
useful in the Master's service, he was advised to prepare 
for the Gospel ministry. In 1817 he entered Ilartwick 
Classical and Theological Seminary, where he remained 
seven years. Immediately after graduating he was li- 
censed to preach, and took charge of a small Church in 
Clay, Onondaga Co., N. Y. In 1826 he went to Centre 
Brunswick, near Troy, and then to the city of Troy, 
where he remained till 1856, when he received a call as 
pastor of St. Paul’s Church in Johnstown, N. Y. In the 


SENECA 


525 


SENECA 


spring of 18G7 he resigned his pastorate, and lived a re- 
tired life until Dec. 20, 1877, when he was called to his 
rest. (13. P.) 

Seneca, Lucius Annaeus, was a teaeher, rhetori- 
cian, philosopher, poet, essayist, epistolographer, natural- 
ist, advocate, magistrate, and statesman, under the later 
Koman emperors of the adseititious Julian house. It is 
in the character of philosopher that his reputation has 
endured through all subsequent times. This reputation 
has been preserved, as it was generated, mainly by the 
piquancy of his style, the terseness of his expression, 
the incisiveness and the epigrammatic felicity of his 
phrase, and the constant ostentation of an earnestness 
which was, in some degree, factitious, and of a profun- 
dity which is more apparent than real. By whatever 
arts his renown was attained, or by whatever accidents 
it was perpetuated, the name of Seneca has ever contin- 
ued the most notable and the best known in the scanty 
catalogue of Koman philosophers, and of Romans pre- 
tending to philosophy. There has been no period in 
which any smattering of letters survived when Seneca 
was not admired and cited. Ilis own profession, “ Nulla 
dies sine linea,” has been applicable to him in many 
forms. The fathers of the Church, the schoolmen of 
the Middle Age. the poets of the Renaissance, and their ; 
eorrivals the Elizabethan dramatists, had all frequent 
recourse to Seneca, and Shakespeare was reproached 
with his too ready use of the convenient repertory of 
gnomes and maxims. In his own day, Seneca occupied 
a conspicuous station. His abilities merited a very 
high position, and his accomplishments accorded with 
his abilities. He obtained the qusestorship and the 
pnetorship in the official hierarchy when these honors 
were conferred by imperial favor. lie was the instruc- 
tor and chief minister of an emperor whose excesses and 
atrocities have made the name of Nero a synonym for 
all that is brutal and heartless in despotism, despicable 
in license and vanity, and unparalleled in crime. He 
lauded frugality and simplicity ( De TranquilL Animi, 
i, 5-8 ; Ep. 1 1, ii, 9), and eelioed the desire of Propertius : 

“ Utinam Ronue nemo esset dives; et ipse 
Straminea posset dux habitare casa.” 

But while eulogizing cottage life — “domus haee sapi- 
entis angusta, sine cultn, sine strepitu, sine adparatu” 
(Dp Constant. XY, v) — he passed his days in splendid 
villas and in palaces. He professed the wise man’s in- 
difference to the hazards of life, the caprices of fortune, 
and the conditions of existence, but he dwelt in all 
the luxury and indulgence of Roman sybaritism. He 
preached the blessings of obscurity in the press of cour- 
tiers, of whom he was the chief. He strenuously com- 
mended poverty, but he more sedulously increased his 
millions, and is eharged with provoking the most serious 
of British revolts by the sudden recall of his usurious 
loans. These contrasts were human weakness — “mor- 
talibus mos est ex magnis majora cupiendi” (De Belief. 
Ill, iii, 2) — but they were not the sage’s triumphs over 
human infirmities and worldly temptations. He ad- 
dressed his treatise On Clemency to Nero, but he dis- 
guised, if he did not sanction, the poisoning of Claudi- 
us; he justified the assassination of Agrippina by her 
son, and he failed to prevent the divorce and murder of 
the empress Octavia. lie might well exclaim, “Mali 
inter malos vivimus” (De Ira, III, xxvi, 4). Could he 
find an excuse in another of his sayings, “Mansuete 
immansueta traetanda?” (ibid, xxvii, 3). lie expatiated 
on the evil of avarice, and wrote at great length On Be- 
neficence , but he enriched himself by imperial confisca- 
tions. He exulted in the perfect freedom of the true 
philosopher, and cringed to the freed men and minions 
of an imbecile and semi-idiotic sovereign (Consol, ad 
Polyb.; Dion Cass. LXI, x). lie was prominent among 
the Stoics of the time, whom he patronized by his coun- 
tenance and by his predications, he was chief among 
the satellites and profligates of the court, whom he re- 
buked by his precepts, but did not stigmatize by his 


retirement. In all things he was a rhetorician and an 
actor. Ilis literary productions glitter with the corus- 
cations of unintermitting paradox and antithesis; but 
the paradox of his tenets and the antithesis of his style 
are less novel and less startling than the contrasts be- 
tween his professions and his career, his doctrine and 
his practice (irdvra ra ivavruoTa ott; i<pi\o(To<pn 7roi- 
utv i)\fyx$7) [Dion Cass. LXI, x]). The image and 
example of his life were his bequest to his friends. 
They should have been accompanied with the epigraph, 

“ Deficior prudens artis ab arte mea.” 

At the first contemplation of these strange anomalies 
we are inclined to say, “tota vita mentitur” (Ep. V. 
iv, 10) — his life was all a lie. But much that is con- 
tradictory, much that may invite the sternest reproba- 
tion, may be palliated by regarding the times, the dif- 
ficulties of the situation, and the artificial and discolored 
lights under which all is seen. Such discrepancies, how- 
ever, between the philosophy and the conduct cannot 
fail to stimulate curiosity and to require cautious esti- 
mation. 

I. Life . — L. Annams Seneca was the second son of M. 
Annseus Seneca, the rhetorician, and the author of the 
Controversial Exercises for the instruction of students of 
' rhetoric. His elder brother, Gallio, proconsul of Aehaia 
at the time of Paul’s visit, had assumed the name of 
the distinguished advocate Junius Gallio, by whom he 
had been adopted. Ilis younger brother, L. Anmeus 
Mela, was the father of Lucan, the poet of the Pharsa - 
lia. Mareus, the founder of the distinguished family, 
was a citizen from Corduba, in Spain, and of the eques- 
trian order. He was wealthy, reputable, accomplished, 
and noted for his wonderful memory. He took an em- 
inent position at Rome as a teacher of rhetoric, and lived 
to be an octogenarian. His illustrious son was born at 
Corduba, but was transferred to Rome in early life, and 
was educated there under his father and Papirius Fabi- 
anus, Attalus, and Sotion. Fabianus he mentions fre- 
quently in his works with respect and affection. By 
Sotion he was initiated into the mysteries, vagaries, and 
asceticism of the Pythagoreans. Seneca was so earnest 
in his abstinences and in his renunciation of animal food 
that he became emaciated and endangered his health. 
By the urgent persuasions of his father he abandoned 
his fasts and vigils, and turned from the pursuit of se- 
vere philosophy to the business of life. He adopted a 
forensic career. The remains of Seneca attest his abil- 
ities, the breadth of his culture, the diversity of his ac- 
quirements, the vigor of his fancy, the variety of his 
reflections, the fluency and perspicuity of his style. He 
soon rose to eminence and lucrative employment. He 
beeame qmestor, at what time is unknown, but probably 
in the middle of the reign of Tiberius. Under Cains his 
life was nearly cut short. Jealousy of his talents, envy 
of his distinction, apprehension of his sentiments, hatred 
of his opinions and associations, or more adequate provo- 
cations, excited that insane and furious emperor’s hos- 
tility, and he was designated for execution. By adroit 
intervention he was spared, on the representation that 
he would soon sink under disease. Two years later 
Caligula was assassinated, but Seneca survived. The 
opening of the new reign was inauspicious to him. 
Claudius banished him to the sterile and inhospitable 
island of Corsica — “Ilorrida desertis undique vasta lo- 
eis.” Messalina suspected his intimacy with the em- 
peror’s nicees, Agrippina and Julia, and alleged an in- 
trigue with one or both. Seneca was safer and more 
innocent on the most inhospitable coast than in the 
company of any of these infamous sirens. He had al- 
ready addressed his tractate On Anyer to his brother 
Novatus, who had not yet become Gallio. Little of his 
fortitude, and nothing of the tranquillity of the philos- 
opher, were displayed by Seneca in his exile. In the 
first period of his expatriation he achieved a Consola- 
tion to llelvia, his mother, to calm her natural grief at 
the violent and hazardous separation. It abounds in 


SKNKCA 


520 


SKN KCA 


sliowv sentiments, in oxtjiusil o expressions, in whole- 
somo lull exaggerated reflections. which fall upon I ho 
expectant car like the sound of hollow brass. His 
equanimity is belied hy his effort 1 tv discover, to limit i- 
ply, sml to .*(4 lorn res so ns lor equanimity. 'Hie impres- 
sion is irresistihle that the affected eoiitentmenl of the 
sap’ is only the triumph id* the rhetorician, and intend- 
ed to attract public admiration and sympathy. This 
unfavorable c licet is deepened by the ('otwolttfion to 
Coli/bint. also composed in the Corsican seclusion, and 
written to the powerful freedman of Claudius to comfort 
him on the loss of his brother, and to invoke for him- 
self the commiseration of the libertine and the favor of 
his master. The wise man, who, like Ovid, had be- 
moaned the miseries of banishment in elegiac verse, 
declared that, under Claudius. “the life of exiles was 
more tranquil than that of princes under fains.” lie 
enlarged upon the resplendent qualities of the stupid, 
misled, blundering pedant on the throne, whose pinup- 
kinifiration he was to celebrate after his death in bitter 
satire. The intense servility and adulation of the twen- 
ty-sixth chapter of this discreditable Convolution have 
often attracted remark; bill it has high literary merits. 

After eight years not unprofitable spent. Seneca was 
recalled from his exile. The new empress, Agrippina, 
mindful of old intimacy, or anxious for additional sup- 
port, summoned him from the sterile rocks of Corsica to 
the luxury and license of the imperial palace. He was 
advanced to the pneiorship. and appointed tutor to her 
son, the young, handsome, promising Domitius Nero. 
Had not Alexander been the pupil of Aristotle V What 
might not be anticipated from the disciple of Seneca? 
It. was very shortly before the acceptance of this charge 
that he had written the ('otisofatio ml Marcimn on the 
death of her son. It was apparently followed by the 
disquisition On Tranquillity. Unreality of emotion 
characterizes both works. Marcia was the daughter of 
fremiti ins fordus, the republican historian of the last 
civil wars. Her son. for whom she was tardily con- 
soled. had bemi dead three years. The praise of intel- 
lectual calm came with a suspicions air from one who 
had bet'ii fretting and moaning in obscurity for eight 
years, and was ready to welcome the bustle and extrava- 
gance of the court. There seems to have been no hesi- 
tation in accepting the proposals of Agrippina to for- 
sake tranquillity. She was scheming to advance to 
the throne a son of whom his father had said that noth- 
ing but a monster could spring from such parents. The 
throne was secured by poisoning the old and uxorious 
emperor. Seneca became prime-minister and chief ad- 
ministrator under Agrippina, with llurrus as head of 
military a Ihtirs. The first service of the political or 
politic philosopher was to compose for his pupil a ful- 
some laudation of the murdered prince, whose memory 
he lampooned himself. The Neronian lauds were so 
highly appreciated that the senate directed them to be 
inscribed on a pillar of silver, and to be read by the 
prjvtors when they entered on their other. When Nero 
liad been a year upon the throne, his younger colleague, 
llritannicus, the son and true heir of Claudius, was re- 
moved out of his path perhaps by poison, though this 
has been disputed in late years. At this opportune mo- 
ment. Seneca addresses to his imperial pupil the notable 
treatise (hi (V< ninny. What was the demand for it, un- 
less cruel dispoMtions had been manifested? How could 
they have been carried into ell eel unless by the acqui- 
escence of Seneca, who was now in the height of his 
power? Tacitus alleges (.Dm. X 1 1 1 . xi) that he pub- 
lished Nero’s frequent asseverations of his clemency 
" testitieando qnam honest a pr.-eciperet, vel jactandi 
ingenii." 

Seneca is charged with encouraging and excusing 
Nero’s amour with Acte to prevent worse excesses. 
The olVenec was venial in comparison with other sub- 
serviences. This liaison, however, irritated Agrippina, 
and inflamed the growing hostility between the mother 
and the son. Public nil airs continued to be conducted 


quietly and prosperously, and Seneca has reaped the 
honor. The calm was only on the surface. A few 
years later, the indictment of Suillius, under the anti- 
quated (Mucinii law, brought discredit upon Seneca, w ho 
appears to have been active in the prosecution. Suil- 
1 ins. in his defence, turned sa\ ’agel v upon him — charged 
him with having been the quiestor ofCIormanieits, and 
with having corrupted his daughter none the less; de- 
manded by what, wisdom or hy what, precepts of phi- 
losophy he had accumulated such a vast estate in four 
years of imperial friendship; denounced him for catch- 
ing rich and childless men, as with a net, and for ex- 
hausting Italy with his usuries (Tacit. Ann. Nil I, xlii). 
The arts of the infamous Poppa'a Sahina widened the 
breach between Agrippina and her son, and the trust 
and inthieuoo of Seneca sickened with the declining au- 
thority of Agrippina. He was alarmed and jeopardized 
by the unnatural combat. The mother sustained the 
rights of t he injured empress tVlavia; the son yielded 
to the wiles of the sorceress Toppsea Sahina, whose vic- 
tory portended the utter overthrow of the maternal su- 
premacy. It was a conflict to he terminated only by 
the death of Nero or of Agrippina. The mother, hy 
whose crimes lie had secured the throne, was the vic- 
tim. It. was generally credited that Seneca and Hnrrns 
assented to the matricide, though they devolved the ex- 
ecution on other instruments. Seneca has been accused 
of suggesting the crime to regain Nero’s confidence. 
That he defended it has never been denied, and admits 
no exculpation. A later minister of Home welcomed 
death rather than stain his conscience hy apologizing 
for a less atrocity; but the meanness of Seneca’s com- 
plicity in the crime sustained him in his posit ion, if not 
in his full ascendency, for a few years longer, lie was 
still the first, subject in the empire, the most prominent 
of the imperial ministers, when the “Quinquennium 
Neronis,'’ the tirst five years of the new reign, was cele- 
brated by the Quinqiieunalian games. The imaginary 
felicity of these years was long a memory and a regret 
to the Konian world, and posterity has accepted the im- 
pression which was then made. To Seneca has been 
assigned the credit of those halcyon days. Yet llritan- 
nieus had been suspiciously removed; Agrippina had 
been murdered by her son. and Seneca had jnstitied the 
murder; Toppu'a Sahina had supplanted Oetavia, and 
insured her subsequent divorce and assassination, ’flic 
Quinquennium Neronis was a theatrical illusion — a 
hypocrisy of brief duration. With the death of llurrus 
(A.D. f>‘2\ the scene rapidly changes. The marriage 
of Popp:va Sabina to the emperor, the divorce and mur- 
der of the young and innocent empress Oetavia at the 
age of nineteen, and the linal overthrow of Seneca’s in- 
tinenee w ere nearly simultaneous— “ Mors Ihirri iulVegit 
Seneese potentiam” (Tacit. Jaw. XIV, lii, 1). About, 
the same time. Taut was brought as a prisoner to Homo, 
on his appeal to (Ansar. Signs and portents, on earth 
and in heaven, terrified the superstitious. Earthquakes 
and bloody comets spread distress and consternation, 
and pestilence succeeded. In the second summer after 
the murder of Oetavia, the fearful contiagration which 
led to the persecution of t he Christians and the martyr- 
dom of the apostles l'eter and Paul devastated the city 
for six days and seven nights. During these years, 
Seneca’s intluence had vanished, and his peril had been 
ever before him. The asseverations of Nero “that he 
would perish rather than injure him" (Suelon. AVro. 
xxxnA were scarcely reassuring. A convenient ambigui- 
ty may he detected in the phrase. Seneca begged for his 
dismissal from court ; he proposed to surrender his villas 
and his vast estates, his live hundred ivory-fooled chairs 
of citron, his three or four millions of substance (Tacit. 
I mm. XIV. liv; Dion Cass. LXI. x). II is entreaties 
and his offers were disregarded, hut he sought an osten- 
tatious seclusion, lie endeavored to conceal himself 
under the garb of a philosopher; he returned to the as- 
ceticisms of his youth; he seemed oblivious of human 
affairs, and to hold communion only with philosophy 


SENECA 


52 7 


SENECA 


and with his God. “Deo parere. libertas est” (Senec. 
De Vit. Beat, xv, 7). To these years of solicitous ob- 
scurity belong his best and most characteristic works — 
the treatises I)e Provulentia , De Breritate 1 'itee, De 
Vita Beata , De Benejiciis , the Letters to Lacifius, and 
the Natural Questions. The danger so long foreseen 
was not averted by philosophical pretensions or by 
rhetorical homilies. Seneca, whether justly or not, was 
believed or declared to be involved in the conspiracy of 
Calpuruius Piso. Was lie guilty? The recorded evi- 
dence is wholly inadequate. The probabilities alone 
convict him, and guilt in this case would be the most 
innocent of his criminalities, lie knew his own peril; 
he knew the persistent and unscrupulous bloodthirsti- 
ness of his pupil; he knew the present anti impending 
miseries of the Roman world when Nero’s passions were 
unleashed; he had been cognizant and acquiescent, per- 
haps active in some cases, in the murder of Claudius, of 
Agrippina, of Octavia, and probably in many more as- 
sassinations. There is no appeal for him from his sus- 
picious life to his sentimental morality, however lofty, 
pure, and fascinating. lie was ordered to die, and the 
same decree was issued against his brother Gallio (but 
see Tacit. Ann. XV, Ixxiii) and his nephew, the poet Lu- 
can. The fatal mandate was promptly obeyed, but his 
death was lingering and painful. Nothing in the life 
of Seneca became him more or was more consistent with 
his philosophy than his manner of leaving it. There 
was something of parade — something of the vos plaudite 
of a classic comedy; but the ancients were always actors, 
and the ostentation of philosophic calm and indifference 
had been the habit of Seneca’s life, and could not be 
wholly abandoned in the last act, when the situation 
was so tragic and imposing, so apt for one of his own 
dramas. The story of Seneca’s serene but lingering 
death is told by Tacitus (ibid. XV, lix-lxv) with elabo- j 
rate art and with the most adroit chiar-oscuro. It is 

one of the most 
finished of the 
numerous de- 
lineations in 
distemper of 
that consum- 
mate artist, 
and has fur- 
nished the ex- 
e m p 1 a r for 
many inferior 
copies. The 
story has been 
so often repeat- 
ed, and is so fa- 
miliar, that it 
need not be re- 
iterated here; 
but a suspicion 
Seneca. (From an antique bust.) remains that 
some of the touches of the painter’s brush have no better 
justification than there was for the loose rumor reported 
by him that the conspirators had designed, if successful, 
to elevate Seneca to the throne of the Ciesars. 

II. Writings. — The literary remains of Seneca are in 
both prose and verse. The prose productions are moral 
essays, fragments of such essays, one hundred and twen- 
ty-four Letters to Lueilius (which are themselves es- 
says), the Ludus de Morte Claudii (or A pocolocynthosis), 
and seven books of Natural Questions , or speculations in 
natural history. The A pocolocynt hosts is a medley of 
prose and verse, but its authorship is doubtful. Sene- 
ca’s poetry consists of nine epigrams — the wail of the 
exile — and ten tragedies, one of which (the Octavia ) 
cannot have been written by him, while it remains un- 
certain whether he wrote any of them. 'The merits and 
defects of Seneca’s style may be gathered from the in- 
cidental remarks already made. It may suffice at this 
time to quote the just censure of the emperor Gains, 
“Arena sine calce,” and to approve the equally brief 



and accurate criticism of Quintilian, “ Abundat dulcibus 
vitiis.” It is always affected, it is always pointed, it is 
always attractive, it is always radiant; but it is a string 
of artificial gems, not of “Orient pearls at random 
strung,” or of genuine diamonds. 

There are some old fabrications ascribed to Seneca, 
which should not be left altogether unnoticed. One of 
these is the treatise De Formula /Innestie ) itte, which 
was constantly cited as his in the Middle Ages, but is 
now attributed to Martinos Dumiensis, a Christian writ- 
i er contemporaneous with Justinian. 'The other is the 
imaginary correspondence between Seneca and Paul, 
which was known to Jerome. These letters are indubi- 
tably spurious; but an acquaintance between the pagan 
moralist and the Christian missionary is not without 
probability, though it is without evidence. The belief 
in such acquaintance, and the favorable acceptance of 
the Letters by Jerome and Augustine, encouraged the 
fancy that Seneca had been converted to Christianity. 
More deserving of consideration than the possibility of 
such intercourse is the close agreement between many 
passages in the writings of the Roman philosopher and 
in the Epistles of the apostle, and the singular conso- 
nance of the maxims of the Stoic rhetorician with the 
precepts 'of the evangelists anil apostles. This signifi- 
cant concord has often been noticed, and recently, with 
especial care, by I)r. Lightfoot, the new bishop of Dur- 
ham. The parallelisms are most frequent and most 
startling — of course in ethical rather than in theologi- 
cal matters. Almost equally suggestive is the fact that 
the ethical productions of Seneca are much after the 
fashion of sermons and hortatory discourses — preaching 
a purer faith, a cleaner heart, and virtuous action in the 
midst of a corrupt and unbelieving generation. An ob- 
vious explanation is that which induced the snppositi- 
| tious correspondence between Seneca and Paul. When 
1 this is rejected, it is easy to presume the diffusion of 
Christian doctrine by constant communications of all 
kinds between the several parts of the empire. It is 
certain that Christian influence was early discernible at 
Rome, and has been detected in the contemporaneous 
Roman law. There was a Christian community in the 
palace at an early period. But this does not explain 
all. During the whole lifetime of Seneca there was an 
earnest and widely extended movement in the line of 
moral renovation, which was illustrated by the growth 
of Stoicism at Rome and the expansion of its doctrines, 
by the tenor of the writings of Philo- Judieus, by Sibyl- 
line forgeries, and bv the memorable career of Apollo- 
nius Tyaneus, which has been disguised and obscured 
by the fictions of his biographers. It does not conflict 
with a reverential interpretation of “the ways of God 
to man” to conjecture that the miseries of the civil wars 
which had spread from Calpe to the Euphrates, the con- 
sequent disintegration of society everywhere, and the 
general dissoluteness which those wars had engendered, 
produced, along with the decay of pagan belief, a rec- 
ognition of the need, a solicitude for the accomplish- 
ment, and attempts at the introduction, of a religious 
regeneration. Such a condition of the mind and heart 
of the nations would be a natural preparation for the 
reception and diffusion of Christianity. Nor does it 
seem alien to the course of Providence, who never ef- 
fects great changes per saltum, and to whom “a thou- 
sand years are but as a day.” 

III. Philosophy. — No distinct scheme of philosophy 
can claim Seneca as either its founder or its systematic 
expositor, lie only enlarged the lines, adorned the 
precepts, and amplified the spirit of the philosophy 
which he professed, lie declared himself a Stoic, has 
always been so regarded, and is recognised as such by 
Zeller, Ueberweg, and the other historians of ancient 
philosophy. It is therefore needless to dwell upon his 
doctrines. They are those of the Stoics (q. v.). But 
Seneca was much more and much less than a Stoic of 
the old and rigid school, and much of his favor in his 
own and in later times may be attributed to the excess 


SENECA 


528 


SEXEII 


and tlie defect, lie was thoroughly unsystematic and 
discontinuous. He indulges in no speculation to estab- 
lish or to fortify the theory. He employs the current 
tenets for the practical conduct of life. He had a 
broader comprehension than Zeno or Chrysippus. He 
was latitudinarian in his sentiments. He applauds the 
character, commends the ethical doctrines, and cites the 
maxims of Epicurus. He inclines to the large intelli- 
gence of the Peripatetics, and emulates the spiritual as- 
pirations of the Academics. Philosophy, in his concep- 
tion, was no abstract and recondite study, of service 
only in the closet: it was the rule of life in the midst 
of distractions and temptations, of uncertainties and 
dangers — a refuge for the troubled mind, a shelter from 
suspicion and envy, a defence against tyranny, and the 
balm of a serene conscience (tie Beat, Vit. xv). 

Philosophy has been, since the Christian revelation, 
so distinct from religion, or so completely identified 
with it, that it is not easy to appreciate its character, 
its charms, and its value in those ages when it was the 
sole substitute for revealed truth — when from its dark, 
intricate, and insoluble problems could alone be expect- 
ed vague hopes and vaguer aspirations, where Christian- 
ity affords absolute assurance to all. By the cultivated 
and inquiring pagan, philosophy was pursued as the 
guide of life, the moderator of prosperity, the solace in 
adversity, the oracular response to the eager questions 
which the earnest heart and intelligent mind are ever 
asking about here and hereafter — about the world, its 
origin, and its governance ; about man, his duties and 
his destinies; about all that lies beyond the dark veil 
of death and the darker veil of birth. This is fully 
manifested in Seneca’s invitation to Paulinus to seek 
“the shady spaces of divine philosophy” (Z>e Brei\ 
Vit xix, 1,2). 

Philosophy offered many inducements to its pursuit 
or its pretence under the early empire. It was a disci- 
pline of mind and heart to those of gentle disposition 
ami refined tastes whose easy circumstances in life re- 
lieved them from the necessity of public or professional 
vocations. Hence philosophy grew into a fashion, and 
the fashion, like all fashions, moral or religious, was of- 
ten perverted into a cloak or a pretence. 

Under the pressure of despotic rule, slight differences 
become symbols of political faith. At Rome, Stoicism 
associated itself with regrets for the republic, with a 
mild, inert aversion to the empire, or with a more de- 
cided antipathy to the emperor. Lord of himself, the 
Stoic asserted his independence of all control of man by 
governments or by fortune. The haughty pretension 
afforded little offence to the constituted powers. The 
sole sovereignty of the Stoic had its single throne with- 
in his own bosom. There he, too, was emperor; he 
cared for naught beyond. He had thus the credit of 
independence, without assuming the complexion of a 
conspirator or a revolutionary. Every age illustrates 
the facility with which prevalent principles shrivel up 
into empty forms. Loud professions may disguise hol- 
low sentiments. Sentiments accordant with the profes- 
sions may be sincerely entertained, and yet produce nei- 
ther earnestness of feeling nor constancy of action. Men 
will more readily die for their avowed faith than live 
for it. Genuine martyrs may be found who would scarce- 
ly practice what they die for. Their faith is in their 
profession — “Cum verba eruperunt, adfectus ad consue- 
tudinom relabuntur” (Senec. tie Brel', Vit. vi, 3). Of 
such was Seneca. Augustine’s comment on his boast 
of independence may be applied to most of his virtues: 
“Adfuit seribenti, viventi defuit” ( tie Civ. Dei, vi, x). 
To this danger he was peculiarly exposed. He was 
courtly in manners and courtly in associations, amiable 
and impressible in disposition, serene and averse to vio- 
lent emotions; of affectionate and placid temperament, 
rather than of deep and solid nature; vain rather than 
ambitious, and ever mindful of his own interest, llis 
birth, his home influences, his education, his vocation, 
his career, his experience in either fortune, led him to 


] deem that best which was most plausible or most se- 
cure. He was the son of a great rhetorician, brought 
up in the schools of the rhetoricians, destined for a 
rhetorician, winning early profit, distinction, and pro- 
motion by rhetorical displays. Rhetoric was the pas- 
■ sion of the time; he was not constituted to despise it. 
He declared, “Oratio sollicita philosophum non decet” 
(Bp. XVI, v, 4) ; yet his expression was always curious 
and surprising. He has given us the maxim, “ Qualis 
vir, talis oratio.” It may be justly inverted, Qualis 
oratio, talis vir. 

All that remains of Seneca shows that he was noth- 
ing if not rhetorical. The tartness of expression, the 
compression of phrase, the fertility of fancy, the paradox 
of thought, were ever uppermost in his mind. These 
things did not make him false, but unreal. They did 
not make him insincere, but superficial. His predilec- 
tions were good, but evanescent in action. He bad the 
fragility of the man who looks to form and fashion, not 
to substance. This may explain the contradiction be- 
tween the ethical theory and the personal morality of 
Seneca. An instructive parallel, on a lower plane and 
with narrower exorbitances, is furnished by tbe con- 
trast between the character and the Aight Thoughts of 
Edward Young. 

It is a perilous and doubtful task to unveil the depths 
of the human heart; to reconcile the complex and often 
unconscious duplicities of human nature; to decide 
where delusion ends and deception begins; to estimate 
the force of temptations and the degrees of resistance to 
them ; to discern the subtle harmony which binds all 
the parts of life together, and may unite general purity 
and noble appetencies to grievous frailties and ignoble 
crimes. None but the All-seeing One, “to whom all 
hearts are open, and from whom no secrets are hid,” can 
pierce the obscure mazes of human motives. The harsh, 
censorious, confident, sweeping, unrestricted judgment 
will blunder, whether it praise or blame— “Ut absolva- 
ris, ignosce” (Senec. tie Bene/. VII, xxviii, 3). Was it 
a cry from his own lacerated conscience when Seneca 
exclaimed so truly and so sadly, 

“Maguos hmnauum pectus recessus habet !” 

(Fragm. iii, De Amicit.) 

IV. Literature. — The historians of ancient philosophy 
and the ILorA's of Seneca, of course. See also Lodge, 
The Life of L. A nnceus Seneca, described by Justus Lip- 
sius , in The Workes of L. A nnceus Seneca, both J Iorall 
and Natn rail (Lond. 1614); La Grange, Fie de Seneque 
(Paris, 1819) ; Aubertin, tie Sap. JJoctoribus qui a Cic. 
Morte ad Aeron. Pvincip. Roime Viguerunt (ibid. 1857); 
Bernhardt, Die Anschuuuug des Seneca vain Universum 
(Wittenb. 1861); Seidler, tiie religios-sittliche Welt- 
anschauung des Philosophen L. Aniueus Seneca (Frau- 
stadt, 1863) ; Donrif, tin Stoicisme et du Christiunisme , 
etc. (Paris, 1863) ; Monte'e. Le Stoicisme a Rome (ibid. 
1865); Martha, Les Moralistes sous V Empire Romain 
(ibid. 1866) ; Stahr, Agrippina , die Mutter Aero's (Berk 
1867); Lightfoot, Essay on St. Paul and Seneca, ap. 
Comm . on the Epistle to the Philippians ; Westminster 
Rev . July, 1867, No. clxxiii, art. ii ; Merivale, Romans 
under the Empire (Lond. 1850-62), (G. F. H.) 

Senectus, in Roman mythology, a personification 
of old age. He dw ells at the entrance to Ilades. 

Seneh. See Bush. 

Se'neb (Heb. Seneh', thorn; Sept. Yrrrd [Vat. 
’Eri'ndjO, Alex, omits]; Vulg. Sene), the name of one 
of the two isolated rocks which stood in the “passage 
of Michmash” at the time of the adventure of Jona- 
than and his armor-bearer (1 Sam. xiv, 4). It w r as the 
southern one of the two (ver. 6), and the nearest to 
Geba (A. V. “Gibeah”). The name in Hebrew' means 
a “ thorn,” or thorn-bush, and is applied elsewdicre only 
to the memorable thorn of Iloreb; but whether it re- 
fers in this instance to the shape of the rock or to the 
growth of seneh upon it, wc cannot ascertain. The lat- 
ter is more consistent with analogy. It is remarkable 


SENES 


529 


SEN LIS 


that Josephus (lFt/r, v, 2, I), in describing the route of 
Titus from the north to Jerusalem, mentions that the 
last encampment of his army was at a spot “which in 
the Jews’ tongue is called the valley” (or perhaps the 
plain) “of thorns («k«f3'<of auXwu), near a certain vil- 
lage called Gabathsaoule,” i. e. Gibeath of Saul. The 
ravine of Michmash is about four miles from the hill 
which is, with tolerable certainty, identitied with Gib- 
eah. This distance is perhaps too great to suit Jose- 
phus’s expression; still the point is worth notice. — 
Smith. Between Jeba, or Geba, and Mukhinas, or Mich- 
mash, there are two narrow and deep valleys, or gorges, 
running nearly parallel towards the east, with a high, 
rocky, and precipitous ridge between them. These two 
valleys unite a little lower down, i, e. a little to the 
east of the direct line from Jeba to Mukhinas. The 
ordinary route descends obliquely to the right from 
Jeba, and passes through the united valley at the junc- 
tion, rounding the point of the promontory, and then 
ascends obliquely to the left towards Mukhmas. This 
is the passage of Michmash alluded to in 1 Sam. xiii, 
23; Isa. x, 28, 29. The ridge between the two valleys 
has two steep or precipitous sides, one facing the south 
towards Geba, and the other facing the north towards 
Michmash. These were the two “sharp rocks” or prec- 
ipices called “ Seneh” and “ Bozez.” The two valleys 
are still called Suweineh and Buweizek. Jeba stands 
on the south side of Suweineh, on the very edge of the 
valley, and Mukhinas on the north edge of Buweizeh. 
— Fairbairn. Lieut. Conder regards the valley of Su- 
weineh itself as a trace of the name Seneh, and thinks 
its opposite walls were scaled bv Jonathan (Quitr, State- 
ment of the “ Pal. Explor. Fund,” April, 1874, p. G2) ; and 
he graphically describes the descent of his own sur- 
veying party down the rocks ( Tent ) V or k in Palestine , 
ii, 1 Lo). See Bozez. 

Senes {old men), a name given to the primates of 
the Christian Church in Africa. Here the primacy 
was not confined, as in other places, to the civil me- 
tropolis, but always went along with the oldest bishop 
of the province, who succeeded to this dignity by vir- 
tue of his seniority, whatever place he lived in. 

Seneschal, a monkish name for a steward. His 
duties were to seat the guests in the guest-hall, send 
presents to strangers of degree, and in some cases to 
have charge of the bishop’s palace. The same name 
was given to stewards of the year or months, minor 
canons or vicars, who catered for the common table. 

Sengler, Jacor, a Homan Catholic divine of Ger- 
many, was born at llusenstamm, near Frankfort-on-the 
Main, Sept. 11, 1799. When twenty years of age, after 
having learned the trade of a shoemaker, he entered 
the gymnasium at Frankfort. In 1824 he studied the- 
ology at Tubingen, under Mdhler, and in 1828 he at- 
tended the philosophical lectures of Sclielling at Mu- 
nich. In 1830 he commenced publishing the Catholic 
Church Gazette for Germany, and numbered among his 
contributors, besides Dbllinger and Fischer, such Prot- 
estant divines as Hoffmann, Weiss, and others. In 1831 
he went to Marburg as professor of philosophy, where 
he remained for eleven years, living on the best terms 
with his Protestant colleagues, Hupfeld, Kling, Henke, 
J. Muller, etc. In 1842 he was called to Freiburg, 
where he lectured for thirty-six years, and where he 
also died, Nov. 8, 1878, five days after having retired 
from his office. As a philosopher, he tried to harmo- 
nize speculation with Christianity; as a Homan Cath- 
olic, he never believed in the Human spirit of exclu- 
siveness. He wrote, 1 Viirdigung tier Schrift von I). 
Schulz: Ueber die Lehre vom heil. Abendmahl (Mainz, 
1830) Die Idee Gottes (Heidelberg, 1845-32, 2 pts.) 

Pie Erlcenntnisslehre (ibid. 1858). See Zuchold, Bill. 
Theol. ii, 1223; Winer, Handbnch der theol. Literntnr , 
i, 454, 582 ; ii, 73, 74. 770 ; Neue evangel. Kirchenzeitung, 
Feb. 22, 1879. (B. I’.) 

Sengumara Drama. in Hindu mythology, is one 
IX.— L l 


of the most ancient sages and princes of the human 
race. He was contemporary with king Druven, a 
grandson of the father of all who have been born, and 
gave to him his only daughter Bravibamey in mar- 
riage. 

Seng-Wan-Mau, in Chinese mythology, is the 
supreme deity of the Chinese, which is composed of 
nothing, is created from nothing, and does or thinks 
nothing, though, as conceived of, is not without exalted 
divine attributes, e. g. incomprehensibility, omniscience, 
justice, etc. lie is seated in the highest heaven, and 
thence looks down in immovable quietude on the do- 
ings of mankind. He is never pictured, because no 
conception of his form is possible; but there are a num- 
ber of inferior gods, who preside over every rank of 
men, over every human occupation, city, etc., who are 
portrayed in every imaginable form, in clay, stone, 
wood, etc. These gods are subordinate to Seng-Wan- 
Mau, and are the rulers of human affairs, so that man’s 
destinies, his weal and woe, are committed to their 
hands. Their images are worshipped, but they are 
also broken into fragments when the gods fail to grat- 
ify the wishes of the worshippers. — Vollmer, WOrierb. 
d. Mythol. s. v. 

Senior (1), a monk from the age of forty to fifty 
years who was excused from the external offices of 
provisor, procurator, cellarer, almoner, kitchener, master 
of the works, etc., but took his turn in singing masses. 
(2) The head of a college of secular canons, as at Christ- 
church, Hants, 1009. (3) At Osnabtirg, Trent, Liibeck, 
and in some Italian cathedrals, the antianus, or senior , 
corresponds to the archpriest of certain French cathe- 
drals, in which lie acted in the bishop’s absence as his 
representative in the administration of sacraments and 
the benediction of ashes, palms, and the font. Such 
an archpriest was required in every cathedral by the 
Council of Merida. — Walcott, Sac. Archaeology , s. v.; 
Lee, Gloss, of Liturgical Terms , s. v. 

Senior Bishop. In the Protestant Episcopal 
Church, the bishop who is oldest in the order of con- 
secration is thus known. The senior bishop is presi- 
dent of the House of Bishops, and has certain duties 
committed to him by the general constitution and can- 
ons of the Church. Except in case of infirmity, he con- 
secrates the newly elected bishop; he also receives the 
testimonials of a bishop elect, in case of such election 
taking place during the recess of the General Conven- 
tion, and transmits them to all the other bishops for 
their consent or dissent. Special general conventions 
are called by his summons on consent of all the bish- 
ops; the place of meeting of any general convention 
may be changed by him. This plan of deciding as to 
presidency was adopted in 1789; but in 1792 a different 
principle was adopted, viz. that of rotation. This con- 
tinued only for a short time, and the order of seniority 
was again established. 

Seniority. See Senior Bishop. 

Se'nir (L Chron. v, 23; Ezek. xxvii, 5). See She- 
nir. 

Senlis, Councils of {Concilium Silcanectense'). 
There were several councils held in Senlis, which is a 
town in the department of Oise, France. 

I. Held in 873 by the bishops of the provinces of 
Sens and Hlieims, in which Carloman, the son of king 
Charles the Bald, was brought to judgment, deposed 
from every ecclesiastical dignity, and reduced to lay 
communion, on account of his treasonable and other 
evil practices. See Mansi, ix, 257. 

II. Held Nov. 14, 1235, by the archbishop of Hheims 
and six of his suffragans, who put the whole of the 
king’s domains within the province of Hheiins under an 
interdict. See Compikgne, Synods of. 

III. This council was held in 1310 by Philip de Ma- 
rigni, archbishop of Sens. Nine Templars were con- 
demned and burned, denying in the hour of death their 


SENNABRIS 


530 


SENNACHERIB 


confession of guilt, extorted from them by torture. See 
Dubois, Hist, of Paris , p. 551. 

IV. The fourth council at Senlis was held in 1315 or 
1316 by Robert de Courtenay, archbishop of Rheims, 
and his suffragans, in which Pierre de Latillv, bishop 
of Chalons-sur-Marne (accused by Louis Hutin of the 
death of Philip le Bel, and of another murder, and im- 
prisoned), demanded his liberty and the restitution of 
Ills property. Subsequently he was entirely justified 
of the charge, and was left in quiet possession of his 
bishopric. See Mansi, xi, 1623. 

V. Held in 1326 bv William de Brie, archbishop of 
Rheims, with seven of his suffragans (present either in 
person or by deputy). Seven canons were made. 

1. Lays down the proper forms to be observed in hold- 
ing councils. 

4. Declares excommunicated persons to be incapable of 
suing at law, of defending themselves, and of giving evi- 
dence. 

5. Excommunicates those who violate the asylum af- 
forded by churches, either by dragging away forcibly those 
who have takeu refuge there, or by refusiug them nour- 
ishment. 

6. Against clandestine marriages. 

7. Against those who impeded ecclesiastical jurisdic- 
tion. 

See Mansi, xi, 1768. — Landon, Manual of Councils , s. v. 

Sennabris (Sevvafipig), an encampment of the 
Romans under Titus, thirty furlongs from Tiberias, 
Avhich was in sight (Josephus, War, iii, 9, 7); perhaps 


feated and driven from the country. Sennacherib then 
made Belibus (Bel-ibni) an officer of his court, viceroy, 
and, quitting Babylonia, ravaged the lands of the Ara- 
maean tribes on the Tigris and Euphrates, whence he 
carried off 200,000 captives. In the ensuing year he 
made war upon the independent tribes in Mount Zagros, 
and penetrated thence to Media, where he reduced a 
portion of the nation which had previously been inde- 
pendent. 

2. Conquest of Jud&a . — We give the account of this 
as condensed from the cuneiform annals by the late 
George Smith (Hist, of Assyria from the Monuments , 
p. 117 sq.) : 

“The eastern expedition of Sennacherib occupied his 
third year, and at the close of this year, his southern and 
eastern borders being secure, he had leisure to turn his 
attention to the affairs of Palestine. Encouraged by the 
king of Egypt, Hezekiah, king of Judah, had thrown off 
the Assyrian yoke, several of the smaller sovereigns had 
either voluntarily joined him or been forced to submit to 
the king of Judah, and Lulia (the Elulius of Josephus), 
kiug of Tyre and Zidou, had also rebelled against Sen- 
nacherib. The Assyrians had lost their hold on all the 
country from Lebanon to Arabia, and Sennacherib re- 
solved to reconquer this region. Crossing from his capi- 
tal into Syria, which he calls the land of the Ilittites, he 
attacked first Lulia, king of Zidou ; but this prince was 
uot prepared to resist Sennacherib, so he embarked on 
one of his vesssls from the city of Tyre, and set sail for 
the land of Yatnan (the island of (Jyprns), abandoning 
his country to the mercy of the Assyrians. Sennacherib 
now besieged and took the various Phoenician towns: 


the Senabrai pxnnDO) or Tsinabri ("n222£) of the Tal- 
mud (Reland, Palast . p. 999). Schwarz says (Palest. 
p. 178) that ruins in that vicinity are still called Sinabri 
by the Arabs. Thomson identifies the place with the 
modern Skugshab , containing traces of old buildings 
(Land and Book , ii, 65). 

Seimach'erib [some Sennache'rib ] (Heb. Sanche- 
rib rr-inro ; read in the cuneiform as Sinachirib, i. e. 
Sin [the Moon] increases brothers , thought to indi- 
cate that he was not the first-born; Sept. Sevvaxypift 
v. r. Esvaxvp^l 1 5 Josephus, Stnaxi'lpifiog ; Herodotus 
Zavaxdpifiog ; Vulg. Sennacherib), a famous Assyrian 
monarch, contemporary with Hezekiah. The name of 
Sennacherib (in Assyrian Sin-achi-iriba) is written in 
various ways; but three forms are most common, of 
which we present the most usual. It consists of three 
elements: the first, Sin, or the “Moon” god; the sec- 
ond, achi, or “brothers” (nx); and the third, iriba, or 
“he increased” (-">); the meaning of the whole being 
“the Moon has multiplied brothers.” See Cuneiform. 

T -I -n **TT 5SS* 

Sin achi 

Cuneiform of the Name of Sennacherib. 

1. Earlier Annals. — Sennacherib was the son and 
successor of Sargon (q. v.). Wc know very little of 
him during his father’s lifetime. From his name, and 
from a circumstance related by Polyhistor, we may 
gather that he was not the eldest son, and not the heir 
to the crown till the year before his father’s death. 
Polyhistor (following Bcrosus) related that the tribu- 
tary kingdom of Babylon was held by a brother — who 
would doubtless be an elder brother — of Sennacherib’s, 
not long before that prince came to the throne (Berosus, 
Fragm . 12). Sennacherib’s brother was succeeded by 
a certain llagisa, who reigned only a month, being 
murdered by Merodach- Baladan, who then took the 
throne and held it three months. The details of Sen- 
nacherib’s campaigns are given under each year in the 
cuneiform records of his reign. From these it appears 
that he began to reign July 16, B.C. 705, and was mur- 
dered in December, 681 (Smith and Sayce, Cun. Hist, 
of Senn. [Loud. 1878] p. 8). 

His first efforts were directed to ernshing the revolt 
of Babylonia, which he invaded with a large army. 
Merodach-Baladan ventured on a battle, but was de- 


J Tyre, the strong city, appears to have successfully resisted 
'him, but he captured Zidunnnrabu (great Zidon r Josh, 
xix, 28) and the lesser Zidou; then coming south, Bit- 
zitte and Zariptu (Zarephath, 1 Kings xvii, 9), Mahalliba 
Usu (ilosab, Josh, xix, 29), Akzibi (Achzib, ver. 29), and 
Akku (Accho, Judg. i, 31). The sea -coast of Phoenicia, 

I down to the land of the Philistines, was now in the hands 
| of Sennacherib, and he raised a man named Tubahal to 
the throne of Zidou, and fixed upon the country an nn- 
1 nual tribute. The success of Sennacherib along the coast, 
and the failure of Egyptian aid, now brought nearly the 
j whole of Palestine to his feet, and the various rulers sent 
I envoys with tribute, and tokens of submission to present 
j before the Assyrian monarch. Menahem, who ruled at 
i Samaria ; Tubahal, the newly made king of Zidou ; Abclili- 
hiti, king of Arvad; Urmnelek, king of Gebal ; Metinti, 
king of Ashdod ; and Budnil, king of the Ammonites ; Ke- 
mosh-natbi, king of tfie Moabites ; and Airammn, kiug of 
Edom, now made their peace, and Askelou, Ekrou, and 
Judah aloue remained in rebellion. Sennacherib started 
from Akku, and keeping along the coast, invaded Aske- 
lon, and capturing Zidqa, the revolting king, sent him, 
his wife, his sons and daughters, his brothers, and other 
relatives, captive to Assyria. The cities of Askelon, Bit- 
daganua (Beth-dagon, Josh, xv, 41), Y'appu (Joppa, Jonah 
i, 3), Benai-barqa (Bene-berak, Josh, xix, 45), and Aznru 
were successively captured, and Sennacherib placed Saru- 
ludari, the son of Rukibti, on the throne. Moving from 
Askelon, Sennacherib attacked Ekron: 
T he tells us that Padi, king of Ekron, 

1 | had been faithful to his pledges to As- 

. . Syria, and the priests, princes, and peo- 

ir-i-ba p| e () f Ekron had conspired against him 

and revolted, and, putting their king 
in bonds, bad delivered him into the 
hands of Hezekiah, king of Judah, to be kept prisoner at 
Jerusalem. The revolters at Ekron relied on the assist- 
ance of Egypt; and when Sennacherib advanced against 
the city, a force under the king of Egypt came to their 
assistance. The Egyptian army was from the kings of 
Egypt (the plural being used), and from the king of Mi- 
rnhha, or Ethiopia. To meet the army of Egypt, Sennach- 
erib turned aside to Altaqu (Eltekeh, ver. 44), where’ the 
two forces met, and the Egyptians were defeated. See 
So. The overthrow of the Egyptian army was followed 
by the capture of Altaqu and Tainua (Timuah, xv, 10), and 
Sennacherib again marched to Ekrou, and put to death 
the leading men of the city who had led the revolt, and 
severely treated the people. Their king, Padi, was de- 
manded of Ilezekiah, king of Judah, and, being delivered 
up, was once more seated on the throne. The last part of 
the expedition giveu iu the Assyrian annals consists of 
the attack on Hezekiah. The king of Jndah was the most 
important of the tributaries who had thrown oft’ the yoke 
of Assyria, and was reserved for the last operations. Af- 
ter settling the affairs of Ekron, Sennacherib marched 
against Jndah, and captured forty-six of the fortified cities 
of Hezekiah, agreeing with the statement of the Scripture 
(2 Kings xviii, 13-16) that he came up against all the 
fenced cities of Judah and took them; all the smaller 
places round them were destroyed, and Sennacherib car- 
ried into captivity 200,150 people of all sorts, together 
with horses, mules, asses, camels, oxeu, aud sheep iu 


SENNACHERIB 531 


SENNACHERIB 



Throue of Sennacherib before Lachish (q. v.). (From the Monuments.) 


great numbers. Sennacherib goes on to relate that he 
shut up Ilezekiah in Jerusalem like a caged bird, and 
built towers round the city to attack it. Sennacherib now 
began to portion off and dispose of the territory which he 
had conquered. The towns along the western side he 
detached from Judah, and divided them between Metinti, 
king of Ashdod, Sarn-ludari, king of Askelon, Padi, king 
of Ekron, and Zilli-bel, king of Gaza, the four kings of 
the Philistiues who were now in submission to Assyria, 
and he increased the amount of the tribute due from these 
principalities. Hezekiah and his principal men, shut up 
in Jerusalem, now began to fear, aud resolved on submis- 
sion. Meanwhile the soldiers of Sennacherib were attack- 
ing Lachish, one of the last remaining strong cities of Ju- 
dah. The pavilion of this proudest of the Assyrian kings 
was pitched within sight of the city, and the monarch sat 
on a magnificent throue while the Assyrian army assault- 
ed the city. Lachish, the strong city, was captured, and 
thence Sennacherib dictated terms to the humbled king 
of Judah. Ilezekiah sent by his messenger and made 
submission, and gave tribute, iuclnding thirty talents of 
gold, 800 talents of silver, precious stones of various sorts, 
couches and thrones of ivory, skins and horns of buf- 
faloes, girls aud eunuchs, male and female musicians. 
According to the record of Sennacherib, he returned to 
Nineveh in triumph, bearing with him this tribute aud 
spoil, aud not a single shadow of reverse or disaster ap- 
pears in the whole narrative. 

“The accounts of this expedition of Sennacherib given 
in the Bible relate that after the submission of Ilezekiah, 

‘ the angel of the Lord’ went through the camp of the As- 
syrians and destroyed 185,000 men of Sennacherib’s army, 
and that the Assyrian monarch returned in disgrace to 
Nineveh (2 Kings xix, 35-37). This overthrow of Sen- 
nacherib’s army is confirmed by a story told to Herodotus 
(ii, 141) by the Egyptian priest’s. They relate that in the 
time of an Egyptian king named Sethos, Sennacherib 
made an expedition against Egypt, and came as far as 
Pelusium. Sethos went out against him with an inferior 
army, having invoked the aid of the Egyptian gods and 
been promised deliverance. In the night, as the two ar- 
mies lay opposite each other, hosts of field-mice came and 
destroyed the bowstrings of the Assyrians, who next 
morniug fled.” 

The discrepancy in dates between the cuneiform and 
the Biblical accounts of this invasion are at present ir- 
reconcilable (Journ. of Sac. Lit. July. 1854, p. 383 sq.). 
See Chronology. There has probably been an error 
in reading the former, or perhaps an error in the record 
itself. All attempts to correct the Scripture date are. 
forbidden by the manner in which it is interlaced and 
confirmed hy the context. Rawlinson and others have 
sought a partial solution of the difficulty by the sup- 
position of a twofold attack by Sennacherib upon Pal- 
estine; but neither the Assyrian nor the Biblical an- 


nals give any countenance to 
this view. See Hezekiah. 

3. Later Campaigns and 
Death. — In his fourth year 
Sennacherib invaded Babylo- 
nia for the second time. Me- 
rodach -Baladan continued to 
have a party in that country, 
where his brothers still resided ; 
and it may be suspected that 
the viceroy, Belibus, either se- 
cretly favored his cause, or, at 
any rate, was remiss in oppos- 
ing it. The Assyrian mon- 
arch, therefore, took the field 
in person, defeated a Chaldieau 
chief who had taken up arms 
on behalf of the banished king, 
expelled the king’s brothers, 
and, displacing Belibus, put one 
of his own sons on the throne 
in his stead. In his fifth year 
he led an expedition into Ar- 
menia and Media; after which, 
from his sixth to his eighth 
year, he was engaged in wars 
with Susiana and Babylonia. 
From this point his annals fail 
us. 

Sennacherib is believed to 
have reigned at least twenty- 
two, and perhaps twenty-four, 
years. The date of his accession appears to be fixed by 
the canon of Ptolemy to B.C. 702, the first year of Beli- 
bus or Elibus; but Col. Rawlinson’s revised computation 
(in the Athenaeum, No. I860, Aug. 22, 1803, p. 245) dates 
the accession in B.C. 704, and the late Assvriologist 
George Smith makes the reign to have begun in B.C. 
705. The Scripture synchronism locates its beginning 
in B.C. 715. The date of his death seems to be marked 
in the same canon by the accession of Asaridanus (Esar- 
haddon) to the throne of Babylon in B.C. 080; but it 
is possible that an interval occurred between the two. 
See Esar-haddon. The monuments are in conformity 
with the canon, for the twenty-second year of Sennach- 
erib has been found upon them, while they have not 
furnished any notice of a later year. See Assyria. 

Of the death of Sennacherib nothing is known be- 
yond the brief statement of Scripture, that “as he was 
worshipping in the house of Nisroch (?) his god, Adrain- 
melech and Sharezer his sons smote him with the sword : 
and they escaped into the land of Armenia” (2 Kings 
xix, 37 ; Isa. xxxvii, 38). It is curious that Moses of 
Chorenc and Alexander Polvhistor should both call the 
elder of these two sons by a different name (Ardumaza- 
nes or Argamozanus) ; and it is still more curious that 
Abvdenus, who generally drew from Bcrosus, should 
interpose a king Ncrgilus between Sennacherib and 
Adrammelech, and make the latter be slain by Esar- 
haddon (Eusebius, Chr. Can. i, 9; comp, i, 5; and see 
also Mos. Cbor. Arm. Ilist. i, 22). Moses, on the con- 
trary, confirms the escape of both brothers, and men- 
tions the parts of Armenia where they settled, and 
which were afterwards peopled bv their descendants. 

4. Character . — Sennacherib was one of the greatest 
of the Assyrian kings, and also one of the proudest of 
them. The prophet Isaiah pictures his haughtiness — 
his “stont heart,” and the “glory of his high looks;” 
represents him as boasting, “Are not my princes alto- 
gether kings?” and as ascribing his victories to his 
“ strength of hand” and his “wisdom” — victories, at the 
same time, so complete and so easy as when one talas 
away the eggs of a fowl so scared that it neither flut- 
tered nor “peeped” (x, 8-14). Sennacherib himself 
verifies the portrait, for he calls himself “the great 
king,” “king of nations,” “king of the four regions,” 
“first of kings,” “favorite of the great gods,” etc. The 




SENNACHERIB 


532 


SENS 



accompanying seal tlepiets him 
killing a lion, and in one of his 
inscriptions he boasts of such a 
conquest. His approaching in- 
vasion tilled Jerusalem with deep 
alarm, and Isaiah again and again 
depicts it. His boasts of previ- 
Clay Impression from ous conquests were not vain ones : 

au l th f e b Briti'sh e jhi’l miciellt monarchies had disap- 
Beilin.) peared before him, opposing ar- 

mies had perished “ as grass on the 
house-tops,” and his numerous hosts had drunk up riv- 
ers on their march. An ideal march is vividly sketched 
for him — by Aiath, Migron, and Michmash, to Geba, 
and Xob on the northern shoulder of Olivet. Sennach- 
erib did not come by this route, for he wished to pros- 
trate Egypt; but the route sketched might have been 
taken, and its very difficulties are meant to picture As- 
syrian intrepidity and perseverance. All the while 
Sennacherib was only God’s “rod,” an “axe in his 
hand;” and “Lebanon,” an image of his stately and 
warlike grandeur, “shall fall by a mighty one.” “The 
virgin, the daughter of Sion,” without armor or prow- 
ess, but courageous in her seeming helplessness, laughed 
him to scorn. Nay, God would do to him as he had 
done to the captives at Lachish, “put a hook into his 
nose,” and ignominiously and easily turn him “ back by 
the way be came” (Isa. xxxvii). “The stout-hearted 
are spoiled, they slept their sleep; at thy rebuke, both 
the chariots and horses were cast into a deep sleep;” 
“ the earth feared and was still, when God arose to judg- 
ment” (Psa. Ixxvi, 5-9). 

Sennacherib was not only a great warrior, but also a 
grand builder. He seems to have been the first who 
fixed the seat of government permanently at Nineveh, 
which he carefully repaired and adorned with splendid 
buildings. His great work is the palace of Ivoyunjik, 
surpassing in magnificence all the buildings of his pred- 
ecessors. The royal structure, built on a platform of 
about ninety feet in elevation, and paved with bricks, 
covered fully eight acres. Its great halls and chambers 
were ranged round three courts; one of them 154 feet 
by 125, and another 1*24 feet by 90. One of the halls 
was about 180 feet in length by about 40 in breadth, 
and sixty smaller rooms have been explored. These 
rooms are broader than those of his predecessors, proba- 
bly because he used cedars from Lebanon. He built 
also, or repaired, a second palace at Nineveh on the 
mound of Nebbi Yunus, confined the Tigris to its chan- 
nel by an embankment of brick, restored the ancient 
aqueducts, which had gone to decay, and gave to Nin- 
eveh that splendor whieh she thenceforth retained 
till the ruin of the empire. The realistic sculptures of 
Sennacherib are very instructive; every-day scenes of 
Assyrian life are depicted by them ; landscapes and 
hunting; the various processes of masonry ; the carving 



Tablet Sculptured on ltock at Nahr el-Kelb, near Beirut. 


and transportation of the great bulls; and the slaves 
working in gangs, and often in the presence of the king, 
lie also erected monuments in distant countries. One 
of his memorials is at the mouth of the Nahr el-Kelb, 
on tbe Syrian coast, verifying his boast that he “had 
come up to the height of the mountains, to the sides of 
Lebanon;” and there it stands side by side with the 
tablet which tells of the conquests ol'Kameses the Great, 
more than five centuries before the period of Sennache- 
rib. See Nineveh. 

Sennert, Andkeas, a German Orientalist, was born 
at Wittenberg in IGOG, and began the study of the She- 
mitie languages at the age of ten years. Having com- 
pleted his education, he visited various universities in 
Germany and Holland, and in 1G38 was appointed pro- 
fessor of Hebrew in his native place, where he died, 
Dec. 22, 1G89. He wrote various philological works, 
among which are, Compendium Lexici flebmici (Wit- 
tenb. IGG4 ) : — Rabbinismns (ibid. IGGG) : — Grammatica 
Orientalis (ibid. 16GG): — "Ac/o/jua VXojttucov (ibid. 
1G48). For a more complete list of his works, see 
Fiirst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 312 sq. ; Steinschneider, Bibliog. 
// audbuchf p. 131 sq.; Wolf, Bibl. Hebr. iv, 302; Hoefer, 
Nouc. Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Sens, Councils of ( Concilium Senonense). These 
councils were so called from being held in Sens, a town 
in the department of Youne, France. 

I. This council was held in 1140. Among those pres- 
ent were Louis VII, Samson of Kheims, and Henrv of 
Sens. In this council St. Bernard charged Abelard 
(q. v.), who was present, with his errors, accusing him 
of making degrees in the Trinity, as Arius had done; of 
preferring free will to grace, with Pelagins; and of di- 
viding Jesus Christ, with Nestorius. He produced ex- 
tracts taken from his works, and called upon Abelard 
either to deny having written them, or to prove their 
truth, or to retract them. Abelard, instead of defend- 
ing himself, appealed to Rome; whereupon the bishops 
present contented themselves with condemning his doc- 
trine, passing no sentence upon him personally out of 
deference to Innocent II, to whom Samson and three 
of the bishops wrote, requesting his concurrence in their 
judgment. The pope condemned Abelard in the same 
year, and, in his answer to the letter of the bishops, de- 
clared that he concurred with them in the sentence they 
had passed, and that he had imposed perpetual silence 
upon Abelard. The latter published au apology, in whieh 
he confessed the sound Catholic faith, declared that he 
desisted from his appeal, and retracted all that he had 
written contrary to the truth. See Mansi, x, 1018. 

II, Held in 1199 by the legate Peter against the Pop- 
licans (or Populicani), a sect of Manichieans. Among 
others, the dean of Nevers, and Ravnaldus, abbot of St. 
Martin, were charged with this heresy. The latter was 

i deposed, being found guilty not only of this heresy, but 
also of those of the Stercoranists and Origenists, 
Both appealed from the decision of the eouneil 
to the pope. See Mansi, xi, 3. 

III. The third Council of Sens was held in 
May, 1320, by William de Melun, archbishop 
of Sens. Four statutes were published. 

1. Enacts that the bishops should grant an in- 
dulgence of forty (lays to those persons who 
would fast on the vigil of the feast of the Holy 
Sacrament. 

2. Directs that places in which clerks were for- 
cibly detained should be laid under an interdict. 

4. Condemns those priests who dressed them- 
selves improperly, such as in red, green, yellow, 
or white boots, etc., and wore beards and long 
hair. 

See Mansi, xi, 1800. 

IV. This council was held in 1485 by Tristan 
de Salazar, archbishop of Sens, in which the 
constitutions published by his predecessor, 
Louis, in a council held A.D. 14G0, were con- 
firmed. Among other matters treated of were 


SENSATION 


533 


SEPARATISM 


the celebration of the holy office, the reform of the cler- 
gy and of the monks, the duties of laymen towards the 
Church, etc. It also enacted that canons shall be con- 
sidered absent who are not present at noetern, before 
the end of the Yenite ; at the other hours before the first 
psalm, and at mass before the end of the last Kyrie. 
Most of these regulations were taken from the canons 
of Basle, Lateran, and the Pragmatic. See Mansi, xiii, 
1721, App. — Landon, Manual of Councils , s. v. 

Sensation, the immediate effect, produced on the 
mind by something acting upon the bodily organs. 
The earliest sign by which the Ego becomes percepti- 
ble is corporeal sensation, and this sensibility appears 
to be a necessary attribute of animated organic matter 
itself. All the perceptions of sense are rooted in the 
general sensation, which, however, is very obscure, even 
pain not being clearly felt by it at the place where it 
exists. The next step from this obscure, original, in- 
nate sensation is particular sensation, through the me- 
dium of the nervous system. Sensation should be dis- 
tinguished from pei'ception. The former properly ex- 
presses that change in the state of the mind which is 
produced by an impression upon an organ of sense; 
perception, on the other hand, expresses the knowledge 
or the intimations we obtain by means of our sensations 
concerning the qualities of matter. Sensation proper 
is not purely a passive state, but implies a certain 
amount of mental activity. It may be described, on 
the psychological side, as resulting directly from the at- 
tention which the mind gives to the affections of its 
own organism. Objection may be made that every se- 
vere affection of the body produces pain quite inde- 
pendently of any knowledge we may possess of the cause 
or of any operation of the will being directed towards 
it. Yet facts prove that if the attention of our minds 
be absorbed in other things, no impulse can produce in 
us the slightest feeling. Numerous facts prove that a 
certain application and exercise of mind, on one side, is 
as necessary to the existence of sensation as the occur- 
rence of physical impulse, on the other. See Fleming, 
Vocah. of Philosophy, s. v. 

Sense, Moral. See Moral Sense. 

Sense of Scripture. See Interpretation, 

Sentence, Ecclesiastical. Among the sen- 
tences pronounced by ecclesiastical judges are: 1. De- 
finitive, a sentence which closes and puts an end to a 
controversial suit, and has reference to the chief sub- 
ject or principal matter in dispute; 2. Interlocutory , 
a sentence which determines or settles some incidental 
question which has arisen in the progress of an ecclesi- 
astical suit; 3. Deprivation , a sentence by which the 
vicar or rector of a parish is formally deprived of his 
preferment after due hearing and examination. — Lee, 
Gloss, of Liturg. Terms , s. v. 

Sentences, a name for the nnarranged texts of 
Scripture, or preliminary antiphons, which, in the Pray- 
er-book of the Anglican Church, form a part of the in- 
troduction to matins and even-song. 

SENTENCES, Book of. See Lombard, Feter. 

SENTENCES, Offertory, a name for the texts of 
Scripture either said or sung at the time of the offer- 
tory in the Anglican form for the celebration of the 
holy eucharist. See Offertory. 

Sententiarii, the followers of Peter Lombard 
(q. v.), whose four Books of Sentences, on their appear- 
ance in 1162, at once acquired such authority that all 
the doctors began to expound them. They brought 
all the doctrines of faith, as well as the principles and 
precepts of practical religion, under the dominion of 
philosophy. They were held in the highest estima- 
tion, and attracted great numbers of eager listeners, 
which state of things continued down to the time of 
the Information. See Gardner, Faiths of the World, 
s. v. 


Senter, Anthony, a Methodist Episcopal minis- 
ter, was born in Lincoln County, N. C., Jan. 28, 1785, 
converted in 1806, admitted on trial in 1809, into full 
connection in 1811, and tilled the following appoint- 
ments: Great Peedee Circuit, 1809; Bladen, 1810; 
Little Peedee, 1811; Buncombe, 1812; Sparta, 1813; 
Georgetown, 1814; Charleston, 1815; and presiding el- 
der of the Broad Fiver District, 181G-17. He died 
Dec. 23, 1817. A strong mind and a benevolent heart, 
a single eye and a steady purpose to glorify God, an 
unwavering faith, fervent love, and burning zeal — these 
were the exalted attributes of this good man. See 
Minutes of Conferences, i, 307 ; Stevens, /list, of the M. 
E. Church , iv, 243; Bangs, Hist . of the M. E . Church, iii, 
79. 

Senter, M. Alverson, a minister of the Metho- 
dist Episcopal Church, was the son of liiley Senter, of 
Murphev’s, Cal. He graduated from the Genesee Col- 
lege in 1865, and united with the Troy Conference in 
1867. He served the Third Street Church in Troy, N. 
Y., and was pastor for the same length of time of the 
Church in South Adams, Mass, lie was then appoint- 
ed to lloosie Falls, N. Y., and served it for a little over 
a year. He died at the residence of Joseph Hillman 
in Troy, ‘Feb. 1, 1876. See Minutes of Annual Confer- 
ences, 1876, p. 81. 

Sentia, m Homan mythology, was the goddess of 
opinion, i. e. the deity who inspires opinions, views, 
judgments. 

Sentlnus, in Homan mythology, was the god who 
awakened and watched over the senses of the newly 
born. 

Sen'uah [some Senu'ah] (Neh. xi, 9). See IIa- 
senuah. 

Seorah. See Barley. 

Seo'rim ( Heb. Seorim', D‘ 1 *1S‘b, pi nr of rHl*b, 
barley; Sept. 'Siiopip v. r. 'S.twpiv'), the head of the 
fourth division of priests as arranged by David ( 1 
Chron. xxiv, 8). B.C. 1012. 

Separates, a sect of Calvinistie Methodists in the 
United States, which arose about 1740 in consequence 
of the labors of George Whitefield. They took, at first, 
the name of “New Lights,” and afterwards, being or- 
ganized into distinct societies, were known as “Sep- 
arates.” They were soon after joined by a preacher 
(Shubal Stearns, of Boston) who labored among them 
until 1751, when he embraced the opinions of the Bap- 
tists, as did also many others of the Separates. The 
distinctive doctrine of the sect was that believers are 
guided by the immediate teachings of the Holy Spirit; 
such supernatural indications of the divine will being 
regarded by them as partaking of the nature of inspira- 
tion, and above, though not contrary to, reason. See 
Blunt, Diet, of Sects, s. v.; Gardner, Faiths of the World, 
s. v. 

Separation of Church and State. See Church 
and State. 

Separation of Eastern and Western Church- 
es. See Schism. 

Separatism, a term used to denote the disposition 
and practice by which persons withdraw from estab- 
lished communities or dissent from settled and common 
views or beliefs. This article is concerned with the re- 
ligious, or more specifically the ecclesiastical, form of 
separatism only. 

The strict meaning of the phrase “religious separat- 
ism,” which is also its only admissible meaning, makes 
it denote a tendency to break away from accepted re- 
ligious views or a settled Church organization without 
sufficient cause. The imperfections and faults of the 
Church constitute the ordinary plea by which the ac- 
tion resulting from such tendency is defended; but as 
separatists never attempt to purify the Church from 
within, it is evident that the real motives by which 


SEPARATISTS 


534 


SEPARATISTS 


they are actuated are personal indifference towards the 
Church, an alienation from the Church through the in- 
fluence of rival institutions, or other reasons found in 
themselves. History shows that pride and perverse 
views have been the usual motives from which separa- 
tists have acted. All true reformers have continued in 
their churches until thrust out, e. g. Luther, Wesley, etc. 

The term separatist (q. v.) occurs for the first time 
in the history of Protestantism, though it applies to 
movements in the ancient and Middle-Age churches as 
well (e. g. Donatism). Separations on the grounds al- 
ready indicated were not unknown in any period of the 
history of the organized Church. In Protestantism the 
churches of England and Scotland furnished several 
kinds of separatists during the 16th and 17th centuries, 
especially the Independents and the Brownists (q. v.). 
The term, however, became a party name for the first 
time in Germany, being originally employed in the 
Wetterau, then in Wurtemberg, and subsequently in 
Bremen. In the latter place, a Lutheran student of 
theology named Theodore Schermer became the head 
of a small clique (1699) which taught a kind of purga- 
tory, rejected infant baptism and all public worship, 
and recommended the disuse of the Lord’s supper be- 
cause of the abuses attendant on its observance. They 
led a retired and pious life, wholly apart from the 
Church. The most able refutation of their peculiar 
views was written by J. W. Jiiger, of Tubingen (1715). 
Other minor separatist movements occurred about this 
time, which are involved in the disputes growing out 
of the Pietist controversy. 

The congregations of the Inspired (q. v.) demand 
special notice in this connection. These persons de- 
nounced all ecclesiastical organization as a work of the 
devil, which they cursed through inspiration of the 
spirit, and resolutely avoided. They justified their sep- 
aration by various reasons. 1, that the Church is cor- 
rupt and has been divorced from Christ; 2, the minis- 
trations of unregenerate persons are without effect; 3, 
only spiritual ties can bind a Christian to the Church ; 
4, infant baptism has no support in Scripture; 5, an 
inward and powerful impulse led them to withdraw 
from public worship, and secured to them a wondrous 
rest and peace of conscience ; 6, separation insures ex- 
emption from many temptations; 7, it is favorable to 
the cultivation of an impartial love for all pious per- 
sons, and for them only; 8, it secures solitude, quiet- 
ness, love for the cross, and a self-denying temper, all 
of which are necessary to the welfare of the soul. They 
argued that only separation could deliver from the 
chilling and baleful influences existing in the Church, 
and declared that persons once earnest to purify the 
Church had, without exception, sunk into indifference 
and spiritual sloth because they had not come out from 
the mystical and apocalyptical Babylon. Their oppo- 
nents replied by showing that in the Saviour’s parable 
the wheat and tares were made to grow together until 
the harvest; that Christ and the apostles did not avoid 
the services of the corrupt Temple, though they super- 
seded it when its work was done; and that Protestant- 
ism had not assumed an independent organization by 
its voluntary action, but only when necessity, conse- 
quent on its expulsion from a Church corrupt in its 
verj r principles, had compelled that measure. God’s 
kingdom is a leaven; but the separation of the good 
from the bad is reserved for the day of judgment. The 
simple duty of each individual is to guard himself and 
his surroundings from the evil. On the Inspirationists 
see Weissmann, Introd. in Memnrab. Eccles. Hist. Sa- 
cr<e (Stut tg. 1719), pt. ii, siec. xvii, p. 1264 sq., No. 9. 
On the Separatists generally. Sehlegel, Kirchenefesch. d. 
18te« .IakrJmnderts , ii, 1054 sq. — Herzog, Real- Ency- 
klop. s. v. 

Separatists, a general term which may be con- 
sidered as meaning dissenters from the Church of Eng- 
land, but also applied at different periods to certain sects 
as the special name by which they chose to be known. 


1. In the reign of bloody Mary, the name was given 
to two congregations of Protestants who refused to con- 
form to the service of the mass. Mr. Hose was minister 
of the one which met in Bow -church Yard, London, 
where thirty of them were apprehended in the act of 
receiving the Lord’s supper, and narrowly escaped be- 
ing committed to the dames. The other and much 
larger congregation was discovered at Islington, and 
Mr. Hough, its minister, and several others were burned 
by order of bishop Bonner. 

2. In Ireland there are three distinct bodies of Sep- 
aratists. The Walkerites, founded by Hev. John Walk- 
er, who seceded from the Established Church of Ireland 
and formed a small Church in Dublin on the principle 
of holding no communion with any other sect. They 
profess to found their principles entirely upon the New 
Test., and to be governed wholly by its laws. On doc- 
trinal points they agree with the Sandemanians (q. v.). 
They hold that by his revealed word the spirit of God 
works in them, both to will and, to do; that God is the 
sole author and agent of everything that is good; and 
maintain that everything that comes from the sinner 
himself, either before or after conversion, is essentially 
evil; that the idea of any successors to the apostles. or 
of any change in the law of Christ’s kingdom, is utterly 
unchristian. They have, therefore, no clerical order. 
Another body of Irish Separatists was originated by Rev. 
Mr. Kelly, who seceded from the Established Church, 
and was soon after joined by Rev. George Carr, of New 
Ross. The few churches belonging to this sect hold 
the same order and discipline as the Sandemanians, 
though in doctrine they approach more nearly to the 
evangelical dissenters. The Darbyites, followers of the 
Rev. Mr. Darby, who combined strict evangelical doc- 
trines with the peculiar tenets of the Millenarians. 
From these sprang the Plymouth Brethren (q. v.). 

3. A German Pietist sect at WUrtemberg who sepa- 
rated themselves from the Lutheran Church about the 
middle of the 18th century. Meeting with much oppo- 
sition and persecution, a number of them, under George 
Rapp, emigrated to Pennsylvania, and formed the Har- 
mony Society. In 1815 they removed to Indiana, where 
they remained only two years, and, selling their prop- 
erty, returned to Pennsylvania, and in Beaver County 
built a town called Economy, where they have amassed 
considerable property. See Rappists. Those who re- 
mained in Germany, after much opposition, were allowed 
to form a congregation at Kornthal, and became known 
as Kornthalites. See Kornthal, Society of. Those 
who refused to conform to the German Evangelical 
Union, formed by Frederick William III of Prussia, 
were also called Separatists. 

4. The name was assumed by some of the early Puri- 
tans, perhaps the early Traskites (q. v.). In their prin- 
ciples, condemning taste in dress,joyousness of life, etc., 
we recognise the class of Puritans afterwards represent- 
ed by the Quakers. There were a few congregations 
of Separatists in Scotland, and one was commenced in 
London in 1820. See Blunt, Diet, of Sects , s. v. ; Gard- 
ner, Faiths of the World, s. v. 

SEPARATISTS at Zoar. The village of Zoar, 
which is the home of this communistic society, is in 
Tuscarawas County, O. From Nordhoff’s Communistic 
Societies of the United States we gather the following 
information respecting them: 

1. History. — This society, like the Harmony Society, 
originated in Wurtemberg, and like them, the Inspira- 
tionists, and others, were dissenters from the Established 
Church. Their refusal to send their children to the 
schools under the control of the clergy, and to allow 
their young men to serve as soldiers, brought upon 
them persecution from both civil and eccclesiastical 
authorities. They suffered for ten or twelve years, 
when they were assisted by some English Quakers to 
emigrate to the United States. -They arrived at Phila- 
delphia in August, 1817, and bought a tract of 5600 
acres of land in Ohio, They chose Joseph Biinmeler 


SEPARATISTS 


535 


SEPIIAE 


to be their leader, who, with a few able-bodied men, 
took possession about Dee. ], 1817. At first it was not 
intended to form a communistic society, but having 
many very poor among them, it was thought that the 
only way they could keep the enterprise from failing 
was to establish a community of goods and efforts. An 
agreement to that effect was signed, April 15, 1819. 
Biiumeler was chosen spiritual and temporal head, and 
changing his name to Bimeler, the people came to be 
commonly spoken of as “ Bimmelers.” In March, 1824, 
an amended constitution was adopted. Between 1828 
and 1830 they began to permit marriage, Biiumeler 
himself taking a wife. In 1832 they were incorporated 
by the Legislature as the “Separatist Society of Zoar,” 
and a new constitution, still in force, was signed the 
same year. They have prospered materially, and now 
own, in one tract, over 7000 acres of very fertile land, 
besides some in Iowa. They have a woollen-factory, 
two large flour-mills, saw and planing mill, shops, tan- 
nery, etc. They had in 1874 about, 300 members and 
property worth more than $1,000,000. 

II. Religion . — Their “ Principles,” printed in the first 
volumes of Biiumeler’s discourses, were evidently framed 
in Germany, and consist of twelve articles: 

“ 1. We believe and confess the Triuity of God : Father, 
Son, and Holy Ghost. 

“II. The tall of Adam and of all mankind, with the 
loss thereby of the likeness of God in them. 

“III. The return through Christ to God, our proper 
Father. 

“ IV. The Holy Scriptures as the measure and guide of 
our lives, and the touchstone of truth and falsehood. 

“All our other principles arise out of these, and rule 
our conduct iu the religious, spiritual, and natural life. 

“V. All ceremonies are banished from among us, and 
we declare them useless and injurious; and this is the 
chief cause of our separation. 

“VI. We render to no mortal honors due only to God, 
as to uncover the head or to bend the knee. Also we ad- 
dress every one as ‘ thou’ — du. 

“ VII. We separate ourselves from all ecclesiastical con- 
nections and constitutions, because t rue Christian life re- 
quires no sectarianism, while set forms and ceremouies 
cause sectarian divisions. 

“VIII. Our marriages are contracted by mutual con- 
sent, and before witnesses. They are then notified to 
the political authority; aud we reject all intervention of 
priests or preachers. 

“IX. All intercourse of the sexes, except what is nec- 
essary to the perpetuation of the species, we hold to be 
sinful and contrary to the order and command of God. 
Complete virginity or entire cessation of sexual commerce 
is more commendable than marriage. 

“X. We cannot send our children into the schools of 
Babylon [meaning the clerical schools of Germany], where 
other principles contrary to these are taught. 

“XI. We canuot serve the state as soldiers, because a 
Christian cannot murder his enemy, much less his friend. 

“XII. We regard the political government as absolute- 
ly necessary to maintain order, and to protect the good 
and honest and punish the wrong-doers; and no one can 
prove us to be untrue to the constituted authorities.” 

III. Practical Life . — The members of the society are 
divided into two classes, the novitiates and the full as- 
sociates. The former are obliged to serve at least one 
year before admission into the latter class, and this is 
exacted even of their own children, if on attaining ma- 
jority they wish to enter the society. According to 
the constitution, all officers are elected by the whole 
society, the women having the right to vote as well as 
the men. They manage, with the consent of the soci- 
ety, all its affairs, eases of disagreement being referred 
to the “ Standing Committee of Five,” as a court of ap- 
peals. Before 1845, children remained with their par- 
ents until three years of age, when they ceased to be 
under their exclusive control. Since then the custom 
of the society taking care of the child ceased, being 
found inconvenient. The Zoar people read little ex- 
cept the Bible and the few pious books brought from 
Germany, or imported since. They belong to the peas- 
ant class of South Germany, are nuintellcctual, and have 
risen but little in culture. 

In their religious observances they studiously avoid 
forms. On Sunday they have three meetings; in the 
morning, after singing, one of Biiumeler’s discourses is 


read ; in the afternoon the children meet to study the 
Bible; and in the evening they meet to sing and listen 
to the reading of some work that interests them. Dur- 
ing the week there are no religious meetings. Audible 
or public prayer is not practiced among them, neither 
do they have any ••preacher.” They use neither bap- 
tism nor the Lord’s supper. They address each other 
by the first name, and use no titles of any kind. They 
wear their hats in a public room, and seat the sexes 
separately in Church. 

Se'phar (Ileb. Sephar ', “’EG, a numbering ; Sept. 
XaQijpa v. r. X(o0/;pd), “ a mountain of the east,” a line 
drawn from which to Mesha formed the boundary of 
the Joktanitic tribes (Gen. x, 30). The name may re- 
mind us of Suphar, which the ancients mention as a 
chief place of South Arabia (Pliny, II. X. vi, 23-20). 
The map of Berghaus exhibits on the south-west point 
of Arabia a mountain called Sailer, which, perhaps, 
supplies the spot we seek (see Burckhardt, Arabia, p. 
236). If this he the case, and Mesha be (as usually 
supposed) the Mesene of the ancients, the line between 
them would intersect Arabia from north-east to south- 
west. That Sephar is called “a mountain of the east'’’ 
is to be -understood with reference to popular language, 
according to which Arabia is described as the “east 
country.” See Baumgarten, Theolog. Commentar zum 
A. 77 i, 152; Boehart, Phaleg. ii, 20. — Kitto. The im- 
migration of the Joktanites was probably from west to 
cast [see Arabia; Mesha], and they occupied the south- 
western portion of the peninsula. The undoubted iden- 
tifications of Arabian places and tribes with their Jok- 
tanitie originals are included within these limits, and 
point to Sephar as the eastern boundary. There ap- 
pears to be little doubt that the ancient seaport town 
called Dhafari or Zafari, and Dhalar or Zalar (now Jo- 
fdr , i. e. ez-Zofar ), without the inflexional termination, 
represents the Biblical site or district: thus the etymol- 
ogy is sufficiently near, and the situation exactly agrees 
with the requirements of the ease. Accordingly, it has 
been generally accepted as the Sephar of Genesis. 

But the etymological fitness of this site opens out 
another question, inasmuch as there are no less than 
four places bearing the same name, besides several oth- 
ers bearing names that are merely variations from the 
same root. The frequent recurrence of these variations 
is curious; but. we need only here concern ourselves 
with the four first-named places, and of these two only 
are important to the subject of this article. They are 
of twofold importance, as bearing on the site of Sephar, 
and as being closely connected with the ancient history 
of the Joktanitic kingdom of Southern Arabia, the king- 
dom founded by the tribes sprung from the sons of Jok- 
tan. The following extracts will put in a clear light 
what the best Arabian writers themselves say on the 
subject. The first is from the most important of tiie 
Arabic lexicons: 

“Dhafari is a town of the Yemen ; one says, ‘lie who 
enters Dhafari learns the Ilimyeritic.’ . . . Es-Saghani 
says, ‘In the Yemen are four places, every one of which 
is called Dhafari ; two rities and two fortresses. The two 
cities are Dhnfsiri-hHaki, near San’a, two days’ journey 
from it on the south; and the Tuhbaas used to abide 
there, and it is said that it is San’a [itself]. In relation to 
it is called the onyx of Dhafari. (Ibn-Es-Sikkit says that 
the onyx of Dhafari is so called in relation r<> Dhafari-Asad, 
a city in the Yemen.) Another is in the Yemen, near Mir- 
b&t, in the extremity of the Yemen, and is kuown by the 
name of Dhafari-s-Sahib [that is, of the sea-cna-t], and in 
relation to it is called the Kust-Dhafari [either costus or 
aloes-wood], that is, the wood with which one fumigates, 
because it is brought thither from India, and from it to 
[the rest of] the Yemen.’ . . . And it Yakut meant, for 
he said, ‘ Dhafari ... is a city in the extremity of the Yem- 
en, near to Esh-Shihr.’ As to the two fortresses, one of 
them is a fortress on the south ofSan’ii, two days’ journey 
from it, in the country of [the tribe of] Beim-Murad, and 
it is called Dhaffcri-MVadiyeyn rrhat is. of the Two Val- 
leys]. It is also called Dhafui i-Zeyd : and another is on 
the north thereof, also two days’ journey from it, in the 
country of Hem diiii, aud is called Dliafnri-dh-Dh&hir” {Tdj- 
el-Ariu , MS. s. v.). 


SEPHARAD 


536 


SEPI-IAR 

Yakut, in his homonymous dictionary ( El-^fushtarak , 
s. v.), says : 

“Dhafim is a celebrated city in the extremity of the 
country of the Yemen, between ’Oman and Mirbar, on the 
shore of the t>ea of India: 1 have been informed of this by 
one who has seen it prosperous, abounding in good things. 
It is near Esh-Shihr. Dhafari-Zevd is a fortress in the 
Yemen in the territory of Habb ; and Dhafari is a city near 
toSan'a, and in relation to it is called the Dhalari onyx; 
in it was the abode of the kines of Himyer, and of it was 
said, ‘He who enters Dhafari learns the Himyeritic, and 
it is said that Sau’ii itself is Dhafari.” 

Lastly, in the geographical dictionary called the Ma- 
rdsid , which is ascribed to Yakut, we read, s. v. ; 

“ Dhafari : two cities in the Yemen, one of them near to 
San’a, in relation to which is called the Dhafari onyx: in 
it was the dwelling of the kings of Himyer; and it is said 
that Dhakiri is the city of San’a itself. And Dhafari of 
this day is a city on the shore of the sea of India ; between 
it and Mirbat are live parasangs of the territories of Esh- 
Shihr, [and it is] near to Suhar, and Mirbat is the other 
anchorage besides Dhafari. Frankincense is only found 
on the mountain of Dhafari of Esh-Shihr.” 

These extracts show that the. city of Dhafari near San’a 
was very little known to the writers, and that little only 
by tradition. It was even supposed to be the same as, 
or another name for, San’ii, and its site had evidently 
fallen into oblivion at their day. Hut the seaport of 
this name was a celebrated city, still flourishing, and 
identified on the authority of an eye-witness. M. Fres- 
nel has endeavored to prove that this citv, and not the 
western one, was the Himyeritic capital; and certainly 
his opinion appears to be borne out by most of the facts 
that have been brought to light. Niebuhr, however, 
mentions the ruins of Dhafari near Yerim, which would 
be those of the western city (I)esc7\ p. 206). While 
Dhafari is often mentioned as the capital in the history 
of the Himyeritic kingdom (Caussin, Essai , i, passim), 
it was also in the later times of the kingdom the seat of 
a Christian Church (Philostorgius, Hist. Eccles. iii, 4). 
Abulfeda has fallen into an absurd error in his Geog- 
raphy, noticed by M. Fresnel ( IVe Lett re, p. 317). He 
endeavors to prove that the two Zafaris were only one, 
by supposing that the inland town, which he places 
only twenty-four leagues from San’a, was originally on 
the sea-coast. 

But. leaving this curious point, it remains to give 
what is known respecting Dhafari the seaport, or, as it 
will be more convenient to call it, after the usual pro- 
nunciation, Zafar. All the evidence is clearly in favor 
of this site being that of the Sephar of the Bible, and 
the identification has accordingly been generally ac- 
cepted by critics. IMore accurately, it appears to pre- 
serve the name mentioned in Gen. x, 30, and to be in 
the district anciently so named. It is situate on the 
coast, in the province of Hadramawt, and near to the 
district which adjoins that province on the east, called 
Esh-Shihr (or as M. Fresnel says it is pronounced in the 
modern Himyeritic, Shker). Wellsted says of it. “Do- 
far is situated beneath a lofty mountain” (ii, 453). In 
the Mardsid it is said, as we have seen, that frankin- 
cense (in the author’s time) was found only in the 
“mountain of Dhafari;” and Niebuhr ( Descr . p. 248) 
says that it exports the best frankincense. M. Fresnel 
gives almost all that is known of the present state of 
this old site in his Lettres sur l' Hist, des Arahes avant 
r/shtmisme (V e Lettre, Journ. Asiat. iii e serie, tom. v). 
Zafar, he tells us, pronounced by the modern inhabitants 
“ Is for,” is now the name of a series of villages situate 
some of them on the shore, and some close to the shore, 
of the Indian Ocean, between Mirbnt and Kas-StVjir, 
extending a distance of two days’ journey, or seventeen 
or eighteen hours, from east to west. Proceeding in 
this direction, those near the shore are named Tsikah, 
Ed-Dahariz, El-Belid, El-1 Iii fell, Salahah, and Awkad. 
'['he lirst four are on the sea-shore, and t lie last two at 
a small distance from it. El-Belid, otherwise called 
Ilarkam, is, in M. Fresnel’s opinion, the ancient Zafar. 
It is in ruins, but ruins that attest its former prosperity. 
The inhabitants were celebrated for their hospitality. ! 


There are now duly three or four inhabited houses in 
El-Belid. It is on a small peninsula lying between the 
ocean and a bay, and the port is on the land side of the 
town. In the present day, during nearly the whole of 
the year, at least at low tide, the bay is a lake and the 
peninsula an isthmus; but the lake is of sweet water. 
In the rainy season, which is in the spring, it is a gulf 
of sweet water at low tide, and of salt water at high tide. 

The classical writers, as above noted, mention “Sap- 
phar metropolis” (Zairtyapa pi^TpoiroXig) or Saphar (in 
A non. Peripl. p. 274), in long. 88°, lat. 14° 30', according 
to Ptolemy, the capital of the Sappharitre(Y«7r0«|o7raO> 
placed by him (vi. G, 25) near the Homeritaj; but their 
accounts are obscure, and probably from hearsay. In 
later times, as we have already said, it was the seat of 
a Christian Church — one of three which were founded 
A.D. 343, by permission of the reigning Tubbaa. in Dha- 
fari (written Tapharon, Tcabapov, by Philostorgius, Hist. 
Eccles. iii, 4), in ’Aden, and on the shores of the Persian 
Gulf. Theophilns, who was sent with an embassy by 
order of the emperor Constantine to effect this purpose, 
was the first bishop (Caussin, i, 111 sq.). In the reign 
of Abrahah (A.D. 537-570) St. Gregentius was bishop of 
these churches, having been sent by the patriarch of 
Alexandria (see the authorities cited by Caussin, i, 142- 
145). — Smith. 

Sepll'arad (Heb. Sepharad', meaning, if 

Heb., separated; Targ. i. e. Jspamia ; Sept. 

(\og ’EippaSdi Vulg. in JJospor o), a name which oc- 
curs in Obad. 20 only, as that of a place in which the 
Jews of Jerusalem were then held in captivity, and 
whence they were to return to possess the cities of the 
south. Its situation has always been a matter of un- 
certainty, and cannot even now be said to be settled. 

1. The reading of the Sept, given above, and followed 
by the Arabic Version, is probably a mere conjecture, 
though it may point to a modified form of the name in 
the then original, viz. Sepharath. In Jerome’s copy 
of the Sept, it appears to have been Eu<ppaT7]g, since 
(Comm, in Ahd .) he renders their version of the verse 
tnnismiyratio Jerusalem usque Euphruthem. This is 
certainly extremely ingenious, but will hardly hold 
when we turn it back into Hebrew. 

2. The reading of the Vulgate, Bosporus (obtained by 
taking the prefixed preposition as part of the name — 
“HS03 — and at the same time rejecting the final D), 
was adopted by Jerome from his Jewish instructor, who 
considered it to be “the place to which Hadrian had 
transported the captives from Jerusalem” (Comm, in 
A 6c/.). This interpretation Jerome did not accept, but 
preferred rather to treat Sepharad as connected with a 
similar Assyrian word signifying a “boundary,” and to 
consider the passage as denoting the dispersion of the 
Jews into all regions. We have no means of knowing 
to which Bosporus Jerome’s teacher alluded — the Cim- 
merian or the Thracian. If the former (Strait of Ycni- 
kale), which was in Iberia, it is not impossible that this 
rabbi, as ‘ignorant of geography outside of the Holy 
Land as most of his brethren, confounded it with Iberia 
in Spain, and thus agreed with the rest of the Jews 
whose opinions have come down to us. If the latter 
(Strait of Constantinople), then lie may be taken as 
confirming the most modern opinion (noticed below), 
that Sepharad was Sardis in Lydia. 

3. The Targum Jonathan (see above) and the Peshito- 
Svriac, and from them the modern Jews, interpret Seph- 
arad as Spain (Ispamia and Ispania), one common va- 
riation of which name, Hesperia, does certainly bear 
considerable resemblance to Sepharad; and so deeply 
lias this taken root that at the present day the Spanish 
Jews, who form the chief of the two great sections into 
which the Jewish nation is divided, are called by the 
Jews themselves the Sephardim , German Jews being 
known as the Ashkenazim. It is difficult to suppose 
that either of these can be t lie true explanation of Seph- 
arad. The prophecy of Obad i ah has every appearance 


SEPHARDIM 


537 


SEPHIUOTH 


of referring to the destruction of Jerusalem by Neb- 
uchadnezzar, and there is no reason to believe that any 
Jews had been at that early date transported to Spain. 

4. Others have suggested the identity of Sepharad 
with Sipphara in Mesopotamia (Ilardt, Sipphara Baby- 
lonice [Helmst. 1708]), but that is more probably Sepli- 
arvaini. 

5. The name has perhaps been discovered in the cu- 
neiform Persian inscriptions of Naksh-i-Rustum and 
Rehistun (see Burnouf, Menu sur Deux Jnscr . Cuneif. 
1836, p. 147), and also in a list of Asiatic nations given 
by Niebuhr ( Reiseb , ii, pi. 31). In the latter it occurs 
between Ka Ta Pa TUK (Cappadocia) and Ta UNA 
(Ionia). De Sacy was the first to propose the identifi- 
cation of this with Sepharad, and subsequently it was 
suggested by Lassen {Zeitschr.f. Morgenl. V, i, 50) that 
S Pa Ka I) was identical with Sardis , the ancient cap- 
ital of Lydia. This identification is approved of by 
Winer. and adopted by Dr. Pusey ( Introd.to Obad. p. 232, 
note, also p. 245). In support of this, Fiirst ( JJandwb . 
ii, 95 a) points out that Antigonus (B.C. eir. 320) may 
very probably have taken some of his Jewish captives 
to Sardis; but it is more consistent with the apparent 
date of Obadiah’s prophecy to believe that he is refer- 
ring to the event mentioned by Joel (iii,G),when “chil- 
dren of Judah and Jerusalem” were sold to the “ sons of 
the Javanim” (Ionians), which — as the first captivity 
that had befallen the kingdom of Judah, and a trans- 
portation to a strange land, and that beyond the sea — 
could hardly fail to make an enduring impression on 
the nation. 

6. Ewald ( Propheten , i, 404) considers that Sepharad 
has a connection with Zarephath in the preceding verse; 
and while deprecating the “penetration” of those who 
have discovered the name in a cuneiform inscription, 
suggests that the true reading is Sepharam, and that it 
is to be found in a place three hours from Akka, i. e. 
doubtless the modern Shefa ’Omar, a place of much an- 
cient repute and veneration among the Jews of Pales- 
tine (see Zunz, note to Parchi, p. 428); but it is not ob- 
vious how a residence within the Iloly Land can have 
been spoken of as a captivity, and there are considerable 
differences in the forms of the two names. 

7. Miehaelis {Suppl.No. 1778) has devoted some space 
to this name ; and, among other conjectures, ingeniously 
suggests that the “Spartans” (q. v.) of 1 Mace, xii, J5 
are accurately “ Sepharadites.” This suggestion, how- 
ever, does not appear to have stood the test of later in- 
vestigations. — Smith. But it is adopted by Keil (ixd 
loc .), who objeets to the view expressed above (No. 5) 
that Sardis would naturally be Hebraized T^IO. 

8. Juynboll proposes {Hist. Samar, p. 20) to read 

CpOa, at the end of (i. e. beyond) the Euphrates , 
as the origin of the Sept, rendering, but such a phrase 
would be unnatural. 

Sephardim, a name applied to the Spanish Jews. 
They were banished from Spain in 1492, and from Por- 
tugal in 1497, and yet they still maintain their identity 
as a separate class of Jews among their brethren in all 
parts of the world. They look upon themselves as a 
higher order of Israelites. One peculiar point of dis- 
tinction which marks them out from other Jews is their 
daily use of the old Spanish language, with which they 
are so familiar that their own Scriptures arc better known 
to them in the old Spanish version than in the original 
Hebrew. Sec Jkws. 

Sepharva'im (Heb./S'e/)/mrva , yt?»,C* 1 ^rp ; Sept. 
2e7r tpapovaifi, ’E7r<papovaip) is mentioned by Sennach- 
erib in his letter to Hezekiah as a city whose king had 
been unable to resist the Assyrians (2 Kings xix, 13; 
Isa. xxxvii, 13; comp. 2 Kings xviii, 34). It is eoup- ) 
led with llcna and Ava, or Ivah, which were towns 
on the Euphrates above Babylon. Again, it is men- I 
tinned in 2 Kings xvii, 24 as one of the places from | 
which colonists were transported to people the desolate I 


Samaria, after the Israelites had been carried into cap- 
tivity, where it is again joined with Ava, and also with 
Cuthah and Babylon. These indications are enough to 
justify us in identifying the place with the famous town 
of Sippara, on the Euphrates above Babylon (Ptolemy, 
v, 18), which was near the site of the modern Mosaib. 
Sippara was mentioned by Berosus as the place where, 
according to him, Xithrus (or Noah) buried the records 
of the antediluvian world at the time of the deluge, and 
from which his posterity recovered them afterwards 
(Fragm. Jlist. Gr. ii, 501 ; iv, 280). Abydenus calls it 
7ro/W '£nnrapi)vCjv {Fragm. 9), and says that Nebu- 
chadnezzar excavated a vast lake in its vicinity for 
purposes of irrigation. Pliny seems to intend the same 
place by his “oppida Hipparenornm” — where, according 
to him, was a great seat of the Chaldaie learning {Hist. 
Nat.v\j SO). When Pliny places Ilippara, or Sippara, 
on the Narragam (Nahr Agam), instead of on the Eu- 
phrates, his reference is to the artificial channel which 
branched off from the Euphrates at Sippara and led to 
the great lake (Chald. fcOSSX) excavated by Nebuchad- 
nezzar. Abydenus called this branch “Aracanus” (’ Apd - 
Kavog), Ar Akan {Fragm. 10). The plural form here 
used by Pliny may be compared with the dual form in 
use among the Jews; and the explanation of both is to 
be found in the fact that there were two Sipparas, one 
on either side of the river. Berosus called Sippara “a 
city of the sun” ('HX/op TrdXtp); and in the inscriptions 
it bears the same title, being called Tsipar sha-Shamas, 
or “ Sippara of the Sun”— the sun being the chief object 
of worship there. Hence the Sepharvites are said, in 2 
Kings xvii, 31, to have “burned their children in the 
fire to Adrammeleeh and Anammelech, the gods of 
Sepharvaim” — these two distinct deities representing 
respectively the male and female powers of the sun, as 
Limns and Luna represented the male and female pow- 
ers of the moon among the Komans. — Smith. 

Se'pharvite (Heb. SepliarvV , S p, but only in 
the plural; Sept. X£7 Ttyapovaip v. r. SKfxpapovv), a 
native of Sepharvaim (q. v.) (2 Kings xviii, 31). 

Sephe'la (1 Mace, xii, 38). See Shkphelaii. 

Sepher Asara Maamarotii. See Affexhofulo, 
Caleb. 

Sepher ha-Bahie. See Neciiuxjah bex-Ha- 

K AN All. 

Sepher ha-Nikkud. See Chajug, Jehuda ben- 
David. 

Sepher Jeziraii. See Jezirah. 

Sepher Nitsachon. See Lipmann, Jomtob. 

Sepher Torah. See Torah. 

Sepher Zerubbabel (bnp^T ‘lEp) is the title of 
an apocalyptic book, written in the form of a dialogue 
between Zerubbabel and the angel Metatron about the 
birth, education, life, war, and death of Armillus, who is 
about to appear after the war between Gog and Magog, 
etc. The wonders of the Messiah were to be seen between 
1063 and 1068. This work, which was probably writ- 
ten between 1050 and 1060, was first printed at Constan- 
tinople in 1519; then at Wihia in 1819. Lately it was 
published by Jellinek, according to two Leipsic M NS. 
(Cod. 22 and 38), in his collection entitled 
[Leipsic, 1853], ii, 54-57). See Fiirst, Bibh Jud. iii, 
317 ; Griitz, Gesch. der Juden , vi, 58 sq. (B. 1\) 

Sephiroth (nVV'Sp), a Cabalistic term of frequent 
occurrence in late Jewish writers. The ten Sephiroth 
have been represented in three different forms, all of 
which may be seen in IT. More’s Opera Philos, i, 423; 
and one of which, although not the most usual, has 
already been given in the art. Cabala. The Sephiroth 
have been the. theme of endless discussion; and it has 
even been disputed whether they are designed to ex- 
press theological, philosophical, or physical mysteries. 
The Jews themselves generally regard them as the sum 


SEPIIORNO 


53S 


SEPTUAGINT 


and substance of Cabalistieal theology, indicating the 
emanating grades and order of efflux according to which 
the nature and manifested operation of the Supreme 
Being maybe comprehended. Several Christian schol- 
ars have discerned in them the mysteries of their own 
faith, the Trinity, and the incarnation of the Messiah. 
In this they have received some sanction by the fact 
noticed by Wolf, that most learned Jewish converts en- 
deavor to demonstrate the truth of Christianity out of 
the doctrines of the Cabala ( Biblioth . flebr. i, 360). The 
majority of all parties appear to concur in considering 
the first three Sephiroth to belong to the essence of 
God, and the last seven to denote his attributes, or 
modes of existence. The following treatises on this 
subject are among the most remarkable : a dissertation 
by Rhenferd, De Stylo Apocalypseos Cabbalisiico, in 
lianz’s Xov. Test, ex Talmude Must. p. 1090, in which 
he endeavors to point out many extraordinary coinci- 
dences between the theosophy of the Cabala and the 
book of Revelation (which may be compared with an 
essay of similar tendency in Eichhorn’s Bill. Biblioth. 
iii, 191); some remarks by Lowe, in the last-named 
journal (v, 377 sq.); and a dissertation by Vitringa, De 
Sephiroth Kabbalistarum , in his Obseri'at. Suer, i, 126, 
in which he first showed how the Sephiroth accorded 
with the human form.- — Kitto. 

Sephorno. See Sforno. 

Sepphdris ( 'S.tirtyibpiQ v. r. St^opic), a town of 
Upper Galilee, not mentioned under this name in Script- 
ure, but frequently by Josephus. It was garrisoned by 
Autigonus in his war with Herod the Great, until the 
latter took it early in his GaliUeau campaign (Josephus, 
A nt. xi v, 15, 4). It seems to have been a place of arms, 
and to have been occasionally the royal residence, for, 
in the troubles which arose in the country during the 
presidency of Varus, the robber chief Judas, son of Eze- 
kias, seized the palace of Sepphoris, and carried oft’ the 
arms and treasure which it contained (ibid, xvii, 12, 5). 
It was subsequently taken and burned by Varus (ibid. 
xvii, 12, 9). llerod the tetrarch (Antipas) afterwards 
rebuilt and fortified it, and made it the glory of all Gal- 
ilee, and gave it independence (ibid, xviii, 2, 1); al- 
though, according to the statement of Justus, the son 
of Pistus, he still maintained the superiority of his new- 
ly founded city, Tiberias; and it was not until Nero had 
assigned Tiberias to Agrippa the Younger that Seppho- 
ris established its supremacy and became the royal res- 
idence and depository of the archives. It is termed 
the strongest city of Galilee, and was early taken by 
Gallus, the general of Cestius ( War, ii, 18, 11). It 
maintained its allegiance to the Romans after the gen- 
eral revolt of Galilee (ibid, iii, 2, 4 ; 4, 1), but did not 
break with the Jewish leaders (Life, 8, 9). Its early 
importance as a Jewish town, attested by the fact that 
it was one of the five cities in which district sanhe- 
drim were instituted by Gabinius (HW, i, 8, 5), was 
further confirmed by the destruction of Jerusalem, af- 
ter which catastrophe it became for some years the 
seat of the Great Sanhedrim, until it was transferred to 
Tiberias (Robinson, Bib. Res. iii, 202). It was subse- 
quently called Dioaesarea, which is its more common 
appellation in the ecclesiastical annals; while Epipha- 
nius and Jerome recognise both names. A revolt of 
the Jewish inhabitants in the reign of Constantins (A. D. 
339) led to the destruction of the city by Constautius 
Gallus Cajsar (Socrates, If. E. ii, 33 ; Sozomen, II. E. iv, 
7). This town, once the most considerable city of Gal- 
ilee, was situated, according to Jerome, ten miles west 
of Mount Tabor (0 nomast. s. v. Ba/3ojp; Procopius Ga- 
zivus, Comment, in Lib. .Indicnm). It was much cele- 
brated in the history of the Crusaders for its fountain, 
a favorite camping-place of the Christians. It is still 
represented by a poor village bearing the name Seffu- 
rieh, distant about five miles to the north of Nazareth, 
retaining no vestiges of its former greatness, but con- 
spicuous with a ruined tower and church, both of the 


Middle Ages; the latter professing to mark the site of 
the birthplace of the Virgin Mary, assigned by a late 
tradition to this locality. It became the see of a suffra- 
gan bishop under the metropolitan of Scvthopolis (Le 
Quien, Oriens Ckristianus, iii, 713, 714), and there are 
coins still extant of the reigns of Domitian, Trajan, etc. 
(Reland, Palcestina, p. 199-1003; Eckhel, Doct. Yet. 
Num. iii, 425, 426). — Smith, Diet, of Class. Geog. s. v. 
A recent German writer (Lebrecht, in his pamphlet on 
the subject [Berlin, 1877]) maintains that this was the 
site of the Bether (q. v.) of the Talmud. 

Sept. See Septum. 

Septfoil (seven-leaf), an architectural ornament 
which has seven cusps or points. 

Septimana in Albis (sevenfold in white) is (lie 
name frequently given to the first week in Whitsuntide 
with reference to the state of the newly baptized, who 
wore their white robes of baptism during that time. 
See Ale. 

Septimontium, a Roman festival which was held 
in the month of December, and lasted only for a single 
day. The day of the Septimontium was a dies feriatus 
for the Montani,or the inhabitants of the seven ancient 
hills, who offered sacrifices to the gods in their several 
districts. They were believed to have been instituted 
to commemorate the enclosure of the seven hills of 
Rome within the walls of the city. See Rome. 

Septuagesima (seventieth), the third Sunday be- 
fore Lent. The reason of its application to the day is 
uncertain. Some liturgical writers — e. g. Pamelius — 
trace it to the association of the ancient monastic Lent 
of seventy days with the seventy years' captivity of Is- 
rael in Babylon. 'The following is more probable: 
There being exactly fifty days between the Sunday 
next before I^ent and Easter-dav inclusive, that Sunday 
is termed Quinquagesima, i. e. the fiftieth; and the two 
immediately preceding Sundays are called from the next 
round numbers Sexagesima, the sixtieth, and Septua- 
gesima, the seventieth. The observation of these days 
and the weeks following appears to be as ancient as the 
time of Gregory the Great. Some of the more devout 
Christians observed the whole time from the first of 
these Sundays to Easter as a season of humiliation and 
fasting, though the ordinary custom was to commence 
fasting on Ash -Wednesday. See Eden, Diet, of the 
Church, s. v. ; Blunt, Diet, of Theoloyy, s. v. 

Septuagint is the common title of the earliest 
and most important version of the Old Testament, 
namely, into Greek, and is generally held to have de- 
rived its title (seventy) from the traditionary number 
of its translators (see below), rather than (as Eichhorn 
thought) from the authority of the Alexandrian San- 
hedrim as consisting of seventy members. (In the fol- 
lowing account we largely make use of that in Smith’s 
Diet, of the Bible, with additions from other sources.) 
See GiiEEK Versions. 

1. Origin of the Version . — This is as great a riddle as 
the sources of the Nile. The causes which produced 
the translation, the number and names of the transla- 
tors, the times at which different portions were trans- 
lated, are all uncertain. 

1. Ancient Testimony on the Subject. — (1.) The oldest 
writer who makes mention of the Septuagint is Aristo- 
bulus, an author referred to by Eusebius (Prtrpar. Evan - 
yel. xiii, 12) and Clement of Alexandria (Stromata, v, 
595). According to Eusebius, he was a Jew, who united 
the Aristotelian with the Jewish philosophy, ami com- 
posed a commentary on the law of Moses, dedicated to 
Ptolemy Philometor. He is also mentioned in 2 Macc. 
i, 10. Both Clement and Eusebius make him contem- 
porary with Philometor (2d century B.C.), for the pas- 
sages in their writings, in which they speak of him un- 
der Philadelphus must either have been corrupted by 
ignorant transcribers or have been so written by mis- 


SEPTUAGINT 


539 


SEPTUAGINT 


take (Valckenaer, § 10, 1 1 ; D;ihne,p.81 sq.). His words 
relative to the Septuagint are these: 

“It is manifest that Plato has followed onr law, and 
studied diligently all its particulars ; for before Demetrius 
Phnlereus a translation had been made by others of the 
history of the Hebrews' goiug-forth out of Egypt, and of 
all that happened to them, and of the couqnest of the 
land, and of the exposition of the whole law. Hence it is 
manifest that the aforesaid philosopher borrowed many 
things, for he was very learned, as was Pythagoras, who 
also transferred many of our doctrines into his system. 
But the entire translation of onr whole law (h '6\ n lp- 
pi]veia twv tow vopov TruvTtav) was made in the time of 
the king named Philadelphus, a man of greater zeal, un- 
der the direction of Demetrius Phalerens.” 

The entire passage has occasioned much conjecture 
and discussion. It is given by Valckenaer ( Diatribe , 
etc.), Thiersch ( De Vei'sione Alexaudrimi), and Frankel 
( Vorstudien, etc.). It appears that the words of Aristo- 
bulus do not speak of any prior' Greek translation , as 
Hody supposes, or indeed of any translation whatever. 
They rather refer to some brief extracts relative to Jew- 
ish history, which had been made from the Pentateuch 
into a language commonly understood by the Jews in 
Egypt, before the time of Demetrius. The entire law 
was first rendered into Greek under Philadelphus. 
Ilodv, and after him Eichhorn, conjectured that the 
fragments of Aristobulus preserved by Eusebius and 
Clement were written in the 2d century by another 
Aristobulus, a Christian, and that Aristobulus, the pro- 
fessed Peripatetic, was a heathen. But the quotation 
of Cyril of Alexandria ( Contra Julianum , lib. vi), to 
which they appeal, was erroneously made by that fa- 
ther. as may be seen by comparing it with Clement. 
Richard Simon also denied the authenticity of Aristo- 
bulus’s remains ( Histoire Critique du V. T. p. 189). But 
Valckenaer has sufficiently established their authentici- 
ty. The testimony of Aristobulus is corroborated by a 
Latin scholion recently found in a MS. of Plautus at 
Rome, which has been described and illustrated by 
Ritschl in a little book entitled Die alexandrinischen 
Bibliotheken, etc. (Berlin, 1838). From the passage of 
Aristobulus already quoted, it appears that in the time 
of Aristobulus, i. e. the beginning of the 2d century 
B.C., this version was considered to have been made 
when Demetrius Phalerens lived, or in the reign of 
Ptolemy Soter. Ilodv, indeed, has endeavored to show 
that this account contradicts the voice of certain his- 
tory, because it places Demetrius in the reign of Phila- 
delphus. But the version may have been begun umler 
Soter and completed under Philadelphus, his successor. 
In this way may be reconciled the discordant notices of 
the time when it originated; for it is well known that 
the Palestinian account, followed by various fathers of 
the Church, asserts that Ptolemy Soter carried the work 
into execution, while according to Aristeas, Philo, Jo- 
sephus, etc., his son Philadelphus was the person. 
Ilodv harmonizes the discrepancy by placing the trans- 
lation of the Pentateuch in the two years during which 
father and son reigned conjointly (B.C. 28G and 285). 
The object of Demetrius in advising Soter to have in 
his library a copy of the Jewish laws in Greek is not 
stated by Aristobulus, but Aristeas relates that the 
librarian represented it to the king as a desirable thing 
that such a book should be deposited in the Alexan- 
drian library. Some think that a literary rather than 
a reliyious motive led to the version. So lliiveruick. 
This, however, may he reasonably doubted. Hody, 
Sturz, Frankel, and others conjecture that the object 
was reliyious or ecclesiastical. Eichhorn refers it to 
private impulse; while Hug takes the object to have 
been political. It is not probable, however, that the 
version was intended lor the king’s use, or that he 
wished to obtain from it information respecting the 
best mode of governing a nation and enacting laws for 
its economic well-being. The character and language 
of the version unite to show that an Egyptian king, 
probably ignorant of Greek, could not have understood 
the work. Perhaps an ecclesiastical motive prompted 


the Jews who were originally interested in it, while 
Demetrius Phalerens and the king may have been ac- 
tuated bv some other design. 

It is difficult, if not impossible, to ascertain whether 
Aristobulus’s words imply that all the books of the Old 
Test, were translated into Greek under Philadelphus, or 
simply the Pentateuch. Hody contends that vopoc, the 
term used by Aristobulus, meant at that time the Mo- 
saic books alone, although it was afterwards taken in a 
wider sense so as to embrace all the Old Test. Valcke- 
naer thinks that all the books were comprehended un- 
der it. It is certainly more natural to restrict it to the 
Pentateuch. The Pentateuch, therefore, was completed 
under Philadelphus. 

(2.) The next historical testimony regarding the 
Septuagint is the prologue of Jesus the son of Sirach, 
a document containing the judgment of a Palestinian 
Jew concerning the version before ns. His words are 
these: “And not only these things, but the law itself, 
and the prophets, and the rest of the books, have no 
small difference when they are spoken in their own lan- 
guage.” Frankel has endeavored to throw suspicion 
on this passage, as if it w r ere unauthentic, but his 
reasons are extremely slender (p. 21, note w). It ap- 
pears from it that the law, the prophets, and the other 
books had been translated into Greek in the time of the 
son of Siracb, i. e. that of Ptolemy Phvscon, B.C. 130. 

(3.) The account given by Aristeas comes next be- 
fore us (see Rosenm filler, Ilundb. d. Lit. d. bibl. Kritik 
u. Kxey. ii, 413 sq.). This w’riter pretends to be a Gen- 
tile, and a favorite at the court of Ptolemy Philadel- 
phus, king of Egypt. In a letter addressed to his 
brother Philocrates, he relates that Philadelphus, when 
forming a library at great expense, w’as advised by De- 
metrius Phalerens to apply to the Jewish high -priest 
Eleazer for a copy of the book containing the Jewish 
laws. Having previously purchased the freedom of 
more than a hundred thousand captive Jews in Egypt, 
the king sent Aristeas and Andreas to Jerusalem with 
a letter requesting of Eleazer seventy-two persons as in- 
terpreters, six out of each tribe. They w’ere despatched 
accordingly with a magnificent copy of the law’, and 
were received and entertained by the king for several 
days W’itli great respect and liberality. Demetrius led 
them to an island, probably Pharos, where they lodged 
together. The translation was finished in seventy-tw’o 
days, having been written down by Demetrius piece by 
piece, as agreed upon after mutual consultation. Itw f as 
then publicly read by Demetrius to a number of Jews 
whom he had summoned together. They approved of 
it, and imprecations w r cre uttered against any one who 
should presume to alter it. The Jews requested per- 
mission to take copies of it for their use, ami it w r as care- 
fully preserved by command of the king. The inter- 
preters w’ere sent home loaded w ith presents. 

The work of Aristeas, which was first published in 
the original Greek by Simon Schard (Basel, 15(11, 8vo), 
and several times reprinted, was also given by Hody in 
Greek and Latin, in bis book entitled De Biblioruui 
Textibus Originalibns , Versionibus Gratis, et Latina Yul- 
gata (Oxon. 1705, fob). The most accurate edition, 
how’ever, is that by Gallant], in the Bibliotheca Vet. 
Pat rum , vol. ii. It w r as translated into English by 
Whiston, and published at Loudon in 1727, 8 vo. See 
also Aristeas, Hist. LXXII hit. ex Bee. Bid. de Purchum 
(Francf. 1(110; Oxon. 1G92). 

(4.) In all discussions relative to the name oiBeptua- 
ginty so universally appropriated to the Greek version 
of Alexandria, the scholion discovered by Osann and 
published by Ritschl ought to be considered. The ori- 
gin of this Latin scholion is curious. The substance of 
it is stated to have been extracted from Callimachus 
and Eratosthenes, the Alexandrian librarians, by Tzct- 
zes, and from his Greek note an Italian of the 15th cen- 
tury has formed the Latin scholion in question. The 
writer has been speaking of the collecting of ancient 
Greek poems carried on at Alexandria under Ptolemy 


SEPTUAGINT 


540 


SEPTUAGINT 


Philadelphia, and then lie thus continues: “Nam rex ille 
philosophic affertissimus [corr.“differtissimus,” Kitschl; 
“ affect issimus,” Thiersch] et caiteris omnibus auctoribus 
Claris, disquisitis impensa regiae munificentiaj ubiqne ter- 
rarum quantum valuit voluminibus opera Demetrii Pha- 
lerei phzxa senum duas bibliothecas fecit, alteram extra 
regiam alteram autem in regia.” The scholion then 
goes on to speak of books in many languages: “Quae 
summa diligentia rex ille in suam linguam fecit ab op- 
timis interpretibus converti” (see Thiersch, De Penta- 
teuchi Versions A lexandrina [Erlang. 1841], p. 8, 9). 
Bernhardv reads instead of “ phzxa senum,” “et Ixx 
senum,” and this correction is agreed to by Thiersch, as 
it well may be: some correction is manifestly needed, 
and this appears to be right. This gives us seventy 
elders associated in the formation of the library. The 
testimony comes to us from Alexandrian authority; and 
this, if true (or even if believed to be true), would con- 
nect the Septuagint with the library — a designation 
which might most easily be applied to a version of the 
Scriptures there deposited; and, let the translation be 
once known by such a name, then nothing would be 
more probable than that the designation should be ap- 
plied to the translators. This may be regarded as the 
first step in the formation of the fables. Let the Sep- 
tuagint be first known as applying to the associates in 
the collection of the library, then to the library itself, 
and then to that particular book in the library which to 
so many had a far greater value than all its other eon- 
tents. Whether more than the Pentateuch was thus 
translated and then deposited in the royal library is a 
separate question. 

2. Confirmation by Later Authorities. — (1.) Of Jewish 
writers, Josephus (Ant. xii, 2) agrees in the main with 
Aristeas; but Philo’s account ( J)e Vita Mosis , lib. ii) 
differs in a number of circumstances. 

(2.) Among the Greek Church fathers Iremeus (lib. 
iii, c. 24) relates that Ptolemy Lagi, wishing to adorn 
his Alexandrian library with the writings of all nations, 
requested from the Jews of Jerusalem a Greek version 
of their Scriptures; that they sent, seventy elders well 
skilled in the Scriptures and in later languages; that 
the king separated them from one another and bade them 
all translate the several books. When they came to- 
gether before Ptolemy and showed their versions. God 
was glorified, for they all agreed exactly , from beginning 
to end, in every phrase and word, so that all men may 
know that the Scriptures are translated by the inspira- 
tion of God . 

Justin Martyr ( Cohort . ad Grcecos, p. 34) gives the 
same account, and adds that he was taken to see the 
cells in which the interpreters worked. 

Epiphanius says that the translators were divided 
into pairs, in thirty-six cells, each pair being provided 
with two scribes; and that thirty-six versions agree- 
ing in every point were produced, by the gift of the Holy 
Spirit (l)e Pond, et A fens. c. iii— vi). 

(3.) Among the Latin fathers Augustine adheres to 
the inspiration of the translators — “Non autein secun- 
dum LXX interpretes, qui etiam ipsi divino Spiritu in- 
terpretati,ob hoc aliter videntur nonnulla dixisse, ut ad 
spiritualem sensum scrntandum magis admoneretur lec- 
toris intent io ” (De Doctr. Christ, iv, 15). 

But Jerome boldly throws aside the whole story of 
the cells and the inspiration — “Et nescio quis primus 
anctor Septuaginta cellulas Alexandria mendacio suo 
extruxerit, quibus divisi eadem scriptitarent, cum Aris- 
tieus ejusdem l'tolemaei v7rtpa<T7rt(TTt)c, et multo post 
tempore Josephus, nihil tale retulerint: sed in una ba- 
silica congregates, contulisse seribant, non proplietasse. 
Aliud est. enim vntem, aliud esse interprotem. Ibi Spir- 
itus ventura pnedicit; hie eruditio et verborum copia 
ea qua: iutelligit transfert” (Pnef. ad Pent.'). 

3. Modern Opinions. — (1.) Until t lie latter half of the 
17th century the origin of the Sept, as given bv Aris- 
teas was firmly believed; while the numerous additions 
that had been made to the original story in the prog- 


ress of centuries were unhesitatingly received as equal- 
ly genuine. The story was first reckoned improbable 
by L. Vives (in a note to Augustine’s De Civitate Dei ) ; 
then Scaliger asserted that it was written by a Jew; 
and Richard Simon was too acute a critic not to per- 
ceive the truth of Scaliger’s assertion. Ilody was the 
first who demonstrated with great learning, skill, and 
discrimination that the narrative could not be authen- 
tic (De Bibl. Text, Orig. l>rs. Griec. et Lot. Yuly. [Ox- 
ford, 1705] lib. iv). It is now universally pronounced 
fabulous. 

(2.) But the Pseudo-Aristeas had a basis of fact for 
his fiction; on three points of his story there is no ma- 
terial difference of opinion, and they are confirmed by 
the study of the version itself: (a.) The version was 
made at Alexandria. ( b .) It was begun in the time of 
the earlier Ptolemies, about B.C. 280. (c.) The law (i. e, 

the Pentateuch) alone was translated at first. It is also 
very possible that there is some truth in the statement 
that a copy was placed in the royal library. (The em- 
peror Akbar caused the New Test, to be translated into 
Persian.) 

(3.) But by whom was the version made? As Ilodv 
justly remarks, “ It is of little moment whether it was 
made at the command of the king or spontaneously by 
the Jews; but it is a question of great importance 
whether the Hebrew copy of the law and the interpret- 
ers (as Pseudo-Aristeas and his followers relate) were 
summoned from Jerusalem and sent by the high-priest 
to Alexandria.” On this question no testimony can 
be so conclusive as the evidence of the version itself, 
which bears upon its face the marks of imperfect knowl- 
edge of Hebrew, and exhibits the forms and phrases of 
the Maeedonic Greek prevalent in Alexandria, with a 
plentiful sprinkling of Egyptian words. The forms 
LlXSaoav, 7rapevtfid\o(Tav, betray the fellow - citizens 
of Lycophron, the Alexandrian poet., who closes his iam- 
bic line with Kcnro yijg io-^d^oaav. Hody (II, iv) 
gives several examples of Egyptian renderings of names 
and coins and measures; among them the hippodrome 
of Alexandria for the Hebrew Cibrath (Gen. xlviii, 7), 
and the papyrus of the Nile for the rush of Job (viii, 
11). The reader of the Sept, will readily agree with 
his conclusion, “Sive regis jussn, sive sponte a Judneis, 
a Judreis Alexandrinis fuisse factam.” The question as 
to the moving cause which gave birth to the version 
is one which cannot be so decisively answered either 
by internal evidence or by historical testimony. The 
balance of probability must be struck between the tra- 
dition, so widely and permanently prevalent, of the 
king’s intervention, and the simpler account suggested 
by the facts of history and the phenomena of the ver- 
sion itself. It is well known that after the Jews re- 
turned from the captivity of Babylon, having lost in 
great measure the familiar knowledge of the ancient 
Hebrew, the readings from the books of Moses in the 
synagogues of Palestine were explained to them in the 
Chaldaic tongue in Targums or paraphrases; and the 
same was done with the books of the prophets when, at 
a later time, they also were read in the synagogues. 
The Jews of Alexandria had probably still less knowl- 
edge of Hebrew; their familiar language was Alexan- 
drian Greek. They had settled in Alexandria in large 
numbers soon after the time of Alexander and under 
the earlier Ptolemies. They would naturally follow the 
same practice as their brethren in Palestine; the law 
first, and afterwards the prophets, would be explained in 
Greek, and from this practice would arise in time an 
entire Greek version. All the phenomena of the ver- 
sion seem to confirm this view; the Pentateuch is the 
best part of the version ; the other books are more de- 
fective, betraying probably the increasing degeneracy 
of the Hebrew MSS. and the decay of Hebrew learning 
with the lapse of time. 

(4.) Nevertheless, the opinion that the Pentateuch 
was translated a considerable time before the prophets 
is not warranted by t he language of Justin, Clement of 


SEPTUAGINT 


541 


SEPTUAGINT 


Alexandria, Tertullian, Epiphanius, and Ililan r of Poi- 
tiers; although we are aware that Aristeas, Josephus, 
Philo, the Talmudists, and Jerome mention the law only 
as having been interpreted by the seventy-two. Hodv 
thinks that the Jews first resorted to the reading of the 
prophets in tiieir synagogues when Antiochus Epipha- 
nes forbade the use of the law, and therefore that the 
prophetic portion was not translated till after the com- 
mencement of Philometor’s reign. It is wholly im- 
probable, however, that Antiochus interdicted the Jews 
merely from reading the Pentateuch (comp. 1 Maec. 
i, 41 , etc. ; and Josephus, A nt . xii, 5 ; Frankel, p. 48, 49). 
The interval between the translating of the law and 
the prophets, of which many speak, was probably very 
short. Hodv’s proof that the book of Joshua was not 
translated till upwards of twenty years after the death 
of Ptolemy Lagi, founded upon the word yaujoq, is per- 
fectly nugatory, although the time assigned cannot be 
far from the truth. The epilogue to the book of Es- 
ther does not state that this part of the Old Test, was 
translated under Ptolemy Philometor or that it was ded- 
icated to him. On the contrary it refers to a certain 
epistle containing apocryphal additions to the canoni- 
cal book of Esther (Valokenaer, p. 33, 03). It is a fruit- 
less task to attempt to ascertain the precise times at 
which separate portions of the version were made. All 
that can be known with any degree of probability is 
that it was begun under Lagi and finished before the 
thirty-eighth year of Ptolemy Physcon. 

It is obvious from internal evidence that there were 
several translators, but certainly not seventy-two. Ilody 
has endeavored to parcel out their version into small 
portions, assigning each part to a separate person, and 
affirming that they were put together in one cento with- 
out revision; but his notions of rigid uniformity in the 
translators are such as exclude perspicuity, freedom, 
variety, and elegance. There is no ground for believ- 
ing that the Pentateuch proceeded from more than one 
interpreter, who was unquestionably the most skilful of 
all. The entire work was made by five or six individ- 
uals at least, and must, consequently, be of unequal val- 
ue. Comp. Amersfoordt, De Yariis Lectio. Holmes. Loc. 
quorum 1. Pent. Mos. (Lugd. 1815); Thiersch, De Pent. 
Vers. Al. Libri III (Erlang. 1841); Frankel, Ueber d. 
Einfluss d. palest. Ex eg. uuf d. a lex. Her men. (Leips. 
1851) ; Kosenm idler, op. cit. p. 435 sq. 

(5.) In opposition to the Pseudo-Aristeas, we cannot 
but maintain that the translators were A lexandrian, not 
Palestinian , Jews. The internal character of the en- 
tire version, particularly of the Pentateuch, sufficiently 
attests the fact. We find, accordingly, that proper 
names and terms peculiar to Egypt are rendered in 
such a manner as must have been unintelligible to a 
Greek -speaking population other than the Egyptian 
Jews. That the translators were Egyptians has been 
proved, to the satisfaction of all, by Ilody; although 
some of his examples are not appropriate or conclusive. 
Frankel supposes that the version was made not only 
at different times, but at different places. This is quite 
arbitrary. There is no reason for believing with him 
that different books originated after this fashion, the 
impulse having gone forth from Alexandria and spread- 
ing to localities where the Jews had settled, especially 
Cvrene, Leontopolis, and even Asia Minor. 

(6.) The division into verses and chapters is much later 
than the age of the translators. Our present editions 
have been printed in conformity with the division into 
chapters made in the Pith century, though they are not 
uniform in this particular. Still, however, many MSS. 
have separations in the text. The Alexandrine Codex 
is said bv Grabe to have 140 divisions, or, as they may 
be called, chapters , in the book of Numbers alone ( Prol- 
egomena , c. 1, § 7). 

The titles given to the books, such as rii'fmc, etc., 
could hardly have been affixed by the translators, since 
often they do not harmonize with the version of the 
book itself to which they belong. 


| II. Textmd Basis of the Version. — 1. It has been in- 
1 quired whether the translator of the Pentateuch fol- 
! lowed a Hebrew or a Samaritan codex. The Sept, 
and Samaritan harmonize in more than a thousand 
places, where they differ from the Hebrew, lienee it 
has been supposed that the Samaritan edition was the 
basis of the version. Various considerations have been 
adduced in favor of this opinion ; and the names of De 
Dien, Selden, Whiston, Hottinger, llassencamp, and 
Eichhorn are enlisted on its behalf. But the irrecon- 
cilable enmity subsisting between the Jews and the 
Samaritans, both in Egypt and Palestine, effectually 
militates against it. Besides, in the prophets and Ha- 
giographa, the number of variations from the Masoretic 
text is even greater and more remarkable than those in 
the Pentateuch ; whereas the Samaritan extends no fur- 
ther than the Mosaic books. No solution, therefore, can 
be satisfactory which will not serve to explain at once 
the cause or causes both of the differences between the 
Seventy and the Hebrew in the Pentateuch, and those 
found in the remaining books. The problem can be 
fully solved only by such a hypothesis as will throw 
light on the remarkable form of the Sept, in Jere- 
miah and Esther, where it deviates most from the Mas- 
oretic MSS., presenting such transpositions and inter- 
polations as excite the surprise of the most superficial 
reader. The above solution of the question must be 
rejected not only for the reasons assigned, but also for 
the following. (1.) It must be taken into account that if 
the discrepancies of the Samaritan and Jewish copies 
be estimated numerically, the Sept, will be found to 
agree far more frequently with the latter than the for- 
mer. (2.) In the eases of considerable and marked pas- 
sages occurring in the Samaritan which are not in the 
Jewish, the Sept, does not contain them. (3.) In the 
passages in which slight variations are found, both in 
the Samaritan and Sept., from the Jewish text, they 
often differ among themselves, and the amplification of 
the Sept, is less than that of the Samaritan. (4.) Some 
of the small amplifications in which the Samaritan 
seems to accord with the Sept, are in such incorrect 
and non - idiomatic Hebrew that it is suggested that 
these must be translations , and, if so, probably from the 
Sept. (5.) The amplifications of the Sept, and Samaritan 
often resemble each other greatly in character, as if 
similar false criticism had been applied to the text in 
each case. But as, in spite of all similarities such as 
these, the Pentateuch of the Sept, is more Jewish than 
Samaritan, we need not adopt the notion of translation 
from a Samaritan codex, which would involve the sub- 
ject in greater difficulties, and leave more points to be 
explained. (On some of the supposed agreements of 
the Sept, with the, Samaritan, see bishop Fitzgerald in 
Kitto’s Journal of Sacred Literature , Oct. 1848, p. 324- 
332.) 

Some suppose that the one was interpolated from the 
other — a conjecture not at all probable. John and Bauer 
imagine that the Hebrew MS. used by the Egyptian 
Jew’s agreed much more closely with the Samaritan in 
the text and forms of its letters than the present Maso- 
retie copies. This hypothesis, however, even if it were 
otlienvise correct, would not account for the great har- 
mony existing between the Samaritan and Sept. 

Another hypothesis has been put forth by Gesenius 
{Comment atio de Pent. Samar. Orig. Indole , et Auctor .), 
viz. that both the Samaritan and Sept, flowed from a 
common recension (tjecWij;) of the Hebrew’ Scriptures, 
one older than either, and different in many places from 
the recension of the Masoretes now’ in common use. 
“This supposition,” says Prof. Stuart, by whom it is 
adopted, “will account for the differences and for the 
agreements of the Sept, and Samaritan.” The follow- 
ing objections have been made to this ingenious and 
plausible hypothesis, (a.) It assumes that before the 
whole of the Old Test, was written there had been a re- 
cension or revision of several books. But there is no 
record or tradition in favor of the idea that inspired 


SEPTUAGINT 


542 


SEPTUAGINT 


men applied a correcting hand in this manner till the 
close of the canon. To say that others did so is not in 
unison with right notions of the inspiration of Scripture, 
unless it be equally affirmed that they corrupted , under 
the idea of correcting , the holy books. ( b .) This hypoth- 
esis implies that a recension took place at a period com- 
paratively early, before any books had been written ex- 
cept the Pentateuch, Joshua, Judges, and the writings 
of David and Solomon. If it be improbable that a revised 
edition was made before the completion of the canon, 
it is much more improbable that it was undertaken 
when few books were written, (c.) It supposes that an 
older recension was still current after Ezra had revised 
the whole collection and closed the canon. In making 
the Sept, version, it is very improbable that the Jews, 
who were the translators, followed a recension far infe- 
rior in their estimation to the copy of the sacred books 
corrected by Ezra. This objection rests on the assump- 
tion that Ezra completed the canon of the Old Test., 
having been prompted, as well as inspired, to arrange 
and revise the books of Scripture. Such is the Jewish 
tradition; and although a majority of the German crit- 
ics disallow its truth, yet it is held by very able and ac- 
complished men. 

Prof. Lee ( Prolegomena to Bagster's Polyglot ) ac- 
counts for the agreement between the Sept, and Samar- 
itan in another way. He conjectures that the early 
Christians interspersed their copies with Samaritan 
glosses, which ignorant transcribers afterwards inserted 
in the text. But he has not shown that Christians in 
general were acquainted with the Samaritan Pentateuch 
and its additions to the Hebrew copy; neither has he 
taken into account the reverence entertained by the 
early Christians for the sacred books. We cannot, there- 
fore, attribute the least probability to this hypothesis. 

Another hypothesis has been mentioned by Frankel, 
viz. that the Sept, flowed from a Chaldee version, which 
was used before and after the time of Ezra — a version 
inexact and paraphrastic, which had undergone many 
alterations and corruptions. This was first proposed by 
K. Asaria di Rossi, in the midst of other conjectures. 
Frankel admits that the assumption of such a version is 
superfluous, except in relation to the Samaritan Penta- 
teuch, where much is gained by it. This Chaldee ver- 
sion circulated in various transcripts here and there; 
and as the same care was not applied in preserving its 
integrity as was exercised with respect to the original 
Hebrew, the copies of it presented considerable differ- 
ences among themselves. Both the Greek version and 
the Samaritan Pentateuch were taken from it. Fran- 
kel concedes that this hypothesis is not satisfactory with 
regard to the Sept., because the mistakes found in that 
version must have frequently originated in misunder- 
standing the Hebrew text. There is no evidence, how- 
ever, that any Targum or Chaldee version had been 
made before Ezra’s time, or soon after. Explanations 
of the lessons publicly read by the Jews were given in 
Chaldee, not regularly perhaps, or uniformly; but it 
can scarcely be assumed that a Chaldee version had 
been made out in writing, and circulated in different 
copies. Glosses, or short expositions of words and sen- 
tences, were furnished by the public readers l'or the ben- 
efit of the people; and it is by no means improbable 
that several of these traditional comments were incor- 
porated with the version by the Jewish translators, to 
whom they were familiar. 

In short, no hypothesis yet proposed commends itself 
to general reception, although the Vorstudien of Frankel 
have probably opened up the way towards a correct so- 
lution. The great source from which the striking pe- 
culiarities in the Sept, and the Samaritan flowed appears 
to us to have been early traditional interpretations cur- 
rent among the Jews, t ary a ms , or paraphrases — not 
written, perhaps, but orally circulated. Such glossarial 
versions, which must have circulated chiefly in Pales- 
tine, require to be traced back to an early epoch — to the 
period of the second Temple. They existed, in substance 


at least, in ancient times, at once indicating and modi- 
fying the Jewish mode of interpretation. The Alexan- 
drian mode of interpretation stood in close connection 
with the Palestinian; for the Jews of Egypt looked 
upon Jerusalem as their chief city, and the Sanhedrim 
of Jerusalem as their ecclesiastical rulers. If, therefore, 
we can ascertain the traditional paraphrases of the one. 
those of the other must have been substantially the 
same (see Gieseler’s Eccles. Hist., transl. by Cunning- 
ham, i, 30). 

Tychsen ( Tevtamen de V arils Codd . Ifeb. V. T. MSS. 
Gene?’.) thought that the Sept, was made from the He- 
brew transcribed into Hebrew-Greek characters. It is 
almost unnecessary to refer to such a notion. It never 
obtained general currency, having been examined and 
refuted by Dathe, Michaelis, and Hassencamp. 

2. Evidence as to the Verbal Condition of the Original. 
— Here we naturally inquire as to two obvious points : 

(1.) Was the version made from Hebrew MSS. with 
the vowel-points now used? A few examples will in- 
dicate the answer. 


A. Proper Names. 


Hebrew. 

Septuagint. 

Exod. vi, 17, “ppb, Libni. 

Aoflevel. 

vi, 19, “'bnp, Machli. 

M ooAei. 

xiii, 20, CPX, Etham. 


Deut. iii, 10, firbp, Salchah. 

'E\xa. 

iv, 43, “1^2, Bezel’. 

Boaop. 

xxxiv, 1, fiSipB, Pisgah. 

<t>acfd. 


JS. Otuer Words. 

Hcbreio. Septuagint. 


Gen. i, 0, O'lp'E, place. 

xv, u, nrx 2’ro, 
and he droiw them away. 
Exod. xii, 17, PlSSn TX, 
unleavened bread. 
Nnmb. xvi, 5, "ipin, in the 
morning. 

Dent, xv, 18, double. 

Isa. ix, S, npl, a word. 


avva^ar^*} (Pllp?3). 

Kal ovveKilSiaei' auroif 

(Dns: 2OT>. 

Tt]V eiT oAi/V T<lliTHV 
enia-KeTTrat 


P£3>. 

erreretov (n5T2‘p). 
S’avuTOi' O^l)) 1 


Examples of these two kinds are innumerable. Plainly 
the Greek translators had not Hebrew MSS. pointed as 
at present. In many cases (e. g. Exod. ii, 25; Nahum 
iii, 8) the Sept, has possibly preserved the true pro- 
nunciation and sense where the Masoretic pointing has 
gone wrong. 

(2.) Were the Hebrew words divided from one an- 
other, and were the final letters y , C], "j, D, "j, in use 
when the Sept, was made? — Take a few out of many 
examples: 


Hebrew. 

(1) Deut. xxvi, 5, npX 

a perishing Syrian. 

(2) 2 Kings ii, 14, fcMn“w]5t, 

he also. 

(3) 2 Kings xxii, 20, *]2b, 

. therefore. 

(4) 1 Chron. xvii, 10, *jb If 50, 

ami I told thee . 

(5) Hos. vi, 5, nix 

5CO, 

and thy judgments 
[are as] the light 
[that] goeth forth. 

(6) Zech. xi, 7, yyj 

even^iou, O poor 
of the flock. 


Septuagint. 

2i ipiav iiiri/3a\ev 

0250 cnxy 

[it joins the two 
words in one]. 

OVX o{<TC09 

sal <iu(;h<Ta} <rc 

Kal to Kpt/ua pov 
t«»? (ptbi tfeAet)- 
47CT ai. 

The Sept, reads : 

nix: 

rgv Xai'aiTny 

[it joins the first 
two words]. 


Here wc find three cases (2, 4, 0) where the Sept, reads 
as one word what makes two in the present Hebrew 
text ; one case (3) where one Hebrew word is made into 
two by the Sept. ; two cases (1,5) where the Sept, trails- 


SEPTUAGINT 


543 


SEPTUAGINT 


fers a letter from the end of one word to the beginning 
of the next. By inspection of the Hebrew in these 
cases it will be easily seen that the Hebrew MSS. must 
have been written without intervals between the words, 
and that the present final forms were not then in use. 
In three of the above examples (4, 5, G), the Sept, has 
perhaps preserved the true division and sense. 

In the study of these minute particulars, which en- 
able us to examine closely the work of the translators, 
great help is afforded by Cappelli Critica Sacra, and 
by the Vorstudien of Frankel, who has most diligently 
anatomized the text of the Sept. His projected work 
on the whole of the version has not been completed, 
but he has published a part of it in his treatise Ueber 
den Einfluss dev paldstinischen Exegese auf die alexan- 
drinische Ilermeneutik , in which he reviews minutely 
the Sept, version of the Pentateuch. 

III. Ecclesiastical A uthority and Influence. — The Sept, 
does not appear to have obtained general authority 
among the Jews so long as Hebrew was understood at 
Alexandria. It is remarkable that Aristobulus quotes 
the original, even where it departs from the text of the 
Sept. The version was indeed spread abroad in Egypt, 
Northern Africa, and Asia Minor. It seems to have 
been so highly esteemed by the Jews as to be publicly 
read in some of their synagogues. From the 146th No- 
vella of Justinian, it would seem that some Jews wished 
the public interpreter, who read the lessons out of the 
law and the prophets in Hebrew, to give his explana- 
tions of them in Greek, while others desired to have 
them in Chaldee. The reader, therefore, employed this 
translation as explanatory of the sections recited in the 
original, yet, although they highly esteemed the Greek, 
they did not regard it as equal to the Hebrew. Even 
the Talmudists make honorable mention of its origin. 
It is true that the Talmud also speaks of it as an abom- 
ination to the Jews in Palestine; but this refers to the 
2d century and the time following, not to the period im- 
mediately after the appearance of Christ. When con- 
troversies arose between Christians and Jews, and the 
former appealed with irresistible force of argument to 
this version, the latter denied that it agreed with the 
Hebrew original. Thus by degrees it became odious 
to the Jews— as much execrated as it had before been 
commended. They had recourse to the translation of 
Aquila, who is supposed to have undertaken a new 
■work from the Hebrew, with the express object of sup- 
planting the Sept, and favoring the sentiments of his 
brethren. 

Among the Christians the ancient text, called fcotio/, 
was current before the time of Origen. We find it quot- 
ed bv the early Christian fathers — in Greek by Clem- 
ens Romanus, Justin Martyr, Irenams; in Latin versions 
by Tertullian and Cyprian. We find it questioned as 
inaccurate by the Jews (Just. INI artyr, Apol.), and pro- 
voking them to obtain a better version (hence the ver- 
sions of Aquila, etc.). We find it quoted by Josephus 
and Philo; and thus we are brought to the time of the 
apostles and evangelists, whose writings are full of cita- 
tions and references, and imbued with the phraseology 
of the Sept. From all this we are justified in the fol- 
lowing conclusions on this head : 

1. This version was highly esteemed by the Helle- 
nistic Jews before the coming of Christ. An annual fes- 
tival was held at Alexandria in remembrance of the 
completion of the work (Philo, De Vita Mosis, lib. ii). 
The manner in which it is quoted by the writers of the 
New Test, proves that it had long been in general use. 
Wherever, by the conquests of Alexander or by colo- 
nization, the Greek language prevailed; wherever Jews 
were settled, and the attention of the neighboring Gen- 
tiles was drawn to their wondrous history and law. there 
was found the Sept., which thus became, by Divine 
Providence, the means of spreading widely the knowl- 
edge of the One True God and his promises of a Saviour 
to eome throughout the nations; it was indeed ostium 
gentibus ad Christum. To the wide dispersion of this 


version we may ascribe, in great measure, that general 
persuasion which prevailed over the whole East (per- 
crebnerat Oriente toto) of the near approach of the Re- 
deemer, and which led the magi to recognise the star 
that proclaimed the birth of the King of the Jews. 

2. Not less wide was the influence of the Sept, in the 
spread of the Gospel. Many of those Jews who were 
assembled at Jerusalem on the day of Pentecost, from 
Asia Minor, from Africa, from Crete and Rome, used the 
Greek language ; the testimonies to Christ from the law 
and the prophets came to them in the words of the Sept. ; 
St. Stephen probably quoted from it in his address to 
the Jews; the Ethiopian eunuch was reading the Sept, 
version of Isaiah in his chariot (w£ 7rpoj3aTov hri a<pa- 
Vt v ; they who were scattered abroad went forth 

into many lands, speaking of Christ in Greek, and point- 
ing to the things written of him in the Greek version 
of Moses and the prophets; from Antioch and Alexan- 
dria in the East to Rome and Massilia in the West, the 
voice of the Gospel sounded forth in Greek; Clemens 
of Rome, Ignatius at Antioch, Justin Martyr in Pales- 
tine, Iremeus at Lyons, and many more, taught and 
wrote in the words of the Greek Scriptures; and a still 
wider range was given to the Sept, by the Latin ver- 
sion (or- versions) made from it for the use of the Latin 
churches in Italy and Africa; and in later times by the 
numerous other versions into the tongues of Egypt, 
Ethiopia, Armenia, Arabia, and Georgia. For a long 
period the Sept, was the Old Test, of the far larger part 
of the Christian Church (see the Hulsean Prize Essay, 
by W. R. Churton, On the Influence of the Sept, on the 
Progress of Christianity [Camb. 1861]; and an art. in 
the Zeitschr.f. wissensch. Theol. 1862, vol. iii). 

A number of other versions have been founded on the 
Sept. 1, Various early Latin translations, the chief of 
which was the Vet us I tala; 2. The Coptic and Sahidic, 
belonging to the 1st and 2d centuries; 3. The Ethiopic, 
belonging to the 4th century; 4. The Armenian, of the 
5th century; 5. The Georgian, of the 6th century; 6. 
Various Syriac versions, of the 6th and 8th centuries; 
7. Some Arabic versions [see Arabic Versions] ; 8. 
The Slavonic, belonging to the Oth century. 

IV. Liturgical Origin of Portions of the Version . — 
This is a subject for inquiry which has received but lit- 
tle attention; not so much, probably, as its importance 
deserves. It was noticed by Tregelles many years ago 
that the headings of certain psalms in the Sept, coin- 
cide with the liturgical directions in the Jewish Prayer- 
book. The results were at a later period communicated 
in Kitto’s Journal of Sacred Literature, April, 1852, 
p. 207-209. The results may be briefly stated: The 
23d Psalm, Sept. (Heb. 24th), is headed in the Sept. 

/. nag aafifiarov ; so, too, in Ileb. in De Sola’s 
Prayers of the Sephardim, ‘jliyjon D**'-: Psa. xlvii, 
Sept. (Heb. xlviii), fitvripa aaj3j3aTov, ^2113 E1 n b : Psa. 
xciii, Sept. (Heb. xciv),r£7'jod^< fftt/3/3drou, i EV^>: 

Psa. xcii, Sept. (Heb. xciii), tig ti)v ifpipav tov 7rpo- 
ffal3[5drov, ET^. There appear to be no Greek 
copies extant which contain similar headings for Psa. 
lxxxi and Ixxx (Heb. lxxxii and Ixxxi), which the 
Jewish Prayer-book appropriates to the third and fifth 
days; but that such once existed in the case of the lat- 
ter psalm seems to be shown from the Latin Psalterium 
Vet us having the prefixed quinta sabbati , DV’K 

Delitzsch, in his Commentary on the Psalms, has recent- 
ly pointed out that the notation of these psalms in the 
Sept, is in accordance with certain passages in the Tal- 
mud. 

It is worthy of inquiry whether variations in other 
passages of the Sept, from the Hebrew text cannot at 
times be connected with liturgical use, and whether 
they do not originate in part from rubrical directions. 
It seems to be at least plain that the Psalms were trans- 
lated from a copy prepared for synagogue worship. 

V. Character of the Version. — Under this head we 


SEPTUAGINT 


544 : 


SEPTUAGINT 


have to consider several special questions relating to its 
internal character as a translation : 

1. Is the Sept. Faithful in Substance? — Here we can- 
not answer by citing a few examples; the question re- 
fers to the general texture, and any opinion we express 
must be verified by continuous reading. For a purely 
philological examination, see Septuagint, Linguistic 
Character of. 

(1.) It has been clearly shown by Hodv, Frankel, and 
others that the several books were translated by differ- 
ent persons, without any comprehensive revision to har- 
monize the several parts. Names and words are ren- 
dered differently in different books; e. g. 

POD, the Passover, in the Pentateuch is rendered ttJ- 
in 2 Chron. xxxv, 6, <paoU. 

l Trim , Exod. xxviii, 26, a/jXoxrt?; Dent, xxxiii, 8, 
o>)\ot ; Ezra ii, G3, ; Xeh. vil, 65, (ptaricritiv. 

CSHj Thummim , Exod. xxviii, 26, d \ifieia; Ezra ii, 63, 

Tf Xetov. 

The Philistines in the Pentateuch and Joshna are <pv\ t - 
cTteifx', iu the other books u\\o<pv\oi. 

The books of Judges, Ruth, Samuel, and Kings are dis- 
tinguished by the use of e-yw e /jh instead of i-jd. 

These are a few out of many like variations. 

(2.) Thus the character of the version varies much in 
the several books; those of the Pentateuch are the best, 
as Jerome says (“Confitemur plus quam emteris cum lle- 
braicis consonare”), and this agrees well with the exter- 
nal evidence that the law was translated first, when He- 
brew MSS. were more correct and Hebrew better known. 
Perhaps the simplicity of the style in these early books 
facilitated the tidelity r of the version. 

(3.) The poetical parts are, generally speaking, infe- 
rior to the historical, the original abounding with rarer 
words and expressions. In these parts the reader of the 
Sept, must be continually on the watch lest an imperfect 
rendering of a difficult word mar the whole sentence. 
The Psalms and Proverbs are perhaps the best. 

(4.) In the major prophets some of the most impor- 
tant prophecies are sadly obscured — e. g. Isa. ix, 1, tov- 
to Trpiorov Trie ra\ i) 7 roiei, X l ' J P a Z«/3ou\wp, k. t. X . ; 
and in ix, 6, “ Esaias naetus est interpretem sese indig- 
num” (Zwingli); Jcr. xxiii, 6, teat tovto to ovopa av- 
tov o KuXiaei avrbv K vpiog T toGtcitc tv TOig 7 rpo(j)i)- 
raiQ. 

Ezekiel and the minor prophets (speaking generally) 
seem to be better rendered. The Sept, version of Daniel 
was not used, that of Theodotion being substituted for it. 

(5.) Supposing the numerous glosses and duplicate 
renderings which have evidently crept from the mar- 
gin into the text to be removed (e. g. Isa. vii, 1G; Hab. 
iii, 2; Joel i, 8) — for these are blemishes not of the ver- 
sion itself, but of the copies — and forming a rough esti- 
mate of what the Sept, was in its earliest state, we may 
perhaps say of it, in the words of the well-known simile, 
that it was, in many parts, “the wrong side of the He- 
brew tapestry,” exhibiting the general outlines of the 
pattern, but confused in the more delicate lines, and with 
many ends of threads visible; or. to use a more digni- 
fied illustration, the Sept, is the image of the original 
seen through a glass not adjusted to the proper focus — 
the larger features are shown, bnt the sharpness of defi- 
nition is lost. On Judges, see Grabii Ep. ad J. Millium 
qua Ostend. L. Judd. (Jen. LXX l r ers. earn esse quam 
MS. Alex. Exhibet , etc. (Oxf. 1705); Ziegler, TheoL 
Abhandl. (Gott. 1791), vol. i. On Samuel and Kings, 
Theniiis, Kurzgef. exeg. lldb. z. A. T. iv, 24 sq. ; ix, 13 
sq. On Chronicles, Movers, Krit. Enters. (Bonn, 1834). 

< )n Esther, Fritsehe’s ed. (Ztir. 1848). See Jer. s. v. Jud. 
Alex, ac llelig. iuit. Grtec., em. Notisque Grit, ill . G. L. 
Spoh n (Lips. 1794 ; 2d ed. 1824, by F. A. G. Spohn). 

2. Is the Version Minutely Accurate in Details? — We 
have anticipated the answer to this question, but will 
give a few examples : 

(1.) The same word in the same chapter is often ren- 
dered by differing words — Exod. xii, 13, “ , rin3Q, “ I will 


pass over,” Sept. <T/ec7ra<rw,but 23, nOD, “will pass over,” 
Sept. 7rapeXevaerai. 

(2.) Differing words by the same word — Exod. xii, 
23, "123?, “pass through,” and FIDS, “pass over,” both 
by 7rapeXevGtTai ; Numb, xv, 4, 5, nn:*0, “offering,” 
and rS2T, “sacrifice,” both by Svaia. 

(3.) The divine names are frequently interchanged; 
Ku/oioc is put for D^n'PX, God, and 0so£ for PTPP, Je- 
hovah; and the two are often wrongly combined or 
wrongly separated. 

(4.) Proper names are sometimes translated, some- 
times not. In Gen. xxiii, b}' translating the name 
Machpelah (to SnrXovv'), the version is made to speak 
first of the cave being in the field (ver. 9), and then of 
tb c field being in the cave (ver. 17), 6 aypbg ’Etpptov, o£ 
qv iv Ttff SnrXtp 07n]XaUp, the last word not warranted 
by the Hebrew. Zech. vi, 14 is a curious example of 
four names of persons being translated — e. g. n’2'3:b, 
“to Tobijah,” Sept, roTg xpgmpoiQ avTtjg ; Pisgah in 
Dcut. xxxiv, 1, is tpaaya, but in Deut. iii, 27, tov Xe- 
\a%evpivov. 

(5.) The translators are often misled by the similarity 
of Hebrew words — e. g. Numb, iii, 2G, T"!r.“’2, “the 
cords of it,” Sept. to. tcaTaXonra, and iv, 2G, to. irtpiGGa. 
In other places o< kciXoi, and Isa. liv, 2, tu GxotvtGpara, 
both rightly. Exod. iv, 31, •13?£ , :j?, “ they heard,” Sept. 
excipi) ; Numb, xvi, 15, “ I have not taken one 

ass” ("ITCH), Sept, ovk imSupiipa (^2n) tiXtjtpa; 
Dent, xxxii, 10, “he found him,” Sept, av- 

Taptcqaev uvto v\ 1 Sam. xii, 2, “I am grav- 

headed,” Sept. tca$t)(Topai (iri223); Gen. iii, 17, 
“for thy sake,” Sept, iv to!q tpyoig gov (T 

for 1). 

In very similar eases the error may be thus traced to 
the similarity of some of the Hebrew letters, 1 and ", n 
and r, "> and % etc.; in some it is difficult to see any 
connection between the original and the version — e. g. 
Deut. xxxii, 8, bx’VJ? * 1 32, “the sons of Israel,” Sept. 
ctyyiXujv Qeoii. Aquilaand Symmachus, viiov T<rpa//X. 


Isa. xxi, 11, 12. 

Watchman, what of the night? 
Watchman, what of the night? 
The watch inau said, 

The morning cometh, and also 
the night : 

If ye will inquire, inquire ye. 
Return, come. 


Septuagint. 
<bo\('tc(reT€ e7r«Xfe<r ; 

Toirpoit Kai 
Tf]V VI'KT a. 

eav £>/T€t' 

Kai Trap' ipoi oiKet. 


(6.) Besides the above deviations and many like them, 
which are probably due to accidental causes — the change 
of a letter, or doubtful writing in the Hebrew — there are 
some passages which seem to exhibit a studied varia- 
tion in the Sept, from the Hebrew, e. g. Gen. ii, 2, on 
the seventh C 1 3?" l 2 , rn) day God ended his work; Sept. 
avvETtXeaev 6 Otog tv Ttj gpipq Ttj tKTy tcl tpya av- 
tov. The addition in Exod. xii, 40, Kai iv t?) yij Xa- 
vaav, appears to be of this kind, inserted to solve a dif- 
ficulty. 

Frequently the strong expressions of the Hebrew are 
softened down ; where human parts are ascribed to God 
for hand the Sept, substitutes power; for mouth , word , 
etc. Exod. iv, 1G, “Thou slialt be to him instead of 
God” (D"'i"5 2Nb), Sept, gv Si avTtjj toy tu 7rpbg tov 
0sop (see Exod. iv, 15). These and many more savor 
of design rather than of accident or error. 

The version is, therefore, not minutely accurate in 
details ; and it may be laid down as a principle, never 
to build any argument on words or phrases of the Sept, 
without comparing them with the Hebrew. The Greek 
may he right ; but very often its variations are wrong. 

3. We shall now be prepared to weigh the tradition 
of the fathers, that the version was made bv inspiration 
(kut iTrnrvoiav tov 0 tov, Irenseus; “Divino Spiritu 


SEPTUAGINT 


545 


SEPTUAGINT 


interpretati,” Augustine). Even Jerome himself seems 
to think that the Sept, may have sometimes added words 
to the original “ob Spiritus Sailed auctoritatem, licet 
in Ilebrieis voluminibus lion legatur” (. Pnrfat . in Para- 
Up. tom. i, col. 1419). 

Let us try to form some conception of what is meant 
by the inspiration of translators, it cannot mean what 
Jerome here seems to allow, that the translators were 
divinely moved to add to the original, for this would 
be the inspiration of prophets , as he himself says in 
another passage ( Prolog . in Genesin), “Aliud est enim 
vertere, aliud esse interpretem.” Every such addi- 
tion would be, in fact, a new revelation. Nor can it 
be, as some have thought, that the deviations of the 
Sept, from the original were divinely directed, whether 
in order to adapt the Scriptures to the mind of the 
heathen or for other purposes. This would be, pro 
tanto , a new revelation, and it is difficult to conceive of 
such a revelation ; for, be it observed, the discrepancy 7 
between the Hebrew and Greek Scriptures would tend 
to separate the Jews of Palestine from those of Alexan- 
dria, and of other places where the Greek Scriptures 
were used; there would be two different copies of the 
same books dispersed throughout the world, each claim- 
ing divine authority; the appeal to Moses and the 
prophets would lose much of its force; the standard of 
divine truth would be rendered doubtful; the trumpet 
would give an uncertain sound. No! If there be such 
a thing as an inspiration of translators, it must be an 
effect of the Holy Spirit on their minds, enabling them 
to do their work of translation more perfectly than by 
their own abilities and accpii remen ts; to overcome the 
difficulties arising from defective knowledge, from im- 
perfect MSS., from similarity of letters, from human in- 
firmity and weariness; and so to produce a copy of the 
Scriptures, setting forth the Word of God and the his- 
tory of his people, in its original truth and purity. This 
is the kind of inspiration claimed for the translators by 
Philo (Yit. Mosis, lib. ii): “We look upon the persons 
who made this version not merely as translators, but as 
persons chosen and set apart by divine appointment, to 
whom it was given to comprehend and express the sense 
and meaning of Moses in the fullest and clearest man- 
ner.” 

The reader will be able to judge from the foregoing 
examples whether the Sept, version satisfies this test. 
If it does, it will be found not only substantially faith- 
ful, but minutely accurate in details; it will enable us 
to correct the Hebrew in every place where an error 
has crept in; it will give evidence of that faculty of 
intuition in its highest form which enables our great 
critics to divine from the faulty text the true reading; 
it will be, in short, a republication of the original text, 
purified from the errors of human hands and eyes, 
stamped with fresh authority from heaven. This is a 
question to be decided by facts, by the phenomena of 
the version itself. We will simply declare our own con- 
viction that, instead of such a divine republication of 
the original, we find a marked distinction between the 
original and the Sept. — a distinction which is well ex- 
pressed in the words of Jerome {Prolog, in Genesin'): 
“ Ibi Spiritus vcntnra pnedieit; hie eruditio et verborum 
copia ea qua? intelligit transfort.” It will be remem- 
bered that this agrees with the ancient narrative of the 
version, known by the name of Aristeas, which repre- 
sents the interpreters as meeting in one house, forming 
one council, conferring together, and agreeing on the 
sense (see Hody, lib. ii, c. vi). 

There are some, perhaps, who will deem this estimate 
of the Sept, too low ; who think that the use of this ver- 
sion in the New Test, stamps it with an authority above 
that of a mere translation. But, as the apostles and 
evangelists do not invariably cite the Old Test, accord- 
ing to this version, we are left to judge by the light of 
facts and evidence. Students of Holy Scripture, as well 
as students of the natural world, should bear in mind 
the maxim of Bacon, “ Sola spes est in vera iuductione.” 
IX.— M m 


VI. Penef ts to he Derived from the Study of the Sep- 
tuayint. — After all the notices of imperfection above 
given, it may seem strange to say, but we believe it to 
be the truth, that the student of Scripture can scarcely 
read a chapter without some benefit, especially if he be 
a student of Hebrew, and able, even in a very humble 
way, to compare the version with the original. 

1. We have seen above that the Sept, gives evidence 
of the character and condition of the Hebrew MSS. from 
which it was made with respect to vowel-points and the 
mode of writing. This evidence often renders very ma- 
terial help in the correction and establishment of the 
Hebrew text. Being made from MSS. far older than 
the Masoretic recension, the Sept, often indicates read- 
ings more ancient and more correct than those of our 
present Hebrew MSS. and editions, and often speaks de- 
cisively between the conflicting readings of the present 
MSS. The following are instances : 

Tsa. xxii, 17 (in the Sept, xxi, 10). The printed He- 
brew text is but several MSS. have a verb in 

the third person plural, : the Sept, steps in to de- 
cide the doubt, ojpv%ap \upcig pov icai 7T odag pov, con- 
firmed by Aqnila, yoyvvav. 

Psa. xvi, 10. The printed text is “p^Pon, in the 
plural; hut near two hundred MSS. have the singular, 
which is clearly confirmed by the evidence of 
the Sept., ovde dioaeig top o<ji6v <tov ibeip btatySopctp. 

In passages like these, which touch on the cardinal 
truths of the Gospel, it is of great importance to have 
the testimony of an unsuspected witness in the Sept, 
long before the controversy between Christians and 
Jews. 

In Ilosea vi, 5, the context clearly requires that the 
first person should be maintained throughout the verse; 
the Sept, corrects the present Hebrew text, without a 
change except in the position of one letter, to Kpipa 
pov utg <pd)Q l^sXsvaeTai, rendering unnecessary the ad- 
dition of words in italics in our English version. 

Other examples might be given, but we must content 
ourselves with one signal instance of a clause omitted in 
the Hebrew (probably by what is called opoioriXEvror) 
and preserved in the Sept. In Gen. iv, 8 is a passage 
which in the Hebrew and in our English version is evi- 
dently incomplete: “And Cain talked with 

Abel his brother; and it came to pass when they were 
in the field,” etc. Here the Hebrew word “I’CNP is 
the word constantly used as the introduction to words 
spoken, “Cain said unto Abel but, as the text stands, 
there are no words spoken, and the following words 
“. . . when they were in the f eld" come in abruptly. 
The Sept, fills up the lacuna Ilebraomm eodicum 
(Pearson), kc ri thre K aiv wpbg ’ Aj3iX top ctftXipbp 
avTOv, diiXSanpep elg to 7 rtdiov (=iTT$n ircbD). 
The Samaritan Pentateuch and the Syriac version agree 
with the Sept., and the passage is thus cited by Clemens 
Komanus (Bp. i, 4). The Hebrew transcriber’s eye was 
probably misled by the word fnb terminating both the 
clauses. 

In all the foregoing cases we do not attribute any 
paramount authority to the Sept, on account of its su- 
perior antiquity to the extant Hebrew MSS., but we 
take it as an evidence of a more ancient Hebrew text, 
as an eye-witness of the texts, 280 or 180 years B.C. 
The decision as to any particular reading must be made 
by weighing this evidence, together with that of other 
ancient versions, with t he arguments from the context, 
the rules of grammar'’, the genius of the language, and 
the comparison of parallel passages. Thus the He- 
brew will sometimes correct the Greek, ami sometimes 
the Greek the Hebrew; both liable to err through the 
infirmity of human eyes and hands, but each checking 
the other’s errors. 

2. The close connection hetween the Old and the 
New Test, makes the study of the !Sept. extremely 


SEPTUAGIXT 


546 SEPTUAGINT 


valuable, ami almost indispensable to the theological 
student. Pearson quotes from Iremeus and Jerome as 
to the citation of the words of prophecy from the Sept. 
The former, as Pearson observes, speaks too universal- 
ly when he says that the apostles “prophetica omnia 
ita enuneiaverunt quemadmodum Seniorum interpre- 
tatio eontinet.” Ilut it was manifestly the chief store- 
house from which they drew their proofs and precepts. 
Griutiekl says that “ the number of direct quotations 
from the Old Test, in the Gospels, Acts, and Epistles 
may be estimated at 350, of which not more than fifty 
materially differ from the Sept. But the indirect ver- 
bal allusions would swell the number to a far greater 
amount” (Apol.for LXX, p. 37). The comparison of 
the citations with the Sept, is much facilitated by 
Grinfield’s Editio Htllmistica of the New Test., and 
by Gough’s Xew Test. Quotations, in which the He- 
brew and Greek passages of the Old Test, are placed 
side by side with the citations in the New. (On this 
subject see Hod}’, p. 248, 281; Kenuicott, Dissert. Gen. 
§ 84 ; Cappelli Critica Sacra, vol. ii.) 

3. Further, the language of the Sept, is the mould 
in which the thoughts and expressions of the apostles 
and evangelists are cast. In this version Divine Truth 
has taken the Greek language as its shrine, and adapt- 
ed it to the things of God. Here the peculiar idioms 
of the Hebrew are grafted upon the stock of the Greek 
tongue ; words and phrases take a new sense. The 
terms of the Mosaic ritual in the Greek version are 
employed by the apostles to express the great truths 
of the Gospel, e. g. dpxitptvg, Svaia, ocrpi) tuwcicig. 
Hence the Sept, is a treasury of illustration for the 
Greek Testament. Many examples are given by Pear- 
son ( Pnef. ad LXX ) , e. g. adp%, Trvtvpa, c hicaiou), 
tpporrjpa rtjg crap/cog, “Frustra apud veteres Grrecos 
quneras quid sit marttisiv rip &t<p, vel tig rbv 0£on, 
quid sit tig rbv k vpiov, vel rrpbg rbv Qsbv iriartg, 
qiue toties in Novo Foedere inculcautur, et ex lectione 
Seniorum facile intelliguntur.” Yalckenaer also (on 
Luke i , 51) speaks strongly on this subject: “Gr;e- 
cum Novi Testament! contextual rite intelleeturo nihil 
est utilius, quam diligenter versasse Alexandrinam An- 
tiqui Foederis interpretationem, e qua una plus peti 
poterit auxilii, quam ex veteribus scriptoribus Gneeis 
simul sumtis. Ceutena reperientur in N. T. misquam 
obvia in scriptis Gnceorum veterum, sed frequentata 
in Alex 3 , versione.” K. g. the sense of rb tt rt(T%a in 
Deut. xvi, 2, including the sacrifices of the Paschal 
week, throws light on the question as to the day 
on which our Lord kept his last Passover, arising out 
of the words in John xviii, 28, d\V i va (pciywai to 
tz d<j\a. 

4. The frequent citations of the Sept, by the Greek 
fathers, and of the Latin version of the Sept, by the fa- 
thers who wrote in Latin, form another strong reason for 
the study of the Sept. Pearson cites the appellation of 
Scarabceus bonus applied to Christ by Ambrose and Au- 
gustine, as explained by reference to the Sept, in Hab. 
ii, 11, KavSapog tK %v\ov. 

5. On the value of the Sept, as a monument of the 
Greek language in one of its most curious phases, this 
is not the place to dwell. Our business is with the use 
of this version as it bears on the criticism and interpre- 
tation of the Bible; and we may safely urge the theo- 
logical student who wishes to be “thoroughly furnished” 
to have always at his side the Sept. Let the Hebrew, 
if possible, be placed before him; and at his right, in 
the next place of honor, the Alexandrian version. The 
close and careful study of this version will be more 
profitable than the most learned inquiry into its origin; 
it will help him to a better knowledge both of the Old 
Test, and the New. 

VII. Objects to be Attained by the Critical Scholar . — 
1. Among these a question of much interest, suggested 
above, still waits for a solution. In many of the pas- 
sages which show a studied variation from the Hebrew 
(some of which are above noted), the Sept, and the Sa- 


maritan Peutateuch agree — e. g. Gen. ii, 2; Exod. xii, 
40. 

They also agree in many of the ages of the post-di- 
luvian patriarchs, adding one hundred years to the age 
at which the first son of each was born, according to 
the Hebrew (see Cappelli Critica Sacra, III, xx, 7). 
See Patihakch. 

They agree in the addition of the words biiXSnoptv 
tig to ntbiov (Gen. iv, 8), w hich many have seen reason 
to think rightly added. 

Various reasons have been conjectured for this agree- 
ment — translation into Greek from a Samaritan text, 
interpolation from the Samaritan into the Greek, or vice 
versa; but the question does not seem to have found a 
satisfactory answer (see § ii above). 

2. For the critical scholar it would be a worthy ob- 
ject of pursuit to ascertain as nearly as possible the 
original text of the Sept, as it stood in the time of the 
apostles and Philo. If this could be accomplished with 
any tolerable completeness, it would possess a strong in- 
terest, as being the first translation of any writing into 
another tongue, and the first repository of divine truth 
to the great colony of Hellenistic Jews at Alexan- 
dria. 

The critic would probably take as his basis the Bo- 
man edition from the Codex Vaticanus as representing 
most nearly the aneient (koivi)) texts. The collection 
of fragments of Origen’s I/exapla, by Montfaueon and 
others, would help him to eliminate the additions v r bich 
have been made to the Sept, from other sources, and to 
purge out the glosses and double renderings; the cita- 
tions in the New Test, and in Philo, in the early Chris- 
tian fathers, both Greek and Latin, would render assist- 
ance of the same kind ; and perhaps the most effective 
aid of all would be found in the fragments of the old 
Latin version collected by Sabbatier in 3 vols. fol. 
(Bheims, 1743). 

3. Another w’ork of more practical and general in- 
terest still remains to be done, viz. to provide a Greek 
version, accurate and faithful to the Hebrew original, 
for the use of the Greek Church, and of students read- 
ing the Scriptures in that language for purposes of 
devotion or mental improvement. Field’s edition is 
as yet the best of this kind. It originated in the de- 
sire to supply the Greek Church with such a faithful 
copy of the Scriptures; but as the editor has followed 
the text of the Alexandrian MS., only correcting, by 
the help of other MSS., the evident errors of transcrip- 
tion (e. g. in Gen. xv, 15, correcting rpatytig in the 
Alexandrian MS. to ra<ptig, the reading of the Com- 
plut. text), and as we have seen above that the Alex- 
andrian text is far from being the nearest to the He- 
brew', it is evident that a more faithful and complete 
copy of the Old Test, in Greek might yet be pro- 
vided. 

We may here remark, in conclusion, that such an 
edition might prepare the way for the correction of the 
blemishes which remain in our authorized English ver- 
sion. Embracing the results of the criticism of the last 
two hundred and fifty years, it might exhibit several 
passages in their original purity; and the corrections 
thus made, being approved by the judgment of the best 
scholars, v'ould probably, after a time, rind their way 
into the margin at least of our English Bibles. 

One example only can be here given, in a passage 
which has caused no small perplexity and loads of com- 
mentary. Isa. ix, 3 is thus rendered in the Sept.: To 
TrXtiarov tov Xa ov, o Karpyaytg iv tvtppoai’i’y aov * 
icai si'<ppavSi}<JOVTai ivibmbv c ov. tog oi tixppaivopt - 
i'oi ev dpi)T(p, icai on rpb ttov oi biaipovptvot <tkvXo. 
It is easy to see how the faulty rendering of the first 
part of this has arisen from the similarity of the He- 
brew letters n and H, *1 and “i, and from an aneient er- 
ror in the Hebrew’ text. The following translation re- 
stores the whole passage to its original clearness and 
force : 


SEPTUAGINT 


547 


SEPTUAGINT 


’E7rA» ( 3w«? t>}v uyaWtcMTiv 
ipL^yaXuva^ t rjv eu<})po<Ti’vt]v' 

tu<fjpuii/oi/Tai eviimiov trui' tiif oi el(ppaiv6fievot ti/ ajui-f-rw, 

01/ Tponov ayaWtivvTat o i diaipov/uLevoi ctkvAu. 

“Thou hast multiplied the gladuess, 

Thou hast increased the joy ; 

They rejoice before thee as with the joy of harvest, 

As men are glad when they divide the spoil.” 

Here ayaWiaoig and ayaMuorrm. in the first and 
fourth lines, correspond to and tvtppoouvij 

and tfypaivovTcn, in the second and third lines, to 
and •inpO. The fourfold introverted parallel- 
ism is complete, and the connection with the context 
of the prophecy perfect. 

It is scarcely necessary to remark that in such an 
edition the apocryphal additions to the book of Esther, 
and those to the book of Daniel, which are not recog- 
nised by the Hebrew canon, would be either omitted or 
(perhaps more properly, since they appear to have been 
incorporated with the Sept, at an early date) would 
be placed separately, as in Field’s edition and our 
English version. See Apocrypha; Canon; Daniel, 
Book of; Esther, Book of; Samaritan PENTA- 
TEUCH. 

VIII. Manuscripts and Early Critical Labors . — 1. 
The various readings given by Holmes and Parsons en- 
able us to jud'ge, in some measure, of the character 
of the several MSS. and of the degree of their accord- 
ance with the Hebrew text. INI any other MSS., chiefly 
fragments, have since been brought to light by Tisch- 
endorf, and most of them have been published in his 
Monum. Sacra Inecl. They are distinguished thus by 
Holmes: the uncial by Homan numerals, the cursive by 
Arabic figures. Among them may be specially noted, 
with their probable dates and estimates of value as given 


by Holmes in his preface to the Pentateuch: Probable 

date. 

Uncial. Century. 

[Sinaiticus. Royal Library, St. Petersburg] 4 

I. Cotton i an cs. Brit. Mils, (fragments) 4 

11. Vatican cs. Vat. Library, Home 4 

III. Ai.exaniuunus. Brit. Mus 5 

VI 1. Ambrosianus. Ambros. Lib., Milan 7 

X. Coisliniancs. Bibl. Nat., Paris 7 

Cursive. 

16. Medicens. Med. Lanrentian Lib., Florence 11 

19. Chiginuus. Similar to Complut. text and 10S, 

11S 10 

25. Monachiensis. Muuich 10 

5S. Vaticanus (No. x). Vat. Lib., similar to 72 13 

59. Glasgnensis 12 

Gl. Bodleianus. Laud. 30, notse optinne 12 

64. Parisieusis (11). National Library 10 or 11 

72. Venetus. Maximi faciendus 13 

75. Oxoniensis. Uuiv. Coll 12 

S4. Vaticanus (1901), notse optima 11 

Ferrarienses. These two agree 

1 US. (Vaticanus (3301. ) Similar to Complnt. (14 

11S. (Parisieusis. Nat. Lib./ text and (19) (13 


The texts of these MSS. differ considerably from each 
other, and consequently differ in various degrees from 
the Hebrew original (see Grabe, De Yariis Yitiis LX X, 
etc. [Oxf. 1710]). 

The following are the results of a comparison of the 
readings in the first eight chapters of Exodus: 

(1.) Several of the MSS. agree well with the Hebrew ; 
others differ very much. 

(2.) The chief variance from the Hebrew is in the 
addition, or omission, of words and clauses. 

(8.) Taking the Homan text as the basis, there are 
found eighty places («) where some of the MSS. differ 
from the Homan text, either by addition or omission, in 
agreement with the Hebrew; twenty-six places (/3) where 
differences of the same kind are not in agreement with 
the Hebrew. There is therefore a large balance against 
the Homan text in point of accordance with the He- 
brew. 

(4.) Those MSS. which have the largest number of 
differences of class («) have the smallest number of class 
(fi). There is evidently some strong reason for this 
close accordance with the Hebrew in these MSS. 


(5.) The divergence between the extreme points of 
the series of MSS. may be estimated from the following 
statement : 

72 differs from the Roman ( iu 40 places, with Hebrew, 
text j iu 4 “ against “ 

59 « u | iu 40 “ with “ 

( iu 9 “ against “ 

Between these and the Homan text lie many shades of 
variety. The Alexandrine text falls about half-way be- 
tween the two extremes: 

Differing from Roman text ^ places, with Hebrew. 

(m 10 “ against “ 

The diagram below, drawn on a scale representing 
the comparison thus instituted (by the test of agreement 
with the Hebrew in respect of additions or omissions), 
may help to bring these results more clearly into view. 
The base-line R. T. represents the Roman text. 

E-J — — — — — — — — — — 72. Venetus. 

— — — — — — — — — 59. Glasgnensis. 

— — — — — — — 5S. Vaticanus (No. x). 

— — — — — — X. Coisi.inianus. 

— — — — — — 16. Medieeus. 

— — — — — — VII. Ambrosianfs. 

— — — — Ed. Compluteusis Codd. 19, 10S, 118. 

— — III. Ai.exankrinfs. 

. — — 84. Vaticanus (1901). 

S _ Edit. Aldiua. 

The above can only be taken as an approximation, the 
range of comparison being limited. A more extended 
comparison might enable us to discriminate the several 
MSS. more accurately, but the result would perhaps 
hardly repay the labor. 

2. But whence these varieties of text? Was the ver- 
sion at first more in accordance with the Hebrew, as in 
(72) and (59), and did it afterwards degenerate into the 
less accurate state of the Codex Vaticanus? Or was 
the version at first less accurate, like the Vatican text, 
and afterwards brought, by critical labors, into the more 
accurate form of the MSS. which stand highest in the 
scale ? 

History supplies the answer. Jerome ( Ep . ad Su - 
niam et Ereielam, ii, G27) speaks of two copies, one older 
and less accurate, Kotin), fragments of which are believed 
to be represented by the still extant remains of the old 
Latin version; the other more faithful to the Hebrew, 
which he took as the basis of his own new Latin ver- 
sion. In another place {Prof at. in Puralip. vol. i, col. 
1022) he speaks of the corruption of the ancient trans- 
lation, and the great variety of copies used in different 
countries: 

“Cam germana ilia antiquaqne trauslatio corrupt a sit. 
. . . Alexandria et yEgyptus in Sept, suis Hesyehiuni 
laudaut auetorem ; Conetantinopolis usque Antioehinm 
Lucian i Marty vis exemplaria probat; mediae inter has 
provincise Palrestiuos codices iegunt : quos ah Origene 
elaborates Eusebius et Pamphilus vnlgaverunt: totusque 
orbis hac inter se coutraria varietate compngnat.” 

The labors of Origen, designed to remedy the conflict 
of discordant copies, are best described in his own words 
(Comment, in Matt, i, 381, cd. Iluet.) : 

“Now there is plainly a great difference in the copies, 
either from the carelessness of scribes, or the rash and 
mischievous correction of the text by others, or from the 
additions or omissions made by others at their own dis- 
cretion. This discrepance iu the copies of the Old Cove- 
nant we have found means to remedy, by the help of God, 
using as our criterion the other versions. In all passages 
of the Sept, rendered doubtful by the discordance of the 
copies, forming a judgment from the other versions, we 
have preserved what agreed with them; and some words 
we have marked with an ohelos as not found in the He- 
brew, not venturing to omit ihem entirely; and some we 
have added with asterisks affixed, to show that they aie 
not found in the Sept., but added by us from the other 
versions, in accordance with the Hebrew.” 

The other tK^oaetc, or versions, are those of Aquila, 
Theodotion, and Svmmachus. Origen (Comm. in Joann. 
ii, 131, od. Ilnet.) says, “The same errors in names 
may frequently be observed in the law and the proph- 
ets, as wc have learned by diligent inquiry of the He- 
brews, and by comparing our copies with their copies, 
as represented in the still uncorruptcd versions of Aqui- 
la, Theodotion, and Svmmachus.” 


SEPTUAGINT 


548 


SEPTUAGINT 


It appears from these and other passages that Ori- 
gen, finding great discordance in the several copies of 
the Sept., laid this version side by side with the other 
three translations, and, taking their accordance with each 
other as the test of their agreement with the Hebrew , 
marked the copy of the Sept, with an obelos , -4-, where 
he found superfluous words, and supplied the deficiencies 
of the Sept, by words taken from the other versions 
with an asterisk, *, prefixed. The additions to the Sept, 
were chiefly made from Theodotion (Jerome, Prolog . in 
Genesin, vol. i; see also Pnef in Job, p. 795). From 
Eusebius, as quoted below, we learn that this work of 
Origen was called Ttrpa 7r\a, the fourfold Bible . The 
following specimen is given by Moutfaucon: 


Geu.i, 1. 


AKTAAS. 

STMMAXOS. 

Ol 0. 

1 9ROAOTION. 

ev KctpiiAaito 
eKTtaev n 

0eo9 aw tov 
ovpavov Kat 
aw Ti]v 7 To/. 

iv tipxjj t 
eKTtaev 6 

0eoc tov 
ovpavov Kai 
tIjv 7 i,v. 

6V upxfj 
e 7 roirjaev 

6 Geo p tov 
ovpavov Kai 
Tt]v 7^1'. 

ev a pxrj t 

%KTiaev 6 

0eo9 tov 
ovpavov Kai 
tt]V inv. 


But this was only the earlier and the smaller portion 
of Origen’s labors: he rested not till he had acquired 
the knowledge of Hebrew, and compared the Sept, di- 
rectly with the Hebrew copies. Eusebius (Hist. Eccl. 
vi, 16, p. 217, ed. Vales.) thus describes the laboro which 
led to the greater work, the Ilexapla ; the last clause of 
the passage refers to the Tetrapla : 

“So careful was Origeu’s investigation of the sacred 
oracles that he learned the Hebrew tongue, and made 
himself master of the original Scriptures received among 
the Jews in the Hebrew letters ; and reviewed the versions 
of the other interpreters of the Sacred Scriptures, besides 
the Sept. ; and discovered some translations varying from 
the well-known versions of Aquila, Symmachus, and The- 
odotion, which he searched one, and brought to light from 
their long concealment in neglected corners; . . . and in 
his Hexapla , after the four principal versions of the Psalms, 
added a fifth, yea, a sixth and seventh translation, stating 
that one of these was found in a cask at Jericho, in the 
time of Antoninus, son of Severus: and bringing these all 
iuto one view, and dividing them in columns over against 
one another, together with the Hebrew' text, he left to us 
the work called Hexapla ; having arranged separately, in 
the Tetrajila, the versions of Aquila, Symmachus. and The- 
odotion, together with the version of the Seventy.” 

So Jerome (in Catal. Script . Eccl. vol. iv, pt. ii, p. 11G) : 

“Quis ignorat, quod tantnm in Scripturis divinis habu- 
erit studii, ut etiam hebrream linguam contra aetatis gen- 
tisque sure natnram edisceret : et acceptis LXX interpreti- 
bus, alias qtioqne editionea in nnum volnmen congregaret: 
Aquilre scilicet Pontici proselyti, et Theodotionis Ebionrei, 
et Symmachi ejnsdem dogmatis. . . . Prreterea quintam 
et sextain et septimam editionem, quas etiam nos de ejns 
bibliotheca habemus, miro labore reperit, et cum creteris 
editionibus comparavit.” 

From another passage of Jerome (in Epist. ad Titum, 
vol. iv, pt. i, p. 437) we learn that in the Hexapla the 
Hebrew text was placed in one column in Hebrew let- 
ters, in the next column in Greek letters: 


(A., X., 0.), using them as bis criterion. If he had knowm 
Hebrew at this time, would he have confined himself to 
the Greek versions? Would he have appealed to the 
Hebrew, as represented by Aquila, etc.? It seems very 
evident that he must have learned Hebrew at a later 
time, and therefore that the Hexapla, w r hich rests on a 
comparison with the Hebrew, must have followed the 
Tetrapla, which was formed by the help of Greek ver- 
sions only. The words of Eusebius also {Hist. Eccl. vi, 
16) appear to distinguish very clearly between the Hex- 
apla and Tetrapla as separate w T orks, and to imply that 
the Tetrapla preceded the Hexapla. The order of pre- 
cedence is not a mere literary question ; the view' above 
stated, w'hich is supported by Montfaucon, Usher, etc., 
strengthens the force of Origen’s example as a diligent 
student of Scripture, showing his increasing desire inte- 
gros accedere fontes. 

The labors of Origen, pursued through a long course 
of years, first in procuring by personal travel the mate- 
rials for his great w r ork, and then in comparing and ar- 
ranging them, made him worthy of the name Adaman- 
tius. But what was the result of all this toil? Where 
is now his great w r ork, the Hexapla, prepared with so 
much care, and written by so many skilful hands? Too 
large for transcription, too early by centuries for print- 
ing (which alone could have saved it), it ivas destined 
to a short existence. It was brought from Tyre and 
laid up in the library at Caesarea, and there probably 
perished by the flames, A.D. 653. One copy, however, 
had been made, by Pamphilus and Eusebius, of the col- 
umn containing the corrected text of the Sept., with 
Origen’s asterisks and obeli, and the letters denoting 
from which of the other translators each addition was 
taken. This copy is probably' the ancestor of those 
codices which now approach most nearly to the Hebrew', 
and are entitled Hexaplar; but in the course of tran- 
scription the distinguishing marks have disappeared or 
become confused; and we have thus a text composed 
partly' of the old Sept, text, partly’ of insertions from 
the three other chief Greek versions, especially that of 
Theodotion. 

The facts above related agree well with the phenom- 
ena of the MSS. before stated. As wre have codices de- 
rived from the Hexaplar text (e. g. 72, 59, 58), and at 
the other extreme the Codex Vaticanus (II), probably 
representing nearly' the ancient nncorrected text, Konn ) ; 
so between these we find texts of intermediate charac- 
ter in the Codex Alexandrinus (III), and others, w'hich 
may' perhaps be derived from the text of the Tetrapla. 

To these main sources of our existing MSS. must be 
added the recensions of the Sept, mentioned by Jerome 
and others, viz. those of Lucian of Antioch and Ilcsych- 
ius of Egy'pt, not long after the time of Origen. We 
have seen above that each of these had a wide range — 
that of Lucian (supposed to be corrected by' the He- 
brew) in the churches from Constantinople to Antioch ; 


Hexapla (Hos. xi, 1). 


To BBPAIKON. 

To EBP, 

EAAHNIKOIS TP. 

AKTAAS. 

XTMMAXOS. 

o; o. 

9E0A0TIQN. 

imr-iai 

Xt vep laparjA 

ovea/3t)ov 

ovpepeapatp 

KapaSt Aefiavi. 

oti 7 rat? IaparjX, 

sat t}ya7rt)oa avTOV, 

sat a7ro Ai^vtttov 

e KaAeaa tov vtov pov. 

oti 7rai9 IcpatiA 

Kat nyant]pevoi 

Cf At^VTTTOV 

KexXrjrai vtov pov. 

oti i/rj 7 rio? I<rpa»]X 

Kai € 70 ) »i 7 a 7 r»icra av- 

tov Kat ef AtyV7TTOV 

KeK\t]Tat VI 09 pov. 

oti v»j 7 rio 9 I<rpa»iA 

Kat »J7a7rr)(ra avTov 

Kai eKaAeaa vtov 

pov 6? AlfVTTTOV. 


It should here be mentioned that some take the Tet- 
rapla as denoting, not a separate work, but only that 
portion of the Hexapla which contains the four columns 
filled by the four principal Greek versions. Valesius 
{Notes on Eusebius, p. 106) thinks that the Tetrapla 
was formed by taking those four columns out of the 
Hexapla, and making them into a separate book. But 
the testimony of Origen himself (i,381; ii, 131), above 
cited, is clear that he formed one corrected text of the 
Sept, by' comparison of the three other Greek versions 


that of Hesycbius in Alexandria and Egy'pt; while the 
churches lying between these tw r o regions used the Hex- 
aplar text copied by' Eusebius and Pamphilus (Jerome, 
vol. i, col. 1022). The great variety of text in the ex- 
isting MSS. is thus accounted for by' the variety of 
sources from which they' have descended. 

IX. Modern Editions. — 1. This version appears at 
the present day' in five pi'incipal editions: 

1. Biblia Polyglotta Complntensis (1514-17). 

2. The Aldiue edition (Venice, 151S). 


SEPTUAGINT 


549 


SEPTUAGINT 


3. The Roman edition, edited under pope Sixtus V (15S7). 

4. Fac-simile edition of the Codex Alexandrinus, by Ba- 
ber (1816). 

5. Fac-simile edition of the Codex Sinaiticus, by Tischen- 
dorf (St. Petersburg, 1S62, 4 vols. fol.). 

The texts of (1) and (2) were probably formed by 
collation of several MSS. The Roman edition (3) is 
printed from the venerable Codex Vaticamis, but not 
without many errors. This text has been followed in 
most of the modern editions. A trauscript of the Co- 
dex Vaticanus, prepared by cardinal Mai, was lately 
published at Rome by Yercelloni. It is much to be 
regretted that this edition is not so accurate as to pre- 
clude the necessity of consulting the MS. The text of 
the codex, and the parts added by a later hand, to com- 
plete the codex (among them nearly all of Genesis), are 
printed in the same Greek type, with distinguishing 
notes. The fac-simile edition by Baber (4) is print- 
ed with types made after the form of the letters in 
the Codex Alexandrians (British Museum Library) 
for the fac-simile edition of the New Test, by Woide 
in 1786. Great care was bestowed upon the sheets as 
they passed through the press. The Codex Sinaiticus 
(5) was published in fac-simile type at the expense of 
the emperor of Russia, and a very limited edition was 
printed. See Sin ait ic MS. 

2. Other important editions are the following: The 
Septuagint in Walton’s Polyglot (1657) is the Roman 
text, with the various readings of the Codex Alexandri- 
nus. The Cambridge edition (1665) (Roman text) is 
only valuable for the preface by Pearson. An edition 
of the Codex Alexandrinus was published by Grabe 
(Oxford; 1707-20), but its critical value is far below 
that of Baber’s. It is printed in common type, and the 
editor has exercised his judgment on the text, putting 
some words of the codex in the margin, and replacing 
them by what he thought better readings, distinguished 
by a smaller type. This edition was reproduced by 
Breitinger (Zurich, 1730-32,4 vols. 4to), with the vari- 
ous readings of the Vatican text. The edition of Bos 
(Franeq. 1709) follows the Roman text, with its scholia, 
and the various readings given in Walton’s Polyglot, 
especially those of the Codex Alexandrinus. This has 
often been reprinted, and is now the commonest text. 
The valuable critical edition of Holmes, continued by 
Parsons, is similar in plan to the Hebrew Bible of Ken- 
nicott; it has the Roman text, with a large body of 
various readings from numerous MSS. and editions (Ox- 
ford, 1798-1827). The Oxford edition by Gaisford 
(1848) has the Roman text, with the various readings 
of the Codex Alexandrinus below. Tischendorf’s edi- 
tions (the 5th, 1875) are on the same plan ; he has 
added readings from some other MSS. discovered by 
himself, with very useful Prolegomena. Some con- 
venient editions have been published by Bagster, one 
in 8vo, others of smaller size, forming part of his 
Polyglot series of Bibles. 1 1 is text is the Roman. 
The latest edition, by Field (1859), differs from any 
of the preceding. He takes as his basis the Codex 
Alexandrinus, but corrects all the manifest errors of 
transcription by the help of other MSS., and brings 
the dislocated portions of the Septuagiut into agree- 
ment with the order of the Hebrew Bible. The 
text in Stier and Thiele’s Polyglotten Bibel (Bielefield, 
1854) is revised arbitrarily, and without the aid of 
the Codex Sinaiticus. Scrivener has promised a new 
critical edition. 

3. Editions of particular bools, more or less critically 
prepared, have occasionally been issued : Genesis, by 
Lagarde (Lips. 1868); Esther, by Fritzsche (Turici, 
1848); Ruth, by the same (ibid. 1867); Jeremiah, by 
Spohn (Lips. 1794-1828) ; Ezekiel, by Vincent (Rom. 
1840); Jonah, by llohner (Lips. 1787-88). The genu- 
ine text of Daniel (which was long supposed to he lost, 
the translation of Theodotion having been substituted 
for it in the common MSS.) was first published sepa- 
rately by Simon dc Magistris in 1772, from the Codex 
Chigianus; and it was reprinted by J. D. Michaelis 


(1773-74), Segaar (1775), and more critically by Hahn 
(1845), from the Codex Ambrosianus. 

The best Lexicon to the Septuagint is that of 
Schleusner, published at Leipsic (1820-21, 5 pts.), and 
reprinted at Glasgow (1822, 3 vols. 8vo). An earlier 
one is that of Biel (Ilag. 1779-80, 3 vols.). The best 
for the Apocrypha is Wahl’s Claris (Lips. 1863). The 
best Concordance is that of Trommius (Amst. 1718,2 
vols. fol.). An earlier one is that of Kircher (1607). 
Winer’s X. T. Grammar serves an excellent purpose 
for philological comparison. The student may also 
consult Sturz, L)e Dialecto Macedonian (Lips. 1808); 
Malt by, Two Sermons before the University of Durham 
(1843). See Greek Language. 

X. Literature. — In additiou to the works named by 
Walch, Bibl. Tlieol. iv, 31 sq., 156 sq. ; RosenmVdler, 
Ilandb. d. Liter atur, ii, 279 sq. ; and Danz, Worterb. d. 
Theol. s. v. “Alex. Vers.,” the following are important : 
Cappelli Critica Sacra (Par. 1650); Waltoni Proletj . 
ad Bibl. Polyglott. (Lond. 1657); Pearsoni [Bp.] Prcrf. 
Panenetica ad LXX (ibid. 1655); Vossius, De LX X 
Tnterp. (Hag. 1661 ; app. 1663); Montfaucon, llexaplo- 
rum Oriyenis quee Supersunt (Par. 1710; Lips. 1740); 
Body, I)e Bibl. Text. Original. 1 Trs. Gratis, et Latina 
) ” ulfjatu (Oxf. 1704) ; Iiottinger, Thesaurus (Zur. 1649) ; 
Owen, Inquiry into the Sept. (Lond. 1769) ; Brief Ac- 
count, etc. (ibid. 1787) ; Kcnnicott, Dissertationes to his 
Vet. Test. (Oxon. 1776-80) ; Worncr, De LXX Interpre- 
tibus ( Ilamb. 1617, 8vo) ; Knapp, De Yersione Alex. 
(Hal. 1775-76, 4to) ; Hasenkamp, De Pentat. LXX Jn- 
terp. (Mark 1765, 4to); Stroth, Sytnbolce Critica (Lips. 
1778-83); Sulzner, De LXX Diterp. ( Hal. 1700, 4to) ; 
Weyhenmever, De Yersione LXX (Ulm. 1719, 4to); 
Reineke, De Dissensu Vers. Alex£ ah Archetypo (Magd. 
1771, 4to) ; Holmes, Proleyy. ad LXX (Oxf. 1798-1827) ; 
Valckenaer, IHatribe de Aristobulo Judceo (L. B. 1806); 
Schleusner, Opuse. Crit.ad Verss. Gr. V. T. (Lips. 1812); 
Dahne, ./ iidisch-alexandriuische Philosophic (Hal. 1831— 
34); Topler, lie Pentat. Int erp. Alex. Indole Crit.et ller- 
nien. (Hal. Sax. 1830); Gfrdrer, Urchristenthnm (Stnttg. 
1831, 8vo); Fabricii Bibliotheca Sacra, ed. Harless, vol. 
iii ; Studer, De Yersionis Alexandrines Origins, Bistoria, 
Usu, et Abusu Critico (Berme, 1823, 8 vo); Credner, Bei - 
trage zur Einleitung, etc. (Halle, 1838, 2 vols. 8vo); 
Amersfoordt, Dissert atio de Yariis Lectionibus Uolmesia - 
nis (Lugd. Bat. 1815, 4to); Pluschke, Lectiones Alex, et 
llebr. (Bonn, 1837) ; Thiersch, De Pent. Vers. Alex. (Er- 
lang. 1841); Frankel, Vorstudien zu der Septuaginta 
(Leips. 1841); Ueber den Einfluss der paldstiuischen 
Exegese auf die alex. llermeneutik (ibid. 1851) ; Grin- 
field, X. T. Editio flellenistica (ibid. 1848), and Apology 
for the Septuagint (ibid. 1850) ; Selwyn, Xotce Critica 
in Ex. i-xxiv, Xumeros, Deuteronomium (ibid. 1856-58) ; 
also //or. llebr. on Isa. ix (ibid. 1848): Churton, llul- 
sean Essay (ibid. 1861); Pearson [G.], Papers, in the 
Journal of Sacred Lit. i, iv, vii, 3d series. 

SEPTUAGINT, Linguistic Character of the. 
The language of the Sept., from its close connection 
with that of the New Test., has been a fruitful source 
of discussion, and various theories on the subject have 
been maintained with considerable vehemence. Thus 
Isaac Vossius maintained that the Alexandrian Jews 
were studious of Attic Greek. Scaliger used the phrase 
“Hellenistic tongue;” Salmasius contended for a “Hel- 
lenistic Greek,” and maintained that the diction or style 
of the Sept, was not a form of Greek which had its 
origin in Alexandria, or in other parts where the 
Macedonian rule had prevailed, but that it was the 
style of translators, or of authors whose acquaintance 
with the language was imperfect. It was the Greek 
of the unlearned, and therefore Xuotikoq, or unpol- 
ished; it was used to interpret Hebrew ideas and 
phrases, and thus it was ippgviVTiKoq, or the lan- 
guage of interpreters. R. Simon used the term “syna- 
gogue Greek” to express a style of Greek wdiich was so 
full of Hebrew words and Hebraisms as to be scarcely 
intelligible to readers who had no knowledge of He- 


SEPTUAGINT 


550 


SEPTUAGINT 


brew or Chaldee. lie illustrates this by the Spanish 
Jews’ translation of the Bible into the Spanish tongue, 
which can be understood only by those who have some 
knowledge of Hebrew as well as Spanish. Later critics 
have, however, admitted the existence of an Alexan- 
drian dialect, from which the Sept, has derived some of 
its features, though these are not its most prominent 
characteristics. Thus Ilody, quoting Crocus, says: 
“The Creek translators of the Scriptures are to be 
described as Hebraists, Chaldaists, and Alexandras. 
Their version is full of Hebrew, Chaldee, and Alexandri- 
an word's and phrases. They render word for word, and 
often where a passage is thus translated, the words are 
Creek, but the Hebrew construction is retained” ( I)e 
Bill. Text . Orifj. II, iv, 23). 

As the text from which the Alexandrian version was 
made did not have the vowel-points, it would be very 
interesting to know how the translators pronounced the 
Hebrew, and the more so since some critics who delight 
in hunting after various readings would make the Sept, 
the standard for the Hebrew text. But here we are at 
a loss, and all that we know we can only make out from 
the version itself. Commencing with the alphabet , the 
pronunciation of the letters is given to us in the Lamen- 
tations of Jeremiah, where the verses are arranged al- 
phabetically. The letters of the alphabet, thus com- 
mencing the different verses, are expressed fully, as the 
following scheme will show : 


X ="A \e<p. 

b =Aaptd. 

2 = B,)3. 

33 =31 ))p. 

3 = ri/tfX. 

3=Noof. 

1 =AdXe3'. 

D = 2o/ itsy. 

1=*H. 

2= Ah/. 

1 =Ovav. 

2 = <!>/). 

7 =ZaiV. 

32 =T (radt). 

1 — 'H3. 

p = Kit np. 

a 

II 

H 

% 


i=Tw^. 

23 =X(Tti/. 

■©- 

X 

II 

n 

T\ = ()av. 


That 1 and 1 were pronounced wav and tav we may 
infer from the fact that v is always equivalent to the 
Hebrew 1, thus ilb = Asvi. From the version itself we 
see that the letters had the following pronunciation : 

X, in itself inaudible (like the Greek spin'tm lenis ), re- 
ceives its intonation from the vowel, as ",11X, 'Aap<m-; 
13p5X, ’EXkcivu. Sometimes it has the ftpiritus asper, as 
£ll£X, 'Afipaup ; irrbs, 'HXiaq ta ,lbx (Judg. ix, 37), 
'HX<*ii\ 

2 is /?, sometimes <p : 2X7“2pi (Judg. vii, 25), ’lafce/3- 
also v, 21H (Josh, xix, 30), M’auu. Sometimes 2 is 
expressed by p/3, as 123, N op/3a; 522117, 7.epovp/3a/3i\ : 
or by p alone, as 132^, Aepvd; £232V (1 Cbron. vii, 2), 

’leuacdv. 

5 is 7, sometimes k, as 3123, s a <pU\ 3X11, Aw^k : also X , 
as 51123, Sepoi>x. 

1 is <3, but also 3-, as 1!££ (Gen. xxxvi, 39), Marpate. 

1 is, like X, either inaudible, as 521, ’A/3e\ ; or it has 
the spiriUis asper , as "|*3 n 1, Atpdv. 

*1 is k, 111 = "Eva, *’1^ = Aei »/. Sometimes it is 0, as 
1123, Su/30 (Gen. xiv, 5), and 5 *1113 (xxxviii, 12), s«/3d. 
Sometimes it is not expressed at all, as 1123% ’a<tti ; 13 231 
(1 Chron. vi, 13), Zan. 

7 is C, seldom a as 72^ X, ’EX.^ds (Gen. xxxvi ; but 1 
Chron. i, ’e At<pd£); very seldom f, as 712 (Gen. xxii, 21), 
Bai'f. 

n is inaudible at the beginning, middle, and end of a 
word. Often it is x , On, Xdp ; "Vina, Na X t/»p ; sometimes k. 
as 1273 (Gen xxii, 24), 


2 is t, seldom 6, as 2121 (Gen. x, 6 ; 1 Chron. i, S), 4»ot'd; 
or S, as £^2i5X (2 Sain, v, 16; 1 Chron. xiv, 5), ’EX«^a- 
Xd3\ 

1 is 1, as 2P2"', '\aKw(3 ; but it is also I when followed by 
23 11, as *irp£“p, 'lepepias. 

2 is x , sometimes k, as X2P20 (Gen. x, 7), 2u/3aSai<d; 
seldom 7, as £11*122 (ver. 14), ratySupeip. 

1 3 b are X v p. 

£ is p , but sometimes (3 , as 111123, Na/3pd>5; {15223 (1 
Chron. i, 47), Ze/3Ad. 

23 23 O are a. 

2* is inaudible, as , ]*H22, ’E0pwi/; or with the spiritus 
asper, as 1232, 'Haul> : it is also 7, as 111£5\ rd poppa ; or 
k (at the end of the word), as S‘21X (Gen. xxiii, 2), ’a p/36k. 

2 is </>, sometimes n, as 112532, SaX7radd. 

32 is <7, seldom £, as jlP (Geu. x, 23; xxii, 21), Ou£. 

p is k, sometimes x , as 111£p (Geu. xxv, 1), XeTroupd ; 
X21p1 (Neh. vii, 53), 'Ax«P<t : seldom 7, as pbl (Numb, 
xxvi, 30), XeXfc'7. 

P is Sr, sometimes t, as 231131, To X o?; IPS, Tarep. 

A greater difficulty we have in fixing the pronuncia- 
tion according to our vowel-points , but in general the 
following rules may be laid down : 

Kamets is u, as £1X, ’Ahdp\ £1, X«>. Pattach (_) 

is a, US *jl1X> Auptvv. 

Tsere ( ) = n : 123X, ’A a/;p ; ^X123i, 'lapafjA. Segol (_)= 
e, as qb*2i£X, ’A fiipeAtx- 

Cholevi (i) = to: £p3*i, 'lanw/3 ; “OV, ’I (aafjtp. Kamets 
chatuph ( ) = o, as “155, FoX.dS-. 

Long chirek (“' ) = » or e. : £i*332, \\vapip, - pelp ; li££, 
Mu X ip. -elp. Short chirek (.) = 1 or i», the latter very seldom : 
D'P.2352, <tvAt<TTeip ; "(1233 23, h’petov. 

Shurek (1) = ov : lib, AovS; D12 1 ] 1 , 'lefiovs. Kihbuts { ) 
= 0 : -'pa. BoKKt; 11221, "leQovvr]. 

This may be regarded as a most general outline for the 
vowels; for a closer examination, upon which we cannot 
here enter, will show that these principles are not al- 
ways carried out. As to Sheva , its pronunciation is gov- 
erned by the following vowel; thus “122 is d>oyo)p; 
znni, 'PorS/3 ; £1312322, <S>v\i<yrip ; ni'J2'j, Sa^ar/a ; 
X2P22, SafiaSraKa. This vocalization exercises also 
its influence upon the vowel preceding the Sheva; thus 
£2^2 is Ba\aap ; £23221 = Nafiaffap, etc. 

Bagesh lene is not expressed in the Sept., but the da- 
geslt forte usually is, as Jlb^E, SsXXa ; H2332, Marad- 
at ] ; and it is also found, where the Hebrew text has no 
dagesh, as !lp£l = ‘P sfieiaca. Sometimes the dagesh 
forte of the Hebrew is not expressed at all, as £2*11, 
’Aaiop; 31150211 (Josh, xix, 18), XavaXtbS. 

With these preliminary remarks we have paved our 
way for the manner in which grammar has been used 
by the translators of the Sept,; but here the diffi- 
culty is greater still, for the translators, as can be 
seen from their mode of translating, had not the lan- 
guage, but the translation, of the Scripture in view, and 
this must account for many grammatical peculiarities 
which we find so often in the Alexandrian version. 
Thus e. g. the present is very often used for the perfect, 
especially in Xsyw and opau), as in Gen. xv, 2, lOXil 
£12 X,Xfy£t 'Afipaap ; xxxvii, 29, C]01i "pX {13.11, 
Koi ov\ bpqi T w(T))(j) , or the infinitive before a definite 
verb is expressed by a participle or a noun. The active 
is often exchanged for the passive, or vice versa, as (Gen. 
xii, 15) 123X1 1JTT1, Koi Eicn)yayor. Leaving aside 
all further remarks on these points as not exactly be- 
j longing to our object, we now come to the subject at is- 
I sue, as to the linguistic peculiarities. Here we notice — 


SEPT U AG IN T 


551 


SEPTUAGINT 


1. Unusual formations of words and verbs, viz. : 

afipa, a favorite slave, Exod. ii, 5. 

a<xM«* WT ‘C eil '» t° make a prisoner, Ezek. xii, 3. 

uttav, a thoru, 2 Kings xiv, 9. 

a\inpuv, sorrowful, Jer. x, 9. 

afitpu'^tc^aiy to put round about, Job xxix, 14. 

dptytaots, a garment, Job xxii, G. 

avaZepnATi&iv, to devote to destruction, Deut. xiii, 15. 

a7roKt< s >apoei', to strip the head of, Lev. x, G. 

unontpmuvv, to take up the fifth part, Gen. xli, 34. 

aa/3o\r\ , soot, Lam. iv, S. 

/3owt£eiv, to aceuniulate, Ruth ii, 14. 

•yXoMTcojco/ior, a chest, 2 Chron. xxiv, 8. 
ypvyapeiv, to watch, Neh. vii, 3. 

^iapTuv, to deceive, Numb, xxiii, 19. 

€K$e/uu, an edict, Estli. viii, 17. 

iKTutiiZe iv, to put on interest, Deut. xxiii, 10. 

enopus, a cutting, Lev. xix, 28. 

e^oKetv, to approve, Lev. xxvi, 41. 

SepuTTpov, a veil, Song of Sol. v, 7. 

Karaxwpt Ketv, to enter in a register, 1 Chron. xxvii, 24. 
\urpwv, a sewer, 2 Kings x, 27. 
paieipeiov, a kitchen, Ezek. xlvi, 23. 
juu 7 eipiaaa, a female cook, 1 Sam. viii, 13. 
paxponpepeveiv, to live long, Deut. v, 33. 

^xai/dibj, a coat of mail, 1 Sam. xvii,3S. 

7 rpa>TOTOKei'€u', to appoint as first-born, Deut. xxi, 16. 

TtpoiTOTOKia, the birthright, Gen. xxv, 32. 

pwf , a grape, Isa. lxv, S. 

oa/3/3uTi&iv, to rest, Exod. xvi, 30. 

maon, the corner of the head, Lev. xix, 27. 

cKeireivof, covered, Nell, iv, 13. 

<TKt)voTrt]fia, Feast of Tabernacles, Deut. xvi, 16. 
TeX«j«eti/,to complete, Deut. xxiii, 18. 

(pvXaKiaaa, a keeper, Song of Sol. i, G. 

2. New meanings of words : 

dyx<o-Tei5o>, to redeem, Ezra ii, G2. 
aZvTov, abominable, Lev. xix, 7. 
uitv ~ V7 ro, Gen. x) viii, 10. 

5ta<po)ietv, to be missing, Numb, xxxi, 49. 
pLerpid^etii, to be sick, Neh. ii, 2. 

3. .4 n abstract used collectively : 

aixM a ^ a><T<a * the captive, Ezek. xi, 25. 

Staa-Topi i, living here and there, Psa. cxlvii, 2. 
ffouStvapa, despised, Psa. xxii, 6. 
iepdrevjua, priesthood, Exod. xix, 6. 

4. Peculiar forms of words , as — 

dyaS'wTaror, Gen. xlvii, 6. 
dyuwwrepof, Jlldg. XV, 2. 
d7reKT<i7«aT€, Numb, xvi, 41. 
cip7ra, Lev. xix, 13. 
eiTTOta av, Psa. xxxiv, 25. 
eA3«TO>, Estli. V, 4. 
e7rpot'Gjuei'<ra/iei', Dent, iii, 7. 
e<^« 7 o<j-av, Psa. lxxvii, 29. 

€(pvyav, 2 Sain. X, 14, 
twpaKav, Dent, xi, 7. 

^X3ro<ra»/, Psa. lxxviii, 1. 

't&otaav, Job xxi, 20. 

’ibooavy Dent, vii, 19. 

Kappveiv, Isa. vi, 10. 

KaTe/7rai/Tep,Numb. XIV, 37.^ 

K€Kari]pavrai , Numb. XXii, G, 

KeKpdt-avTev, Exod. xxii, 23. 
x\ifiavos = Kpi/3uvoi, Geil. XV, 17. 
paxaipi 7 , Exod. XV, 9. 

7rape<7Tt)Kav, Isa. V, 29. 

7ro(i]«ra((rai’, Dent, i, 44. 
irpa^ijaerai, Ezek. xlviii, 14. 

< pa^ot’pe^a , Gen. iii, 2. 

5. Syntactic peculiarities , as — 
dS'todp u7ra, Ku3apo? and, Geil. viii. 
dpapriiveiv uno , Lev. V, 15. 
apapruveiv Iv, Lev. iv, 14. 
dpaprttvetv ^vai'Ti, Lev. iv, 2. 
apapnuvetv nept , Lev. v,.5. 
apaprtivetv nvi , Jlldg. xi, 27._ 
dvapvr]a^T)vai ti, Exod. xxiii, 13. 
tfe pX e<T - a ‘ T< > Exod. ix, 29.. 
kf;t\<t<TK€crSiti t ivt, Ezek. xvi, C3. 
eudoKeiV ti, Ecdes. ix, 7. 

KarapdaSrat Ttva, Geil. V, 29... 
otXTeipeiv and -rivor, Jer. xiii, 14. 
oinreipeiv tiimi, Psa. iv, 2. 

^ei5e<x3ai Tii'u, Job XVI, 5. 

<f>eide<r5ai tut, Job vii, 11. 

6. To these we may add : 

The construction of tpxea-2-at and similar verbs with the 
infinitive , as u 7 r?iA 3 e (jia^elv nai melv, Neh. viii, 12; Kurifiti 
Xoi'iracr^ai, Exod. ii, 5. 

The vocative is expressed by the article , as awadv pe 6 Geo? 
uou, Psa. iii, 7 


tic is used as a relative , as pdvov toTto to ipiinov . . , tv Ttvt 
xoi/irjJ>/aeTui, Exod. XXii, 27 ; Ktu rjfei tiVoc uvtov >j oikiu, 
Lev. xiv, 35. 

The relative is connected with edv, as ndv o-xeuoc dirTpiixi- 
vov etc a 6 flu ntcry an 6 tovtwv tvdov oca ewi' evSuv ij uKuSap- 
tu fffTai, Lev. Xi, 33; tv d^puj oil ittv t/c (net . . . xui d\}/opat 
oti euv »/, 1 Sam. xix, 3 ; uvjpainuv , . . T m ecu' rj Iv avTco juw- 
juoc. Lev. xxi, 17. ‘ 

The connection with tt- instead of e ic, as nopevaopai tv nv- 
Xaic <j.6ov , Isa. xxxviii, 10 ; u£e< tv npioei, Eccles. xii, 14. 

The connection of infinitives, as evpuv x“ptv tv d^uA/xotc 
aov t ah einypmviii pe, Kllth ii, 10 ; 7 t6Aic abri) e 77 ilc Tail xuTa- 
^Ji' 7 eu' pe exei, Gen. xix, 20 ; 117710 - 01 / al t ,ptpat lapui)\ tuv 
anoSavtiv, xlvii, 29; eo-Tij Toil TiXTeu-, xxix, 35; t'jv uvtuiv Tit 
vTnlpxovTa 7r o A A ci tow aixetV dp a. XXXVi, 7 ; »j/i/3AiVS , uo'ar 01 
u<j>$a\poi avjov tuv opdv , XXvii, 1. 

7. Very prominent also are the Egyptian words which 
we find in the Sept., and which betray the origin of the 
translation. The following are the most remarkable: 

dAi) 3-eia, truth, the rendering of ( Thummim , or 

perfections), in Exod. xxviii, 26; Lev. viii, S; and Deut. 
xxxiii, S. According to ^Elian, uAijSeia was the name 
given to an image of sapphire stone, which was hung 
by a golden chain round the neck of the oldest and 
highest in rank of the Egyptian priests, who also held the 
office of judge. This was to denote the truth or justice 
with which he was to decide the cases which were brought 
before him. Hence it is supposed that the use of it for 
the Thummim of the high -priest was derived ; yet not 
without regard to the meaning of truth, as expressing the 
faithfulness and righteousness of God, 

The word "Attic ( J jns, the sacred hull of the Egyptians) 
occurs in Jer. xlvi [xxvi], 15: Aiuti Htpuyev . . . "Ann 6 po<r~ 
xoc 6 exAexToc aov (“ Why is Apis, thy chosen calf, fled ?”), 
where it is put as a paraphrase upon ‘“pY’-X, “thy val- 
iant ones,” in the prophecy of the desolation of Egypt by 
the armies of Nebuchadnezzar. 

dp-ritfin was a measure which is mentioned by Herodo- 
tus as being used in Egypt and Persia. It is put for the 
“homer” in Isa. v, 10,' and it also occurs in Dan. xiii, 3 
(History of Bel and the Dragon). 

axei, or axi, is an Egyptian word for the papyrus, or some 
other reed or growth of the marshes. It occurs both in 
the Hebrew ancl Sept, of Gen. xli, 2; Isa. xix, 7, 8 . It is 
also found in Ecclus. xl, 16. 

761 'eort, as applied to the “creation” of the world, was 
traced by Ilody to Egyptian philosophy. But it seems 
rather to he derived from the n*nbir\, or genealogical 
narratives, of which the first book of the Pentateuch is 
composed. 

£i'3r>c was a drink made from barley iu Egypt, mentioned 
by Herodotus and Diodorus Siculus. It is found iu the 
Sept, version of Isa. xix, 10 , where it seems that 
(strong drink) was read instead of “HIT (merchandise). 

3-i )pa is found in Psa. cxxxii, 16, “ I will abundantly bless 
her 2 )rovisionf Jerome said that it was an Egyptian word 
for corn; and Hesychins mentions « 3 i ip<i as a decoction 
of milk and corn employed by the Egyptians — perhaps 
the medicine athara of which Pliny speaks. The IIel>. 

is, however, reudered 3>)po (venison) in Gen. xxv and 
xxvii. 

Innodpopoi is used to denote a measurement of space iu 
Gen. xxxv, 19 ; xlviii, 7. Jerome seems to have beeu per- 
plexed by its introduction in these passages. Ilodv con- 
jectures that the use of the word was suggested by the 
hippodrome which was constructed by Ptolemy Lagus at 
Alexandria, and was the scene of the events recorded in 
the 3d book of Maccabees. Thus the “hippodrome of 
Ephrath” signifies a certain distance from Bethlehem, 
which was nearly the interval between the goals of the 
Egyptian race-course. 

The word kovSv, used for a cup, in Gen. xliv, Isa. Ii, is 
of Persian origin. 

Koovpfiot, a head-band or fringed garment, the wearer of 
which is called ko<tvp/3<jjt6s (Exod. xxviii ; Isa. iii), was an 
Egyptian ornament. 

vopof, in Isa. xix, 2 , is not to be read vdpas, “law,” but 
has the sense of “province,” or “district,” Egypt being 
divided into vopol, governed by i'o/xiipx ai » 0| * prefects. In 
this sense it occurs in 1 Macc. x, 30. 

oicfn was supposed by Jerome to be the Hebrew ep hah ; 
but llesychius states that it was iin Egyptian measure 
containing four xoivucer (Numb, xxviii, 5: Judg. vi, 19). 

7 r<T 7 r€ipo?, or ndnvpoe, occurs in some of the Greek text9 
in Exod. ii, 3, the Egyptian paper-reed, which was the ma- 
terial of the ark in which the parents of Moses concealed 
him. It was also called /ii/SAo?, and hence the “vessels 
of bulrushes” in Isa. x viii, 2 are called eTriuToAoi 3i(3\tvat. 

naoTo<i>dptov is used in the Sept, for the chambers and 
treasures adjoining the Temple inhabited by the priests 
and Levites (1 Chron. ix, 26, 33 ; Ezek. xl, 18, etc.). The 
naaro^dpoi are mentioned by Clemeus Alexandrimis as a 
class of priests among the Egyptians. 


SEPTUAGINT 


552 


SEPTUAGINT 


‘Pai0at' } in Amos v, 26, was an Egyptian name for the sun- 
god, or the king of heaven. It is put for ‘j'PD, Chiun. 

civbuv, in Judg. xiv, 12, 13, was a fringed garment of fine 
liuen which was made in Egypt. 

arifin, or ffTi'/ir), a dark purple or black, with which the 
guilty city of Jerusalem anoints her face to couceal her 
deformity (Jer. iv, 30). This is traced to arlppis, a word 
of Egyptian origin. 

<rxouof, in Psa. cxxxix, 2, “Thou hast searched my path,” 
etc., was a word which, according to Herodotus, represent- 
ed a measure of space or distance of sixty stadia. 

yl/ov$on<f>avtix, in Gen. xli, 45, answers to the Heb. Zaph- 
nath Paaneah. The latter is supposed to he an Egyptian 
word, signifying “the food of the living;” but Josephus 
and Origeu ascribed to it the sense of “ discoverer of se- 
crets,” or “one to whom the future is revealed.” Body 
supposed that also had this sense in the later 

Egyptian ; but Jerome explains it to he the “Saviour, or 
Deliverer, of the world.” 

8. Another feature' of this version is the many He- 
brew and Chaldee expressions, as — 

an(f><i>5, Jer. lii, IP. paio^elp, Dan. xi, 3S. 

apiijX, 1 Chron. xi, 22. vayep, Ezek. xx, 40. 

aptuiS, 2 Kings iv, 39. ttpeX, Bos. iii, 2. 

A apop, Ezek/ XX, 46. ovXapov^, Gen. xxviii, 19. 

'Eaecpip, 1 Chron. xxvi, 17. faS-pe v, 1 Kings xix, 4. 

Cukxwi-, 1 Chron. xxviii, 11. <ra/3t>c , Gen. xxii, 13. 

’Iape»v, Gen. xxxvi, 24. coup., 1 Chron. xxix, 2. 

'lapel p, Bos. v, 13. <peXXavi, 1 Sam. xxi, 2. 

pavady 2 Kings viii, 9. xa/3pa^d, Gen. xli, 7. 

pa<rpapu)5 y Jer. lii, 19. \uppiy 2 Kings xi, 4. 

paxfaip , 2 Kings viii, 15. 

These and many more words must not be regarded, as 
has usually been the case, as a mark of ignorance of the 
Hebrew, but as attempts to mix the vernacular with 
Hebrew expressions. Besides such Hebrew words, we 
find a great many Hebraisms, as Greek words with a 
Hebrew signification, Greek words in Hebrew construc- 
tions, Hebrew constructions, etc. — too many to be enu- 
merated. 

9. Another peculiarity of the Alexandrian version is 
that the same word is differently translated, not only in 
different books, but also in the same book. This point 
is the more important, as it evidently shows that the 
different books must have had different translators. A 
comparison of the Pentateuch with the book of Joshua 
will prove this beyond a shadow of doubt. 

A. Verbs. 

n*2n, to desire, Exod. xx, 17; Dent, v, IS ; vii, 25, eiuSv- 
peTv xi or to'o? (Exod. xxxiv, 24) ; but Josh, vii, 21, kv^vpov- 

pai t tvor. 

15n, to exptlore, Deut. i, 22, tfodeixo ; Josh, ii, 23, Karacso- 

tt et'io. 

bzz, Exod. xii, 22 ; Lev. iv, 6, 17 ; xix, 9 ; xiv, 6, 16, 51 ; 
Numb, xix, IS ; Dent, xxxiii, 24 ; Josh, iii, 15, pam * : but 
Gen. xxxvii, 31, poXww. 

^jzb, to storm : 1. Xappdveiv, Josh, viii, 21 ; x, 1, 2S, 32, 35, 
39; xi, 12, 17; Numb, xxxii, 39, 41, 42. 2. KaraXappt’netv, 
Josh, viii, 19; xi, 10. 3. naTaXapfitheaSai, Numb, xxi, 32. 
4. KpaTcZv, Deut. ii, 34; iii, 4. 5. Kvpieveiv, Josh, xv, 16. 

ZD3, to break up, to move on: 1. inraipio , Gen. xii, 9 ; xi ii, 
11 ; xxxiii, 12, 17 ; xxxv, 16 ; xxxvii, 17 ; xlvi, 1 ; Exod. xii, 
37 ; xvi, 1 ; xvii, 1 ; xix, 2 ; Numb, ix, 17, 20, 21, 22, 23; xiv, 
25; xx, 22; xxi, 4, 10, 12, 13; xxii, 1; xxxiii, 3, 7, S, 9, 10 
sq. ; Deut. i, 7, 19; ii, 1. 24; x, 6, 7, 11 ; Josh, iii, 1, 3, 14; 
ix, 17. 2. €?ajpw, Gen. xxxv, 5; Exod. xiii, 20; Numb, i, 
51 ; ii, 9, 16, 17, 24, 31, 34 ; iv, 5, 15; ix, 19 ; x, 5, 6, 17, 21, 22, 
25, 28, 29, 33, 34, 35 ; xi, 35; xii, 15 ; xiii, 1 ; xxi, 11. 3. atpw, 
Numb, ii, 17, and ibid, efuipio. 4. <TTpaTo7rcdcru), Gen. xii, 
9; Exod. xiv, 10; Dent, i, 40. 5. Ki^w, Gen. xi, 2; xx, 1. 

6. TTponopevopai, Numb, x, 33. 7. Exod. xvi, 

15; xl, 36, 37. 

These few examples may suffice. 

II. Nouns. 

bus, a tent: 1. cKnvn, Gen. iv, 20 ; xii, S; xiii, 3, 5; xviii, 
1,2,6,9,10; xxvi, 25; xxxi, 25; xxxiii, 19; Exod. xxxiii, 

7, 8, 10 ; Numb, xvi, 26, 27 ; Deut. i, 27 : xi, 6 ; Josh, vii, 21, J 
22, 23, 24. 2. cfo/i'wpu, Dent, xxxiii, 18; Josh, iii, 14. 3. 
otxop, Gen. ix, 27 ; xxiv, 67 ; xxxi, 33; Josh, xxii, 4, 7, S. 

4. o’tKta, Gen. xxv, 27. 5. cwk>>»o> , Exod. xvi, 16. 

Cp is, 1. tt aidia, Gen. xiv, 19; Numb, xiv, 3, 31 ; Deut. 
i, 39; iii, 6; Josh, i, 14. 2. rtsva, Deut. ii, 34; iii, 19. 3. 
t' 7 «ova, Dent, xxix, 11; xxxi, 12. 4. avyytveia, Gen. 1, S. 

5. oiKi'm, Gen. ], 21. 6. aTTotTKtvh, Gen. xxxiv, 29; xliii, 7; 

xlvi, 5; Exod. x, 10, 24; xii, 37 ; Numb, xvi, 27 ; xxxi, 9 ; 
xxxii, 17, 24, 26; Dent, xx, 14. 7. air ooKevac, Numb, xxxii, 16. 


The same variations we find in adverbs, particles, proper 
nouns, but more especially in certain phrases. 

See Thiersch, J)e Pentateuchi Versione Alexandria 
(Erlanga?, 18J0); Frankel, Vorstudien der Septuagintn 
(Leips. 1841); Kaulen, Ebileitung in die heilige Bchrift 
(Freiburg, 1876), p. 85 sq. (B. P.) 

SEPTUAGINT, Talmudic Notices Concerning 
the. It is strange that the writers of the art. Septua- 
gint in Smith’s Diet, of the Bible and in Kitto’s Cyclop. 
should not have mentioned the notices we find concern- 
ing that version in the Talmud and other Jewish writ- 
ings. It is true that in Kitto we find it stated, “It is 
spoken of in the Babylonian and Jerusalem Talmuds;” 
but where, and what, the reader is at loss to see. Yet 
these notices are very important, since they throw a 
great deal of light upon some points which have vexed 
the interpreters. The oldest notice is that contained in 
the Mechilta, & Midrashic commentarj T on Exodus (comp, 
the art. Midrasii), where Exod. xii, 40 is thus cited: 

b.*n 'b ym i yj:z ■pam *n^ zrx, 

and where we read, “And this is one of those things 
which they wrote to king Ptolemy. In the same man- 
ner they wrote, Gen. i, 1, miZIKIZ EVibX; 

ver. 26,nV3 h in IzbrsE DZN PliarS; ver. 27 (comp, v, 2), 
‘nmpsi ; ii, 2, lacn era n^nbx bz“n ; xi, 7, rmx 
nbzsi ; xviii, 12, PPEinpE; xlix, 6, fcIZX (instead of 
"nc); Exod. iv, 20, KBPS (for PEP n); Numb. 

xvi, 15, TlEfl; Deut. iv, 19 (they added) ‘■PJClb; 

xvii, 3, ZHZZb r*H3lxb; and they wrote, Lev. xi, 6, 
and Deut. xiv, 7, D^baftfi n (for n 3 snail).” 
From this passage we can infer that, besides the changes 
enumerated here, others are not to be excluded; besides, 
it only speaks in general of those who wrote the Bible 
for Ptolemy, and neither the number seventy nor seven- 
ty-two writers or translators is mentioned. It is differ- 
ent with the relation given in the Jerus. Talmud, Megil- 
la, i, 9. Here the number of changes made is given as 
thirteen (D^EZn *13 HU “Q1 SP): the passages are the 
same as given in the Mechilta , with some very slight 
changes. Thus Gen. i, 27 (comp, v, 2) we read VCpSI ; 
xlix, 6, “P.UJ (instead of IT^N); Exod. xii, 40, 

PlXiail bzZt; ill Lev. xi, 6 (Deut. xiv, 7) the expla- 
nation of the change is given that the name of Ptole- 
my’s mother was XTjia. The number of the transla- 
tors is also not given. The Babylonian Talmud, Megilla, 
9 a, however, mentions the number of elders as seventy- 
two, who were put in seventy-two different cells without 
knowing for what purpose. Then king Ptolemy went 
to each of these and said to him, “Write for me the 
law of Moses, your teacher.” God disposed it so that 
they all translated alike. The changes mentioned here 
are given without any number; but they are almost the 
same as the above, with slight modifications. Gen. i, 27 
(comp. v,2),nzp31 is not changed, but DX12 is changed 
into xlix, 6 agrees with the Jerusalem Talmud; 

and so. likewise, Exod. xii, 40. We find, as an addition, 
that in Exod. xxiv, 5, 11, is written for and 

^b^UX; in Dent, xvii, 3, we have the addition BT3Z*b 
without PVZiab; and to Lev. xi, 6 (Dent, xiv, 7) a 
similar explanation is given as in the Jerusalem Tal- 
mud, that the name of Ptolemy’s wife was PZ21X; and 
hence they thought that it would be regarded as a mock- 
ery, on the side of the Jews, should they have mentioned 
her name (as that of an unclean animal) in the law. 
In the Midrashim only single passages are mentioned — 
thus Gen. i, 27 in Bereshith Rabba, ch. viii, as Mechilta, 
with which also agrees Gen. ii, 2 in ch. x; xi, 7 with 
ch. xxxviii; xviii, 12 with ch. xlviii; xlix, 6 with ch, 
xcviii, where, as in Mechilta, we find All these 

passages are accompanied with the remark that here is 


SEPTUAGINT 


553 


one of the changes made for Ptolemy, without giving 
their number. In Shemoth Rabbet, ch. v on Exod. iv, 20, 
it is stated that this is one of the eighteen changes made 
for Ptolemy, without stating wherein these changes con- 
sist. In Bereshith Rabba, ch. lxiii on Exod. xii. 40, in 
order to show that Abraham was already called “Israel,” 
the verse is quoted, “It is an old matter; the dwelling 
of the Israelites in Egypt, Canaan, and Goshen,” etc. 
(and thus Abraham’s stay in Egypt and Canaan is num- 
bered among the 430 years). In the treatise Sepher 
Torah , i, 8, 9, seventy elders are mentioned who wrote 
the law, and the alterations made are given as thirteen. 
In the treatise Sopherim, i, 7, 8, we also read of thirteen 
alterations made by the translators. 

In examining more minutely these changes we shall 
find the following : 

1. Gen. i, 1-3, according to the structure of the language 

and the most ancient traditions still preserved by Kashi 
and Aben-Ezra, is to be rendered “ In the beginning when 
God created.” But as this supposes the existence of pri- 
mordial waters and of a chaotic mass, which, by the drain- 
ing of the waters on the second day, became the formed 
earth, it was thought necessary, in translating the Bible 
into Greek, and in opposition to the Greek cosmogony and 
polytheism, to lay great stress on the absolute unity of 
God and on the absolute creation from nothing. Hence 
the word rHirX“l had to be made independeut of the fol- 
lowing verses, and to be rendered in the beginning , dpx»; 
e ? Tottiaev 6 Gedr, instead of “ in the beginning ivhen .” This 
change the Talmud indicates by the pregnant construc- 
tion rv'cara x*o c^nbx, tims placing last, 

and precluding every other translation than God created in 
the beginning (Geiger, Ursehvift , p. 344, etc.). 

2. Gen. i, 2G, where we read “Let ns make man in our 

image (1312^20), after our likeness (12P172T3),” has been 
altered into “I will make man in the image and 

in the likeness (mE^DI),” to remove the appearance of 
polytheism. 

3. Gen. ii, 2, where “And he ended on the seventh 

day” has been changed into the 

sixth day, to avoid the apparent contradiction, since God 
did not work on the seventh day. This alteration is still 
to he found in our text of the Sept., and also in the Sa- 
maritan version (rtn n HHJ), and iu the Syriac (X^rHPttt). 

4. Gen. v, 2 (i, 27), where “Male and female created he 
them ” (OX*!*, OnX X*Q) has been altered into created 
he him (1X“i3), to remove the apparent contradiction in 
the passage where the man and woman are spoken of as 
having been created together or simultaneously. 

5. Gen. xi, 7, for the same reason as in 2, the words “ Let 
us go down, and let us confound” (Jibuti PTl) have been 
changed into “I will go down and I will confound” (S"n“!X 

nbmxi). 

6. Gen. xviii, 12, “After my decay I had again pleasure” 

has beeu altered into ni"Pn *>nba “nriX, Ov- 

i r&) /uer noi ytfovev eo>? t ov vvv), after it had been thus with 
me hitherto , to avoid the offensive application to the dis- 
tinguished mother of Israel of the expression pba, which 
is used for rotten old garments (comp. Geiger, Urschrift , 
p. 45 sq.). 

7. Gen. xlix, G, “ In their anger they slew a man, and in 
their self-will they hamstrung an ox,” has been altered 
into “In their anger they slew an ox (PilU), and in their 
self-will they hamstrung a fatted hull (Ol-X),” to do away 
with the wholesale slaughter of men. 

8. Exod. iv, 20, the word “117211, ass , is altered into vno- 
ta, beasts of burden , because of the reluctance which the 

translators had to mention the name of this beast. This 
alteration is still preserved in our text of the Sept. 

9. In Exod. xii, 40, and all other lands, i. e. “ the land of 
Canaan,” has been added in order to remove the apparent 
contradiction, since the Israelites did not sojourn four 
hundred and thirty years in Egypt. 

10. Exod. xxiv, 5, 11, and “'b^X are changed into 

^Z21I22‘T ; i. e. worthy , ov searchers after wisdom), 

heeanse it was not thought becoming to say that at this 
great revelation boys or youths (t“>l*3) were brought as 
sacrifices. 

11. In Lev. xi, 6 and Dent, xiv, 7, r-31X=Aa7<5?, a hare, 
has been altered into x°‘potpov\\os, porcupine or hedgehog , 


SEPTUAGINT 

to avoid giviug offence to the Ptolemy family, whose name 
was Lagos. 

12. Numb, xvi, 15, “I72H, ass, was changed into - 

« desirable thing , for the same reason ’as 
given under 8. This alteration is still iu our text of the 
Sept. 

13. Dent, iv, 19, the word “l*'X!"lb =8iaKo<Tfj. ew, to shine, 
has been inserted so as to avoid the idolatry of the hea- 
then being ascribed to God. 

14. Dent, xvii, 3, where we read that God had not com- 
manded the Israelites to worship other gods (in accordance 
with Deut. iv, 19), has been altered to pmi:£ xb “|V*X 
c^nrb niEixb) which 1 have forbidden the nations to 
xcorship, to preclude the possibility of ascribing the origin 
of idolatry to the God of Israel. 

This much for the alterations. But there are two oth- 
er very important notices, viz. “ that the day on which 
the translation of the Bible into Greek was made was re- 
garded as a great calamity equal to that of the worship 
of the golden calf” ( Sopherim , i, 7) ; and “ the day on 
which it was accomplished was believed to have been 
the beginning of a preternatural darkness of three days’ 
duration over the whole world, and was commemorated 
as a clay of fasting and humiliation” (comp Kuenen, 
The Religion of Israel, iii, 214-210). The Samaritans 
took the same view on account of their hatred of the 
Jewish translation (comp. Herzfeld, Geschichte, iii, 537). 
Says dean Stanley, “It needs but slight evidence to 
convince us that such a feeling, more or less widely 
spread, must have existed. It is the same instinct 
which to this hour makes it a sin, if not an impossibili- 
ty. in the eyes of a devout Mussulman, to translate the 
Koran ; which in the Christian Church assailed Jerome 
with the coarsest vituperation for venturing on a Latin 
version which differed from the Greek; which at the 
Reformation regarded it as a heresy to translate the 
Latin Scriptures into the languages of modern Europe; 
and which, in England, has in onr own days regarded 
it in the English Church as a dangerous innovation to 
revise the Authorized Version of the I7th century, or in 
the Roman Church to correct the barbarous dialect of 
the Douay translation of the Vulgate, or to admit of any 
errors in the text or in the rendering of the Vulgate 
itself. In one and all of these cases the reluctance has 
sprung from the same tenacious adherence to ancient 
and sacred forms — from the same unwillingness to ad- 
mit of the dislodgmcnt even of the most flagrant inac- 
curacies when once familiarized by established use. 
But in almost all these eases, except, perhaps, the Ko- 
ran, this sentiment has been compelled to yield to the 
more generous desire of arriving at the hidden meaning 
of sacred truth, and of making that truth more widely 
known. So it was, in the most eminent degree, in the 
ease of the Septtiagint” (Jewish Church, iii, 286 sq.). 
While we agree in the main with the learned dean, yet 
in the case of the Sept, the explanation of the above- 
given Talmudic statement must be sought for some- 
where else. It is known that most of the early contro- 
versies with the Jews were conducted in the Greek lan- 
guage, and on the common ground of the faithfulness 
of the Sept, version, which was quoted alike on both 
sides. And so it continued to be respected during the 
age of the writers of the New Test, and the 1st cen- 
tury of the Christian ;era. As, however, the version 
grew into use among Christians, it gradually lost the 
confidence of the Jews, especially when it was urged 
against them bv the Christians. The first signs of this 
appear in the works of Justin Martyr, in the 2d cen- 
tury. His Dialogue with Trypho the Jew professes to 
be the account of a discussion which actually took place, 
and Eusebius (Hist, Ecclcs. iv, 18) [daces the scone of it 
at Ephesus. The Dialogue abounds in citations from 
the Old Test.; and even such passages are quoted as 
are not to be found in the Hebrew. The latter circum- 
stance made Justin charge the Jews with removing es- 
pecially four prophecies of Christ from their copies. 
The first of these is: “And Ezra said unto the people, 


SEPTUM 


554 


SEPULCHRE 


This passover is our Saviour and our refuge; and if ye 
consider and it cuter into your heart that we shall, by a 
figure (kratjptitp, i. e. the cross), afflict him and after- 
wards hope in him, this place shall not be made desolate 
to all time, saith the Lord God of Hosts. But if ye be- 
lieve him not. and hear not his preaching, ye shall be- 
come a spoil for the Gentiles” (Dial. c. 72). This pas- 
sage, which is also quoted by Lactantius ( Inst it . Diem. 
iv, e. 18), is not to be found in the book of Ezra, and 
may probably have been interpolated according to the 
Apocryphal Ezra (vi, 21) into the copies of the Sept, by 
some Christian. The second (from Jer. xi, 19) had, he 
said, been but recently erased from certain copies, and 
was retained in others which were preserved in the syn- 
agogues. This, however, is found entire in all our pres- 
ent copies. The third passage is saitl to be taken also 
from Jeremiah: “And the Lord God remembered his 
dead, who were fallen asleep in the dust of their tombs, 
and descended to them to declare unto them the good 
tidings of his salvation.” These words are remarkable 
from their resemblance to those of 1 Pet. iv, 6 ( vsKpolg 
shp/yeXi^)). The passage of Jeremiah, as alleged by 
Justin Martyr, read Kart fit) i rpog cwrovg svayyeXitra- 
<r*ai). “If a genuine passage,” says Churton, “the 
apostle’s words seem to contain an allusion to them as 
well as to the doctrine enunciated in the preceding 
chapter of his epistle. If interpolated by a Christian 
convert from some traditional saying of the prophet, or 
adapted from Peter’s words, it seems that the person 
who introduced them into the text of the Sept, took 
the words of the apostle in their literal sense, and not 
as later commentators have conjectured, that the per- 
sons called veicpoi were alive at the time of the preach- 
ing.” The fourth and last passage is from Psa. xevi, 10 : 
“Declare among the heathen that the Lord hath reign- 
ed from the tree” (Dial. c. 73). Out of this passage the 
Jews are accused of having erased the last words, enro 
too %v\ov. The words «7ro too %v\ov are quoted again 
by Justin Martyr in his Apology ; they are also quoted 
by Tertullian (Adv. Jad. c. 10), Ambrose, Augustine, 
Leo, Gregory, and others. Yet the words occur in no 
Greek or Hebrew MS., and the probability is that they 
were added by some Christian. Under these circum- 
stances we can very well understand the feeling of the 
Jews towards a version which brought such accusations 
against them ; and this, it seems, gives us the real clue 
to the Talmudic passage which regarded the day of 
the translation of the Bible into Greek as a great ca- 
lamity. See Frankel, Vorstudien zv.r Septuayinta , p. 25 
sq. ; Geiger, Ursch rift, der Bibel , p. 439 sq. ; Mast diet 
Soferim (ed. Muller, Leips. 1878), p. 12 sq. ; Ginsbnrg, 
Introduction to the. Rabbinic Bible, p. 70 sq.; Churton, 
The Influence of the Septuayint Version, p. 41 sq.; Reinke, 
Beitrdye zur KrkUiruny des Alien Testaments, vii, 292 
sq. ; Friedliinder, Batristische und talmudische Studien 
(Vienna, 1878), p. 133 sq. (R. P.) 

Septum, a term used by certain 17th-century An- 
glican writers for the fixed or movable rail placed on 
each side of the entrance of the sanctuary to support 
the communicants when they knelt to receive the Lord’s 
body and blood. 

Sepulchre (“D£, Mber, or irHSDp, keburdh. a bury - 
iny- place or grave, as sometimes rendered; Tcityog, a tomb, 
as elsewhere rendered; also pvppa or pviyitlov, a mon- 
ument, likewise rendered “grave” or “tomb”). Man- 
kind in all ages have been careful, indeed of necessity, 
to provide suitable resting-places for the dead. In 
treating of the Hebrew usages in this respect, we free- 
ly use all appropriate matter found in the Dictionaries 
of Kit to and Smith. See Burial. 

I. General Principles of Sepulture. — 1. The Duty . — 
The Jews uniformly disposed of the corpse by entomb- 
ment where possible, and, failing that, by interment ; 
extending this respect to the remains even of the slain 
enemy and malefactor (1 Kings xi, 15; Dent, xxi, 23), 
in the latter case by express provision of law. Since 


this was the only case so guarded by Mosaic precept, 
it may be concluded that natural feeling was relied on 
as rendering any such general injunction superfluous. 
Similarly, to disturb remains was regarded as a barbar- 
ity, only justifiable in the case of those who had them- 
selves outraged religion (2 Kings xxiii, 16, 17; Jer. viii, 
1,2). The rabbins quote the doctrine “dust thou art, 
and unto dust shalt thou return” as a reason for pre- 
ferring to entomb or inter their dead ; but that prefer- 
ential practice is older than the Mosaic record, as trace- 
able in patriarchal examples, and continued unaltered 
by any Gentile influence; so Tacitus (Hist, v, 5) notices 
that it was a point of Jewish custom potius corpora 
condere quam cremare. See Course. 

The precedent of Jacob’s and Joseph’s remains being 
returned to the land of Canaan was followed, in wish at 
least, by every pious Jew. Adopting a similar notion, 
some of the rabbins taught that only in that land could 
those who were buried obtain a share in the resurrec- 
tion which was to usher in the Messiah’s reign on earth. 
Thus that land was called by them “the land of the 
living,” and the sepulchre itself “the house of the liv- 
ing.” Some even feigned that the bodies of the right- 
eous, wherever else buried, rolled back to Canaan under- 
ground, and found there only their appointed rest (Ni- 
colaus, De Sepult. Ileb. xiii, l). Tombs were, in popular 
belief, led by the same teaching, invested with tradi- 
tions. Thus Machpelah is stated (Lightfoot, Centuria 
Chorographica,$.v. li Hebron”) to have been the burial- 
place not only of Abraham and Sarah, but also of Adam 
and Eve; and there was probably at the time of the 
New Test, a spot fixed upon by tradition as the site of 
the tomb of every prophet of note in the Old Test. 
To repair and adorn these was deemed a work of exalt- 
ed piety (Matt, xxiii, 29). The scruples of the scribes 
extended even to the burial of the ass whose neck was 
broken (Exod. xxxiv, 20), and of the first-born of cat- 
tle (Maimon. De Primoyen. iii, 4, quoted by Nicolaus, 
De Sepult. Ileb. xvi, 3, 4). See Grave. 

2. Rites. — On this subject wc should remember that 
our impressions, as derived from the Old Test.., are those 
of the burial of persons of rank or public eminence, 
while those gathered from the New Test, regard a pri- 
vate station. But in both cases “the manner of the 
Jews” included the use of spices where they could com- 
mand the means. Thus Asa lay in a “ bed of spices” 
(2 Chron. xvi, 14). A portion of these were burned 
in honor of the deceased, and to this use was probably 
destined part of the one hundred pounds’ weight of 
“myrrh and aloes” in our Lord’s case. On high state 
occasions the vessels, bed, and furniture used by the 
deceased were burned also. Such was probably the 
“great burning” made for Asa. If a king was unpop- 
ular or died disgraced (c. g. Jehoram, 2 Chron. xxxi, 19; 
Josephus, Ant. ix, 5, 3), this was not observed. In no 
case, save that of Saul and his sons, were the bodies 
burned, nor in that case were they so burned as not to 
leave the “ bones” easily concealed and transported, and 
the whole proceeding looks like a hasty precaution 
against hostile violence. Even then the bones were in- 
terred and re-exhuraed for solemn entombment. The 
ambiguous word in Amos vi, 10, rendered in 

the A. V. “he that burneth him,” possibly means “the 
burner of perfumes in his honor,” i. e. his near relation, 
on whom such duties devolved; rather than, as most 
think, “ the burner of the corpse.” For a great mortal- 
ity never causes men to burn corpses where it is not 
the custom of the country; nor did the custom vary 
among the Jews on such an occasion (Ezek. xxxix, 12- 
14). It was the duty of the next of kin to perform 
and preside over the whole funereal office; but a com- 
pany of public buriers, originating in an exceptional 
necessity (Ezek. loc. cif.), had become, it seems, custom- 
ary in the times of the New. Test. (Acts v,G, 10). The 
closing of the eyes, kissing, and washing the corpse 
(Gen. xlvi, 4; 1, 1 ; Acts ix,87) are customs common to 


SEPULCHRE 


555 


SEPULCHRE 



Coriuthiau Tomb at Petra. 


all nations. Coffins were but seldom 
used, and, if used, were open; but 
fixed stone sarcophagi were common 
in tombs of rank. The bier, the word 
for which in the Old Test, is the same 
as that rendered bed [see Bed], was 
borne by the nearest relatives, and 
followed by any who wished to do 
honor to the dead. The grave-clothes 
(63*01 'in, ivTCKpia') were probably of 
the fashion worn in life, but swathed 
ami fastened with bandages, and the 
head was covered separately. Previ- 
ously to this being done, spices were 
applied to the corpse in the form of 
ointment, or between the folds of the 
linen; hence our Lord’s remark that 
the woman had anointed his body 
7r pog to tvrcKptdZeti', “with a view to 
dressing it in these evrcuptci not, as 
in the A. V., “for the burial .” For the 
custom of mourners visiting the sep- 
ulchre, see Mourn; for other usages, 
see F UN ERA L. 

3. The Site . — A natural cave enlarged and adapted 
by excavation, or an artificial imitation of one, was the 
standard type of sepulchre. This was what the struct- 
ure of the Jewish soil supplied or suggested. A distinct 
and simple form of sepulture as contrasted with the 
complex and elaborate rites of Egypt clings to the re- 
gion of Palestine, and varies but little with the great 
social changes between the periods of Abraham and the 
captivity. Jacob and Joseph, who both died in Egypt, 
are the only known instances of the Egyptian method 
applied to patriarchal remains. Sepulchres, when the 
owner’s means permitted it, were commonly prepared 
beforehand, and stood often in gardens, by roadsides, 
or even adjoining houses. Kings and prophets alone 
were probably buried within towns (I Kings ii, 10; xvi, 
6, 28; 2 Kings x, 35; xiii, 9; 2 Chron. xvi, 14; xxviii, 
27; 1 Sam. xxv, 1; xxviii, 3). Sarah’s tomb and Ra- 
chel’s seem to have been chosen merely from the acci- 
dent of the place of death; but the successive inter- 
ments at the former (Gen. xlix, 31) are a chronicle of 
the strong family feeling among the Jews. It was the 
sole fixed spot in the unsettled patriarchal life; and 
its purchase and transfer, minutely detailed, are re- 
markable as the sole transaction of the kind, until re- 
peated on a similar occasion at Shechem. Thus it was 
deemed a misfortune or an indignity, not only to be 
deprived of burial (Isa. xiv, 20; Jer. passim; 2 Kings 
ix, 10). but, in a lesser degree, to be excluded from the 
family sepulchre (1 Kings xiii, 22), as were ITzziah, the 
royal leper, and Manasseh (2 Chron. xxvi, 23; xxxiii, 
20). Thus the remains of Saul and his sons were re- 
claimed to rest, in his father’s tomb. Similarl}', it was 
a mark of a profound feeling towards a person not of 
one’s family to wish to be buried with him (Ruth i, 17; 
1 Kings xiii, 31), or to give him a place in one’s own 
sepulchre (Gen. xxiii, 0; comp. 2 Chron. xxiv, 1(5). The 
head of a family commonly provided space for more 
than one generation; and these galleries of kindred 
sepulchres are common in many Eastern branches of 
the human race. Cities soon became populous and de- 
manded cemeteries (comp. TroXimrfynoi/, Sept, at Ezek. 
xxxix, 15), which were placed without the walls; such 
a one seems intended by the expression in 2 Kings 
xxiii, 0, “the graves of the children of the people,” sit- 
uated in the valley of the Kedron or of Jehoshaphat. 
Jeremiah (vii, 32; xix, 11) threatens that the eastern 
valley, called Tophet, the favorite haunt of idolatry, 
should be polluted by burying there (comp. 2 Kings 
xxiii, 16). Such was also the “potter’s field” (Matt, 
xxvii, 7) which had, perhaps, been wrought bv digging 
for clay into holes serviceable for graves. Sec Ceme- 
t eiuks. 

II. Explicit Information from Ancient Sources as to 


the Style of Sepulchres. — 1. From a Comparison with 
Early Heathen Xatirms. — It has been too much the fash- 
ion to look to Egypt for the prototype of every form of 
Jewish art. The Egyptian tombs at Thebes were ex- 
tensive excavations in the barren mountains which 
skirted the city on the west. In like manner, the mag- 
nificent tombs in the necropolis of Sela, in Arabia Pe- 
tnea, were sculptured out of the sides of the rock sur- 
rounding the ancient city. See Petra. The Edom- 
ites and the Egyptians seem to have regarded the 
habitations of the living merely as temporary resting- 
places, while the tombs are regarded as permanent and 
eternal mansions; and, while not a vestige of a habita- 
tion is to be seen, the tombs remain monuments of 
splendor ami magnificence, perhaps even more wonder- 
ful than the ruins of their temples. Funeral urns or 
vases are found in great numbers on the plains and 
mounds of Assyria and Mesopotamia containing human 
skeletons or fragments of bones which appear to have 
been calcined. 

But in Jewish history there is a total diversity from 
these customs in the matter of tombs. From the buri- 
al of Sarah in the cave of Machpelah (Gen. xxiii, 19) 
to the funeral rites prepared for Dorcas (Acts ix, 37) 
there is no mention of any sarcophagus, or even coffin, 
in any Jewish burial. No pyramid was raised — no sep- 
arate hypogeum of any individual king, and, what is 
most to be regretted by modern investigators, no in- 
scription or painting which either recorded the name 
of the deceased or symbolized the religious feeling of 
the Jews towards the dead. It is true, of course, that 
Jacob, dying in Egypt, was embalmed (Gen. 1, 2), but it 
was only in order that he might be brought to be en- 
tombed in the cave at Hebron, and Joseph, as a natural- 
ized Egyptian and a ruler in the land, was embalmed; 
and it is also mentioned as something exceptional that 
he was put into a coffin, and was so brought by the Is- 
raelites out of the land and laid with his forefathers. 
But these, like the burning of the body of Saul, were 
clearly exceptional cases. See Embalming. 

Still less were the rites of the Jews like those of the 
Pelasgi or Etruscans. With that people the graves of 
the dead were, or were intended to be, in every respect 
similar to the homes of the living. The lucumo lay 
in his robes, the warrior in his armor on the bed on 
which he had reposed in life, surrounded by the furni- 
ture, the vessels, and the ornaments which had adorned 
his dwelling ■when alive, as if he were to live again in a 
new w’orld with the same wants and feelings as before. 
Besides this, no tall stele and no sepulchral mound has 
yet been found in the hills or plains of Judaea, nor have 
we any hint either in the Bible or Josephus of any such 
having existed which could be traced to a strictly Jew- 


556 


SEPULCHRE 


SEPULCHRE 

ish origin. In very distinct contrast to all this, the 
sepulchral rites of the Jews were marked with the same 
simplicity that characterized all their religious observ- 
ances. The body was washed and anointed (Mark xiv, 
8; xvi, 1 ; John xix, 30, etc.), wrapped in a clean linen 
cloth, and borne without any funeral pomp to the grave, 
where it was laid without any ceremonial or form of 
prayer. In addition to this, with kings and great per- 
sons there seems to have been a “great burning” (2 
Chron. xvi, 14; xxi, 19; Jer. xxxiv, 5), all these being 
measures more suggested by sanitary exigencies than 
by any hankering after ceremonial pomp. 

* 2. Normal Style.— This simplicity of rite led to what 
may be called the distinguishing characteristic of Jew- 
ish sepulchres — the deep loculus — which, so far as is now 
known, is universal in all purely Jewish rock-cut tombs, 
but hardly known elsewhere. Its form will be under- 
stood by referring to the annexed diagram, representing 
the forms of Jewish sepulture. In the apartment marked 

A, there are twelve 
such loculi about 
two feet in width by 
three feet high. On 
the ground - floor 
these generally open 
on the level of the 
floor; when in the 
upper story, as at C, 
on a ledge or plat- 
form, on which the 
body might be laid 
to be anointed, and 
on which the stones 
might rest that 
closed the outer end 
Regular Plan of Jewish Sepulchre, of each loculus. The 

shallow loculus is 
shown in chamber B, but was apparently only used when 
sarcophagi were employed, and therefore, so far as we 
know, only during the Graeco-Roman period, when for- 
eign customs came to be adopted. The shallow loculus 
would have been singularly inappropriate and inconven- 
ient where an unembalmed body was laid out to decay, as 
there would evidently be no means of shutting it off from 
the rest of the catacomb. The deep loculus, on the other 
hand, was as strictly conformable with Jewish customs, 
and could easily be closed by a stone fitted to the end and 
luted into the groove which usually exists there. This 
fact is especially interesting, as it affords a key to much 
that is otherwise hard to be understood in certaiu pas- 
sages in the New Test. Thus in John xi, 39, Jesus 
says, “Take away the stone,” and (ver. 40) “they took 
away the stone,” without difficulty, apparently; which 
could hardly have been the case had it been such a rock 
as would be required to close the entrance of a cave. 
Also in xx, 1 the same expression is used, “ the stone is 
taken away;” and though the Greek word in the other 
three Evangelists certainly implies that it was rolled 
away, this would equally apply to the stone at the 
mouth of the loculus, into which the Marys must have 
then stooped down to look in. In fact, the whole narra- 
tive is infinitely more clear and intelligible if we assume 
that it was a stone closing the end of a rock-cut grave 
than if we suppose it to have been a stone closing the 
entrance or door of a hvpogeum. In the latter case the 
stone to close a door — say six feet by three feet — could 
hardly have weighed less than three or four tons, and 
could not have been moved without machinery. There 
is one catacomb — that known as the “Tombs of the 
Kings” (sec below) — which is closed by a stone rolling 
across its entrance; but it is the only one, and the im- 
mense amount of contrivance and fitting which it has 
required is sufficient proof that such an arrangement 
was not applied to any other of the numerous rock 
tombs around Jerusalem, nor could the traces of it have 
been obliterated had it anywhere existed. From the 
nature of the openings where they are natural caverns, 


and the ornamental form of their doorways where they 
are architecturally adorned, it is evident, except in this 
one instance, that they could not have been closed by 
stones rolled across their entrances; and consequently 
it seems only to be to the closing of the loculi that 
these expressions can refer. But until a more careful 
and more scientific exploration of these tombs is made 
than has hitherto been given to the public, it is difficult 
to feel quite certain on this point. 

Although, as we have seen, the Jews were singularly 
free from the pomps and vanities of funereal magnifi- 
cence, they were at all stages of their independent exist- 
ence an eminently burying people. From the time of 
their entrance into the Holy Land till their expulsion 
by the Romans they seem to have attached the greatest 
importance to the possession of an undisturbed resting- 
place for the bodies of their dead, and in all ages seem 
to have shown the greatest respect, if not veneration, 
for the sepulchres of their ancestors. Few, however, 
could enjoy the luxury of a rock-cut tomb. Taking all 
that are known, and all that are likely to be discovered, 
there are not probably 500, certainly not 1000, rock-cut 
loculi in or about Jerusalem ; and as that city must in 
the days of its prosperity have possessed a population 
of from 30,000 to 40,000 souls, it is evident that the bulk 
of the people must then, as now, have been content with 
graves dug in the earth, but situated as near the holy 
places as their means would allow their obtaining a 
place. The bodies of the kings were buried close to the 
Temple walls (Ezek. xliii, 7-9), and, however little they 
may have done in their life, the place of their burial is 
carefully recorded in the Chronicles of the Kings, and 
the cause why that place was chosen is generally pointed 
out, as if that record was not only the most important 
event, but the final judgment on the life of the king. 

3. Talmudical Statements. — The Mishnic description 
of a sepulchre, complete according to Rabbinical notions, 
is somewhat as follows, and serves to illustrate the above 
plan: a cavern about six cubits square, or six by eight, 
from three sides of which are recessed longitudinally 
several vaults, called C'ZID, each large enough for a 
corpse. On the fourth side the cavern is approached 
through a small open covered court or portico, i^in, of a 
size to receive the bier and bearers. In some such 
structures the demoniac may have housed. The entry 
from the court to the cavern was closed by a large 
stone, called as capable of being rolled, thus con- 
firming the Evangelistic narrative. Sometimes several 
such caverns, each with its recesses, were entered from 
the several sides of the same portico (Mishna, Baba 
Bathra , 6, 8, quoted by J. Nicolaus, Be Sejmlchris //<?- 
brceorum). Such a tomb is that described in Bucking- 
ham’s Travels in Arabia (p. 158), and those known to 
tradition as the “Tombs of the Kings” (above referred 
to). But earlier sepulchres were doubtless more simple, 
and, to judge from 2 Kings xiii, 21, did not prevent 
mutual contact of remains. Sepulchres were marked 
sometimes by pillars, as that of Rachel, or by pyramids, 
as those of the Asmonaeans at Modin (Josephus. A nt. xiii, 
6, 7), and had places of higher and lower honor. Like 
temples, they were, from their assumed inviolability, 
sometimes made the depositories of treasures (De Saul- 
cy, ii, 183). We find them also distinguished by a 
“title” (2 Kings xxiii, 17). Such as were not other- 
wise noticeable were scrupulously “whited” (Matt, xxiii, 
27) once a year, after the rains before the Passover, to 
warn passers-by of defilement (Hottinger, Cippi Ifebr. 
p. 1034; Rossteusch, De Sepul. Calce Notat. in Ugolino, 
xxxiii). 

III. Tlistoi'ical Notices of Jlebreto Sepulchres , Illus- 
trated f rom certain Antique Jewish Tombs still Extant. 
— 1. Sepulchres of the Patriarchs and other Early Per- 
sona yes. — We find that one of the most striking events 
in the life of Abraham is the purchase of the field of 
' Ephrou the Ilittite at Hebron, in which was the cave 
I of Machpclah, in order that he might therein bury 



SEPULCHRE 


557 


SEPULCHRE 


Sarah, his wife, and that it might he a sepulchre for 
himself and his children. 11 is refusing to accept the 
privilege of burying there as a gift shows the im r 
portance Abraham attached to the transaction, and 
he insisted on purchasing and paying for it (Gen. 
xxiii, 20), in order that it might be “made sure unto 
him for the possession of a burying -place.” There 
he and his immediate descendants were laid 3700 years 
ago, and there they are believed to rest now ; but no 
one in modern times has seen their remains, or been al- 
lowed to enter into the cave where the}’- repose. A few 
years ago, Signor Pierotti says, he was allowed, in com- 
pany with the pasha of Jerusalem, to descend the steps 
to the iron grating that closes the entrance and to look 
into the cave. What lie seems to have seen was that 
it was a natural cavern, untouched by the chisel and 
unaltered by art in any way. Those who accompanied 
the prince of Wales in his visit to the mosque were 
not permitted to see even this entrance. All they saw 
was the round hole in the floor of the mosque which 
admits light and air to the cave below. The same 
round opening exists at Neby Samwil in the roof of the 
reputed sepulchre of the prophet Samuel, and at Jeru- 
salem there is a similar opening into the tomb under 
the dome of the rock. In the former it is used by 
pious votaries to drop petitions and prayers into the 
tombs of patriarchs and prophets. The latter having 
lost the tradition of its having been a burying-place, 
the opening now only serves to admit light into the 
cave below. Unfortunately, none of those who have 
visited Hebron have had sufficient architectural knowl- 
edge to be able to say when 
the church or mosque which 
now stands above the cave 
was erected; but there is no 
great reason for doubting 
that it is a Byzantine church 
erected there between the 
age of Constantine and that 
of Justinian. From such in- 
dications as can be gathered, 
it seems of the later period. 
On its floor are sarcophagi 
purporting to be those of the 
patriarchs; but, as is usual 
in Eastern tombs, they are 
only cenotaphs representing 
those that stand below, and 
which are esteemed too sa- 
cred for the vulgar to ap- 
proach. Though it is much 
more easy of access, it is al- 
most as difficult to ascertain the age of the wall that 
encloses the sacred precincts of these tombs. From the 
account of Josephus ( War, iv, 7), it does not seem to 
have existed in his day, or he surely would have men- 
tioned it; and such a citadel could hardly fail to have 
been of warlike importance in those troublous times. 
Besides this, we do not know of any such enclosure en- 
circling any tombs or sacred place in Jewish times, nor 
can we conceive any motive for so secluding these 
graves. There are not any architectural mouldings 
about this wall which would enable an archmologist to 
approximate its date; and if the bevelling is assumed 
to be a Jewish arrangement (which is very far from 
being exclusively the case), on the other hand it may 
be contended that no buttressed wall of Jewish masonry 
exists anywhere. There is, in fact, nothing known with 
sufficient exactness to decide the question, but the prob- 
abilities certainly tend towards a Christian or Saracenic 
origin for the whole structure, both internally and ex- 
ternally. See Maoiibelaii. 

For Joseph's Tomb and Rachel's Tomb , see those ar- 
ticles respectively. 

Aaron died on the summit of Mount ITor (Numb, xx, 
28; xxxiii, 39), and we are led to infer he was buried 
there, though it is not so stated; and we have no de- 


tails of his tomb which would lead us to suppose that 
anything existed there earlier than the Mohammedan 
Knbr that now crowns the hill overlooking Petra, and 
it is, at the same time, extremely doubtful whether that 
is the Mount Ilor where the high-priest died. See 
Hon. 

Moses died in the plains of Moab (Dent, xxxiv, 6), 
and was buried there, “hut no man knoweth his sepul- 
chre to this day,” which is a singular utterance, as being 
the only instance in the Old Test, of a sepulchre being 
concealed, or of one being admitted to be unknown. 
See Nebo. 

Joshua was buried in his own inheritance in Timnath- 
serah (Josh, xxiv, 30), and Samuel in his own house at 
Hamah (1 Sam. xxv, I), an expression which we may 
probably interpret as meaning in the garden attached 
to his house, as it is scarcely probable it would be the 
dwelling itself. We know, however, so little of the 
feelings of the Jews of that age on the subject that it 
is by no means improbable that it may have been in a 
chamber or loculus attached to the dwelling, and which, 
if closed by a stone carefully cemented into its place, 
would have prevented any annoyance from the circum- 
stance. Joab (1 Kings ii, 34) was also buried “in his 
own house in the wilderness.” In fact, it appears that 
from the time when Abraham established the burving- 
place of his family at Hebron till the time when David 
fixed that of his family in the city which bore his name, 
the Jewish rulers had no fixed or favorite place of sepul- 
ture. Each was buried on his own property, or where 
he died, without much caring either for the sanctity or 
convenience of the place chosen. 

2. Sepulchre of David , — Of the twenty-two kings of 
Judah who reigned at Jerusalem from 1048 to 590 B.C., 
eleven, or exactly one half, were buried in one hypo- 
genm in the “city of David.” The names of the kings 
so lying together were David, Solomon. Kehoboam, Abi- 
jah, Asa, Jehoshaphat, Ahaziah, Amaziah, Jot ham, llcz- 
ekiah, and Josiah, together with the good priest Jelioi- 
ada. Of all these it is merely said that they were 
buried in “the sepulchres of their fathers” or “of the 
kings” in the city of David, except of two — Asa and 
Hezekiah. Of the first it is said (2 Chron. xvi, 14), 
“ they buried him in his own sepulchres which he had 
made for himself in the city of David, and laid him in 
the bed [loculus?], which was filled with sweet odors, 
and divers spices prepared by the apothecaries’ art : and 
they made a very great burning for him.” It is not 
quite clear, however, whether this applies to a new 
chamber attached to the older sepulchre, or to one en- 
tirely distinct, though in the same neighborhood. Of 
Hezekiah it is said (xxxii,33), they buried him in “the 
chiefest [or highest] of the sepulchres of the sons of 
David,” as if there were several apartments in the hypo- 
goum, though it may merely be that they excavated for 
him a chamber above the others, as we find frequently 
done in Jewish sepulchres. Two more of these kings 
(Jehoram and Joash) were buried also in the city of 
David, “but not in the sepulchres of the kings;” the 
first because of the sore diseases of which he died (xxi, 
20) ; the second apparently in consequence of his dis- 
astrous end (xxiv, 25); and one king. Uzziah (xxvi, 
23), was buried with his fathers in the “field of the 
burial of the kings,” because he was a leper. All this 
evinces the extreme care the Jews took in the selection 
of the burying-plaees of their kings, and flic importance 
they attached to the record. It should also be borne in 
mind that the highest honor which could be bestowed 
on the good priest Jehoiada (xxiv, 16) was that “they 
buried him in the city of David among the kings, be- 
cause he had done good in Israel, both towards God and 
towards his house.” 

The passage in Neb. iii, 16, and in Ezek. xliii, 7, 9, 
together with the reiterated assertion of the books of 
Kings and Chronicles, that these sepulchres were situ- 
ated in the city of David, leave no doubt that they 
were on Zion (q. v.). It is quite clear, however, that 



Plan of the Mosque at 
Hebron. 


SEPULCHRE 


558 


SEPULCHRE 



The “ Tomb of David” at Jerusalem. (From a photograph by the Editor.) 


the spot was well known dur- 
ing the whole of the Jewish 
period, inasmuch as the sepul- 
chres were again and again 
opened as each king died ; 
and from the tradition that 
llyrcauus and Herod opened 
these sepulchres (.4 nt. xiii, 8, 

4; xvi, 7, 1). The accounts 
of these last openings are, it 
must be confessed, somewhat 
apocryphal, resting only on 
the authority of Josephus; but 
they prove at least that he 
considered there could be no 
difficulty in finding the place. 

It was a secret transaction, if 
it took place, regarding which 
rumor might fashion what 
wondrous tales it pleased, and 
no one could contradict them ; but there having been 
built a marble stele (Ant. xvi, 7, 1) in front of the tomb 
may have been a fact within the cognizance of Josephus, 
and would, at all events, serve to indicate that the sepul- 
chre was rock-cut, and its site well known. So far as 
we can judge from this and other indications, it seems 
probable there was originally a natural cavern in the 
rock in this locality, which may afterwards have been 
improved by art, and in the sides of which loculi were 
sunk, where the bodies of the eleven kings and of the 
good high-priest were laid, without sarcophagi or coffins, 
but “ wound in linen clothes with the spices, as the man- 
ner of the Jews is to bury” (John xix, 40). 

Modern tradition has assigned the name of the Tomb 
of David (also of Solomon) to a structure still standing 
on Mount Zion outside the present city walls, other- 
wise called the Coenaculum , from the tradition that it 
was likewise the building in which the Lord’s supper 
was instituted. From the time of the notice by the 
apostle Peter (Acts ii. 29), which shows that the true 
site was then well known, the royal tombs appear to 
have been forgotten, or at least they are not mentioned 
till the close of the [1th century, when Raymond 
d’Agiles, one of the historians of the first crusade, says 
regarding the Coenaculum, “ There are also in that 
church . . . the sepulchres of king David and Solo- 
mon, and of the holy protomartvr Stephen” ( Gesta Dei 
per Francos, p. 174). In the next century Benjamin 
of Tudela visited the holy city, and wrote the follow- 
ing singular story, which has perhaps some foundation 
in fact: “On Mount Zion are the sepulchres of the 
house of David, and those of the kings who reigned 
after him. In consequence of the following circum- 
stance, this place is hardly to be recognised. Fifteen 
years ago one of the walls of the church on Zion (the 
Cuenaculum) fell down, and the patriarch commanded 
the priest to repair it. lie ordered stones to be taken 
from the original wall of Zion for that purpose, and 
twenty workmen were hired at stated wages, who broke 
stones taken from the very foundation of the wall of 
Zion. Two laborers thus employed found a stone which 
covered the mouth of a cave. This they entered in 
search of treasures, and proceeded until they readied a 
large hall, supported by pillars of marble, encrusted with 
gold and silver, and before which stood a table with a 
golden sceptre and crown. This was the sepulchre of 
David; to the left they saw that of Solomon in a simi- 
lar state; and so on the sepulchres of the other kings 
buried there. They saw chests locked up, and were on 
the point of entering when a blast of wind like a storm 
issued from the mouth of the cave with such force that 
it threw them lifeless on the ground. They lay there 
until evening, when they heard a voice commanding 
them to go forth from the place. They immediately 
rushed out and communicated the strange tale to the 
patriarch, who summoned a learned rabbi, and heard 
from him that this was indeed the tomb of the great 


king of Israel. The patriarch ordered the tomb to be 
walled lip so as to hide it effectually.” The narrator 
closes by the statement, “The above-mentioned rabbi 
told me all this.” About the middle of the 15th cen- 
tury the tombs are mentioned by several travellers, and 
one (Tneher of Nuremberg. A.D. 1479) says that the 
Moslems had converted the crypt, or lower story of the 
Coenaculum, into a mosque, within which were shown 
the tombs of David, Solomon, and the other kings. In 
the following century, Fiirer, a German traveller, pro- 
fesses to have visited the tombs, and gives a brief de- 
scription. “On the left of the Coenaculum, under the 
choir, is a large vaulted cave ; from it we come by a 
narrow passage, shut in by wooden rails, to an arch on 
the left, in which is a very long and lofty monument cut 
entirely out of the rock, with carving admirably exe- 
cuted. Under this are buried David, Solomon, and the 
other kings of Judah.” This account also partakes of 
the marvellous, and must be received with caution. It 
is a fact, however, that Jews, Christians, and Moslems 
have now for more than four centuries agreed in regard- 
ing the Coenaculum as the spot beneath which the dust 
of the kings of'Judah lies. Numbers of Jews may be 
often seen standing close to the venerable building, look- 
ing with affectionate sadness towards the spot. In 1839 
Sir Moses Montefiore and his party were admitted to the 
mosque. They were led to a trellised doorway, through 
which they saw the tomb, but they were not permitted 
to enter. A few years ago an American lady, daughter 
of Dr. Barclay, was enabled, through the kindness of a 
Mohammedan lady friend, to enter and sketch the sacred 
chamber. She says, “The room is insignificant in its 
dimensions, but is furnished very gorgeously. The tomb 
is apparently an immense sarcophagus of rough stone, 
and is covered by green satin tapestry richly embroid- 
ered with gold. A satin canopy of red, blue, green, and 
yellow stripes hangs over the tomb ; and another piece 
of black velvet tapestry embroidered in silver covers a 
door in one end of the room, which, they said, leads to 
a cave underneath. Two tall silver candlesticks stand 
before this door, and a little lamp hangs in a window 
near it, which is kept constantly burning” ( City of the 
Great King, p. 212). The real tomb, if it be in this 
place, must be in the cave below. The structure cov- 
ered with satin and described by Miss Barclay is merely 
a cenotaph, like those in the mosque at Hebron. When 
both mosque and cave are thrown open, and full oppor- 
tunity given for the search, then, and not till then, can 
it be satisfactorily established that the royal tombs are 
or are not in this place (Porter, Hand-book for Palestine, 
p. 181 sq.). 

Besides the kings above enumerated, Manasseh was, 
according to the book of Chronicles (2 Chron. xxxiii, 
20) buried in his own house, which the book of Kings 
(2 Kings xxi, 18) explains as the “garden of his own 
house, the garden of Uzza,” where his son Anion was 
buried, also, it is said, in his own sepulchre (ver. 2G); 


SEPULCHRE 


559 


SEPULCHRE 



but we have nothing; that would enable us to indicate 
where this was; and Ahaz, the wicked king, was, ac- 
cording to the book of Chronicles (2 Chron. xxviii, 27), 
“ buried in the city, even in Jerusalem, and they brought 
him not into the sepulchres of the kings of Israel.” 
The fact of these last three kings having been idola- 
ters, though one reformed, and their having all three 
been buried apparently in the city, proves what im- 
portance the Jews attached to the locality of the sepul- 
chre, but also tends to show that burial within the city, 
or the enclosure of a dwelling, was not so repulsive to 
their feelings as is generally supposed. It is just pos- 
sible that the rock -cut sepulchre under the western 
wall of the present Church of the Holy Sepulchre may 
be the remains of such a cemetery as that in which the 
wicked kings were buried. 

For the sepulchres of the Maccabees, see Momx. 
For the modern or traditionary “Tombs of the Kings” 
near Jerusalem, see below. 

3. The “ Tombs of the Prophets .” — The neighborhood 
of Jerusalem is thickly studded with tombs, many of 
them of great antiquity. A succinct but valuable ac- 
count of them is given in Porter’s Hand-book (p. 143 
sq.) ; but it is only necessary in this article to refer to 
two or three of the most celebrated. The only im- 
portant hvpogeum which is wholly Jewish in its ar- 
rangements, and may consequently belong to an earlier, 
or to any epoch, is that known as the Tombs of the 
Prophets in the western dank of the Mount of Olives. 
See Olivet. “Through a long descending gallery, 
the first part of which is winding, we enter a circular 
chamber about twenty-four feet in diameter and ten 
high, having a hole in its roof. From this chamber 
two parallel galleries, ten feet high and five wide, are 
carried southwards through the rock for about sixty 
feet; a third diverges south-east, extending forty feet. 
They are connected by two cross galleries in concentric 
curves, one at their extreme end, t lie other in the mid- 
dle. The outer one is 115 feet long and has a range 
of thirty niches on the level of its door, radiating out- 
wards. Two small chambers with similar niches also 
open into it.” This tomb, or series of tombs, has every 
appearance of having originally been a natural cavern 
improved by art, and with an external gallery some 140 
feet in extent, into which twenty-seven deep or Jew- 


ish loculi open. Oth- 
er chambers and lo- 
culi have been com- 
menced in other parts, 
and in the passages 
t h ere a re spaces wh e re 
many other graves 
could have been lo- 
cated, all which would 
tend to show that it 
had been disused be- 
fore completed, and 
con seq ue n t lv w as very 
modern. Put, be this 
as it. may, it has no 
architectural mould- 
ings, no sarcophagi or 
shallow loculi, noth- 
ing to indicate a for- 
eign origin, and may 
therefore be consid- 
ered, if not an early, 
at least as the most 
essentially Jewish of 
the sepulchral exca- 
vations in this local- 
ity — every other im- 
portant sepulchral ex- 
cavation being adorn- 
ed with architectural 
features and details 
betraying most un- 
mistakably their Greek or Roman origin, and fixing 
their date, consequently, as subsequent to that of the 
Maccabees; or, in other words, like every other detail 
of pre-Christian architecture in Jerusalem, they belong 
to the 140 years that elapsed from the advent of Pom- 
pev till the destruction of the city by Titus. 

4. The “ Tombs of the Kiin/s.” — The most important 
of the great groups in the vicinity of Jerusalem is that 
known as Kebur es- Multan, or the Royal Caverns, so 
called because of their magnificence, and also because 
that name is applied to them by Josephus, who, in de- 
scribing the third wall, mentions them (er 7 nj\«t« (3a - 
(n\uca [lFur, v, 4, 2]). lly some, however, they are 
identified with the Monument of Herod (ibid. 3, 2 ; 12, 
2); by others, as Robinson and Porter, with the tomb 
of Helena, the widowed queen of Monobazus, king of 
Adiabene. She became a proselyte to Judaism, and 
fixed her residence at Jerusalem, whore she relieved 
many of the poor during the famine predicted by Aga- 
bus in the days of Claudius Ciesar (Acts xi, 28), and 
built for herself a tomb, as we learn from Josephus (Jm/. 
xx, 2, 1 sq. ; 4, 3 ; JFor, v, 2, 2 ; 4, 2 ; Pansan. viii, 1(>, 5 ; 
Euseb. ii, 12; Jerome, Epit. Pauhe). See Jerusalem. 
Into the question of the origin of these tombs it is, 
however, unnecessary to enter; but their structure 
claims our attention. They are excavated out of 



Fnjade of the Entrance to the “Tombs of the Kings.” 


SEPULCHRE 560 SEPULCHRE 





Plan of the “Tombs of the Judges.” 

with ledges in front to give convenient access, and to 
support the stones that closed them; the lower flush 
with the ground : the whole, consequently, so essential- 
ly Jewish that it might be of any age if it were not for 
its distance from the town, and its architectural char- 
acter. The latter, as before stated, is identical with 
that of the Tomb of Jehoshaphat, and has nothing Jew- 
ish about it. It might, of course, be difficult to prove 


the rock. The traveller passes through a low arched 
doorway into a court ninety-two feet long by eighty- 
seven wide. On the western side is a vestibule or 
porch thirty-nine feet wide. The open front was sup- 
ported by two columns in the middle. Along the front 
extend a deep frieze and cornice, the former richly or- 
namented. At the southern side of the vestibule is the 
entrance to the tomb. The architecture exhibits the 
same ill-understood Koman-Doric arrangements as are 
found in all these tombs, mixed with bunches of grapes, 
which first appear on Maccaba?an coins, and foliage 
which is local and peculiar, and, so far as anything is 
known elsewhere, might be of any age. Its connection, 
however, with that of the tombs of Jehoshaphat and 
the Judges fixes it to the same epoch. The entrance 
doorway of this tomb is below the level of the ground, 
and concealed, so far as anything can be said to be 
which is so architecturally adorned; and it is remark- 
able as the only instance of this quasi-concealment at 
Jerusalem. It is closed by a very curious and elabo- 
rate contrivance of a rolling 
stone, often described, but very 
clumsily answering its pur- 
pose. This, also, is charac- 
teristic of its age, as we know 
from Pausanias that the struc- 
tural marble monument of 
queen Helena of Adiabene 
was remarkable for a similar 
piece of misplaced ingenui- 
ty. Within, the tomb con- 
Rolling Stone at the Door sists of a vestibule or entrance- . 
of the^“ Tombs of the hall about twenty feet square, 

’ from which three other square 

apartments open, each surrounded by deep loculi. These 
again possess a peculiarity not known in any other tomb 
about Jerusalem, of having a square apartment either 
beyond the head of the loculus or on one side: as, for in- 
stance, a a have their inner chambers, a' a', within, but. 
p» and b, at b' b', on one side. What the purpose of 
these was it is difficult to guess, but, at all events, it is 
not Jewish. But perhaps the most remarkable peculi- this, as we know so little of what Jewish architecture 
arity of the hvpogeum is the sarcophagus chamber n, really is; but we do know that the pediment is more 
in which two sarcophagi were found, one of which was essentially a Greek invention than any other part of 
brought home by I)e 8a nicy, and is now in the Louvre, their architecture, and was introduced at least not pre- 
5. The “ Tombs of the Judges ” — The hvpogeum now viously to the age of the Cvpseluke, and this peculiar 
known by this name is one of the most remarkable of form not till long afterwards, and this particular exam- 
the catacombs around Jerusalem, containing about sixty pie not till after an age when the debased Iloman of 
deep loculi, arranged in three stories; the upper stories the Tomb of Absalom bad become possible. 

6. Tombs in the 
Valley of Jehosha- 
phat . — There are 
three conspicuous 
sepulch res here, 
which we briefly 
describe in the or- 
der in which they 
occur, beginning at 
the sonth. See JE- 
HOSHAPHAT, YAL- 
LEY OF. 

(1.) The so-called 
“Tomb of Zecha- 
riah,” said to have 
been constructed in 
honor of Zechari- 
ah, who was slain 
“between the tem- 
ple and the altar” 
in the reign of 
Joash (2 Chron. 
xxiv, 21 ; Matt, 
xxiii, 35 ), is held 
in great veneration 
by the Jews. It is 

PUm of the » Tombs of the Kings.” doubtful, however, 


Facade of the “Tombs of the Judges.” 


SEPULCHRE 


501 SEPULCHRE 



“ Tomb of Zechnriah.” 


whether it be a tomb at all, and the style of architect- 
ure can scarcely be earlier than our a?ra. It bears a 
considerable resemblance to the so-called Tomb of Ab- 
salom, the northernmost of the three. It consists of 
a square solid basement, measuring eighteen feet six 
inches each way, and twenty feet high to the top of 
the cornice. On each face are lour engaged Ionic col- 
umns between a litre, and these are surmounted, not by 
an Egyptian cornice, as is usually asserted, but by one 
of purely Assyrian type, such as is found at Khorsabad. 

As the Ionic or voluted order came 
also from Assyria, this example is, in 
fact, a purer specimen of the Ionic 
order than any found in Europe, where 
it was always used by the Greeks with 
a quasi-Doric cornice. Notwithstand- 
ing this, in the form of the volutes — 
the egg- and -dart moulding beneath, 
and every detail — it is so distinctly 
Homan that it is impossible to assume 

Section of Stylo- t j iat belongs to an earlier age than 
hntp nt Khop- - ° 

sabad that of tlicir influence. Above the 

cornice is a pyramid rising at rather a 
sharp angle, and hewn, like all the rest, out of the solid 
rock. It may further be remarked that only the out- 
ward face, or that fronting Jerusalem, is completely fin- 
ished, the other three being only blocked out (De Saul- 
cy, ii, 803), a circumstance that would lead us to suspect 
that the works may have been interrupted by the fall 
of Jerusalem, or some such catastrophe; and this may 
possibly also account for there being no sepulchre on its 
rear, if such be really the case. To call this building a 
tomb is evidently a misnomer, as it is absolutely solid 
— hewn out of the living rock by cutting a passage 
around it. It lias no external chambers, nor even the 
semblance of a doorway. From what is known of the 
explorations carried on by M. Kenan about Bvblus, we 
should expect that the tomb, properiy so called, would 
be an excavation in the passage behind the monolith 
— but none such has been found (probably it was never 
looked for) — and that this monolith is the stele or indi- 
cator of that fact. If it be so, it is very singular, though 
very Jewish, that any one should take the trouble to 
carve out such a monument without putting an inscrip- 
tion or symbol on it to mark its destination or to tell in 
whose honor it was erected. 

(2.) The middle tomb of this group, called that of 
St. James, is of a very different character. It consists 
of a veranda with two Doric pillars in antis, which may 
be characterized as belonging to a very late Greek or- 
der rather than a Roman example. Behind this screen 
IX.— N n 



Plan of the “Tomb of St. Janies.” 


are several apartments, which in another locality we 
might be justified in calling a rock-cut monastery ap- 
propriated to sepulchral purposes, but in Jerusalem we 
know so little that it is necessary to pause before ap- 
plying any such designation. In the *rear of all is an 
apartment, apparently unfinished, with three shallow 
loculi, meant for the reception of sarcophagi, and so in- 
dicating a post- Jewish date for the whole, or at least for 
that part, of the excavation. 

(3.) The remaining or so-called Tomb of Absalom 
is somewhat larger, the base being about twenty-one 
feet square in plan, and probably twenty-three or twen- 
ty-four to the top of the cornice. Like the other, it is 
of the Roman-Ionic order, surmounted by a cornice of 
Ionic type; but between the pillars and the cornice a 
frieze, unmistakably of the Roman-Dorie order, is in- 
troduced, so Roman as to be in itself quite sufficient to 
fix its epoch. It is by no means clear whether it had 
originally a pvramidical top like its neighbor. The 
existence of a square blocking above the cornice would 
lead us to suspect it had not; at all events, either at 
the time of its excavation or subsequently this was re- 
moved, and the present very peculiar termination erect- 
ed, raising its height to over sixty feet. At the time 
this was done a chamber was excavated in the base, 
we must assume for sepulchral purposes, though how 
a body could be introduced through the narrow hole 
above the cornice is by no means clear, nor, if inserted, 



Angle of the “Tomb of Absalom.” 




SEPULCHRE 


562 


SEPULCHRE 


how disposed of in the two very narrow loculi that ex- 
ist. The great interest of this excavation is, that im- 
mediately in rear of the monolith we do tind just such 
a sepulchral cavern as we should expect. It is called 
the Tomb of Jehoshaphat, with about the same amount 
of discrimination as governed the nomenclature of the 
others, but is now closed by the rubbish and stones 
thrown by the pious at the Tomb of the Undutiful Son, 
and consequently its internal arrangements are un- 
known ; but externally it is crowned by a pediment of 
considerable beauty, and in the same style as that of 
the Tombs of the Judges, mentioned above — show- 
ing that these two, at least, are of the same age, and 
that this one, certainly, must have been subsequent to 
the excavation of the monolith; so that we may feel 
perfectly certain that the two groups are of one age, 
even if it should not be thought quite clear what that 
age may be. See Absalom’s Pillar. 

7. Other Gr ceco- Roman Tombs. — Besides the tombs 
above enumerated, there are around Jerusalem, in the 
valleys of Hinnom and Jehoshaphat, and on the plateau 
to the north, a number of remarkable rock-cut sepul- 
chres, with more or less architectural decoration, suffi- 
cient to enable us to ascertain that they are all of nearly 
the same age, and to assert with very tolerable confi- 
dence that the epoch to which they belong must be be- 
tween the introduction of Homan influence and the de- 
struction of the city by Titus. The proof of this would 
be easy if it were not that, like everything Jewish, 
there is a remarkable absence of inscriptions which can 
be assumed to be original. The excavations in the 
Valley of Hinnom with Greek inscriptions are compar- 
atively modern, the inscriptions being all of Christian 
import, and of such a nature as to render it extremely 
doubtful whether the chambers were sepulchral at all, 
and not rather the dwellings of ascetics, and originally 
intended to be used for this purpose. These, however, 
are neither the most important nor the most architect- 
ural — indeed, none of those in that valley are so remark- 
able as those in the other localities just enumerated. 
The most important of those in the Valley of Hinnom 
is that known as the “ Hetreat-place of the Apostles.” 
It is an unfinished excavation of extremely late date, 
and many of the others look much more like dwellings 
for the living than resting-places of the dead. 

In the village of Siloam there is a monolithic cell of 
singularly Egyptian aspect, which De Saulcy (Vot/ape 
antour de la Aler Aforte, ii, 306) assumes to be a chapel 
of Solomon’s Egyptian wife. It is probably of very 
much more modern date, and is more Assyrian than 
Egyptian in character; but as he is probably quite cor- 
rect in stating that it is not sepulchral, it is only neces- 
sary to mention it here in order that it may not be con- 
founded with those that are so. It is the more worthy 
of remark, as one of the great difficulties of the subject 
arises from travellers too readily assuming that every 
cutting in the rock must he sepulchral. It may be so in 
Egypt, but it certainly was not so at Cvrene or Petra, 
where many of the excavations were either temples or 
monastic establishments; and it certainly was not univer- 
sally the case at Jerusalem, though our information is fre- 
quently too scanty to enable, us always to discriminate ex- 
actly to which class the cutting in the rock may belong. 

The same remarks as are above made respecting the 
“Tombs of the Judges” apply to the tomb without a 
name, and merely called “a Jewish tomb,” in their 
neighborhood, with bevelled facets over its fa 9 ade, but 
with late Boman-Doric details at its angles, sufficient 
to indicate its epoch ; but there is nothing else about 
these tombs requiring especial mention (see Thomson, 
Land, and Book , ii, 492). 

The comparative lateness of the so-called sepulchre 
of Gamaliel and other rabbins at. Meirfm is proved by 
the presence of sarcophagi still within them (Thomson, 
Land and Book , i, 433). 

Since the destruction of Jerusalem by Titus, none of 
the native inhabitants have been in a position to in- 


dulge in much sepulchral magnificence, or perhaps had 
any taste for this class of display; and we in conse- 
quence find no rock -cut hypogea, and no structural 
monuments that arrest attention in modern times. 

IV. Comparison with Alodem Oriental Tombs. — The 
style of the public cemeteries around the cities of an- 
cient Palestine in all probability resembled that of the 
present burying-places of the East, of which Dr. Shaw 
gives the following description : “They occupy a large 
space, a great extent of ground being allotted for the 
purpose. Each family has a portion of it walled in like 
a garden, where the bones of its ancestors have remained 
undisturbed for many generations. For in these enclos- 
ures the graves are all distinct and separate; each of 
them having a stone placed upright, both at the head 
and feet, inscribed with the name or title of the de- 
ceased; while the intermediate space is either planted 
with flowers, bordered round with stone, or paved with 
tiles.” Examples of these tombs are given in the ac- 



companying cuts. By these it is seen that, as among 
people in good circumstances, the monumental stones 
are placed upon quadrangular tombs, in the centre of 
which evergreen or flowering shrubs are often planted, 
and tended with much care. There were other sepul- 
chres which were private property, erected at the ex- 
pense and for the use of several families in a neighbor- 
hood, or provided by individuals as a separate bnrying- 
place for themselves. These were situated either in 
some conspicuous place, as Rachel’s on the highway to 
Bethlehem (Gen. xxxv, 19), or in some lonely and se- 
questered spot, under a wide -spreading tree (ver. 8) 
in a field or a garden. Over such garden tombs, espe- 
cially when the tomb is that of some holy person, lamps 



SEPULCHRE 


563 


SEPULCHRE 



are sometimes hung and occasionally lighted. The 
graves of the most eminent Mohammedan saints are 
each covered with a stone or brick edifice called wely. 
It has a dome or cupola over it, varying in height from 
eight to ten feet. Within lamps are often hung, and 
the grave proper is covered with carpet and strings of 
beads. Sometimes more costly ornamentation is used. 
In common eases, sepulchres were formed by digging a 
small depth into the ground. Over these, which were 
considered an humble kind of tomb, the wealthy and 
great often erected small stone buildings, in the form of 
a house or cupola, to serve as their family sepulelire. 
These are usually open at the sides. Sometimes, how- 
ever, these interesting monuments are built up on all 
sides, so that the walls are required to be taken down, 
and a breach made, to a certain extent, on each succes- 
sive interment. “This custom,” says Game, “which is 
of great antiquity, and particularly prevails in the lonely 
parts of Lebanon, may serve to explain some passages 
of Scripture. The prophet Samuel was buried in his 
own house at Ramah, and Joab was buried in his house 
in the wilderness. These, it is evident, were not their 
dwelling-houses, but mansions for the dead, or family 
vaults which they had built within their own precincts.” 
Not unfrequentlv, however, those who had large estab- 
lishments, and whose fortunes enabled them to com- 
mand the assistance of human art and labor, purchased, 



like Abraham, some of the natural caverns with which 
Palestine abounded, and converted them by some suita- 
ble alterations into family sepulchres ; while others, with 
vast pains and expense, made excavations in the solid 
rock (Matt, xxvii, GO). These, the entrance to which 
was either horizontal or by a flight of steps, had their 
roofs, which were arched with the native stone, so high 
as to admit persons standing upright, and were very 
spacious, sometimes being divided into several distinct 
apartments; in which ease the remoter or innermost 
chambers were dug a little deeper than those that were 
nearer the entrance, the approach into their darker sol- 
itudes being made by another descending stair. Many 
sepulchres of this description are still found in Pales- 
tine; but the descent into them is so choked up with 
the rubbish of ages that they are nearly inaccessible, 
and have been explored only by a few indefatigable 
hunters after antiquities. Along the sides of those vast 
caverns niches were cut, or sometimes shelves ranged 
one above another, on whiefy were deposited the bodies 
of the dead, while in others the ground-floor of the 
tomb was raised so as to make different compartments, 
the lowest place in the family vaults being reserved for 
the servants. Some of those found near Tyre, and at 
Alexandria, are of the round form shown in Fig. 1, but 
these seem exceptions; for the tombs at Jerusalem, in 





Modern Sheik’s Tomb. 


Ground-plans of Oriental Sepulchres. 

Asia Minor, and generally in Egypt and 
the East, offer the arrangements shown in 
Fig. 2. 

On modern Oriental usages, see Haekett, 
Illustrations of Scripture , p. 07-100; De 
Saulev, Dead Sea , ii, 103-1G5, 170; Thom- 
son, Land and Book, i, 148 sq. ; Van Len- 
nep, Bible Lands, p. 579 sq. ; Lane, Modern 
Egyptians, i, 2G7, 359, etc.; and on ancient 
sepulture, the monographs cited by Volbe- 
ding, Index Programmatum, p. 49, GG, G7 ; 
and llase, Leben Jesit, p. 217; and those re- 
ferred to under Funeral. 

SEPULCHRE. OF CHRIST. This has 
been alluded to in the foregoing article, but 
the interest of the subject demands a fuller 
treatment. The traditional site is now oc- 
cupied by the “Church of the Iloly Sepul- 
chre,” and the question of the identity of 
the locality is fully discussed under Cal- 
vary ; Golgotha. Its general position is 
sufficiently indicated under Jerusalem, and 
in the maps accompanying that article and 
Palestine. A full description of the build- 




SEPULCHRE 


564 


SEPULCHRE 


ing is given by Porter, Hand-book for Palestine, p. 155 
sq. ; also in the various books of travels in the Holy 
Land. Wc have only space for a brief outline of this 
extensive and interesting structure, which will be intel- 
ligible by the aid of the annexed plan. 

1. Exterior . — The approach to it from every direction 
lies through narrow, filthy lanes, and small bazaars gen- 
erally tilled with ragged Arab women, the venders of veg- 
etables and snails, the latter of which are much eaten here, 
especially during Lent. After many crooked turnings we 
arrive in the large square court in front of the church. 
Here the scene exhibited, in the height of the pilgrim 
season, is of the most motley and extraordinary appear- 
ance. On the upper raised steps are tables spread with 
coffee, sherbet, sweetmeats, and refreshments; through- 
out the court are seated peddlers and the IJethlehemitc 
venders of holy merchandise, such as crosses, beads, ro- 
saries and amulets, and mother-of-pearl shells, which 
are generally brought from the lied Sea, and engraved 
with religious subjects chiselled in relief; models of the 
Holy Sepulchre in wood inlaid with mother-of-pearl, 
and drinking-cups from the deposits of the Jordan, with 
verses from the Bible engraved on them ; they are near- 
ly as black as ebony, and take a fine polish. Through 
these wares hundreds of persons pass and repass — pil- 
grims of many nations in their different costumes ; Lat- 
in, Armenian, Russian, Greek, and Coptish friars, with 
Turkish, Arnaout, and Arab soldiers — all forming the' 
most extraordinary scene that could be found in any 
spot upon the globe; and a polyglot language is heard 
such as few other places in the world could exhibit. 

The key of the church is kept by the governor of the 
city; the door is guarded by a Turk, and opened only 
at fixed hours, and then only with the consent of the 
three convents and in the presence of the several drago- 
mans, an arrangement which often causes great and vex- 
atious delays to such as desire admittance. This formal- 
ity was probably intended for solemnity and effect, but 
its consequence is exactly the reverse; for as soon as 
the door is opened the pilgrims, who have almost all 
been kept waiting for some time and have naturally be- 
come impatient, rush in, struggling with each other, 
overturning the dragomans, and are thumped by the 
Turkish doorkeeper, and driven, like a herd of wild ani- 
mals, into the body of the church. 


2. First Interior Room. — Supposing, then, the rush 
over, and the traveller to have recovered from its effects, 
he will find himself in a large apartment, forming a sort of 
vestibule; on the left, in a recess in the wall, is a large 
divan, cushioned and carpeted, where the Turkish door- 
keeper is usually sitting with half-a-dozen of his friends, 
smoking the long pipe and drinking coffee, and always 
conducting himself with great dignity and propriety. 
Directly in front, within the body of the church, hav- 
ing at each end three enormous wax candles more than 
twenty feet high, and a number of silver lamps sus- 
pended above it of different sizes and fashions — gifts 
from the Catholic, Greek, and Armenian convents — is a 
long fiat stone called the “ Stone of Unction,” and on this 
it is said the body of onr Lord was laid when taken 
down from the cross and washed and anointed in prepa- 
ration for sepulture. This is the first object that ar- 
rests the pilgrims on their entrance, and here they pros- 
trate themselves in succession, the old and the young, 
women and children, the rich man and the beggar, and 
all kiss the sacred stone. It is a slab of polished white 
marble, and only does duty as a substitute for the gen- 
uine stone, which is said to be beneath it: but this con- 
sideration in no degree affects the multitude or the fer- 
vor of the kisses it receives. As you advance towards 
the stone you have Mount Calvary immediately on your 
right hand. 

Beyond the Stone of Unction the traveller finds him- 
self in the body of the church, a spaee of about 300 feet 
in length and 1G0 in breadth. In front his progress is 
arrested by the southern exterior of the Greek Chapel, 
which occupies more than half the great area; on his 
left, at the western end, is a circular space about 100 
feet in diameter, surrounded by clumsy square columns, 
which support a gallery above, and a dome 150 feet, 
high, of imposing appearance and effect. This is the 
Latin Chapel, in the centre of which, immediately below 
the aperture that admits light through the dome, rises 
a small oblong building of marble, twenty feet long, 
twelve broad, and about fifteen feet in height, surmount- 
ed by a small cupola standing on columns. This little 
building is circular at the back, but square and finished 
with a platform in front. Within it is what passes for 
the Holy Sepulchre. We reserve its description for the 
last. 



Ground-plan of the Chnrch of the IIoly Sepulchre. 


1. Principal Dnnr. 

4. Tomb of Godfrey. 

6. Tomb of Baldwin. 

6. Tomb of Melclmedek. 

7. Chapel of Adnm and John the Bap 

list. 

8. Tomb of Adam. 

11. PI are where the Virgin Mary stood 
while the Body was anointed. 


13. Chapel of the Angel. 

17. Tombs of Joseph nnd Nicode- 
mns. 

19. Creek “ Centre of the World.” 
27. Where Christ nppeared to Mnry 
Magdalene. 

29. Where Mary Magdalene slnnd. 

30. Part of the Pillnr of Flagella- 

tion. 


32. Where Christ appeared to his 

Mother after the resurrec- 
tion. 

33. Place of the recognition of the 

Crnss. 

35. Place nf Christ’s Bonds. 

36. Chapel nf the Virgin. 

38. Chapel of Longinus the Centu- 
rion. 


39. Chapel of the Mocking. 

41. Chapel of St. Helena. 

42. Chapel of the Penilent Thief. 

44. Chapel of the Finding of the 

Cross. 

45. Stairs to Golgotha. 

46. Place of the Cross. 

47. Chapel of Our Lady of Sot* 

row*. 




SEPULCHRE 


565 


SEPULCHRE 


3. Holy Objects in Detail .— Leaving for a moment 
the throng that is constantly pressing at the door of 
the sepulchre, let us make the tour of the church, be- 
ginning from the south-west and proceeding by the 
north to the east, and so round to our starting-point. 
The church, be it observed, faces the four cardinal 
points. 

The first object we have to notice is an iron circular 
railing, in the shape of a large parrot’s cage, having 
within it a lamp, ami marking the spot where Mary 
watched the crucifixion “afar off.” In the arcades 
round the Latin dome are small chapels for the Syrians, 
Maronites, and other sects of Christians, who have not, 
like the Catholics, Greeks, and Armenians, large chapels 
in the body of the church. The poor Copts have noth- 
ing but a nook, about six feet square, in the western end 
of the sepulchre, which is tawdrily adorned in the man- 
ner of the Greeks. The Syrians have a small and very 
shabby recess, containing nothing but a plain altar; in 
the side there is a small door opening to a dark gallery, 
which leads, as the monks say, to the tombs of Joseph 
and Nicodemus, between w hich and that of the Saviour 
there is a subterranean communication. The tombs are 
excavated in the rock which here forms the tioor of the 
chamber. 

Farther on, and nearly in range of the front of the 
sepulchre, is a large opening, forming a sort of court to 
the entrance of the Latin Chapel. On one side is a 
gallery containing a fine organ; and the chapel itself 
is neat enough, and differs but little from those in the 
churches of Italy. The chapel in 
which the organ stands is called 
the “ Chapel of the Apparition,” 
where Christ appeared to the 
Virgin. Within the door on the 
right, in an enclosure completely 
hidden from view', is the Pillar 
of Flagellation, to which our 
Saviour w r as tied when he w r as 
scourged, before being taken into 
the presence of Pontius Pilate. 

As in this instance the holy ob- 
ject cannot be reached by the 
lips of the faithful, it is deemed 
equally efficacious to kiss it 
through another medium. A 
monk stands near the rail, and, 
touching the pillar w r ith a long 
stick that has a piece of leather 
at the point of it, like a billiard- 
cue, stretches it towards the lips 
that are ready pouting to re- 
ceive it. Only half the pillar is 
here ; the other half is in one 
of the churches in Lome, where 
may also be seen the table on 
which our Saviour ate his last 
supper with his disciples, and 
the stone on which the coek 
cnwved when Peter denied his 
Master. 

Leaving the Chapel of the 
Apparition and turning to the 
left writh our faces due east, we 
have on the right hand the 
outside of the Greek Chapel, 
which occupies the largest space 
in the body of the church, and 
on the left is a range of chapels 
and doors, the first of which leads 
to the prison where they say our 
Saviour was confined before he 
was led to the crucifixion. In 
front of the door is an unintelli- 
gible machine, described as the 
stone on which he was placed 
when put in the stocks. 


In the semicircle at the 'eastern part of the church 
there are three chapels: one of these contains the stone 
on w hich our Lord rested previously to ascending Mount 
Calvary; another is the place where the soldiers parted 
his raiment among them ; and the third marks the spot 
where Longinus, the soldier who pierced his side, passed 
the remainder of his days in penance. Ileneath one of 
the altars lies a stone having a hole through it. and 
placed in a short trough, so that it seems impossible for 
anything but a spectre to pass through the hole. Nev- 
ertheless, the achievement was a customary penance 
among the Greeks, and called by them “purgatory;” 
but latterly the Turks have in mercy guarded the stone 
by an iron grating. 

In this part also is the entrance to one of the most 
holy places in the church, the Chapel of the Cross. De- 
scending twenty-eight broad marble steps, the visitor 
comes to a large chamber eighteen paces square, dimly 
lighted by a few distant lamps; the roof is supported hv 
four short columns, with enormous capitals. In front of 
the steps is the altar, and on the right a seat on which 
the empress Helena, advised by a dream wdiere the true 
cross was to be found, sat and watched the workmen who 
were digging below 7 . Descending again fourteen steps, 
another chamber is reached, darker and more dimly 
lighted than the first, and hung with faded red tapes- 
try; a marble slab, having on it a figure of the cross, 
covers the mouth of the pit in which the true cross was 
found. 

I On reascending into the body of the church and ap- 



The “ Tomb of Christ.” 


SEPULCHRE 506 SEQUENCE 


proaching the vestibule through which we first entered, 
we find Mount Calvary on our left. This we ascend by 
a narrow marble staircase of eighteen steps, formed of a 
single stone, a fact to which the pilgrim’s attention is 
solicited by the monks as a proof that the chapel at the 
top is really founded on the natural rock. But this fact 
would prove nothing; for there is a staircase in the 
Ruspoli Palazzo at Borne of one hundred and twenty 
steps, cut from a single block of white marble. Every 
visible part of the chapel is a manifest fabric . To this 
objection it is answered that “the stone-work cases the 
rock,” which may or may not be true ; but wherever ex- 
amination might be allowed it seems to be purposely 
withheld. The chapel is about fifteen feet square, paved 
with marble in mosaic, and hung on all sides with silken 
tapestry and lamps dimly burning; it is divided by two 
short pillars, hung also with silk and supporting quad- 
rangular arches. At the extremity is a large altar, or- 
namented with paintings and figures, and under the 
altar a circular silver plate with a hole in the centre, in- 
dicating the spot in which rested the step of the cross. 
Behind the altar and separated from it by a thin wall 
is a chapel, in the centre of which is a stone marking 
the exact spot where Abraham was about to sacrifice 
Isaac; and the monks state that when the cross was laid 
down, before it was raised, our Lord’s head rested upon 
this point; they seem to consider the establishment 
of this fact necessary to the complete fulfilment of the 
type. 

Descending to the floor of the church, we are shown 
another rent in the rock, said to be a continuation of the 
one above, but so guarded by an iron grating that ex- 
amination is out of the question, as it can only be ex- 
amined by thrusting a taper through the bars. Directly 
opposite the fissure is a large mouument over the head 
of — Adam. 

The little chapel on the spot where Mary stood when 
St. John received our Lord’s dying injunction to pro- 
tect her as his mother is an appendage to Mount Cal- 
vary. 

4. The Tomb itself. — The reader will probably think 
that all these things are enough, and more than enough, 
to be comprised under one roof. Having finished the 
tour of the church, let us return to the great object of 
tha pilgrimage to Jerusalem — the Holy Sepulchre. Tak- 
ing off the shoes on the marble platform in front, the 
visitor is admitted by a low door, on entering which the 
proudest head must needs do reverence. In the centre 
of the first chamber is the stone which was rolled away 
from the mouth of the sepulchre — a square block of 
marble cut and polished ; and, though the Armenians 
have lately^ succeeded in establishing the genuineness 
of the stone in their chapel on Mount Zion (the admis- 
sion by the other monks, however, being always accom- 
panied by the assertion that they stole it), yet the infat- 
uated Greek still kisses and adores the block of marble 
as the very stone on which the angel sat when he an- 
nounced to the women, “He is not dead; he is risen; 
come and see the place where the Lord lay.” Again 
bending the head, and lower than before, the visitor 
enters the inner chamber, the holiest of holy places. 
The sepulchre “hewn out of the rock” is a marble sar- 
cophagus, somewhat resembling a common bathing- 
tub, with a lid of the same material. Over it hang 
forty-three lamps, which burn without ceasing night 
and day. The sarcophagus is six feet one inch long, 
and occupies about one half the chamber; and, one of 
the monks being always present to receive the gifts or 
tribute of the pilgrims, there is only room for three or 
four at a time to enter. The walls arc of a greenish 
marble, usually called verd-antique, and this is all. It 
will be borne in mind that all this is in a building above 
ground, standing on the lloor of the church. 

SEPULCHRE, Church of the Holy. See the 
preceding article and Jerusalem. 

SEPULCHRE, The Easter, a representation of the 


entombment of our Saviour, set up in Roman Catholic 
churches at Easter, on the north side of the chancel, 
near the altar. In England, previous to the Reforma- 
tion, it was most commonly a wooden erection, and placed 
within a recess in the wall or upon a tomb; but several 
churches still contain permanent stone structures that 
were built for the purpose, some of which are very elab- 
orate, and are ornamented with a variety of decorations, 
as at Navenby and Heckington, Lincolnshire, and Ilaw- 
tou, Nottinghamshire, all of which are beautiful sped- 



Easter Sepulchre, Stanton St. John’s, Oxfordshire. 


mens of the Decorated style. Sepulchres of this kind 
also remain in the churches at Northwold, Norfolk ; 
Holcombe Burnell, Devonshire, and several others. The 
crucifix was placed in the sepulchre with great solem- 
nity on Good -Friday, and continually watched from 
that time till Easter-dav, when it was taken out and 
replaced upon the altar with especial ceremony. — Par- 
ker, Gloss, of A rchitect. s. v. 

SEPULCHRE, Ecclesiastical, a receptacle for the 
blessed sacrament which is reserved, among the Latins, 
from the mass of Maundy-Thursday. There is a good 
example of an Eastern sepulchre in the north chapel of 
the Church of St. Mary, Haddenbam, in Buckingham- 
shire, England. 

SEPULCHRE, Regular Canons of, a religious or- 
der said to have been founded by Godfrey on the capture 
of Jerusalem in 1099. Many of these canons journeyed 
into Europe; but the order was suppressed by pope In- 
nocent VIII, and its revenues were ultimately bestowed 
on the Knights of St. John of Jerusalem. According to 
Broughton, the suppression of the order did not extend 
to Poland. — Eadie, Eccles. Cyclop, s. v. 

Sepulveda, Juan Ginez i>e, a Spanish writer, was 
born at Cordova in 1491 (or 1490). lie assisted cardi- 
nal Cajetan at Naples in the revision of the Greek Tes- 
tament. In 1529 he went to Rome, and in 1586 was ap- 
pointed chaplain and historiographer to Charles V. He 
is memorable for writing a Vindication of the Cruelties 
of the Spaniards against the Indians. Charles V sup- 
pressed the publication of the work in his dominions, 
but it was published in Rome. He died at Salamanca 
in 1572. He was the author of various works besides 
the one mentioned, in particular of some Latin Letters : 
— A Translation from Aristotle, with. Notes: — A Life 
of Charles V and Philip. II, printed together at Madrid 
(1780, 4 vols. 4 to). 

Sequence. 1 . The later name of the pnenma, a 
melodious and varied prolongation of the Hallelujah. 2. 
The announcement of the Gospel of the day when taken 
from the middle of the Gospels, but called initium when 
the opening words were to follow. On the four days 
of Holy Week the words “The Passion of our Lord Je- 
sus Christ” replaced the ordinary sequence, or initial. 
3. The name for a hymn in metre. See Prose; Se- 
quences. 


567 


SERAI All 


SEQUENCES 


Sequences. In chanting the Graduate in the Mass 
it was customary to prolong the last syllables of the 
Hallelujah through a succession of notes without words, 
which were termed sequences , when considered in their 
combination, and jubila or jubilationes with reference to 
their character. They were intended to indicate that 
feeling had reached a point at which it was too strong 
for expression. The difficulty of retaining a long series 
of notes in the memory led to efforts for devising mne- 
monic helps, which eventually resulted in the adoption 
of suitable rhythmical language in Latin prose to tit the 
music — Notker Balbulus (q. v. ; died 912), a monk of 
St. Gall, being especially distinguished in accomplish- 
ing this kind of work. The idea was suggested to him 
by some verses which were modulated or fitted to the 
series of tones in an antiphonarium belonging to a fugi- 
tive priest of Gimedia. He attempted to improve on 
them, and with such success that his teacher, Marcellus, 
a Scotchman, had his verses collected and sung by his 
pupils; and also persuaded Notker to dedicate his work 
to some prominent personage and give it to the world. 
Notker thus became the originator of an edifying ele- 
ment of worship, which was approved by the popes and 
speedily introduced into wider circles; and as he not only 
used the succession of tones already current — the metten- 
sis major and minor , the Ronutna and A nucua — but also 
composed new series of notes, he became the creator of 
an elevating, melodious choir music which was insert- 
ed in the Mass. Each piece was divided into several 
parts and provided with an appropriate conclusion ; and, 
in like manner, the text, which was everywhere adapt- 
ed to the melody, consisted of a number of shorter or 
longer sections. A poetic character was thus naturally 
given to the text, and such compositions were conse- 
quently called “hymns” — a term that is not misplaced 
when applied to those written by Notker. They were 
hymns of praise in which the leading features of a fes- 
tival, the faithful support of the Almighty God, the Re- 
deemer’s merits, the dignity of the Blessed Virgin, etc., 
are fervently presented; while in their intent they were 
a continuation of the Hallelujah in the Gradual, though 
they might also be separately employed. 

These sequences were introduced into use in Ger- 
many, England, France, and other countries. Notker’s 
works became the type, and imitations in great number 
followed, until they were employed to edify the people 
at every festival; and more than one hundred were con- 
tained in the mass-books. The revised Roman Missal 
contains but five — viz. one to the Paschal lamb, intend- 
ed for Easter; one for Pentecost ( Veni iSancte /Spirit ns) ; 
one for Corpus-Christi Day ( Lauda , Sion, Salcatorem , 
by Thomas Aquinas); one intended to glorify the Ma- 
ter Dolorosa (the celebrated Stabat Mater by Jacopo- 
nus) ; and one for use in masses pro defunctis , Thomas 
de Celano’s judgment-hymn Dies I me. The last two are 
most unlike the early sequences, as the Hallelujah could 
not be chanted with them; but they are at bottom ju- 
bilee hymns like the others. — Ilerzog, Real- Ency klop. 
s. v. 

Sequentiale is the name given to the book in 
which the sequences (q. v.) were contained. It was 
necessary to the Church so long as a complete missal 
comprehending all parts of the mass was not in use; af- 
ter this had been provided the sequentiale was required 
only by the singers. 

Sequestration, a terra employed to signify the 
separating or setting- aside of a thing in controversy 
from the possession of both parties who contend for it. 
It is twofold — voluntary and necessary. Voluntary se- 
questration is that which is done by consent of each 
party ; necessary is that which the judge, of his own au- 
thority, does, whether the party consents or not. Se- 
questration is also a kind of execution for debt on a 
benefice, issued by the bishop, by which the profits are 
to be paid to the creditor. 

SEQUESTRATION, English. When a judgment 


has been obtained against a beneficed clergyman, and 
that judgment remains unsatisfied, the party entitled to 
the fruits of the judgment is obliged to levy the sum 
recovered by an execution. In the first instance he is- 
sues the ordinary writ of execution, called a Jieri facias, 
to which all persons are subject, directing the sheriff to 
levy the amount upon the goods and chattels of the de- 
faulter. If the sheriff is able to do so, the amount is 
levied, and there is an end of the matter; if, on the 
other hand, he cannot find goods and chattels sufficient, 
he returns the writ to the court, stating his inability, 
and certifying that the individual lias a rectory or other 
ecclesiastical benefice, as the case may be, in the county. 
Upon this return a writ of sequestration, called either a 
levari facias de bonis ecclesiasticis , or a sequestrari faci- 
as, according to the mode in which it is drawn up, is- 
sues to the bishop of the diocese, requiring him to levy 
the amount upon the ecclesiastical goods of the clergy- 
man. Upon this writ the bishop or his officer makes 
out a sequestration, directed to the church-wardens or 
persons named by the bishop, or, upon proper security, 
to persons named by the party who issues the writ, re- 
quiring them to sequestrate the tithes and other profits 
of the benefice ; which sequestration should be forthwith 
published, not by reading it in church during divine 
service (a ceremony which is, in our opinion, abolished 
by the second section of 7 William IV, and 1 Victoria, 
c. 45), but by affixing a notice of its contents at or near 
the church door before the commencement of the ser- 
vice, as required by that statute. The sequestration is 
a continuing charge upon the benefice, and the bishop 
may be called upon from time to time to return to the 
court an account of what has been levied under it. The 
court has the same power over the bishop that it has 
over a sheriff in respect of ordinary writs of execution ; 
and if the bishop is negligent in the performance of his 
duty, or returns an untrue account of the proceedings 
under the writ, he is liable, in the same way as the sher- 
iff is liable, to an action at the suit of the party damni- 
fied thereby. Sequestration is also a process of the ec- 
clesiastical courts. When a benefice is full, the profits 
may be sequestered if the incumbent neglects his cure; 
and if there be a vacancy, the profits are to be seques- 
tered, and to be applied so far as necessary in providing 
for the service of the cure during the vacancy, the suc- 
cessor being entitled to the surplus. — Eadie, Eccles . 
Cyclop, s. v. 

Se'rall (Heb./S'eVac^, rn : r, perhaps overflow; Sept, 
in Gen. Edpa [v. r. -opt], but in Chron. 'Sapai [v. r. 
Sctrrp]; also written “Sarah” [q. v.] in Numb, xxvi, 
40), the daughter of Asher, son of Jacob (Gen. xlvi, 17 ; 
Numb, xxvi, 40; 1 Chron. vii, 30). B.C. cir. 1804. The 
mention of a female in a list of this kind, in which no 
others of her sex are named, and contrary to the usual 
practice of the Jews, seems to indicate something ex- 
traordinary in connection with her history or circum- 
stances. This has sufficed to excite the evcr-active 
imaginations of the rabbins, and the Jews fable that 
she was very remarkable for piety and virtue, and was 
therefore privileged to be the first person to tell Jacob 
that his son Joseph was still living (Gen. xlv, 20). on 
which account she was translated alive (like Enoch) to 
paradise, where, according to the ancient book Zohar, 
are four mansions or palaces, each presided over by an 
illustrious woman, viz. Sarah, daughter of Asher, the 
daughter of Pharaoh who brought up Moses; Jocliebed, 
mother of Moses; and Deborah the prophetess. 

Serai'ah (Ileb. Seruyah', PP'v.p [once in the pro- 
longed form, Seraya'hu, ^irp'iir, Jer. xxxvi, 2G], war- 
rior of Jehovah; Sept. Zapata £ or S.tpata, but with 
many v. rr.), the proper name of eight men. 

1. Second-named sou of Kenaz, and father of a Joab 
who was head of a family of (he tribe of Judah in the 
valley of the Charashim (1 Chron. iv, 13, 14). B.C. 
cir. 15G0. 


SEllAPHIC DOCTOR 


568 


SERAPION 


2 . The scribe or secretary of David (2 Sam. viii, 17). 
B.C. cir. 1015. This person’s name is in other places 
corrupted into Sheya', ; A. V. “Sheva” (2 Sam. 
xx, 25), “Shisha,” XUpuj (1 Kings iv, 3), and “Shav- 
sha.” xrvj (1 Chron. xviii, IG). 

3 . Son of Asiel and father of Josibiah of the tribe of 
Simeon (1 Chron. iv, 35). B.C. ante 720. 

4 . The son of Azriel, and one of the persons charged 
with the apprehension of Jeremiah and Baruch (Jer, 
xxxvi, 2G). B.C. GOG. 

5 . The son of Neriah and brother of Baruch (.Ter. li, 
59, Gl). lie held a high office in the court of king 
Zedekiah, the nature of which is somewhat uncertain. 
In the A. V. we have, “ This Seraiah was a quiet prince,” 
nm:*? “lb, which, according to Kimchi, means a cham- 
berlain, or one who attended the king when he retired 
to rest (i. e. prince of rest) ; but better, perhaps, accord- 
ing to Gesenius, “chief of the quarters” for the king and 
his army, that is, quartermaster-general, after the mean- 
ing of menuchah as a halting-place of an army (Numb, 
x, 33). The suggestion of Maurer, adopted by Hitzig, 
has more to commend it, that he was an officer who took 
charge of the royal caravan on its march, and fixed the 
place where it should halt. Hiller ( Onomast .) says Se- 
raiah was prince of Menuchah, a place on the borders 
of Judah and Dan, elsewhere called Manahath. This 
Seraiah was sent by Zedekiah on an embassy to Baby- 
lon, probably to render his submission to that monarch, 
about four years before the fall of Jerusalem. B.C. 594. 
He was charged by Jeremiah to communicate to the 
Jews already in exile a book in which the prophet had 
written out his prediction of all the evil that should 
come upon Babylon (Jer. li, 60-G4). It is not stated 
how Seraiah acquitted himself of his task; but that he 
accepted it at all shows such respect for the prophet as 
may allow us to conclude that he would not neglect the 
duty which it imposed. 

6. The high-priest at the time that Jerusalem was 
taken by the Chahkeans. B.C. 58S. He was sent pris- 
oner to Nebuchadnezzar at Riblah, who put him to 
death (2 Kings xxv, 18; 1 Chron, vi, 14; Jer. lii, 24; 
Ezra vii, 1). 

7 . The son of Tanhumeth the Netophathite, and one 
of those to whom Gedaliah promised security (2 Kings 
xxv, 23; Jer. xl, 8). B.C. 587. 

8. A priest, the son of Hilkiah, who returned from 
exile (Ezra ii, 2, Neh. x, 2; xi, 11 ; xii, 1, 12). He is 
called Azariah (q, v.) in Neh. vii, 7. B.C. 53G. 

Seraphic Doctor. See Bonavestura. 

Seraphic Hymn, the Ter-sandns, or “Holy, holy, 
holy,” which concludes the preface in the communion 
service. Its basis is found in Isa. vi, 3. The hymn it- 
self occurs in every ancient liturgy. It must not be 
confounded with the Trisagion (q. v.). 

Ser'aphim (lleb. Seraphim', Sept. Sspa- 

<pip, or Seraphs; the plural of the word rpb, saraph), 
celestial beings described in Isa. vi, 2-6 as an order of 
angels or ministers of God, who stand around his throne, 
having each six wings, and also hands and feet, and 
praising God with their voices. They were therefore, 
of human form, and, like the Cherubim, furnished with 
wings as the swift messengers of God. Some have in- 
deed identilied the Cherubim and Seraphim as the same 
beings, but under names descriptive of different quali- 
ties; Seraphim denoting the burning and dazzling ap- 
pearance of the beings elsewhere described as Cherubim . 
It would be dillieult either to prove or disprove this; 
but there are differences between the Cherubim of Eze- 
kiel and the Seraphim of Isaiah which it does not ap- 
pear easy to reconcile. The “living creatures” of the 
former prophet had four wings; the “Seraphim” of the 
latter, six; and while the Cherubim had four faces, the 
Seraphim had but one (comp. Isa. vi, 2, 3; Ezek. i, 
5-12). If the figures were in all cases purely sym- 


bolical, the difference does not signify (see Hendewerk, 
I)e Seraph . et Cherub, non Diversis [Reg. 1836]). See 
Cherubim. There is much symbolical force and pro- 
priety in the attitude in which the Seraphim are de- 
scribed as standing, while two of their wings were kept 
ready for instant flight in the service of God; with two 
others they hid their face to express their unworthiness 
to look upon the Divine Majesty (see Exod. iii, G; 1 
Kings xix, 13 ; comp. Plutarch, (luiest. Rom. vol. x), and 
with two others they covered their feet, or the whole of 
the lower part of their bodies — a practice which still 
prevails in the East when persons appear in a monarch’s 
presence (see Lowth, ad loc.). Their occupation was 
twofold — to celebrate the praises of Jehovah’s holiness 
and power (Isa. vi, 3), and to act as the medium of com- 
munication between heaven and earth (ver. 6). From 
their antiphonal chant (“one cried unto another”) we 
may conceive them to have been ranged in opposite 
rows on each side of the throne. As the Seraphim are 
nowhere else mentioned in the Bible, our conceptions 
of their appearance must be restricted to the above par- 
ticulars, aided by such uncertain light as etymology and 
analogy will supply. We may observe that the idea 
of a winged human figure was not peculiar to the He- 
brews: among the sculptures found at Mourghaub, in 
Persia, we meet with a representation of a man with 
two pairs of wings springing from the shoulders and 
extending, the one pair upwards, the other downwards, 
so as to admit of covering the head and the feet (Vaux, 
Min. and Persep. p. 322). The wings in this instance 
imply deification; for speed and ease of motion stand, 
in man’s imagination, among the most prominent tokens 
of divinity. The meaning of the word “seraph” is ex- 
tremely doubtful; the only word which resembles it in 
the current Hebrew is saraph, “to burn,” whence 
the idea of brilliancy has been extracted. Such a sense 
would harmonize with other descriptions of celestial be- 
ings (e. g. Ezek. i, 13; Matt, xxviii. 3) ; but it is object- 
ed that the Hebrew term never bears this secondary 
sense. Gesenius ( Thesaur . p. 1341) connects it with an 
Arabic term signifying high or exalted, and this may 
be regarded as the generally received etymology; but 
the absence of any cognate Hebrew term is certainly 
worthy of remark. It may be seen in the article Ser- 
pent that a species of serpent was called saraph , and 
this has led some to conceive that the Seraphim were a 
kind of basilisk -headed Cherubim (Bauer, Theolog. A. 
T. p. 189); or else that they were animal forms with 
serpent’s heads, such as we find figured in the ancient 
temples of Thebes (Gesen. Comment, in Jes.). Hitzig 
and others identify the Seraphim with the Egyptian 
Serapis ; for although it is true that the worship of Sera- 
pis was not introduced into Egypt till the time of the 
Ptolemies (Wilkinson, Anc. Egypt, iv, 3G0 s. q.), it is 
known that this was but a modification of the more au- 
eient worship of Kneph, who was figured under the 
form of a serpent of the same kind, the head of which 
afterwards formed the crest of Serapis. But we can 
hardly conceive that the Hebrew’s would have borrowed 
their imagery from such a source. Knobel’s conjecture 
that Seraphim is merely a false reading for sharathim 
(CT* d), “ ministers,” is ingenious, but the latter word 
is not Hebrew’. — Kitto; Smith. See the Stud. n. Krit. 
1844, ii, 454. See Angel; Cherub; Living Creature; 
Tkkaphim. 

Seraphlna, a keyed wind instrument, the tones of 
which are produced by the play of wind upon metallic 
reeds, as in the aecordeon. It consists, like the organ, 
of a key-board, wind-chest., and bellows. 

Serapion, bishop ofThumeos,in Egypt, called Schn- 
lasticus because of his eloquence and dialectical keen- 
ness, is said by Rufinus to have been abbot of numer- 
ous monasteries, and to have exercised rule over some 
ten thousand hermits, whom he employed in reaping at 
harvest-time, in order that their earnings might aid in 


SERAPIS 


569 


SERGIUS 


supporting impoverished Christians about Alexandria. 
Antonins and Athanasius are reported to have been his 
intimate friends and counsellors, the latter having se- 
cured his elevation to the bishopric. In 348 Serapion 
attended the Council of Sardiea, and helped to procure 
the acquittal of Athanasius from the charges under 
which he lay; and when the latter had again fallen un- 
der the displeasure of the emperor Constautius, Serapion 
was one of the five bishops who were delegated to at- 
tempt his restoration to favor. lie died A.D. 358. See 
Socrates, Hist, Eccles. iv, 23. 

Chrysostom’s deacon at Constantinople, under II o- 
norius and Arcadius, was another Serapion, who aided 
that father in enforcing a thorough discipline among 
the clergy, of whom be said that only the utmost strict- 
ness could secure their improvement. The clergy were 
exasperated by his words and actions, and sought to ex- 
cite the populace to opposition against both reformers, 
but in vain; and Chrysostom ultimately made Serapion 
bishop of Ileracica in Thrace. — Herzog, Real- Ency klop. 
s. v. 

Serapis, in Egyptian mythology, was a highly 
venerated god of Alexandria, whose origin was rather 
Grecian, however, than Egyptian. He was the Greek 
god of the underworld — Pluto, the giver of blessings — 
on whose head was placed a bushel, to denote that the 
ruler of the underworld causes man’s nourishment to 
spring from the earth. lie was transferred to Alexan- 
dria in the time of the Ptolemies, and unwillingly ac- 
cepted by the inhabitants; but eventually forty- two 
temples of Serapis were enumerated in Egypt. The 
following fable in relation to his importation was in cir- 
culation : A beautiful youth appeared to Ptolemy I in 
a dream, and commanded the king to bring his statue 
from Sinope, revealing, at the same time, that he was 
Serapis, the god who gives blessings or curses. After 
the surmounting of many difficulties, the enterprise was 
at length accomplished — the god contributing to that 
result by going from his temple to the ship. The city 
of Alexandria erected to him a temple in the place 
Iihacotis. Political reasons may have determined this 
transfer from Asia to Egypt — e. g. the importance of 
making the new capital the central seat of religion ; and 
this latter end was completely realized, inasmuch as 
Serapis took the place of Osiris, with the exception that 
lie was never conceived of as suffering and dying, lie 
was regarded as consort to Isis, as the sun and Nile god, 
and as the supreme god. The sick, also, invoked his 
aid, with the result that he was, in the end, confounded 
with /Esculapi us. A marble bust in the Vatican rep- 
resents him as a bearded, earnest man, with rays sur- 
rounding, and a grain-measure surmounting, his head. — 
Vollmer, Worterb. d . MythoL s. v. 



Serarius, Nicholas, a learned Jesuit and commen- 
tator on the Scriptures, was born in 1555 at Ramber- 
villers, in Lorraine. After studying the languages, be 
taught ethics, philosophy, and theology at WUrzburg 
and Mentz, in which last city he died, May 20, 1G10, 
leaving many works, of which the following are the 
principal : lJe Pharisicorum , Sadducworum , et Esrenornm 
Sectis (Franeker, 1G03 ; Mentz, 1 GOT) ; — Commentarius in 
Libros Jos.,Jud., Ruth., Reg., et Paralip. (ibid. 1G09-10, 
2 pts. fol.) : — Prolegomena JUblica (ibid. 1G12) ; — Uahbini 
et llerodes (ibid.) ; — Opuscula Tlieologica (3 tom. fob): — 
and others which are collected in 1G vols. fol. See Fiirst, 
Bill. Jud. iii,31G; Winer, llandbuch dertheol. Literutur. 

Se'red (lleb. id. “nD ,fear; Sept. Sfpco v. r. £a- 
ps8), the first named of three sons of Zcbulon (Gen. 
xlvi, 14), and head of the family of the Surdites (Numb, 
xxvi, 2G). B.C. cir. 18G4. 

Serestus, in Greek mythology, was a companion 
of /Eneas, who gathered up the armor of llsemonidcs, 
the priest of Apollo whom /Eneas had slain, and who 
erected a column of victory to Mars Gradivus. 

Serge (Lat. cereus , a wax taper). Those in a low 
basin were called mortars, and burned during matins at 
the choir door. Lyndwood says that in very many 
churches the two (i. e. on the altar) were furnished by 
the curate. — Walcott, Sacred A rchceol . s. v. 

Sergeant (pa/3£of’yor, literally rod -holder, Acts 
xvi, 35), properly a Human Victor, the public servant 
who bore a bundle of rods before the magistrates of 
cities and colonies as insignia of their office, and who 
executed the sentences which they pronounced. See 
Smith, Did . of Class. A nt. s. v. “Lictor.” 



Roman Coins exhibiting the Lictors with their Fasces. 


Sergeant, John, a Congregational minister, was 
born in Newark, N. J., in 1710. lie graduated at Yale 
College in 1729, and was appointed tutor in 1731. The 
Commissioners for Indian Affairs having found the 
Indians living at Skatekook and Unahktukook, on the 
llousatonic River, disposed to receive a missionary, 
chose Mr. Sergeant for that position; and he went in 
October, 1734, to examine bis field of labor. In August, 
1735, he was ordained at Deerfield, and labored with the 
Indians until his death, July 27, 1749. He translated 
into the native language parts of the Old and all the 
New Test, excepting the book of Revelation. During 
bis life one hundred and twenty-nine savages were bap- 
tized, and forty -two became members of the Church. 
See Sprague, A nnals of the Amer. Pulpit , i, 388. 

Sergestus, in Grecian mythology, was a companion 
of /Eneas, who is named in connection with the sailing- 
match instituted by /Eneas. His vessel stuck fast on a 
rock; but he was nevertheless rewarded with the gift 
of a female slave from the hero (Virgil, Adneid, i, 510 ; 
v, 121, etc.). 

Sergiots (Skrotktr, or Skrotrts), a section of the 
Paulicians who held in veneration the memory and writ- 
ings of one Sergius, who lived at the beginning of the 
9tli century. II is efforts led to a division — his followers 
being known as Sergiots, and bis opponents Baanites, af- 
ter the name of their leader, Panties. See Patlicians. 

Ser'gius Paulus (Gnecized Sfpyioc IJaf>\oc, a 
Latin name), a Roman proconsul in command at Cyprus 
who was converted by the preaching of Paul and Barna- 
bas (Acts xiii, 7). A.D. 44. Sergius is described by the 



SERGIUS 


5^0 


evangelist as a “ discreet” or “ intelligent” man ; by which 
we are probably to understand that he was a man of 
large and liberal views, and of an inquiring turn of mind. 
Hence he had entertained Elymas, and hence also he 
became curious to hear the new doctrine which the 
apostle brought to the island. The strongest minds at 
that period were drawn with a singular fascination to 
the occult studies of the East ; anti the ascendency which 
Luke represents the “sorcerer” as having gained over 
Sergius illustrates a characteristic feature of the times. 
For other examples of a similar character, see Conybeare 
and Howson, Life and Epistles of St. Paul, i, 177 sq. But 
Sergius was not effectuall 3 r or long deceived by the arts 
of the impostor; for, on becoming acquainted with the 
apostle, he examined at once the claims of the Gospel, 
and yielded his mind to the evidence of its truth. Noth- 
ing of his history subsequent to his conversion is known 
from Scripture. There is no reason to suppose that he 
abandoned his post as governor of Cyprus ; but the 
legends assert that he did so, and followed Paul ; and 
that eventually he went with the apostle into Spain, 
and was left by him at Narbonne, in France, of which 
he became the bishop, and died there. 

The title (inaccurately rendered “deputy” [q. v.]) 
given to this functionary exhibits one of those minute 
accuracies which, apart from their inspiration, would 
substantiate the sacred book as a genuine and contem- 
porary record. Cyprus was originally a jweptorian prov- 
ince (c TrpunjyiK)) ), and not jiroconsular ; but it was left 
by Augustus under the senate, and hence was governed 
by a proconsul (dy.S'r 7 raroe), as stated by the evangel- 
ist (Acts xiii, 6, 8, 12; see Dion Cass, liv, 523; Kuinol, 
on Acts xiii, 7. For the value of this attestation to 
Luke’s accuracy, see Lardner, Credibility of the Gospel 
Narrative , i, 32 sq.). Coins, too, are still extant on which 
this very title, ascribed in the Acts to Sergius Paulus, 
occurs as the title of the Roman governors of Cyprus 
(see Akerman, Numismatic Illustrations , p. 41; Cony- 
beare and Ilowson, Life and Epistles of St. Paul, i, 176, 
187). — Kitto; Smith. See Cyprus. 

Sergius, St. Several saints and martyrs occur who 
bear this name. 

1. One is usually associated with a martyr named 
Bacchns, like himself a native of Rome. It is related 
that they were accused of being Christians, and exiled 
by the emperor Maxiraian. When nothing could induce 
them to sacrifice to idols, Bacchus was tortured to death 
and his body thrown to wild beasts, who, however, would 
not harm it. Sergius was then taken to Rosaph, in 
Syria, and tortured, but comforted by an apparition of 
Bacchus, while his wounds were healed by an angel. 
He was beheaded in 290; and the emperor Justinian is 
credited with having changed the name of Rosaph to 
Sergiopolis, while the martyr’s relics were preserved in 
the church of that town. Oct. 7 was set apart for the 
commemoration of Sergius and Bacchus. 

2 . Another Sergius, whose day occurs on Jan. 23, is 
said to have been martyred under Diocletian; and a 
third was a monk in the Convent of Alar Saba, in Pal- 
estine, and, together with other monks, was attacked 
and slain by robbers in the year 797. llis day is on 
March 30. 

3 . Sergius, surnamed the Confessor , was born at Con- 
stantinople, lived in the former half of the 9th century, 
and wrote I)e Pebus in Re Publica et Ecclesia Gestis — a 
history of the iconoclastic controversy from the Romish 
point of view, which embraced the period from Constan- 
tine Copronymus to Michael II Balbus, but is now lost, 
lie was taken prisoner while defending the worship of 
images (according to some statements, in the reign of 
Leo tiic Isaurian; according to others, in that of The- 
ophilus), deprived of his goods, and exiled; for which 
reason Photius termed him the Confessor. The saints’ 
calendar of the Greek Church assigns May 13 as his 
day. See A usfiiJirl. lleiligen - Lexikon nebst beiyefiigt . 
Ueil.-Kalender (Cologne and Frankfort, 1719), p. 2006 
sq. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 


SEEIPANDI 

Sergius, the name of several Roman Catholic pon- 
tiffs. 

I, pope from 687 to 701, contemporary with the Ven- 
erable Bede, was born at Antioch and reared at Paler- 
mo. The most noteworthy event of his administration 
was a dispute with the Eastern Church, which ulti- 
mately led to the separation of the East from the West. 
The emperor Justinian II had convoked an oecumenical 
council ( Concilium Quinsextinn) at Constantinople, and 
legates were sent to attend it by Sergius, who signed its 
decrees; but, as six decrees had been passed which were 
contrary to the practice of Rome (e. g. omitting nearly 
all the Latin councils and papal decretals from the list 
of authentic sources of Church law, acknowledging the 
validity of the whole eighty -five canones apostolici, de- 
nouncing the celibacy of the clergy, prohibiting fasting 
on Saturdays during Quadragesima, making the patri- 
arch of Constantinople equal to the pope, etc.), the pope 
forbade their promulgation. The emperor ordered the 
imprisonment of the refractory pope, but was himself 
dethroned after a revolt in his army. Rome continued 
to reject this council, and this occasioned the disputes 
which subsequently divided the Church. Sergius suc- 
ceeded. on the other hand, in restoring the communion 
with Rome of the churches which had been alienated 
through the Controversy of the Three Chapters. The 
other prominent incidents of his pontificate were the 
founding of the bishopric of Utrecht by Willibrod, and 
the issuing of an ordinance by which the Agnus Dei 
was required to be sung three times before the commun- 
ion in the service of the mass. Oct. 9 was set apart in 
commemoration of this pope, 

II, pope from 844 to 847. He contributed materially 
to the exaltation of the papacy by daring to disregard 
the requirement of seeking the confirmation of his ac- 
cession and consecration by the civil power, and by 
maintaining his position in the face of the protest raised 
by the emperor Lothaire against this infraction of the 
law of the realm. The controversy of Paschasius Rad- 
bertus respecting the Lord’s supper was begun in the 
reign of this pope. 

III, pope from 904 to 911, who owed his elevation to 
the influence of the shameless Theodora and her no less 
shameless daughters Marozia and Theodora, the actual 
rulers of the time in Rome. lie was grossly immoral, 
and lived in licentious relations with Marozia, who bore 
him several children, among them the future pope John 
XI, though the latter statement is denied by many re- 
spectable authorities. The only noteworthy events of 
his pontificate were his approval of the fourth marriage 
of the emperor Leo Philosophus, which a subsequent 
synod at Constantinople (920) condemned, and the re- 
newed introduction of the Benedictine rule at Clugny 
by the abbot Berno. 

IV, pope from 1009 to 1012, previously bishop of 
Alba. With him began the custom that the popes 
should adopt a new name on assuming the tiara. The 
story has it that Sergius was formerly called Bocca di 
Porco , i. e. swine’s snout. Being ashamed of the name, 
he assumed that of Sergius, and thus introduced a cus- 
tom which has been followed by all subsequent popes. 
— Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Seripandi, Girolamo, an Italian theologian, was 
born at Naples, May” 6, 1493. On the death of his fa- 
ther, he entered the order of the Augustines, in 1507, 
and made such rapid progress in study that he was ap- 
pointed reader at Sienna in 1515, professor of theology 
at Bologna in 1517, and vicar-general in 1523. He then 
gave himself to preaching with great success; but in 
1539 he was elected general of his order, and in 1547 
was re-elected. He declined the bishopric of Aquilas 
in 1551 ; but was drawn from retirement by a mission 
from the city of Naples to the emperor in 1554, where- 
upon he was appointed archbishop of Salerno. In 1561 
he was made cardinal, and designated as one of the pa- 
pal legates to the Council of Trent, where he died, March 
17, 1563, worn out with toil. Ilis character was one of 


SERJEANTS 


571 


SERMON 


singular piety, benevolence, and modesty. He wrote a I 
number of ecclesiastical works and sermons, besides a ! 
commentary on Romans and Galatians. See lloefer, 
Nouv . Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Serjeants, servants in monastic offices: those of 
the church, the guest -house, refectory, and infirmary 
were subordinate officers. The first was the bell-ringer, 
except for high mass, vespers, matins, and obits. The 
candle-lighter, except round the high-altar (he also laid 
out the vestments for the celebrant at the high-altar), 
was the chandler, who made all the wax candles, and as- 
sisted the subsacrist in baking the hosts. The serjeant 
of the infirmary was the barber, and, with the clerk ami 
cook, waited on the monks who were sick or aged. — 
Walcott, 'acred Archceol. s. v. 

Sermon (Lat. sermo, “a discourse”), a discourse de- 
livered in public religious services. In the early Church 
sermons were called tractates (expository), disputations 
(argumentative and controversial), allocutions , and by 
the Greeks SidacncaXiai (doctrinal), or homilies (famil- 
iar addresses). The place of the sermon in the service 
was immediately after the reading of the psalms and les- 
sons out of the Scriptures, before the catechumens were 
dismissed. The person whose duty it was to deliver 
the sermon was the bishop, when he was present, or one 
of his presbyters in any church from which he was ab- 
sent : then it was considered as the bishop preaching 
by proxy. In some cases a special commission was 
given to a layman to deliver a sermon, and then he 
might do it by the authority of the bishop’s commission 
for that time. This applied to the public services in 
the churches, and was not necessary when laymen did it 
in a private way as catechists in their catechetic schools, 
as at Alexandria and elsewhere. Sometimes it hap- 
pened that two or three sermons would be preached in 
the same assembly, first by the presbyters and then by 
the bishop. Or, if more than one bishop were present, 
several of them would preach one after another, reserv- 
ing the last place for the most honorable person. In 
some places sermons were preached every day, especially 
in Lent and the festival-days of Easter. In larger towns 
and cities, it seems probable that two sermons were 
delivered on Sunday; but this custom did not prevail 
in the country parishes. The sermon was either, 1, an 
exposition of Scripture ; 2, a panegyrical discourse upon 
some saint or martyr; 3, a sermon upon some particular 
time, occasion, festival; or, 4, a sermon upon a particu- 
lar doctrine, against heresy, or to recommend the prac- 
tice of virtue. All of these have examples in the ser- 
mons of Chrysostom and Augustine. Origen appears to 
have been the first to deliver his sermons extempore, it 
having been the general practice to carefully compose 
and write them beforehand. It was customary to intro- 
duce the sermon with a short prayer for divine assistance 
for the preacher and his hearers; and sometimes, if occa- 
sion required, this prayer was said in the middle of the 
discourse. It was usual in many places, before beginning 
the sermon, for the preacher to use the common saluta- 
tion Pax cobis , “ Peace be unto you,” or “The Lord be 
with you.” There was no general rule as to the length 
of the sermon, that being doubtless determined by the 
circumstances of the occasion, e. g. whether one or more 
sermons were to be delivered. Scarcely any of them 
would take an hour in delivery, and many of them not 
more than half that time. It was not considered, by 
many in the ancient Church, to be improper for the 
preacher to deliver a sermon prepared by another per- 
son, they holding that it is “lawful for a man to preach 
the compositions of more eloquent men, provided he 
compose his own life answerable to God’s Word.” The 
sermon was always concluded with a doxology to the 
lloly Trinity. The posture of preacher and hearers was 
generally the reverse of that prevalent now, for then 
the preacher sat and his hearers stood. It was a pe- 
culiar custom in the African Church, when the preacher 
chauced to cite some remarkable text of Scripture in 


the middle of his sermon, for the people to join with 
him in repeating the remainder of it. This was, no 
doubt, done to encourage the people to hear, read, and 
remember the Scriptures. It was a very general cus- 
tom for the people to show their appreciation of the 
sermon by public applause, manifested by words (as 
“ orthodox”), or signs, or clapping of hands. We notice 
also the custom, prevailing among many ancient hear- 
ers, of writing down the sermons, word for word, as they 
were delivered, and by this means some extempore dis- 
courses were handed down to posterity. See llingham, 
Christ. A ntiq. p. 705 sq. ; Walcott, Sacred Archceol. s. v. 

SERMON ox tiie Mount, the common name of a 
discourse delivered by .Jesus to his disciples anti a mul- 
titude on a mountain near Capernaum, A. I). 27, perhaps 
in May, early in the second year of his public minis- 
try. It is a complete system of the moral law , in the 
spiritual form which it assumes under the Christian dis- 
pensation, and has deservedly been made the subject of 
much study and learned exposition (Matt, v, vi, vii ; 
Luke vi, 20 sq. Comp. Mark ix, 47 sq. ; Matt, xviii, 8, 
9). The best complete exposition is certainly that of 
Tholuck, Bergpredigt (4th ed. 1856). An earlier edition 
has been translated into English (1843, 2 vols.). See 
also Valenti, Commentar iib. d. Bergpred. (Basel, 1849); 
Mackintyre, Expos, of the Sermon on the Mount (Lond. 
1854); Pitman, Comment, on the Sermon on the Mount 
(ibid. 1852); Todd, id. (ibid. 1856); Trench, Expos, of 
the Sermon on the Mount (ibid. 1851); and the literature 
cited by Volbeding, Index Programmatum, p. 32; and 
Hase, Leben Jesu , p. 121. See Jesus. 

Sermon on the Mount, The, and the Talmud. In 
the essay prepared by the late E. Deutsch entitled The 
Talmud , among other daring statements we find also 
the following: “We need not urge the priority of the 
Talmud to the New Test. ... To assume that the Tal- 
mud has borrowed from the New Test, would be like as- 
suming that Sanscrit sprang from Latin, or that French 
was developed from the Norman words found in Eng- 
lish.” Similar is the remark of Renan: “It is some- 
times supposed that, the compilation of the Talmud be- 
ing posterior to that of the Gospels, appropriations might 
have been made by the Jewish compilers from the Chris- 
tian morality. But that is inadmissible; there was a 
wall of separation between the Church and the syna- 
gogue” ( Life of Jesus, p. 108). Statements like these 
have been, and will be, taken as true, especially by those 
who have not taken the pains of examining for them- 
selves; but sober-minded scholars have arrived at dif- 
ferent results. Says Mr. Farrar : “ Some excellent max- 
ims — even some close parallels to the utterances of Christ 
— may be quoted, of course, from the Talmud, where 
they lie imbedded like pearls in ‘a sea’ of obscurity and 
mud. It seems to me indisputable, and a matter which 
every one can now verify for himself, that these are 
amazingly few, considering the vast bulk of national 
literature from which they are drawn. And, after all, 
who shall prove to ns that these sayings were always 
uttered by the rabbins to whom they are attributed? 
Who will supply us with the faintest approach to a 
proof that, when not founded on the Old Test., they 
were not directly or indirectly due to Christian influ- 
ence or Christian thought?” (Life of Christ , ii, 486.) 
According to our judgment, there is only one way of 
arriving at a just estimate as to which copied, and 
this is to give the parallel passage of the Talmud with 
the author who uttered the sentence, and the time in 
which he lived. The date of the author must settle 
the question ouce for all, and this is our purpose in the 
sequel. 

Matt, v, 3: “Blessed are the poor in spirit.”— Sanhedrin, 
fob 43 b : “ If. Joshua ben-Levi [A. I). 219-279] 
said, Behold, how acceptable before the Lord 
are the humble. While the temple stood, 
meat-offerings and sacrifices were offered in 
expiation for sins committed ; but nil humble 
spirit, such a one ns immolates the desires of 
the flesh and the iucliuatiou of the heart on 


SERMON 


572 


the altar of his duty to his God, is accept- 
®,9 P 1 ®!® of sacrifices, .as the psalmist says 

0'» ^X Tii® saentices of God are a brokeu 
>r spirit’ (comp. Sutah, fol. 5). 

Jlatt. v, < : “Blessed are the merciful : for they shall ob- 

] - : “^Gamaliel 
II [A.D. 80-1 IS] said, He who is merciful tow- 
auls his fellow-creatures shall receive mercy 
t| from heaven above.” y 

v, 10: “Blessed are they which are persecuted for 
light e o u sue s s’ sake,” etc . — Baba Kamvia , fol. 
03 a: Rabbi Abbahu [A.D. 279-320] said. Be 
rather one of the persecuted than of the per- 
secutors.” y 

v, 19 : “ Whosoever therefore, shall break oue,” etc. 
—Pvrke AbotJi^ 1 ; “Kabbi [i. e. Judah hak- 
Kodesh,d. A.D. 190] said, Be equally attentive 
meats and the weighty com man d- 

v, 22 : “ But I say unto you, that whosoever is angry 
with his brother,” etc — Sanhedrin, fol. 5b b: 

Kesli Lakish [A.D. 219-2S0] said, Whoso- 
ever lilts up his hand against his neighbor, 
though he do not strike him, is called au of- 
fender and sinner.” 

v, 24: “ Leave thy gift before the altar, and go thv 
"I?? ’ L£ concile t | j”etc — Mishua, Yoml 

vm, 9: ‘R. Elenzar ben-Azariah [d. A.D. 82] 
says, 4 he transgression which a man commits 
against God, the day of atonement expiates; 
but the transgression which he commits 
against his neighbor it does not expiate un- 
less he has satisfied his neighbor.” 

v, 2S: “ But I say unto yon, that, whosoever looketh 
on a woman to lust after her, commiiteth adul- 
tery,” etc. Berachoth, fol. 24 a: “Rabbi She- 
sheth [nourished eir. A.D. 285] says, Who- 
soever looketh on the little finger of a woman 
with a lustful eye is considered as bavins 
committed adultery.” 55 

v, 40: “ And take away thy coat, let him have thy 

£ so * ~ A’uta Kavnna, fol. 92, col. 2* 

Kabba [A.D. 320-363] said to Rabba the sou 

of Mar, llow is that popular saying? if any 

o « , I! 11 ®, aj “ k !' 0, ‘ t]) y ««S give him the saddle also.” 

’ 44 : ess tliem tl,iU curse you.”— Sanhedrin, fol 

4S b and 49 a : “ R. Jehudali [d. A.D. 190] said. 
Be rather of the accursed than of those that 
curse.” 

vi, 1 : “ Take heed that ye do not yonr alms before 

men to he seen of them.”— Chaqiga, fol. 5, col 
1 : Rabbi Yanai [cir. A.D. 120] said to a man 
who gave alms in such a public manner, Yon 
had better not given him anything; in the 
way yon gave it to him you must have hurt 
Ins feelings.” 

vi, 2G: “Behold the fowls of the air; for they sow 

not,” etc —Kiddushin, fol. S2, col. 2; “R gj. 
mou ben-Eleazar [who lived in the 3d century 
A.D.] satd, Hast thou ever seen a beast or a 
bird that followed a trade? and yet they are 
led without toil. But these were only created 
to minister to me, while I was created to min- 
ister to my Maker. Was it. not right, then, 
that I should be supported without toil? 
But I have marred my work and forfeited 
niv support.” 

vii, 2: “Willi what measure ye mete it shall be 

measured to 3*011 again.”— Sanhedrin, fol. ion 
col. 1: “Rabbi Meir [q. v.] said. With what 
measure man metes it shall be measured to 
him from heaven.” 

“ vii > 4: “ Let me pull out the mote out of thine eve ” 

— Daba Jiuth fo] # 15, col. 2: u IJ, JocIridjui 
[A.D. 199-279], surnnmed Bar-Nap’ha, said, 

Do they say, Take the splinter out of thine 
eye, he will answer, Remove the beam out of 
thine own e3’e.” 

It is strange that, concerning this Talmudic 
quotation (in the llcbraica, N.Y., March 1879) 
a rabbi should have said, The familiar prov- 
erb in Matthew and Luke vi, 42 . . . is, as is 
well known (aid), like most sentences of 
that kind in the New Test., borrowed from 
contemporaneous Jewish literature.” But the 
chronological date of the author of that, sen- 
tence is the best proof for the superficiality 
of statements made by men who, for the sake 
of the Talmud, try to disparage the New Test. 

The New Test, sentence is also illustrated 
m Krachin, fol. 16, C ol. 2, where R. Tarphon 
[cir. A.D. 120] says, “It would greath’ aston- 
ish me if there could he found anv one in this 
age who would receive an admonition. If 
he be admonished to take the splinter out of 
his eye, lie would answer, Take the hetim out 
of thine own.” 

vii, 5: “Thou hypocrite, first cast out the beam out 
of t nine own eye, and then shall thou see,” etc 
— In Baba Metsia , fol. 107, col. 2, and Baba Ba- 


SERMON 


a"n’ o’-3 co !' 2 ,Vu e re . ad ! “ Resl > LakUh [cir. 
A.D. 2 1 5] said, What is the meaning of the 
passage ‘Examine yourself and seareh?’ 
(Zepli. it, 1). He who will reprove others 
Ar , > •• hlnise,f be pure and spotless.” 

^latt.vn, 12: Therefore all things whatsoever ye would 
that man should do to you. do ye even so to 
them : for this is the law and the prophets ” 
—Sabbath, fol. 31, col. 1; “Ilillel [q. v .] said, 

it -rasn xb -par* •vjo -jbri 
wvn ir-v-ns -pixi nbis srnrn 

— i. e. “Wharever you should not like to be 
done unto you, do not to others. This is the 
essence of the divine law; all the rest is com- 
meutary only.” 

Since this 'sentence of Ilillel has become 
the hobby of modern Jewish Talmudists, as 
Deutsch and others, and of Christian writers 
who, like Renan, follow their Jewish leaders 
unthinkingly, we must speak a few words 
concerning it. In his lectures on Judaism 
and Us History, the late rabbi Geiger, ofBer- 
], n boldly nth mis that Jesus was a Pharisee 
and a followerof Ilillel, who lievergave utier- 
ance to a new idea (“Einen ueiien Gedanken 
sprnen er keinesweges ans”). “Ilillel,” he 
says, “ was a geunine reformer;” but wherein 
this, reformation consisted Dr. Geiger did not 
tell. It was not. necessary, for Geiger’s ai tempt 
was to disparage Jesns ; and the idea that Ilil- 
Jel was -uAnuine reformer, and Jesns merely 
an unit a fir, must have been as striking as the 
smoke-iimiauce of the Pythian oracle. 

As to Renan and peutseli, we will* quote 
the remark of Dr. Liddon in his Bawpton 
Lectures for 1866 (N. Y. 1S69, 4th ed. p. 1 07) - 
Renan suggests, not without some hesita- 
wns the reil1 teacher of Jesus” 

( Ilillel tut le vrai maitre de Jesus, s’il e^t 
permts de pnrler de maitre quand il s’aHt 
d une si haute original ite” [ Vie. de Jesus, p. 35]) 
As an instance,” says Dr. Liddon (in a foot- 

‘of our Lord’s real independence of 
Ilillel, a single example may suffice. A re- 
cent writer on the Talmud gives the follow- 
ing story: ‘One day a heathen wenttoSham- 
mai, the head of the rival academy, and ask- 
ed him mockingly, to convert him to the law 
while he stood on one leg. The irate master 
turned him from the door, lie then went to 
Ilillel, who gave him that reply — since so 
widely propagated— Do not unto another, etc. 
This is the whole law; the rest is merely 
commentary’ ” {Literary Remains [N. Y 1874] 

}> 3 17 L The writer in the Quarterly Review 
(October, lS6i, p. 441, art. “The Talmud”) ap- 
pears to assume the identity of Hillel’s sov- 
'vi th the precept of <mr blessed Lord 
(Matt, vn, 12; Luke vi, 31). Yet, in truth, 
how wide is the interval between the merely 
negative, rule of the Jewish president and the 
positive precept — o<r a si\ nT( iV a ttooT^ 

Vf e l !i ^ w,ro ‘' ov ™ Kat bfxeTv 7ro/e£T6 auToir — 

of the Divine Master.” 

'vluitever may be said of the precept 
(Matt, vn, 12) as to its being considered as a 
tresh discovery in moral science, most cer- 
tainly Ilillel cannot claim the merit of orig- 
inality in respect to it. It existed long be- 
fore his tune. In the Apocryphal book fobit 
\ve read words like those which he used 
(tv, 15): o fiiffeif, pnSeii 7roo/ff»/9 (“ Do that to 
no man which thou hntest”); and in Ecclns. 
XXXI, 15; loeiTfi t ov n Anaiou in aeauTOv Kai eiri 

7r<ii/Ti7Tf>(ty nan Atuvoov (i. e. “Judge of the dis- 
position of thy neighbor by thyself”). An- 
cient history bears ample testimony to the 
existence ot this maxim among the ancient 
Greeks long before the time of Ilillel. Thus 
Diogenes Laertius relates that Aristotle, be- 
ing uvked how we ought to carry onrselves 
to our friends, answered, “As we wish they 
would carry themselves to us.” Isocrates, 
who lived four hundred years before the pub- 
lication of the Gospel, said : a ndaxovrev Otp* 
upyiataSe tuF.tu to7v uAAow m>/ 7ro<e7Te— 
l. e. “We must not do to others that which 
would cause anger if it were done to our- 
selves.” In its negative form the golden rule 
oi our Saviour, which Locke designates ns the 
toimdnriou of all social virtue, is also found 
among the sayings of Confucius: “What you 
do not wish done to yourselves, do not do to 
others;’- or, as in the Co7iversations (bk. xv 
eh xxiii), where it ap|>ears condensed like a 
telegram: Ki su pok itk uk sic it iny— i. e. 
‘Self what not wish, not do to man.” 
vn, 24-27: “Therefore whosoever heareth these say- 


SERMONIZING 


573 


SERMONIZING 


ings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken 
him unto a wise man, which built his house 
upon a rock,” etc. — Pirke Aboth, iii, 17: 
“ R. Eliezer hen-Azariah [d. A.L>. S2] said, lie 
whose knowledge surpasses his good deeds 
may be compared to a tree with many branch- 
es ami a scanty root — every wind shakes and 
uproots it. But he whose good deeds excel 
his knowledge may be compared to a tree 
with a few branches and strong roots: if all 
the hurricanes in the world should come and 
storm against it, they could not move it from 
its place.” 

Aboth di R. Xathan, c.xxiv, Elisha ben-Abn- 
yah [cir. A.D. 13S] said : “ A man who studies 
the law, aud acts in accordance with its com- 
mandments, is likened unto a man who builds 
a house the foundation of which is made of 
freestone, and the superstructure of bricks. 
Storm aud flood cannot injure the house. 
But he who studies the law, but is destitute 
of good actions, is likened unto the man who 
builds the foundation of his house of brick 
and mortar and raises the upper stories with 
solid stone. The flood will soon uudermine 
and overturn the house.” 

From these parallels, which could be, perhaps, some- 
what increased, the impartial critic will make his own 
inferences. From the nature of the case, it would be 
impossible to give a parallel to each sentence of the 
Sermon on the Mount; for, in the first place, it contains 
many allusions to the manner in which Pharisaism dis- 
charged the religious duties, ‘and, in the second place, 
our aim was to give the authority of the parallel pas- 
sage in order to flx the chronology. The date added 
to each rabbi is the same as that fixed by the Jewish 
historian Dr. Griitz; and the claim that, the New Test, 
copied the Talmud must accordingly be stigmatized, 
once for all, as a vain glorification of reformed Judaism, 
which, on the one hand, rejects the Talmud as a re- 
ligious code, but, on the other, makes use of it for con- 
troversial purposes. (B. P.) 

Sermonizing, the act or system of constructing 
sermons. While other forms of religious address have 
had their successive periods of predominance, the ser- 
mon has maintained the rank of pre-eminent impor- 
tance since the time when our Lord delivered his ser- 
mon on the Mount. 

I. History of the Subject. — The age of the Church 
fathers was that in which the homily most prevailed. 
The mediaeval period was that of postils. During both 
these periods the quality and character of religious dis- 
courses greatly declined, and the true idea of Christian 
preaching became at length nearly lost. To speak in 
the most guarded manner, it was overshadowed amid 
the ceremonials of worship and the abounding spirit of 
worldliness. 

The reformers availed themselves of preaching as the 
means of combating the errors and superstitions into 
which the Church had fallen. They set themselves 
diligently to proclaiming the essential truths of God’s 
Word, and by them the sermon was restored to its origi- 
nal importance. That importance has been so fully' 
recognised in modern times that the sermon has come to 
be generally regarded as the correlate of preaching it- 
self. The exhortation and the homily still have a place 
among religious addresses, but it is not said of ministers 
of the Gospel that they* preach exhortations or homilies. 
If they preach, in any proper sense, they preach ser- 
mons. Hence none who regard themselves the subjects 
of the Saviour’s injunctions, “ As ye go, preach,” “Preach 
the Gospel to every creature,” and of the apostolic pre- 
cept “ Preach the Word,” can be indifferent as to the 
best methods of constructing sermons. 

II. Rules. — Sermonizing may' be said to embrace the 
two important particulars of plan and style. 

1. Plan. — Little is hazarded in saying that a good 
plan is essential to a good sermon. It is by no means 
essential that the plan be formally stated or even made 
perceptible to the hearer, but it is needed to guide the 
thought and accomplish the aim of the speaker. The 
preacher who has no plan is liable to wander from his 


proper line of thought, to repeat himself, to confuse his 
hearers, and to fail in all the important objects of a ser- 
mon. Superficial readers have imagined, and some- 
times asserted, that the sermons of Christ and his apos- 
tles were uttered without plan. Careful analysis will, 
however, reveal in every' instance an underlying or per- 
vading plan well adapted to the object in view. Still 
it is proper to acknowledge, judging from the reports 
that have come down to us, that not only' during the 
New-Test, period, but during the early Christian cen- 
turies, but little, if auy r , attention was given to artificial 
or minutely' drawn plans. The style of preaching dur- 
ing the patristic age being for the greater part exposi- 
tory', preachers were naturally held to the order of the 
portions of Scripture expounded. To whatever extent 
panegyrics were introduced in the 4t.h and 5th centuries, 
in imitation of the Greek orators, the order of narration 
was naturally followed. Rarely were the formal parts 
of an oration, as described by the Greek and Roman 
rhetoricians, distinctly' developed in sermons, it was 
reserved for the schoolmen of the 1 2th century and later 
to apply the minutire of ancient rhetoric and logic to the 
framework of sermons. That application was, however, 
so ingeniously' made hv them as to project its influ- 
ence downward through successive centuries. That in- 
fluence may' be traced in the preaching of both Cath- 
olics and Protestants of various countries even down to 
the present time. The prevailing fault of what may' be 
termed the scholastic method of sermonizing has been 
that of excess in detail. By not a few authors it has 
been drawn out into a minuteness of division and Sub- 
division, and, in short, an extreme of artificiality' suffi- 
cient to destroy all freedom of thought and expression. 
Not only' professed scholastics, but various writers of 
comparatively recent date, have bewildered themselves 
and their readers with their tedious and multiplied 
schemes of suggestion and division. Whoever has the 
curiosity' to sec this statement illustrated may' find am- 
ple material in a joiut comparison of bishop Wilkins's 
Gift of Preaching , Claude’s Essay on the Composition 
of a Sermon , and G. W. Hervey’s Christian Rhetoric. 
While it may be said that in some sense these three 
books represent England, France, and the United States 
of America, and also the 17th, the 18th, and the 19th 
centuries, it would be more proper to say that they' rep- 
resent an antique fashion, together with the action of a 
certain class of minds, of which more or less appear in 
every age. 

Wilkins, seeking to simplify' the detailed processes 
of preceding writers, so as to enable preachers to “teach 
clearly', convince strongly*, and persuade powerfully,” 
gives schemes of explication, confirmation, and applica- 
tion which cover six continuous duodecimo pages. 

Claude, in order to help preachers avoid “poor, dry, 
aud spiritless observations,” and also to reduce •• obscure 
matters to a natural, popular, aud modern air,” prescribes 
twenty'-seven different sources of observations, designed 
to aid thought and facilitate invention. They* are prac- 
tically copied from the Loci Communes, ox Commonplaces, 
of Aristotle, one only' of his twenty-eight being omitted. 

Ilervey*, in the modest endeavor to do what he thinks 
all other American writers have failed to do — namely, 
“to find the true groundworks of homiletics, and to 
reduce the science to something like a clear and sulli- 
cieut sy'stem” — not only repeats the twenty'-seven topics 
of Claude, but, on his own account, enumerates and ex- 
emplifies forty'-one kinds of topical division ! 

It is not surprising that such excesses have called 
forth both opposition and ridicule, and have even pro- 
voked some minds to the rejection, if not of all plans, 
yet of all divisions of a sermon. Fenelon, archbishop 
of Cambray, represented the opposition of his period to 
the scholastic system in his Dialogues concerning Elo- 
quence. He said, “For the most part, divisions give 
only* a seeming order, while they really* mangle and elog 
a discourse by' separating it into two or three parts, 
which must interrupt the orator’s action and the effect 


SERMONIZING 


574 


SERMONIZING 


it ought to produce. There remains no true unity after 
such divisions, seeing they make two or three differ- 
ent discourses, which are joined into one only by an ar- 
bitrary connection. Three sermons preached at differ- 
ent times, if they be formed upon some regular concert- 
ed plan, make one piece or entire discourse as much as 
the three points of any of these sermons make one whole 
by being joined and delivered together.” That Fene- 
lon, in the above quotation, was arguing against the 
abuses of division, rather than against proper plans of 
discourse, is sufficiently obvious from his own subse- 
quent directions as to the plan and development of a 
sermon. “ We ought,” said he, “ at first to give a gen- 
eral view of our subject, and endeavor to gain the favor 
of the audience by a modest introduction, a respectful 
address, and the genuine marks of candor and probity. 
Then we should establish those principles on which we 
design to argue, and in a clear, easy, sensible manner, 
propose the principal facts we are to build on, insisting 
chiefly on those circumstances of which we intend to 
make use afterwards. From these principles and facts 
we must draw just consequences, and argue in such a 
clear and well-connected manner that all our proofs may 
support each other, and so be the more remembered;- 
Every step we advance, our discourse ought to grow 
stronger, so that the hearers may gradually perceive the 
force and evidence of the truth ; and then we ought to 
display it in such lively images and movements as are 
proper to excite the passions.” A following sentence 
discloses more definitely the view of Fenelon: “We 
ought to choose some method, but such a method as is 
not discovered and promised in the beginning of our 
discourse.” In this he admits the importance, if not 
the necessity, of a plan, but denies the propriety of stat- 
ing the plan in advance. In respect to the latter item, 
it is safe to believe that different subjects and occasions 
may make different requisitions of the preacher — cir- 
cumstances not seldom occurring in which a lucid state- 
ment of plan may conduce greatly to the appropri- 
ate objects of a sermon. At other times and on other 
subjects, it may be better to carry the hearers insensi- 
bly along to conclusions, without disclosing the proc- 
esses or marking the steps by which the conclusions are 
reached. The governing principle in this matter should 
be that of adaptation. Hence any attempt to fix arbi- 
tral and unvarying rules must result in failure. Ilut 
the preacher should not, on this account, make the mis- 
take of attempting to prepare and deliver sermons with- 
out plan. He should rather accustom himself to habits 
and forms of close logical analysis and synthesis, study- 
ing carefully the adaptation of the most available forms 
to different classes of subjects and occasions. By this 
means, he may rise above the necessity of loading down 
his mind with numerous rules, and attain not only facil- 
ity, but correctness of mental action in shaping his ad- 
dresses to the comprehension anil the persuasion of his 
hearers. On this plan, an essential and ever-increasing 
variety, both in the form and matter of his discourses, 
maybe secured; while without it, or some similar mode 
of procedure, there is great danger of falling into ruts 
or grooves of thought which, however easy to the 
preacher, become trite and wearisome to hearers. If, 
then, his logical plans be set on fire with evangelical 
love and a consuming zeal in behalf of the souls of men, 
he will he able to produce sermons of the highest rhe- 
torical power. 

According to all the best authorities, a sermon should 
have an organic structure — at least an introduction, an 
argument, and a conclusion. In cases of extreme brev- 
ity, the beginning and end of the argument may serve 
as the introduction and conclusion of the sermon. 
Whether and to what extent the principal and essential 
parts of a sermon should be marked with divisions and 
subdivisions should be determined with reference to the 
probability of oratorical effect. If they can be made to 
secure greater attention on the part of hearers, and to 
fasten clearer and deeper impressions on their minds, it 


would be prudery to reject them. If, on the other hand, 
they would break the course of thought or mar the uni- 
ty of the sermon, it would be folly to employ them. So 
of any style of division, if found helpful and auxiliary 
to good results, it is to be cultivated. If it seem artifi- 
cial, redundant, or otherwise a hindrance to oratorical 
power, let it be sternly rejected. 

2. Style . — The impracticability of prescribing fixed 
and arbitrary rules as to the language to be employed 
in preaching is quite as great as in reference to plans 
of discourse. Nevertheless, there are not wanting im- 
portant principles to guide the composers of sermons, 
whether written or oral. 

(1.) The language of a sermon should be prose, and 
not poetry. 

(2.) All the essential qualities of a good prose style 
should be found in every sermon. Summarily stated, 
those qualities are purity, precision, perspicuity, unity, 
harmony, and strength. The lack of any one of those 
qualities may justly be counted as a defect in the style 
of any sermon. It belongs to the science of rhetoric to 
define and illustrate them severally, and also to give 
suggestions as to their attainment, their laws, and their 
special uses. 

(8.) Superadded to the general qualities of a good 
style, a few special characteristics may be named as 
highly desirable in the style of sermons, although with 
some variation of degree in accordance with subjects 
and occasions. 

No discriminating criticism of sermons can be made, 
apart from a proper classification of each particular ser- 
mon, on the basis of its subject or special design. By 
such a classification, sermons are usually distributed into 
five classes, viz. expository, hortatory, doctrinal, practi- 
cal, and miscellaneous or occasional. The last-named 
class requires a somewhat extended subclassification 
with reference to special topics and occasions, e. g. a, 
missions; b, education; c, temperance; d, charity; e, 
funerals; f ordinances; g, festivals, etc. 

To a thoughtful mind, the law of adaptation will 
hardly fail to suggest important, though not easily de- 
scribed, variations in the style to be employed in treat- 
ing topics so different in character. Yet a sermon on 
any one of these subjects, or, in fact, on any subject ap- 
propriate for discussion in a Christian pulpit, will fall 
short of the highest excellence if lacking in such quali- 
ties of style as the following: 

i. A combination of simplicity with dignity. It is 
essential that a sermon embody such a choice of lan- 
guage as will tend to make wise the simple; yet, in his 
effort to be plain, the preacher must avoid triviality. 
He must employ words and present images correspond- 
ing to the grandeur of the truth which he proclaims, 
and which may also be understood by the unlearned. 
Simplicity in the sense recommended is opposed to the 
affectation of elegance and the straining after pompous 
words and unusual expressions. It employs the lan- 
guage of the people, but makes it the instrument of ele- 
vating their thoughts and ennobling their character. 

ii. It is incumbent on preachers to make frequent use 
of scriptural quotations and allusions as a means of de- 
claring anil illustrating God’s message in its proper form 
and spirit. lienee the style of their sermons should be 
in harmony with the tenor and spirit of the IlolyScript- 
nres. The peculiar quality hereby indicated, and which 
the quotations themselves do not supply, is sometimes 
called scriptural congruity. It is the picture or frame- 
work of silver in which the apples of gold may be fitly 
set. 

iii. Another peculiar quality of style demanded in 
sermons is directness of address. It is the province of 
poetry to sweep circles and various curvilinear lines of 
beauty through the realms of thought. Its objects may 
be well accomplished by exciting admiration and emo- 
tions of pleasure. True preaching has a higher aim, 
and consequently needs to focalize its power in order to 
produce conviction in the mind and proper emotions iu 


SERON 


575 


SERPENT 


the heart. Hence a good pulpit style tolerates neither 
the indirectness of an essay nor any rhetorical embel- 
lishments which are not auxiliary to directness of ad- 
dress. It rejects circumlocutions and demands those 
forms of expression that make hearers feci that they are 
personally the objects of the sacred message. As a good 
portrait looks every person calmly in the eye, so a good 
sermon seems to speak directly to every hearer. When, 
in connection with a just reference to the principles 
above stated, preachers severally maintain their individ- 
uality of thought and expression, they will find sermon- 
izing not only a fascinating engagement, but one full of 
encouragement from the happy results following. 

So far as this subject has a literature, it is found in 
works on homiletics and preaching (q. v.). (D. P. K.) 

Se'ron ( 2 //| 0 wv; in Syr. and one Gr. MS. "Upiov; 
Vulg. Seron), a general of Antiochus Epiphanes, in chief 
command of the Syrian army (1 Macc. iii, 13, 6 apyiav 
t 7)Q dvvaf-tEioG Sup/ac), who was defeated at Beth-horon 
by Judas Maccab?eus(B.C. 166), as in the day when Josh- 
ua pursued the five kings “in the going-down of Bcth- 
horon” (1 Macc. iii, 24 ; Josh, x, 11). According to Jo- 
sephus, he was the governor of Coele-Syria and fell in the 
battle (Ah/, xii, 7, 1), nor is there any reason to suppose 
that his statements are mere deductions from the lan- 
guage of 1 Macc. — Smith. 

Serosh, in Persian mythology, was one of the 
mightiest of Ormuzd’s genii, king of the earth, and di- 
rector of all things in it. He was not, however, one, of 
the seven amshaspands, but only an assistant to Ardibe- 
hesht, one of their number. 

Serpent. The frequent mention of this creature 
in the Bible, together with the important part which it 
pla} r s in early mythology, justifies a fuller treatment of 
the subject here than could well be given under the 
special terms by which the several species are designat- 
ed. (In doing this we largely avail ourselves of mate- 
rials afforded in the Dictionaries of lvitto and Smith.) 

I. Bible Names. — The following are the Heb. and Gr. 
words by which either the serpent in general or some 
particular kind is represented in the A. V. with great 
variety and little precision. 

1. Nachasli (UJITJ, so called probably from its hissing ; 
Sept, and New Test. o0tc), the generic name of any ser- 
pent, occurs frequently in the Old Test. The following 
are the principal Biblical allusions to this animal: Its 
subtlety is mentioned in Gen. iii, 1 ; its wisdom is al- 
luded to by our Lord in Matt, x, 1G. The poisonous 
properties of some species are often mentioned (see Psa. 
lviii, 4; Prov. xxiii, 32); the sharp tongue of the ser- 
pent, which it would appear some of the ancient He- 
brews believed to be the instrument of poison, is men- 
tioned in Psa. cxl, 3 ; Job xx, 1G, “ the viper’s tongue 
shall slay him;” although in other places, as in Prov. 
xxiii, 32; Eccles. x, 8, 11 ; Numb, xxi, 9, the venom is 
correctly ascribed to the bite, while in Job xx, 14 the 
gall is said to be the poison. The habit serpents have of 
lying concealed in hedges is alluded to in Eccles. x, 8, 
and in holes of walls, in Amos v, 19 ; their dwelling in 
dry, sandy places, in Deut. viii, 15. Their wonderful 
mode of progression did not escape the observation of 
the author of Prov. xxx, who expressly mentions it as 
“one of the three things which were too wonderful for 
him” (ver. 19). The oviparous nature of most of the or- 
der is alluded to in Isa. lix, 5, where the A. V., however, 
has the unfortunate rendering of “cockatrice.” The 
art of taming and charming serpents is of great antiqui- 
ty, and is alluded to in Psa. lviii, 5; Eccles. x, II ; Jer. 
viii, 17, and doubtless intimated by James (iii, 7), who 
particularizes serpents among all other animals that 
“ have been tamed by man.” See Serpent-charming. 

2. Sardph (wj^b, prob. burning [see Seraph]; Sept, i 
o0*C or Spdicujv ; A. V. “ fiery”) occurs generally in con- 
nection with the above term (Numb, xxi, 6; Deut. viii, 


15), but occasionally alone (Numb, xxi, 8; Isa. xiv, 29; 
xxx, G), as some peculiarly venomous species. 

Much has been written on the question of the “fiery 
serpents” (D">SVdSn D^dnSH) of Numb, xxi, G, 8, 
with which it is usual to identify the “fiery flying ser- 
pent” of Isa. xxx, 6 and xiv, 29. In the transaction 
recorded (Numb. loc. cit.; Deut. viii, 15) as having oc- 
curred at the time of the Exodus, when the rebellious 
Israelites were visited with a plague of serpents, there is 
not a word about their having been “flying” creatures; 
there is therefore no occasion to refer the venomous 
snakes in question to the kind of which Niebuhr {De- 
script. de l 1 Arab. p. 156) speaks, and which the Arabs at 
Basra denominate heie sursnrie , or heie thiare, “ flying 
serpents,” which obtained that name from their habit 
of “springing” from branch to branch of the date-trees 
they inhabit. Besides these are tree-serpents (< dendro - 
phidee ), a harmless family of the eolubrine snakes, and 
therefore quite out of the question. The Hcb. term 
rendered “fiery” by the A. V. is by the Alexandrine 
edition of the Sept, represented by ^avarorvrtc, “dead- 
ly.” Onkelos, the Arabic version of Saadias, and the 
Vulg. translate the word “burning,” in allusion to the 
sensation produced by the bite; other authorities un- 
derstand a reference to the bright color of the serpents. 
It is impossible to point out the species of poisonous 
snake which destroyed the people in the Arabian des- 
ert. Niebuhr says that the only truly formidable kind 
is that called baton , a small slender creature spotted 
black and white, whose bite is instant death, and whose 
poison causes the dead body to swell in an extraordinary 
manner (see Forskal, Descript. Animal, p. 15). It is ob- 
vious that either the cerastes or the naja haje, or any 
other venomous species frequenting Arabia, may denote 
the “ serpent of the burning bite” which destroyed the 
children of Israel. See Ziegra, De Serpentibus Iqnitis 
(Jena, 1732). 

The “fiery flying serpent” of Isaiah [loc. cit.) can 
have no existence in nature if taken in strict literal- 
ness, though it is curious to notice that Herodotus (ii, 
75; iii, 108) speaks of serpents with wings whose bones 
he imagined he had himself seen near Buto in Arabia. 
Monstrous forms of snakes with birds’ wings occur on 
the Egyptian sculptures; it is probable that some kind 
of flying lizard ( Draco , Dracocelkt , or Dracunculus ) may 
have been the “flying serpent” of which Herodotus 
speaks; and perhaps, as this animal, though harmless, 
is yet calculated to inspire horror by its appearance, it 
may denote the flying serpent of the prophet, and may 
have been regarded by the ancient Hebrews as an ani- 
mal as terrible as a venomous snake. Accordingly, 
Hamilton Smith is disposed to take the sardph , or sup- 
posed winged serpent, to be a haje, one of the more 
Eastern species or varieties of the cobra or naja, which 
have the faculty of actually distending the hood, as if 
they had wings at the side of the head, and arc the 
same as, or nearly allied to, the well-known spectacle- 
snakc of India; and this interpretation seems to accord 
with the words of Moses, the serpents, the burning ones 
(Numb, xxi, 6). The serpent may exhibit this partic- 
ular state of irritation when it stands half erect with its 
hood distended, or it may be that variety which is pos- 
sessed of this faculty to the greatest extent. Naja re - 
jlectrix, the pof or spook adder of the Cape colonists, is 
reported by Dr. Smith to be scarcely distinct from the 
Egyptian naja haje. With regard to the faculty of 
flying, the lengthened form, the muscular apparatus, the 
absence of air-cells, and the whole osteological structure 
are all incompatible with flight or the presence of wings: 
hence Herodotus, in his search for flying serpents at 
Buto, may have observed heaps of exuviic of locusts 
cast on shore by the sea — a phenomenon not unfrequent 
on that coast — but most assuredly not heaps of bones 
and ribs of serpents. As for those of Plutarch, they 
may have been noxious sand-flics. Flying serpents are 
only found represented in the symbolical pictures of 


SERPENT 


570 


SERPENT 



Saja haje; and the form of Kneph ; from the Naja tripvxtian* and Cobra-de-capello, or 

Egyptian monuments. Hooded and Spectacled Suakes. 


Egypt, where they occur with birds’ wings. Those of 
history, and of barbarous nations excessively habituated 
to figurative forms of speech, are various; some being 
so called because of their rapid motion, others on ac- 
count of a kind of spring they are said to make at their 
victims, and a third class because they climb trees, and 
are reported to swing themselves from thence upon their 
victims, or to other trees. Now, many species of ser- 
pents are climbers; many hang by the tail from slender 
branches of low trees in highly heated glens, snapping 
at insects as they wheel around them ; but all are deli- 
cately jointed, and if any should swing further than 
merely to change their hold, and should miss catching 
a branch, they would most certainly be dislocated, and, 
if not killed, very seriously injured. From personal ex- 
periments, we can attest that serpents are heavy in pro- 
portion to their bulk, and without the means of break- 
ing their fall ; that few, large or small, could encounter 
the shock of twelve or fourteen feet elevation without 
fracturing many spinous processes of their vertebra, 
and avoid being stunned for a length of time, or abso- 
lutely crushed to death. Being instinctively conscious 
of the brittleness of their structure, nearly all snakes are 
timid, and desirous of avoiding a contest unless greatly 
provoked. This remark applies, we believe, to all in- 
noxious serpents, the great boas perhaps excepted, and 
to most of the poisonous, exclusive of several species of 
viper and eobra-de-capello (comp. Thomson, Land and 
Book, ii, 333). 01 the so-called flying, or rather dart- 

ing, serpents, Niebuhr found near Basra a venomous spe- 
cies called hide sursurie and heie thidre — that is, “ flying 
serpent” — because it was said to fling itself from one tree 
to another. Admiral Anson heard, at the island of Qui- 
bo, of snakes flying without wings: we may notice the 
Acontias and P renter, that fell like arrows from the tops 
of trees, and the green xEtulu of Ceylon, said to spring 
from trees at the eyes of cattle — an accusation repeated 
of more than one species in tropical America. Next 
we have the uler tampang hart , seen in a forest near 
the river I’edang Bessie, somewhere, we believe, in the 
Australasian islands, under circumstances that most cer- 
tainly require continuation; since this fiery serpent, so 
called from the burning pain and fatal effect of its bite, 
swung itself from one tree to another, 240 feet distant, 
with a declination to the horizon of only about fifteen 
degrees ! We may thus refer the “ winged” or “ flying” 
serpent to the Naja tripudians, in one of its varieties, 
because, with its hood dilated into a kind of shining 
wing on each side of the neck, standing, in undulating 
motion, one half or more erect, rigid, and fierce in at- 
tack and deadly poisonous, yet still denominated “good 
spirit,” and in Egypt ever figured in combination with 
the winged globe, it may well have received the name 
of sardph , and may thus meet all the valid objections 
and conciliate seemingly opposite comments (see Numb, 
xxi, G, 8 ; Deut. viii, 15 ; Isa. xvi, 23 ; xxx, G ; and Pax- 


ton’s Illustrations), excepting the authority of Herod- 
otus, Pausanias, and Bochart, which, with all the respect 
due to their names, is not now sufficient to establish the 
existence of a kind of serpent whose structure is con- 
trary to the laws of zoological organization. In Isa. 
xiv, 29, and xxx, 6, the epithet rS""*2, meopMph , ri- 
brating (rendered “ flying” in the A. V.), is another form 
for “ winged,” and occurs in passages unconnected with 
the events in Exodus. Both bear metaphorical inter- 
pretations. A further confirmation of the “fiery ser- 
pents,” or “serpents of the burning bite,” being najas, 
occurs in the name Ras om-Haye (Cape of the Ilaje 
serpents), situated in the locality where geographers and 
commentators agree that the children of Israel were af- 
flicted by these reptiles. Should it be objected that 
these are the haje and not the spectacle-snake, it may 
be answered that both Arabs and Hindus confound the 
species. 

3. A kshub Sept, canrig, A. V. “adder”) is 

found only in Psa. cxl, 3, “They have sharpened their 
tongues like a serpent; adders’ poison is under their 
lips.” The latter half of this verse is quoted by Paul 
from the Sept, in Bom. iii, 13 (“asp”). The poison of 
venomous serpents is often employed by the sacred 
writers in a figurative sense to express the evil tempers 
of ungodly men; that malignity which, as bishop Ilorne 
says, is “ the venom and poison of the intellectual world” 
(comp. Deut. xxxii, 33 ; Job xx, 14, 16). 

It is not possible to say with any degree of certainty 
what particular species of serpent is intended by the 
Hebrew word; the ancient versions do not help us at 
all, although nearly all agree in some kind of serpent, 
with the exception of the Chaldee paraphrase, which 
understands a spider by akslmb, interpreting this He- 
brew word by one of somewhat similar form (Uj n 32?, 
alckabish). The etymology of the term is not ascertained 
with sufficient precision to enable ns to refer the animal 
to any determinate species. Gesenius derives it from 
two Hebrew roots (isar, abash, “to turn backward,” 
and akdb, “ to lie in wait”), the combined meaning 
of which is “ rolled in a spire and lying in ambush ;” a 
description which would apply to almost any kind of 
serpent. 

The number of poisonous serpents with which the 
Jews were acquainted was in all probability limited to 
some five or six species, and it is not improbable that 
the akshub may be represented by the Toxicoa of Egypt 
and North Africa. At any rate, it is unlikely that the 
Jews were unacquainted with this kind, which is com- 
mon in Egypt and probably in Syria. See Adder. 

4. Pethen (",P,B, from an obsolete root prob. signifying 
to twist or to be strong; Sept, cioiric, Spataov, (iaaiXiaKog). 
The Hebrew word occurs in the six following passages: 
Deut. xxxii, 33; Psa. 1 viii, 5; xei, 13; Job xx, 14, 16; 


SERPENT 


577 


SERPENT 



The Toxicoa {Echis arenicola) of Egypt. 


Isa. xi, 8. It is expressed in the passages from the 
Psalms by “ adder” in the text of the A. V. and by 
“asp” in the margin; elsewhere the text of the A.V. 
has “asp” as the representative of the original word 
pet hen. 

That some kind of poisonous serpent is denoted by 
the Hebrew word is clear from the passages quoted 
above. We further learn from Psa. Iviii, 5 that the 
pethen was a snake upon which the serpent-charmers 
practiced their art. In this passage the wicked are 
compared to “ the deaf adder that stoppeth her ear, 
which will not hearken to the voice of charmers, charm- 
ing never so wisely;” and from Isa. xi, 8, “the sucking 
child shall play on the hole of the asp,” it would appear 
that the pethen was a dweller in holes of walls, etc. The 
question of identity is one which it is by no means easy 
to determine. Boehart contributes nothing in aid to a 
solution when he attempts to prove that the pethen is 
the asp ( Hieroz . iii, 156), for this species of serpent, if a 
species be signified by the term, has been so vaguely 
described by authors that it is not possible to say what 
known kind is represented by it. The term asp in mod- 
ern zoology is generally restricted to the Vipera aspis 
of Latreille; but it is most probable that the name, 
among the ancients, stood lor different kinds of venom- 
ous serpents. Solinus (c. xxvii) says, “ plures diverae- 
que sunt aspidum species;” and /Elian (A. A nim. x, 31) 
asserts that the Egyptians enumerate sixteen kinds of 
asp. Bruce thought that the asp of the ancients should 
be referred to the cerastes, while Cuvier considered it to 
be the Egyptian cobra (Xaja haje). Be this, however, 
as it may, there can be little doubt that the Hebrew 
name pethen is specific, as it is mentioned as distinct 
from akshub, shephiphon, tsiphoni , etc., names of other 
members of the Ophidia . 

Oedman ( Vermisch. Samml. x, 81) identifies the pe- 
then with the Coluber lebetinus, Linn., a species described 
by Forskal (Desc. Anim. p. 15). Ivosenmiiller (Xot. ad 
Hieroz. iii, 156), Dr. Lee (Ileb. Lex. s. v. ■jnQ), Dr. Har- 
ris {Nat. Hist, of Bible, art. “ Asp”), Col. II. Smith ( Encyc . 
Bib. Lit. art. “Serpent”), believe that the jatlien of Script- 
ure is to be identified with the Coluber baton of Forskal. 
Oedman has no hesitation in establishing an identity 
between the C. lebetinus and the C. baton; but from 
Forskal's descriptions it is most probable that the two 
species are distinct. The whole argument that seeks 
to establish the identity of the C. beet an with the pethen 
of Scripture is based entirely upon a similarity of sound. 
Kosenmuller thinks that the Arabic word baton ought 
to be written patan, and thinks there can be no doubt 
that this species represents the pethen of Scripture. 
Oedman’s argument, also, is based on a similarity of 
sound in the words, though he adduces an additional 
proof in the fact that, according to the Swedish natural- 
ist quoted above, the common people of Cyprus bestow 
the epithet of kouphe {Kovtpr]), “deaf,” upon the C.lebeti- 
hus. He does not, however, believe that this species is 
IX.— O o 


absolutely deaf, for he says it can hear well. This epi- 
thet of deafness attributed to the C. lebetinus Oedman 
thinks may throw light on the passage in Psa. Iviii, 5. 
abuut “the deaf adder.” As regards the ojnnion of 
Kosenniiiller and others who recognise the pethen under 
the baton of Forskal, it may be stated that, even if the 
identity is allowed, we are as much in the dark as ever 
on the subject, for the C. baton of Forskal has never 
been determined. If C. baton be the same as C. lebetinus, 
the species denoted may be the Echis arenicola ( Toxi- 
coa) of Egypt ( Catalogue of Snakes in Brit. Mus. i. *29). 
Probably all that naturalists have ever heard of the C. 
baton is derived from two or three lines of description 
given by Forskal. “The whole body is spotted with 
black and white; it is a foot in length, and of the thick- 
ness of two thumbs; oviparous; its bite kills in an in- 
stant, and the wounded body swells.” The evidence af- 
forded by the r/eq/*snake of Cyprus, and adduced in sup- 
port of his argument by Oedman, is of no value what- 
ever; for it must be remembered that audition in all the 
Ophidia is very imperfect, as all the members of this 
order are destitute of a tympanic cavity. The epithet 
“deaf,” therefore, so far as relates to the power all ser- 
pents possess of hearing ordinary sounds, may reasonably 
be applied to any snake. Vulgar opinion in many coun- 
tries attributes “deafness” to the adder; but it would be 
very unreasonable to infer from thence that the common 
adder {Pelias herns') is identical with the “deaf adder” 
of the 58th Psalm. Vulgar opinion in Cyprus is of no 
more value in the matter of identification of species than 
vulgar opinion elsewhere. A preliminary proof, more- 
over, is necessary for the argument. The snake of Cyprus 
must be demonstrated to occur in Egypt or the Holy 
Land: a fact which has never yet been proved, though, 
as was stated above, the snake of Cyprus (C. lebetinus) 
may be the same as the Echis arenicola of North Africa. 

Very absurd are some of the explanations which com- 
mentators have given of the passage concerning the 
“deaf adder that stoppeth her ears;” the rabbi Solo- 
mon (according to Boehart, iii, 162) asserts that “this 
snake becomes deaf when old in one ear; that she stops 
the other with dust, lest she should hear the charmer’s 
voice.” Others maintain that “she applies one ear to 
the ground and stops the other with her tail.” That 
such errors should have prevailed in former days, when 
little else but foolish marvels filled the pages of natural 
history, is not to be wondered at, and no allusion to them 
would have been made here if this absurd error of **the 
adder stopping her ears with her tail” had not been per- 
petuated in our own day. In Bythner’s Lyre of David, 
p. 165 (Dee’s translation. 1847), the following explana- 
tion of the word pethen, without note or comment, occurs: 
“ Asp, whose deafness marks the venom of his malice, as 
though impenetrable even to charms; it is deaf of one 
ear, and stops the other with dust or its tail, that it may 
not hear incantations.” Dr. Thomson also {Land and 
Book, i, 221) seems to give credence to the fable when he 
writes: “There is also current an opinion that the adder 
will actually stop up his ear with his tail to fortify him- 
self against the influence of music and other charms.” 
It is not then needless to observe, in confutation of the 
above error, that no serpent possesses external openings 
to the ear. The true explanation of Psa. Iviii, 5 is sim- 
ply as follows: There are some serpents, individuals of 
the same species perhaps, which defy all the attempts 
of the charmer — in the language of Scripture such in- 
dividuals may be termed deaf. The point of the rebuke 
consists in the fact that the pethen was capable of hear- 
ing the charmer’s song, but refused to do so. The in- 
dividual case in question was an exception to the rule. 
If, as some have supposed, the expression “deaf adder” 
denoted some species that was incapable of hearing, 
whence it had its specific name, how could there be any 
force in the comparison which the psalmist makes with 
wicked menV Serpents, though, comparatively speak- 
ing, deaf to ordinary sounds, are no doubt capable of 
hearing the sharp, shrill sounds which the charmer pro- 


SERPENT 


SERPENT 


578 


duces either by his voice or by an instrument; and this 
comparative deafness is, it appears to us, the very 2 'eason 
why such sounds as the charmer makes produce the 
desired effect in the subject under treatment. As the 
Egyptian cobra is more frequently than any other spe- 
cies the subject upon which the serpent-charmers of the 
Bible-lands practice their science, as it is fond of con- 
cealing itself in walls and in holes (Isa. xi, 8), and as it 
is not impossible that the derivation of the Hebrew word 
pethen has reference to the expanding powers of this 
serpent’s neck when irritated, it appears to us to have 
at least as good a claim to represent the pethen as the 
very doubtful species of Coluber bietan , which on such 
slender grounds has been so positively identified with 
it. See Serrent-ciiarming. 

5. Epheh Sept. otpic, d<T7nc, /iacnXicncoc) oc- 

curs in Job xx, 1C; Isa. xxx, G; and lix, 5, in all of 
which passages the A. V. has “viper.” There is no 
scriptural allusion by means of which it is possible to 
determine the species of serpent indicated by the Heb. 
term, which is derived from a root which signifies “to 
hiss.” Shaw (Trar. p. 251) speaks of some poisonous 
snake which the Arabs call leffah (el-effah) : “it is the 
most malignant of the tribe, and rarely above a foot 
long.” Jackson also ( Morocco , p. 110) mentions this 
serpent; from his description it would seem to be the 
Algerine adder ( Echidna arietans var. Mauritanica). 
The snake (tyitW) that fastened on Paul’s hand when 
he was at Melita (Acts xxviii, 3) was probably the 
common viper (Pelias berus), which is widely distrib- 
uted tlirqughout Europe and the islands of the Mediter- 
ranean, or else the Yipera ttspis, a not uncommon species 
on the coasts of the same sea. See Viper. 

6. Tsepha , or Tsiphoni (y52£, Sept, ticyova 

t'anriduty, Kt(ju(rn]i ;), occurs five times in the Hebrew 
I>ible. In Prov. xxiii, 32 it is translated “adder,” and 
in the three passages oflsaiah quoted above, as well as 
in Jer. viii, 17, it is rendered “cockatrice.” The deriva- 
tion of the word from a root which means “to hiss” does 
not help us at all to identify the animal. From Jere- 
miah we learn that it was of a hostile nature, and from 
the parallelism of Isa. xi, 8 it appears that the tsiphoni 
was considered even more dreadful than the pethen. 
Buchart, in his IJieroz. (iii, 182, ed. Posenmuller), has 
endeavored to prove that the tsiphoni is the basilisk of 
the Greeks (whence Jerome in Vulg. reads reguUts ), 
which was then supposed to destroy life, burn up grass, 
and break stones by the pernicious influence of its breath 
(comp. Pliny, II. N. viii r 33) ; but this is explaining an 
“ignotum per ignotius.” 

The whole story of the basilisk is involved in fable, 
and it is in vain to attempt to discover the animal to 
which the ancients attributed such terrible power. It 
is curious to observe, however, that Forskfd ( Descr . 
A nimal, p. 15) speaks of a kind of serpent ( Coluber hol- 
leik is the name he gives it) which he says produces 
irritation on the spot touched by its breath; he is quot- 
ing, no doubt, the opinion of the Arabs. Is this a relic 
of the basiliskan fable? This creature was so called 
from a mark on its head, supposed to resemble a kingly 
' crown. Several serpents, however, have peculiar mark- 
ings on the head— the varieties of the spectacle-cobras 
of India, for example — so that identification is impossi- 
ble. As the Sept, makes use of the word basilisk (Psa. 
xc, 13; xci, 13 A. V.), it was thought desirable to say 
this much on the subject. The basilisk of naturalists 
is a most forbidding-looking yet harmless lizard of the 
family lyutinithe, order Sunriu. In using the term, 
therefore, care must be taken not to confound the myth- 
ical serpent with the veritable Saurian. Basilisk is an 
indefinite English name, which belongs to no identified 
serpent, and now appears only in the works of ancient 
compilers and heralds, where it is figured with a crest, 
though there is no really crested or frilled species known 
to exist in the whole Ophidian order. Created serpents 
occur, it is true, on Greek and Etruscan vases; but they 


are invariably mythological representations, probably 
derived from descriptive rumors of the hooded nujas, 
cerastes, and perhaps mureenae ; the first of these having 
what may be likened to a turbaned, the other to a coro- 
nated head, and the third fins at the operculum. But 
it is from the apparently crowned form that the de- 
nominations of basilisk and regulus were derived. See 
Basilisk. 

It is possible that the tsiphoni maybe represented by 
the Algerine adder ( Clotho Mauritanica ), but it must 
be confessed that this is mere conjecture. Dr. Harris, 
in his Natural History of the Bible, erroneously sup- 
poses it to be identical with the Rajah zephen of For- 
skal, which, however, is a fish ( Trigon zephen, Cuv.), 
and not a serpent. See Cockatrice. 



Algerine Adder ( Clotho Mauritanica). 


7. Shephiphon ("jb^Sir; Sept. iyKaSijpevoc) occurs 
only in Gen. xlix, 17, where it is used to characterize 
the tribe of Dan: “Dan shall be a serpent by the way, 
an adder in the path, that biteth the horse’s heels, so 
that his rider shall fall backwards.” Various are the 
readings of the old versions in this passage: the Samar- 
itan interprets shephiphon by “lying in wait;” the 'Par- 
gums of Jonathan, of Onkelos, and of Jerusalem, with 
the Syriac, “a basilisk” ("|^*Vin, churmon, destructive ). 
The Arabic interpreters Erpenius and Saadias have 
“ the horned snake ;” and so the Vulg. cerastes. The 
Sept., like the Samaritan, must have connected the He- 
brew term with a word which expresses the idea of 
“sitting in ambush.” The original word comes from 
a root (riS'J) which signifies “to prick,” “ pierce,” or 
“ bite.” 

The habit of the shephiphon alluded to in Jacob’s 
prophecy — namely, that of lurking in the sand and bit- 
ing at the horse’s heels — suits the character of a well- 
known species of venomous snake, the celebrated horned 
viper, the asp of Cleopatra {Cerastes Hasselquistii), 
which is found abundantly in the sandy deserts of 
Egypt, Syria, and Arabia. The Hebrew word shephi- 
phon is no doubt identical with the Arabic siffon. If 
the translation of this Arabic word by Golius be com- 
pared with the description of the cerastes in the Brit- 
ish Museum, there will appear good reason for identify- 
ing the shephiphon of Genesis with the cerastes of 



Horned Cerastes ( Cerastes Hasselquistii). 


SERPENT 


579 


SERPENT 


naturalists : “ Siffon, serpentis genus leve, punctis macu- 
lisque distinctum” — “a small kind of serpent marked 
with dots and spots” (Golius, Arab . Lex. s. \\). “The 
cerastes ( Cerastes Hasselquistii ) is brownish white, with 
pale -brown, irregular unequal, spots” ( Catalogue of 
Snakes in Brit. Mus. i, 29). Jt is not pretended that 
the mere fact of these two animals being spotted affords 
sufficient ground, when taken alone, lor asserting that 
they are identical, for many serpents have this char- 
acter in common ; but when taken in connection with 
what has been adduced above, coupled with the fact 
that this spotted character belongs only to a very few 
kinds common in the localities in question, it does at 
least form strong presumptive evidence in favor of the 
identity of the shephiphim with the cerastes. The 
name of cerastes is derived from a curious horn-like 
process above each eye in the male (and occasionally, 
it would seem, in the female likewise), which gives it 
a formidable appearance. Bruce, in his Travels in Abys- 
sinia, has given a very accurate and detailed account 
of these animals. He observes that he found them in 
great numbers in those parts which were frequented by 
the jerboa, and that in the stomach of a cerastes he 
discovered the remains of a jerboa, lie kept two of 
these snakes in a glass vessel for two years without 
any food. Another circumstance mentioned by Bruce 
throws some light on the assertions of ancient authors 
as to the movement of this snake. /Elian (De Anim . 
xv, 13), Isidores, /Etius, have all recorded of the ce- 
rastes that, whereas other serpents creep along in a 
straight direction, this one and the hcemorrhous (no 
doubt the same animal under another name) move side- 
ways, stumbling, as it were, on either side (and comp. 
Bochart'). Let this be compared with what Bruce 
says, “The cerastes moves with great rapidity and in 
all directions, forwards, backwards, suleivays; when he 
inclines to surprise any one who is too far from him, 
he creeps with his side towards the person etc. The 
words of Ibn-Sina, or Avicenna, are to the same effect. 
It is right, however, to state that nothing unusual has 
been observed in the mode of progression of the ce- 
rastes in the gardens of the Zoological Society ; but, of 
course, negative evidence in the instance of a specimen 
not in a state of nature does not invalidate the state- 
ment of so accurate an observer as Bruce. The cele- 
brated John Ellis seems to have been the first English- 
man who gave an accurate description of the cerastes 
(see Philosoph. Transact. 1760). Hasselquist. minutely 
describes it ( I tin. p. 241, 365). The cerastes is ex- 
tremely venomous ; Bruce compelled one to scratch 
eighteen pigeons upon the thigh as quickly as possible, 
and they all died nearly in the same interval of time. 
It averages from twelve to fifteen inches in length, but 
is occasionally found larger. It belongs to the fam- 
ily Viperidce , order Ophidia. This is a dangerous spe- 
cies, usually burrowing in sand near the holes of jer- 
boas, and occasionally in the cattle-paths; for there are 
now few or no ruts of cart-wheels, where it is pretend- 
ed they used to conceal themselves to assault unwary 
passers, it is still common in Egypt and Arabia. 

Another kind of horned serpent is the Eryx cerastes 
of Daiulin, also small, having no movable poison-fangs, 
but remarkable for two very long back teeth in the 
lower jaw, which pass through the upper jaw, and ap- 
pear in the shape of two white horns above its surface. 
It is known to the Egyptian Arabs by the name of 
harbayi, which may be a distortion of ou/3a7o£ in 
llorapollo, and is classed by Hasselquist among slow- 
worms, because in form the tail does not taper to a 
point. Its colors are black and white marblings, and 
the eyes are lateral and very near the snout. See 
Asp. 

8. Tsimmaon CjiNBX, Dent, viii, 15) appears to be a 
serpent, though rendered bj r “drought” in the A. V. 
and others, so called because of the intolerable thirst 
occasioned by its bite. If this translation be correct, 


it will form in modern nomenclature one of the genus 
Ilurriu , and subgenus liipsas or Bonyarus. But no 
species of this division of snakes has yet been found in 
Western Asia, albeit there are several in India; and 
Avicenna locates the Torrida dipsas in Egypt and 
Syria; whereupon Cuvier remarks that Gesner’s figure 
of Dipsas belongs precisely to the subgenus here point- 
ed out. As one of the colubrine family, it should not 
be venomous; but the last-mentioned writer remarks 
that several of these are regarded in their native lo- 
calities with great dread ; and on examination it is 
found that, although they have no erectile tubercular 
fangs, with a poison-bag at the roots, there is on the 
long back teeth a groove, and a large gland at the base 
of the maxilla, which it is not unlikely contains, in some 
at least, a highly venomous poison. See Drought. 

9. Zochel (bnit, literally a crawler') occasionally 
stands (Dent, xxxii, 24, “ serpent ;” Mic. vii, 7, “ worm”) 
as a general term for the serpent tribe. See Worm. 

10. Tannin (*j“>2P), “serpent,” Exod. vii, 9, 10, 12: 
elsewhere usually “dragon”) seems in the above in- 
stances to denote a venomous reptile (Dent, xxxii, 33); 
but of a vague character. See Sea-monster. 

11. The usual and proper term for “serpent” in the 
New Test, is o (pig, a snake of any kind ; but once (James 
iii, 7) ipne-rov (elsewhere “creeping thing”) is thus ren- 
dered. More specific terms, noticed above, are doiru;, 
t\i fiva, dpaKiov. 

If. Scientific Classification and Characteristics . — 1. 
Systematical nomenclators and travellers enumerate 
considerably more than forty species of serpents in 
Northern Africa, Arabia, and Syria. Of these it is 
scarcely possible to point out with certainty a single 
one named in the Bible, where very few descriptive 
indications occur beyond what in scientific language 
would now be applied generieallv. It is true that, 
among the names of the list, several may be synonyms 
of one and the same species; still none but the most 
recent researches give characters sufficient to be de- 
pended upon, and as yet nothing like a complete her- 
petology of the regions in question has been estab- 
lished. For, snakes being able to resist a certain degree 
of cold, and also the greatest heat, there are instances 
of species being found, such as the hajes, precisely the 
same, from the Ganges to the Cape of Good Hope; oth- 
ers, again, may be traced from Great Britain to Persia 
and Egypt, as is instanced in the common viper and its 
varieties. Instead, therefore, of making vain efforts at 
identifying all the serpents named, it will be a prefer- 
able course to assign them to their proper families, 
with the exception of those that can be pointed out 
with certainty; and in so doing it will appear that 
even now species of importance mentioned by the an- 
cients are far from being clearly established. 

Serpents may be divided generally into two very 
distinct sections — the first embracing all those that are 
provided with movable tubular fangs and poison-bags 
in the upper jaw; all regarded as ovo-viviparous, and 
called by contraction vipers: they constitute not quite 
one fifth of the species hitherto noticed by naturalists. 
The second section, much more numerous, is the colu- 
brine, not so armed, but not therefore always entirely 
innocuous, since there may be in some cases venomous 
secretions capable of penetrating into the wounds made 
by their fixed teeth, which in all serpents are single 
points, and in some species increase in size as they 
stand back in the jaws. The greater part, if not all, 
of these comparatively innocuous species are oviparous, 
including the largest or giant snakes, and the pelamis 
and hydrophis, or water-serpents, among which several 
are venomous. 

I f we are right in the above identification, one class 
of serpents, the cobra tribe, may be regarded as the type 
of the most venomous in the East. The genus Xaja — 
Haridi (?) of Savary — is distinguished by a plaited 
head, large, very venomous fangs, a neck dilatable uu- 


SERPENT 


5S0 


SERPENT 


der excitement, which raises the ribs of the anterior 
part of the body into the form of a disk or hood, when 
the scales, usually not imbricated, but lying in juxta- 
position, are separated, and expose the skin, which at 
that time displays bright iridescent gleams, contrast- 
ing highly with their brown, yellow, and bluish colors. 
The species attain at least an equal, if not a superior, 
size to the generality of the genus viper; are more 
massive in their structure; and some possess the facul- 


ty of self-inflation to triple their diameter, gradually 
forcing the body upwards into an erect position, until, 
by a convulsive crisis, they are said suddenly to strike 
backwards at an enemy or a pursuer. Capt. Stevens, 
of the Royal Marines, in order to ascertain the truth of 
the universal report concerning the mode of striking 
back ascribed to the serpent, had a quill introduced 
into the vent of one lying dead on the table, and blown 
into. The skin distended till the body rose up nearly 
all its length ; he then caused the experiment to stop, 
from the alarming attitude it assumed. 

2. Among the various tribes of animals which are 
inimical to man, there is none that can compare with 
the venomous snakes for the deadly fatality of their 
enmity: the lightning stroke of their poison-fangs is 
the unerring signal of a swift dissolution, preceded by 
torture the most horrible. The bite of a vigorous ser- 
pent has been known to produce death in two minutes. 
Even where the consummation is not so fearfully rapid, 



r'.irgf - 


its delhy is but a brief prolongation of the intense suf- 
fering. " The terrible symptoms are thus described : A 
sharp pain in the part, which becomes swollen, shining, 
hot, red, then livid, cold, and insensible. The pain and 
inflammation spread, and become more intense: fierce 
shooting pains are felt in other parts, and a burning fire 
jiervades the body. The eyes water profusely; then 
come swoon ings, sickness, and bilious vomitings, diffi- 
cult breathing, cold sweats, and sharp pains in the loins. 
The skin becomes deadly pale or deep yellow, while a 
black watery blood runs from the wound, which changes 
to a yellowish matter. Violent headache succeeds, and 
giddiness, faintness, and overwhelming terrors, burning 
thirst , gushing discharges of blood from the orifices of 
the body, intolerable fetor of breath, convulsive hic- 
coughs, and death . 

The agent of these terrible results is an inodorous, 
tasteless, yellow fluid, secreted by peculiar glands seated 
on the cheeks, and stored 
for use in membranous 
bags, placed at the side of 
each upper jaw, and envel- 
oping the base of a large, 

_ . . JX , , curved, pointed tooth, 

Poisou-bag aud Faug of Cobra. w , lic]l is ‘ tllbular . These 

two teeth, or. fangs, are capable of being erected by a 
muscular apparatus under the power of the animal, when 
they project at nearly a right angle from the jaw. 

The manner in which the deadly blow is inflicted is 
remarkable, .and is- alluded to in Scripture. When the 
rage of the snake is excited, it commonly throws its 
body into a coil, more or less close, ami raises the ante- 
rior part of its body. The neck is now flattened and 
dilated, so that the scales, which ordinarily lie in close 
contact, are separated by wide interspaces of naked 
skin. The neck is bent more or less back, the head 
projecting in a horizontal position. In an instant the 
whole fore part of the animal is launched forward to- 
wards the object of its anger, the erected tooth is forci- 
bly struck intO'the flesh, and withdrawn with the veloc- 
ity of a thought. No doubt the rage which stimulates 
t he action ealls forth an increased action of the poison- 
glands, by which the store-sac is filled with the seere- 
tion. The muscular contraction which gives the rapid 
blow eoinpresses at the same instant the sac; and as the 
acute point of the fang enters the flesh, the venom is 
forced through the tubular centre into the wound. 

111. Scripture History . — It was under the form of a 
serpent that the devil seduced Eve; hence in Scripture 


Satan is called “ the old serpent” (Rev. xii, 9, and comp. 
2 Cor. xi, 3). On this metaphorical use of the word, 
see the Jour, of Sac. Lit. Jan. 1852, p. 351 sq. ; eomp. 
Bibliotk. Sacra, Jan. 18G4. 

The part which the serpent played in the transaction 
of the fall must not be passed over without some brief 
comment, being full of deep and curious interest. First 
of all, then, we h:rve to note the subtlety ascribed to 
this reptile, which was the reason for its having been 
selected as the instrument of Satan’s wiles, and to eom- 
pare with it the quality of wisdom mentioned by our 
Lord as belonging to it, “Be ye wise as serpents” (Matt, 
x, 16). It was an ancient belief, both among Orientals 
and the people of the Western world, that the serpent 
was endued with a large share of sagacity. The He- 
brew word D ! H2‘, translated “ subtile,” though frequent- 
ly used in a good sense, implies, it is probable, in this 
passage, “mischievous and malignant craftiness,” and 
is well rendered by Aquila and Theodotion by 7ravovp- 
yoc, and thus commented upon by Jerome, “Magis ita- 
que hoc verbo ealliditas et versutia quatn sapientia de- 
monstratur” (see Rosenmiiller, Schol. ad loc.). The an- 
cients give various reasons for regarding serpents as 
being endued with wisdom, as that one species, the 
cerastes , hides itself in the sand and bites the heels of 
animals as they pass, or that, as the head was consid- 
ered the only vulnerable part, the serpent takes eare to 
eonceal it under the folds of the body. Serpents have 
in all ages been regarded as emblems of cunning crafti- 
ness. The particular wisdom alluded to by our Lord 
refers, it is probable, to the sagacity displayed by ser- 
pents in avoiding danger. The disciples were warned 
to be as prudent in not incurring unnecessary persecu- 
tion. 

It has been supposed by many commentators that 
the serpent, prior to the fall, moved along in an erect 
attitude, as Milton (P. L. ix, 496) says — 

“Not with indented wave 
Frone on the ground, as since, but on his rear, 
Circular base of.rising folds that tower’d 
Fold above fold, a surging maze.” 

Comp, also Josephus (A?rt. i, 1,4), who believed that God 
now for the first time inserted poison under the ser- 
pent’s tongue, and deprived him of the use of feet, 
causing him to crawl low on the ground by the un- 
dulating inflections of the body (fcara r/)c yijc IXvcr 7rai- 
utvop). Patrick ( Comment . ad loc.) entertained the ex- 
traordinary notion that the serpent of the fall was a 
winged kind (sarapli), and Adam Clarke has been the 
laughing-stock of exegetes ever since for maintaining 
that the serpent of the garden was an orang-outang 
(i Comment . ad loe.). 

It is quite clear that an erect mode of progression is 
utterly incompatible with the structure of a serpent, 
whose motion on the ground is so beautifully effected 
by the mechanism of the vertebral column and the mul- 
titudinous ribs, whieh, forming as it were so many pairs 
of levers, enable the animal to move its body from place 
to place; consequently, bad the snakes before the fall 
moved in an erect attitude, they must have been form- 
ed on a different plan altogether. It is true that there 
are saurian reptiles, such as the Saurophis tetradactylus 
and the Chnnnesaura angithm of South Africa, which 
in external form are very like serpents, but with quasi- 
feet.; indeed, even in the boa- eonstrietor, underneath 
the skin near the extremity, there exist rudimentary 
legs. Some have been disposed to believe that the 
snakes before the fall were similar to the Saurophis. 
Such a hypothesis, however, is untenable, for all the 
fossil Ophidia that have hitherto been found differ in 
no essential respects from modern representatives of 
that order: it is, moreover, beside the mark, for the 
words of the eurse, “upon thy belly shalt thou go,” are 
as characteristic of the progression of a saurophoid ser- 
pent before the fall as of a true ophidian after it. 
There is no reason whatever to conclude, from the lan- 
guage of Scripture, that the serpent underwent any 



SERPENT 


581 


SERPENT 


change of form on account of the part it played in the 
history of the fall. The sun and the moon were in 
the heavens long before they were appointed “for signs 
and for seasons, and for days and for years.” The typ- 
ical form of the serpent and its mode of progression 
were, in all probability, the same before the fail as af- 
ter it; but subsequent to the fall its form and progres- 
sion were to be regarded with hatred and disgust by 
all mankind, and thus the animal was cursed “above 
all cattle,” and a mark of condemnation was forever 
stamped upon it. There is no necessity to show how 
that part of the curse is literally fulfilled which speaks 
of the “enmity” that was henceforth to exist between 
the serpent and mankind; and though, of course, this 
has more especial allusion to the devil whose instru- 
ment the serpent was in his deceit, yet it is perfectly 
true of the serpent. Few will be inclined to differ with 
Theocritus (Id. xv, 58)— 

tov \J/vxpov 6<piv TafiaXana dedoimo 
’Ek Tratdos. 

Serpents are said in Scripture to “eat dust” (see Gen. 
iii, 14; Isa. lxv, 25; Mic. vii, 17) ; these animals, which, 
for the most part, take their food on the ground, do con- 
sequently swallow with it large portions of sand and 
dust (see Thomson, Land and Book , ii, 332). 

IV. Mythology . — As already seen, scriptural evidence 
attests the serpent’s influence on the early destinies of 
mankind ; and this fact may be traced in the history, the 
legends, ami creeds of most ancient nations. It is far 
from being obliterated at this day among the pagan, 
barbarian, and savage tribes of both hemispheres, where 
the most virulent and dangerous animals of the vivip- 
arous class are not uncommonly adored, but more gen- 
erally respected, from motives originating in fear; and 
others, of the oviparous race, are suffered to abide in hu- 
man dwellings, and are often supplied with food, from 
causes not easily determined, excepting that the serpent 
is ever considered to be possessed of some mysterious 
superhuman knowledge or power. Hence, besides real 
species, ideal forms, taken from the living, but combining 
other or additional properties, occur, at the most early 
periods, as metaphorical types, in fable and history, and 
in the hieroglyphics and religious paintings of many 
nations. Such are the innumerable fables in Hindu lore 
of Nagasand Naga kings; the primeval astronomy which 
placed the serpent in the skies, and called the Milkv Way 
by the name of Ananta and Sesha Naga; the pagan 
obscure yet almost universal record of the deluge typi- 
fied by a serpent endeavoring to destroy the ark, which 
astronomy has likewise transferred to the skies in the 
form of a dragon about to devour the moon, when, in 
an eclipsed state, it appears in the form of an amphi- 
promnoSjOr crescent-shaped boat; and, strange as it may 
seem, lunar eclipses still continue to be regarded in this 
character, and to excite general apprehension in Cen- 
tral Africa as well as in China, in the South Sea Isl- 
ands as well as in America. See Dragon. The na- 
tions of the North once believed in the Jormunds Gan- 
der, or Kater serpent of the deep; and they, together 
with the Celts and Basques and all Asia, had legends 
of the Orm, the Paystha, the dragon guardian of riches, 
brooding on gold in caverns deep below the surface of 
the earth, or lying in huge folds on dreary and exten- 
sive heaths. These fables were a residue of that an- 
tique dragon-worship which had its temples from High 
Asia and Colchis to the north of Great. Britain, and 
once flourished both in Greece and Northern Africa — 
structures with avenues of upright stones of several 
miles in length, whereof the ruins may still be traced 
at Carnak in Brittany, Aburv in Wiltshire, and Bed- 
ruth in Cornwall — the two last mentioned more partic- 
ularly showing their connection with the circle con- 
stituting a form of the mundane egg, which again was 
an emblem of the deluge and the ark. The Hesperian, 
Colchian, and Leri avail dragons are only Greek legends 
of the same doctrine, still more distorted, and affording 
ample proof how far the pagan world bad departed from 


the simplicity of scriptural truth, from the excessive 
use of metaphorical descriptions and fanciful symbols. 
In Kgypt, the early centre of ophiolatry, this debasing 
service was so deeply rooted that a Christian sect of 
heretics, called Ophitaj, or, according to Clemens Alex- 
andrinus, Ophiani, arose in the 2d century of our a*ra. 
As an emanation of the Gnostics, their errors are par- 
ticularly noticed by Tertullian, and form a signal in- 
stance of human perverseness ingeniously misleading 
itself and others by the abuse of symbols; yet, when 
the anguine type did not pass into long, distorted leg- 
ends, it is evident, from the brazen serpent raised by 
Moses in the wilderness, that it was correctly appreci- 
ated by the people as a sign, not in itself a power, of 
divine aid; and that its true symbolical meaning did 
not escape even pagan comprehension appears from pro- 
fane history, in Meissi, the good serpent, being likewise 
properly understood by the Egyptians, until idolatry 
distorted all the national reminiscences, and the prom- 
ise of what was not fully revealed till the Saviour ap- 
peared on earth was obliterated. Ob, Oub, the Coptic 
Hof, Obion in Kirclier, was, however, the general name 
for serpents in Egypt; and Kneph, or Cnuphis, or Ih- 
Nuphi, the good genius, always figured as the Nachash 
or Thermuth, is, therefore, the same as Naga Sahib, or 
lord-serpent of India, and still a personification of the 
vanquisher of the deluge — Vishnu and many others 
being pagan denominations of Noah. In this sense the 
good genius Cnuphis was a type of the Saviour of men, 
and called by them the spirit pervading nature, the 
creator from whose mouth proceeded the mundane egg; 
being referred, after the loss of the true interpretation, 
to any typical form of the patriarch, the events of the 
deluge and the creation, thus confounding the opera- 
tions of the Almighty with the ministry of his servant. 
(See Deane, The Worship o f the Serpent traced through- 
out the World [Loud. 1833].) See Serpent-worship. 

There was, however, another idolized snake of the 
great destroyer Python tribe, which devour even each 
other; it is represented on Egyptian monuments bear- 
ing a mummy figure on its tail, and gliding over a 
seated divinity with an egg on the head, while human 
sacrifice by decapitation is performed before it. This 
serpent is so carefully drawn that we recognise the 
Thaibanne, Ophites Thehanus , which grows to twelve 
or more feet in length, is still found in Upper Egypt, 
and is a congener, if not the same as Python tigris al- 
bicans. the great snake even at present worshipped in 
Cutch : it may be the Aphophis of the Egyptians. To 
descant further on this subject would lead us too far 
from our purpose; but the Egyptian Python here no- 
ticed, changing its character from being a type of the 
deluge to that of an emblem of the ark carrying the 
spirit of human life within or upon it, was not without 
its counterpart in England, where lately, in digging out 
the deep, black mud of a ditch, a boat-shaped Python, 
carrying the eight Eones (?) or Noachidse, has been 
discovered, with emblems that denote them to be the 
solar regenerators of mankind. Thus, as is ever the 
case in polytheistical legends, the type disappears 
through multiplied transitions and the number of other 
symbols and personifications characterized by the same 
emblem. It was so in this instance, when the snake 
form was conferred also on abstractions bearing the 
names of divinities, such as Ranno, Iloph, Bai, Iloh or 
Ilih, and others. 

The asserted longevity of the serpent tribe may have 
suggested the representation of the harmless house- 
snake biting its tail as typical of eternity; and this 
same quality was, no doubt, the cause why this animal, 
entwined round a staff, was the symbol of health and 
the distinctive attribute of the classical vEsculapius 
and Hvgeia. . There are species of this genus common 
to Palestine and the southern parts of continental Eu- 
rope. They vrere domesticated in Druidical and other 
pagan sanctuaries, and were employed for omens and 
other impostures; but the mysterious Ag or Ilagstone 


SERPENT 


582 


SERPENT 


was asserted to be produced by the venomous viper 
species. With such powers of destroying animal life, 
and with an aspect at once terrible and resplendent, it 
may easily be imagined how soon fear and superstition 
would combine, at periods anterior to historical data, 
to raise these monsters into divinities, and endeavor fro 
deprecate their wrath by the blandishments of worship; 
and how design and cupidity would teach these very 
votaries the manner of subduing their ferocity, of ex- 
tracting their instruments of mischief, and making 
them subservient to the wonder and amusement of the 
vulgar by using certain cadences of sound which af- 
fect their hearing, and exciting in them a desire to 
perform a kind of pleasurable movement that may be 
compared to dancing. Hence the Nagas of the East, 
the liagworms of the West, and the llaje have all been 
deified, styled ayathodeemon , or good spirit; and figures 
of them occur wherever the superstition of pagan an- 
tiquity has been accompanied by the arts of civiliza- 
tion. 

“Almost throughout the East,” writes Kalisch {Ilist. 
and Crit. Comment. Gen. Hi, 1), “the serpent was used 
as an emblem of the evil principle, of the spirit of dis- 
obedience and contumacy. A few exceptions only can 
be discovered. The Phoenicians adored that animal as 
a beneficent genius; and the Chinese consider it as a 
symbol of superior wisdom and power, and ascribe to 
the kings of heaven ( iien-kounys ) bodies of serpents. 

Some other nations fluct- 
uated in their concep- 
tions regarding the ser- 
pent. The Egyptians 
represented the eternal 
spirit Ivneph, the author 
of all good, under the 
mythic form of that rep- 
tile; they understood the 
art of taming it, and em- 
balmed it after death ; 
but they applied the 
same symbol for the god 
of revenge and pnnish- 
ment (Tithrambo), and 
for Tvphon, the author 
of all moral and physical 

„ , , , , , . evil; and in the Egyptian 

Ivneph Agathodaemon, denoting nl . v'J 

Immortality (see Horapollo, i,l). s y m bohcal alphabet the 
serpent represents subtle- 
ty and cunning, lust and sensual pleasure. In Greek 
mythology it is certainly, on the one hand, the attribute 
of Ceres, of Mercury, and of Aesculapius, in their most 
beneficent qualities; hut it forms, on the other hand, a 
part of the terrible Furies, or Eumcnides: it appears in 
the form of a Python as a fearful monster, which the 
arrows of a god only were able to destroy; and it is 
the most hideous and most formidable part of the im- 
pious giants who despise and blaspheme the power of 
Heaven. The Indians, like the savage tribes of Africa 
and America, suffer and nourish, indeed, serpents in 
their temples, and even in their houses. They helieve 
that they bring happiness to the places which they in- 





Agathodeemon. (From Egyptian monuments.) 

a. Sacred symbol of the winded globe and serpent, b. Head of hawk sur- 
mounted by globe and serpent. 


habit ; they worship them as the symbols of eternity; 
but they regard them also as evil genii, or as the in- 
imical powers of nature, which is gradually depraved 
by them, and as the enemies of the gods, who either 
tear them to pieces or tread their venomous head un- 
der their all-conquering feet. So contradictory is all 
animal-worship. Its principle is, in some instances, 
gratitude, and in others fear; but if a noxious animal 
is very dangerous, the fear may manifest itself in two 
ways — either by the resolute desire of extirpating the 
beast, or by the wish of averting the eonfiiet with its 
superior power: thus the same fear may, on the one 
hand, cause fierce enmity, and, on the other, submission 
and worship.” See, on the subject of serpent-worship, 
Vossius, De Oriy. Idol, i, 5; Bryant, Mytholoyy , i, 420- 
490: it is well illustrated in the apocryphal story of 
“ Bel and the Dragon ;” comp. Steindorf, De ’QtyioXa- 
rptiq ; Winer, Bib. Realwort. ii, 48.8. 

From a modification, perhaps, of this idea of a tutela- 
ry genius, in Egypt and other Oriental countries a ser- 
pent was the common symbol of a powerful monarch. 
It was embroidered on the robes of princes and blazoned 
on their diadems to signify their invincible might: and 
that, as the wound inflicted by them is incurable, so the 
fatal effects of royal displeasure were neither to be avert- 
ed nor endured. 

The evil spirit in the form of a serpent appears in 

the Ahriman, 
^ 7 -^ or lord of evil, 
' v ^ 10 > accord- 
^ ing to the doc- 
trine of Zo- 
I Horned Cerastes. (From Egyptian monn- nyKtpr 

meuts.) roaster, nrsi 

taught men to 

sin under the guise of this reptile (Zenduvesta fed. 
Kleuk.], i, 25; iii, 84; see Rus, De Serpente Seductore 
non Naturali sea Diabolo [den. 1712], and Grapius, De 
Tentatione Erne et Christi a Diabolo in Assumpto Cor - 
pore Facta [Rostoch. 1712]). But compare the opinion 
of Dr. Ivaliseh. who {Comment, on Gen. iii, 14, 15) says 
“ the serpent is the reptile, not an evil daemon that had 
assumed its shape. ... If the serpent represented Satan, 
it would be extremely surprising that the former only 
was cursed, and that the latter is not even mentioned. 
.... It would be entirely at variance with the divine 
justice forever to curse the animal whose shape it had 
pleased the evil one to assume.” According to the Tal- 
mudists, the name of the evil spirit that beguiled Eve 
was Sammael (bx?30): “R. Moses ben-Majemon seribit 
in More (lib. ii, c. 30), Sammaelem ineqnitasse serpenti 
antiquo et seduxisse Evam. Dicit etiam nomen hoc 
absolute usurpari de Satana, et Sammaelem nihil aliud 
esse quara ipsum Satanam” (Buxtorf, Lex. Tahn. col. 
1495). 

It is of more importance to remark that in the tradi- 
tions of most pagan nations, which have been embodied 
in their mythology, the serpent appears as the enemy 
of man, and a triumph over this enemy is usually de- 
scribed as the greatest achievement of a popular deity. 
The Egyptian Horus is frequently represented pierc- 
ing the head of some terrific serpent with his spear. 
From this source the Greeks and Romans adopted the 
fable of Apollo and the serpent Python, which is thus 
narrated by Ovid : 

“Of new monsters earth created more 
Unwillingly, but yet she brought to light | 

Thee, Python, too, the wondering world to fright > 
And the new nations with so dire a sight: j 

So monstrous was his bulk, so large a space 
Did his vast body and long train embrace. 

Ilim Phoebus basking on a bank espied, 

And all his skill against the monster tried; 

Though every shaft took place, he spent the store 
Of his full quiver, and Twas long before 
The expiring serpent wallowed in his gore.” 

Lok, one of the favorite heroes of the Northern mythol- 
ogy, is represented as a destroyer of serpents, and a leg- 
end similar to the classic story just quoted represents 
him as destroying a monstrous serpent with his hammer 



SERPENT 


583 


SERPENT 





SERPENT OF BRASS 


584 


SERPENT OF BRASS 


interest of the narrative lies in the thoughts which 
have at different times gathered round it. We meet 
with these in four distinct stages, embodied in as many 
widely separated passages of Scripture. We have to 
ask by what associations each w r as connected w'ith the 
others. 

1. The Formation of the Object (Numb, xxi, 8, 9). — 
The truth of the history will, in this place, be taken for 
granted. Those who prefer it may choose among the 
hypotheses by which men halting between two opinions 
have endeavored to retain the historical and to elimi- 
nate the supernatural element. The theory which as- 
cribes the healing to mysterious powers known to the 
astrologers or alchemists of Egypt may be mentioned, 
but hardly calls for examination (Marsham, Can. Chron. 
p. 148, 149; K. Tirza, in Deyling, Exercitt. Sacr . ii, 210). 
Unbelievers may look on the cures as having been ef- 
fected by the force of imagination, which the visible 
symbol served to heighten, or by the rapid rushing of 
the serpent-bitten from all parts of the camp to the 
standard thus erected, curing them, as men are said to 
be cured of the bite of the tarantula by dancing (Bauer, 
Heb. Gesch . ii, 320; Paulus, Comm. /U, i, 198). They 
may see in the serpent the emblematic sign-post, as it 
were, of the camp-hospital to which the sufferers were 
brought for special treatment, the form in this instance, 
as in that of the rod of /Esculapius, being a symbol of 
the art of healing (Hoffmann, in Scherer. Schrift. Forsch. 
i, 576). Leaving these conjectures on one side, it re- 
mains for us to inquire into the fitness of the symbol 
thus employed as the instrument of healing. To most 
of the Israelites it must have seemed as strange then as 
it did afterwards to the later rabbins that any such sym- 
bol should be employed. One of the Jewish interlocu- 
tors in the dialogue of Justin Martyr with Trypho (p. 
322) declares that he had often asked his teachers to 
solve the difficulty, and had never found one who ex- 
plained it satisfactorily. Justin himself, of course, ex- 
plains it as a type of Christ. 

The second commandment appeared to forbid the 
likeness of any living thing. The golden calf had been 
destroyed as an abomination. Now the colossal serpent 
(the narrative implies that it was visible from all parts 
of the encampment), made, we may conjecture, by the 
hands of Bezaleel or Aholiab, was exposed to their gaze, 
and they were told to look to it as gifted with a super- 
natural power. What reason was there for the differ- 
ence? In part, of course, the answer may be that the 
second commandment forbade, not all symbolic forms 
as such, but those that men made for themselves to wor- 
ship; but the question still remains, Why was this form 
chosen? 

It is hardly enough to say, with Jewish commenta- 
tors, that any outward means might have been chosen, 
like the lump of figs in Hezekiah’s sickness, the salt 
which healed the bitter waters, and that the brazen ser- 
pent made the miracle yet more miraculous, inasmuch 
as the glare of burnished brass, the gaze upon the ser- 
pent form, were, of all things, most likely to be fatal to 
those who had been bitten (Gem. Bab. Yoma ; Aben- 
Ezra and others, in liuxtorf, Hist. FEn. Serp. c. 5). The 
fact is doubtful, the reason inadequate. Another view, 
verging almost on the ludicrous, has been maintained 
by some Jewish writers. The serpent was set up in 
ferrorem , as a man who has chastised his son hangs up 
the rod against the wall as a warning (Otho, Lexic. 
Rabbin, s. v. “ Serpens”). 

It is hardly enough again to say, with most Christian 
interpreters, that it was intended to be a type of Christ. 
Some meaning it must have had for those to whom it 
was actually presented; and we have no grounds for 
assuming, even in Moses himself, still less in the multi- 
tude of Israelites slowly rising out of sensuality, unbe- 
lief, rebellion, a knowledge of the far-off' mystery of re- 
demption. If the words of our Lord in John iii, 14, 15, 
point to the fulfilment of the type, there must vet have 
been another meaning for the symbol. Taking its part 


in the education of the Israelites, it must have had its 
starting-point in the associations previously connected 
with it. Two views, very different from each other, 
have been held as to the nature of those associations. 
On the one side it has been maintained that, either 
from its simply physical effects, or from the mysterious 
history of the temptation in Gen. iii, the serpent was 
the representative of evil. To present the serpent-form 
as deprived of its power to hurt, impaled as the trophy 
of a conqueror, was to assert that evil, physical and 
spiritual, had been overcome, and thus help to strength- 
en the weak faith of the Israelites in a victory over 
both. The serpent, on this view, expressed the same 
idea as the dragon in the popular representations of the 
archangel Michael and St. George (Ewald, Geschichte , 
ii, 228). To some writers, as to Ewald, this has com- 
mended itself as the simplest and most obvious view. 
It has been adopted by some orthodox divines who 
have been unable to convince themselves that the same 
form could ever really have been at once a type of Sa- 
tan and of Christ (Jackson, Humiliation of the Son of 
God, ch. xxxi ; Patrick, Comm, ad loc. ; Espagnajus, Bur- 
mann, Vitringn, in Deyling, Observatt . Sac. ii, 15). Oth- 
ers, again, have started from a different ground. They 
raise the question whether Gen. iii was then written, 
or, if written, known to the great body of the Israelites. 
They look to Egypt as the starting-point for all the 
thoughts which the serpent could suggest, and they 
find there that it was worshipped as an ayathodeemon, 
the symbol of health and life (comp. Serpent, and, in 
addition to the authorities there referred to, Wilkinson, 
Anc. Egyptians, ii, 134; iv, 395; v, 64, 238; Kurtz, Hist, 
of the Old Covenant [Eng. transl.], iii, 348; Witsius, 
xEgyptiaca , in Ugolino, i, 852). This, for them, ex- 
plains the mystery. It was as the known emblem of a 
power to heal that it served as the sign and sacrament 
on which the faith of the people might fasten and sus- 
tain itself. 

Contrasted as these views appear, they have, it is 
believed, a point of contact. The idea primarily con- 
nected with the serpent in the history of the fall, as 
throughout the proverbial language of Scripture, is that 
of wisdom (Gen. iii, 1 ; Matt, x, 16; 2 Cor. xi, 3). Wis- 
dom, apart from obedience to a divine order, allying it- 
self to man’s lower nature, passes into cunning. Man’s 
nature is envenomed and degraded by it. But wisdom, 
the self-same power of understanding, yielding to the di- 
vine law, is the source of all healing and restoring influ- 
ences, and the serpent-form thus becomes a symbol of de- 
liverance and health. The Israelites were taught that 
it would be such to them in proportion as they ceased 
to be sensual and rebellious. There were facts in the 
life of Moses himself which must have connected them- 
selves with this twofold symbolism. When he was to 
be taught that the divine wisdom could work with any 
instruments, his rod became a serpent (Exod. iv, 1-5). 
(Comp. Cyril. Alex. Schol. 15; Glaphyra in Exod. ii. 
The explanation given by Cyril is, as might be ex- 
pected, more mystical than that in the text. The rod 
transformed into a serpent represents the Divine Word 
taking on himself the likeness of sinful flesh.) When 
he and Aaron were called to their great conflict with 
the perverted wisdom of Egypt, the many serpents of 
the magicians were overcome by the one serpent of the 
future high-priest. The conqueror and the conquered 
were alike in outward form (Exod. vii, 10-12). 

2. The Destruction of the Object (2 Kings xviii, 4). — 
The next stage in the history of the brazen serpent 
shows how easily even a legitimate symbol, retained 
beyond its time, after it had done its work, might be- 
come the occasion of idolatry. It appears in the reign 
of llezekiah as having been, for some undefined period, 
an object of worship. The zeal of that king leads him 
to destroy it. It receives from him, or had borne before, 
the name Nehnshtan (q. v.). We are left to conject- 
ure when the worship began, or what was its locality. 
Ewald’s conjecture ( Geschichte j\\ , 622) that till then the 


SERPENT OF BRASS 


585 


SERPENT OF BRASS 


serpent may have remained at Zalmonah, the object of 
occasional pilgrimages, is probable enough* It is hardly 
likely that it should have been tolerated by the reform- 
ing zeal of kings like Asa and Jehoshaphat. It must, 
we may believe, have received a fresh character and 
become more conspicuous in the period which preceded 
its destruction. All that we know of the reign of Ahaz 
makes it probable that it was under his auspices that it 
received a new development, that it thus became the 
object of a marked aversion to the iconoclastic party 
who were prominent among the counsellors of Ilezekiali. 
Intercourse with countries in which ophiolatry pre- 
vailed — Syria, Assyria, possibly Egypt also — acting on 
the feeling which led him to bring together the idola- 
tries of all neighboring nations, might easily bring 
about this perversion of the reverence felt for the time- 
honored relic. 

Here we might expect the history of the material 
object would cease, but the passion for relics has pre- 
vailed even against the history of the Bible. The 
Church of St. Ambrose at Milan has boasted for centu- 
ries of possessing the brazen serpent which Moses set 
up in the wilderness. The earlier history of the relic, 
so called, is matter for conjecture. Our knowledge of 
it begins in the year A.D. 971, when an envoy was sent 
by the Milanese to the court of the emperor John Zi- 
misces at Constantinople. lie was taken through the 
imperial cabinet of treasures and invited to -make his 
choice, and he chose this, which, the Greeks assured 
him, was made of the same metal as the original ser- 
pent (Sigonius, Hist . Reyn . Jtal. bk. vii). On his re- 
turn it was placed in the Church of St. Ambrose, and 
popularly identified with that which it professed to rep- 
resent. It is, at least, a possible hypothesis that the 
Western Church has in this way been led to venerate 
what was originally the object of the worship of some 
Ophite sect. 

3. The Apocryphal Notices of the Object . — When the 
material symbol had perished, its history began to sug- 
gest deeper thoughts to the minds of men. The writer 
of the book of Wisdom, in the elaborate contrast which 
he draws between true and false religions in their use 
of outward signs, sees in it a ovpfioXov oiorypiag, tig 
avapvriGiv irroXyg iwpov oov ; “he that turned him- 
self was not saved by the thing that he saw ( Sid to $t- 
iopovpivov), but by thee that art the Saviour of all” 
(Wisd. xvi, 6, 7). The Targum of Jonathan para- 
phrases Numb, xxi, 8, “He shall be healed if he direct 
his heart unto the Name of the Word of the Lord.” 
Philo, with his characteristic taste for an ethical, mys- 
tical interpretation, represents the history as a parable 
of man’s victory over his lower, sensuous nature. The 
metal, the symbol of permanence and strength, has 
changed the meaning of the symbol, and that which 
had before been the emblem of the will, yielding to and 
poisoned by the serpent pleasure, now represents <r oj<fipo- 
ff/ii'j/, the avTiTraSig oKoXaoiag (fiappaKov (De Agri- 
cult .). The facts just stated may help us to enter into 
the bearing of the words of John iii, 14, 15. If the par- 
aphrase of Jonathan represents, as it does, the current 
interpretation of the schools of Jerusalem, the devout 
rabbi to whom the words were spoken could not have 
been ignorant of it. The new teacher carried the lesson 
a step further. He led him to identify the “Name of 
the Word of the Lord” with that of the Son of man. 
He prepared him to see in the lifting-up of the cruci- 
fixion that which should answer in its power to heal 
and save to the serpent in the wilderness. 

4. Our Lord's Allusion to the Object (John iii). — A 
full discussion of the typical meaning here unfolded be- 
longs to exegesis rather than to a dictionary. It will 
be enough to note here that which connects itself with 
facts or theories already mentioned. On the one side j 
the typical interpretation has been extended to all the 
details. The pole on which the serpent was placed was 
not only a type of the cross, but was itself crucial in 
form (Just. Mart. Dial, c . Tryph. p. 322). The serpent I 


was nailed to it as Christ was nailed. As the symbol 
of sin, it represented his being made sin for us. The 
very metal, like the fine brass of Iiev. i, 15, was an em- 
blem of the might and glory of the Son of Man (comp. 
Lampe, ad loc .). On the other, it has been maintained 
(Patrick and Jackson, ut supra ) that the serpent was 
from the beginning, and remains still, exclusively the 
symbol of evil; that the lifting-up of the Son of man 
answered to that of the serpent because on the cross the 
victory over the serpent w r as accomplished. The point 
of comparison lay not between the serpent and Christ, 
but between the look of the Israelite to the outward sign 
and the look of a justifying faith to the cross of Christ. 
It will not surprise us to find that in the spiritual, as in 
the historical interpretation, both theories have an ele- 
ment of truth. The serpent here also is primarily the 
emblem of the “knowledge of good and evil.” To man, 
as having obtained that knowledge by doing evil, it has 
been as a venomous serpent, poisoning and corrupting. 
In the nature of the Son of Man it is once more in har- 
mony with the divine will, and leaves the humanity 
pure and untainted. The crucifixion is the witness that 
the evil has been overcome by the good. Those who 
are bitten by the serpent find their deliverance in look- 
ing to him who knew evil only by subduing it, and who 
is therefore mighty to save. Well would it have been 
for the Church of Christ if it had been content to rest 
in this truth. Its history show's how easy it was for 
the old perversion to reproduce itself. The highest of 
all symbols might share the fate of the lower. It w*as 
possible even lor the cross of Christ to pass into a Ne- 
hushtan (comp. Stier, Words of the Lord Jesus, on John 
iii, and Kurtz, Hist, of the Old Covenant [Eng. transl.l, 
iii, 344-358). — Smith. 

What, then, are the particulars in which these acts 
in the Old and in the New Test, correspond; or what 
are the points of resemblance implied in our Lord’s 
words — as and even so? In our answer we must avoid 
the error of trying to reckon up a number of these re- 
semblances; and, indeed, we must look to essential cor- 
respondence, not to any fanciful likeness on the surface. 
This we must do in agreement with the principle that 
the relation is the same between the bitten Israelites 
and the serpent lifted up for them to look at as between 
perishing sinners and the crucified Saviour who is of- 
fered to them. There are three such correspondences : 
(1) There is “ the serpent” which Moses lifted up in the 
wilderness, and there is “ the Son of Mail,” lifted up in 
due time on the cross. It is in stating this point of re- 
semblance, however, that there have been most extrav- 
agance and error, which have disgusted some sober think- 
ers, and induced them to deny it altogether — a denial 
which we think unwarrantable, when we observe the 
manner in which the tw r o objects are singled out aud 
placed together. The reference is certainly not at all 
to heathenish notions of the serpent as possessed of a 
healing power. Nor even is it directly to the old ser- 
pent, on whom Christ has inflicted a fatal wound, and 
made a show of him openly, triumphing over him in 
his cross. It is better to say that the brazen serpent 
had the form indeed of the serpents that actually 
wrought the mischief, but yet a serpent destitute of 
venom and impotent for evil; and that so God sent his 
Son in the likeness of sinful flesh, yet without sin. We 
prefer, however, to say that the brazen serpent seemed 
a most improbable means of curing the serpents’ bites; 
and so he who was condemned and crucified as a male- 
factor seemed most unsuitable to save condemned and 
perishing men. (2) There is the lifting-up of the ser- 
pent upon the pole, no doubt in such a way as to render 
it conspicuous to the farthest extremities of the camp, 
which would be the more easily effected on account of 
its metallic brilliancy. Corresponding to this there is 
the lifting-up of the Son of man, who says, “Look unto 
me and be ye saved, all the ends of the earth” (Isa. xlv, 
22); as the apostle says to those who have heard the 
Gospel, “Before whose eyes Jesus Christ hath been evi- 


586 


SERPENT-CHARMING 


SERPENT-CHARMING 


dently set forth, crucified among you” (Gal. iii, 1). It 
is impossible to overlook this comparison, except by 
misinterpreting the expression “the Son of Man must 
be lifted up;” though there is no room for mistake when 
we have our Lord’s own words, “And I, if I be lifted up 
from the earth, will draw all men unto me,” by which 
phrase he signified the manner of his death, and was 
understood as doing so (John xii, 82-34). (3) There is 

the healing of the physical wound by the bodily eye 
looking to the serpent, and the corresponding spiritual 
healing by looking to the crucified Son of Man with the 
eye of faith— the natural life in the one case having 
that relation to the everlasting life in the other which 
the type always bears to the antitype. — Fairbairn. 

Serpent-charming. There can be no question 
at all of the remarkable power which from time imme- 
morial has been exercised by certain people in the East 
over poisonous serpents. The art is most distinctly men- 
tioned in the Bible [see Ciiaiwi], and probably alluded 
to by St. James (iii, 7), The usual species operated 
upon, both in Africa and India, are the hooded snakes 
(A T aja tripudians , and Naja haje) and the horned ce- 
rastes. The skill of the Italian mar si and the Libyan 
psylli in taming serpents was celebrated throughout the 
world; and to this day, as we are told by Sir G. Wilkin- 
son (Bawlinson, Herodotus , iii, 124, note, ed. 1862), the 
snake-plavers of the coast of Barbarv are worthy suc- 
cessors of the psylli (see Pliny, viii, 25; xi,25; and espe- 
cially Lucan’s account of the psylli [Pharsal. ix, 892]). 
See numerous references cited by Bochart ( Hieroz . iii, 
164, etc.) on the subject of serpent-taming. Multitudes 
of modern observers have described the practices of the 
snake-charmers in such terms as to leave no doubt of 
the fact. One instance may suffice for illustration. Mr. 
Gogerly, a missionary in India, says that some persons, 
being incredulous on the subject, after taking the most 
careful precautions against any trick or artifice being 
played, sent a charmer into the garden to prove his 
powers: “The man began to play upon his pipe, and, 
proceeding from one part of the garden to another for 
some minutes, stopped at a part of the wall much in- 
jured by age. and intimated that a serpent was within. 
He then played quicker, and his notes were louder, 
when almost immediately a large cobra-de-capello put 
forth its hooded head, and the man ran fearlessly to the 
spot, seized it by the throat, and drew it forth. He 
then showed the poison-fangs, and beat them out; after- 
wards it was taken to the room where his baskets were 
left and deposited among the rest. . . . The snake-charm- 
er,” observes the same writer, “applies his pipe to his 
mouth and sends forth a few of his peculiar notes, and 
all the serpents stop as though enchanted; they then 
turn towards the musician, and, approaching him within 
two feet, raise their heads from the ground, and, bending 
backward and forward, keep time with the tune. When 
he ceases playing, they drop their heads and remain 
quiet on the ground.” That the charmers frequently, 
and perhaps generally, take the precaution of extracting 
the poison-fangs before the snakes are subjected to their 
skill there is much probability for believing, but that 
this operation is not always attended to is clear from the 
testimony of Bruce and numerous other writers. “ Some 
people,” says the traveller just mentioned, “have doubt- 
ed that it was a trick, and that the animals so handled 
had been first trained and then disarmed of their power 
of hurting, and, fond of the discovery, they have rested 
themselves upon it without experiment, in the face of 
all antiquity. But I will not hesitate to aver that I 
have seen at Cairo a man . . . who has taken a cerastes 
with his naked hand from a number of others lying at 
the bottom of the tub, has put it upon his bare head, 
covered it with the common red cap he wears, then 
taken it out, put it in his breast, and tied it about his 
neck like a necklace, after which it has been applied to 
a hen and bit it, which has died in a few minutes.” Dr. 
Davv. in his Interior of Ceylon, speaking of t he snake- 
charmers, says on this subject: “The ignorant vulgar 


believe that these men really possess a charm by which 
they thus play without dread, and with impunity, from 
danger. The more enlightened, laughing at this idea, 
consider the men impostors, and that in playing their 
tricks there is no danger to be avoided, it being removed 
by the abstraction of the poison-fangs. The enlightened 
in this instance are mistaken, and the vulgar are nearer 
the truth in their opinion. I have examined the snakes 
I have seen exhibited, and have found their poison- 
fangs in and uninjured. These men do possess a charm, 
though not a supernatural one, viz. that of confidence 
and courage. . . They will play their tricks with any 
hooded snakes {Naja tripudians), whether just taken or 
long in confinement, but with no ot her kind of poisonous 
snake.” (See also Tennent, Ceylon , 3d ed. i, 199.) Some 
have supposed that the practice of taking out or break- 
ing off the poison-fangs is alluded to in Psa. 1 viii, 6, 
“Break their teeth, O God, in their mouth.” The ser- 



JVIoderu Oriental Serpent-charmers. 


pent - charmer’s usual instrument is a flute. Shrill 
sounds, it would appear, are those which serpents, with 
their imperfect sense of hearing, are able most easily to 
discern; hence it is that the Chinese summon their tame 
fish by whistling or by ringing a bell. The reader will 
find much interesting matter on the art of serpent- 
charming, as practiced by the ancients, in Bochart 
( Hieroz . iii, 161); in the dissertation by Bbhmer enti- 
tled De Psyllorum , J larsorum, et Ophiogenum ad versus 
Serpentes Virtute (Lips. 1745); and in Kampfer, Ama>- 
nitates Exoticce , III, ix, 565; see also Broderip, Note- 
book of a Naturalist, and Anecdotes of Serpents, pub- 
lished by Chambers; Lane, Modern Egyptians, ii, 106. 
Those who professed the art of taming serpents were 
called by the Hebrews menachashhn (C'Cnj^), while 
the art itself was called Idchash ('Cljb), Jcr. viii, 17; 
Eceles. x, 11 : but these terms were not always used in 
this restricted sense. See Divination. 

In general, these serpent-charmers w T erc, and are, 
distinct tribes of men in their several countries, pro- 
fessing the power they claim to be an inherent and 
natural function. The most famous serpent-charmers 
of antiquity w-ere the Psylli, a people of Cyrenai'ea ; 
and that theirs w as believed to be a natural power ap- 
pears from the story told by Pliny, that they were ac- 
customed to try the legitimacy of their new r -born chil- 
dren by exposing them to the most cruel and venomous 
serpents, who dared not molest or even approach them 
unless they were illegitimate. He thinks their power 
resided in some peculiar odor in their persons, which 
the serpents abhorred ( Hist. Nat. vii, 2). Lucan says 
the same; and the passage in which that poet, speaks 
of them affords a complete exposition of the ancient 
belief concerning the charming of serpents. He chiefly 
describes the measures which they took to protect the 
lioman camp. When the encampment was marked 


SERPENTIN IAN S 


587 


SERRAD 


out, they marched around it chanting their charms, 
the “ mvstic sound” of which chased the serpents far 
away. But not trusting entirely to this, they kept up 
tires, of different kinds of wood, beyond the farthest 
tents, the smell of which prevented the serpents from 
approaching. Thus the camp was protected during 
the night. But if any soldier, when abroad in the 
daytime, happened to be bitten, the Rsylli exerted 
their powers to effect a cure. First they rubbed the j 
wounded part around with saliva, to prevent, as they 
said, the poison from spreading while they assayed 
their arts to extract it ( Pharsalia , ix). See EN- 
CHANTMENT. 

In this account we find the voice repeatedly men- 
tioned ; and it is to “the voice of the charmer” that 
the Psalmist refers. We may suppose that, as in the 
passage we have quoted, the charmers use a form of 
words — a charm- — or else chanted a song in some pe- 
culiar manner. So Eusebius, in mentioning that Pal- 
estine abounded in serpent-charmers in his time, says 
that they usually employed a verbal charm. This is 
still one of the processes of the Oriental serpent-charm- 
ers. Roberts says that the following is considered in 
India the most potent form of words against serpents: 
“Oh, serpent! thou who art coiled in my path, get out 
of my way ; for around thee are the mongoos, the por- 
cupine, and the kite in his circles is ready to take 
thee!” The Egyptian serpent-charmer also employs 
vocal sounds and a form of words to draw the ven- 
omous creatures from their retreats. INI r. Lane says, 
“ He assumes an air of mystery, strikes the walls with 
a short palm -stick, whistles, makes a clucking noise 
with his tongue, and spits upon the ground; and gen- 
erally says, 4 1 adjure you by God, if ye be above, or 
if ye be below, that ye come forth; I adjure ye by 
the most great name, if ye be obedient, come forth ; 
and if ye be disobedient, die ! die! die!’” ( Modern 
Egyptians, ii, 104). See Adder. 

With regard to the manipulation of serpents by the 
Egyptian magicians (Exod. iv), we may remark that in 
modern times the psylli, or charmers, by a particular 
pressure on the neck of the cobra or haje, have the 
power of rendering the inflation of the animal — which 
is a character of the genus — so intense that the serpent 
becomes rigid, and can be held out horizontally as if it 
were a rod. This practice explains what the sooth- 
sayers of Pharaoh could perform when they were op- 
posing Moses, and reveals one of the names by which 
the Hebrews knew the species; for although the text 
(Exod. iv, 3) uses, for the rod of Aaron converted into 
a serpent, the word 'drO, nachdsh , and subsequently 
(vii, 15) “p3n, tannin, it is plain that, in the second 
passage, the word indicates “ monster,” as applied to the 
nachdsh just named— the first being an appellative, the 
second an epithet. That the rods of the magicians of 
Pharaoh were of the same external character is evident 
from no different denomination being given to them; 
therefore we may infer that they used a real serpent as 
a rod — viz. the species now called haje — for their impost- 
ure, since they no doubt did what the present serpent- 
charmers perform with the same species by means of the 
temporary asphyxiation , or suspension of vitality, before 
noticed, and producing restoration to active life by lib- 
erating or throwing down. Thus we have the miracu- 
lous character of the prophet’s mission shown by his 
real rod becoming a serpent, and the magicians’ real ser- 
pents merely assuming the form of rods; and when both 
were opposed, in a state of animated existence, by the 
rod devouring the living animals, conquering the great 
typical personification of the protecting divinity of 
Egypt. See Serpent. 

Serpentinians. See Ophites. 

Serpent- worship. The extent to which this 
species of idolatry ^has prevailed is very remarkable. 
From the fact that Satan assumed the form of a serpent, 


in his temptation of our first parents, it has been adopt- 
ed as the symbol ofTyphon, or the evil deity of the an- 
cient Egyptians; of Aliriman among the Persians; and 
of the spirit of evil in the hieroglyphics of the Chinese 
and Mexicans. The serpent whose head the Messiah 
was to crush was transformed, in heathen fable, into the 
hydra which Hercules vanquished, and in India into that 
over which Krishna triumphed; into Horns in Egypt, 
Siegfried among the Germans, and Crac in Poland. We 
have also the serpent Python slain by Apollo, and the 
hundred-headed snake destroyed by Jupiter. The ser- 
pent was anciently worshipped in Chaldaea and in several 
other nations of the East. Servius tells us that the 
ancient Egyptians called serpents good demons. The 
asp was the emblem of the goddess Ranno, and was sup- 
posed to protect the houses, or the gardens, of individuals, 
as well as the infancy of a royal child. This serpent was 
called Thermuthis, and with it the statues of Isis were 
crowned as with a diadem. The snake Bai also appears 
to have figured as a goddess; and another snake-headed 
goddess had the name of lloh or II ih. The Typhon of 
the Egyptians had the upper part of his person deco- 
rated with a hundred heads like those of a serpent or 
dragon. 

In the religions of all the Asiatic nations the serpent 
is regarded as a wicked being who brought evil into the 
world. As such it became, in course of time, an object 
of religious worship in almost every part of heathen- 
dom, the worship being inspired rather by the desire to 
avert evil than to express reverence or gratitude. The 
Hindu serpent is the type and emblem of the evil prin- 
ciple in nature; and as such we see it wrestling with 
the goddess Parvati, or writhing under the victorious 
foot of Krishna, when he saves from its corrupting 
breath the herds that pasture near the waters of the 
Yamuna. “As a further illustration of this view, it is 
contended that many Hindus, who feel themselves con- 
strained to pay religious worship to the serpent, regard 
it, notwithstanding, as a hideous reptile, whose approach 
inspires them with a secret awe and insurmountable 
horror.” In the symbolic language of antiquity the 
serpent occupies a conspicuous place. In Gen. iii, 1 we 
are told that “the serpent was more subtile than any 
beast of the field which the Lord God had made.” In 
consonance with this view the Chinese regard Long, or 
the winged dragon, as the being who excels in intelli- 
gence. The supreme god of the Chaldreans, Bel , was 
adored under the form of a serpent or dragon ; hence 
the Apocryphal book Bel and the Dragon. To repre- 
sent the Almighty upholding the world by his powerful 
Word, the Hindus describe it as resting upon a serpent 
which bites its own tail; and the Phoenicians entwine 
the folds of a serpent around the cosmic egg. On the 
Egyptian monuments Kneph is seen as a serpent car- 
ried upon two legs of a man, or a serpent with a lion’s 
head. The Siamese, while they are afraid of venomous 
serpents, never dare to injure them; but, on the con- 
trary, they consider it a lucky omen to have them in or 
near their houses. Among the Chinese the serpent is 
a symbolic monster, dwelling in spring above the clouds 
to give rain, and in autumn under the waters. 

Among the North American Indians the serpent was 
formerly held in great veneration; the Mohicans pay- 
ing the highest respect to the rattlesnake, which they 
called their grandfather. Many primitive nations, how- 
ever, looked upon the serpent as the personification of 
the evil principle. Among the idolatrous nations who 
descended from Ham this species of idolatry was uni- 
versally practiced, and has sometimes been alleged to 
have been the most prevalent kind of worship in the 
antediluvian world. See Fergusson, Tree and Serpent 
Worship (Loud. 1839, 4to). See Sekrent. 

Serrad, Giovanni Andrea, an Italian prelate, was 
born at Castel Monardo (now Filadelfia), Feb. 4, 1731, 
and studied for the priesthood twelve years at Rome 
under the best teachers, lie reorganized the Seminary 
of Tropea in 1759, and then went to Naples in conuec- 


SERRES 


588 


SERVANT OF JEHOVAH 


lion with marquis Fraggianni, xvhose life he wrote, and | 
also with abbe Genovesi, who procured him the chair 
of history in the Koval University, and afterwards that 
of theology in the College of the Saviour (1768). He 
was appointed bishop of Potenza in 1782, but was not 
consecrated till a year later, owing to some technical op- 
position. At the reorganization of the Royal Academy 
of Naples in 1778, he was chosen one of its perpetual 
secretaries. He was massacred Feb. 24, 1799, during 
the revolution which followed the French army. He 
wrote several works on local ecclesiastical history, in 
Latin and Italian, for which see Hoefer, Xouv. Bioy. Ge- 
nerate, s. v. 

Serres (Lat. Serranus ), Jean de, a French Protes- 
tant historian and theologian, was born at Villeneuve 
de Berg about 1540, and educated at Lausanne, especial- 
ly in ancient languages and philosophy. He early dis- 
tinguished himself by his learned historical writings. 
In 1578 he was called to Nismes as rector of the acad- 
emy and principal of the College of Arts. He was very 
active and conspicuous in the ecclesiastical affairs of the 
times, especially by his writings and the part he took 
in public religious bodies. He died at Geneva, May 
31, 1598. For his extensive works, chiefly embracing 
Church history and polity, see Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. Ge- 
nerate , s. v. 

Serry, Francois Jacques Hyacinths, a French 
theologian, was born at Toulon in 1659. He early en- 
tered the Order of St. Dominie, and was sent to Paris 
for an education, where he applied himself to philosophy 
and began preaching. In 1690 he went to Home, and 
became theologian to cardinal Altieri, and was engaged 
on the Index. He returned to Paris in 1696, and the 
next y’ear took the degree of doctor, and was called as 
professor of theology to Padua, where he died, March 12, 
1738. His works on ecclesiastical history and theology 
are enumerated in Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate , s. v. 
Among them are, De Christo ej usque Virgine Matre 
(Venice, 1719 ): — Historia Congregationum de Aux. Div. 
Grat. sub Summis Pontiff. Ctem. 1'/// et Paulo V (in 4 
libr. distributa, Louvain, 1700; Antw. 1709, fob). See 
Fiirst, Bill. Jud. iii, 317 ; Winer, Ilandbuch der theol. 
Literatur. 

Se'rug (Heb. Serug', branch [Gesen.], or 

strength [Fiirst]; Sept. Sepoey; New Test. Sapoo^, 
“Sarueh,” Luke iii, 35; Josephus Stponyoc, A nt. i, 6, 5), 
one of the postdiluvian patriarchs, being the son of Keu, 
and the father of Nahor the grandfather of Abraham 
(Gen. xi, 20; IChron. i, 6). 13. C. 2352-2122. His age 

is given in the Hebrew Bible, at the above passages, as 
230 years — thirty years before he begat Nahor and two 
hundred years afterwards. But in the Sept. 130 years 
are assigned to him before he begat Nahor (making his 
total age 330), being one of its systematic variations in 
the ages of the patriarchs between Shem and Terah. 
See Chronology. Bochart {Phateg^ II, cxiv) conject- 
ures that the town of Seruj , a day’s journey from Char- 
rae, in Mesopotamia, was named from this patriarch. 
Suidas and others ascribe to him the deification of dead 
benefactors of mankind. Epiplianius ( A <lv. I hires, i, 
6, 8), who says that his name signifies “ provocation,” 
states that, though in his time idolatry took its rise, yet 
it was confined to pictures; and that the deification of 
dead men, as well as the making of idols, was subse- 
quent. He characterizes the religion of mankind up to 
Serug’s days as Scythic; after Serug and the building 
of the Tower of Babel, the Hellenic or Greek form of 
religion was introduced, and continued to the writer’s 
time (see Petavius, .‘1 mm. adv. Epiph. Oper. ii, 13). The 
• account given by John of Antioch is as follows: Serug, 
of the race of Japliet, taught the duty of honoring em- 
inent deceased men, either by images or statues (tiKoveg 
and avdpiavrec, which, however, may here be used of 
pictures), of worshipping them on certain anniversaries 
as if still living, of preserving a record of their actions 
in the sacred books of the priests, and of calling them 


gods as being benefactors of mankind. Hence arose 
polytheism and idolatry (see Fragm. Historic. Grcec. iv, 
345, and note). It is in accordance with his being call- 
ed of the race of Japhet that Epiphanius sends Phaleg 
and Ken to Thrace ( Episf . ad Desa\ Paul. § ii). — Smith. 
There is, of course, little or no historical value in any 
of these statements, beyond the fact that the charge of 
idolatry brought against Terah and the fathers beymnd 
the Euphrates in Josh, xxiv, 2. 

Seruk Menachexi. See Saruk. 

Serumner, in Norse mythology, was the beautiful 
hall in Freva’s dwelling of Folkwang, where she gath- 
ered about herself, in the Service of love and for the en- 
joyment of all the pleasures of life, half the heroes of the 
earth. The abode of all the Einheriars is either here 
or in the Valhalla. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Servant (usually &ed, dovXog, which are in- 
variably r rendered thus in the A. V. or else “ bondman;” 
but “ servant” is occasionally the rendering of “123, nd'ar, 
properly a lad or “ young man;” or meshareth 

[Exod. xxxiii, 11; Numb, xi, 28; 2 Sam. xiii, 17, 18; 
Prov. xxix, 12], a minister, as elsewhere rendered; Gr. 
in like manner sometimes naig, diaicovog, etc.). See 
Ebed. The Hebrew terms nd'ar and meshareth, which 
alone answer to our “servant,” in so far as this implies 
the notions of liberty and voluntariness, are of compara- 
tively rare occurrence. On the other hand, ebed , which 
is common in the A. V., properly means a slave. In 
many T passages the correct reading would add consider- 
able force to the meaning — e. g. in Gen. ix, 25, “Cursed 
be Canaan ; a slave of slaves shall he be unto his breth- 
ren in Deut. v, 15, “ Remember that thou wast a slave 
in the land of Egypt;” in Job iii, 19, “The slave is free 
from his master;” and particularly in passages where 
the speaker uses the term of himself, as in Gen, xviii, 3, 
“ Pass not away, I pray thee, from thy slave.” Slavery 
was, in point of fact, the normal condition of the under- 
ling in the Hebrew commonwealth, while the terms 
above given refer to the exceptional cases of young or 
confidential attendants. Joshua, for instance, is described 
as at once the nd'ar and meshareth of Moses (Exod. 
xxxiii, 11); Elisha’s servant sometimes as the former 
(2 Kings iv, 12; v, 20), sometimes as the latter (iv, 43 ; 
vi, 15). Amnon’s servant was a meshareth (2 Sam. xiii, 
17, 18), while young Joseph was a nd'ar to the sons of 
Bilhah (Gen. xxxvii, 2, where instead of “the lad was 
with,” we should read “he was the servant-boy to” the 
sons of Bilhah). The confidential designation mesha- 
reth is applied to the priests and Levites in their rela- 
tion to Jehovah (Ezra vi ii, 17 ; Isa. Ixi, 6; Ezek. xliv, 
11), and the cognate verb to Joseph after he found favor 
with Potiphar (Gen. xxxix, 4), and to the nephews of 
Ahaziah (2 Cliron. xxii, 8). In 1 Kings xx, 14, 15, xve 
should substitute “servants” ( nd'ar *) for “young men.” 
— Smith. See Hireling; Slave. 

SERVANT of Jeiiovah (rnn? ^2, SovXog rov 
Kvpiov, “ servant of the Lord,” also in the phrase “mv 
servant,” etc.), a term used tropically in several senses. 

1. A worshipper of God (Neh. i, 10) ; so the Israelites 
in general (Ezra v, 11), and Daniel in particular (Dan. vi, 
21). In this sense it is applied as an epithet to the pious : 
e. g. to Abraham (Psa. cv, 6, 42), Joshua (Josh, xxiv, 
29; Judg. ii, 8), Job (Job i, 8, etc.), David (Psa. xviii, 
1, etc.), Eliakim (Isa. xxii, 20), Zerubbabel (Hag. ii, 24), 
and to saints in general (Psa. xxxiv, 23, etc.; Isa. liv, 
17, etc.). See Saint. 

2. A minister or ambassador of God, called and sent 
to perform any service (Isa. xlix, 6), e. g. Nebuchad- 
nezzar, whom God used as his instrument in chastising 
his people (Jer. xxvii, 6; xliii, 10); but usually some 
favorite servant, as the angels (Job iv, 18), or prophets 
(Amos iii, 7 ; Jer. vii, 25, etc. ; Dan. ix, 6 ; Ezra ix, 11), 
especially’ Moses (Dent. xxxiv, 5; Josh. i, 1, 13, 15; Psa. 
cv, 26), and Isaiah (Isa. xx. 3). Sometimes the two 

i ideas of a pious worshipper of God and a special messen- 


SERVANTS 


589 


SEItVETUS 


ger sent by him seem to have coalesced, as in the pas- 
sages relating to Abraham and Moses, and particularly 
in those where Israel or Jacob, i. e. the people of Israel, 
is addressed by this honorable and endearing appella- 
tion (as Isa. xli, 8, etc. ; Jer. xxx, 10, etc. ; Ezck. xxviii, 
25; xxxvii, 25; comp. llos. xi, 1). 

8. Peculiarly the Messiah is thus typified, especially 
in the latter chapters of Isaiah (more particularly xlii, 
1; lii, 13; comp. Matt, xii, 13), as pre-eminently Je- 
hovah’s chosen servant for accomplishing the work of 
redemption. See Gesenius, Comment, in Jesa. ad loc. ; 
Stier, Words of the Lord Jesus, ii, 5GG [Am. ed.J ; Steu- 
del, De ■>“' "02? (Tiib. 1829); Umbreit, Dev Knecht 
Gottes (Hamb. 1840) ; Schmntz, Le Serviteur de Jeho- 
vah (St-rash. 1858); Oehler, Knecht Jehovah's (Stuttg. 
18G5); Urwick, The (Servant of Jehovah (Edinb. 1877). 
See Double Sense. 

Servants. See Slaves. 

Servator, in Homan mythology, was a surname of 
Jupiter, signifying the preserver. 

Server, one who assists the priest at the celebration 
of the holy eueharist by lighting the altar-tapers, ar- 
ranging the books, bringing bread, wine, and water for 
the sacrifice, and by making the appointed responses in 
the name and behalf of the assembled congregation. 
He was sometimes called “adjutor.” The Clugniacs 
allowed one server, but the Cistercians, in obedience to 
pope Soter’s injunction and the plural wording of the 
Dominus coliseum, required always two. — Lee, Gloss, of 
Liturg. Terms, s. v. 

Servetus, Michael ( Serveto, snrnamed Ileves, 
known in France as Michel de Yilleneuce), unquestion- 
ably the leading Antitrinitarian in the period of the 
Deformation, was born at •Villanenva, in Arragon, in 
1509 or 1511, and belonged to an ancient Christian fam- 
ily of prominence, perhaps of noble rank. His father 
was a jurist and notary, and Michael was sent at an 
early age to Toulouse in preparation for a similar ca- 
reer; but his impetuous and imaginative spirit was 
not attracted by the dry study of jurisprudence, and 
turned with preference towards theological investiga- 
tions, prompted, perhaps, by the fact that at Toulouse 
he first became acquainted with the Bible. The above 
statements are taken from his own testimony at the Ge- 
neva trial, and are probably truthful in the main ; but 
it is difficult to harmonize them with his declarations 
at Vienne, according to which he entered the service of 
father Quintana, the confessor of Charles V, at the early 
age of perhaps fourteen or fifteen years, and with his 
master accompanied the court to Italy on the occasion of 
the emperor’s coronation at Bologna, and to Germany on 
its return. The further statement that he remained with 
Quintana in Germany until the death of the latter in 
1532 is known to be positively untrue, since he was at 
Basle, and alone, by the close of the summer of 1530; and 
the Geneva testimony recites that he came to Basle di- 
rect from Toulouse, by way of Lyons and Geneva, with- 
out referring in any way to travels in Italy or Germany. 

When Servetus came to Basle he was without expe- 
rience in the Christian life, and his moral consciousness 
was undeveloped. Jleligion was not to him an answer 
to the questionings of the human heart — a dissolving 
of doubts in the field of morals, a deliverance from in- 
ternal conflicts. The unmistakably speculative tenden- 
cy of his mind led him to conceive of Christianity as 
being first of all a system of doctrine, and he had al- 
ready developed a scheme in which the doctrines of 
God and of his manifestation in Christ, in their specu- 
lative aspects, were regarded as constituting its essential 
basis. The object of his visit was to find a publisher 
for the book in which he had embodied his views, and 
to secure the favorable regards of the Swiss reformers 
in behalf of the modifications he proposed to introduce 
into the teaching of the Reformation. (Ecolampadius, 
however, found his statements of doctrinal views ob- 


scure and misleading, contrary to the Scriptures, and 
even blasphemous, as being directed against the eternal 
godhead of Christ; and when the book finally appeared 
in 1531 from the press of Conrad Rous, of Ilagenau and 
Strasburg (under the title De Trinitutis Erroribus Li- 
bri (Sepfem, etc., 15 sheets, 8vo), it was condemned on 
every hand. Buccr declared its author to be deserving 
of death; and when Servetus brought a portion of the 
edition to Basle, it would seem that the town-council 
confiscated the book and required from him a retrac- 
tion of its teachings. A second work from the same 
press in 1532 ( Dialog . de Trinit. Libr. II, de Just . Regni 
Chrisfi Capit. I I’, 8 sheets, 8vo) begins with a retraction 
of the former book, but on the ground of its immaturity 
rather than substantial error. This work produced no 
impression whatever, and Servetus was obliged to re- 
nounce the hope of exercising a determining influence 
over the progress of the Reformation in Germany. He 
withdrew to France, assumed the name of De Ville- 
neuve, and entered on the study of mathematics and 
medicine, and also that of philosophy, particularly of 
theosophic Neo-Platonism, at Paris. At this time he 
first sought the acquaintance of Calvin, but failed to at- 
tend an interview granted at his solicitation by the lat- 
ter. The life of Servetus while in France was unset- 
tled ; the first six years being spent in Paris, Orleans, 
Lyons, Paris again, where he taught mathematics in 
the Lombard College, Avignon, and Charlien ; and it 
was disturbed with frequent disputes, which occasional- 
ly involved serious consequences for him. One of these 
quarrels determined him to leave Paris forever. He had 
acquired considerable knowledge in medical science — as 
is attested by his observation of the circulation of the 
blood, long before Harvey’s discovery — and was a zeal- 
ous student of astrology; but his vanity led him to speak 
disparagingly of other physicians, and brought on him 
the opposition of the medical faculty and of the entire 
university. He was condemned by the Parliament to 
destroy all the copies of an apology which he had writ- 
ten to substantiate his position, and to abstain from 
meddling with astrology except in so far as the natural 
influence of the stars upon human affairs might be con- 
cerned. He ultimately settled at Vienne in response to 
the invitation of his patron and former pupil, the arch- 
bishop P. Paulmier, and spent twelve years in that town 
in the practice of medicine and in intercourse with the 
leading clergy; but he still found time for learned la- 
bors, both in the line of his own profession and in other 
departments, one of the results being a new edition of the 
Latin version of the Bible by Sanctes Pagninus (Lugd. 
ap. Hug. a Porta, 1542, fob), with notes. This work was 
but carelessly done; the few notes from his pen being 
chiefly attached to the Messianic prophecies, and aim- 
ing to show that such prophecies invariably referred in 
the minds of the prophets to historical personages and 
events in the immediate future, and that they had only 
a typical reference to Christ. The work was accord- 
ingly placed in Spain and the Netherlands on the Index 
Expurgandorvm. Servetus had by no means given up 
his theological speculations, though he accommodated 
his habits in all respects to his Roman Catholic sur- 
roundings. He believed himself called to effect a res- 
toration of true Christianity, which had been obscured 
and even lost to the world since the beginning of the 
4th century, and to promote his ends lie opened a cor- 
respondence with the Reformed leaders Viret and Cal- 
vin. The latter responded, and at first with moderation ; 
but as Servetus assumed a depreciatory attitude, and 
persisted in the endeavor to contradict the responses 
made to his inquiries, the reformer eventually refused 
to continue the correspondence, and referred to his Insti- 
tutes for further information. Servetus now resolved to 
bring before the public the work in which he had laid 
down the results of his long-continued cogitations, and, 
in utter disregard of the warnings already received from 
Calvin, as well as of the dangers clearly recognised as 
impending by his own mind, he carried forward the 


SERVETUS 


590 


SERVETUS 


project to its conclusion. The rashness and almost fa- 
natical tenacity of his natural temper are well illustrated 
in this undertaking; but the method by which it was 
accomplished serves to show with equal clearness that 
he was not above the nse of caution, artitice, and even 
duplicity, when needed to secure himself against the 
consequences of his action. The bookseller Arnoullet, 
of Vienne, was secured by the use of money and the 
false assurances of a friend; the printing was conducted 
with the. utmost secrecy and haste, and immediately on 
its completion the book was sent to Lyons, Chatillon, 
Geneva, and Frankfort, without the knowledge of per- 
sons resident in Vienne. It appeared early in 1553, and 
bore the title Christianismi Restitutio, etc. The author’s 
name is indicated at the end by the letters “M. S. V.” 
and the name of the publisher and the place of printing 
are not given. 

This most extensive of the works of Servetus (734 pp. 
8vo) presents no thorough elaboration and systematic 
statement of his ideas, but consists rather of a series of 
disconnected papers, some of them new and others emen- 
dations of earlier productions from his pen. It con- 
tains seven books De Trinitate Divina ; three books 
J)e Fide et Justitia Regni Christi, et de Caritate ; 
live books De Regeneratione et Manducatione Snpema 
et de Regno Antichristi ; Epistolee Triginta ad Jo. 
Calrinum; Signa Sexaginta Regni Antichristi et Reve- 
latio ejns jam nunc Prcesens ; and De Mgsterio Trinita- 
tis et Veterum Disciplina ad Ph. Melancthonem , etc., 
Apologia. The attitude of the author towards the 
dogma of God, the Father, Son, and Spirit, as held by 
the Church, is that of uncompromising hostility. He 
regards it as of necessity involving tritheism and poly- 
theism, and even atheism ; or, on the other hand, as in- 
conceivable; and he finds it significant that this doc- 
trine began to prevail at the very time from which the 
Church must date its growing degeneracy. But, while 
rejecting a trinity of essence in the Godhead, he insists 
on a trinity of manifestation; the fundamental principle ' 
that God is one and undivided leads to a second princi- 
ple — namely, that everything which comes to pass in or 
with the divine nature is but a disposition , which does 
not affect the divine essence, but must be regarded some- 
what as one of its accidents. God is able to dispose and 
manifest himself because he is not an abstract unit, a 
bare mathematical point, but rather an infinite Spirit, 
an infinite ocean of substance which fashions all forms 
and bears them within itself. His manifestation of him- 
self results from the act of his will, rather than from any 
necessity lying in his nature, and takes place because 
without such revelation of himself he could not be known 
by his creatures. The mode of manifestation is likewise 
wholly subject to his will, and he is by no means limited 
to only two revelations of himself; his incorporation in 
Christ was determined simply by the needs of the world 
he has chosen to create and those of the human race. 
It pleased him, consequently, to dispose himself to a 
twofold manifestation, the one a mode of revelation hg 
the Word , the other a mode of importation hg the Spirit. 
The Word, however, was not merely an empty articu- 
late sound, but, in harmony with the nature of God, an 
uncreated light. The Logos is the Eternal Thought, the 
Eternal Beason, the Ideal World, the Archetype of the 
world in which the original types of all things are con- 
tained. In this Divine Light was already manifested the 
form of the future Christ, not ideally alone, but actually 
and visibly, and from this original type and mode of di- 
vine revelation proceed all the modifications of the Deity. 
The creation of the world, for example, was the necessary 
condition for the incarnation of the Christ who was pre- 
formed in the Eternal Light, which incarnation had been 
decreed by the will of God; so that the world came into 
being through Christ, and solely to admit of his becom- 
ing man, and it has no significance aside from him who 
should appear in it. and reign. But as a vapor rises 
with the utterance of a word, so the spirit of God came 
forth on the utterance of the Creative Word, and the sec- 


ond mode of revelation and disposition was given, in in- 
timate combination with the first. That spirit is more 
immediately the spirit of natural life, which moves on 
the waters and breathes in the air — the world-soul, by 
which in respiration the living soul is first given to man. 
The incarnation of Christ was delayed and obscured by 
man’s fall into sin, but he nevertheless revealed himself 
in many though imperfect forms. Adam was created 
in his image; angels and theophanies were his shadows, 
the cloud of light in the wilderness was the reflection of 
the heavenly light. The spirit, too, was in the world, 
but only as a spirit of law and terror. The truth, and 
God himself, attained to a full manifestation and reve- 
lation for the first time in the man Jesus, in whom the 
Eternal Word became incarnate in time. The genera- 
tion of this man is to be conceived of as literal, the De- 
ity which formed the substance of the Logos in the Un- 
created Light taking the place of the paternal seed, and 
the three superior elements contained in that light — 
fire, air, and water — combined with the Christ-idea and 
the Life-spirit, uniting with the blood and earth-sub- 
stance of the Virgin to form a real man ; but the man is 
so penetrated by the Deity that he becomes God in his 
flesh and blood, his body, soul, and spirit ; he was such 
while in the embryo, and continues to bear the substan- 
tial form of the Godhead when in the grave. The Word, 
accordingly, did not assume flesh, but became flesh. By 
virtue of this nature Christ is the Son of God — the only 
Son, especially the only eternal Son. The eternal gen- 
eration of the Son within the Godhead is a simple mon- 
strosity, since generation is a function of the flesh alone ; 
an ante-mundane person is conceivable only as it signifies 
the image or form of Christ as the pre-existing Word, 
who first became the actual Son of God, however, when 
he appeared in time and in the nature of man. The 
manifestation of the divine glory in the person of Christ 
was, moreover, a gradual process, not fully realized so far 
as his body is concerned until the resurrection, when he 
returned into the divine idea as he had previously come 
out. from that idea into corporeal existence. He is now 
Jehovah — not Elohim, the God who may appear — and 
as such is seen by the eye of faith and participates in 
all the creative power, honor, and dominion of God, with 
whon\he is identified. The Ilolg Ghost, too, is depend- 
ent on the resurrection of Christ for the consummation 
of his character and his truth. The fulness of the Di- 
vine Spirit was imparted in connection with the Word 
to the soul of Christ on his becoming incarnate, the two 
constituting but a single and indivisible substance; but 
| the soul included corruptible elements of blood and cre- 
ated light down to the experience of the resurrection. 
In that experience he was, so to speak, born again ; the 
creature element was laid aside: his human spirit was 
wholly absorbed into the Spirit of God, and the result- 
ant combination forms the true Ilolg Spirit, the principle 
of all regeneration, which proceeds from the mouth of 
Christ. In this way the real Trinity is constituted — a 
trinity not of things or so-called persons in the divine 
essence, but a threefold manifestation of himself by the 
one and indivisible God. 

Such was the teaching which Servetus presented to 
the world as the restored truth of Christianity. He was 
incapable, from the tendency of his mind, of admitting 
the importance of the element, of practical ethics in the 
scheme of Christianity, and regarded the latter as pre- 
eminently a system of doctrine. He speaks constantly 
of the person of Christ, but rarely of his work of redemp- 
tion. Faith is represented as the central and funda- 
mental element, but rather in the character of appre- 
hension and assent than of trust. The ideas of sin and 
guilt arc scarcely recognised, and are confined to wicked 
actions; and the results of such actions are. held to be 
not unto death in the case of persons under twenty years 
of age. The baptism of children is accordingly con- 
demned, and is even characterized as being a principal 
source of the corruption of the Church. Baptism should 
not be conferred until persons have reached the age of 


SERVETUS 


591 


SERVETUS 


thirty ) r ears, and have been prepared by preaching, care- 
ful instruction, repentance, and faith. The Lord’s sup- 
per should be administered immediately after baptism, 
since the new man will at once require sustenance. 
Good works and holy living do not necessarily spring 
from faith, but they are not beyond the ability of man- 
kind, even in the heathen state. By them a higher 
degree of blessedness may be attained, and they are 
useful to strengthen faith and guard against reactions 
of the flesh; for which reason such works as will sub- 
due the flesh are recommended, and such others as will 
satis/}/ the claims of justice (prayer, almsgiving, volun- 
tary confession, etc.) so far as to wholly or partially de- 
liver from the purgatorial Jires which await even the 
faithful and the baptized in the region of the dead. 

The measures by which it was hoped to conceal the 
author of this book proved insufficient, and Servetus 
was denounced to the arch i episcopal tribunal of Lyons. 
Evidence to substantiate the charge was obtained, and 
the governor-general of Dauphinv ordered his appre- 
hension and trial; and having allowed himself to be 
entrapped into an acknowledgment of the offence, he 
was on June 17 condemned to death by fire. He was 
enabled to effect an escape before the conclusion of the 
trial, evidently through the assistance of powerful 
friends, and was accordingly burned in effigy. The 
sentence of the spiritual court was not pronounced un- 
til after his death. 

The first intention of Servetus was to escape into 
Spain, but he soon turned towards Switzerland in the 
hope of being ultimately able to reach Naples. He ar- 
rived at Geneva in the middle of July, and remained 
about a month in the public hostelry, when Calvin 
learned of his presence and caused him to be appre- 
hended (Aug. 13). As the laws required that a civilian 
should appear as the accuser, Nicholas de la Fontaine, 
Calvin's pupil and amanuensis, acted in that relation, 
and charged Servetus with having disseminated grossly 
erroneous teachings, on account of which he had already 
been imprisoned and was now a fugitive. Thirty-eight 
articles were attached to this charge, which had been 
drawn up by Calvin, and to which the accused was re- 
quired to render categorical answers. Servetus bore 
himself quietly, and answered with considerable frank- 
ness, but the council nevertheless ordered the case to 
proceed to trial. In a subsequent examination, the ac- 
cused conceded his rejection of certain orthodox doc- 
trines, and claimed the privilege of publicly and in the 
Church convincing Calvin, in whom he recognised his 
principal antagonist, that such doctrines were unscript- 
ural and erroneous. The action of Philibert Berthelier, a 
declared enemy to Calvin and leader of the libertine 
party, who openly sought to protect Servetus, led the 
reformer to declare himself the real accuser, and he was 
accordingly admitted to the sessions of the court and 
allowed to take part in the proceedings. The presence 
of Calvin, and his own confidence in the protection of 
powerful supporters, influenced Servetus to display more 
arrogance in his replies, until in the heat of argument 
he gave utterance to strong and unequivocally panthe- 
istic assertions. It now appeared that his guilt in the 
principal matter was proved, and the determination 
of his punishment alone remained to be settled. The 
procurator- general (Aug. 23) brought forward thirty 
new questions relating to the circumstances of the pris- 
oner’s life, his designs, and his intercourse with other 
theologians, and the warnings he had received from 
them, to which Servetus responded with greater mod- 
eration, though not without doing violence to the truth, 
lie also petitioned that he might be discharged from 
trial under criminal process, since such action had never 
been usual in matters concerning the faith before the 
time of Constantine, and was the more unreasonable in 
his case, as his views had been made known to a few 
scholars only, and he had nothing in common with the 
rebellious Anabaptists ; and he requested, further, that 
he be furnished with legal counsel as especially neces- 


sary to a stranger in his situation. Ilis petition was 
denied on the recommendation of the procurator-gen- 
eral, to which it is supposed that Calvin was no stranger; 
but his earlier request for a discussion with Calvin was 
granted, with the modification that it should take place 
before the council rather than in the Church. Servetus, 
however, suddenly changed his tactics, and instead of 
entering on a discussion with Calvin at their meeting on 
Sept. 1, he proceeded to deny the competency of civil 
tribunals to deal with questions of faith; and on the 
ground that the Church of Geneva could not impartial- 
ly determine in matters at issue between Calvin and 
himself, he appealed to the judgment of the churches in 
other places. As this appeal corresponded with a reso- 
lution already reached in the council, it was entertained, 
and the matter referred to the authorities of the four 
evangelical cities of Switzerland ; and it was determined 
that all further transactions should be conducted in writ- 
ing and in the Latin language. Calvin accordingly ex- 
tracted from the works of Servetus their most hurtful 
teachings, and submitted them, accompanied with re- 
marks intended to show their blasphemous and danger- 
ous character, on Sept. 5. Servetus responded with 
complaints about the treatment he was obliged to un- 
dergo, and appealed from the smaller council to the 
Council of the Two Hundred, many of wdiose members, 
as he knew, w'ere hostile to Calvin ; but finding it nec- 
essary to reply to Calvin’s allegations, he permitted 
himself the use of violent attacks and reproaches against 
his opponent, while at the same time presenting more 
clearly, and with less dissimulation than before, the 
meaning and tendencies of his views. A comprehen- 
sive reply by Calvin and his colleagues w r as met with 
further insult, though a private communication intended 
to instruct the former in certain principles of philosophy 
and other matters w T as written in a spirit of greater 
moderation. A messenger from the council conveyed 
the writings exchanged between the respective parties, 
and a copy of the principal w r ork written ^>y Servetus to 
the councillors and the clergy of Zurich, Berne, Basle, 
and Schaffhausen. Calvin did not neglect to influence 
his friends by means of his private correspondence in 
the endeavor to secure an approval of his course; and 
Servetus, in the meantime, directed a complaint against 
Calvin as a false accuser, and demanded that he should 
be imprisoned and tried, the prosecution to continue un- 
til one of the antagonists should be sentenced to suffer 
death or some other punishment. 

The opinions of t lie cities had all been received by 
Oct. 22, and were unanimous in condemning the faLe 
teachings of Servetus as not to be tolerated in the 
Church. The Council of Berne especially urged the 
use of severe measures to prevent the introduction of 
such errors, while the clergy of that city sought to mod- 
erate the force of that recommendation by a warning 
against indiscretion. Calvin and his associates were 
decidedly of the opinion that the penalty of death 
should be inflicted on the accused, and so expressed 
themselves, though averse to death by fire as involving 
unnecessary cruelty. When the council met to deter- 
mine the penalty to be imposed (Oct. 23), opinions were 
divided, and several councillors were absent. A recess 
; w r as therefore taken until Oct.2G. The syndic A. Per- 
rin, a zealous opponent of Calvin, then proposed, first, 
an acquittal of the accused, and afterwards a reference 
of the matter to the Council of the Two Hundred, hut 
in each case without success. The sentence of death 
by fire was pronounced in conformity with the laws 
of the empire. The condemned man was profoundly 
moved, and pleaded earnestly for mercy, but he could not 
be persuaded to recant, lie died Oct. 27, 1553, without 
having changed his views in any important particular, 
but not without exhibiting the marks of a Christian 
spirit. 

It is not possible to regard the character of Servetus 
as favorably as it has been described by the opponents 
of Calvin. lie was not pure and great, and though he 


SERVETUS 


592 


SERYIA 


ultimately died for his convictions, he was by no means 
a martyr for the truth. He concealed his beliefs and 
attended mass in France during more than twenty 
years at a time when multitudes chose death or the 
loss of country and prospects rather than deny their 
faith. He availed himself unhesitatingly of falsehood 
and perjury, especially in the trial at Vienne. He cer- 
tainly did not possess a high degree of moral earnest- 
ness. As a thinker, he was noticeable for originality 
and ingenuity, for speculative depth and a wealth of 
ideas, though the very number of ideas prevented him 
from presenting them with adequate clearness. His 
theological and christological system rested to a much 
greater extent than he imagined upon hypotheses and 
theories in natural philosophy, and to a much smaller 
extent upon the Bible. His one-sided intellectualism, 
finally, afforded no satisfaction to the religions sense in 
man, while his strongly pantheistic leanings and his 
irreverent polemics necessarily offended the religious 
consciousness. His pyre unfortunately did more to en- 
lighten the world than all his books. His teachings 
were scarcely understood until the most recent times. 
1 1 is so-called followers, the later Antitrinitarians, failed 
to comprehend either their organic unity or their ful- 
ness and depth, and, while they appropriated surface 
ideas, were unable to appreciate what is really specula- 
tive in his books. Gribaldo and Gentile, for example, 
sensualize the twofold manifestation of God into an es- 
sentiation of subordinate deities, and Sociuns degrades 
the real Sonship and Deity of Christ as taught by Ser- 
vetus until nothing beyond his essential manhood re- 
mains. 

The course pursued by Calvin in the trial of Servetus 
has been the subject of incessant dispute from his own 
da} r until now. His contemporaries already condemned 
his action, though the most eminent orthodox thinkers 
and theologians approved his course; and though the 
argument has been renewed as often as occasion offered, 
the Christian *vorld is not yet able to agree upon a judg- 
ment which shall afford universal satisfaction. The facts 
upon which a decision must be based are as follows: 

1. Calvin was thoroughly convinced that the welfare 
of the Church demanded the death of Servetus as an 
incorrigible heretic, and never hesitated to acknowledge 
that conviction. When Servetus requested that Calvin 
should protect him during a proposed visit to Geneva, 
the latter refused, and wrote to Farel, under date of 
Feb. 7, 1540, “If he [Servetus] should come hither, I 
will not permit him to escape with his life, if niv au- 
thority has any weight” (Henry, Leben J. Calvin's, iii, 
66, appendix). His views upon the subject never 
changed, as appears from his correspondence while the 
trial was in progress, e. g. the letter of Sept. 14, 1553 
(Ep. et Resp. fol. 127), in which Bullinger urges Calvin 
not to leave Geneva even though Servetus should not 
be punished with death. The absence of such facts 
from the records of the trial is sufficiently explained by 
the consideration that they were not matter for public 
record ; and the Fulelis Expositio Errorvm J/. Serceti, 
etc., written to explain his conduct in that unhappy 
business, does not justify the argument sometimes based 
on it to show that Calvin did not desire the death of 
Servetus, since the book was intended to show, first, 
that incorrigible heretics ought to be punished by the 
secular arm ; and, second, that Servetus was such a 
heretic. 

2. In obedience to such convictions, Calvin caused the 
imprisonment of Servetus as soon as he learned that 
the latter was in Geneva, and personally directed the 
prosecution of the trial. Both statements rest on his 
own repeated acknowledgments in letters to his friends 
and in his Refutatio , and are substantiated by the pub- 
lic records. 

3. While Calvin wished Servetus to die, he did not 
favor his being burned at the stake (comp, the letter to 
Farel of Aug. 20, 1553 [Ep. et Resp. fol. 114], and Beza, 
Joan. Calv. Vita). 


It is no longer possible to undertake an unconditional 
defence of the opinions by which Calvin was governed 
in this matter, nor of the action which resulted. Un- 
biassed minds are compelled to see that the reformer not 
only failed in this respect to rise above the errors of his 
time, but that in his management of the case he was 
guilty of evasions and exaggerations which form a real 
blot on his record; but there is no reason to doubt that 
his course was dictated bv his sense of the duty he owed 
to God, to the Church in general, and to the Church of 
Geneva in particular; and this forms the only explana- 
tion which will justify his action in any degree to can- 
did minds. His failure to save his antagonist from the 
cruel death by fire was doubtless owing to his difficult 
position at this very time. The ruling party in Geneva 
was opposed to Calvin, and had neutralized his meas- 
ures in some instances insomuch that he declared his 
intention of leaving that city unless such action should 
cease; the Council of the Two Hundred was strongly 
hostile to him ; and in the smaller council, before which 
Servetus was tried, measures were passed of which Cal- 
vin did not approve (e. g. the resolution to consult with 
the authorities of other cities), and direct efforts wore 
made to save the accused from his impending doom. 
He could not suggest before the council that a different 
form of capital punishment from that prescribed by law 
should be infiicted, lest his own sincerity should be im- 
pugned by his opponents; and it is not difficult to dis- 
cover reasons which may have neutralized whatever 
private efforts he employed. There is, at all events, no 
sufficient reason for doubting his own explicit state- 
ments on the matter. 

Sources. — The Works of Servetns and Calvin’s Refu- 
tation ; Calvini Ep. et Resp. ; Mosheim, Vet's, ein. vollst. 
u. unpart. Keizergesch. (Helmst. 1748); id. Xeue Nachr. 
r. d. bent h mi. span. Arzte M. Serveto (ibid. 1750); 
Trechsel, 31. Secret u. seine Vorganger (Heidelb. 1839); 
Henry, Leben J. Calvin's, iii, 95 sq.. and Beilagen, 
p. 49 sq. On the teachings of Servetus, see Heberle, 
M. Secret's Trinitatslehre u. Christologie, in the Tub. 
Zeitschr.f. Theol. 1840, No. 2; Baur, Christl. Lehre v. J. 
Dreieinigkeit. u. 31 enschwerdung Gottes, iii, 54 sq. ; Dor- 
ner, Person Christi. ii, 649 sq.; Meier, Lehre v. d. Tri- 
nit at in ihrer histor. Entw. ii, 5 sq. On the Genevan 
trial of Servetus, see Rilliet, Relation du Proces contre 
3f. Secret, etc. (Genev. 1844). See also Galiffe, No- 
tices Geneal. sur les Families Genev. and Non relies 
Pages d'/listoire Exacte; Stahelin, ./. Calvin, Leben u. 
ausgewalilte Schriften (Elberfeld, 1860-63,2 vols.). — 
Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Servia (Turkish, Sirb Vilayeti), a state of Europe, 
bounded north by Slavonia and Hungary proper, east 
by Roumania and Bulgaria, south by Roumelia, and 
west by Bosnia. Until 1878, Servia was a dependency 
of Turkey, but in that year the treaty of Berlin estab- 
lished its entire independence. The Servian nationality 
extends far beyond the boundaries of the principality of 
Servia. Servians constitute nearly the entire popula- 
tion of Montenegro, Bosnia, and Herzegovina; they con- 
stitute ninety-five per cent, of the population in the 
former kingdom of Croatia and Slavonia, ninety per 
cent, in Dalmatia, and eighty per cent, in the former 
military frontier. Including all these districts, the Ser- 
vians occupy a territory of about 69.000 square miles, 
with a compact population numbering more than 
6.000,000 persons. The majority of all the Servians 
belong to the Orthodox Eastern (or Greek) Church. 
The following article refers to the principality of Servia 
exclusively. See also Austria; Hungary; Monte- 
negro; Turkey*. 

I. A rea , Population, etc. — Servia contained before the « 
treaty of Berlin 16,817 square miles. Its population in 
1873 was 1,338,505, all Serbs of Slavic origin, except- 
ing about 140,000 Wallachs, 25,000 Gypsies, and 15,000 
Turks, Bulgarians, Jews, Germans, and Hungarians. 
By the treaty of Berlin in 1878 a territory formerly be- 
longing to Turkey was annexed to Servia, and the area 


SEKYIA 


593 


SEKYIA 


of the principality raised to 18,G87 square miles, with a 
population of 1,720,000 inhabitants. The country is 
mountainous and densely wooded. From the interior nu- 
merous chains proceed northward, forming massive bar- 
riers both on the eastern and western frontiers, and slop- 
ing pretty steeply towards the swampy plains along the 
Save and the Danube. The principal rivers are the 
Morava and Timok, affluents of the Danube, and the 
Kolubara, an affluent of the Save, which itself falls into 
the Danube at Belgrade. The principal towns are Bel- 
grade (the capital), Kraguyevatz, Semendria, Uzhitza, 
and Shabatz, and in the new districts Nish and Vranya. 
The climate is temperate and salubrious, but somewhat 
cold in the higher regions. The soil in the valleys is 
fertile, and cereals are raised in abundance. The moun- 
tains are believed to be rich in valuable minerals, but 
mining is almost unknown, and manufacturing industry 
is in the most backward condition. There is no nobil- 
ity, and the peasants are free householders. 

II. Church History . — The original inhabitants of Ser- 
via were principally Thracians. Conquered, shortly be- 
fore Christ, by the Bomans, it formed part of Illyricum, 
under the name of Moesia Superior. Overrun by the 
Huns, Ostrogoths, Longobards,etc., it eame under Byzan- 
tine rule about the middle of the Gth century, but was 
wrested therefrom early in the 7th century by the Avars. 
These latter were driven out by the Serbs, then living 
north of the Carpathians, who themselves spread over 
the country in great numbers. About the middle of 
the 9th century they were converted to Christianity by 
missionaries sent by the emperor Basil. For about 
200 years they were almost constantly at war with the 
neighboring Bulgarians, but in 1043 Stephen Bogislas 
broke their power. His son Michael (1050-80) took 
the title of king, and was recognised as such by pope 
Gregory ATI. A struggle of nearly a hundred years re- 
sulted in the maintaining of their independence, and in 
11G5 Stephen Nemanja founded a dynasty which lasted 
for two centuries. During this period the kingdom 
attained the acme of its power and prosperity, embrac- 
ing, under Stephen Dushan (133G-5G), the whole of 
Macedonia, Albania, Thessaly, Northern Greece, and 
Bulgaria. At the request of king Stephen II, son of 
Stephen Nemanja, the bishops of Servia were in 1221 
authorized by the patriarch of Constantinople to elect 
their metropolitan on condition that he be confirmed by 
the patriarch. The brother of the king, St. Sabbas, be- 
came the first archbishop of Uzhitza and all Servia. 
Stephen Dushan, in 1351, convoked the synod at Seres, 
which raised the metropolitan of Servia to the dignity 
of a patriarch, and declared him independent of the pa- 
triarch of Constantinople. The jurisdiction of the Ser- 
vian patriarch extended not only over Servia and Bul- 
garia, but also over a large portion of Macedonia, lie 
had his residence near Ipek, at the termination of the 
Streta Gora Mountains in Albania. In consequence of 
this measure, the patriarch of Constantinople pronounced 
the anathema against the Servian patriarch, but this 
was revoked in 1379. 

The progress of the Turkish arms proved fatal to the 
welfare of Servia. In 1389 Lazarus I was defeated at Kos- 
sovopolje, and his son and successor, Stephen, became a 
vassal of Turkey. In 1459 Mohammed II incorporated 
Servia with Turkey, excepting Belgrade, which was 
held by the Hungarians until 1521. By the treaty of 
Passarowitz (1718) a considerable portion of the country 
was made over to Austria, but in 1739 it reverted to Tur- 
key. During all this time the Turkish government had 
allowed the patriarchate to continue, liven when, in 
1690, patriarch Arsenins III, after the failure of the Ser- 
vian insurrection which the Austrians had instigated 
against Turkish rule, had emigrated with 37,000 Servi- 
an families to Austrian territory, the patriarchate of 
Ipek was not interfered with, but the appointment was 
always conferred upon a Greek, who purchased the po- 
sition from the divan of Constantinople. In 1705 (ac- 
cording to another statement in 1769) this patriarchate 
IX.— P r 


was abolished and united with that of Constantinople. 
The last patriarch (Basil) fled to Russia, where he died, 
in St. Petersburg. Four metropolitans, generally Greeks, 
were now appointed for Servia, the sees of whom were 
Belgrade, Nish, Uzhitza, and Novi-Bazar, and none of 
whom had a suffragan. After sixty years of oppression, 
the people, under George Czerny, rebelled, and, with the 
assistance of Russia, triumphed, and Czerny was elected 
by the people prince of Servia. Deserted by Russia and 
France, the Turks again beeame masters of the country 
(1813). But two years after, under Milosh Obrenovitch, 
the people won back their liberties. Milosh was chosen 
prince of Servia (1817), and subsequently recognised by 
the sultan. After the election of Czerny, the metropol- 
itan of Carlovitz, in Austria, had been recognised as the 
head of the Servian Church; but in 1830 Milosh again 
appointed a metropolitan for Servia. In 1834 Turkey 
restored six Servian districts which she had retained 
since 1813, and in the spring of 1872 relinquished a few 
additional localities, though not all that Servia claimed 
as her own. The seat of the legislature, which had al- 
ways been at Kraguyevatz, was removed to Belgrade in 
October, 1875. 

III. Religion, etc . — The inhabitants nearly all belong 
to the Greek Church, but are independent of the patri- 
arch of Constantinople. 

The hierarchy of the Church of Servia consists at 
present (1879) of a metropolitan and flve bishops. The 
metropolitan is elected by the prince and the Servian 
bishops. He resides at Belgrade, and, according to the 
regulations of 1839, is assisted in the government of the 
Church by a titular bishop and several protopresbyters 
and presbyters. The titular bishop and the other di- 
ocesan bishops constitute, at the same time, the Synod of 
the Metropolitan, to which are referred all marriage af- 
fairs, as well as all complaints of the administration and 
government of the Church by the metropolitan. The 
metropolitan receives fees for the ordination of presby- 
ters, the consecration of churches, etc., and a fixed an- 
nual ineorne of 6000 florins (about 82400). lie also 
possesses some real estate, especially vineyards near Se- 
mendria. The bishops are elected by the people, under 
the superintendence and guidance of the minister of 
justice, and ordained by the metropolitan. They have 
an unlimited jurisdiction in all matters purely ecclesias- 
tical. All churches and ecclesiastical institutions are 
under the superintendence of the minister of justiee, 
who makes the necessary arrangements conjointly with 
the elders of the Church. Servia has now* five diocesan 
bishops, namely, the bishop of Shabatz, the bishop of 
Uzhitza (who resides at Ivaranovatz), the bishop ofNe- 
gotin, and in the districts annexed in 1878 to Servia the 
bishops of Nish and Vranva. Each of them has a fixed 
income of 4000 florins (about 81600). He also receives 
fees for ordinations, consecration, and other ecclesiasti- 
cal functions. In regard to fees for burials, the bishop 
has to come to an understanding with the family of the 
deceased. All other fees were abolished in 1822, al- 
though voluntary gifts are still frequently made and ac- 
cepted. The bishops have to pay from their income 
their archdeacons and secretaries. The secular clergy 
number about nine hundred members. The clergymen 
in the town receive fixed salaries, while those in the 
rural districts only receive fees. Every parish priest is 
obliged to keep accurate lists of births, marriages, and 
deaths. 

Servia has many convents, most of which, however, 
have only a small number of inmates. Many of the 
convents have been wholly abandoned ; others are her- 
mitages, near which lodging-houses are erected at the 
time of pilgrimages. The convent Sw’eti Krai ( holy 
kirn/) at Studenitza contains the bones of king Stephen 
Nemanja, by whom it was founded, and w*ho in 1200 
died as monk of one of the convents on Mount Athos. 
11 is son Rastka, better known in Servian history as 
St. Sabbas, the first archbishop of Uzhitza, transferred 
the bones of his father in 1203 to the Convent of 


SERVIAN VERSION 


504 


SERVING TABLES 


Stmlenitza, which after the cloister name of king Stephen 
is sometimes called the Laura of St. Simon. 

A Roman Catholic bishopric was established by pope 
Innocent X in 1044 at Belgrade. In 1728 the see was 
transferred from Belgrade to Semendria, and the name 
of the diocese is now Belgrade and Semendria. The 
bishop is a suffragan of the archbishop of Antivari, in 
Albania. The number of Roman Catholics is small. 
In 1861 some accounts claimed a population of 30,000, 
but the Roman statistician Petri ( Prospetto della Ge- 
rarchia Episcopate [Rome, 1850]) says nothing of the 
Roman Catholic population of the diocese. The official 
statistical bureau of Belgrade gave the number of Ro- 
man Catholics in 1874 as 4161. In 1852, the papal 
nuncio of Vienna, Vialc Prcla, visited Belgrade in order 
to reorganize the diocese, but no account of the results 
of his mission has ever been published. The Protes- 
tants numbered in 1874, according to the official statis- 
tical report of the government, 403, the Jews 2049, and 
the Mohammedans G30G. In the districts annexed in 
1878 there are estimated to be 75,000 Mohammedans. 
Secession from the State Church is rigorously forbidden, 
but otherwise all the other religious denominations en- 
joy entire religious liberty. 

Education is making rapid progress in Servia. Fifty 
vears ago there was no public pri mar)’ school; now edu- 
cation is compulsory, and for its management a special 
ministry of education has been organized. In 1874 
there were 517 public schools, with 23,000 pupils. The 
tirst gymnasium was established in 1830, and in 1874 
the principality had two complete gymnasia and five 
progvmnasia, with an aggregate attendance of 2000 
students* A normal school was established in 1872. 
The high school in Belgrade contains three faculties, 
and has about 200 students. 

IV. Character .— he Servians are distinguished for 
the vigor of their frame, their personal valor, love of 
freedom, and glowing poetical spirit. Their manners 
and mode of life are exceedingly picturesque, and 
strongly prepossess a stranger in their favor. They 
rank among the most gifted and promising members of 
the Slavic family. See Ranke, Die serbische Revolution 
(Hamburg, 1829; 2d ed. 1844); Milutinovitch, Gesch, 
Serbiens von 1389-1815 (Leipsic, 1837); Cunibert, Essai 
Historique sur les Revolutions el V I ndependance de la Ser - 
hie depuis 1804 jusqu'a 1850 (ibid. 1855, 2 vols.) ; Hilfcr- 
ding, Gesch. der Serben und Bulgaren (Bautzen, 185G); 
Denton [Rev. W.], Servia and the Servians (Loud. 
18G2); Elodic Lawton Mijatovics (Wm. Tweedie), Hist, 
of Modern Servia (ibid. 1874); Saint-Renc' Taillandier, 
LaSerbie au 19e Siecle, Kara George et Mi lose h (Paris, 
1875); Grieve, The Church and People of Servia (Loud. 
1864); Jakshich, Recueil Statistique sur les Contrees 
Serbes (Belgrade, 1875)., 

Servian Version. See Slavonic Versions. 

Service (properly rsTl^i*, covXeta, i. c. bondage; 
lmt the rendering in the A. V. in many places of less 
severe words, as citaKovia, Xarpeia , etc.). 

Sec Servitude. 

SERVICE, The. See Lord's Supper. 

SERVICE of the Church. It appears that there 
was a daily celebration of divine worship in the time 
of Cyprian; and it has been supposed that the practice 
of offering public prayer every morning and evening 
was established during the 3d century. The order of 
t lie daily morning anti evening services, as they un- 
doubtedly obtained in the 4th century, was as follows: 
The morning service began with the reading of Psa. 

I xiii, followed by prayers for the catechumens, energu- 
mens, candidates Ibr baptism, and penitents; for the 
faithful, the peace of the world, and the state of the 
Church. Then followed a short prayer for preservation 
during the day, the bishop's commendation or thanks- 
giving, the imposition of hands, or bishop’s benediction, 
concluding with the dismissal of the congregation with 


the nsual form, TlpocX^f re tv eipijvy, “ Depart in peace.” 
The evening service (called hora lucernaris , because it 
began at the time of lighting candles) was in most 
parts the same with that of the morning, except with 
such variation of psalms, hymns, and prayers as were 
proper to the occasion. 1. The psalm was the one 
hundred and forty-first; 2. Proper prayer for the even- 
ing; 3. The evening hymn. In some churches the 
Lord's Prayer was always made a part of the daily 
worship both morning and evening (sec Bingham, 
Christ. Antiq. xiii, 10, 11). At the Reformation, in or- 
der to supply the absence of a vain and idolatrous wor- 
ship by a scriptural and reasonable service, it was ap- 
pointed that the “ morning and evening service” should 
be “said daily throughout the year.” This order is 
observed in cathedral and collegiate churches, in the 
universities, and in some parishes, but has not been 
generally followed in parochial churches. 

Service-book, a book of devotion, of prayer. 

That of the Church of England contains the Book of 
Common Prayer, Administration of the Sacraments, 
and other rites and ceremonies of the Church. See 
Common Prayer. 

The service-books of the Latin Church include the 
Missal, the Pontifical, the Day Hours, the Breviary, the 
Ritual, the Processional, the Ceremonial for Bishops, 
the Bencdictional. 

Those of the Greek Church are, (I) the Euchologi- 
on, corresponding to the Missal; (2) the Mencea, an- 
swering to the Breviary, without the ferial offices, and 
full of ecclesiastical poetry in measured prose; (3) Par- 
acletice, or great Octoechus, the ferial office for eight 
weeks, mainly the work of Joseph of the Studinm ; 
(4) Triodion, the Lent volume, from the Sunday be- 
fore Septuagcsima to Easter; and (5) the Pcntecostari- 
on, the office for Eastertide. 

Services, an ecclesiastical name for arrangements 
of the Canticles, Te Deum, Benedictus , Benediciie , Mag- 
nificat^ and Nunc Diniittis, and the psalms sung by sub- 
stitution for them, consisting of a succession of varied 
airs, partly verse and partly chorus, sung in regtdar 
choirs, of which, probably, the germ is to be found in 
the Ambrosian Te Deum, a succession of chants which 
is mentioned tirst by Boethius, who lived a century after 
Augustine. The simplified notation of this music, as 
used in the Salisbury and Roman breviaries, was com- 
posed by Marbccke. Tallis’s service is an imitation, 
rather than an adaptation, of the original arrangement. 
Probably t lie first was the setting of the Venite by 
Caustun in the time of Henry VIII. In 1G41 complaint 
was made of “singing the Te Deum in prose after a 
cathedral -clutrch way.” There are two classes: (1) 
full services, which have no repetitions, and are sung 
with an almost regular alternation by the two choirs; 
(2) verse services, which have frequent repetitions, no 
regular alternations, and are full of verses, either solos 
or passages sung in slower time by a selected number 
of voices. — Walcott, Sacred A rchceol. s. v. 

SERVICES, Domestic. The domestic officers (ser- 
ritia ) of a monastery were the cook, baker, brewer, 
laundryman, and tailor. At Rochester these were ap- 
pointed by the bishop. 

Serving Dress or Robe. Sec Surplice. 

Serving Tables, one of the parts of the Presby- 
terian sacramental service. Where the Presbyterians 
have not adopted the Congregational mode of partak- 
ing of the sacrament, the following is the order: “The 
tabic on which the elements are placed, being decently 
covered, the bread in convenient dishes, and the wine 
in cups, and the communicants orderly and gravely sit- 
ting around the table or in their seats before it, the 
minister sets the elements apart by prayer and thanks- 
giving,” etc. The whole of the communicants not par- 
taking at once, it is found necessary to continue the 
distribution of the elements, with intervals of psalm- 


SERVITES 


595 


SERVITUDE 


singing; during which those who have eaten leave the 
table to give place to a fresh set of communicants. 
The distribution of the bread and wine and the deliv- 
ery of an address are what constitutes serving the table. 
The number of tables varies from four to eight, and 
each address occupies ten minutes or a quarter of an 
hour. The minister of the place serves the first table ; 
the restare served by his assisting brethren. 

Servites, or Servants of the Blessed Virgin 
Mary, an order of monks in the Homan Catholic Church 
founded (1233) in Florence by seven rich Florentine 
merchants. Their main object was to propagate de- 
votion to the Virgin Mary. They lived at first as her- 
mits, but, becoming a monastic order, adopted the rule 
of St. Augustine and obtained from pope Martin V the 
privileges of a mendicant order. The order having 
become relaxed, it was re-established in 1593 in its orig- 
inal strictness as “Servites Eremites.” This order has 
produced a large number of distinguished men, among 
whom may be mentioned father Paul Sarpi, author of 
the History of the Council of Trent , and St. Philip Be- 
nizi (died 1285), one of the apostles of Western Europe 
in the 13th century. The Servites were extremely 
popular during the 16th century because of their many 
works of charity. Their dress was a cassock of serge, 
a cloak, a scapular, and an alms-bag. 

There were also female Servites, who were never 
very numerous, and a large body of Tertiarians (q. v.). 
The order, in 1870, was divided into twenty-seven prov- 
inces, the central house being the monastery of the 
Annunziazione in Florence. They were involved in the 
decrees suppressing religious orders in Italy and Ger- 
many. They were introduced into the United States 
in 1870 by bishop Melcher of Green Bay, Midi. There 
was a similar order founded in Naples in 1243. 

Servitor (rfrij'O, mesharethy a minister , as else- 
where rendered), a personal attendant, but not in a 
menial capacity (2 Kings iv, 43). See Servant. 

Servitude (fsTi:?). The servants of the Israelites 
were slaves, and usually foreigners (1 Chron. ii, 34), who 
yet were required to be circumcised (comp. Gen. xvii, 
23, 27). Servants of both sexes were acquired (comp. 
Mishna, Kiddushin , i, 2 sq.), sometimes as prisoners of 
war, whose lives were spared (comp. Numb, xxxi, 26 sq.), 
sometimes by purchase in peace (these were called mik- 
nath kesephy “ purchased,” Judith iv, 10; comp. Livy, xli, 
6; see Gen. xvii, 23; Exod. xxi,7; xxii,2* Lev. xxv, 44; 
and on their purchase in Abyssinia now, see Iiussegger, 
Reis . i, 156). But foreign servants who had escaped 
could neither be enslaved nor given up to their masters 
(Deut. xxiii, 15 sq.). The children of slaves were of 
course the property of the master (comp. Gen. xvii, 23; 
Exod. xxi, 4). These were generally considered most 
faithful (Horace, Ep. ii, 2, 6). At the legal valuation, 
perhaps an average, thirty silver shekels were given for 
a servant (Exod. xxi, 32), while a free Israelite was 
valued at fifty (Lev. xxvii, 3 sq.). On the price of re- 
markable servants in Egypt under the Ptolemies, see 
Josephus (.4?*/. xii, 4, 9). A moderate price for a Jewish 
slave was one hundred and twenty drachms (ibid, xii, 
2,3). An Israelite could become by purchase the prop- 
erty of another (Exod. xxi, 2; Deut. xv, 12) if he was 
compelled by poverty to sell himself (Lev. xxv, 39), 
but he could not, according to the law, be treated as a 
slave, and in any case he obtained his freedom again, 
without ransom, after six years of service, or in the year 
of jubilee (Exod. xxi, 2 sq.; Lev. xxv, 39, 40 sq.), if 
he were not ransomed earlier (ver. 48 sq.). Perhaps 
the ease was different with him who was sold for theft 
(Exod. xxii, 3). Even this sale was always to an Israel- 
ite (Josephus, Ant. xvi, 1, 1), though whether to the in- 
jured man or to the highest bidder is doubtful (ibid, iv, 
8, 27). It seems that hard creditors could sell insolvent 
debtors or their families (2 Kings iv, 1 ; Isa. 1, 1 ; Nell. 

o ; Matt, xviii, 25), but perhaps not legally, as some- ! 


times among the Greeks (Becker, Charik. ii, 32). Par- 
ents were permitted to sell daughters (Exod. xxi, 7), 
but the law showed much favor to such servants (ver. 
8 sq.), for. though there is difficulty in the statements, it 
is plain that they were protected against violence (see 
llengstenberg, Pent at. ii, 438 sq., whom Kurtz, Mos. 
Opfer y p. 216, contradicts without reason). It is plain 
that servants could not have been dispensed with among 
a people where almost every man was an agriculturist, 
and where there were few of a lower class to work for 
hire (yet comp. Lev. xix, 13; Deut. xxiv, 14; Job vii, 2; 
also Josephus, Ant. iv, 8, 38); and, indeed, the ances- 
tors of the Israelites, the nomadic patriarchs, had num- 
bered slaves among their valuable possessions (Gen. xii, 
16; xxiv, 35; xxx, 43; xxxii, 5). These were very 
numerous (xiv, 14), and, in ease of need, served as an 
army for defence (ver. 14 sq.). When a daughter of 
the family married a stranger, a female servant accom- 
panied her to her new home (xxix, 24, 29). The Mosaic 
law sought to establish on just principles a permanent 
relation between master and servant, and conferred many 
favors on the servants. They not only enjoyed rest from 
all work every seventh day (Exod. xx, 10); not only 
was it forbidden to punish a slave so severely that he 
should die on the spot (xxi, 20), or to mutilate him (ver. 
26 sq.), on penalty, in the former ease, of suffering pun- 
ishment (not death, perhaps, as the rabbins say; comp. 
Koran, ii, 179) ; in the latter, of the freedom of the slave 
(less protection than this was given to the Greek and 
Homan slaves; see Becker, Charik. ii, 48,* Rom. Alter. 
II, i, 58 sq.) ; not only were thej T to be admitted to cer- 
tain festivals (Dent, xii, 12, 18; xvi, 11,14, eomp.Athen. 
xiv, 639; Buttmann, Myth, ii, 52 sq.), but every slave 
of Hebrew descent obtained his freedom after six years’ 
servitude (Exod. xxi, 2 sq.; Deut. xv, 12; comp. Jose- 
phus, Ant. xvi, 1, 1 ; including females, Deut. xv, 12) ; 
yet without wife or child, if these had come to him in 
the house of his master (Exod. xxi, 3 sq.) ; and the year 
of jubilee emancipated all slaves of Hebrew descent 
(Lev. xxv, 41 ; Jer. xxxiv, 8 sq.; comp. Josephus, Ant. 
iii, 12, 3). If a slave would not make use of the legal 
freedom granted him in the seventh year, but wished 
to remain in his master’s house, then he was led to the 
judge, and his ear was bored (Exod. xxi, 6; Deut. xv, 
1 7. So the bored ears among other, nations were a proof 
of servitude — as the Arabians [l’etron, Satir. 102], the 
Lydians, Indians, and Persians [Xenoph. A nab. iii, 1, 
31 ; Plutarch, Sympos. ii, 1,4]; yet comp. Hosenmiiller, 
Moryenl. ii, 70 sq., and on the symbolic customs at manu- 
mission by the Homans, see Becker, Rom. Alter. II, i, 66 
sq. Plautus [Per??, v, 2, 21] shows that the wearing 
of ear-rings was a mark of a slave). There is no other 
kind of manumission mentioned in the Old Test, (see 
Mishna, .1 faas. Shew, v, 14). It was at least allowed to 
slaves of Israclitish descent to acquire some property 
(Lev. xxv, 49; comp. Arvieux, iv, 3 sq.); and though, 
on the whole, the servants were required to labor dili- 
gently (Job vii, 2; Sir. xxxiii, 26, 28), and the masters 
required attention and obedience in service (Psa.cxxiii, 
2), inflicting corporal punishment when necessary (Prow 
xxix, 19, 21 ; Sir. xxiii, 10; xxxiii, 10), yet the lot of 
Israclitish servants seems to have been more tolerable 
than that of those in Home (Becker, Callus, i, 128 sq.) 
and of the modern slaves in the East; yet the latter, 
even among the Turks, are not treated so inhumanely 
as is often thought (comp. Arvieux, iii, 385; Burek- 
hardt, Reise (lurch Arabien ?/. JS’ubien , p. 232 sq. ; Well- 
sted, i, 273, Hussegger, II, ii, 524. On the mild treat- 
ment of slaves in ancient India, see Yon Bolden, Indini, 
ii, 157 sq.). Hebrew slaves sometimes married their 
masters’ daughters (1 Chron. ii, 35; see Hosenmiiller, 
Moryenl. iii, 253 sq.). It was more usual for the masters 
to give Israclitish slaves as wives to their sons, bv which 
they acquired the rights of daughters (Exod. xxi, 9; 
comp. Gen. xxx, 3; Chardin, Voyage, ii, 220). The re- 
lation of chief servant, or head of the house, in whom 
the master reposed full confidence, may have continued 


SERVUS SERVORUM DEI 


596 


SETH 


in the more important families from patriarchal times 
(Gen. xxiv, 2; comp. xv,2; xxxix, 2; and for a modern 
parallel, Arvieux, iv, 30) ; and slaves seem even to have 
been employed to educate the sons of the house (TraitVi- 
yioyoi, Gal. iii, 24 sq. ; see Wachsmuth, Ilellcn. Alterth. 
ii, 368). The common slaves were required to do field 
and house work (Luke xvii, 7 sq.), and, especially the 
females, to turn the handmill, and to take off or carry 
the master’s sandals, etc. None but the Essenes, among 
the Jews, rejected all slavery, as contradicting the natu- 
ral freedom of men (Philo, Opp. ii, 458, etc.; so the The- 
rapeutic, ibid, ii, 482). 

It is well known that in war with foreign nations 
many Jews were sold abroad as slaves (Joel iii, 11; 
Amos i, 6, 9; 1 Macc. iii, 41; 2 Macc. vi ii, 11, comp. 
Dent, xxviii, 68). This happened especially in the 
wars with Egypt (Josephus, Ant. xii, 2, 3) and Syria, 
then with Home; and after the destruction of Jerusalem 
ninety-seven thousand Jews fell into the power of the 
victorious enemy (id. War, vi, 9, 2). The Jewish com- 
munity at Rome consisted, in great measure, of freed 
slaves. See, in general, Pignoria, De Sends et eor. ap. Vet. 
Minister. (Patav. 1694, and often); Mos. Maimon. De 
Sends et A ne ill is (tract, c. vers, et not. Kail, Hafn. 
1744); Abicht, De Servor. I/ebr. Acquis, atq. Serv. 
(Lips. 1704); Airing, Opp. v, 222 sq.; Mi eg, Comtitut. 
Send Hebr. ex Script, et Rabbin. Collect. (Ilerborn, 1785); 
Michaelis, Mos. Rit. ii, 358 sq. ; Am. Bib. Repos. 2d Ser. 
xi, 302 sq. — Winer. See Nethinui ; Slave. 

Servus Servoram Dei (Servant of the servants 
of God), an official title of the Roman pontiffs, in use 
since the time of Gregory the Great, by whom, accord- ^ 
ing to his biographer, Paul the Deacon, it was assumed 
as a practical rebuke of the ambitious assumption of the 
title of “ (Ecumenical (or universal) Patriarch” by John, 
surnamed Ncstentes, or the Faster, contemporary patri- 
arch of Constantinople. Other Christian bishops pre- 
vious to Gregory had employed this form, but lie was 
doubtless the first of the bishops of Rome to adopt it as a 
distinctive title. It is found in all the letters of Gregory 
preserved bv the Venerable Rede in his history. — Cham- 
bers's Encyclop. s. v. 

Sescuplum (taken once and a half), that sort of 
usury which consisted in making loans at fifty per cent, 
interest. Being a grievous extortion and great oppres- 
sion, it was condemned in the clergy by the councils of 
Nice and Laodicea, under the name of tjptoXtai ; and 
also in laymen by the law of Justinian, which allows 
nothing above centesimal interest in anv case. — Bing- 
ham, Christ. Antiq. vi, 2, 6. See Usuisy. 

Sesha is, in Hindi! mythology, the great king of 
the serpent race, on whom Vishnu reclines on the prime- 
val waters. lie has a thousand heads, which serve as 
a canopy to Vishnu; and he upholds the world, which 
rests on one of his heads. His crest is ornamented with 
jewels. Coiled -up, Sesha is the emblem of eternity, 
lie is often also called 1 ’dsuld or Ananta, “ the eternal.” 

Se'sis (Setric v.r. Stowe), a Grnecized form (1 Esdr. 
ix, 34) of the name Shesiiai (q. v.), in the Hebrew list 
(Ezra x, 40). 

Session of Christ, the perpetual presence of our 
Lord’s human nature in the highest glory of heaven, 
fhe statement of the fact appears in all the Latin forms 
of the Creed, its earlier words being “Sedet ad dexteram 
Pa tris,” which developed into “Sedet ad dexteram Dei 
Patris Omnipotentis” at some time not later than the 
6th century. The article does not appear in the Creed 
of Nica?a, but in the Constantinopolitan expansion of 
that formulary it is given in words which arc similar to 
those of the ancient Latin Church, KaSeZoptvov Ik 
SdZtiov tou II arpug. Naturally two questions suggest 
themselves for consideration : 

1 . What does this exaltation of Christ’s human nature 
imply? We answer, An actual translation of his body 
and soul to heaven and their actual continued abode 


there, and that in uninterrupted identit}' with the body 
and soul which had been born of Mary. This identity 
was historically established by the chosen witnesses of 
the resurrection, who saw his ascension and beard the 
words of the angels, “This same Jesus, which is taken 
up from von into heaven,” etc. (Acts i, 11); and not 
long after by the declaration of Stephen (vii, 56). Al- 
though the body of Christ has doubtless undergone a 
change so that it is a spiritual body, yet locality may be 
predicated of it now as well as previous to his death. It 
is an error, therefore, to suppose that the bodily presence 
of Christ is that of the omnipresent Deity, as is main- 
tained by the Ubiquitarians (q. v.). Because of this 
local bodily presence Christ sends bis lloly Spirit to 
men. 

2. What is the result of this exaltation ? It was ac- 
complished partly with reference to the glory of his own 
person, and partly with reference to his work as the 
Saviour of mankind. The human nature which, united 
with the divine nature, accomplished the purpose of 
God was fittingly raised up to the highest glory — 
“ Wherefore God highly exalted him,” etc. The ulti- 
mate object of the Incarnation was to bring us to God, 
into the divine presence. By this exaltation of our 
nature in the person of Christ a capacity was originated 
for its exaltation in ourselves. And, being the first- 
born among many brethren, he carried our humanity 
into heaven as the “Forerunner” of those who are united 
to him, as he said, “that where I am, there ye may be 
also” (John xiv, 2, 3). — Ilerzog, Real -Ency Hop. s. v. 
“ Stand Christi.” See Blunt, Diet, of Doct. Theolor/y, s. v. 
See Intercession ; Resurrection. 

Ses'thel (Seo3/)\), a corrupt form (1 Esdr. ix, 31) 
of the Hebrew name Bezaleel (q. v,), of t lie “sons” 
of Rabat h-moab (Ezra x, 30). 

Sesuto (or Sisuta) Version of the Holy 
Scriptures. The Sesuto belongs to the African lan- 
guages, and is spoken by the Basutos, who form a part 
of the Bccliuana nation, dwelling between the Winter- 
berg mountains and the higher branches of the Yellow 
River. For this people of South Africa the Gospel 
of Matthew was translated and printed in 1837. In 
1839 the gospels of Mark and Luke, as translated by the 
French missionaries Pelissicr, Arbousset, and Casalis, 
were printed in Cape Town, to which in 1849 the Gos- 
pel of John was added. Since that time not only the 
rest of the New Test., but also parts of the Old Test., 
have been added, and it is hoped that very soon this 
people will have the whole Bible in their own vernacu- 
lar. Up to March 30, 1878, about 25,532 copies of por- 
tions of the Scriptures had been circulated among them. 
See The Bible of Every Land, but more especially tlie 
annual reports of the British and Foreign Bible Society 
since I860. (B. P.) 

Seth (Ileb. Sheth, V'O, i. e. compensation ; Sept, and 
New Test. ; Josephus, £/}3r >£ [Ant. i, 2, 3]; A. V. 
“Sheth” iu 1 Chron. i, 1 ; Numb. xxiv, 7), the third son 
of Adam (born B.C. 4042), and the father of Enos (when 
105 years old) ; he died at the age of 912 (Gen. iv, 25, 
26; v, 3-8; 1 Chron. i, 1 ; Luke iii, 38). The significa- 
tion of bis name (given in Gen. iv, 25) is “appointed” 
or “ put” in the place of the murdered Abel, and Delitzsch 
speaks of him as the second Abel; but Ewald ( Gesch . 
i, 353) thinks that another signification, which he pre- 
fers, is indicated in the text. viz. “seedling,” or “germ.” 
The phrase “children of Sheth” (Numb, xxiv, 17) has 
been understood as equivalent to all mankind, or as de- 
noting the tribe of some unknown Moabitisli chieftain; 
but later critics, among whom are Rosenmiiller and Ge- 
senius ( Thesaur . p. 346), bearing in mind the parallel 
passage (Jer. xlviii, 45), render the phrase “children 
of noise, tumultuous ones,” i. e. hostile armies. See 
Sheth. 

In the 4tli century there existed in Egypt a sect 
calling themselves Scthinns, who are classed by Nean- 
der (Ch. Hist, ii, 115, ed. Bolin) among those Gnostic 


SETII 


597 


SE TON APHTIIITON 


seels which, in opposing Judaism, approximated to pa- 
ganism. (See also Tillemont, Memoires , ii, 318.) lre- 
meus (i, 30; comp. Massuet, Dissert . i, 3, 14) and The- 
odoret (flceret. Fab. xiv, 30G), without distinguishing 
between them and the Ophites, or worshippers of the 
serpent, say that in their system Seth was regarded as 
a divine effluence or virtue. Epiphanitis, who devotes 
a chapter to them (Adv. llcer. i, 3, 39), says that they 
identilied Seth with our Lord. — Smith. See Quandt, 
De Christo in Nomine Sethi A dumbrato (Regiom. 1720). 

SETH, Traditions concerning. There are many 
traditions concerning Seth (q. v.), not only in Rabbinic, 
but also in Christian, writings. According to the Rab- 
binic traditions, Seth was one of the thirteen who came 
circumcised into the world. The rest were Adam, Enoch, 
Noah, SUem,Terak, Jacob, Joseph, Moses, Samuel, David, 
Isaiah, and Jeremiah ( Midrash Tillim , fob 10, col. 2). 
The book Shene Luchoth says that the soul of the right- 
eous Abel passed into the body of Seth, and afterwards 
this same soul passed into Moses; thus the law, which 
was known to Adam and in which Abel had been in- 
structed, was not new to Moses (Eisenmenger, Neuent- 
decktes Judenthwn, i, 645). Josephus relates that after 
the things that were to take place had been revealed to 
Seth — how the earth was to be destroyed, first with wa- 
ter and then with fire — lest those things which he had 
discovered should perish from the memory of his pos- 
terity, he set up two pillars, one of brick, the other of 
stone, and he wrote thereon all the science he had ac- 
quired, hoping that, in the event of the brick pillar per- 
ishing by the rain, the stone would endure (A nt. i, 2). 
Suidas (s. v. E//3) says, “ Seth was the son of Adam : 
of him it is said the sons of God went in unto the 
daughters of men — that is to say, the sons- of Seth went 
in unto the daughters of Cain ; for in that age Seth 
was called God, because lie had discovered Hebrew let- 
ters and the names of the stars, but especially on ac- 
count of his great piety, so that he was the first to bear 
the name of God.” Anastasius Sinaita (q. v.) in his 
'O Srjyog, p. 269 (ed. Gretser [Ingolst, 1606]), says that 
when God created Adam after his image and likeness, 
he breathed into him grace and illumination and a ray 
of the Holy Spirit. But when he sinned this glory left 
him, and his face became clouded. Then he became the 
father of Cain and Abel. But afterwards, it is said* in 
Scripture, “ he begat a son in his own likeness, after his 
image, and called his name Seth,” which is not said of 
Cain and Abel; and this means that Seth was begotten 
in the likeness of unfallen man, and after the image of 
Adam in paradise; and he called his name Seth— that 
is, by interpretation, “resurrection,” because in him he 
saw the resurrection of his departed beauty and wis- 
dom and glory, and radiance of the Holy Spirit. And 
all those then living, when they saw how the face of 
Seth shone with divine light, and heard him speak with 
divine wisdom, said, “lie is God.” Therefore his sons 
were commonly called the sons of God. That Seth 
means “resurrection” is also the opinion of Augustine 
(De Civitate Dei, xv, 17, 18): “Ita Seth, quod inter- 
pretatur resurrectio.” 

The most remarkable of the traditions, however, is 
undoubtedly the one which we read in the Apocryphal 
Gospel of Nicodemus, c. 19 : 

“While John, therefore, was thus teaching those in 
Hades, the first-created and forefather Adam heard and 
said to his son Seth, My son, I wish thee to tell the fore- 
fathers of the race of men and the prophets all that thou 
heardest from Michael, the archangel, when I sent thee to 
the gates of Paradise to implore God that he might send 
thee his angel to give thee oil from the tree of mercy, with 
which to anoint my body when I was sick. Then Seth 
said, Prophets and patriarchs, hear. When my father 
Adam, the first-created, was about to fall, once upon a 
time, into death, he sent me to make entreaty to God, very 
close by the gate of Paradise, that he would guide me by 
an angel to the tree of compassion, and that I might take 
oil and anoint my father, and that he might rise up from 
his sickness, which thing, therefore, I then did. And after 
the prayer an angel of the Lord came and said to me, 
What, Seth, dost thou ask? Dost thou ask oil which 


rnlseth up the sick, or the tree from which this oil flows, 
on account of the sickness of thy father? This is not to 
be found now. Go, therefore, and tell thy father that after 
the accomplishing of 5500 years from the creation of the 
world, then shall come into the world the only-begotten 
Son of God, being made man ; and he shall anoint him 
with this oil, and shall raise him up, and shall baptize 
with water and with the Holy Spirit both him and those 
out of him, and then shall he be healed of every disease; 
but now this is impossible. When the prophets and the 
patriarchs heard these words, they rejoiced greatly.” 

In the Apocryphal literature Seth plays a prominent 
role, and even in Reynard the Fox Seth is mentioned 
as seeking for the oil of compassion : 

“Die drei gegrabenen Namen 
Brachte Seth der Fromme vom Paradiese heruieder, 
Als er das Oel der Barmherzigkeit suchte.” 

See Eabricius, Cod. Pseudepigr. V. T. i, 139 sq. ; ii, 49 sq. ; 
Svncellus, Chronogr . p. 10 ; Selden, Diss. de Ilorto llede- 
nis in his Otia Theolog. p. 600 ; Baring-Goukl, Ley- 
ends of the Patriarchs and Prophets , p. 81 sq. (B. P.) 

Sethians, or Sethites, a sect of the Ophites 
(q. v.), of the 2d century, who paid divine honor to 
Seth, believing him to have reappeared in the person 
of Jesus Christ. They taught that Seth was made by 
a third divinity, and substituted in the room of the two 
families of Abel and Cain, destroyed by the deluge. 

I They were thus distinguished from the Cainites (q.v.), 
who assigned the highest place to Cain. The Sethians 
regarded Cain as a representative of the Hylic, Abel of 
the Psychical, and Seth, who was finally to reappear in 
the person of the Messiah, of the Pneumatic principle. 
See Neandcr, Church IIi9t. (Torrey), i, 448. 

Se'thur (Ileb. Sethur', hidden ; Sept. XaBovp), 
the soil of Michael, of the tribe of Asher, and one of the 
twelve spies sent by Moses to view the promised land 
(Numb, xiii, 13). B.C. 1657. See Van Sarn, Obs. Light - 
footiana de Nomine Sethur (in the Miscell. Duisb. i, 
482 sq.). 

Set-off (or Offset), the part 
of a wall, etc., which is exposed 
horizontally when the portion 
above it is reduced in thick- 
ness. Set-offs arc not unfrequcntly 
covered, and in great measure con- 
cealed, bv cornices or projecting 
mouldings, but are more usually 
plain. In the latter case, in classi- 
cal architecture, they arc generally 
nearly or quite flat on the top, but 
in Gothic architecture are sloped, 
and in most instances have a pro- 
jecting drip on the lower edge to 
prevent the wet from running down 
the walls : this is especially ob- 
servable in the set-offs of buttress- 
es. — Parker. Glossary of A rch it ed- 
it re, s. v. 

Se ton aphthiton monarchen (S£ tov (KpStrov 
yovcipypjv, Thee the Everlasting King) is the beginning 
of a hymn written tig Xpurrov (to Christ) by Gregory 
of Nazianzum (q.v.). The first few lines of this hymn 
run thus in Mrs. Charles’s version: 

“ Hear us now, Eternal Monarch, 

Grant us now to hymn and praise thee — 

Thee the King, and thee the Master! 

By whom are our hymns and praises, 

By whom are the choirs of angels, 

By whom flow the ceaseless ages, 

By whom only shines the sun, 

By whom walks the moon in brightness, 

By whom smile the stars in beauty, 

By whom all the race of mortals 
Have received their godlike reason, 

And thine other works outshone.” 

For the original Greek, together with a German transla- 
tion, comp. Biissler, Ausivahl ultchristlicher Lieder, p. 
10, 156; Rambach, Antkologie chrisilicher Gcsange. i, 
48 sq.; Fortlage, Gesdnge chrisilicher Yorzcit, p. 23, 361 ; 



SEVEN 


598 


SETON 

Mrs. Charles, The Voice of Christian Life in Song, 
p. G2 sq. (B. 1\) 

Seton, Elizabeth Ann, founder of the Sisters of 
Charity in the United States, was born in New York 
city, Aug. 28, 1774. She was the daughter of Dr. Rich- 
ard Bavley, and in her twentieth year married William 
Seton, whom she accompanied to Italy in 1803. Upon 
his death, in Pisa, in 1804, she returned to New York 
and entered the Koman Catholic Church, March 14, 
1805. Left, by her husband's misfortunes, without re- 
sources, she opened a school in Baltimore in 1805-08. 
With her sisters-in-law, Harriet and Cecilia Seton, she 
took the veil as Sister of Charity, Jan. 1, 1809, at Em- 
mettsburg, Md. (being the first members of that order 
in the United States). A conventual establishment was 
opened at Emmettsburg, July 30, 1812, with “Mother 
Seton’’ as superior-general. She died at Emmettsburg, 
Jan. 4, 1821. See White, Life of Eliz . .4. Seton (N. Y. 
1853; 5th ed. Baltimore, 1805); Seton [llev. Robert], 
Memoir, Letters, etc., of E. A . Seton (N. Y. 1869, 2 vols.). 
See Sisters of Charity. 

Settlements, Violent, took place when a patron 
in Scotland presented a clergyman whom the people 
would not have, but whom the ecclesiastical courts were 
determined, in spite of all opposition, to ordain. In such 
cases the parish sometimes rose to oppose the settlement 
by force, and obstructed the presbytery. The military 
were occasionally called to protect the presbytery. Such 
scenes happened in many parts of the country. See 
Eadie, Eccles. Cyclop, s. v. 

Seven (£1'^, sheba ). The frequent recurrence of 
certain numbers in the sacred literature of the Hebrews 
is obvious to the most superficial reader; and it is al- 
most equally obvious that these numbers are associated 
with certain ideas, so as in some instances to lose their 
numerical force, and to pass over into the province of 
symbolic signs. This is more or less true of the num- 
bers three, four, seven, twelve, and forty; but seven so 
far surpasses the rest, both in the frequency with which 
it recurs, and in the importance of the objects with 
which it is associated, that it may fairly be termed the 
representative symbolic number. It has hence attracted 
considerable attention, and may be said to be the key- 
stone on which the symbolism of numbers depends. 
The origin of this symbolism is a question that meets 
us at the threshold of any discussion as to the number 
seven. Our limits will not permit us to follow out this 
question to its legitimate extent, but we may briefly 
state that the views of Biblical critics may be ranged 
under two heads, according as the symbolism is attrib- 
uted to theoretical speculations as to the internal prop- 
erties of the number itself, or to external associations 
of a physical or historical character. According to the 
former of these views, the symbolism of the. number 
seven would be traced back to the symbolism of its 
component elements three and four, the first of which = 
Divinity, and the second = Humanity, whence seven — 
Divinity + Humanity, or, in other words, the union be- 
tween Hod and man, as effected by the manifestations 
of the Divinity in creation and revelation. So again 
the symbolism of twelve is explained as the symbolism 
of 3x4, or a second combination of the same two ele- 
ments, though in different proportions, the represent- 
ative number of Humanity, as a multiplier, assuming a 
more prominent position (Biihr, SymboUk, i, 187, 201, 
224). This theory is seductive from its ingenuity and 
its appeal to the imagination, but there appears to be 
little foundation for it. For (1) we do not find any in- 
dication, in early times at all events, that the number 
seven was resolved into three and four, rather than into 
any other arithmetical elements, such as two and five. 
Bcngel notes such a division as running through the 
heptads of the Apocalypse ( Gnomon , at Rev. xvi, 1), and 
the remark undoubtedly holds good in certain instances, 
e. g. the trumpets, the three latter being distinguished 
from the four former by the triple “woe” (Rev. viii, 13); 


but in other instances, e. g. in reference to the promises 
(Gnomon, at Rev. ii, 7), the distinction is not so well es- 
tablished ; and even if it were, an explanation might be 
found in the adaptation of such a division to the subject 
in hand. The attempt to discover such a distinction in 
the Mosaic writings — as, for instance, where an act is to 
be done on the third day out of seven (Numb, xix, 12) 
—appears to be a failure. (2) It would be difficult to 
show that any associations of a sacred nature were as- 
signed to three and four previously to the sanctity of 
seven. This latter number is so far the sacred number 
tear that we should be less surprised if, by a 

process the reverse of the one assumed, sanctity had 
been subsequently attached to three and four as the 
supposed elements of seven. But (3) all such specula- 
tions on mere numbers are alien to the spirit of Hebrew 
thought; they belong to a different stage of society, in 
which speculation is rife, and is systematized by the ex- 
istence of schools of philosophy. 

We turn to the second class of opinions, which attrib- 
ute the symbolism of the number seven to external as- 
sociations. This class may be again subdivided into 
two, according as the symbolism is supposed to have 
originated in the observation of purely physical phe- 
nomena, or, on the other hand, in the peculiar religions 
enactments of Mosaism. The influence of the number 
seven was not restricted to the Hebrews; it prevailed 
among the Persians (Esth. i, 10, 14), among the ancient 
Indians (Yon Bohlen, Alt. Indiev, ii, 224 sq.), among 
the Greeks and Romans to a certain extent, and proba- 
bly among all nations where the week of seven days 
was established, as in China, Egypt, Arabia, etc. (Idcler, 
Chronol. i, 88, 178; ii, 473). Cicero calls it the knot 
and cement of all things, as being that by which the 
natural and spiritual world are comprehended in one 
idea (Tusc. Qucest. i, 10). The wide range of the word 
seven is in this respect an interesting and significant 
fact : with the exception of “six,” it is the only numeral 
which the Shemitic languages have in common with 
the Indo-European; for the Hebrew sheba is essentially 
the same as herd, septem, seven, and the Sanscrit, Per- 
sian, and Gothic names for this number (Pott, Etym. 
Forsch. i, 129). In the countries above enumerated, 
the institution of seven as a cyclical number is attrib- 
uted to the observation of the changes of the moon or 
to the supposed number of the planets. The Hebrews 
are held by some writers to have borrowed their notions 
of the sanctity of seven from their heathen neighbors, 
either wholly or partially (Yon Bohlen, Introd. to Gen . 
i, 210 sq. ; llengstenberg, Balaam [Clark’s cd.], p. 393) ; 
but the peculiarity of the Hebrew view consists in the 
special dignity of the seventh, and not simply in that of 
seven. Whatever influence, therefore, may be assigned 
to astronomical observation or to prescriptive usage, in 
regard to the original institution of the week, we cannot 
trace back the peculiar associations of the Hebrews fur- 
ther than to the point when the seventh day was con- 
secrated to the purposes of religious rest. 

Assuming this, therefore, as our starting-point, the 
first itlea associated with seven would be that of relig- 
ious periodicity. The Sabbath, being the seventh day, 
suggested the adoption of seven as the coefficient, so to 
say, for the appointment of all sacred periods; and we 
thus find the seventh month ushered in bv the Feast of 
Trumpets, and signalized by the celebration of the Feast 
of Tabernacles and the great Day of Atonement ; seven 
weeks as the interval between the Passover and the 
Pentecost; the seventh year as the sabbatical year; 
and the year succeeding 7X7 years as the jubilee year. 
From the idea of periodicity it passed, by an easy tran- 
sition, to the duration or repetition of religious proceed- 
ings; and thus seven days were appointed as the length 
of the feasts of Passover and Tabernacles; seven days 
for the ceremonies of the consecration of priests; seven 
days for the interval to elapse between the occasion and 
the removal of various kinds of legal unclcanness, as af- 
ter childbirth, after contact with a corpse, etc.; seven 


SEVEN 


590 


SEVEN SLEEPERS 


times appointed for aspersion either of the blood of the 
victim (e. g. Lev. iv, G; xvi, 14) or of the water of pu- 
rification (xiv, 51; comp. 2 Kings v, 10, 14); seven 
things to be offered in sacrifice (oxen, sheep, goats, pig- 
eons, wheat, oil, wine); seven victims to be offered on 
any special occasion, as in Balaam’s sacrifice (Numb, 
xxiii, 1), and especially at the ratification of a treaty, 
the notion of seven being embodied in the very term 
(?2’r3) signifying to swear, literally meaning to do 
seven times (Gen. xxi, 28; comp. Herod, iii, 8 for a sim- 
ilar custom among the Arabians). The same idea is 
further carried out in the vessels and arrangements of 
the Tabernacle — in the seven arms of the golden can- 
dlestick, and the seven chief utensils (altar of burnt-of- 
ferings, laver, showbread table, altar of incense, candle- 
stick, ark, mercy -seat). 

The number seven, having thus been impressed with 
the seal of sanctity as the symbol of all connected with 
the Divinity, was adopted generally as a cyclical num- 
ber, with the subordinate notions of perfection or com- 
pleteness. It hence appears in cases where the notion 
of satisfaction is required, as in reference to punishment 
for wrongs (Gen. iv, 15; Lev. xxvi, 18, 28; Psa. lxxix, 
12; Prov. vi, 31), or to forgiveness of them (Matt, xviii, 
21). It is again mentioned in a variety of passages too 
numerous for quotation (e. g. Job v, 19; Jer. xv. 9; 
Matt, xii, 45) in a sense analogous to that of a “round 
number,” but with the additional idea of sufficiency and 
completeness. To the same head wc may refer the nu- 
merous instances in which persons or things are men- 
tioned by sevens in the historical portions of the Bible 
— e. g. the seven kine and the seven ears of corn in 
Pharaoh’s dream, the seven daughters of the priest of 
Midian, the seven sons of Jesse, the seven deacons, the 
seven sons of Sceva, the twice seven generations in the 
pedigree of Jesus (Matt, i, 17); and, again, the still 
more numerous instances in which periods of seven days 
or seven years are combined with the repetition of an 
act seven times; as, in the taking of Jericho, the town 
was surrounded for seven days, and on the seventh 
day it fell at the blast of seven trumpets borne round 
the town seven times by seven priests; or, again, at 
the flood, an interval of seven days elapsed between the 
notice to enter the ark and the coming of the flood, 
the beasts entered by sevens, seven days elapsed be- 
tween the two missions of the dove, etc. So, again, in 
private life, seven years appear to have been the usual 
period of a hiring (Gen. xxix, 18), seven days for a 
marriage- festival (ver. 27; Judg, xiv, 12), and the 
same, or in some cases seventy days, for mourning for 
the dead (Gen. 1. 3, 10; l Sam. xxxi, 13). 

The foregoing applications of the number seven be- 
come of great, practical importance in connection with 
the interpretation of some of the prophetical portions of 
the Bible, and particularly of the Apocalypse. For in 
this latter book the cver-recurring number seven both 
serves as the mould which has decided the external 
form of the work, and also, to a certain degree, pene- 
trates into the essence of it. We have but to run over 
the chief subjects of that book — the seven churches, the 
seven seals, the seven trumpets, the seven vials, the 
seven angels, the seven spirits before the throne, the 
seven horns and seven eves of the Lamb, etc. — in order 
to see the necessity of deciding whether the number is 
to be accepted in a literal or a metaphorical sense — in 
other words, whether it represents a number or a qual- 
ity. The decision of this question affects not only the 
number seven, but also the number which stands in a 
relation of antagonism to seven, viz. the half of seven, 
w’hich appears under the form of forty-two months, “3^ 
years (Bov. xiii, 5); twelve hundred and sixty days, 
also =3^ years (xi, 3; xii, G); and, again, a time, times, 
andhall’a time, =3| years (xii, 14). Wc find this num- 
ber frequently recurring in the Old Test., as in the forty- 
two stations of the wilderness (Numb, xxxiii); the three 
and a half years of the famine in Elijah's time (Luke 


iv, 25); the “time, times, and the dividing of time,” 
during -which the persecution of Antiochus Epiphanes 
was to last (Dan. vii, 25), a similar period being again 
described as “ the midst of the week,” i. e. the half of 
seven years (ix, 27); “a time, times, and a half” (xii, 
7); and again, probably, in the number of days speci- 
fied in Dan. vii i, 14; xii, 11, 12. If the number seven 
express the notion of completeness, then the number 
half-seven = incompleteness and the secondary ideas of 
suffering and disaster: if the one represent divine agen- 
cy, the other we may expect to represent human agency. 
Mere numerical calculations would thus, in regard to 
unfulfilled prophecy, be either wholly superseded, or, at 
all events, take a subordinate position to the general 
idea conveyed. — Smith. See Journal of Sacred Liter- 
ature, Oct. 1851, p. 134 sq. ; New- Englander, No. 1858. 
See Number. 

Seven Capital Sins. See Seven Deadly Sins. 

Seven Chief Virtues, Tiie. According to the 
teaching of the Roman Catholic Church, these virtues 
are faith, hope, charity, prudence, temperance, chastity, 
and fortitude. 

Seven Days After, the term by which the octave 
of a festival is described in the Book of Common Braver. 
Thus the proper prefaces in the communion service, ex- 
cept that for Trinity Sunday, are to be said upon certain 
days, and, likewise, during seven days afterwards. — Lee, 
Glossary of Litnrg. Terms , s. v. 

Seven Deadly Sins, The, as defined by the 
Romish Church, are pride, anger, envy, sloth, lust, cov- 
etousness, and gluttony. 

Seven Dolors or the Blessed Virgin Mary, 
Feast of a modern festival of the Roman Catholic 
Church, which, although bearing the name of devotion 
to the Virgin Mary, in reality regards those incidents 
in the life and passion of Christ with which his mother 
is most closely associated. This festival is celebrated 
on the Friday preceding Palm-Sundav (q. v.). The 
“ Dolors,” or sorrow’s, of the Blessed Virgin, have long 
been a favorite theme of Roman Catholic devotion, of 
which the pathetic Stabat Mater Dolorosa is the best- 
known and most popular expression; and the festival 
of the Seven Dolors is intended to individualize the 
incidents of her sorrow s, and to present them for medi- 
tation. The seven incidents referred to under the title 
of “Dolors” are: 1. The prediction of Simeon (Luke ii, 
34) ; 2. The flight into Egypt; 3. The loss of Jesus in 
Jerusalem; 4. The sight of Jesus bearing his cross to- 
wards Calvary; 5. The sight of Jesus upon the cross; 
G, The piercing of his side w ith the lance ; 7. II is burial. 
This festival was instituted by pope Benedict XIII in 
1725. — Chambers' 1 s Encyclop. s. v. 

Seven Heroes or Thebes. See Thebes, Seven 
Heroes of. 

Seven Sacraments. The Council of Trent, 
session 7, canon i, says, “If any one shall say that 
the sacraments of the new law’ w r ere not all instituted 
by Jesus Christ our Lord, or that they are more or 
less than seven — to wit, baptism, confirmation, the en- 
charist, penance, extreme unction, orders, and matri- 
mony — or even that any one of these seven is not truly 
and properly a sacrament, let him be anathema.” See 
Sacrament. 

Seven Sleepers, the heroes of a celebrated leg- 
end, first related by Gregory of 'fours at the close of 
the Gth century (J)e Gloria Afartyrum, c. 9G) ; but the 
date of which is assigned to the 3d century and to the 
persecution of the Christians under Decius. According 
to the narrative, seven Christians of Ephesus took refuge 
in a cave near the city, where they were discovered bv 
their pursuers, who walled up the entrance in order to 
starve them to death. A miracle, however, w’as inter- 
posed in their behalf: they fell into a preternatural sleep, 
in which they lay for nearly two hundred years. The 
concealment is supposed to have taken place in 250 or 


SEVEN SPIRITS 


GOO 


SEVENTY WEEKS 


251, and the sleepers to have been reanimated in 447. 
Their sleep seemed to them to have been for only a 
night, and they were greatly astonished, on going into 
the city, to see the cross exposed upon the church-tops, 
which but a few hours ago, as it appeared, was the ob- 
ject of contempt. Their wonderful story told, they 
were conducted in triumph into the city; but all died at 
the same moment. See Herzog, s. v. “ Siebenschliifer.” 

Seven Spirits and Orders of the Clergy. 
The Homan Catholics of the Western Church, in gen- 
eral, abide firmly by the principle established by the 
schoolmen, that the priesthood is to consist of seven 
classes, corresponding to the seven spirits of God. Of 
these the three who are chiefly employed in the duties 
of the ministerial office compose the superior order [see 
Clergy, 3] ; and the four whose duty it is to wait upon 
the clergy in their ministrations, and to assist in con- 
ducting public worship, belong to the inferior order. 
See Coleman, Christ. Aniiq. p. 73. 

Sevenfold Gifts, the gifts of the Holy Spirit; 
so called from their enumeration in Isa. xi, 1-6. There 
is an allusion to them in the hymn Veni, Creator Spi- 
ritus in the Ordinal (q. v.), thus — 

“ Come, Holy Ghost, our sonls inspire, 

And lighten with celestial fire: 

Thon the anointing Spirit art, 

Who dost thy sevenfold gifts impart.” 

In a prayer of the Order of Confirmation these gifts are 
specified as follows: “Daily increase in them thy man- 
ifold gifts of grace — the spirit of icisdom and under - 
standing, the spirit of counsel and ghostly strength , the 
spirit of knowledge and true godliness; and fill them, O 
Lord, with the. spirit of thy holy fear.” See Stanton, 
Diet, of the Church, s. v. 

Seventh-day. See Sabbatii. 

Seventh-day Baptists. See Baptists. 
Seventh-day Baptists (German). See Bap- 
tists. 

Seventy shibini), as being the mulliple 

of the full number seven and the perfect number ten, 
shares in the sacredness or conventionality of the for- 
mer in Scripture. See Seven. They are sometimes 
put in contrast in the complete phrase “seventy times 
seven” (Gen. iv, 24 ; Matt, xviii, 21). Some of the most 
remarkable combinations of this numbef are specified 
below. 

SEVENTY DISCIPLES of our Lord (Luke x, 1, 
17). These seem to have been appointed in accordance 
with the symbolism of the seventy members of Jacob’s 
household (Exod. i, 5) and, likewise, the seventy elders 
of the Jews (xxiv, 1 ; Numb, xi, 16). See Sanhedrim. 
The following is the traditionary list of their names 
(see Townsend, New Test.; and the monographs cited 
bv Danz, I Vorierh. s. v. “Lucas,” Nos. 60-63; and by 
Ilase, Leben Jesu, p. 165) : 

1. Agabns the prophet. 

2. Amphias of Odvssus, sometimes called Amphiatus. 

3. Ananias, who baptized Paul, bishop of Damascus. 

4. Andronicus of Pan noil in, or Spain. 

5. Apelles of Smyrna, or Ileraclea. 

G. Apollo of Caesarea. 

7. Aristarchus of Apamea. 

S. Anstohnlus of Britain. 

9. Artemas of Lystra. 

10. Asyncritus of Ilyrcauin. 

11. Barnabas of Milau. 

12. Barnabas of Ileraclea. 

13. Cjesar of Dyrrachium. 

14. Caius of Ephesns. 

15. Corpus of ilerytus in Thrace. 

1G. Cephas, bishop of Konia. 

17. Clemens of Sardinia. 

18. Cleophas of Jerusalem. 

19. Crescens of Chalcedou in Galatia. 

20. Damns, a priest of idols. 

21. Epenetns of Carthage. 

22. Epaphroditus of Andriace. 

23. Krasins of Paneas, or of the Philippians. 

24. Evodias of Antioch. 

25. Hernias of Philippi, or Pliilippolis. 


2G. Hermes of Dalmatia. 

27. Hermogenes, who folloived Simon Magus. 

2S. Hermogenes, bishop of the Megareues. 

29. Ilerodion of Tarsus. 

30. James, the brother of our Lord, at Jerusalem. 

31. Jason of Tarsus. 

32. Jesus Justus, bishop of Eleutheropolis. 

33. Liutis of Rome. 

34. Luke the Evangelist. 

35. Lucius of Laodicea iu Syria. 

36. Mark, who is also John, of Biblopolis, or Biblus. 

37. Mark the Evangelist, bishop of Alexandria. 

38. Mark, the nephew of Barnabas, bishop of Apollouia. 

39. Matthias, afterwards the apostle. 

40. Narcissus of Athens. 

41. Nicanor, who died wheu Stepheu suffered martyrdom. 

42. Nicolaus of Samaria. 

43. Olympias, a martyr at Rome. 

44. Onesiphorns, bishop of Coroue. 

45. Parmenas of the Soli. 

4G. Pntrobnlus, the same with Patrobas (Rom. xvi, 14) of 
Puteoli, or, according to others, of Naples. 

47. Philemon of Gaza. 

4S. Philemon, called in the Acts Philip, who baptized the 
eunuch of Candace, of Trallmm, iu Asia. 

49. Philologus of Sinope. 

50. Phlegon, bishop of Marathon. 

51. Phigellns of Ephesus, who followed Simon Magus. 

52. Prochorus of Nicomedia, iu Bithyuia. 

53. Pndens. 

54. Quartns of Berytns. 

55. Rhodion, a martyr at Rome. 

56. Rufus of Thebes. 

57. Silas of Corinth. 

58. Sylvamis of Thessalouica. 

59. Sosipater of Iconimn. 

GO. Sostheues of Colophon. 

Gl. Stachys of Byzantium. 

62. Stephen, the first martyr. 

G3. Tenuis of Icouium. 

G4. Thaddaens, who carried the epistle of Jcsns to Edessa, 
to Abgarus. 

G5. Timou of Bostra of the Arabians. 

GO. Trophimus, who suffered martyrdom with Paul. 

67. Tychicus, bishop of Chalcedou, of Bithyuia. 

GS. Tychicus of Colophon. 

69. Urbamis of Macedonia. 

70. Zenas of Diospolis. 

SEVENTY WEEKS of Daniel’s Prophecy (Dan. 
ix, 25-27). This is so important a link in sacred pre- 
diction and chronology as to justify its somewhat ex- 
tensive treatment here. We first give an exact trans- 
lation of the passage. 

“Seventy heptads are decreed [to transpire] upon thy 
nation, and upon thy holy city, for [entirely] closing the 
[punishment of] sin, and for sealing up [the retributive 
sentence against their] offeuces, and for expiating guilt, 
and for bringing in [the state of] perpetual righteous- 
ness, and for sealing up [the verification of] visiou and 
prophet, and for anointing holy of holies. And thou 
shalt know aud consider, [that] from [the time of] a com- 
mand occurring for returning and building [i. e. for re- 
building] Jerusalem till [the coining of] Messiah prince, 
[shall intervene] seven heptads, aud sixty and two hep- 
tads; [its] street shall return and be built [i. e. shall be 
rebuilt], and [its] fosse, and [that] in distress of the times. 
And after the sixty and two heptads, Messiah shall be cut 
off, and nothing [shall be left] to him ; aud people of the 
coming prince shall destroy the city and the holy [build- 
ing] and his end [of fighting shall come] with [or, like] a 
flood, and until the end of warring [shall occur the] de- 
creed desolations. And he shall establish a covenant to- 
wards many [persons during] one heptad, and [at the] 
middle of the heptad he shall cause to cease sacrifice and 
offering; and npon [the topmost] corner [of the Temple 
shall be reared] abominations [i. e. idolatrous images] of 
[the] desolator, and [that] till completion, and a decreed 
[oue] shall pour out upon [the] desolator.” 

In ver. 24 we have a general view of the last great 
period of the Jewish Church (see the middle line in 
the diagram). It was to embrace four hundred and 
ninety years, from their permanent release from Baby- 
lonian bondage till the time when God would cast 
them filially off for their incorrigible unbelief. See 
Week. Within this space Jehovah would fulfil what 
he had predicted, and accomplish all his designs re- 
specting them under their special relation. The par- 
ticulars noted in this cursory survey are, first, the con- 
clusion of the then existing exile (expressed in three 
variations, of which the last phrase, “expiating guilt,” 
explains the two former, “closing the sin” and “sealing 
up offences”); next, the fulfilment of ancient prophecy 
by ushering in the religious prosperity of Gospel times; 


SEVENTY WEEKS 


C01 


SEVENTY WEEKS 


Last Reform begins, 
[late in summer] B.C. 410. 


Christ bajdized, 
August, A.D. 25. 


July, B.C. 459. 


7 w. =49 y. 

G2 weeks =434 years. 

1 w.=7 y. 

{ 70 heptads = 490 years. 

[ 52^ yrs. 

G2 w r eeks=434 years. 

Half w. 


Reform completed , Christ sacrificed, 

[early in spring] B.C. 405. March IS, A.'D. 29. 

Sequel .— Jerusalem razed by the Romans, A.D. TO. 


and, lastly, as the essential feature, the consecration of 
the Messiah to his redeeming office. 

The only “command” answering to that of ver. 25 
is that of Artaxerxes Longi manus, issued in the sev- 
enth year of his reign, and recorded in the seventh 
chapter of Ezra, as Prideaux has abundantly shown 
( Connection , s. a. 409), and as most critics agree. At 
this time, also, more Jews returned to their home than 
at any other, and the literal as well as spiritual “re- 
building of Jerusalem” was prosecuted with unsurpassed 
vigor. The period here referred to extends “ till the 
Messiah” (see the upper line of above diagram) ; that is, 
as far as his public recognition as such by the voice at 
his baptism, the “ anointing” of the previous verse; and 
not to his death — as is commonly supposed, but which 
is afterwards referred to in very different language — 
nor to his birth, Avliich would make the entire compass 
of the prophecy vary much from four hundred and 
ninety years. The period of this verse is divided into 
two portions of “seven heptads” and “sixtv-two hep- 
tads,” as if the “command” from which it dates were 
renewed at the end of the first portion; and this we 
find was the case. Ezra, under whom this reformation 
of the state and religion began, was succeeded in the 
work by Nehemiah, who, having occasion to return to 
Persia in the twenty-fifth year after the commence- 
ment of the work (Neb. xiii, G), returned “after certain 
days,” and found that it had so far retrograded that he 
was obliged to institute it anew. The length of his 
stay at court is not given, but it must have been consid- 
erable to allow so great a backsliding among the lately 
reformed Jews. Prideaux contends that his return to 
Judaea was after an absence of twenty-four years; and 
we have supposed the new reform then set on foot by 
him to have occupied a little over three years, which 
is certainly none too much time for the task (see the 
lower line of the diagram). The “rebuilding of the 
streets and iutrenehments in times of distress” seems 
to refer, in its literal sense, to the former part especially 
of the forty-nine years (comp. Nell, iv), very little hav- 
ing been previously done towards rebuilding the city . 
although former decrees had been issued for repairing 
the Temple; and in its spiritual import it applies to 
the whole time, and peculiarly to the three years of the 
last reform. 

The “sixty-two weeks” of ver. 26, be it observed, are 
not said to commence at the end of the “seven weeks” 
of ver. 25, but, in more general terms, after the “dis- 
tressing times” during which the reform was going on; 
hence they properly date from the end of that reform, 
when things became permanently settled. It is in con- 
sequence of a failure to notice this variation in the lim- 
its of the two periods of sixty-two weeks referred to by 
the prophet (comp, the middle portions of the upper 
and of the lower line in the diagram) that critics have 
thrown the whole scheme of this prophecy into disor- 
der, in applying to the same event such irreconcilable 
language as is used in describing some of its different 
elements. By the ravaging invasion of foreigners here 
foretold is manifestly intended the destruction of Jeru- 
salem by the Roman troops, whose emperor’s son, Titus, 
is here styled a “prince” in command of them. The 
same allusion is also clear from the latter part of the 
following verse. But this event must not be included 
within the seventy weeks; because, in the first place, 


the accomplishment 
would not sustain such 
a view — from the decree, 
B.C. 459, to the destruc- 
Jews rejected, tioll 0 f Jerusalem, A.D. 

September, 7o ? Being five hundred 
A.D. 32. and twenty-eight years; 

secondly, the language 
of ver. 21 does not re- 
quire it — as it is not em- 
braced in the. purposes 
for which the seventv 


weeks are there stated to be appointed to Jerusalem 
and its inhabitants; and, last]}', the Jews then no 
longer formed a link in the chain of ecclesiastical 
history in the divine sense — Christian believers hav- 
ing become the true descendants of Abraham. At 
the^ close of the verse we have the judgments with 
which God would afflict the Jews for cutting off the 
Messiah : these would be so severe that the prophet 
(or, rather, the angel instructing him) cannot refrain 
from introducing them here in connection with that 
event, although he afterwards adverts to them in their 
proper order. What these sufferings were, Josephus 
narrates - with a minuteness that chills the blood, af- 
fording a wonderful coincidence with the prediction of 
Moses in Dent, xxviii, 15-68; they are here called a 
“flood,” the well-known Scripture emblem of terrible 
political calamities (as in Isa. viii, 7, 8 ; Dan. xi, 10,22; 
Nah. i, 8). 

Ver. 27 has given greater trouble to critics than any 
other in the whole passage; and, indeed, the common 
theory by which the seventy weeks are made to end 
with the crucifixion is flatly contradicted by the cessa- 
tion of the daily sacrificial offerings at the Temple “in 
the middle of the week.” All attempts to crowd aside 
this point are in vain; for such an abolition could not 
be said to occur in any pertinent sense before the offer- 
ing of the great sacrifice, especially as Jesus himself, 
during his ministry, always countenanced their celebra- 
tion. Besides, the advocates of this scheme are obliged 
to make this last “week” encroach upon the preceding 
“sixty-two weeks,” so as to include John the Baptist’s 
ministry, in order to make out seven years for “con- 
firming the covenant;” and when they have done this, 
they run counter to the previous explicit direction, 
which makes the first sixty-nine weeks come down 
“ to the Messiah,” and not end at John, By means of 
the double line of dates exhibited in the above dia- 
gram, all this is harmoniously adjusted ; and, at the 
same time, the only satisfactory interpretation is re- 
tained — that, after the true atonement, these typical ob- 
lations ceased to have any meaning or efficacy, although 
before it they could not consistently be dispensed with, 
even by Christ and his apostles. 

The seventy weeks, therefore, were allotted to the Jews 
as their only season of favor or mercy as a Church, and 
we know that they were not immediately east off upon 
their murder of Christ (see Luke xxiv, 27 ; Acts iii, 12- 
26). The Gospel was specially directed to be first 
preached to them; and not only during our Saviour’s 
personal ministry, but for several years aftenvards, the 
invitations of grace w'ere confined to them. The first 
instance of a “ turning to the Gentiles” proper was the 
baptism of the Roman centurion Cornelius, during the 
fourth year after the resurrection of Christ. In this 
interval the Jewish people had shown their determined 
opposition to the new “covenant” by imprisoning the 
apostles, stoning Stephen to death, and officially pro- 
scribing Christianity through Sanhedrim. Soon after 
this martyrdom occurred the conversion of Saul, w r ho 
“ was a chosen vessel to bear God’s name to the Gen- 
tiles;” and about two years after this event the door 
w ? as thrown wide open for their admission into the cov- 
enant relation of the Church, instead of the Jews, by 
the vision of Peter and the conversion of Cornelius. 
Here we find a marked epoch, fixed by the finger of 


SEVENTY WEEKS 


G02 


SEVENTY WEEKS 


God in all the miraculous circumstances of the event, 
as veil as by the formal apostolical decree ratifying it, 
and obviously forming the great turning-point between 
the two dispensations. We find no evidence that 
“many” of the Jews embraced Christianity after this 
period, although they had been converted in great num- 
bers on several occasions under the apostles’ preaching, 
not only in Judaea, but also in Galilee, and even among 
the semi- Jewish inhabitants of Samaria. The Jews had 
now rejected Christ as a nation with a tested and in- 
corrigible hatred; and having thus disowned their God, 
they were forsaken by him, and devoted to destruction, 
as the prophet intimates would be their retribution for 
that “decision” in which the four hundred and ninety 
years of this their second and last probation in the 
promised land would result. It is thus strictly true 
that Christ personally and by his apostles “established 
the covenant” which had formerly been made, and was 
now renewed, with many of the chosen people for pre- 
cisely seven years after his public appearance as a 
teacher; in the very middle of which space he super- 
seded forever the sacrificial offerings of the Mosaic rit- 
ual by the one perfect and sufficient offering of his own 
body on the cross. 

In the latter part of this verse we have a graphic 
outline of the terrible catastrophe that should fail upon 
the Jews in consequence of their rejection of the Mes- 
siah — a desolation that should not cease to cover them 
but by the extinction of the oppressing nation : it forms ! 
an appendix to the main prophecy. Our Saviour’s lan- 
guage leaves no doubt as to the application of this pas- 
sage, in his memorable warning to his disciples that 
when they should be about to “see the abomination of 
desolation, spoken of by Daniel the prophet, stand in 
the holy place,” they should then “flee into the moun- 
tains” (Matt, xxiv, 15, 16; comp, xxiii, 36, 38). 

In the scheme at the head of preceding page, several 
chronological points have been partially assumed which 
entire satisfaction with the results obtained would re- 
quire to be fully proved. A minute investigation of the 
grounds on which all the dates involved rest would occu- 
py too much space for the present discussion ; we there- 
fore content ourselves with determining the two boun- 
dary dates of the entire period, trusting the intermedi- 
ate ones to such incidental evidences of their correctness 
as may have been afforded in the foregoing elucidation, 
or may arise in connection with the settlement pro- 
posed (see Browne, Ordo Sceclot'iim , p. 96-107, 202). 
If these widely distant points can be fixed by definite 
data independently of each other, the correspondence 
of the interval will afford strong presumption that it is 
the true one, which will be heightened as the subdi- 
visions fall naturally into their prescribed limits; and 
thus the above coincidence in the character of the 
events will receive all the confirmation that the nature 
of the case admits. 

1. The Date of the Edict . — We have supposed this 
to be from the time of its taking effect at Jerusalem 
rather than from that of its nominal issue at Babylon. 
The difference, however (being only four months), will 
not seriously affect the argument. Ezra states (vii, 8) 
that “he arrived at Jerusalem in the fifth month [A b, 
our July- August] of the seventh year of the king,” Arta- 
xerxes. Ctesias, who had every opportunity to know, 
makes Artaxerxes to have reigned fortv-two years; and 
Thucydides states that an Athenian embassy sent to 
Ephesus in the winter that closed the seventh year iff 
the Peloponnesian war was there met with the news 
of Artaxerxes’s death : TrvSoptvoi . . . ’ApraZspfyp ’ . . . 
VFioaTt T&vi]K(vra ( Kara yap tootov top xpt’wov trf- 
XtvTtp 7(v) (Dell. Pelop. iv, 50). Now this war began in 
the spring of B.C. 431, as all allow (Time, ii, 2), and its 
seventh year expired with the spring of B.C. 424 ; con- 
sequently, Artaxerxes died in t he winter introducing 
this latter calendar year, and his reign began some time 
in B.C. 466. The same historian also states that The- 
mistocles, in his flight to Asia, having been driven by a 


storm into the Athenian fleet, at that time blockading 
Naxos, managed to get safely carried away to Ephesus, 
whence he despatched a letter of solicitation to Ar- 
taxerxes, then lately invested with royalty, veujgtI 
fiaaiAtvovTa {Bell. Pelop. i, 137). The date of the 
conquest of that island is B.C. 466, which is, therefore, 
also that of the Persian king’s accession. It is now 
necessary to fix the season of the year in which he be- 
came king. If Ctesias means that his reign lasted for- 
ty-two full years, or a little over rather than under that 
length, the accession must be dated prior to the begin- 
ning of B.C. 466; but it is more in accordance with the 
usual computation of reigns to give the number of cur- 
rent. years, if nearly full, and this will bring the date of 
accession down to about the beginning of summer, B.C. 
466. This result is also more in accordance with the 
simultaneous capture of Naxos, which can hardly have 
occurred earlier in that year. I may add that it like- 
wise explains the length assigned to this reign (forty- 
one years) by Ptolemy, in his astronomical canon, al- 
though he has misled modern compilers of ancient his- 
tory by beginning it in B.C. 465, having apparently 
himself fallen into some confusion, from silently annex- 
ing the short intermediate periods of anarchy, some- 
times to the preceding and at others to the ensuing 
reign. The “seventh year” of Artaxerxes, therefore, 
began about the summer of B.C. 460, and the “first 
[Hebrew] month” (Nisan) occurring within that twelve- 
month gives the following Mareh-April of B.C. 459 as 
the time when Ezra received his commission to proceed 
to Jerusalem for the purpose of executing the royal 
mandate. 

2. The Date of the Conversion of Cornelius. — The 
solution of this question will be the determination of 
the distance of this event from the time of our Sav- 
iour’s Passion; the absolute date of this latter occur- 
rence must, therefore, first be determined. This is as- 
certained to have taken place in A.D. 29 by a com- 
parison of the duration of Christ’s ministry with the 
historical data of Luke iii, 1-23; but the investigation 
is too long to be inserted here. See Chronology. A 
ready mode of testing this conclusion is by observing 
that this is the only one of the adjacent series of years 
in which the calculated date of the equinoctial full 
moon coincides with that of the Friday of the crucifix- 
ion Passover, as any one may see — with sufficient ac- 
curacy for ordinary purposes — by computing the mean 
lunations and the week-day back from the present time. 
This brings the date of Christ’s baptism to A.D. 25; 
and the whole tenor of the Gospel narratives indicates 
that this took place in the latter part of summer. 

The following are special treatises on this prophecy: 
Ilulsius, A brabanelis Com.in LXX Ileb. Corfut . (Breda, 
1653); Calov, De LXX Septimanis (Vitemb, 1663); 
Sosimann, De LXX Held. Dan. (Lugil. 1678); Schon- 
wald, Diss. de LXX Held. (Jen. 1720) ; Marshall. Trea- 
tise on the 70 Weeks of Daniel (Loud. 1725); Mark wick, 
Calculation of the LXX Weeks of Daniel (ibid. 1728); 
Pfaff, Diss. de LXX Jlebd. (Tiib. 1734); Pagendorn, 
Diss. de llebd. Danielis (Jen. 1745) ; Ayrolus, Liber LXX 
Hebdomatum Resiynatus (Bom. 1748) ; Offerhaus, De 
LXX Septimanis Danielis (Groning. 1756); Parry, On 
Daniel's 70 Weeks (Northampton, 1762); Michaelis, 
Versuch iiber d. 70 Wochen Daniels (Gott. 1771); also 
Epistolee de LXX Ilebdomadibus (Loud. 1773); llasen- 
kamp, Neue Erkliir. d. 70 IF. (Lemgo, 1772); Kluit, Ex- 
plicatio LXX llebd. (Middelb. 1774) ; Jung, Chvonoloyia 
LXX llebd. (Ileidelb. 1774); Blavnev, Dissertation on 
the 70 IF. (Oxf. 1775); Winter, Sermons on the 70 IF. 
(Lond. 1777); Lorenz, Interpret. Nov. LXX llebd. { Ar- 
gent. 1781); Wiesner, Inquis. in LXX llebd. (Wirceb. 
1787); Yri, Inter}>ret. LXX llebd. (Oxon. 1788); Butt, 
Commentary on the 70 IF. (Lond. 1807) ; Faber, Disser- 
tation on the 70 IF. (ibid. 1811); Stonard, Dissertation 
on the 70 IF. (ibid. 1825); Scholl, Comment, de LXX 
llebd. (Francf. 1829); Stcudel, Disq. de LXX llebd. 
(Tub. 1833) ; Wieseler, Die 70 IF. erortert (Gott. 1839) ; 


SEVENTY YEARS 


003 


SEVERINUS 


Hoffmann, Die 70 Jahrtvocken (Nuremb. 1830) ; Denny, 
Charts of the 70 IF. (Loml. 1849) ; Blackley, The 70 IF. 
Explained (ibid. 1850). See also the Stud, und Krit. 
1831, ii, 270; 1858, iv; (Gettysb.) Evangel. Rev. April, 
1807, iii; Goode, Warburton Led. for 1854-58 (Loud. 
1800). See Daniel. 

SEVENTY YEARS is a frequent number in Script- 
ure, both symbolical and literal; e. g. the seventy years 
of Tyre’s depression after its capture by Nebuchadnezzar 
till its relief by the downfall of Babylon (Isa. xxiii, 15- 
17) ; and especially the seventy years of the Jewish 
captivity at Babylon (Jer. xxv, 11; xxix, 10). See 
Captivity. 

Severally. In the office for the baptism (Prot- 
estant Episcopal Church) of those of riper years, the 
questions proposed by the minister to the candidates are 
to be considered as addressed to them severally , and the 
answers to be made accordingly. By this rubric every 
candidate is to view himself as isolated and alone, al- 
though the minister is not obliged to distinctly propose 
the questions to every individual. In the Order of Con- 
firmation there is a rubric somewhat analogous. The 
candidates “kneeling before the bishop, he shall lay his 
hands upon the head of every one severally , saying,” 
etc. See Stanton, Diet, of the Church , s. v. 

Severans, an old term not now in use, which 
seems to have signified a kind of cornice, or string- 
course. 

Severians, a sect of Eneratite Gnostics, successors 
of the Tatianists, whose complicated system of Aions 
they abandoned, but whose Eneratite notions of creation 
they developed or heightened. The Severians held 
that the well-known Gnostic power Ialdabaoth was a 
great ruler of the powers; that from him sprang the 
Devil; that the Devil, being cast down to the earth in 
the form of a serpent, produced the vine, whose snake- 
like tendrils indicate its origin; that ihc Devil also 
created woman and the lower half of man. Eusebius 
states that the Severians made use of the law and 
prophets and Gospels, giving them a peculiar interpre- 
tation, but abused the apostle Paul and rejected his 
epistles, as also the Acts of the Apostles (Euseb. Hist. 
Eccl. iv, 29). Augustine, on the other hand, states 
that they rejected the Did Test. (Aug. liver, xxiv). 
The tenet of the creation of the world by an inferior 
Demiurge presupposes the inherent evil of matter, and 
it is a natural deduction from this to deny the resurrec- 
tion of the body. The Severians followed out their 
principle to this conclusion, according to Augustine 
fleer, xxiv), while Natalis Alexander denies the prob- 
ability of Augustine’s report. The Severians were Do- 
cetie, as were the Tatianists. See Blunt, Diet, of Sects, 
s. v.; Gardner, Faiths of the World, s. v. “ Monophy- 
sites Ilagenbach, Hist, of Doct. i, 280 ; Neander, Ch. 
/ list, iii, 170. See Exckatites; Monophysitks. 

Severianus, bishop of Gabala, in Syria. The his- 
torical appearance of this personage is interwoven with 
the life and fortunes of John Chrysostom. During a 
protracted absence of the latter in Asia Minor, Severia- 
nus acted as his representative, and availed himself of 
the opportunity to intrigue against Chrysostom, for 
which he was expelled from Constantinople. Being 
soon recalled by his patroness, the empress Eudoxia, he 
became reconciled to Chrysostom; but he afterwards 
renewed his intriguing e Hurts in connection with The- 
ophilus of Alexandria. His later history is unknown. 
Six sermons on the history of the creation, together 
with other sermons by this man, are published in the 
works of Chrysostom in the Montfaucon ed. i, vi, and 
the Meehitarists of Venice published certain of his 
homilies in 1827. On his life, see Palladius, De Vita S. 
Joli. Chrysostom. ; Socrates, Hist. Eccl. vi, 18; Sozomen, 
Hist. Eccl. viii, G. — Iierzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Severinus, St., the apostle of Noricum. The rec- 
ords of his early life are scanty, but indicate that he was 


born of Christian parents in Italy early in the 5th cen- 
tury. He chose a hermit’s life in early youth, and set- 
tled in the East in pursuance of that purpose, but soon 
returned to the West in order to devote himself to the 
active propagation of Christianity among the heathen, 
establishing himself first in Pannonia, but afterwards in 
Noricum. The latter was an imperial province lying 
between the river Danube and the Alps, and was inter- 
sected with Roman roads on which were located not 
only flourishing native towms, but numerous Roman 
colonies, municipalities, and camps, wdiieh contained a 
Roman population (eomp. Strabo, iv, 20G, and vii, 304, 
313; Tacitus, Ann. ii, G3; id. Hist, i, 11, 70; Pliny, 
xxi, 7, 20; Ptolemy, ii, 1, 12; viii, G, 2, 7 ; 1, 8, 2; 
Zosimus, iv, 35). The population had also adopted the 
Roman language, culture, and customs, and carried on an 
active trade with the Italian cities, particularly Rome 
and Aquileia. Christianity had. consequently, been 
long introduced when Severinus settled in Noricum; 
but it had failed to subdue the prevailing paganism, so 
that in the middle of the 4th century St. Valentine was 
repeatedly expelled from the country because of his at- 
tempts to preach the Gospel. A complete recognition 
was not accorded to Christianity until after Theodosius 
the Great had issued a general edict prohibiting all 
idolatry throughout the empire (in 392 [ Cod . Theod . 
de Paganis, i, 7, 9, 11 sq.]) ; and an additional diffi- 
culty was encountered in the convulsions which grew 
out of the migration of Eastern nations then in prog- 
ress. 

Severinus fixed his residence in the neighborhood of 
Faviana, a town on the Danube near where the modern 
Pochlarn stands, and engaged in the practice of a rigid 
asceticism, lie also founded a monastery and gathered 
a large number of pupils, whom he trained, by precept 
and example, to imitate the virtues of the early Chris- 
tians and to avoid the corrupt manners of the world. 
He never partook of food before sundowm except on 
feast-days, walked constantly with bare feet, and al- 
ways slept on a cilicium spread on the bare floor of his 
chamber. But, not content with fulfilling his vow' in 
the most faithful manner, he also frequently traversed 
the country to preach the Gospel, to comfort the Chris- 
tian communities, who w’ere incessantly ravaged by the 
predatory assaults of barbarous hordes, and to admonish 
them to avert the threatening dangers by prayers and 
good works, and to faithfully pay tithes for the support 
of the poor, lie was also indefatigable in laboring to 
secure the liberation of imprisoned Christians, in heal- 
ing the sick, and in entertaining and aiding helpless 
fugitives. Being endowed with the ability to form a 
correct estimate of existing conditions, he was frequent- 
ly able to point out the places which w r ere exposed to 
attacks from the enemy, and he never failed to give 
timely warning of danger and to suggest proper meas- 
ures of defence. His reputation accordingly increased 
more anti more, so that he w'as barely able to attend to 
all the requests addressed to him for instruction, coun- 
sel, comfort, and aid. Even the famous Odoaeer, leader 
of the Rugians and lleruliaus, did not disdain to seek 
him and ask for his counsel and blessing when about to 
engage in his expedition to Italy in A.I). 47G. 

The zeal displayed by Severinus for the outward wel- 
fare of the people and for the success of Christianity led 
several congregations to make him their bishop; but he 
declined the. office on the ground that he preferred his 
solitude. The later years of his life were disturbed by 
the incursions of the Alemanni and the Rugians. One 
of the latest acts of his life w’as an attempt to persuade 
the Rugiau king Fava, or Feletheus, and his cruel queen, 
Gisa, to refrain from hostilities against the Norieans. 
lie died Jan. 8, 482, and was eventually buried in Italy, 
first at Monte Felt re, and afterwards on a small island 
near Naples, where a costly tomb had been erected for 
him by a noblewoman. Christianity had been firmly 
established in Noricum during his life; the bishopric 
of Lohr, subsequently transferred to Passau, had already 


SEVERINUS 


G04 


SEWALL 


been founded ( Vita S. c. 30), and three others (Teur- 
nia, or Tiburnia, Celleia, now Cillev, and yEmona, now 
Laybach, whose bishops are recorded among the mem- 
bers of a synod held at Grado in 579) were established 
in the course of the next century. 

Literature. — Eugippus, Vita S. Severing in M. Wel- 
seri Opp. Hist, et Phil . (Xoritnb. 1072), p. 031 sq., and in 
Pez, Scriptt. Per. Austr. i, 02 sq. ; the Bollandists* Acta 
SS. ad Jan. 8. See also Mannert, Geogr. cl. Griechcn u. 
Homer , iii, 52S sq. ; Forbiger, Handb. d. alt. Geogr. iii, 
455 sq. ; Muehar, Das rom. Noricum , &tc. (Griitz, 1825, 
2 pts. 8vo); Mascou, Gesch. d. Teutschen , etc., II, ii, 
2, and xiii, 30) ; Stritter, Memories Populorum olim 
ad Danub., etc. (St. Petersburg, 1771-74, 2 vols. 4to); 
Mosheim, De Rebus Christ, etc., p. 21 1 sq. ; Fleury, Hist. 
j E ccles. vi, 839 sq. ; Schrbekh, Christliche Kirchenge- 
schichte , xvi, 20 L sq. ; Rettberg, Kirchengesch. Deutsch - 
lands (Gott. 1840), i, 8, 21, 34. — Herzog, Real-Ency- 
klop. s. v. 

Severinus, pope from 038 to G40, and successor of 
Ilonorius I. The Monothelite troubles led to the post- 
poning of his confirmation by the emperor Heraelius 
until 040, when it was obtained on the pledge of his 
legates that the Roman clergy should subscribe to the 
emperor’s Ecthesis (q. v.). lie was enthroned May 28, 
and died Aug. 1 following. He condemned the Ecthesis , 
and consequently the Monothelite doctrine. — Herzog, 
Real- Encyklop. s. v. 

Severites. See Angelites. 

Severus, founder of the Gnostic sect named after 
him Severians (q. v.). lie came from Sozopolis to Pisid- 
ia, and while a pagan was a lawyer. Receiving bap- 
tism at Tripoli, in Phoenicia, he became a monk and 
united himself with a society of zealous Monophysites. 
Banished, he came to Constantinople to seek protection 
from the emperor. lie told him that the defence of the 
Chalcedonian Council was the cause of all the disturb- 
ances, and sought to introduce a certain addition to the 
old and venerated Church song the Trisagion which 
might serve as the basis of a eoalition between the op- 
posing parties. Later, in the reign of Justin, Severus, 
who had managed to become patriarch of Antioch, saved 
his life by fleeing to Egypt. lie returned to Constan- 
tinople with Antlumus, under the protection of the em- 
press Theodora ; but Justinian, finding that he had been 
imposed upon by the Monophysites, deposed Antliimus, 
and decreed that “the writings of Severus should be 
burned, and none should be permitted either to own or 
transcribe them.” — Neamler, Ch. Hist, ii, 531 sq. 

Severus, Sulimcius, St., was bom about 303, of a 
prominent family, and in manhood shone for a time 
as a forensic orator. He married the daughter of a 
wealthy consul; but she died about 392, and he spent 
the remainder of his life in monastic seclusion with a 
few like-minded persons, in Aquitaine. He was an ad- 
mirer of Martin of Tours, whom he repeatedly visited. 
Gennadius states that he was gained over to Pelagian- 
ism when in his old age, and that he had expressed 
himself in favor of that system ; but that, having dis- 
covered his error, he imposed on himself perpetual si- 
lence as a peuance. He died at Marseilles, whither he 
had retired, soon after A. I). 410. The writings of Se- 
verus are, Vita S. Martini Turonensis , with legendary 
embellishments : — Historia Sacra, or Chronica Sacra, 
containing Jewish and Church history to A.l). 400, in- 
terspersed with marvels, but written in a flowing style: 
— Dialogi Tres, written about A.l). 405, and treating in 
part of the monastic life and virtues, in part of the,. mer- 
its of Martin of ’fours; finally, some letters of no im- 
portance and doubtful authenticity (see Biihr, Christ/, 
rom. Then/, p. 218-222). The works of Severus have 
been separately published in various editions; the best 
complete edition is that of Hieronymus de Prato (Vero- 
na, 1751-54), without the letters. A reprint from this 
ed. with the letters added is given in Gallandi, Bib/. 
Patrum , viii, 355 sq. — Herzog, Real-Eneykloj). s. v. 


Savery (also Severey, Severic, Civery), a bay or 
compartment of a vaulted ceiling. 

Seville, Councils of ( Concilium IJispalense'). I. 
The first Council of Seville was held Nov. 4, 590, com- 
posed of eight bishops, St. Leander, bishop of Seville, 
presiding. It was decided that the donations and alien- 
ations of Church property made by the bishop Gauden- 
tius were uneanonical and void ; nevertheless, it was de- 
creed that the serfs who had been freed by him should 
remain free, although still subject to the Cliureh, and 
should be prohibited from leaving their property to any 
persons except their children, who should remain, in 
perpetuity, subjects of the Church ; also, authority was 
given to the lay judges to separate the clergy from their 
wives or mistresses. See Mansi, Concil. v, 1588. 

II. The second council was held in November, 018, by 
St. Isidore, the archbishop, at the head of seven other 
bishops, against the Aeephalists, who denied the two 
natures in one person. Various regulations, chiefly re- 
lating to the particular circumstances of their Church, 
were also drawn up. All the acts of the council are 
contained in thirteen chapters. 

1. Theodulphns, bishop of Malaga, having complained 
of the eondnet of the bishops of his neighborhood, who, 
during the confusion consequent upon the war, had ap- 
propriated to themselves much of his territory, it was or- 
dered that all should be restored to him. 

4. Forbids the ordination of elerks who had married 
widows, and declares such to be void. 

5. Orders the deposition of a priest and two deacons, 
ordained tinder the following circumstances : The bishop, 
who labored under an affection of the eyes, had merely 
laid his hands upon them, while a priest pronounced the 
benediction. 

7. Relates to the conduct of Agapius, bishop of Cordova, 
who, being little skilled in ecclesiastical discipline, had 
granted permission to certain priests to erect altars and 
consecrate churches in the absence of the bishop. The 
council forbids all such proceedings for the future. 

10 and 11. Confirm the recent establishment of certain 
monasteries in the province of Betiea, and forbid the bish- 
ops, under pain of excommunication, to take possession 
of their property ; also allows monks to take charge ot' 
property appertaining to nunneries, upon condition that 
they dwell in distinct houses, and abstain from all familiar 
intercourse with the mins. 

13 and 14. Assert the doctrine of two natures in onr 
Lord Jesus Christ uuited in one person. 

See Mansi, v, 1GG3. — Landon, J fanual of Councils, s. v. 

Sewafioll, in Norse mythology, was the dwelling- 
place of the beautiful and strong Sigrun. It is believed 
to be Mount Saeva, in West Gothland, Sweden. 

Sewall, Joseph, D.D., a Congregational minister, 
was born at Boston, Aug. 15, 1088 (O. S.). lie gradu- 
ated at Harvard College in 1707, and was ordained Sept. 
10, 1713, colleague pastor of the Old South Cliureh, where 
he spent his life, having declined the presidency of 
Harvard College, which was urged upon him in 1724. 
In 1728 he accepted a fellowship and served until 1705, 
when he resigned, and died June 27, 17G9. He was 
made D.D. by the University of Glasgow in 1731. I)r. 
Sewall’s publications were, The Ho/y Spirit Convincing 
the World of Sin, of Righteousness, and of Judgment : — 
Four Sermons (1741): — and a large number of Occa- 
sional Sermons . See Sprague, A nnals of the A mer . Pul- 
pit, i, 278. 

Sewall, Jotham, a Congregational minister, was 
born at York, Me., Jail. 1, 17G0. Shortly after he at- 
tained his majority he migrated to the Kennebec and 
worked at his trade (mason). In 1783 his mind first 
took a permanent religions direction, and lie found 
peace. lie was licensed to preach May 8, 1798, and or- 
dained as an evangelist June 18, 18t)0. For a short 
time lie had charge of the Church in Cliesterville, where 
he resided; but the greater part of his subsequent life 
was spent in missionary labor, chiefly in Maine. lie 
labored till near the close of bis life, preaching only 
three weeks before his death, which took place Oct. 3, 
1850, lie was a man of fervid, massive strength. See 
Sprague, .1 nnals of the A mer. Pulpit, ii, 430. 


SEWALL 


GO 5 


SETS 


Sewall, Samuel, chief -justice of the supreme 
court of Massachusetts, was born at Bishopstoke, Eng- 
land, IMarch 28, 1052. llis father established himself 
in the United States in 1001, when Samuel was nine 
years old. In his childhood the latter was under the 
instruction of Mr. Parker, of Newbury. lie was grad- 
uated at Harvard College in 1071, and afterwards 
preached for a short time. In 1088 he went to Eng- 
land. He returned to the United States in 1689. In 
1092 he was appointed in the new charter one of the 
council, in which station he continued till 1725. He 
was made one of the judges in 1692, and chief-justice of 
the superior court in 1718. Sharing in the then gen- 
eral belief in witchcraft, he concurred in its condemna- 
tion in 1692; but at a public fast, Jan. 14, 1697, he ac- 
knowledged his wrong. In 1699 he was chosen one of 
the commissioners of the society in England for the 
propagation of the Gospel in New England. lie died 
Jan. 1, 1730. By his wife he received a large fortune, 
thirty thousand pounds, which he employed for the 
glory of God and the advantage of men. Eminent for 
piety, wisdom, and learning, in all the relations of life 
lie exhibited the Christian virtues and secured univer- 
sal respect. For a long course of years he was a mem- 
ber of the Old South Church and one of its greatest or- 
naments. Judge Sewall’s writings are, Answer to Que- 
ries respecting America (1690 ): — Prospects touching the 
A ccomplishment of Prophecies (Boston, 1713, 4to) : — Me- 
morial relating to the Kennebec Indians (1721, 4to) : — 
Phenomena queedam Apocalgptica ad Aspcctum Novi 
Orbis Confgurata (2d ed. 1727, 4to). 

Sewall, Thomas, D.D., a distinguished minister 
of the Methodist Episcopal Church, was born in Essex, 
Mass., April 28, 1818. lie was educated at Wilbraham, 
and graduated from the Wesleyan University, Middle- 
town, Conn., 1837. He united with the Baltimore Con- 
ference in 1838, but in 1841 was returned supernumer- 
ary, and spent a year in Europe and the East, lie en- 
tered upon active work when he returned, but on ac- 
count of ill-health located in 1848. lie was readmit- 
ted in 1849 and given a superannuated relation, which 
he retained until 1853, when he resumed pastoral work. I 
In 1866 he was transferred to New York East Confer- 
ence and stationed in Brooklyn, and was retransferred 
in 1869, taking a supernumerary relation. He died 
Aug. 11, 1870. In 1860 Dr. Sewall was a delegate to 
the General Conference, lie was a man of refined 
tastes and scholarly culture, a born orator, and a suc- 
cessful minister. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 
1871, p. 19. 

Sewell, William (1), the historian of the Qua- 
kers, was the son of Jacob Williamson Sewell, and was 
born at. Amsterdam in 1650. llis grandfather left his 
native country, England, that, as a Brownist, he might 
enjoy more freedom in Holland. William Sewell lost 
both his parents in early life, but, having been in- 
structed by them in the principles of the Quakers, he 
adhered to them during life. He was a student of un- 
wearied application, attaining a knowledge of Greek, 
Latin, English, French, and High Dutch. He is chief- 
ly noted for his History of the People called Quakers, 
written first in Low Dutch, and afterwards by himself 
in English. One principal object with the author was 
a desire to correct what he conceived to be gross mis- 
representations in Gerard Croese’s History of Quaker- 
ism. The work seems to have been first published in 
1722, folio, and reprinted in 1725. 

Sewell, William (2), an English clergyman, was 
born in the Isle of Wight about 1805. The son of a 
solicitor, he was educated at Harrow and Oxford, be- 
came fellow of Exeter College, and incumbent of Caris- 
brooke Castle chapel, Isle of Wight. 1 te was public ex- 
aminer in the university from 1836 to 1841, and in 1852 
was appointed principal of St. Fetor’s College at Kad- 
lev. He was a supporter of the tractarian movement. 
His published works are, I force Philologicce : — Conject- 


ures on the Structure of the Greek Language (1830) : — 
Sacred Thoughts in Verse (1831 ; 2d ed. 1842): — Chris- 
tian Vestiges of Creation (1861) : — besides Sermons, and 
tracts on Christian morals and politics, etc. 

Sewell, William D., a Methodist Episcopal min- 
ister, was born in Chesterville, Me., July 15, 1813. lie 
was converted in 1831, entered the itinerancy on Sid- 
ney Circuit September, 1836, under the presiding elder; 
admitted on trial in 1837, and served two years on Kil- 
marnock and Harmony circuits; was received into full 
connection in 1839, and appointed to Yassalborough Cir- 
cuit, where he pursued his labors with great zeal and 
success until near the time of his death, which occurred 
April 24, 1840. 11c possessed a good and well-cultured 

mind. llis attachment to the doctrines and institu- 
tions of the Church was strong and unwavering. See 
Minutes of Conferences, iii, 145. 

Sexagesima, the Sunday which, in round num- 
bers, is sixty days before Easter. 

Sexes, Separation of, in Churches. The rules 
of the primitive churches required the separation of 
the sexes in the churches, and this was generally ob- 
served. The men occupied the left of t he altar on the 
south side of the church, and the women the right on 
the north. They were separated from each other by a 
veil or lattice. In the Eastern churches the women 
and catechumens occupied the galleries above, while 
the men sat below. In some churches a separate 
apartment was also allotted to widows and virgins. 
See Coleman, Christ. Antiq. s. v. 

Sext, a name given to the noonday service (q. v.) 
of the early Christian Church because it was held at 
the sixth hour. 

Sexton, a corruption of sacristan (q. v.). This 
officer was anciently the attendant and waiter on the 
clergy. llis duties at the present day in the Church 
of England is to keep the church, dig graves, provide 
the necessaries for service — as for baptism and the 
Lord’s supper— under the direction of the church-war- 
dens. The office may he held by a woman, and the 
salary usually depends on the annual vote of the pa- 
rishioners. In Scotland the sexton, whose duties are 
much the same as in England, is usually called the bea- 
dle, from the Saxon byclde, to cry. or to make proclama- 
tion. The appointment to office in the Established 
Church is with the heritors. 

Sextry. See Sacristy. 

Sextus, a term, in the ancient canon law, to signify 
a collection of decretals made by pope Boniface VIII; 
thus called from the title, Liber Sextus, and being an 
addition to the five volumes of decretals collected by 
Gregory IX. The persons reputed to have been com- 
missioned to draw it up were William de Mandegotte, 
archbishop of Ambrun; Berenger, bishop of Beziers; 
and Richard, bishop of Sienna.— Lee, Glossary of Litur- 
gical Terms, s. v. 

Seymour, Truman, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Albany, N. Y., Jan. 25, 
1799, and united with the Church there at the age of 
seventeen. In 1829 he joined the New York Confer- 
ence, and was a member of this, and, later, of the Troy 
Conference, until his death, Nov. 15, 1874. See Min- 
utes of Annual Conferences, 1875, p. 64. 

Seys, John, D.I)., a minister of t lie Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born in Santa Cruz Island, West In- 
dies, March 30, 1799. In 1821 lie joined the Wesleyan 
Church in the island of St. Eustatius. Notwithstand- 
ing much opposition from friends, he continued in this 
Church, and in 1825 was licensed a local preacher, lie 
was ordained in 1829, and, coming to the United States, 
joined the Oneida Conference. In 1833 he was a mis- 
sionary among the Oneida Indians, and in 1834 sailed 
for Liberia as superintendent of the Methodist Episcopal 
Church Missions in West Africa. lie returned in 1841, 


SFORNO 


G06 


SHADDAI 


and in 1842 he was appointed to Wilkesbarre, Pa. The 
following year he went again to Liberia, from which he 
returned in 1845, when he resigned his connection with 
the mission and joined the New York Conference. In 
1S50 he became travelling agent of the Maryland Coloni- 
zation Society, locating at Baltimore, where he remained 
six years. He was then appointed agent for the Coloni- 
zation Society of Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois, and moved 
to Springfield, O. The same year he went to Africa 
and located a settlement, and from this time to 1870 
was associated with Africa and the improvement of the 
colored race. He also acted as United States agent 
for recaptured slaves, and as United States consul and 
minister resident in Liberia. On his return to the 
United States, he became, by request, a member of the 
Cincinnati Conference. lie died Feb. 9, 1872. See 
Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1872, p. 107. 

Sforno, Obadiaii. See Obadiaii ben-Jacob de 
S foi*. no. 

Sliaalab bin (lleb. Shaalabbin ', ; but 

many MSS. Shaalabbim', city of foxes ; Sept. 

2aXo/3iVv. r. SaXajusir; Vulg. Selebiii ), a town in the 
tribe of Dan (Josh, xix, 42, where it is named between 
Ir-shemesh and Ajalon) ; probably the same elsewhere 
(Judg. i, 35; 1 Kings iv, 9) called Siiaalbim (q. v.). 

Shaal'bim (Heb. Shaalbim ', according 

to Ffirst — C* 1 ? 2 Vlj 3TP2, house [i. e. place] of foxes; 
Sept. SaXa/3/V, 'SaXafitiy, v. r. Qaa\a(3eiv, Brj^aXayei, 
and even ai dXw7r«K£(,*) “occurs in an ancient fragment 
of history inserted in Judg. i, enumerating the towns of 
which the original inhabitants of Canaan succeeded in 
keeping possession after the general conquest. Mount 
llercs, Aijalon, and Shaalbim were held against the 
Danites by the Amorites (ver. 35) till, the help of the 
great tribe of Ephraim being called in, they were at 
last compelled to succumb. It is mentioned with Aija- 
lon again in Josh, xix, 42 (Sliaalabbin), and with Beth- 
shemesh both there and in 1 Kings iv, 9, in the last 
passage as making up one of Solomon’s commissariat 
districts. By Eusebius and Jerome it is mentioned in 
the Onomasticon (s. v. ‘ Selab’) as a large village in the 
district of Sebaste (i. e. Samaria), and as then called 
Selaba. But this is not very intelligible, for, except in 
the statement of Josephus (.Int. v, 1, 22) that the allot- 
ment of the Danites extended as far north as Dor (Tan- 
tura), there is nothing to lead to the belief that any of 
their towns were at all near Samaria (see Schwarz, Pa- 
lest. p. 140), while the persistent enumeration of Shaal- 
bim with Aijalon and Bctli-shemesh, the sites of both 
which are known with tolerable certainty as within a 
radius of fifteen miles west of Jerusalem, is strongly 
against it. It is also at variance with another notice 
of Jerome, in his commentary on Ezck. xlviii, 22, where 
he mentions the ‘ towers of Ailon and Selebi and Em- 
maus-Nicopolis,’ in connection with Joppa, as three 
landmarks of the tribe of Dan” (Smith). Shaalbim may 
possibly be identified with the modern village Beit Sira , 
a village a little north of Yalo, on the south side of 
Wady Suleiman ; or. perhaps (so F first), rather with 
Selbit, a ruined village north of the wady (Robinson, 
Researches, 1852, iii, 144, notes). See Siiaalbonite. 

Shaal'bonite (llcb. Shaalboni ', ; Sept. 

SaXa/3wniV;jc, v. r. YaXfqSwj'i', Sw/ui, and even ’Ofni ; 
Vulg. Salabonites, de Salboni), an epithet of Eliahba 
(q. v.), one of David’s thirty-seven chief heroes (2 Sam. 
xxiii, 32; 1 Chron. xi,33); evidently as being a native 
of Shaalbon. a place otherwise unknown, unless identi- 
cal with Shaalbim (q. v.). 

Sha'apli (llcb. id. Cji'lj ; Cesenins division , but 
Ffirst union; Sept. 2ay«0, v. r. Nayaf, £ao0), the 
name of two men. 

1. Last named of six sons of Jahdai, of the tribe of 
Judah (1 Chron. ii, 47). B.C. prob. post 1612. 

2 . Third named of four sons of Maachah, concubine 


of Caleb, of the tribe of Judah; he was the “father” 
(i. e. founder) of Madmannah (I Chron. ii, 49). B.C. 
post IGI2. 

Shaara'im (Heb. Shaara'yim, two gates; 

Sept, in Josh. £ aKopiy , in Sam. al 7roXfi£, in Chron. 
^ieujpeip [v. r. Xapiju] ; Vulg. Saraim , Saarim), a town 
in the “valley” or maritime plain of Judah (Josh, xv, 
3G, A.V. “Sharaim,” -where it is named between Aze- 
kah and Adithaim). Its occurrence among the cities of 
Simeon (1 Chron. iv, 31) is probably a clerical error for 
Sharuhen (Josh, xix, G). “ It is mentioned again in 

the account of the rout which followed the fall of Goli- 
ath, where the wounded fell down on the road to Sha- 
araim and as far as Gath and Ekron (I Sam. xvii, 52). 
These two notices are consistent with each other. Go- 
liath probably fell in the Wady es-Sumt, on opposite 
sides of which stand the representatives of Socoh and 
Jarmuth ; Gath was at or near Tell es-Safieh. a few 
miles west of Socoh at the mouth of the same wady; 
while Ekron (if ’Akir be Ekron) lies farther north. 
Shaaraim is probably therefore to be looked for some- 
where west of Shuweikeh, on the lower slopes of the 
hills, where they subside into the great plain” (Smith). 
“The valley of Elah runs down among the hills for 
some distance, and then forks below Tell-Zakariah ; one 
branch, or rather side valley, running to Gath (Tell cs- 
Safieh), and the other to the plain of Ekron. Perhaps 
the town of Shaaraim may have been situated at the 
fork, and may have taken its name from the ‘two pass- 
es’ (see Porter, Iland-book for Sin. and Pal. p. 2G4)” 
(Kitto). It is probably identical with the Ir-Tarain 
of the Talmud ( Tosephtah , Ahaloth, s. f.), for the Chal- 
dee tarain has the same meaning, gates (Schwarz, Pa- 
lest. p. 102). From the associated localities it must be 
sought in the vicinity of the modern Shuhmeh , a vil- 
lage with traces of ruins about two and a half miles 
south of Ekron (Van de Velde, Memoir , p. 114). Lieut. 
Cornier at first proposed Tell Zakariah as a suitable 
position for Shaaraim ( Quar . Statement of “the Pal. 
Explor. Fund ,” 1875, p. 194), but M. Ganneau suggests 
the ruin Sa y ireh (ibid. p. 182), mentioned in Dr. Kobin- 
son’s list (Append, to vol. iii, 1st ed. of Researches ) be- 
tween Shuweikeh and Beit-Netif, in which Lieut. Con- 
der seems finally to coincide (Tent U'or& in Pal. ii, 339). 

Shaash'gaz (Heb. Shaashgaz', IfCVVJ, Persian, 
servant of the beautiful; Sept. Tot), the appropriate 
name of a Persian eunuch, the keeper of the concubines 
in the court of Xerxes (Esth. ii, 14). B.C. cir. 525. 
See II EGA l. 

Shabbath. See Sabbath; Talmud. 

Shab'betha'i [many Skabbeth'ui, some Shabbeth- 
a'T] (llcb. Shabbethai ' , "'PST*?, Sabbatical, i. e. born on 
the Sabbath; Sept. Sa/5/3rt3-ai v. r. Sa/3aS«i and 
K«/3/3o$at ; in Neh. viii, 7 Z«/3/3aSrnoc), one of the 
chief Levites, who was active in the reformations and 
restoration under Ezra and Nehemiah (Ezra x, 15; 
Neh. viii, 7 ; xi, 16). B.C. cir. 450. 

Shablul. See Snail. 

Shachal. See Lion. 

Sliachaph. See Cuckoo. 

Shachi'a [many Schach'ia ] (Heb. Shokyah ', 
[so the margin], accusation [Gesenius] or an- 
nouncement [Ffirst]; but the text has Shobyah •V'212, 
captivity ; Sept. 2(j3i(i v. r. S«/3td and Z aj3ia ; Vulg. 
Sechia ), the sixth named of the seven sons of Shaha- 
raim (q. w), of the tribe of Benjamin, by his wife Ho- 
desh (1 Chron. viii, 10). B.C. post 1612. 

Shadanana, in Hindu mythology, is a surname of 
the god Kartikeya, signifying “the head with six 
faces.” 

Sliad'dai (Heb. Shadday', “>TO> pause an 

ancient name of God, rendered “Almighty” everywhere 
in the A.V. In all passages of Genesis except one (xlix, 


SIIADDAI 


007 


SHADOW 


25), in Exod. vi, 3, and in Ezek. x, 5, it is found in con- 
nection with B, “God,” El Shaddai being there ren- 
dered “ God Almighty,” or “ the Almighty God.” It oc- 
curs six times in Genesis (xvii, 1 ; xxviii, 3 ; xxxv, 1 1 ; 
xliii, 14; xlviii, 3; xlix, 25), once in Exodus (vi, 3), 
twice in Numbers (xxiv, 4, 1C), twice in Iiuth (i, 20, 21), 
thirty-one times in Job, twice in the Psalms (Ixviii, 14 
[15] ; xci. 1), once in Isaiah (xiii, G), twice in Ezekiel 
(i, 24; x, 5), and once in Joel (i, 15). In Genesis and 
Exodus it is found in what are called the Elohistic por- 
tions of those books, in Numbers in the Jehovistic por- 
tion, and throughout Job the name Shaddai stands in 
parallelism with Elohim, and never with Jehovah. By 
the name or in the character of El Shaddai, God was 
known to the patriarchs — to Abraham (Gen. xvii, 1), to 
Isaac (xxviii, 3), and to Jacob (xliii, 14 ; xlviii, 3 ; xlix, 
25) — before the name Jehovah, in its full significance, 
was revealed (Exod. vi, 3). By this title he was known 
to the Midianite Balaam (Numb, xxiv, 4, 1C), as God 
the Giver of Visions, the Most High (comp. Psa. xci, I); 
and the identity of Jehovah and Shaddai, who dealt 
bitterly with her, was recognised by Naomi in her sor- 
row (Puth i, 20, 21). Shaddai, the Almighty, is the 
God who chastens men (Job v, 17; vi, 4; xxiii, 1C; 
xxvii, 2); the just God (viii, 3; xxxiv, 10), who hears 
prayer (viii, 5; xxii, 2G; xxvii, 10) ; the God of power 
who cannot be resisted (xv, 25), who punishes the wick- 
ed (xxi, 20; xxvii, 13), and rewards and protects those 
who trust in him (xxii, 23, 25; xxix, 5); the God of 
providence (xxii, 17, 23; xxvii, 11) and of foreknowl- 
edge (xxiv, 1), who gives to men understanding (xxxii, 
8) and life (xxxiii,4) : “excellent in power, and in judg- 
ment, and in plenty of justice,” whom none can perfect- 
ly know (xi, 7 ; xxxvii, 23). The prevalent idea at- 
taching to the name in all these passages is that of 
strength and power, and our translators have probably 
given to “Shaddai” its true meaning when they ren- 
dered it “Almighty.” 

In the Targum throughout, the Hebrew word is re- 
tained, as in the Pcshito-Syriac of Genesis and Exodus, 
and of Iiuth i, 20. The Sept, gives i/cnj'ot;, iVyupoc, 
0€oc, Kirptoc, TTavTOKpciTiop, Ki'pio^ TraiTOXjodrwjO, 6 tcl 
ttcivtci 7 TOU](iaq (Job viii, 3), tTrorpaviog (Psa. Ixviii, 14 
[ 15]), o 9*oc "on ovpavoii (Psa. xci, 1), aacCai (Ezek. 
x, 5), and TaXunriopia (Joel i, 15). In Job xxix, 5 we 
find the strange rendering v\ ibdpc. In Genesis and 
Exodus “ El Shaddai” is translated u Otng pov, or (ron, 
or civtCjv, as the case may be. The Vulgate has o»i- 
nipotens in all cases except Dominus (Job v, 17 ; vi, 4, 
14; Isa. xiii, G), Deus (Job xxii, 3 p xi, 2), Deus call 
(Psa. xci, 1), sublimis Deus (Ezek. i, 24), calestis (Psa. 
Ixviii, 14 [15]),/)ote«.s (Joel i, 15), and digne (Job xxxvii, 
23). The Veneto-Greek has Kparainc. The Peshito- 
Svriac, in many passages, renders “Shaddai” simply 
“ God,” in others chasino, “ strong, powerful” (Job v, 17; 
vi, 4; etc.), and once 'eloyo, “ Most High” (ver. 14). The 
Samaritan version of Gen. xvii, 1 has for “El Shaddai” 
“powerful, sufficient,” though in the other passages of 
Genesis and Exodus it simply retains the Hebrew word ; 
while in Numb, xxiv, 4, 1C, the translator must have 
read FJTJ, sddeh, “ a field,” for he renders “ the vision 
of Shaddai” “ the vision of the field,” i.c. the vision seen 
in the open plain. Abcn-Ezra and Kiinchi render it 
“ powerful.” 

The derivations assigned to Shaddai are various. We 
may mention, only to reject, the Rabbinical etymology 
which connects it with *H, dai, “sufficiency,” given by 
Rashi (on Gen. xvii , 1), “ I am he in whose Godhead 
there is sufficiency for the whole creation;” and in the 
Talmud (Chagiga, fob 12, col. 1), “I am he who said to 
the world, Enough !” According to this, = “ l 'n 
“ He who is sufficient,” “ the all-sufficient One;” and so 
“He who is sufficient in himself,” and therefore sclf-cx- 
istent. This is the origin of the i kcivoq of the Sept., 
Thcodoret, and Hcsychius, and of the Arabic alkafi of 


Saadias, which has the same meaning. Gescnius (Gram. 
§ 8G, and Jesaia xiii , C) regards “'TJ, shaddai , as the 
plural of majesty, from a singular noun, Tj, shad, root 
TTj, shaddd, of which the primary notion seems to be 
“to be strong” (Fiirst, Ilandicb.'). It is evident that 
this derivation was present to the mind of the prophet 
from the play of words in Isa. xiii, G. Ewahl ( Lehrb . 
§ 155 c, 5th ed.) takes it from a root !YTl5 = Yvj, and 
compares it with *^n, davvai, from PP.-J, davdh , the older 
termination* 1 ” being retained. He also refers to the prop- 
er names 1 w^ ! Yishai (Jesse), and *'■13, Bavvai (Nch. iii, 
18). Rudiger (Gesen. Thesaur. s. v.) disputes Ewald’s 
explanation, and proposes, as one less open to objection, 
that Shaddai originally signified “my powerful ones,” 
and afterwards became the name of God Almighty, like 
the analogous form Adonai. In favor of this is the fact 
that it is never found with the definite article, but such 
would be equally the case if Shaddai were regarded as a 
proper name. On the whole there seems no reasonable 
objection to the view taken by Gesenius, which Lee also 
adopts (Gram. § 139, G). 

Shaddai is found as an element in the proper names 
Ammishaddai, Zurishaddai, and possibly also in Shedeur 
there may be a trace of it. — Smith. 

Shade, Jacob B., a minister of the German Re- 
formed Church, was born in Montgomery County, Pa., 
April 25, 1817. He began his studies in Marshall Col- 
lege, Mercersburg, Pa., in May, 1839; and finished his 
theological studies in the seminary located in the same 
place. Full of zeal, he preached, while in the seminary, 
in* destitute places among the mountains west of Mer- 
cersburg, and was the means of organizing several con- 
gregations. He was licensed and ordained in May, 1843, 
and continued his labors lor a short time in the moun- 
tains where he had preached before. At the close of 
the same year he became colporteur in Berks County, 
Pa., for the American Tract Society, spending one year 
in that field. In 1844-45 lie spent a year in the same 
work in Alabama. On his return his health had entire- 
ly failed, and he died Jan. G, 184G. With ordinary nat- 
ural abilities, he was possessed of extraordinary zeal and 
devotion to the work of Christ. He preached in Ger- 
man and English. 

Shadford, George, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born at Scotter, in Lindsley, Lin- 
colnshire, England, Jan. 19, 1739. At the age of six- 
teen he received his first communion in the Establish- 
ed Church, and for a time was very serious and punctual 
in the discharge of religious duties; but he fell back 
into sin. lie enlisted in the militia while still a youth, 
and became quite desperate in wickedness. He was 
hopefully converted May 5, 1762, and within two weeks 
became a member of the Methodist Society. In 17G8 
he united with the Conference, and was appointed to 
labor in the west of Cornwall. He was sent in the 
spring of 1773 to America; and labored for a month in 
New Jersey, four months in New York city, and four or 
five months in Philadelphia. He was stationed in 177G 
in Virginia, and in 1777 at Baltimore. Not being will- 
ing to take the test-oath during the Revolutionary war, 
he returned in 1778 to Great Britain. There lie re- 
sumed his labors, and continued them with unabated 
diligence and fidelity till disease and infirmity obliged 
him to retire. He died March 1 1, 1816. Mr. Shadford 
had a Christian character that was decidedly marked, 
lie was a man of prayer, of Christian temper, and god- 
ly conversation. As a preacher he was not above me- 
diocrity, and yet his labors were very successful. See 
Simpson, Cyclop, of Methodism , s. v. ; Sprague, Annals 
of the A mer. Pulpit, vii, 34. 

Shadow (b'AJsB, or tselel; aula, either sim- 
ply or in composition), the privation of light by an ob- 
ject interposing between a luminary and the surface on 
which the shadow appears. The light of the sun may 


SHADRACII 


608 


SHAFT 


be obscured; but “with the Father of light there is no 
parallax nor tropical shadow;” no interposing bodies 
can change his purposes or for a moment intercept and 
turn aside his truth, because he is equally present every- 
where (James i, 17). A shadow falling on a plate fol- 
lows the course of the body which causes it; and, as it 
is often extremely rapid, the fleetness of human life is 
often compared to it (1 Chron. xxix, 15; Job xiv, 2). 
Shadow is also used in the sense of darkness, gloom, 
“ the shadow of death” — i. e. death-shade, a season of se- 
vere trial, heavy sorrow (Psa. xxiii), or depicting a state 
of ignorance and wretchedness (Matt. iv. 1 G ; Luke i, 79). 
Hackett (Jllust. of Script, p. 46 sq.) thinks that David’s 
image of the valley of death’s shadow may have been 
suggested by such wild, dreary ravines as the Wady Alv. 
Shadow is also used for covering and protection from the 
heat for repose, where the word shade would be prefer- 
able. The Messiah “ is as the shade of a great rock in 
a weary land” (Isa. xxxii, 2; xlix, 2; Sol. Song ii, 3; 
Psa. xvii, 8; Ixiii, 7 ; xci, 1) (comp. Hackett, lllust. of 
Script, p. 50 sq.). Shadow is used to indicate that the 
Jewish economy was an adumbration, or a shadowing- 
forth, of the things future and more perfect in the Chris- 
tian dispensation (Ileb. viii, 5; x, 1 ; Col. ii, 17). On 
the curative power of Peter’s shadow (Acts v, 15), see 
Engelschall, De Umbra retri (Lips. 1725); Ivrakewitz, 
id. (Rost. 1704). 

Slia'drach (Hcb. Shadrak', q’l'T-; Sept. 'Ztdpcac 
v. r. Necpdx; Vnlg. Sidrach), the Chaldee name of 
Ilananiab, the chief of the “three children” who were 
Daniel’s companions (Dan. i, 7, etc.). His song, as given 
in the Apocryphal Daniel, forms part of the service gf 
the Church of England, under the name of “Benedicite 
omnia opera.” A long prayer in the furnace is also 
ascribed to him in the Sept, and Vulgate; but this is 
thought to be bv a different hand from that which add- 
ed the song. The history of Shadrach, or Hananiah, is 
briefly this. He was taken captive with Daniel, Mish- 
ael, and Azariah at the first invasion of Judah by Nebu- 
chadnezzar, in the fourth, or, as Daniel (i, 1) reckons, in 
the third, year of Jehoiakim, at the time when the Jew- 
ish king himself was bound in fetters to be carried off 
to Babylon. B.C. GOG. Being, with his three compan- 
ions, apparently of royal birth (ver. 3), of superior un- 
derstanding, and of goodly person, he was selected, with 
them, for the king’s immediate service; and was for 
this end instructed in the language and in all the learn- 
ing and wisdom of the Chahkeans as taught in the col- 
lege oT the magicians. Like Daniel, he avoided the 
pollution of the meat and wine which formed their daily 
provision at the king’s cost, and obtained permission to 
live on pulse and water. When the time of his proba- 
tion was over, he and his three companions, being found 
superior to all the other magicians, were advanced to 
stand before the king. When the decree for the slaugh- 
ter of all the magicians went forth from Nebuchadnez- 
zar, we find Shadrach uniting with his companions in 
prayer to God to reveal the dream to Daniel; and when, 
in answer to that prayer, Daniel had successfully inter- 
preted the dream and been made ruler of the province 
of Babylon and head of the college of magicians, Sha- 
drach was promoted to a high civil office. But the pen- 
alty of Oriental greatness, especially when combined with 
honesty and uprightness, soon had to be paid by him, 
on the accusation of certain envious Chaldeans. For 
refusing to worship the golden image he was cast with 
Mcshach and Abed-nego into the burning furnace. But 
his faith stood firm; and his victory was complete when 
he came out of the furnace with his two companions un- 
hurt, heard the king’s testimony to the glory of God, 
and was “promoted in the province of Babylon.” We 
hear no more of Shadrach, Mcshach, and Abed-nego in 
the Old Test, after this; neither are they spoken of in 
the New Test. except in the pointed allusion to them in 
the Epistle to the Hebrews, as having “through faith 
quenched the violence of fire” (Ileb. xi, 33, 34). But 


there are repeated allusions to them in the later Apocry- 
phal books, and the martyrs of the Maecabrean period 
seem to have been much encouraged by their example. 
See 1 Macc. ii, 59, GO ; 3 Macc. vi, G ; 4 Macc. xiii, 9 ; xvi, 
3, 21 ; xviii, 12. Ewald ( Gescliichte , iv, 557) observes, 
indeed, that next to the Pentateuch no book is so often 
referred to in these times, in proportion, as the book of 
Daniel. The apocryphal additions to Daniel contain, 
as usual, many supplementary particulars about the fur- 
nace, the angel, and Nebuchadnezzar, besides the intro- 
duction of the prayer of Shadrach and the hymn. The- 
odore Parker observes with truth, in opposition to Ber- 
tholdt, that these additions of the Alexandrine prove 
that the Hebrew was the original text, because they are 
obviously inserted to introduce a better connection into 
the narrative (Josephus, Ant. x, 10; Prideaux, Connect . 
i, 59, GO; Parker’s De Wctte’s/a/m/. ii, 483-510; Grimm, 
on 1 Macc. ii, GO; Ilitzig [who takes a thoroughly scep- 
tical view], on Dan. Hi; Ewald, iv, 10G, 107, 557-559; 
Keil, Einleit. Daniel). — Smith. See Daxiel. 

As to the etymology, “ this name is identified by some 
with Iladrach, “pin (Zech.ix, 1), the name of a Syri- 
an god who represents the seasons (“in = “l?n, ‘ to turn,’ 
‘wind’). The interchange of n with sibilants is not 
without parallel. Others profess to trace the name to 
a Babylonian source, and connect it with the Assyrian 
Sadhiru or Sadhru, ‘the great scribe’ (IZPJ), with 
the non-Assyrian guttural termination, or with sed 
(comp. Sept. Sed-), the Assyrian equivalents of mas 
(comp. Meshecb, and the analogy suggested by iT^SSn), 
followed by the insertion of the r (frequent in Assyrian) 
before the guttural” ( Speaker's Commentary) . Accord- 
ing to Bohlen, the name is Persian, and signifies rejoic- 
ing in the tcay ; according to Benfev, it is Zend, meaning 
f'oyal. 

Shady-trees, in Job xl, 21, 22, is the rendering of 
the Hebrew tse'elim, DpXjS (Sept, and Vulg. render at 
random ), which perhaps means properly the />ncA7y 
lotus-bushes. See Tree. 

Shaffer, Hiram M., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Carroll County, O., in 
1804, and graduated as a physician when but eighteen 
years of age. He afterwards studied law, and was ad- 
mitted to the bar at Sidney. He joined the Church in 
1831, was licensed to preach in 1832, and entered the 
Ohio Conference the same year. In this and the Cen- 
tral Ohio Conference he passed his ministerial life. He 
was several times elected delegate to the General Con- 
ference. lie died near Rich wood, O., Dee. 29, 187 i, 
lie published a work on Infant Baptism (N. Y. 185G, 
12mo). See Minutes of A nnual Conferences, 1872. p. 92. 

Shaft appears in a few passages of the A.V. in two 
senses as the rendering of (a) yn, chefs (Isa. xlix, 2), 
an arrow (as often elsewhere); ( b ) 11^, yarek, proper- 
ly a thigh (as often) ; hence the shank of the golden 
candelabrum in the Tabernacle, where the stem (»" ! 2£) 
separated into the three feet (Exod. xxv, 31; xxxvii; 
17 ; Numb, viii, 4). See Candlestick. 

SHAFT, the body of a column or pillar; the part be- 
tween the capital and base. In Middle-Age architect- 
ure the term is particularly applied to the small columns 
which are clustered round pillars, or used in the jambs 
of doors and windows, in arcades, and various other sit- 
uations. They are sometimes cut on the same stones as 
the main body of the work to which they are attached, 
and sometimes of separate pieces. In the latter case 
they are very commonly of a different material from 
the rest of the work, and are not unfrequcntly polished : 
this mode of construction appears to have been first in- 
troduced towards the end of the Norman style. In Early 
Norman work they arc circular, but later in the style 
they are occasionally octagonal, and are sometimes or- 
namented with zigzags, spiral mouldings, etc. In the 


SHAFTESBURY 


GOO 


SHAKERS 


Earlv English style they are al- 
most always circular, generally 
in separate stones from, the oth- 
er work to which they are at- 
tached, and very often banded ; 
in some instances they have a 
narrow fillet running up them. 

In the Decorated style they are 
commonly not set separate, and 
are frequently so small as to be 
no more than vertical mouldings 
with capitals and bases ; they are 
usually round and filleted, but 
are sometimes of other forms. In 
the Perpendicular style they are 
cut on the same stones with the 
rest of the work. They are most 
generally round, and are some- 
times filleted; in some cases they 
are polygonal, with each side 
slightly hollowed. The part of 
a chimney-stack between the 
base and cornice is called the 
shaft. — Parker, Gloss, of Archi- 
tect. s. v. 

Shaftesbury, Anthony 
Asiiley Cooper, the third earl 
of was born in London, Feb. 26. 

1671. lie was educated under 
the supervision of Locke, entered Salisbury Cathedral, 
Parliament in 1693, from which cir * 1 “ 50 * 

he withdrew on account of delieate health, and took up 
his residence in Holland in 1698 or 1699. He entered 
the House of Lords in 1700, supporting the meas- 
ures of William III, and retiring upon the king’s death, 
lie was noted as a philanthropist, was stigmatized as a 
freethinker, and wrote a Letter on Enthusiasm (1708) in 
defence of the rights of the French Prophets: — The 
Moralist (1709), a philosophical rhapsody: — Sensns 
Communis (1710) : — A Soliloquy , or A clvice to an A uthor 
(1710). He died at Naples, Feb. 15, 1713. llis principal 
work, Characteristics of Men , Matters, Opinions , and 
Times , was posthumously published (1713-23, 3 vols.). 

Sha'ge (Ileb. Shage', SO'j, erring; Sept. Say t) v. r. 
SoA«), a “ Hararite,” appears as the fat her of Jonathan, 
one of David’s captains (1 Chron. xi, 34). P.C. cir. 
1050. In the parallel list of 2 Sam. xxiii, 33, he is 
called Sham mah (q. v.), unless, as seems probable, there 
is a confusion between Jonathan the son of “Shage the 
Hararite,” Jonathan the son of Shammah, David’s broth- 
er, and “Shammah the son of Agee the Hararite.” 

Shahar. See Aijeleth-siiaiiar. 

Shahara'im (Heb. Shachara'yim, double 

damn, i. e. the morning and evening twilight; Sept. 
JZaapigi v. r. Eaapiv and Sa«p//\; Vulg. Saharaim ), a 
person named among the descendants of Benjamin as the 
father of several children in the land of Moab by two 
wives (l Chron. viii, 8). B.C. ante 1612, Considerable 
confusion appears to have crept into the text where this 
name occurs (ver. 3-1 1), which may perhaps be removed 
by transposition of the middle clause of ver. 8 and the 
whole of ver. 6 after ver. 7, and rendering as follows: 
“And there were sons (born) to Bela, Addar, and Cera, 
and Abihtid, and Abishua, and Naaman, and Achoach [or 
Aehiah], and Gera [repeated bv error], and Shephuphan 
[spuriously inserted], and Huram [spuriously inserted 
likewise from the sons of Beeher]; and (their father) 
himself banished Naaman. and Aehiah [or Achoach], and 
Gera; and after his dismissal of them, he begot Uzza and 
Achichud. And these arc the descendants of Echini 
[i. e. Aehiah, otherwise Aeharah], chiefs of the progeni- 
tors of the inhabitants of Geba (afterwards) exiled to 
Manaehat.h : Shacharayim begot (children) in the land 
of Moab of his two wives Hushim and Baara [or Cho- 
desh] — namelv, of the latter. Yobah, and Tsibva, and 
IX. — Q q 


Mevsba, and Malkam, and Yeuts, and Shobva [v. r. 
Shokyah], and Mirmah, chieftains of their lineage; and 
of the other, Abitub and Elpaal.” See Jacoh. 

Shahaz'imah [ some Shah azi' mah ] ( ileb. Sha- 
chatsi'mah, [so the marg., but the text has 

S h achat zu' mu h, n^UTTT], towaids the heights [for the 
word is plur. with the n local added]; Sept. ZaXTtp, 
Kara SdXaacrav [taking the last syllable for to 

the se«], v. r. X«<rqu«; Vulg. Seesima), a place in the 
tribe of Issachar, between Mount Tabor and the Jordan 
(Josh, xix, 22). A trace of the name may yet remain 
in the village of Sirin, north of Wadv Sherar, near 
where it joins Wady Bireh, south-east of Tabor. 

Shaked. See Almond. 

Shakers, the popular name of an American com- 
munistic sect who call themselves “The United Soeie- 
ty of Believers in Christ’s Second Appearing.” 

I. History . — The Shakers arose as a distinct body in 
the first half of the 18th century, but are accustomed 
to trace their origin back to the Camisards (q. v.), or 
French Prophets. Three of their number went to Eng- 
land about 1705 and propagated the prophetic spirit so 
rapidly that in the course of the year there were two 
hundred or three hundred of these prophets in and about 
London. The great subject of prediction was the near 
approach of God’s kingdom and the millennial state. 
In 1747 James Wardlev, originally a Quaker, headed a 
party who had no established creed or particular mode 
of worship and professed to be governed as the spirit 
of God should dictate. In 1757 Ann Lee (Mrs. Stand- 
ley) adopted Wardlev’s views, joined the society, and 
became its head, the society adopting its distinguish- 
ing name of Shakers. “ The work,” they said, “ which 
God promised to accomplish in the latter day was emi- 
nently marked out by the prophets to be a work of 
shaking.” From this time till 1770 Ann Lee professed 
to have received by special manifestation of divine 
light those revelations in virtue of which her followers 
have ever since called her Mother Lee, and have re- 
garded her as the equal of Jesus Christ, head of all 
women, as he was head of all men. She lived apart 
from her husband from that time, and he took another 
wife. See Lee, Ann. 

In 1774, obeying what she believed to be a divine 
command, Ann Lee sailed from Liverpool and came to 
the United States. Their first settlement was in the 
town of Watervliet, N. Y., seven miles from Albany, 
where they remained in retirement till the spring of 
1780. In 1779 a religions revival took place, chiefly 
among the Baptists, at New Lebanon, Columbia Co., 
N. Y., accompanied by remarkable physical manifesta- 
tions, and in the spring of 1780 some of those most af- 
fected visited mother Lee, and there, as they believed, 
found a key to their experiences. Mother Lee travel- 
led from place to place preaching and advising; in Mas- 
sachusetts she appears to have remained two years, 
and, it is asserted, performed miracles in several places. 
Mother Lee died in 1784, having already broached the 
idea of community of property, and having formed her 
little family into a model for Shaker organizations. 
Mother Ann was succeeded in her rule over the society 
by elder James Whittaker, who had come from England 
with her. He was called Father James, and under his 
ministry was erected (1785) “the first house for public 
worship ever built by the society.” lie died in July, 
1787. In the same year Joseph Meachern, formerly a 
Baptist preacher and a convert of mother Lee, collected 
her followers in a settlement in New Lebanon, which 
still remains as a common centre of union. In the 
course of five years, under the administration of Mea- 
chem, eleven Shaker settlements were founded — viz. at 
New Lebanon and Watervliet, N. Y. ; at Hancock, Ty- 
ringham, Harvard, and Shirley, Mass.; at Enfield, 
Conn.; at Canterbury and Enfield, N. II.; and at Al- 
fred and New Gloucester, Me. There were no other 



SHAKERS 


610 


SHAKERS 


societies formed till 1805, when three missionaries from 
New Lebanon established the following: Union Village, 
Watervliet, White Water, and North Union in Ohio; 
and Pleasant Hill and South Union in Kentucky. They 
number from six thousand to eight thousand souls. 

II. Theological Doctrines. — The Shakers hold: 1. 
That God has given to man four revelations. “They 
believe that the Jirst light of salvation was given or 
made known to the patriarchs bv promise; and that 
these believed in the promise of Christ, and were obedi- 
ent to the command of God made known unto them 
as the people of God; and were accepted by him as 
righteous or perfect in their generation, according to 
the measure of light and truth manifested unto them; 
which were as waters to the ankles , signified by Eze- 
kiel’s vision of the holy waters (ch. xlvii). The second \ 
light of dispensation was the law that was given of 
God to Israel by the hand of Moses, which was a fur- 
ther manifestation of that salvation, as water to the 
knees (ver.4). The third light of dispensation was the 
gospel of Christ’s first appearance in the flesh, which 
was as water to the loins (ver. 4). The J'ovrth light of 
dispensation is the second appearance of Christ, or final 
and last display of God’s grace to a lost world, in which 
the mystery of God will be finished and a decisive work 
accomplished, to the final salvation or damnation of all 
the children of men; which, according to the prophe- 
cies. rightly calculated and truly understood, began in | 
the year of our Saviour 1747.” In the first revelation 
God was only known as a Great Spirit. In the second, 
or Jewish, period he was revealed as the Jehovah, he, 
she, or a dual being, male and female. In the third 
cycle God was made known as the Father; and in the 
last cycle, commencing with 1770, God is revealed as 
an Eternal Mother, the bearing spirit of the creation 
of God. Christ they also believe to be dual, male and 
female, a supermundane being, making in his first ap- 
pearance a revelation to Jesus, a divinely instructed and 
perfect man, and who by virtue of his anointing be- 
came Jesus Christ. 

2. The new revelation teaches the doctrines of the 
soul’s immortality and its resurrection, which they be- 
lieve to be the quickening of the germ of a new and 
spiritual life, denying a bodily resurrection. Those who 
marry and indulge in the earthly procreative relation 
they term “the children of this world.” They do not 
condemn them, but believe themselves called to lead 


spiritual and holy lives, free from lust and carnal indul- 
gence, and therefore refrain from marriage. Thus, like 
the Egyptian hermits in the 3d century, they place 
holiness in a life of celibacy. They hold that Christ 
revealed to Jesus the doctrines of non-resistance and 
non-participation in any earthly government. 

3. The second appearing of Christ the Shakers be- 
lieve to have taken place through mother Ann Lee in 
1770, who, by strictly obeying the light in her, became 
righteous even as Jesus was righteous. The necessity 
for this appearing of Christ in the female form resulted 
from the dual nature of Christ and of deity. This sec- 
ond appearing of Christ is the true resurrection state, 
and a physical resurrection is to be repudiated as re- 
pugnant to science, reason, and Scripture. 

4. The Shakers assign to each revelation or cycle its 
heavens and hells. The first revelation was to the an- 
tediluvians, and its heaven and hell were for the good 
and bad among them ; the wicked of that cycle being 
“the spirits in prison” (I Pet. iii, 19). To the second 
hell, Gehenna, they consign the Jews and heathen who 
died before the coming of Jesus; the second heaven be- 
ing Paradise, which was promised to the thief on the 
cross. The third dispensation is that of the Church of 
the first appearing of Christ, and to its heaven Paul 
was caught up. The fourth heaven is now forming; 
in it Jesus and mother Ann reside, and to it all will go 
who have resisted temptation until all their evil pro- 
pensities and lusts are destroyed. It is the heaven of 
heavens, and to it will be gathered all who accept the 
doctrines of the Shakers here, and all in the lower hells 
and heavens who shall yet accept them. 

5. They hold to oral confession of sin as necessary 
to receive power to overcome it. They also believe in 
the power of some of their members to heal diseases 
by prayer and dietetics. They believe themselves to 
be under the immediate guidance of the Iloly Spirit, 
and maintain that it is unlawful to take oaths, to use 
compliments, or to play at games of chance. 

6. The Shakers are spiritualists in a practical sense. 
They hold Swedenborg to be the angel of spiritualism 
mentioned in Rev. xviii, and regard the spiritualistic 
movement as a preparation of the people to receive 
their doctrines. For a study of their peculiar views we 
refer the reader to A Selection of Ilymns. etc. (Water- 
vliet, 0., 1833); Millennial Hymns (Canterbury, N. H. 
1847) ; Fifteen Years in the Senior Order of Shakers 



Shaker Worship— the Dance. 





SHAKERS 


611 


SIIALEM 



Shaker Costumes. 


A Holy , Sacred, and Divine Roll and Boole , etc. (1843) ; 
The Divine Book of Holy and Eternal Wisdom (Canter- 
bury, N. H., 1849). 

III. Worship. — In their mode of worship they are 
remarkable for their habit of dancing to express the 
joy they have in the Lord. They enter their house 
of worship and kneel in silent prayer, then rise and 
form in regnlar columns, the men on one side and the 
women on the other. Several men and women then 
commence a tune, while every other person dances, 
keeping time admirably for at least half an hour. The 
hymns or “spiritual songs” which they sing are be- 
lieved by the Shakers to be brought to them, almost 
without exception, from the “spirit-land;” also the airs 
to which these songs are sung. When dancing is over, 
the seats are placed and an exhortation begins, then, 
rising, they sing a hymn, another exhortation follows, 
and the meeting concludes. They neither practice 
baptism nor observe the Lord’s supper, holding that 
these ceased with the apostolic age. They hold gen- 
eral fasts, and have no order of persons regularly edu- 
cated for the ministry. 

IV. Temporalities. — The Shakers have a ministry 
composed of two brethren ami two sisters, who have 
the oversight of from one to four societies; also each 
family in every society has four elders, two brethren 
and two sisters, who have charge of the family. There 
are three classes of members: (1.) Novitiates: those who 
accept the doctrines of the society, but do not enter into 
temporal connection with it, remaining with their own 
families and controlling their own property. (2.) Jun- 
iors : those who beeome members of the community 
and unite in labor and worship, but who have not sur- 
rendered their property to the society, or, if so, only 
conditionally, and with the privilege of receiving it 
back, though without interest. (3.) Seniors, those 
who, after a satisfactory probation, enter into a contract 
to consecrate themselves, their services, and their prop- 
erty to the society, never to be reclaimed by them or 
their legal heirs. Before joining the society the candi- 
date must pay all debts, discharge all bonds and trusts, 
renounce all contracts, and, in short, separate honorably 
from the world. The Shakers are republican in their 
ideas of government, never vote nor accept office from 
the government. They are orderly, temperate, and fru- 
gal, cultivating the soil with great success, and also en- 
gaging in other branches of trade. They have pub- 
lished since 1870 the Shaker and Shake ress, a monthly, 
edited by E. W. Evans and Antoinette Doolittle (Mount 
Lebanon, N. V.). See Burder, Hist, of Religions; Gard- 


ner, Faiths of the World ; Harper's Magazine, xv, 140 
sq. ; Marsden, Diet, of Churches; Nordhoff, Communis- 
tic Societies of the United States (N. Y. 1875), p. 117 sq. 

Shakli, in Hindu mythology, is the consort of Siva, 
whom he loved so greatly that despair led him to pull 
out one of his hairs on the occasion of her death. Her 
father had offended Siva, and she resented the insult 
to such an extent that she laid aside the body she had 
received from him, and was born again as Parvati. 

Shakra, in Hindu mythology, is Vishnu’s celebrated 
weapon — a circular plate endowed with reason, inflicting 
mortal wounds and returning to the god after perform- 
ing its mission of punishment. The inhabitants of the 
mountainous sections of Northern India still use a sim- 
ilar weapon, which becomes terrible in their hands. It 
is a plate of hardened steel, two lines thick in the centre 
and keen -edged about the circumference. It may be 
thrown a distance of two hundred feet, and will pene- 
trate the most approved armor. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. 
Mythol. s. v. 

Shaktus, a principal Hindu sect, the worshippers 
of Bhuguvatee, or the goddess Dftrga. They are 
chiefly Brahmins, but have their peculiar rites, marks 
on their bodies, formulas, priests, and festivals. They 
reject animal food, but sometimes partake of spirituous 
liquors presented to their goddess. None of them be- 
come mendicants. See Ward, Hist, of the Hindoos. 

Shalak. See Cormorant. 

Shalal. See Maiier-siiaual-tiasii-baz. 

Sha'lem (II eb. Shalem', C3w\ safe; Samar. Gib 125; 
Sept. ScrXi// u, Vulg. Salem) appears in the A. V. as the 
name of a place near Shechem, to which Jacob came on 
his return from Mesopotamia (Gen. xxxiii, 18). It seems 
more than probable, however, that this word should not 
here be taken as a proper name, but that the sentence 
should be rendered “Jacob came safe to the city of 
Shechem” (CGd cVj 50*3). Our trans- 

lators have followed the Sept., Peshito-Syriae, and Vulg. 
among ancient, and Luther’s among modern, versions, 
in all of which Shalem is treated as a proper name, and 
considered as a town dependent on or related to Shechem. 
And it is certainly remarkable that there should be a 
modern village bearing the name of Salim in a position 
to a certain degree consistent with the requirements of 
the narrative when so interpreted, viz. three miles east 
of Nablus (the ancient Shechem), and therefore between 
it and the Jordan valley, where the preceding verse (ver. 
17) leaves Jaeob settled (lvobiuson, Bib. Res. ii, 279; 


SHALIM 


612 ' 


SHALLUM 


Wilson, Bible Lands , ii, 72; Van de Velde, Syr. and Pal 
ii, 302, 334; Schwarz, Palest, p. 151). But there are 
several considerations which weigh very much against 
this being more than a fortuitous coincidence. See 
Jacob. 

1. If Shalem were the city in front of which Jacob 
pitched his tent, then it certainly was the scene of the 
events of ch. xxxiv; and the well of Jacob and the 
tomb of Joseph must be removed from the situation in 
which tradition has so appropriately placed them to 
some spot farther eastward and nearer to Salim. Euse- 
bius and Jerome felt this, and they accordingly make 
Syehem and Salem one and the same (Onomust. under 
both these heads). See Sychem. 

2. Though east of Nablus, Salim does not appear to 
lie near any actual line of communication between it 
and the Jordan valley. The road from Sakut to Nablus 
would be either by Wady Maleli, through Tevasir, Tu- 
bas, and the Wady Bidan, or by Keraw a, Yanftn, and 
Beit-Furik. The former passes tw r o miles to the north, 
the latter tw T o miles to the south, of Salim, but neither 
approaches it in the direct way which the narrative of 
Gen. xxxiii, 18 seems to denote that Jacob’s route did. 
But see Tristram, Land of Israel , p. 146. See Siieciiem. 

3. With the exceptions already named, the unanimous 
voice of translators and scholars is in favor of treating 
shalem as a mere appellative. Among the ancients, 
Josephus (by his silence, Ant. l, 21), the Targums of 
Onkelosand Pseudo-Jonathan, the Samaritan Codex, the 
Arabic Version ; among the moderns, the Veneto-Greek 
Version, Kashi, Junius and Tremellius, Mever ( Annot . on 
Seder Olam ), Ainsw’orth, Belaud {Palcest. and Dissert. 
M i sc.'), Schumann, Bosenmiiller, J. I). Michaelis ( Bibel 
fur Ungelehrt.), Tuch, Baumgarten, Gesenius ( Thesaur . 
p. 1422), Zunz (24 Ditcher, and Ilandtrb.'), De Wctte, 
Luzzarto, Knobel, Kalisch, Keil, Lange, Philippson— all 
these take shalem to mean “safe and sound,” and the 
city before which Jacob pitched to be the city of She- 
cbem. — Smith. This view is also confirmed by the evi- 
dent allusion in this term to the fulfilment of the condi- 
tion of Jacob’s vow (Gen. xxviii, 21). Uitzig (on Jer. 
xli , 5) would make Shalem the name of the tower of 
Shechem (Judg. ix, 46). Comp. Hackett, Illustrations 
of Script, p. 133 sq. See Peace. 

4. This question is somewhat complicated with the 
position of the Shalim of the New Test. (John iii, 21) ; 
but the two places are not necessarily the same. See 
Salim. 

Shalim (Heb. Shadlim', region of foxes ; 

Sept. ScyrtXi'/f, v. r. ’SaaXeip, ’E aocuckp), a region (yni<, 
“land”) through which Saul, the son of Kish, w r ent in 
search of his father’s asses (1 Sam. ix, 4). It is identi- 
fied by Schwarz ( Palest . p. 155) wdth Shual, near Oph- 
rah (1 Sam. xiii, 17). “It appears to have lain bctiveen 
the land of Shalisha’ and the land of Vcmini’ (proba- 
bly, but by no means certainly, that of Benjamin). In 
the uncertainty which attends the route — its starting- 
point and termination no less than its whole course — it 
is very difficult to hazard any conjecture on the position 
of Shalim. The spelling of the name in the original 
show’s that it had no connection w’ith Shalem or with 
the modern Salim east of Nablus (though between these 
two there is probably nothing in common except the 
name). It is more possibly identical with the land of 
Shual’ ((}. v.), the situation of w hich appears, from some 
circumstances attending its mention, to be almost neces- 
sarily fixed in the neighborhood of Taiyibeh, i. e. nearly 
six miles north of Miehraash,and about nine from Gibcah 
of Saul.” — Smith. See Bamaii. 

Slial'isha [some Shali'sha ] (Ileb. Sht dish ah', 
!rr?w, perhaps triangle ; Sept. 'SaXioad v. r. EtAyd), a 
district (“j*‘nX,“land”) traversed by Saul when in search 
of the asses of Kish (1 Sam. ix, 4). It apparently lay 
between “Mount Ephraim” and the “land of Sliaa- 
lim,” a specification which, w’ith all its evident precise- 
ness, is irrccognisablc, because the extent of Mount 


Ephraim is so uncertain ; and Shaalim, though proba- 
bly near Taiyibeh, is not yet definitely fixed there. The 
difficulty is increased by locating Shalisha at Saris or 
Khirbet Saris, a village a few miles west of Jerusalem, 
south of Abu Gosh (Tobler, Dritte Wand.p. 178),w r bich 
some have proposed. If the land of Shalisha contained, 
as it not impossibly did, the place called Baal -shalisha 
(2 Kings iv, 42), which, according to the testimony of 
Eusebius and Jerome ( Onom . s. v. “ Beth Salisha”), lay 
fifteen Boman (or twelve English) miles north of Lydd, 
then the whole disposition of Saul's route would be 
changed. The w r ords lCglath Shulishiyah in Jer. xlviii, 
34 (A. V. “a heifer of three years old”) are by some 
translators rendered as if denoting a place named Shali- 
sha. But even if this be correct, it is obvious that the 
Shalisha of the prophet w as on the coast of the Dead 
Sea, and therefore by no means appropriate for that of 
Saul. — Smith. Lieut. Cornier proposes ( Tent Work in 
Palest, ii, 339) to identify Shalisha w r ith Kefr Shilth, a 
ruined village on the western slope of Mount Ephraim, 
situated on the south side of Wady Azzun, which runs 
into the river Kauah (Bobinson, Later Researches , p. 136, 
note); but there is nothing special to recommend the 
site except a considerable correspondence in the names. 
See Bamaii. 

ShalTecheth [some Shalle' chetK] (lleb. Shalle'- 
keth, rciblj, overthroiv ; Sept. irracTTOtpopiov), the name 
of a gate on the west of Solomon’s temple, w’hich fell to 
the lot of the porters Shuppim and llosah (1 Chron. 
xxvi, 16). As it led to Mount Zion by the “ causeway” 
(later the bridge), it probably was that called Kipponos 
(Coponius) in the Talmud (Middot h, i, 3). It is prob- 
ably also identical with the gate Stir (2 Kings xi, 6) or 
that of the “ Foundation” (2 Chron. xxiii, 5). If, how - 
ever, the causeway be the same as that by which the 
w r ater is now conveyed to the Haram, the gate in ques- 
tion may have been at the present Bab Silsilek, much 
farther north. See Temple. 

Shal'lum (Ileb. Shallum', retribution; Sept, 

usually SsXXoi'jit), the name of at least twelve Hebrews. 

1. The youngest son of Naphtali (1 Chron. vii, 13), 
called also Shillem (Gen. xlvi, 24). B.C. 1874. 

2. The third in descent from Simeon, son of Shaul 
and father of Mibsam (1 Chron. iv, 25). B.C. ante 1618. 

3. Son of Sisamai and father of Jekamiah, of the 
house of Sheshan and tribe of Judah (1 Chron. ii, 40, 
41). B.C. post 1300. 

4. Son of Kore, and chief of the porters of the sanctu- 
ary in David’s time (1 Chron. ix, 17 sq., 31). B.C. cir. 
1050. He seems to be the same Shallum w hose descend- 
ants returned from captivity (Ezra ii, 42; x, 24; Neh. 
vii, 45). He is apparently elsewhere called Meshullam 
(xii, 25), Meshelemiah (1 Chron. xxvi, 1), and Shcle- 
miah (vcr. 14). lie w r as perhaps also the same with 
the “father” of Maaseiah in Jer. xxxv, 4. 

5. Son of Zadok and father of Hilkiah, a liigh-priest 
(1 Chron. vi, 12, 13 ; ix, 11), and an ancestor of Ezra the 
scribe (Ezra vii, 2). B.C. post 950. He is called Sal- 
lumus bv Josephus (SdXXovpog, Ant. x, 8, 6). lie is 
the Meshullam of 1 Chron. ix, 11; Neh. xi, 11. See 
IIlGll-PKlEST. 

6. The sixteenth king of Israel, llis father’s name 
was Jabesh. In the troubled times which follow’cd the 
death of Jeroboam II (B.C. 781), the latter’s son Zecha- 
riah w’as slain in the presence of the people by Shallum 
(B.C. 769),wdio by this act extinguished the dynasty of 
Jehu, as was predicted (2 Kings x, 30). See Jehu; 
Z ecu A itiA ii. Shallum then mounted the throne, but 
occupied it only one month, being opposed and slain by 
Menahem, who ascended the throne thus vacated (xv, 
10-15). See I shake, Kingdom of. 

7. The lather of Jehizkiah, which latter w r as one of 
the leading Ephraimitcs in the time of Ahaz and Pckah 
(2 Chron. xxviii, 12). B.C. ante 740. 

8. The son of Tikvah and husband of the prophetess 


SIIALLUN 


G 13 


SHAMANISM 


Huklah (2 Kings xxii, 14). B.C. cir. 630. lie appears 
to have been the custodian of t lie sacerdotal wardrobe 
(2 Chron. xxxiv, 22). lie was probably the same with 
Jeremiah’s uncle (Jer. xxxii, 7). 

9. King of Judah, son of Josiah (Jer. xxii, 11), better 
known as Jehoahaz 11 (q. v.). Ilengstenberg ( Christol - 
ogy of the Old Test, ii, 400, Eng. transl.) regards the 
name as symbolical, “ the recompensed one,” and given 
to Jehoahaz in token of his fate, as one whom God rec- 
ompensed according to his deserts. This would be 
plausible enough if it were only found in the prophecy; 
but a genealogical table is the last place where we 
should expect to find a symbolical name, and Shallum is 
more probably the original name of the king, which 
was changed to Jehoahaz when he came to the crown. 
Upon a comparison of the ages of Jehoiakim, Jehoahaz 
or Shallum, and Zedekiah, it is evident that of the two 
last Zedekiah must have been the younger, and there- 
fore that Shallum \vas the third, not the fourth, sou of 
Josiah, as stated in 1 Chron. iii. 15. — Smith. 

10. A priest of the descendants of Bani, who had 
taken a strange (i. e. idolatrous) wife, and was compelled 
by Ezra to put her away (Ezra x, 42). B.C. 457. 

11. One of the Levitical porters who did the same 
(Ezra x, 24). B.C. 457. 

12. Son of llalohesh and “ruler of the half part of 
Jerusalem,” who, with his daughters, aided in building 
the walls (Neh, iii, 12). B.C. 445. 

Slial'lun (Heb. Skallun', 1*1? IT, another form of 
Shallum , retribution; Sept. 21a\(0fi tor), son of Col-ho- 
zeh, and rider of a district of the Mizpah ; he assisted 
Nehemiah in repairing the spring gate and “the wall 
of the pool of Has-shelach” (A.V. “Siloah”) belonging 
to the king’s garden, “even up to the stairs that go 
down from the city of David” (Neh. iii, 15), B.C. 445. 

Shal'mai (Heb. margin in Ezra Shalmay ' , 
my thanks; text Shamluy ', Sept. StXa/tt; in 

Neh. Sulmay', my garments ; Sept. StX/tet); one 

of the head Nethinim whose descendants returned with 
Zertibbabel from Babylon (Ezra ii, 46; Neh. vii, 48). 
B.C. ante 536. 

Shal'man (Heb. S halm an', perhaps Persian, 

fire-worshipper; Sept. 2a\apdv\ Vulg. Salmana), a 
name occurring but once (Hos. x, 14, “as Shalman 
spoiled Beth-arbel in the day of battle”). It appears to 
be an abbreviated form of Shalmaneser (q. v.). Ewald, 
however, speaks of Shalman as an unknown king, but 
probably the predecessor of Pul (Die Prophet en, i, 157; 
see Simson, Der Prophet Hosea , p. 287). The Sept, 
reading “lb3 for Tw3,“as he spoiled,” renders ibg ftpywr, 
and the Vulgate, confounding Shalman with the Zal- 
munnah of Judges (ch.viii), gives, from another misread- 
ing, a domo ejus qui judicavit Baal, so that Newcotnc 
ventures to translate “ Like the destruction of Zalmun- 
nah by the hand of Jerubbaal” (Gideon). Indeed, the 
Vatican edition of the Sept, has Ik tou oiicov rou 'I epo- 
fio&fi, and the Alexandrian has Ik too q’ikov AtpofidaX 
— misreadings of the word Beth-arbel. The Targum 
of Jonathan and Peshito-Syriac both give “Shalma;” 
the former for r^3 reading “by an 

ambush,” the latter 5X “ Beth-el.” The Chaldee 
translator seems to have caught only the first letters of 
the word “ Arbel,” while the Syrian only saw the last 
two. The Targum possibly regards “Shalman” as an 
appellative, “the peaceable,” following in this the tradi- 
tional interpretation of the verse recorded by Kashi, 
whose note is as follows: “As spoilers that come upon a 
people dwelling in peace, suddenly by means of an am- 
bush, who have not been warned against them to tlee 
before them, and destroy all.” See Betii-auhku 

Shalmane'ser (Heb. id. signif. un- 

certain [according to Von Boh\cn, fire-worshipper, with 
which Gesenius agrees] ; on the monuments Salman- 
uzzur , or Salman-aser ; Sept. 21aXaparaa(rdp, but in 


I Tobit 'Evepiaapog by some error; Josephus, 21aXpara(T- 
(Tcipyg; Vulg. Sahnunasar ) was the Assyrian king who 
( reigned immediately before Sargon, and probably im- 
mediately after Tiglath-pilcser. lie was the fourth As- 
■ syrian monarch of the same name (Uawlinson, Ancient 
Monarchies , ii, 135 sq.). Very little is known of him. 
since Sargon. his successor, who was of a different 1am- 
* ily, and most likely a rebel against his authority, seems 
to have destroyed his monuments. He was contempo- 
rary with So of Egypt (2 Kings xvii, 4). He can 
scarcely have ascended the throne earlier than B.C. 730, 
and may possibly not have done so till a few years later. 
See Tiulath-pileseu. It must have been soon after 
his accession that he led the forces of Assyria into Pal- 
estine, where Hoshea, the last king of Israel, had revolt- 
ed against his authority (ver. 3). No sooner had he 
come than Hoshea submitted, acknowledged himself a 
“servant” of the great king, and consented to pay him 
a fixed tribute annually. Shalmaneser upon this re- 
turned home; but soon afterwards he “found conspiracy 
in Hoshea,” who had concluded an alliance with the 
king of Egypt, and withheld his tribute in consequence. 
In B.C. 723 Shalmaneser invaded Palestine for the sec- 
ond time, and, as Hoshea refused to submit, laid siege 
to Samaria. The siege lasted to the third year (B.C. 
720), when the Assyrian arms prevailed ; Samaria fell ; 
Hoshea was taken captive and shut up in prison, and 
the bulk of the Samaritans were transported from their 
own country to Upper Mesopotamia (ver. 4-6; xviii, 
9-1 1). It is uncertain whether Shalmaneser conducted 
the siege to its close, or whether he did not lose his 
crown to Sargon before the city was taken. Sargon 
claims the capture as his own exploit in his first year; 
and Scripture, it will be found, avoids saying that Shal- 
maneser took the place. In xvii, 6, the expression is 
simply “the king of Assyria took it.” In xviii, 9, 10, 
we find, still more remarkably, “Shalmaneser, king of 
Assyria, came up against Samaria and besieged it; and 
at the end of three years they took it.” Perhaps Shal- 
maneser died before Samaria, or perhaps, hearing of 
Sargon’s revolt, he left his troops, or a part of them, to 
continue the siege, and returned to Assyria, where he 
was defeated and deposed (or murdered) by his enemy. 
According to Josephus, who professes to follow the Phre- 
nician history of Menander of Ephesus, Shalmaneser en- 
gaged in an important war with Phoenicia in defence 
of Cyprus ( J nt. ix, 14, 2). It is possible that he may 
have done so, though we have no other evidence of the 
fact; but it is perhaps more probable that Josephus or 
Menander made some confusion between him and Sar- 
gon, who certainly warred with Phoenicia and set up a 
memorial in Cyprus. — Smith. Ewald (Isr. Gesch. iii, 
315) supposes these events to have preceded even 11 o- 
shea’s alliance with Egypt, but this is improbable (Kno- 
bel, Jesa. p. 139 sq.). According to Layard (Xinereh and 
Babylon, p. 48), he was perhaps the same with Sargon, 
but this is doubtful. It may yet turn out, however, that 
he was only a deputy or viceroy, and in that case the 
discrepancies in this part of the history will receive a 
ready solution. See Sakgon. 

Sha'ma (Heb. Shama', obedient; Sept. 21a f i- 
I ad v. r. Eaftpa^a), the first named of two sons of Do- 
than, who were valiant captains in the body-guard of 
David (1 Chron. xi, 44). B.C. cir. 1020. See David. 

Shamana, in Hindi! mythology, is the surname of 
the god of the underworld, signifying “ the stream of 
hell.” 

Shamanism (a corruption of Sanscr. gramana ) is 
the ancient religion of the Tartar, and of some of the 
other Asiatic tribes, and is one of the earliest phases of 
religious life. It is a belief in sorcery, and a propitia- 
tion of evil daemons by sacrifices and frantic gestures. 
The adherents of this religion acknowledge the exist- 
ence of a supreme God, but do not offer him any wor- 
ship. Indeed, they worship gods of no description, but 
only damsons, whom they suppose to be cruel, revengeful, 


SHAMANS 


G14 


SHAMIR 


and capricious, and who are worshipped by bloody sacri- 
fices and wild dances. The Shatnanists have no regular 
priesthood. The priests, or magicians, are men or wom- 
en, married or single, and affect to understand the se- 
cret of controlling the actions of evil spirits. When 
they are officiating, they wear a- long robe of elk-skin, 
hung with small and large brass and iron bells. They 
also earn’ staves carved at the top into the shape of 
horses’ heads, also hung with bells; and with the as- 
sistance of these staves they leap to an extraordinary 
height. They have neither altars nor idols, but per- 
form their sacrifices in a hut raised on an open space in 
a forest or on a hill. Nor are there fixed periods for the 
performance of their ceremonies ; births, marriages, 
sickness, uncommon calamities, etc., are generally the 
occasions which call for them. The animal to be sacri- 
ficed is generally fixed upon by the Shaman or donor, 
and is killed by tearing out its heart. The officiating 
magician or priest works himself into a frenzy, and pre- 
tends or supposes himself to be possessed of the daemon 
to whom worship is being offered. After the rites are 
over, he communicates to those who consult him the 
information he has received. In Siberia the Shaman 
affected to cure dangerous diseases, hurts, etc., sucking 
the part of the body the most affected by pain; and 
finally taking out of his mouth a thorn, a bug, a stone, 
or some other object, which he shows as the cause of 
the complaint. Very many of its votaries have passed 
over to Lamaism, which is, in a measure, a kind of Sha- 
manism, but infused with Buddhistic doctrines. See 
Chambet's's Encyclop. s.v.; Gardner, Faiths of the World , 
s. v. 

Shamans, a Hindi! name given to pious persons 
among the worshippers of Buddha; a term which passed 
over from them to the Tartars and inhabitants of Sibe- 
ria, and became the title of their priests, magicians, and 
physicians. Hence Shamanism is the name given to 
the religion of most of the tribes of Northern Asia, from 
Tartary to Kamtchatka. By means of enchantments 
they professed to be able to cure diseases, avert calami- 
ties. and acquaint people with the purposes, etc., of the 
daemons. By these arts they acquired a great ascen- 
dency over the people. See Shamanism. 

Shamari'ah (2 Chron. xi, 19). See Siiemariaii. 

Shambles (pcnceWov, from the Lat. macellum, a 
meat-mai'ket). Markets for the sale of meat appear to 
have been unknown in Judaea previous to the Roman 
conquest. We learn from the Talmud that most of the 
public butchers under the Romans were Gentiles, and 
that the Jews were forbidden to deal with them be- 
cause thej T exposed the flesh of unclean beasts for sale. 
Hence Paul, dissuading the Corinthian converts from 
adopting Jewish scruples, says, “ Whatsoever is sold in 
the shambles, that eat, asking no questions for con- 
science’ sake” (1 Cor. x, 25). See Ai.isgema. 

Shame (usually TT12, aw\vvr\), a painful sensation, 
occasioned by the quick apprehension that reputation 
and character are in danger, or by the perception that 
they are lost. It may arise, says Dr. Cogan, from the 
immediate detection, or the fear of detection, in some- 
thing ignominious. It may also arise from native dif- 
fidence in young and ingenuous minds, when surprised 
into situations where they attract the especial attention 
of their superiors. The glow of shame indicates, in the 
first instance, that the mind is not totally abandoned; 
in the last, it manifests a nice sense of honor and deli- 
cate feelings, united with inexperience and ignorance 
of the world.— Buck, Theol. Diet. s. v. See Modesty. 

Sha'med, or rather Siikmer (Hob. She'mer , 
in “pause” Sha'mer , keeper [but some copies 

have TSa]; Sept. Sfpjujp v. r. 2*/ u)g and 2a/o/c; 
Viilg. Samed), the third named of the three sons of El- 
paal, and builder of Ono and Lod. lie was of the tribe 
of Benjamin (l Chron. viii, 12). B.C. post 1018. 


Shamel, in Hindft mythology, is the angel who 
bears the prayers of men to God. 

Sha'mer (Heb. She'mer, '’lEllj, “in pause” Sha'- 
mer, lE'j, keeper; Sept. ^eppi)p v. r. Sw/d/jo and 2*- 
H i)p respectively), the name of several men. See also 
Shamed; Shemer. 

1. The second named of four children of Heber (1 
Chron. vii, 32), and father of Ahi and others (ver. 34). 
B.C. perhaps ante 1658. In the first of these passages 
he is called Siiomer (q. v.). 

2. The son of Maldi and father of Bani, of the tribe 
of Levi (1 Chron. vi, 46). B.C. perhaps cir. 1658. 

Sham'gar (Heb. Shamgar', possibly sword 

[comp. Samgar~\; Sept. Saptyap, Josephus Savaya- 
pog ), son of Anath, and third judge of Israel. B.C. 
1429. It is possible, from his patronymic, that Sham- 
gar may have been of the tribe of Naphtali, since Beth- 
anath is in that tribe (Judg. i, 33). Ewald conjectures 
that he was of Dan — an opinion in which Bcrtheau (On 
Judg. Hi, 31) does not coincide. Since the tribe of 
Naphtali bore a chief part in the war against Jabin and 
Sisera (Judg. iv, 6, 10; v, 18), we seem to have a point 
of contact between Shamgar and Barak. It is not 
known whether the only exploit recorded of him was 
that by which his authority was acquired. It is said 
that he “slew of the Philistines six hundred men with 
an ox goad” (iii,81). It is supposed that he was labor- 
ing in the field, without any other weapon than the long 
staff armed with a strong point used in urging and 
guiding the cattle yoked in the plough [see Goad], 
when he perceived a party of the Philistines, whom, 
with the aid of the husbandmen and neighbors, he re- 
pulsed with much slaughter. The date and duration 
of his government are not stated in Scripture (Jose- 
phus [A v, 4, 3] says it lasted less than one year), 
but may be probably assigned to the end of that long 
period of repose which followed the deliverance under 
Ehud. He is not expressly called a judge, nor does he 
appear to have effected more than a very partial and 
transient relaxation of the Philistine oppression under 
which Israel groaned; and the next period of Israel’s 
declension is dated, not from Shamgar’s, but from E hud’s 
ascendency (Judg. iv, 1); as if the agency of Shamgar 
were too occasional to form an epoch in the history. 
The heroic deed recorded of him was probably a solitary 
effi >rt, prompted by a kind of inspiration at the moment, 
and failing of any permanent result from not being fol- 
lowed up either on his own part or that of his country- 
men. In Shamgar’s time, as the Song of Deborah in- 
forms ns (v, 6), the condition of the people was so de- 
plorably insecure that the highways were forsaken, and 
travellers went through by-ways, and, for the same 
reason, the villages were abandoned for the walled 
towns. Their arms were apparently taken from them, 
by the same policy as was adopted later by the same 
people (iii, 31 ; v, 8; comp, with 1 Sam. xiii, 19-22). 
From the position of “the Philistines” in 1 Sam. xii, 9, 
between “Moab” and “ Hazor,” the allusion seems to be 
to the time of Shamgar. See Judges. 

Shamhusai, in Hindu mythology, is an angel who 
resisted the creation of man, and was therefore cast out 
from God. 

Sham'httth (Heb. Shamhuth ', rsiSTC 1 !’, prob. des - 
olation; Sept. v. r. 21a\aiv$; Vulg. Samaoth), 

the fifth captain for the fifth month in David’s arrange- 
ment of his army (1 Chron. xxvii, 8). B.C. 1020. ilis 
designation rvn*]n, hay-yizrdch , i. e. the Yizrach, is 
perhaps for "'nTH, haz-zarchi, the Zarhite, or descend- 
ant of Zerah, the son of Judah. From a comparison of 
the lists in 1 Chron. xi, xxvii, it would seem that Sham- 
huth is the same as Shammoth (q. v.) the llarorite. — 
Smith. 

Shamir. See Brier; Diamond. 

Sha'mir (Heb. Shamir', “PEiy, a sharp point, as of 


SHAMIR 


G 15 


SHAMMAH 


a thorn [text in Chron. Shamur ', tried] ; Sept. 

Scipip, v. r. [in Josh.] ZcKpeip, [in Judg.] Zapaptia, 
[in Chron.] 2ap))p), the name of two places and of a 
man. 

1. A town in the mountain district of Judah (Josh, 
xv, 48), where it is named in connection with Jattir and 
Socoh, in the group in the extreme south of the tribe, 
west of south from Hebron, lveil (Comment, ad loc.) 
suggests that it may be the ruined site Cm Shaumerah 
mentioned by Robinson (Bib. Res. 1st ed. iii, Append, p. 

1 15), which is perhaps the Somerah suggested bv Lieut. 
Cornier ( Tent Work in Palestine , ii, 339), although the 
position of neither is exactly indicated. We venture 
to suggest its possible identity with the ruined village 
Shnieh south-west of Hebron (Robinson, ibid. p. 113), 
and in the immediate vicinity required, being three 
miles west of Juttah. 

2. A place in Mount Ephraim, the residence and 
burial-place of Tola the judge (Judg. x, 1, 2). It is 
singular that this judge, a man of Issachar, should have 
taken up his official residence out of his own tribe. We 
may account for it by supposing that the plain of Es- 
draelon, which formed the greater part of the territory 
of Issachar, was overrun, as in Gideon’s time, by the Ca- 
naanites or other marauders, of whose incursions noth- 
ing whatever is told us — though their existence is cer- 
tain — driving Tola to the more secure mountains of 
Ephraim. Or, as Manasseh had eertain cities out of 
Issachar allotted to him, so Issachar, on the other hand, 
may have possessed some towns in the mountains of 
Ephraim. Both these suppositions, however, are but 
conjecture, and have no corroboration in any statement 
of the records. 

Shamir is not mentioned by the ancient topographers. 
Schwarz (Palest, p. 151) proposes to identify it with Sa- 
nur , a place of great natural strength (which has some 
claims to be Bethulia), situated in the mountains* half 
way between Samaria and Jenin, about eight miles from 
each. Van de Velde (Memoir, p. 348) proposes Khir- 
bet Summer, a ruined site in the mountains overlooking 
the Jordan valley, ten miles east-southeast of Nablus. 
There is no connection between the names Shamir and 
Samaria, as proposed in the Alex. Sept, (see above), be- 
yond the accidental one which arises from the inaccurate 
form of the latter in that version and in our own, it be- 
ing correctly Shomron. — Smith. 

3. A Kohathite Levite, son ofMichah.and a servant 
in the sanctuary in David’s time (I Chron. xxiv, 24). 
B.C. cir. 1020. 

SHAMIR in Jewish Tradition. In the Pirke 
Aboth, v, 8, we read that “ten things were created on 
the eve of the Sabbath,” among which was also the 
“Shamir.” According to Jewish tradition, the Shamir 
was a little worm by the aid of which Moses fitted and 
polished the gems of the ephod and the two tables of 
the law, Solomon the stones, of the Temple. On 1 Kings 
vi, 7, “ there was neither hammer nor axe, nor any tool 
of iron, heard in the house while it was in building,” I). 
Kimchi writes thus. “ By means of a worm called Sha- 
mir, when placed on a stone, it split. Although not 
larger than a barleycorn, the Shamir was so strong that 
by its touch mountains were removed from their places, 
and the hardest stones were easily split and shaped. 
By means of this worm Solomon prepared the stones 
for the building of the Temple. But who gave it to 
him? An eagle brought it to him from the Paradise, 
as it is written, ‘ lie spake of beasts and of fowl’ (1 Kings 
iv, 33). But what did he speak to the fowl? He asked 
where the Shamir was. The eagle went and fetched 
the Shamir from Eden. By means of this Shamir Moses 
prepared the stones of the ephod and the first and the 
second tables. This is the tradition.” As to the tra- 
dition to which Kimchi refers, so far as Solomon is con- 
cerned, the Talmud (Tr. (Jittin, fol. 38, col. 1) contains 
a pretty story, which is a fine specimen of Jewish leg- 
endary lore. The story runs as follows: 


“ Solomon asked the rabbins, flow shall I build (the Tem- 
ple without the use of iron)? They referred him to the 
worm Shamir which Moses had employed. How could it 
be found? They replied, Tie a he and she devil together ; 
perhaps they know it and will tell thee. This being done, 
they said, We do not know it ; perhaps Asmodeus, the 
kiug of the devils, will tejl thee. But where is he to be 
found? They answered that on a certain mountain he 
had dug a hole, tilled it with water, covered it with a sf oue, 
and sealed it with his ring. Every day he also ascends on 
high aud learns in the school above ; then he comes down 
to study in the school below. He then goes and examiues 
his seal, opens the hole, aud drinks; after this he seals it 
up again and goes away, lie (Solomon) then sent Benai- 
ah, the son of Jehoiada, and gave him a chain on which 
was inscribed Shorn hammepliorash (i. e. the Tetragram- 
maton), and a ring upon which was also inscribed the 
name, and a little wool and wine. When Benaiah had 
come to the mountain, he made a pit under that of Asmo- 
dens, made the water run off, and stopped the hole with 
the wool, lie then made a pit above the first, poured some 
wiue into it, covered it, and climbed on a tree. When As- 
tnodens came back, examined his seal, and opened the pit 
and found the wine, he said, It is written (Prov. xx, l) 
‘Wine-is a mocker, strong drink is raging: aud whoso- 
ever is deceived thereby is not wise;’ and it is also writ- 
teu (TIos. iv, 11) ‘Whoredom and wine aud new wine take 
away the heart,’ aud did not drink. But being very dry, 
he could uot restrain himself, drank, became drunk, lay 
down and weut to sleep. Benaiah theu descended from 
the tree, put the chain aronnd him and fastened it. When 
Asmodeus woke up, he was almost raging, but Benaiah 
said, The ’uame of thy Lord is upou thee, the name of thy 
Lord is upou thee ! After this the two set out. On their 
way they came to a dale-tree, which Asmodeus broke ; 
theu to a house, which he overturned ; theu to a widow’s 
cottage, which he would have destroyed also, were it not 
for the poor woman that came out aud entreated him. 
When he crossed over to the other side, he broke a bone 
and said, So is it written (Prov. xxv, 15), ‘A soft tongue 
breaketh a bone.’ When they had come to the palace, 
he was uot brought before the king for three days. On 
the first day Asmodeus asked why the king did not let 
him come before him. They said, lie has been drinking 
too much. At this he took a brick aud set it upon another, 
and they went to Solomon and told him what Asmodeus 
had done. The kiug said, ‘Go and give him more to drink.' 
On the second day he asked again why he was not brought 
before the king. They answered, because he had eaten 
too much. At this he took the bricks down and placed 
them on the ground. When the kiug heard this, he told 
the servants to give him little to eat. On the third day 
Asmodeus was brought before the king, took a measure, 
meted out four cubits, threw it away, aud said to the king, 
When thou diest, thou wilt have but four cubits in the 
world. Thou hast conquered the whole world, and art 
not satisfied till thou hast, subdued me also. Solomon 
replied, I want nothing of thee: I will build the Temple, 
aud need for it the Shamir. Asmodeus answered, It is 
not. mine, but belongs to the chief of the sea, which he 
only gives to the wild cock that is faithful to him because 
of the oath. But what does he do with it? . He takes it up 
to the mountains, where none dwell, puts it on the moun- 
tain rocks and splits the mountain, and then takes it away. 
Tie theu takes the seed of trees, throws it there, and a 
dwelling-place is prepared : hence he is called a moiiutain 
artificer (naggar tura). When they had found the nest 
of the wild cock containing young ones, they covered the 
nest with glass. When the parent bird came and could not 
get iu, he weut and fetched the Shamir and put it on the 
glass. But Benaiah shouted so loud that the bird dropped 
the Shamir, which Benaiah theu took. The bird went 
away aud hanged himself for having violated the oath.” 

(B.P.) 

Sham'ma (Ileb. Shamma ', astonishment or 

desolation; Sept. Sa/t/id v. r. Eo/id and Sepa), the 
eighth named of the eleven sons of Zophah of the tribe 
of Asher (1 Chron. vii, 37). B.C. post 1658. 

Sham'mah (Heb. Shamma h\ !T3Tj, astonishment 
or desolation'), the name of four or live Hebrews. 

1. (Sept. 2o/tl v. r. in Chron. Sop pi.) Son of licu- 
el and head of a family among Esau’s descendants (Gen. 
xxxvi, J3, 17; 1 Chron. i, 37). B.C. ante 1850. 

2. (Sept. No/td v. r. iV/<//d.) The third son of 
Jesse and brother of king David (1 Sam. xvi, 9; xvii, 
13). From these two passages we learn that he was 
present at David’s anointing hv Samuel, and that with 
his two elder brothers he joined the Hebrew army in 
the valley of Elah to fight with the Philistines. B.C. 
J 038. lie is elsewhere, by a slight change in the name, 
called Sin mica [q. v.] (1 Chron. xx, 7), Siiimeau (2 
Sam. xiii, 3, 32), and Siii.mma (1 Chron. ii. 13), 


SHAMMAI 


616 


SHAMMAK 


3. (Sept. "Zapata v.r. S appedg.) The son of “Agee 

the Hararite,” and one of the three chief of the thirty 
champions of David. B.C. 1001. The exploit by which 
he obtained this high distinction, as described in 2 Sam. 
xxiii, 11, 12, is manifestly the same as that which in 1 
Chron. xi, 12-14 is ascribed to David himself, assisted 
by Eleazar, the son of Dodo. The inference, therefore, 
is that Shammah’s exploit lay in the assistance which he 
had thus rendered to David and Eleazar. It consisted in 
the stand which the others had enabled David to make, 
in a cultivated field, against the Philistines. Shammah 
also shared in the dangers which Eleazar and Jaslio- 
beara incurred in the chivalrie exploit of forcing a way 
through the Philistine host to gratify David’s thirst for 
the waters of Bethlehem (2 Sam. xxiii, 16). — Kitto. 
The scene of Shammah’s exploit is said in Samuel to be 
a field of lentiles (S^TP"), and in 1 Chron. a field of 
barley Kennicott proposes in both cases to 

read “ barley the words being in Hebrew so similar 
that one is produced from the other by a very slight 
change and transposition of the letters ( Dissert . p. 141). 
It is more likely, too, that t he Philistines should attack 
and the Israelites defend a field of barley than a field of 
lentiles. In the Peshito-Syriac, instead of being called 
*• the Hararite,” he is said tube “from the king’s moun- 
tain,” and the same is repeated at ver. 25. The Yat. 
31 S. of the Sept, makes him the son of Asa (viug Aua 
o ’AfOovyaToc, where 'Apovdaiog was perhaps the orig- 
inal reading). Josephus (A nt. vii, 12, 4) calls him Ce- 
sabwus the son of Bus (’l\ou pkv v\bg Kyaafiaiog ck 
oj'O/L/a).— Smith. 

4. (Sept. Zaipd v. r. Zappai.) The Ilarodite, one of 
David’s might ies (2 Sam. xxiii, 25). He is called u Skam- 
mnth the Ilarorite” in 1 Chron. xi, 27, and in xxvii, 8 
“ Shumhuth the Izrahite.” Kennicott maintained the 
true reading in both to be “Shamhoth the Harodite” 
(Dissert, p. 181). — Smith. He is evidently different from 
the preceding, as still ranking among the lower thirty. 

5. (Sept, Zapvdv v. r. 'Zap vac A) In the list of Da- 
vid’s mighty men in 2 Sam. xxiii, 32. 33, we find “Jon- 
athan, Shammah the Hararite;” while in the corre- 
sponding verse of 1 Chron. xi, 34 it is “Jonathan, the 
son of Shage the Hararite.” Combining the two, Ken- 
nicctt proposes to read “Jonathan, the son of Shamha, 
the Hararite,” David’s nephew who slew the giant in 
Hath (2 Sam. xxi, 21). Instead of “the Hararite,” the 
Peshito-Syriac has “of the Yount of Olives;” in xxiii, 
33, and in I Chron. xi,34, “of Mount Carmel;” but the 
origin of both these interpretations is obscure. — Smith. 
The term “ Hararite” (q. v.) may naturally designate a 
mountaineer , i.e. one from the mountains of Judah. Not 
only is the name Shammah here suspicious, as having 
already been assigned to two men in the list of David’s 
heroes, but the epithet “Shage” is suspiciously similar 
to “Agee,” and “Ilarorite” to “Hararite” given above. 
See David. 

Sham'mai [many Sham' nun ) (Heb. Shammay ' , 
“IS'b, desolate; Sept. 1 Chron. ii, 28 Zap pat', but ver. 
32 ’ Axiuappd [combining A hi with Shammai] \ ver. 44 
Zepact ; it, 17 Zsppat, v. r. Zappaa, Zapa:t, Zeptt), the 
name of three men. 

1. The elder of two sons of Onam, of the tribe of Ju- 
dah (1 Chron. ii, 28, 32). B.C, eir. 1618. 

2. Son of Rekem and father (founder) of Maou,of the 
tribe of Judah (1 Chron. ii, 44, 45). B.C. post 1618. 

3. Sixth child of Ezra, of the tribe of Judah, by a 
first wife (I Chron. iv, 17). B.C. post 1618. lie was 
possibly tlie same called Shimon (q. v. ) in ver. 20. 
“ Rabbi D. Kimchi conjectures that these were the chil- 
dren of Mered by his Egyptian wife Bithiah, the daugh- 
ter of Pharaoh. See Mkukd. The Sept, makes Jether 
the father of all three. The tradition in the Qwest, in 
Libr. Paraf. identifies Shammai with Closes, and Ish- 
bah with Aaron” (Smith). 

Shammai of Shammai was the colleague of Ilillel 


the Great (q. v.), w ith w hom he is as closely associated in 
Jewish history as are the names of Castor and Pollux in 
Greek and Roman mythology. But comparatively little 
is known of him. Though one of his maxims was “ Let 
the study of the law be fixed, say little and do much, and 
receive every one with the aspect of a fair countenance” 
(Aboth, i, 15), yet he is said to have been a man of a for- 
bidding and uncompromising temper, and in this respect, 
as in ot hers, the counterpart of his illustrious companion, 
of whom, both in their dispositions and divisions on a 
multitude of Rabbinical quest ions, he was, as we may say, 
the antithesis. This antithesis is especially shown in the 
famous controversy carried on between Ilillel and Sham- 
mai concerning the egg laid on the Sabbath, and which 
lent its title, Beza, i.e. the egg, to a whole Talmudic trea- 
tise of 79 pages. Yerv graphicalh r does dean Stanley 
describe the disputes of both these sages, in the follow- 
ing words: “The disputes between Ilillel and Shammai 
turn, for the most part, on points so infinitely little that 
the small controversies of ritual and dogma which have 
vexed the soul of Christendom seem great in compar- 
ison. They are worth recording only as accounting for 
the obscurity into which they have fallen, and also be- 
cause churches of all ages and creeds may be instructed 
by the reflection that questions of the modes of eating 
and cooking and walking and sitting seemed as impor- 
tant to the teachers of Israel — on the eve of their nation’s 
destruction, and of the greatest religious revolution that 
the world has seen — as the questions of dress or post- 
ure, or modes of appointment, or verbal formulas have 
seemed to contending schools of Christian theology” 
(Jewish Church, iii, 501). Though each gave often a 
decision the reverse of the other, yet, by a sort of fiction 
in the practice of schools, these contrary decisions were 
held to be co-ordinate in authority, and, if we may be- 
lieve the Talmud, were confirmed as of like authority by 
a Bath-Kol (or voice from heaven) : or, at least, while a 
certain conclusion of Ilillel’s was affirmed, it was re- 
vealed that the opposite one of Shammai w r as not to be 
denied as heretical. IPSO 1PK 

C^n, “ Both these and these speak the words of the 
living God.” This saying passed for law, and the con- 
tradictory sayings of both these rabbins are perpetu- 
ated in the Talmud to this day. And although both 
were rabbinically one, yet their disciples formed two ir- 
reconcilable parties, like the Seotists and Thomists of 
the Middle Ages, whose mutual dissidence manifested 
itself not only in the strife of words, but also in that of 
blows, and in some cases in that of bloodshed. So great 
was the antagonism between them that it was said that 
“ Elijah the Tislibite would never be able to reconcile 
the disciples of Shammai and Hillel.” Even in Jerome’s 
times this antagonism between these two schools lasted, 
for he reports ( Comment . in Esaiam , viii, 14) that the 
Jews regarded them with little favor, for Shammai’s 
school they called the “Scatterer,” and Ilillel’s the 
“ Profane,” because they deteriorated and corrupted the 
law with their inventions. See Jost, Gesch. cks Juden- 
thums, i, 259 sq. ; Griitz, Gesch. d. Jitden , iii, 178, 186, 
205; Ederslieim, Hist, of the Jewish Nation, p. 137; 
Rule, IJist. of the Karaite Jews, p. 33 sip; Bartolocci, 
Biblioth. Magna Rubbinica, s. v. PPJl ; Pick, The Scribes 
Before and in the Time of Christ ( Lutheran Quarterly , 
Gettysburg, 1878), p. 272. (B. P.) 

Shammar, in Lamaism, is the name of three chiefs 
of the sect of Red-bonnets among the worshippers of the 
Lama, nearly equal to the Dalai-Lama in exalted dig- 
nity. The first of them lives in a large convent at Tas- 
sisudor, the capital of llootan. A numerous clergy are 
subordinated to these princes of the Church, all of whose 
members are celibates and live in convents. They are 
of different grades, inconceivably numerous and widely 
extended, as well as highly venerated. The instruction 
of the young is altogether in their hands. Their con- 
vents are very numerous, Lhassa, the capital of Thibet, 
alone containing 3000. — Volhner, II r vvterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 


SIIAMMATTA 


G17 


SIIANG-TE 


Shammatta (XttE^), the highest form of excom- 
munication among the Jews. See Anathema. 

Sham'moth (ileb. Shammoth', desolation; 

Sept. 'EapaioS, v. r. ’SapwSr, N«/</*m53), the name of a 
person entitled “the Harorite,” one of Davids guard (1 
Chron. xi, 27) ; apparently the same with “ Shammah 
the Ilarodite” (2 Sam. xxiii, 25 j, and with “Sham- 
buth” (l Chron. xxvii, 8). 

Shammu'a (Ileb. id. V^'S, renowned ; Sept. 2a- 
fiovijX in Numb, xiii, 4; iSappovd in 2 Sam. v, 14; 
Sa/njiiaov in 1 Chron. xiv, 4, v. r. 2a/u«d; IZafuitou in 
Neh. xi, 17, v. r. 2a//out), the name of four men. 

1. The son of Zaccur and the representative of the 
tribe of Reuben among those first sent by Moses to ex- 
plore Canaan (Numb, xiii, 4). B.C. 1657. 

2 . One of the sons of David, by his wife Bathsheba, 
born to him in Jerusalem (1 Chron. xiv, 4). B.C. cir. 
1045. In the A. V. of 2 Sam. v, 14 the same Ileb. name 
is Anglicized “Shammuah,” and in 1 Chron. iii,5 he is 
called Shim ea (q. v.). In all the lists he is placed first 
among the four sons of Bathsheba; but this can hardly 
have been the chronological order, since Solomon ap- 
pears to have been born next to the infant which was 
the fruit of her criminal connection with David (2 Sam. 
xii, 24). 

3 . A Levite, the grandson of Jednlthun, son of Ga- 
lal, and father of Abda (Neh. xi, 17). B.C. ante 450. 
He is the same as Shemaiah the father of Obadiah 
(1 Chron. ix, 16). 

4 . The representative of the priestly family of Bil- 
gah, or Bilgai, in the days of the high-priest Joiakim 
(Neh. xii, 18). B.C. cir. 500. 

Shammu'ah (2 Sam. v, 14). See Siiammua. 

Sham'sherai [usually Shamshera'i] (Ileb. Sham- 
sheray ', sunlike ; Sept, lapoapia v. r. 2a/t- 

capt), the first named of six sons of Jeroham, of the tribe 
of Benjamin, resident at Jerusalem (1 Chron. viii, 26). 
B.C. post 1500. 

Shamyl, or Schamyl (i. e. Samuel), a celebrated 
leader of the Caucasus, was born at Aul-Himry, in 
Northern Daghestan. lie belonged to a wealthy Les- 
ghian family of rank, and early became a zealous disci- 
ple of Kasi-Mollah, the great apostle of Muridism, who 
brought together the various Caucasian tribes, and led 
them against the heretical Russians. After the assassi- 
nation of Hamzad Bey, the successor of Kasi-Mollah 
(1834), Shamyl was unanimously elected imam; and 
being absolute temporal and spiritual chief of the tribes 
which acknowledged his authority, he made numerous 
changes in their religious creed and political adminis- 
tration. llis military tactics, consisting of surprises, 
ambuscades, etc., brought numerous successes to the 
mountaineers. In 1837 he defeated general Ivelitch , 
but in 1839 the Russians succeeded in hemming Shamyl 
into Akidgo, in Daghestan, took the fortress by storm, 
and it was supposed that he perished, as the defenders 
were put to the sword. But he suddenly reappeared, 
preaching more vigorously than ever the “holy war 
against the heretics.” In 1843 he conquered allxYvares, 
besieged Mozdok, foiled the Russians in their subse- 
quent campaign, and gained over to his side the Cauca- 
sian tribes which had hitherto favored Russia. In 1844 
he completed the organization of his government, made 
Dargo his capital, and established a code of laws and a 
system of taxation and internal communication. The 
fortunes of war changed till 1852, when Bariatinsky 
compelled Shamyl to assume the defensive, and deprived 
him of his victorious prestige. Religious indifference 
and political dissensions began to undermine his power, 
and at the close of the Crimean war Russia again at- 
tempted the subjection of the Caucasus. For three 
years Sham) 7 ! bravely held out, although for several 
months he was a mere guerilla chief, hunted from fast- 
ness to fastness. At last (Sept. 6, 1859), he was sur- 


prised on the platean of Ghunib, and, after a desperate 
resistance, was taken prisoner. His wives and treasure 
were spared to him, and he was taken to St. Petersburg, 
where he met with a gracious reception from Alexander 
II. After a short stay, he was assigned to Kaluga, re- 
ceiving a pension of 10,000 rubles. From here he re- 
moved (December, 1868) to Kief, and in January, 1870, 
to Mecca, remaining a parole prisoner of the Russian 
government. lie died in Medina, Arabia, in March, 
1871. 

Shan. See Betii-siian. 

Shane, John Dabney, a Presbyterian minister, 
was burn in Cincinnati, O., in 1812. lie graduated at 
Hampden Sidney College, Prince Edward Co., Va., and 
studied theology at the Union Theological Seminary in 
that state. He was licensed by the Cincinnati Presby- 
tery on May 31, 1842, and shortly after ordained by the 
West Lexington Presbytery, laboring until 1855 at 
North Middleton, Kv., and with other churches in that 
region of country. He returned to Cincinnati in 1857, 
and afterwards preached as occasion presented in the 
bounds of the Cincinnati Presbytery. He died Feb. 7, 
18C4. Mr. Shane, from his earliest years, revealed a 
passion for collecting and hoarding everything that had 
any direct or indirect bearing upon the planting and 
history of the Presbyterian Church in the Mississippi 
valley. To carry out the great objects of his life, he 
declined the pastoral office, as he had that of the family 
relation, so that he could roam untrammelled over that 
broad land. After his death, his collections were sold 
at auction, and realized about $3000. A large portion of 
them were secured through the attention of Mr. Samuel 
Agnew, of Philadelphia, for the Presbyterian Historical 
Societv. See Wilson, Presb. Ilist. A Imanac , 1865, p. 119. 
(J. L. S.) 

Shane, Joseph, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born in Jefferson County, O., April 9, 
1834, and united with the Church when about seventeen 
3'ears old. He was licensed as a local preacher April 
25, 1857, and in 1859 was received into the Pittsburgh 
Conference. In the spring of 1865 he was compelled to 
resign his charge, and after a few months of illness, 
died in Apollo, Armstrong Co., Pa., Jan. 16, 1866. See 
Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1866, p. 21. 

Shang-te, a deity of the Chinese, often spoken of 
in terms which seem to point him out as, in their view, 
the Supreme Being, the only true God. This is, how- 
ever, a much-disputed point. Mr. S. C. Malan, in his 
work Who is Godin China ? argues in favor of Shang-te 
as identical with the God of the Christians. Others 
(and among them Rev. Mr. M‘Letchie) maintain that 
Shang-te is not a personal being distinct from matter, 
hut a soul of the world. The word is often used by 
Chinese classical writers to denote the power manifested 
in the various operations of nature, but is never applied 
to a self- existent Almighty Being, the Creator of the 
universe. In the sacred book Shou-king there are no 
fewer than thirty-eight allusions to a great power or 
being called Shang-te. The name itself, as we learn 
from Mr. Hardwick, imports august or sovereign ruler. 
To him especially is offered the sacrilice Loot 1 , and the 
six Tsong, beings of inferior rank, appear to constitute 
his retinue. In the Shoo-king it is stated, and perhaps 
with reference to the nature of Shang-te, “Heaven is 
supremely intelligent : the perfect man imitates him (or 
it), the ministers obey him (or it) with respect, the 
people follow the orders of the government.” Others 
maintain that in the very oldest products of the Chinese 
mind no proper personality has ever been ascribed to 
the supreme power. Heaven is called the father of the 
universe, but only as earth is called the mother. Both 
are said to live, to generate, to quicken; arc made the 
objects of prayer and sacrilice. Heaven is a personifi- 
cation of ever-present law, order, and intelligence. By 
these writers Shang-te is believed to he nothing more 
than a great “Anima mundi,” energizing everywhere 


SHAXI 


C 18 


SIIARA MALACHAI 


in all the processes of nature, and binding all the parts 
together in one mighty organism. — Gardner, Faiths of 
the World, s. v. 

Shani. See Crimson; Scarlet. 

Shank, Joseph, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born in Schoharie, N. Y., about 1818, 
and professed conversion at the age of twenty, lie was 
licensed to preach in 1841, and soon after joined the 
Oneida Conference. In 1864 he was transferred to the 
Detroit Conference, but his health failed him in 1866. 
After a trip to the sea-coast, he returned to Fentonville, 
Midi., where he died Sept. 30, 1867. See Minutes of 
Annual Conferences, 1868, p. 174. 

Shanks, Asbury H., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was born in South Carolina 
in 1808. He joined the Church in 1830, and entered 
the itinerant ministry in 1831. His ordination of dea- 
con was received in 1833, and that of elder in 1835. 
After fourteen years of labor, he located, studied law, 
and graduated from the law department of the Transyl- 
vania University. In 1849 he went to Texas, and en- 
gaged in the practice of his profession. lie was ad- 
mitted into the East Texas Conference in 1858, but 
owing to ill-health was obliged to superannuate in 1859, 
and held that relation until his death, Oct. 20, 1868. 
lie was a preacher of great power, a sound theologian, 
and in the practice of law never compromised his minis- 
terial character. See Minutes of A nnual Conferences 
of M. E. Ch. South , 18G8, p. 283. 

Sha'pham (Heb. Shapham D512, hold [Gesen.] 
or vigorous [Fiirst], Sept. 2a<pdp v. r. 2«0dr), the 
chief second in authority among the Gadit.es in the 
days of Jotham (1 Chron. v, 12). B.C. cir. 750. 

Sha'phan (Heb. Shaphan', "(St?, coney ; Sept. £a- 
<pav v. r. 'Sairtyav, and 'S.atytyav in 2 Kings xxii), the 
scribe or secretary of king Josiah, and the father of an- 
other of his principal officers. B.C. cir. 628. lie was the 
son of Azaliah (2 Kings xxii, 3, 2 Chron. xxxiv, 8), 
father of Ahikam (2 Kings xxii, 12; 2 Chron. xxxiv, 
20), Elasah (Jer. xxix, 3), and Gemariah (xxxvi, 10- 
12), and grandfather of Gedaliah (xxxix, 14; xl, 5, 9, 

1 1 ; xli, 2 ; xliii, 6). Michaiah (xxxvi, 1 1 ), and probably 
of Jaazaniah (Ezek. viii, II). There seems to be no 
sufficient reason for supposing, as many have done, that 
Shaphan the father of Ahikam, and Shaphan the scribe, 
were different persons. The history of Shaphan brings 
out some points with regard to the office of scribe which 
lie held. He appears on an equality with the governor 
of the city and the royal recorder, with whom he was 
sent by the king to Hilkiah to take an account of the [ 
money which had been collected by the Levites for the 
repair of the Temple and to pay the workmen (2 Kings 
xxii, 4 ; 2 Chron. xxxiv, 9 ; comp. 2 Kings xii, 10). I 
Ewald calls him minister of finance ( Gesch . iii, 697). 
It was on this occasion that Hilkiah communicated his 
discovery of a copy of the law, which he had probably 
found while making preparations for the repair of the 
Temple. Shaphan was intrusted to deliver it to the 
king. Whatever may have been the portion of the 
Pentateuch thus discovered, the manner of its discov- 
ery, and the conduct of the king upon hearing it read 
by Shaphan, prove that for many years it must have 
been lost and its contents forgotten. The part read 
was apparently from Deuteronomy, and when Sha- 
phan ended, the king sent him with the high-priest 
Hilkiah, and other men of high rank, to consult Iluldah 
the prophetess. Her answer moved Josiah deeply, and 
the work which began with the restoration of the de- 
cayed fabric of the Temple quickly took the form of a 
thorough reformation of religion and revival of the 
Lcvitical services, while all traces of idolatry were for 
a time swept away. Shaphan was then probably an 
old man, for his son Ahikam must have been in a posi- 
tion of importance, and his grandson Gedaliah was al- 
ready born, as we may infer from the fact that thirty- 


five years afterwards he was made governor of the 
country by the Clialdasans, an office which would hard- 
ly be given to a verj T young man. Be this as it may, 
Shaphan disappears from the scene, and probably died 
before the fifth year of Jehoiakim, eighteen years later, 
when we find Elishama was scribe (Jer. xxxvi, 12). 
There is just one point in the narrative of the burning 
of the roll of Jeremiah’s prophecies by the order of the 
king which seems to identify Shaphan the father of 
j Ahikam with Shaphan the scribe. It is well known 
that Ahikam was Jeremiah’s great friend and protec- 
: tor at court, and it was therefore consistent with this 
friendship of his brother for the prophet that Gemariah 
the son of Shaphan should warn Jeremiah and Baruch 
to hide themselves, and should intercede with the king 
for the preservation of the roll (xxxvi, 12, 19, 25). — 
Smith. 

Shaphan. See Coney. 

Sha'phat (Ileb. Shaphat', judge; Sept. Sa- 
<f>dr, v. r. 2a0d3\ etc.), the name of five men. 

1. The son of Hori and spy from the tribe of Simeon 
on the first exploration of Canaan (Numb. xiii,5). B.C. 
1657. 

2 . A son of Adlai, who had charge of king David's 
herds in the valleys ( 1 Chron. xxvii, 29). B.C. cir. 1020. 

3 . The father of Elisha the prophet (1 Kings xix, 
1 G, 19; 2 Kings iii, 1 1 ; vi, 31). B.C. ante 900. 

4 . A Gadite who dwelt in Bashan in Jotham’s time 
(1 Chron. v, 12). B.C. cir. 750. 

5 . One of the descendants of king David, through 
the royal line (1 Chron. iii, 22). He seems to have 
lived as late as B.C. 350, for he was the brother of 
Neariah (q. v.). 

Sha'pher (Ileb. She'pher, ‘“S-S brightness, as in 
Gen. xlix, 21 ; always occurring “in pause” Sha'pher, 
*1512 ; Sept. 2a<pdp v. r. Sapaafpctp), the name of a 
mountain at which the Israelites encamped during 
their sentence of extermination in the deswt ; situated 
between Kehelathah and Haradah (Numb, xxxiii, 23, 
24). Ilitzig ( Philist . p. 172) regards it as identical with 
Mount Halak (Josh, xi, 16); but the latter appears to 
have lain farther north-east. It is, perhaps, the present 
Araif en-Nahah, about in the middle of the upper por- 
tion of the plateau Et-Tih. See Exode. For a different 
identification, see Wanderings in tiie Wilderness. 

Shapira Manuscript is the name given by Biir 
and Delitzsch to a Hebrew' codex which Jacob Shapira 
or Sappir, a Jew’ish rabbi from Jerusalem, brought from 
Arabia, and sold to the public library at Paris in 1868. 
It is written on parchment, and, according to Delitzsch 
in his preface to his edition of the book of Isaiah in 
connection with S. Biir (Leips. 1872), it is “pervetus- 
tum, integrum et onmino eximium.” This codex con- 
tains some very valuable readings, of which we note 
e. g. the following : 

1 Kings xx, 33, it reads in the text 
and in the margin in the Ken Pti]-brPl. 

Isa. x, 15, I* 1 -HwTit) (Van tier Bought TX), which 
is also supported by a great many MSS. and printed edi- 
tions, as the Com pint. : Venice, IMS, 1521: Munster’s, 
1534, 1540; Stephan’s, Butter’s, 15S7 ; Venice, 1G7S, 1090, 
1730, 1739; Mantuan, 1742, etc. 

Isa. xv, 2, (Van der Booght which is in 

accordance with the Masorah, and which is also found in 
Jer. xlviii, 37. 

Isa. ixiii, 11, (Van der Hooglit ll^^), so many MSS. 
and editions. 

Psa. Ixxviii, 51, (V. d. Booght Dn—'bfiXn), 

which is also fouud in 2 cod'd. Kermic (No. 97, 133). 

(B. P.) 

Shara Malachai ( Yellow -bonnets), the party of 
Lamaites who reject the Bogdo-Lama (chief of the 
Red-bonnets) and recognise the Dalai-Lama alone as 
an infallible spiritual head. 


SI-IARAB 


619 


SHARON' 


Sharab. See Mirage. 

Sha'rai [many Shar'a'i. some Shara'T] (Heb. Sha- 
ray “H’J, releaser ; Sept. Sapiou v. r. ’Apov), one of t he 
“sons” of Bani, who had married strange wives after 
the captivity (Ezra x, 40). B.C. eir. 457. 

Shara'i'm (Josh, xv, 30). See Siiaaraim. 

Sha'rar (Heb. Sharar ', ‘VT^, strong ; Sept. ’Apai 
v. r. Sapcip), the father of Ahiam the Ilararite, one of 
David’s mighty men (2 Sam. xxiii,33). B.C. cir. 1040. 
In the parallel passage (1 Chron. xi, 35) he is called 
Sacar, which is, perhaps, the better reading (Kenni- 
cott, Dissert, p. 203). See David. 

Sharasandha, in Hindu mythology, was a power- 
ful king who ruled over the entire southern part of In- 
dia, and the most dangerous enemy of Krishna, with 
whom he disputed the sovereignty in seventeen battles 
and in a duel. 

Share is the rendering in 1 Sam. xiii, 20 of 
r’lnrr?, macharesheth (from IT jH, to scrutch or cut), 
an agricultural instrument requiring to be sharpened; 
probably the iron point of that part of the plough 
which entered the ground. See Mattock. 

Share'zer (Heb. Share'tser, Persian for 

prince of fire ; Sept. 'Zapaoap v, r. Sapaaci), the name 
of two men. 

1. A son of Sennacherib (q. v.). who, with his brother 
Adrammeleeh, murdered their father in the house of 
the god Nisroch (2 Kings xix, 37 ; Isa. xxxvii, 38). 
B.C. post 711. “Moses of Chorene calls him Sanasnr , 
and says that he was favorably received by the Ar- 
menian king to whom he tied, and given a tract of 
country on the Assyrian frontier, where his descendants 
became very numerous ( Hist . Armen, i, 22). lie is not 
mentioned as engaged in the murder, either by Poly- 
histor or Abydenus, who both speak of Adrammeleeh” 
(Smith). 

2. A messenger sent along with Begem - melech 
(q. v.), in the fourth year of Darius, by the people who 
had returned from the captivity to inquire concerning 
fasting in the fifth month (Zcch. vii. 2, A.V. “Shere- 
zer”). B.C.5I9. 

Shariver, in Persian mythology, is one of the sev- 
en good spirits created by Ormuzd to make war on 
Ahriman,and who had control over metals. 

Sha'ron (Heb. Sharon ', a plain ; Sept, usual- 
ly 'Zapio v [comp. Acts ix, 35], the name, ap- 

parently, of three places in Palestine. See also Siia- 
ronite. (In the treatment of these we avail ourselves, 
in part, of the article in Smith’s Dictionary!) 

1. The district along the Mediterranean is that com- 
monly referred to under this distinctive title. See also 
Sakon. 

I. The Name. — This has invariably, when referring 
to this locality (1 Chron. xxvii, 29; Cant, ii, 1; Isa. 
xxxiii,9, xxxv, 2; lxv, 10), the definite article, “^>‘11, 
hash-Shurim; and this is represented, likewise, in the 
Sept, renderings o Raptor, 6 SpvpoQ, to 7rtcioi>. Two 
singular variations of this are found in the Vat. INIS. 
(Mai), viz. I Chron. v, 1G, Teptctp ; and xxvii, 29, ’Aur- 
Siov< where the A is a remnant of the Hebrew definite 
article. It is worthy of remark that a more decided 
trace of the Hebrew article appears in Acts ix,35, where 
some MSS. have ’Aa< rapiova. The Lasharon (q. v.) of 
Josh, xii, 18, which some scholars consider to be Sharon 
with a preposition prefixed, appears to be more probably 
correctly given in the A. V. The term thus appears to 
be denominative of a peculiar place, like “the Arabali,” 
“ the Shephelah,” “ the Cieear,” “ the Pisgah,” etc. See 
Topographical Terms. 

Sharon is derived by Gcscnius (Thesanr. p. G42) from 
Tl3^, to be straight or even — the root, also, of M ishor, the 
name of a district east of Jordan. The application to it, 
however, by the Sept., by Josephus (.d nt. xv, 13, 3 ; War, 


i, 13, 2), and by Strabo (xvi, p. 758) of the name Apvpoq, 
or Apvpoi, “ woodland,” is singular. It does not seem 
certain that that term implies the existence of wood on 
the plain of Sharon. Belaud has pointed out (PaUest. 
p. 190) that the Saronieus Sinus, or Bay of Saron, in 
Greece, was so called (Pliny, //. A r . iv, 5) because of its 
woods, odpiovit; meaning an oak. Thus it is not im- 
possible that Apvpbg was used as an equivalent of the 
name Sharon, and was not intended to denote the pres- 
ence of oaks or woods on the spot. May it not be a 
token that the original meaning of Saron, or Sharon, is 
not that which its received Hebrew root would imply, 
and that it has perished except in this one instance? 
The Alexandrine Jews who translated the Sept, are not 
likely to have known much either of the Saronic Gulf 
or of its connection with a rare Greek word. The thick- 
ets and groves of the region are proverbial (see below). 

2. Description. — According to Acts ix, 15, this district 
was the level region adjacent to Lvdda. Eusebius and 
Jerome ( Onomast . s. v. “ Saron”), under the name of Sa- 
ronas , specify it as the region extending from Caesarea 
to Joppa. This is corroborated by Jerome in his com- 
ments on the three passages in Isaiah, in one of which 
(on lxv, 10) he appears to extend it as far south as Jam- 
nia. He .elsewhere (Comm, on Isa. xxxv, 2) character- 
izes it in words which admirably portray its aspects 
even at the present : “Omnis igitur candor [the white 
sand-hills of the coast], cultus Dei [the wide crops of the 
finest eorn],et eireumcisionis scientia [the well-trimmed 
plantations], et loca uberrima et eanipestria [the long 
gentle swells of rich red and black earth], qua? appellau- 
tur Saron.” It is that broad, rich tract of land which 
lies between the mountains of the central part of the 
Holy Land and the Mediterranean — the northern con- 
tinuation of the Shephelah. From the passages above 
cited we gather that it was a place of pasture for cattle, 
where the royal herds of David grazed (l Chron. xxvii, 
29): the beauty of which was as generally recognised 
as that of Carmel itself (Isa. xxxv, 2), and the desola- 
tion of which would be indeed a calamity (xxxiii, 9), 
and its re-establishment a symbol of the highest pros- 
perity (lxv, 10). The rose of Sharon (q. v.). was a sim- 
ile for all that a lover would express (Cant, ii, 1). Add 
to these slight traits the indications contained in the 
renderings of the Sept., ro Trediov, “the plain,” and 6 
fipvgoQ, “ the wood,” and we have exhausted all that 
we can gather from the Bible of the characteristics of 
Sharon. There are occasional allusions to wood in the 
description of the events which occurred in this district 
in later times. Thus, in the chronicles of the Crusades, 
the “Forest of Saron” was the scene of one of the most 
romantic adventures of Richard (Michaud, Histoire, viii); 
the “Forest of Assur” (i. e. Arsuf) is mentioned by Yini- 
sauf (iv, 1G). To the south-east of Kaisariyeh there is 
still “a dreary wood of natural dwarf pines and entan- 
gled bushes” (Thomson, Land and Book, ch. xxxiii). 
The orchards and palm-groves round Jimzu, Lydd, and 
Eamleh, and the dense thickets o (ilum in the neighbor- 
hood of the two last, as well as the mulberry plantations 
in the valley of the Aujeh, a few miles from Jaffa — an 
industry happily increasing everyday — show how easi- 
ly wood might be maintained by care and cultivation 
(see Stanley, Sinai and Pal. p. 12G0, note). It was fa- 
mous for Saronite wine (Mishna, Sid da, ii, 7, comp. 
Chilaim, it, G), for roses, anciently (Mariti, Voyage, p. 
350; Chateaubriand, Trav. ii, 55, comp. Eussegger, iii, 
201, 287) as well as now (Thomson, Land and Hook, ti, 
2G9). In its midst, between Lvdda and Arsuf, accord- 
ing to some, lay the village of Sharon (see Mariti, Joe. 
cit.), once a city, (This is meant, perhaps, in Josh, xii, 
18, Acts ix, 35.) But later travellers do not mention it, 
and it is not certain that the passages adduced refer to 
a city. There are many villages still on the plain 
(Berggren, Reis, iii, 1G2). The district has lost much 
of its ancient fertility, but it is yet good pasture land; 
there are still flocks to be found grazing on it, though 
few in comparison with former days. Like the plain of 


SHARONITE 


620 


SHARP 


Esdraelon, Sharon is very much, we might say entirely, 
deserted. Around Jaffa, indeed, it is well cultivated, 
and as you move northward from that town you are 
encompassed with groves of orange, olive, fig, lemon, 
pomegranate, and palm ; the fragrance is delicious, al- 
most oppressive. But farther north, save in a few rich 
spots, you find but little cultivation. Yet over all the 
undulating waste your eye is refreshed by the profusion 
of wild flowers scattered everywhere. Like many of 
the spots famed anciently for beauty and fertility, it 
only gives indications of what it might become (see 
Porter, I hind-book for Pal . p. 380). 

2. The Sharon of 1 Chron. v. 16 is distinguished from 
the western plain by not having the article attached to 
its name. It is also apparent from the passage itself 
that it was some district on the east of Jordan in the 
neighborhood of Gilead and Bashan (see Bacliicne, II, iii, 
233). Reland objects to this (Palast. p. 371), but on in- 
sufficient grounds. The expression “suburbs” (^w^t'C) 
is in itself remarkable. The name has not been met 
with in that direction, and the only approach to an ex- 
planation of it is that of Prof. Stanley ( Sinai and Pal . 
App. § 7), that Sharon may here be a synonym for the 
Mishor — a word, probably, derived from the same root, 
describing a region with some of the same characteris- 
tics and attached to the pastoral plains east of the Jor- 
dan. 

3. Another Sharon is pointed out by Eusebius (?it 
sup.) in North Palestine, between Tabor and the Sea of 
Tiberias; and l)opke would understand this to be meant 
in Cant, ii, 1, because this book so often refers to the 
northern region of the Jordan. But this is very doubt- 
ful. 

Sha'ronite (Ileb. Sharoni ', ‘'p’VYr, a Gentile adj. 
from Sharon ; Sept. "Sapioviriic), the designation (1 
Chron. xxvii, 29) of Shitrai, David's chief herdsman in 
the plain of Sharon, where he of course resided. 

Sharp, Daniel, D.D., a Baptist preacher, was born 
at Huddersfield, Yorkshire, England, Dec. 25, 1783. lie 
was the son of a Baptist preacher and received early re- 
ligious training. He originally joined an Independent 
Church , but subsequently, as the result of inquiry and 
conviction, became a Baptist. Engaged in a large com- 
mercial house in Yorkshire, he came to the United 
States as their agent, arriving in New York Oct. 4, 
1805. He soon decided to enter the ministry, and be- 
gan his theological studies under Rev. Dr. Stoughton, 
of Philadelphia, lie was set apart as pastor of the 
Baptist Church at Newark, N. J., May 17, 1809; and 
was publicly recognised as pastor of the Third Church, 
Boston, April 20, 1812. lie became an active member 
of the Massachusetts Baptist Missionary Society; was 
for several years associate editor of the A merican Bap- 
tist Magazine; and upon the formation of the “Society 
for the Propagation of the Gospel in India,” he, as its 
secretary, conducted the correspondence. For many 
years he was president of the acting board of the Gen- 
eral Convention of the Baptist denomination; and in 
1814 was one of the originators of an association which 
resulted in the Northern Baptist Education Society. 
He was closely identified with the origin of the Newton 
Theological Seminary, and was for eighteen years presi- 
dent of its board of trustees. In 1828 he was chosen a 
fellow of Brown University, and held the office till the 
close of his life. He received his degree of D.I). from 
Harvard University in 1828, of whose board of offi- 
cers he was appointed a member in 1 S 16. lie died in 
Baltimore, dune 23, 1852. Mr. Sharp published seven- 
teen Sermons and Discourses (1824-52): — also Pccogni- 
tion of Friends in Heaven (4 editions) : — and a Tribute 
of Respect to Mr. Ensign Lincoln (1832). See Sprague, 
Annals of the Amer. Pulpit , vi, 565. 

Sharp, David, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born in New Jersey Sept. 5, 1787, and 
removed with his parents to Virginia, and in 1800 to 


Logan County, O. Of Quaker parentage, he united with 
the Methodist Episcopal Church in 1807, and in 18 i 0 he 
was licensed to preach. He entered the Ohio Confer- 
ence in September, 1813, and in 1819 was transferred to 
the Missouri Conference, where he served five years as 
presiding elder. In 1825 he was transferred to the new- 
ly organized Pittsburgh Conference, in which he labored 
twenty-four years; and was then (1849) transferred 
back to the Ohio Conference. Upon its division (1852) 
he fell into the Cincinnati Conference, and in 1860 re- 
ceived a superannuated relation. He died April 21, 
1865. Mr. Sharp was an efficient, acceptable, and suc- 
cessful minister. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 
1865, p. 162. 

Sharp, Elias C., a Presbyterian minister, was born 
in Willington, Conn., March 18, 1814. He was left an 
orphan in early years, but by patient effort was able to 
attend Amherst College, where he graduated; studied 
divinity in the Western Reserve Theological Seminary, 
Hudson, O.; was licensed by Cleveland Presbytery Sept. 
1, 1840; and ordained by Portage Presbytery, June 1, 
1842, as pastor of the First Congregational Church of 
Atwater, Portage Co., O. This was his only charge. 
Here he labored for a quarter of a century, and died Jan. 
5, 1867. Mr. Sharp possessed ability, both natural and 
acquired. As a minister he was eminently successful; 
and while pastor of his only charge, nearly two hundred 
connected themselves with the Church of God. See 
Wilson, Prcsb. Hist . Almanac, 1868, p. 226. (J. L. S.) 

Sharp, Granville, a Christian philanthropist and 
writer, was born in 1734. He was educated for the bar, 
but, leaving the legal profession, he obtained a place 
in the Ordnance Office, which he resigned at the com- 
mencement of the American war, the principles of 
which he did not approve. He then took chambers 
in the Temple, and devoted himself to a life of study, 
lie first became known to the public by his interest in 
a poor and friendless negro brought from the West In- 
dies, and turned out in the streets of London to beg or 
die. Sharp befriended the negro, not only feeding him 
and securing him a situation, but also defending him 
against his master, who wished to reclaim him as a run- 
away slave. But the decision of the full bench was 
with Sharp, that the negro was under the protection 
of English law and no longer the property of his for- 
mer owner. Thus Sharp emancipated forever the blacks 
from slavery while on British soil, and, in fact, banish- 
ed slavery from Great Britain. lie now collected a 
number of other negroes found wandering about the 
streets of London and sent them back to the West In- 
dies, where they formed the colony of Sierra Leone, 
lie was also the institutor of the “Society for the Aboli- 
tion of the Slave-trade.” Sharp was led to oppose the 
practice of marine impressment; and on one occasion ob- 
tained a writ of habeas corpus from the Court of King’s 
Bench to bring back an impressed citizen from a vessel 
at the Nore, and by his arguments obliged the court to 
liberate him. He became the warm advocate of “par- 
liamentary reform,” arguing the people’s natural right 
to a share in the legislature. Warmly attached to the 
Established Church, he was led to recommend an Epis- 
copal Church in America, and introduced the first bish- 
ops from this country to the archbishop of Canterbury 
for consecration. Sharp died July 6, 1813. He was 
an able linguist, deeply read in theology, pious and 
devout, lie published sixty- one works, principally 
pamphlets upon theological and political subjects and 
the evils of slavery. The following are the most im- 
portant : Remarks on a Printed Paper entitled a Cata- 
logue of the Sacred Vessels restored bp Cyrus, etc. (Loud. 
1765, 1775, 8vo): — Remarks on Several very Important 
Prophecies (1768, 1775, 8vo, 5 parts) : — Slavery in Eng- 
land (1769, 8vo; with appendix, 1772, 8vo) : — Declara- 
tion of the People's Natural Rights, etc. (1774, 1775, 
8vo): — Remarks on the Uses of the Definite Article in 
the Greek Text of the New Testament (Durham, 1798, 


SHARP 


G21 


SHARPE 


8vo ; 2d ed. with an appendix on Christ’s divinity, 1802, [ 
12mo) : — On Babylon (1805, 12mo) : — Case of Saul 
(1807, 12mo) : — Jerusalem (1808, 8vo). See Hoare, 
Memoirs and Correspondence of Orannlle Sharp (1820, 
4to: 2d ed. 1828, 2 vols. 8vo); Stuart, Memoirs of Gran- 
ville Sharp (N. Y. 1830, 12mo). 

Sharp, James, archbishop of St. Andrew’s, was the 
son of William Sharp, sheriff-clerk of Banffshire, and 
was born in the castle of Banff, May, 1018. lie was 
educated for the Church at the University of Aber- 
deen. but on account of the Scottish Covenant retired 
to England in 1038. Returning to Scotland, he was 
appointed professor of philosophy at St. Andrew’s, 
through the influence of the earl of Rothes, and soon 
after minister of Crail. In 1050 he was chosen by the 
moderate party in the Church to plead their cause be- 
fore the Protector against the Rev. Janies Guthrie, a 
leader of the extreme section (the Protestors, or Eemon- 
strators). Upon the eve of the Restoration Sharp was 
appointed by the moderate party to act as its represent- 
ative in the negotiations opened up with Monk and 
the king. In this matter he is believed to have acted 
with perfidy, receiving as a compensation, after the 
overthrow of Presbyterian government by Parliament, 
the archbishopric of St. Andrew’s, to which he was for- 
mally consecrated at London by the bishop of London 
and three other prelates. 11 is government of the Scot- 
tish Church was tyrannical and oppressive, and, in con- 
sequence, he became an object of hatred and contempt. 
He had a servant, one Carmichael, who by his cruelty had 
rendered himself particularly obnoxious to the Presby- 
terians. Nine men formed the resolution of waylaying 
the servant in Magus Muir, about three miles from St. 
Andrew’s. While they were there waiting, Sharp ap- 
peared in a coach with his daughter, and was imme- 
diately despatched despite her tears and entreaties, 
May 3, 1070. In defence of Sharp, the utmost that 
can be said is that he was simply an ambitious ec- 
clesiastic who had no belief in the “divine right” of 
Presbytery, and who thought that if England were re- 
solved to remain Episcopalian it would be very much 
better if Scotland would adopt the same form of Church 
government. 

Sharp, John, D.D., an English prelate, was born 
at Bradford, Yorkshire, 1044. He was admitted to 
Christ College, Cambridge, from which he graduated in 
December, 1003. In 1007 he took the degree of M.A., 
was ordained both deacon and priest, and became do- 
mestic chaplain to Sir lleneage Finch, through whose 
influence he was appointed, in 1072, archdeacon of 
Berkshire. Three years later he was preferred to a 
prebend of Norwich, to the rectory of St. Bartholo- 
mew’s, Royal Exchange, London, and to the rectory of 
St. Giles’s in the Fields. In 1079 he took the degree 
of D.L). and accepted the lectureship at St. Lawrence 
Jury, which he resigned in 1683. lie was promoted 
by Sir H. Finch to the deanery of Norwich in 1081. 
Because of the firm position he took, May 2, 1080, 
against popery, he was suspended, but was reinstated in 
January, 1087. lie was installed dean of Canterbury, 
Nov. 25, 1089, and was consecrated archbishop of York, 
July 5, 1091. On the accession of queen Anne, Mr. 
Sharp became a member of her privy council and her 
lord almoner. He died at Bath, Feb. 2, 1714. Bishop 
Sharp was a man of amiable disposition and unshaken 
integrity, a faithful and vigilant governor. He pub- 
lished a number of separate sermons which were col- 
lected into 7 vols. 8vo, 1709; also 1715, 1728, 1729, 1735, 
1749, and in 7 vols. 12mo in 1754 and 1750. They 
were republished under title of lUorAvj (Oxford, 1829, 
5 vols. 8vo). See his Life , by Thomas Sharp, l).l). 
(Loud. 1825, 2 vols. 8vo). 

Sharp, John MClnre, a minister of the Metho- 
dist Episcopal Church, was born in Rush County, Bid., 
1825, and united with the Church in 1841. lie re- 
ceived license to preach in 1854, and was admitted into 


the South-eastern Indiana Conference in 18G0. In 
1805 he was obliged to retire from the work, and Sept. 
15, 1806, he died. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 
I860, p. 204. 

Sharp, Lionel, D.D., an English clergyman, was 
chaplain to Henry, l’rince of Wales; also rector of Mal- 
pas, minister of Tiverton, and in 1005 archdeacon of 
Berks. He died in 1030. II is published works are, 
Oratio Funebris in lion . Hen. Wall. Principis (Loud. 
1012,4to) : — Xovum Fidei Symbolnm , sire de No vis (1012, 
4to) ; Speculum Pique, etc, (1012, 4to) ; Nos. 2 and 3 were 
translated into English and published under the title 
of A Lookiny-ylass for the Pope (1023, 4to). lie also 
published a Sermon (1003, 8vo): — and other sermons. 
See Bliss’s Wood’s Fasti Oxon. i, 385 ; also Allibone, 
Did. of Brit . and A mer . A uthors , s. v. 

Sharp, Samuel M., a missionary of the Presby- 
terian Church, was born in West Middletown, Pa., Nov. 
23, 1834. He received a thorough Christian training 
at the hands of his parents, graduated at Jefferson Col- 
lege, Pa., in 1855, and at the Western Theological Sem- 
inary at Allegheny City, Pa., in 1858, was licensed and 
ordained as an evangelist in the spring of the same 
year, and sailed for Bogota, South America, June 18, 
1858. Arriving there July 20, he at once commenced 
his great life-work. 1 1 is wife (being the daughter of 
Rev. Jesse M. Jamieson, one of the missionaries to In- 
dia) was his helpmeet and adviser, and their prospects 
for eminent usefulness were indeed bright; but in the 
midst of their labors he Avas taken ill with fever, and 
died at the mission-house in Bogota, Oct. 30, 1800. Mr, 
Sharp was a good man and a devoted missionary, of 
earnest and consistent piety. Sec Wilson, Presb. Hist. 
Almanac , 1802, p. 117. (J. L. S.) 

Sharp, Solomon, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Carolina County, Md., 
April 0, 1771. His parents were pioneer Methodists. In 
1791, when about twenty years old, he began to travel 
“under the presiding elder.” In 1792 he was admitted to 
the conference and sent to Milford Circuit, Del. ; and 
he continued in the service, occupying almost all im- 
portant appointments in New Jersey, Delaware, and 
Pennsylvania down to 1835, when he was reported su- 
perannuated. lie died at Smyrna, Del., March 13, 1836. 
Mr. Sharp was an original, an eccentric, but a mighty 
man. “ His sermons were powerful, and delivered with 
a singular tone of authority, as if he were conscious of 
his divine commission.” lie was noted for his courage, 
and it is believed that he was hardly capable of feeling 
fear. See Minutes of Conferences, ii, 409; Stevens, 1 list, 
of the M. K. Church , iii, *413-415; Sprague, Annals of 
the A mer . Pulpit , vii, 217; Manship, Thirteen Years in 
the Itinerancy , p. 49; Simpson, Cyclopaedia of Method- 
ism, s. v. (J. L. S.) 

Sharp, Thomas, a vonnger son of John Sharp 
(q. v.), and also an English prelate, was born in 1093, 
entered 'Trinity College, Cambridge, 1708, and took his 
B.A. in 1712 and M.A. in 1710. He was a fellow of the 
college, and took the degree of D.L). in 1729. At first 
chaplain to archbishop Dawes, lie was, July, 1720, col- 
lated to the rectory of Rothburv, Northumberland. He 
held the prebend of South well, and afterwards that of 
Wistow, in York Cathedral, and in 1722 he became arch- 
deacon of Northumberland. In 1755 he succeeded Dr. 
Mangey in the officiality of the dean and chapter. lie 
died March 6, 1758, and was interred in Durham Cathe- 
dral. He published a Concio ad Clerutn when he took 
his doctor’s degree:— The Rubric in the Book of Com- 
mon Prayer (1753): — Sermons (1703, 8 vo): — Two Dis- 
sertations on the Hebrew Words Flohim and Berith (1751, 
8vo). See Chalmers, Bioy. Diet. s. v. 

Sharpe, Gregory, D.D.,an English clergyman, was 
born in Yorkshire, in 17 13, and, after passing some time at 
the grammar-school of 1 lull, went to Westminster, where 
lie studied under Dr. Freintl ; but in 1731 he was settled 


SHARPNESS OF DEATH 


022 


SHAVEH 


with principal Blackwell in Aberdeen. Here he re- 
mained until he had finished his studies, when he re- 
turned to England, and in a few years entered into or- 
ders. He was appointed minister of the Broadway 
chapel, in which he continued till the death of Dr. 
Nieholls of the Temple, when he was declared the doc- 
tor’s successor, and in this station he continued until 
his death, which occurred in the Temple-house, Jan. 8, 
1771. His works were, a Defence of the late Dr. Sam- 
uel Clarke (Loud. 1774, 8 vo): — two Dissert at ions : Upon 
the Origin, etc., of Languages; and Upon the Original 
Powers of Letters (ibid. 1751, 8vo): — two Arguments 
in Defence of Christ ia nit g (ibid. 1755-G2, 8vo) : — The 
Rise and Fall of the llolg City and Temple of Jerusa- 
lem (ibid, 1765-GG. 8vo): — besides various Letters and 
Sermons. 

Sharpness of Death are, in the Te Deum , the 
pains and agonies suffered by the Iiedeemer on the 
cross, but which he overcame at his resurrection, God 
having raised him up, “ having loosed the pains of 
death, because it was not possible that he should be 
holden of it” (Acts ii, 24). 

Sharrock, Robert, an English clergyman, was 
born at Adstock, in Buckinghamshire, in the 17th cen- 
tury, and was sent from Winchester School to New Col- 
lege, Oxford, where he was admitted perpetual fellow in 
1640. In 1GG0 he took the degree of doctor of civil law, 
was prebendary and archdeacon of Winchester, and rec- 
tor of Bishop’s Waltham, in Hampshire. He died July 
1 1, 1G84, having the character of a good divine, civilian, 
an d lawyer. H is works are, History of the Propagation , 
etc., of 1 r egetables, etc. (Oxon. 1GGG and 1G72, Svo) : — Hy- 
pothesis de Ojjiciis secundum Humanee Rationis Die - 
fata , etc. (ibid. 1GG0, Svo, and 1G82) : — also ten sermons 
on the Ends of the Christian Religion (4to). See Chal- 
mers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Sliaru'hen [some Skar'uhen ] (Heb. Sharuchen ', 
•jr^-r, refuge of grace; Sept, dypoi avrmv [probably 
reading imE 1 ]), a town originally in Judah, after- 
wards set off to Simeon (Josh, xix, 6) ; hence in the 
Negeb, or “ south country.” See Judaii. It seems to be 
the same elsewhere called Siulhim (Josh, xv, 32), or 
Shaaraim (1 Chron. iv, 31), but probably by erroneous 
transcription, in the latter case at least. Knobel ( Exeg . 
JJandb. on Josh, xv, 32) suggests, as a probable identifi- 
cation, Tell SherVah , about ten miles west of Bir-es-Seba, 
at the head of Wady Sheri’ah (the “watering-place”). 
Wilton locates it near Kuhaibah (Ilehoboth), but his 
reasons are uncritical ( The Negeb , p. 217 sq.). See 
Simeon. 

Shashabigna, in Hindu mythology, is a surname 
of Buddha , denoting “ the possessor of the six sciences.” 

Sha'shai [many Shash'a'i, some Shasha'i] (Ileb. 
Shashay', whitish [Gesenins], or noble [Furst] ; 

Sept. S£cr€t)j one of the “ sons” of Bani who divorced his 
Gentile wife after the captivity (Ezra x, 40). B.C. 457. 
See SiiEsn ai. 

Sha'shak (Ileb. Shetshak', plSUJ, longing; Sept. 
Swrx/jK:)* a Benjamite, son of Beriah, descendant of El- 
paal, and lather of Ishpan and many others (1 Chron. 
viii, 14, 25). B.C. post 1618. 

Shastamuni,in Hindu mythology, is a surname of 
Buddha , signifying “the instructor of the Munis.” 

Shastava, in Hindu mythology, is a surname of 
Siva, denoting “ the avenger.” 

Shastras, or Shasters, The Great (from the 
Sanscrit sds, “ to teach”), the sacred books of the Hin- 
dis. They are all of them written in the Sanscrit lan- 
guage, ami believed to be of divine inspiration. They 
are usually reduced to four classes, which again are 
subdivided into eighteen heads. The first class consists 
of the four Vedas, which are accounted the most ancient 
and the most sacred compositions. The second class 
consists of the four Upa-vedas, or sub-Scriptures, and 


the third class of the six Ved-angas , or bodies of learn- 
ing. The fourth class consists of the four Up-angas , or 
appended bodies of learning. The first of these embraces 
the eighteen Puranas, or sacred poems. Besides the Pu- 
ranas, the first Up-anga comprises the Rametydna and 
Mahabhdrata. The second and third Up-angas consist of 
the principal works on logic and metaphysics. The fourth 
and last Up-anga consists of the body of law, in eighteen 
books, compiled by Manu, the son of Brahma, and other 
sacred personages. — Gardner, Faiths of the World , s. v. 

Shatrani, in Hindu mythology, was the wife of the 
man Shutri, or Kshetri, whom Brahma formed out of 
his right arm, and who became the ancestor of the 
Kshetri, or warrior caste. Shatrani was created by 
Brahma out of his left arm. 

Sha'iil (Ileb. ShaiiT, ashed; Sept. SaouX), 

the name of three men thus designated in the A. Y. 
For others, see Saul. 

1. The son of Simeon by a Canaanitish woman (Gen. 
xlvi. 10; Exod. vi, 15; Numb, xxvi, 13; 1 Chron. iv, 
24), and founder of the family of the Shaulites. B.C. 
cir. 1880. The Jewish traditions identify him with 
Zimri, “ who did the work of the Canaanites in Shittim” 
(Targ. Pseudo- Jon. on Gen. xlvi). — Smith. 

2 . Shaul of Behoboth by the river was one of the 
kings of Edom, and successor ofSamlah (1 Chron. i,48, 
49). In the A. V. of Gen. xxxvi, 37 he is less accurately 
called Saul (q. v.). 

3 . A Kohathite, son of Uzziah (1 Chron. vi, 24). B.C. 
cir. 1030. 

Sha'ulite (Heb. Shaiili , ; Sept. Sooi/Xi). a 

designation of the descendants of Shaul 1 (Numb, xxvi, 
13). 

Sha'veh (Heb. Shaveh', plain ; Sept. Souq 
v. r. 'S.avipr and So/35; Vulg. Sare), a name found thus 
alone in Gen. xiv, 17 only, as that of a place where the 
king of Sodom met Abraham. It occurs also in the name 
Shavehkiriathaim (q. v). The Samar. Codex inserts the 
article, iYlttril; but the Samaritan Version has n;s*2. 
The Targum of Onkelos gives the same equivalent, but 
with a curious addition, “the plain of Mefana, which is 
the king’s place of racing,” recalling the \7nro^popog so 
strangely inserted by the Sept, in Gen. xlviii, 7. It is one 
of those archaic names with which this venerable chap- 
ter abounds — such as Bela. En-mishpat, Ham, Ilazezon- 
tamar — so archaic that many of them have been eluci- 
dated by the insertion of their more modern equivalents 
in the body of the document by a later but still very 
ancient hand. If the signification of Shaveh be “ val- 
ley,” as both Gesenius and Fiirst assert, then its extreme 
antiquity is involved in the very expression “ the Emek- 
sliavch,” which shows that the word had ceased to be 
intelligible to the writer, who added to it a modern word 
of the same meaning with itself. It is equivalent to 
such names as “Puente de Alcantara,” “the Greesen 
Steps,” etc., where the one part of the name is a mere 
repetition or translation of the other, and which cannot 
exist till the meaning of the older term is obsolete. lit 
the present case the explanation does not throw any 
very definite light upon the locality of Shaveh : “The 
valley of Shaveh, that is the valley of the king”, (xiv, 
17). True, the “ valley of the king” is mentioned again 
in 2 Sam. xviii, 18 as the site of a pillar set up by Ab- 
salom; but this passage again conveys no clear indica- 
tion of its position, and it is by no means certain that 
the two passages refer to the same spot. The extreme 
obscurity in which the whole account of Abraham’s 
route from Damascus is involved has already been no- 
ticed under Salem. A notion has long been prevalent 
that the pillar of Absalom is the well-known pyramidal 
structure which forms the northern member of the 
group of monuments at the western foot of Olivet. This 
is apparently first mentioned by Benjamin of Tiulela 
(A.I>. 11 GO), and next by Maundeville (1323), and is 
perhaps originally founded on the statement of Josephus 


SH A YE H-KI R I ATI I AIM 


623 


SIIAW 


(Ant. vii, 10,3) that Absalom erected (7<r r//<c€) a column 
(tm/X//) of marble (XiSou pappapivov) at a distance of 
two stadia from Jerusalem. But neither the spot nor 
the structure of the so-called “Absalom’s tomb” agrees 
either with this description or with the terms of 2 Sam. 
xviii, IS. The “ valley of the king” was an Emek — that 
is, a broad, open valley, having few or no features in 
common with the deep, rugged ravine of the Ivedron, 
unless, perhaps, in its lower part. See Valley. The 
pillar of Absalom — which went by the name of “Absa- 
lom’s hand” — was set up, erected (-SP), according to 
Josephus, in marble, while the lower existing part of 
the monument (which alone has any pretension to great 
antiquity) is a monolith not erected, but excavated out 
of the ordinary limestone of the hill, and almost exactly 
similar to the so-called “tomb of Zechariah,” the second 
from it on the south. Yet even this cannot claim any 
very great age, since its Ionic capitals and the orna- 
ments of the frieze speak with unfaltering voice of Ro- 
man art. — Smith. Nevertheless, in the absence of any 
better indication, we are perhaps warranted in holding 
this traditionary location. See King’s Dale. 

Sha'veh-kiriatha'im (Heb. Shavek' Kiryatha'- 
yim , HYj, plain of the double city ; Sept. Yam) 

y 7rdXtc), a plain at or near the city of Kiriathaim, oc- 
cupied by the Emim at the time of Chedorlaomer’s in- 
vasion (Gen. xiv, 5). Schwarz finds the town (which 
is known to have been located east of the Jordan) in 
the ruins of Kiridt , one and a half mile south-west from 
Mount Atara ( Palest . p, 228), and the dale, or Shaveh 
(q. v.), must have been in the immediate vicinity. See 
Ivir.tathaim. 

Shaving (properly Zvpduo). The ancient 

Egyptians were the only Oriental nation who objected 
to wearing the beard. Hence, when Pharaoh sent to 
summon Joseph from his dungeon, we find it record- 
ed that the patriarch “shaved himself” (Gen. xli, 14). 
Shaving was therefore a remarkable custom of the 
Egyptians, in which they were distinguished from other 
Oriental nations, who carefully cherished the beard, and 
regarded the loss of it as a deep disgrace. That this 
was the feeling of the Hebrews is obvious from many 
passages (see especially 2 Sam. x, 4); but here Joseph 
shaves himself in conformity with an Egyptian usage, 
of which this passage conveys the earliest intimation, 
but which is confirmed not only by the subsequent ac- 
counts of Greek and Roman writers, but by the ancient 
sculptures and paintings of Egypt, in which the male 
figure is usually beardless. It is true that in sculptures 
some heads have a curious rectangular beard, or rather 
beard-case attached to the chin; but this is proved to 
be an artificial appendage bv the same head being rep- 
resented sometimes with and at other times without it, 
and still more by the appearance of a baud which passes 
along the jaws and attaches it to the cap on the head 
or to the hair. It is concluded that this appendage was 
never actually worn, but was used in sculpture to indi- 
cate the male character. See Beard. 

The practice of shaving the beard and hair, and some- 
times the whole body, was observed among the Hebrew's 
only under extraordinary circumstances. The Levites 
on the day of their consecration, mid the lepers at their 
purification, shaved all the hair off their bodies (Numb, 
viii, 7; Lev. xiv, 8, 9). A woman taken prisoner in 
war, w'hen she married a Jew, shaved the hair off' her 
head (Deut. xxii, 12). and the Hebrews geuerallv. and 
also the nations bordering on Palestine, shaved them- 
selves when they mourned, and in times of great calam- 
ity, whether public or private (Isa. vii, 20; xv, 2; Jer. 
xli, 5; xl viii, 37; Bar. vi, 30). God commanded the 
priests not to cut their hair or beards in their mourn- 
ings (Lev. xxi, 5). It may be proper to observe that, 
among the most degrading of punishments for women [ 
is the loss of their hair; and the apostle hints at this 
(I Cor. xi, G): “If it be a shame for a woman to be I 
shorn or shaven,” etc. See Hair. I 


Modern Orientals shave the head alone, and that 
only in the case of settled residents in towns (Van Len- 
nep, Bible Lands , p. 517). See Barber. 

SHAVING. In the early Church the clergy were 
exhorted to a decent mean in dress and habits. Thus, 
for instance, long hair and baldness, by shaving the 
head or beard, being then generally reputed indecencies 
in contrary extremes, the clergy were obliged to ob- 
serve a becoming mediocrity between them. This is 
the meaning, according to its true reading, of that con- 
troverted canon of the fourth Council of Carthage, 
which says that a clergyman shall neither indulge long 
hair, nor shave his beard : “ Clericus nee comam nu- 
triat, nec barbam radat.” Sidonius Apollinaris (lib. iv, 
ep. 24) describes his friend Maximus Palatinns, a cler- 
gyman, as having his hair short and his beard long. 
Shaving of the monks was performed at certain fixed 
times, the razors being kept in an ambry close to the 
entrance to the dormitory (Bingham, Christ. A ntiqui- 
ties, VI, iv, 15). Eustathius, the heretic, -was for having 
all virgins shorn or shaven at their consecration, but 
the Council of Gangra immediately rose up against him 
and anathematized the practice, passing a decree in 
these words: “If any woman, under pretence of an as- 
cetic life', cut off her hair, which God hath given her 
for a memorial of subjection, let her be anathema, as 
one that disannuls the decree of subjection.” Theodo- 
sius the Great added a civil sanction to confirm the ec- 
clesiastical decree. — Bingham, A ntiquities of the Chris- 
tian Church , VII, iv, 6. See Tonsure. 

Shaving -man, the officer — frequently a door- 
keeper, as at St. Mary Magdalen College, Oxford — 
whose duty it was to shave the beards of the clerics in 
a college or religious house. 

Shav'slia (Heb. Shavsha', nobility [Fiirst] ; 

Sept. Soiurd v. r. Soi»c, and even ’I //trout;), the royal 
secretary in the reign of David (I Chron. xviii, 1G). 
He is apparently the same with Serai ah (2 Sam. viii, 
17), who is called Sacra by Josephus (*4«f. vii, 5, 4), and 
Nacrd in the Vat. MS. of the Sept. Shisha is the read- 
ing of two MSS. and of the Targum in 1 Chron. xviii, 
1G. In 2 Sam. xx, 25 he is called Sheva, and in 1 
Kings iv, 3 Suikiia. 

Shaw, Addison C., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born about 1814, and united with 
the Church when fourteen years of age. He was licensed 
as a local preacher when twenty -four years old, and joined 
the Michigan Conference, becoming a member of the 
Detroit Conference at its formation. He died at Ypsi- 
lanti, Dee. 21, 1875. See Minutes of Annual Confer- 
ences , 187G, p. 100. 

Shaw, Jacob, a minister of the Methodist Episco- 
pal Church, entered the New York Conference in 1831, 
and occupied various stations and circuits in that and 
the New York East Conference. In 1858 lie retired 
from itinerancy, but continued to preach as his strength 
would permit. He died at his residence in Redding, 
Conn., in April, 18G1. He was a man of superior mind 
and large information, and a preacher of great accept- 
ability. See M mutes of A nnu a l Conferences , 1 8G2, p. 8 1 . 

Shaw, John (1), an English clergyman, was born 
at Bedlington, Durham, England, and entered Brascnose 
College, Oxford, in 1G29, aged fifteen years. He was 
instituted rector of W halt on, Northumberland, in 1645, 
but was not admitted until 1GGI. In the interval he 
served the church of Bolton, Craven, Yorkshire. lie 
died in 1G89. llis works are, Ao Reformation of the 
Established Reformation (Loud. 1685, 8vo) : — Portrai- 
ture of the Primitive Saints (4to) : — Oriyo Protestantium 
(ibid. 1G77, 4to). 

Shaw, John (2), a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was born in "Waterford, Me., Feb. 12, 1800, was licensed 
as a local preacher in 1821, commenced travelling on 
Livermore Circuit, and in June, 1822, was admitted on 
trial in the travelling connection and appointed to St. 


SIIAAV 


624 


SHAW 


Croix Circuit, in 1823 to Bethel, and in 1824 to Buxton, 
where lie died, Aug. 20, 1825. He was a man of uni- 
form piety, strong in his attachment to the cause of 
God, and his praise as a preacher was in all the circuits 
where he labored. See Minutes of Conferences , i, 540; 
Bangs, Hist, of the M. K. Church, iii, 359. 

Shaw, John (3), a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born at Bristol, Ontario Co., N. Y., 
July 11, 1807, and united with the Church at the age 
of eighteen. He was received into the Genesee Con- 
ference in 1831, and ordained deacon in 1833 and elder 
in 1835. lie spent thirty-six years in the effective min- 
istry, was superannuated in 18(39, and died Jan. 16 of 
the same year at Himrods, Yates Co., N. Y. See Min- 
utes of Annual Conferences , 1869, p. 282. 

Shaw, John B., a Presbyterian minister, was born 
in Rutland, Yt., May 23, 1798. He graduated at Mid- 
dlebury College, Yt., studied theology with Rev. Charles 
Walker, and was licensed by the Rutland Congrega- 
tional Association. In 1824 he was ordained by Troy 
Presbytery, and installed pastor of the Congregational 
Church at South Hartford, Washington Co., N. Y., and 
subsequently preached as follows : North Granville, 
Washington Co.. N. Y. , Bethel; Utica, N. Y. , Congre- 
gational Church, Romeo, Alich. ; Norwalk, Conn.; a 
second time at South Hartford, N. Y. ; Presbyterian 
Church, Fort Ann, N. Y., as a missionary; Congrega- 
tional Church, Fairhaven, N. Y.; the Reformed Protes- 
tant Dutch Church, Buskirk’s Bridge, N. Y. ; and the 
Presbyterian Church at Stephentown, Rensselaer Co., 
N. Y. He died May 8, 1865. Mr. Shaw was a man of 
unusual Christian devotedness, “llis highly evangeli- 
cal mode of expressing truth, his eminently successful 
pastoral qualifications, and his Christian gentleness of 
spirit made him an exceedingly useful man in his day.” 
See Wilson, Presb. Hist. A Imunac , 1866, p. 224. (J. L. S.) 

Shaw, John D., a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, South, was born in Londonderry County, 
Ireland, about 1833, but he emigrated to this country, 
and joined the Methodist Church at Jackson, La., in Feb- 
ruary, 1851. He studied at Centenary College, Jackson, 
entered the ministry about 1852 or 1851, and died in 
Bolivar County, Miss.. Oct. 30, 1866. See Minutes of 
Annual Conferences of M. E. Church , South , 1866, p. 47. 

Shaw, John Knox, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Ireland, April 12, 1800, 
hut while an infant was brought to Washington County, 
N. Y. lie was licensed to preach Nov. 19, 1824, and 
was received on trial in the Philadelphia Conference in 
1825. llis active ministerial life lasted until 1858, dur- 
ing which he occupied many important stations, and 
also served as presiding elder. At the division of the 
Philadelphia Conference, lie became a member of the 
Newark Conference. He took an active part in the 
founding of the Pennington Seminary, Pennington, N.J., 
of which he was a trustee at the time of his death. He 
died at Newark, N. J., Oct. 4. 1858. See Minnies of An- 
nual Conferences , 1859; Simpson, Cyclop, of Method- 
ism, s. v. 

Shaw, Joseph, LL.D.. a minister of the Associate 
Church of America, was born in the parish of Rattray, 
Aberdeenshire, Scotland, Dec. 6, 1778. lie received his 
preparatory education in his native village, and entered 
the University of Edinburgh a little before he had com- 
pleted his thirteenth year. He graduated in 179L and 
immediately entered the Associate Divinity Hall at 
Whitburn, where he remained five years, and in 1799 
was licensed to preach. Application being made by 
the Walnut Street Church, Philadelphia, for a preacher, 
Mr. Shaw was appointed to the place, lie accepted 
the appointment, and commenced to serve that people 
in the fall of 1805. In 1809 his lungs became affected, 
and in 1810 he terminated his ministry in Philadelphia. 
In 1813 he became professor of languages in Dickinson 
College, and in 1815 accepted the similar professorship 
in the Albany Academy. In 1821 he was honored with 


the degree of LL.D. from Union College. He died in 
August, 1824. lie published a Sermon preached before 
the Albany Bible Society in 1820 (8vo); and his last ser- 
mon, The Gospel Call , was published shortly after his 
death, with a brief biographical notice. See Sprague, 
Annals of the Amer. Pulpit, ix, 85. 

Shaw, Levi, a minister of the Methodist Episco- 
pal Church, was born at Frankfort, Me., Sept. 4, 1822. 
lie received regenerating grace Nov. 17. 1842, and soon 
after united with the Clmrch. He obtained license as 
a local preacher in 1846, and in 1851 was received on 
trial in the East Maine Conference. He took, because 
of ill-health, a superannuated relation in 1860, and held 
it until bis death, at Newburyport, Mass., Aug. 17, 1867. 
After he had become superannuated, he still continued to 
labor for shorter or longer periods upon different, charges, 
and also served as a delegate of the Christian Commis- 
sion. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1868. p. 142. 

Shaw, Samuel, a learned Nonconformist, was 
born at Repton, Derbyshire, England, in 1635. At the 
age of fourteen lie entered St. John’s College, Cam- 
bridge. He was master of the Free School at Tam- 
worth in 1656, and in 1658 obtained a presentation from 
Cromwell to the rectory of Long Whatton, which he 
was deprived of about a year before the Act of Unifov- 
formitv. lie refused it afterwards on the condition of 
reordination, as lie would not declare his Presbyterian 
ordination invalid. In 1666 he was chosen master of 
the Free School at Asliby-de-la-Zouch. which position 
he retained until his death, Jan. 22, 1696. His works 
are, Immanuel, or a Discovery of True Religion (Lond. 
1667, 12mo) : — another edition, with memoir, etc. (Leeds, 
1804): — IPorcfa Made Visible, or Grammar and Rhetoric 
(1679, 8vo): — also several religious Tracts. 

Shaw, Samuel P., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in New Jersey, Nov. 6, 
1798, but was taken to Ohio when a child, his parents 
settling in Hamilton County. He was licensed to preach 
when abou-t twenty-two years old, and in 1825 was re- 
ceived on trial into the Ohio Conference, afterwards be- 
coming a member of the North Ohio Conference. For 
several years lie was a missionary among the Wyan- 
dots at Upper Sandusky, and also served as presiding 
elder on several districts. He retired from the pastoral 
work several years before his death, which occurred near 
Bucyrus, O., Ang. 19, 1875. See Minutes of Annual 
Conferences, 1875, p. 104. 

Shaw, Thomas, an English clergyman and trav- 
eller, was born at Kendal, Westmoreland, about 1692, 
and entered Queen’s College, Oxford, Oct. 5, 1711. lie 
took bis degree of bachelor of arts July 5, 1716, was 
made master of arts Jan. 16, 1719, went into orders, and 
became chaplain to the English factory at Algiers. 
Here he remained several years, spending much of his 
time in travelling. He was chosen fellow of his college 
March 16, 1727, and on his return to England (1733), 
took the degree of doctor of divinity. In 1740 he be- 
came principal of St. Edmund’s llall, and received also 
the living of Bramley, Hants. He was regius professor 
of Greek at Oxford till liis death, which occurred Ang. 
15, 1751. Mr. Shaw published, Travels, etc., in Barbary 
and the Levant (Oxf. 1738): — Vindication of the Above 
(Lond. 1757, 4 to), with supplement. See Alii bone, Diet. of 
Brit, and A mer. A uthors, s. v. ; dial mers, Bioy. Diet. s. v. 

Shaw, William C., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Yevay, huh, Oct. 2, 
1833. lie became a Christian when seventeen, and 
three years later entered Asbury University. In 1854 
he was licensed to preach, and in 1857 was received into 
the South-eastern Indiana Conference; but in 1859 he 
went to Minnesota, and entered the Minnesota Confer- 
ence. In 1863 lie was superannuated, but in 1864 re- 
sumed work, was again superannuated in 1872, made ef- 
fective in 1873, and appointed to Reed’s and Wabashaw, 
his last appointment. He died at Reed’s Landing, 


SHAWM 


625 


SHEAR-JASIIUB 


Minn.. Feb. 16, 1874. See Minutes of Annual Confer- 
ences, 1874, p. 152. 

Shawm. In the Prayer-book version of Psa. xeviii, 
7, “with trumpets also and shawms ” is the rendering of 
what stands in the A. V. “with trumpets and sound of 
cornet The Hebrew word translated “cornet” will be 
found treated under that head. The “shawm” was a 
musical instrument resembling the clarionet. The word 
occurs in the forms shalm , shahnie , and is connected with 
the Herman Schalmeie , a reed-pipe. 

“With shaumes and trompets, and with clarions sweet.” 

Spender, F. Q. I, xii, 13. 

“Eveu from the shrillest shaum nnto the cornainnte.” 

Drayton, Polyolb. iv, 30(1. 

Mr. Chappell says {Pop. Mus . i, 35, note b), “The mod- 
ern clarionet is an improvement upon the shawm, which 
was played with a reed like the wavte, or hautboy, but, 
being a bass instrument, with about the compass of an 
octave, had probably more the tone of a bassoon.” In 
the same note he quotes one of the “proverhis” written 
about the time of Henry VII on the walls of the Manor 
House at Leckingfield, near Beverley, Yorkshire: 

“A shawme maketh a swete sounde, for he tuny the the 
basse ; 

It mountithe not to hye, but kepitli rule and space. 

Yet yf it be blowne with to vehement a wynde, 

It makit.he it to mysgoverne out of his kinde.” 

From a passage quoted by Nares ( 'Glossary ), it appears 
that the shawm Had a mournful sound: 

“ He that never wants a Gilead full of balm 
For his elect, shall turn thy wo fill shalm 
Into the merry pipe.” 

G. Tooke, Betides , p. 18. 

— Smith. 

Shayith. See Tiiorx. 

Sheaf is the rendering in the A. V. of the following 
words in the original. 1. tTsbx, alummdh , prop, a bun- 
dle (“ sheaf,” Gen. xxvii, 7; Psa. cxcix, 6); 2. “V'122, 
amir, prop, a handful (as rendered in Jer. ix, 2*2) ; lienee 
a sheaf (Amos ii, 13; Mic. iv, 12; Zeeh. xii, 6); and 
the equivalent “'*2-, omer (“sheaf,” Lev. xxiii, 10, 11, 
12, 15; Dent, xxiv, 19; Ruth ii, 7, 15; Job xxiv, 10), 
as well as the cognate verb “VC", to bind sheares (Psa. 
cxxix, 7); 3. aremeih, prop, a heap (as rendered 

in Ruth iii, 7, etc.) ; lienee a sheaf (as rendered in Neh. 
xiii, 15; improperly “heap” in Can. vii, 2). 

The Mosaic statutes contained two prescriptions re- 
specting the sheaves of harvest; 1. One accidentally 
dropped or left upon the field was not to be taken up, 
but remained for the benefit of the poor (Dent, xxiv, 
19). See Glean. 2. The day after the feast of the 
Passover, the Hebrews brought into the Temple a sheaf 
of corn as the first-fruits of the barley-harvest, with ac- 
companying ceremonies (Lev. xviii, 10-12). On the 
fifteenth of Nisan, in the evening, when the feast of the 
first day of the Passover was ended and the second day 
begun, the house of judgment deputed three men to go 
in solemnity and gather the sheaf of barley. The in- 
habitants of the neighboring cities assembled to witness 
the ceremony, and the barley was gathered into the 
territory of Jerusalem. The deputies demanded three 
times if the sun were set, and they were as often an- 
swered, It. is. They afterwards demanded as many 
times if they might have leave to cut the sheaf, and 
leave was as often granted. They reaped it out of three 
different fields with three different sickles, and put the 
ears into three boxes to carry them to the Temple. The 
sheaf, or rather the three sheaves, being brought into 
the Temple, were threshed in the court. From this 
they took a full omer, that is, about throe pints of the 
grain; and after it had been well winnowed, parched, 
and bruised, they sprinkled over it a log of oil, to which 
they added a handful of incense; and the priest who 
received this offering waved it before the Lord, towards 
the four quarters of the world, and cast part of it on the 
IX.— R it 


altar. After this every one might begin his harvest. 
See Passover. 

She'al(Heb. SheaV, asking ; Sept. v. r. 

2a\oi'irt)> one of the “sons” of Bani, who divorced their 
foreign wives after the captivity (Ezra x, 29). B.C. 
457. 

SheaT tiel (lleb. SheiiltieV, asked of 

God; Anglicized thus in the A. Y. at Ezra iii, 2, 8; v, 
2; Neh. xii, 1; Hag. i, 1; but “ Salathiel” at 1 Chron. 
iii. 17; also in the contracted form ShaltieV, 
“Shealtiel,” Hag. i. 12, 14; ii, 2; Sept., Apocrypha, Jo- 
sephus, and N.Test., N«\«3o)\; “Salathiel,” l Esdr.v, 5, 
48, 56; vi. 2; 2 Esdr. v, 16; Matt, i, 12; Luke iii. 27), 
the son of Jeclioniah, or Jehoiachin, king of Judah, and 
father of Zorobabel, according to Matt, i, 12, but son of 
Neri (Neriah) and father of Zorobabel (Zerubbahel) ac- 
cording to Luke iiu 27 , while the genealogy in 1 Chron. 
iii, 17-19 leaves it doubtful whether he is the son of 
Assir or Jeclioniah, and makes Zerubbabel his nephew. 
The truth seems to be that he was the son of the cap- 
tive prince Jeclioniah, or Jehoiachin (for the prophecy 
in Jer. xxii, 30 seems only to mean that he should have 
no successor on the throne), by a daughter of Neri, or 
Neriah, of the private line of David; and that having 
himself no heir, he adopted his nephew Zerubbabel, 
or perhaps was the father of this last by his deceased 
brother’s widow. B.C. cir. 580. See Genealogy of 
Christ. 

Sheari'ah (lleb. Shearyah', valued of Je- 

hovah; Sept. Zapata v. r. Yapia). the fourth named of 
the-six sons of Azel of the descendants of Saul (1 Chron. 
viii, 38; ix, 44). B.C. long post 1000. 

Shearing-house (lleb. C n S*"nn rPS, Beyth 
E'ked ha-Roim ; Sept. [v. r. Bat-Swad] rwv 

rroipeviov; Vulg. Camera pastor um), a place on the road 
between Jezreel and Samaria, at which Jehu, on his 
way to the latter, encountered forty-two members of the 
royal family of Judah, whom he slaughtered at the well 
or pit attached to the place (2 Kings x, 12, 14). The 
translators of our version have given in the margin the 
literal meaning of the name — “house of binding of the 
shepherds,” and in the text an interpretation perhaps 
adopted from Jos. Kimchi. Binding, however, is but a 
subordinate part of the operation of shearing, and the 
word akad is not anywhere used in the Bible in connec- 
tion therewith. See Sheer-shearer. The interpre- 
tation of the Targum and Arabic version, adopted by 
Rashi, viz. “house of the meeting of shepherds,” is ac- 
cepted by Simonis ( O nomast. p. 186 ) and Gesenitis 
( Thesaur . p. 195 b). Other renderings are given by 
Aquila and Symmachns. None of them, however, seem 
satisfactory, and it is probable that the original mean- 
ing has escaped. By the Sept., Eusebius, and Jerome 
it is treated as a proper name, as they also treat the 
“garden-house” of ix, 27. Eusebius ( Onomast. s. v.) 
mentions it as a village of Samaria “in the great plain 
[of Esdraelon ] fifteen miles from Legeon.” It is remark- 
able that at a distance of precisely fifteen Roman miles 
from Lejjun the name of Beth- K ad appears in Van de 
Velde’s map (see also Robinson, Bib. Res. ii, 316); but 
this place, though coincident in point of distance, is not 
on the plain, nor can it either belong to Samaria or be 
on the road from Jezreel thither, being behind (south 
of) Mount Gilboa. The slaughter at the well recalls 
the massacre of the pilgrims by Ishmael ben-Nethaniah 
at Mizpah, and the recent tragedy at Cawnpore. — Smith. 
See Beth-eked. 

Shear-ja'shub (Hob. Shear* Yashub', "ISC5, 
a remnant shall return; Sept. 6 KaTa\ti<p$eig Tocou/i), 
son of the prophet Isaiah, who accompanied his father 
when he proceeded to deliver to king Ahaz the cele- 
brated prophecy contained in Isa. vii (see ver. 3). B.C. 
cir. 735. As the sons of Isaiah sometimes stood for signs 


SIIEATII 


626 


SHEBA 


in Israel (Jsa. viii, 18), and the name of Maher-shalal- l 
hash-baz was given to one of them by way of prophetic 
intimation, it has been conjectured that the somewhat 
remarkable name of Shear- jashub intimated that the 
people who had then retired within the walls of Jerusa- 
lem should return in peace to their fields and villages 
(comp. Isa. x, 20-22). Fairbairu’s theory that these 
events occurred only in visions {On Prophecy , I, v, 2) 
is in violation of the plain import of the language. 

Sheath (Heb. *pj, naditn, 1 Chron. xxi, 27; “^Fl, 
tdar, 1 Sam. xvii, 51 ; 2 Sam. xx, 8: Ezek. xxi, 3,4, 5, 
30; “scabbard,” Jer. xlvii, G; Sj/k//, John xviii, 11), 
the case in which a dagger or sword blade is carried. 
See Knife; Swoud. 

She'ba, the name of several men and places in the 
Bible, but occurring in two forms in the original : (</) 
Heb. Sheba', STjj (of uncertain etymology, see below), 
which is the name of three fathers of tribes in the early 
genealogy of Genesis, often referred to in the sacred 
books, one of them located in Ethiopia (No. 1, below), 
and the other two in Arabia (Nos. 2 and 3 respective- 
ly); (5) Heb. She'ba , "2 w, an oath , or seven, which is 
the name of two men, and also of a place (Nos. 4, 5, and 
G, below). See also Bkek-sueua. 

1. (Sept. £rt/3a v. r. i’a/3«r.) First named of the 
two sons of Kaamah, son of Cush (Gen. x, 7 ; I Chron. 
i, 11). B.C. post 2515. This Sheba settled somewhere 
on the shores of the Persian Gulf. In the Maras id 
(s. v.) there is found an identification which appears to 
be satisfactory — that on the island of Awal (one of the 
“Bahrein Islands”) are the ruins of an ancient city 
called Seba. Viewed in connection with Kaamah, and 
the other facts which we know respecting Sheba, traces 
of his settlements ought to be found on or near the 
shores of the gulf. It was this Sheba that carried on 
the great Indian traffic with Palestine in conjunction 
with, as we hold, the other Sheba, son of Jokshan son 
of Keturah, who, like Dedan, appears to have formed 
with the Cushite of the same name one tribe — the Cush- 
ites dwelling on the shores of the Persian Gulf, and car- 
rying on the desert trade thence to Palestine in con- 
junction with the nomad Keturahite tribes, whose past- 
urages were mostly on the western frontier. The trade 
is mentioned by Ezek. xxvii, 22, 23, in an unmistakable 
manner, and possibly by Isa. lx, G, and Jer. vi, 20, but 
these latter, we think, rather refer to the Joktanite 
Sheba. The predatory bands of the Sabieans are men- 
tioned in Job i, 15, and vi, 10, in a manner that recalls 
the forays of modern Bedawiu (comp. Joel iii, 8). — 
Smith. SeeAiiAiiiA; Dedan, etc. 

2, (Sept. £«/3« v. r. N«/3ee and 2k*/3di'.) Tenth 
named of the thirteen sons of Joktan son of the patri- 
arch Eber (Gen. x, 28; 1 Chron. i, 22). B.C. cir. 2350. 
He seems to have been the founder and eponymous head 
of the Sabteans (q. v.), and to have given his name to 
Sheba or Seba (q. v.),a district in Arabia Felix abound- 
ing in frankincense, spices, gold, and precious stones 
(Isa. lx, G; Jer. vi. 20; Psa. Ixxii, 15). From this re- 
gion came the queen to see and converse with Solomon 
(1 Kings x, 1-13; 2 Chron. ix, 1-12; Matt, xii, 42; 
Luke xi, 31). The Sabteans were celebrated for their 
great trade (Psa. Ixxii, 10; Ezek. xxvii, 22; Joel iii, 8) 
and for plundering (Job i, 15; vi, 19; comp. Strabo, xvi, 
71 J8-780 ; Abulfeda, p. 9G). (In the following detailed 
treatment of this name we chietiv follow Poole’s article 
in Smith’s Dictionary.) 

It has been shown, in the art. Akaiua and other arti- 
cles, that the Joktanites were among the early colonists 
of Southern Arabia, and that the kingdom which they 
there founded was, for many centuries, called the king- 
dom of Sheba, after one of the sons of Joktan. They ap- 
pear to have been preceded bv an aboriginal race, which 
the Arabian historians describe as a people of gigantic 
stature, who cultivated the land and peopled the deserts 
Olike, living with the Jinn in the “deserted quarter,” 


or, like the tribe of Thamud, dwelling in caves. This 
people correspond, in their traditions, to the aborig- 
inal races of whom remains are found wherever a 
civilized nation has supplanted and dispossessed the 
ruder race. But, besides these extinct tribes, there are 
the evidences of Cushite settlers, who appear to have 
passed along the south coast from west to east, and who, 
probably, preceded the Joktanites and mixed with them 
when they arrived in the country. 

Sheba seems to have been the name of the great 
South Arabian kingdom and the peoples which composed 
it, until that of Ilimyer took its place in later times. 
On this point much obscurity remains ; but the Sabteans 
are mentioned by Diod. Sic., who refers to the historical 
books of the kings of Egypt in the Alexandrian library, 
and by Eratosthenes, as well as Artemidorus, or Aga- 
tharchides (iii, 38, 4G), who is Strabo’s chief authority; 
and the Homerita? or Himyerites are first mentioned by 
Strabo in the expedition of /Elius Gallus (B.C. 24). 
Nowhere earlier, in sacred or profane records, are the lat- 
ter people mentioned, except by the Arabian historians 
themselves, who place Himyer very high in their list, 
and ascribe importance to his family from that early 
date. We have endeavored, in other articles, to show 
reasons for supposing that in this very name of Himyer 
we have the Ked Man and the origin of Ervthrus, Ery- 
thraean Sea, Phoenicians, etc. See Akaiua; Ked Sea. 
The apparent difficulties of the case are reconciled by 
supposing, as M. Caussin de Perceval {Jissai. i, 54, 55) 
has done, that the kingdom and its people received the 
name of Sheba (Arabic, Seba), but that its chief and 
sometimes reigning family or tribe was that of Ilimyer; 
and that an old name was thus preserved until the foun- 
dation of the modern kingdom of Ilimyer or the Tub- 
baas, which M. Caussin is inclined to place (but there is 
much uncertainty about this date) about a century be- 
fore our a?ra, when the two great rival families of Ilim- 
yer and Kahlan, together with smaller tribes, were unit- 
ed under the former. In support of the view that the 
name of Sheba applied to the kingdom and its people 
as a generic or national name, we find in the KamiU 
“the name of Seba comprises the tribes of the Yemen in 
common” (s. v. “ Seba”) ; and this was written long after 
the later kingdom of Himyer had flourished and fallen. 
And, further, as Himyer meant the “ Ked Man,” so, prob- 
ably, did Seba. In Arabic the verb seba — said of the 
sun, or of a journey, or of a fever — means “it altered” a 
man, i. e. by turning him red : the noun seba, as well as 
sibd and sebee-ah, signifies “wine” {Taj el- A rus IMS.). 
The Arabian wine was red; for we read “Kumeit is a 
name of wine, because there is in it blackness and red- 
ness” {Sihdh MS.). It appears, then, that in Seba we 
very possibly have the oldest name of the Ked Man, 
whence came (point, Ilimyer, and Ervthrus. 

We have assumed the identity of the Arabic Seba 
with Sheba (XTlj). The plur. form corre- 

sponds with the Gr. N«/3«Tm and the Lat. Sabai. Ge- 
senins compares the Heb. with Ethiop.&e5e, “man.” The 
Hebrew Shin is, in by far the greater number of instances, 
Sin in Arabic [see Gesen.] ; and the historical, ethno- 
logical, and geographical circumstances of the case all 
require the identification. 

In the Bible the Joktanite Sheba, mentioned genea- 
logically in Gen. x, 28, recurs as a kingdom, in the ac- 
count of the visit of the queen of Sheba to king Solo- 
mon, when she heard of his fame concerning the name 
of the Lord, and came to prove him with hard questions 
(1 Kings x, 1): “And she came to Jerusalem with a 
very great train, with camels that bare spices, and very 
much gold, and precious stones” (ver. 2). Again, “ She 
gave the king an hundred and twenty talents of gold, 
and of spices very great store, and precious stones: there 
came no more such abundance of spices as these which 
the queen of Sheba gave to king Solomon” (ver. 10). 
She was attracted by the fame of Solomon’s wisdom, 
which she had heard in her own land ; but the dedica- 


SIIEBA 


627 


SIIEBA 


tion of the Temple hart recently been solemnized, and, no 
doubt, the people of Arabia were desirous to see this fa- 
mous house. T hat the queen was of Sheba in Arabia, 
and not of Seba the Cushite kingdom of Ethiopia, is 
unquestionable. Josephus and some of the Habbinical 
writers perversely, as usual, refer her to the latter; and 
the Ethiopian (or Abyssinian) Church has a convenient 
tradition to the same effect (comp. Josephus, Ant. viii, 0, 
5 ; Ludolf, Hist. . Ethiop. ii, 3 ; I larris. A byssiuia, ii, 105). 
Alien- Ezra (on Dan. xi, 6). however, remarks that the 
queen of Sheba came from the Yemen, for she spoke an 
Ishmaelitie, or rather a Shemitic, language. The Arabs 
call her Bilkis (or Yelkatnah or Balkamah; Ibn-Khal- 
dun), a queen of the later Himverites, who, if 31. Caus- 
siu’s chronological adjustments < if the early history of 
the Yemen be correct, reigned in the 1st century of our 
a?ra (Esstiif i, 75, etc.) ; and an edifice at Ma-rib (3Iaria- 
ba) still hears her name, while 3L Fresnel read tlic name 
of “ Almacah” or “Balmacah” in many of the Himver- 
itic inscriptions. The Arab story of this queen is, in 
the present state of our knowledge, altogether unhistor- 
ic.al and unworthy of credit; but the attempt to make 
her Solomon’s queen of Sheba probably arose, as 31. Caus- 
sin conjectures, from the latter being mentioned in the 
Koran without any name, and the commentators adopt- 
ing Bilkis as the most ancient queen of Sheba in the 
lists of the Yemen. The Koran, as usual, contains a 
very poor version of the Biblical narrative, diluted with 
nonsense and encumbered with fables (xxvii, 24, etc.). 

The other 'passages in the Bihle which seem to refer 
to the Joktanite Sheba occur in Isa. lx, G, where we 
read “All they from Sheba shall come: they shall bring 
gold and incense,” in conjunction with 31idian, Ephah, 
Kedar, and Nebaioth. Here reference is made to the 
commerce that took the road from Sheba along the 
western borders of Arabia (unless, as is possible, the 
Cushite or Keturahite Sheba be meant); and again in 
Jer. vi,20, it is written “To what purpose cometli there 
to me incense from Sheba, and the sweet cane from a 
far country?” (but comp. Ezek. xxvii, 22, 23, and see 
below). On the other hand, in Psa. lxii, 10, the Joktan- 
ite Sheba is undoubted^ meant; for the kingdoms of 
Sheba and Seba are named together, and in ver. 15 the 
gold of Sheba is mentioned. In Job i, 15; vi, 19, the 
predatory habits of the Keturahite Sabteans have been 
thought to be referred to, but these were later than our 
date of that book. We prefer to assign that passage, as 
well as Joel iii, 8, which speaks of their kidnapping pro- 
pensities, to the Joktanite tribe, with which the other 
seems to have coalesced. The fact of the chief and best- 
ascertained settlement of the Sheba tribe being in the 
extreme south of the Arabian peninsula sufficiently ex- 
plains the language used of the queen who came from 
thence to hear the wisdom of Solomon, that she was a 
queen of “the south,” and “came from the uttermost 
parts of the earth,” i. e. from the extremities of the 
then known world (31att. xii, 42; Luke xi, 31). The 
distance in a straight line could scarcely be under a 
thousand miles. On the other hand, the fact that this 
was a queen seems to point to the Cushite Saba, or 
3Ieroe, the sovereigns of which are well known to have 
been chiefly or exclusively females. Later essays on 
the queen of Sheba’s merits have been written by Host 
(Bautz. 1782), Zeibich (Viteb. 1774), Schultens (Lugd. 
1740), Norberg (Loud, and (loth. 1797). See Candace. 

The kingdom of Sheba embraced the greater part of 
the Yemen, or Arabia Felix. Its chief cities, and prob- 
ably successive capitals, were Seba, San ’ii (Uzal), and 
Zakir (Sephar). Seba was probably the name of the 
city, and generally of the country and nation; but the 
statements of the Arabian writers are conflicting on 
this point, and they are not made clearer by the ac- 
counts of the classical geographers. 3Ia-rib was an- 
other name of the city, or of the fortress or royal palace 
in it: “Seba is a city known by the name of 3Ia-rib. 
three nights’ journey from San’a” (Ez-Zejjaj, in the 
Tdj-el-A run 3IS.). Again, “ Seba was the city of 31a- 


rib (J fitsktarak, s. v.), or the country in the Yemen, of 
which the city was 3Ia-rib” (J tardsid, s. v.). Near 
Seba was the famous dike of El-’Ariin, said by tradi- 
tion to have been built by Lukmnn the ’Adite, to store 
water for the inhabitants of the place, and to avert the 
descent of the mountain torrents. The catastrophe of 
the rupture of this dike is an important point in Arab 
history, and marks the dispersion in the 2d century of 
the Joktanite tribes. This, like all we know of Seba, 
points irresistibly to the great importance of the city as 
the ancient centre of Joktanite power. Although Uzal 
(which is said to he the existing San’a) has been sup- 
posed to be of earlier foundation, and Zalar (Sephar) 
was a royal residence, we cannot doubt that Seba was 
the most important of these chief towns of the Yemen. 
Its value, in the eyes of the old dynasties, is shown by 
their struggles to obtain and hold it; and it is narrated 
that it passed several times into the hands, alternate- 
ly, of the so called Ilimyerites and the people of Ha- 
dramaut (Hazarmaveth). Eratosthenes, Artemidorns, 
Strabo, and IMiny speak of Mariaba; Diodorus, Aga- 
tharchides, Stephanus Byzant. of Saba (N«/3«t [Steph. 
Byzant.] ; Safiaq [Agath.]) ; Ptolemy (vi, 7, § 30. 42), 
and Pliny (vi, 23, § 34) mention Nd/3//. But the tirst 
all say that 31ariaba was the metropolis of the Sa- 
biei ; and we may conclude that both names applied to 
the same place — one the city, the other its palace or 
fortress (though probably these writers were not aware 
of this fact) — unless, indeed, the form Sabota (with the 
variants Sabatha, Sobatale, etc.) of Pliny (//. A T . vi, 28, 
§ 32) have reference to Shibam, capital of Iladramaut, 
and the name, also, of another celebrated city, of which 
the Arabian writers (J faranid. s. v.) give curious ac- 
counts. The classics are generally agreed in ascribing 
to the Sabtei the chief riches, the best territory, and the 
greatest numbers of the four principal peoples of the 
Arabs which they name — the Sabtei, Atramita? ( = Ha- 
dramaut), Katabeni ( = Kahtan — Joktan), and 3Iina*i 
(for which see Dikeaii). See Bochart (Phuleg, xxvi). 
and 31 filler ( Geog. J l inf), p. 18G sq. 

The history of the Sabmans has been examined by 3L 
Caussin de Perceval (Essui sur Vllist.des A rubes ') ; but 
much remains to be adjusted before its details can be. 
received as trustworthy, the earliest safe chronological 
point being about the commencement of our ajra. An 
examination of the existing remains of Sabtean and Ilim- 
yeritic cities and buildings will, it cannot be doubted, 
add more facts to onr present knowledge; and a further 
acquaintance with the language, from inscriptions aid- 
ed, as 31. Fresnel believes, by an existing dialect, will 
probably give us some safe grounds for placing the build- 
ing or a>ra of the dike. In the art. Arabia it is stated 
that there are dates on the ruins of the dike, and the 
conclusions are given which I)e Sacy and Caussin have 
drawn from those dates and other indications respecting 
the date of the rupture of the dike, which forms, then, 
an important point in Arabian history; but it must be 
placed in the 2d century of our tera, and the older icra 
of the building is altogether unfixed, ‘or, indeed, any date 
before the expedition of /Eli us Callus. The ancient 
buildings are of massive masonry, and evidently of 
Cushite workmanship or origin. Later temples and 
palace-temples, of which the Arabs give us descriptions, 
were probably of less massive character; but Sabseau 
art is an almost unknown and interesting subject of in- 
quiry. The religion celebrated in those temples was 
cosmic; but this subject is too obscure and too little 
known to admit of discussion in this place. It may he 
necessary to observe that whatever connection there 
was in religion between the Sab/eans and the Sabians. 
there was none in name or in race. Kespecting the lat- 
ter the reader may consult. Chwolson’s Ssabier, a work 
that may be recommended with more confidence than 
the same author’s X aba! Javan Agriculture. See Nk- 
BAiOTir. Some curious papers have also appeared in 
the Journal of the German Oriental Society of Leipsie, 
by Dr. Osiander. 


SHEBA C 28 SHEBANIAH 


3. (Sept. Sa/3d v. r. 2a/3m and 2a/3« i\) Elder of the 
two sons of Jokshan, one of Abraham’s sons by Keturah 
(Gen. xxv, 3; 1 Chron. i, 32). B.C. cir. 1980. He evi- 
dently settled somewhere in Arabia, probably on the 
eastern shore of the Arabian Gulf, where his posterity 
appear to have become incorporated with the earlier 
Sabseans of the Joktanic branch. 

4. (Sept. 2a(3te v. r. ’Afiet ; Josephus '2a(3ciiog, A nt. 
vii, 11, 7.) The son of Biehri, a Benjamite from the 
mountains of Ephraim (2 Sam. xx, 1-22), the last chief 
of the Absalom insurrection. B.C. 1023. lie is described 
as a “ man of Belial,” which seems [ see Shimei ] to 
have been the usual term of invective cast to and fro 
between the two parties. But he must have been a 
person of some consequence, from the immense effect 
produced by his appearance. It was, in fact, all but 
an anticipation of the revolt of Jeroboam. It was not, 
as in the case of Absalom, a mere conflict between two 
factions in the court of Judah, but a struggle, arising 
out of that conflict, on the part of the tribe of Benjamin 
to recover its lost ascendency — a struggle of which some 
indications had already been manifested in the excessive 
bitterness of the Benjamite Shimei. The occasion seized 
by Sheba was the emulation, as if from loyalty, bet ween 
the northern and southern tribes on David’s return. 
Through the ancient custom he summoned all the tribes 
“to their tents;” and then and afterwards Judah alone 
remained faithful to the house of David (ver. 1, 2). 
The king might well say “ Sheba the son of Biehri shall 
do ns more harm than did Absalom” (ver. 6). What j 
he feared was Sheba’s occupation of the fortified cities. | 
This fear was justified by the result. Sheba traversed 
the whole of Palestine, apparently rousing the popula- 
tion, Joab following him in full pursuit, and so deeply 
impressed with the gravity of the occasion that the 
murder even of the great Amasa was but a passing in- 
cident in the campaign. He stayed but for the moment 
of the deed, and “pursued after Sheba the son of Bich- 
ri.” The mass of the army halted for an instant by j 
the bloody corpse, and then they also “went on after 
Joab to pursue after Sheba the son of Biehri.” It seems 
to have been his intention to establish himself in the 
fortress of Abel-Beth-maaeah — in the northernmost ex- 
tremity of Palestine — possibly allied to the cause of 
Absalom through his mother, Maacah, and famous for 
the prudence of its inhabitants (ver. 18). That pru- 
dence was put to the test on the present occasion. 
Joab’s terms were the head of the insurgent chief. A 
woman of the place undertook the mission to her city, 
and proposed the execution to her fellow-citizens. The 
head of Sheba was thrown over the wall and the insur- 
rection ended. — Smith. See David. 

5. (Sept. v. r. So/SaSs.) A chief Gadite resi- 
dent in Bashan in the reign of Jeroboam II (1 Chron. 
v, 13). B.C. 781. 

6. (Sept. No/imr v. r. 2o/3sf.) One of the towns of 
the allotment of Simeon (Josh, xix, 2). It occurs be- 
tween Beer-sheba and Moladah. In the list of the cilies 
of the south of Judah, out of which those of Simeon 
were selected, no Sheba appears apart from Beer-sheba; 
but there is a Shema (xv, 2d), which stands next to Mo- 
ladah and which is probably the Sheba in question. 
This suggestion is supported by the reading of the Vat- 
ican copy of the Sept. The change from b to m is an 
easy one both in speaking and in writing, and in their 
other letters the words arc identical. Some have sup- 
posed that the name Sheba is a mere repetition of the 
latter portion of the preceding name, Beer-sheba — by the 
common error called hovwioteleuton — and this is sup- 
ported by the facts that the number of names given in 
xix, 2-6 is, including Sheba, fourteen, though the num- 
ber stated is thirteen; and that in the list of Simeon 
of 1 Chron. (iv, 28) Sheba is entirely omitted. Ge- 
senius suggests that the words in xix, 2 may be ren- 
dered “Beer-sheba, the town, with Sheba, the well;” 
but this seems forced, and is, besides, inconsistent with 
the fact that the list is a list of “cities” ( Thcsaur. 


p. 1355 a, where other suggestions are cited).— Smith. 
See Shema. 

She'bah (Heb. Shibah', fern, of Sheba , i. e. 

seven or an oath ; Sept, accordingly opKog ; Vulg. trans- 
lates less well abundant ia), the famous well which gave 
its name to the city of Beer-sheba (Gen. xxvi, 33). Ac- 
cording to this version of the occurrence, it was the 
fourth of the series of wells dug by Isaac’s people, and 
received its name from him, apparently in allusion to the 
oaths (ver. 31, yishshabeu) which had passed be- 

tween himself and the Philistine chieftains the day be- 
fore. It should not be overlooked that according to the 
narrative of an earlier chapter the well owed its exist- 
ence and its name to Isaac’s father (xxi, 32). Indeed, 
its previous existence may be said to be implied in the 
narrative now directly under consideration (xxvi, 23). 
The two transactions are curiously identical in many of 
their circumstances — the rank and names of the Philis- 
tine chieftains, the strife between the subordinates on 
either side, the covenant, the adjurations, the city that 
took its name from the well. They differ alone in the 
fact that the chief figure in the one case is Abraham, 
in the other Isaac. Some commentators, as Kalisch 
( Genesis , p. 500), looking to the fact that there are two 
large wells at Bir es-Seba, propose to consider the two 
transactions as distinct, and as belonging the one to the 
one well, the other to the other. Others see in the tv o 
narratives merely two versions of the circumstances 
under which this renowned well was fir.>t dug. Cer- 
tainly in the analogy of the early history of other na- 
tions, and in the very close correspondence between the 
details of the two accounts, there is much to support 
this. The various plays on the meaning of the name 
interpreting it as “seven,” as an “oath,” as “abun- 
dance” (so Jerome, as if reading n:'2w), as “a lion” 
(such is the meaning of the modern Arabic Seba) — are 
all so many direct testimonies to the remote date and 
archaic form of this most venerable of names, and to the 
fact that the narratives of the early history of the He- 
brew's are under the control of the same laws which 
regulate the early history of other nations. — Smith. 
In explanation of the repetition of the names of these 
wells, it should be noted that the saered text expressly 
states that Isaac, after reopening them, “called their 
names after the names which his father had called 
them” (Gen. xxvi, 18). A minute description of the 
wells and vicinity of Beer-sheba is given by Lieut. Guil- 
der in the Qnar. Statement of “The Pal. Explor. Fund” 
for Jan. 1875, p. 23 sq. See Beer-sheba; Well. 

She'bam (Heb. Sebam', C3b, fragrance; Sept, 
and so the Samar. Cod. JTE- w), one of the 
towns in the pastoral district on the east of Jordan — 
the “land of Jazer and the land of Gilead” — demanded, 
and finally ceded to the tribes of Iieuben and Gad (Numb, 
xxxii, 3). It is named between Elcaleh and Nebo, and 
is probably the same which, in a subsequent verse of the 
chapter and on later occasions, appears in the altered 
forms of SniRMAii and Sibmaii (q. v.). — Smith. 

Sliebani'ah (Heb. Shebang ah ', n* : *2w, increased 
of Jehovah; once [1 Chron. xv, 24] in the prolonged 
form Shebanga'hu , the name of four Hebrew's. 

1. (Sept. v. r. So/3i'Da and Nojunia.) One 

of the Lcvitical trumpeters on the removal of the ark 
from the house of Obed-cdom to Jerusalem (1 Chron. 
xv, 24). B.C. 1043. 

2. (Sept. 'Safiavia and Ssyfi io, v. r. Nt/foi'/a, Nayo- 
j'lYr, etc.) One of Ezra’s Lcvitical attendants, who stood 
upon the steps and uttered the prayer of confession and 
thanksgiving (Nell, ix, 4, 5), and joined in the sacred 
covenant (x, 10). B.C. 459. 

3. (Sept. Nt/J«i'i«.) Another Levite who joined in 
the same covenant (Neh. x, 12). B.C. 459. 

4. (Sept. Nf/Srtu/, NfyfWn.) A priest who did the 
same (Neh. x, 4; xii, 14). B.C. 459. He had a son 


SI1EBARIM 


629 


SIIEC1IEM 


named Joseph (ver. 14). He is apparently the same 
elsewhere (ver. 3) called Sheciianiaii (q. v.). 

Sheb'arim (Heb. with the art., hash-Shebarim', 
the breaches, as often elsewhere rendered; 
Sept. avi'ETpiipav, Vulg. Sebaidni ) is given in the A. V. 
as the name of a place to which the Israelites retreated 
in the first attack of Ai (Josh, vii, 5). “ The root of the 
word has the force of ‘dividing’ or ‘breaking,’ and it is 
therefore suggested that the name was attached to a spot 
where there were fissures or rents in the soil, gradually 
deepening till they ended in a sheer descent or precipice 
to the ravine by which the Israelites had come from 
Gilgal — ‘the going down’ (‘YllEil; see ver. 5 and the 
margin of the A. V.). The ground around the site of 
Ai, on any hypothesis of its locality, was very much of 
this character. Keil ( Josua , ad loc.) interprets Sheba- 
rim by ‘stone quarries;’ but this does not appear to be 
supported by other commentators or by lexicographers. 
The ancient interpreters (Sept., Targ., and Syr.) usually 
discard it as a proper name, and render it ‘till they were 
broken up,’ etc.” — Smith. But this is opposed both to 
the use of t he art. here — which seems to indicate a well- 
known and specific locality — and to the fact that but few 
of the Hebrews were slain there. A minute examina- 
tion of the locality would doubtless reveal some clue to 
the name. See Ai. 

Shebat. See Sebat. 

She'ber (lleb. id. “O'j, breaking ; Sept. Sg/3 ip 
v. r. £a/3fp), first named of the sons of Caleb (son of 
Hur) bv his concubine Maachah (1 Chron. ii, 43). B.C. 
post 1856. 

Shebiith. See Talmud. 

Sheb'na (Heb. Shebna X3S w [occasionally Sheb- 
nah' , n:nr, 2 Kings xviii, 18,20; xix. 2], vigor; Sept. 
2t/3i'dg v.r. So ft nag; Josephus, Sofivalog [ A nt.x, 1,1]), 
a person of high position in Hezekiah’s court, holding at 
one time the office of pnefect of the palace (Isa. xxii, 
15), but subsequently the subordinate office of secretary 
(xxxvi, 3; 2 Kings xix, 2), his former post being given 
to Eliakim, B.C. 713. This change appears to have 
been effected by Isaiah’s interposition; for Shebna had 
incurred the prophet’s extreme displeasure, partly on 
account of his pride (Isa. xxii, 16), his luxury (ver. 18), 
and his tyranny (as implied in the title of “father” be- 
stowed on his successor, ver. 21), and partly (as appears 
from his successor being termed a “ servant of Jehovah,” 
ver. 20) on account of his belonging to the political party 
which was opposed to the theocracy and in favor of the 
Egyptian alliance. From the omission of the usual no- 
tice of his father’s name, it has been conjectured that 
he was a tiovus homo. — Smith. Winer thinks, from the 
Arannean form of his name, that he was a foreigner. 
He is also mentioned in 2 Kings xviii, 37 ; Isa. xxxvi, 
11,22; xxx vii, 2. 

Shebo. See Agate. 

Shebu'el [many Sheb'uel] (Heb. Shehuel ', 
captive [or renown ] of God; Sept. No vf3cu)\\ Vulg. 
Sabuel ), the name of two Levites. 

1. A leading descendant of Gershom, the son of Moses 
(1 Chron. xxiii, 16), who was ruler of the treasures of 
the house of God (xxvi, 24) , called also Shubael (xxiv, 
20). B.C. 1013. “The Targnm of 1 Chron. xxvi, 24 
has a strange piece of confusion: ‘And Shehuel, that is, 
Jonathan the son of Gershom the son of Moses, returned 
to the fear of Jehovah, and when David saw that lie 
was skilful in money matters he appointed him chief 
over the treasures.’ He is the last descendant of Moses 
of whom there is any trace” (Smith). 

2. One of the fourteen sons of lleman the minstrel, 
and chief of the thirteenth band of twelve in the temple 
choir (1 Chron. xxv, 4); also called Shubael (ver. 20). 
B.C. 1013. 

Shebuotli. See Talmud. 


Shecani'ah (1 Chron. xxiv, 1 1 ; 2 Chron. xxxi, 15), 
the same name usually Anglicized Siieciianiaii (q. v.). 

Shechani'ah (lleb. Sliekanyah ', PT:rr, dweller 
[i. e. intimate] with Jehovah, twice in the prolonged 
form Shekanya'hu, J|rPpl£. ; [ 1 Chron. xxiv, 11 ; 2 Chron. 
xxxi, 15], which is always Anglicized “Shecaniah” in 
the A.Y.; Sept. 2t\€viag, but ^s^oidag in 2 Chron. xxxi, 
15; Ezraviii, 5; viag in ver. 3 ; Ntytu/o inNeh.xii, 
3; Vulg. Eechetiias, but iSebenias in xii, 3). the name of 
several men, chiefiv during the post-exilian period. 

1. The chief of the tenth division of priests accord- 
ing to the arrangement under David (1 Chron. xxiv, 11, 
“Shecaniah”). B.C. 1014. 

2. Last named of the priests appointed by Hezekiah 
to distribute the daily services among the sacerdotal 
order (2 Chron. xxxi, 15, “Shecaniah”). B.C. 726. 

3. One of the “ priests and Levites” (but to which of 
these orders he belonged does not certainly appear, prob- 
ably the former, however) who returned from Babylon 
with Zerubbabel (Neh. xii, 3). B.C. 536. In ver. 14 
(and perhaps x, 4) lie is apparently called Shebamah 
( q. v.). But he is not the same with the Shecaniah 
who was tenth in order of the priests in the reign of 
David; inasmuch as in the lists in Nehemiah his name 
continually occurs in the seventh or eighth place (see 
Keil, ad loc.). 

4. A person apparently mentioned as one of the 
“sous” of Bharosh (i.e. Parosh), and father or progeni- 
tor of a Zechariah who returned from the exile in the 
time of Artaxerxes (Ezra viii, 3). B.C. ante 459. As 
t lie phraseology, however, is here peculiar, many con- 
nect the clause containing this name with the preceding 
verse (as in the Sept, and 1 Esdr. ; but contrary to the 
Masoretic punctuation), so as to read, “ Hattush of the 
sons of Shechaniah thus identifying this person with 
No. 9. The clause containing this name is perhaps an 
interpolation from ver. 5. See Hattush. 

5. Another person similarly mentioned in the same 
list (Ezra viii. 5) as progenitor of “ the son of Jahaziel,” 
who likewise returned from Babylon with Ezra; but as 
the name Shechaniah itself is not found in the parallel 
list of Ezra ii, and as the mere patronymic ben-Jahaziel 
is scarcely a sufficient designation, we may conjecture 
(comp. ver. 10) that a name (actually supplied in the 
Zathoe of the Sept, and 1 Esdr.; evidently the Zattu of 
Ezra ii. 8) has dropped out of the Heb. text before “ She- 
chaniah” (BcTthean, Kurzgef. Handb. ad loc.). This in- 
dividual, i.e. Shechaniah, will then appear (in conform- 
ity with the phraseology of tlu adjoining enumerations) 
as the son of the Zechariah in question, and himself one 
of the returned exiles. B.C. 459. See Zattu. 

6/ A sou of Jehiel, of the “sons of Elam,” and the one 
who proposed to Ezra the repudiation of the Gentile 
wives taken after the return from Babylon (Ezra x, 2). 
B.C. 458. 

7. The father of Shemaiah, which latter was “ keeper 
of the east gate,” and repaired part of the wall of Jeru- 
salem under Nehemiah (Nch. iii, 29). B.C. ante 446. 
He was perhaps identical with No. 9. 

8. The son of Arab and father-in-law of Tobiah, the 
Jews’ enemv during the restoration of Jerusalem (Neh. 
vi, 18). B.C. cir. 434. 

9. A descendant of the Davidic line, father of She- 
maiah, and apparently the son of Obadinh (1 Chron. iii, 
21, 22). B.C. cir. 410. He mav also have been the 
Eliakim (Matt, i, 13) or Joseuii (Luke iii, 26) of our 
Saviour’s ancestry (Strong, Harm, and Expos, p. 16, 17): 
See Nos. 4 and 7. 

She'chem (lleb. Shekem', B2U [“in pause” She'- 
kem, BI'N 1 , both as a common noun (Psa. xxi, 13) and 
as a proper name (Numb, xxvi, 31; Josh, xvii, 2; I 
Chron. vii, 19)], a shoulder; Sept. ^ ie name 

of three men and one place in the Bible. 

1. The son of Hamor, prince of the country or dis- 
trict of Shechem in which Jacob formed his camp on 


SHECIIEM 


630 


SHECHEM 


his return from Mesopotamia. B.C. 1906. This young 1 
man. having seen Jacob’s daughter Dinah, was smitten i 
with her beauty, and devoured her. This wrong was 
terribly and cruelly avenged by the damsel’s uterine 
brothers, Simeon and Levi. Sec Di>aii. It seems 
likely that the town of Shechem, even if of recent or- 
igin, must have existed before the birth of a man so 
young as 1 1 amor’s son appears to have been; and we 
may therefore suppose it a name preserved in the fam- 
ily, and which both the town and the princes inherited. 
See No. 4 below. Shechem’s name is always connected 
with that of his father, Ilatnor ^Gen. xxxiii, 19 : xxxiv ; 
Josh, xxiv, 3*2 ; Judg. ix, 28; Acts vii, 10). See Jacoi?, 

2 . A son of Gilead, of the tribe of Manasseh, and 
head of the family of the Shechemites (Numb, xxvi, 
81). B.C. post 1856. His family are again mentioned 
as the Bcni-Shechem (Josh, xvii, 2). 

3. In the lists of 1 Chron. another Shechem is named 
among the Gileadites as a son of Shemidah, a younger 
member of the family of the foregoing (vii, 19). B.C. 
post 1856. It must have been the recollection of one of 
these two Gileadites which led Cyril of Alexandria into 
his strange fancy (quoted bv Belaiul, Pa last. p. 1007. 
from his Comm, on llosea) of placing the city of She- 
chem on the eastern side of the Jordan. 

4 . An ancient and important city of Central Pales- 
tine, which still subsists, although under a later desig- 
nation. (In our account of it we chiedv follow those 
found in the Dictionaries of Smith and Fairbairn.) 

I. The Name. — The Hebrew word, as above seen, 
means a “shoulder,” or, more correctly, the upper part 
of the back, just below the neck, like the Larin dorsum, 
a ridge (Gesenius, s. v.). The origin of this name is 
doubtful. Some have supposed it was given to the 
tow’ll from its position on the water-shed lying between 
the valley of the Jordan, on the east, and the Mediterra- 
nean, on the west. But this is not altogether correct, 
for the water-shed is more than half-tvav from the city 
to the entrance of the valley; and, had it been other- 
wise, the elevation at that point is so slight that it 
would neither suggest nor justify this as a distinctive 
title. It has also been made a question whether the 
place was so called from Shechem, the son of Hamor, 
liead of their tribe in the time of Jacob (Gen. xxxiii, 
IN sq.), or whether he received his name from the city. 
The import of the name favors, certainly, the latter sup- 
position, since its evident signification as an appellative, 
in whatever application, would naturally originate such 
a name; and the name, having been thus introduced, 
would he likely to appear again and again in the family 
of the hereditary rulers of the city or region. The 
name, too, if first given to the city in the time of lla- 
mor, would have been taken, according to historical 
analogy, from the father rather than the son. Some 
interpret Gen. xxxiii, 18, 19 as showing that Shechem 
in that passage may have been called also Shalem. But 
this opinion has no support except from that, passage; 
and the meaning even there more naturally is that Ja- 
cob came in safety to Shechem (cb'J, as an adjective, 
safe ; comp. Gen. xxvni, 21) ; or (as recognised in the 
English Bible) that Shalem belonged to Shechem as a 
dependent tributary village. See Shalk.m. The name 
is also given in the A. V. in the form of Sicnrcu (Gen. 
xii, 6) and Svciikm (Aets vii, 16), to which, as well as 
Sven ah (John iv, 5), the reader is referred. In the 
Sept., as above stated, it is (as in the Newv Test, above) 
usually designated hv Nuyfyi, but also i) in 

1 Kings xii, 25; and rd 'Sua/ta, as in Josh, xxiv, 82, 
w hich is the lbrtn generally used by Josephus and Eu- 
sebius (in the Ouomast.'). But the place has also been 
known by very different names from these variations 
of the ancient Shechem. To say nothing of Alabortha 
(Ma3op$« or Ma^r/Spa), which Josephus says ( IPor, 
iv, 8, l) it w T as called by the people of the country 
(5 the thoroughfare or gorge), and which also 
appears, w’iih a slight variation ( Jf amort Alt ) in Pliny 


(Hist. Nat. v, 13), Josephus (ibid.) calls it Neapolis 
(Ne«7ro\it*, “ New' Town”), from its having been rebuilt 
by Vespasian after the Roman war in Palestine; and 
this name is found on coins still extant (Enckel, Doetr. 
Num. iii, 433). See Nkapolis. This last name it lias 
still retained in the Arab Nablus, and is one of the very 
few’ instances throughout the country where the com- 
paratively modern name has supplanted the original. 



II. Location . — The scriptural indications of its local- 
ity are not numerous. Joshua places it in Mount Ephra- 
im (xx, 7 ; see also 1 Kings xii, 25). Shiloh was “on 
the east side of the highway that goeth up from Bethel 
to Shechem” (Judg. xxi, 19); hence Shechem must 
have been farther north than Shiloh. In the story of 
Jot ham it is more precisely located under Mount Gcri- 
zim (ix, 7); which corresponds with the more full and 
exact description of Josephus, who places it between 
Gerizim and Ebal (Ant. iv, 8, 44). Further, Shechem. 
as we learn from Joseph’s history (Gen. xxxvii, 12, 
etc.), must have been near Dothan; and, assuming Do- 
than to be the place of that name a few’ miles north- 
east of Nablus, Shechem must have been among the 
same mountains, not far distant. So, too, as the Sychar 
in John iv, 5 was probably the ancient Shechem, that 
town must have been near Mount Gerizim, to w’hich 
the Samaritan woman pointed or glanced as she stood 
by the w'ell at its foot. The collateral evidences in sup- 
port of this opinion we may briefly state. 1. The city 
is not built on an elevated position, as almost all the 
tow’ns of Palestine are, but at the foot of Gerizim and 
along the valley, indicating a date anterior to the war- 
like and unsettled state of the country which led the 
inhabitants to select a more secure and defensive site 
for their towns; as also the unw illingness of the people 
through future generations to change the site of their 
ancient and renowned city. 2. The advantage which 
it affords of a good supply of running w’ater — a most 
important consideration in that climate especially. No 
spot in this favored locality has such an abundance as 
the city itself. 3. The road which has connected the 
valley w ith the summit of Mount Gerizim through all 
past ages is the one ascending behind the present town. 
It is true that there is another path leading up from the 
valley about half-way between the city and the east 
end of the valley; hut this has never been more than a 
kind of bv-path, used by few’ except shepherds. 4. The 
antiquities in and around the city. These are neither 
numerous nor important in themselves, hut as evidence 
on the subject in question they are of considerable value. 
They consist of portions of walls, cisterns, fragments of 
potteries, and such like, all of early date, and some evi- 
dently of Hebrew origin. These being either within 
the walls of the present city, or in its immediate vicin- 
ity, and none to he met with in any other part of the 
valley, seem to be a pretty conclusive proof that the 
present site is the original one, 5. The narrative of 
Jot ham’s parable to the people of Shechem clearly in- 
dicates the same spot (Judg. ix, 7-21). He would have 
stood on one of those large projections of Gerizim that 
overlook the city; and in no other spot in the valley 
would t he whole story tally so well. Josephus, in re- 
lating Jotham’s exploit, coutirnis this beyond all dispute. 
His words are that Jotham went up to Mount Gerizim, 
which overhangs the city Shechem (Ant. v, 7, 2). We 
may remark that Josephus usually retains the old name 
Shechem when speaking of the city, but occasionally 
adopts the new name, Neapolis ( l Far, iv, 8, I); and 


SIIEC1IEM 


C31 


SIIECIIEM 


thus clearly identifies Shechera with Nablus. This 
was certainly the Jewish opinion, as we read in Mid- 
rash Rabbah that “ Shechem in Mount Ephraim is Na- 
ptilis.” So, also, the early Christians Epiphanies (A dr. 
liver. iii, 1055) and Jerome (Epit. PanUe). The only 
ancient author that makes a distinction between She- 
client and Nablus is Eusebius, if indeed he means to as- 
sert the fact, which seems doubtful from his mode of 
expression ( Onomast . s. v. Tege/diu^ot;, — v X £ l0‘ But 
his contemporary, the Bordeaux Pilgrim, who visited 
the place in A.D. 333, not only identifies the two, but 
also never calls the city by its new name, Neapolis, but 
only its ancient name, Svcheni ; and most likely he thus 
only expressed the general and probably universal opin- 
ion that then prevailed among both Jews and Chris- 
tians. 

The ancient town, in its most flourishing age, may 
have filled a wider circuit than its modern representa- 
tive. It could easily have extended farther up the side 
of Gerizim, and eastward nearer to the opening into the 
valley from the plain. But any great change in this 
respect, certainly the idea of an altogether different 
position, the natural conditions of the locality render 
doubtful. That the suburbs of the town, in the age of 
Christ, approached nearer than at present to the en- 
trance into the valley between Gerizim and Ebal may 
be inferred from the implied vicinity of Jacob’s well to 
Sychar in John’s narrative (iv, 1 s<p). The impression 
made there on the reader is that the people could be 
readily seen as they came forth from the town to repair 
to Jesus at the well; whereas Nablus is more than a 
mile distant, and not visible from that point. The 
present inhabitants have a belief or tradition that She- 
chem occupied a portion of the valley on the east be- 
yond the limits of the modern town; and certain trav- 
ellers speak of ruins there, which they regard as evi- 
dence of the same fact. The statement of Eusebius 
that Sychar lay east of Neapolis may be explained by 
the circumstance that the part of Neapolis in that quar- 
ter had fallen into such a state of ruin when he lived as 
to be mistaken for the site of a separate town (see Be- 
land, Paltest. p. 1004). The portion of the town on the 
edge of the plain was more exposed than that in the 
recess of the valley, and, in the natural course of things, 
would be destroyed first, or he left to desertion and de- 
cay. Josephus says that more than ten thousand .Sa- 
maritans (inhabitants of Shechein are meant) were de- 
stroyed by the Unmans on one occasion ( IFor, iii, 7, 33). 
The population, therefore, must have been much greater 
than Nablus, with its present dimensions, would contain. 

III. History. — The allusions to Shechem in the Bible 
are numerous, and show how important the place was 
in Jewish history. Abraham, on his first migration to 
the land of promise, pitched his tent and built an altar 
under the oak (or Terebinth) of Moreh at .Shechem, 
‘‘The Canaanite was then in the land;” and it is evi- 
dent that the region, if not the city, was already in pos- 
session of the aboriginal race (see (Jen. xii, (5). Some 
have inferred from the expression “place of Shechein” 
that it was not inhabited as a city in the 
time of Abraham. But we have the same expression 
used of cities or towns in other instances (xviii, 34; xix, 
13; xxix, 22); and it may have been interchanged here, 
without any difference of meaning, with the phrase, 
“city of Shechem,” which occurs in xxxiii, 18. A po- 
sition affording such natural advantages would hardly 
fail to be occupied as soon as anv population existed in 
the country. The narrative shows incontestably that, 
at the time of Jacob’s arrival here, after his sojourn in 
Mesopotamia (ver. 18; eh. xxxiv), Shechem was a lli- 
vite city, of which Hamor, the father of Shechem, was 
the head man. It was at this time that the patriarch 
purchased from that chieftain “the parcel of r lie field,” 
which he subsequently bequeathed, as a special patri- 
mony, to his son Joseph (xliii, 33; Josh, xxiv, 32 ; John 
iv, 5). The field lay undoubtedly on the rich plain of j 


the Muk'kna, and its value was the greater on account 
of the well which Jacob had dug there, so as not to be 
dependent on his neighbors for a supply of water. The 
defilement of Dinah, Jacob's daughter, and the capture 
of Shechem and massacre of all the male inhabitants by 
Simeon and Levi, are events that belong to this period 
(Gen. xxxiv, 1 sq.). As this bloody act, which Jacob 
so entirely condemned (ver. 30) and reprobated with his 
dying breath (xlix, 5-7), is ascribed to two persons, some 
urge that as evidence of the very insignificant charac- 
ter of the town at the time of that transaction. But the 
argument is bv no means decisive. Those sons of Ja- 
cob were already at t he head of households of their own, 
and may have had the support, in that achievement, of 
their numerous slaves and retainers. We speak in like 
manner of a commander as taking this or that city when 
we mean that it was done under his leadership. The 
oak under which Abraham had worshipped survived to 
Jacob’s time ; and the latter, as he was about to remove 
to Beth-el, collected the images and amulets which some 
of his family had brought with them from Badan-aram 
and buried them “under the oak which was by She- 
cbem'’ (xxxv, 1-4). The “oak of the monument” (if 
we adopt .that rendering of 22*2 in Judg. ix, 6), 

where the Shechemites made Abimelech king, marked, 
perhaps, the veneration with which the Hebrews looked 
back to these earliest footsteps (the incunabula gentis') 
of the patriarchs in the IIolv Land. See Meonenim. 
During Jacob’s sojourn at Hebron his sons, in the course 
of their pastoral wanderings, drove their Hocks to She- 
chem, and at Dothan, in that neighborhood, Joseph, 
who had been sent to look after their welfare, was seized 
anti sold to the Ishmaelites (Gen. xxxvii, 12, 28). In the 
distribution of the land after its conquest by the He- 
brews, Shechem fell to the lot of Ephraim (Josh. xx,7), 
but was assigned to the Levites, and became a city of 
refuge (xxi, 20, 21). It acquired new importance as the 
scene of the renewed promulgation of the law, when its 
blessings were heard from Gerizim and its curses from 
Ebal, and the people bowed their heads and acknowl- 
edged Jehovah as their king and ruler (Dent, xxvii, 1 1 ; 
Josh, ix, 32-35). It was here Joshua assembled the peo- 
ple, shortly before his death, and delivered to them his 
last counsels (xxiv, 1,25). After the death of Gideon, 
Abimelech, his bastard son, induced the .Shechemites to 
revolt from the Hebrew commonwealth and elect him 
as king (Judg. ix). It was to denounce this act of usur- 
pation and treason that .lotham delivered his parable 
of the trees to the men of Shechem from the top of Geri- 
zim, as recorded at length in Judg. ix, 22 sq. The pict- 
uresque traits of ihe allegory, as Prof. Stanley suggests 
(Einai and Palestine , p. 230; Jewish Church, p. 348), are 
strikingly appropriate to the diversified foliage of the 
region. In revenge for his expulsion, after a reign of 
three years, Abimelech destroyed the city, and, as an 
emblem of the fate to which he would consign it, sowed 
the ground with salt (Judg. ix, 34-45). It was soon re- 
stored, however, for we are told in l Kings xii that all 
Israel assembled at Shechem, and Behoboam, Solomon’s 
successor, went thither to be inaugurated as king. Its 
central position made it convenient for such assemblies; 
its history was fraught with recollections which would 
give the sanctions of religion as well as of patriotism to 
the vows of sovereign and people. The new king’s ob- 
stinacy made him insensible to such influences. Here, 
at this same place, the ten tribes renounced the house 
of David and transferred their allegiance to Jeroboam 
(ver. Ill), under whom Shechem became for a time the 
capital of his kingdom. We come next to the epoch of 
the exile. The people of Shechem. doubtless shared the 
fate of the other inhabitants, and were, most of them at 
least, carried into captivity (2 Kings xvii, 5, 6; xviii, 9 
sq.). But Shalmaneser, the conqueror, sent colonies from 
Babylonia to occupy the place of the exiles (xvii, 24). 
It would seem that there was another influx of stran- 
gers, at a later period, under Esar-haddon (Ezra iv, 2). 


SHECHEM 


632 


SHECHEM 


The “certain men from Shoehorn” mentioned in Jer. 
xli, 5, who were slain on their way to Jerusalem, were 
possibly Cuthites, i. e. Babylonian immigrants who had 
become proselytes or worshippers of Jehovah (see Hit- 
zig, Der Proph. Jer. p. 331). These Babylonian settlers 
in the land, intermixed, no doubt, to some extent with 
the old inhabitants, were the Samaritans, who erected at 
length a rival temple on Gerizim (B.C. 300), and be- 
tween whom and the Jews a bitter hostility existed for 
so many ages (Josephus, .4«L xii, 1, 1 ; xiii, 3, 4). The 
Son of Siraeh (1, 26) says that “a foolish people,” i. e. 
the Samaritans, “dwelt at Shechem” (rd N iicipa). 
From its vicinity to their place of worship, it became 
the principal city of the Samaritans, a rank which it 
maintained at least till the destruction of their temple, 
about B.C. 129, a period of nearly two hundred years 
(ibid, xiii, 9, 1; I Par, i, 2, 6). From the time of the 
origin of the Samaritans the history of Shechem blends 
itself with that of this people and of their sacred mount, 
Gerizim; and the reader will find the proper informa- 
tion on this part of the subject under those heads. The 
city was taken and the temple destroyed by John Ilyr- 
canus, B.C. 129 (Ant. xiii, 9, 1 ; lPcir, i, 2, 6). 

As already intimated, Shechem reappears in the New 
Test. It is probably the Sychar of John iv, 5, near 
which the Saviour conversed with the Samaritan wom- 
an at Jacob’s well, -uyrrjO, as the place is termed there 
(2iyop in IJec. Text is incorrect), found only in that 
passage, was no doubt current among the Jews in the 
age of Christ, and was either a term of reproach (" ? £lli, 
“a lie”) with reference to the Samaritan faith and wor- 
ship, or, possibly, a provincial mispronunciation of that 
period (see Liickc, Comm. iib. Johan, i, 577). The Sav- 
iour, with his disciples, remained two days at Sychar on 
his journey from Judaea to Galilee. He preached the 
Word there, and many of the people believed on him 
(John iv, 39, 40). In Acts vii, 16, Stephen reminds his 
hearers that certain of the patriarchs (meaning Joseph, 
as we see in Josh, xxiv, 32, and following, perhaps, some 
tradition as to Jacob's other sons) were buried at Sy- 
chem. Jerome, who lived so long hardly more than a 
day’s journey from Shechem, says that the tombs of the 
twelve patriarchs were to be seen there in his day. 
The anonymous city in Acts viii, 5, where Philip 
preached with such effect, may have been Svchem, 
though many would refer that narrative to Samaria, 
the capital of the province. 

We have seen that not long after the times of the 
New Test, the place received the name of Neapolis, 
which it still retains in the Arabic form of Nablus, 
being one of the very few names imposed by the Ro- 
mans in Palestine which have survived to the present 
day. It had probably suffered much, if it was not com- 
pletely destroyed, in the war with the Romans (see 
Rambach, De Urbe Sichem Sale Conspersa [Hal. 1730]). 
and would seem to have been restored or rebuilt by Ves- 
pasian, and then to have taken this new name; for the 
coins of the city, of which there are many, all bear the 
inscription Flavin Neapolis — the former epithet no 
doubt derived from Flavius Vespasian (Mionnet, Med. 
Antiq. v, 499). The name occurs first in Josephus 
(IFf/r, iv, 8, 1), and then in Plinv (Hist. Nat. v, 14), 
Ptolemy (Geofj. v, 16). As intimated above, there had 
already been converts to the Christian faith at this 
place under our Saviour, and it is probable that a 
Church had been gathered here by the apostles (John 
iv, 30-42; Acts viii, 25; ix,31; xv,3). Justin Martyr 
was a native of Neapolis (Apoloy. ii, 41). The name 
of Hermanns, bishop of Neapolis, occurs in A. I). 314; 
and other bishops continue to be mentioned down to 
A.D.536, when the bishop John signed his name at the 
synod of Jerusalem (Reland, Pahcst. p. 1009), When the 
Moslems invaded Palestine, Neapolis and other small 
towns in the neighborhood were subdued while the 
siege of Jerusalem was going on (Abulfeda, A nnal. i, 
229). After the taking of Jerusalem by the Crusaders, 


Neapolis and other towns in the mountains of Samaria 
tendered their submission, and Tancred took possession 
of them without resistance (Will. Tyr. ix, 20). Neapo- 
lis was laid waste by the Saracens in A.D. 1113; but a 
few years after (A.D. 1120) a council was held here 
by king Baldwin II to consult upon the state of the 
country (Fulcher, p. 424 ; Will. Tyr. xii, 13). Neapolis 
was not made a Latin bishopric, but belonged probably 
to that of Samaria, and the property of it was assigned 
to the abbot and canons of the Holy Sepulchre (Jac. de 
Vitriacus, ch. 1 viii). After some disasters in the unquiet 
times which ensued, and after some circumstances which 
show its remaining importance, the place was finally 
taken from the Christians in A.D. 1242 by Abu Ali, the 
colleague of sultan Bibars, and has remained in Moslem 
hands ever since. 

IV. Description. — 1. The natural features of the neigh- 
borhood are the two mountains Gerizim and Ebal, stand- 
ing in front of each other like two giants, with the little 
valley running between, and on the eastern side the 
noble plain of Mukhna stretching from north to south. 
The two mountains run in parallel ranges from east to 
west — Ebal on the north and Gerizim on the south — and 
both reach an elevation of some 2500 feet above the 
level of the Mediterranean, and 800 feet above the val- 
ley itself. From the town to the eastern opening of 
the valley, a distance of about a mile and a half, where 
the two mountain ranges have their starting-points, 
and to which parts the names of Gerizim and Ebal are 
confined, both mountains rise immediately from the val- 
ley in steep and mostly precipitous declivities to the 
height stated; and both, as seen from the valley, are 
equally naked and sterile. But immediately behind the 
city, and there only, Gerizim has the advantage, owing 
to a copious stream that flows through a small ravine at 
the west side of the town. Here are several orchards 
and gardens, producing abundantly. On Ebal also, op- 
posite the town, there arc several gardens and cultivated 
plots — some old, but the majority of late planting — and 
all in a comparatively thriving condition , but these can 
never equal those on the Gerizim side on account of the 
deficiency of water. The valley itself stands at an ele- 
vation of some 1700 feet above the Mediterranean, run- 
ning from east to west, and extending from the eastern 
abutments of the two mountains as far as Sebustieh (Sa- 
maria) westward. A portion of this only belongs to our 
present notice, namely, from its eastern opening to the 
town of Nablus, a distance of about a mile and a half. 
Its width varies. At its commencement it measures 
somewhat more than half a mile; but near half-way to 
the town it contracts to about half that width. But as 
we proceed towards the city the mountains again re- 
cede, and the valley widens to its former width; but 
again, at the city, contracts to its narrowest dimension. 
It is hardly in any part a flat level, but rather a gradual 
slope of the two mountains, until they dovetail into each 
other. Just at the commencement of the valley, on 
either side, are Jacob’s well and Joseph’s tomb. (See 
below.) A little farther on, and near the centre of the 
valley, stands the hamlet Balata, the remains of a town 
of the same name mentioned by Parchi (Kapht va-Phe- 
rach), but of no historical importance. Near half-way 
up the valley is the highest ground, forming the water- 
shed between the valley of the Jordan and the Mediter- 
ranean. The valley thus far is almost without trees of 
any kind, but the part nearest the town is well wooded. 
The principal kind of tree is the olive, as it seems to 
have been in the days of Jotham (Judg. ix, 8). The 
town itself is surrounded by orchards and gardens, where 
tigs, mulberries, grapes, almonds, oranges, apricots, and 
other fruit grow luxuriantly. 

One of the great and peculiar features of this valley 
is the abundance of water. Dr. Rosen says that the in- 
habitants boast of the existence of not less than eighty 
| springs of water within and around the city. He gives 
the names of twenty-seven of the principal of them. 
Within some two miles’ radius from thirty to forty 


SIIECIIEM 


633 


SIIECIIEM 


copious springs exist. But within the area now under 
notice they arc more copious than numerous. There is 
not a single spring on the Ebal side till we have passed 
the city for some distance. On the Gerizim side, out- 
side the city, there are three. The first, rising near the 
water-shed, dries up in summer. The next, ’Ain Dafna 
(the Ad<pyij of the Roman period of the city), a very 
large stream, issues out near the road and runs in an 
open channel past Jacob’s well, turning a mill on its 
way, and emptying itself to water the plain. ’Ain Ba- 
lata, named from the little village whence it Hows, is 
the other, issuing from a subterranean chamber sup- 
ported by three pillars, and sufficiently copious to sup- 
ply a large population. Within the city itself the 
principal supply is derived from a stream, descending 
Irom a ravine on the western side of the town, which is 
made to How in abundance along the channels of some 
of the streets. The fountains are numerous. The most 
remarkable, ’Ain el-lverun, is under a vaulted dome, anti 
is reached by a flight of steps. The water is convey- 
ed hence by conduits to two of the principal mosques 
and some private houses, and afterwards serves to water 
the gardens below. The various streams run on the 
northern side of the town into one channel, which 
serves to turn a corn-mill that is kept going summer 
and winter. 

On the eastern side of the valley, as already men- 
tioned, lies the extensive plain of the Muklina, stretch- 
ing for many miles from north to south, and hemmed 
in on both sides by mountain chains, the slopes of which 
support several villages and hamlets. Ip Scripture it 
is called Sadek (iYTu3), a smooth or level cultivated 
open land (Gen. xxxiii, 19), to which our Saviour 
pointed when lie said, “Say ye not, There are yet 
four months, and then cometh harvest?” etc. (John iv, 
35). 

The situation of the town is one of surpassing beauty. 
“ The land of Syria,” said Mohammed, “is beloved by 
Allah beyond all lands, and the part of Syria which he 
loveth most is the district of Jerusalem, and the place 
which he loveth most in the district of Jerusalem is the 
mountain of Nablus” ( Fundgr . des Orients , ii, 139). Its 
appearance has called forth the admiration of all trav- 
ellers who have any sensibility to the charms of nature. 
It lies in a sheltered valley, protected by Gerizim on 
the south and Ebal on the north. The feet of these 


mountains, where they rise from the town, are not more 
than five hundred yards apart. The bottom of the val- 
ley is about 1800 feet above the level of the sea, and 
the top of Gerizim 800 feet higher still. Those who 
have been to Heidelberg will assent to Von Richter's 
remark that the scenery, as viewed from the foot of the 
hills, is not unlike that of the beautiful German town. 
The site of the present city, which we believe to have 
been also that of the Hebrew city, occurs exactly on the 
water-summit; and streams issuing from tbe numerous 
springs there flow down the opposite slopes of the val- 
ley, spreading verdure and fertility in every direction. 
Travellers vie with each other in the language which 
they employ to describe the scene that bursts here so 
suddenly upon them on arriving in spring or early sum- 
mer at this paradise of the Holy Land. The somewhat 
sterile aspect of the adjacent mountains becomes itself 
a foil, as it were, to set off the effect of the verdant fields 
and orchards which till up the valley. “There is noth- 
ing finer in all Palestine,” says Dr. Clarke, “ than a view 
of Nablus from the heights around it. As the traveller 
descends towards it from the hills, it appears luxuriant- 
ly embosomed in the most delightful and fragrant bow- 
ers, half concealed by rich gardens and by stately trees 
collected into groves, all around the bold and beautiful 
valley in which it stands.” “The whole valley,” says 
Dr. Robinson, “was filled with gardens of vegetables 
and orchards of all kinds of fruits, watered by fountains 
which burst forth in various parts and flow westward in 
refreshing streams. It came upon us suddenly, like a 
scene of fairy enchantment. We saw nothing to com- 
pare with it in all Palestine. Here, beneath the shadow 
of an immense mulberry-tree, by the side of a purling 
rill, we pitched our tent for the remainder of the day 
and the night. . . . We rose early, awakened by the 
songs of nightingales and other birds, of which the gar- 
dens around us were full.” “There is no wilderness 
here,” says Van de Velde (i, 380), “there are no wild 
thickets, yet there is always verdure, always shade, not 
of the oak, the terebinth, and the caroub-tree, but of 
the olive-grove, so soft in color, so picturesque in form, 
that, for its sake, we can willingly dispense with all 
other wood. There is a singularity about the vale of 
Shcehem, and that is the peculiar coloring which ob- 
jects assume in it. You know that wherever there is 
water the air becomes charged with watery particles, 



SIIECHEM 


034 


SHECHEM 



Scale of o 5 qo tooo 2000 3000 63.00 YanL/ 

Map of the Vicinity of Shechem. 


ami that distant objects beheld through that 
medium seem to be enveloped in a pale-blue 
or gray mist, such as contributes not a little to 
give a charm to the landscape. But it is pre- 
cisely those atmospheric tints that we miss so 
much in Palestine. Fiery tints are to be seen 
both in the morning and the evening, and glit- 
tering violet or purple-colored hues where the 
light falls next to the long. deep shadows; hut 
there is an absence of coloring, and of that 
charming dusky hue in which objects assume 
such softly blended forms, and in which also 
the transition in color from the foreground to 
the farthest distance loses the hardness of out- 
line peculiar to the perfect tansparency of an 
Eastern sky. It is otherwise in the vale of 
Shechem. at least in the morning and the 
evening. Here the exhalations remain hover- 
ing among the branches and leaves of the 
olive-trees, and lienee that lovely bluish haze. 

The valley is far from broad, not exceeding in 
some places a few hundred feet. This you find 
generally enclosed on all sides; here, likewise, 
the vapors are condensed. And so yon advance 
under the shade of the foliage, along the living 
waters, and charmed by the melody of a host 
of singing birds — for they, too, know where to 
find their best quarters — while the perspective 
fades away and is lost, in the damp, vapory at- 
mosphere.” Apart entirely from the historic 
interest of the place, such are the natural at- 
tractions of this favorite resort of the patri- 
archs of old, such the beauty oft lie scenery, and 
the indescribable air of tranquillity and repose 
which hangs over the scene, that the travel- 
ler, anxious as he may he to hasten forward in 
his journey, feels that he would gladly linger, 
and could pass here days and weeks without impatience. 

2. The modern city, as already observed, is situated 
in the valley, about a mile and a half from its eastern 
opening. It stands at the foot of Gerizim,and stretches 
from east to west in an irregular form. Just where the 
city stands there is scarcely any fiat ground, the grad- 
ual slopes of the two mountains dovetailing into each 
other. The roads leading to the town from all parts are 
in a most primitive and wretched condition, and the 
town itself is surrounded by all kinds of filth. The city 
is encompassed by a wall of very common structure, and 
in a most dilapidated condition. The two principal 
gates — one in the eastern and the other in the western 
end of the town — are in keeping with the walls, and 
would not give so much trouble to a conqueror as in the 
time of Abimelech. Notwithstanding, they are of no 
small importance in the economy of the town. Here 
we still find a faint emblem of what gates were in an- 
cient times — the great emporiums where all the public 
affairs of the city were transacted. The gates of Na- 
blus retain their importance in part. At the western 
gate the revenue department is still located, and all 
who pass through with any commodities to sell, and 
purchasers, are charged a certain toll according to the 
value of the articles. The main street, following the 
line of the valley from east to west, runs almost in a 
straight line the whole length of the town, connecting 
the two gates. Most of the. other streets cross this 
quite irregularly, and are, almost without exception, nar- 
row and dirty. Nearly all of them have a channel along 
the centre, in which runs a stream of water. In the 
winter season those streams are full, hut diminish dur- 
ing the summer months, and several are dried up. This 
arrangement of the water causes the town to he very 
damp during the winter: and, however pleasant it may 
be in summer, it certainly forms anything hut a good 
element, in the sanitary condition of the place. This 
state of r lie streets, together with the fact of some of 
them being arched, makes the town uncommonly som- 
bre and dull. But when we speak of streets, our read- 


ers must, not imagine them to be similar to European 
streets, formed by the front of lines of houses, private or 
public ; but the streets of Nablus, like those of other Ori- 
ental towns, are only passages between dead walls, ex- 
cept where the bazaars break the monotony. These arc 
the Eastern shops or market-places — a kind of recesses in 
the walls — and are comparatively numerous in Nablus. 
They are grouped according to the merchandise they 
contain, and are situated principally in the main street. 

With regard to t lie buildings, we may remark that 
all the houses are built of stone, and are heavy and 
sombre. They are entered from the street through a 
ponderous strong door, barred on the inside (2 Sam. 
xiii, IS); a large iron knocker is attached, and two or 
three blows with this will suffice to bring one of the 
inmates to ask, ‘“Who is there?” (Acts xii, 13). From 
the inside it will be found that each house stands de- 
tached from its neighbor, and consists of detached 
vaulted rooms, all built of stone, and all opening into 
the court, which is uncovered, hut screened from the 
observation of all but the inmates by the high walls 
of the house on all sides. Every house has one dome 
or more; but the roof is fiat, with battlements sur- 
rounding it, to prevent any one falling into the street 
or court (Dent, xxii, 8). In the better sort of houses a 
kind of family saloon is built on a portion of the roof 
of the house, much more spacious and airv than the 
other rooms, and preserved principally for the enter- 
tainment of guests who are to he treated with marked 
respect. This is the aliyaJi, of the Old Test. 

(I Kings xvii, 13), and the “larger upper room” (atno- 
yaiov f-ifyci) of the New (Mark xiv, 15). The win- 
dows of the houses are sometimes only square holes in 
the wall (Acts xx,9); hut generally finished with lat- 
tice-work as of old (Judg. v. 28; Cant, ii, 0). 

There are no public buildings worth mentioning. 
The Keuiseh, or synagogue of the Samaritans, is a small 
edifice, in t he interior of which there is nothing re- 
markable, unless it be an alcove, screened by a curtain, 


SHECIIEM 


G35 


SIIECIIEM 


in which their sacred writings are kept. The structure 
may be three or four centuries old. A description and 
sketch plan of it are given in Mr. Grove’s paper On the 
Modern Samaritans, in Vacation Tourists for 1861. 
Nablus has five mosques, two of which, according to a 
tradition in which Mohammedans, Christians, and Sa- 
maritans agree, were originally churches. One of them, 
it is said, was dedicated to John the Baptist ; its eastern 
portal, still well preserved, shows the European taste of 
its founders. The domes of the houses anti the mina- 
rets. as they show themselves above the sea of luxuri- 
ant vegetation which surrounds them, present a strik- 
ing view to the traveller approaching from the east or 
the west. 

There are a few small portions of the town remain- 
ing, in all probability, from ancient times. The arched 
passage in the Samaritan tpiarter seems to be partly of 
this class, comprising levelled stones of Jewish style. 
Similar ones are in other parts of the town. The mar- 
ble troughs used at the principal streams arc probably 
Israelitish remains. These are five in number, dug up 
in the plain on the eastern side of Gerizim, and original- 
ly the sarcophagi of the dead, Rosen, during his stay 
at Nablus, examined anew the Samaritan inscriptions 
found there, supposed to be among the oldest written 
monuments in Palestine, lie has furnished, as Prof. Ud- 
diger admits, the best copy of them that has been taken 
(sec a fac-simile in Zeitschr.der dentschen moryenl. Gesell- 
schaft, 1860, p. 621). The inscriptions, on stone-tablets, 
distinguished in his account as No. 1 and No. 2, belonged 
originally to a Samaritan synagogue which stood just 
out of the city, near the Samaritan quarter, of which 
synagogue a few remains only arc now left. They are 
thought to be as old at least, as t he age of Justinian, who 
(A.l). 529) destroyed so many of the Samaritan places of 
worship. Some, with less reason, think they may have 
been saved from the Temple on Gerizim, having been 
transferred afterwards to a later synagogue. One of 
the tablets is now inserted in the wall of a minaret; 
the other was discovered not long ago in a heap of rub- 
bish not far from it. The inscriptions consist of brief 
extracts from the Samaritan Pentateuch, probably val- 
uable as paheographic documents. Similar slabs are to 
be found built into the walls of several of the sanctu- 
aries in the neighborhood of Nablus; as at the tombs 
of Eleazar, Phiuehas, and Ithamar at Awertah. 

3. To complete our survey of Shechem and its neigh- 
borhood, we must take a brief glance at the traditional 
monuments that exist there. The most interesting by 
far are the Well of Jacob and the Tomb of Joseph. 
These stand at the eastern opening of the valley, the 
former near the foot of Gerizim, and the latter near the 
foot of Ebal, as if keeping guard over the parcel of field 
bought by the patriarch of the children of Ilamor. 

(1.) With regard to the first of these, we may ob- 
serve that the language in the original is remarkably 
descriptive of the spot. Had Jacob bought a portion of 
the valley, we should have had emek, but here it 
is a part of the sadeh , iTVvEil, the level cultivated land, 
the plain of Mnklma already described ; and to no oth- 
er part of the country could this term be applied. This, 
in connection with the unbroken tradition of the spot, 
renders its genuineness beyond all doubt. The well is 
not an \tin,“^V, a fountain of living water; but a beer, 
a cistern to hold rain-water. Hence our Saviour’s 
contrast, with the Samaritan woman, between the cis- 
tern ( <ppiafj ) which Jacob gave them and the fountain 
(7n/y//) which he should give them (John iv, 12, 14). 
Faithful to the language of Scripture, the natives never 
call it W in Yakut), but always J>ir Yakub , Jacob’s Well. 
The native Christians of Nablfis frequently call it Bir 
Samariijeh, the Samaritan Well; but the Samaritans 
themselves only call it Bir Yakub. 

“A low spur projects from the base of Gerizim in a 
north-eastern direction, between the plain and the open- 
ing of the valley. On the point of this spur is a little 


mound of shapeless ruins, with several fragments of 
granite columns. Beside these is the well. Formerly 
there was a square hole opening into a carefully built 
vaulted chamber, about ten feet square, in the floor of 
which was the true mouth of the well. Now a portion 
of the vault has fallen in and completely covered up the 
mouth, so that nothing can be seen above but a shallow 
pit half filled with stones and rubbish. The well is 
deep — seventy-five feet when last measured, and there 
was probably a considerable accumulation of rubbish at 
the bottom. Sometimes it contains a few feet of water, 
but at others it is quite dry. It is entirely excavated 
in the solid rock, perfectly round, nine feet in diameter, 
with the sides hewn smooth and regular” (Porter, Hand- 
book, p. 340). The well is fast filling up with the stones 
thrown in by travellers and others. At Maundrell’s 
visit (1697) it was 105 feet deep, and the same measure- 
ment is given by Dr. Robinson as having been taken in 
May, 1838. Hut, five years later, when Dr. Wilson re- 
covered Air. A. Bonar’s Bible from it. the depth bad de- 
creased to “exactly seventy-five” (Wilson. Bands, ii. 57). 
Maundrell (March 24) found fifteen feet of water stand- 
ing in the well. It appears now to be always dry. 

“ It has every claim to be considered the original 
well, sunk' deep into the rocky ground by ‘our father 
Jacob.’” This, at least, was the tradition of the place 
in the last days of the Jewish people (John iv, 6, 12). 
Its position adds probability to the conclusion, indicat- 
ing, as has been well observed, that it was there dug by 
one who could not trust to the springs so near in the 
adjacent vale — the springs of Ain Balata and ’Ain 
Dafna — which still belonged to the Canaanites. Of 
all the special localities of our Lord’s life, this is almost 
the only one absolutely undisputed. “The tradition, 
in which, by a singular coincidence, Jews and Samari- 
tans, Christians and Mohammedans, all agree, goes 
back,” says Dr. Robinson (Bib. Res. ii, 284), “ at least to 
the time of Eusebius, in the early part of the 4th cen- 
tury. That writer indeed speaks only of the sepul- 
chre ; but the Bordeaux Pilgrim, in A.D. 333, men- 
tions also the well; and neither of these writers has 
any allusion to a church. But Jerome, in Epitaphium 
Panhe, which is referred to A.I). 404, makes her visit 
the church erected at the side of Mount Gerizim around 
the Well of Jacob, where our Lord met the Samaritan 
woman. The church would seem, therefore, to have 
been built during the 4th century; though not by 
Helena, as is reported in modern times. It was vis- 
ited and is mentioned, as around the well, by Antoninus 
Martyr near the close of the tit h century, by Arculfus 
a century later, who describes it as built in the form of 
a cross; and again by St. Willibald in the 8th century. 
Yet Saewulf, about A.D. 1103, and Phocas in 1185, who 
speak of the well, make no mention of the church; 
whence we may conclude that the latter had been de- 
stroyed before the period of the Crusades. Brocardus 
speaks of ruins around the well, blocks of marble and 
columns, which he held to be the ruins of a town, the 
ancient Thebez; they were probably those of the 
church, to which he makes no allusion. Other trav- 
ellers, both of that age and later, speak of the church 
only as destroyed, and the well as already deserted. 
Before the days of Eusebius there seems to be no his- 
torical testimony to show tin* identity of this well with 
that which our Saviour visited; and the proof must 
therefore rest, so far as it can be made out at all. on 
circumstantial evidence. I am not aware of anything, 
in the nature of the case, that goes to contradict the 
common tradition; but, on the other hand, I see much 
in the circumstances tending to confirm the supposition 
that this is actually the spot where our Lord held his 
conversation with the Samaritan woman. Jesus was 
journeying from Jerusalem to Galilee, and rested at 
the well, while ‘his disciples were gone away into the 
city to buy meat.’ The well, therefore, lay apparently 
before the city, and at some distance from it. In pass- 
ing along the eastern plain, Jesus had halted at the 


SHECHEM 


636 


SHECIIEM 


well, ami sent his disciples to the city situated in the 
narrow valley, intending, on their return, to proceed 
along the plain ou his way to Galilee, without himself 
visiting the city. All this corresponds exactly to the 
present character of t he ground. The well, too, was 
Jacob’s Well, of high antiquity, a known and venerated 
spot, which, after having already lived for so many 
ages in tradition, would not be likely to be forgotten in 
the two and a half centuries intervening between John 
and Eusebius.” 

It is understood that the well, and the site around it, 
have lately been purchased by the Russian Church, not, 
it is to be hoped, with the intention of erecting a Church 
over it, and thus forever destroying the reality and the 
sentiment of the place. A special fund has recently been 
raised in England for the purpose of surveying the prem- 
ises and cleaning out the well. See Jacob’s Well. 

(2.) The second of the spots alluded to is the Tomb 
of Joseph. It lies about a quarter of a mile north of 
the well, exactly in the centre of the opening of the 
valley between Gerizim and Ebal. It is a small square 
enclosure of high whitewashed walls, surrounding a 
tomb of the ordinary kind, but with the peculiarity 
that it is placed diagonally to the walls, instead of par- 
allel, as usual. A rough pillar used as an altar, and 
black with the traces of lire, is at the head, and another 
at the foot of the tomb. In the left-hand corner as 
you enter is a vine, whose branches “run over the 
wall,” recalling exactly the metaphor of Jacob’s bless- 
ing (Gen. xlix, 22). In the walls are two slabs with 
Hebrew inscriptions. One of these is given by Dr. 
Wilson (Lalids, etc. ii. 61), and the interior is almost 
covered with the names of pilgrims in Hebrew, Arabic, 
and Samaritan. Beyond this there is nothing to re- 
mark in the structure itself. It purports to cover the 
tomb of Joseph, buried there in the “parcel of ground” 
which his father bequeathed especially to him his fa- 
vorite son, and in which his bones were deposited after 
the conquest of the country was completed (Josh, xxiv, 
32). 

The local tradition of the tomb, like that of the well, 
is as old as the beginning of the 4th century. Both 
Eusebius ( Onomast. ) and the Bordeaux Pii- 

grim mention its existence. So do Benjamin of Tiulela 
(1160-70) and Maundeville (1322), and so — to pass over 
intermediate travellers — does Maundrell (1607). All 
that is wanting in these accounts is to fix the tomb 
which they mention to the present spot. But this is 
difficult. Maundrell describes it as on his right hand, 
in leaving Nablus for Jerusalem; “just without the 
city” — a small mosque, “ built over the sepulchre of 
Joseph” (March 25). Some time after passing it he 
arrives at the well. This description is quite inappli- 
cable to the tomb just described, but perfectly suits the 
Wely at the north-east foot, of Gerizim, which also 
bears (among the Moslems) the name of Joseph. When 
the expressions of the two oldest authorities cited above 
are examined, it will be seen that they are quite as 
suitable, if not more so, to this latter spot, as to the 
tomb on the open plain. On the other hand, the Jew- 
ish travellers, from hap-Parelii (eir. 1320) downwards, 
specify the tomb as in the immediate neighborhood 
of the village el-Balata. See the itineraries entitled 
Jichna hat- Tsadikim (A. I). 1561) and Jichns hu-Abolh 
(1537), in Carmoly, lliueraires de la Terre - Sainte. 
Stanley states, after Buckingham, that it is said by the 
Samaritans to be thus called after a rabbi Joseph of 
Nablfls {Sin. and Pal, p. 241, note). But this identifi- 
cation seems to he a mistake, probably a Mohammedan 
legend, and imposed upon inquisitive travellers by un- 
scrupulous guides. The present Samaritans know of 
no Joseph’s tomb but the generally accepted one; and 
to it does the Jewish as well as the Samaritan tradition 
bear testimony. Ilap-Parehi, who spent some years ex- 
ploring Palestine, fixes Joseph’s Tomb fifty yards north 
of Balata (Kapht. ra-Pheraoli). 

In this contlict of testimony, and in the absence of 


an}" information on the date and nature of the Moslem 
tomb, it is impossible to come to a definite conclusion. 
There is some force, and that in favor of the received 
site, in the remarks of a learned and intelligent Jewish 
traveller (Lowe, in the Ally. Zeituny des Judenthums 
[Leipsig, 1839], No. 50) ou the peculiar form and nature 
of the ground surrounding the tomb near the well, the 
more so because they are suggested by the natural feat- 
ures of the spot, as reflected in the curiously minute, 
the almost technical, language of the ancient record, 
and not based on any mere traditional or artificial con- 
siderations. “The thought,” savs he, “forced itself 
upon me, how impossible it is to understand the details 
of the Bible without, examining them on the spot. This 
place is called in the Scripture neither emek ( ; valley’) 
nor shepheldh (‘plain’), but by the individual name of 
Chelkath hus-Sadeh ; and in the whole of Palestine there 
is not such another plot to be found — a dead level, with- 
out the least hollow or swelling in a circuit of two 
hours. In addition to this, it is the loveliest and most 
fertile spot I have ever seen.” See Joseph’s To jib. 

(3.) About half-way between Jacob’s Well and the 
city, and nestling in a bend of Mount Gerizim, is the 
mosque Sheik el-Amvd (the Saint of the Pillar), so 
called from a Mussulman saint. ’Phis saint, however, 
is only a modern invention of the Mohammedans. By 
the Samaritans the place is simply ealled El-Amud. 
the Pillar, their tradition identifying it with the pillar 
of stone set up by Joshua, as noticed above. They also 
believe that the celebrated oak of Moreh stood on the 
same spot. The Mohammedans come here occasionally 
to pray, but no great honor is paid to the place if we 
may judge from its present dilapidated state. 

(4.) About one third of the way up the side of Mount 
Ebal, in front of the town, is a bold perpendicular rock, 
some sixty feet high, called, after a Mohammedan female 
saint. Sit es-Salamiyeh . In front of the rock stands a 
small building, consisting of two chambers and a wely 
for prayer, but all in a dilapidated state. This part of 
the mountain is ealled by the saint’s name. 

(5.) A little farther westward, and about midway to 
the summit, stands the only edifiee now remaining on 
Mount Ebal. This is called 'I mad ed-Din — the Col- 
umn of Religion. According to the current tradition, 
this building was erected over the tomb of a Moham- 
medan saint, honored by the above name (and the 
building, of course, receiving its name from the saint), 
who flourished some flve hundred years ago. The 
building is used as a mosque, but the native Christians 
say that originally it was a Christian church. It con- 
sists of two apartments, the floor of the first still partly 
paved with fragments of very beaut iful mosaic-work, 
wrought in marble of red, blue, and white. On the 
middle of the inner room stands a large wooden lamp- 
stand in imitation of a tree, with a goodly number of 
branches, on which a number of oil-lamps are hanging, 
together with a formidable array of filthy rags placed 
there by pilgrims in honor of the saint, whose tomb, 
they say, is in the northern wall, indicated by a marble 
slab placed against it. This part of the mount is fre- 
quently ealled by the natives after the saint, ’Imad ed- 
Din. 

4. The present inhabitants of Nablus, with very few 
exceptions, are Arabs. It is difficult to say with exact- 
ness what is the number of its population, inasmuch as 
no census is taken. About 10,000 is near the mark. 
Of these there are about 100 Jews, 150 Samaritans, 
from 500 to 600 native Christians; the remaining 9400 
are Mohammedans — the most bigoted and unruly, per- 
haps, in Palestine. The enmity between the Samari- 
tans and Jews is as inveterate still as it was in the 
days of Christ. 

Being, as it is, the gateway of the trade between 
Jaffa and Beirut on the one side, and the transjor- 
dnnic districts on the other, and the centre also of a 
province so rich in wool, grain, and oil, Nablus be- 
comes, necessarily, the scat of an active commerce, and 


SHECHEMITE 


C37 


SHECHINAH 


of a comparative luxury to be found in very few of the 
inland Oriental cities. It produces, in its own manu- 
factories, many of the coarser woollen fabrics, delicate 
silk goods, cloth of camel’s hair, and especially soap, of 
which last commodity large quantities, after supplying 
the immediate country, are sent to Egypt and other 
parts of the East. The ashes and other sediments 
thrown out of the citv, as the result of the soap manu- 
facture, have grown to the size of hills, and give to the 
environs of the town a peculiar aspect. The olive, as 
in the days when Jotham delivered his famous par- 
able, is still the principal tree. Figs, almonds, walnuts, 
mulberries, grapes, oranges, apricots, pomegranates, are 
abundant. The valley of the Nile itself hardly sur- 
passes Nablus in the production of vegetables of every 
sort. 

See Robinson, Palestine, ii, 94-136; Olin, Travels , 
ii. 339-365; Xarratire of the Scottish Deputation , 
p. *208-218; Schubert, Morgenland, iii, 136-154; Lord 
Nugent, Lands Classical and Sacred , ii, 172-180; Hack- 
ett. Illustrations of Scripture , p. 193 sq. ; Thomson, Land 
and Pool:, ii, 203; Cornier, Tent 1 \ 'ork m Palestine, i, 61 
sq. Dr. Rosen, in the Zeitschr . der deutschen morgenland . 
Gesellscluft for 1860 (p.622-639), has given a careful 
plan of Nablus and the environs, with various accom- 
panying remarks. See also Samaritans, Modern. 

She'chemite (Heb. with the art. and collectively 
hash-ShihnV, a patronymic, Sept, o Nuysjui'), 

a family designation of the descendants of Shechem 
(q. w), the son of Shemidah of the tribe of Manasseli (1 
Chron. vii, 19). 

Sliechi'nah [some Shech'inah ,■ also written She- 
hinah~\ (in Chaldee and Neo-llebrew Shekiiuih', 
strictly residence, i.e. of God, his visible presence, from 
to dwelt), a word not found in the Bible, but used 
by the later Jews, and borrowed by Christians from 
them, to express the visible majesty of the Divine Pres- 
ence, especially when resting or dwelling between the 
cherubim on the merev-seat in the tabernacle and in 
the Temple of Solomon; but not in Zerubbabel’s tem- 
ple, for it was one of the five particulars which the Jews 
reckon to have been wanting in the second Temple 
(Castell, Lexic, s. v. ; Prideaux, Connect, i, 138). 

1. Rabbinical Import, — The use of the term is first 
found in the Targums, where it forms a frequent periph- 
rasis for God, considered as dwelling among the chil- 
dren of Israel, and is thus used, especially by Onkelos, 
to avoid ascribing corporeity to God himself, as Castell 
tells us, and may be compared to the analogous periph- 
rasis so frequent in the Targnm of Jonathan, “ the 
Word of the Lord.” Many Christian writers have 
thought that this threefold expression for the Deity — 
the Lord, the Word of the Lord, and the Shechinah — 
indicates the knowledge of a trinity of persons in the 
Godhead, and accordingly, following some Rabbinical 
writers, identify the Shechinah with the IIolv Spirit. 
Others, however, deny this (Calmet, Diet, of the Bible ; 
Saubert [Joh.], On the Logos, § xix, in Critic, Sacr. ; 
Glass, Philolog, Sacr. v, 1 , vii, etc.). 

Without stopping to discuss this question, it will 
most conduce to gi\e an accurate knowledge of the use 
of the term Shechinah by the Jews themselves if we 
produce a few of the most striking passages in the Tar- 
gums where it occurs. In Exod. xxv, 8, where the He- 
brew has “Let them make me a sanctuary that l may 
dwell (iriDD'd)) among them,” Onkelos has “ I will 
make my Shechinah to dwell among them.” In xxix, 
45, 46, for the Hebrew “ 1 will dwell among the children 
of Israel,” Onkelos has “I will make my Shechinah to 
dwell,” etc. In Psa. lxxiv, 2, for “this Mount Zion 
wherein thou hast dwelt” the Targnm has “wherein 
thy Shechinah bath dwelt.” In the description of the 
dedication of Solomon’s Temple (1 Kings viii, 12, 13) 
the Targnm of Jonathan runs thus: “The Lord is 
pleased to make his Shechinah dwell in Jerusalem. 1 


have built the house of the sanctuary for the house of 
thv Shechinah forever,” where it should be noticed that 

in ver. 13 the Hebrew “|2'j is not used, but b-T and 

• r . . T *. : 

In 1 Kings vi, 13, for the Hebrew “I will dwell 

among the children of Israel” Jonathan has “I will 
make my Shechinah dwell,” etc. In Isa. vi, 5 he has 
the combination “the glory of the Shechinah of the 
King of ages, the Lord of hosts;” and in the next verse 
he paraphrases “from oil* the altar” by “from before bis 
Shechinah on the throne of glory in the lofty heavens 
that are above the altar” (comp. also Numb, v, 3; xxxv, 
34, Psa. lxviii, 17, IS; cxxxv, 21 ; Isa. xxxiii, 5; 1 vii, 
15; Joel iii, 17, 21, and numerous other passages). On 
the other band, it should be noticed that the Targums 
never render “ the cloud” or “the glory” by Shechinah, 
but by XD33 and !Tlp% and that even in such passages 
as Exod. xxiv, 16, 17; Numb, ix, 17, 18, 22; x, 12, 
neither the mention of the cloud nor the constant use 
of the verb in the Hebrew provokes any reference 
to the Shechinah. Hence, as regards the use of the 
word Shechinah, in the Targums, it may be defined as 
a periphrasis for God whenever he is said to dwell on 
Zion among Israel or between the chcrubims, and so 
on, in order, as before said, to avoid the slightest ap- 
proach to materialism. Far most frequently this term 
is introduced when the verb oceurs in the Hebrew 
text; but occasionally, as in some of the above-cited 
instances, where it does not, but where the paraphrast 
wished to interpose an abstraction corresponding to 
presence to break the bolder anthropopathv of the He- 
brew writer. 

Our view of the Targumistic notion of the Shechinah 
would not be complete if wc did not add that, though, 
as we have seen, the Jews reckoned the Shechinah 
among the marks of the divine favor which were want- 
ing to the second Temple, they manifestly expected the 
return of the Shechinah in the days of the Messiah. 
Thus Hag. i, 8, “Build the house, and I will take 
pleasure in it, and T will be glorified, saith the Lord” is 
paraphrased by Jonathan “I will cause my Shechinah 
to dwell in it in glory.” Zech. ii, 10. “Lo, I come, and 
I will dwell in the midst of thee, saith the Lord” is 
paraphrased “ I will be revealed, and will cause my She- 
chinah to dwell in the midst of thee;” and viii, 3. “1 
am returned unto Zion, and will dwell in the midst of 
Jerusalem,” is paraphrased “I will make my Shechinah 
dwell in the midst of Jerusalem;” and, lastly, in Ezek. 
xliii, 7, 9, in the vision of the return of the glory of 
God to the Temple, Jonathan paraphrases thus; “Son 
of man, this is the place of the house of the throne of 
rnv glory, and this is the place of the house of the dwell- 
ing of my Shechinah, where I will make mv Shechinah 
dwell in the midst of the children of Israel forever. . . . 
Now let them cast away their idols, . . . and I will make 
my Shechinah dwell in the midst of them forever” 
(comp. Isa. iv, 5, where the return of the pillar of cloud 
by day and tire by night is foretold as to take place in 
the days of the Messiah). 

The rabbins affirm that the Shechinah first resided 
in the tabernacle prepared by Moses in the wilderness, 
into which it descended on the day of its consecration in 
the figure of a cloud. It passed thence into the sanc- 
tuary of Solomon’s Temple on the day of its dedication 
by this prince, where it continued till t he destruction of 
Jerusalem and the Temple by the Chaldeans, and was 
not afterwards seen there. 

2. Biblical History . — As regards the visible manifes- 
tation of the Divine Presence dwelling among the Is- 
raelites to which the term Shechinah has attached it- 
self, the idea which the different accounts in Scripture, 
convey is that of a most brilliant and glorious light en- 
veloped in a cloud, and usually concealed by the cloud 
so that the cloud itself was for the most part alone vis- 
ible; but on particular occasions the glory (in Ilcb. 

TOS, in Chald, “> “>£p ) appeared. Thus, at the 


SHECIIINAH 


038 


SHECIIINAH 


Exodus, “ the Lord went before” the Israelites “by day 
in a pillar of cloud . . . and by night in a pillar of tire 
to give them light.” Again, we read that this pillar 
“was a cloud and darkness” to the Egyptians, “but it 
gave light by night” to the Israelites. Ilut in the 
morning watch “the Lord looked unto the host of the 
Egyptians through the pillar of fire and of the cloud, 
and troubled the host of the Egv| tians” — i. e. as Philo 
(quoted by Patrick) explains it, “the fiery appearance 
of the Deity shone forth from the cloud,” and by its 
amazing brightness confounded them. So, too, in the 
Pirke Eliezer it is said, “The blessed God appeared in 
his glory upon the sea, and it tied back,” with which 
Patrick compares Psa. lxxvii, 10, “The waters saw thee, 
O God, the waters saw thee; they were afraid,” where 
the Targum has “They saw thy Sheehinah in the midst 
of the waters.” In Exod. xix, 9, “ the Lord said to Clo- 
ses, Lo, 1 come unto thee in a thick cloud,” and accord- 
ingly in ver. 10 we read that “a thick cloud” rested 
“upon the. mount,” and in ver. 18 that “Mount Sinai 
was altogether on a smoke, because the Lord descended 
upon it in fire.” This is further explained in xxiv, 10, 
where we read that “the glory of the Lord abode upon 
Mount Sinai, and the cloud covered it (i. e. as Aben- 
Ezra explains it, the glory) six days.” But upon the 
seventh day, when the Lord ealled “unto Moses out of 
the midst of the cloud,” there was a breaking-forth of 
the glory through the cloud, for “ the sight of the glory 
of the Lord was like devouring fire on the top of the 
mount in the eyes of the children of Israel” (ver. 17). 
So, again, when God, as it were, took possession of the 
Tabernacle at its first completion (xl, 34,35), “the cloud 
covered the tent of the congregation (externally), and 
the glory of the Lord tilled the tabernacle (within), 
and Moses was not able to enter into the rent of the con- 
gregation” (rat her, of meeting ) ; just as at the dedication 
of Solomon’s Temple (1 Kings viii, 10, 11) “the cloud 
tilled the house of the Lord so that the priests could not 
stand to minister because of the cloud, for the glory of 
the Lord had tilled the house of the Lord.” In the tab- 
ernacle, however, as in the Temple, this was only a 
temporary state of tilings, for throughout the books of 
Leviticus and Numbers we find Moses constantly enter- 
ing into the tabernacle. When be did so, the cloud 
which rested over it externally, dark by day and lumi- 
nous at night (Numb, ix, 15, 1G), came down and stood 
at the door of the tabernacle, and the Lord talked with 
Moses inside, “face to face, as a man talketh with bis 
friend” (Exod. xxxiii, 7- 1 1). It was on such occasions 
that Mosos “heard the voice of one speaking unto him 
from off the mercy-seat that was upon the ark of testi- 
mony. from between the two cherubim” (Numb, vii, 
89), in accordance with Exod. xxv, 22; Lev. xvi, 2. 
But it does not appear that the glory was habitually 
seen either bv Moses or the people. Occasionally, how- 
ever, it Hashed forth from the cloud which concealed it, 
as Exod. xvi, 7, 10; Lev. ix, G, 23, when “ the glory of 
the Lord appeared unto all the people” according to a 
previous promise, or as Numb, xiv, 10; xvi, 19, 42; xx, 
G, suddenly to strike terror in the people in their rebell- 
ion. The last occasion on which the glory of the Lord 
appeared was that mentioned in xx, G, when they were 
in Kadesh in the fortieth year of the Exodus, and mur- 
mured for want of water; and the last express mention 
of the cloud as visibly present over t lie tabernacle is in 
Dent, xxxi, 15, just before the death of Moses. The 
cloud bad not been mentioned before since the second 
year of the Exodus (Numb, x, 11, 34; xii, 5, 10); but 
as the description in ix, 15-23; Exod. xl, 38, relates to 
the whole time of their wanderings in the wilderness, 
we may conclude that, at all events, the cloud visibly ac- 
companied them through all the migrations mentioned 
in Numb, xxxiii till the)' reached t he plains of Moab 
and till Moses died. From this time we have no men- 
tion whatever in the history either of the cloud, or of the 
glory, or of the voice from between the cherubim, till 
the dedication of Solomon’s Temple. But since it is 


certain that the ark was still the special symbol of God's 
presence and power (Josh, iii, iv, vi ; 1 Sain, iv; Psa. 
lx viii, 1 sq. ; comp, with Numb, x, 35; Psa. exxxii, 8; 
lxxx, 1; xeix, 1), and since such passages as 1 Sam. iv, 
4, 21, 22; 2 Sam. vi, 2; Psa. xeix, 7 ; 2 Kings xix, 15, 
seem to imply the continued manifestation of God’s pres- 
ence in the cloud between the cherubim, and inasmuch 
as Lev. xvi, 2 seemed to promise so much, and as more 
general expressions, such as Psa. ix, 1 1 ; exxxii, 7, 8, 
13, 14; Ixxvi, 2; Isa. viii, 18, etc., thus acquire much 
more point, we may perhaps conclude that the cloud did 
continue, though with shorter or longer interruptions, 
to dwell between “the cherubim of glory shadowing 
the merev-seat” until the destruction of the Temple by 
Nebuchadnezzar. 

The allusions in the Now t Test, to the Sheehinah are 
not unfrequent. Thus, in the account of the nativity, 
the words “ Lo. the angel of the Lord came upon them, 
ami the glory of the Lord shone round about them” 
(Luke ii. 9), followed by the apparition of “the multi- 
tude of the heavenly host,” recall the appearance of 
the divine glory on Sinai, when “He shined forth from 
Paran, and came with ten thousands of saints” (Deut. 
xxxiii, 2; comp. Psa. Ixviii, 17; Acts vii, 53; Hcb. ii, 
2; Ezek. xliii, 2). The “God of glory” (Acts vii, 2, 
55). “the cherubim of glory” (Ileb. ix, 5), “the glory” 
(Pom. ix,4), and other like passages, are distinct refer- 
ences to the manifestations of the glory in the Old 
Test. It appeared at the baptism and transfiguration 
of Jesus, and is called the excellent glory by Peter (2 
Pet. ii, 10). When we read in John i, 14 that “the 
Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us (tVia / vioatv 
tv lift tv), and we beheld his glory;” or in 2 Cor. xii, 9 
“ that the power of Christ may rest upon me” ( hrioKJ /- 
vtlury tw’ tf.it); or in Bev. xxi, 3, “Behold the taber- 
nacle of God is with men, and he will dwell w ith them” 
(// <7 Ktjvi) rof> Ofoii . . . Krri Gk'ifi wcrei fitr avrtov'), we 
have not only references to the Sheehinah (the Greek 
(Ttnjvi) being itself, perhaps, an echo of the Ileb. ISC?, 
shakdn), but. are distinctly taught to connect it with 
the incarnation and future coming of Messiah, as type 
with antitype. Nor can it be doubted that the con- 
stant connection of the second advent with a cloud, or 
clouds, and attendant angels points in the same direc- 
tion (Matt, xxvi, G4; Luke xxi, 27; Acts i, 9, 11; 2 
Thess. i, 7, 8 ; Kev. i, 7). 

It should also be specially noticed that the attend- 
ance of angels is usually associated with the Shechi- 
nah. These are most frequently ealled (Ezek. x, xi) 
Cherubini; but sometimes, as in Isa. vi, seraphim (comp. 
Bev. iv, 7, 8). In Exod. xiv, 19 “ the angel of God” is 
spoken of in connection with the cloud, and in Deut. 
xxxiii, 2 the descent upon Sinai is described as being 
“with ten thousands of saints” (eomp. Psa. Ixviii, 17; 
Zeeh. xiv, 5). The predominant association, however, 
is with the cherubim, of which the golden cherubim on 
the mercy -seat were the representation. This gives 
force to the interpretation that has been put upon Gen. 
iii, 24 (Jerus. Targum) as being the earliest notice of 
the Sheehinah, under the symbol of a pointed flame, 
dwelling between the cherubim, and constituting that 
local presence of the Lord from w hich Cain went forth, 
and before which the worship of Adam and succeed- 
ing patriarchs was performed (see Hale, Chronol. ii, 94 ; 
Smith, Ena'. Annul, i, 173, 17G, 177). Parkhurst went 
so far as to imagine a tabernacle containing the cheru- 
bim and the glory all the time from Adam to Moses 
(l l ib. Lex. p. G23). It is, however, pretty certain that 
the various appearances to Abraham and that to Moses 
in the bush were manifestations of the Divine Majesty 
similar to those later ones to which the term Shechi- 
nah is applied (see especially Acts vii, 2). — Smith. 

3. From tiie tenor of these texts it is evident that 
the Most High, wdiose essence no man hath seen or can 
see, was pleased anciently to manifest himself to the 
eyes of men by an external visible symbol. As to the 


SIIEDD 


039 


SIIEEP 


precise nature of the phenomenon thus exhibited we 
cun only say that it appears to have been a concen- 
trated glowing brightness, a preternatural splendor, an 
effulgent something, which was appropriately express- 
ed by the term “glory;” but whether in philosophical 
strictness it was material or immaterial it is probably 
impossible to determine. A luminous object of this de- j 
scription seems intrinsically the most appropriate sym- i 
bol of that Being of whom, perhaps in allusion to this 
very mode of manifestation, it is said that “he is light” 
and that “he dwelleth in light unapproachable, and 
full of glory.” The presence of such a sensible repre- 
sentation of Jehovah seems to be absolutely necessary 
in order to harmonize what is frequently said of “see- 
ing God” with the truth of his nature as an incorpo- 
real and essentially invisible spirit. While we arc told 
in one place that" no man hath seen God at any time,” 
we are elsewhere informed that Moses and Aaron and 
the seventy elders “ saw the God of Israel” when called 
up to the summit of the holy mount. So, also, Isaiah 
says of himself (vi, 1, 5) that “in the year that king 
Uzziah died he saw the Lord sitting upon his throne,” 
and that, in consequence, he cried out, "I am undone: 
for mine eyes have seen the Lord of hosts.” In these 
cases it is obvious that the object seen was not God in 
his essence, but some external, visible symbol which, 
because it stood for God, is called by his name. 

But of all these ancient recorded theophanies the 
most signal and illustrious was undoubtedly that which 
was vouchsafed in the pillar of cloud that guided the 
march of the children of Israel through the wilderness 
on their way to Canaan. A correct view of this sub- 
ject clothes it at once with a sanctity and grandeur 
which seldom appear from the naked letter of the nar- 
rative. There can be little doubt that the columnar 
cloud was the seat of the Sliechinah. We have already 
seen that the term shechiniziug is applied to the abiding 
of the cloud on the summit of the mountain (Kxod. 
xxiv, 1G). Within the towering aerial mass, we sup- 
pose, was enfolded the inner effulgent brightness to 
which the appellation “glory of the Lord” more prop- 
erly belonged, and which was only occasional hj dis- 
closed. In several instances in which God would indi- 
cate his anger to his people it is said that they looked 
to the cloud and beheld the “glory of the Lord” (Numb, 
xiv, 10; xvi, 19,42). So when he would inspire a trem- 
bling awe of his majesty at the giving of t lie law, it is 
said the “glory of the Lord appeared as a devouring 
tire” on the summit of the mount. Nor must the fact 
be forgotten in this connection that when Nadab and 
Abilin, the two sons of Aaron, offended by strange tire 
in their offerings, a fatal dash from the cloudy pillar in- 
stantaneously extinguished their lives. The evidence 
would seem, then, to be conclusive that this wondrous 
pillar-cloud was the seat or throne of the Sliechinah, 
the visible representative of Jehovah dwelling in the 
midst of his people. — Kitto. 

See Anon. JJe (Jen. 1720); Lowman, On the 

Sliechinah ; Taylor, Letters of Jien-Mordecai; Skinner, 
Dissertation on the Shechinah (in 1) r ork$, vol. ii) : Watts, 
Glory of Christ; Uphnm, On the Logos ; Bush, A T otes 
on Exodus; Tenison, On Idolatry , Fleming, Christolo- 
gy , Batrick, Commentary on Exod.; Buxtorf, Hist. A rc. 
Feed. ch. xi ; Wells, The Shechinah (in Help for Under- 
standing the Scripture, p. 4) ; (Am.) Ecang. Review, Jan. 
1800. See also Cherub, Cu>ri>; Pillar. 

Shedd, William, a Congregational minister, was 
born at Mount Vernon, N. II., in 1798, graduated at 
Dartmouth College in 1819, and ordained an evangelist 
in 1823. lie was minister for one year at Abingtou, 
Mass., where he died in 1830. He wrote Letters to IP. 
E. Channing on the Existence and Agency of Fallen Spir- 
its, by Cunonicus (Boston, 1828, 8vo). 

Sheddan, Samuel Sharon, D.D., a Presbyterian 
minister, was born in Northumberland Comity, Pa., Sept. 
13, 1810. His ancestors came from Scotland and settled 


I on the Susquehanna Liver in that county, where the 
homestead of his family remains. He was prepared for 
college in the Milton Academy, Pa. lie entered Jeffer- 
son College in 1830, and graduated therefrom in two 
years, lie afterwards pursued his theological studies in 
Princeton Seminary, and was licensed to preach in the 
fall of 1834. The lirst tilteen years of his ministry were 
spent in connection with the churches of Williamsport, 
Murray, and Warrior Run, the latter place being the 
home of Dr. Sheddan’s childhood. II is father and 
grandfather were ruling elders in this Church. From 
Warrior Bun he was unanimously called to the pastorate 
of the First Presbyterian Church of Bahwav, N. J. The 
life of Dr. Sheddan was a most laborious and useful one. 
During his ministry at Warrior Run he united the office 
of teacher with that of pastor, and, by unremitting toil, 
carried on successfully both his school and his Church. 
From among the young men he prepared for college, 
more than a dozen became ministers of the Gospel. He 
was a wise counsellor and warm friend of the young 
men studying for the ministry, lie was eminently ju- 
dicious as an adviser in the matter of new Church en- 
terprises in the bounds of the Presbytery of Elizabeth, 
and his services will be held in grateful remembrance. 
Dr. Sheddan remained as pastor of the Rahway Church 
twenty-two years. The position he held among his 
ministerial brethren in the community where lie la- 
bored and throughout the State ol New Jersey is shown 
by the profound impression produced by his death, and 
the tribute of respect paid to his memory hv the synod 
then in session, which appointed a committee to attend 
his funeral. He was for several years one of the direc- 
tors of the Princeton Theological Seminary, lie died 
in Railway, N. J., Oct. 18, 1874. (W. P. S.) 

Shed 'ear (Heb. Shedeiir darter of light ; 
Sept. Se&oujO v. r. ’E Ctovp), father of Elizur, which lat- 
ter was chief of the tribe of Reuben at the time of the 
Kxode (Numb, i, 5; ii, 10; vii, 30, 35; x, 18). B.C. 
ante 1058. 

Sheep. The following Hebrew words occur as the 
names of sheep: jN:*. tson (varieties "pNIf tseuu, 
tsone, or tsoneh ), a collective noun to denote “a 
flock of sheep or goats,” to which is opposed the noun 
of unity, nb, seh, “a sheep” or “a goat,” joined to a 
masculine where “rams” or “he-goats” are signified, and 
with a feminine when “ ewes” or “ she-goats” are meant, 

, though even in this ease sometimes to a masculine (as 
in Gen. xxxi, 10) : dyil, “ a ram bn'n, rac ^h “a 

ewe;” '£'22,kebes,or 'I’S’Zfeseb (fcm. Pl2b3,or nb33), 
“a lamb,” or rather “a sheep of a year old or above,” 
opposed to nVj tuleh, “a sucking or very young lamb;” 
13, kar, is another term applied to a lamb as it skips 
(■>^3) in the pastures. The Chald. “EX, immdr (Ezra 
vi, 9, 17 ; vii, 17), is a later word, apparently indicating 
lambs intended for sacrifice, while ^n^*, attiid, rendered 
“ram” in Gen. xxxi, signifies a he-goat. See Ewe , 
Lamb; Ram. 

The term kesitdh (literally something weighed 

out, A. V. “piece of money,” Gen. xxxiii, 19; Job xlii, 

1 1 ; “piece of silver,” Josh, xxiv, 32), has been supposed 
bv many to denote a coin stamped with the figure of a 
lamb; but Gesenius suggests ( Thesaur . p. 1241) that 
specimens of that sort are probably only those of Cy- 
prus, which bore that mark. See Kesitaii. 



SIIEEP 


640 


SIIEEP 


This well-known domestic animal has, from the ear- 
liest period, contributed to the wants of mankind. Sheep 
were an important part of the possessions of the ancient 
Hebrews and of Eastern nations generally. The first 
mention of sheep occurs in Gen. iv, 2. The following 
are the principal Biblical allusions to these animals. 
They were used in the sacriticial offerings, both the 
adult animal (Exod. xx, 24; 1 Kings viii, 03; 2 Chron. 
xxix, 33) and the lamb, bZ13, i. e. “a male from one to 
three years old but young lambs of the first year were 
more generally used in the offerings (see Exod. xxix, 
38; Lev. ix, 3; xii, G; Numb, xxviii, 9, ete.). No 
lamb under eight days old was allowed to be killed 
(Lev. xxii, 27). A very young lamb was called 
taleh (see 1 Sam. vii, 9; Isa. lxv, 25). Sheep and lambs 
formed an important article of food (1 Sam. xxv, 18; 1 
Kings i, 19; iv, 23; Psa. Ixiv, 11 ; ete.), and ewe’s milk 
is associated with that of the cow (Isa. vii, 21,23). The 
wool was used as clothing (Lev. xiii, 47 ; Dent, xxii, 
1 1 ; Prov. xxxi, 13 ; Job xxxi, 20, etc.). See Wool. 
Trumpets may have been made of the horns of rams 
(Josh, vi, 4), though the rendering of the A. Y. in this 
passage is generally thought to be incorrect. “ Bams’ 
skins dyed red” were used as a covering for the taber- 
nacle (Exod. xxv, 5). Sheep and lambs were sometimes 
paid as tribute (2 Kings iii, 4). It is very striking to 
notice the immense numbers of sheep that were reared 
in Palestine in Biblical times: see, for instance, 1 Chron. 
v, 21 ; 2 Chron. xv, 11 ; xxx, 24; 2 Kings iii, 4; Job 
xlii, 12. Especial mention is made of the sheep of 
Bozrah (Alic. ii, 12 ; Isa. xxxiv, G), in the land of Edom, 
a district well suited for pasturing sheep. “ Bashan and 
Gilead” are also mentioned as pastures (Mic. vii, 14). 
“Large parts of Carmel, Bashan, and Gilead,” says 
Thomson ( Land and Book, i, 304), “are at their proper 
seasons alive with countless docks” (see also p. 331). 
“ The docks of Kedar” and “ the rams of Nebaioth,” two 
sons of Ishmael (Gen. xxv, 13) that settled in Arabia, 
are referred to in Isa. lx, 7. Sheep-shearing is alluded 
to in Gen. xxxi, 19; xxx viii, 13; Dent, xv, 19; 1 Sam. 
xxv, 4; Isa. liii, 7; etc. Sheep-dogs were employed in 
Biblical times, as is evident from Job xxx, 1, “ the dogs 
of my dock.” From the manner in which they are spoken 
of by the patriarch it is clear, as Thomson {ibid, i, 301) 
well observes, that the Oriental shepherd-dogs were very 
different animals from the sheep-dogs of our own land. 
The existing breed are described as being “a mean, sin- 
ister, ill-conditioned generation, which are kept at a dis- 
tance, kicked about, and half starved, with nothing no- 
ble or attractive about them.” They were, however, 
without doubt, useful to the shepherds, more especially 
at night, in keeping off the wild beasts that prowled 
about the hills and valleys (comp.Theocrit. Id. v, 10G). 
Shepherds in Palestine and the East generally go be- 
fore their docks, which they induce to follow by calling 
to them (comp. John x, 4; Psa. lxxvii, 20; Ixxx, 1), 
though they also drove them (Gen. xxxiii. 13). See 
Shepherd. It was usual among the ancient Jews to 
give names to sheep and goats, as w T e do to our dairy 
cattle (see John x, 3). This practice prevailed among 
the ancient Greeks (see Tlieoerit. Id. v, 103) : 

O uk utto TaS dpvas ourof o Kuivupo?, d Tt KiH'aida; 

The following quotation from Hartley ( Itesearches in 
Greece and the Levant , p.321) is so strikingly illustrative 
of the allusions in John x, 1-1 G that we cannot do bet- 
ter than quote it: “ Having bad my attention directed 
last night to the words in John x,3, 1 asked my man if 
it was usual in Greece to give names to the sheep. lie 
informed me that it was, and that the sheep obeyed the 
shepherd when lie called them by their names. This 
morning I had an opportunity of verifying the truth of 
this remark. Passing by a dock of sheep, I asked t he 
shepherd the same question which 1 had put to the ser- 
vant, and he gave me the same answer. 1 then bade 
him call one of his sheep; he did so, and it instantly 
left its pasturage and its companions and ran up to the 


hands of the shepherd with signs of pleasure and with a 
prompt obedience which 1 had never before observed in 
any other animal. It is also true in this country that 
4 a stranger will they not follow, but will dee from him.’ 
The shepherd told me that many of his sheep were still 
wild, that they had not yet learned their names, but 
that by teaching them they would all learn them.” See 
also Thomson (i, 301): “The shepherd calls sharply 
from time to time to remind the sheep of his presence. 
They know his voiee and follow on ; but if a stranger 
call, they stop short, lilt up their heads in alarm, and 
if it is repeated they turn and dee, because they know 
not the voice of a stranger.” Henderson, in Iceland, 
notices a shepherdess with a dock of fifty sheep, ev- 
ery one of which she professed to know by name (Ice- 
land, i, 189). 

Domestic sheep, although commonly regarded as the 
progeny of one particular wild species, are probably an 
instance, among many similar, where the wisdom of 
Providence has provided subsistence for man in different 
regions by bestowing the domesticating and submissive 
instincts upon the different species of animals which the 
human family might dnd in their wanderings; for it is 
certain that even the American argali can be rendered 
tractable, and that the Corsican musmon will breed with 
the common sheep. The normal animal, from which all 
or the greater part of the Western domestic races are 
assumed to be descended, is still found wild in the high 
mountain regions of Persia, and is readily distinguished 
from two other wild species bordering on the same re- 
gion. What breeds the earliest shepherd tribes reared 
in and about Palestine can now be only inferred from 
negative characters; yet they are sufficient to show 
that they were the same, or nearly so, as the common 
horned variety of Egypt and continental Europe : in 
general white, and occasionally black, although there 
was on the Upper Nile a speckled race; and so early as 
the time of Aristotle the Arabians possessed a rufous 
breed, another with a very long tail, and, above all, a 
broad-tailed sheep, which at present is commonly de- 
nominated the Syrian. These three varieties are said 
to be of African origin, the red hairy in particular hav- 
ing all the characteristics to mark its descent from 
the wild Ovis tragelaphus or barbatus, or ktbsh of the 
Arabian and Egyptian mountains. Flocks of the an- 
cient breed, derived from the Bedawin, are now extant 
in Syria, with little or no change in external characters, 
chiefly the broad-tailed and the common horned white, 
often with black and white about the face and feet, the 
tail somewhat thicker and longer than the European. 

The sheep of Syria and Palestine are the broad-tail 
(Ovis latieandatus), and a variety of the common sheep 
of this country {Ovis aries) called the Bidoicin, accord- 



Broad-tailed Sheep. 


SIIEEP 


G41 


SIIEEP 


ing to Russell {Aleppo, ii, 147). Tlie broad-tailed kind 
has long been reared in Syria. Aristotle, who lived 
more than 2000 years ago, expressly mentions Syrian 
sheep with tails a cubit wide. This or another variety 
of the species is also noticed by Herodotus (iii, 113) as 
occurring in Arabia. The fat tail of the sheep is prob- 
ably alluded to in Lev. iii, 9 ; vii, 3, etc., as the fat and 
the whole rump that was to be taken off hard by the 
backbone, and was to be consumed on the altar. “The 
carcass of one of these sheep, without including the 
head, feet, entrails, and skin, generally weighs from 
fifty to sixty pounds, of which the tail makes up fifteen 
pounds; but some of the largest breed, that have been 
fattened with care, will sometimes weigh 150 pounds, 
the tail alone composing a third of the whole weight. 
This tail — a broad and flattish appendage — has the ap- 
pearance of a large and loose mass of flesh or fat upon 
the rump and about the root of the tail; and from the 
odd motion which it receives when the animal walks, 
one would suppose it connected to the animal’s body 
only by the skin with which it is covered, ... In the 
Egyptian variety this tail is quite pendulous and broad 
throughout, but in the Syrian variety the tail narrows 
almost to a point towards the end, and the extremity is 
turned up. This is a great convenience to the animal. 
The sheep of the extraordinary size mentioned before 
are very rare, and usually kept in yards, so that they 
are in little danger of injuring the tail as they walk, 
llut in the fields, in order to prevent injury from the 
bushes, the shepherds in several places of Syria fix a 
thin piece of board on the under-part (which is not, like 
the rest, covered with wool), and to this board small 
wheels are sometimes added. . . . The tail is entirely 
composed of a substance between marrow and fat, serv- 
ing very often in the kitchen in the place of butter, and, 
cut into small pieces, makes an ingredient in various 
dishes; when the animal is young it is little inferior to 
the best marrow” (Kitto, Phys. Hist, of Palest . p. 30G; 
see also Thomson, nt sup . i, 178). 

The whole passage in Gen. xxx which bears on the 
subject of Jacob’s stratagem with Laban’s sheep is in- 
volved in considerable perplexity, and Jacob’s conduct 
in this matter has been severely and uncompromisingly 
condemned by some writers. We touch upon the ques- 
tion briefly in its zoological bearing. It is altogether 
impossible to account for the complete success which 
attended Jacob’s device of setting peeled rods before the 
ewes and she-goats as they came to drink in the water- 
ing-troughs, on natural grounds. The Greek fathers, for 
the most part, ascribe the result to the direct operation 
of the Deity, whereas Jerome and the Latin fathers re- 
gard it as a mere natural operation of the imagination, 
adducing as illustrations in point various devices that 
have been resorted to by the ancients in the cases of 
mares, asses, etc. (see Oppian, Cyneg. i, 327, 357 ; Rlinv, 
II. X. vii, 10, and the passages from Quintilian, Hip- 
pocrates, and Galen, as cited by Jerome, Grotius, and 
Bochart). None of the instances cited by Jerome and 
others are exact parallels with that in question. The 
quotations adduced, with the exception of those w'hich 
speak of painted images set before Spartan w'omen inter 
concipiendum , refer to cases in which living animals 
themselves, and not reflections of inanimate objects, 
were the cause of some marked peculiarity in the feetus. 
Kosenmuller, however (Schol. ad. loc.), cites Hastfeer 
{Be Re Oviaria , German version, p. 17, 30, 43, 46, 47) as 
a writer by whom the contrary opinion is confirmed. 
Even granting the general truth of these instances, and 
aeknowdedging the curious effect which peculiar sights 
through some nervous influence do occasionally pro- 
duce in the foetus of many animals, yet we must agree 
with the Greek fathers and ascribe the production of 
Jacob’s spotted sheep and goats to divine agency. The 
whole question has been carefully considered by Nitsch- 
mann (f)e Corylo Jacobi , in Thes. Xor. Tkeol. Phil, i, 
202-206), from whom we quote the following passage : 
“Fatemur itaque, cum Vossio aliisque piis viris, illam | 
IX.— S s 


pecudum imaginationem tantum fuisse catisam adju- 
vantem, ac plus in hoc negotio diviute tribuendum esse 
virtuti, quae suo concursu sic debilem causa} secunda* 
vim adauxit ut quod ea sola secundum uaturam prtesta- 
re non valeret id diviua benedictione supra uaturam 
pnestaret;” and then Nitschmann cites the passage in 
Gen. xxxi, 5-13, w’here Jacob expressly states that his 
success was due to divine interference; for it is hard to 
believe that Jacob is here uttering nothing but a tissue 
of falsehoods, which appears to be the opinion of Kalisch 
( II ist. and Crit. Comment. Gen. xxx and xxxi), who 
represents the patriarch as “ unblushingly executing 
frauds suggested by his fertile invention, and then 
abusing the authority of God in covering or justifying 
them.” We are aware that a still graver difliculty in 
the minds of some persons remains, if the above expla- 
nation be adopted ; but we have no other alternative, 
for, as Patrick has observed, “let any shepherd now try 
this device, and he will not find it do what it did then 
by a divine operation.” The greater difliculty alluded 
to is the supposing that God would have directly inter- 
fered to help Jacob to act fraudulently towards his un- 
cle. But are we quite sure that there was any fraud 
fairly called such in the matter? Had Jacob not been 
thus aided, he might have remained the dupe of Laban’s 
niggardly conduct all his days. He had served his 
money-loving uncle faithfully for fourteen years; Laban 
confesses his cattle had increased considerably under 
Jacob’s management, but all the return he got was un- 
fair treatment and a constant desire on the part of La- 
ban to strike a hard bargain with him (Gen. xxxi, 7). 
God vouchsafed to deliver Jacob out of the hands of his 
hard master, and to punish Laban for his cruelty, which 
he did by pointing out to Jacob how he could secure to 
himself large flocks and abundant cattle. God was only 
helping Jacob to obtain that which justly belonged to 
him, but which Laban’s rapacity refused to grant. “ Were 
it lawful,” says Stackhouse, “ for any private person to 
make reprisals, the injurious treatment Jacob had re- 
ceived from Laban, both in imposing a wife upon him and 
prolonging his servitude without wages, was enough to 
give him both the provocation and the privilege to do 
so. God Almighty, however, w r as pleased to take the 
determination of the whole matter into his own hands.” 
This seems to us the best way of understanding this 
disputed subject. 

The relation of the sheep to man, in a pastoral coun- 
try, gave rise to many beautiful symbols and interest- 
ing illustrations. Jehovah was the shepherd of his 
people, and Israel was his flock (Psa. xxiii, 1 ; Lxxx, 1 ; 
Ixxix, 13; Isa. xl, 11; Jer. xxiii, 1, 2; Ezek. xxxiv, and 
often elsewhere) ; the apostasy of sinners from God is 
the straying of a lost sheep (Psa. cxix, 176; Isa. liii, 6; 
Jer. 1, 6) ; and the ever-blessed Son of God coming down 
to our world is a shepherd seeking his sheep which were 
lost (Luke xv, 4-6). He is the only shepherd ; all who 
do not own him are thieves and robbers (John x, 8); 
wolves in sheep’s clothing (A1 att. vii, 15). He is the 
good shepherd, who gave his life for the sheep (John x, 
11); and now he gives them his own life in resurrec- 
tion, and this is eternal life (ver. 28 ; Rom. vi, 9-1 1 ; Col. 
ii, 12). As the sheep is an emblem of meekness, pa- 
tience, and submission, it is expressly mentioned as typi- 
fying these qualities in the person of our blessed Lord 
(Isa. liii, 7 ; Acts viii,32, etc.). 

In the vision of the prophet Daniel, recorded in ch. 
viii, the Medo- Persian monarchy was seen under the 
figure of a rain with two unequal horns, which was over- 
thrown by a one-horned lie-goat, representing the Mac- 
edonian power. We have already remarked on the pro- 
priety of the latter symbol [see Goat], and the former 
is no less correct. There is abundant evidence that the 
ram was accepted as the national emblem by the Persian 
people, as the he-goat was by the Macedonians. Am- 
mianus Mareellinns states that the king of Persia wore 
a ram’s head of gold set with precious stones, instead of 
a diadem. The type of a ram is seen on ancient Persian 


SIIEEPCOTE 


G4‘2 


SIIEEPCOTE 



Oriental Sheepfold of Stone. 

coins, as on one of undoubted genuineness in Hunter’s 
collection, in which the obverse is a ram’s head and the 
reverse a ram couchant. l*ams* heads, with horns of 
unequal height, arc still to be seen sculptured on the pil- 
lars of Persepolis.— Kitto; Smith; Fairbairn. 

Sheepcote (or Sheepfold) is designated by sev- 
eral Heb. terms. rflD, naveh (a habitation or dwelling- 
place, as usually rendered, “sheepcote,” 2 Sam. vii, 8; 
1 Chron. xvii, 1; “fold,” Isa. lxv, 10; Jer. xxiii, 3; 
Ezek. xxxiv, 14; “stable,” xxv, 5), means, in a gen- 
eral sense, a place where flocks repose and feed; and, 
as the Orientals do not usually fold their flocks at 
night, it must be left to the context to determine 
whether we are to understand “pastures” or “sheep- 
folds.” A more distinctive term is (jederdh , an 
enclosure , “cote” (1 Sam. xxiv, 3 ; “ fold,” Numb, xxxii, 
1C. *24, 36; Zeph. ii. G; elsewhere “hedge” or “wall”), 
which means a built pen or safe structure, such as ad- 
joins buildings, and used for cattle as well as sheep. 
Special terms are mikldh (a pen for flocks; 

“fold,” Psa. 1, 0; lxxviii, 70; Hab. iii, 17), and 
tTS - mishpethayini (the dual form of which indi- 
cates double rotes, as of stalls for cattle or sheep ; “ sheep- 
folds,” Judg. v, 1C; “two burdens,” Gen. xlix, 14). It 
is to be observed that the Oriental flocks, 
when they belong to nomads, are constantly 
kept in the open country, without being folded 
at night. This is also the case when the 
flocks belonging to a settled people are sent 
out to feed, to a distance of perhaps one, two, N 
or three days’ journey, in the deserts or waste 
lands, where they possess or claim a right of 
pasturage. This seems to have been the case 
with the flocks fed by David. As such flocks 
are particularly exposed to the depredatory at- 
tacks of the regular nomads, who consider the 
flocks of a settled people as more than even 
usually fair prey, and contest their right to 
pasture in the deserts, the shepherds, when they 
are in a district particularly liable to danger from 
this cause, or from the attacks of wild beasts, and 
doubt whether themselves and their dogs can 
afford adequate protection, drive their flocks at 
night into caves, or, where there are none, into 
uncovered enclosures, which have been erected 
for the purpose at suitable distances. These are 


generally of rude construc- 
tion, but are sometimes high 
and well-built enclosures or 
towers (generally round), 
which are impregnable to 
any force of the depreda- 
tors when once the flock is 
within them. Such towers 
also occur in districts where 
there are only small dis- 
persed settlements and vil- 
lages, and serve the inhab- 
itants not only for the pro- 
tection of their flocks, but as 
fortresses in times of dan- 
ger, in which they deposit 
their property, and, perhaps, 
when the danger is immi- 
nent, their females and chil- 
dren. When no danger is 
apprehended, or none from 
which the protection of the 
shepherds and dogs is not 
sufficient, the flocks are only 
folded when collected to be 
shorn. They are then kept 
in a walled, but still un- 
covered, enclosure, partly to 
keep them together, hut still 
more under the impression that the sweating and 
evaporation which result from their being crowded 
together previously to shearing improve the quality 
of the wool. Those poor villagers who have no large 
flocks to send out to the wilderness pastures, with a 
proper appointment . of shepherds, but possess a few 
sheep and cattle, which feed during the day in the 
neighboring commons, under tbe care of children or 
women, and who cannot provide the necessary watch 
and protection for them at night, drive them home, and 
either fold them in a common enclosure, such as we 
have mentioned, in or near the village, or pen them 
separately near their own dwellings. Fens or cotes of 
this class serve also for the lambs and calves, while too 
young to be kept out with the flocks or to be trusted in 
a common enclosure. They usually are near the dwell- 
ings, which are merely huts made of mats on a frame- 
work of palm -branches; these we conceive to answer 
well to the “tabernacles” (booths), “shepherds’ cot- 
tages,” and other humbler habitations noticed in Script- 
ure. Such villages are of a class belonging to a people 
(Arabs) who, like the Israelites, have relinquished the 
migratory life, but who still give their principal atten- 
tion to pasturage, and do some little matters in the way 
of culture. It is possible that the villages of the lle- 



Arab Huts and Sheepcotes uear Bushire. 



SIIEEPGATE 


G43 


SHEKEL 


brews, when they (i rst began to settle in Palestine, were 
of a very similar description. — Kitto, Piet. Bible, note at 

1 Chron. xvii, 2. 

Sheepgate CjXSil “I?!!?, Sha'ar hats-Tson; Sept. 
t) 7ru\t) )) 7Tf)oj3aTiKt] ; Vulg. Porta yreyis), one of the 
gates of Jerusalem as rebuilt by Nehemiah (Neb. iii, 1, 
32; xii, 39). It stood between the tower of Meah and 
the chamber of the corner (iii, 1,32) or gate of the 
guard-house (xii, 39, A. V. “prison-gate”). It is prob- 
ably the same with the TTpoficiTuci) (se. tt v\tf) of John 
v, 2; A. V. inaccurately, ** sheep->«ar£e/”). Bertheau 
( Exey. I/andbuch, on Nehemiah, p. 144 ) is right in 
placing it on the east side of the city, but is wrong in 
placing it at the present St. Stephen’s Gate (so also 
Keil, after Tobler), since no wall existed north of the 
Temple enclosure nearly so for to the east as that point 
till after the death of Christ. See Jerusalem. Barclay 
locates it in a presumed outer wall beyond the precincts 
of the Temple on the east (City of the Great Kitty, p. 
110); but it is doubtful whether any such separate wall 
existed. The adjoining localities would seem to tix it 
in the eastern wall of Ophel, opposite the present Foun- 
tain of the Virgin. See Betiiesda. 

Sheep-market (John v, 2). The word “ market” 
is an interpolation of our translators, possibly after Lu- 
ther, who has Schaf haus. The words of the original 
are t7ri rg 7rpofiaTtK:g, to which should probably be sup- 
plied not market, but yate (jr u\g), as in the Sept, version 
of the passages in Nehemiah quoted in the foregoing 
article (q. v.). The Vulgate connects the TTpofiaTiKt) 
with the ieo\vpj3i)^pa, and reads Probation piscina ; 
while the Syriac omits all mention of the sheep, and 
names only a “ place of baptism.” — Smith. 

Sheep-master naked), properly a shepherd 

(q.v.) or sheep-breeder (2 Kings iii, 4); hence a “herd- 
man” in general (Amos i, 1). 

Sheepshanks, William, a learned English cler- 
gyman, was bom at Linton, Craven, Yorkshire, March 
18, 1740. Educated in the grammar-school of his own 
parish, he was admitted in 1701 to St.John’s College, 
Cambridge. He took the degree of B.A. in January, 
1700, and in 1707 was eleeted fellow and took the de- 
gree of M.A. In 1771 and 1772 he served the univer- 
sity in the office of moderator. He accepted the rec- 
tory of Ovingtun, Norfolk in 1773; and, having set- 
tled in Grassington, he received a limited number of 
pupils into his house. In 1777 he was presented to 
the living of Seberham, Cumberland ; in 1783 was ap- 
pointed to the valuable cure of St.John’s, Leeds; and 
in 1792 was collated to a prebend in Lincoln, which he 
exchanged in 1794 or 1795 for a much more valuable 
stall at Carlisle. He died at Leeds, July 26, 1810, and 
was interred in his own church. See Chalmers, Bioy. 
Diet. s. v. 

Sheep-shearer (TT3, yozvz, 2 Sam. xiii, 23, 24; 
fully with jXU, tson, added, Gen. xxxviii, 12). The 
time of sheep-shearing was, among the Hebrews, a sea- 
son of great festivity (xxxi, 19; 1 Sam. xxv, 4, 8, 30; 

2 Sam. xiii, 23-28; 2 Kings x, 12, 14; Isa. liii, 7). 

Sheer-Thursday (spelled also Chare, Shore, or 
Shier) is also known as Maunday (q. v.) or Shrift 
Thursday. These are names given in England to the 
Thursday of Passion Week. It is known in the Romish 
Church as Quinta Feria Dominica in Hands Palmarum, 
and its institution is attributed to Leo II about 082. 
But the day was observed as early as the 5th centnrv 
by the celebration of the Lord's supper in connection 
with the washing of feet. It has had several appella- 
tions in allusion to events commemorated or eereimmies 
observed, such as Dies Came Dumimcte, the Day of the | 
Lord’s Supper; Dies Xatalis Each aristae , the Birthday 
of the Eucharist; Xatalis Calicis , the Birthday of the 
Cup; Dies Pants, the Day of Bread; Dies Lncis, the 
Day of Light, with allusion perhaps to the lights used j 


at the Lord’s supper; Dies Viridium , a title of doubtful 
meaning. It was also called Capitularium, because the 
j heads ( capita ) of catechumens were washed that day 
preparatory to baptism. The name given to it in Eng- 
land was derived from the custom of men polling their 
beards on this day as a token of grief for our Lord’s 
betrayal : “ for that in old fathers’ days the people would 
that day shore their heedes, and clvpp theyr hordes, and 
pool theyr heedes, and make them honest avent Easter- 
day.” In Saxony it is called Good-TIi ursd ay, and in the 
north of England Kiss-Thursday, in allusion to the Ju- 
das kiss. Among the observances of the day were the 
silence of all bells from this day till Easter-eve; the 
admission of penitents who had been excluded from re- 
ligious services at the beginning of Lent; and the con- 
secration of the elements by the pope below the altar 
of the Lateran. Oil for extreme unction, for chrism, 
and for baptism was consecrated on this day. After 
vespers on this day two acolytes strip the altars of all 
their ornaments, and cover them with black trimmings, 
while in many places the altars are washed with wine 
and water, and rubbed with herbs. — Eadie, Eccles. Cy- 
clop. s. v. ; Walcott, Sac. A rchieol. s. v. 

Sheet stands in the A. V. for the Ileb. sadin 

(Judg. xiv, 12, 13 , “ fine linen,” Prow xxxi, 24 , Isa. iii, 
23; comp. atvcuw), and the Gr. o3o vi] (Acts x, 1 1 ; xi, 
5), which both mean properly a linen cloth; hence the 
former a shirt (as in the marg.), and the latter a sail. 
See Liskn. 

Shegog, William A., a minister of the Methodist 
1 Episcopal Church, South, was born in Rutherford Coun- 
ty, N. C., Nov. 8, 1821. He professed religion in 1843, 

| was licensed to preach about 1850, and in 1853 was ad- 
mitted into the Alabama Conference. He located in 
I 1857; was readmitted into the Alabama Conference in 
1859, and in 1800 was transferred to the Texas Confer- 
ence. lie labored in Texas until shortly before his 
death, April 28, 1804. See Minutes of Ann. Conferences 
of M. E. Ch. South, 1864, p. 525. 

Shehari'ak (Hub. Shecharyah', ITi;, da tv nitty 
of Jehoi'ah ; Sept. ^laapiac, v. r. Papain and "Siaapia), 
second named of the six sons of Jeroham, Be nja mites 
resident in Jerusalem at the captivity (1 Cliron. viii, 
20). B.C. 588. 

Sheik (Arabic for elder), a title of reverence, applied 
chiefly to a learned man or a reputed saint, but also used 
sometimes .as an ordinary title of respect, like the Euro- 
pean Mr., Ilerr, etc., before the name. It is, however, 
only given to a Moslem. The term is also applied to 
heads of Mohammedan monasteries, and to the higher 
order of religions preachers. The sheik of Mecca, hv 
virtue of his supposed descent from the prophet, levies 
a kind of tribute on all the pilgrims to the Kaaba. 

SHETK al-Geual (Ancient of the Mountain) is the 
name of the prince of the Assassins, or those Ismaelitcs 
of Irak who undertook to assassinate all those whom 
their chief would pronounce to be his enemies. 

SHEIK el-Islam, one of the titles of the grand-mufti 
of Constantinople, who is president of the Ulema, or Col- 
lege of the Professors of the Mohammedan Law. The 
title is supposed to have been assumed tirst by Moham- 
med II in 1453, when Constantinople became the seat 
of his empire. 

Sheiri, tutelary spirits of the Caribs, who are the 
protectors of the male sex among men. 

Shekalim. See Talmud. 

She'kel [many shekel] (Ileb. shekel, from 

to v'eiyh out), the Hebrew standard of valuation, 
as the cubit was of mensuration. See Metrology. 

I. Scriptural Description. — The shekel was properly 
a certain u'eiyht according to which the quantity and 
price of things were determined; e. g. bread (Ezek. iv, 
10); hair (1 Sam. xiv, 20), especially metals, as brass, 
iron, silver, gold; and articles made of metal, as arms, 


SHEKEL 


044 


SHEKEL 


vessels, etc. (Exod. xxxviii, 24, 25, 29 ; Numb, vii, 13 
sq. ; xxxi, 52 ; 1 Sam. xvii, 5, 7 ; Josh, vii, 21 ; 1 Chron. 
iii, 9). Especially did the Hebrews use silver weighed 
by the shekel as money, ami often it was actually weighed 
out, although they may early have had pieces or bars of 
silver marked with the weight (Gen. xxiii, 1C; Lev. v, 
15 ; xxvii, 3-7 ; 2 Sam. xxiv, 24; Jcr. xxxii, 9, 10 ; Ezek. 
xxi, 32). From the common shekel is distinguished the 
sacred shekel (njnpfl “shekel of the sanctuary”), 

somewhat heavier, it would seem, or at least of just and 
full weight, according to which all contributions and 
tribute for sacred purposes were to be reckoned (Exoil. 
xxx, 13,24; xxxviii, 24; Lev. v, 15; xxvii, 3, 25; Numb, 
iii, 47, 50; vii, 13; xviii, 16; xix,25); but whether the 
shekel of the king’s weight (TjbBtt bjTr, 2 Sam. 

xiv, 26) is still different, cannot be determined. Nor 
can the exact weight of the shekel be fully ascertained. 
The sacred shekel contained twenty gerahs , beans, car- 
rot-corns, as some suppose (Exod. xxx, 13; Lev. xxvii, 
25; Numb, iii, 47; xviii, 16; Ezek. xlv, 12). More to the 
purpose is the specification of the rabbins that the she- 
kel was equal to 320 barlcv-grains; since this accords 
tolerably well with the actual weight of the Maccaba?an 
shekels still preserved. In the time of the Maccabees 
(1 Macc. xv, 6) silver coins were struck, each weighing 
one shekel, and stamped with the words bjOyJi bpiT, a 
shekel of Israel (see Layer, De Nummis Ilebreeo-Sama- 
ritanis [Valent. 1781, 4to], p. 171 sq. ; Eckhel, Doctr. 
1 Yitmor. Yet. I, iii, 465 sq.). Some of the specimens still 
extant, though worn by age, weigh 266 or 270 Paris 
grains; so that the full Maccaba?an shekel must have 
been at least about 274 grains, and thus equivalent to 
the didrachm of yEgina. Hence the Sept, renders the 
word sometimes ahc\oc> and sometimes FiCpaxpov or 
ciepaxpa. But Josephus and later writers give the 
value at four Attic drachma? (A nt. iii, 8. 2; Hesych. 
s. v.; Jerome, Ad Ezech. p. 43, ed. Vallars.). In their 
time, however, the Attic drachma had depreciated, and 
was reckoned as equal to the Roman denarius . i. e. 7 44. 
sterling, or 15 cents (Pliny, Hist. Nat. xxi, 109). The 
Maccabiean shekel, therefore, may be estimated at 2s. 64. 
sterling, or 60 cents. (Sec Bockh, Metrol. Untersuch. p. 
55-57, 62, 63, 299 , Smith, Diet, of Class. Antiq. s. v. “ De- 
narius”). Hence the half-shekel, which was to be paid 
yearly to the Temple (Exod. xxxviii, 26), is called di- 
epaxpov in Matt, xvii, 24. Some suppose that the ear- 
lier common shekel was less than the Maccabiean by 
one half (Bockh, ut sup. p. 63; Bertheau, Abhandl. p. 
26). At Ephesus a shekel of gold was in use, according 
to Alexander yEtolus (up. Macrok. Sat. v. 22). Some 
understand such a coin in 1 Chron. xxi, 25; but the 
words imply rather weight. — Gesenius, Thesaur. s. v. 

In silver shekels were paid the contributions to the 
Temple (Exod. xxx, 13), the fines for offences (xxi. 
xxii; Deut. xxii, 19, 29; Lev. v, 15), taxes exacted by 
kings or governors (2 Kings xv, 20; Nch. v, 15), the 
price of articles (2 Sam. xxiv, 24; 2 Kings vii, 1), etc. 
In some cases large sums were weighed together (Gen. 
xxiii, 16; Jer. xxxii, 9), though it is certain that there 
were pieces of different denominations — both half and 
quarter shekels (Exod. xxx, 13, 15; 1 Sam. ix, 8, 9). 
In many instances relating to purchases, a word is omit- 
ted in the Hebrew, and the rendering is always “ a thou- 
sand,” or the like, “of silver.” The term “pieces” has 
been supplied in the A. V., but there is not much doubt 
that “shekels” is the word understood in all cases. See 
Silver, Piece of. In Neh. v, 15 mention is made of 
forty shekels of silver paid to the governors, and prob- 
ably these shekels may have been the silver coin cir- 
culating in Persia called <riyXof. This coin has gener- 
ally been considered a kind of shekel; but as, according 
to Xenophon (A nab. i, 5, 6), it was ecpial to 74 Attic 
obnli, and an obolus weighed 1 1.25 grains (1 1.25 X7.5 = 
81.375), giving a Persian silver coin of 84 grains, it, is 
clear that the my\og can have no connection with the 
gikXoc (weighing 220 grains), except in name. (See 


Leake, Xum. Hell. Europe , p. 21 ; Madden [F. W.], Hist. 
Jew. Coin. p. 20.) But at this time there were coins 
also current in Persia of the same standard as the shekel 
(Mionnet, Descrip, de Med. v, 645, No. 30-40; viii, 426, 
No. 29-33). See also Schickard, De Numis Ilebr. p. 15 ; 
Bayer, Sklus Sucer et Profan. (Lips. 1667) ; lseling, De 
Siclis Ebrceor. (Basil. 1708). For further information on 
this question, consult the remarks of the abbe Cavedoni 
(Le Brine. Quest, riguardanti la Nam. Giud. Defnitiv. 
Decise [Modena, 1864]) ; Madden (Nitm. Chron. v, 191) ; 
and Plumptre (Bible Educator , iii, 96 sq.). — Kitto, s. v. 
See Coin. 

II. Extant Specimens. — 1. Rabbinical Notices . — Our 
attention is, in the first place, directed to the early no- 
tices of these shekels in Rabbinical writers. It might 
be supposed that in the Mishna, where one of the trea- 
tises bears the title of “ Shekalim ,” or Shekels, we should 
find some information on the subject. But this treatise, 
being devoted to the consideration of the laws relating 
to the payment of the half-shekel for the Temple, is of 
course useless for our purpose. 

Some references are given to the works of Rashi and 
Maimonides (contemporary writers of the 12th century) 
for information relative to shekels and the forms of He- 
brew letters in ancient times; but the most important 
Rabbinical quotation given by Bayer is that from Ram- 
ban, i. e. Rabbi Moses Bar-Nachman, who lived about 
the commencement of the 13th century. He describes 
a shekel which he had seen, and of which the Cutheeans 
read the inscription with ease. The explanation which 
they gave of the inscription was, on one side Slakel ha- 
Shekalim , “The Shekel of Shekels,” and on the other, 
“Jerusalem the Holy.” The former was doubtless a 
misinterpretation of the usual inscription, “The shekel 
of Israel;” but the latter corresponds with the inscrip- 
tion on our shekels (Bayer, De Nummis. p. 11). In the 
16th century R. Azarias de Rossi states that R. Moses 
Basiila had arranged a Cuthiean, i. e. Samaritan, alpha- 
bet from coins, and R. Moses Alaskar (of whom little is 
known) is quoted by Bayer as having read on some 
Samaritan coins “In such a year of the consolation <4 
Israel, in such a year of such a king.” The same R. 
Azarias de Rossi (or de Adumim, as he is called by Bar- 
tolocci, Bibl. Rabb. iv, 158), in his ‘T15<’2, “ The 

Light of the Eyes” (not Fons Oculorum, as Bayer trans- 
lates it, which would require pSE, not T,X^), discuss- 
es the Transflnvial or Samaritan letters, and describes 
the above-mentioned shekel of Israel; he also deter- 
mines the weight, which Le makes about half an ounce. 

We find, therefore, that in early times shekels were 
known to the Jewish rabbins with Samaritan inscrip- 
tions corresponding with those now found (except in 
one point, which is probably an error), and correspond- 
ing with them in weight. These are important con- 
siderations in tracing the history of this coinage. 

2. Later Notices. — We pass on now to the earliest 
mention of these shekels by Christian writers. We be- 
lieve that W. Rostell is the first Christian writer who 
saw and described a shekel. He was a Parisian travel- 
ler who visited Jerusalem early in the 16th century. In 
a curious work published by him in 1538, entitled Al- 
pluibetam Duodechn Lingnurum , the following passage 
occurs. After stating that the Samaritan alphabet was 
the original form of the Hebrew, he proceeds thus: 

“I draw this inference from silver coins of great an- 
tiquity which I found among the Jews. They set such 
store by them that 1 could not get one of them (not other- 
wise worth a qnincnnx) for two gold pieces. The Jews 
say they are of the time of Solomon, and they added that, 
hating the Samaritans, as they do, worse than dogs, and 
never speaking to them, nothing endears these coins so 
much to them as the consideration that these characters 
were once in their common usage, nature, as it were, 
yearning afrer the things of old. They say that at Jeru- 
salem, now called Chus or Chussembarich, in the masonry 
and in the deepest part of the ruins, these coius are dug 
up daily.” 

Postell gives a very bad wood-cut of one of these shekels, 


SHEKEL 


G45 


SHEKEL 


but the inscription is correct. lie was unable to explain 
the letters over the vase, which soon became the subject 
of a discussion among the learned men of Europe, that 
lasted for nearly two centuries. Their attempts to ex- 
plain them are enumerated by Bayer in his treatise De 
Nummis Ifebrceo-Samaritanis, which may be considered 
as the first work which placed the explanation of these 
coins on a satisfactory basis. But it would obviously 
be useless here to record so many unsuccessful guesses 
as Bayer enumerates. 

The work of Bayer, although some of the authors 
nearly solved the problem* called forth an antagonist in 
Prof. Tyehsen, of Rostock, a learned Orientalist of that 
period. Several publications passed between them which 
it is unnecessary to enumerate, as Tyehsen gave a sum- 
mary of his objections in a small pamphlet entitled O. 
G. Tyehsen. De Numis Hebraicis Diatribe, qua simul 
ad Nuperas ill. F. P. Bayei'ii Objeetiones Respomletur 
(Rostoehii, 1791). II is first position is, that (1) either 
all the coins, whether with Hebrew or Samaritan in- 
scriptions, are false ; or (2) if any are genuine, they be- 
long to Bar-cocheba (p.G). This he modifies slightly in 
a subsequent part of the treatise (p. 52, 53), where he 
states it to be his conclusion (1) that the Jews had no 
coined money before the time of our Saviour; (2) that 
during the rebellion of Bar-cocheba (or Bar-coziba), 
Samaritan money was coined either by the Samaritans 
to please the Jews, or by the Jews to please the Samar- 
itans, and that the Samaritan letters were used in order 
to make the coins desirable as amulets! and (3) that 
the coins attributed to Simon Maccabams belong to this 
period. Tyehsen has quoted some curious passages, but 
his arguments are wholly untenable. In the first place, 
no numismatist can doubt the genuineness of the she- 
kels attributed to Simon Maccabaitis,or believe that they 
belong to the same epoch as the coins of Bar-cocheba. 
But as Tyehsen never saw a shekel, he was not a com- 
petent judge. There is another consideration, which, 
if further demonstration were needed, would supply a 
very strong argument. These coins were first made 
known to Europe through Postell, who does not appear 
to have been aware of the description given of them in 
Rabbinical writers. The correspondence of the newly 
found coins with the earlier description is almost de- 
monstrative. But they bear such undoubted marks of 
genuineness that no judge of ancient coins could doubt 
them for a moment. Postell quotes, e. g., the following 
passage from the Jerusalem Talmud : ‘IT’S 115 

“jbrvo irx *P jira emoir), “ Rev- 

olution (Samaritan) money, like that cf Ben-Coziba, 
does not defile.” The meaning of this is not very obvi- 
ous, nor does Tvchscn’s explanation appear quite satis- 
factory. He adds, “does not defile if used as an amu- 
let,” We should rather inquire whether the expression 
may not have some relation to that of “defiling the 
hands,” as applied to the canonical books of the Old 
Test, (see Ginsburg, Commentary on the Song of Songs , 
p. 3). The word for polluting is different, but the ex- 
pressions may be analogous. But, on the other hand, 
these coins are often perforated, which gives counte- 
nance to the notion that they were used as amulets. 
The passage is from the division of the Jerusalem Tal- 
mud entitled Til )V'C, Maaser Sheni, or “The Sec- 

ond Tithe.” 

It may here be desirable to mention that although 
some shekels arc found with Hebrew letters instead of 
Samaritan, these are undoubtedly all forgeries. It is 
the more needful to make this statement, as in some 
books of high reputation, e. g. Walton’s Polyglot, these 
shekels are engraved as if they were genuine. It is 
hardly necessary to suggest the reasons which may have 
led to this series of forgeries. But the difference be- 
tween the two is not confined to the letters only; the 
Hebrew shekels are much larger and thinner than the 
Samaritan, so that a person might distinguish them 
merely by the touch, even under a covering. The char- 


acter nearly resembles that of Samaritan MSS., although 
it is not quite identical with it. The Hebrew and Sa- 
maritan alphabets appear to be divergent representa- 
tives of some older form, as mav be inferred from sev- 
eral of the letters. Thus the Iieth and several other 
letters are evidently identical in their origin. Also the 
155 (Skiyi) of the Hebrew alphabet is the same as that 
of the Samaritan : for if we make the two middle strokes 
of the Samaritan letter coalesce, it takes the Hebrew 
form. We may add that Postell appears to have ar- 
ranged his Samaritan alphabet from the coins which he 
describes. 

In the course of 1862 a work of considerable impor- 
tance was published at Breslau by Dr. M. A. Levy, en- 
titled Geschichte der judischen M iinzen. It appears 
likely to be useful in the elucidation of the questions 
relating to the Jewish coinage which have been touched 
upon in the present article. There are one or two points 
on which it is desirable to state the views of the author, 
especially as he quotes coins which have only become 
known lateh „ Some coins have been described in the 
Revue Nwnismatique (I860, p. 260 sq.), to which the 
name of Elcazar coins has been given. A coin was 
published some time ago by De Saulev which is sup- 
posed by that author to be a counterfeit. It is scarcely 
legible, but it appears to contain the name Eleazar on 
one side, and that of Simon on the other. During the 
troubles which preceded the final destruction of Jerusa- 
lem, Eleazar (the son of Simon), who was a priest, and 
Simon ben-Giora, were at the head of large factions. It 
is suggested by Dr. Levy that money may have been 
struck which bore the names of both these leaders; but 
it seems scarcely probable, as they do not appear to have 
acted in concert. Yet a copper coin has been pub- 
lished in the Revue Numismatique which undoubtedly 
bears the inseripton of “Eleazar the priest.” Its types 
are — 

Obverse. A va c e with one handle and the inscription 
•jmn “Eleazar the Priest,” in Samaritan let- 

ters. 

Reverse. A bunch of grapes with the inscription XTO'J 
[b5<“l]U5“' nfl, “Year oue of the Redemption 

of Israel.” 

Some silver coins also, first published by Reichardt. bear 
the same inscription on the obverse, under a palm-tree, 
but the letters run from left to right. The reverse 
bears the same type and inscription as the copper coins. 

These coins, as well as some that bear the name of 
Simon or Simeon, are attributed by Dr. Levy to the pe- 
riod of this first rebellion. It is quite clear, however, that 
some of the coins bearing similar inscriptions belong to 
the period of Bar-cocheba’s rebellion (or Barcoceba's, as 
the name is often spelled) under Hadrian, because they 
are stamped upon denarii of Trajan, his predecessor. 
The work of Dr. Levy will be found very useful, as col- 
lecting together notices of all these coins, and throwing 
out very useful suggestions as to their attribution ; but 
we must still look to further researches and fresh col- 
lections of these coins for full satisfaction on many 
points. The attribution of the shekels and half-shekels 
to Simon Maccabams may be considered as well estab- 
lished, and several of the other coins described in the 
article Monkv offer no grounds for hesitation or doubt. 
But still this series is very much isolated from oilier 
classes of coins, and the nature of the work hardly cor- 
responds in some cases with the periods to which we 
are constrained, from the existing evidence, to attribute 
the coins. We must therefore still look for further light 
from future inquiries. 

3. Characteristics and Classification. — The average 
weight of the silver coins is about 220 grains troy for 
the shekel, and 110 for the half-shekel. Among the 
symbols found on this series of coins is one which is 
considered to represent that which was called Lnlab by 
the Jews. This term was applied (see Maimonides on 
the section of the Mishna called Rosh Hashunuh, or 


SHEKEL 


C46 


SHELDEN 


Commencement of the Year, vii, 1, and the Mishna it- 
self in Succah, H210, or Booths, iii. 1, both of which 
passages are quoted by Bayer, Be Num. p. 129) to 
the branches of the three trees mentioned in Lev. 
xxiii, 40, which arc thought to be the palm, the myr- 
tle, and the willow. These, which were to be carried 
by the Israelites at the Feast of Tabernacles, were usu- 
ally accompanied by the fruit of the citron, which is 
also found in this representation. Sometimes two of 
these Lalabs are found together. At least such is the 
explanation given by some authorities of the symbols 
called in the article Money by the name of Sheaves. 
The subject is involved in much difficulty and obscurity, 
and we speak, therefore, with some hesitation and diffi- 
dence, especially as experienced numismatists differ in 
their views. This explanation is, however, adopted by 
Bayer ( Be Num. p. 128, 219, etc.), and by Cavedoni 
{Bill. Num. p. 31, 32, of the German translation), who 
adds references to L Mace, iv, 59; John x, 22, as he 
considers that the Lulab was in use at the Feast of the 
Dedication on the twenty-fifth day of the ninth month 
as well as at that of Tabernacles. He also refers to 2 
Macc. i, 18; x, 6, 7, where the celebration of the Feast 
of Tabernacles is described, and the branches carried by 
the worshippers are specified. The symbol on the re- 
verse of the shekels, representing a twig with three 
buds, appears to bear more resemblance to the buds of 
the pomegranate than to any other plant. — Smith. 

The following list is substantially that given by Ca- 
vedoiti (p. 11 of the German translation) as an enumer- 
ation of all the coins which can be attributed with any 
certainty to Simon Maccabseus. See Numismatics. 

A. Silver. — 1. Shekels of three years, with the inscrip- 
tion bp.1T, Shekel Israel (“Shekel of Israel”), on 

the obverse, with a vase, over which appears (1) au X, 
Aleph [first year] ; (2) the letter IT, Shin [for H31T, She - 
nath, “year”], with a T, Beth [year 2]; (3) the letter IT, 
Shin, with a 3, Gimel [year 3]. 

Ou the reverse is the twig with three buds, and the 
inscription niTTp oblTI'l"', Jerusalem Kedushah , or 
H’Tl^pn, Hak-kedushah (“Jerusalem the Holy”). The 
spelling varies with the year. The shekel of the/rsf year 
has only Pl'TYtp cb'TVT 1 ; while those of the second and 
third years have the fuller form, n , T“'*Ip!"l C’b'TVP. 
The second 11 of the Jerusalem is important, as showing 
that both modes of spelling were in use at the same time. 



Silver Shekel of Simon Maccabreus. (From the British 
Museum.) 

Obverse. Vase, with date above it, “ Year 3 legend, “ Shekel of Israel.” 
Reverse. Branch bearing three flowers; legend, “Jerusalem the Holy.” 

II. The same as above, only half the weight, which is 
indicated by the word chatsi, “a half.” These oc- 
cur only in the. /?>'*/ and second years. 



Silver Ilalf-shekel of Simon Mnccabreus. (From the Brit- 
ish Museum.) 

Obverse. Vase, with date above it, “ 1 legend, “ Half-shekel.” 
Reverse. Branch bearing three flowers ; legend, “ Jerusalem Holy.” 


73. Copper,—!. Ligullath Tsion , “Of the 

Liberation of Zion.” The vase as ou the silver shekel and 
half-shekel. 

On the reverse, r\T2,Shenath A rba, “The Fourth 

Tear.” Lulab betweeu two citrous. 



Copper Shekel of Simon Maccnbaeus. (From Mr. Wigan’s 
collection.) 

Obverse. Vase, with legend “ Of [the] Liberation of Zion.” 

Reverse. Sheaf [?] between two fruits ; legend, “ Year four.” 

IT. ry^, Shenath Arba Chatsi , “The Fourth 

Year, a Half.” A citron between two Lulabs. 

On the reverse, Ligullath Tsion, “Of the 

Liberation of Zion.” A palm-tree betweeu two baskets 
of fruit. 

HI. roir, Shenath Arba, Rebia, “The 

Fourth Year, a Fourth.” Two Lulabs. 

Ou the reverse, — as before. Citron-fruit. 



Copper Quarter-shekel of Simon Maccabaeus. (From Mr. 

Wigan’s collection.) 

Obverse. Two sheaves [?], with the legend “ Year four, a Quarter.” 

Reverse. A fruit, with the legend “Of the Liberation of Zion.” 

She-kia, a name given to Buddha (q. v.) among 
the Chinese. He is also called Fo. 

Shekinah. See Shechinah. 

She-king, one of the sacred books of the Chinese. 
It contains 311 odes and other lyrics, chiefiv of a mor- 
al tone and character, including several pieces which 
were probably composed twelve centuries before Christ. 
It is believed to be a selection from a larger number 
which were extant in the time of Confucius, and by 
him collected and published. — Gardner, Faiths of the 
World, s. v. 

She'lah (Heb. Shelah', JiVt, a petition, as in 1 
Sam. i, 17 ; or rather perhaps peace, i. q. Shiloh ; Sept. 
'EijXibf.i or 2)j\(bv v. r. YqXw), the youngest son of Ju- 
dah by the daughter of Sim ah the Canaanite (Gen. 
xxxviii, 5, 11, 14, 26; xlvi, 12: 1 Chron. ii, 2). B.C. 
ante 1873. II is descendants, some of whom are enu- 
merated in 1 Chron. iv, 21-23, were called (Numb, xxvi, 
20) Shelanites (q. v.). For Shelach (A. A'. “ Shelah,” 1 
Chron. i, 18), the son of Arphaxad, see Sela. 

She'lanite (Heb. collectively in the sing, and with 
the art.., hash-Shelani’ , “^blTH, an irregular patronymic 
from Shelah, as if Shelan [comp. Shiloh, Shilonite J ; 
Sept. 6 T>;\wm) a designation of the descendants of 
Shelah (q. v.), the son of Judah (Numb, xxvi, 20). 

Slielden, Francis F., a Methodist Episcopal min- 
ister, was born in Monroe County, N. Y., March 16, 1814, 
admitted on trial by the Indiana Conference in 1840, 
and filled the following appointments: Noblesville, 
Franklin, Versailles, Greenfield, Belleville, Springville, 
and Leesville. In 1848, owing to declining health, he 
received a superannuated relation, ami died Jan. 16, 
1850. Mr. Shelden was a good English scholar, pos- 
sessed an investigating mind, and was a fin cut preacher. 
See Minutes of Annual Conferences , iv, 533. 


SHELDON 


647 


SHELOMITH 


Sheldon, Gilbert, archbishop of Canterbury, was 
the youngest son of Roger Sheldon, of Stanton, in Staf- 
fordshire, England, and was born there July 10, 159S. 
He was admitted a commoner of Trinity College, Ox- 
ford, in 1613; was made Bachelor of Arts Nov. 27, 1617, 
and Master of Arts May 20, 1620 ; was elected fellow of 
All-Souls College in 1622, and about the same time 
entered holy orders. He became domestic chaplain of 
the lord keeper of Coventry, who gave him a prebend 
of Gloucester. He was some time rector of Ickford, in 
Bucks, and was presented to the rectory of Newington by 
archbishop Laud. He received the degree of Bachelor 
of Divinity Nov. 11, 1628, and was presented by the 
king to the vicarage of Hackney, in Middlesex. On 
June 25, 1634, he was made Doctor of Divinity, and in 
March, 1635, was elected warden of All -Souls. Dr. 
Sheldon became chaplain in ordinary to Charles I, and 
was afterwards clerk of the closet. During the rebell- 
ion, he adhered to the royal cause, and in February, 
1644, was sent to attend the king’s commissioners at the 
treaty of Uxbridge. In April, 1646, he attended the 
king at Oxford, and was witness to the vow made 
by him to restore to the Church all impropriations, 
lands, etc., if it pleased God to re-establish his throne. 
While the king was at Newmarket in 1647, Dr. Sheldon 
attended him as one of his chaplains. He was ejected 
from his wardenship by the Parliament visitors on 
March 30, 1647 (or 1648), and imprisoned. He was set 
at liberty on Oct. 24, 1648, and retired to Snelston, in 
Derbyshire. Soon after the king’s return, he was made 
dean of the Royal Chapel, and on Oct. 28, 1660, was 
consecrated bishop of London. The Savoy Conference 
(q. v.) was held (1661) at his lodgings. He was elected 
to the see of Canterbury Aug. 11, 1663, and on Dec. 20, 
1667, chancellor of Oxford, but resigned that office July 
31, 1669. He died at Lambeth, Nov. 9, 1677. See 
Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Shelemi'ah (Ileb. Shelemyah ', ; but [ex- 

cept in Ezra x, 39; Neh. iii, 30; xiii, 13; Jer. xxxvii, 
3, 13] in the prolonged form, Shelemya'hu , •llTT^'blzf, re- 
paid of Jehovah ; Sept. SeXepia or SeXf/nac), the name 
of nine Hebrews. 

1. A Levite appointed to guard the east entrance to 
the tabernacle under David, while his son Zechariah 
had the northern gate (1 Chron. xxvi, 14). B.C. 1043. 
In 1 Chron. ix, 21 ; xxvi, 1, 2, he is called Meshelemi- 
aii; in Neh. xii, 25, Meshullam; and in 1 Chron. ix, 
17, 31, Si I ALBUM. 

2 . Son of Cushi and father of Nethaniah, which latter 
was father of the Jchudi whom the princes sent to Ba- 
ruch with an invitation to read Jeremiah’s roll to them 
(Jer. xxx vi, 14). B.C. much ante 605. 

3 . Father of Jchucal or Jucal, which latter Zedekiah 
ordered to request Jeremiah to intercede for the city 
(Jer. xxxvii, 3; xxxviii, 1). B.C. ante 589. 

4 . Son of Haiianiah and father of Irijah, which latter 
arrested Jeremiah as he was leaving the city (Jer. 
xxxvii, 13). B.C. ante 589. 

5 . Son of Abdeel and one of those ordered to appre- 
hend Baruch and Jeremiah (Jer. xxxvi, 26). B.C. 604. 

6. One of the “sons” of Bani who renounced their 
Gentile wives after the captivity (Ezra x, 39). B.C. 
458. 

7 . Another of the “sons” of Bani who did the same 
(Ezra x, 41). B.C. 458. 

8 . Father of the Ilananiah who repaired part of the 
walls of Jerusalem (Neh. iii, 30). B.C. ante 446. He 
is perhaps the same as “one of the apothecaries,” i. e. 
manufacturers of the sacred incense, who is mentioned 
in Neh. iii, 8 as the father of Ilananiah. 

9 . A priest appointed by Nchcmiah as commissary 
of the Levitical tithes (Neh. xiii, 13). B.C. cir. 434. 

She'leph (Heb. id. tjbld, but always occurring “ in 
pause” as Sha'leph , a drawing -forth ; Sept. }Za\i<p 

v. r. SaXeS, etc.), the second named of the thirteen sons 


of Joktan (Gen. x, 26 ; 1 Chron. i, 20). B.C. much post 
2515. The tribe which sprang from him has been sat- 
isfactorily identified, both in modern and classical times, 
as well as the district of the Yemen named after him. 
It has been shown in other articles [see Arabia; Jok- 
tan, etc.] that the evidence of Joktan’s colonization of 
Southern Arabia is indisputably proved, and that it has 
received the assent of critics. Shcleph is found where we 
should expect to meet with him, in the district (Mikh- 
lsif, as the ancient divisions of the Yemen are called 
by the. Arabs) of Sulaf {Marasid, s.v.), which appears 
to be the same as Niebuhr’s Safe ( Descr . p. 215), writ- 
ten in his map Self a, with the vowels, probably, Sulaj’i - 
yell. Niebuhr says of it, “ Grande etendue de pays gou- 
vernee par sept schechs .” It is situate in N. lat. 14° 30', 
and about sixty miles nearly south of San’ii. Besides 
this geographical trace of Sheleph, we have the tribe 
of Shelf, or Shulaf of which the first notice appeared 
in the Zeitschrift d. deutschen morgenlandischen Gesell- 
schaft, xi, 153, by Dr. Osiander, and to which we are in- 
debted for the following information. Yakut, in the 
Moujam, s. v., says, “Es-Selif or Es-Sulaf is an an- 
cient tribe of the region of Yemen; Hisham Ibn-Mo- 
hammed says they are the children of Yuktan [Joktan], 
and Yukthn was the son of Eber the son of Salah the 
son of Arphaxad the son of Shcm the son of Noah. . . . 
And a district in El-Yemen is named after the Sulaf.” 
El-Kalkasander (in the British Museum Library) says, 
“El-Sulaf, called also Benies-Silfan, a tribe of the de- 
scendants of Kahtan [Joktan], . . . The name of their 
father has remained with them, and they are called Es- 
Sulaf : they are children of Es-Sulaf, son of Yuktan, who 
is Kahtan. . . . Es-Sulaf originally signifies one of the 
little ones of the partridge, and Es-Silfan is its plural; 
the tribe was named after that on account of transla- 
tion.” Yakut also says (s. v. “ Muntabik”) that El-Mun- 
tabik was an idol belonging to Es-Snlaf. Finally, ac- 
cording to the Kaimh (and the Lubb-el-Lubdb , cited in 
the Mardsid, s. v.), Sulaf was a branch-tribe of Dhu-1- 
Kilaa [a Himveritic family or tribe (Caussin, Essai, i, 
113), not to be confounded with the later king, or Tub- 
baa of that name]. This identification is conclusively 
satisfactory, especially when we recollect that Ilazarma- 
veth (IJadramaut), Sheba (Scba), and other Joktanitic 
names are in the immediate neighborhood. It is 
strengthened, if further evidence were required, by the 
classical mention of the SaXamjvoi, Salapeni, also writ- 
ten ’A\«7njjW, A lapeni (Ptolemy, vi, 7). Bochart puts 
forward this people with rare brevity {Opera, i, 99). 
The more recent researches in Arabic MSS. have, as we 
have shown, confirmed in this instance his theory; for 
we do not lay much stress on the point that Ptolemy’s 
Salapeni are placed by him in N. lat. 22°. — Smith. 
Forster endeavors {Geogr. of Arabia, i, 109) to identify 
the descendants of Sheleph with the Meteir tribe, whose 
chief residence is in Kasim, in the province of Ncjd 
(Burckhardt, Bedouin, p. 233); but for this there ap- 
pears to be no sufficient evidence. — Kitto. 

She'lesh (Heb. id. ttjilSJ, triad [Gesenius],or might 
[Fiirst] ; Sept. SeAA i)g v. r. Zet/i//), third named of the 
four sons of Helem the brother of Sliamer, or Shomer, an 
Asheritc (1 Chron. vii, 35 ). B.C. apparently cir. 1015, 

Shel'omi [some Shelo'mi] (Heb. Shelomi', 
peaceful; Sept. 2eXe/A), father of Ahihnd. which latter 
was the Asherite commissioner to distribute the laud 
east of the Jordan (Numb, xxxiv, 27). B.C. ante 1618. 

Shel'omith [some SheWmith] (Ileb. Shelomith', 
rptfbu or [Ezra viii, 10] D peaceful [strictly a 
fern, form of Shelomi] ; twice Shelomoth ', rvi’s'b wT [1 
Chron. xxiii, 9; xxvi, 25], in both which places, how- 
ever, the Keri has rptfbll* [ver. 26]), the name of four 
or five Hebrews and two or three Bebrewesses. 

1. (Sept. SaXioptiS.) A Danite female, daughter of 
Dibri, wife of an Egyptian, and mother of the man who 


SHELOMOH 


648 


SHEM 


was stoned for blasphemy (Lev. xxiv, 11). B.C. ante 
1658. The Jewish rabbins have overlaid these few sim- 
ple facts with a mass of characteristic fable. “They 
say that Shelomith was a very handsome and virtu- 
ous woman, who was solicited and tempted to crim- 
inal conversation by an Egyptian, an overseer of the 
Hebrews’ labors, without complying with him. He at 
last found an opportunity, by night, of slipping into the 
house and bed of Shelomith, in the absence of her hus- 
band, and abused her simplicity. The day following, 
when this woman discovered the injury, she bitterly 
complained of it to her husband when he returned. He 
at first thought of putting her away, but kept her some 
time to see if she should prove with child by the Egyp- 
tian. After some months, her pregnancy becoming evi- 
dent, he sent her away, and with words he assaulted 
the officer who had done this outrage. The Egyptian 
abused him still further, both by words and blows. Mo- 
ses, coming hither by chance and hearing of this injury 
done by the Egyptian to the Israelite, took up his 
defence, killed the Egyptian, and buried him in the 
sand. The brethren of Shelomith, seeing their sister 
put away like an adulteress, pretended to call her hus- 
band to account for it and to make him take her again. 
He refused, and they came to blows. Moses happened 
to be there again, and wished to reconcile them ; but 
the husband of Shelomith asked him what he had to 
do in the matter? who had made him a judge over 
them? and whether he had a mind to kill him, also, as 
yesterday he killed the Egyptian ? Moses, hearing this, 
tied from Egypt into the country of Midian. The blas- 
phemer stoned in the wilderness (Lev. xxiv, 10, 11) was, 
say the Jews, the son of Shelomith and this Egyptian. 
The officer who inspected the Hebrews’ labor is he of 
whom Moses speaks in Exod. ii, 1 1, 12 ; and the husband 
of Shelomith is intimated in the same place (ver. 13, 
14)” (Calmet). 

2. (Sept. £aAou/«<79’ v. r. 2a\<o/it(o$.) A Levite, chief 
of the sons of Ishar in the time of David (1 Chron. xxiii, 
18). B.C. 1013. He is elsewhere (xxiv, 22, 23) called 
StiELOMOTti (q. v.). 

3. (Sept, EoAwjuwS'.) A Levite descended from Eli- 
ezer the son of Moses, and put in charge of the Temple 
treasury under David (1 Chron. xxvi, 25, 26, 28). B.C. 
1013. 

4 . (Sept. v. r. ’Ao&rifj.) First named of 

the three sons of Shitnei, chief of the Gershonites in the 
time of David (1 Chron. xxiii, 9). B.C. 1013. In ver. 
10 his name should probably be read instead of Shimei 

Cl- v.). 

5 . (Sept. SeAiy.iioS.') The last named of the three 
children of Uehoboam by his second wife, Maachah, but. 
whether a son or a daughter is uncertain (2 Chron. xi, 
20). B.C. cir. 970. 

6. (Sept. 2n/\wjU£37 v. r. S ciAtofiiS.) A daughter of 
Zerubbabel (1 Chron. iii, 19). B.C. post 536. 

7 . (Sept. 2o\€i/tou3’ v. r. SfAi/iouS.) According to 
the present text of Ezra viii, 10, the sons of Shelomith, 
with the son of Josiphiah at their head, returned from 
Babylon with Ezra to the number of eighty males, 
B.C. ante 459. There appears, however, to be an omis- 
sion, which may be supplied from the Sept., and the 
true reading is probably “Of the sons of Bani, Shelo- 
mith the son of Josiphiah.” See also 1 Esdr. viii, 36, 
where he is called “ A ssulimoth son of Josaphias.” See 
Keil, ad loc. 

Shelomoh. See Solomon. 

Shel'omoth [some Shelo'moth~\ (Ileb. Shelomoth ', 
n '35^3, peaceful [strictly a plur. fern, of DlblT, peace] ; 
Sept. So A wp <530, one of the descendants of Izhar the 
grandson of Levi (L Chron. xxiv, 22, 23); elsewhere 
(xxiii, 18) called SiiELOnmt (q. v.). 

Shelper, Charles, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Bovcnden, kingdom of 
liauover, Jan. 10, 1800. In 1836 he emigrated to the 


United States, and settled in "Wheeling, W. Ya. The 
following year he was converted and joined the Church. 
Soon after he entered the travelling ministry, among 
his countrymen. lie labored until April, 1860, when he 
had a paralytic stroke. His effective relation to the 
Conference then ceased. In March, 1865, he had a sec- 
ond paralytic stroke, and in July a third stroke follow- 
ed. lie died Sept. 4, 1865, being at the time a member 
of the Central German Conference. See Minutes of the 
Annual Conferences , 1866, p. 181. 

Shelton, Piiilo, an Episcopal clergyman, was born * 
at Ripton (now Huntington), Conn., May 5, 1754. He 
graduated at Yale College in 1775, and studied theology, 
probably with Rev. James Scoville, of Waterbury. He 
was ordained deacon Ang. 3, 1785, and priest on Sep- 
tember 16. On February 24 preceding, he received 
a call from Fairfield, North Fairfield, and Stratfield, 
which he accepted. Here he labored until he entered 
into rest, Feb. 22, 1825. Mr. Shelton “was distinguish- 
ed for simplicity, integrity, and an honest and earnest 
devotion to the interests of pure and undefiled religion.” 
lie "was one of the clergymen who -were instrumental in 
securing a charter for Trinity College, Hartford, which 
was accomplished by a union with a political party, 
then in the minority. See Sprague, Annals of the 
A nier. Pulpit , v, 349. 

SlieluYniel (Heb. ShelumieV , friend of 

God ; Sept. NrtA«/<n)A), son of Zurishaddai (Numb, ii, 
12) and phvlarch of Simeon (x, 19), appointed to num- 
ber his people at the Exode (i, 6), who then amounted 
to 59,300 males (ver. 7). B.C. 1057. lie made his of- 
fering for the tabernacle like the rest (vii, 36, 41). 

Shem (Ileb. id. CtT, name; Sept, [and New Test. 
Luke iii, 39] £/)/(, Josephus [Ant. i, 4, 1] ; Vulg. 

Semi), the son of Noah, born (Gen. v, 32) when his father 
had attained the age of 500 years. B.C. 2613. He was 
98 years old, married, and childless, at the time of the 
Hood. After it he, with his father, brothers, sisters-in- 
law, and wife, received the blessing of God (ix, 1), and 
entered into the covenant. Two years afterwards he 
became the father of Arphaxad (xi, 10), and other chil- 
dren were born to him subsequently. With the help 
of his brother Japheth he covered the nakedness of 
their father, which Canaan and Ham did not care to 
hide. In the prophecy of Noah which is connected with 
this incident (ix, 25-27), the first blessing falls on Shem. 
lie died at the age of 600 years. B.C. 2013. 

Assuming that the years ascribed to the patriarchs in 
the present copies of the Hebrew Bible are correct, it 
appears that Methuselah, who in his first 243 years was 
contemporary with Adam, had still nearly 100 years of 
his long life to run after Shem was born. Again, when 
Shem died Abraham was 148 years old, and Isaac had 
been nine years married. There are, therefore, but two 
links — Methuselah and Shem — between Adam and Isaac. 
Thus the early records of the creation ami the fall of 
man which came down to Isaac, would challenge (apart 
from their inspiration) the same confidence which is 
readily yielded to a tale that reaches the hearer through 
two well-known persons between himself and the orig- 
inal chief actor in the events related. See Longevity. 
There is, indeed, no chronological improbability in that 
ancient Jewish tradition which brings Shem and Abra- 
ham into personal conference. See Melchizedek. 

The portion of the earth occupied by the descendants 
of Shem (Gen. x, 21-31) intersects the portions of Ja- 
pheth and Ham, and stretches in an uninterrupted line 
from the Mediterranean Sea to the Indian Ocean. Be- 
ginning at its north-western extremity with Lydia (ac- 
cording to ail ancient authorities, though doubted hv 
Michaelis [sec Gesenius, Thesaur . p. 745]), it includes 
Syria (Aram), Chaldrea (Arphaxad), parts of Assyria 
(Asshur), of Persia (Elam), and of the Arabian peninsu- 
la (Joktan). Sec Ethnology; Siiemitic Languages, 

The servitude of Canaan under Shem, predicted by 


SHEM 


049 


S1IEM 


Noah (Gen. ix, 26), was fulfilled primarily in the subju- 
gation of the people of Palestine (Josh. xxiii,4; 2 Chron. 
viii, 7, 8). It is doubtful whether, in ver. 27, God or 
Japheth is mentioned as the dweller in the tents of 
Shem. In the former sense the verse may refer to the 
special presence of God with the Jews, and to the de- 
scent of Christ from them ; or, in the latter sense, to the 
occupation of Palestine and adjacent countries by the 
Homans, and, spiritually understood, to the accession of 
the Gentiles to the Church of God (Ephes. iii, 6). See 
P lei fieri Opera , p. 40; Newton, On the Prophecies , Diss. 

i. — Smith. 

Buttmann has conjectured (from the resemblance of 
Dz5 with that Shem was the original of Saturn 

or Uranus (Abhandl. d. Berliner A had. 1816, 1817, p. 150 
sq. ; Philos. Classe und ini AIgthol. i, 221 sq.); but there 
is no good ground for such a fancy. 

Comparative Ages of Noah's Sons. — In Gen. x, 21 
occurs a statement on this point, but the original is 
unfortunately ambiguous: ‘’ZX X^rPCj* 
tbiljn ns^ nZr-NlZ^Z. This may be ren- 

dered either, “And to Shem [there] was born — also 
[to] him — [a son], [the] father of all [the] sons of 
Eber, [the] brother of [the] elder Japheth,” or “ [the] 
elder brother of Japheth.” The English A. V. adopts the 
former rendering (“brother of Japheth the elder”), fol- 
lowing the Sept. ’ld<p& roo ptiZovog [Vat. and 

Alex.; Sin. is wanting]), Symmaehus, the Targum of 
Onkelos (XZ 1 ! ■WnX), and the Masoretic accents 

(as given above) ; and this view is also taken by Kashi, 
Aben-Ezra, Luther, Junius, Piscator, Mercer, Montanns, 
Le Gere, J. U. Michaelis, Mendelssohn, De Sola, Jervis, 
and other eminent Hebraists. The other rendering is 
adopted by the Samaritan Codex, the Latin Vulgate 
(“ fratre Japheth majore”), the Peshito-Svriac, the Ara- 
bic of Saadi as, and most modern commentators (Ko- 
senmliller, Turner, Bush, Philippson, Kaliseh, Conant, 
Lange, Tayler Lewis, Keil, Murphy, etc.). To our 
mind both the diplomatic and the linguistic arguments 
are conclusive for the common English rendering. 

(I.) Chronological Considerations. — These may be 
briefly stated as follows : 

1. Noah had a son born when he was himself 500 
years old (Gen. v, 32). This must have been cither his 
oldest or his youngest son, for it would be entirely nu- 
gatory to say that the middle one of his three sons was 
then born, unless that middle one were Shem himself. 

2. The son then born was not Shem, for 

a. In that case he would have been 99 years old at 
the beginning of the flood (Gen. vii, 11; in Noah’s 600th 
year, not when he was 600 years old), or 100 years old 
at its close (viii, 13). 

b. On the contrary, Shem was not 100 years old till 
two years after the flood (Gen. xi, 10). 

3. Nor was Ham the son there referred to, for 

a. Shem himself, we have seen, was not born so early 
as when Noah was 500 years old. 

b. Much less could Ham, who was younger than Shem 
(Gen. ix, 24), have been born so early. 

4. It hence necessarily follow's that Japheth was the 
son then born, and that he w'as the oldest of the three. 

5. The three sons are not mentioned in the order of 
age, but of familiarity and importance to the Hebrew's. 
Hence Ham, although the youngest, is named second. 
So likewise Arphaxad, although the. lirst-born (Gen. xi, 
10), is named third (x, 22). A precisely analogous case 
appears in the family of Terah (xi, 26), wdiere the second 
son, Abram, is named first, as heing the most important, 
and the oldest, llaran, last, as having died early. 

6. The efforts of commentators to evade the force of 
these considerations betray the weakness of their cause. 
They all proceed upon the unfounded assumption that 
the numbers in the texts above considered are merely 
vague statements (“ round numbers”), and may there- 
fore be neglected in an exact calculation. They espe- 


cially dwell upon the fact that all three sons are assigned 
to the same year (Noah’s 500th), whereas that expres- 
sion evidently refers to the oldest, or the heir, only, as 
the foregoing comparisons show'; in any other sense the 
assertion w'ould be irrelevant or absurd. 

(II.) Grammatical Considerations. — On thispointmost 
later commentators and translators seem content to fol- 
low implicitly the views of Koseninullcr ( Schol . ad loc.) : 
“ In this clause the word bljn, ‘ the cider,’ is ambiguous 
as to whether it should be joined with Japheth , thus in- 
dicating him as the senior, or w ith Shem. The former 
has seemed to many interpreters probable chiefly be- 
cause, inasmuch as Noah is said to have begotten the 
first of his sons who survived the flood in the one hun- 
dredth year before the flood (Gen. v, 32), and Shem is 
said to have lived his one hundredth year tw'o years 
after the flood (xi, 10), therefore the latter could not 
have been the first-born. But since it is not at all like- 
ly that Noah begot in one and the same year the three 
sons mentioned in v, 32, it is credible that in that pas- 
sage round numbers only arc named, as often occurs, and 
that the five hundredth year is set down in the same 
connection instead of the five hundred and second, as 
that in w'hich Noah began to be a father. Hence it 
does not appear from this passage that Japheth w r as the 
oldest son. ‘ On the contrary, since in the preceding con- 
text the sons of Noah are six times mentioned in such 
order that Shem is set in the first place, 11am in the 
second, and Japheth in the third (v, 32; vi, 10; vii, 13; 
ix, 16, 23; x, I) — passages so clear as to admit of no 
doubt — it follow's that in the present passage likewise 
the term ‘the elder’ is to be joined to "TlX, ‘the brother 
of,’ so as to make Shem the oldest. But there is also 
another grammatical reason. If the writer in this place 
had wished to say that Japheth w'as the oldest son of 
Noah, he would doubtless have w'ritten b"!?*!"! ri"3“" ( S, 
the older son of Noah; for 3"I£!n, ‘the elder,’ thus placed 
nude, nowhere else occurs (with reference to a person’s 
age), but is always joined either with “fZ, ‘son,’ or with 
HX, ‘ brother.’ All this has been fully set forth by J. F. 
Sehelling in his monograph entitled Ueber die Geburts- 
folge der Sohne Noah, at the beginning of part xvii of 
his Repertorium Biblicce et Orient alis Literature J These 
points, however, are not well taken ; for 

1. It is not usual for the sacred waiters to employ 
round numbers in chronological accounts. In this Cyclo - 
pcedia we have thoroughly examined every date in the 
Bible, and find no such instance. Each definite number 
is susceptible of explanation as being precisely correct, 
except a very few corruptions of the text. In this case, 
particularly, all the leading chronologers — from Usher, 
Jackson, Hales, and Clinton down to Browne and the 
author of Palmoni — take the date as being exact. It 
is a superficial evasion of a difficulty to resort to this slur 
upon the accuracy of Scripture chronology. 

2. The sacred writer might indeed have said, if he 
had chosen, “the brother of Japheth the elder son of 
Noah ;” but this is a tedious and awkw'ard phrase, and 
would have been just as ambiguous as the one he has 
employed, its sense entirely depending upon the inter- 
punction. 

3. b*“7!\ does occur in as “nude a form” as here in at 
least one passage (Ezek. xxi, 14 [Ileb. 19]), as noticed 
below'. It is true the adj. there does not refer to com- 
parative age, but that makes no difference in the gram- 
matical construction. The assertion that b"ia does not 
occur (in the sense of age) without the addition of *jZ 
or nx expressed is not true, as may be seen from Gen. 
xxix, 16; xliv, 2, and other instances where one of 
these nouns is merely implied, precisely as in the case 
before us. In fine, the adj. is not here “nude” or inde- 
pendent at all ; it regularly belongs to the second noun, 
“ brother of the elder Japheth.” 

4. The argument from the order of the names is 


SIIEM 


650 


SIJEMA 


amply refuted (as above) by the analogous cases of 
Arphaxad (Gen. xi, 22), Abraham (ver. 27), and, indeed, 
almost every other patriarch. They were arranged in 
the order of proximity and importance to the Hebrews. 
Among the arguments on the other side, we may note — 

a. The chronological point is irrefragable, except by 
the evasion above noticed. 

b. The position of the words, although ambiguous, 
certainly allows the construction of the Authorized Ver- 
sion. We append a few instances of the same adj. qual- 
ifying a noun after a construct: 

Numb, xxxv, 2S, bis *"^*2 

Josh, xx, 6 the same. 

Isa. xxxvi, 13 blJH 

Ezek. xivii, 9 bnsn z*n rn 

Dan. x, 4 bijn -<n:n “n 

Ilad the word SIS? preceding the qualifying adj. in the 
passage in question not been a proper name, it would 
have taken the article, as in these instances, and thus 
all ambiguity would have been avoided. An instance 
strictly parallel is Ezek. xxi, 14 [Ifeb. 19], bbn 

where the adj., being masc., must belong to the 
second noun, though neither has the art. Others simi- 
lar doubtless occur, if not with bia or yet with 
other adjectives. 

c. Had the sacred writer intended the adj. in the 
passage in question to apply to the last noun, he could 
scarcely have expressed his meaning in any other way 
than he has. On the other hand, had he meant it to 
refer to the former, he would undoubtedly have added 
SISK'S, as in Judg. i, 13; iii, 9 (!)2E3 ■pjjn 3^3 ^nX), 
which are the only strictly parallel cases of usage un- 
der that view (the adj. being "pp, however, instead of 

Judg. ix, 5 CppH b^*3^7“’|3) is not a case in 
point, as there could be no ambiguity there. 

d. The Masoretic accents are clearly for the old 
rendering. In all the above instances the adj. is con- 
nected by a conjunctive with the noun immediately 
preceding, and the first noun (though in the construct) 
is separated by a disjunctive. In cases of the other con- 
struction the reverse interpunction prevails invariably, 
so far as we have examined. The authority of the 
Masorites countervails that of all modern scholars, most 
of whom seem to have given the subject but a cursory 
examination. The criticism of Iveil ( Commentary on the 
Pentateuch , i, 156, Clark’s ed.) is particularly lame. Jose- 
phus ( Ant . i, G, 4) calls “Shem the third son of Noah,” 
but elsewhere (i, 4, 1) he names them in a different 
order, that of relative familiarity (“Shem and Japhetli 
and Ham”). As to the other ancient versions, as above 
noted, the Sept, (the translator of which in this part 
was a good Hebraist) refers the adj. to Jnpheth, al- 
though some printed editions have it otherwise, in order 
to correspond with the Vulg., which reflects the Jewish 
national pride. The Samaritan, Syriac, and Arabic of 
course follow the Vulgate, but the Targum of Onkelos 
has “the brother of Japheth the great.” Schelling, 
whom Rosenm idler (as above) refers to ( Pepertorium , 
etc. [1785], xvii, 8 sq.), thinks that the lists in Gen. only 
‘•mean that Noah had passed his five hundredth year 
before he had any heir, since in any case the three sons 
could not have been all born in t lie same year, to which 
they are all equally assigned; and that therefore only 
the round number or approximate date is given” (p. 20). 

e. The reason why the sacred w riter adds the epithet 
“elder” brother to the name of Japheth, is precisely to 
prevent the inference that would otherwise naturally 
be drawn from the continual mention of Shem first in 
the lists elsewhere, that he was the oldest son, and to 
explain why the names are here inverted. In the pres- 
ent chapter, however, as usual in detailed genealogies 
(1 Chron. i, 29 sq.; ii, 1 sq., 42; iii, 1 sq., etc.), the strict 
order of primogeniture is observed. Had Shem been 
the oldest, there seems to be no good reason why in this 


pedigree the same order should not have been observed 
as elsewhere. Rosenmiiller’s remark that this was done 
“in order that the transition from the lineage of Shem 
to the history of Abraham might be more easy,” does 
not apply; for the next chapter begins with an account 
of the Tower of Babel, w’hich is neither Abrahamic nor 
Shemitic history in particular, but rather Hamitic (see 
ver. 10) ; so that this list of Shem’s descendants is thrust 
in between tw r o portions of Ham’s history — arbitrarily, 
unless for the sake of chronological order. 

She'ma (Heb. in three forms, Sherna', 5521!?, Josh, 
xv, 26; She'ma , V’Z’d ; elsewhere, except “in pause,” 
Sha'ma , 3*2 13, 1 Chron. ii, 43 — all meaning nmior; 
Sept. EojLtd, v. r. 'S.ayad, 2,cifxaiag, etc.), the 

name of four men and of one place. 

1. Last named of the four sons of Hebron, and father 
of Baham, descendants of Caleb, great-grandson of Judah 
(1 Chron. ii, 43, 44). B.C. ante 1658. 

2 . A Benjamite, son of Elpaal, and one of the heads 
of the fathers of the inhabitants of Aijalon, who drove 
out the inhabitants of Gath (1 Chron. viii, 13). B.C. 
post 1618. He is probably the same as Shimhi (ver. 21). 

3. Son of Joel and father of Azaz, among the Reu- 
benite chiefs (1 Chron. v, 8). B.C. ante 1090. Perhaps 
the same with Shemaiah (q. v.) of ver. 4. See Jokl 2. 

4 . One of those (apparently laymen) who stood at 
Ezra’s right hand while he read the law to the people 
(Neb. viii, 4). B.C. 458. 

5. A town in the south of Jndab, named between 
Amam and Moladah (Josh, xv, 26). The place seems 
to have no connection with No. 1 above (see Iveil, ad loc . 
Chron.). In the parallel list of towns set off from Judah 
to Simeon (Josh, xix, 2), the name appears as Sheba 
(q. v.), w r hich is perhaps the more correct, as Shema 
never elsewhere appears as the appellation of a tov r n. 
Knobel (in the Kurzgef exeg. Ilundb. ad loc.) suggests 
that it may be the present ruins Sameh. between Milk 
and Beer-sheba (Van de Velde, Syria , ii, 148). 

Shema. Of the many prayers now constituting the 
Jewish ritual, the Shema, so called from the first w’ord, 
";w, i.e. hear, occurring in it, w T as the only really fixed 
form of daily prayer which is mentioned at an early 
period. Being a kind of confession of faith, every Is- 
raelite was to repeat it morning and evening. The 
Shema itself consists of three passages from the Penta- 
teuch : 1, Shema Israel (Deut. vi, 4—9) ; 2, Vehayah irn 
shamoa (xi, 13-21); and 3, Yayomer Jehovah el Mosheh 
(Numb, xv, 37-41). In the morning it w r as preceded by 
two and succeeded by one, and in the evening both pre- 
ceded and succeeded by tw r o, prayers, which, althongh 
considerably enlarged, are still in use. We quote them 
(omitting all later additions), as probably in use at the 
time of our Lord : 

Before the Shema, Morning and Evening.— “ Blessed art 
thou, O Lord, King of the world, w T ho formest the light 
and createst darkness, who makest peace and creates! 
everything; who in mercy givest light to the earth and 
to those who dw’ell upon it, and in thy goodness renew- 
est day by day, and continually, the works of creation. 
Blessed be the Lord our God for the glory of his handi- 
works, and for the light-giving lights which he hath made 
for his praise, Selah ! Blessed be the Lord w r ho formed 
the lights !” 

Subjecting the second prayer to the same criticism, 
w T e read it: 

“With great love thou hast loved ns, O Lord our God ! 
and with thy great compnssiou thou hast abundance of 
pity on us. O our Father ! our King ! for the sake of our 
fathers who trusted in thee, to w T hom thou didst teach the 
statutes of life, have compassion on ns, and enlighten our 
eyes in thy law, and bind our hearts in thy command- 
ments. O unite our hearts to love and fear thy name, 
that we may not be abashed for evermore. For thou art 
a God who preparest salvation, and ns hast thou chosen 
from among all nations and tongues, and bast in truth 
brought ns near to thy great name, Se.lnh, in order that 
we in love may praise thee and praise thy unity. Blessed 
be the Lord who in love chose his people Israel.” 

Then follows the Shema : 

“ Hear, O Israel : the Lord thy God is one Lord. And 


SHEMAAH 


C51 


SHEMAIAH 


thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and 
with all thy soul, and with all thy might, and these words, 
which I command thee this day, shall be in thine heart. 
And thou shait teach them diligently unto thy children, 
and shait talk of them when thou sittest in thiue house, 
and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest 
down, and when thou risest up. And thou shall bind them 
for a sign upon thine hand, and they shall be as frontlets 
between thine eyes. And thou shait write them upon the 
posts of thy house, and on thy gates” (Deut. vi, 4-9). “And 
it shall come to pass, if ye shall hearken diligently unto my 
commandments which I command you this day, to love the 
Lord your God, and to serve him with all your heart and 
with all your soul, that I will give you the rain of your land 
in his due season, the first rain and the latter rain, that 
thou mayest gather in thy corn, and thy wine, and thine 

oil. And I will send grass in thy fields for thy cattle, that 
thou mayest eat and be full. Take heed to yourselves that 
your heart be not deceived, and ye turn aside and serve 
other gods, and worship them ; and then the Lord’s wrath 
be kindled against yon, and he shut lip the heaven, that 
there be no rain, and that the land yield not her fruit ; 
and lest ye perish quickly from off the good land which 
the Lord giveth you. Theiefore shall ye lay up these my 
words iu your heart and in your soul, and bind them for 
a sign upon your hand, that they may be as frontlets be- 
tween your eyes. And ye shall teach them your children, 
speaking of them when thou sittest iu thine house, and 
when thou walkest by the way, when thou liest down, 
and when thou risest up. And thou shait write them upon 
the door-posts of thine house, and upon thy gates: that 
your days may be multiplied, and the days of your chil- 
dren, in the land which the Lord sware unto your fathers 
to give them, as the days of heaven upon the earth” (Dent, 
xi, 13-21). “And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, 
Speak unto the children of Israel, and bid them that they 
make them fringes in the borders of their garments 
throughout their generations, and that they put upon the 
fringe of the borders a ribband of blue: and it shall he 
unto you for a fringe, that ye may look upon it, and re- 
member all the commandments of the Lord, and do them ; 
and that ye seek not after your own heart and your own 
eyes, after which ye used to go astray: that ye may re- 
member and do all my commandments, and be holy unto 
your God. I am the Lord your God, which brought yon 
out of the land of Egypt, to be your God : I am the Lord 
your God” (N umli. xv, 37-41). 

The morning prayers concluded with the following, 
now in use : 

“It is true that thon art the Lord our God. and the 
God of our fathers ; our Redeemer, and the Redeemer 
of our fathers; our Rock, and the Rock of our salvation. 
Our Redeemer and Deliverer; this is thy name from ever- 
lasting; there is no other God besides thee. A new song 
did they that were delivered sing to thy name by the sea- 
shore, together did all praise and own thee King, and 
say, Jehovah shall reign world without end 1 Blessed be 
the Lord who saveth Israel.” 

An addition dating from the 2d century inserts be- 
fore the words “A new song,” etc., a particular record 
of God’s past dealings. The additional prayer for the 
evening is as follows : 

“O Lord our God ! cause us to lie down in peace, and 
raise ns up, O our King ! to a happy life. Oh spread thy 
pavilion of peace over us, and direct us with good coun- 
sel from thy presence; and save ns for the sake of thy 
name. Oh shield us, and remove from ns the stroke of 
the enemy, the pestilence, sword, famine, and sorrow: 
and remove the adversary from before and behiud us, and 
conceal us under the shadow of thy wings; for thou, O 
God ! art onr Guardian and Deliverer: and thou, O God 1 
art a merciful and gracious King. Oh guard us at out- 
going out and coming in, with a happy and peaceable 
life, from henceforth and for evermore.” 

Although these prayers were sometimes lengthened 
or shortened, they were at a very early period in gen- 
eral use among the Hebrews. Like many other things, 
these prayers were made the subject of casuistic dis- 
cussions, and the very lirst pages of the Talmud are 
crowded with questions and answers as to “how” and 
“when” the tihema is to be read (see treatise Bera- 
choth). Women and servants and little children, or those 
under twelve years, are exempted by the Mishna from 
this obligation. See Zunz, Gottesd. Yortrage der Juden, 
p.367, 369-371 ; Schi'irer, Lehrbuch der neu test amend. 
Zeitgeschichte, p.499 sq. ; Prideaux, Connection (Wheel- 
er’s ed.), i,331 ; Etheridge, Introduction to Hebrew Lit- 
er at it re, p. 93 sq.; Edcrsheim, History of the Jewish Na- 
tion, p. 360 sq. See Phylactery. (B. P.) 

Shem'aali (Ilcb. with the art., hash - Shemank' , 
the rumor; Sept. ’Atjfia v. r. £ ag.au ), a Bcn- 


jamite of Gibeah, and father of Ahiezer and Joash, who 
joined David at Ziklag (1 Chron. xii, 3). B.C. ante 1054. 

Shemachoth. See Talmud. 

Shemai'ah (Ileb. Shemayak', Tl*2'2'22, heard [or 
rumor’] of Jehovah [twice in the prolonged form, tihe- 
maya'hu, 2 Chron. xi, 2; Jer. xxix, 24]; 

Sept. 2 afiaiag , v. r. 'Saficita, Ef/tifi, etc.), the name of 
a large number of Hebrews. 

1. A Reubenite, son of Joel and father of Gog (I 
Chron. v, 4). B.C. post 1874. He was perhaps the 
same as the Shema (q. v.) of ver. 8. 

2 . Son of Elizaphan, and chief of his house (of two 
hundred men) in the reign of David, who took part in 
the ceremonial with which the king brought the ark from 
the house of Obed-edom (1 Chron. xv, 8, 1 1 ). B.C. 1043. 

3. A Levite, son of Nethaneel, and also a scribe in 
the time of David, who registered the divisions of the 
priests bv lot into twenty-four orders (1 Chron. xxiv, 6). 
B.C. 1014. 

4 . Eldest of the eight sons of Obed-edom the Levite. 
He and his four valiant sons and other relatives, to the 
number of sixtv-two, were gate-keepers of the Temple 
(1 Chron. xxvi‘4, 6. 7). B.C. 1014. 

5 . A prophet in the reign of Rehoboam who, when 
the king had assembled 180,000 men of Benjamin and 
Jiulah to reconquer the northern kingdom after its re- 
volt, was commissioned to charge them to return to their 
homes and not to war against their brethren (1 Kings 
xii, 22; 2 Chron. xi, 2). B.C. 972. His second and 
last appearance upon the stage was upon the occasion 
of the invasion of Judah and siege of Jerusalem by Shi- 
shak, kiug of Egypt. B.C. 969. His message was then 
one of comfort, to assure the princes of Judah that the 
punishment of their idolatry should not come by the 
hand of Shishak (xii, 5, 7). From the circumstance 
that in ver. 1 the people of Rehoboam are called “ Is- 
rael,” whereas in ver. 5, 6 the princes are called indif- 
ferently “of Judah” and “of Israel,” some have unwar- 
•rantably inferred that the latter event occurred before 
the disruption of the kingdom. Shemaiah wrote a chron- 
icle containing the events of Rehoboam’s reign (ver. 15). 

6. One of the Levites who in the third year of Je- 
hoshaphat accompanied two priests and some of the 
princes of Judah to teach the people the book of the law 
(2 Chron. xvii, 8). B.C. 909. 

7 . Father of Shimri and ancestor of Ziza, which last 
was a chief of the tribe of Simeon (1 Chron. iv, 37). 
B.C. long ante 726. lie was perhaps the same with the 
Shimei (q. v.) of ver. 26, 27. 

8. A descendant of Jeduthun the singer who lived in 
the reign of Ilezekiah. He assisted in the purification 
of the Temple and the reformation of the service, and 
with Uzziel represented his family on that occasion (2 
Chron. xxix, 14). B.C. 726. (See No. 9.) 

9. One of the Levites in the reign of Hezekiah who 
were placed in the cities of the priests to distribute the 
tithes among their brethren (2 Chron. xxxi, 15). B.C. 
726. He was perhaps identical with No. 8. 

10. A chief Levite in the reign of Josiali who, with 
his brethren Conaniah and Nethaneel, contributed sac- 
rifices for the Passover (2 Chron. xxxv. 9). B.C. 628. 

11. Father of the prophet Urijali of Kirjath-jcariin 
(Jer. xx vi, 20). B.C. ante 608. 

12 . Father of Delaiah, which latter was one of the 
princes who heard Baruch’s roll (Jer. xxxvi, 12). B.C. 
ante 605. 

13. A Nehelamite and a false prophet in the time of 
Jeremiah. B.C. 606. lie prophesied to the people of 
the captivity in the name of Jehovah, and attempted 
to counteract the influence of Jeremiah’s advice that 
they should settle quietly in the land of their exile, 
huilil houses, plant vineyards, and wait patiently for the 
period of their return at the end of seventy years. Ilis 
animosity to Jeremiah exhibited itself in the more ac- 
tive form of a letter to the high-priest Zephaniah, urg- 
ing him to exercise the functions of his office and lay 


SIIEMARIAII 


652 


SHEM HAMMEPHORASH 


the prophet in prison and in the stocks. The letter was f 
read by Zephaniah to Jeremiah, who instantly pro- j 
non need the message of doom against Shemaiah for his 
presumption that he should have none of his family to ! 
dwell among the people, and that himself should not ! 
live to see their return from captivity (Jer. xxix, 24- 
32).— Smith. See Jeremiah. 

14 . A chief priest who returned from Babylon with 
Zerubbabel (Neh. xii,G, lb). B.C. 53G. He lived to sign 
the sacred covenant with Nehemiah (x, 8). B.C. 410. 

15 . One of the three “last sons” (i. e. supplementary 
heads of families) ofAdonikam who returned with sixty 
males from Babylon with Ezra (Ezra viii, 13). B.C. 450. 

16 . One of the “heads” of the Jewish families whom 
Ezra sent for to his camp by the river of Ahava, for the 
purpose of obtaining Levites and ministers for the Tem- 
ple from “ the place Casiphia” (Ezra viii, 10). B.C. 459. 

17 . One of the priests of the “sons of Ilarim” who 
renounced their Gentile wives after the captivity (Ezra 
x, 21). B.C. 458. (Comp. No. 18.) 

18 . An Israelite of the “sons of Harim” who divorced 
his Gentile wife after the captivity (Ezra x, 31). B.C. 
458. (See No. 17.) 

19 . A priest, son of Mattaniah (q.v.) and father of 
Jonathan in the lineage of “Asaph” (Neh. xii, 35). 
B.C. ante 440. 

20 . Son of Galal and father of the Levite Obadiah 
(or Abda) who “dwelt in the villages of the Netopha- j 
thites” after the return from Babylon (1 Chron. ix, 10). 
B.C. ante 440. lie is elsewhere (Neh. xi, 17) called ' 
Siiammua (q. v.). 

21. Son of Sheehaniah and keeper of the east gate 
at Jerusalem, who assisted in repairing the wall after 
the captivity (Neh. iii, 29). B.C. 44G. 

22 . Son of Delaiah the son of Mehetabel, a prophet 
in the time of Nehemiah who was bribed by Sanballat 
and his confederates to frighten the Jew’s from their 
task of rebuilding the wall, and to put Nehemiah in 
fear. In his assumed terror, he appears to have shut up 
his house and to have proposed that all should retire into 
the Temple and close the doors (Neh. vi, 10). B.C. 440. 

23 . Son of Hasshub, a Merarite Levite who lived in 
Jerusalem after the captivity (1 Chron. ix, 14), and one 
of those who had oversight of the outward business of 
the bouse of God (Neh. xi, 15). B.C. 440. 

24 . One of (he princes of Judah who v r as in the 
procession that w*ent towards the south when the two 
thanksgiving companies celebrated the solemn dedica- 
tion of the w all of Jerusalem (Neh. xii, 34). B.C. 440. 

25. One of the choir who took part in the procession 
with wdiieh the dedication of the new w’all of Jerusalem 
by Ezra was accompanied (Neh. xii, 30). B.C. 440. 
lie appears to have been a Gershonitc Levite, and de- 
scendant of Asaph, for reasons which are given under 
Mattaniah 8. 

26 . One of the priests who blew with trumpets in 
the procession upon the newly completed walls of Jeru- 
salem after the captivity (Neh. xii, 42). B.C. 1 10. 

27 . The son of Sheehaniah and father of five sons 
among the descendants of Zerubbabel (1 Chron. iii, 22). 
lie was possibly the same with No. 21. Lord Hervev 
((Jemal, p. 107) uncritically proposes to omit the words 
at the beginning of 1 Chron. iii, 22 as spurious, and to 
consider Shemaiah identical with Shimei (q.v.), the 
brother of Zerubbabel (ver. 19). This Shemaiah seems 
to be the same as the Semei of Luke iii, 20. B.C. cir. 
380. See Genealogy oe Ciiiclst. 

Shemari'ah (lleb. Shemuryah ', kept of 

Jehovah; or, in the prolonged form [I Chron. xii, 5], 
Shttmar y a 7///, ; Sept, ^apapia, v. r. ^Lupaptiu, 

Hapapaia, 'Sapopta), the name of four Hebrews. 

1. One of the valiant Benjamites who joined David 
at Ziklag (1 Chron. xii, 5). B.C. 1051. 

2. Middle named of the three sons of L'ehohoam by 
his second wife, Ahiliail (2 Chron. xi, 19. A. V. “ Shama- 
riah”). B.C. cir. 973. 


3 . A layman of the “sons of Harim” who divorced 
his Gentile wife after the captivity (Ezra x, 32). B.C. 
458. 

4 . Another layman of the “sons of Baui” who did 
the same (Ezra x, 41). B.C. 458. 

Sliemarim. See Lees. 

Sheme'ber [many Shcm'eber ] (lleb. id. “CN'tT, 
lofty fight [Gesenius], or splendor of heroism [Fttrstj: 
Sept. Sopofiop; Josephus, Nujuo/3opoe, Aw/, i, 9, 1), the 
king of Zeboim (q.v.) at the time of the attack of So- 
dom by Chedorlaomer (Gen. xiv, 2). B.C. cir. 2088. 

She'mer (Hel). id. something kept, as lees of 
wine; Sept. ~(ptjp ; Josephus, 'Stpapog, A nt. viii, 12. 5), 
the original owner of the hill of Samaria, which derived 
its name from him. B.C. 917. Omri bought the hill 
for tw’o talents of silver, and built thereon the city, also 
called Samaria, which he made the capital of his king- 
dom (l Kings xvi, 24). "We should rather have ex- 
pected that the name of the city would have been 
Shimron , from Shemer ; for Shomeron would have been 
the name given after an owner Shomer. This hatter 
form, which occurs in 1 Chron. vii, 32, appears to be that 
adopted by the Vulgate and Syriac, wdiich read Sumer and 
Shomir respectively; but the Vatican MS. of the Sept, 
at that place retains the form “ Shomer,” and changes 
the name of the city to Eeptpibv or Stpjjpior. Both 
names have the same radical meaning, from to 

icatch , referring, perhaps, by paronomasia, to this con- 
spicuous post of observation. See Samaria. As the 
Israelites w’ere prevented by the law' (Lev. xxv, 23) from 
thus alienating their inheritances, and as his name oc- 
curs without the usual genealogical marks, it is more 
than probable that Shemer was descended from those 
Canaanites whom the Hebrew’s had not dispossessed of 
their lands. 

Shemhammephorash (d’nsrn CUT, shem ham - 
mephordsh, as if the peculiar Xante ; but perhaps facti- 
tious). By this expression the Jew’s mean the name of 
God w’ritten fTTP, but since the time of the Deforma- 
tion, i. e. from the time that Christians began to study 
Hebrew, pronounced, according to its accompanying 
vow'el-points, Jehovah. Before entering upon the ex- 
planation of the word it will he well to review what is 
said concerning that name of God. Jerome, who was 
not only acquainted w'ith the language, but also with 
the tradition, of the Jews, says, in Prologus Galeatus: 
“Nomen Domini tetragrammaton (i. e. iT!i"P) in qui- 
busdam Gnecis volumiuibus usque hodie antiquis ex- 
pressum litcris invenimns:” and in t lie 130th letter to 
Marcelhis, where he treats of t he ten names of (rod, he 
says: “Nonum (sc. tinmen Dei) est tetragrammnm, qnod 
uvkK<pdn>i)Tov, i. e. ineffabile, putavermit, quod his litcris 
scribitur fod, K, T T au, E. Quod quidam non intelli- 
gentes propter elcmentorurn similitudinem, quum in 
Gnveis libris repererint, l*i l*i legcre consuevcrunt” (Opp. 
ed. Vallarsi, i, 131; iii, 720). Similar is the statement 
found in a fragment of Evagrius treating of the ten 
Jewish names of God, that the ineffable Tetragram, 
which ku T a\p)]oriKib(j is pronounced by the Jews dc'Uu- 
vai, by the Greeks Kvptoc, aeeording to Exod. xxviii, 
30, was written on the plate of the high-priest : dyiarrpa 
Kvptip HI HI [in some eodd. m 7 n] . . . rouro/f ypu<pi>- 
pfvov ro7<j irroi\ttott ; uo$r »/7T oitio nj tt III 111, o Heoc 
(ef. Ootelerius, Momim. Eccl. (invar, iii, 210, by Vallarsi, 
iii, 720; Lagarde, Onomastica Sacra . p. 205 sq.). Al- 
most the same w'c find in Origen, Onomasiicon (ef. La- 
garde, loc. cit.). From these statements we see that at 
and before the time of Jerome there w’ere already Greek 
MSS. of (he Old Test, in which the Tetragram was 
written with Hebrew letters which were regarded as 
the Greek uncial letters 1 1 111 L Such a mistake was 
only possible when the Hebrew’ square alphabet was 
used. When, in the last quarter of the last century, the 
attention of the learned w r as again called to the Syriac 


SHEM HAMMEPHORASH 


653 


SIIEMINITH 


translation of the Sept, by the bishop Paul of Tela, they 
found in many places the Hebrew name of God, which 
otherwise is expressed by the Greek Kvptog and the 
Syriac represented by It was, however, 

more surprising that in the main manuscript of this 
version in the celebrated Codex Syro-H exaplaris Am- 
bromanus at Milan, in the notes on Isaiah, instead of 
the word iTTP was found. The connection 
between the Greek II HI I and this rPi"H was soon per- 
ceived, but not in a correct manner, so that in 1835 Mid- 
deklorpf, in his edition of Codex Syro-U exaplaris, could 
but explain it as “ita ut inscius quidam librarius, Cod. 
Syr. Hexaplarem describens, sed seusum Grteci illius 
rill 1 1 baud perspiciens Gnecum characterem II loco 
Hebraici !"I positum esse opiuaretur, quemadmodum 1 
loco Hebr. ^ ideoque Svriace PPPP scriberet.” Bern- 
stein, in reviewing Middeldorpfs edition, quoted a scho- 
lion of Bar- Hebrreus, which gives us the following 
interesting notice : “ The Hebrews call the glorious 
name of God L'PS CL 1 , which is PPPP (PI1PP), and 
dare not to pronounce it with their lips, but read and 
speak instead, to those who listen, ^3‘IX. Since the 
seventy interpreters retained the Hebrew nomenclature, 
the Greeks fell into an error and believed that these 
two letters were Greek, and read it from the left to the 
right, and the name nini was formed, and thus PPPP 
(PPm). which designates theEternal Being, was changed 
into Hllll, which yields no sense at all. The Yod of 
the Hebrews is like the Yod (Iota) of the Greeks, and 
He of the Hebrews has the form of the Greek Pi (n). 
Hence, in the Syriac copies of the Sept, we find every- 
where the name IOTC (i.e. where stands for kv - 

p l0 £ = m rn), with “'D n E written above.” On this scho- 
lium Bernstein remarks that LI “l 3 CL corresponds to 
the Rabbinic LHBCH CL, Shem hnmmephorash . In 
his lexicon, Bernstein writes: “Ll">2 is one who sep- 
arates, discerns, hence LV^D CL is a discerning, sepa- 
rating, or especial name, nomen separatum , secret um . oc- 
cultum. Sehroeter, in his edition of Bar-Ilebneus, ex- 
plains L’ns CL by no men distinction, singulare. But 
Bar-Hebrams tells us only what he found in Jacob of 
Edessa, who has a whole scholium entitled 11 Scholium on 
the Singular and Distinguished Name which is found in 
the Syriac Holy Writings translated from the Greek , and 
which is called among the Jews L1“iE CL.” From this 
scholium, which Nestle published in the Zeitschrift 
der deutschen morgenlandischen Gesellschaft , 1878, xxxii, 
405 sq., and which purports to give what Jewish tradi- 
tion believed concerning this name, we see that it means 
the separated, i. e. singular name of God — a view also 
adopted by Nestle himself. But a review of the dif- 
ferent opinions will show that there is a great difference 
as to what the meaning of the word L“iELPl CL is. 
Some translate it by nomen explicit um, others by nomen 
separatum (comp. Buxtorf, Lex. Tahn. s. v.); Petrus 
Galatinus, De A rcanis Catholiac Veritatis. ii, 18, by ! 
separatum , i.e. “sejuuctum etdistinctnm ab aliis omni- 
bus Dei nominibus, et soli Deo proprie conveniens.” j 
Reuchlin, in the third book of De Arte Cabalistica, \ 
explains it by nomen expnsitorium ; Munk, le nom dis- ' 
tinctement prononce; Geiger, der uusdriickliche Name ; 1 
Levy, der deutlich ausgesprochene Name. 

In settling the question all must depend on the mean- 
ing of L"iB, whether it means only “to separate,” or 
whether it occurs also in the sense of “to pronounce 
distinctly.” In the latter sense it occurs very often, 
especially in the Targum and Talmud, as Dr. Fiirst 
has shown against Dr. Nestle in Z. d. d. in. G. 1879, 
xxxiii, 297, claiming that CLH PN L"PE is only the 
Aramaized form for EL Pi PX “PCTn, “to pronounce 


distinctly the name of God.” In the Mishna ( Yoma , vi, 
2) we are told that both the priests and people, when 
they heard, on the Day of Atonement, the L*YlECn CL, 
fell to the ground ; and we are also told that the voice 
of the high-priest, when he pronounced “the name,” on 
the Day of Atonement, was heard as far as Jericho. 

Whatever may be the meaning of this word in a 
philological point of view, Jewish tradition ascribed to 
it great power. By means of the Shem hammephorash 
Christ is said to have performed his miracles; Moses is 
said to have slain the Egyptian by the same means. 
Any one interested in these and other silly stories will 
find them in Eisenmenger, Neuentdecktes Judenthum , i, 
154 sq. See, besides the essays of Nestle and Fiirst al- 
ready quoted, also Buxtorf, Lex. Talm. (ed. Fischer), 
p. 1205 sq. ; Geiger, Urschrift der Bibel, p. 203 sq. See 
Jehovah. (B. P.) 

Practically, Shem-hammephorash is a cabalistic word 
among the Rabbinical Jews, who reckon it as of such 
importance that Moses spent forty days on Mount Sinai 
in learning it from the angel Saxael. It is not, how- 
ever, the real word of power, but a representation of it. 
The rabbins differ as to whether the genuine word con- 
sisted of twelve, or forty-two, or seventy-two letters, 
and try by their gematria , or cabalistic arithmetic, to 
reconstruct it. They affirm that Jesus stole it from the 
Temple, and by its means was enabled to perform many 
wonderful works. It is now lost, and hence, according 
to the rabbins, the lack of power in the prayers of Israel. 
They declare that if any one were able rightly and de- 
voutly to pronounce it, he would by this means be able 
to create a world. It is alleged, indeed, that two letters 
of the word inscribed by a cabalist on a tablet and 
thrown into the sea raised the storm which, A. D. 1542, 
destroyed the fleet of Charles Y. They say, further, 
that if you write this name on the person of a prince, 
you are sure of his abiding favor. The rationale of its 
virtue is thus described by Mr. Alfred Vaughan in his 
Hours with the Mystics: “The Divine Being was sup- 
posed to have commenced the work of creation by con- 
centrating on certain points the primal, universal Light. 
Within the region of these was the appointed place of 
onr world. Out of the remaining luminous points, or 
foci, he constructed certain letters — a heavenly alpha- 
bet. These characters he again combined into certain 
creative words, whose secret potency produced the forms 
of the material world. The word ‘ Shem-hammepho- 
rasli’ contains the sum of these celestial letters, with all 
their inherent virtue, in its mightiest combination.” 

Shemi'da (Heb. Shemida ', V^’O'C.fame ofknoic- 
ing , i.e. wise ; Sept. 'Sepipct, v. r. 'Svpapip, ’Svpaep. etc.), 
one of the sons of Gilead (Josh, xvii, 2), flfth named 
among the six, and progenitor of the family of the She- 
midaites (Numb, xxvi, 32). His three “sons” are men- 
tioned (I Chron. vii, 19, A. Y. “Shemidah”). B.C. post 
185G. 

Shemi'dah (I Chron. vii, 19). See Shemida. 

Shemi'daite (Heb. with the art. in the sing, used 
collectively, hash- Shemida V, 1 7Y'C'4'n, patronymic 
from Shemida; Sept, o ^Lupaepf), a designation (Numb, 
xxvi, 32) of the descendants of Shemida (q. v.), the son 
of Gilead, who obtained their inheritance among the 
male posterity of Manassch (Josh, xvii, 2, where they 
are called “children of Shemida”). 

Shem'inith (lleb. with the art., hash- Shem inith ', 
r^IPELPl, fern. sing, of n 2 n * l 2L, eighth .) The title of 
Psa. vi contains a direction to the leader of the stringed 
i instruments of the Temple choir concerning the manner 
in which the psalm was to be sung. “To the chief 
musician on Neginoth upon Sheminith,”or“ the eighth,” 
as the margin of the A. Y. has it, and as the same word 
is elsewhere rendered (Lev. xxv, 32, etc.). A similar 
direction is found in the title of Psa. xii. The Sept, in 
, both passages renders v~ep rijg oy£o?;c, and the Yulg. 


SIIEMIRAMOTII 


054 


SHEMITIC LANGUAGES 


pro octaru. Tlic (icneva Version gives “upon the 
eighth tune.” Referring to 1 Chron. xv, 21, we find that 
certain Levites were appointed by David to play “with 
harps on the Sheminith,” which the Vulgate renders as 
above, and the Sept, by apaot l'tS, which is merely a 
corruption of the Hebrew. The Geneva version ex- 
plains in the margin “which was the eighth tune, over 
the which he that was the most excellent had charge.” 
As we know nothing whatever of the music of the He- 
brews. all conjectures as to the meaning of their musical 
terms are necessarily vague and contradictory. With 
respeet to Sheminith, most Rabbinical writers, as Kashi 
and Aben-Ezra, follow the Targum on the Psalms in 
regarding it as a harp with eight strings; but this has 
no foundation, and depends upon a misconstruction of 
1 Chron. xv, 21. Gesenius ( Thesaur. s. v. HI*:) says it 
denotes the bass, in opposition to Alamo! h (1 Chron. xv, 
20), which signifies the treble. Rut as the meaning of 
Alamoth itself is very obscure, we cannot make use of 
it for determining the meaning of a term which, though 
distinct from, is not necessarily contrasted with it. Oth- 
ers. with the author of Shiite Hayyibborim, interpret “ the 
sheminith ” as the octave ; but there is no evidence that 
the ancient Hebrews were acquainted with the octave 
as understood by ourselves. On comparing the man- 
ner in which the word occurs in the titles of the two 
psalms already mentioned with the position of the terms 
Aijefeth Sliahar, Jonath-elem-rechokim, etc., in other 
psalms, which are generally regarded as indicating the 
melody to be employed bv the singers, it seems proba- 
ble that Sheminith is of the same kind, and denotes a 
certain air known as the eighth, or a certain key in 
which the psalm was to be sung. Maurer (Comm, in 
Psa. ri) regards Sheminith as an instrument of deep 
tone like the violoncello, while Alamoth he compares 
with the violin; and such, also, appears to be the view 
taken by Junius and Tremellius. — Smith. See Psalms. 

Shemir'amotli (Heb. Shemiramoth' , m -"PE'r, 
name of heights , i. e. Jehovah ; Sept. ^eptpaf.ub^, v. r. 
SiptpapibS, ^apeipapioS, etc.), the name of two Le- 
vites. 

1. A musician “of the second degree” in the arrange- 
ment of the choral services by David (1 Chron. xv, 18), 
playing “with psalteries on Alamoth” (ver. 20), and 
harps (xvi, 5). R.C. 1043. 

2. One of those sent by .Jehoshaphat to teach the 
law throughout the land (2 Chron. xvii, 8). R.C. 909. 

Shemitic Languages. I. Xa me. — Among the 
peoples of Hither Asia lay the root-stem of those lan- 
guages which are now denominated “ Shemitic,” or “ Se- 
mitic” according to the French, which is supposed to have 
been spoken by (he descendants of Shorn. The ordinary 
denomination of these languages, in earlier times, was 
“the Oriental languages.” This was employed by Je- 
rome, and is still used to some extent in modern times. 
As long as the other languages of the East, which do 
not belong to the Shemitic stock, were not known in the 
West, this term was perfectly satisfactory, and the more 
so when Hebrew was viewed as the mother of all lan- 
guages. Now, however, that an acquaintance with the 
Eastern languages is more developed, and a sci entitle 
study of them has spread so widely and extended itself, 
especially in the academies, not only to the Persian, but 
also to the Egyptian. Chinese, Armenian, and especially 
the Indian (Sanscrit ), it naturally follows that all these 
languages belonging to different stems are comprehend- 
ed under the name “ Oriental,” so that this lias now 
become an unsuitable term. The necessity arose to 
find a proper appellation which would distinguish that 
stem, forming now the Shemitic languages, from the 
other Oriental languages; ami thus dillerent. suggestions 
were made. Leibnitz, e. g., suggested “Arabic;” llup- 
feld (l/tbr. Cram. p. 2) proposed “ 1 Iither-Asiatie” lan- 
guages; Renan thinks that, in analogy to Indo-Euro- 
pean, “Le veritable nom des langurs qui nous oceupent 
serai t Syro-urubes.” Neither of these suggestions pre- 


vailed; but the term “Shemitic,” proposed by Schlbzer 
in 1781, and recommended by Eichliorn ( AUyem. Pibl.der 
bib. Lit. vi, 50, 772 sq.), has come into use. This latter 
term is based on the fact that in Gen. x, 21-31 the He- 
brews, together with the other tribes belonging to this 
stem, are derived from Shem. But, like the former 
terms, the latter was also opposed, especially by Stange 
in his Theol. Symmikta (1802), pt. i, p. 1-39. “ And, in- 
deed,” says Rleek, “ it must be acknowledged that if we 
regard this catalogue of nations as its groundwork, there 
is not quite so much to be said in favor of it. We there 
read (Gen. x, 22) ‘The children of Shem: Elam, and 
Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lad, and Aram.’ Of these, 
Arphaxad is described as the grandfather of Eber, and 
Ebcr as the father of Peleg and Joktan, the latter of 
whom is mentioned in the following verses as the head 
of many Arabian tribes; while Peleg is spoken of in eh. 
xi as the great-great-grandfather of Terah, the father 
of Abraham, so that Arphaxad may be regarded as the 
progenitor of the Hebrews and of other tribes related 
to them by language. Aram, also, as the progenitor of 
the Aram leans, would belong to this language -stem. 
On the other hand, Elam certainly does not belong to 
it, but to the same stem as the Persians; the same may 
probably be said of Asshur and also of Lud, whom we 
may, with Josephus, regard as the parent of the Lydi- 
ans. On the other side, however, we find the Canaan- 
ites and Phoenicians (x, 15-19), the Ethiopians (Cush 
[ver. 6, 7 J), and several Arabian tribes traced up to 
I lam, although there is no doubt that so far as language 
is concerned they belong to the same stem as the 
Hebrews and Aramaeans.” From Block’s statement it 
will be seen that the term “ Shemitic” does not serve all 
purposes. True as this is, yet, in default of a better term, 
the name Shemitic hmyuayes has been retained, and is 
now current, with the distinct understanding of its being 
a false and merely conventional expression. 

II. Division . — Viewing the Shemitic languages from 
a geographical point of view, they may he divided into 
three principal branches. Thus we have: ((/) The 
Northern or North-eastern branch, the A ramuic ; (5) 
The Southern, among which the Arabic is the chief 
dialect, and with which the Ethiopic is also connected; 
(c) The Middle, the Hebrew, with which the Canaan- 
itish and Phoenician (Punic) nearly coincide. With this 
division, Renan says, corresponds the one which we 
may call the historical, according to which the Hebraic 
would assume the first place, extending from the earli- 
est times of our knowledge of it down to the 0th centu- 
ry B.C., when the Aramaic begins to take the lead, and 
tiie field of Hebrew and Phoenician (the chief repre- 
sentatives of Hebraic) becomes more and more restrict- 
ed. The Aramaic, again, would be followed l>v tbe Ara- 
bic period, dating from the time of Mohammed, when 
the Islam and its conquests spread the language of the 
Koran, not merely over the whole Shemitic territory, but 
over a vast portion of the inhabited globe. But this 
division, asM. Renan remarks, “ne doit etre prisequedans 
nil sens general, et avee trois restrictions importantes. 
1, Les idiomes rein places par un autre, l’llebreu par 
rArameen, le Svrinque par l’Arabe, ne disparaissent pas 
pour cola eutierement : ils restent lnngue savaute et sa- 
cree, et, :i ce tit re. continuent d’etre cultives longtemps 
apres avoir eesse d’etre vnlgaires. 2. Cette succession des 
trois langues Semitiques ne pent siguilier (pie chaeunc 
d’elles ait etc parlee en meine temps dans unite 1’eten- 
due des pays oeeupes par la race Semitique; elle signilie 
seulemcnt (pie chncun de ces trois dialeetes hit tour :i tour 
dominant, et represent a, a son jour, le plus Want dcvelop- 
pemeilt de lVsprit Semitique. Toute l’histoire intellce- 
tuellc des Semites, en (diet, se partage, coni me Fhistoire 
des langues Semitiques elles-memos, en trois phases — 
llebraique, Chaldeo-Syriaqnc, et Arahe. 3. Cette divi- 
sion, entin, lie doit, point etre cutcmluc d’une maniere ab- 
sulne, mats seulemcnt par rapport n IVtatde nos eoimais- 
sanees” (Ifisioire des l Amy. Sew. p. lt)8). The writer of 
the art. Shemitic Luuyunyes in Kitto’s Cyclopiedia, M r. 


SHEMITIC LANGUAGES 655 SIIEMITIC LANGUAGES 


E. Deutsch, seems to have known M. Renan’s work and 
those of others holding the same view; for he says that 
these authors “had to hedge it in with many and varie- 
gated restrictions.*’ Rut any one reading the remarks 
of M. Renan will hardly understand the unnecessary 
zeal exhibited by the writer in Kitto when he says, 
“ Rut we further protest all the more strongly against 
it, as it might easily lead to the belief that the one 
idiom gradually merged into the other.” 

Out of the three principal branches, in the course of 
time, others developed themselves. The following ta- 
ble, taken from Prof. M. INI tiller’s Science of Language , 
i, 39J (Amer. ed.), exhibits them in a genealogical 
way : 


Not the less do we find in the whole grammatical 
construction, as well as in particular instances of gram- 
matical formation and structure, the greatest and most 
surprising agreement between the various Shemitic lan- 
guages or dialects; thus we have but two genders, and 
these are also distinguished in the second and third per- 
sons of the verb. In the inflection of verbs they have 
only two moods (commonly considered to be tenses) ; 
but these are strongly contrasted by the position of the 
marks of the persons at the end or at the beginning: 
the so-ealled perfect for the completed or actual, and t lie 
imperfect for the incomplete or hypothetical, without 
decidedly giving expression to the tenses by peculiar 
forms. Nouns are not declined by meaus of ease-end- 


Liein<j Languages. 
Dialects of Arabic. . 
Amharic 

The Jews < 

Dead Languages. 

Ethiopic 1 

Himyeritic inscriptions ) 

[Biblical Hebrew j 

Samaritan Peutateueh ( 

Classes. 

»• Arabic, or Southern. . . 

>■ Hebraic, or Middle. . . 

» Shemitic Family. 

1 

Neo- Syriac -j 

[Carthaginian — Phoenician inscriptions J 

'Chaldee, Masora, Talmud, Targum, Biblical Chaldee.] 

Syriac (Peshito, 2d century A.D.) 

1 Cuneiform inscriptions of Babylon aud Niueveli , 

1 

j- Aramaic, or Northern. 


A somewhat more intuitive table is the following, taken from Bdttcher, Ausf. Lehrbuch eltr hthr. Sprache, p. 4 
(ed. Miihlau) : 

PRIMITIVE SHEMITIC. 

A. 

B. 

C. 


1 Northern Shemitic. 
(Arajjaio.) 

1. Assyrian of the cuneiform writ- 
ings, B.C. 1900-600 


Middle Shemitic. 
(Canaanitic.) 


Southern Shemitic. 
(Arabio.) 


3. Phoenician, 
B.C. 1200 sq. 


2. Hebrew, 
B.C. 1000 sq. 


S. Stiriac , 

A.D.1S0 sq. 


12. Sabinn, 
A.L). (?) 


4. ClmMee , 
B.C. 420 sq. 

6. Samaritan, 
B.C. 200 sq. (?) 


Northern Arabic. Southern Arabic. 
7. Sinaitie in script.) 5. Himyeritic in- 


(7. Sin? 
sofrlie : 

( B.C. 


Nabathaenns, > 
150-A.D. 150 ) 


11. Written Arabic, 
A.D. 500 sq. 


senpuons, 
B.C. (?). 

10. Ethiopic, 
A.D. 350 sq. 


9. Mishna, 
A.D. 190 sq. 

Gemara, 
A.D. 300 sq. 


13. Rabbinic , 
A.D. 1000 sq. 
(Neo-llebrew.) 


(Neo-Arabic Dialects.) 


14. Amharic, 
A.D. 1300 tq. 


III. Characteristics of the Shemitic Languages. — Not 
only are all these languages (with the exception of the 
Ethiopic and Amharic) written from right to left, but 
they are related to each other in much the same man- 
ner as those of the Germanic family (Gothic, Old 
Northern, Danish, Swedish ; High and Low German, in 
the earlier and later dialects), or as those of the Slavic 
tongues (Lithuanian, Lettisli ; Old Slavic, Servian, Rus- 
sian , Polish, Bohemian), bearing in mind, however, that 
the relationship in the former case is more thorough 
and complete than in the latter. 

In the flrst place, the whole of the Shemitic dialects 
agree substantially with regard to the root- words and 
their meaning; the only difference being that one lan- 
guage, the Arabic, is comparatively far richer than the 
other dialects. Thus, e. g., the Arabic possesses nearly 
6000 roots and about 60,000 words, while in Hebrew 
only about 2000 roots and 6000 words are known to us. 
Or, again, the Arabic philologists quote 1000 different 
terms for a sword. 500 for a Hun, 200 for a serpent, 400 
for misfortune. But we must take this into consideration, 
that in the other dialects only a small number of literary 
records, comparatively speaking, have been preserved; 
and that the Arabic, as a living language, is known to 
us in a far later development than tlie Hebrew. Rut by 
far tbe larger part of the root-words which are found in 
Hebrew appear also in the other dialects, and in essen- 
tially the same or only a slightly modified signification. 
Resides, in the present form of the language in all these 
dialects, nearly all the stem-words are composed of three 
consonants. In all the Shemitic dialects the consonants 
are seen to be far more essential than the vowels. The 
former almost alone determine the essential meaning of 
the word, while the differences of the vowels do no more 
than give the different references and modifications of 
this meaning. 


ings, but the genitive is expressed by closely combin- 
ing two words, and other cases by using prepositions, 
while the pronouns have mere suffixes for the oblique 
cases. Finally, they are characterized by poverty m 
the particles, and consequently they have their clauses 
formed with extreme simplicity; and they are defective 
in the structure of sentences, at least if they are judged 
by the standard of the Latin and the German languages. 
Considering all these facts, they plainly show “that one 
original language lies at the foundation of them all; 
that in early times — anterior, however, to all our his- 
torical knowledge of them — these nations certainly all 
spoke one language, which has in later periods, as they 
separated one from the other, developed into these vari- 
ous dialects” (Bleek). 

IV. Comparison of the Shemitic Languages with One 
Another. — When we enter on the consideration of the 
mutual relation, we find that by far tbe richest and 
most developed of the Shemitic languages is that of 
the South, known to us as 

I. The A rahic. — Referring the reader to the art. Arabic 
Language in t his Cyclopaedia, we will only make a few 
general remarks. Before the time of Mohammed it was 
confined to Arabia, and scarcely cultivated except in 
poetry; but along with Islam it has spread itself over 
the greater part of Asia and Africa, and has unfolded its 
great wealth in a very comprehensive literature, which 
extends to almost all the domains of knowledge. 

Even in the earliest times it is possible that this dia- 
lect was separated from those with which it is allied, 
though the traces of this are few. The most marked 
is the form (Gen. x, 26), the designation of a 

district of Arabia Felix, having the article prefixed, 
which has also been preserved elsewhere in some He- 
brew documents, as in Prov. xxx, 31, ; Josh, xv, 


SIIEMITIC LANGUAGES 


056 


SIIEMITIC LANGUAGES 


30 ; comp. I Chron. iv, 29. We know, also, that already 
in the time of Solomon the wisdom of the Arabs was 
highly prized; and that enigmas, and so, at least, the 
beginning of poesy, were to be found in Yemen, or rath- 
er in Sabiea (I Kings iv, 30; x, 1 sq.). 

In the beginning it probably had forms which were 
simpler and more like the Hebrew than those in which 
it is known to us, which have been cultivated to the 
very uttermost; but soon the one language fell to pieces, 
as the many independent tribes formed their several di- 
alects, of which the I limy critic in Yemen was strongly 
marked by differences from the language of Central 
Arabia, being simpler, and so more nearly allied to the 
Hebrew. But when the llimyeritc kingdom fell, this 
dialect was compelled to yield to that of 3Iecca (the 
Modurensitic or Koraishitic). which had become a writ- 
ten form of speech before Mohammed’s time, and is in 
the Koran (Sura xvi, 103) named the Arabic lanyuaye , 
kcit' P-o\t)v. In this dialect the entire Arabic liter- 
ature is composed. 'Then it was gradually supplanted 
by the present commonly spoken language, which has 
not only adopted many foreign words, Turkish especial- 
ly, but has also lost the variety of forms which it pos- 
sessed and the very capacity for forming others, and 
thus lias returned nearer to the ancient simplicity as 
well as to the Hebrew and Aramaic. 

From the intimate connection from the earliest times 
between South Arabia and Ethiopia it has arisen that 
we have in the Ethiopic language (q. v. ) a remnant 
of the old Ilimveritic dialect, lost even to the Arabic 
itself. In this ancient written language (the Geez) 
we possess a translation of the Bible ami other ecclesi- 
astical writings, of which the most important is the 
translation of the bonk of Enoch. The language has a 
simpler character than the more cultivated Arabic, and 
approaches more to the Hebrew and Aramaic idiom. 
In the I4th century it was supplanted by A mlutric , and 
is now only a learned language. 

The literature of the Arabic language being very rich, 
we shall only mention here, by way of supplement to the 
article Auauic Language in this Cyclopaedia , the works 
published recently in so far as they have come under 
our observation , 

A. Grammars of both the Ancient and Modern Arabic . — 
Brcsnier, Cours 1‘ratique et Theorique de ta Langve Arabe, 
etc. (Alger. ISf>f>); id. Grammaire Arabe Etcmentaire , etc. 
(ibid. ISUO) ; Mohamed Cadi. La Langue Arabe , etc. (Cai- 
ro, 1 s(J2, 3 vols.) ; Caspari, Gravnnatik der arab. Sprachc 
(Leips. lsOfi) ; Fahrat, Grammaire Arabe (Beirut, 1*G5) ; 
Fstris-el-Shidiak, A Practical Grammar of the A rabic Lan- 
guage, etc. (Loud. ls«»f>); Freytag, Einbdtang in das Sta- 
dium der orab. Sp ruche (Bonn, 1*61); Goldeiithal, Gram- 
maire Arabe ecrite en llebrcn, etc. (Vienna, 1S57) : Gor- 
puos. Count d'A rube Vulgaire (Paris, 1*04, 2 pts.) ; Hassan, 
Kurzgefasstc Grammatik der vidg/r-arabisehen Sprue he 
(Vienna, 1*09); Leitner, Introduction to a Philosophical 
Grammar of Arabic (Lahore, 1S7(>); Mallouf, Ferny de 
Ch acquire, on Ahrege de Grammaire Arabe , etc. (Smyrna, 
ISM): Nanil Kira, Xasif El Yazighg (Beirut, 1S03), an 
Arabic grammar in Arabic; Newman, A Handbook of 
Modern Arabic (Loud. I Si»c» ) ; Kaabe, Geinci nucha ftlic.hc 
Grammatik der arabischen n. (ter snnitisrhen Sprarhen 
(Leips. W4) ; Sapeto, Grammatica Araba Volga re (Flor- 
ence, 1*07); Scliier, Grammaire Arabe (Leips. 1*02); 
Z-chokke, Institotiones Fundamentales Lingua > Arabietr 
(Vienna, 1*09); Wolff, Arabischer Dragoman (Leips. 1807). 

B. Dictionaries. — Bochtor, Itietionnaire Francois- A robe, 
etc. (Baris, Wit); Putins at tiustdng (Beirut, 1*00-70, 2 
vols. toi. ; an abridged edition, ibid. 1807-70), an Arabic 
dictionary explained in Arabic; Calligaris, Le Comjmgnon 
de Tons, on Dictionnaire Patyglotte , etc. (Turin, 1*01-70, 
2 vols.) ; Clierboniieun, Dictionnaire Francois- A rube (Pur. 
1*72): Helot, Dictionnaire de Poche Fran a is- A rube et 
Arabe- Fran^ais (Alger. 1*70); Ilenrv, Dictionnaire Fran- 
cois- Arahe (Beirut, 1*07); Kazimirski, Dictionnaire 
A rabr- Fran^ais, etc. (Paris, W»u, 2 vols.); Marcel, Dic- 
tionnaire Francois- Arabe. des Diateetes Valgaires (ibid. 
W/.i); Newman, I Dictionary of Modern Arabic (Loud. 
l*7o, 2 vols.): Paulmier, Dictionnaire Francois - A rabe 
(Paris, 1872); Roland de Bussv, Petit Dictionnaire Fran- 
i ais-Arabe et A rube- Francois (Alger. 1*07); Schiaparelli, 
Vocabutista in .1 rabie.o (Florence, 1*71) ; Wnlirmnml, IJnnd- 
V'ovtrrbnch der arnbisehe.n and drutschcu Sjirache (Giessen, 
1*74, 2 vols.). 

C. Ch rest nmat hies. — Cherbonnenn, Exercises pour la 
Lecture dc Manuscrits A rubes, etc. (Paris, lsr>3) ; iu. Lemons 


de Leeture Arabe, etc. (ibid. 1SG4); Combarel, Cahiers 
d' Ecritures Arabcs, etc. (ibid. 1S10). 

2. The Syro-Chaldee. — That the Arabic in the South 
was not the most developed of all the Shemitie lan- 
guages we see in the Aramaic language (q. w). Here, 
also, we cannot enter upon a minute history of that lan- 
guage, for which the reader is referred to the article in 
this Cyclopaedia. Our remarks can only be of a general 
character. 

The countries in the north of Palestine stretching 
from the Tigris to the Taurus are comprehended in 
Scripture under the name of A ram, ox Highland. Their 
inhabitants, the ’ Apapaiot and "Apt/mi of the ancients 
(Horn. II. ii, 783), were of different nations (even in 
Scripture they are distinguished as Aram - Damascus, 
C “X ; Padau-Aram, C^X • ( l nS; Aram-Zobah, 
mhs E^X, etc.), and they passed historically through 
the most diversified relations. The common language 
of these people, in respect of its general character, as it 
is of all the Shemitie dialects the most northerly, so also 
is it the harshest (in place of the softer labials T, IT, and 

it has *7, P, and 13, i. e. the el and t sounds); t\\Q poor- 
est (it wants a complete vowel-system, hence as verbal 
form 3PS [lleb, EPS], noun-form 7jb*3 [Heb. 
it has corresponding with this a scanty conjugation 
system; it possesses no vestige of the conjugation Xi- 
phul, but forms all its passives by the prefix PX ; it does 
not carefully distinguish the formation of the weaker 
roots, but interchanges the verbs and nouns, xb and 
nb, "ID and n D, etc., and in general the least cultivated. 

In the Old Test, we find this dialect denominated, in 
opposition to the Palestinian, the Aramaic lanyuaye 
(P.imx, Isa. xxxvi, II; 2 Kings xviii, 26). In the 
time of Isaiah, as appears from the passage just cited, 
educated Hebrews could speak Aramaic, and, conversely, 
educated Aramaeans could speak Hebrew (Isa. xxxvi, 
4 sq.); while the common people understood only their 
vernacular dialect. The subsequent transportation of 
the Jewish people into Babylon contributed to silence 
more entirely the ancient vernacular in Judina, and to 
render the triumph of the Aramiean in those parts more 
general. Finally, during the long exile of the Jews in 
Babylon, the language of their fatherland appears to 
have been altogether laid aside, so that those who at 
the termination of the captivity returned into Palestine 
brought with them the dialect of Babylon as their cus- 
tomary medium of speech. Among the priesthood and 
learned men, the Hebrew had, indeed, been retained as 
the language of literature and religion ; hut so fully had 
it passed from the populace in general that we find 
them, on the reinstitntion of public worship at Jerusa- 
lem, incapable of understanding the holy writings ex- 
cept as paraphrased in Aramaic (Nell, viii, 8). 

This was the tongue which, with a slight intermixt- 
ure of Persic and Greek (in consequence of the tempo- 
rary dominion of the Persians and Macedonians in Pal- 
estine), had prevailed from the period of ihe return from 
Babylon, and was still maintained in popular use at the 
opening of the Christian dispensation under the name 
of J'alestinian A ramaic, or Palestinian Syriac. 

This Palestinian Syriac is a language, therefore, pre- 
eminently interesting to the Christian. “ It was sanc- 
tified hv the lips of the Divine Redeemer. In these 
forms of speech he conversed with the Virgin-mother, 
instructed his disciples, and proclaimed to myriads the 
promises of eternal life. In them he gave forth those 
sovereign mandates which controlled the tempestuous 
elements, dispossessed the themoniae. brought health to 
the diseased, and a resurrection-life to the dead. In this 
very tongue we have still the words in which he taught 
Ins people the prayer which calls upon the Almighty 
God as ‘our Father in heaven.’ Finally, it was in this 
language that he himself prayed upon earth, and that 


SHEMITIC LANGUAGES 


657 


SIIEMITIC LANGUAGES 


the Father spoke audibly to him from the heavens. 
Thus consecrated, it became a celestial language, a holy 
tongue, a chosen vehicle which conveyed the thoughts 
of the uncreated mind and the purposes of eternal love 
to the sons of men.” 

The Aramaean language may be said, in general 
terms, to have been distinguished into the Eastern and 
Western Aramaic. Of these a full account is given in 
this Cyclopaedia under the respective heads of Chau- 
dee Language and Syriac Language. We there- 
fore here consider some of the more obscure dialects. 

(1.) The Samaritan . — This dialect occupies an inter- 
mediate position with reference to Hebrew and Aramaic, 
and is particularly characterized bv changes in the gut- 
tural, also by containing many non-Shemitic (Cuthaic) 
words. The Samaritans have no means of distinguish- 
ing between the Hebrew letters TI5 and ; they have no 
final or dilatable forms, like the Hebrews, for any of the 
letters, but use the same form under all circumstances. 
The character used is the most ancient of the Shemitic 
characters, which the Samaritans retained when the 
Hebrews adopted the square character. Few remains 
of this dialect are extant (comp, the articles Samaritan 
Language, Literature, etc.). 

(2.) The Sabian or Nazarean . — This language, known 
as yet only from the Codex Xazarceus , also called The 
Book of Adam (edited by M. Norberg, Gottingen, 1815- 
17, 3 vols.), occupies a place between the Syrian and 
Chaldee, makes frequent changes in gutturals and other 
letters, is in general incorrect in spelling and grammar, 
and has adopted many Persian words. The MSS. are 
written in a peculiar character; the letters are formed 
like those of the Nestorian Syriac, and the vowels are 
inserted as letters in the text. 

(3.) The Palmyrene . — Of this dialect no specimens 
are now extant, except such scanty fragments as are 
contained in the Palmyrian inscriptions, for an account 
of which we may refer to It. Wood’s Ruins of Palmyra 
(Loud. 1753), interpreted independently by Barthelemy 
in Paris, and better by Swinton in Oxford. Some more 
specimens were given by Eichhorn, Marmora Palmyre- 
na Explicata (Gottingen, 1827, 4to). The inscriptions 
are chiefiy bilingual — in an Aramaic which is much like 
the common dialect, and in Greek — the earliest being A.D. 
49, but most of them being in the 2d and 3d centuries. 

(4.) The Old Phoenician, toyether with Punic . — A doc- 
ument of some size in the old Phoenician was first dis- 
covered in 1855, communicated by Dr. Thomson, of Bei- 
rut, and purchased by the due de Luynesforthe Louvre. 
Kbdiger, Dietrich, Hitzig, Schlottmann, De Luvnes, 
Ewald, and Munk endeavored to interpret it. More 
recent is the sacrificial tablet discovered at Marseilles, 
explained by Movers (Breslau, 1847), Ewald, and A. C. 
Judas. Of chief importance for the Punic are the Punic 
passages in the Poeuulus of Plautus, illustrated by Mo- 
vers and Ewald. The rest of the Phoenician and Punic 
inscriptions (including those on coins) hitherto discov- 
ered have been collected and illustrated by Gesenitis in 
Mon. Liny. Phoen. (Lips. 1837,3 vols.), to which must be 
added forty -five inscriptions hv the abbe Bourgade 
(Paris, 1852, fol.j, deciphered by the abbe Barges. See 
PlICENICIA. 

Linguistic Literature. — A. Chaldee. — Passing over the 
more ancient works, we will ouly give some of the more 
modern : 

I. Grammars. — Harris [W.], Elements of the Chaldee 
Language , etc. (Loud. 1S22); Nolan, An Introduction to 
Chaldee Grammar , etc. (ibid. 1821); Rigge [El.], Manual 
of the Chaldee Language (Boston, 1832) ; Winer-Hackett, 
Grammar of the Chaldee Language (Andover, 184ft); Ltiz- 
zatto - Kruger, Grammatik der biblisch - ehalduischen 
Sprache (Breslau, 1873) ; Chaldee Reading- Lessons, with a 
Grammatical Praxis, etc. (Loud. ed. Bagster). 

II. Lexicons.— In this department the Thesaurus is the 
great work of Buxtorf, Lexicon Chaldaienm , Talmudinnn , 
et Rabbinicum (Basil. 1040; new ed. by Fischer, Leips. 
1666-74); Schonhak, Aramdisch -rabbi nise ties Wdrterbuch 
(Warsaw, 1S59); Levy [I.], Chalddischcs Wdrterbuch f/ber 
die Targumim (Leips. 1867) ; id. Xeuhcbr. and chald. )l 7 dr- 
terbuch (ibid.), now in course of publication. 

IX.— T t 


B. Syriac.— 1. Grammars.— Cowper [B. II. ], The Prin- 
ciples of the Syriac. Grammar (Loud. 185S); Merx [A.], 
Grammatica Syriaca (llalle, 1807-69); Nolan [F.], An In- 
troduction to ’ the Syriac Language , etc. (Loud. 1821); 
Philips [S.], Syriac Grammar (Cambridge, 1806); I'hle- 
inann-Ilutchinson, Syriac. Grammar (N. Y. 1855) ; Syriac 
Rea di ng- Lessons, etc. (bond. ed. Bagster). 

11. Lexicons . — Frost [M.], Lexicon Syriacum (1623); 
Gutbir [yEg.], Lexicon Syriacum , contiuens omnes X. T. 
S/j r. Dictiones et Particulas , etc. (I Iamb. 1067) : a neat and 
improved edition of this Lexicon was given by Dr. Hen- 
derson (Loud. 1836, Bagster) ; Bernstein [G. 11.], Lexicon 
Lingiue Syr. (Bend. 1S57, fob vol. i). O der ones \\e omit. 

C. Samaritan.— See Samaritan Language, Literature, 
etc. 

D. The Sabian or Xazarean. — Norberg [M.], Onomasti- 
con Codicis X usurer (Lund. 1817, 2 vols.); id. Lexicon Co- 
dicis Xasarcei (ibid. 1810). 

E. The Palmyrene.— Barthelemy, Reflexions snr V Alpha- 
bet et sur la Lungue dovt on se servoit autrefois d Palmyre , 
in the Memoires de V Academic, des Inscriptions , tom. xxvi. 

F. The Phoenician. — Levy [Dr. M. A.], Phhnizischcs Wm- 
terbuch (Breslau, 1864); Schroder [I\], Grammatische Un- 
tersucJmngen fiber die phhnizische Sprache, etc. ( Halle, 
1809) ; Wuttke [11.], Entstehung u. Resell aflenheit des fhni- 
kisch-hebr. A ifabe.tes , in the Zeitschr. d. dentschen morgenl. 
Gesellschaft (IS57), xi, 75. 

3. The third main branch of the Shemitic. the Mid- 
Shemitic , is best known to us as the Hebrew language 
(q. v.). As this is the most important to the student 
of Sacred Writ, we will give a short outline of the same, 
following its history through the different stages, till, 
like the Arabic, it became an object of philological study. 

(1.) Xante and Origin. — The Hebrew language takes 
its name from Abraham’s descendants, the Israelites, 
who are ethnographically called Hebrews ,* and who 
spoke this language while they were an independent 
people. In the Old Test, it is poetically called the lan- 
guage of Canaan r2U3, yXojcrrra i) Xavacnnrig, 

Isa. xix, 18, “emphatically the language of the holy 
land consecrated to Jehovah, as contrasted with that of 
the profane Egypt,” as Hiivernick expresses it), and 
also the Jews' language (r^Tirn "pirb, ’Xovddtari, 2 
Kings xviii, 20 ; Isa. xxxvi, 11, 13 ; Neh. xiii, 24), from 
the kingdom of Judah. The name “ Hebrew language” 
nowhere occurs in the Old Test., since in general there 
is rarely anything said of the language of the Israelites; 
it appears in the prologue to Ecelus., ’E/Spaian, and in 
Josephus (Ant. 1, i, 2), yAwrra rtuu 'E fipaitov. In the 
New Test. 'Efipatori (John v, 2; xix, 13, 17, etc.) and 
# E/3p«tff Sid\(/croQ (Acts xxi, 40; xxii,2; xxvi, 14) de- 
note the Aramaic, which was spoken in the country at 
the time.f In later Jewish writers (as in the Tnrgum- 
ists) the Hebrew language is called NwTnpTJ yi'b (the 
sacred tongue), in contrast with the Aramaic (bin jiirb). 

(2.) Antiquity of the Hebrew Language. — On this 
point, and the question whether the Hebrew was the 
primitive language, there is a great diversit} 7- of opin- 
ion. “It is clear,” says Hiivernick ( Introtl . p. 128), 
“that this question can be satisfactorily answered only 
by those who regard the Biblical narrative (viz. Gen. 
xi, 1 sq.) as true history. Those who, like the mass 
of recent interpreters, look at it from a mythical point 
of view cannot possibly obtain any results. Gesenius 
says that, as respects the antiquity and origin of the 
Hebrew language, if we do not take this mythical ac- 

* There is a controversy as to the origin of this name. 
Aben-Ezra (d. 1108), Buxtorf (d. 1029), Loscher [F. E.] (d. 
1749), Bnddeus [J. G.] (d. 1704), Lengerke (d. 1S55), Meier 
[E.] (d. 1S00), Ewald (d. 1S75), and others derive it from the 
Shemite Eber (Gen. x, 24; xi, 14 sq.), while most of the 
rabbins and of the fathers (as Jerome, Theodoret. Origen, 
Chrysostom), Arias Montanas, Paul us Burgensis, Munster, 
Luther, Grotins, Scaliger, Eusebius, Walton, Clericus, Ko- 
senmuller, Gesenius, Eichhorn, llengstenberg, Bleek, nud 
others derive it from “12:?, “ beyond,” following the Sept., 
which translates ■'“122 (xiv, 13) by 6 Trepurrjr, “the man 
from beyond,” referring to Abraham’s immigration. 

t The passage in Philo (De Vita Mosis, ii, 509, ed. Colon., 
Young’s transl. iii, 82), according to which the original of 
the Pentateuch was written in Chaldaic, shows how much 
the Alexandrians of that time had lost the knowledge of 
the difference of the dialect, and is to be ascribed to Phi- 
lo’s ignorance in this department. 


SIIEMITIC LANGUAGES 


058 SHEMITIC LANGUAGES 


count, we find ourselves totally deserted by the histori- 
an." Returning, then, to the ancient view of this pas- 
sage, we find that most of the rabbins,* the lathers, f the 
older theologians — Buxtorf [John], the son {Dissert. Phil. 
J'heol. [Basil. Ititi’J], Diss. i), Walton {Proleg. iii,3 sq.), 
Pfeiffer [A.] {Decus Select. Kxercitt. Bibl ., in his Dubia 
Cexata, p. 5A sq.), St. Morions {l)e Ling. Prinuvvu [ Ul- 
t raj. 10D4]), Ldscher [ Val.J {lie Cuusis Ling. Heir, i, 2, 5), 
Carpzov {Pit. Sac?', p. 174 sq.), among the moderns — and, 
with some limitation, Bureau, Iliivernick, Von (Jerlach, 
Baumgarten, and others, believe that Hebrew was the 
primitive language of mankind, while some contend that 
if any of the Asiatic tongues may claim the honor of 
being the ancestral language of our race, the palm should 
be given to the Sanscrit. Between these two opinions 
the question now rests, and “it is astonishing,” says 
Prof. Midler ( Science of Language , i, 133), “what an 
amount of real learning and ingenuity was wasted on 
this question during the 17th and iJSt h centuries. . . . 
It might have been natural for theologians in the 4th 
and 5th centuries, many of whom knew neither Hebrew 
nor any language except their own, to take it for grant- 
ed that Hebrew was the source of all languages ; but 
there is neither in the Old nor in the New Test, a single 
word to necessitate this view. Of the language of Adam 
we know nothing; but if Hebrew, as we know it, was 
one of the languages that sprang from the confusion of 
tongues at Babel, it could not well have been the lan- 
guage of Adam, or of the whole earth ‘when the whole 
earth was still of one speech.’” The first who really 
conquered the prejudice that Hebrew was the source of 
all language was Leibnitz, the contemporary and rival 
of Newton. “There is as much reason,” he said, “for 
supposing Hebrew to have been the primitive language 
of mankind as there is for adopting the view of Sera- 
pius, who published a work at Antwerp, in 1550, to prove 
that Dutch was the language spoken in Paradise,” In 
a letter to Tenzel, Leibnitz writes: “To call Hebrew 
the primitive language is like calling the branches of a 
tree primitive branches, or like imagining that in some 
country hewn trunks would grow instead of trees. Such 
ideas may be conceived, but they do not. agree with the 
laws of nature and with the harmony of the universe — 
that is to say, with the Divine Wisdom.” 

(3.) Character and Development of the Hebrew La?i- 
eptage. — In relation to the rest of the Shemitic languages, 
the Hebrew, whether regarded as the primitive language 
or not, has for the most part retained the stamp of high 
antiquity, originality, and greater simplicity and purity 
of forms. In its earliest written state it exhibits, in the 
writings of Moses, a perfection of structure which was 
never surpassed. As it had, no doubt, been modified be- 


■ tween the time of Abraham and Moses by the Egyptian 
and Arabic, so in the period between Moses and .Solomon 
it was infiuenced by the Phoenician, and. down to the time 
of Ezra, continued to receive an accession of exotic terms 
which, though tending to enlarge its capabilities as a 
spoken and written tongue, materially affected the prim- 
itive simplicity and purity of a language compared with 
which none may be said to have been so poor, and yet 
none so rich. But with the period of the captivity there 
arose an entirely new literature, strikingly different from 
the earlier, and this is to be traced to the influence ex- 
erted by the Aramaic tongue upon the Hebrew, which 
had previously been developing itself within restricted 
limits. This was the introduction to its gradual decay, 
which did not become fully manifest, however, until the 
commencement of the Chaldaean period. Not only did 
the intrusion of this powerful Aramaic element greatly 
tarnish the purity of the Hebrew words and their gram- 
matical formation, older ones having been altered and 
supplanted by newer ones, which are Aramaic fur the 
most part;* it also obscured the understanding of the 
old language,! and it enfeebled its instinctive operations, 
until at length it stifled them. The consequence was 
that the capacity of observing grammatical niceties in 
the old pure Hebrew was entirely lost partly the dis- 
tinction of prose and poetical diction was forgotten ;§ 
and, finally, as the later writers went back upon the Pen- 
tateuch and other older compositions, many elements 
which had already died out of the language were repro- 
duced as archaisms. |j 

(4.) Decay of the Hebrew Language. — But the great 
crisis of the language occurs at the time of the captiv- 
ity of Babylon. Then, as a spoken tongue, it became 
deeply tinged with Aramaic. The Biblical Hebrew, 
abiding in the imperishable writings of the prophets, 
continued to be the study of the learned; it was heard 
on the lips of the priest in the services of religion, and 
>vas the vehicle of written instruction; but as the me- 
dium of common conversation it was extensively affect- 
ed, and, in the case of multitudes, superseded, by the 
idiom of the nation among whom Providence had cast 
their lot. So an Aramaized Hebrew, or a Hebraized 
Aramrean, continued to be spoken bv such of them as 
j resettled in Palestine under Ezra and Nehemiah, while 
the yet greater number who preferred the uninterrupt- 
ed establishment of their families in Babylonia fell en- 
tirely into the use of Aramaic. 

Tli is decline of the popular knowledge of pure He- 

* This is especially seen in the coining of new words for 
abstract ideas by means of prefixed letters or syllables 
added, as for b^a (Psa. cxvi, 12) ; for r-12 T 


*“Aiul all the inhabitants of the earth were [of] one 
language, and of one speech, and one counsel; for they 
spake the holy language by which the world was created 
at the beginning” (Tnrgnm ou Gen. xi, 1 ; comp, also Rashi 
and Abcn-Ezra, ad loc,). 

t The fathers of the church have never expressed any 
doubt on this poim. Jerome (d. 420), in one of his epis- ' 
ties to Daninsus, writes, “The whole of antiquity ( uni- I 
versa antiquitas) utllnns that Hebrew, in which the Okl 
Test, is written, was the beginning of all human speech 
and in his Comm, in So]>h. c. 3, he says, “ Linguam Ile- 
braicam omnium linguarum es.-e matricem.” Origen (d. 
25 4), in his eleventh homily on the book of Numbers, ex- 
presses his heliefthat the Hebrew language, originally giv- 
en through Adam, remained in that part of the world which 
was the chosen portion of’God ; not left, like the rest, to one 
of his angels. Chrysostom (d. 404) says, “ God left in Eher’s 
house the original language as a perpetual memory of his 
judgment” («i>Tof « ‘Y.fitp eptve t ijv didAefii/, 

in/irtp Kai TTfioTCpovfivu Kai tovto at)H€iov Dapytv )o»]Ta( T» f 

huuikoctat [Horn, xxx, in Gen. p. Hut), ed. Montf.j), and Au- 
gustine (d. 430), in his J)e Civitnte Dei , xvi, 11, lin- 

gua priiis hnmano generi non immerito creditin' fuisse 
cotnmnnis, dcinceps Hebr.xa est niiiicupata” (i.e. his fam- 
ily flleber’s] preserved that language which is not un- 
reasonably believed to have been the common language 
of the rare; it was on this nceonnt J henceforth culled He- 
brew). Thcodoret (d. 452), in Qwest, in Genesin , p. fit), how- 
ever, believes, like Deliizsch, that the Syriac was the prim- 
itive language, holding that Hebrew was first Introduced 
by God through Moses. as a holy language. 


(Ezek. xvi, IS, 20) ; P11TJT2 (Ezra i. C ; Esth. v, 3, 7, S), etc. 

t This is shown by the increasing nse of the scriptio ple- 
«a,as for -I the interchange of the weak let- 

ters !1 and X— for instance, Tpp ( IChron. xiii, 12) for q^X 
(2 Sam. vi,0) ; the resolution of the dagesh forte in sharp- 
ened syllables by inserting a vowel, as ip^X for *riX (1 
Cliron. xi, 31), or by inserting a liquid, pr*2*1 for pr^ 
(xviil, 5, C). 

t Interchange of PX as the sign of the accusative, and 
as meauing “ with”— for instance, Jer. i, 1G ; xix, 10 ; xx, 11, 
etc. ; the use of b to mark the accusative instead of the 
dative (l Chron. v, 2G; xvi, 37 ; xxix, 20, 22, etc.) ; the use 
ofbr instead of bx ; the nse of Aramaic forms of inflec- 
tion, as, ipX for PX (Jer. iv, 30) ; ip for P (ii, 33 ; iii, 4, 
5 ; iv, 10), etc. 

$ Comp. P52(Picl), “tobeafrald” (Ezraiv, 4, elsewhere 
only the substantive nnbs in poetry); n3T, “to reject 
with loathing” (1 Chron. xxviii, 0; 2 Chron. xi, 14; xxix, 
10, earlier only in poets, and in Hop. viii, 3,5; Zech. x, 0). 

II E. g. *pt) f “species” (Ezek. xlvii, 10, taken from the 
Pentateuch) ; “a measure” (1 Chron. xxiii, 20); 

Ezek. iv, 11, 10, etc., from Lev. xix, 35); b^U, “to act cun- 
ningly” (Mai. i, 14; Psa, cv, 25, from Gen. xxxvii, IS or 
Numb, xxv, IS), etc. 


SHEMITIC LANGUAGES C59 SHEMITIC LANGUAGES 


brew gave occasion to the appointment of an order of 
interpreters ( meturgemadin ) in the synagogue for the 
explication of the Scriptures in this more current dia- 
lect, as can be seen from Neh. viii, 8, where we read, 
“They [the priests and Levites] read in the book, in 
the law of God 12T1S73, and appended thereto the sense, 
and caused them to understand the reading,” where the 
word means, “with an explanation subjoined,” i. e. with 
an interpretation added, with an explanation in Chaldee, 
the vulgar tongue, as appears from the context and by 
a comparison of Ezra iv, 18 and verse 7. Accordingly, 
the Talmudists have already correctly explained our 
passage E!5"in ITT 13H3E, and so also Clericus, Dathe, 
etc. See Targum. 

But while these changes were taking place in the ver- 
nacular speech, the Hebrew language itself still main- 
tained its existence. It is a great mistake to call He- 
brew a dead language. It has never died, it will never 
die. In the days to which we are now referring, it was 
still loved and revered by the Jewish people as the 
“holy tongue” of their patriarchs and prophets. Not 
only the remaining canonical Scriptures, but the prayers 
and hymns of the Temple and synagogue, were, for the 
most part, written in it, and even the inscriptions of the 
coinage retained both the language and the more an- 
tique characters, in preference to those more recently 
introduced by Ezra. 

( 5 .) The Written Hebrew, — About the time when the 
language underwent this internal change, it was also 
changed externally. That we have not the original 
Hebrew characters in MS. and printed texts of the Bi- 
ble is evident from a tradition we have in the Talmud 
that “at first the law was given to Israel in the Hebrew 
writing and the holy tongue, and again it was given to 
them in the days of Ezra in the Assyrian writing and 
the Syrian tongue. They chose for the Israelites the 
Assyrian writing and the holy tongue, and left to the 
Idiotee (i. e. the Samaritans) the Hebrew writing and 
the Syrian tongue. . . . And although the law was not 
given by Ezra’s hand, yet the writing and language 
were called the Assyrian” (Sanhedr. xxi, 2; xxii, 1).* 
This Assyrian writing 3313) is also called 

“square writing” (333E 330), “correct writing” 
(nsn tlE^rs), and by the Samaritans “Ezra’s writ- 
ing” (XH73 333). M e must suppose that the square 
character, which came into use after the exile, only 
gradually thrust the elder character aside; for in the 
Maccabacan coinage the ancient Hebrew character was 
used, and while we may trace back the origin of the 
new characters nearly to the times of Ezra, certain it 
is that at a later time it was perfected in its present 
form, and long before the time of the Talmud, since i 
there we find directions given concerning the writing 
of the alphabet, of which we will speak farther on. 

(6.) Tradition , Period of the Hebrew Language. — It 
is chiefly among the Jews of Palestine that we are to 
seek the preservation of the knowledge of the Hebrew 
language. Though the Hebrew ceased to be even a 
written language, yet for practical ends in the usages 
of worship the study of the old Hebrew documents be- 
came for them an indispensable duty, for which the af- 
finity of the language they used must have offered them 
peculiar facilities. Hence, as early as the book of Si- 
rach (Ecclesiasticus), which was probably written be- 
tween B.C. 290 and 280, mention is made of the study of 
Scripture as the chief and fairest occupation of the ypap- 
fiartvQ, the ScavoGoSai iv vupiy vxpto tov, and go (plan 
irdvriov apxaiiov iK^grpoei, iced iv 7rpo<p})Tdaig dff^o- 
XrfSijGtrai (xxxix, 1 sq.). The more erudite study of 
Hebrew Scripture was prosecuted in Palestine and Bab- 
ylonia from the days of Ezra, not only by individual 

* Jerome, in Prol. Gal. : “Certum est, Esdram . . . alias 
literas reperis^e, qnibus nnne utiniur, cum ad illnd usque 
tempus iidem Samaritanorum et Hebroeorum characteres 
fueriut.” See also Origen, in Ezra ix, 4 ; Psa. ii (iii, 539). 


scribes, but also in formal schools and academies, the 
Ennan 133 , also yan ^na, and which 

were established there before the time of Christ. The 
chief seat of these at first was principally at Jerusalem, 
then after the destruction of this city by the ltomans 
it was transferred to Jamnia or Jabneh, under Jochanan 
ben-Zachai (q. v.), till under Gamaliel III ben-Jehuilah 
I (A.D. 193-220) Tiberias became the seat of learning. 
Among the teachers of Tiberias, rabbi Jehudah the 
Holy, or hak-Kodesh (q. v.), the compiler of the Mish- 
na, obtained a remarkable reputation in the latter half 
of the 2d century. After his death, the seat of this 
scriptural erudition w'as once more transplanted to Bab- 
ylonia, where, with reference to this, the schools at cer- 
tain cities on the Euphrates — Sora, Pumbaditha, and 
Nahardea — attained pre-eminently to high esteem. 
Still, along with these, the Palestinian schools subsisted 
uninterruptedly, especially the school at Tiberias, and 
to the labors of these schools are due in part the Tar- 
gums, but principally the Talmud and the Masorah. 

The activity of these schools took different shapes at 
different periods, and into four of these periods it may 
be divided: 1. The period of the more ancient Sopherim 
(scribes, D'HSID from the close of the can- 

on to the ruin of the Jewish commonwealth. They 
settled fixedly the external and internal form of the 
sacred text the correct writing and reading, 

the arrangement of the books and their sections, the 
numbering of the verses, words, and letters, etc. 2. 
The period of the Talmudists, from the 2d to the 6th 
century of the Christian sera. 3. The period of the Maso- 
rites, from the 6th to the 9th century. 4. The period of 
the Grammarians and Expositors , from the 9th to the 
16th century. Following the example of the Arabians, 
they endeavored to lay a scientific foundation for He- 
brew philology and for understanding the text of the 
Bible, by means of various labors in grammar and lex- 
icography, including the comparison of the Aramaic and 
Arabic dialects. 

For the history of the philological study of the He- 
brew language, the reader is referred to the art. He- 
brew Language in this Cyclopcedia , where he will 
also find more details. 

V. Relation of the Shemitic Languages to the Indo- 
European Languages . — One of the most vexed ques- 
tions of comparative philology is that of the relation 
of the Shemitic family to that of the Indo-European. 
As early as the year 1778 Nathaniel Brassey Halhed, 
in his Grammar of the Bengal Language, said, “ I have 
been astonished to find the similitude of Sanscrit words 
with those of Arabic [= the Shemitic], and these not 
in technical and metaphorical terms, which the mutila- 
tion of refined arts and improved manners might have 
occasionally introduced, but in the main groundwork 
of language, in monosyllables, in the names of numbers, 
and the application of such things as would be first 
discriminated on the immediate dawn of civilization.” 
When the Sanscrit became better known in Europe, 
scholars like Adelung, Klaproth, Bopp, etc., in their 
studies on comparative philology, undertook to trace 
out the affinity between these two families. Unten- 
able as were their theories, yet they paved the way. 
With greater precaution Gesenius entered upon the 
arena of comparative philology. Being persuaded that 
the Hebrew has no relation with the Indo-European 
languages, the main object of his comparisons was to 
find out analogies, while in such words as appeared to 
him to have some similarity with the oldest original 
languages of Eastern Asia, as 3313, seven, Sanscrit, 
sapta ; “133, a youth , Sanscrit, nar, etc., he either per- 
ceived marks of early borrowings or a play of accident. 
Fiirst, however, went a step further, and espoused the 
unhappy idea of a Sanscrito-Shemitic stem, which di- 
vides itself into the Sanscrit, Medo-Persian, Shemitic, 
Gneco-Latin, Germanic, and Slavic families. But the 


SIIEMITIC LANGUAGES 


GOO 


SHEMONEII ESREH 


ad vancemont in the science of the Indo-European lan- 
guages has shown that there is no connection whatever 
between these two languages; and even Dclitzsch’s en- 
deavor has not been able to prove the contrary, al- 
though it must be admitted that he was the first to 
bring about (in his Jesurun sire Isnyoge in ( irammati - 
c<tm et Lexicnyraphiam Linyrttv J/tbruice. [(Jrimma‘, 
1838]) some system and method in the comparison of 
these languages. Of still less value is the endeavor of 
E. Meier, who, in his JJebr. 1 1 'urzehrbrterbuch (Mann- 
heim, 1845), seeks to trace back the Shem i tic triliteral 
stems to monosyllabic biliteral roots, and from their 
fundamental meanings to derive the meanings of our 
Hebrew words in their various modifications. “This,” 
as Meek remarks, “is an attempt which merits atten- 
tion. although he certainly brings forward many things 
which are uncertain, and even improbable.” AVithout 
enlarging any further upon this question, which is to 
this very day a matter of dispute, we will only mention 
those who made the subject a matter of investigation. 
Among those who believe in a relation between the 
Shemitic and Indo-European languages we mention 
Kwakl (.4 «.</'. Lehrb. der hebr. JSpruche [8th ed. 1870], 
p. 31 , Olshausen (Lehrb. der hebr. Spntche, 18G1, p. 0 
sq.) , Lassen (Itulisehe Alterthumskunde [‘2d ed.], i, 637 
sq.) ; Lcpsius. Schwartze, Ben fey, and Bunsen, who, with 
the help of the Egyptian, tried to bring about the re- 
sult , M. Midler and Steintlial, who believe not only in 
the possibility, but also in the probability, of such con- 
nection. Eugene Burnoufand Pictet, who admit it with 
some reserve. To these we may add the names of As- 
coli, R. v. Raunier, Renan, and more especially that of 
Friedrich Delitzsch. who, in his work (the latest, so far 
as we know) Studien fiber indogermanisch - semitische 
Wurzelrei'wandtschaft (Leips. 1873), has not only given 
a resume of the labors of his predecessors and a list of 
their works, but has also taken up the subject of re- 
lationship. Whether his researches will bring more 
light into the chaos of opinions, and prove themselves 
more acceptable, is yet to be seen. See Philology. 

VI. Literature. — See, besides the articles “Shemitic 
Languages” in Kitto’s Cyclop, and Smith’s Dictionary 
of the Bible , the introductions of Block, Kcil, and Hiiver- 
niek; Renan, Ilistoire Generate et Systeme Compare des 
Luugnes Semitiqnes (4th ed. Paris, 1803); the literature 
as given in Delitzsch’s Studien ; the introductions to the 
Hebrew grammars of Gesemus, Bottcber. Preiswcrk, and 
Biekell (Engl, trait si. bv Curtiss [Leips. 1877]). Tbe lit- 
erature on the different languages is found under their 
respective heads in this Cyclopedia and supplemented 
in this article. The more recent will be found in 
Friederici’s Bibliotheca Orientalis (London, 1876-78). 
(B.P.) 

Shemoneh Esreh (Pn’rr is a collec- 

tion of eighteen benedictions, called Tephillah, or prayer 
Kaf h£o\i)v, which every Israelite is bound to snv 
every day. They constitute a very important part 
of tbe Jewish liturgy, and in their present form 
must have originated about A.l). 100, although many 
pans belong to the aute-Christian period. In the pres- 
ent form there are nineteen instead of eighteen, one 
having been added by Samuel the Little (q. v.) against 
the Saddticees. tbe so-called C^pVUin *"C“Q or 

i. e. the prayer against tbe Minim, a 
name applied to Christians. These benedictions are as 
follows ; 

1. (”'~Z) “Blessed art thon, O Lord our God, and 
t lie God of our fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of 
Isaac, and the God of Jacob, the great God ! powerful 
and tremendous, the most high God ! bountifully dis- 
pensing benefits, the Creator of all things; who, remem- 
bering the piety of the fathers, wilt send a redeemer to 
their posterity for his name’s sake in love. Remember 
ns unto life, 6 King! thou who delightest in life, and 
write um jn the book of life for thy sake, O God of life. 
O King, thou art our Supporter, Saviour, and Protector. 
Blessed art thou, O Lord ! the shield of Abraham. ” 


2. (*"-;* nrx) “Thon, O Lord ! art forever powerful ; 
thou resiorest life to the dead, and art mighty to save; 
sustaining by thy benevolence the living, and by tliiue 
abundant mercies animating the dead; supporting those 
that fall, healing the sick, setting at liberty those that are 
in bonds; and perfonnest thy faithful words unto those 
that sleep in t lie dust? Who is like unto thee, O Lord ! 
most mighty? or who may he compared with thee, the 
King who killeth and again restoreih life, and cansetli 
salvation to flourish? Who is like unto thee, most, merci- 
ful Father ! who rememberest thy creatures to life. Thou 
art also faithful to revive the dead. Blessed art thou, O 
Lord, who revivest the dead.” 

3. (w5*np nrN) “Thou art holy, and holy is thy name, 
and the saints praise thee daily. Selah. Blessed art thon, 
() Lord, holy God! We will sanctify thy name in the 
world, as thy sanctifiers in the heavens above; as it is 
written by the hands of thy prophet, And one called unto 
another and said, Holy, Holy, Holy, O Lord of Hosts ! the 
whole earth is full of his glory. And against each other 
with blessings they say, Blessed be the glory of the Lord, 
from his place. And in thy holy word thou hast written, 
saying, the Lord shall reign forever, thy God in Zion, from 
generation to generation. Praise ye the Lord. Unto all 
generations we will declare thy greatness, and to all eter- 
nity we will sanctify thy holiness; aud thy praise, O our 
God ! shall not depart from our mouths, for ever and ever : 
for thou art Almighty, great and holy King! blessed art 
thon, O Lord, the God most holy !’’ 

4. (“j2in PirX) “Thou favorest mankiud with knowl- 
edge and teachest them understanding. Thon hast fa- 
vored us with the knowledge of thy law, and thou hast 
taught us to perform the statutes of thy will; and thou 
hast made ns a division, (> Lord our God ! between the 
holy and the profane, between light and darkness, be- 
tween Israel and the nations, and between the seventh 
day and the six days of work. O our Father, our King ! 
let ns rest iu peace on those days which approach towards 
us, free from all sins, aud clean from all iniquities, and 
make us steadfast in thy fear. And let us he favored with 
knowledge, wisdom, and understanding. Blessed art thou, 
O Lord, the favorer of knowledge.” 

5. (IS" 1 - — PI) “Return us, O our Father! to the observ- 
ance of thy law, and draw us near, O our King! to thy 
service; aud convert us to thee by perfect repentance. 
Blessed art thou, O Lord, who vonchsafest repentance.” 

G. (Jlbo) “Forgive ns, we beseech thee, O our Father! 
for we have sinned; pardon us, O our King! for we have 
transgressed ; for thon art ready to pardon and to forgive. 
Blessed art thou, O Lord ! who art gracious, aud ready to 
pardon.” 

7. (PiSO) “Oh, look upon our afflictions, we beseech thee, 
and plead our cause; and redeem us speedily for the sake 
of thy name; for thou art a mighty Redeemer. Blessed 
art thou, O Lord ! who redeemest Israel.” 

S. OrNS -1 ) “ Heal ns, O Lord ! aud we shall be healed ; 
save us, and we shall he saved ; for thou art our praise. 
Oh, grant us a perfect cure for all our wounds ; for thon art 
an omnipotent King, a merciful and faithful physician. 
Blessed art thou, 0 Lord ! who healest the diseases of thy 
people Israel.” 

9. ~“C) “0 Lord our God! bless this year 
for us, as also every species of its fruits for our benefit; 
and bestow (in winter say, dew and rain for) a blessing 
upon the face of the earth. Oh, satisfy us with thy good- 
ness, and bless this year as other good and fruitful years. 
Blessed art thon, O Lord ! who blessest the years.” 

10. (rpr) “Oh, sound the great cornet, as a signal for 
onr freedom ; hoist the banner to collect our captives, so 
that we may all be gathered together from the four cor- 
ners of the earth. Blessed art thmi, O Lord ! who gath- 
erest together the outcasts of thy people Israel.” 

11. <rn T "n) “Oh, restore our judges as aforetime, and 
our counsellors ns at the beginning; remove from us sor- 
row and sighing. O Lord ! reign thou alone over us in 
kindness and mercy ; and justify us in judgment. Blessed 
art thon.O Lord ! the King who loveth righteousness and 
justice.” 

12. “And let there he no hope for the 
calumniators, let all heretics (Minim) speedily pass away, 
aud let all thine enemies he cut off. Speedily root up, break 
down, ami tear up the wicked, and lay them low speedily, 
in onr days: blessed he the Lord, who breakelh down the 
enemies, and lnyeth low the wicked.” (This prayer is 
altered in most editions of the Jewish Prayer-book.) 

13. (Eppniin bv) “O Lord our God! may thy ten- 
der mercy he moved towards the just, the. pious, and the 
elders of thy people, the house of Israel ; the remnant of 
their scribes, the pious proselytes, as also towards ns; 
and bestow a good reward unto all who faithfully put 
their trust in thy name; and grant that our portion may 
ever be with them, so that we may not be put to shame ; 


SIIEM-TOB 


601 


SIIENIR 


for we trust in thee. Blessed art thou, O Lord ! who art 
the support and confidence of the just.” 

14. (D n blI3'nb‘ 1 ) “ Oh, be mercifully pleased to return to 
Jerusalem, thy city ; and dwell thereiu, as thou hast prom- 
ised. Oh, rebuild it shortly, even in our days, a structure 
of everlasting fame, and speedily establish the throne of 
David thereon. Blessed art thou, O Lord ! who rebuildest 
Jerusalem.” 

15. (ITS 22 PX) “Oh, cause the offspring of thy servant 
David speedily to flourish, and let his horn be exalted in 
thy salvation ; for we daily hope for thy salvation. Blessed 
art thou, O Lord l who caused the horn of salvation to 
flourish.” 

16. (13>ip i'-w) “Hear our voice, O Lord our God! 
Oh, have compassion and mercy upon us, and accept our 
prayers with mercy and favor; for thou art omnipotent. 
Thou hearkenest to prayers and supplications, and from 
1 hy presence, O our King ! dismiss us not empty ; for thou 
hearest the prayers of thy people Israel in mercy. Blessed 
art thou, O Lord ! who hearkenest unto prayers.” 

17. (ni2“l) “Graciously accept, O Lord our God! thy 
people Israel, and have regard unto their prayers. Restore 
the service to the inner part of thine house; and accept 
of the burnt-offerings of Israel, and their prayers with love 
and favor. And may the service of Israel, thy people, be 
ever pleasing to thee. Oh that our eyes may behold thy 
return to Zion with mercy. Blessed art thou, O Lord! 
who restored thy divine presence unto Zion.” 

IS. “ We bow down before thee, because thou 

art Jehovah, our God, and the God of our fathers for ever 
and ever. The Rock of our lives, the Shield of our salva- 
tion art thou, from generation to generation. We will 
bless thee, and show forth thy praises for these our lives, 
which are in thy hand, and for our souls, which we com- 
mit to thee, and for thy wondrous works, which we wit- 
ness every day; for thy marvellous doings and thy mer- 
cies at all times — evening, morning, and noon. Gracious 
God! because thy mercies are without bounds; merciful 
Lord ! because thy kindnesses are never done, we trust in 
thee to all eternity.” 

10. (BlV.23 2 n ’23) “Oh, grant peace, happiness, and bless- 
ing, grace, favor, and mercy unto us, and all thy people 
Israel; bless ns, even all of us together, O our Father! 
with the light of thy countenance ; for hy t lie light of thy 
countenance hast thou given us, O Lord our God, the law 
of life, benevolent love, righteousness, blessing, mercy, 
life, and peace ; and may it please thee to bless thy people 
Israel at all times with thy peace.” 

In the prayer-books of the so-called Reformed Jews, 
these benedictions and all such as allude to the bring- 
ing back to Jerusalem and to the Messiah have under- 
gone very great changes. The first and last three are 
considered to be the most ancient. They are undoubt- 
edly of the Sopherite age, and probably belong to the 
time of Simon the Just. The others belong to five or 
six epochs, extending over a period of three hundred 
years. The benedictions are mentioned in the Mishna, 
Rosh hash-Shanah , c. iv, Berachoth. iv, 3, Tosiphta 
Berachoth , c. iii ; Jerusalem Berachoth , c. ii , Alegilia, 
17 a. See Zunz, Gottesdienstliche V or t rage tier Judev, 
p. 3G7 sq. ; Schfirer, Lehrbuch der neutestamentlischen 
Zeitgeschichte , p. 499 sq. (B. P.) 

Shem-Tob (1*113 D22, i. e. good name), a name 
common to many Jewish writers, of whom we mention 
the following: 

1. Ben- Abraham Ibx-Gaox, a famous Cabalist, born 
1283, died about 1332, the author of many Cabalistic 
works. 

2. Bkn-Suem-Tob, who died in 1430, is the author 
of msirxn 120, or the Book of Faithfulness , in 
which he attacks the Jewish philosophers Aben-Ezra, 
Maimouides, Levi ben-Gershon, etc., and denounces the 
students of philosophy as heretics, maintaining, how- 
ever, that the salvation of Israel depends upon the Cab- 
ala. He also wrote nnm >2? nVJTl, or homilies on 
the Pentateuch, the feasts and fasts, etc., in which the 
Cabalistic doctrines are fully propounded. 

3. Isaac Shaprct, a native of Tudela. He was a 
celebrated philosopher, physician, and Talmudist, and 
wrote, under the title of *jn2 *j2>L The Touchstone , a 
polemical work against Christianity, inveighing bitterly 
against the doctrines of the Trinity, incarnation, tran- 
substantiation, etc. One portion of the book consists 


of a translation of Matthew’s Gospel into Hebrew, 
said to be so unfairly performed that, among other 
faults, the names in the genealogy are grossly mis- 
spelled, and are therefore of no avail for comparison 
with the Old Test. To each chapter are subjoined 
questions for Christians to answer. An appendix to the 
work is called “Replies to Alfonso the Apostate.” The 
MS. is still in Rome, and dated at Turiasso, Old Castile, 
1340. He also wrote Remarks on Aben-Ezra’s Commen- 
tary on the Law under the title n32'2 P22I2, and The 
Garden of Pomegranates, OTIS, explaining the 

allegories of the Talmud. 

See F first, Bill. Jud. iii, 259, 2G5 sq.; De Rossi, l)i- 
zionario Storico , p. 289, 301 sip ; id. Bibl. Jud. A ntichrisl. 
p. 103 sq. ; Ginsburg, The Kabalah , p. Ill, 122: Lindo, 
History of the Jews in /Spain , p. 159; Finn, /Sephardim , 
p. 308 sq. ; Stciuschneider, Jewish Literature , p. 127; 
Griitz, Gesch. d. Juden , viii, 23 sq. ; Cassel, Lehrbuch der 
jud. Gesch . u. Literatnr , p. 283, 257, 302, 304, 3 1 G. (B. I\) 

Shemu'el (II eb. ShemueT , heard of God, 

the same as Samuel [q. v.]), the name of three He- 
brews. 

1. (Sept. 'S.aXapovX.) Son of Ammihud and com- 
missioner from the tribe of Simeon, among those ap- 
pointed by Moses to divide Palestine (Numb, xxxiv, 
20). B.C 1G18. 

2. (Sept. 2«jUomj\.) A more correct Anglicism (l 
Cliron. vi, 33) of the name of the prophet Samuel 
(q. v.). 

3. (Sept. TtrajUomjX.) A descendant of Tola, the son 
of lssachar, among the chiefs of that tribe in David’s 
time (l Cliron. vii, 2). B.C. 1014. 

Shell (Heb. with the art., hash-Shcn. yPPf, the tooth ; 
Sept, i) iraXaXa , Vulg. Sen), a place mentioned only in 
1 Sam. vii, 12, defining the spot at which Samuel set up 
the stone Ebenezer to commemorate the rout of the 
Philistines. The pursuit had extended to “ below Beth- 
car,” and the stone was erected “between the Mizpah 
and between the Shen." The Targtim has Shinna . The 
Peshito-Syriac and Arabic versions render both Beth- 
car and Shen by Beif-Jasan, evidently following the 
Sept., which appears to have read "i yashan, i.e. old. 
The name indicates not a village, but merely a sharp 
rock or conspicuous crag in the vicinity, like Seneh (1 
Sam. xiv, 4). See Ebenezer. 

Shena'zar (Heb. ShenatstsaF , PSSXSiT, fiery tooth 
[Gcsenius], or splendid leader [Fiirst]; Sept. Sarfffdp 
v. r. SaraZcip), fourth named of the seven sons of king 
Jeconiah, or Jehoiakitn, born during his captivity (L 
Cliron. iii, 18). B.C. post GOG. 

Slie'llir (lleb. Shenir', [so in Dent, iii, 9; 

Cant, iv, 8, but in 1 Chron. v, 23 , Ezek. xxvii, 5, Senir'. 
“P2 : 23], Gesemus, “coat of mail, or cataract;” Fiirst, 
“either a projecting mountain-pea^' or s«OM>-monntain;” 
Sept. Xavip v. r. Eei'eq)), the Amoritish name for the 
mountain in the north of Palestine (Dent, iii, 9, Ezek. 
xxvii) which the Hebrews called Herman, and the Phoe- 
nicians SVWon,' or perhaps it was a name rather for a por- 
tion of the mountain than for the whole. In 1 Cliron. 
v, 23, and Cant, iv, 8, Mention and it are mentioned as 
distinct. Abnlfeda (ed. Kohler, p. 1G4, quoted bv Ge- 
senius) reports that the part of Antilebanon north of 
Damascus — that usually denominated Jebel esh-Shnrky , 
“the East Mountain” — was in his day called Senir. 
The use of the word in Ezekiel is singular. In describ- 
ing Tyre we should naturally expect to rind the Phoeni- 
cian name (Sirion) of the mountain employed, if the or- 
dinary Israelitish name (llermon) were discarded. That 
it is not so may show that in the time of Ezekiel the 
name of Senir had lost its original significance as an 
Amoritish name, and was employed without that re- 
striction. The Targum of Joseph on 1 Cliron. v, 23 (e’d. 
Beck) renders Senir by * 1 7";2 of which the 


S1IE0L 


662 


SHEOL 


most probable translation is “ the mountain of the plains 
of the Perizzites.” In the edition of Wilkins the text 
is altered to "1“"E 12, “the mountain that cor- 

rupierh fruits," in agreement with theTargums on Dent. 
iii.9, though it is there given as the equivalent ofSirion. 
Which of these is the original it is perhaps impossible 
now to decide. The former has the slight considera- 
tion in its favor that the Hivites are specially mentioned 
as ••under Mount Hermon,” and thus may have been 
connected or confounded with the Perizzites; or the 
reading may have arisen from mere caprice, as that of 
the Samaritan version of Dent, iii, 9 appears to have 
done. — Smith. See Antiliiianus. 

Sheol, b'Xw. This Hebrew name for “the place 
Kf departed spirits,” and the “state of the dead,” is used 
in a variety of senses by the writers of the Old. Test., 
which it is desirable to investigate, referring to the ar- 
ticles IIell, Hades, etc., for the general opinions of 
the Jews respecting the continuance of existence after 
death. 

I. Signification of the Word . — The word is usually 
said to be derived from 2X-, shad/, “to ask or seek,” 
and may be supposed to have the same metaphorical 
signification as the ore us rapax of the Latins, or “ the 
insatiable sepulchre” of English writers. This etymol- 
ogy, however, is rather uncertain, and no aid can be ob- 
tained from the cognate Shemilic languages, for, though 
the word occurs in Syriac and Ethiopie, its use is too 
indeterminate to afford any clue to its origin. We are 
therefore left to determine its meaning from the con- 
text of the most remarkable passages in which it oc- 
curs. 

The first is (Gen. xxxvii, 35): “And (Jacob) said, I 
will go down into the grave (nbx'w, sheolah ) unto my 
son mourning.” The meaning of this passage is ob- 
viously given in the translation. There is rather more 
difficulty in Numb, xvi, 30, where Moses declares that 
Korah and his company shall go down alive into sheol 
sheolah ), and in ver. 33, which describes the 
fulfilment of the prophecy. But on referring to Dent, 
xxxii, ‘22, we find that sheol is used to signify “the un- 
derworld.” “For a fire is kindled in mine anger, and it 
shall burn to the lowest heU”(n‘'rnn VlXw, sheol techi- 
thith); to which the sequel gives the following paral- 
lelism : “ It shall set on fire the foundations of the 
mountains.” Hence it would appear that, in the de- 
scription of Korah’s punishment,.' thedl simply means the 
interior of the earth, and does not imply a place of tor- 
ment. In 2 Sam. xxii, G the English version stands 
thus: “The sorrows of hell compassed me about; the 
snares of death prevented me.” The English word 
“ hell” (from the Saxon hela, “ to conceal”) does not here 
mean a place of torment, as will at once appear from a 
literal translation of the passage in which the parallel- 
ism of the Hebrew is preserved . “The snares of sheol 
“'52"? chehUg sheol) encompassed me,” “The 
nets of death (ri2 "’ll* p 12, moke she y mdveth ) came 
upon me.” Thus viewed, it appears that “the snares 
of shedl ” are precisely equivalent to “the nets of death.” 
In Job xi, 8, there seems to be an allusion to a belief- 
common among ancient nations — that there is a deep 
and dark abyss* beneath the surface of the earth, ten- 
anted by departed spirits, but not necessarily a place 
of torment : 

Cansl thou explore the deep things of God ? 

< ’ansi ihou comprehend the whole power of the Almighty ? 
Higher than heaven ! What enlist limit do? 

Beeper than shedl l ' What caiist ihoti know? 

Again (xxvi, 5, G), in the description of God’s omnip- 
otence : 

Sheol is open before him, 

And there is no covering for the region of the dead. 

In Isa. xiv, 9, “Shed! from beneath is moved for thee to 
meet thee at thy coming,” the meaning of the prophet 


is, that when the king of Babylon, whose miserable fate 
he is predicting, should go down into the underworld, 
or shedl, the ghosts of the dead would there rise up to 
meet him with contumely and insult. Our English 
version in this passage renders shedl “hell;” but, clear- 
ly, the place of torment cannot be meant, for it is said 
in ver. 18 that all the kings of the nations repose in 
gloi'y there — that is, “rest in their sepulchres, surround- 
ed by all tbc ensigns of splendor which the Eastern na- 
tions were accustomed to place around the bodies of de- 
ceased kings,” 

These and many other passages which might he 
quoted sufficiently prove that a belief in futurity of 
existence was familiar to the Hebrews, but that it 
was unfixed and indeterminate. It is difficult, and in 
some cases impossible, to determine whether the term 
shedl , when used in a menacing form, implies the idea 
of future punishment or premature death. Hence, while 
we are led to conclude, with the Articles of the Church 
of England, that “the old fathers did not look merely 
to transitory promises,” we see that only through the 
Gospel were “life and immortality brought to light.” 

II. Is Shedl a Place I — According to the notions of 
the Jews, shedl was a vast receptacle where the souls 
of the dead existed in a separate state until the resur- 
rection of their bodies. The region of the blessed dur- 
ing this interval, or the inferior paradise, they supposed 
to be in the upper part of this receptacle; while be- 
neath was the abyss, or Gehenna (Tartarus), in which 
the souls of the wicked were subjected to punishment. 

The question whether this is or is not the doctrine 
of the Scriptures is one of much importance, and has, 
first and last, excited no small amount of discussion. 
It is a doctrine received by a large portion of the nom- 
inal Christian Church; and it forms the foundation of 
the Roman Catholic doctrine of Purgatory, for which 
there would be no ground but for this interpretation 
of the word Hades. The question, therefore, rests en- 
tirely upon the interpretation of this latter word. At the 
first view the classical signification would seem to sup- 
port the sense above indicated. On further considera- 
tion, however, we are referred back to the Hebrew shedl ; 
for the Greek term did not come to the Hebrews from 
any classical source or with any classical meanings, but 
through the Sept, as a translation of their own word; 
and whether correctly translating it or not is a matter 
of critical opinion. The word Hades is, therefore, in no- 
wise binding upon us in any classical meaning which 
may be assigned to it. The real question, therefore, is, 
what is the meaning which shedl bears in the Old Test, 
and Hades in the New? A careful examination of the 
passages in which these words occur will probably lead 
to the conclusion that they afford no real sanction to 
the notion of an intermediate place of the kind indi- 
cated, but are used by the inspired writers to denote 
the grave— the resting-place of the bodies both of the 
righteous and the wicked; and that they are also used 
to signify hell, the abode of miserable spirits. But it 
would be difficult to produce any instance in which 
they can be shown to signify the abode of the spirits 
of just men made perfect, cither before or after the res- 
urrection. 

As already seen, in the great majority of instances 
shedl is, in the Old Test., used to signify the grave, and 
in most of these cases is so translated in the A. V. It 
can have no other meaning in such texts as Gen. 
xxxvii, 35; xlii, 38; 1 Sam. ii, G; I Kings ii, G; Job 
xiv, 13; xvii, 13, 1G; ami in numerous other passages 
in the writings of David, Solomon, and the prophets. 
But as the grave is regarded by most persons, and was 
more especially so by t lie ancients, with awe ami dread 
as being the region of gloom and darkness, so the word 
denoting it soon came to be applied to that more dark 
and gloomy world which was to he the abiding-place 
of the miserable. Where our translators supposed the 
word to have this sense, they rendered it by “hell.” 
Some of the passages in which this lias been done may 


SHEOL 


663 


SHEPARD 


be doubtful, but there are others of which a question 
can scarcely be entertained. Such are those (as Job 
xi, 8 ; Psa. cxxxix, 8; Amos ix. 3) in which the word 
denotes the opposite of heaven, which cannot be the 
grave nor the general state or region of the dead, but 
hell. Still more decisive are such passages as Psa. ix, 
17; Prov. xxiii, 9; in which sheol cannot mean any 
place, in this world or the next, to which the righteous 
as well as the wicked are sent, but the penal abode of 
the wicked as distinguished from and opposed to the 
righteous. The only case in which such passages could, 
by any possibility, be supposed to mean the grave 
would be if the grave — that is, extinction — were the 
final doom of the unrighteous. 

In the New Test, the word is used in much the 
same sense as in the Old, except that in a less 

proportion of cases can it be construed to signify “the 
grave." There are still, however, instances in which 
it is used in this sense, as in Acts ii, 31 ; 1 Cor. xv, 55; 
but in general the Hades of the New Test, appears to 
be no other than the. world of future punishments (e. g. 
Matt, xi, 23 ; xvi, 18; Luke xvi, 23). 

The principal arguments for the intermediate Hades 
as deduced from Scripture are founded on those pas- 
sages in which things “under the earth” are described 
as rendering homage to God and the Saviour (Phil, ii, 
10; Rev. v, 13, etc.). If such passages, however, be 
compared with others (as with Rom. xiv, 10, 11, etc.), 
it will appear that they must refer to the day of judg- 
ment, in which every creature will render some sort of 
homage to the Saviour; but then the bodies of the 
saints will have been already raised, and the interme- 
diate region, if there be any, will have been deserted. 

One of the seemingly strongest arguments for the 
opinion under consideration is founded on 1 Pet. iii, 19, 
in which Christ is said to have gone and “preached to 
the spirits in prison.” These spirits in prison are sup- 
posed to be the holy dead — perhaps the virtuous hea- 
then — imprisoned in the intermediate place, into which 
the soul of the Saviour went at death that he might 
preach to them the Gospel. This passage must be al- 
lowed to present great difficulties. The most intelligi- 
ble meaning suggested by the context is, however, 
that Christ by his spirit preached to those who in the 
time of Noah, while the ark was preparing, were diso- 
bedient, and whose spirits were thus in prison awaiting 
the general deluge. Even if that prison were Hades, yet 
what Hades is must be determined by other passages of 
Scripture; and, whether it is the grave or hell, it is 
still a prison for those who yet await the judgment- 
day. This interpretation is in unison with other pas- 
sages of Scripture, whereas the other is conjecturallv 
deduced from this single text. See Spirits in Prison. 

Another argument is deduced from Rev. xx, 14, which 
describes “death and Hades” as “cast into the lake of 
fire” at the close of the general judgment — meaning, 
according to the advocates of the doctrine in question, 
that Hades should then cease as an intermediate place. 
But this is also true if understood of the grave, or of 
the general intermediate condition of the dead, or even 
of hell, as once more and forever reclaiming what it 
had temporarily yielded up for judgment— just as we 
ever}’ day see criminals brought from prison to judg- 
ment, and, after judgment, returned to the prison from 
which they came. 

It is further urged, in proof of Hades being an inter- 
mediate place other than the grave, that the Scriptures 
represent the happiness of the righteous as incomplete 
till after the resurrection. This must be admitted ; but 
it does not thence follow that their souls are previous- 
ly imprisoned in the earth, or in any other place or re- 
gion corresponding to the Tartarus of the heathen. Al- 
though at the moment of death the disembodied spir- 
its of the redeemed ascend to heaven and continue there 
till the resurrection, it is very possible that their hap- 
piness shall be incomplete until they have received 


their glorified bodies from the tomb and entered upon 
the full rewards of eternity. 

On this subject, see Dr. Enoch Pond, On the Interme- 
diate Place , in A merican Biblical Repository for April, 
1841, whom we have here chiefly followed; comp. 
Knapp, Christian Theology, § 104; Meyer, Be Xotione 
Orci up. IlebriEOS (Lub. 1793); Bahreus, Freimiithiye 
Unters. iiber d. Orkus d. Ilebrder (Halle, 1786); Wit- 
ter, Be Puryatorio Judceoruni (Helms. 1704); Journ. 
Sac. Lit. Oct. 1856. 

Shepard, David A., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Augusta, Oneida Co., 
N. V., June 2, 1802. He professed conversion in his 
sixteenth year, and received license as a local preacher 
when twenty. In 1824 he was admitted on trial in the 
Genesee Conference. During his active ministry he 
served as presiding elder on the Chenango, Cayuga, 
Susquehanna, and Wyoming districts; and also rive 
years as chaplain to Auburn state-prison. In 1873 he 
took a superannuated relation, which he held until his 
death, at Washington, D. C., Oct. 8, 1876. He was for 
some time previous a member of the Wyoming Confer- 
ence. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1877, p. 59. 

Shepard, Hiram, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Turin, Lewis Co., N. V., 
July 8, 1804, and at the age of eighteen he made a pro- 
fession of religion. In 1830 he was licensed to preach, 
and was admitted into the Black River Conference. 
He continued to be actively engaged in preaching un- 
til his death, which occurred at Malone, N. Y., May 25, 
1863. He was an able defender of the truth and an 
impressive minister. See Minutes of Annual Confer- 
ences , 1863, p. 115. 

Shepard, Lewis Morris, a Presbyterian minis- 
ter, was born in Potsdam, St, Lawrence Co., N. Y., in 
1810. He was converted at the age of sixteen ; was edu- 
cated at the Oneida Institute at Whitesborough, N. Y. ; 
studied theology privately; was licensed to preach by 
Watertown Presbytery, Aug. 29, 1838, and ordained and 
installed by the same body at Theresa, Jefferson Co., 
N. Y., in February. 1839. In that vicinity he preached 
for twelve years, occupying different localities, at The- 
resa and Plesis, then at Champion, Smithville, and 
North Adams. In 1850 he united with the Albany 
Presbytery and supplied the Church at Tribe’s Hill un- 
til 1852, when he removed to Monroe, Fairfield Co., 
Conn., where he labored until 1858, when he became 
pastor of the Church in Huron, Wayne Co., N. Y. In 
every place where he labored he had more or less ev- 
idence that his work was owned by the Master of the 
vineyard. He died Oct. 16, 1863. Mr. Shepard was 
an earnest, diligent, and self-denying minister of Christ. 
See Wilson, Fresh. Hist. A Imanac , 1865, p. 170. (J. L. S.) 

Shepard, Mase, a Congregational minister, was 
born May 28, 1759. When about twenty-one years of 
age he was led to Christ, and immediately his thoughts 
were turned towards the ministry. He prepared for 
college under the direction of the Rev. William Conant, 
of Lyme, N. II., entered Dartmouth College in 1781, 
and graduated in 1785. He then studied theology 
with Rev. Ephraim Judson, of Taunton, and on Sept. 
19, 1787, was settled at Little Compton, R. I. lie died 
in perfect calmness after a short illness, Feb. 14, 1821. 
See Sprague, Annuls of the Amer. Pulpit , ii, 265. 

Shepard, Samuel (1), M.D., a Baptist minister, 
was born in Salisbury, Mass., June 22, 1739. He studied 
medicine, settled as a practicing physician at Brent- 
wood, N. H., and soon became distinguished in his pro- 
fession. lie then turned his attention to preaching, 
and in 1771 became pastor of three churches, at Strath- 
am, Brentwood, and Nottingham, which he had form- 
ed. lie was one of the most active and honored min- 
isters of his denomination, and continued his labors un- 
til his death, Nov. 4, 1815. He published a number 
of tracts and pamphlets. See Sprague, Annals of the 
Amer. Pulpit , vi, 135. 


SIIEPARD 


G64 


SIIEPIIELAII 


Shepard, Samuel (2). P.D., a Congregational I 
minister, was born in Portland, Conn., November, 1772. 
He graduated at Vale College in 1708. and was ordain- 
ed, April 30, 1705, pastor in Lenox, Mass., where he re- 
mained until the close of his life, lie was a member 
of the corporations of Middlebury and Williams col- 
leges and vice-president of the latter until bis death, 
.Ian. 5, 1 S4t». He published a few occasional sermons. 
See Sprague, A nnals of the A mer . Pulpit , ii, 304, 

Shepard, Thomas, a Congregational minister, 
was born at Towccster, near Northampton, England, 
Nov. 5, 1005. 1 1 is father was a decided Puritan, inso- 

much that be removed to another town for the sole pur- 
pose of enjoying what he considered an evangelical min- 
istry. Thomas entered Emanuel College, Cambridge, 
as a pensioner, in 1019, and while in college, after a very 
severe struggle, found peace in Christ. He took the de- 
gree of B.A. in 1 023, and completed his course of study 
in 13*25. In 1027, after receiving his 51. A., he was ap- 
pointed lecturer in Earles-Oolne, Essex, lie remained, 
laboring with great success, for three years and six 
months. On Dec. 10, 1030, lie was summoned to Lon- 
don to answer before bishop Laud for alleged irregular 
conduct, and was by him forbidden to exercise any min- 
isterial function in his diocese. Examining the vari- 
ous usages and ceremonies to which he was required 
to conform, he was less disposed to adhere to the Es- 
tablishment than ever. Summoned a second time be- 
fore the bishop, he was required by him to immediately 
leave the place. He now entered the family of Sir 
llichard Darlev, in Yorkshire, as chaplain, where he re- 
mained about a year, and then accepted an invitation 
to lleddon, Northumberland, where he also remained 
about a year. Owing to his Nonconformist principles, 
he was greatly persecuted, with difficulty avoiding ar- 
rest, until Aug. 10, 1035, when he and his family em- 
barked for America, lie arrived in Boston Oct. 2, 1035, 
and took up his residence in Newtown (now Cam- 
bridge), Mass. Here he became pastor of a newly or- 
ganized Church, Feb. 1. 1630, of which he continued to 
be the pastor until his death. 51 r. Shepard soon be- 
came involved in the famous Antinomian controversy, 
and was one of the most active members of the noted 
synod by which the storm was finally quelled. There 
is also good reason to believe that he had an important 
agency in originating and carrying forward the meas- 
ures resulting in the establishment of Harvard College. 

1 ie died Aug. 25, 1040. Johnson speaks of him as “that 
gracious, sweet, heavenly -minded, and soul -ravishing 
minister,” which testimony is sustained by that of many 
others. The following are some of his works: AY w Eny- 
land's Lamentation for Old Enyland's Errors ( Bond. 
1045, 4 to): — Theses Sabbat ion (ibid. 1040): — Of Litur- 
gies, etc. (1053). — Parable of the Ten Viryins Opened 
and Applied (1659, fol.). A collective edition of his 
works, with a memoir, was published by the Doctrinal 
Tract and Book Society (Boston, 1853, 3 vols. 12mo). 
For a full list of his works, see Allibonc, Diet, of Brit, 
and A mer. A uthors, s. v. ; Sprague, A nnals of the A mer. 
Pulpit , i, 50. 

She'pham (II eh. Shepham ', fruitful [Ge- 
seu.], or bare [l’iirst]; Sept. XfQapdp [running it on 
into the following word, with the n directive]), a place 
mentioned only in the specification by 5Ioses of the 
eastern boundary of the Promised Land (Numb, xxxiv, j 
10, II), the lir>t landmark from I lazer-enan, at which 
the northern boundary terminated, and lying between 
it and Biblah. The ancient interpreters (Targ. Psendo- 
Jon., Saadia) render the name bv Apameia; but it 
seems uncertain whether by this they intend the Greek 
city of t lint name on the O mutes, fifty miles below An- 
tioch, or whether they use it as a synonym of Banins 
or Dan, as Schwarz affirms (Palest, p. 27). No trace 
of the name appears, however, in that direction. Por- 
ter (Damascus, ii, 354) would fix llazer-enau at Kn- 
ryetein, seventy miles east - northeast of Damascus, I 


which would remove Shepham into a totally different 
region, in which there is equally little trace of it. — 
Smith. The Biblah mentioned in the above passage 
was not the city of that name in the land of Hamath 
(see Keil, Comment, ad loc.), but a much more southern 
one. See Biblah. The other more definitely known 
localities adjoining seem to point out a position for 
Shepham not far from the later Oesarea- Philippi (q. v.). 

Shephard, Paul, a Presbyterian minister, was born 
in Fayette, N. Y., June 3, 1803. lie was educated at 
Oberlin College, studied theology in the same institu- 
tion, was licensed and ordained by the Oberlin Associ- 
ation in 1839, and preached at the following places: 
Bichmoml and Allegan. 5Iich.; in 1840 at 5Iedina, 
5Iich.; in 1851 at Dover, 5Iich. In 1850 he visited Kan- 
| sas Territory and established a Church at Teeumseh, 
and was one of the original members of Kansas Presby- 
tery. In 1859 he returned to 51 on roe Presbytery, and 
was stated supply for the Church at Dover and Clayton, 
5Iieh. Here lie labored until his death, Nov. 9, 1800. 
See Wilson, Prcsb. Hist. A hmtnuc , 1802, p. 195. 

Shephathi'ah (1 Cliron. ix, 8). See Siiepuati- 
AH. 

Shephati'ah (lleb. Shephatyah ', rr:3£‘j [thrice 
in the prolonged form Shepkatya'ku , *rnZi3 w, l Chron. 
xii,5; xxvii, 10 ; 2 Chron. xxi, 2 ~\,judyed of Jehovah ; 
Sept. N«0ar/« v. r. Saranac, etc.), the name of a con- 
siderable number of Israelites. 

1. The Haruphite (or descendant of Ilareph), and 
one of the Benjamitc warriors who joined David at 
Ziklag (1 Chron. xii, 5). 1LC. 1054. 

2. The fifth son of David, born of bis wife Abital 
during his reign in Hebron (2 Sam. iii, 4; 1 Chron. iii, 
3). B.C. cir. 1050. 

3. Son of 51aachah, and phylarch of the Simeonites 
in the time of David (l Chron. xxvii, 10). B.C. 1014. 

4. Last named of the six brothers of Jehoram, the 
son of king Jchoshaphat, whom their father endowed 
richly (2 Chron. xxi, 2). B.C. 887. 

5. Son of 51ahalaleel and father of Amariah, ances- 
tors of Athaiah of the family of Pliarez, son of Judah 
(Neh. xi, 4). B.C. long ante 530. 

6. Son of Keuel and father of 5[eshullam, the Benja- 
mite chieftain at the time of the captivity (1 Chron. 

j ix, 5, A. V. *• Shephathiah”). B.C. ante 588. See No. 8. 

7. Son of 5latta», and one of the princes who ad- 
vised Zedekiah to put Jeremiah to death (Jer. xxxviii, 
1). B.C. 589. 

8. An Braelite whose descendants (or perhaps a place 
whose inhabitants) to the number of three hundred and 
seventy- two returned with Zerubbabel from Babylon 
(Ezra ii, 4 ; Neh. vii, 9). B.C. ante 530. lie is appar- 
ently the same with him whose descendants to the 
number of eighty males returned, under the leadership 
of Zcbadiah, with Ezra (Ezra viii, 8). Whether he 
was identical with No. 0 is uncertain. 

9. One of “Solomon’s servants” whose descendants 
returned from Babylon under Zerubbabel (Ezra ii, 57; 
Neh. vii, 59). B.C. ante 530. 

Shephelah, Turc (nss’i'n, hash -Shephc laid, the 
low; Sept.?/ NY0//XJ, 1 5Iace. xii, 38 ; Jerome, Sephetu, 
in Onomast.), the native name for the southern divis- 
ion of the low-lying, Hat district winch intervenes be- 
tween the central highlands of the Holy Land and the 
51editerranenn, the other and northern portion of which 
was known as Sharon. The name occurs throughout 
the topographical records of Joshua, t lie historical works, 
and the topographical passages in the prophets, always 
with the article prefixed, and always denoting the same 
region (Dent, i, 7; Josh, ix, 1; X, 40; xi, 2, 10*/ ; xii, 8 ; 
xv, 33 ; Judg. i, 9 ; 1 Kings x, 27 ; 1 Chron. xxvii, 28 ; 
2 Cliron. i, 15; ix, 27; xxvi, 10; xxviii, 18; Jer. xvii, 
20; xxxii, 44; xxxiii, 13; Obad. 19: Zecli. vii, 7). So 
absolute is this usage that in the single instance in which 
the word stands without the article (Josh, xi, 16 b ) it evi- 


SIIEPHELAII 


665 


SHEPHERD 


dently does not denote tlie region referred to above, but 
the plains surrounding the mountains of Ephraim. In 
each of the above passages, however, the word is treat- 
ed in the A. V. not as a proper name, analogous to the 
Campagna, the Wolds, the Curse, but as a mere appella- 
tive, and rendered 44 the vale,” “ the valley,” “ the plain,” 
“the low plains,” and “the low country.” How de- 
structive this is to the force of the narrative may be 
realized by imagining what confusion would be caused 
in the translation of an English historical work into a 
foreign tongue if such a name as “the Downs” were 
rendered by some general term applicable to any other 
district in the country of similar formation. Fortu- 
nately the book of Maccabees has redeemed our version 
from the charge of having entirely suppressed this in- 
teresting name. In l Macc. xii, 38, the name Sephela 
is found, though even here stripped of the article, which 
was attached to it in Hebrew, and still accompanies it 
in the Greek of the passage. Whether the name is 
given in the Hebrew Scriptures in the shape in which 
the Israelites encountered it oil entering the country, 
or modified so as to conform it to the Hebrew root 
bs'J, shaphdl, 44 to be low,” and thus (according to the 
constant tendency of language) bring it into a form in- 
telligible to Hebrews, we shall probably never know. 
The root to which it is related is in common use both 
in Hebrew and Arabic. In the latter it has originated 
more than one proper name — as Afespila, now known 
as Koyunjik; el-Afesfale. one of the quarters of the city 
of Mecca (Burckhardt, A rubia , i,203, 204) ; and Seville, 
originally Hispalis , probably so called from its wide 
plain (Arias Montano, in Ford, I land-book for Spain). 
The name Shephelah is retained in the old versions, 
even those of the Samaritans, and rabbi Joseph on 
Chronicles (probably as late as the 11th century). It 
was actually in use down to the 5th century. Euse- 
bius, and after him Jerome ( Onomast . s. v. 44 Sephela,” 
and Comm . on Obach), distinctly state that “the region 
round Eleutheropolis on the north and west was so 
called.” In his comment on Obadiah, Jerome appears 
to extend it to Lydda and Emmaus-Nicopolis; and, at 
the same time, to extend Sharon so far south as to in- 
clude the Philistine cities. A careful investigation 
might not improbably discover the name still lingering 
about its ancient home even at the present day. See 
Plain. 

No definite limits are mentioned to the Shephelah, 
nor is it probable that there were any. In the list of 
Joshua (xv, 33-47) it contains forty-three “cities,” as 
well as the hamlets and temporary villages dependent 
on them. Of these, so far as our knowledge avails us, 
the most northern was Ekron, the most southern Gaza, 
and the most eastern Nezib (about seven miles north- 
northwest of Hebron). A large number of these towns, 
however, were situated not in the plain, nor even on 
the western slopes of the central mountains, but in the 
mountains themselves. See Jarmutu; Keilah; Nezib, 
etc. This seems to show either that, on the ancient 
principle of dividing territory, one district might in- 
trude into the limits of another, or, which is more 
probable, that, as already suggested, the name Shephe- 
lah did not originally mean a lowland, as it came to 
do in its accommodated Hebrew form. The Shephelah 
was, and is, one of the most productive regions in the 
Holy Land. Sloping, as it does, gently to the sea, it 
receives every year a fresh dressing from the materials 
washed down from the mountains behind it by the fu- 
rious rains of winter. This natural manure, aided by 
t he great heat of its climate, is sufficient to enable it 
to reward the rude husbandry of its inhabitants, year 
after year, with crops of corn which are described 
by travellers as prodigious. Thus it was in ancient 
times the corn-field of Syria, and as such the constant 
subject of warfare between Philistines and Israelites, 
and the refuge of the latter when the harvests in the 
central country were ruined by drought (2 Kings viii, 


1-3). But it was also, from its evenness, and from its 
situation on the road between Egypt and Assyria, ex- 
posed to continual visits from foreign armies, visits 
which at last led to the destruction of the Israelitish 
kingdom. In the earlier history of the country the 
Israelites do not appear to have ventured into the She- 
phelah, but to have awaited the approach of their en- 
emies from thence. Under the Maccabees, however, 
their tactics were changed, and it became the field 
where some of the most hardly contested and success- 
ful of their battles were fought. These conditions have 
scarcely altered in modern times. Any invasion of Pal- 
estine must take place through the maritime plain, the 
natural and only road to the highlands. It did so in 
Napoleon’s case. The Shephelah is still one vast corn- 
field, but the contests which take place on it are now 
reduced to those between the oppressed peasants and 
the insolent and rapacious officials of the Turkish gov- 
ernment, who are gradually putting a stop by their ex- 
tortions to all the industry of this district, and driving 
active and willing hands to better-governed regions. — 
Smith. See Judah, Tribe of. 

This tract, as above intimated, comprises not so much 
the mere maritime plain, but rather the lower range or 
spurs of the Judaean hills on the Mediterranean side. 
It consists, in fact, of low hills, about five hundred feet 
above the sea, of white, soft limestone, with great bands 
of beautiful brown quartz running between the strata. 
The broad valleys among these hills, forming the en- 
trance to the hill -country proper, produce fine crops 
of corn, and on the hills olive -groves flourish better 
than in either of the adjoining districts. This part of 
the country is also the most thickly populated, and an- 
cient wells, and occasionally fine springs, occur through- 
out. The villages are partly of stone, partly of mud; 
the ruins are so thickly spread over hill and valley that 
in some parts there are as many as three ancient sites 
to two square miles. All along the base of these hills, 
commanding the passes to the mountains, important 
places are to be found, such as Gath and Gezer, Emma- 
ns and Beth-horon, and no part of the country is more 
rich in Biblical sites or more famous in Bible history 
(Conder, Tent Work in Palestine , i, 10). See Topo- 
graphical Terms. 

Shepherd (usually Pi 2 ‘"l, roeh, a feeder, 7rotfn)v; 
but substantially denoted also by boker, a 44 herd- 

man,” Amos vii, 14; and by P£2, noked, a “sheep-mas- 
ter,” 2 Kings iii, 4; “herdman,” Amos i, 1). In a no- 
madic state of society, every man, from the sheik down 
to the slave, is more or less a shepherd. As many regions 
in the East are adapted solely to pastoral pursuits, the 
institution of the nomad life, with its appliances of tents 
and camp equipage, was regarded as one of the most 
memorable inventions (Gen. iv, 20). The progenitors 
of the Jews in the patriarchal age were nomads, and 
their history is rich in scenes of pastoral life. The oc- 
cupation of tending the flocks was undertaken, not only 
by the sons of wealthy chiefs (xxx, 29 sq. ; xxxvii, 12 
sq.), but even by their daughters (xxix, 6 sq. ; Exod. ii, 
19). The Egyptian captivity did much to implant a 
love of settled abode, and consequently we find the tribes 
which still retained a taste for shepherd life selecting 
their own quarters apart from their brethren in the 
Transjordanic district (Numb, xxxii, 1 sq.). Hence- 
forward in Palestine proper the shepherd held a sub- 
ordinate position; the increase of agriculture involved 
the decrease of pasturage; and though large flocks were 
still maintained in certain parts, particularly on the bor- 
ders of the wilderness of Judah, as about Carmel (1 Sam. 
xxv, 2), Bethlehem (xvi, 11 ; Luke ii, 8), Tekoah (Amos 
i, 1), and, more to the south, at Gedor (1 Chron. iv, 39), 
the nomad life was practically extinct, and the shepherd 
became one out of many classes of the laboring popula- 
tion. The completeness of the transition from the pas- 
toral to the agricultural state is strongly exhibited in 
those passages which allude to the presence of the shep- 


SHEPHERD 


GCG 


SHEPHERD 


herd’s tent as a token of desolation (e. g. Ezek. xxv, 4 ; 
Zepli. ii, 6). The humble position of the shepherd at 
the same period is implied in the notices of David’s 
wondrous elevation (2 Sam. vii. 8 ; Psa. lxxviii, 70), and 
again in the self-depreciating confession of Amos (vii, 14). 
The frequent and beautiful allusions to the shepherd’s of- 
fice in the poetical portions of the Bible (e.g. Psa. xxiii; 
Isa. xl, 11; xlix, 9, 10; Jer. xxiii, 3, 4; Ezek. xxxiv, 11, 
1*2.23), rather bespeak a period when the shepherd had 
become an ideal character, sueh as the Roman poets 
painted t lie pastors of Arcadia. See Pasture. 

The office of the Eastern shepherd, as described in the 
Bible, was attended with much hardship and even dan- 
ger. He was exposed to the extremes of heat and cold 
(Gen. xxxi, 40); his food frequently consisted of the 
precarious supplies afforded by nature, such as the fruit 
of the ** sycamore,” or Egyptian fig (Amos vii, 14), t he 
“husks” of the carob-tree (Luke xv, 16), or perchance 
the locusts and wild honey which supported the Baptist 
(Matt, iii, 4) ; he had to encounter the attacks of wild 
beasts, occasionally of the larger pecies, such as lions, 
wolves, panthers, and bears (1 Sam. xvii, 34; Isa. xxxi, 
4: Jer. v, 6; Amos iii, 12); nor was he free from the risk 
of robbers or predatory hordes (Gen. xxxi, 39). To meet 
these various foes the shepherd’s equipment consisted 
of the following articles: a mantle, made probably of 
sheep’s-skin with the fleece on, which he turned inside 
out in cold weather, as implied in the comparison in 
Jer. xliii, 12 (comp. Juv. xiv, 187); a scrip or wallet, 
containing a small amount of food (1 Sam. xvii, 40; 
Porter, Damascus , ii, 100); a sling, which is still the 
favorite weapon of the Bedawi shepherd (1 Sam. xvii, 
40; Burckhardt, Notes, i, 57); and, lastly, a staff, which 
served the double purpose of a weapon against foes and 
a crook for the management of the flock (1 Sam. xvii, 
40; Psa. xxiii, 4 ; Zech. xi, 7). If the shepherd was at 
a distance from his home, he was provided with a light 
tent (Cant. i,8; Jer. xxxv, 7), the removal of which was 
easily effected (Isa. xxxviii, 12). In certain localities, 
moreover, towers were erected for the double purpose 
of spying an enemy at a distance and protecting the 
flock ; such towers were erected by Uzziah and Jotham 
(2 Chron. xxvi, 10; xxvii, 4), while their existence in 
earlier times is testified by the name Migdal-Eder 
(Gen. xxxv, 21, A. V. “tower of Edar;” Micah iv, 8, 
A. V. " tower of the flock”). See Tower. 

The routine of the shepherd’s duties appears to have 
been a» follows: in the morning he led forth his flock 
from the fold (John x,4), which he did by going before 
them and calling to them, as is still usual in the East; 
arrived at the pasturage, he watched the flock with the 
assistance of (logs (Job xxx, 1), and, should any sheep 
stray, he had to search for it until lie found it (Ezek. 
xxxiv, 12; Luke xv, 4); he supplied them with water, 
either at a running stream or at troughs at- 
tached to wells (Gen. xxix,7; xxx, 38; Exod. 
ii, 16; Psa. xxiii, 2); at evening he brought them 
back to the fold, and reckoned them to see that 
none were missing, by passing them “ under the 
rod” as they entered the door of the enclosure 
(Lev. xxvii, 32; Ezek. xx, 37), cheeking each 
sheep as it passed by a motion of the hand (Jer. 
xxxiii, 13); and, finally, he watched the en- 
trance of the fold throughout the night, acting 
as porter (John x,3). We need not assume that 
the same person was on duty both by night and 
by day; Jacob, indeed, asserts this of himself 
(Gen. xxxi, 40), but it would be more probable 
that the shepherds took it by turns, or that they 
kept watch for a portion only of the night, as 
may possibly be implied in the expression in 
Luke ii, 8, rendered in the A. V. “ keeping 
watch,” rather “ keeping the watches” (<pv\ao- 
(TovTtc <pv\aKo<;). The shepherd’s office thus 
required great watchfulness, particularly by 
night (Luke ii, 8; comp. Nab. iii, 18). It also 
required tenderness towards the young and 


feeble (Isa. xl, 11), particularly in driving them to and 
from the pasturage (Gen. xxxiii, 13). In large estab- 
lishments there were various grades of shepherds, the 
highest being styled “rulers” (xlvii, 6) or “chief shep- 
herds” (1 Pet. v, 4); in a royal household the title of 
‘V’SX, abbir, “mighty," was bestowed on the person 
who held the post (1 Sam. xxi, 7). Great responsibil- 
ity attached to the office; for the chief shepherd had 
to make good all losses (Gen. xxxi, 39); at the same 
time he had a personal interest in the flock, inasmuch 
as he was not paid in money, but received a certain 
amount of the produce (xxx, 32; 1 Cor. ix, 7). The life 
of the shepherd was a monotonous one; he may per- 
haps have whiled away an hour in playing on some in- 
strument (1 Sam. xvi, 18 ; Job xxi, 12 ; xxx, 31), as his 
modern representative still occasionally does (Wortabet, 
Syria , i, 234). He also had his periodical entertain- 
ments at the shearing-time, which was celebrated by a 
general gathering of the neighborhood for festivities 
(Gen. xxxi, 19 ; xxxviii, 12; 2 Sam. xiii, 23) ; but, gen- 
erally speaking, tbe life must have been but dull. Nor 
did it conduce to gentleness of manners; rival shepherds 
contended for the possession or the use of water with 
great acrimony (Gen. xxi, 25; xxvi, 20 sq.; Exod. ii, 
17); nor perhaps is this a matter of surprise, as those 
who come late to a well frequently have to wait a long 
time until their turn comes (Burckhardt, Syria, p. 63). 
— Smith. See Sheep. 

Large flocks of sheep and goats often constituted the 
chief wealth of patriarchal times. Job possessed seven 
thousand sheep (Job i, 3), and Nabal three thousand 
sheep and a thousand goats (1 Sam. xxv, 2). At the pres- 
ent day both sheep and goats usually intermingle in the 
same flock for pasturage, in the valleys and on the hills 
of Palestine (Gen. xxx, 35). In one Arab encampment 
Prof. Robinson saw about six hundred sheep and goats, 
the latter being the most numerous; and the process of 
milking was going on at four o’clock in the morning. 
The Arabs have few cows. In Dent, xxxii, 14, Moses, in 
his farewell song, represents Jehovah as having fed Israel 
with “ butter of kine and milk of sheep and the apostle 
asks, “ Who feedeth a flock, and eateth not of the milk 
of the flock?” (1 Cor. ix. 7). “It shall come to pass in 
that day that a man shall nourish a young cow and two 
sheep ; and it shall come to pass, for the abundance of 
milk that they shall give, that he shall eat butter: for 
butter and honey shall every one eat that is left in the 
land” (Isa. vii, 21, 22). Here the milk is the production 
of the sheep as well as of the cow. See Milk. 

The hatred of the Egyptians towards shepherds (Gen. 
xlvi, 34) may have been mainly due to their contempt 
for the sheep itself, which appears to have been valued 
neither for food (Plutarch, De Is. 72) nor generally for 



bheep-milking and Butter-making iu Egypt. 


SHEPHERD OF HERMAS 


667 


SIIEPIIERD-KINGS 


sacrifice (Herod, ii, 42), the only district where they 
were offered being about the Natron lakes (Strabo, xvii, 
803). It may have been increased by the memory of 
the shepherd invasion (Herod, ii, 128). Abundant con- 
firmation of the fact of this hatred is supplied by the 
low position which all herdsmen held in the castes of 
Egypt, and bv the caricatures of them in Egyptian 
paintings (Wilkinson, ii, 109). See IIyksos. 

The term “shepherd” is applied in a metaphorical 
sense to princes (Isa. xliv, 28; Jer. ii, 8; iii, 15; xxii, 
22; Ezek. xxxiv, 2, etc.), prophets (Zech. xi, 5, 8, 10), 
teachers (Eccles. xii, 11), and to Jehovah himself (Gen. 
xlix, 24; Psa. xxiii, 1 ; lxxx, 1) ; to the same effect are 
the references to “feeding” in Gen. xlviii, 15; Psa. xxviii, 
9; Hos. iv, 16. The prophets often inveigh against the 
shepherds of Israel, against the kings who feed them- 
selves aud neglect their flocks; who distress, ill-treat, 
seduce, and lead them astray (see Ezek. xxxiv, 10 sq. ; 
Numb, xxvii, 17; 1 Kings xxii, 17; Isa. xl, II; xliv, 
28; Judith xi, 15). See Pastor. 

Shepherd of Hermas. A book entitled The Shep- 
herd , ascribed to Hermas, who is mentioned by Paul in 
his Epistle to the Homans, became generally known 
about the middle of the 2d century. For an account 
of its contents, credibility, etc., see Hermas. 

Shepherd, Order of the Good. The “Sisters 
of Our Lady of Charity,” or “ Eudist Sisters,” were 
founded at Caen, in Normandy, in 1641, by abbe' Jean 
Eudes. In 1835 a modification of the rule enabling 
them to take charge of penitent women was introduced 
at Angers, the establishment there becoming known as 
the “ House of the Good Shepherd.” They were in- 
troduced into the United States in 1849. The “Sisters 
of Our Lady of the Good Shepherd,” and “ Sisters of the 
Good Shepherd,” and “ Religious of the Good Shepherd,” 
are apparently of the same congregation, which, under 
one or the other of these names, is reported from four- 
teen establishments in nine states. These are in New 
York, Buffalo, and Brooklyn, N. Y. ; two in Philadel- 
phia, Pa.; Baltimore, Md.; New Orleans, La.; Cincin- 
nati, Cleveland, and Franklin, O. ; Louisville, Ivv. ; St. 
Louis, Mo.; Chicago. 111.; St. Paul, Minn. They have 
Magdalen asylums for maidens, industrial schools for 
reclaiming young truant girls, protectories for young 
girls, reformatories for girls, and parochial schools. The 
number of sisters, novitiates, and lay-sisters is probably 
from 350 to 400, with 2500 or more penitents and girls 
under their charge. The “Third Order of St. Teresa, 
composed of reformed penitents who remain for life,” 
and reported in New York and St. Louis, appears to be 
under the supervision and patronage of this community. 
See Barnum, Romanism, etc., p. 328. 

Shepherd, Jacob R., a Methodist Episcopal min- 
ister, was born near Halifax, Pa., April 3, 1788. He was 
converted in 1814, admitted into the itinerancy in the 
Baltimore Conference in 1821, and served the Church 
effectively until 1830, when his health gave way, and 
he took a superannuated relation. As his strength per- 
mitted, he still went about doing good. He died Sept. 
4, 1846. Air. Shepherd possessed powers of mind above 
mediocrity, was a good and useful preacher, and died in 
the faith. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , iv, 100. 

Shepherd, James, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Westfield, Mass., Dec. 14, 
1802. 1 n 1833 he was received on trial into the New Eng- 
land Conference, was ordained deacon in 1835, and elder 
in 1837. He coutinued to labor without intermission un- 
til seized with an illness which terminated his life, May 
22. 1855. See Minutes of A nnual Conferences , 1856, p. 41. 

Shepherd, J ohn, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born in Pennsylvania Nov. 7, 1789. 
11c was licensed to preach in Illinois about 1823, and 
received on trial into the Illinois Conference in 1836. 
His ministerial labor lasted twenty-four years; and in 
1860 the Southern Illinois Conference granted him a 
superannuated relation. He died about twenty days 


after, in November, 1860. He was “a faithful minister, 
remarkable for his punctuality, and greatly beloved.” 
See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1861, p. 217. 

Shepherd, Moses, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was admitted into the Illinois Con- 
ference in 1851. Of frail health, he husbanded his pow- 
ers, and was thus able to somewhat extend his labors, 
lie died (while presiding elder of the Joncsborough Dis- 
trict, Southern Illinois Conference) Sept. 20, 1862. See 
Minutes of Annual Conferences, 1862. p. 211. 

Shepherd, Vincent, a Methodist Episcopal min- 
ister, was born in Wantage, Sussex Co., N. J., October, 
1808. He was licensed to exhort Nov. 4, 1832; and as 
local preacher, Feb. 23, 1833. In the same year he was 
received on trial in the Philadelphia Conference, and 
appointed to Milford Circuit; in 1834 to Essex, in 1835 
to llockaway, in 1836 to Easton, and in 1837 ordained 
elder and appointed to Smyrna. In 1838-39 he was 
transferred to the New Jersey Conference, and stationed 
in Plainfield; in 1840, Belvidere; in 1841, New Bruns- 
wick; in 1842-43, Jersey City; and in 1844-45, Rah- 
way, where his health failed, and he took a supernumer- 
ary relation. He died July 1, 1848. Air. Shepherd was 
a good preacher, a diligent student, and a faithful pastor. 
See Minutes of Annual Conferences, iv, 320. 

Shepherd -kings, a series of foreign rulers in 
Egypt, whose domination must have occurred about the 
time of the sojourn of the Hebrews there. The relation 
of these two classes to each other, and to the other 
Egyptians, is so interesting, if not intimate, especially 
to the Biblical student, that our treatment of the subject 
under Egypt and IIyksos requires a somewhat fuller 
consideration of this topic. The discussion of it began 
as early as the days of Josephus, who, in fact, gives ns, 
in two controversial passages, nearly all the information 
we possess on the question. He professes to cite the 
exact words of Manetho, and says, in substance ( Apion , 
i, 14, 15), that the IIyksos (a name which he etymolog- 
ically interprets as meaning “ Shepherd-kings”) were 
an ignoble people, who invaded Egypt from the East 
(evidently meaning that they were Arabs) during the 
reign of Tima?us (a king nowhere else mentioned), and 
eventually established one of themselves, named Sala- 



the Assyrians; but that after a domination of 511 
years these people were attacked by “ the kings of 
Theba'is and the other parts of Egypt” (language which 
proves the contemporaneousness of the Theban line at 
least), who, under a king named Alisphragmuthosis, 
subdued them, and that his son Thummosis finally 
drove them out of the country. The extract from 
Manetho further states that these refugees were the 
builders of Jerusalem, a statement with which Jose- 
phus joins issue, as identifying them with the He- 
brews; but the language may, perhaps, be referred to 
the Canaanites who fortified Jehus in the interval be- 
tween the Exodus and the time of David. Josephus 
then proceeds to recount the kings of Egypt after the 
expulsion of the IIyksos, beginning with Tethmosis; 
and the list is evidently that of Manetho’s eighteenth 
dynasty beginning with Amosis. In the other passage 
(ibid. 2*6), Josephus cites a story from Manetho to the 
effect that the Jewish lawgiver. Moses, was the same 
as a priest, Osarsiph of Heliopolis, whom a degraded 
leprous caste of the Egyptians made their ruler in an 
insurrection, and invited the escaped Shepherds hack 
to Egypt, where they ravaged the country and com- 
mitted all sorts of atrocities. The Egyptian king un- 
der whom this revolt occurred is given as Amenophis, 
the father of Sethos-Ramses, and the son of Rhampses, 
names which clearly point to Menephtah I, of the nine- 
teenth dynasty. The narrative goes on to state, how- 
ever, that as soon as Amenophis, who at the time of 
the outbreak was absent in Ethiopia, returned with his 
! army, he totally defeated and expelled the rebels. This 


SIIEPIIERD-KINGS 


CG3 


SIIEPIIERD-KINGS 


account, of course, Josephus violently controverts: but 
there is no occasion to doubt its accuracy except as to 
the evidently malicious anil arbitrary identification of 
these leprous insurrectionists with the Hebrews. The 
most casual reader cannot fail, as Josephus intimates, 
to note the contradiction in Mnnetho, if he meant to 
make out an identity of the Jews with both the Hyk- 
sos and the rebels, since the Shepherds had been totally 
expelled long before the date of the lepers, and the He- 
brews had but one exodus. In connection with these 
excerpts from Manctho, Josephus cites passages from 
Chivremon and others bearing upon the same subject, 
hut they contain nothing of importance to our purpose. 
M'e are not concerned here to refute, whether indig- 
nantly or coolly, either part of this migration as a gar- 
bled account of t lie departure of the Israelites out of 
Egypt; our only object is to ascertain, if possible, its 
chronological position with reference to the Exodus. 
We know of no positive method for doing this but by a 
direct comparison of the dates of the two events, as 
nearly as they can be historically, or rather chronolog- 
ically, determined. Unfortunately the uncertainty of 
many of the elements that enter into the settlement of 
this early portion of both the Egyptian and the Biblical 
chronology forbids any absolute satisfaction on this 
point. If, however, we may trust to the accuracy of 
the conclusions recently arrived at, we may, with toler- 
able safety, set down the sojourn of the Hebrews in 
Egypt as continuing I5.C. 1874-1058, and the rule of 
the llyksos as lasting B.C. 2003-1470; in other words, 
the entire period of 210 years during which the He- 
brews were in Egypt was contemporaneous with that 
of the llyksos, and about the middle of the latter. 
Some writers have claimed (Birch, Egypt, p. 131) that 
the name IJaainses (or L’ameses), one of the “treasure 
cities,” built by the Israelites in their period of bondage 
(Exod. i, 11), is conclusive proof that the oppression 
took place under the Kamessidae (nineteenth dynasty, 
B.C. 130*2); hut this is inconsistent with the fact that 
Goshen is called “the land of Kameses” (Gen. xlvii, 11) 
in the time of Joseph (B.C. 1874). 

The only information we have of the llyksos from 
other ancient writers on Egypt consists of such slight 
notices in the fragments of Manctho as the following 
by Africanus: “Fifteenth dynasty — six foreign Phoe- 
nician kings, who also took Memphis. They likewise 
founded a city in the Sethroitc nomc, advancing from 
which they reduced the Egyptians to subjection;” 
“Sixteenth dynasty — thirty other Shepherd-kings;” 
“Seventeenth dynasty — forty-three other Shepherd- 
kings, and forty- three Theban Diospolites together.” 
Instead of this Eusebius has simply “Seventeenth dy- 
nasty— (four) foreign Plneuiciaii Shepherd-kings (broth- 
ers), who also took Memphis. . . . They founded a cit}- 
in the Sethroitc nome, advancing from which they sub- 
dued Egypt.” There are a few indications in the Bib- 
lical records which have been mostly overlooked in 
this discussion, but which to our mind go far towards 
confirming this relative position of the two periods. 
In the first place, we are expressly told that in the 
time of Joseph “every shepherd was an abomination 
unto the Egyptians” (Gen. xlvi, 34). This shows that 
the Shepherd invasion had occurred before that date, 
as it seems to he the only reasonable explanation of so 
deep an abhorrence. In the second place, however, it 
is clear, not only from the entire narrative, hut espe- 
cially from the fact, that the Israelites were placed in 
Goshen, evidently as a break-water against these for- 
eign irruptions, that the llyksos had not yet gained 
the upper-hand, at least in Memphis, where the capital 
of Joseph’s Pharaoh seems to have been located; and 
this accords with the language of Josephus above, 
which implies that the capture of Memphis did not 
occur till an advanced period in the Shepherd line, 
perhaps the beginning of the sixteenth dynasty. It 
is true, Josephus seems to locate the first. Shepherd- 
king at Memphis, but ho betrays the inaccuracy of 


this expression by adding immediately that the king 
in question built Avaris as his capital; and the table 
of dynasties shows that the Memphitic dynasty con- 
tinued till about the beginning of the Shepherd dy- 
nasty XVI. Indeed, the change in the policy of the 
Egyptians towards the Hebrews ( Exod. i, 8 ), which 
took place B.C. cir. 1738, singularly accords with the 
revolution in Lower Egypt at the end of the eighth 
dynasty (B.C. 1740), or the beginning of the sixteenth 
(B.C. 1755). Finally, the remark incidentally dropped 
as a reason by the “new king” for oppressing the Is- 
raelites, “ Lest, when there falleth out any war, they 
join themselves unto onr enemies, and fight against 
us, and so get them up out of t he land,” which at first 
sight seems most appropriate in the mouth of one of 
the regular Memphitic line, bears, when more closely 
examined, strongly in the opposite direction. So far 
as joining the enemy is concerned, there could be little 
difference : the Shepherds are supposed by some to 
have been naturally friendly towards their neighbors 
and fellow-shepherds the Hebrew's; but, on the other 
hand, we know the Hebrews were closely in alliance 
with the long -established and apparently legitimate 
native sovereigns — had been so, in fact, ever since the 
days of Abraham (Gen. xii, 16); and since the Hebrews 
had been located, as we have seen above, in Goshen 
expressly for a purpose adverse to the llyksos, we can 
hardly suppose that they had coalesced in sympathy 
or plans. The tyrant’s fear was not so much of the 
arms of the Hebrews, for they were certainly not for- 
midable soldiers, but rather lest they should seize the 
opportunity of the existing civil convulsion to escape 
from Egypt. He was not alarmed, it seems, at the 
prospect of their increasing as an invading force, such 
as w r erc the llyksos, but only lest their growing num- 
bers should warrant them in migrating bodily to some 
more comfortable region. This implies that they had 
already experienced ill - treatment or dissatisfaction. 
From what source could this have arisen? They had 
the best possible land for their vocation (Gen. xlvii, 6); 
they had enjoyed royal patronage to the full; they 
had never hitherto been oppressed by government. 
They had always been peaceable and loyal citizens. 
Why should they now be suspected and distrained? 
The jealousy, if on the part of the native regime , seems 
inexplicable; and we may add that such a rigorous 
and illegal course is not in accordance with what we 
otherwise know of the polity of the legitimate sover- 
eigns of ancient Egypt. We cannot but suspect that 
bickerings, rivalries, and animosity had long existed be- 
tween the Hebrews and the lawless, uncultivated llvk- 
sos on their frontier; and raids such as the Israelites 
afterwards experienced from their Bcdawin neighbors 
in Palestine, had, doubtless, often been made upon their 
quiet domain by these Bene-Kcdem, as Josephus vir- 
tually styles them. It was this annoyance that had 
tempted the Hebrew’s to long for a less exposed situa- 
tion; and w hen they saw’ these freebooters installed as 
lords, they might well think it high time to decamp. 
The whole conduct of the llyksos, as revealed by Jose- 
phus, shows them to have been of this domineering, 
foraging, semi-savage character. They were, in fact, 
congeners of the Canaanites, with whom the Israelites 
had henceforth a perpetual enmity, despite the tradi- 
tional comity of earlier days. No genuine Egyptian 
monarch seems capable of the barbarity of the Pharaoh 
[ of the Exodus; hut the atrocities which Josephus states 
that the llyksos perpetrated in their later invasion 
justify the belief that it was they who, in the days of 
their power, made Egypt known as “the house of bond- 
age.” The irritation and vexation caused by this sys- 
tem of petty persecution during the long contact of 
the Israelites with the llyksos in Egypt cherished as 
well as disclosed the early purpose of the former to re- 
turn to the land of their forefathers (Gen. 1, 25), ami had 
been predicted of old (xv, 13); but it was not till the 
domination of (lie latter had made it galling to an in- 


SIIEPHERD-KINGS 


669 


SHERIDAN 


tolerable degree that the resolve ripened into a fixed 
determination. Sectional jealousies and tribal ani- 
mosities of this sort are proverbially hereditary, and 
are peculiarly inveterate in the East, where they are 
so liable to be aggravated bv blood -feuds. We can 
trace distinct evidences of such a national grudge in this 
case from the time when the son of the Egyptian bond- 
woman — who was, doubtless, no other than a captive 
from these “ Sons of the East” bordering on Egypt — 
was expelled from the Hebrew homestead for mocking 
the son of the free-woman ((Jen. xxi, 9), till Moses slew 
the Egyptian task-master (Exod. ii, 12). Hagar nat- 
urally retired to the “wilderness of Beersheba” (Gen. 
xxi, 14), which was part of what was known by the 
more general name of the desert of Paran, where her 
childhood had doubtless been spent, and there contract- 
ed a marriage for her son among her kindred tribes, 
called even then part of the land of Egypt (xxi, 21). 
His descendants, the notorious Ishmaelites, who roved 
as brigands over the region between Egypt and Ca- 
naan, intensified the clannish variance, which became 
still more sharply defined between the cavalierly Esau 
and the puritan Jacob in the next generation. These 
two representative characters, indeed, both went un- 
der the common title of shepherds or herdsmen, for 
docks and herds constituted the staple of the property 
of each (xxxiii, 9); but the “cunning hunter of the 
field” evidently looked with Bedawi disdain upon his 
“simple tent -dwelling” brother as a Fellah (xxv, 27 
sq.). The collisions between the Philistine herdsmen 
and Jacob’s (ver. 17-22) seem to belong to the same 
line of difference, and may serve to remind us that 
Philistia, as the intermediate battle-ground of the ex- 
pelled Ilvksos in later times, retained in its military 
prowess and panoplied champions traces of their war- 
like encounters with the arms of Egypt. The iron 
war-chariots of the Canaanites are especially traceable 
to the Egyptian use of cavalry, and these could only 
deploy successfully in the level sea-coast and its con- 
nected plains. The fear of encountering these disci- 
plined foes on the part of the Israelites in their de- 
parture from Egypt betrays the hereditary hostility 
between them. The Amalekites who attacked the He- 
brews in the desert (Exod. xvii, 8) were- evidently a 
branch of the same roving race of Arabs in the north- 
ern part of the peninsula of Sinai, and they repeated 
the attack at the southern border of Canaan (Numb, 
xiv, 45). The ban of eventual extermination against 
them (Exod. xvii, 16) was but the renewal of the old 
enmity. It was a caravan of these gypsy traders (in- 
differently called Ishmaelites or Midianites, (Jen. xxxvii, 
28) who purchased Joseph and carried him to their 
comrades in Egypt. The second irruption of the Hyk- 
sos into Egypt, as narrated by Josephus, manifestly 
was, when stripped of its apocryphal exaggerations, 
merely one of the forays which characterized, or rather 
constituted, the guerilla system seen on various occa- 
sions to have prevailed on the southern border of Pal- 
estine, such as Saul’s raid against Amalek (1 Sam. xv, 
3), David’s expeditions from Ziklag (xxvii, 8), and the 
later marauds of the Simeonit.es (l Chron. v, 18-22). 
The date assigned to it by Josephus would be about 
B.C. 1170-50, or during the troubled judgeship of Eli, 
when the Philistines and other aborigines had every- 
thing pretty much their own way. This was some 
three centuries after the close of the Shepherd rule in 
Egypt, which ended about B.C. 1492, or during the 
judgeship of Eliud. As the route of the invading and 
retreating hordes was, of course, along the sea-coast, 
they may have marched and countermarched freely at 
any time prior to David’s reign without disturbing in 
the least the current of Hebrew annals, which at that 
period are confined to the mountain backbone of the 
country and the Jordan valley. 

The Shasiis (whose name seems to be identical with 
the last syllable of Hyksos ), with whom the monuments 
represent the Ramessidce as warring, were the Syrians 


or Canaanites of this period. Others, however, read 
the name Kheti, i. e. llittites. 

An interesting confirmation of this chronological po- 
sition of the Hebrew transmigration is found in the fact 
that horses do not appear on the Egyptian monuments pri- 
or to the eighteenth dynasty (Wilkinson, A ncient Egyp- 
tians [Atner. ed.], i, 386), having, in all probability, been 
introduced by the Bedawin Hyksos, of whom, however, 
few, if any, pictorial representations remain. Accord- 
ingly, at tiie removal of the Israelites to Egypt, in the 
early part of the Shepherd rule, we read only of asses 
and wagons for transportation (Gen. xiv, 19-23) — the 
latter, no doubt, for oxen, like those employed in the 
desert (Numb, vii, 3) ; but at the Exode, in the latter 
part of the Shepherd rule, the cavalry, consisting exclu- 
sively of chariots, formed an important arm of the mili- 
tary service (Exod. xiv, 7). The incidental mention of 
horses, however, in Gen. xlvii, 17, as a part of the Egyp- 
tian farm-stock in Joseph’s day, shows that they were 
not unknown in domestic relations at that date. 

Shepherds (French insurgents). See Pastou- 

REAUX. 

She'phi (Heb. Shephi', bareness , hence a na- 

ked hill; Sept. Zunpi v. r. Ziocpdp), the fourth named of 
the five sons of Shobal the son of the aboriginal Seir of 
Edom (1 Chron. i, 40), called in the parallel passage 
(Gen. xxxvi, 23) Sheplio (Lieb. Shepho ', 1312?, of the 
same signification; Sept. Zuxpap), which Burrington 
( Genealogies , i, 49) regards as the preferable reading. 
B.C. cir. 1920. 

Shephiphon. See Adder. 

She'pho (Gen. xxxvi, 23). See Siiephi. 

Shephu'phau (Heb. Shephuphan ' , an ad- 

der; Sept. Zuxpdi' v. r. Nt0oi;0«/t), next to the last 
named of the sons of Bela oldest son of Benjamin (1 
Chron. viii, 5), elsewhere called (perhaps more properly) 
Shephtipham (Numb, xvi, 39, A. V. “Shnpham”), Shup- 
pim (1 Chron. vii, 12, 15), and Muppini (Gen. xlvi, 21). 
See Jacob. 

She'rah (Heb. fiheerah', iTHSO, relationship , i. e. 
kinswoman [as in Lev. xviii, 17] ; Sept. Zaapci v. r. 
Zapaa), a “daughter” of Ephraim and foundress of the 
two Beth-horons and also of a town called, after her, Uz- 
zen-sherah (l Chron. vii, 24). B.C. cir. 1612. 

Sherd (Isa. xxx, 14; Ezek. xxiii, 34). See Pot- 
sherd. 

Sherebi'ah (Heb .Sherebyah', heat [Fiirst, 

sprout] of Jehovah ; Sept. Zapafiia, v. r. Zapafiiag* 
Zapafiaia, "Zapata, etc.), a prominent Levite of the 
family ofMahli the Merarite, who, with his sons and 
brethren (eighteen in all), joined Plzra’s part} 7 of return- 
ing colonists at the river Ahava (Ezra viii. 18), and 
who along with Hashabiah and ten others was commis- 
sioned to carry the treasures to Jerusalem (ver. 24, where 
they are vaguely called “chief of the priests”). B.C. 
459. He also assisted Ezra in reading the law to the 
people (Neh. viii, 7), took part in the psalm of confession 
and thanksgiving which was sung at the solemn fast 
after the Feast of Tabernacles (ix, 4, 5), and signed the 
covenant with Nehemiah (x, 12). He is again men- 
tioned as among the chief of the Levites who belonged 
to the choir (xii, 8, 24). 

She'resh (TIeb. id. but occurring only “in 

pause,” Sha'resh , root [Fiirst, union] ; Sept. No- 

prg v. r. Zovpog), second of the two sons of Machir by 
Maachah, and father of Ulam and Iiakem (l Chron. vii, 
16). B.C. ante 1658. 

Sherets. See Creeping Thing. 

Shere'zer (Zech. vii, 2). See Sharezer 2. 

Sheridan, Andrew J., a minister of the Metho- 
dist Episcopal Church, was bom in Butler County, O., 
Feb. 7, 1825, but emigrated early to Indiana. He was 


SHERIDAN 


C^O 


SIIERMAN 


converted and joined the Church in 1841, and licensed 
to preach in 185*2. lie was admitted on trial into the 
North-west Indiana Conference in 1853. after spending 
four years in the Asbury University. In 18G0 he re- 
ceived a superannuated relation, which he changed to 
that of effective in 18G5. lie was then appointed to 
Meehanicsburg Circuit, where he died, Jan. 10, 18G7. 
See Minutes of Annual Conferences . 18G7, p. 197, 

Sheridan, Thomas, L).l>., was an Irish clergy- 
man, born in the County of Cavan about 1G84. By 
the helj) of friends he was educated at Trinity College, 
Dublin, lie afterwards entered into orders, and was 
named chaplain to the lord-lieutenant, lie lost his fel- 
lowship by marriage, and set up a school in Dublin, 
which was at first successful, but was afterwards ruined 
by negligence and extravagance. His intimacy with 
Swift procured him a living in the south of Ireland in 
1725, worth about <£150; but he lost his chaplaincy and 
all hope of rising by preaching a sermon on the king’s 
birthday from the text “Sufficient unto the day is the 
evil thereof.” He exchanged his living for that of Dun- 
boy ne, but gave it up for the free school of Cavan, lie 
soon sold the school for about £400, spent the money 
rapidly, lost his health, and died Sept. 10, 1738. He 
was a good-natured, improvident man, continuing to 
the last to be a punster, a quibbler, a fiddler, and a wit. 
See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Sheridan, William, D.D., an English prelate of 
the latter part of the 17th century, was bishop of Kil- 
more and Ardagh in lG81,and v r as deprived in IG91 for 
not taking the oath at the Revolution. His w r orks con- 
sist of Sermons, etc., published in 1GG5, 4to; 1G85, 4to; 
1704, 1705, 170G, 3 vols. 8vo; 1720, 3 vols. (of vol. i, 2d 
ed.) 8vo. See Allibone, Diet . of Brit. and A mer. A u- 
thors , s. v. 

Sherlf (Arab, for noble) designates, among Moslems, 
a descendant of Mohammed through his daughter Fa- 
tima and Ali. The title is inherited both from the 
maternal and paternal side; and thus the number of 
members of this aristocracy is very large. The men 
have the privilege of wearing the green turban, the 
women the green veil; and they mostly avail them- 
selves of this outward badge of nobility (the prophet’s 
color), while that of the other Moslems’ turbans is 
white. Many of these sherifs founded dynasties in 
Africa; and the line which now rules in Fez and Moroc- 
co still boasts of that proud designation. — Chambers's 
Encyclop. s. v. 

Sheriff occurs only in Dan. iii, 2, 3, as a rendering 
in the A. V. of the Chald. "'FISH, tiphtag ' (according to 
Fiirst “a derivation from t he old Persic atipaiti= su- 
preme master [Stern, Monatsnamen, p. 190];” Sept, iir' 
iZovirnbv; Vul g. prafectus), one of the classes of court 
officials at Babylon, probably lawyers or jurists, like the 
present Mohammedan mufti, who decides points of law 
in the Turkish courts. 

Sheringham, Roni£KT,a learned fellow of Gonville 
and Caius College*, Cambridge, who was ejected during 
the Commonwealth and retired to Holland, hilt was re- 
stored in 1GG2. His w’orks were, Joma: Codex Tulmu- 
dievs de Sacrijiciis, etc. : — Diet Expiatioues , etc. (Loud. 
1618, 4 to) : — Eranequer , etc. (ibid. 1G9G, 8vo): — The 
King' 8 Supremacy Asserted (ibid. 1GG0, 1G82, 1 to): — De 
Auglornm Oriyine , etc. (Cantab. 1070, 8vo): — also Ser- 
mons, See Allibone, Did, of Brit, and A mer. A nthors, s. v. 

Sherlock, Martin, was an Irish divine and chap- 
lain to the earl of I Bristol during the latter part of the 
last century. lie left the following works: Consiglio 
ad nn Ciorane Poet a (counsel to a young poet) (Naples, 
1779, Hvo): — Letlres d'un Voyugenr A nglois (Geneva, 
1779; NeufchAtel, 1781, 8vo; in English [not by the 
author], bond. 1780, 4to); — Letters, on various subjects 
(1781. 2 vols. 12mo): — New Letters from an English 
Traveller (1781, 8vo). See Allibone, Did. of Brit, and 
A mer. A nthors , s. v. 


Sherlock, Richard, D.D., an English clergy- 
man, was born at Oxton, Cheshire, in 1G13; and was 
educated at Magdalen Hall, Oxford, and Trinity Col- 
lege, Dublin. He was minister of several parishes in 
Ireland, and afterwards became rector of Winwick, Eng- 
land. lie died in 1G89. 1 1 is -works are, A nswer to the 

Quakers' Objection to Ministers (Loud. IG5G, 4 to): — 
Quaker's' Wild Questions Answered (ibid. 1G5G, 12mo) : — 
Mercurius Christian us, or The Practical Christian (ibid. 
IG73, Hvo) : — and Sermons , etc. See Allibone, Did . of 
Brit, and A mer. A nthors, s. v. 

Sherlock, Thomas, an English prelate, was the 
son of Dr. William Sherlock (q. v.), and was born in 
London in 1G78. He early went to Eton, from which 
(about 1G93) he was removed to Cambridge, and was 
admitted into Catherine Hall. He took his degree of 
Bachelor of Arts in 1G97, and that of Master of Arts in 
1701. Between these dates he entered the ministry, 
and was appointed to the mastership of the Temple in 
1704, which he held until 1753. In 1714 he took his 
degree of Doctor of Divinity, became master of Cather- 
ine Hall and vice-chancellor of the University of Cam- 
bridge, and in 1716 was created dean of Chichester. 
He was created bishop of Bangor in 1728, of Salisbury 
in 1734; and in 1747 the see of Canterbury was offered 
to him, but he declined it on account of ill-health. The 
following year he accepted the see of London. lie died 
in 1 701. Bishop Sherlock published, in opposition to 
Dr. lloadly in the Bangorian Controversy, The Use and 
Intent of Prophecy: — Trial of the Witnesses of the Res- 
urrection of Jesus: — and a collection of his Discourses . 
The first complete edition of his works was published 
(Lond. 1830) in 5 vols. 8vo. See Chalmers, Biog. Diet . 
s. v.; Chambers's Encyclop. s. v. 

Sherlock, William, D.D., a learned English di- 
vine, was born in Southwark, London, in 1 G4 1 . educated 
at Eton, and thence removed to Peter House, Cambridge, 
in May, 1657. He was made rector of St. George’s, Bo- 
tolph Lane, London, in 16G9. In 1680 he received the 
degree of Doctor of Divinity, and in 1681 was collated to 
a prebend of St. Paul’s. He was master of the Temple 
in 1684, and had the rectory of Therfeld, Hertfordshire. 
Refusing to take the oaths at the Revolution, he was sus- 
pended ; but* complying in 1690, he was restored, ami be- 
came dean of St. Paul’s in the following year. He died 
at Hampstead, June 19, 1707, and was interred in St. Paul’s 
Cathedral. More than sixty of his publications are given, 
of which we notice the following: lJiscourse concerning 
the Knowledge of Jesus Christ, etc. (Lond. 1674, 8vo): — 
Defence and Continuation of the same (ibid. 1675, 8vo) : — 
The Case of Resistance to the Supreme Powers Stated, 
etc. (ibid. 1684, 8vo). See Chalmers, Biog. Did. s. v. 

Sherman, Charles, a Methodist Episcopal minis- 
ter, was born in Woodbury, Conn., Oct. 20, 1803. lie was 
converted in his seventeenth year, licensed as a local 
preacher in 1823, and admitted into the itinerancy in 
1830, laboring successively in Stratford and Burlington 
in the New York Conference, and Albany and Troy in 
the Troy Conference, to which he was transferred in 1834. 
In 1838 he was appointed presiding elder in Albany Dis- 
trict, in which he labored four years. In 1842, owing to 
failing health, he was appointed to Jonesville, a small sta- 
tion in Saratoga County, N. 4'.; in 1843 to Troy, where 
he died, March 10,1844. Mr. Sherman was an excellent 
preacher, clear in his method, and forcible in his manner 
of address. See A1 inntes of A nnual Conferences , iii, 582 ; 
Sprague, Armais of the A mer. Pulpit , vii, 679. 

Sherman, John (1), a Congregational minister, 
was born at Dedham, England, Dee. 26, 1613. lie was 
educated at Emmanuel College, Cambridge. He came 
to New England in 1634. preached a short time at Wa- 
tertown, and moved to New Haven, where he was made 
a magistrate ami lived until 16*14, when he accepted an 
invitation to become pastor at Watertown. There he 
labored until his death, Aug. 8, 1G85. See Sprague, 
A nnals of the A mer. Pulpit, i, 44. 


SHERMAN 


671 


SHETII 


Sherman, John (2), a Unitarian minister, was born 
in New Haven, Conn., June 30, 1772, entered Yale Col- 
lege when not far from sixteen years of age, and grad- 
uated in 1792. He studied theology partly under pres- 
ident Dwight, but mainly under Rev. David Austin, of 
Elizabeth, N. J. He was licensed to preach by the New 
Haven Association in 1790, and was ordained and in- 
stalled pastor of the First Church, Mansfield, Conn., Nov. 
15, 1797. Not long after his settlement he began to 
doubt the doctrines he had been accustomed to believe 
and preach, especially that of the Trinity. On Oct. 23, 
1805, he received a dismissal from a council called for 
the purpose, and became pastor of the Reformed Chris- 
tian Church (Unitarian) at Oldenbarneveld (Trenton 
village), N. J., March 9, 1806. After preaching a short 
time, he established an academy in the neighborhood, 
which occupied his attention for many years. In 1822 
he built a hotel at Trenton Falls, into which he removed 
the next year. lie died Aug. 2, 1828. He published, 
One God in One Person Only , etc. (1805, 8vo), the first 
formal and elaborate defence of Unitarianism that ever 
appeared in New England: — A View of Ecclesiastical 
Proceedings in the County of Windom, Conn. (1806, 8 vo) : 
— Philosophy of Language Illustrated (Trenton Falls, 

1826, 12mo): — Description of Trenton Falls (Utica, 

1827, l8mo). See Sprague, Annals of the Amer . Pulpit , 
viii, 326. 

Sherrill, Edwin Jf.nner, a Congregational minis- 
ter, was born in Shoreham, Vt., Oct. 23, 1806. His pre- 
paratory studies were completed in Middleburv, after 
which he entered Hamilton College, N. Y., whence he 
was graduated in 1832. He spent two years of study 
in Yale Theological Seminary, Mass., and one year at 
Andover Seminary. lie was ordained at Eaton, Que- 
bec, June 15, 1838, and continued in the pastoral charge 
of that church until November, 1873. Though not for- 
mally dismissed, he removed to Lee, Mass., in 1875. He 
died in the city of New York, June 13, 1877. (W. P. S.) 

Sherwood, Mary Martha, an English authoress, 
was born at Stanford, Worcestershire, July 6, 1775. In 
1803 she married her cousin, Henry Sherwood, and ac- 
companied him in 1804 to India, where she instructed 
the children of his regiment. In 1818 they returned to 
England, and in 1821 settled at Wickwar, Gloucester- 
shire, where they resided for the next twenty -seven 
years. Mrs. Sherwoods works number ninety volumes, 
of which mention is made of the following: Chronology 
of Ancient History: — Dictionary of Scripture Types. 
The remainder are largely works of fiction. See A pple- 
tons 1 Cyclop, s. v. 

Shesh. See Linen; Marble; Silk. 

She'shach (Heb.<S^esfot£ , probably an artifi- 
cial word ; Sept. Ztod k v.r. S/j^dy), a term occurring only 
in Jeremiah (xxv, 26; li, 41), who evidently uses it as a 
synonym either for Babylon or for Babylonia. Accord- 
ing to the Jewish interpreters, followed by Jerome, it 
represents b22, “ Babel,” on a Cabalistic principle called 
“ Athbash” well known to the later Jews — the substitu- 
tion of letters according to their position in the alpha- 
bet, counting backwards from the last letter, for those 
which hold the same numerical position counting in the 
ordinary way. See Cabala. Thus n represents X, 
12? represents 2, “l represents 3, and so on. It may well 
be doubted, however, whether this fanciful practice were 
as old as Jeremiah’s time; and even supposing that were 
the case, why should he use this obscure term here, when 
Babylon is called by its proper name in the same verse? 
C. B. Michaelis conjectures that "TO comes from 
shikshak, “ to overlay with iron or other plates,” 
so that it might designate Babylon as yaXK(> 7 nAo£. 
Von Bohlen thinks the word svnoiwmous with the Per- 
sian Shih-shah, i. e. “house of the prince;” but it is 
doubtful whether, at so early a period as the age of Jere- 
miah, Babylon could have received a Persian name that 


would be known in Judtea. Sir II. Rawlinson has 
observed that the name of the moon-god, which was 
identical, or nearly so, with that of the city of Abraham. 
Ur (or Hur), “might have been read in one of the an- 
cient dialects of Babylon as Shishaki," and that conse- 
quently “a possible explanation is thus obtained of the 
Sheshach of Scripture” {Herod, i, 616). Shcshach may 
stand for Ur; Ur. itself, the old capital, being taken (as 
Babel, the new capital, constantly was) to represent the 
country. 

She'shai (Heb. Sheshay’, *’1213, whitish [Gesen.] 
or noble [Fiirst] ; Sept. Nforr/, v. r. 2owi, Sotar ai, Se/ui, 
etc.), the second named of the three sons of Anak who 
dwelt in llebron (Numb, xiii, 22), and were driven 
thence and slain by Caleb at the head of the children 
of Judah (Josh, xv, 14; Judg. i, 10). B.C. 1612. 

She'shan (Heb. Sheshan', lily [Gesen.] or 

noble [Fiirst]; Sept. Somt<7v v. r. 'Sioady), a “son” of 
Ishi and “ father” of Ahlai or Atlai, among the descend- 
ants of Jerahmeel the son of Hezron ; being a represent- 
ative of one of the chief families of Judah, who, in con- 
sequence of the failure of male issue, gave his daughter 
in marriage to Jarha (q. v.), his Egyptian slave, and 
through this union the line was perpetuated (I Chron. 
ii, 31, 34, 35). B.C. post 1856. 

Sheshbaz'zar (Heb. She$hbatstsar',' m ','*l2'0'2!, from 
the Persian for worshipper of fire [Von Bohlen], or the 
Sanscrit gagvigar = “ distinguished one” [ Luzzatto] ; 
Sept. Sava/Scarctp v. r. 2avci(3acrdp> etc.), the ChaUheau 
or Persian name given to Zerubbabel (q. v.) in Ezra i, 
8. 1 1 ; v, 14, 16, after the analogy of Shadrach, Meshach, 
Abednego, Belteshazzar, and Esther. In like manner, 
also, Joseph received the name of Zaphnath-Paaneah, 
and we learn from Manetho, as quoted by Josephus 
(Apion, i, 28), that Moses’ Egyptian name was Osar- 
siph. The change of name in the case of Jehoiakim 
and Zedekiah (2 Kings xxiii, 34; xxiv, 17) may also 
be compared. That Sheshbazzar means Zerubbabel is 
proved by his being called the prince (N n biJl) of Judah, 
and governor (nrtE), the former term marking him as 
the head of the tribe in the Jewish sense (Numb, vii, 2, 
10, II, etc.), and the latter as the Persian governor ap- 
pointed by Cyrus, both which Zerubbabel was; and 
yet more distinctly by the assertion (Ezra v, 16) that 
“ Sheshbazzar laid the foundation of the house of God 
which is in Jerusalem,” compared with the promise to 
Zerubbabel (Zech. iv, 9), “The hands of Zerubbabel 
have laid the foundation of this house, his hands shall 
also finish it.” It is also apparent from the mere com- 
parison of Ezra i, 11 with ii, 1, 2 and the whole histo- 
ry of the returned exiles. The Jewish tradition that 
Sheshbazzar is Daniel is utterly without weight. — 
Smith. 

Sheshunogunde, in ITindfi mythology, is the wife 
of Waishia, second son of the first man (Puru), from 
whom the mercantile caste is descended. She was cre- 
ated by Brahma in the lands of the South. 

Sheth (Heb. id. riT), the form of two names, one 
more accurate than that elsewhere, the other doubtful. 

1. The patriarch Seth (1 Chron. i, 1). 

2. In the A. V. of Numb, xxiv, 17, Til? is rendered 
as a proper name, but there is reason to regard it as an 
appellative, and to translate, instead of “the sons of 
Sheth,” “the sons of tumult,” the wild warriors of 
Moab, for in the parallel passage (Jer. xl viii, 45) 
shaon, “ tumult,” occupies the place of sheth. T IT, sheth , 
is thus equivalent to rX’i, sheth, as in Lam. iii, 47. 
Ewald proposes, very unnecessarily, to read TUT, seth = 
rxiip, and to translate “ the sons of haughtiness” (7/ocA- 
muthssohne). Rashi takes the word as a proper name, 
and refers it to Seth the son of Adam ; and this seems to 
have been the view taken by Onkelos, who renders “he 
shall rule all the sons of men.” The Jerusalem Targum 


SIIETIIA1 


672 


SHIBBOLETH 


gives “all tlie sons of the East;” the Targnm of Jona- 
than ben-Uzziel retains the Hebrew word Sheth, and 
explains it “of the armies of (Jog who were to set them- 
selves in battle array against Israel.”— Smith. 

She'thar (11 eh. Shethar', iriL\ Persic for star, like 
a<j-i)p [ Gesen. ], or Zend shuthiao = “ commander” 
[Fiirst]; Sept. I'opcro^rtTof v. r. 'S.appiaStoq, etc.), sec- 
ond named of the seven princes of Persia and Media, 
who had access to the king’s presence, and were the first 
men in the kingdom, in the third year of Xerxes (Esth. 
i, 14). U.C.483. Comp. Ezra vii, 14 and the tTrru tu>v 
N tpowv iiriaqp oi of Ctesias (14), and the statement of 
Herodotus (iii, 84) with regard to the seven noble Per- 
sians who slew Smerdis, that it was granted to them as 
a privilege to have access to the king’s presence at all 
times, without being sent for, except when he was with 
the women; and that the king might only take a wife 
from one of these seven families. See Caksiiena; 
Esther. 

She'thar-boz'nai (Chald. Shethar' Bozeiiay ' , 
“rr, Persic = shining star [comp. Oppcrt. 
Jour. Asiatiyue, 1851, p. 400] ; Sept. SuSap-fiovZarai 
v. r. -£m\ etc.), a Persian officer of rank, having a com- 
mand in the province “on this side the river” under 
Tatnai (q. v.) the satrap (rij2), in the reign of Darius 
Hystaspis (Ezra v, 3, G; vi, G, 13). B.C. 520. lie 
joined with Tatnai and the Apharsachites in trying to 
obstruct the progress of the Temple in the time of Ze- 
ruhbabel, and in writing a letter to Darius, of which a 
copy is preserved in Ezra v, in which they reported that 
“the house of the great Hod” in J tul sea was in process 
of being built with great stones, and that the work was 
going on fast, on the alleged authority of a decree from 
Cyrus. They requested that search might be made in 
the rolls court whether such a decree was ever given, 
and asked for the king’s pleasure in the matter. The 
decree was found at Ecbatana, ami a letter was sent to 
Tatnai and Shethar-boznai from Darius, ordering them 
no more to obstruct, but, on the contrary, to aid, the el- 
ders of the Jews in rebuilding the’Temple by supplying 
them both with money and with beasts, corn, salt, wine, 
and oil, for the sacrifices. Shethar-boznai after the re- 
ceipt of this decree offered no further obstruction to the 
Jews. The account of the Jewish prosperity in vi, 
14-22 would indicate that the Persian governors acted 
fully up to the spirit of their instructions from the king. 
See Ezra. 

As regards the name Shethar-boznai, it seems to be 
certainly Persian. The first element of it appears as 
the name Shethar, one of the seven Persian princes in 
Esth. i, 14. It is perhaps also contained in the name 
Pharna-zathres (Herod, vii, G5); and the whole name 
is not unlike Sati-barzanes, a Persian in the time of 
Artaxerxes Mnemon (Ctesias, 57). If the names of the 
Persian officers mentioned in the book of Ezra could 
he identified in any inscriptions or other records of the 
reigns of Darius, Xerxes, ami Artaxerxes, it would he 
of immense value in clearing up the difficulties of that 
hook. — Smith. “The Persian alliteration of the name 
in cuneiform characters was probably Chitrabarshana , 
a word which the Creeks would have most properly 
rendered by SirpcffiapZumi c (comp, the yiaSupfivvZu- 
vai of t lie Sept.). Chitrabarshana would be formed 
from chit r<t, 4 race,’ ‘ family,’ and barshana , a cognate 
form with the Zend berez, ‘splendid”’ (Speaker's Com - 
mentary, ad loc.). 

She'va (lleh. text Sheyn', margin Shcva', 

in Sam.), the name of two Hebrews. 

1. (Sept. v. r. I'/rouX ; Vulg. Sue.) Last named 
of the four sons of Caleb hen-Ilezron by his concubine 
Maarhah. He was the “father,” i. e. founder or chief, 
of Maehhena and Cibea (1 Ohron. ii, *19). B.C. cir. 16 12. 

2. (Sept. Eovati v. r. ’Itro The scribe or royal 


secretary of David (2 Sam. xx, 25); elsewhere called 
Seraiah (2 Sam. viii, 17), Shislia (1 Kings iv, 3), and 
Sliavsha (l Chron. xvi, 18). 

Shew-bread. See Siiow-bread. 

Shiahs. See Siiii i es. 

Shib'boleth (llcb. Shibbo'leth , rbsr). After 
Jephthah had beaten the Ammonites, the men of Ephra- 
im were jealous of the advantage obtained by the tribes 
beyond Jordan, and complained loudly that they had 
not been called to that expedition. Jephthah answer- 
ed with much moderation; but that did not prevent 
the Ephraimites from using contemptuous language 
towards the men of Gilead. They taunted them with 
being only fugitives from Ephraim and Manassch, a kind 
of bastards that belonged to neither of the two tribes. 
A war ensued, and the men of Gilead killed a great 
number of Ephraimites; after which they set guards 
at all the passes of Jordan, and when an Ephraimite who 
had escaped came to the river-side and desired to pass 
over, they asked him if he were not an Ephraimite? 
If ho said No, they bade him pronounce Shibboleth ,* but 
he pronouncing it Sibboleth (q. v.), sustituting b or D 
for b, according to the diction of the Ephraimites, they 
killed him. In this way there fell 42,000 Ephraimites 
(Judg. xii). See Jkimitiiah. 

The word Shibboleth, which has now a second life in 
the English language in a new signification, has two 
meanings in Hebrew: (1) an ear of corn (Gen. xli, 
etc.) ; (2) a stream or flood : and it was, perhaps, in the 
latter sense that this particular word suggested itself 
to the Gileadites, the Jordan being a rapid river. The 
word, in the latter sense, is used twice in Psa. Ixix, in 
verses 2 and 15. where the translation of the A. V. is 
“the Hoods overflow me,” and “let not the water-/?ooc? 
overflow me;” also in Isa. xxvii, 12 (“channel”), Zech. 
iv, 12 (“branch”). If in English the word retained its 
original meaning, the latter passage might be trans- 
lated “ let not a shibboleth of waters drown me.” There 
is no mystery in this particular word. Any word be- 
ginning with t lie sound sh would have answered equal- 
ly well as a test. 

The above incident should not he passed over with- 
out observing that it affords proof of dialectical varia- 
tions among the tribes of the same nation, and speaking 
the same language, in those early days. There can be 
no wonder, therefore, if we find in later ages the same 
word written different ways, according to the pronunci- 
ation of different tribes, or of different colonies or resi- 
dents of the Hebrew people; whence various pointings, 
etc. That this continued is evident from the peculiar- 
ities of the Galihean dialect, by which Peter was dis- 
covered to be of that district (Mark xiv, 70). Before 
the introduction of vowel-points (which took place not 
earlier than the Gth century A.D.) there was nothing 
in Hebrew to distinguish the letters Shin and Sin, so 
it could not be known by the eye in reading when h 
was to he sounded after s, just as now in English there 
is nothing to show that it should he sounded in the 
words sugar , Asia , Persia ; or in German, according to 
the most common pronunciation, after s in the words 
Spracke t Spiel, Sturm, Stiefel , and a large class of sim- 
ilar words. It is to be noted that the sound sh is un- 
known to the Greek language, as the English th is un- 
known to so many modern languages, lienee in the 
Sept, proper names commence simply with s which in 
Hebrew commence with sh ; and one result has been 
that, through the Sept, and the Vulg., some of these 
names, such as Samuel, Samson, Simeon, and Solomon, 
having become naturalized in the Greek form in the 
English language, have been retained in this form in 
the English version of the Old Test. 1 lencc*, likewise, 
it is a singularity of the Sept, version that in the pas- 
sage in Judg. xii, G the translator could not introduce 
the word “Shibboleth” and has substituted one of its 
translations, c rra\v£, “an ear of corn,” which tells the 


SIIIBMAH 


673 


SHIELD 


original story by analogy. It is not impossible that 
this word may have been ingeniously preferred to any 
Greek word signifying “stream,” or “Hood,” from its 
first letters being rather harsh-sounding, independently 
of its containing a guttural. — Calmet; Smith. See 
Gunther, De Dialect. Trihuum Jrnhe, Ephraim , et Benja- 
min (Lips. 17H). See Hebrew Language. 

Shib'mah (Numb, xxxii, 38). See Sibmah. 

Shi'cron [some Shic'ron] (lleb. Shikron ', 
drunkenness [as in Ezek. xxiii,33; xxxix, 19; but F first 
says fruitfulness ]; Sept. v. r. 'AKKapwvd [imi- 

tating the H directive]), a town near the western end 
of the northern boundary of Judah, between Ekron and 
Mt. Baal ah towards Jabneel (Josh, xv, 11). It seems to 
have been in Dan, as it is not enumerated among the cities 
of Judah (ver. 21-63). The Targum gives it as SMka- 
ron, and with this agrees Eusebius ( Onomast . s.v. Saya>- 
pdv), though no knowledge of the locality of the place 
is to be gained from his notice. Neither Schwarz (Pal- 
est. p. 98) nor Porter (Ilandb. for Pal. p. 275) has dis- 
covered any trace of it. It is, perhaps, the present 
ruined village Beit Shit, about half-way between Ekron 
and Ashdod. 

Shidders, in Hindu mythology, is a class of good 
genii, or devetas, not to he identified with the devs of 
the Persians, which are evil genii. 

Shield is the rendering in the A. V. of the four fol- 
lowing Hebrew words, of which the first two are the 
most usual and important; likewise of one Greek word. 

1. The tsinndh (H2^, from a root “3^, to protect ) 
was the large shield, encompassing (Psa. v, 12) and 
forming a protection for the whole person. When not 
in actual conflict, the tsinndh was carried before the 
warrior (1 Sam. xvii, 7, 41). The definite article in the 
former passage (the shield, not “ a shield” as in the A. V.) 
denotes the importance of the weapon. The word is 
used with “spear,” rdmach (1 Chron. xii, 8, 14; 2 Chron. 
xi, 82, etc.), and chanith (1 Chron. xii, 34) as a formula 
for weapons generally. 

2. Of smaller dimensions was the magen (1573, from 
■}33, to corer'), a buckler or target, probably for use in 
hand-to-hand fight. The difference in size between this 
and the tsinndh is evident from 1 Kings x, 16, 17; 2 
Chron. ix, 15, 16, where a much larger quantity of gold 
is named as being used for the latter than for the for- 
mer. The portability of the magen may be inferred 
from the notice in xii, 9, 10; and perhaps also from 2 
Sam. i, 21. The word is a favorite one with the poets 
of the Bible (see Job xv, 26; Psa. iii, 3; xviii, 2, etc.). 
Like tsinndh , it occurs in the formulated expressions for 
weapons of war, but usually coupled with light weapons, 
the bow (2 Chron. xiv, 8; xvii, 7), darts, nVj (xxxii, 5). 




Ancient Egyptian Phalanx. (From the monuments.) 


3. What kind of arm the shelet (ZjVili) was it is im- 
possible to determine. By some translators it is ren- 
dered a “ quiver,” by some “ weapons” generally, by oth- 
ers a “shield.” Whether either or none of these is 
correct, it is clear that the word had a very individual 
sense at the time; it denoted certain special weapons 
taken by David from Hadadezer, king of Zobah (2 Sam. 
viii, 7 ; 1 Chron. xviii, 7), and dedicated in the temple, 
where they did service on the memorable occasion of 
Joash’s proclamation (2 Kings xi, 10; 2 Chron. xxiii, 
9), and where their remembrance long lingered (Cant, 
iv, 4). From the fact that these arms were of gold, it 
would seem that they cannot have been for offence. In 
the two other passages of its occurrence (Jer. li, 11; 
Ezek. xxvii, 11) the word has the force of a foreign arm. 

4. In two passages (1 Sam. xvii, 45; Job xxxix, 23) 
kidon (1Vr3), a dart , is thus erroneously rendered. 

To these we may add socherdh («"Hnb, “buckler”), 
a poetical term, occurring only in Psa. xci, 4. 

Finally, in Greek, SvptoQ (probably a door , hence a 
large shield) occurs metaphorically once (Eph. vi, 16). 

Among the Hebrews the ordinary shield consisted 
of a framework of wood covered with leather; it thus 
admitted of being burned (Ezek. xxxix, 9). The magen 
was frequently cased with metal, either brass or copper; 
its appearance in this case resembled gold, when the 
sun shone on it (1 Macc. vi, 39), and to this rather than 
to the practice of smearing blood on the shield we may 
refer the redness noticed by Nahum (ii, 3). The sur- 
face of the shield was kept bright by the application of 
oil, as implied in Isa. xxi, 5; hence, Saul’s shield is de- 
scribed as “not anointed with oil,” i. e. dusty and gory 
(2 Sam. i, 21). Oil would be as useful for the metal as 
for the leather shield. In order to preserve it from the 
effects of weather, the shield was kept covered except 
in actual conflict (Isa. xxii, 6 ; comp. (Aesar, B. G. ii, 21 ; 
Cicero, Nat. Dear, ii, 14). The shield was worn on the 
left arm, to which it was attached by a strap. It was 
used not only in the field, but also in besieging towns, 
when it served for the protection of the head, the com- 
bined shields of the besiegers forming a kind of testudo 
(Ezek. xxvi, 8). Sliields of state were covered with 


SHIELD 


SHIELDS 


C74 



Modern Oriental Shields and Spears. 

a, larpe Arabic shield ; b, small do. : c, side view of the same ; d, larjre Turk- 
ish shield; e, Mameluke shield ; /, Arabiau spear; ff, Turkish ; h, Mam- 
eluke. 

beaten gold. Solomon made such for use in religious 
processions (1 Kings x, 16, 17); when these were car- 
ried off they were replaced by shields of brass, which, 
as being less valuable, were kept in the guard-room 
(xiv, 27), while the former had been suspended in the 
palace for ornament. A large golden shield was sent 
as a present to the Homans when the treaty with them 
was renewed by Simon Maccabieus (1 Macc. xiv, 24; 
xv, 18) : it was intended as a token of alliance ((jvpfio- 
Xoi' ri/c (rvppcixiag, Josephus, Ant. xiv, 8, 5); but 
whether any symbolic significance was attached to the 
shield in particular as being the weapon of protection is 
uncertain. Other instances of a similar present occur 
(Sueton. Calif). 16), as well as of complimentary presents 
of a different kind on the part of allies (Cicero, Verr. 2 
Act. iv, 29, 67). Shields were suspended about pub- 
lic buildings for ornamental purposes (1 Kings x, 17 ; 1 
Macc. iv, 57 ; vi, 2). This was particularly the case with 
the shields (assuming shelet to have this meaning) 
which David took from Iladadezer (2 Sam. viii, 7 ; Cant, 
iv, 4), and which were afterwards turned to practical 
account (2 Kings xi, 10; 2 Chron. xxiii, 9). The Gam- 
madim similarly suspended them about their towers 
(Ezek. xxvii, 1 1). See Gammadim. In the metaphor- 
ical language of the Dible the shield generally repre- 
sents the protection of God (e. g. Psa. iii, 3; xxviii, 7); 
but in xlvii, 9 it is applied to earthly rulers, and in Eph. 
vi, 16 to faith. — Smith. 

The large shield (aairic. clipeus) of the Greeks and 
Homans was originally of a circular form, and in the 
Homeric times was large enough to cover the whole 
body. It was made sometimes of osiers twisted togeth- 
er, sometimes of 
wood, covered 
with ox-hides sev- 
eral folds thick. 
On the centre was 
a projection called 
6fi<pd\or, limbo , or I 
boss, which some- 
times terminated 
in a spike. After 
the Homan soldier 
received pay, the 
clipeus was dis- 
continued for the 
sent inn, SrvpFnc, of 
oval or oblong 
form, and adapted 
to the shape of 
the body. Signif- 
icant devices on 
shields are of 
great antiquity. 
Each Homan sol- 
dier had his name 
Greek Shield. inscribed on his 




Roman Shields. (From Trajan’s Column.) 


shield. Paul (Eph. vi, 16) uses the word Supeoc rather 
than d<77r/t;. because he is describing the armor of a Ro- 
man soldier. See Kit to, Piet. Bible, note at Judg. v, 8. 
See Armor. 

Shields, Alexander, was an English clergyman 
and minister of St. Andrew’s. He was chaplain to the 
Cameronian Regiment in 1689. In August, 1699, he 
accompanied the second Darien expedition, and died, 
“worn out and heart-broken,” in Jamaica (see Macaulay, 
Hist, of Eng. [1861], V, xxiv). His published works 
are, A Hind Let Loose ; or, A Historical Representation 
of the Church of Scotland (1687, 8vo) : — History of the 
Scotch Presbytery (1691, 4to), an epitome of the fore- 
going : — Elegy on the Death of James Ilemcick (1688) : — 
A n Inquiry into Church Communion (2d ed. Edinb. 1747, 
sm.8vo) : — The Scots Inquisition (1745, sm. 8vo) : — also 
Sermons. See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Au- 
thors, s. v.; Darling, Cyclop. Bibliog. s. v. 

Shields, Hugh K., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born near Elk Ridge Church, Giles County, Tenn., Dec. 
10, 1806. He was converted to God in his seventeenth 
year, and, feeling his call to the work of the ministry, 
lie entered upon a course of study with that object in 
view. He graduated at an academy near Elk Ridge, 
then at Jackson College, Columbus, Tenn., studied the- 
ology privately, and was licensed by West Tennessee 
Presbytery in 1836, and ordained by the same in 1837. 
He subsequently preached at the following places: 
Bethberei, Hopewell, Savannah, Elk Ridge, Corners- 
villc, Richland, Campbellsville, and Lynnville — all in 
Tenn. 1 1 is active ministry lasted twenty-seven years; 
two years before his death, Sept. 13, 1865, he was dis- 
abled from work by a severe accident. Mr. Shields 
was a zealous and faithful minister of the Gospel, ex- 
hibiting to a high degree the characteristics of one who 
walked with God. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac , 
1866, p. 362. (J. L. S.) 

Shields, James, a Presbyterian minister, was born 
in Pittsburgh, Pa., Dec. 11, 1812. He graduated at the 
Western University of Pennsylvania, at Pittsburgh, in 
1830, studied theology four years under the instruction 
of Revs. Mungo Dick and John Presslv, D.D., was li- 
censed April 2, 1831, by the Associate Reformed Pres- 
bytery of Monongahela, and ordained in 1835 as pastor 
of the congregations of Fermanagh and Tusearora, Ju- 
niata County, Pa. Here be labored with varied success 
until the spring of 1859, when, on account of failing 
health, he censed to preach in the Tusearora branch of 
his charge, and gave all his time to the Fermanagh 
congregation. He died Aug. 19, 1862. Mr. Shields pos- 


SIIIER-THURSDAY 


675 


SIIIIIOR 


sesscd a mind of more than ordinary power, and his ex- 
ercises were always of a high order. See Wilson, Presb. 
Hint. A Inuinac , 1864, p. 354. (J. L. S.) 

Shier-Thursday. See Surkr-Tiiursday. 

Shie-tsih, gods of the land and grain among the 
Chinese. There is an altar to these deities in Pekin, 
which is square, and only ten feet high, being divided 
into two stories of only five feet each. Each side of 
the square measures fifty-eight feet. The emperor 
alone has the privilege of worshipping at this altar, and 
it is not lawful to erect a similar one in any part of the 
empire for the use of any of his subjects. — Gardner, 
Faiths of the World , s. v. 

Shigga'ion (Heb. Skiggayon ', yPSI!?; Sept. xpaX- 
fioQ ; Yulg. Psalmus [Psa. vii, l]),a particular kind of 
psalm, the specific character of which is not now known. 
In the singular number the word occurs nowhere in 
Hebrew except in the inscription of the above psalm; 
and there seems to be nothing peculiar in that psalm to 
distinguish it from numerous others, in which the au- 
thor gives utterance to his feelings against his enemies 
and implores the assistance of Jehovah against them, 
so that the contents of the psalm justify no conclusive 
inference as to the meaning of the word. In the in- 
scription to the ode of the prophet llabakkuk (iii, 1), the 
word occurs in the plural number; but the phrase in 
which it stands, 7 al shigyonoth, is deemed almost unani- 
mously, as it would seem, by modern Hebrew scholars, 
to mean “after the manner of the shiggaion.” and to be 
merely a direction as to the kind of musical measures 
by which the ode was to be accompanied. This being 
so, the ode is no real help in ascertaining the meaning 
of shiggaion; for the ode itself is not so called, though 
it is directed to be sung according to the measures of 
the shiggaion. Indeed, if it were called a shiggaion, 
the difficulty would not be diminished ; for, indepen- 
dently of the inscription, no one would have ever thought 
that the ode and the psalm belonged to the same spe- 
cies of sacred poem. And even since their possible 
similarity has been suggested, no one has definitely 
pointed out. in what that similarity consists, so as to 
justify a distinct classification. In this state of uncer- 
tainty, it is natural to endeavor to form a conjecture as 
to the meaning of shiggaion from its etymology; but, 
unfortunately, there are no less than three rival ety- 
mologies, each with plausible claims to attention. Ge- 
senius and Fiirst (s. v.) concur in deriving it from Had 
(the Piel of rtYU), in the sense of magnifying or extol- 
ling with praises; and they justify this derivation by 
kindred Syriac words. Shiggaion would thus mean a 
Ifymn or psalm; but its specific meaning, if it have 
any, as applicable to Psa. vii, would continue unknown. 
Ewald {Die poetischen Bucher des alten B unites , i, 29), 
Rbdiger (s. v. in his continuation of Gesenius’s The- 
saurus')^ and Delitzsch ( Commentar iiber den Psalter, i, 
51), derive it from in the sense of reeling , as from 
wine, and consider the word to be somewhat equivalent 
to a dithyrambus ; while De Wette {Die Psahnen , p. 34), 
Lee (s. v.), and Hitzig {Die zioolf kleinen Propheten , p. 
26) interpret the word as a psalm of lamentation, or a 
psalm in distress, as derived from Arabic, llupfeld. on 
the other hand {Die Psahnen , i, 109, 199), conjectures 
that shiggaion is identical with lngguion (Psa. ix, 16), in 
the sense of poem or song, from n^n, to meditate or com- 
pose; but even then no information would be conveyed 
as to the specific nature of the poem. As to the inscrip- 
tion of llabakkuk’s ode, bv, the translation of 

the Sept, is ptra ipdrjg, which conveys no definite mean- 
ing. The Vulgate translates pro ignorantiis , as if the 
word had been shegagoth , ti'ansgressions through igno- 
rance (Lev. i v, 2, 27 ; Numb, xv, 27 ; Eccles. v, 6), or she- 
gidth (Psa. xix, 13), which seems to have nearly the 
same meaning. Perhaps the Vulgate was influenced 
by the Targuni of Jonathan, where shigyonoth seems to 


be translated XT’! In the A. V. of Ilab. iii, 1, the 
rendering is “ upon shigionoth,” as if shigionoth were 
some musical instrument. But under such circum- 
stances \il (bz?) must not be translated “ upon” in the 
sense of playing upon an instrument. Of this use there 
is not a single undoubted example in prose, although 
playing on musical instruments is frequently referred 
to; and in poetry, although there is one passage (Psa. 
xcii, 3) where the word might be so translated, it might 
equally well be rendered there “to the accompaniment 
of” the musical instruments therein specified; and this 
translation is preferable. Some writers even doubt 
whether \tl signifies “ upon” when preceding the sup- 
posed musical instruments Gittith,Machalath, Neginath, 
Nechiloth, Shushan, Shoshannim (Psa. viii, 1 ; lxxxi, 
1 ; lxxxiv, 1 ; liii, 1 ; lxxxviii, 1 ; lxi, 1 ; v, 1 ; lx, 1 ; 
xlv, 1 ; Ixix, 1 ; lxxx, 1). Indeed, all these words are 
regarded by Ewald {Poet. Bitch, i, 77) as meaning mu- 
sical keys, and by Fiirst (s. vv. ) as meaning musical 
bands. Whatever may be thought of the proposed sub- 
stitutes, it is very singular, if those six words signify mu- 
sical instruments, that not one of them should be mention- 
ed elsewhere in the whole Bible. — Smith. See Psalms. 

Shigmu, in Chinese mythology, was the mother 
of Fo. While still a virgin she ate a lotus-flower, found 
while bathing, and was thus impregnated by some deify. 
The fruit of this intercourse was Fo. 

ShiTion (Heb. Shion', *pX‘ v z5, ruin ; Sept. 'Enovct 
v.r.Stidi'; Vulg. Seon; A. V. originally “Shion”), a town 
of Issachar, named only in Josh, xix, 19, where it occurs 
between Haphraira and Anaharatb. Eusebius and Je- 
rome {Onotnast.') mention it as then existing “near 
Mount Tabor.” A name resembling it at present in 
that neighborhood is the Khirbet Shi'in of Dr. Schulz 
(Zimmermann, Map of Galilee , 1861), one and a half 
mile north -ivest of Deburieh. This is probably the 
place mentioned by Schwarz {Palest, p. 166) as “ Sain 
between Duberich and Jafa.” The identification is, 
however, very uncertain, since Shi’in appears to con- 
tain the A in, while the Hebrew name does not. — Smith. 
On this and other accounts we prefer the position of the 
modern village esli-Shajerah , a little north of Tabor 
(Robinson, Pesearches, iii, 219, note). 

Shi'hor (Heb. Shichor', *"nrPlT [thus only in Josh, 
xiii, 3 ; 1 Chron. xiii, 5], or *”fmd [Jer. ii, 18], or ‘l'niT 
[Isa. xxiii,3], dark; once with the art. Josh, 

xiii, 3, and once with the addition “of Egypt,” 1 Chron. 
xiii, 5; Sept. Pijuiv, t) aioiKijrog, opia, and perafioXtj ; 
Vulg. Sihor , Nilus, furius turbulus , and aqua turbula ; 
A. V. “ Sihor” in all passages except 1 Chron. xiii, 5), 
one of the names given to the river Nile, probably aris- 
ing from its turbid waters, like the Greek MiXac (Gesen. 
Thesaurus , s. v.). Several other names of the Nile may 
be compared. NcTXoc; itself, if it be, as is generally sup- 
posed, of Iranian origin, signifies “the blue,” that is, “the 
dark” rather than the turbid ; for we must then compare 
the Sanscrit Allah, “blue,” probably especially “dark 
blue,” also even “black,” as “black mud.” The Arabic 
azrak, “blue,” signifies “dark” in the name Bahr el- 
Azrak, or Blue River, applied to the eastern of the two 
great confluents of the Nile. Still nearer is the Latin 
Melo , from ptXac, a name of the Nile, according to Festus 
and Servius (ad. Virg. Georg. iv,291 ; sEn. i,745; iv,246) : 
but little stress can be laid upon such a word resting on 
no better authority. With the classical writers it is the 
soil of Egypt that is black rather than its river. So, 
too, in hieroglyphics, the name of the country, Kem, 
means “the black;” but there is no name of the Nile 
of like signification. In the ancient painted sculptures, 
however, the figure of the Nile-god is colored differently 
according as it represents the river during the time of 
the inundation, and during the rest of the year; in the 
former case red, in the latter blue. See Nile. 

There are but three occurrences of Sliihor unqualified 


SHIHOR 


676 


SIIILIIIM 


in the Bible, and but one of Sliihor of Egypt, or Shihor- I 
mizraim. In 1 Chron. xiii, 5 it is mentioned as the | 
southern boundary of David’s kingdom: ‘‘David gath- 
ered all I>rael, from Shihor of Egypt even unto the en- 
tering of Hamath.” At this period the kingdom of Is- 
rael was at the highest pitch of its prosperity. David’s 
rule extended over a wider space than that of any other 
monarch who ever sat upon the throne; and, probably, as 
an evidence of this fact, and as a recognition of the fulfil- 
ment of the divine promise to Abraham (Gen. xv, 18) — 
“ l T nto thy seed have 1 given this land, from the rirer 
of Eyypt unto the great river, the river Euphrates” — 
the sacred historian may here have meant the Nile. 
Yet, in other places, where the northern boundary is 
limited to the “entrance of llamath,” the southern 
is usually *■ the torrent of Egypt,” that is, Wady (bni, 
not “H: ) el-Arish (Numb, xxxiv, 5; 1 Kings viii, G5). 
There is no other evidence that the Israelites ever spread 
westward beyond Gaza. It may seem strange that the 
actual territory dwelt in by them in David’s time should 
thus appear to be spoken of as extending as far as the 
easternmost branch of the Nile; but it must be remem- 
bered that more than one tribe, at a later period, had 
spread beyond even its first boundaries, and also that 
the limits may lie those of David’s dominion rather than 
of the land actually fully inhabited bv the Israelites. 
The passage m .losh. xiii. 3 is even more obscure. The 
sacred writer is describing the territory still remaining 
to be conquered at the close of his life, and when about 
to allot the conquered port ion to the tribes: “This is 
the land that yet remaincth: all the borders of the 
Philistines and all Geshnri, from Shihor which is before 
‘in the face of,’ not ‘east of,’ hut rather ‘on 
the front of’) Egypt, even unto the borders of Ekron 
northward.” Keil argues that Wadv el-Arish. and not 
the Nile, must here he meant (Comment, ad loc.) ; but 
Ins arguments arc not conclusive. Joshua may have 
had the Lord’s covenant-promise to Abraham in view; 
if so, Shihor means the Nile; but. on the other hand, 
if he had the boundaries of the land as described by 
Moses in Numb, xxxiii, 5 sq. in view, then Shihor must 
mean Wady el-Arish. It. is worthy of note that, while 
in all the other passages in which this word is used it 
is anarthrous, here it has the article. This does not. 
seem to indicate any specific meaning; for it can scarce- 
ly be doubted that here and in 1 Chron. xiii, 5 the word 
is employed in the same sense. The use of the article 
indicates that the word is, or has been, an appellative — 
rather the former if we judge only from the complete 
phrase. It must also be remembered that Shihor-miz- 
raim is used interchangeably with Nahal-mizrnim. and 
that the name Shihor-libuath, in the north of Palestine, 
unless derived from the Egyptians or the Pluenieian 
colonists of Egypt, on account of the connection of that, 
country with the ancient manufacture of glass, shows 
that t lie word Shihor is not restricted to a great river. 
That the stream intended by Shihor unqualified was a 
navigable river is evident from a passage in Isaiah, 
where it is said of Tyre, “ And by great waters, the sow- 
ing of Shihor, the harvest of the river ( Year, “*50) [is] 
her revenue” (xxiii, 3). Here Shihor is eidicr the same 
as, or compared with, Yeor, generally thought to be the 
Nile. In Jeremiah the identity of Shihor with the Nile 
seems distinctly stated where it is said of Israel, “And 
now what hast thou to do in the way of Egypt to drink 
the waters of Shihor? or what hast thou to do in the 
way of Assyria to drink the waters of the. river?” i. e. 
Euphrates (ii, 18). Gosenius (uf sup.) considers that 
Silmr, wherever used, means the Nile; and upon a care- 
ful consideration of the several passages, and of the ety- 
mology of the word, we are of the opinion that it can- 
not appropriately be applied to Wady el-Arlsh, and must 
therefore he regarded as a name of the river Nile (see 
Jerome, ml Isa. .r.riii, 3 ; Peland, Palwsf, p. 28G). — Kit- 
to; Smith. See ltivi-:ii ok E<;yh*. 


Shi'hor-lib'nath (Ileb. Shichor' JJbnath' , *vrP'j 
r ! “ 5 , literally, black of ic lateness ; Sept, o 2ei wp [v. r. 
Niwn] icnl AifiavaS; Yulg. S ichor et Labanath), a local- 
ity mentioned only in Josh, xix, 2G as one of the land- 
marks of the southern boundary of Asher in the vicinity 
of Carmel and Beth-dngon. By the ancient translators 
and commentators (as Peshi to- Syriac, and Eusebius and 
Jerome in the Ouomasticon ) the names are taken as be- 
longing to two distinct places. But modern commenta- 
tors. beginning perhaps with Masius, have inferred from 
the fact that Shihor alone is a name of the Nile, that 
Sliihor-lilmath is likewise a river. Led by the mean- 
ing of Libnath as “white,” they interpret the Sliihor- 
lilmath as the glass river, which they then naturally 
identify with tiie Bel us (q. v.) of Pliny (//. A’, v, 19), 
the present Xahr Xaman, which drains part of the plain 
of Akka, and enters the Mediterranean a short distance 
below that eitv. This theory, at once so ingenious and 
so consistent, is supported by the great names ofMichae- 
lis (Suppl. No. 2402) and Gosenius ( Thcsmir. p. 1393); 
but the territory of Asher certainly extended far south 
of the Naman. Boland’s conjecture of the Crocodile 
Rirer, probably the Xahr Zerka, close to Kaisariyeh, is, 
on the other hand, too far south, since Dor was not 
within the limits of Asher. The Sliihor-lilmath, if a 
stream at all, is more likely to have been the little 
stream (marked on Van de Velde’s Map as Wady Mill eh. 
but as Wady en-Xebra on the specimen of the Ordnance 
Survey in the Pal. Ex pi or. Quarterly for Jan. 1875) 
which enters the Mediterranean a little south of Athlit. 
The sand there is white and glistening, and this, com- 
bined with the turbid character of a mountain-stream, 
agrees well with the name. 

Shiites (Arab. Shiah, Shiat, “ a party or faction”), 
the name given to a Mohammedan sect by the Sunnites 
(q. v.). or orthodox Moslems. The Shiites never assume 
that name, but call themselves A l- A deliat, “ Sect of the 
Just Ones.” The principal difference between the two 
consists in the belief of the Shiites that the imamat, or 
supreme rule, both spiritual and secular, over all Mo- 
hammedans was originally vested in All Ibn Abi Taleb, 
and has been inherited by his descendants, to whom it 
now legitimately belongs. They are subdivided into 
five sects, to one of which, that of Haidar, the Persians 
belong. They believe in metempsychosis and the de- 
scent of God upon his creatures, inasmuch as he, omni- 
present, sometimes appears in some individual person, 
such as their imams. Their five subdivisions they 
liken unto five trees with seventy branches; for their 
minor divisions of opinions, on matters of comparatively 
unimportant points of dogma, are endless. In this, how- 
ever, they all agree — that they consider the caliphs 
Abn-Bckr, Omar, and Othman — who are regarded with 
the. highest reverence by the Sunnites — as unrighteous 
pretenders and usurpers of the sovereign power, which 
properly should have gone to Ali direct from the proph- 
et. They also reject the Abassidc caliphs, notwith- 
standing their descent from Mohammed, because they 
did not belong to Ali’s line. — Chambers's Encyclop. s. v. 

Shil'lli (1 1 eb. Sluicin', ^nP'CT, probably armed, from 
nVr, a missile, Sept. NoAi, v. r. la\ai, SaXaXo, etc.), 
the father of Azubah. king Jehoshaphat’s mother (2 
Kings xxii, 42, 2 Chron. xx, 31). B.C. ante 940. 

Shil'llim (lleb. Shilchim', armed men [Ge- 

scniiis],or t /iiMN/rmw [Eiirst]; Sept. NfXffi/ 1 v. r. £«Xi/), 
a city in the southern portion of the tribe of Judah, 
! mentioned between Lebaoth and Ain, or Ain-Bimmon 
(Josh, xv, 32). In the list of Simeon’s cities in Josh, xix, 
Shamhe n (vor. G) occupies the place of Shilhim, and in 
1 Chron. iv. 31 this is still further changed to Shaaraim. 
It is ditlieult to say whether these are mere corruptions 
or denote any actual variations of name. The juxtapo- 
sition of Shilhitn and Ain has led to the conjecture that 
they are identical with the Salim and /Enon of John the 
i Baptist; but their position in the south of Judah, so re- 


SHILLEM 


677 


SHILOH 


mote from the scene of John’s labors and the other 
events of the Gospel history, seems to forbid this. — 
Smith. 

Shil'lem (lleb. Shillem ', Dblli, requital, as in Deut. 
xxxii, 35; Sept. SsXXf/ju, v. r. 2oXX?/^, SuA A//ju, ete.), a 
son of Naphtali (Gen. xlvi, 24; Numb, xxvi, 49) ; else- 
where (1 Chron. vii, 13) called Suallum (q.v.). 

Shil'lemite (lleb. collectively with the article 
hash-Shillemi' , "'■CS’i’PI; Sept. 6 2eXA//jui), the patro- 
nymic title of the descendants of Shillem (q. \\), the sou 
of Naphtali (Numb, xxvi, 49). 

Shilo'ah (Isa. viii, 6). See Siloam. 

Shi'loh appears in the A. Y. as the rendering of two 
words in the Hebrew, the one apparently a person, and 
the other certainly a place. (In the following treatment 
of both we avail ourselves, in part, of the statements 
found in the dictionaries of Kitto, Smith, and Fairbairn.) 

1. (Heb. Shiloh', n'P’ r w3 ; on the meaning and ren- 
derings, see below.) This is a peculiar epithet which 
was applied, in the prophetic benediction of Jacob on 
his death-bed (Gen. xlix, 10), to a future personage, and 
which has ever been regarded by Christians and by the 
ancient Jews as a denomination of the Messiah. The 
oracle occurs in the blessing of Judah, and is thus word- 
ed: “The sceptre shall not depart from Judah, nor a 
lawgiver [p£IT2, a scribe, recording the decree uttered 
by the sovereign] from between his feet [the position 
frequently depicted on the Egyptian monuments as oc- 
cupied by the secretary of important persons], until 
Shiloh come "IS’] : and unto him the 

gathering [•"trip?, obedience , as in Prov. xxx, 17] of the 
people shall be.” The term itself, as well as the whole 
passage to which it belongs, has ever been a fruitful 
theme of controversy between Jews and Christians, the 
former, although they admit, for the most part, the Mes- 
sianic reference of the text, being still fertile in expe- 
dients to evade the Christian argument founded upon 
it. Neither our limits nor our object will permit us to 
enter largely into the theological bearings of this pre- 
diction ; but it is, perhaps, scarcely possible to do justice 
to the discussion as a question of pure philology with- 
out at the same time displaying the strength of the 
jChristian interpretation, and trenching upon the prov- 
ince occupied by the proofs of Jesus of Nazareth being 
the Messiah of the Old-Test, prophecies. See Messiah. 

I. Etymological and Grammatical Considerations . — 
Before entering upon the more essential merits of the 
question, it may be well to recite the ancient versions 
of this passage, which are mostly to be referred to a 
date that must exempt them from the. charge of an un- 
due bias towards any but the right construction. In- 
fluences of this nature have, of course, become operative 
with Jews of a later period. 

1. The version of the Sept, is peculiar: “A prince 
shall not fail from Judah, nor a captain out of his loins, 
twff dv i'XBy rd caroKeiptva avrcp, until the things come 
that are laid up for him In some copies another read- 
ing is found, oj car omit at, for whom it is laid up, mean- 
ing, doubtless, in the kingdom — for whom the kingdom 
is laid up in reserve. This rendering is probably to be 
referred to an erroneous lection, lb 1CX, ichose it is. 
Targ. Onk., “One having the principality shall not be 
taken from the house of Judah, nor a scribe from his 
children’s children, until the Messiah come, whose the 
kingdom is.” Targ. Jerus., “ Kings shall not fail from 
the house of Judah, nor skilful doctors of the law from 
their children’s children, till the time when the king’s 
Messiah shall come.” Syriac, “The sceptre shall not fail 
from Judah, nor an expounder from between his feet, 
till he come whose it is;” i. e. the sceptre, the right, the 
dominion. Arabic, “The sceptre shall not be taken 
away from Judah, nor a lawgiver from under his rule, 
until he shall come whose it is.” Samaritan, “The scep- 
tre shall not be taken away from Judah, nor a leader 


from his banners, until the Pacific shall come.” Latin 
Vulgate, “ The sceptre shall not be taken away from 
Judah, nor a leader from bis thigh — donee veniet qui 
mittendus est, until he shall come who is to be sent.” 
This is supposed to be founded upon mistaking in the 
original nb^J for nb^'J, which latter comes from the 
root nbu , signifying to send; yet it is adopted by some 
scholars as the truest reading, the present form of the 
word being owing, in their opinion, to the error of tran- 
scribers in substituting »“I for H. 

2. Various other etymologies have been assigned to 
the term, the advocates of which may be divided into 
two classes — those who consider the word as a 

compound, and those who deem it a radical or simple 
derivation. 

(t/.) Those of the first class coincide, (I) for the most 
part, with the ancient interpreters, taking n?* 1 '!? as 
equivalent to ib w3, and this to be made up of lT, the con- 
traction of TCX, who, and *ib, the dative of the third 
personal pronoun. The rendering, accordingly, in this 
case, would be cujus est, or cui est , whose it is, to whom it 
belongs, i. e. the sceptre or dominion. This interpreta- 
tion is defended by Jahn (Einl. in d. A. T. i, 507, and Uaf. 
Mes. ii, 179). It is approved also by Hess, De Wette, 
Krummacher, and others, including Turner ( Companion 
to Genesis, ad loe.). The authority of the ancient ver- 
sions, already alluded to, is the principal ground upon 
which its advocates rely. But to this sense it is a seri- 
ous objection that there is no evidence that the abbre- 
viation of “iTX into 'O was known in the time of Moses. 
There is no other instance of it in the Pentateuch, and 
it is only in the book of Judges that we first meet with 
it. However the rendering of the old translators may 
be accounted for, there is no sufficient ground for the 
belief that the form in question was the received one in 
their time. If it were, we should doubtless find some 
traces of it in existing manuscripts. But though these 
copies exhibit the reading “'b^T. not one of them gives 
lbr, and but very few Plbli\ which Hengstenberg deems 
of no consequence, as the omission of the Yod was merely 
a defective way of writing, which often occurs in words 
of similar structure. An argument for this interpreta- 
tion has, indeed, been derived from Ezek. xxi, 27. where 
the words “ until he shall come whose is the dominion,” 
*ib "ITS, are regarded as an obvious para- 
phrase of lb 115 or !“tbiT. But to this it may be an- 
swered that while Ezekiel may have had the present 
passage in his eye, and intended an allusion to the char- 
acter or prerogatives of the Messiah, yet there is no 
evidence that this was designed as an interpretation of 
the name under consideration. The reasons, therefore, 
appear ample for setting aside, as wholly untenable, the 
explication of the time here propounded, without ad- 
verting to the fact that the ellipsis involved in this 
construction is so unnatural and violent that no parallel 
to it can be found in the whole Scriptures. 

(2.) Another solution proposed by some expositors is, 
to derive the word nb" 1 ^ from b^UX child, and the suffix 
H for *i. This will yield the reading “until his (Judah’s) 
son or descendant, the Messiah, shall come.” Thus the 
Targ. Jon., “Until the time when the king’s Messiah 
shall come, the little one of his sonsy This view is 
favored hv Calvin (ad loc.) and by Knapp (J)ogm. ii, 
138), and also by Dathe. There is, however, no such 
word in known Hebrew, and as a plea for its possible 
existence reference is made to an Arabic word, shalil , 
with the same signification. The only philological de- 
fence is (with Luther) to resolve l"lb' v sI5 into a synonym 
with mb IS, after-birth (Deut. xxviii, 57), rendered 
“young one;” hut this requires ns to adopt the unnat- 
ural supposition that the term properly denoting the 
stcundiues , or the membrane that encloses the firms, is 


SIIILOII 


678 


SHILOH 


taken for the foetus itself. Besides, this exposition has 
an air of grossness about it which prompts its immediate 
rejection. 

(b.) The second class consists of those who consider 
as a radical or simple derivative. Among these, 
again, there are two principal opinions. 

(1.) By translating the word as it is translated every- 
where else in the Bible, viz. as the name of the city in 
Ephraim where the ark of the covenant remained dur- 
ing such a long period, a sufficiently good meaning is 
given to the passage without any violence to the Hebrew 
language, and, indeed, with a precise grammatical par- 
allel elsewhere (comp. ni'l' 1 Sam. iv, 12). The 

simple translation is, “The sceptre shall not depart from 
Judah, nor the ruler's staff from between his feet, till he 
shall go to Shiloh.” In this ease the allusion would be 
to the primacy of Judah in war (Judg. i, 1, 2; xx, 18; 
Numb, ii, 3; x, 14), which was to continue until the 
Promised Land was conquered, and the ark of the cove- 
nant was solemnly deposited at Shiloh. Some Jewish 
writers (especially Aben-Ezra) had previously main- 
tained that Shiloh, the city of Fphraim, was referred to 
in this passage; and Scrvetus had propounded the same 
opinion in a fanciful dissertation, in which he attributed 
a double meaning to the words (Pe Trinit ate , ii, Cl, 
ed. 1553), But the above translation and explana- 
tion, as proposed and defended on critical grounds, was 
first suggested in modern days by Teller {Notre Critical 
et Exeyctiae in Gen. xlix, Dent, xxxiii, Exod. x v, Judy, r 
[llal.eet Helmstadii, 17(16]), and it has since, with modi- 
fications, found favor with numerous learned men belong- 
ing to various schools of theology, such as Eichhorn, 
Hitzig, Tuch, Bleek, Ewald, Delitzsch, Bbdiger, Kalisch, 
Luzzatto, and Davidson. 

'The objections to this interpretation are set forth at 
length by Hengstenberg ( Christoloyy of the Old Test, ii, 
1 r/, 41, Keith’s transl.), and the reasons in its favor, with 
an account of the various interpretations which have 
been suggested by others, are well given by Davidson 
( Introduction to the Old Test , i, 199-210). As they are 
not of a grammatical character, they will be considered 
below. 

(2.) But an exposition of far more weight, both from 
its intrinsic fitness and from the catalogue of distin- 
guished names which have espoused it, is that which 
traces the term to the root quievit . to rest, to be at 

peace, and makes it equivalent to pacifcator, peace- 
maker, or pacifier, and the allusion is either to Solomon, 
whose name has a similar signification, or to the expected 
Messiah, who in Isa. ix, 6 is expressly called the “ Prince 
of Peace.” This was once the translation of (lesenius, 
though lie afterwards saw reason to abandon it (see his 
Lexicon, s. v.), and it is at present the translation of 
Hengstenberg in his Christoloyy of the Old Test. p. 69. 
and of the grand rabbi Woguo, in bis translation of 
Genesis, a work which is approved and recommended 
by the grand rabbins of France (Le Pentateuque, on les 
Cinq /Acres de Mo’ise [Paris, I860]). 

But, on the other hand, if the original Hebrew text 
is correct as it stands, there are three objections to this 
translation, which, taken collectively, seem fatal to it. 
1st. The word Shiloh occurs nowhere else in Hebrew as 
the name or appellation of a person. ‘2d. The only other 
Hebrew word, apparently, of tbe same form, is Giloli 
(JoHi. xv, 51 ; 2 Sam. xv, 12); and this is the name of a 
city, not of a person. 3d. The idea conveyed by the 
proposed interpretation is that of causiny or effectiuy 
peace — an idea for which the Hebrew has an appropri- 
ate; form of expression, and which, in this word, would 
normally be nVr*3, mashleh. Tbe actual form, how- 
ever, is diverse from this; and though several examples 
are adduced by the advocates of this interpretation of 
analogous derivations from a tri literal root, as HT': 
from -'"II, from from “lip, etc., yet 

it is certain that the original characteristic of this form 


is a passive instead of au active sense, which iWiy re- 
quires according to the exegesis proposed. We must 
therefore understand the term as expressing the gentle 
character of the Messianic sway in general. The other 
objections will be considered below. 

(3.) The next best translation of Shiloh is perhaps 
that of “rest,” from the same root, taken passively. 
The passage would then run thus: “The sceptre shall 
not depart from Judah . . . till Test come [till he come 
to rest], and the nations obey him;” and the reference 
would be to tbe Messiah, who was to spring from the 
tribe of Judah. This translation deserves respectfid 
consideration, as having been ultimately adopted by 
Gesenius. It was preferred by Voter, and is defended 
by Knubel in the Exeyelisches Handbuch (Gen, xlix, 10), 
This import of the term, however, would rather require 
a fern, than a masc. form. It likewise remains subject 
to the objection that Shiloh occurs nowhere else in the 
Bible in this sense, and that the import thus becomes 
neither apt nor noteworthy. To say nothing of other 
objections, one circumstance seems decisive, so clearly 
decisive that Hofmann has given up this last inter- 
pretation and embraced the common one. pronouncing 
the interpretation which makes Shiloh a city “the most 
impossible of all.” The circumstance is this, that Shiloh, 
originally Sliilon, and making its adjective “Shilonite,” 
belongs to a class of nouns in Hebrew which are never 
appellatives or common nouns, but always proper names 
either of persons or of places; and this is unaffected by 
a variation in the etymology, whether we derive it, with 
almost all authorities, from H2 ( shcildh ), or whether, 
with Bbdiger, from the root of Solomon’s name, ebu 
( shaldm ), reckoning that there has been a change of the 
letters in and «. 

(4.) A less obvious and more difficult derivation is 
from with a substitution of “> for N; thus yielding 

the meaning of the desired or expected one. This, how- 
ever, is so much more inapt, that we may say the choice 
lies between two of the above interpretations, which we 
accordingly discuss more in detail. 

II. Exeyetical and Historical Considerations . — 1. On 
the Interpretation of Shiloh as the 1 Veil-known Place of 
that Name . — The explanation of this, as given by Bbdi- 
ger, in his continuation of Gesenius’s Thesaurus, is “ that 
the tribe of Judah should go before the other tribes, and 
have the supreme command in the war waged with the 
Canaan ites (see Judg. i, 1 sq. ; comp, xx, 18; Numb, ii, 
1 sq. ; x, 14); and that this war could not be said to 
be finished and the victory to be gained till after the 
victorious Jews had entered Shiloh, a city standing al- 
most in the centre of the land west of Jordan, and had 
there set up the sacred ark; then, at length, when the 
peoples of Canaan had been reduced to obedience, Judah 
ceased to be leader in the war, and the tranquillized 
country was portioned out among the tribes.” It is not 
very easy to see how this paraphrase arises out. of the 
words of the text; nor, should we even admit that it 
does, do we seem to have attained to any very satisfac- 
tory meaning. But, apart from any special objections 
to some particular exposition, we urge against this 
translation : 

(1.) There is no evidence of the existence of the city 
Shiloh in the time of Jacob, or, if it did exist, it was 
not improbably known by some other name; for we 
shall have occasion to suggest that t he name of the 
city was derived from this prophecy. Nay, granting 
that it existed under the name of Shiloh, it is a gratuitous 
assertion that Jacob spoke to his sons of a place so en- 
tirely unimportant, with which we have no reason to 
think that he or they ever had any connection. In 
this respect it stands entirely on a different footing 
from the city Shechem, to which there is thought to 
be a reference in Gen. xlviii, 22. 

(2.) There is something which requires to be ex- 
plained in the expression “ until he come to Shiloh.” 


SHILOH 


679 


SHILOH 


Supposing it to refer to the place to which the taber- 
nacle was brought by Joshua, what had Judah to do 
with this “conning to Shiloh” more than the other 
tribes, “Judah, of which tribe Moses spake nothing con- 
cerning priesthood?” At the very least, it suggests a 
grave doubt whether Judah really was meant to be the 
subject of the verb; the more so that it would have 
been extremely easy to write the sentence so as to 
leave no room for doubt as to the grammatical con- 
struction. 

(3.) A violent surprise is given to us by this limita- 
tion of Judah’s lead or rule to the time anterior to his 
coming to Shiloh. The prophecy of Jacob was in ref- 
erence to things which should befall them in the last 
days (Gen. xlix, 1). Whether we incline to a detinitc 
or to an indefinite interpretation of this phrase, it is 
much at variance with a prophecy of Judah’s suprem- 
acy for forty -five or fifty years, from the Exode till 
the coming of the tribes to Shiloh; of which period 
thirty-eight years were spent in a state of suspension 
from the favor of God, so far as this was manifested by 
church privileges. Was this all the pre-eminent bless- 
ing of Judah? Was a sudden termination to be put 
to the triumphal progress, “conquering and to con- 
quer,” which we anticipated as we read ver. 8, 9? Or, 
at least, must a veil be thrown over what remained of 
it subsequent to the arrival at Shiloh ? 

(4.) So we come to the question, Does this interpre- 
tation harmonize in any way with the facts of the 
case? Delitzsch is well aware that, on this interpre- 
tation, the prophecy implies, first, that Judah had “the 
sceptre and the lawgiver” till it came to Shiloh, and, 
secondly, that this coming to Shiloh was a turning- 
point in its history; and it is incomprehensible to us 
how he persuades himself into affirming these two 
propositions. As to the former, we have not space for 
discussing the varieties of translation proposed; but, 
for the sake of argument, let us concede as much as 
possible in the way of cutting down and restricting the 
meaning of these terms. So far as we are aware, the 
pre-eminence was assigned to Judah only in one re- 
spect, during the march through the wilderness — that it 
took the first place among the tribes in the order of 
marching (Numb, ii and x); unless we add that the 
same order was observed in the consecration-offerings 
at the tabernacle (ch. vii). But in this we see no 
more than a very limited amount of honor ; while the 
power and authority .were first in the hands of Moses 
and Aaron the Levites, and next in those of Joshua the 
Ephraimite. Let any one compare the dying blessing 
of Moses with this blessing of Jacob, and sec how brief 
is the notice of Judah (a tribe certainly the most nu- 
merous, but not possessed of any other practical advan- 
tage), and how full are the blessings pronounced upon 
Levi and Joseph. We do not either deny or under- 
value the honor of the position assigned to Judah ; but 
we say it was of little value unless taken in connection 
with this prophecy and regarded as a prognostic or a 
pledge of its fulfilment in due time, or, at most, a prel- 
ude to it and a preparation for it. The proper fulfil- 
ment began in David’s time; and “the sceptre and the 
lawgiver” are to be sought for in his line, to which 
the promises were made of an unending dominion. But 
before David came to hold the sceptre, the city Shiloh 
had ceased to be the religious centre of the people of 
Israel, and its mention in this prophecy would be in- 
explicable. As to the second proposition involved in 
this interpretation, there is not even a shadow of evi- 
dence that the coming to Shiloh was a turning-point 
in the relations of the tribe of Judah cither to the oth- 
er tribes or to the heathen. Whatever primacy Judah 
had enjoyed already, one may plausibly assert that it 
continued to enjoy, it was the first to be sent to the 
wars after Joshua’s death, yet alone and not command- 
ing the others (Judg. i, 1, 2); it was sent foremost into 
the battle in the civil war with Benjamin (xx, 18), and 
it furnished the first of the judges (iii, 9). These are 


certainly small matters, but they are quite as great 
as any which can be named anterior to the arrival at 
Shiloh. Still they are in perfect harmony with the 
fact that the time for Judah’s sceptre and lawgiving 
had not yet come, as the age of the judges was the pe- 
riod in which Ephraim was the leading tribe (comp, 
viii, 1-3; xii, 1— G ; Psa. Ixxviii). 

The difficulties in the way of adopting this transla- 
tion arc, indeed, so ver)’ great that in his commentary 
Tuch suggested a modification which has met with 
some little support. He supplies an indefinite subject 
to the verb — “The sceptre shall not depart from Judah 
. . . as long as [people] come to Shiloh;” that is to say, 
forever. The objections to this rendering are so over- 
whelming that we may be sure it never would have 
been proposed but for the perplexities of those w r ho 
deny that Shiloh is a person. There is an awkward- 
ness in supplying this subject, there is an entire misap- 
prehension of the meaning of the conjunction; and the 
use of the phrase “ as long as people come to Shiloh,” 
in the sense “forever,” has no parallel in Scripture, and 
appears most unnatural when we look at it in the light 
of history. 

2. On the Reference of the Name Shiloh to the Messi- 
ah . — The old and simple interpretation is that the sov- 
ereignty in Israel belongs to Judah, and that this pre- 
rogative shall not be exhausted till the promised Sav- 
iour comes, who shall bring all the blessings to the 
highest perfection. 

a. Arguments in Favor of this Interpretation. — (1.) 
The name is now generally admitted to be an adjective 
meaning “ peaceful a title most appropriate to our Sav- 
iour, and confirmed by parallels or imitations to which 
it will be necessary to refer. It is highly probable that 
there is a close connection between the name of the 
person here and that of the place which is mentioned 
in the other texts in which the word occurs; and this 
connection indicates the circumstance by which many 
have been led to adopt the explanation which we have 
rejected, owing to its appearance in all the other texts; 
they felt that the place Shiloh was not to be thrust out 
of this text without good reason. Now the fact is not 
that there is here a reference to the place, for all at- 
tempts to make this intelligible and satisfactory have 
failed, but that in the place there is a reference to this 
text. Shiloh was the name given to the place where 
the ark found a place of rest for itself (or, otherwise, 
the place which already bore this name w r as selected as 
the resting-place of the ark), because it expressed the 
hope of the people that in this place they should find 
“one greater than the Temple;” Shiloh the place re- 
minded them continually of this prophecy of Shiloh 
the person , and kept alive the faith of the people in 
“him that was to come.” Similar to this is the name 
Jerusalem, “possession of peace,” or “foundation of 
peace,” to which the ark was afterwards carried as Je- 
hovah’s place of rest forever, which he had desired, and 
in which the Lord whom they sought should suddenly 
come to his temple. This reference to the person Shi- 
loh in the name of the place where the people met with 
God has a parallel in the history of the most prominent 
persons after the sceptre and the lawgiver actually 
came to Judah. For David named his son and suc- 
cessor Solomon, a name which in Hebrew bears a much 
closer analogy to Shiloh than the English reader might 
suppose, both being also the same in meaning. David 
had been restrained from building the Temple because 
he had shed blood abundantly, but he gave the name 
Solomon to him who was to build it, for he was to be 
“a man of rest, ’’and the Lord was to give “peace anti 
quietness to Israel in his days” (1 C’hron. xxii, 8, 9). 
This also illustrates the following words of the prophe- 
cy, “ until the Peaceful One comes, and unto him shall 
the gathering of the peoples be.” The peoples, in the 
plural, arc admitted by almost universal consent to be 
the heathen nations, attracted by this Peaceful One 
who gives them rest (see Matt, xi, 28-30; xxiii, 37). 


SIIILOH 


680 


SIIILOH 


This thought comes out more and more beautifully as 
the precise signification of the gathering of the peo- 
ples is contemplated; whether it be “attachment,” or 
“ trust,” or, most simply and probably, “filial obedience,” 
as in Prov. xxx, 17. 

(2.) Those alone who acknowledge Shiloh to be a 
person bring the blessing of Jacob into harmony with 
i lie promises in the patriarchal period. There is dif- 
ference of opinion, of course, as to the clearness with 
which Christ’s person was then revealed. But there 
is no room for doubting that two subjects were brought 
prominently forward — the multiplication of their seed, 
and the prospect that out of them should come a bless- 
ing for all the nations of the world. The former sub- 
ject appears repeatedly in this chapter; but the latter 
is overlooked entirely in the other interpretation, while 
full justice is done to it in this one. Nay, the line of 
blessing had been distinctly marked out in the case of 
the three successive patriarchs; now, when the third of 
these saw that blessing expanding over twelve c ontem- 
porarg patriarchs, it was most natural that Jacob, who 
liad been so anxious to obtain it for himself, should 
name the one from whom the seed of blessing in the 
highest sense was to come. And unless we admit that 
a prerogative is granted to Judah, far different from the 
narrow concession in time and degree which is made 
bv those who understand Shiloh here to be a place, it 
will be difficult to discover any ground for the assertion 
that the chief ruler was to spring from Judah, of whom 
t he Lord had made choice for this place of power and 
honor (1 Chron. v, 2; xxviii, 4). It is true that some 
of the best living expositors of the Messianic interpre- 
tation do not think that the descent of our Lord from 
Judah is the notion conveyed in the words “from be- 
tween his feet.” But it is vain to make any difficulty 
out of this; for, speaking of each of the tribes in suc- 
cession and one by one as Jacob does, it is impossible 
that he can mean to make Shiloh belong to any other 
tribe. 

(3.) If we understand Shiloh to be a person, we see 
that the blessing pronounced on Judah is one complete 
homogeneous whole. It begins with laying emphasis 
on his name, “ He that shall be praised,” a verb which 
certainly is used habitually, it would even seem ex- 
clusively, of God ; as if to hint that there is a mysteri- 
ous fulness of blessing in Judah’s case which involves 
something more than human. It promises him all 
praise and favor from his brethren ; and in the middle 
of this it places his invincible superiority to his ene- 
mies. It compares him to a lion, in respect, of his re- 
sistless activity, and of his safety when he lies down; 
and on this metaphor it enlarges throughout a verse. 
It carries the blessing onward to its culmination in 
Shiloh: for there is no change of subject, since Shiloh 
is a part of Judah, its head and noblest part ; and there 
is no limitation in the word “ until,” which has an in- 
clusive (not an exclusive) meaning in this as in many 
passages, as much as to say, “The sceptre does not de- 
part till Shiloh comes, and of course after his coming 
there is no risk of its departure.” And so Judah, at 
whose head is Shiloh, enjoys a rest at once glorious and 
luxurious in the Promised Land, possessing all the ful- 
ness of God’s goodness, as is related of the earthly Sol- 
omon’s reign (1 Kings iv, 2 1, 25; v, 4, 5), and as shall 
be realized more nobly in the reign of the heavenly 
Solomon, whose life on earth already contrasted with 
that of his ascetic forerunner in certain respects, to 
which his enemies called attention for a malignant pur- 
pose (Luke vii,33, 31). 

(4.) This interpretation is confirmed by other texts 
referring to it. The prophecies of Balaam refer more 
than once to the blessing pronounced on Judah, the 
lion-like course of the people, the royal honor in store 
for them, and the leader by whom all the. noblest things 
were to he achieved. Especially Numb, xxiv, 17, “J 
shall see him, hut not now; I shall hchold him, hut not 
nigh ; there shall come a star out of Jacob, and a scep- 


tre shall rise out of Israel, and shall smite the corners 
of Moab, and destroy all the children of Sheth,” of tu- 
mult or of pride. Perhaps this distance of the time of 
fulfilment of the prophecy may be the reason of the ex- 
treme brevity of the blessing of Moses pronounced on 
Judah; though its brevity may be also owing to this, 
that it is an allusion to the fuller blessing of Jacob. 
Again, in the age in which the sceptre and the law- 
giver appeared in Judah, we are at a loss to know what 
earlier stepping-stone led to the language of Psa. ii and 
cx, and to that of Nathan’s prophecy of the perpetuity 
and glory of David’s line, if Shiloh be not a person : 
Psa. lxxii, in particular, is the expansion of the faith in 
his glorious and peaceful reign. In the prophecies of 
Isaiah there are several references to the Messiah in 
language which seems connected with this one; the 
very name “ Prince of Peace” (ix, 6) is an interpreta- 
tion of Shiloh. And in Ezek. xxi, 30-32 (25-27 in the 
English) there is a reference which few critics have 
hesitated to acknowledge, and whose influence upon 
the ancient translators must vet be noticed : “And thou 
profane wicked prince of Israel, whose day is come, 
when iniquity shall have an end, thus saith the Lord, 
Bomove the diadem and take off the crown ; this shall 
not be the same: exalt him that is low, and abase him 
that is high. I will overturn, overturn, overturn it: 
and it shall be no more, until he come whose right it is; 
and I will give it him.” To mention no more, there are 
names given to our Lord in the New Test, which must 
be traced back to this prophecy : such are found in 
Eph. ii, 14, “For he is our peace,” and especially in 
Kcv. v, 5, “ the Lion of the tribe of Judah.” 

, b. Objections to this Interpretation. — These have been 
, greatly exaggerated. They are chiefly of a negative 
character. 

(1.) Kurtz, following the earlier opinion of Hofmann 
in his Weissagung mid Erfiillung , interposes a theoret- 
ical objection that the organic progress of prophecy in 
connection with the developments of history is unfa- 
vorable to the notion of a personal Messiah in the Pen- 
tateuch : it would not arise till the promises to the pa- 
triarchs had been realized so far as concerned the ex- 
pansion of the individual into a numerous offspring, 
when the necessity of a head would come to be felt, 
that this multitude might be led back to a unity again. 

This assumption cannot be admitted: there is a con- 
nection certainly between history and prophecy, yet it 
is nevertheless true that the latter, from time to time, 
bursts the limits which are imposed upon the former; 
so that, as we have already said, he who rejects the 
persona] Messiah in this text must be prepared for 
prophecy taking a much greater and more sudden leap 
in the age of David. Grant, too, for the sake of argu- 
ment, that Moses had no conception of a personal Mes- 
siah, there is nothing to hinder our belief that Jacob 
had been gifted enough to see it; just as, if we deny 
that Jacob saw it, we must admit that Abraham did 
see Christ's day and rejoice, unless we renounce confi- 
dence in our Lord’s testimony. Nay, we do not hold 
that the understanding of the prophets is the measure 
of the meaning of their predictions; so that our belief 
that Shiloh is the Saviour does not necessitate our be- 
lief that Jacob understood this in the way that we do. 
Vet, so far as we comprehend the circumstances, we 
know' of no reason for doubting that Jacob did expect 
a personal Saviour whom he named Shiloh; for an in- 
dividual head seems requisite for the work mentioned 
in the text, at once subduing the heathen and attracting 
them to willing obedience. Compare Psa. xviii, 40 sq., 
where the head and his work appear, when the sceptre 
of Judah came into view; also Isa. xi; Iv, 4. There is 
weight in Hengstenberg’s observation that the individ- 
ual comes strongly out in the patriarchal history on 
account of its biographical character; so that one feels 
no surprise at the mention of the personal Messiah af- 
ter reading passages like these: “1 w r ill bless thee” “In 
thee not less than “in thy seed, shall all the nations 


SIIILOH 


681 


SHILOH 


of the earth be blessed.” This is apart from any weight 
which the apostle teaches us to attach to the word in 
the singular number: “ Now to Abraham and his seed 
were the promises made; he saith not, And to seeds, 
as of many; but as of one, And to thy seed, which is 
Christ.” 

(2.) A very different objection of a most practical 
kind is that our interpretation is contradicted by facts, 
since the sceptre had departed from Judah lor centu- 
ries before Christ was born ; and the appeal is made to 
the end of the kingdom by the Babylonian captivity, 
to the continued subjection of the people to the Persian 
and the Greek governments, to the fact that even the 
Maccaba?au princes did not spring from the tribe of 
Judah, and to the thoroughly foreign nature of the rule 
of Herod and his family. 

In reply, we do not need to enter into a laborious 
discussion for the purpose of showing that something 
of Judah’s sceptre still remained. Were we to grant 
all that is alleged, the very fact that Christ arose in due 
time is proof that the sceptre had not departed from 
Judah in the course of these reverses; precisely as a 
total eclipse is no proof that the day is at an end. The 
sceptre was long of appearing in Judah; Israel had to 
wait for centuries in faitli that kings would arise in 
the line of promise, although they had not been long 
of arising in the rejected line of Esau (Gen. xvii. 1G; 
xxxv, 11; xxxvi, 31). The lapse of centuries before 
the sceptre appeared in Israel does not disturb our faith 
in this prophecy; neither need the lapse of centuries 
after it disappeared, if Judah was only kept together 
till the predicted rod should come forth of the stump 
of Jesse (Isa. xi, 1). At the worst, we rest in faith on 
Gabriel’s words to Mary — “ The Lord God shall give 
unto him the throne of his father David; and he shall 
reign over the house of Jacob forever; and of his king- 
dom there shall be no end” (Luke i, 32, 33). It is im- 
portant to observe that the facts which stumble some 
modern Christians were no stumbling-block to ancient 
Jews and Christians, to whom they were equally well 
known, and by whom translations and paraphrases were 
made in which Shiloh was, without hesitation, inter- 
preted to be the Messiah. They understood the true 
meaning of the prophecy — that it secured a kingdom 
substantially and truly perpetual, yet liable to interrup- 
tions which should seem to the world to be failures of 
God’s word, because only his children understand that 
chastisements are a part of the blessings secured to 
them by covenant. At the time when the sceptre did 
first appear in Judah the law of the kingdom on this 
point was laid down explicitly by Nathan (2 Sam. vii, 
12-1G), of which we have a more expanded statement 
throughout Psa. lxxxix. 

In a very important sense, however, the sceptre had 
not departed from Judah even during the Babylonian 
captivity and the Persian rule; for the national elders 
were always more or less recognised by these foreign 
powers, as the titles Ilesh geluthci (prince of the cap- 
tivity) and alabarch (q. v.) evince in later times. See 
Captivity; Dispersed. The authority of Zerubba- 
bel as “governor of Judah” (Hag. ii, 2) evidently rest- 
ed upon a recognition of this traditional supremacy. 
Moreover, the Jewish people well understood that this 
foreign yoke was imposed as a temporary penalty for 
their sins, and the prophecy obviously refers to a final, 
as well as total, passing-away of civil power, which, it 
is demonstrable, did not occur till after the reduction 
of Judiea to a Unman province. The restoration of 
royalty in the persons of the Asmonasan line, therefore, 
served legitimately as a link to keep alive this grant; 
and its transfer to Herod, although but a Jew by adop- 
tion, was in like manner a renewal of the prerogative. 
After the coming of Christ, the Jews themselves ac- 
knowledged that “they had no king but Ciesar” (John 
xix, 15). It would seem to have been Jehovah’s orig- 
inal intention to make the Davidie dynasty absolutely 
perpetual in a political sense, but the condition of loy- 


alty to him, which was never overlooked, having fail- 
ed, the promise was suspended, and at last finally re- 
voked so far as the nationality was concerned. Yet the 
spiritual import of the grant remained in full force, and 
shall never be repealed. Christ was the true Heir of 
David, and the supremacy, whatever it may have orig- 
inally contemplated, took, in his person, the spiritual 
phase exclusively. It is this change in the aspect of 
the Judaic sceptre that justifies the peculiar term Shi- 
loh, the Peaceful, as characterizing the new “kingdom 
of heaven,” in distinction from the vindictive and often 
sanguinary spirit of the older Judaism. 

(3.) It is alleged that we take the word Shiloh in a 
sense elsewhere unknown, and here unnecessary. The 
necessity, however, seems to ns to he proved by the im- 
possibility of resting satisfied with the other interpre- 
tation; and confessedly this necessity has been felt bv 
the vast majority of interpreters of every age, and coun- 
try, and school of opinion, always excepting open un- 
believers. We have pointed out the real and intimate 
connection of the two names, that of the person and 
that of the city; nor is there anything unusual in this 
double use of a name, of which the book of Genesis 
gives other examples in Enoch and Shecbem (iv, 17; 
xxxiii, 18, 19). If we think that the name of a city 
has been imagined erroneously here, this is no more 
than is now commonly supposed in regard to Shalem 
in ver. 1 8. 

(4.) A comparatively trifling objection is that we 
mar the simplicity of the structure of the sentence by 
introducing Shiloh as a new subject; an objection, be- 
sides, which presses with equal weight upon our oppo- 
nents, who forget that “the sceptre” or “the lawgiv- 
er.” and not “Judah,” is the original subject. 

On the above questions, see, besides the regular com- 
mentaries, and the treatises already cited, the mono- 
graphs in Latin by Stempel (E. ad O. 1610); Alting 
( Franec. 1GG2) ; Leusler ( Giess. 1 GG2 ) ; Muller (Jen. 
1GG7) ; Burger (Altd. 1710) ; Schbtrgen (F. ad O. 1718) ; 
Vriemoet ( Ultra j. 1722 ) ; Sherbaeii ( Vitemb. 1743) ; 
Huth ( Erlang. 1748 ) ; Nagel (Altd. 1767); Giilcher 
(Lips. 1774); Sixt (Altd. 1785); and in German by 
Kern (Gbtt. 1786); Bahor (Vienna, 1789); also the 
Christ. Rev. 1849, p. 285; Journ. of Sue. Lit. April, 
1857; Presb. Qnttr. Rev. April, 1861. 

2. (Heb. Shiloh', Sl'bd [Josh, xviii, 1, 8, 9, 10; xix, 
51; xxi, 2; xxii, 9, 12; Jndg. xviii, 31; xxi, 12; 
1 Sam. i, 3, 9 ; ii, 14; iii, 21 ; iv, 3, 4, 12; xiv, 3; 1 
Kings xiv, 2, 4; Jer. xxvi, Gj, or Sl2"' , d [1 Kings ii, 
27]; also Shilo', iblli [Judg. xxi, 19; 1 Sam. i, 24 ; iii, 
21 ; Psa. Ixxvii, GO ; Jer. vii, 14 ; xxvi, 9 ; xli, 5], or 
[Judg. xxi, 21 ; Jer. vii, 12]; and perhaps also S ki- 
lo n', [which does not occur], whence the gentile 

Shilonite [q. v.], “'2?^ IT [1 Kings xi, 29; xii, 15] ; in the 
Sept, usually 2>/Xw or NipXo>/t, v. r. NnXwr, NaX/j/t ; Jo- 
sephus, NiXw [Ant. viii, 7, 7 ; 1 1, 1 ; NiXorn, v, 1, 19; 2, 

9] ; Sj ]\m [v, 2, 12]; XTdg. Silo, and more rarely Selo), 
a town or village in the tribe of Ephraim, interesting 
for its sacred associations, and regarded by many as in- 
dicated in the blessing of the dying Jacob (Gen. xlix, 

10) . See the preceding article. The name was derived 
probably from SlVr, iVr, “ to rest,” and represented 
the idea that the nation attained at this place to a state 
of rest, or that the Lord himself would here rest among 
his people. Taanath -shiloh (q. v.) may be another 
name of the same place, or of a different place near it, 
through which it was customary to pass on the way to 
Shiloh, as the obscure etymology may indicate. See 
also Kurtz, Gesch.dcs A. hum/, ii, 5G9. See Ephraim, 
Tribe of. 

Shiloh was one of the earliest and most sacred of the 
Hebrew sanctuaries. The ark of the covenant, which 
had been kept at Gilgal during the progress of the 
conquest (Josh, xviii, 1 sq. ), was removed thence on 
the subjugation of the country, and kept at Shiloh from 


siiiloii 


G82 


SIIILOII 



Seiluu, from the south. (From a photograph by the Editor.) 


the last days of Joshua to the time of Samuel (ver. 
10; Judg. xviii. 31 ; 1 Sam. iv, 3). It was here the 
Hebrew conqueror divided among the tribes the por- 
tion of the west Jordan-region, which had not been 
already allotted (Josh, xviii, 10; xix. 51). In this dis- 
tribution, or an earlier one, Shiloh fell within the limits 
of Ephraim (xvi,5). The seizure here of the “daugh- 
ters of Shiloh” by the Benjamites is recorded as an 
event which preserved one of the tribes from extinc- 
tion (Judg. xxt, 19-23). The “annual feast of the 
Lord” w'as observed at Shiloh, and on one of these oc- 
casions the men lay in wait in the vineyards, and when 
the women went forth “to dance in dances,” the men 
took them captive and carried them home as wives. 
Here Eli judged Israel, and at last died of grief on 
hearing that the ark of the Lord was taken by the 
enemy (1 Sam. iv, 12-18). The story of Hannah and 
her vow, which belongs to our recollections of Shi- 
loh, transmits to us a characteristic incident in the life 
of the Hebrews (i. ] , etc. ) ; Samuel, the child of her 
prayers and hopes, was here brought up in the sanctu- 
ary, and called to the prophetic office (ii, 26; iii. 1). 
The ungodly conduct of the sons of Eli occasioned the 
loss of the ark of the covenant, which had been carried 
into battle against the Philistines, and Shiloh from that 
time sank into insignificance. It stands forth in the 
Jewish history as a striking example of the divine in- 
dignation. “Ho yc now,” says the prophet, “ unto my 
place which was in Shiloh, where 1 set niv name at 
the first, and see what I did to it, for the wickedness 
of my people Israel” (Jcr. vii, 12). Some have inferred 
from Judg. xviii. 31 (comp. Psa. lxxviii. 00 sip) that a 
permanent structure or temple had been built for the 
tabernacle at Shiloh, and that it continued there (as it 
were ainr tvnmne) for a long time after the tabernacle 
was removed to other places. Put the language in 2 
Sam. vii, 0 is too explicit to admit of that conclusion. 
Hod says there to David, through the mouth of Nathan 
the prophet. “ 1 have not dwelt in auv house since the 
time that I brought up the children of Israel out of 
Egypt, even to this day, but have walked in a tent, and 
in a tabernacle.” So in I Kings iii, 2, it is said express- 
ly that no “house” had been built for the worship of 
Hod (ill the erection of Solomon’s Temple at Jerusalem. 
It must he in a spiritual sense, therefore, that the taber- 
nacle is called a “house” or “temple” in those passages 
which refer to Shiloh. Hod is said to dwell where he 


is pleased to manifest his presence or is worshipped; 
ami the place thus honored becomes his abode or tem- 
ple, whether it be a tent or a structure of w’ood or stone, 
or even the sanctuary of the heart alone. Ahijah the 
prophet had his abode at Shiloh in the time of Jero- 
boam I, and was visited there by the messengers of 
Jeroboam’s wife to ascertain the issue of the sickness 
of their child (1 Kings xi, 29; xii, 15; xiv, 1, cte.). 
The people there after the time of the exile (Jer. xli, 5) 
appear to have been Cuthites (2 Kings xvii, 30) who had 
adopted some of the forms of Jewish worship. (See II it- 
zig, Zn .Jerem . p. 331.) Jerome, who surveyed the ruins 
in the 4th century, says, “Vi x ruinarum pnrvn vestigia, 
vix altaris fundamenta monstrantur” (.4 </ Zeph. i, 14). 

The principal conditions for identifying with confi- 
dence the site of a place mentioned in the Bible are — 
! (1) that the modern name should bear a proper resem- 
1 blance to the ancient one, (2) that its situation accord 
with the geographical notices of the Scriptures; and 
(3) that the statements of early writers and travellers 
i point to a coincident conclusion. Shiloh affords a strik- 
ing instance of the combination of these testimonies. 
The description in Judg. xxi, 19 is singularly explicit. 
Shiloh, it is said there, is “on the north side of Bethel, 
on the east side of the highway that gocth up from 
Bethel to Sheehem, and on the south of Lebonah.” In 
agreement with this, the traveller at the present day, 
going north from Jerusalem, lodges the first night at 
Heitin, the ancient Bethel; the next day, at the dis- 
tance of a few' hours, turns aside to the right, in order 
to visit Seilfin, the Arabic for Shiloh ; and then passing 
through the narrow' Wady which brings him to the 
main road, leaves cl-Lehbfin, the Lebonah of Scripture, 
on the left, as he pursues “the highway” to Nablus, the 
ancient Sheehem. Its present name is sufficiently like 
the more familiar Hebrew name, while it is identical 
w ith Sliilon (see above), on which it is evidently round- 
ed. Again, Jerome ( [ut *•?//>.) and Eusebius {Unumast. 
s. v. ih/Xoi) certainly have Soil tin (NiX<6/0 in view when 
they speak of the situation of Shiloh with reference to 
Neapolis or NablAs. It discovers a strange oversight 
of the data which control the question, that some of the 
older travellers have placed Shiloh at Ncby Samw’il, 
about two hours north-west of Jerusalem. The con- 
tour of the region, as the traveller views it on the 
ground, indicates very closely where the ancient town 
must have stood. A tell, or moderate hill, rises from 



SIIILON 


683 SHIMEAM 


an uneven plain, surrounded by other higher hills, ex- 
cept a narrow valley oil the south, which hill would 
naturally be chosen as the principal site of the town. 
The tabernacle may have been pitched on this emi- 
nence, where it would be a conspicuous object on every 
side. The ruins found there at present are very incon- 
siderable. They consist chiefly of the remains of a 
comparatively modern village, with which some large 
stones and fragments of columns are intermixed, evi- 
dently from much earlier times. Near a ruined mosque 
flourishes an immense oak, the branches of which the 
winds of centuries have swayed. Just beyond the pre- 
cincts of the hill stands a dilapidated edifice, which 
combines some of the architectural properties of a for- 
tress and a church. Three columns with Corinthian 
capitals lie prostrate on the floor. An amphora be- 
tween two chaplets, perhaps a work of Homan sculpture, 
adorns a stone over the doorway. The natives call 
this ruin the “Mosque of Seilfin” (so Robinson; Wil- 
son understood it was called “Mosque of the Sixty” 
[S'/tf/w] [Lands of the Bible, ii, 294]). The interior 
was vaulted. The materials are unsuited to the struct- 
ure, and have been taken from an older building. At 
the distance of about fifteen minutes from the main 
site is a fountain, which is approached through a nar- 
row dale. Its water is abundant, and, according to a 
practice very common in the East, flows first into a 
pool or well, and thence into a large reservoir, from 
which flocks and herds are watered. This fountain, 
which would be so natural a resort for a festal party, 
may have been the place where the “daughters of Shi- 
loh” were dancing when they were surprised and borne 
off by their captors. In this vicinity are rock-hewn 
sepulchres, in which the bodies of some' of the unfort- 
unate house of Eli may have been laid to rest. There 
was a Jewish tradition (Asher, Benj. of Tad. ii, 435) 
that Eli and his sons were buried here. It is certainly 
true, as some travellers remark, that the scenery of Shi- 
loh is not specially attractive ; it presents no feature of 
grandeur or beauty adapted to impress the mind and 
awaken thoughts in harmony with the memories of 
the place. At the same time, it deserves to be men- 
tioned that, for the objects to which Shiloh was de- 
voted, it was not unwisely chosen. It was secluded, 1 
and therefore favorable to acts of worship and religious 
study, in which the youth of scholars and devotees, like 
Samuel, was to be spent. Yearly festivals were cele- 
brated there, and brought together assemblages which 
would need the supplies of water and pasturage so ea- 
sily obtained in such a place. Terraces are still visible 
on the sides of the rocky hills which show that every 
foot and inch of the soil once teemed with verdure and 
fertility. The ceremonies of such occasions consisted 
largely of processions and dances, and the place afford- 
ed ample scope for such movements. The surrounding 
hills served as an amphitheatre whence the spectators 
could look and have the entire scene under their eyes. 
The position, too, in times of sudden danger, admitted 
of an easy defence, as it was a hill itself, and the neigh- 
boring hills eould be turned into bulwarks. To its oth- 
er advantages we should add that of its central position 
for the Hebrews on the west of the Jordan. An air of 
oppressive stillness hangs now over all the scene, and 
adds force to the reflection that truly the “oracles” so 
long consulted there “are dumb;” they had fulfilled 
their purpose, and given place to “a more sure word of 
prophecy.” A visit to Shiloh requires a detour of sev- 
eral miles from the ordinary track, and it has been less 
frequently described than other more accessible places. 
See Reland, Palcestina , p. 1016; Baehiene, Beschreibwig, 
ii. 582 ; Eautner, Palast. p. 201 ; Ritter, Krdk. xv, 631 
sq. ; Robinson, Bib. Res. ii, 269-276; Wilson, Lands of 
the Bible , ii, 294; Stanley, Sin. and Pal. p. 231-233; 
Porter, ffandb. of Syria, ii, 328; Ridgaway, The Lord's 
Land , p. 517 sq. ; Riideker, Palestine , p. 327 ; Conder, 
Tent Work in Palestine , i, 81 sq. 

Shilon. See Siiiloii ; Shiloxite. 


Shilo'ni [rather Shi'loni ] (Neh. xi, 5). See Shi- 
lonite. 

Shi 'Ionite [some Shilo'nite'] (Heb. with the art. 
hash-Shiloni ' , [2 Chron. ix, 29], “oVblL'H [x, 

15], •’A-dSil [l Kings xi, 29; xii, 15; xv,29; 1 Chron. 
ix, 5 (A. Y. “the Shilonites”)], or [Neh. xi, 5; 

A. V. “Shiloni”]; Sept. 6 StjXwinrijg ; but in 1 Chron. 
ix, 5, o E/jXa nd ; in Neh. xi, 5, AtjXwid v. r. ’HXwid and 
Si/Xwid), a patrial or patronymic, used for two classes 
of persons. 

1. A native or resident of Shiloh — a title ascribed 
only to Aliijah, the prophet who foretold to Jeroboam 
the disruption of the northern and southern kingdoms 
(1 Kings xi, 29; xii, 15; xv, 29; 2 Chron. ix, 29, x, 
15). Its connection with Shiloh is fixed by 1 Kings 
xiv, 2, 4, which shows that that sacred spot was still 
the residence of the prophet. See Siiiloii. 

2. A descendant of Shelah, the youngest son of Judah 
— a title that occurs (Neh.xi, 5) in a passage giving an 
account (like 1 Chron. ix, 3-6) of the families of Judah 
who lived in Jerusalem at the date to which it refers, 
and (like that) it divides them into the great houses of 
Pharez and Shelah. The same family arc mentioned 
among the descendants of Judah dwelling in Jerusalem 
at a date difficult to fix (l Chron. ix, 5). They arc 

' doubtless the members of the house who in the Penta- 
teuch (Numb, xxvi, 20) are more accurately designated 
Siielanites (q. v.). This is supported by the reading 
of the Targum Joseph on the passage “ the tribe of She- 
lah,” and is allowed by Gesenius. The change of She- 
lani to Shiloni is the same which seems to have occur- 
red in the name of Siloam — Shelach in Nehemiah and 
Sliiloach in Isaiah. See Shelaii. 

Shil'shah (Heb. Shilshah', nirJ'i', triad [Gesen.] 
or strong [ F first] ; Sept. 2oX//rd), the ninth named of 
the eleven sons of Zophah of the tribe of Asher (1 
Chron. vii, 37). B.C. ante 1015. 

Shim'ea (Ileb. Shima\ HV'Z'C.fame; Sept. 2a//ad, 
v. r. Sa/id, £«//dc, Sa/tdr, etc.), the name of four He- 
brews. See also Siiimeaii. 

1. A Gershonite Levite, father of Ilerachiah and 
grandfather of Asaph the musician (I Chron. vi, 39 
[Heb. 24 ]). B.C. eir. 1200. 

2. A Merarite Levite, son ofUzza and father of Hag- 
giah (1 Chron. vi, 30 [lleb. 15]). B.C. ante 1043. 

3. The third in age of David’s brothers, and father 
of Jonathan who slew 7 Goliath’s brother (1 Chron. xx, 
7). In the A. V. at 1 Chron. ii. 13 the name is even less 
correctly Anglicized “ Shimma.” Josephus calls him 
Samamus (2d//«//oc, Ant. vi, 8, 1) and Santa (S////d, 
ibid, vii, 12. 2). He is elsewhere (2 Sam. xiii, 3, etc.) 
called Shlmeaii (q. v.); but Siiammaii (q. v.) appears 
to have been his more correct name (l Sam. xvi, 9). 
See also Siilmeatiiite. 

4. A son of David and Bathsheba (1 Chron. iii, 5), 
elsewhere (2 Sam. v, 14 , 1 Chron. xiv, 4) called Siiam- 
mua (q. v.). See also David. 

Sliim'eah (lleb. Shimah ', [text in 2 Sam. 

xxi, 21, Shinunf, 'V 'Z'di, hut the margin has 
i. q. Shimea , Sept. Ea//ad, v. r. Eo/id, 2f//ad, 2Y///fd ; 
in 2 Sam. xxi, 21, Sejuh), the name of two Hebrews. 

1. One of David's older brothers, and father of Jona- 
than and Jonadab (2 Sam. xxi, 21); elsewhere (1 Sam. 
xvi, 9) called Siiammaii (q. v.), also Siiimea (1 Chron. 
xx, 7 ; “ Shimma,” 1 Chron. ii, 13). 

2. A “son” of Mikloth, who seems to have been 
the youngest son of Jehiel, a Benjamite, and “father” 
(? founder) of Gibeon (1 Chron. viii, 32). B.C. perhaps 
536. In a parallel passage (1 Chron. ix, 38) he is called 
Siiimeam (q. v.). 

Shim 'earn (lleb. Shimam', their fame; 

Sept. 2a//«d v. r. 2n//d), a descendant of Jehiel the 
Benjamite, and a chief resident at Jerusalem (1 Chron. 


SIIDIEATH 


G84 


SIIIMEI 


5x. 3S); elsewhere (1 Chron. viii, 32) called Siiimeaii 

(q- 

Sliim'eath (II eb. Shimafh', rV'Z’l*, fem. of Shim- 
euh ; Sept. ^fiaaS, v. r. Na/id3, Na^td, and ’BpovwS), 
an Ammonitess, mother of Zabad or Jozachar, one of 
the two murderers of king .losiah (2 Kings xii, 21; 2 
Chron. xxiv, 26). B.C. ante 609.’ 

Shim'eathite (Ileb. only in the plur. Shimathim', 
'Z^rV'2'21, a patronymic from Shimeak; Sept. Najua- 
the name of one of the three families of “scribes” 
resident at Jabez (q. v.) in the tribe of Judah; de- 
scendants apparently of a Shimea who seems himself 
to have been of the family of Salma, and not to have 
been connected with the Kenites (q. v.), possibly the 
brother of David (2 Sam. xxi, 21). 

Sliim'ei ( Ileb. Shimi ', my fame , or re- 

rimmed; Sept. but in 1 Chron. viii, 21; 

yiafiov in Ezra x, 23; Settlor in Esth. ii, 5; and v. r. 
Ss/it tu occasionally elsewhere), the name of some six- 
teen Hebrews. 

1. The second named of the two sons of Gershon the 
son of Levi (Exod. vi, 17 ; A. V. “Shimi;” Numb. iii. 
18; 1 Chron. vi, 17 [Ileb. 2]; Zecli. xii, 13). B.C. 
post 1874. In l Chron. vi, 29 [Heb. 14] he is called 
the sou of Libni and father of Uzza, and both are reck- 
oned as sons of Merari; but there is reason to suppose 
that there is some clerical error in this verse, as he is 
everywhere else represented to be Libni’s brother . In 1 
Chron. xxiii, 7-10 his posterity is enumerated, but the 
text has probably there also suffered a transposition, so 
that we ought to read. “Of the Gershonites were Laa- 
dan [or Libni] and Shimei. The sons of Laadan the 
chief was Jehiel, and Zetliam, and Joel, three; these 
were the chief of the fathers of Laadan. The sons of 
Shimei, Shelomith [or Shelomoth ], and Haziel, and 
llaran, three. And the sons of Shelomith [instead of 
Shimei ] were Jahatli, Zina, ami Jensli, and Beriah ; 
these four were the sons of Shelomith [or perhaps 
Shimei might here remain]. And Jahath w*as the 
chief,” etc. Both Keil and Zbckler (in Lange), how- 
ever, regard Laadan as different from Libni, and make 
out two distinct persons here by the name of Shimei. 
See No. 3, below. 

2. A Beubonite, son of Gog and father of Micah (1 
Chron. v, 4). B.C. post 1874. 

3. A Gershonite Levite, son of Jahath and father of 
Zimnah in the ancestry of Asaph (1 Chron. vi, 42 [Ileb. 
27]). B.C. cir. 1695. Some have regarded him as iden- 
tical with the younger sou of Gershon (ver. 17 [Ileb. 
2]). but the other particulars do not allow this. 

4. A Simeonite, son of Zacehur, and father of sixteen 
sons and six daughters (1 ( broil, iv, 26,27). B.C. ante 
1618. 1 le was perhaps the same with Shemaiau (q. v.) 
the ancestor of Ziza (1 Chron. iv, 37). 

5. < hie of the heads of the families of Benjamites res- 
ident at Jerusalem (1 Chron. viii, 21 , A. V. “ Sbimhi”) ; 
apparently the same with Sui-ma (q. v.) the son of El- 
paal (ver. 13). B.C. post 1618. 

6. A citizen of Hamah appointed overseer of David’s 
vineyards (1 Chron. xxvii, 27). B.C. 1043. 

7. The son of Gera, a Benjamite of the house of Saul, 
who lived at Bahurim during the reign of David, and 
B associated with some of the most painful transactions 
of the reign of that monarch and his successor. II is resi- 
dence then* agrees with the other notices of the place, 
as if a marked spot on the way to and from the Jordan 
valley to Jerusalem, and just within the border of Ben- 
jamin. See Baiii ui.m. lie may have received the 
unfortunate IMialtiel after his separation from Michnl 
(2 Sam. iii, 16). 

1. When David and his suite were seen descending 
the long delilo from Olivet on his tliglit from Absalom 
(2 Sam. xvi. 5 13), the whole feeling of the elan of Ben- 
jamin burst forth without restraint in the person of 
Shimei. His house apparently was separated from the 


road by a deep valley, yet not so far as that anything 
that he did or said could not he distinctly heard. He 
ran along the ridge, cursing, throwing stones at the king 
and his companions, and when he came to a patch of 
dust on the dry hill-side, taking it up and throwing it 
over them. Abishai was so irritated that, but for Da- 
vid’s remonstrance, he would have darted across the 
ravine (ver. 9) and torn or cut oft' his head. The whole 
conversation is remarkable, as showing what may al- 
most he called the slang terms of abuse prevalent in the 
two rival courts. The cant name for David in Shimei’s 
mouth is “the man of blood,” twice emphatically re- 
peated: “ Come out. come out, thou man of blood” — 
“ A man of blood art thou” (xvi, 7, 8). It seems to have 
been derived from the slaughter of the sons of Saul (eh. 
xxi). or generally perhaps from David’s predatory, war- 
like life (comp. 1 Chron. xxii, 8). The cant name for 
a Benjamite in Abishai’s month was “a dead dog” (2 
Sam. xvi. 9; comp. Abner's expression, “Am I a dog’s 
head?” iii, 8). “Man of Belial” also appears to have 
been a favorite term on both sides (xvi, 7 ; xx, 1). The 
royal party passed on, Shimei following them with his 
stones and corses as long as they were in sight. (See 
Lorenz, l)e Crimine Simei in Dai' idem [Strasb. 1749].) 
B.C. 1023. 

2. The next meeting was very different. The king 
was now’ returning from his successful campaign. Just 
as he w’as crossing the Jordan, in the ferry-boat or on 
the bridge (2 Sam. xix, 18 ; Sept. CiaficiirovroQ ; Jose- 
phus, Ant. vii, 2,4, hr i n)r ■ysipopav'). the first person to 
welcome him on the western, or perhaps even on the 
eastern, side was Shimei, who may have seen him ap- 
proaching from the heights above. lie threw T himself 
at David’s feet in abject penitence. “ lie was the first,” 
he said, “ of all the house of Joseph'' thus indicating the 
close political alliance between Benjamin and Ephraim. 
Another altercation ensued between David and Abishai, 
which ended in David’s guaranteeing Shimei’s life with 
an oath (2 Sam. xix, 18-23), in consideration of the gen- 
eral jubilee and amnesty of the return. B.C. 1023. 

3. But the king’s suspicions were not set to rest by 
this submission; and on his death-bed he recalls the 
whole scene to the recollection of his son Solomon. 
Shimei’s head was nmv w hite with age (1 Kings ii, 9), 
and he was living in the favor of the court at Jerusa- 
lem (ver. 8). B.C. 1013. Solomon gave him notice that 
from henceforth he must consider himself confined to 
the walls of Jerusalem on pain of death. The Kidron, 
which divided him from the road to his old residence 
at Bahurim, was not to he crossed, lie was to build a 
house in Jerusalem (ii, 36, 37). For three years the en- 
gagement was kept. At the end of that time, for the 
purpose of capturing two slaves who had escaped to 
Gath, he went out on his ass and made his journey suc- 
cessfully (ii. 40). On his return, the king took him at 
his word, and he was slain by Benaiah (ii, 41-46). B.C. 
1009. In the sacred historian, and still more in Jose- 
phus ( Ant . viii, 1, 5), great stress is laid on Shimei’s 
having broken his oath to remain at home; so that his 
death is regarded as a judgment, not only for his previ- 
ous treason, hut for his recent sacrilege. — Smith. (See 
Ortloh. De Processv Sol. contra Shimei [Lips. 1719].) 
See David; Solomon. 

8. One of the faithful adherents of Solomon at the 
time of Adouijah’s usurpation (1 Kings i. 8). B.C. 1015. 
Probably he is the same as Shimei the son of Elah, 
Solomon’s commissariat officer in Benjamin (iv, 18). 
Ewald, however, suggests (Gcsch. iii. 266) that lie may 
have been the same with Shimeah or Shammab. David’s 
brother (1 Sam. xvi, 9; 2 Sam. xxi, 21). From the 
mention which is made of “the mighty men” in the 
same verse, one might he tempted to conclude that 
Shimei is the same with Shammah the Ilararite (2 
Sam. xxiii, 11). 

9. The head of the tenth division of twelve musi- 
cians severally in the distribution by David (1 Chron. 
xxv, 17). B.C. 1013. It would seerti that he was one 


SHIMEON 


6S5 


SIIINAIi 


of the sons of Jednthun, for a name is necessary in ver. 

3 to complete the number six there given, and all the 
other lists are full. 

10 . A Levite of the descendants of Ileman who as- 
sisted in the purification of the Temple under llezekiah 
(2 Chron. xxix, 14). B.C. 720. 

11 . A Levite who, in connection with his brother 
Cononiah the Levite, had charge of the offerings, the 
tithes, and the dedicated things in the renewal under 
llezekiah (2 Chron. xxxi, 12, 13). B.C. 726. He was 
probably the same as the preceding. 

12 . A son of Pedaiah and brother of Zerubbabel 
(q. v.), but whether by the same mother or not is doubt- 
ful (1 Chron. iii, 19). B.C. 530. 

13 . A Benjamite, “son” of Kish and “ father” of Jair 
in Mordecai’s ancestry (Estli. ii, 5). B.C. ante 479. 

14 . A Levite who divorced his Gentile wife after the 
captivity (Ezra x, 23). B.C. 459. 

15 . An Israelite of “the sons of Ilashum” who did 
the same (Ezra x, 33). B.C. 459. 

16 . An Israelite of “the sons of Bani” who did the 
same (Ezra x, 38). B.C. 459. 

Shim'eon (Ezra x, 31). See Simeon. 

Shim'hi (1 Chron. viii, 21). See Siiimei 5. 

Shi'mi (Exod. vi, 17). See Siiimei 1. 

Shim'ite (Heb. with the art. hash-Skimi' , “C’SIl’n, 
a patronymic from Shimei; Sept. 6 ’S.epti ; A. V. “the 
Shimeites”), a name (Numb, iii, 21; comp. Zecli. xii, 
13) of the descendants of Shimei 1, the son of Gershon. 

Shim'ma (1 Chron. ii, 13). See Siiimeah 1. 

Shi'mon (Heb. Shimon', "ji desert ; Sept. 2f- 
pwv v. r. 'Zepubv'), a person vaguely mentioned (1 
Chron. iv, 20) among the descendants of Judah in Ca- 
naan, and the father of four sons. B.C. post 1618. 

Shim'rath (Heb. Shimrath ', rH2£.\ guard; Sept. 
'SapupaS), the last named of the nine sons of Shimhi 
(i. e. Shimei), a Benjamite of Jerusalem (1 Chron. viii, 
21). B.C. post 1618. 

Sllim'ri (Ileb. Shimri', my ivatch , or vigi- 

lant) , the name of four Hebrews. 

1. (Sept. ppi, v. r. 'S.apap, 'ZapapiaQ.) Son of 
Shemaiah and father of Jedaiah, chief Simeonites (1 
Chron. iv, 37). B.C. post 1618. 

2 . (Sept. Zapepi v. r. 'Zapapt.) Father of Jediael 
(q.v.), one of David’s body-guard (l Chron. xi, 45). B.C. 
ante 1043. 

3. (Sept. <fn/\«(7(roj/r£e> reading "H'ailJ.) Son of Ho- 
sah, a Merarite Levite appointed by David a doorkeep- 
er of the ark. Although not the tirst-born, his father 
made him chief among his brothers (1 Chron. xxvi, 10; 
A. V. “ Simri”). B.C. 1043. 

4 . (Sept. Sapfipi v. r. Zapfipi.) First named of the 
two sons of Elizaphan, and one of the Levites who as- 
sisted at the puritication of the Temple under Hezekiah 
(2 Chron. xxix, 13). B.C. 726. 

Shim'rith (Heb. Shimrith ', fern, of Skim - 

ri, “ vigilant Sept. 'S.apapiSr v. r. itapuptft and 2o- 
pcmbS), an Ammonitess, and mother of Jehozabad, one 
of the assassins of king Joash (2 Chron. xxiv, 26); else- 
where (2 Kings xii, 21) called Siiomer (q. v.). 

Shim'rom (l Chron. vii, 1). See Siiimron 1. 

Shim'ron (Heb. Shimron ’jilt’d, ?c«tc/i-height), 
the name of a man and also of a place. See also Shim- 

RON-MERON. 

1. (Sept. Sapapap v. r. 'Eapfipav, etc.) Last named 
of the four sons of Issachar (Gen. xlvi, 13; 1 Chron. vii, 
I, “Shimrom” in later editions), and head of the family 
of the Shimronites (Numb, xxvi, 24). B.C. 1874. 

2 . (Sept. 'S.optpwv v. r. Stptpun/ and £ vptwv.') A 
town of Zebulon (Josh, xix, 15, where it is named be- 
tween Nahallal and Idalah),one of those which joined the 
northern confederacy under Jabin against Joshua (Josh, 


xi, 5), and apparently the same elsewhere (xii, 20) more 
fully called Shimron-meron (q. v.). Eusebius and Je- 
rome in the Onomasticon confound it with Samaria . 
The old Jewish traveller Ilap-Parchi fixes it at two 
hours east of Engannim (Jenin), south of the mountains 
of Gilboa, at a village called in Ids day Dar JMeron (Ash- 
er, Benjamin , ii. 434). This is in accordance with the 
tradition existing among the Jews of Safed that Shim- 
ron-meron is identical with the sacred village of Meiron, 
where the tombs of the rabbins Hilleland Shammai are 
still preserved and honored (Wilson, Lands of the Bible , 
ii, 313). Schwarz, with greater probability (see Reland, 
Palcest. p. 1017 ; Gesenius, Thes. Ileb. p. 1445), proposes 
(Palest, p. 172) to identify it with the Simonias of Jo- 
sephus {Life, § 24), now Simuniyeh, a village a few 
miles west of Nazareth, which is mentioned in the Tal- 
mud {Jerus. Megillah, c. 1) as the ancient Shimron. 

Shim'ronite (Ileb. with the art. hash-Shimroni' , 
patronymic; Sept. 6 'S.apapavi v. r. ’Apfipa- 
pei, A. V. “ the Shimronites”), a name (Numb, xxvi, 24) 
for the descendants of Shimron (q. v.) the son of Issa- 
char. 

Shim'ron-me'ron (Ileb.NAf/mm' Meron ■ji’YSp 
^ [marg. ■p’TE) J, watch - height of Meron; Sept. 
’Evpewv [v. r. yiappibv teat (paaya and M o/3p<u3 ] Kai 
Mrtpdn'), a town whose king was conquered by Joshua 
(Josh, xii, 20); probably the same elsewhere (xi, 1) 
called simply Shimron (q. v.). 

Shim'shai (Heb. Shimshay', my suns, or 

sunny ; Sept. 'Eaptpd v. r. Sapaad, etc.), a scribe or sec- 
retary of Rehum, who was a kind of satrap of the con- 
quered province of Jmhea and of the colony at Samaria 
supported bv the Persian court (Ezra iv, 8, 9, 17, 23). 
B.C. 529. lie was apparently an Aramiean, for the let- 
ter which he wrote to Artaxerxes was in Syriac (ver. 7), 
and the form of his name is in favor of this supposition. 
He is called Semelius by Josephus (EsptAiog, Ant. xi, 2, 
1). The Samaritans were jealous of the return of the 
Jews, and for a long time plotted against them without 
etfect. They appear ultimately, however, to have preju- 
diced the royal officers, and to have prevailed upon them 
to address to the king a letter which set forth the tur- 
bulent character of the Jews and the dangerous charac- 
ter of their undertaking, the effect of which was that 
the rebuilding of the Temple ceased for a time.— Smith. 
See Nehemiah. 

Shill were supposed by the Chinese to be spirits of 
the air, and, according to Dr. Milne, are to be considered 
as ceons, spirits or intelligences. In the Le-ke it is said 
that “ if we speak of all the Shin collectively, we call 
them Siiang-te” (q. v.) ; but the very circumstance that 
the word Shin is a collective noun, and never used with 
a numerical affix, shows that it cannot be considered as 
denoting the one supreme God. — Gardner, Faiths of the 
1 1 r orld, s. v. 

Shi'nab (Heb. Shinab', 2X3 w3, father's tooth [so 
Gesenius as literally; but Hitzig refers the last element 
to the Arab, for serpent, or the Sanscrit for elephant ; 
while Fiirst prefers splendor of the Father (i. e. God)] ; 
Sept. 'S.ctvvaap ; Josephus 'S.tvafiappQ, Ant. i, 9), the 
king of Admah at the time of the invasion by Chedor- 
laomer (Gen. xiv, 2). B.C. cir. 2064. 

Shi'nar (Ileb. Shinar ', ^2312 [on the signif. see be- 
low] ; Sept, usually 'S.tvaap. S.tvvadp ; Vulg. Sennaar ) 
seems to have been the ancient name (Gen. x. 10; xi, 2; 
xiv, I, 9) of the great alluvial tract through which the 
Tigris and Euphrates pass before reaching the sea — the 
tract known in later times as Chaldee a, or Babylonia. 
It was a plain country, where brick had to be used for 
stone, and slime, bitumen, or mud, for mortar (xi, 3). 
Among its cities were Babel (Babylon), Erech or Orech 
(Orchoe), Calneh or Calno (probably Niffer), and Accad, 
the site of which is unknown. These notices are quite 
enough to fix the situation. It may, however, be re- 


SHINGLE 


68G 


SIIINSHIU 


marked, further, that the Sept, renders the word by 
“ Babylonia" (Ba/3iiAu/j't«) in one place (Isa. xi, II), by 
“the land of Babylon” ( y /) MafivXiuvog) in another 
(Zecli. v, 11), and by tto in a third (Josh, vii, 21) 
as an equivalent to BafivXovtm) (A. V. “ Babylonish”). 

The native inscriptions contain no trace of the term, 
which seems to be purely Jewish and unknown to any 
other people. At least it is extremely doubtful wheth- 
er there is really any connection between Sliinar and 
Singara, or $ injar. Singara was the name of a town in 
Central Mesopotamia, well known to the Iiomans (Dion 
Cass, lxviii. *22: Amin. Mare, xviii, 5, etc.), and still ex- 
isting (Layard, A 'in. and Hub. p. 249). It is from this 
place that the mountains which run across Mesopotamia 
from Mosul to Bakkeh receive their title of ‘* the Sinjar 
range” (fiyydpac bpotj, Ptolemy, v, 18). As this name 
tirst’appears in Central Mesopotamia, to which the term 
Shinar is never applied, about the time of the Antonines, 
it is very unlikely that it can represent the old Shinar, 
which ceased practically to be a geographic title soon 
after the time of Moses (the use in the above passages 
of Isaiah and Zechariah is an archaism ; so also, per- 
haps, in Dan. i, 2). 

It may he suspected that Shinar was the name by 
which the Hebrews originally knew the lower Mesopo- 
tamian country, where they so long dwelt, and which 
Abraham brought with him from “ Ur of the Chaldees” 
(Mugheir). Possibly it means “ the country of the Two 
Divers,” being derived from “'Z'j, “two,” and V/r, which 
was used in Babylonia, as well as nahr or rnthar (“in3), 
for “a river.” (Comp, the “Ar-malchar” of Pliny [//. 
A r . vi, 26] and “ Ar-Macales” of Abvdenus [Fr. 9] with 
the Xaar-mnlchaof Ammianus [xxiv, 6], called Sappd- 
\a by Isidore [p. 5], which is translated as “ the Boval 
Diver;” comp.agnin the “ Narragam” of Pliny [ IJ. N. vi, 
30] with the “Aracanus” of Abvdenus, l. s. c.). — Smith. 
See Mesopotamia. 

Shingle, a wooden tile for covering roofs, spires, etc., 
made of cleft oak. Shingles were formerly very exten- 
sively employed in some districts, but their use has, for 
the most part, been superseded by more durable kinds 
of covering: they are. however, still to be found on 
some church roofs, and on many timber spires, especial- 
ly in the counties of Kent, Sussex, Surrey, and Essex, 
England.* — Parker, Gloss, of A rckitecture, s. v. 

Shin-men, a Chinese deity, said to he the son of 
Fo or Fo-hi, and to correspond with the Hindu god (7a- 
nesa. 

Shin-moo, a goddess worshipped in China as the 
supposed mother of Fo, and styled the Queen of Heav- 
en. Her image is generally placed in a niche behind 
the altar, sometimes having an infant either in her arms 
or on her knee, and her head encircled with a glory. — 
Gardner, Faiths of the World , s. v. 

Shinn, Asa, a minister of the Methodist Episcopal 
Church, was born in Xew Jersey, May 3, 1781. lie was 
converted at the age of seventeen years, and in his twen- 
tieth year entered the itinerancy in the Baltimore Confer- 
ence. In 1824 Mr. Shinn took a prominent part in the dis- 
cussion of lay representation in t lie Methodist Episcopal 
Church; and when the discussion culminated in the dis- 
ciplining of a number of the advocates of the measure, he 
withdrew from the Church, and identified himself with 
the lay-representation movement, lie took an active part 
in the organization of the Methodist Protestant Church, 
and received the most important ollices in the gift of his 
constituents. He was frequently elected president of 
the Annual Conference, and twice (1838 ami 1812) presi- 
dent of the General Conference. In 1834 he was elect- 
ed, with Dev. Xicltolas Snothon, editor of the Methodist 
Protestant of Baltimore. Owing to an accident received 
in his youth, and overstrain of work and care, ho had 
four attacks of insanity— in 1813, 1819, 1828, ami 1813. 
From the ln*t he never recovered, hut was sent to ar. asy- 
lum in Philadelphia, and then to another in BrattJcbor- 


ough, Vt., where he died, Feb. 11, 1853. He was a strong 
and effective speaker and a ready and forcible writer, 
lie published, Essag on the Plan of Salvation (Baltimore, 
1813; 2d ed. Cincinnati, 1831): — The Benevolence and 
Rectitude of the Supreme Being (Baltimore, 1840, I2mo). 
lie also wrote a series of articles in the Mutual Rights. 
See Sprague, A muds of the A mer. Pulpit, vii, 360 ; Simp- 
son, Cyclop, of Methodism, s. v. 

Shinn, John, a minister of the Methodist Episco- 
pal Church, was born in Warren County, O., March 2, 
1824, and united with the Church at the age of fifteen, 
lie was received into the Cincinnati Conference in 1854. 
In 1862 he entered the Christian Commission, and after- 
wards became an army chaplain. After the w‘ar he was 
county agent of the Bible Society for one year. In 
1866 he again entered the pastorate, and labored until 
death (by paralysis), which occurred at West Mansfield, 
O., Sept. 26, 1871. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 
1872, p. 1 07. 

Shinshiu (meaning New Sect ) is the name of a 
Japanese sect of Buddhists, who are the adherents of 
one of the most remarkable developments of Buddhism, 
unique in many points. Buddhism has been called the 
Protestantism of Asia; the Shinshiu followers are the 
Protestants of Buddhism. Many of the distinctive ten- 
ets of Buddhism so called are repudiated by the Shin 
sect. Their priests marry and rear families, eat flesh 
and drink wine. Nuns, monks, and monasteries are un- 
known within their pale; schools, or rather real theo- 
logical seminaries, taking their place. Penance, fast- 
ing, pilgrimages, prescribed diet, isolation from society, 
ami, generally, amulets and charms, are proscribed. The 
Protestant doctrine of justification by faith in Buddha 
is their central tenet, in opposition to the common Buddh- 
ist idea of salvation by works. Devout prayer, purity 
and earnestness of life, and trust in Buddha himself as 
the only worker of perfect righteousness, are insisted 
upon. They scornfully reject the worship of most of 
the idols venerated by the other sects. The Scriptures 
of Shinshiu, instead of being kept in the Sanscrit and 
archaic Chinese, as in other sects, are translated into 
the vernacular, and their daily reading urged. The 
Shin temples are built, not on mountains and in se- 
cluded places, but on the main streets, and in the 
crowded and business centres of great cities, with altars 
gorgeous in their magnificence. The Shin priests are 
more highly educated than those of any other Japanese 
sect, and the average intelligence of their worshippers 
is superior. They profess never to intermeddle with 
political affairs, receive no government aid, and pride 
themselves on their self-reliance. When travelling, 
they assume the lay dress, and in time of war claim the 
right of defence. Whole battalions of sacerdotal sol- 
diery have been recruited from the Shin sect in the 
wars of the past. Their influence is probably greater 
than that of any other sect in Japan. Within the last 
decade, they have organized their training-schools on 
the model of Christian theological seminaries, and have 
carefully studied the weapons and methods of Christian 
missionaries. They have lately sent out successful mis- 
sionaries to China, Corea, and the Diu-Kiu (Loochoo) 
islands. There are six subsects or divisions in Shin- 
shiu, who have in all 13,718 temples. Other names for 
the Shin sect are Montu (“ Followers of the Gate”) and 
I Ho, from the initial of.one of their canonical books, 
both terms referring to their singleness of aim and unity 
of organization. Shinshiu was founded by Sliinran 
(born 1171, died 1262), who was a pupil of Honen, 
founder of t lie Jodo sect, and a man of noble descent. 
When in Kioto, at thirty years of age, he married a 
lady of noble rank, and thus set the example of mar- 
riage, and gave the newly founded sect a prestige it has 
ever since enjoyed with both mikado and shogun (ty- 
coon). So great has been the numerical, intellectual, 
and religious iulluence of Shinshiu upon the nation, that 
the mikado Mntsuhito, by a rare act of imperial favor, 


SHINTO 


687 


SHINTO 


honored the memoryof Shi nran by bestowing upon him 
the posthumous title, by imperial letters patent, of Ken- 
shin Daishi (Great Revealer of Light), on Nov. 28, 
1876. Though wary and ceaselessly active in their en- 
deavors to counteract Christianity, now so aggressive in 
Japan, they have resisted every effort of the govern- 
ment to amalgamate them with other sects, and their 
enemies and rivals of late have charged them with be- 
ing so much like Christians that separation from the 
latter is inconsistent. (W. E. G.) 

Shinto (Shintoism, Sintuism , “ the Religion of the 
Kami”) is the term for the religion of the ancient Jap- 
anese which existed before the introduction of Confu- 
cian ethics or Buddhism into Japan, and which was 
practiced in a more or less pure form until the restora- 
tion of the mikado to supreme power in 1868, when a 
thorough purification and propagation of the ancient 
cult was ordered by the government. Nearly all ac- 
counts of Shinto by European writers prior to 1870 are 
of little value, as these treat of the impure Biuldhaized 
form. The ancient documents and archaic literature of 
Shinto have been unearthed and made accessible even 
to native readers only during the last and present cen- 
turies. The ancient faith has always had a distinct life 
and literature apart from the imported creeds of India 
and China, and pure Shintoists insist that the native 
and the foreign religions are incompatible. 

Shinto is a Chinese term repudiated by native schol- 
ars, who use the pure Japanese word Kami no Michi 
(way or doctrine of the gods). Since the introduc- 
tion of Chinese letters in the 6th century A.D., every 
important Japanese word has a Chinese equivalent and 
synonyms. The term Shinto was coined to distinguish 
the native cult from the two other to or do then new 
upon the soil, viz. Ju-do (Confucianism) and Butsu-do 
(Buddhism). The literal rendering of Shinto is “the- 
ology.” 

I. The Scriptures, Essence , and Characteristics of 
Shintoism (to A.D. 60). — To decide positively the ulti- 
mate origin of Shinto, whether a purely indigenous 
growth or imported from the Asian mainland, is to de- 
cide the origin of the Japanese people. Believing as 
we do that the aborigines of Japan were Ainos in the 
north and Malays in the south, ultimately conquered by 
immigrant tribes from the Mantchurian highlands, de- 
scending through Corea, w r ho thus became the dominant 
race in Japan, w r e must refer the origin of the germs, 
but the germs only, of Shinto to the Asian mainland. 
The pre-Confttcian religion of China (see the She King: 
Book of Ancient Chinese Poetry [transl. by Dr. Legge], 
p.46-53) and Shinto had some striking points in com- 
mon, though the growth and development of Shinto 
have been on Japanese soil. The Asian invaders in 
Japan had neither letters nor writing until they w'ere 
brought from China after the 3d century A.D. Rigid 
Shintoists, how’ever, assert that previously there was a 
native alphabet in use called Shindaiji or Shinji ( god- 
letters, or letters of the divine age). The Buddhists and 
all foreign scholars maintain that this alphabet was de- 
rived from Corea. Certain it is that these “gocl-let- 
lers” were never in general use, nor can their influence 
be traced on the alphabets now written in Japan, while 
no literary remains have yet been found written in 
them. The origin of most of the Shinji may be discov- 
ered by comparing them with the alphabet invented in 
Corea in the latter part of the 7th century A.D., and 
still in use by the Coreans. This subject has been fruit- 
ful of literary controversy in Japan. 

The oldest monuments both of Shinto and the Japan- 
ese language are the Kojiki (book of ancient traditions, 
or “notices of ancient things”), the Nihongi (chronicles 
of Japan), and some liturgical w’orks, such as the Na- 
katomi no I/irai (the Nakatomi ritual) and the En- 
gishiki (book of the ceremonial law of Shinto). These 
ancient texts, with the recensions, commentaries, and 
controversial writings of the native scholars and Shinto 
revivalists — Mabuchi (1697-1769), Motoori (1730-1801), 


and Ilirata (1776-1843) — form the chief sources of infor- 
mation concerning Shinto. In the texts are imbedded 
a number of poetical passages forming the Norito, or 
Shinto liturgies, composed most probably centuries be- 
fore the introduction of writing, and preserved through 
the medium of the human memory. The ancient texts 
contain the cosmogony, philosophy, and ritual of Shin- 
to. According to them, Japan is the centre of the earth, 
and the mikado is the tirst of men and vicar of gods. 
Infallibility is his attribute, and his will is the test of 
right. 

The Kojiki is written almost entirely in pure Japan- 
ese style as concerns the forms both of language and 
thought, while the text of the Nihongi is full of Chi- 
nese modes of expression and purely Chinese philo- 
sophical conceptions. Both are expressed by Chinese 
characters, which in some cases are phonetic for Japan- 
ese words, but in others are ideographic. The correct 
deciphering of the texts, especially that of the Kojiki , 
and the interlinear given in kana letters in some edi- 
tions, is a comparatively modern work, which is as yet 
by no means infallible. The Kojiki w'as composed A.D. 
7 12 by order of the 44th mikado, Gemmio, and tirst 
printed in the period 1624-42. The Nihongi was com- 
posed A.D. 720, and the evident intent of the writer is 
to clothe the matter in hand in Chinese garb and give 
a Chinese character to the native history. The tenor 
of both works is best shown by a comparison of their 
opening sentences literally translated : 


Kojiki. 

“At the time of the begin- 
ning of heaven and earth, 
there existed three pillar 
(chief) kami (gods). The 
name of one kami was ‘ Lord 
of the Middle of Heaven;’ 
next, ‘High Ineffable Pro- 
creator next, ‘lueflable 
Procreator.’ These three 
existing single, hid their 
bodies (died, passed away, 
or became pure spirit ). 
Next, when the young land 
floated like oil moving 
about, there came into ex- 
istence, sprouting upwards 
like a rush shoot, a kami 
named ‘Delightful Rush 
Sprout next, ‘ Heavenly 
Standing -on - the - Bottom’ 
kami. The tw'o chief kami, 
existing single, hid their 
bodies. Next came into ex- 
istence these three kami,” 
etc. 


Nihongi. 

“Of old, when heaven 
and earth were not yet sep- 
arated, and the in (male, 
active, or positive principle) 
and the yo (female, passive, 
or negative principle) were 
not separated, chaos, envel- 
oping all things, like a fowl’s 
egg, contained within it a 
germ. The clear and ethe- 
real substance expanding 
became heaven ; the heavy 
and thick substance agglu- 
tinaiing became earth. The 
ethereal union of matter w’as 
easy, but the thickened sub- 
stance hardened wdtk diffi- 
culty. Therefore heaven 
existed first; the earth was 
fixed afterwards. Subse- 
quently deity (kami) was 
born (or evolved, umaru). 
Now, it is said that in the 
beginning of heaven and 
earth the soil floated about 
like a fish floating on the 
top of the water,” etc. 


In the Kojiki we have the original Japanese theory of 
creation, and in the Nihongi the same account with 
Chinese philosophical ideas and terms added. Indeed, 
the first verse of the Nihongi down to “ Now r , it is said,” 
etc., is borrowed direct from Chinese books. Both 
texts show that the Japanese scheme of creation starts 
without a Creator or any first cause; matter appears 
before mind, and deity lias no existence before matter. 
The idea of space apart from matter was also foreign to 
these ancient philosophers. There is no creation, prop- 
erly speaking, but. only evolution until the gods (kami) 
are evolved or get being. The work of creation prop- 
erly so called begins only w hen after the genesis of sev- 
eral pairs of ( hitori-gami ) single, sexless beings, Izana- 
gi and Izanami appear. Standing upon the floating 
bridge of heaven, Izanagi plunged his jewelled falchion 
(or spear) into the unstable waters beneath, and, with- 
drawing it, the drops which trickled from it congealed, 
and formed an island. Upon this they descended, and 
planting the falchion in the ground, made it the central 
pillar of a palace which they built around it, intending 
that it should be the pillar of a continent. Izanagi 
means “The-male-who-invites,” Izanami “The-fcmale- 
who-invites.” In Izanagi w r as the first manifestation 
of the male principle; in Izanami that of the female 


SIIIXTO 


688 


SHINTO 


principle. They were the first beings who were con- 
scious of a difference of sex. They separated to make a 
tour of the island. At their meeting the female spirit 
spoke first — “Mow joyful to meet a lovely male!” 
Izanagi, offended that the female had spoken first, re- 
quired the circuit to be repeated. Meeting a second 
time, the male spirit spoke first, and said, “ 1 low joyful 
to meet a lovely female !” Then followed the first prac- 
tice of the art of love. Whence the origin of the human 
race, the gods (kami). and the ten thousand things in 
heaven and earth. The first series of children born 
were the islands of Japan. The details of creation were 
carried out by the various kami who sprang from Izana- 
gi and Izanami. In the conception of many of the sub- 
ordinate kami and the objects which make up the world, 
the two creator-deities had a common part, but many 
others were generated by the separate action of each. 
Thus, in bringing forth the god of lire Izanami suffered 
great pain, and from the matter which she vomited 
forth in her agony sprang the god and goddess of met- 
al. She afterwards created the gods of clay and fresh 
water to pacify the fire-god when he was inclined to be 
turbulent. Izanagi, being incensed at the fire -god, 
clove him in three pieces with his sword. From the 
fragments sprang the gods of thunder, of mountains, 
and of rain. The gods of clay and fresh water married. 
From the head of their offspring grew the mulberry and 
silkworm ; from the navel, the five esculent grains — rice, 
wheat, millet, beans, and sorghum. Izanami had en- 
joined upon her consort not to look upon her during her 
retirement, but Izanagi disregarding her wish, she fled 
into the nether world (the “root-land,” or “land of 
darkness”). Izanagi descended to induce her to return 
to earth. He found the region one of awful foulness, 
and the body of his consort a mass of worms. Escaping 
to the upper world, lie purified himself by repeated 
washings in the sea. In these acts many gods were 
born, among others Susanob from his nose and Ama- 
terasu from his left eye. The deities created out of the 
filth from which lie washed himself are the evil deities 
that war against the good gods and still trouble man- 
kind in many ways. At this time heaven and earth 
were very close to each other, and the goddess Ama- 
terasu being a rare and beautiful child, whose body shone 
brilliantly, Izanagi sent her up the pillar that united 
heaven and earth, and bade her rule over the high plain 
of heaven. She ever afterwards illuminated heaven 
and earth. Her name, Ama-tcrasu-O-Mi-Kami, means 
“ From - heaven - far - shining - Deity.” The Chinese 
equivalent is “ Ten - Sho- Dai - Jin,” and the common 
English term “ sun - goddess.” Susanob, whose full 
name is “ Take-11 aya-Siisnno-O-Mikoto,” was likewise 
commanded to rule over the blue plain of the sea ami 
the multitudinous salt waters, lie, however, neglected 
to keep Ids kingdom in order, was very slovenly, and 
cried constantly. To cure him of his surly behavior, 
his father made him ruler over the kingdom of night, 
lie is usually styled the god of the moon. Instead of 
reforming his conduct, Susanob grow worse, lie Turned 
a wild horse loose into the rice-fields planted bv his sis- 
ter the sun-goddess, defiled the white rice in her store- 
house, and, finally, while one day she was weaving, he 
Hung the reeking hide of a wild horse freshly skinned 
over her loom, and the carcass into the room. Dreadful- 
ly frightened and hurt, the sun-goddess withdrew into a 
rocky cave and shut the door. Instantly there was 
darkness over heaven and earth— a calamity which the 
turbulent gods improved hv making a confused noise 
like the buzzing of flics. A great congress of all the 
gods was now held in the dry bed of t lie llivcr of 1 leaven 
(the Milky-way), and after devising and carrying out 
many expedients — which became the foundation of the 
arts of life in Japan — the sun-goddess came out, light 
shone again, and Susanob was banished into a distant 
land, where his adventures took place, the accounts of 
which fill many pages in the national mythology. As 
the earth-gods and evil deities multiplied, confusion and 


discord reigned, which the snn-gotkless seeing resolved 
to correct by sending her grandson, Ninigi, to earth to 
rule over it. She gave him a mirror — the emblem of 
her own soul — a sword of divine temper taken hv Su- 
sanob from the tail of an eight-headed dragon which he 
had slain, and a seal or ball. Accompanied by a great 
retinue of deities, he descended by means of the float- 
ing bridge of heaven on which the divine first pair had 
stood to Mount Kirishima (which lies between Iliuga 
and Satsuma). After his descent, heaven and earth, 
which had already separated to a considerable distance, 
receded utterly, and further communication ceased. 
Ninigi was received with due honors by t lie earthly 
kami. and began to rule without much opposition. His 
grandson, whose mother was a dragon in the form of a 
woman, was Jimmu Tenno (as he is usually styled), 
the first mikado of Japan. At this point the first vol- 
ume of the Kojiki ends. Thenceforth the narratives of 
the Kojiki (with Xihongi ) form the history of Japan to 
the time of Swiko (empress), who reigned A.D. 593- 
628, and on these books all subsequent works are 
based. 

The Kojiki and Xihongi form the historic and doctri- 
nal basis of Shinto, and from them we gather its char- 
acteristics. Its cosmogony and theogony is evolution. 
In it is no Supreme God, Creator, or Trinity (as some 
foreign writers have said). Its highest gods were once 
creatures before being creators, and all its lower grades 
of deities were once men. The Shinto earth is Japan; 
its heaven is immediately above the mikado’s realm. 
The literal meaning of the names of the several pairs 
of deities preceding the first having sex, and the com- 
ments of the native writers, show that they are merely 
names descriptive of the various stages through which 
they passed before arriving at the perfection of exist- 
ence. Thus, some of the names of these rudimentary 
deities are “ First Mud,” “ Sand and Mud,*' “ Body with- 
out Hands, Feet, or Head — foetus,” “Beginning of 
Breath,” “Complete Perfection,” “Awful One,” etc. 
Thus, out of the mud, through a series of protoplastic 
deities, the first creative pair evolved unto perfection. 

So far we have given an outline of the Kojiki and 
Xihongi texts, refraining from any but the most neces- 
sary explanations or comment. From the acknowl- 
edged native orthodox commentators, who add much 
more in works which arc the richest mines for the stu- 
dent of Japanese archaeology and religion, wc add further 
explanation. The description of the act of Izanagi and 
Izanami in creating Japan is only a euphemism for the 
sexual act. The jewelled spear, llirata thinks, was in 
the form of a lingo. The worship of the phallus has 
from prehistoric times been nearly universal in Japan 
( The Mikado's Empire, p. 33, note). The point of the 
spear became the axis of the earth. That “the mo- 
tion imparted to the fluid mass of earth was the origin 
of its daily revolutions” is a statement showing how the 
acquisition of European knowledge enables a Shinto 
commentator to accommodate an ancient text to mod- 
ern notions. The island formed by the congealed drops 
was once at the north pole, hut has since taken its 
present position in the Inland Sea. Japan lies on the 
top of the globe, which accounts for the fact that she 
escaped the flood which took place in China in the reign 
of Yao (B.O. 2356), and by which Occidental countries 
were drowned, China and Corea suffering less, because 
near Japan. The stars were formed when Izanagi’s 
spear was drawn out of the earth ; the muck which was 
unlit to enter into the composition of the world Hew off 
in lumps into space ami became the stars. After the 
birth of the Japan islands (Yezo and Saghalin not be- 
ing mentioned, as these were not discovered till long 
alter the writing of the Kojiki) by ordinary generation, 
the remaining small islands and foreign countries were 
formed by the spontaneous consolidation of the foam of 
the sea; hence their immeasurable inferiority. Hence 
Japan is the Holy Country — the Land of the Gods — and 
the mikado is the Tenno (heavenly king) and the Ten- 


SHINTO 


SHINTO 689 


shi (son of heaven) whom all Japanese must reverently 
obey. 

Shinto contains no moral codes. The duty of the 
Shintoist is to live in fear and reverence of the mem- 
ories of the dead, to imitate the example of the gods 
and illustrious ancestors. Shinto prescribes no ritual, 
formulates no dogmas, contains no argument, teaches no 
immortality, commands no polemic propagation. These 
two latter doctrines may be easily developed from its 
Scriptures, as in practice they have been, since all men 
are derived from gods who are immortal, and the heav- 
enly kami made war upon the earthly, and the mikados 
by divine right slew the disobedient rebels. The pre- 
scribed ecclesiastical machinery and personnel are ex- 
tremely simple. Its temples (iniya, “house worthy of 
honor”) are thatched or shingled edifices of hinoki wood, 
about which there should be no paint, gilding, or gaudy 
decoration. The type of Shinto architecture, easily 
recognised, is the primitive hut with ridge-pole and 
cross-beams. Within are no idols or emblems. Noth- 
ing is visible save the strips of notched white paper 
called the gohei, which depend from a wand of hinoki 
wood, or are fixed in a pair of vases. A mirror — em- 
blem of the purity of the sun-goddess — a closet of hinoki ( 
containing a paper on which a prayer is written, and, I 
on occasions, the offerings of fruit, fish, and various 
foods, which become the property of the shrine-keepers, 
are the appurtenances of a Shinto temple. Outside, at 
the entrance of the path leading to the shrine, is the 
torii (bird-rest), or portal, now serving to the common 
mind as a gateway, but anciently used as a perch for 
the sacred fowls who proclaimed the break of day. 
Among the most approved of the ancient sacrifices, 
besides rice, rice-beer, fine cloth and coarse cloth, silk 
and brocade (now partly symbolized by the gohei), were 
white horses, boars, and cocks — the first for the per- 
sonal use of the gods, the second for food, and the third 
for time-keepers. A peculiarity concerning the living 
sacrifices was that they were not slaughtered, but after 
being hung up by the legs before the shrine were again 
set free. Sin was recognised, and the need of confes- 
sion and cleansing recognised. All sin was conceived 
as pollution. The chief Shinto rite is that of purifica- 
tion, and its rituals consist almost wholly, besides offer- 
ings, of prayers for cleansing and actual lustrations. 
Anciently the mikados commanded public ablutions in 
the river. Later on, the symbolical cleansing from sin 
was made by the people casting paper figures of men 
into the river; then the mikado deputed the high-priest 
at Kioto to perform the symbolical act for the whole na- 



Shinto Priest, with gohei, in prayer to the kami. 
IX.— X x 


tion, and an iron mannikin was made of the size of the 
mikado and thrown into the river. The ancient elabo- 
rate systems of purification by salt or water in the cases 
of birth, death, etc., binding the mouth of the officiating 
priest with paper, lest breath pollute the offerings, are 
only observed at present by Shinto purists, and their 
modern expression is that of rinsing the mouth or dip- 
ping the hands in water before prayer at the shrine. 
The following is a characteristic Shinto prayer. The 
worshipper at the shrine pulls a white rope attached to 
a bell hung in the roof above the shrine, claps his hands 
thrice, folds them palm to palm, bows his head on his 
thumbs, and prays, “I say with awe, deign to bless 
me by correcting the unwitting faults which, seen and 
heard by you, I have committed; by blowing off and 
clearing away the calamities which evil gods might in- 
flict; by causing me to live long and hard, like the last- 
ing rock; and by repeating to the gods of heavenly 
origin and to the gods of earthly origin the petitions 
which I present every day, along with your breath, that 
they may hear with the sharp-earedness of the forth-gal- 
loping colt.” In the Engishiki , or Book of Ceremonial 
Law , there are numerous specimens of prayers and joy- 
ful chants for harvest, remarkable alike for their sol- 
emn simplicity and poetic beauty. The deified forces 
of nature — thunder, lightning, earthquakes — and the 
kami of the sea, rivers, hot springs, mountains, trees, 
roads, yards, and wells, are all worshipped and addressed 
in prayer. 

Such is “ pure Shinto” — a bald mythology, a patri- 
archal cult of autochthons, a literary scaffolding for 
propping up the supremacy of a tribe of conquerors, a 
religious device for a nation in its savage infancy — a 
Robinson Crusoe among religions. Motoori teaches that 
morals were invented by the Chinese because they were 
an immoral people; but in Japan there is no necessity 
for any system of morals, as every Japanese acted 
aright if he only consulted his own heart. The duty 
of a good Japanese consists in obeying the mikado, 
without questioning whether these commands are right 
or wrong. It is only immoral people like the Chinese 
who presume to discuss the character of their sovereigns. 
Hence, in ancient Japan, government and religion were 
one and the same. The mikado is the centre of Church 
and State, which are one.* He is more than sovereign 
pontiff. Japan is the land of the gods. The mikado 
is god and vicar of all the gods, and in his hands rests 
the ownership of all the land; hence, what a Japanese 
eats, drinks, and enjoys is from the mikado and his 
heavenly ancestors. And, above all, is the crowning 
glory of the Holy Country — one dynasty of heaven-de- 
scended rulers, which from all time has stood unchanged, 
and to all eternity will stand unchangeable. (In Japan 
the dynasty has never changed. The present mikado 
is the 123d of the line, while in China there have been 
thirty-three or thirty-four dynasties. The date fixed 
for the accession of Jimmn Tenno is B.C. 660.) As a 
political force, Shinto has no parallel in the history of 
Japan, if indeed of any nation. More than all else, it 
has contributed to the unity of the Japanese people. It 
w'as the main-spring of the tremendous revolution of 
1868, whose secondary effect and outward phases have 
attracted the attention of the world. Such was Shinto 
before the advent of Confucian ethics or Buddhism. 
“It is quite possible to show that the indigenous belief 
of the ancient Japanese contained unformed materials 
out of which might have been evolved, in the course 
of ages, both positive morality and law, had not the 
process been interrupted at an early stage.” 

II. History of Shintoism , including its Developments 
and Modifications by Buddhism and Chinese Ethics (A.D. 
600-1700). — The Chinese ethical system reached Japan 
long before Buddhism. Confucianism easily lends itself 
to despotism, and the Five Relations of the Chinese sage 
were grafted on Shinto before the creed of Buddha be- 
gan to influence the Japanese in and after A.D. 552. 
The new faith from India met with ready acceptance. 


SHINTO 


690 


SHINTO 


its gorgeous ritual soon eclipsing the old cult, which 
gradually lost many of its distinguishing character- 
istics, and for centuries was unknown in its purity 
to the masses, though jealously guarded by a few court 
nobles. In some sequestered miyas its rites were per- 
fectly preserved, even to the lighting of tire by means 
only of the tire-drill and Ketinispura vbtusa wood, whence 
the native word hinoki , “ tire-wood.” 

In spite of the attractions of their more sensuous 
worship, the Buddhist propagandists found that the roots 
of Shinto were very deep in the hearts of the martial 
Japanese. To retain permanent hold upon the national 
heart, it would be necessary to propound some scheme 
of reconciliation by which the ancient traditions of 
their divine ancestors were woven into the Indian dog- 
mas. To do this required some master spirit profound- 
ly learned in both Shinto and Buddhism, a deep student 
of the Japanese nature, bold, and perhaps unscrupulous. 
The conversion of a line of theocratic emperors, whose 
authority was derived from their divine origin and sac- 
erdotal character, is a striking anomaly in Japanese his- 
tory; but to fuse into unity such cults as Shinto and 
Buddhism was a task like that of reconciling Homer 
and Moses — Grecian and Hebrew culture. Neverthe- 
less, a Japanese Philo was at hand. Kobo, a Buddhist 
priest (b. 774, d. 835), perhaps Japan’s mightiest intel- 
lect — the resemblance of whose head to that of Shak- 
speare has been pointed out — achieved the work with 
almost perfect success. Kobo was a scholar in Sanscrit, 
Pali, and Chinese, a zealous student of Buddhism in 
Corea and China, and a master of the Shinto Scriptures, 
which he studied at the Japanese Mecca, Ise. While 
at the shrine of the goddess Toyo, she manifested her- 
self to him and delivered the revelation on which his 
system is founded. His scheme, briefly stated, is that 
the Shinto deities were the incarnations of Buddha in 
Japan previous to the teaching of his perfect doctrines. 
Each Shinto kami is rebaptized with a Buddhist name. 
Thus Amnterasu becomes Amida, Ojin, llachiman, etc. 
The legends of the Kojiki were explained according to 
the philosophy of Buddhism, and shown to contain the 
essence and tenets of Buddha’s teachings. A charac- 
teristic specimen of this style of reasoning is the JSanka - 
iri, one of the best Japanese theological works. Ko- 
bo's system finally secured the complete ascendency of 
Buddhism. The mikado was so pleased that he gave 
it the name of Itiubii-Shinto (twofold doctrine of the 
gods). In the daily worship for each month, the Buddh- 
ist Bosatsu (Podhisattra) and certain of the Shinto kami 
are worshipped as one and the same. The general 
name for the kami, who were incarnations of Buddha, is 
ffongen. Thenceforth, until within the last decade, the 
form of Shinto generally known and practiced, and as 
such treated of by European writers, was Bibbn, impure 
or Buddhaized Shinto, which is utterly repudiated by 
true Shin mists, who aeeuse Kobo of fraud and forger v. 
We have not space to do more than mention that there 
are fifteen or more sects of corrupt Shintoists, hut pass 
on to glance briellv at the recent developments and 
sudden outburst of Shinto as a tremendous political force 
in and since the ever-memorahle year of 1808, when Ja- 
pan achieved the paradox of a return to the ancient re- 
gime and to the modern order of things. 

III. Ileriral and lifformatinn of Shintoism (from A.D. 
1700 to the present time). — Within the last hundred 
years a school of native writers have attempted to purge ( 
Shinto of its foreign elements and present it in its orig- 
inal purity. The activity of these scholars bore fruit 
in the creation of a large body of literature, some po- 
lemic, but most of it of high historic and antiquarian 
value. At the same time the eyes of the people were 
opened to see that the shogun was a political usurper, 
and the mikado, being (be vicar of the gods, was, and 
ought of right to he, the sole ruler of his people. The 
increasing reverence for the mikado generated by Shinto 
scholars soon grew into licry zeal, and a turbulent de- 
termination to restore tiie mikado, abolish Buddhism, 


sweep all foreigners from the Holy Country, and rehabil- 
itate Shinto as the State religion. Shinto created one 
of the most powerful currents of thought that helped to 
swell the flood which in 1808 swept away the dual sys- 
tem of government and restored the Tenno (son of 
heaven) or mikado (honorable gate, sublime porte, Pha- 
raoh ) to supremacy, abolished the office of shogun, 
and made the city of Yedo the national capital, now 
called Tokio. These changes would doubtless have taken 
place even if Perry or other foreigners had not come to 
Japan. Their presence gave to the mighty uprising of 
the nation that out ward direction which has tilled the 
eye of Christendom with wonder. No sooner was the 
new or ancient form of government established in Tokio 
than successive edicts were issued which utterly purged 
the Riobu-Shinto temples and all the national shrines 
of all Buddhist influences, both material and personal, 
and again the gohei , mirror, and unpainted wood re- 
placed the symbols, gilding, candles, incense, and paint of 
Buddhism. The Buddhist monasteries and temples were 
shorn of much of their revenues, and “sequestration” 
was the order of the day. A propaganda was instituted 
in Tokio, and attempts made to convert all the Japanese 
people to Shinto tenets and practice. Despite of spo- 
radic and local successes, the scheme was a splendid fail- 
ure, and bitter disappointment succeeded the first exul- 
tation of victory. Confronted by modern problems of 
society and government, the mikado’s ministers found 
themselves unable, if indeed willing, to entomb polities 
in religion, and gradually the shadowy cult of Shinto 
waned from its momentary splendor. Its fortunes may 
be traced in the rank and grade of the Department of 
Religion. Anciently, and for a while in 18G8, t lie Jin Gi 
Kuan (council of the gods of heaven and earth) held 
equal authority and influence with the Dai Jo Kuan 
(the great council of the government). Soon, however, 
from a supreme Kuan , it was made one of the ten boards 
of administration, the Jin Gi Slid. In less than a year 
its dignity was again lowered by being made the Kid 
Bu Slid (board of religious instruction). Finally, in 
1877, it was quietly turned over to the Home Depart- 
ment and made a bureau with a very shadowy exist- 
ence. Nevertheless, Shinto is still a living force to 
millions in Japan, and. with Buddhism, shares the arena 
against advancing Christianity in that country. The 
census of 1874 gave a return of 70,119 Shinto officials 
and priests, and 128,000 Shinto shrines as against 207,099 
Buddhist priests and monks and 90,000 temples. It is 
probable that the Buddhists still outnumber Shintoists 
four or five times over. The cardinal tenets promul- 
gated by the Department of Religion in 1872, which are 
the central themes of the Shinto lecturers (who, how- 
ever, enforee them hv texts drawn from the Confueian 
and Chinese classics), are the three following : 

1. Thou shalt honor the gods and love thy country. 

2. Thou shall clearly understand the principles of heav- 
en and the duly of man. 

3. Thou shalt revere the mikado as thy sovereign and 
obey the will of his court. 

In its higher forms, Shinto is simply a cultured and in- 
tellectual atheism. In its lower forms it is blind obedi- 
ence to governmental ami priestly dictates. “Shinto, 
as expounded by Motodri, is nothing more than an en- 
gine for reducing the people to a condition of mental 
slavery.” Japan being a country of very striking nat- 
ural phenomena, the very soil and air lend themselves 
to support in the native mind this system of hero-wor- 
ship and worship of the forces of nature. In spite, how- 
ever, of the conservative power of the ancestral influ- 
ences, the patriotic incentives, ami the easy morals of 
Shinto, it is doubtful whether, with the pressure of 
Buddhism, the spread of popular education and Chris- 
tianity, it can long retain its hold upon the Japanese 
people. For the details of worship, festivals, symbols, 
description of temples, etc., see works on Japan. 

IV. Literature. — The leading writer on Shinto is 
Ernest Satow, secretary in Japanese to II. B. M. Lega- 


SHIP 


691 


SHIP 


tion in Japan, who has written The Revival of Pare 
Shinto , and The Shinto Shrines of Jse, in the Transac- 
tions of the Asiatic Society of Japan for 1874 ; The My- 
thology and Worship of the Ancient Japanese , in the 
Westminster Review for July, 1878. See also Griffis, The 
Mikado's Empire , p.43-53, 96-100, 160, 300; Apple- 
tons' Cyclopedia, ix, 538, 551, 562; Fuso Mimi Bu- 
kuro (a budget of Japanese), Notes (Yokohama, 1874) ; 
see also, with caution, Klaproth, A pergu des Amuiles des 
Empereurs du Japan ; Siebold, A rchiv zur Beschreibung 
von Japan; Kiimpfer, History of Japan; and the va- 
rious sketches of travellers and missionaries. See Ja- 
pan. (W. E. G.) 

Ship (for the original term, see below). Under this 
head we propose to bring together all the important 
information extant relating to ancient and especially 
Biblical naval operations. In doing so we largely make 
use of the materials found in the dictionaries of Kitto, 
Smith, and Fairbairn. 

I. Extent of Navigation. — The Jews cannot be said to 
have been a seafaring people; yet their position on the 
map of the world is such as to lead us to feel that they 
could not have been ignorant of ships and the business 
which relates thereunto. Phoenicia, the north-western 
part of Palestine, was unquestionably among, if not at 
the head of, the earliest cultivators of maritime affairs. 
Then the Holy Land itself lay with one side coasting a 
sea which was anciently the great highway of naviga- 
tion, and the centre of social and commercial enterprise. 
Within its own borders it had a navigable lake. The 
Nile, with which river the fathers of the nation had 
become acquainted in their bondage, was another great 
thoroughfare for ships. The Red Sea itself, which con- 
ducted towards the remote east, was at no great distance 
even from the capital of the land. Then at different 
points in its long line of sea-coast there were harbors of 
no mean repute. Let the reader call to mind Tyre and 
Sidon in Phoenicia, and Acre (Acco) and Jaffa (Joppa) 
in Palestine. Yet the decidedly agricultural bearing 
of the Israclitish constitution checked such a develop- 
ment of power, activity, and wealth as these favorable 
opportunities might have called forth on behalf of sea- 
faring pursuits. There can, however, be no doubt that 
the arts of ship- building and of navigation came to 
Greece and Italy from the East, and immediately from 
the Levant; whence we may justifiably infer that 
these arts, so far as they were cultivated in Palestine, 
were there in a higher state of perfection at an early 
period, at least, than in the more western parts of the 
world (Ezek. xxvii; Strabo, bk. xvi ; Comenz, I)e Nave 
Tyria). In the early periods of their history the Israel- 
ites themselves would partake to a small extent of this 
skill and of its advantages, since it was only by degrees 
that they gained possession of the entire land, and for a 
long time were obliged to give up the sovereignty of 
very much of their seaboard to the Philistines and other 
hostile tribes. The earliest history of Palestinian ships 
lies in impenetrable darkness, so far as individual facts 
are concerned. In Gen. xlix, 13 there is, however, a 
prophecy, the fulfilment of which would connect the 
Israelites with shipping at an early period: “Zebulun 
shall dwell at the haven of the sea, and he shall be for 
a haven of ships, and his border shall be unto Zidon” 
(comp. Deut. xxxiii, 19; Josh.xix, 10 sq.) — words which 
seem more fitly to describe the position of Asher in the 
actual division of the land. These local advantages, 
however, could have been only partially improved, since 
we find Hiram, king of Tyre, acting as carrier by sea for 
Solomon, engaging to convey in floats to Joppa the tim- 
ber cut in Lebanon for the Temple, and leaving to the 
Hebrew prince the duty of transporting the wood from 
the coast to Jerusalem. When, after having conquered 
Elath and Ezion-geber on the farther arm of the Red 
Sea, Solomon proceeded to convert them into naval sta- 
tions for his own purposes, he was still, whatever he 
did himself, indebted to Hiram for “shipmen that had 
knowledge of the sea” (1 Kings ix, 26; x, 22). The 


effort, however, to form and keep a navy in connection 
with the East was not lastingly successful; it soon be- 
gan to decline, and Jehoshaphat failed when at a later 
day he tried to give new life and energy to the enter- 
prise (xxii, 49, 50). In the time of the Maccabees Joppa 
was a Jewish seaport (1 Macc. xiv, 5). Herod the Great 
availed himself of the opportunities naturally afforded 
to form a more capacious port at Caesarea (Josephus, 
War, iii, 9, 3). Nevertheless, no purely Jewish trade 
by sea was hence even now called into being. Caesarea 
was the place whence Paul embarked in order to pro- 
ceed as a prisoner to Rome (Acts xxvii, 2). 1 1 is voyage 
on that occasion, as described most graphically in the 
Acts of the Apostles (xxvii, xxviii), if it requires some 
knowledge of ancient maritime affairs in order to be 
rightly understood, affords also rich and valuable mate- 
rials towards a history of the subject, and might, we feel 
convinced, be so treated as of itself to supply many ir- 
resistible evidences of the certainty of the events therein 
recorded, and, by warrantable inferences, of the credibil- 
ity of the evangelical history in general. No one but an 
eye-witness could have written the minute, exact, true, 
and graphic account which these two chapters give. 
The vessels connected with Biblical history were, with 
the exception of those used on the Sea of Galilee (for 
which see below), for the most part ships of burden, al- 
| most indeed exclusively so, at least within the period 
| of known historical facts, though in a remote antiquity 
the Phoenician states can hardly fail to have supported 
a navy for warlike, as it is known they did for predatory, 
purposes. This peculiarity, however, of the Biblical 
ships exonerates us from entering into the general sub- 
ject of the construction of ancient ships and their sev- 
eral subdivisions. A good general summary on that 
head may be found in Smith’s Dictionary of Greek and 
Roman Antiquities, s. v. A few details chiefly respect- 
ing ships of burden may be of service to the scriptural 
student. 

II. Sources of Information. — Ancient literature is 
singularly deficient in everything which relates to ships 
or navigation. No work written expressly on the sub- 
ject has come down to us; and we are dependent for our 
knowledge on the subject upon the incidental notices in 
poets and historians, or upon the figures on coins, mar- 
bles, or paintings, often the works of ignorant artists, 
which are calculated to mislead. Recent discoveries 
have, however, added much to our knowledge of the 
subject, especially in the marbles and pictures exhumed 
at Herculaneum and Pompeii. No one writer in the 
whole range of Greek and Roman literature has supplied 
us (it may be doubted whether all put together have 
supplied us) with so much information concerning the 
merchant-ships of the ancients as Luke in the narrative 
of Paul’s voyage to Rome (Acts xxvii, xxviii). There 
was also dug up at the Pirjeus, in 1834, a series of mar- 
ble slabs, on which were inscribed the inventories of the 
ships of the Athenian fleet. They have been published 
bv Prof. Brick h, of Berlin, under the title of Urkunden 
iiber das Seewesen des uttischen Staates (Berlin, 1840, fob 
and 8vo). The pictorial representations on the Egyp- 
tian and Assyrian monuments supply us some additional 
information. Julius Pollux, in his Onomasficon, has giv- 
en a long list of nautical terms which, although not often 
accompanied by explanations, puts us in possession of the 
terminology of ancient seamanship, and is satisfactory as 
agreeing in a remarkable manner with that of Luke. 
Isidore of Seville, in his Origines , also gives many nau- 
tical terms with explanations. For other literature, see 
at the end of this article. 

III. Original Terms. — As regards Paul’s voyage, it is 
important to remember that he accomplished it in three 
ships: first, the Adramyttian vessel [see Adhamyttium] 
which took him from Caesarea to Myra, and which was 
probably a coasting-vessel of no great size (Acts xxvii, 
1-6); secondly, the large Alexandrian corn-ship, in 
which he was wrecked on the coast of Malta (ver. 6; 
xxviii, 1) [see Melita] ; and, thirdly, another large Al- 


ship 


692 


SHIP 


cxandrian corn-ship, in which he sailed from Malta by 
Syracuse and Rhegium to Ruteoli (ver. 11-13). 

The word employed by Luke of each of these ships 
is, with one single exception, when he uses vavg (Acts 
xxvii, 41), the generic term 7rXo7ov (ver. 2, 6, 10, 15, 
22, 30, 37, 38, 30, 44; xxviii, 11). The same general 
usage prevails throughout. Elsewhere in the Acts (xx, 
13, 38; xxi, 2. 3, 6) we have nXolov. So in James (iii, 
1) and in the Revelation (viii, 9; xviii, 17, 19). In 
the Gospels we have nXolov {passim") or 7rXoiapiov 
(Mark iv, 36 ; John xxi, 8). In the Sept, we find 7r\oI- 
op used twenty-eight times ami I'aPf nine times. Both 
words generally correspond to the Hebrew "OX, oni, or 
m:x, o niydh. In Jonah i, 5, ttXoIov is used to repre- 
sent the lleb. n: n 2Q, sephindh , which, from its ctvmol- 
ogv, appears to mean a vessel covered with a deck or 
with hatches, in opposition to an open boat. The senses 
in which oicafpog (2 Maec. xii, 3, 6) and <jk«0?/ (Acts 
xxvii, 16, 32) are employed we shall notice as we pro- 
ceed. The use of rpn)pijg, or trireme (A. V. galley”), 
is limited to a single passage in the Apocrypha (2 Maec. 
iv, 20). In four passages (Numb, xxiv, 24 ; Isa. xxxiii, 
21; Ezek. xxx, 9; Dan. xi,30) the lleb. term is (si, 
so called from being set up or built. See Boat. 

IV. Styles of Ancient Ships. — 1. Their Size . — The 
narrative which we take as our chief guide affords a 
good standard for estimating this. The ship in which 
Raul was wrecked had 276 persons on board (Acts xxvii, 
37), besides a cargo ( <popriov ) of wheat (ver. 10, 38) ; 
and all these passengers seem to have been taken on to 
Ruteoli in another ship (xxviii, 11) which had her own 
crew and her own cargo; nor is there a trace of any dif- 
ficulty in the matter, though the emergency was unex- 
pected. Now in English transport -ships, prepared for 
carrying troops, it is a common estimate to allow a ton 
and a half per man; thus we see that it would be a mis- 
take to suppose that these Alexandrian eorn-ships were 
very much smaller than modern trading- vessels. What 
is here stated is quite in harmony with other instances, 
'l'lie ship in which Josephus was wrecked (Life, § 3), 
in the same part of the Levant, had 600 souls on board. 
The Alexandrian eorn-ship described by Lucian (A T avig. 
s. vofu) as driven into the Rineus by stress of weather, 
and as exciting general attention from her great size, 
would appear (from a consideration of the measurements, 
which are explicitly given) to have measured 1100 or 
1200 tons. As to the ship of Rtolemv Rhiladelphus, de- 
scribed by Athemeus (v. 204), this must have been much 
larger; but it would be no more lair to take that as a 
standard than to take the “Great Eastern” as a type of 
a modern steamer. On the whole, if we say that an 
ancient merchant-ship might range from 500 to 1000 
tons, we are clearly within the mark. 

2. Merchant-ships in the Old Test . — The earliest pas- 


sages where seafaring is alluded to in the Old Test, are 
the following in order : Gen. xlix, 13, in the prophecy of 
Jacob concerning Zebulun (Sept. KaroiKpcu reap' oppov 
7rXoiW); Numb. xxiv, 24, in Balaam’s prophecy (where, 
however, ships are not mentioned in the Sept.); Deut. 
xxviii, 68, in one of the warnings of Moses (d. 7 rooTptipti 
at Kiptog tig A’iyv^ ttov iv 7rXoioig) ; Jrnlg. v, 17, in 
Deborah’s Song (Adi' tig ri 7rapoiKu 7rXoioic). Next 
after these it is natural to mention the illustrations and 
descriptions connected with this subject in Job (ix, 26, 
f; koi ton ravaiv o iov) and iu the Psalms (xlvii 

[xlviii], 7, iv Trvtvpuri iciUo avvrpiiptig 7rXola Qap - 
aig ; eiii [civ], 26, ikti 7rXoi a cunropsvovrai ; evi, 23, 
oi Karafiaivovrtg tig SdXaoaav iv 7rXoi'oit,‘)* Prov. 
xxiii, 34 may also be quoted. To this add xxx, 19 
(rpifiovg vijog TrovroTropobo^g) ; xxxi, 14 ip- 

TToptvoptvrj pctKpdSsv). Solomon’s own ships, which 
may have suggested some of these illustrations (1 Kings 
ix, 26, 2 Chron. viii, 18; ix, 21), have previously been 
mentioned. We must notice the disastrous expedition 
of Jehosliaphat’s ships from the same port of Ezion- 
geber (1 Kings xxii, 48, 49 ; 2 Chron. xx, 36, 37). The 
passages which remain are in the prophets, especially 
Isaiah and Ezekiel. In the former prophet the gen- 
eral term “ships of Tarshish” is variously given in 
the Sept., 7tXoioj' SaXdoGijg (Isa. ii, 16), 7r\oio Kop^i/- 
(hh'Of (xxiii, 1, 14), 7rXoi a tfapoig (lx, 9). For another 
allusion to seafaring, see xliii, 14. The celebrated 27th 
chapter of Ezekiel ought to be carefully studied in all 
its detail; and in Jonah i, 3-16 the following technical 
phrases in the Sept, (besides what has been already 
adduced) should be noticed: i>avXov (ver. 3), ovvrpi- 
(Mjvcu (ver. 4), tK/3oX>) v t7rvii)o(n to rd >v oKtvivv, rov 
Kov(pio$i)vat (ver. 5), kottugh »/ SdXctGoci (ver. 1 1, 12). 
In Dan. xi, 40 (ovraxSiiotTai fiaoiXtvg too B oppd iv 
iippaoi Koi iv 'nnrtvot kui iv i>avo't ffoAXaig') we touch 
the subject of ships of v T ar. 

3. Ships of 1F«?’ in the Apocrypha. — Military opera- 
tions both by land and water (iv rtf SaXdooy Kai iiri 
rpg Zijpctg, 1 Macc. viii, 23, 32) are prominent subjects 
in the books of Maccabees. Thus in the contract be- 
tween Judas Maccabseus and the Romans it is agreed 
(ver. 26, 28) that no supplies are to be afforded to the 
enemies of either, whether o7roc, 07rXo, cipyvpiov, or 
7rXo7rr. In a later passage (xv, 3) we have more ex- 
plicitly, in the letter of king Antioehus, 7rXo?a 7roX*/u- 
k« (see ver. 14), while in 2 Macc. iv, 20 (as observed 
above) the word rpiijptig, “galleys,” occurs in the ac- 
count of the proceedings of the infamous Jason. Here 
we must not forget the monument erected by Simon 
Maccabicus on his father’s grave, on which, with other 
ornaments and military symbols, were 7rXoi« imytyXvp- 
piva , tig rb StwotloScu v7ri> tv dtvriov twv TrXeovTiov 
Ti)v SdXaooav (1 Macc. xiii, 29), Finally must he 
mentioned the nnytule at Joppa, when the resident Jews, 
with their wives and children, 200 in number, were in- 



Aneient Ship of the largest size. (From a painting at Pompeii.) 


SHIP 693 SHIP 



duced to go into boats and were drowned (2 Macc. xii, 
3, 4), with the vengeance taken by Judas ( t'ov f.dv \i- 
fieva vvicriop Ivh rprjGe Kai ra Gtcatyi) ver. 6). 

It seems sufficient simply to enumerate the other pas- 
sages in the Apocrypha where some allusion to seafar- 
ing is made. They are the following : Wisd. v, 10 ; xiv, 
1; Ecelus. xxxiii, 2; xliii, 24; 1 Esd. iv, 23. 



In row-boats the rowers are seated on the cross- 
beams (£uyo, in Latin transtra). hence called zygitce . 
Before the invention of gunpowder, naval combats were 
necessarily at close quarters; but to enable the soldiers 
(tTrifiarai') to tight without interfering with the row- 
ers, a platform or gangway (7rdpoc^oc) was laid on the 
top of the bulwarks which surround the deck, projecting 
partly over the side and partly over the deck. Upon 
this they fought; and, where great speed was required, 
as in pursuit or flight, the fighting-men rowed, in which 
case movable seats or stools (Spavoi) were requisite for 
them to sit upon, and from these they were called thra- 
nites. It appears, therefore, that from the necessity 
of the case, fighting-vessels must have had more than 
one rank of rowers, just as the natives of the South 
Seas both fight and row from the outriggers of their 
canoes. The adjoining cut represents the upper rank, 


or thranites, rowing from the gangway. It is right 
to explain that the artist has contrived to give the 
details of the bow and stern, by introducing only one 
fourth of the straight part of the ship where the rowers 
were seated. Otherwise, if done to a scale, a long low 
vessel would have appeared on a coin little more than 
a mere line. 

As the size of the vessels was increased, and they 
were decked over, the zygitre retained their name, but 
were necessarily placed upon raised seats. Upon trial 
it was found that an additional rank of rowers, seated on 
the deck between the oars of the primitive rank, could, 
by keeping time, row without difficulty. As these were 
seated nearer the side of the ship, and under the gang- 
way or sheltered portion of the deck, which was called 
the thalamus , or sleeping -place, they were called thal- 
amites. Hence the three ranks of rowers in a trireme 
were the thranites , zygites , and thalamites; and hence 
the vertical distance between the rowers was onty one 
half of the horizontal distance, or only eighteen inches, 
instead of six feet, as is usually supposed. 

The monoxyle,or hollow tree, with both ends rounded, 
must be held to be the primitive form and model for the 
ship, and continued to be so with little alteration till the 
Middle Ages, when a change in the mode of steering ren- 
dered a change in the form of the stern necessar) 1 -, but 
which it is foreign to our purpose to take into consider- 
ation. 

4. Boats on the Sea of Galilee. — The reader of the 
New 'fest. is well aware how frequently he finds himself 
with the Saviour on the romantic shores of the Sea of 
Gennesareth. There Jesus is seen, now addressing the 
people from on board a vessel, 7rXotor (Matt, xiii, 2, 
Luke v, 3), now sailing up and down the lake (Matt, 
viii, 23 ; ix, 1 ; xiv, 13 ; John vi, 17). Some of his ear- 
liest disciples were proprietors of barks which sailed on 
this inland sea (Matt, iv, 21 ; John xxi, 3; Luke v, 3). 
These “ ships” were indeed small. Josephus designates 
the ships here employed by the term atccapi /. 
They were not, however, mere boats, they 
carried their anchor with them (ILar, iii, 
10, 1 ; Life, § 33). There was, too, a kind 
of vessel larger than this, called a ys&'a by 
Josephus, who narrates a sea-fight which 
took plaee on the lake, conducted on the 
part of the Ilomans by Vespasian himself 
{War, iii, 10, 9). It thus appears that the 
lake was not contemptible nor its vessels 
mean ; and those should hence learn to qual- 
ify their language who represent the Galile- 
an fishermen as of the poorest class. 



SHIP 


C94 


ship 



Assyrian Aimed Galley in Motion. 

British Museum.) 

There is a melancholy interest in that passage of Dr. 
Robinson’s Researches (iii, 253) in which he says that 
on his approach to the Sea of Tiberias he saw a single 
white sail. This was the sail of the one rickety boat 
which, as we learn from other travellers (see especially 
Thomson, Land and Rook, ii, 81), alone remains on a 
scene represented to us in the gospels and in Josephus 
as full ol' life from the multitude of its fishing-boats. In 
the narratives of the call of the disciples to be “fishers 
of men” (Matt, iv, 18-22; Mark i, 10-20 ; Luke v, 1-11), 
there is no special information concerning the charac- 
teristics of these boats. In the account of the storm 
and the miracle on the lake (Matt, viii, 23-27 ; Mark iv, 
35-41 ; Luke viii, 22-25), it is for every reason instruct- 
ive to compare the three narratives; and we should ob- 
serve that Luke is more technical in his language than 
Matthew, and Mark than Luke. Thus, instead of aear- 
pdg /i iyaQ iyevero iv ry SaXdcray (Matt, viii, 24), we 
have icare/3f) AaiAaip dvspov et’g n)v Alprijv (Luke 
viii, 23), and again t<l j kAuSmvi tov i'^arog (ver. 24) ; 
and instead of (dare, to 7t\oTop KaAonTtaSai, we have 
<yuve7r\//poi’vro. In Mark (iv, 37) we have ru Kvpara 
i 7Tf fSctAAtv tig to 7r\oiop, wot£ auro yepi^eaSai. 
This evangelist also mentions the 7rpocnc£0«Xaior, or 
boatman’s cushion, on which our blessed Saviour was 
sleeping iv t/j Trpvpvy, and he uses the technical term 
EKoTraotv for the lulling of the storm. See more on this 
subject in Smith, Dissertation on the Gospels (Lond. 
1853). We may turn now to John. In the account he 
gives of what followed the miracle of walking on the 
sea (vi, 16-25), 7rXoiov and 7rXoidjOiop seem to be used 
indifferently, and we have mention of other 7r\outpta. 
There would of course be boats of various sizes on the 
lake. The reading, however, is doubtful. Finally, in 
the solemn scene alter the resurrection (John xxi, 1-8), 


we have the terms aryiaXoc; and rd Stgid 
pipy rou 7 rXoiop, which should be noticed as 
technical. Here again 7tXoTop and 7rXomp(OP 
appear to be synonymous. If we compare all 
these passages with Josephus, we easily come 
to the conclusion that, with the large popula- 
tion around the Lake of Tiberias, there must 
have been a vast number both of fishing-boats 
and pleasure-boats, and that boat-building 
must have been an active trade on its shores 
(see Stanley, Sin. and Pal. p. 367). 

The so-called ships of the Lake of Tiberias 
were, in fact, fishing-boats impelled by oars 
(see Mark vi, 48; John vi, 19). We learn also 
from Luke’s account of Christ stilling the tem- 
pest, and his using the expression ttAiovtiov, 
“sailing” (viii, 23), that they must have had 
(Sculpture from Koyuujik, in the masts and sails; and from Mark’s account of 
the same event (iv, 38) they must have been 
furnished with a TrpooKMpaAaxov, “pillow,” which, ac- 
cording to Hesvchius, was the same as the vTrepei(rpioi\ 
or fleece, upon which the rowers sat. So far as we 
can learn from the scriptural account, they fished with 
nets, we must suppose with the drag-net, and also with 
the dp(j)'ti3A)j(jTpov (Matt, iv, 18) or dpapifidWovrag 
(Mark i, 16). 




A ncient Egyptian War-galley ; the sail being clewed up during the action. (Thebes.) 

a, raised forecastle, Id which the archer* wpre posted; c, another post for the archers, aud the pilot, ; 
t, a bulwark, to protect the rowers ; /, slingers, iu the top. 


Fishermeu Dragging a Net. (Mosaic pavement from Car- 
thage, iu the British Museum.) 

V. Construction and Equipment. — 1. Shape and Orna- 
ments of the Hull . — It is probable, from the mode of steer- 
ing (and, indeed, it is nearly evident from ancient works 
of art), that there was no very marked difference between 
the bow (?r pidpa, “foreship,” Acts xxvii, 30, “fore part” 
ver. 41) and the stern (Trpvpva, “ hinder part,” ver. 41 ; 
see Mark iv, 38). The “ hold” ( koiAi j, “ the sides of the 
ship,” Jonah i, 5) would present no special peculiarities. 
In merchant-ships the sides of the deck were defended 
by an open rail, the stem-post and stern-post rising in 
a curve, most frequently ter- 
minated by an ornament rep- 
resenting the head of a water- 
fowl bent backwards. This was 
termed the apelustre or che- 
niscus (^ijraTKog, from \i]V, a 
goose); or by a head in pro- 
file, probably suggestive of the 
•sign (jrupdcn)pov, Acts xxviii, 
11) or name of the ship. Out- 
side of these ornaments were 
projections at each end, which 
increased the dimensions with- 
out adding to the capacity or 
tonnage of the vessels. This 
must be kept in mind in es- 
timating the relative size of 
ancient and modern ships. On 
the stern-projections we some- 
times see an awning repre- 
sented, as in the ship on the 
tomb at Pompeii ; and on the 


SHIP 


SHIP 


G95 



Ancient Ship. (From a paintiug at Pompeii.) 


corresponding projections at the bow, we are informed 
by Lucian, in his description of an Alexandrian ship, 
that the anchors were stowed, and also the orpo- 
<pe7ct and 7 rEpiayojyelg, The <rrpo0f7a may be inter- 
preted capstans for heaving up the anchors, and the 7re- 
piayioytlg oars or paddles for helping the ship round 
when “slack in stays,” rendered by Hedericus “instru- 
mentuin ad circumagendam navem.” In the picture 
of Theseus deserting Adriadne, from Herculaneum, we 
see the cable coiled round a capstan near the stern. 
We see also the roof of one of the ohcpatic, or cabins, 
mentioned by Lucian in his description of the ship of 
Alexandria. It will be observed that the mode of furl- 
ing the sails like a window-curtain, more fully indicated 
in another figure, is marked by the outline of the sole 
or lower edge of the sail. Of two other customary or- 
naments, however, one is probably implied, and the sec- 
ond is distinctly mentioned in the account of Paul’s 
voyage. That personification of ships which seems to 
be instinctive led the ancients to paint an eye on each 
side of the bow. Such is the custom still in the Med- 
iterranean, and indeed our own sailors speak of “ the 
eyes” of a ship. This gives vividness to the word dvr- 
otySaXpeiv, which is used (Acts xxvii, 15) where it is 
said that the vessel could not “bear up into” (literally 
“look at”) the wind. This was the vessel in which 
Paul was wrecked. An ornament of that which took 
him on from Malta to Pozzuoli is more explicitly re- 
ferred to. The “sign” of that ship (7rapden]pov, Acts 
xxviii, 11) was “Castor and Pollux” (lucida sidera — 
brilliant constellations, auspicious to navigators, Horace, 
Od. i, 3; Liv. xxxvii, 9*2; Tacit. Ann, vi, 34; Ovid, 
Trist. i, 10, 1) ; and the symbols of these heroes (proba- 
bly in the form represented in the coin engraved under 
that article) were doubtless painted or sculptured on 
each side of the bow, as was the case with the goddess 
Isis on Lucian’s ship (i) 7rpwpa Tt)v hriovvpov Tijg vetog 
Stop e'xovaa ti)v 'loir eicartpujStj', Navig. c. 5). The 
Rev. George Brown found an inscription at Port Phenia 
which had been on an ancient building, superintended 
by an Alexandrian gubernator (Kvfiepvjjrpg, Acts xxvii, 
1 1), of the ship whose sign was “ Isopharia.” In the list 
of the Attic fleet wc find names like those of the mod- 
erns, such as “Agatha,” “ Amphitrite,” “Aura,” “ Delia,” 
“ Lyra,” “ Europa,” “ Centaur,” “ Iioma,” etc. 

2. Masts, Sails, Hopes or Rigging, Yards , Oars, etc . — 
These, in distinction from the hull or vessel itself, were 
collectively called <jKtvp or (rump, gear (rd dk ahpnrav- 
ra (TKEVi) KaXtlrat, Jul. Poll.). We find this word twice 
used for parts of the rigging in the narrative of the 
Acts (xxvii, 17, 19). The rig of an ancient ship was 
more simple and clumsy than that employed in modern 
times. Its great feature was one large mast, with one 
large square sail fastened to a yard of great length. 
Such was the rig also of the ships of the Northmen at 
a later period. Ilence the strain upon the hull and 
the danger of starting the planks were greater than 
under the present system, which distributes the me- 
chanical pressure more evenly over the whole ship. 
Not that there were never more masts than one, or 
more sails than one on the same mast, in an ancient 


merchantman. But these were repetitions, so to speak, 
of the same general unit of rig. In the account of 
Paul’s shipwreck very explicit mention is made of the 
apreptov (Acts xxvii, 40 ), which is undoubtedly the 
“foresail” (not “mainsail,” as in the A. V.). Such a 
sail would be almost necessary in putting a large ship 
about. On that occasion it was used in the process 
of running the vessel aground. Nor is it out of place 
here to quote a Crimean letter in the Times (Dec. 5, 
1855) : “ The ‘Lord Raglan’ [merchant-ship] is on shore, 
but taken there in a most sailorlike manner. Directly 
her captain found he could not save her, he cut away 
his mainmast and mizzen, and, setting a topsail on her 
foremast, ran her ashore stem on .” Such a mast may 
be seen raking over the bow, in representations of ships 
in Roman coins. In the Old Test, the mast (irr roe) is 
mentioned (Isa. xxxiii, 23); and from another prophet 
(Ezek. xxvii, 5) we learn that the cedar-wood from Leb- 
anon was sometimes used for this part of ships. There 
is a third passage (Prov. xxiii, 34, lTfiO) where 
the top of a ship’s mast is probably intended, though 
there is some slight doubt on the subject, and the Sept, 
takes the phrase differently. Both ropes (fryo tvia. Acts 
xxvii, 32) and sails (laria) are mentioned in the 
above -quoted passage of Isaiah; and from Ezekiel 
(xxvii, 7) we learn that the latter were often made of 
Egyptian linen (if such is the meaning of Grpiopvtj). 
There the word (which we find also in Acts 

xxvii, 17, 30) is used for lowering the sail from the 
yard. It is interesting here to notice that the word 
VTroGTtXXopat, the technical term for furling a sail, is 
twice used by Paul, and that in an address delivered in 
a seaport in the course of a voyage (Acts xx, 20, 27). 
It is one of the very few cases in which the apostle em- 
ploys a nautical metaphor. The annexed cut, from a 
marble in the Borghese collection at Rome, gives a good 
idea of the relative size and position of the sails, al- 
though in other respects the details are incorrect. It 
will be observed from this, as well as from the figure of 
the ship from the tomb at Pompeii, the sails are divided 
into compartments by ropes sewed across them; so that 
should the sail be torn in a storm, the injury would be 
confined to one of the squares. The name of the great 
and proper mast (6 peyag icat yvpatog taroc) was aca- 
tion ( cncaTiov ) ; the mast at the stern epidromus, ac- 
cording to Julius Pollux, who adds that the smallest 
was called dolon , without, however, mentioning its posi- 
tion. Isidore of Seville gives the same names to the 
sails in a passage evidently taken from the foregoing, 
which is as follows: “Acatinm velum maximum et in 
medium navi constitutum, epidromus secundie amplitu- 
dinis sed ad puppim. Dolon minimum velum et ad pro- 
ram artemo dirigemlse potius navis causa commendatum 
quam celeritate.” It has generally been supposed by 
this that the sail at the bow was called the dolon, Mr. 
Smith, however, in his essay has shown, by numerous 
extracts from ancient authors, that the dolones were 



Ship under Sail. (From a sculptured marble.) 


SHIP 


696 


SHIP 


small sails to be substituted 
for the larger in stormy 
weather, and that the mast 
at the bow with its sail was 
the artemon. In addition to 
the three lower sails, they 
had suppara, or topsails, to 
be set in light winds; and 
it would appear from a coin 
of Nero, given by Montfau- 
con ( pi. exliii ), that they 
had sails above the suppara 
equivalent to topgallant-sails 
— a ship being represented 
with two yards above the 
main - yard. We have no 
proof that the ancients made 
use of what, in modern lan- 
guage, are termed fore-and- 
aft sails; but they certain- 
ly had triangular sails, at 

least in the war -galleys, 

with the apex at the foot of ^arge Ancient Egyptian Boat with sail, apparently made of the papyrus, a double 

the mast; such a sail could 



mast, and many rowers. (Iu a tomb at Kora Ahmar, above Minieh.) 


be braced about without interfering with the rowers, 
which was probably the reason why this form was 
adopted. The lower corners of the sails, or rather the 
ropes which attach them to the sides of the ship, in 
English the “sheets,” were called the feet of the sails. 
The pt'Opes, fore-foot (7rpo7roi>c), a word which has puz- 
zled commentators, is simply the sheet which is drawn 
forward, and would no doubt have been called in English 
the fore-sheet, had that term not been applied to the 
sheet of the foresail. The a Ktvtj in ancient ships con- 
sisted of GKEin ) %v\ira (wooden gear), arid <tkevij tcpt- 
paora (hanging gear); the first consisted of masts, 
yards, oars, rudders, etc. The tryoiWo ( funes ) were the 
hawsers or strong ropes for the anchors, and also for 
fastening the ship ashore ; while the Tcnrtia were a 
lighter kind of cordage , carefully made and attached 
to the masts, yards, and sails. The yards ( ictpata ) 
were composed of two spars doubled in the centre. 
This explains an apparently absurd non sequitur of 
Pliny. lie tells us that, although single spars were 
large enough, yet seamen were so rash as to add sail to 
sail — the word “ non” being obviously omitted. The 
above cut, from the tomb of Nievoleia Tyclie at Pom- 
peii, explains the mode of furling the sails by drawing 
them up to the yard like a window-curtain, as already 
noticed in the ship of Theseus. 

This seems the best place for noticing three, other 
points of detail. Though we must not suppose that 
merchant -ships were habitually propelled by rowing, 
yet sweeps must sometimes have been employed. In 
Ezek. xxvii, 29, oars (I3V«*2) are distinctly mentioned; 
and it seems that oak-wood from Pash an was used in 
making them (t/c ri )g haaavirtfiog tTrohjcrav rag koj- 
irag gov, ver. G). Again, in Isa. xxxiii, 21, 


writer says in reference to a similar comment on a pas- 
sage of Cicero, “It is hardly possible that he can have 
seen a ship.” The sacred writer’s use of mjddXia is just 
like Pliny’s use of guhernacula (//. N. xi,37,88) or Lucre- 
tius’s of gnherna (iv, 440). Ancient ships were in truth 
not steered at all by rudders fastened or binged to the 
stern, but by means of two paddle-rudders, one on each 
quarter, acting in a rowlock or through a port-hole, as 
the vessel might be small or large. This fact is made 
familiar to ns in classical works of art, as on coins, and 
the sculptures of Trajan’s Column. The same thing 
is true, not only of the Mediterranean, but of the early 
ships of the Northmen, as may be seen in the Bayenx 
tapestry. Traces of the “two rudders” are found in 
the time of Louis IX. The hinged rudder first appears 
on the coins of king Edward III. There is nothing 
out of harmony with this early system of steering in 
James ii, 4, where mjddXiov occurs in the singular; for 
“ the governor” or steersman (6 tvSvrujr') woidd only 
use one paddle-rudder at a time. In a case like that 
described in Acts xxvii, 40, where four anchors were 
let go at the stern, it would of course be necessary to 
lash or trice up both paddles, lest they should interfere 
with the ground tackle. When it became necessary to 
steer the ship again, and the anchor-ropes were cut, 
the lashings of the paddles would of course he unfas- 
tened. 

4. Anchors . — It is probable that the ground tackle of 
Greek and Homan sailors was quite as good as our own. 
The anchors appear to have differed little from those of 
the moderns, except that in place of the palms or iron 
plates attached to the extremities of the arms, the arms 
themselves were beaten fiat, as in the Dutch anchors. 
It is a common error to suppose that they were without 
stocks. Thus Ca.pt. Becehey says, “ The transverse 


literally means “a ship of oar,” i. c. an oared vessel, t piece, or anchor-stock is wanting in all of them.” The 
Bowing, too, is probably implied in Jonah i, 13, where annexed eut, from a coin of Antoninus Pius, shows that 
the Sept, has simply naptfiidZovro. Another feature this is a mistake. 

of the ancient as of the modern ship is the flag, or Two allusions to anchoring are found in the New 
(j)\pu or, at the top of the mast (Isa. loc. cit. 
and xxx, 17). Here, perhaps, as iu some oth- 
er respects, the early Egyptian paintings sup- 
ply our best illustration. Each ship was pro- 
vided also with a plumb-line for sounding 
(Acts xxvii, 28 ; Isidor. Oriy. xix, 4). 

3. Steering Apparatus . — Some commenta- 
tors have fallen into strange perplexities from 
observing that in Acts xxvii, 40 (rag ^tvKrq- 
ptag tmp mjCaXioiVy “ the fastenings of the 
rudders”) Luke uses TnfidXwv in the plural. 

One even suggests that the ship has one rud- 
der fastened at the bow and another fastened 
at the stern. We may say of him, as a modern 



^00 09 ^ 

Coiu of Antoninus Pius, showing Anchor. 


SHIP 


697 


SHIP 



Test., one in a very impressive metaphor concerning 
Christian hope (Heb. vi, 19). A saying of Socrates, 
quoted here by Kypke (ours vavv £% ivbg dyicvptov 
o vrt fiiov £k piag iXiriSog oppiaaoSai), may serve to 
carry our thoughts to the other passage, which is part 
of the literal narrative of Paul’s voyage at its most 
critical point. The ship in which lie was sailing had 
four anchors on board, and these were all employed in 
the night, when the danger of falling on breakers was 
imminent. The sailors on this occasion anchored by 
the stern (Ik npvfivijg ptypavrag dyKvpag rtcraapag, 
Acts xxvii, 29). In this there is nothing remarkable, 
if there has been time for due preparation. English 
ships of war anchored by the stern at Copenhagen and 
Algiers. It is clear, too, that this was the right course 
for the sailors with whom Paul was concerned, for their 
plan was to run the ship aground at daybreak. The 
only motives for surprise are that they should have 
been able so to anchor without preparation in a gale 
of wind, and that the anchors should have held on such 
a night. The answer to the first question thus sug- 
gested is that ancient ships, like their modern suc- 
cessors, the small craft among the Greek islands, were 
in the habit of anchoring by the stern, and therefore 
prepared for doing so. We have a proof of this in one 
of the paintings of Herculaneum, which illustrates an- 
other point already mentioned, viz. the necessity of tric- 
ing up the movable rudders in case of anchoring by the 
stern (see Acts xxvii. 40). The other question, which 
we have supposed to arise, relates rather to the holding- 
ground than to the mode of anchoring: and it is very 
interesting here to quote what an English sailing-book 
says of Paul’s Bay in Malta: “While the cables hold, 
there is no danger, as the anchors will never start” 
(Purdy, Sailing Directions , p. 180). 

5. Undergirders . — The imperfection of the build, and 
still more (see above, 2) the peculiarity of the rig, in 
ancient ships resulted in a greater tendency than in 
our times to the starting of the planks, and consequent- 
ly to leaking and foundering. We see this taking place 
alike in the voyages of Jonah, Paul, and Josephus; and 
the loss of the fleet of yEneas in Virgil (“laxis laterum 
compagibtis omnes,”^£’«. i, 122) may be adduced in il- 
lustration. Hence it was customary to take on board 
peculiar contrivances, suitably called “ helps” ( fio tj- 
bdaig, Acts xxvii, 17), as precautions against such dan- 
gers. These were simply cables or chains, which in 
case of necessity could be passed around the frame of 
the ship, at right angles to its length, and made tight. 
The process is in the English navy called frapping, and 


many instances could be given where it has been found 
necessary in modern experience. Ptolemy’s great ship, 
in Athenaens (loc. cit .), carried twelve of these under- 
girders (v7 roZiopara). Various allusions to the prac- 
tice are to be found in the ordinary classical writers. 
See, for instance, Thucyd. i, 29 ; Plato, Hep. x, 3, 616 ; 
Horace, Od. i, 14, 6. But it is most to our purpose to re- 
fer to the inscriptions containing a complete inventory 
of the Athenian navy, as published by Bdckh ( Urlcun - 
den iiber das Seewesen des attischen Staates [Berl. 1840]). 
The editor, however, is quite mistaken in supposing 
(p. 133-138) that these undergirders were passed around 
the body of the ship from stem to stern. 

6. Ship's Boat. — This is perhaps the best place for 
noticing separately the which appears promi- 

nently in the narrative of the voyage (Acts xxvii, 16, 
i 32). Even" large merchant-ship must have had one 
or more boats. It is evident that the Alexandrian 
corn-ship in which Paul was sailing from Fair Havens, 
and in which the sailors, apprehending no danger, hoped 
to reach Phoenice, had her boat towing behind. When 
the gale came, one of their first desires must have been 
to take the boat on board, and this was done under 
the lee of Glauda, when the ship was undergirded, and 
brought round to the wind for the purpose of lying- 
to; but it was done with difficulty, and it would seem 
that the passengers gave assistance in the task (poXig 
mXi'c apev 7repiKpaTEig yeveuSai rijg <jKCL<p))g, ver. 16). 
The sea by this time must have been furiously rough, 
and the boat must have been tilled with water. It is 
with this very boat that one of the most lively pas- 
sages of the whole narrative is connected. Wheii the 
ship was at anchor in the night before she was run 
aground, the sailors lowered the boat from the davits 
with the selfish desire of escaping, on which Paul spoke 
to the soldiers, and they cut the ropes (rd o’xon'ta) and 
the boat fell off (ver. 30-32). 

VI. Command and Management . — 1. Officers and Crew , 
— In Acts xxvii, 11 we have both Kvfiepv))Ti)g and vau- 
K\i]pog. The latter is the owner (in part or in whole) 
of the ship or the cargo, receiving also (possibly) the 
fares of the passengers. The former has the charge of 
the steering. The same word occurs also in Rev. xviii, 
17 ; Prov. xxiii, 34; Ezek. xxvii, 8, and is equivalent to 
7rpu)psvg in ver. 29; Jonah i, 6. In James iii,4, 6 tvSru- 
vm>, “ the governor,” is simply the steersman for the 
moment. The word for “ shipmen” (Acts xxvii, 27, 30) 
and “ sailors” (Rev. xviii, 17) is simply the usual term, 
navrai. In the latter passage opiXog occurs for the 
crew, but the text is doubtful. In Ezek. xxvii, 8, 9, 26, 
27, 29, 34, we have KimnjXdrai for “ those who handle 
the oar,” and in the same chapter (ver. 29) intparai, 
which may mean either passengers or mariners. The 
only other passages which need be noticed here are 1 
Kings ix, 27, and 2 Chron. viii, 18, in the account of Sol- 
omon’s ships. The former has run' Traidwv avrov av- 
dpsg vavrtKoi iXavvtiv eidoreg SaXavoav ; the latter, 
7r aldeg sidorsg SaXavcrav. 

2. Rate of Sailing. — Paul’s voyages furnish excellent 
data for approximately estimating this, and they are 
quite in harmony with what we learn from other sources. 
We must notice here, however (what commentators 
sometimes curiously forget), that winds are variable. 
Thus the voyage between Troas and Philippi, accom- 
plished on one occasion (Acts xvi, 11, 12) in two days, 
occupied on another occasion (xx, 6) five days. Such 
a variation might be illustrated by what took place al- 
most any week between Dublin and Holyhead before 
the application of steam to seafaring. With a fair wind 
an ancient ship would sail fully seven knots an hour. 
Two very good instances are again supplied by Paul’s 
experience — in the voyages from Ctesarea to Sidon 
(xxvii, 2, 3) and from Rhegium to Puteoli (xxviii, 13). 
The result given by comparing, in these cases, the meas- 
urements of time and distance corresponds with what 
we gather from Greek and Latin authors generally — 
e. g. from Pliny’s story of the fresh fig produced by Cato 


SHIP 


G9S 


SHIP 


in the Homan senate before the third Punic war : “ This 
fruit was gathered fresh at Cartilage three days ago; 
that is the distance of the enemy from your walls” 
(//. X xv, 20). 

3. Suiting Before the Wind and Xear the Wind, — The 
square-rig which has been described is, like the rig of 
Chinese junks, peculiarly favorable to a quick run before 
the wind. Wc have in the New Test. (Acts xvi, 11 ; 
xxvii, 10) the technical term tvSvSpopiio for voyages 
made under such advantageous conditions. The run 
of Paul's ship from Khegium to Puteoli, one hundred 
and eighty miles, in two consecutive days, the wind be- 
ing from the south and consequently fair, agrees perfect- 
ly with the instances adduced by captain lleechev in 
his remarks on ancient ships (Appendix to Travels in 
Africa, p. 38). It would, however, be a great mistake 
to suppose that ancient ships could not work to wind- 
ward. Pliny distinctly says; “ lisdem ventis in contra- 
rium navigator prolatis pedibus” (//. X. ii, 48). Cicero, 
in one of li is epistles, says that in consequence of con- 
trary winds they navigated slowly and with difficulty: 
“Adversis ventis nsi essemus tardeque et incommode 
navigassemus” ( Fpist , ad Fa mil tares, lib. xiv, ep. 5), a 
passage which agrees in a very remarkable manner with 
one in Luke's account of Paul’s voyage. ftpaSv7r\ooi»'Tt.q 
Kcii poXig yti’ofitvoi, etc. (Acts xxvii, 7) — sailing slowly 
and with difficulty were come, etc. Luke does not men- 
tion contrary winds; but we know from the context that 
the ship was sailing to the westward, in a region and at 
a season when westwardly winds constantly prevail. 
The superior rig and build, however, of modern ships 
enable them to sail nearer to the wind than was the case 
in classical times. At one very critical point of Paul’s 
voyage to Home (ibid.) we are told that the ship could 
not hold on her course (which was west by south, from 
Cnidus by the north side of Crete) against a violent 
wind (/a) irpoatiovToq ypdg rov avtpov) blowing from 
the north-west, and that consequently she ran down to 
the east end of Crete [see Sai.mone], ami worked up 
under the shelter of the south side of the island (ver. 7, 
8). See Fair Havens. Here the technical terms of 
our sailors have been employed, whose custom is to di- 
vide the whole circle of the compass-card into thirty- 
two equal parts called points. A modern ship, if the 
weather is not very boisterous, will sail within six points 
of the wind. To an ancient vessel, of which the hull 
was more clumsy and the yards could not be braced so 
tight.it would be safe to assign seven points as the lim- 
it. This will enable us, so far as we know the direction 
of the wind (and we can really ascertain it in each case 
very exactly), to lay down the tacks of the ships in 
which Paul sailed, beating against the wind, on the voy- 
ages from Philippi to Troas (dxP l V ygtpwv Triers, Acts 
xx, 6), from Sidon to Myra (Ciu to rovg dvipoi>q drat 
ivavTiavg, xxvii, 3-5), from Myra to Cnidus (<V 'uccnunq 
r'lptpaiq ftpaSv7rXooin>TEg, ver. 6, 7), from Salmonc to 
Fair Havens (p6\i g TrapaXtyogevot, ver. 7, 8), and from 
Syracuse to Khegium (TrfpitXcrdcrfC, xxviii, 12, 13). 

4. Lying-to . — This topic arises naturally out of what 
has preceded, ami it is so important in reference to the 
main questions connected with the shipwreck at Malta 
that it is here made the subject of a separate section. 
A ship that could make progress on her proper course, 
in moderate weather, when sailing within seven points 
of the wind, would lie- to in a gale, with her length 
making about the same angle with the direction of the 
wind. This is done when the object is not to make 
progress at all hazards, but to ride out a gale in safety; 
and this is what was done in Paul’s ship when she was 
undergirded and the boat taken on board (Acts xxvii, 
14-17) under the lee of Clauda. It is here that Luke 
uses the vivid term iu’To<f)caXpEh' mentioned above. 
Had the gale been less violent, the ship could easily 
have held on her course. To anchor was out of the 
question; and to have drifted before the wind would 
have been to run into the fatal Svrtis on t lift African 
coast. See Quicksands. Hence the vessel was luid-to 


(“close-hauled,” as the sailors say) “on the starboard 
tack,” i. e. with her right side towards the storm. The 
wind was east-northeast [see Euroclydon], the ship’s 
bow r would point north by west, the direction of drift 
(six points being added for “lee-way”) would be west 
by north, and the rate of drift about a mile and a half 
an hour. It is from these materials that w r c easily come 
to the conclusion that the shipwreck must have taken 
place on the coast of Malta. See Adria. 

5. Storms and Shipwrecks. — The dangers of the ocean 
to sailors on board such ships as these were great, and, in 
the then ignorance of navigation, caused sailing to be re- 
stricted to the spring, summer, and autumn months; 
winter was avoided. To the Homans the sea was open- 
ed in March and closed in November (Ciesar, Bell. Gall. 
i v, 36; v, 23; Philo, Opp. iv, 548; Acts xxvii, 9); and 
ships which, towards the end of the year, were still at 
sea earnestly sought a harbor in which to pass the win- 
ter (ver. 12). 

The first century of the Christian aera was a time of 
immense traffic in the Mediterranean; and there must 
have been many vessels lost there every year by ship- 
wreck, and, perhaps, as many by foundering. This last 
danger would be much increased by the form of rig de- 
scribed above. Besides this, we must remember that 
the ancients had no compass and very imperfect charts 
and instruments, if any at all; and though it would be 
a great mistake to suppose that they never ventured 
out of sight of land, yet, dependent as they were on the 
heavenly bodies, the danger was much greater than now 
in bad weather, when the sky was overcast and “ neither 
sun nor stars in many days appeared” (Acts xxvii, 20). 
Hence, also, the winter season was considered dangerous 
and. if possible, avoided (onroc yog t7rt<j(f)aXovQ rov 
7rXo 6c, Stct ro ical rgv vgartiav ySg 7rapEXy\v$evat , 
ver. 9). Certain coasts, too, were much dreaded, espe- 
cially the African Svrtis (ver. 17). The danger indi- 
cated by breakers (ver. 29), and the fear of falling on 
rocks (rpaxdg ro7roi), are matters of course. Paul’s 
experience seems to have been full of illustrations of all 
these perils. We learn from 2 Cor. xi, 25 that, before 
the voyage described in detail by Luke, he had been 
“three times wrecked;” and, further, that he had once 
been “a night and a day in the deep,” probably floating 
on a spar, as was the case with Josephus. These cir- 
cumstances give peculiar force to his using the meta- 
phor of a shipwreck (ivavayyaav, 1 Tim. i, 19) in speak- 
ing of those who had apostatized from the faith. In 
connection with this general subject we may notice the 
caution with which, on the voyage from Troas to Patara 
(Acts xx, 13-16; xxi, 1), the sailors anchored for the 
night, during the period of dark moon, in the intricate 
passages between the islands and the main [see Mity- 
lkne; Samos; Trooyllium ] ; the evident acquaintance 
which, on the voyage to Home, the sailors of the Adra- 
myttian ship had with the currents on the coasts of 
Syria and Asia Minor (xxvii, 2-5) [sec Adramyttium] ; 
and the provision for taking soundings in case of dan- 
ger, as clearly indicated in the narrative of the ship- 
wreck at Malta ; the measurements being apparently 
the same as those which are customary with ns (ftoXt- 
uavTtq Evpov opyviuq tiKom ■ ft Si StaaTyaui'Teg, 
kcii 7ru\iv fto XiauvTtq, trpou opyviug dsKcnrivTE, ver. 
28). 

6. Xautical Te7'ins. — The great repertory of such 
terms, as used by those who spoke the Greek language, 
is the Owomasticon of Julius Pollux ; and it may be use- 
ful to conclude this article by mentioning a few out of 
many which are found there, and also in the New Test, 
or Sept. First, to quote some which have been men- 
tioned above. We find the following, both in Pollux 
and the Scriptures: (ryot cm, okevij, k\ vSwv y \Eijton\ 
0OjOr<W, itcftoXig ovprig, ouSiv irn-oartXXtaSai, oiuc yv 
tuv i/Xtor iStlv, (JKa<pg, rTKa<poq, ravXov , ovi’Tpiftgvat, 

I 6<J)$aXpbq o7rov kcii Tovvoga rgg vetoq imypd<pov(Jt 
(compared with Acts xxvii, 15; xxviii, 11), rpaxdg 
i aiyiaXot (compared with xxvii, 29, 40), The following 


SHIP 


699 


are some which have not been mentioned in this article : 
avctytaSai and KardyeaSai (e.g. Acts xxviii, 1 1, 1*2), act- 
videg (Ezek. xxvii, 5). rpomg (Wisd. v, 10), ai’afiaivio 
(Jonah i, 3; Mark vi, 51 ),yaX?/jo/ (Matt, viii, 2G), dptpi- 
fi\i]GTf)ov (iv, 18; IMark i, 16), cnrcxpopTtfyttaSai (Acts 
xxi, 4), uttottveu) (xxvii, 13), rvipuiv (chapog Ti’tymu- 
Kug, vcr. 14) dyicupag Karardveiv (uyKvpag Uteiveiv, 
ver. 30 ), vj3pt<rn)g avtpog Q’'i3peiog. ver. 10 ; ufiotv, ver. 
21), 7rpoaoKs\\io (eTTOKreXXw, vcr. 41), Ko\vpj3av (ver. 
42), c haXv^Eimfg rijg VEtog (?) wpipra sXveto, ver. 41). 
This is an imperfect list of the whole number; hut it may 
serve to show how rich the New Test, and Sept, are in 
the nautical phraseology of the Greek Levant. To this 
must be added a notice of the peculiar variet}' and ac- 
curacy of Luke’s ordinary phrases for sailing under dif- 
ferent circumstances, 7rXE(x),diro7rXkm,(3pa()v7rXoEuj,$ia- 
TrXea?, ekttXeio, Kara7vXUo , u7T07rXlw, 7rapa7r\eoJ, ev$v- 
dpopEio, u7VOTp8xio, 7rapaXsyopai, (pipogat , SiCHptpopcii, 
dtClTCEptlOJ. 

VII. Authorities, — Smith’s work on the Voyage and 
Shipwreck of St. Paul (Lond. 1848, 1856) is the standard 
work on ancient ships, and it contains a complete list 
of previous books on the subject. Reference, however, 
may be made to the memoranda of admiral Penrose, in- 
corporated in Convbeare and llowson, Life and Epistles 
of St. Paul (Lond. 185G, 2d ed,), ch. xxvii, notes. See 
also Schlbzer, Pers. einer allgem. Gesch. d. Handels v. der 
Schifffahrt in den dltesten Zeiten (Rostock, 17G0); Le 
Roy, La A f arine des Anciens Peuples (Paris, 1777); 
Berghaus, Gesch. d. Schifffahrtskunde (Leips. 1792); 
Benedict, Vers, einer Gesch. d. Schifff. it. d. Hand, bei d. 
Alten (ibid. 1809); Howell, On the War Galleys of the 
A ncients; Jal [A.], A rcheologie X a vale (Paris, 1840). A 
full account of the ancient Egyptian vessels is given by 
Wilkinson, abridgm. i,411 sq. ; ii, 119 sq. See Naviga- 
tion; Shipwreck. 

SHIP, in ecclesiastical usage, is the name given to 
the vessel, shaped like a ship, in which incense is kept. 
It is also called a boat. 

Shipherd, Fayette, a Congregational minister, 
was born in Granville, N. Y., Aug. 18, 1797. He was 
prepared for college at the Granville and Cambridge 
academics. He entered Middlebury College in 1819, 
remaining but one year, on account of ill-health, which 
prevented the completion of his course, lie next stud- 
ied theology with the Rev. William Chester. D.D., of 
Saratoga, and was ordained at Pawlet, Vt., Dec. 5, 1820, 
as colleague of Rev. John Griswold. From this pastor- 
ate he was dismissed Oct. 27, 1830. Choosing for a 
time the missionary work, he was sent, first to Ver- 
mont in 1830, and to New York in 1831, remaining 
in this field until he received a call to become a col- 
league of Dr. Beman, at Troy, N. Y. Here he remained 
one year, and then became pastor of Bethel Free 
Church, at the same place, and remained two years, at 
which time he received and accepted a call to the pas- 
torate of the Church at Walton, N. Y. At this place 
he was installed April 29, 1835, and after remaining 
in charge three years was dismissed, to again take 
charge of the Bethel Church of Troy, which lie contin- 
ued to supply from 1838 to 1841. He organized the 
Congregational Free Church at Troy, Feb. 16, 1842, and 
remained there, preaching with success, until 1849, at 
which time the pastorate was dissolved. In 1850 he 
was acting pastor at Stcphentown, also at Nassau from 
1851 to 1853. He then, from 1853 to 1855, was agent, 
in Watertown and vicinity, of Carson League, at the 
same time supplying churches at Perch River, Stone 
Mills, Orleans, Four Corners, and La Fargeville. He 
was acting pastor at Pulaski from 1855 to 1858; also, 
without charge, filled the pastorate at Oberlin, O., from 
1858 to 1873, preaching often, and supplying at Well- 
ington from 1863 to 1865, and at Pittsfield from 1866 to 
1868. In 1873 he removed to Walton, N. Y., and to 
Sidney Plains in 1877. In 1876 he published a pam- 
phlet entitled What May Women Do ? At length, be- 


SHIPWRECK 

coming gradually feeble, he died, Aug. 14, 1878. (W. 

P. S.) 

Shi'phi (Ileb. Shiphi% *>^£125, my abundance , or 
abundant ; Sept. 2a0ai v. r. and 2a0«X), the son 

of Allon and father of Ziza, which last was a chief Sim- 
eonite in the time of Ilezekiah (1 Chron. iv, 37). B.C. 
ante 726. 

Shiph'mite (Heb. with the article hash-Shiphmi ', 
patrial adj.; Sept. 6 rov 2e0i'(), an epithet 
of Zabdi, David’s chief vintage-master (1 Chron. xxvii, 
27) ; probably as being a native of Shepham (q. v.). 

Slliph'rah (Heb .Shiphrnh’ . rHS’r, probabty bright- 
ness , as in Job xxvi, 13; but perhaps Egyptian; Sept. 
2t7r0(5jOrt), first named of the two Hebrew midwives 
who disobeyed Pharaoh’s order to kill the male infants, 
and were rewarded by Divine Providence for their hu- 
manity (Exod. i, 15). B.C. cir. 1740. 

Shiph'tan (Heb. Shiphtan', judicial; Sept. 
2o0r«?/ v. r. 2a/3a£di/), father of Kcmuel, which latter 
was the phvlarch of Ephraim and one of the commis- 
sioners appointed to divide Canaan among the tribes 
(Numb, xxxiv, 24). B.C. ante 1618. 

Shipley, Jonathan, a learned English prelate, 
was born about 1714. II is education was liberal, and 
at a proper age he entered Christ Church, Oxford. In 
April, 1738, he took his degree of Master of Arts, entered 
holy orders, and obtained a living; in 1743 he was in- 
stalled a prebendary in the Cathedral Church of Win- 
chester, and in March, 1745, was appointed chaplain to 
the duke of Cumberland. He received the degree of 
Doctor of Divinity Oet. 14, 1748; became canon of 
Christ Church, Oxford, Jan. 28, 1749; and was made 
dean of Winchester in 1 7 GO, being permitted, by dis» 
pensation, to retain the livings of Silchester and Chil- 
bolton. II is last preferment took place in 1769, when 
he was promoted to the bishopric of Sf. Asaph, in which 
he remained until his death, in Bolton Row, Piccadilly, 
Dec. 9, 1788. His works, consisting of sermons, charges, 
and parliamentary speeches, were published in 2 vols. 
Svo (1792). See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Shipwreck, a term that occurs but twice in the 
New Test, in the verbal form vavay eoj, once literally 
(2 Cor. xi, 25) and once metaphorically (1 Tim. i, 19). 
We learn from the former of these passages that Paul 
had already three times experienced this mishap prior 
to his more notable instance on the way to Rome. The 
interest that centres around this latter event, and the 
light it sheds upon many points of Biblical history, ge- 
ography, and archeology, are so great as to justify a 
special treatment of the topic in addition to the re- 
marks given under previous heads. It is a singular 
coincidence that another Jew, a contemporary of Paul, 
should have suffered a similar mishap on the same 
route, viz. Josephus ( Life , § 3) ; but the account lclt is 
so brief as to afford but little illustration of the case. 
Luke’s narrative of the shipwreck of the apostle, on the 
contrary, is so full and graphic that we are enabled to 
trace the causes, progress, and culmination of the catas- 
trophe in great detail; and his nice but artless discrim- 
inations show not only his truthfulness, but his careful 
habits of observation. His language, although of course 
not professional, is yet highly appreciative of the tech- 
nical particulars to which he was an eye-witness. We 
here present a brief outline of the results of the accurate 
and most interesting investigations of Mr. Smith, of 
Jordanhill, in his work On the Voyage and Shipwreck 
of St. Paul (3d ed. Lond. 1866). A winter’s residence 
in Malta afforded this learned writer ample opportuni- 
ties for personal examination of the localities of the 
shipwreck. Having been a yacht sailor of more than 
thirty years’ standing, and with much practical expe- 
rience in planning, building, and altering vessels, he 
was able to bring a kind of knowledge to the inter- 
pretation of the passage which no commentator had 
possessed. 


SHIPWRECK 


700 


SHIPWRECK 


Paul’s company embarked in a ship of Adramyttium, 
a seaport of Mysia. on the eastern shore of the yEgean, 
opposite Lesbos. On the second day they touched at 
Sidon, sixty-seven geographical miles from Ca?sarca. 
Loosing from thence, they were forced, by contrary 
winds, to run under the lee of Cyprus. A ship’s course 
from Sidon to Myra is W.N.W., leaving Cyprus on the 
right. The contrary wind must have been from the 
west, which prevails in this part of the Mediterranean 
in the summer. Under these circumstances, they left 
Cyprus on the left hand, doing as the most accom- 
plished seamen of the present day would do under sim- 
ilar circumstances. Favored, as they probably were, 
by the land-breeze and currents, they arrived, without 
any unusual incident, at Myra in Lyeia, then a flourish- 
ing city, now a desolate waste and about three miles 
from the sea. The company were there transferred to 
a corn-ship from Alexandria bound for Italy. From 
the dimensions of one of these ships given by Lucian, 
they appear to have been quite as large as the largest 
class of merchant -ships of modern times. Myra lies 
due north from Alexandria, and its bay is well fitted 
to shelter a wind-bound ship. Their progress after 
leaving Myra was extremely slow, for it was many days 
before they “came over against Cnidus,” at the entrance 
to the iEgean Sea. As the distance between Myra and 
Cnidus is not more than 130 geographical miles, the de- 
lay was probably caused by unfavorable winds, w’hich 
may be inferred from the words “with difficulty.” The 
course of a ship on her voyage from Cnidus to Italy is 
by the north side of Crete, through the archipelago, W. 
by S. ]* ut this would be impossible with a north-west 
wind. With that wind the ship would work up to Cni- 
dus, because she had the advantage of a weather shore 
and a westerly current; but there the advantage would 
cease. The only alternative would be to wait at Cnidus 
for a fair wind, or else to run under the lee of Crete in 
the direction of Salmone, which is the eastern end of 
Crete. As the south side of this island is a weather 
shore, they would be able, with north-west winds, to 
w’ork up as far as Cape M atala. Here, however, the land 
bends suddenly to the north, and their only resource 
would be to make for a harbor. Fair Havens is the 
harbor nearest to Cape Mat ala. This was probably no 
more than an open roadstead, or, rather, two roadsteads 
contiguous to each other. The site of the city Lasaea 
is but recently known. It was now after the autumnal 
equinox, and sailing was dangerous. It was a question 
whether they should winter here or sail to port Phce- 
nice, on the same side of Crete, about forty miles west. 
Paul strongly urged the officers to remain, but his ad- 
vice was overruled. Phcenice, the harbor which they 
expected to reach, looks (Luke says) “towards the 
south-west and north-west,” or, as Mr. Smith translates 
the preposition, in the same direction as, i. e. the point 
towards which, the wind Libs blows; so that the harbor 
would open, not to the south-west, but to the north-east. 
It seems to have been the one now called Lutro, which 
looks towards the east. The soutli wind, which now 
blew, is a fair wind for a ship going from Fair Ha- 
vens to Lutro. The island of Clauda is exactly oppo- 
site to Lutro, the Claudos of Ptolemy, and the Gozzo of 
the modern charts. 

Sailing from Fair ITavens close to the land, they 
might hope, with a south wind, to reach Phcenice in a 
few hours. Hut soon the weather changed; the ship 
was caught in a typhoon which blew with such violence 
that they could not face it, but were forced, in the first 
instance, to scud before it. It follows from this that 
the wind must have blown off the land, else they would 
have been stranded on the Cretan coast. This sudden 
change from a south wind to a violent northerly wind 
is a common occurrence in these seas. The Greek term 
ty phonic means that the wind was accompanied by the 
agitation and whirling motion of the clouds caused by 
the meeting of the opposite currents of air. Hy this 
single word are expressed the violence and direction of 


the gale. The wind Euroclvdon (according to the most 
ancient versions, Euroaquilo = east -northeast) forced 
them to run under the lee of Clauda. Here they avail- 
ed themselves of the smooth water to prepare the ship 
to resist the fury of the storm. Their first care was to 
secure the boat by hoisting it on board. Luke tells us 
that they had much difficulty in doing this, probably 
because it was filled with water. The next care was 
to undergird the ship. Only one naval officer with 
wffiom Mr. Smith had met had ever seen it put in prac- 
tice. Mr. Henry Hartley, who piloted the Russian fleet 
in 1815 from England to the Baltic, mentions that one 
of the ships, the “Jupiter,” was frapped round the mid- 
dle by three or four turns of a stream-cable. Sir George 
Back, on bis return from his perilous arctic voyage in 
1837, w T as forced, on account of the shattered condition 
of his ship, to undergird her. 

We are next told that, fearing they should be driven 
towards the Svrtis, they lowered the gear (not “strake 
sail,” which w’ould be equivalent to saying that, being 
apprehensive of a certain danger, they deprived them- 
selves of the only possible means of avoiding it). A 
ship preparing for a storm sends down upon deck the 
“top hamper,” or gear connected with the fair-weather 
sails, such as the suppara , or topsails. When the ship 
was thus borne along, she was not only nndergirded and 
made snug, but bad storm-sails set and was on the star- 
board tack, i. e. with her right side to the wind, which 
was the only course by which she could avoid falling 
into the Svrtis (q. w). On the next day they threw’ over- 
board the ship’s tackling. From the expression “with 
our own hands” Mr. Smith supposes the main-yard is 
meant, an immense spar, probably as long as the ship, 
and which might require the united efforts of passen- 
gers and men. The storm continued with unabated 
fury for eleven days more. “ All hope was taken away 
probably not so much from the fury of the gale as from 
the state of the ship, their exertions to keep her from 
foundering being unavailing. At length, on the four- 
teenth night, the seamen suspected (to use the graphic 
sea-phrase of Luke) “the land w r as nearing them,” prob- 
ably from the noise of the breakers. No ship can en- 
ter St. Paul’s Bay in Malta from the east without pass- 
ing within a quarter of a mile of the point of Konra; 
but before reaching it the land is too low and too far 
from the track of a ship driven from the eastward to 
be seen on a dark night. When she does come within 
this distance, it is impossible to avoid observing the 
breakers, which are so violent as to form its distinctive 
character. On Aug. 10, 1810, the British frigate “Live- 
ly” went to pieces on these very breakers at the point 
of Koura. Mr. Smith here goes into calculations in 
order to show’ that a ship starting late in the evening 
from Clauda would, by midnight on the 14th, be less 
than three miles from the entrance of St. Paul’s Bay. 
A coincidence so close as this is, to a certain extent, ac- 
cidental; but it is an accident which could not have 
happened had there been any inaccuracy on the part 
of the author of the narrative with regard to the nu- 
merous incidents upon which the calculations are found- 
ed, or had the ship been wrecked anywhere but at 
Malta. The number of conditions required in order to 
make any locality agree with the narrative are so nu- 
merous as to render it impossible to suppose that the 
agreement in the present case can be the effect of 
chance. The first circumstance is that the shipmen 
suspected the approach of land evidently without see- 
ing it. The quartermaster of the “ Lively” states, in his 
evidence at the court-martial, that at the distance of a 
quarter of a mile the land could not be seen, but that 
he saw the surf on the shore. Another point is this: 
the shipmen when they sounded found twenty fathoms, 
and then fifteen fathoms. Every ship, indeed, in ap- 
proaching the land must pass over twenty fathoms and 
fifteen fathoms; but here must not only the twenty- 
fathom depth be close to the spot where they had the 
indications of land, but it must bear east by south from 


SHIPWRECK 


701 


SHIPWRECK 


the fifteen- fathom depth, and at such a distance as 
would allow of preparation for anchoring with four 
anchors from the stern, which must have required some 
time. Now, about half an hour farther the depth was 
fifteen fathoms. Fearing lest they should fall upon 
rocks, they east four anchors out of the stern. This 
implies that there were rocks to leeward on which they 
were in danger of falling; but the fifteen-fathom depth 
is, as nearly as possible, a quarter of a mile from the 
shore, which is here girt with mural precipices, and on 
which the sea must have been breaking violently. 
Their only chance of safety was to anchor; but to do 
this in a gale on a lee shore not only requires time, but 
very tenacious holding-ground. Is there such ground 
here? In the English Sailing Directions it is said (to 
repeat an important fact given under a previous article), 
“ The harbor of St. Paul is open to easterly and north- 
east winds. It is, notwithstanding, safe for small ships, 
the ground generally being very good; and while the 
cables hold there is no danger, as the anchors will never 
start ” But why anchor from the stern ? u The anch- 
or is cast from the prow,” it being much easier to ar- 
rest a ship’s way by the bow than the stern. Ships 
constructed like those of the ancients were, of necessity, 
amply provided with anchors and cables. It seems, 
too, from the figure of the ship in the picture of The- 
seus deserting Ariadne, that they could anchor by the 
stern, as they had hawse-holes aft (a hawser is seen tow- 
ing astern ; it passes through the rudder-port, and with- 
in board it is seen coiled round an upright beam or 
capstan in front of the break of the poop-deck). The 
advantages of being anchored in this manner are that 
by cutting away the anchors, loosing the bands of the 
rudders, and hoisting the artemon (the foresail, not 
the mainsail), all of which could be done simultane- 
ously, the ship was immediately under command, and 
could be directed with precision to any part of the 
shore which offered a prospect of safety. But if ancn- 
ored in the usual mode, she might have taken “ the 
wrong east” or drifted on the rocks. The number of 
anchors let go show that nothing was neglected. 

The shipmen, after taking a meal, lightened the ship, 
not only by pumping, but by throwing the wheat into 
the sea. When day broke, they knew not the land, but 
it had certain peculiarities: the shore was rocky, it be- 
ing, in fact, skirted with precipices. They then discov- 
ered a creek with a sandy beach (the Greek word, in a 
restricted sense, means this, iu contradistinction to a 


rocky coast). Into this creek they were minded to 
thrust the ship. They now cut their cables and left 
the anchors in the sea; and, loosing the lashings of the 
rudder and hoisting the foresail, they made for the 
ereek. On the west side of the bay there are two 
creeks. One of them, Mestara Valley, has a shore. The 
other, though its sandy beach has been worn away by 
the action of the sea, was probably the scene of the 
wreck, for here “ two seas meet.” At the entrance of 
the bay, where the ship anchored, it could not have 
been suspected that at the bottom of it there was a 
communication with the sea outside. But such is the 
case. Salmone island, which separates the bay from 
the sea outside, is formed by a long, rocky ridge sepa- 
rated from the mainland by a channel of not more 
than a hundred yards in breadth. Near this channel 
they ran the ship ashore; the fore-part stuck fast, but 
the stern was dashed in pieces. A ship impelled by a 
gale into a creek such as that in St. Paul’s Bay would 
strike a bottom of mud graduating into tenacious clay, 
into which the fore-part would fix itself and be held 
fast, while the stern would be exposed to the force of 
the waves. See Melita. 

The correspondence in the direction and distance is 
no less striking. A modern merchant- ship can sail 
within six points. Taking the mean between these, 
we cannot be so much as a point wrong if we assume 
that an ancient ship would, under favorable circum- 
stances, make good her course about seven points from 
the wind. But there is another element which must 
be taken into account when we calculate the course of 
a ship in a storm — it is the lee-way, which in a modern 
ship, in a gale such as described in Acts xxvii, is about 
six points. Now, if we apply these elements to Luke’s 
account of Paul’s voyage, the result will be found to 
be very striking. The facts mentioned in the narra- 
tive are: (1.) The point of departure — Clauda. (2.) 
The direction of the wind — in the received text, Euroc- 
lydon, but since the discovery of the Codex Sinaiticus 
the reading of the Vulg., Euroaquilo, east- northeast 
(that is, a wind between eurus , east, and aquilo), must 
be considered established. (3.) The ship’s course — sev- 
en points from the wind, which, with six points of lee- 
way added, must have been thirteen points to the west 
of east-northeast, or west by north, which is as nearly as 
possible the bearing of Malta. (4.) Distance; this is 
inferred from the ship’s rate of sailing and the time 
consumed. 



SIIIRE-MOTE 


102 


SHISIIAK 


In the voyage in question we know within very nar- 
row limits the time consumed: it was “about midnight 
on the fourteenth night” (Acts xxvii, 27), and therefore 
thirteen days complete and a fraction. With regard 
to the rate at which a ship would drive under the 
circumstances described by Luke, Mr. Smith, in the ( 
work already alluded to, taking the mean from the 
determinations of skilful and scientitic seamen, assumed 
that it would be about thirty-six and one twelfth miles 
in the twenty-four hours, and the distance ascertained 
from the nautical observations of admiral Smyth is I 
four hundred and seventy-seven miles to the nearness 
of a mile. Now a ship laid-to. in a gale from east-north- 
east, according to these calculations, founded on the in- 
cidental notices of the narrative, would — about mid- 
night, “when the fourteenth night was come” of their 
being driven through (oiatyepopivuiv), not up and down, 
Adrift — have been exactly at Malta, and within two or 
three miles of St. Paul’s Bay. Such were the results 
arrived at bv Mr. Smith, and given in the first edition 
of his treatise on the Voyage and Shipwreck of St. Paul. 
Since then Dr. Uowson in his researches discovered 
that admiral Sir Charles Penrose had made a similar 
calculation, agreeing with the above to about four hours 
in time and six miles in distance; but, as such results 
can only be approximations, a nearer agreement could 
not have been anticipated from the most accurately 
kept dead-reckoning. 

We here note an incidental fact with regard to Sal- 
mone, the east point of the island of Crete. In the ac- 
count of Paul’s voyage to Iiome this promontory is 
mentioned in such a way (Acts xxvii, 7) as to afford 
a curious illustration both of the navigation of the an- 
cients and of the minute accuracy of Luke’s narrative. 
We gather from other circumstances of the voyage that 
the wind was blowing from the north-west (traenom;, 
ver.4 : ^oacinrXoof'rrft;, ver. 7). See Myra. We are 
then told that the ship, on making Cnidus, could not, 
by reason of the wind, hold on her course, which was 
past the south point of Greece, west by south. She 
did. however, just fetch Cape Salmone, which bears 
south-west by south from Cnidus. Now we may take 
it for granted that she could have made good a course 
of less than seven points from the wind [see Ship]; 
and, starting from this assumption, we are at once 
brought to the conclusion that the wind must have 
been between north -northwest and west -northwest. 
Thus what Paley would have called an “ undesigned 
coincidence” is elicited by a cross-examination of the 
narrative. T his ingenious argument is due to Mr. 
Smith, of Jordauhill ( Voyage and Shipwreck of St. Paul , 
p. 73,74, 2d cd.), and from him it is quoted by Cony- 
beare and Uowson {Life and Epistles of St. Paul , ii, 
393, 2d ed.\ To these books we must refer for fuller 
details. We may just add that the ship had had the 
advantages of a weather shore, smooth water, and a fa- 
voring current before reaching Cnidus, and that by 
running down to Cape Salmone the sailors obtained 
similar advantages under the lee of Crete, as far as 
Pair Havens, near Lasa?a. 

See the monographs on the various incidents con- 
nected with Paul’s shipwreck, cited by Volbeding, Jn- 
dt'X Programm. p. 84; and Danz, Worterb. s. v. “Apo- 
stolgesch.” No. 114-116; also the Journ.of Sac. Lit. vi, 
“Josephus.” See Pali.; Ship. 

Shire-mote, the highest of the three motes, or 
courts, among the Saxons, was held twice a year, and 
was composed of the freeholders. 1 tearing both civil and 
ecclesiastical causes, the shire-mote was presided over l>v 
an raldorman and a bishop, who were not the absolute 
judges, being present chicily to keep order and advise. 
Cases were decided by the majority of votes. See Hill, 
English Monasticism , p. 199. 

Shirer, John Wksi.ky, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Muskingum County,!)., 
Dec. 19, 1821, and united with the Church in 1812. lie 


was licensed to pTeach Jan. 30, 1847, and the same year 
was admitted into the Pittsburgh Conference. lie con- 
tinued in the active ministry, with the exception of two 
years supernumerary, until 1873, when he became super- 
annuated and so continued until his death, at Akron, 
O., May 3, 1874. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 
1875, p! 34. 

Shirley, “Walter, the rector of Loughrea, Galway 
County, Ireland, was a cousin of the countess of Hun- 
tingdon. He was born in 1725 and died in 1786. He 
published, Twelve Sermons (Dublin; reprinted Lond. 
1763 [some 1764], 12mo) : — poems, Liberty , an Ode ; The 
Judgment: — and some Hymns (“Lord, dismiss us with 
thy blessing” is believed to be his). lie also revised 
Lady Huntingdon’s Hymn -book (1764). See Roger, 
Lyra Brit . 1868, p.498, 673 ; Alliboue, Diet, of Brit, and 
A 7/ier. A uthors , s. v. 

Shirley, Walter Augustus, D.D., was a mem- 
ber of the noble house of Ferrers and the son of Rev. 
Walter Shirley, vicar of Woodford, Northamptonshire. 
He was born at Westport, Mayo County, Ireland, in 1797, 
and was educated at Winchester College, and New Col- 
lege, Oxford, of which he was a fellow. He became 
curate to his father, at Woodford, in 1820; vicar of Shir- 
ley, Derbyshire, in 1828; rector of Brailsford in 1839; 
prebendary of Lichfield and archdeacon of Derby in 1841 ; 
bishop of Sodor and Man, Jan. 10, 1847 ; and died April 
21, 1847. Besides his Letters to Young People (Lond. 
1850, 8vo), there is a volume of his Sermons (1850, 
12mo), also Letters , etc. (1850, 8vo). Two only of his 
Bampton lectures had been delivered at his death. See 
Alliboue, Diet, of Brit, and Atner. A nt hors, s. v. 

Shi'sha (Ileb. Shisha ', an orthographical 

variation of Shavsha [q. v.] ; Sept. Ef«rd v. r. Njj/3d), 
father of Elihoreph and Ahiah, Solomon’s secretaries (1 
Kings iv, 3) ; elsewhere called Shavsha (1 Cbron. xviii, 
16), etc. 

Shi/shak (lleb. Shishak ', plL'* 1 ’! 1 [so the margin, 
but the text has Shushak' or Shoshak pr’J] ; Sept. 
So vaaicip ; Vulg. Scsac), a king of Egypt contemporary 
with Jeroboam, to whom he gave an asylum when he 
fled from Solomon (1 Kings xi, 40). This was indica- 
tive of his politic disposition to encourage the weaken- 
ing of the neighboring kingdom, the growth of which, 
under David and Solomon, was probably regarded by 
the kings of Egypt with some alarm. After Jeroboam 
had become king of Israel, and probably at his sugges- 
tion, Shishak invaded the kingdom of Judah, B.C. 971, 
at the head of an immense army, and, after having 
taken the fortified places, advanced against Jerusalem. 
Satisfied with the submission of Ilehoboain, and with 
the immense spoils of the Temple, the king of Egypt 
withdrew without imposing any onerous conditions 
upon the humbled grandson of David (xiv, 25, 26; 2 
Cbron. xii, 2-9). (The importance of this connection 
between the Hebrew and Egyptian annals justifies a 
full treatment of the subject, which we give largely 
from Boole’s article in Smith’s Diet, of the Bible.) See 
JrnAii, Kingdom of. 

I. Xante. — We see above an uncertainty in the He- 
brew form of Shishak’s name. Josephus Gnecizes the 
name as Susacus (Noi'<ra*roc, 
Ant. vii, 5, 3; viii, 7, 8). lie 
has generally been recognised 
as the Sesonchis (f-truoy-^uj) of 
Manctho, and the Sheshenk or 
Sheshonk I of the monuments, 
first sovereign of the Bubas- 
tite, or twenty-second, dynasty. 
The accompanying cartouch- 
es present his name as writ- 
ten in hieroglyphics. The fol- 
lowing is a transcription and 
translation of the second oval, 
containing more particular- 



Cartonchcs of Shishak. 


SHISHAK 


703 


SHISHAK 


ly his royal title, 
which reads Arne - 
nem Sheshenk , i. e. 

“Sacred to Shi- 

shak.” A m n m sh sh n k 

II. Histoiy . — In Hieroglyph of Shishak. 

order to render the 

following observations clear, it will be necessary to say 
a few words on the history of Egypt before the accession 
of Sheshenk I. On the decline of the Theban line or Ra- 
meses family (the twentieth dynasty), two royal houses 
appear to have arisen. At Thebes the high-priests of 
Aiuen, after a virtual usurpation, at last took the re- 
gal title, and in Lower Egypt a Tanitic dynasty (Ma- 
netho’s twenty-first) seems to have gained royal pow- 
er. But it is possible that there was but one line 
between the twentieth and twenty -second dynasties, 
and that the high-priest kings belonged to the twen- 
ty-first. The origin of the royal line of which Slie- 
slienk I was the head is extremely obscure. Mr. Birch’s 
discovery that several of the names of the family are 
Shemitic has led to the supposition that it was of As- 
syrian or Babylonian origin. Shishak, pw 1 !', may be 
compared with Sheshak, a name of Babylon (rash- 
ly thought to be for Babel by “ Atbash ”); Usarken has 
been compared with Sargon, and Tekerut with Tiglath 
in Tiglath-pileser. If there were any doubt as to these 
identifications, some of which, as the second and third 
cited, are certainly conjectural, the name Namuret, Nim- 
rod, which occurs as that of princes of this line, would 
afford conclusive evidence, and it is needless here to 
compare other names, though those occurring in the gen- 
ealogies of the dynasty, given by Lepsius, well merit the 
attention of Shemitic students ( XXII agypt. Konigsdyn . 
and Konigsbuch). It is worthy of notice that the name 
Nimrod, and the designation of Zerah (perhaps a king 
of this line, otherwise a general in its service), as “ the 
Cushite,” seem to indicate that the family sprang from 
a Cushite origin. They may possibly have been con- 
nected with the Mashuwasha , a Shemitic nation, ap- 
parently of Libyans, for Tekerut II as prince is called 
“great chief of the Mashmvasha,” and also “great chief 
of the Afatu," or mercenaries; but they can scarcely 
have been of this people. Whether eastern or western 
Cushites, there does not seem to be any evidence in favor 
of their having been Nigritians; and as there is no trace 
of any connection between them and the twenty-fifth 
dynasty of Ethiopians, they must rather be supposed to 
be of the eastern branch. Their names, when not Egyp- 
tian, are traceable to Shemitic roots, which is not the 
case, so far as we know, with the ancient kings of Ethi- 
opia, whose civilization is the same as that of Egypt. 
We find these foreign Shemitic names in the family of 
the high-priest king Her-har, three of whose sons are 
called, respectively, Masaharata , A fasakaharata, and 
Maten-neb, although the names of most of his other 
sons and those of his line appear to be Egyptian. This 
is not a parallel case to the preponderance of Shemitic 
names in the line of the twenty-second dynasty, but it 
warns ns against too positive a conclusion. M. de Rou- 
ge, instead of seeing in those names of the twenty-sec- 
ond dynasty a Shemitic or Asiatic origin, is disposed to 
trace the line to that of the high-priest kings. Manetho 
calls the twenty-second a dynasty of Bubastites, and an 
ancestor of the priest- king dynasty bears the name 
Meri-bast, “beloved of Bubastis.” Both lines used 
Shemitic names, and both held the high-priesthood of 
Amen (comp. Etude sur une Stele Egypt ienne, p. 203, 
204). This evidence does not seem to us conclusive ; for 
policy may have induced the line of the twenty-second 
dynasty to effect intermarriages with the family of the 
priest-kings, and to assume their functions. The occur- 
rence of Shemitic names at an earlier time may indicate 
nothing more than Shemitic alliances, but those alli- 
ances might not improbably end in usurpation. Lepsi- 
us gives a genealogy of Sheshenk I from the tablet of 


Har-p-sen from the Serapeum, which, if correct, decides 
the question ( XXII agypt . Konigsdyn. p. 267-269). In 
this, Sheshenk I is the son of a chief Namuret, whose an- 
cestors, excepting his mother, who is called “royal moth- 
er,” not, as Lepsius gives it, “royal daughter” (Etude, 
etc., p. 203, note 2), are all untitled persons, and all but 
the princess bear foreign, apparently Shemitic, names. 
But, as M. de Rouge observes, this genealogy cannot be 
conclusively made out from the tablet, though we think 
it more probable than he does (ibid. p. 203, and note 2). 

Sheshenk I, on his accession, must have found the 
state weakened by internal strife and deprived of much 
of its foreign influence. In the time of the later kings 
of the Rameses family, two, if not three, sovereigns had 
a real or titular authority; but before the accession of 
Sheshenk it is probable that their lines had been united ; 
certainly towards the close of the twenty-first dynasty 
a Pharaoh was powerful enough to lead an expedition 
into Palestine and capture Gezer (1 Kings ix, 16). She- 
shenk took as the title of his standard “ He who attains 
royalty by uniting the two regions [of Egypt]” (I)e 
Rouge, Etude, etc., p. 204 ; Lepsius, Konigsbuch, xliv, 
567 A, a). He himself probably married the heiress of 
the Rameses family, while his son and successor, Usarken, 
appears to have taken to wife the daughter, and perhaps 
heiress, of the Tanitic twenty-first dynasty. Probably 
it was not until late in his reign that he was able to 
carry on the foreign wars of the earlier king who capt- 
ured Gezer. It is observable that we trace a change 
of dynasty in the policy that induced Sheshenk, at the 
beginning of his reign, to receive the fugitive Jeroboam 
(1 Kings xi,40). Although it was probably a constant 
practice for the kings of Egypt to show hospitality to 
fugitives of importance, Jeroboam would scarcely have 
been included in their class. Probably, it is expressly 
related that he fled to Shisliak because he was well re- 
ceived as an enemy of Solomon. We do not venture to 
lay any stress upon the Sept, additional portion of 1 Kings 
xii,as the narrative there given seems irreconcilable with 
that of the previous chapter, which agrees with the 
Masoretic text. In the latter chapter Hadad (Sept. 
Ader) the Edomite flees from the slaughter of his peo- 
ple by Joab and David, to Egypt, and marries the elder 
sister of Tahpenes (Sept. Thekemina), Pharaoh’s queen, 
returning to Idumaea after the death of David and Joab. 
In the additional portion of the former chapter, Jero- 
boam — already said to have fled to Shisliak (Sept. Su- 
sakim) — is married, after Solomon’s death, to Ano, elder 
sister of Thekemina the queen. Between Iladad’s re- 
turn and Solomon’s death, probably more than thirty 
years elapsed, certainly twenty. Besides, how are we 
to account for the two elder sisters? Moreover, Shi- 
shak’s queen, his only or principal wife, is called Karaix- 
ma, which is remote*from Tahpenes or Thekemina. See 
Tahvenes. 

The king of Egypt does not seem to have commenced 
hostilities during the powerful reign of Solomon. It 
was not until the division of the tribes that, probably 
at the instigation of Jeroboam, he attacked Rehoboam. 
The following particulars of this war are related in the 
Bible : “ In the fifth year of king Rehoboam, Shisliak 
king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem, because they 
had transgressed against the Lord, with twelve hundred 
chariots and threescore thousand horsemen; and the 
people [were] without number that came with him out 
of Egypt, the Lubim, the Sukkiim, and the Cushini. 
And he took the fenced cities which [pertained] to Ju- 
dah, and came to Jerusalem” (2 Chron. xii, 2-4). Shi- 
shak did not pillage Jerusalem, but exacted all the treas- 
ures of his city from Rehoboam, and apparently made 
him tributary (ver. 5, 9- 1 2, especially 8). The narrative 
in Kings mentions only the invasion and the exaction (l 
Kings xiv, 25, 26). The strong cities of Rehoboam are 
thus enumerated in an earlier passage — “And Rehobo- 
am dwelt in Jerusalem, and built cities for defence in 
Judah. He built even Beth-lehem, and Etam, and Te- 
koa, and Beth-zur, and Shoco, and Adullam, and Gath, 




SIIISI1AK 


SIIISHAK 



Profile of Shishak. (From the outer wall of the Great 
Temple at Karim k.) 

and Mareshah, and Ziph, and Adoraim, and Lachish, 
and Azekah, and Zorali, and Aijalon, and Ilebron, which 
[are] in Judah and iu Benjamin fenced cities” (2 Chron. 
xi, 5-10). 

Shishak has left a record of this expedition sculptured 
on the wall of the Great Temple of Karnak. It is a list 
of the countries, cities, and tribes conquered or ruled by 
him, or tributary to him. In this list Champollion rec- 
ognised a name which he translated “the kingdom of 
Judah,” and was thus led to trace the names of certain 
cities of Palestine. It is well to observe that this figure 
has not, as some have hastily conceived, been alleged to 
represent the king, but to personify the kingdom of Ju- 
dah (Champollion, Systeme Hieroglyph . p. 205 ; Rosellini, 
Monumenti Storici, i, 85; Wilkinson, Anc. Egypt, i, 37 ; 
Cory, Chronological Inquiry , p. 5). Sec Rehoboam. 
The list of Shishak in the original hieroglyphics is pub- 
lished by Roselliui, Monumenti Reali , No. cxlviii; Lep- 
sius, Denkmdler , Abtb. iii, III. 252; and Brugsch, G 7 ogr. 
I onchr. ii, Taf. xxiv; commented upon by the latter 
{ibid. p. 50 sq.) and I)r. Blau ( Zeitschr . cl. deuiach. mor- 
genldnd. Geselheh. xv, 233 sq.). There are several sim- 
ilar geographical lists, dating for the most part during 
the period of the empire, but they differ from this in 
presenting few, if any, repetitions, and only one of them 
contains names certainly the same as some in the pres- 
ent. They are lists of countries, cities, and tribes form- 
ing the Egyptian empire, and so far records of con- 
quest that any cities previously taken by the Pharaoh to 
whose reign they belong are mentioned. The list, which 
contains some of the names in Sheshcnk’s. is of Thoth- 
mes HI, sixth sovereign of the eighteenth dynasty, and 
comprises many names of cities of Palestine, mainly in 


704 

the outskirts of the Israelitish territory. It is impor- 
tant, in reference to this list, to state that Thothmes 
III, in his twenty-third year, had fought a battle with 
confederate nations near Megiddo, whose territories the 
list enumerates. The narrative of the expedition fully 
establishes the identity of this and other towns in the 
list of Shishak. It is given in the document known as 
the “Statistical Tablet of El-Karnak” (Birch, “Annals 
ofThothrnes III,” Arch&ologia [1853]; De Rouge, Rec. 
Arch. N. S. xi, 347 sq. ; Brugsch, Geogr. Inschr. ii. 32 
sq.). The only general result of the comparison of the 
two lists is that in the later one the Egyptian article 
is in two cases prefixed to foreign names, Nekbu of the 
list ofThothrnes III being the same as Penakbu of the 
list of Shishak, and Aameku of the former being the 
same as Peaakma of the latter. It will be perceived 
that the list contains three classes of names mainly 
grouped together — (1) Levitieal and Canaanitish cities 
of Israel; (2) cities of Judah ; and (3) Arab tribes to the 
south of Palestine. The occurrence together of Levit- 
ical cities was observed by Dr. Brugsch. It is evident 
that Jeroboam was not at once firmly established, and 
that the Levites especially held to Rehoboam. There- 
fore it maj' have been the policy of Jeroboam to empkty 
Shishak to capture their cities. Other cities in his ter- 
ritory were perhaps still garrisoned by Rehoboam’s 
forces or held by the Canaanitcs, who may have some- 
what recovered their independence at this period. The 
small number of cities identified in the actual territory 
of Rehoboam is explained by the erasure of fourteen 
names of the part of the list where they occur. The 
identification of some names of Arab tribes is of great 
interest and historical value, though it is to be feared 
that further progress can scarcely be made in their part 
of the list. 

The Pharaohs of the empire passed through northern 
Palestine to push their conquests to the Euphrates and 
Mesopotamia. Shishak, probably unable to attack the 
Assyrians, attempted the subjugatiou of Palestine and 
the tracts of Arabia which border Egypt, knowing that 
the Arabs would interpose an effectual resistance to any 
invader of Egypt, lie seems to have succeeded in con- 
solidating his power in Arabia, and we accordingly find 
Zerah in alliance with the people of Gerar, if we may 
infer this from their sharing his overthrow. 

III. Chronology. — The reign of Shishak offers the first 
determined synchronisms of Egyptian and Hebrew his- 
tory. Its chronology must therefore be examined. We 
first give a table with the Egyptian and Hebrew data 
for the chronology of the dynasty, continued as far as 
the time of Zerah, who was probably a successor of 
Shishak, in order to avoid repetition in treating of the 
latter. See Zeuaii. 

Respecting the Egyptian columns of this table, it is 
only necessary to observe that, as a date of the twenty- 


TABLE OF THE FIRST SIX REIGNS OF DYNASTY XXII. 


Egyptian Data. 

Hebrew Data. 

Manet ho. 

Monument*. 

Kings. 

Events. 

Africanns. 

Eusebius. 

Order. 

llitrbest 

Solomon. 40 Years. 


Jeroboam flees 

Yr». 

Yri. 


Year. 

Juilah. Yrs. 

l&rne). 

Yrs. 

to Shishak. 

1. Sesonchis. 21 

1. Scsonchosis. 21 

1. Sur.siiKXK [i] 

XXI 

1. Rehoboam 17 

1. Jeroboam. 

22 

Shishak 20 (?) in- 








vades Judah, 

2. Osorthou.. 15 

2. Osorthou.. .. 15 

2. Ubarken [i] 





Rehoboam, 5. 





2. Abijah 3 




BO 


3. Tf.kerct [i] 


3. Asa 41 




| Three others 








4 y 


4. USARKEN f 1 1] 

XXIII 


2. Nadab 

2 


1 25 to 20 ? 








5.J 


5. SUKSUENK [11] 



3. Bnasha.... 

24 







4. Elah 

2 







5. Zimri 








6. Omri 

12 


G. Tnkeliithis. 13 

Tnkelothis.. 13 

j ft. Tfkkrut [ii] 

XIV 






SI-IITRAI 


705 


SHITTAH 


third year of Usarken IT occurs on the monuments, it is 
reasonable to suppose that the sum of the third, fuurth, 
amt fifth reigns should be twenty-nine years instead of 
twenty-five, K0 being easily changed to KE (Lepsius, 
Konigsbuch , p. 85). We follow Lepsius’s arrangement, 
our Tekerut I, for instance, being the same as his. 

The synchronism of Shishak and Solomon and that 
of Shishak and Rehoboam may be nearly fixed, as shown 
in the article Chronology. Lepsius, however, states 
that it is of the twenty-first year, correcting Champolli- 
on, who had been followed by Bunsen and others ( XX f I 
agypt. Konigsdyn. p. 272, note 1). It must therefore be 
supposed that the invasion of Judah took place in the 
twentieth, and not in the twenty-first, year of Shishak. 
The first year of Shishak would thus about correspond 
to the twenty-sixth of Solomon, and the twentieth to 
the fifth of Rehoboam. 

The synchronism of Zerah and Asa is more difficult 
to determine. It seems, from the narrative in Chron- 
icles, that the battle between Asa and Zerah took place 
early in the reign of the king of Judah. It is mentioned 
before an event of the fifteenth year of his reign, and af- 
terwards we read that “ there was no [more] war unto 
the five and thirtieth year of the reign of Asa” (2 Chron. 
xv, 19). This is immediately followed by the account 
of Baasha’s coming up against Judah “ in the six and 
thirtieth year of the reign of Asa” (xvi, 1). The latter 
two dates may perhaps be reckoned from the division 
of the kingdom, unless we can read the fifteenth and 
sixteenth, for Baasha began to reign in the third year 
of Asa, and died after a reign of twenty-four years, and 
was succeeded by Elah, in the twenty-sixth year of 
Asa. It seems, therefore, most probable that the war 
with Zerah took place early in Asa’s reign, before his 
fifteenth year, and thus also early in the reign of Usar- 
ken II. The probable identification of Zerah is consid- 
ered under that name. See Egypt. 

shit'rai (Heb. Shit ray', [marg. Shirt ay' , 

‘'■Jlw], my decisions , or decisive ; Sept. ’S.arpai v. r. ’Aerap- 
Tiag ), a Sharonite who had charge of David’s herds feed- 
ing in Sharon (1 Chron. xxvii, 29). B.C. 1043. 

Shittah (112 12T, Shittah , for nri3'j, shintdh , proper- 
ly the thorny , if Heb. [see below] ; i. q. the Arabic Sunt; 
only once in the sing. Isa. xli, 19; Sept, -kv^qq, Xulg.pi- 
nea; A. V. “ Shittah-tree”) or Shittim (EUlsd, Shittim , 
plur. of the same, used with ets, tree or wood; Sept. 
a<yi)iTTOc , Vulg. setim), a tree, generally regarded as the 
acacia , the wood of which was extensively employed 
in the construction of the tabernacle, the boards and 
pillars being made of it; the ark of the covenant and 
the staves for carrying it, the table of show-bread with 
its staves, the altar of burnt-offerings and the altar of 
incense with their respective staves, were also construct- 
ed out of this wood (see Exod. eh. xxv, xxvi, xxxvi, 
xxxvii, xxxviii). In Isa. xli, 19 the same tree is men- 
tioned with the “cedar, the myrtle, and the oil-tree,” as 
one which God would plant in the wilderness. The 
Heb. terra is, by Jablonski, Celsius, and many 

other authors, derived from the Egyptian word, the 3 
being dropped; and, from an Arabic MS. cited by Cel- 
sius, it appears that the Arabic term also comes from 
the Egyptian, the true Arabic name for the acacia be- 
ing karadh ( Hierob . i, 508). The Egyptian name of 
the acacia is sont, sant , or santh. See Jablonski ( [Opusc . 
i, 261), Rossius ( Etyniol . sEgypt. p. 273), and Prosper Al- 
pinus {Plant. * Egypt . p. 6), who thus speaks of this tree : 
“The acacia, which the Egyptians call sant , grows in 
localities in Egypt remote from the sea, and large quan- 
tities of this tree are produced on the mountains of Si- 
nai, overhanging the Red Sea. That this tree is, with- 
out doubt, the true acacia of the ancients, or the Egyp- 
tian thorn, is clear from several indications, especially 
from the fact that no other spinous tree occurs in Egypt 
which so well answers to the required characters. These 
trees grow to the size of a mulberry-tree, and spread 
IX.— Y y 


their branches aloft.” “ The acacia-tree,” says Dr. Shaw, 
“being by much the largest and most common tree in 
these deserts (Arabia Petnea), we have some reason to 
conjecture that the shittim wood was the wood of the 
acacia, especially as its flowers are of an excellent smell, 
for the shittah tree is, in Isa. xli, 19, joined with the 
myrtle and other fragrant shrubs.” Bruce, as quoted 
by Dr. Harris, remarks that “ the acacia seems the only 
indigenous tree in the Thebaid. The male is called the 
Saiel; from it proceeds the gum-arabic on incision with 
an axe. This gum chiefly comes from Arabia Petnea, 
where these trees are most numerous.” Kitto says the 
required species is found in either the Acacia gummife - 
ra or i n the A . Seyal, or rather in both. They both grow 
abundantly in the valleys of that region in which the 
Israelites wandered for forty years, and both supply 
products which must have rendered them of much val- 
ue to the Israelites. We think the probability is that 
the A. Seyal supplied the shittim wood, if, indeed, the 
name did not denote acacia wood in general. This tree 
grows from fifteen to twenty feet in height. So M. 
Bove, “ Le lendemain, en traversant le Yoode (Wady) 
Schen, je vis un grand nombre d 1 Acacia Seyal; cet arbre 
s’eleve a la hauteur de vingt a vingt-cinq pieds. Les 
Arabes font avec son bois du charbon qu’ils vont vendre 
a Suez.” The A. Seyal is very common in some parts 
of the peninsula of Sinai (M. Bove, Voyage du Caire au 
Mont Sinai, Ann. des Scienc. Xat. 1834, sec. ser. i, 166; 
Stanley, Sin. and Pal. p. 20, 69, 298). These trees are 
more common in Arabia than in Palestine, though there 
is a valley on the west side of the Dead Sea, the Wady 
Seyal , which derives its name from a few aeacia-trees 
there. The A. Seyal, like the .4. Arabica, yields the 
well-known substance called gum-arabic, which is ob- 
tained by incisions in the bark, but it is impossible to 
say whether the ancient Jews were acquainted with its 
use. From the tangled thickets into which the stem 
of this tree expands, Stanley thinks is to be traced the 
use of the plural form of the Ileb. noun Shittim. “The 
wild acacia (Mimosa Xilotica ), under the name of Sunt," 
the same writer says (ibid. p. 20), “ everywhere represents 
the ‘seneh’ or ‘ senna’ of the burning bush.” But neither 
of these conjectures appears to be well founded. Besides 
the above, there is another species, the A. tortilis, com- 
mon on Mount Sinai. Although none of the above- 
named trees are sufficiently large to yield planks ten 
cubits long by one and a half cubits wide, which we are 
told was the size of the boards that formed the taber- 
nacle (Exod. xxxvi, 21), yet there is an acacia that 
grows near Cairo, viz. the A . serissa, which would sup- 
ply boards of the required size. There is, however, no 
evidence to show that this tree ever grew in the penin- 
sula of Sinai. And though it would be unfair to draw 
any conclusion from such negative evidence, still it is 
probable that “the boards” (S^w^il) were supplied 
by one of the other acacias. There is, however, no ne- 
cessity to limit the meaning of the Heb. (< keresh ) 

to “ a single plank.” In Ezek. xxvii, 6 the same word, in 
the singular number, is applied in a collective sense to 
“ the deck” of a ship (comp, our “on board”). The ke- 
resh of the tabernacle, therefore, may denote “two or 
more boards joined together,” which, from being thus 
united, may have been expressed by a singular noun. 
These acacias, which are for the most part tropical 
plants, must not be confounded with the tree ( Robinia 
pseudo-acacia) popularly known by this name in Eng- 
land, which is a North American plant, and belongs to 
a different genus and suborder. The true acacias, most 
of which possess hard and durable wood (comp. Pliny, 
II. X. iii, 19; Josephus, Ant. iii, 6, 1), belong to the 
order Leguminosce , suborder Mimosece. Livingstone 
(Trar. in S. Africa , abridged ed., p. 77) thinks the A. 
giraffa (camel-thorn) supplied the wood for the taber- 
nacle, etc. “It is,” he adds, “an imperishable wood, 
while that which is usually supposed to be the shittim 
(A. Xilotica) wants beauty and soon decays.”— Kitto ; 


SIIITTAII 


tog 


SIIOA 


Smith. But there is no evidence that this tree grows 
in Arabia. The .4. Seyal is the onlv timber tree of any 
size in the Arabian desert. It is a gnarled and very 
thorny tree, somewhat like the solitary hawthorn in its 
habit of growth, but much larger. It flourishes in the 
driest situations, and is scattered over the whole of the 
^inaitic peninsula. It is also abundant in the many ra- 
vines which open on the Dead Sea at Kngedi, and all 
along its western shores. Several places on the eastern 
shore also derive their names from its presence. See 
Shittim. The wood is very hard and close-grained, 
very much resembling that of the yellow locust, of a 
line orange-brown color, with a darker heart, and admi- 
rably adapted for cabinet-work. Its leaves are small 
and pinnate, and in spring it is covered with its round 
tufts of yellow blossoms, which grow in clusters round 
the branches, like little balls of fibre. The bark is yel- 
low and smooth, like that of the ailantus. It is power- 
fully astringent, and is used by the Bedawin for tanning 
yellow leather. The branches are often cut by the na- 
tives for making charcoal, but the camels browse on 
them when young and tender. The bark exudes a 
gum, the gum-arabic of commerce, not only by inci- 
sions, but spontaneously, which the Arabs collect for sale 
and occasionally employ for food. They also say that 
it allays thirst. See Tristram, Xat, Hist, of the Bible , 
p. BOO sq. See Thorn. 



Acacia of the Desert {Acacia Seyul ), with Flower and 
Fruit. 


Shittah plur. means in Chaldee a 

line or series. Thus, the passage in Isa. xxx, 8, “CO by 
"H, “Noted in a book,” is rendered by the Targum 
“CO"I ■pOO? bri, “Register it on the lines of 
the book.” The passage in the Song of Songs, v, 13, 
“ llis cheeks are like beds of balsam,” is rendered 
XOOO r:: *po"t ~'ZVZ, i. e. “were writ- 

ten (viz. the two tables of stone which he gave to his 
people) in ten rows, resembling the rows or beds in 
the garden c»f balsam.” The Masorites denote with 
Shittah a series or catalogue of words — a register of 
things of the same import, as a number of verses, pairs, 
words, which are alike either in vowel-points or letters. 
Thus, they noted down a list of pairs of words which 


occur once, but the first of which commences with 
a Ltnneif, viz. zb'.y rTHN5 (Gen. xvii, 8), “'“SO 
(Exod. xvi, 16); or they give us a list of thirty- 
eight words which respectively have in one instance 
only the accent on the penultima, as nci (Gen. xviii, 

20) , pnii*' (xxi, 6), nsoi (Lev. xv, 13), etc.; or they 
give a list of words which, on the contrary, occur only 
once with the accent on the ultima, as HCJl (Gen. xxix, 

21) , nr - (xxx, 1), (xli, 33), etc. See Bnxtorf, 
Tiberias, seu Commentarius M assoreticus, p.273; Levi fa, 
Massoreth ha-Massoreth ( ed. Ginsburg), p. 205, 210; 
Frcnsdorff, Massnra Magna , p. 381 sq. ; id. Ochla-we- 
Ochla , § 20. p. 36; § 372, p. 61, 171; § 373, p. 61, 172. 
(B. P.) 

Shit'tim (Ileb. with the art. hash-Shitthn, 
the acacias ; Sept. ’S.arTtiv ; in the Prophets, rd ayoT- 
va ; Vulg. Settim, Abel-satim ), a designation rather 
than proper name of at least two localities in Palestine. 
See Shittah. 

1. The place of Israel’s encampment between the 
conquest of the Transjordanie highlands and the pas- 
sage of the Jordan (Numb, xxxiii, 49; xxv, 1; Josb. 
ii, 1; iii, 1; Mie. vi, 5). Its full name appears to be 
given in the first of these passages — Abel (bllX) hash - 
Shittim — “ the meadow or moist place of the acacias.” 
See Abel-siiittim. It was “in the Arboth-Moab, by 
Jordan-Jericho:” such is the ancient formula repeated 
over and over again (Numb, xxii, 1 ; xxvi, 3; xxxi, 
12 ; xxxiii, 48, 49) ; that is to say, it was in the Arabah 
or Jordan valley, opposite Jericho, at that part of the 
Arabah which belonged to and bore the name of Moab, 
where the streams which descend from the eastern 
mountains and force their winding way through the 
sandy soil of the plain nourished a vast growth of the 
Seyal, Sunt, and Sidr trees, such as is nouri>.hed by the 
streams of the Wady Kelt and the Ain Sultan on the 
opposite side of the river. See Moab. It was in the 
shade and the tropical heat of these acacia-groves that 
the people were seduced to the licentious rites of Baal- 
peor by the Midianites; but it was from the same spot 
that Moses sent forth the army, under the tierce Phine- 
has, which worked so fearful a retribution for that li- 
cense (xxxi, 1-12). It was from the camp at Shittim 
that Joshua sent out the spies across the river to Jeri- 
cho (Josh, ii, 1). — Smith. Tristram thinks that “the 
situation of Keferein [of which he gives a view] at the 
northern margin of the oasis (the Ghor es-Seisam), and 
its marshy verdure, unmistakably identify it with Abel- 
shittim” ( Land of Israel, p. 525). 

2. A “ valley” {bT\},ndchal. winter-torrent) of Shittim, 
or Wady Sunt, as it would now be called, of Joel (iii, 
18), can hardly be the same spot as that described 
above, as it must certainly have been west of the Jor- 
dan, and probably in the neighborhood of Jerusalem, al- 
though the particular vale cannot now he distinguished. 
The name is probably to be regarded as an appellative 
— “acacia vale” denoting, perhaps, as that tree delights 
in a dry soil, an arid, unfruitful vale. 

Shiva. See Siva. 

Shiva-Narayanais. See Siva-Narayanais. 

Sliivararti, in Ilimlft mythology, is a festival cele- 
brated in the month of March in honor of Siva, in 
which the grossest indecencies, accompanied with las- 
civious songs, are publicly perpetrated without shock- 
ing or offending observers, since everything of the kind 
is regarded as highly pleasing to the god. The Lin- 
ga (q. v.), Siva’s most eminent symbol, is preferably 
dedicated and sold at this festival. 

Shi'za (Ileh. Shiza ', perhaps splendor; Sept. 

Ni£a, v. r. Ney«, 'E £d, etc.), a Reubenite, father of Adi- 
na (<}. v.), one of David’s warriors (1 Chron. xi, 42). 
B.C. ante 1043. 

Sho'a (Ilcb. id. a cry for help, or rich, or lib- 


SHOAFF 


707 


SHOCKLEY 


eral; Sept. Sou£ v. r. Soud; Vulg. tyranny ), a proper 
name which occurs only in Ezek. xxiii, *23, in connec- 
tion with Pekod and Koa. The three apparently de- 
note districts of Assyria with which the southern king- 
dom of Judah had been intimately connected, and which 
were to be arrayed against it for punishment. The 
Peshito-Syriac has Lud , that is, Lydia; while the Ara- 
bic of the Loudon Polyglot has Sut , and Lud occupies 
the place of Koa. Kashi remarks on the three words, 
‘•The interpreters say that they signify officers, princes, 
and rulers.” This rendering must have been traditional 
at the time of Aquila ( kTrurKtirnji ; tcai rvpavuos Kai 
KOpv<j>ctiog) and Jerome ( mobiles , tyranni, et principes ). 
(jleseuius ( Thesaur . p. 1208 a) maintains that the con- 
text requires the words to be taken as appellatives, and 
not as proper names; and F'urst, on the same ground, 
maintains the contrary ( Ilandwb. s. v. -^" I p ). Those 
who take Shoa as an appellative refer to the use of 
the word in Job xxxiv, 19 (A. V. “ rich”) and Isa. xxxii, 
5 (A. V. “bountiful”), where it signifies rich, liberal, and 
stands in the latter passage in parallelism with 
nadib , bv which Kimchi explaius it, and which is else- 
where rendered in the A. V. “prince” (Prov. xvii, 7) 
and “ noble” (viii, 16). But a consideration of the latter 
part of the verse (Ezek. xxiii, 23), where the captains 
and rulers of the Assyrians are distinctly mentioned, 
and the fondness which Ezekiel elsewhere shows for 
playing upon the sound of proper names (as in xxvii, 
10; xxx, 5), lead to the conclusion that in this case Pe- 
kod, Shoa, and Koa are proper names also; but nothing 
further can be said. The only name which has been 
found at all resembling Shoa is that of a town in As- 
syria mentioned by Plinv, “ Sue in rupibus,” near Ganga- 
mela, and west of the Oroutes mountain chain. Bochart 
( Pkaleg , iv, 9) derives Sue from the Chaldee 
shu'd , a rock. — Smith. See Koa. 

Shoaff, David, a minister of the Methodist Episco- 
pal Church. South, was born in Juniata County, Pa., 
July 17, 1823, and was converted Aug. 23, 1844. In 
March, 1848, he was admitted on trial into the Balti- 
more Conference. At the division of the Baltimore 
Conference in 1857, he became a member of the East 
Baltimore Conference. In 1866 he severed his connec- 
tion with the Methodist Episcopal Church, and united 
with the Methodist Episcopal Church, South, in which 
he continued to labor until his death, May 26, 1871. 
See Minutes of Annual Conferences of the J /. E. Ch ., 
South , 1872, p. 648. 

Sho'bab ( Heb. Shobab f , rebellious , as in 

Jer. iii, 14, 21 ; Isa. lvii, 17 ; Sept. 2a>j3«/3 v. r. I'o uj3a/3, 
etc.), the name of two Hebrews. 

1. Apparently the second named of the three sons 
of Caleb the son of llezrou by his first wife Azubah (l 
Chron. ii, 18). B.C. post 1874. 

2. Second named of the sons of David born in Jeru- 
salem (2 Sam. v, 14; 2 Chron. iii, 5; xiv, 4). B.C. 
post 1044. 

Slio'bach (Heb. Shobak ', expansion; Sept. 

'S.wfiaK v. r. 'Safi&x ; Vulg. Sobach ), the general of 
1 ladarezer king of the Syrians of Zoba, who was in com- 
mand of the army summoned from beyond the Eu- 
phrates against the Hebrews after the defeat of the 
combined forces of Syria and the Ammonites before the 
gates of Kabbah. He was met by David in person, who 
crossed the Jordan and attacked him at Helam. The 
battle resulted in the total defeat of the Syrians. Sho- 
bach was wounded, and died on the field (2 Sam. x, 15- 
18). B.C. 1034. In the parallel passage (I Chron. xix, 
16, 18) he is called Shophach, and by Josephus Sabecus 
(Srq&icoc, Ant* vii, 6, 3). — Smith. 

Sho'bai [some Shoba'i ] (Heb. Shobay ', [but 

always in pause, as “ 1 3b], taking captive [Gcsen.], or 
glorious [Fiirst] ; Sept. v. r. Yo/3/, etc.), one of 

the heads of the Levitical family of doorkeepers of the 


Temple, whose posterity returned from Babylon with Ze- 
rubbabel (Ezra ii. 42 ; Neh. vii, 45). B.C. long ante 536. 

Sho'bal (llcb. ShobaV , bsib, flowing , or a shoot 
[Geseu.], or wandering [Fiirst] ; Sept. or 2ou- 

JictX v. r. Nt o/3dp), the name of two Hebrews. 

1. Second named of the seven sons of Scir the Horite 
(Gen. xxxvi, 20; 1 Chron. i, 38). He was the father 
of five sons (Gen. xxxvi, 23 ; 1 Chron. i, 40), and one 
of the aboriginal “dukes” or sheiks of Edom (Gen. 
xxxvi, 29). B.C. post 1963. 

2. First named of the five sons of Ilur the son of 
Caleb of the tribe of Judah, lie became the founder 
(“father”) of Kirjath-jeariin (1 Chron. ii, 50). B.C. 
cir. 1612. He is evidently the same mentioned as father 
of Reaiah (q. v.) among the descendants (“sous”) of Ju- 
dah in 1 Chron. iv, 1, 2. 

Sho'bek (Heb. Shobek', T\ , forsaking [Gesen.], 
or free [Fiirst] ; Sept. Ew/Jr/K v. r. ’Qfii'iic, etc.), one of 
the chief Israelites who signed Nehemiah’s covenant 
(Neh. x, 24). B.C. 446. 

Shober, Gottlieb, a Lutheran clergyman, was born 
in Bethlehem, Pa., Nov. 1, 1756. Under the influence 
of a careful Christian education, he early became im- 
pressed with the importance of religion, and desired to 
gain satisfactory evidence that he had been born from 
above. He united with the Moravian Church in his sev- 
enteenth year, and entered heartily into everything tend- 
ing to its prosperity. After reaching fifty years of age he 
determined to devote the remainder of his life to the min- 
istry, and entered that of the Lutheran Church. In the 
fall of 1810 he was set apart to the work of the minis- 
try, and immediately became pastor of the church in 
Salem. Here he continued laboring with zeal and 
fidelity until a few years before his death, which occur- 
red June 27, 1838. Mr. Shober was one of the founders 
of the General Synod of the Lutheran Church, was its 
president in 1825, and a member of the committees to 
prepare a hymn-book and catechism. He took a deep 
interest in the education of young men for the minis- 
try, and in 1825 was appointed one of the first directors 
which adopted the incipient measures for the formation 
of the Semiuary at Gettysburg, Pa. He left it three 
thousand acres of land. Air. Shober prepared two vol- 
umes for the press — a translation from Stilling, entitled 
Scenes in the World of Spirits (Baltimore, 1818, 12mo) : 
— A Comprehensive Account of the Rise and Progress 
of the Christian Church , by Dr. Martin Luther. See 
Sprague, Annals of the A mer. Pulpit, ix, 141. 

Sho'bi (Heb. Shobi probably another form 
for Shobai [q. v.] ; Sept. Outafii ; Vulg. Sebi), a son of 
Nahash of Kabbah of the children of Ammon (2 Sam. 
xvii, 27), and one of the first to meet David at Maha- 
n aim on his tiight from Absalom, and to offer him the 
hospitality of a powerful and wealthy chief, for he was 
the son of David’s old friend Nahash ; and the bond be- 
tween them was strong enough to survive, on the one 
hand, the insults of Hanun (who was probably his broth- 
er), and, on the other, the conquest and destruction of 
Kabbah. B.C. 1023. Josephus calls him Siphar (Si- 
<pap), “chief ( flvvdarrpj ) of the Ammouitish country” 
(Ant. vii, 9, 8). — Smith. 

Sho'cho (2 Chron. xx viii, 18), or Sho'co (xi, 7). 
See Sociio. 

Sho'choh (1 Sam. xvii, 1). See Socnoir. 

Shock of Corn (U’H", gadtsh, a heap ; hence 
sometimes “a tomb,” as in Job xxi, 32), a “stack” 
(Exod. xxii, 6 [Heb. 5]) of grain reaped (Judg. xv, 5; 
Job v, 26). See Agriculture. 

Shockley, James A, a Methodist Episcopal minis- 
ter, was born in South Carolina in 1809. He was con- 
verted at twelve years of age, obtained license to preach 
in 1840, was received on trial in the Mississippi Confer- 
ence in 1841, and appointed to the Paulding Circuit; in 
1842, to the Decatur Circuit; in 1843, to the Whitesand 


SIIODELETII 


703 SHOE 


Circuit, where he died, Sept. 12, 1844. lie was a faith- 
ful preacher and pastor, and his death was a signal tri- 
umph. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , iii, 589. 

Shodeleth, in Hindi! mythology, is a place in the 
vicinity of every city where the dead are burned. It 
always contains a stone representing king Aritshandra, 
who was at one time overseer of such a place, and in 
that position denied to his own son the honor of being 
burned because the boy’s mother was unable to pay the 
small sum exacted in return for that privilege. This 
pious action so moved the gods that they restored the 
king to his former honors, from which he had been de- 
graded in order that his disposition might be put to the 
proof. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. M ythol. s. v. 

Shoe ndul, so called from fastening on the 

foot, everywhere so rendered, except once [Isa. xi, 15], 
“ drvshod but in Dent, xxxiii, 25 wind l t which 

probably means a bolt, as elsewhere [“lock,” Neh. iii, 3, 
0, 13, 14, 15; Cant, v, 5] ; in roSijpa), properly a sandal. 
It does not seem probable that the foot-coverings of the 
Hebrews differed much from those used in Egypt, ex- 
cepting, perhaps, that from the greater roughness of 
their country they were usually of more substantial 
make and materials. The Egyptian sandals varied 
slightly in form: those worn by the upper classes, and 
by women, were usually pointed and turned up at the 
end like our skates and many of the Eastern slippers at 
the present day. They were made of a sort of woven 
or interlaced work of palm-leaves and papyrus-stalks or 
other similar materials, and sometimes of leather; and 
were frequently lined with cloth on which the figure of 
a captive was painted, that humiliating position being 
considered suited to the enemies of their country, whom 
they hated and despised. It is not likely that the Jews 
adopted this practice; but the idea which it expressed, 
of treading their enemies under their feet, was familiar 
to them (josh. x. 24). Those of the middle classes who 
were in the habit of wearing sandals often preferred 
walking barefooted. Shoes, or low boots, are sometimes 
found at Thebes; but these are believed by Sir J. G. 
Wilkinson to have been of late date and to have belong- 
ed to Greeks, since no persons are represented in the 
paintings as wearing them except foreigners. They 
were of leather, generally of a green color, laced in front 

by thongs, which 
passed through 
small loops on ei- 
ther side, and were 
principally used, 
as in Greece and 
Ancient Assyrian Shoe. Etruria, by wom- 

en (Wilkinson, iii, 

374-367). The Assyrian monuments represent shoes 
of a similar character, but worn by natives, especially 
princes. 

The use of shoes was by no means universal among 
the Greeks and Homans. The Homeric heroes are rep- 
resented without shoes when armed for battle. Socra- 
tes, Phocion, and Cato frequently went barefoot. The 
Homan slaves had no shoes. The covering of the feet 
was removed before reclining at meals. People in grief 
(as, for instance, at funerals) frequently went barefooted. 
The Homan shoes may be divided into those in which 
the mere sole of a shoe w'as attached to the sole of the 
foot by tics or bands, or by a covering for the toes or 
the instep ( solea , crepidu , soccus ), and those which 
ascended higher and higher, according as they covered 
the ankles, the calf, or the whole of the leg. To calcea- 
menta of the latter kind, i. c. to shoes and hoots as dis- 
tinguished from sandals and slippers, the term calceus 
w'as applied in its proper and restricted sense. There 
w’ere also other varieties of the calceus , according to its 
adaptation to particular professions or modes of life. 
Tims the caliga was principally worn by soldiers, the 
pero by laborers and rustics, and the cothurnus by tra- 
gedians, hunters, and horsemen. The calcei probably 



did not much differ from our shoes, and are exemplified 
in a painting at Herculaneum, w'hich represents a female 
wearing bracelets, a wreath of ivy, and a panthers skin, 
w-hile she is in the attitude of dancing and playing on 
the cymbals. On the other hand, a marble foot in the 
British Museum exhibits the form of a man’s shoe. 



Both the sole and the upper leather are thick and strong. 
The toes are uncovered, and a thong passes between the 
great and the second toe as a sandal. The form and 
color of the calceus indicated rank and office. Homan 
senators wore high shoes, like 
buskins, fastened in front with 
four black thongs, and adorn- 
ed with a small crescent. 

Among the calcei worn bv 
senators, those called mullet , 
from their resemblance to the 
scales of the red mullet, w'ere 
particularly admired, as well 
as others called ulutcr, because 
the leather was softened by 
the use of alum. See Smith, 

Diet, of Greek and Roman Roman Half-boot. 

A ntiq. s. vv. 

Certain scriptural usages connected with shoes de- 
serve especial notice. In transferring a possession or 
domain it was customary to deliver a sandal (Huth iv,7), 
as in our Middle Ages a glove. Hence the action of 
throw ing down a shoe upon a region or territory was a 
symbol of occupaney. So Psa. lx, 10, “Upon the land 
of Edom do I cast my sandal,” i. e. I possess, occupy it, 
claim it as my own. In Huth, as above, the delivering 
of a sandal signified that the next of kin transferred to 
another a sacred obligation, and he w r as hence called 
“ sandal-loosed.” A sandal thong (Gen. xi v, 23), or even 
sandals themselves (Amos ii, 6; viii, 6), are put for any- 




SIIOE-LATCIIET 


709 


tiling worthless or of little value; which is perfectly in- 
telligible to those who have witnessed the extempora- 
neous manner in which a man will shape two pieces of 
hide and fasten them with thongs to the soles of his 
feet, thus fabricating in a few minutes a pair of sandals 
which would be dear at a penny. It was undoubtedly 
the custom to take off the sandals on holy ground, in 
the act of worship, and in the presence of a superior. 
Hence the command to take the sandals from the feet 
under such circumstances (Exod. iii, 5; Josh, v, 15). 
This is still the well-known custom of the East — an 
Oriental taking off his shoe in cases in which a Euro- 
pean would remove his hat (see Hackett, Illustrations of 
Script, p. G6). The shoes of the modern Orientals are, 
however, made to slip off easily, which was not the case 
with sandals, that required to be unbound with some 
trouble. This operation was usually performed by ser- 
vants; and hence the act of unloosing the sandals of an- 
other became a familiar symbol of servitude (Mark i, 7 ; 
Luke iii, 16 ; John i, 27 ; Acts xiii, 25). So, also, when a 
man’s sandals had been removed, they were usually left 
in charge of a servant. In some of the Egyptian paint- 
ings servants are represented with their master’s san- 
dals on their arm : it thus became another conventional 
mark of a servile condition to bear the sandals of an- 
other (Malt, iii, 11). The terms ordinarily applied to 
the removal of the shoe (ybn, Deut. xxv, 10; Isa. xx, 
2; and Ruth iv, 7) imply that the thongs were 

either so numerous or so broad as almost to cover the 
top of the foot. It is worth} 7 of observation, however, 
that the term used for “ putting off” the shoes on sacred 
occasions is peculiar (blTD), and conveys the notion of 
violence and haste. See Bvn&uis, f)e Calceis Ilebne- 
orum (Dord. 1715); Kitto, Piet. Bible , note at Iiuth iv, 
8. See Sandal. 

Shoe-latchet. SeeLATCitET; Shoe. 

Shoes, Putting-off of. In the ancient Christian 
Church a few (for it was not a general custom) took 
off their shoes as they entered the church. Cassian 
( fnstitut . i, 10) observes of the Egyptian monks that 
they always wore sandals instead of shoes, and took 
these off when they went to celebrate or receive the 
holy mysteries, thinking themselves obliged to do so 
from a literal interpretation of the command to Moses, 

“ Put off thy shoes from off - thy feet,” etc. Others ob- 
served the custom only among those people who con- 
sidered it an indication of reverence, as it was in East- 
ern nations in the time of Moses and Joshua. See Bing- 
ham, Christ. Antiq. bk. viii, ch. 10, § 7. See Shoe. 

Shoham. See Onyx. 

Sho'ham (Ileb. id. ZHb’, onyx, as in Gen. ii, 12; 
Sept. "Soap v. r. 'I <rodp), second named of the four sons 
of the Merarite Levite Jaaziah, who were employed 
about the ark by David (1 Cliron. xxiv, 27). B.C. 1043. 

Sho'mer (Heb. S homer' , 1^Vl3, keeper , as often; | 
Sept. 'Ziopfjp v. r. Sa/i/jp, etc.), a variation for the names 
of two Hebrews. 

1, Second named of the three sons of Ileber, an Asli- 
erite (1 Chron. vii, 32); called Siiamek (q.v.) in ver. 34, 
where his sons are enumerated. 

2. The father of Jehozabad, who slew king Joash 
(2 Kings xii. 21); in the parallel passage in 2 Chron. 
xxiv, 2G, the name is converted into the feminine form 
Shim urm (q.v.), who is further described as a Moab- 
itess. This variation may have originated in the dubi- 
ous gender of the preceding name Shimeath, which is 
also made feminine by the chronicler. Others suppose 
that in Kings the father is named, and in Chronicles 
the mother. 

Shook, Jefferson, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was born in Madison County, 
Mo., May 20, 1820; was converted and joined the M. E. 
Church in 1838. He was licensed to preach Sept. 18, | 
1841, and the same year was admitted into the Arkansas 


SHOSIIANNLM-EDUTH 

Conference. In 1844 lie was transferred to the Texas 
Conference, and at its division in 1845 he fell to the East 
Texas Conference. About 1854 he became supernumer- 
ary, and, with the exception of one year, held that re- 
lation until his death, Dec. 20, 1872. See Minutes of 
Annual Conferences of the M, E. Ch ., South, 1873, p. 803. 

Shoo-king, one of the Chinese sacred books. It 
is chiefly of a historical character, commencing with the 
reign of the Yaou, one of the very earliest emperors, 
supposed to have been contemporary with Noah, anil 
stretches onward to the time of Confucius. This work 
is considered to be of the highest authority, containing 
many valuable moral and political maxims. On account 
of the vast influence of the Shoo-kiny over the public 
mind, the utmost efforts were made to suppress it during 
the reign of Che-liuang-te, B.C. about 240. As edited 
by Confucius, the Shoo-kiny throws much light upon 
the early religion of the Chinese, showing that Shaman- 
ism (q. v.) was then the prevailing form of religion.— 
Gardner, Faiths o f the World, s. v. 

Sko'phacll (Heb. Shophak', prob. a varia- 
tion of Shobak; Sept. and Y<u/3c/y v. r. 

and Yw0d0; Vulg. Sophach), the general of Iladarezar 
(l Chron. xix, 16, 18), elsewhere (2 Sam. x, 1G) called 
Siiobacii (q. v.). 

Sko'phan (Heb. Shophan', , }EYC3, prob. i. q. Sha~ 
phan; Sept.No0dp; Samar. D"SUJ; Vulg. Sophar), given 
in the A. V. as one of the fortified towns on the east of 
Jordan which were taken possession of and rebuilt by 
the tribe of Gad (Numb, xxxii, 35); but probably a 
mere affix (significant, according to some, of bareness) to 
the second Atroth, to distinguish it from the former one, 
not an independent place. See Ataroth. 

Shore is the rendering in the A. V. of three Heb. 
and two Greek words. 1. Cpn, choph (so called from 
being chafed by the waves [Gesen. ], or enclosed [Flirst] ; 
comp. Engl, core, and the modern town Chaifa), a road- 
stead (Judg. v, 17 ; Jer. xlvii, 7 ; “coast” in Josh, ix, 1 ; 
Ezek. xxv, 10; “haven” in Gen. xlix, 13; “side” in 
Dent, i, 7); atytaXug, a beach (Matt, xiii, 2, 48; John 
xxi,4; Acts xxi, 5; xxvii, 39, 40). 2. HSp, katseh , the 
extremity of the land (Josh, xv, 2; elsewhere “brim,” 
‘•brink,” etc.). 3. nsia, saphdh, a lip (as often, some- 
times “brink,” “bank,” etc.); the lip (as usually, 

“shore” only in Heb. xi, 12). See Sea. 

ShoshanTiim (Heb. Shoshanmm lilies, 
as often), a technical term, fonnd as such in the phrase 
“To the chief musician upon Shoshannim,” which is a 
musical direction to the leader of the temple-choir that 
occurs in Psa. xlv, lxix, and most probably indicates the 
melody “after” or “in the manner of” (bs, \il, A.V. 
“upon”) which the Psalms were to be sung. See also 
SnosiiANNiM-EDUTii. As “Shoshaimim” literally signi- 
fies “lilies,” it has been suggested that the word denotes 
lilv-shaped instruments of music (Simonis, Lex. s. v.), 
perhaps cymbals (rather trumpets), and this view ap- 
pears to be adopted by De Wette (Die Psalmen, p. 34). 
Hengstenberg gives to it an enigmatical interpretation, 
as indicating “ the subject or subjects treated, as lilies 
figuratively for bride in xlv; the delightful consolations 
and deliverances experienced in lxix, etc.” (Davidson, 
Intrvd. ii, 246), which Dr. Davidson very truly char- 
acterizes as “a most improbable fancy.” The Nept. and 
Vulg. have in both Psalms virty rt ov dWonoSpcrophnov 
and 2> r0 ii* qui immutabuntur respectively, reading ap- 
parently bv. Bell Zeb ( Otsar Ilashshor. s. v.) 

regards it as an instrument of psalmody, and Junius and 
Tremellius, after Kimchi, render it “ hexachorda,” an 
instrument with six strings, referring it to the root 
shesh, “six,” and this is approved by Eichhorn in his 
edition of Simonis. — Smith. See Psalms. 

Shoshan'nim-e'duth (Heb. Shoshanmm' Eduth', 
mr lilies, a testimony ; Sept, ol aWouoSp- 


SIIOSHISKESHA 


10 


SIIOWBREAD 


( rofievoi , paprvpiov; Vnlg. ii qui commit tabuntur testi- 
monium ), a phrase found in the title of l*sa. Lxxx as a 
direction to the chief musician, which appears, accord- 
ing to the most probable conjecture, to denote the melo- 
dy or air “after” or “in the manner of” which the 
psalm was to be sung. As the words now stand they 
must be regarded as probably a fragment of the begin- 
ning of an older psalm with which the choir were famil- 
iar. Ewald gives what lie considers the original mean- 
ing — “ ‘ lilies;’ that is, pure, innocent, is ‘ the law ” but 
the words will not bear this interpretation, nor is it 
possible in their present position to assign to them any 
certain meaning. For the conjectures of those who re- 
gard the words as the names of musical instruments, see 
the articles SiiositAXXiM ; Sihsiian-kiuth. 

Shoshiskesha, in Hind A mythology, is a surname 
of Atjni, the god of tire. It signities “the lord of brill- 
iancy.” 

Sliotts, Kirk of. The prolonged services at this 
place under the lniniMry of Mr. Livingstone, about 1636, 
gave rise to the Monday sermon so common in Scotland 
after a communion service. 

Shoulder is the rendering mostly of CD-, shekem 
(as being the part Jew/ to receive a burden; but perhaps 
the word is rather primitive; occasionally “back,” etc.), 
and ihpog (Matt, xxiii, 4; Luke xv, 4) ; frequently of 
pvj, shuk (properly the let) [as sometimes rendered j, es- 
pecially the so-called right or “heave” shoulder [q. v.]. 
Exod. xx ix, 22, 27 ; Lev. vii, 32, 33, 34, etc.) ; and else- 
where of rrs, katheph, the shoulder properly so called, 
especially the “shoulder -pieces” (q.V.) of the high- 
priest's ephod (Exod. xxviii, xxxix); rarely of 2*i*T, 
zerda , the arm (Numb, vi, 19; Deut. xviii,3), or of some 
denominative phrase. 

Shoulder-blade (rrcz’p, shikmuh , fern, of CS'-T, 
the common word for shoulder; used only in Job xxxi, 
22, where it clearly means the socket or bone to which 
the arm is attached). 

Shoulder-piece (rr2, katheph , from an unused 
root, meaning [according to Ftirst] to bend or protect ; 
often rendered “side,” sometimes “arm”), a term spe- 
cially used (in the plur. fern. PtSIjS, kethephoth ) of the 
side-pieces on the upper part of the high-priest’s ephod 
(q.v.), which came up over the shoulder, where the front 
and back flaps were fastened by a golden stud (Exod. 
xxviii, 7, 25; xxxix, 4; simply “shoulders.” xxviii, 12; 
xxxix, 7; or “sides,” xxviii, 27; xxxix, 20); also of the 
arms of an axle (“ underset ters,” 1 Kings vii, 30, 34), and 
the wings or side-spaces of a porch or gate (“sides,” Kzek. 
xli, 2, 26). The term is frequently applied to that part 
of the body called the shoulder, but only of persons, either 
literally or liguratively ; or metaphorically to places or 
inanimate objects. According to (icsenius it differs from 
shekem , in specifically meaning the upper part of 
the side or arm, the shoulder proper; whereas the latter 
term denotes originally the shoulder-blade , and hence 
that part of the hack where these bones approach eaclt 
other. But Filrst thinks the two words arc altogether 
synonymous. Milhlau (new ed. of ( Jesenius’s Handwiir- 
terbuch , s. v.) remarks that signilies only the rear 

part of the shoulder where the neck joins the back, and 
hence occurs only in the sing. See Siikuiikm. 

Shovel is the rendering in the A.V.of— 1. rrn, ru- 
cJiath (from n^H, the wind), a winnowing fork or fan 
(Isa. xxx, 24); 2. -'",//« (from i"l2N to sweep away), 
used (in the plur.) of i he implements for removing the 
allies from the altar (Exod. xxvii. 3; xxxviii. 3; Numb, 
iv, 14; 1 Kings vii, 40, 45; 2 Kings xxv, 14; 2 Chron. 
iv, 11, 16; Jer. lii, 18), See Auuum i.ti rk; Altaic. 

Showalter, Wehlky M., a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, was horn in Clearfield County, 
Fa., Feb. 21, 1831. When ten years of age he was con- 


verted, and entered the ministry in 1855 as a member of 
the East Baltimore Conference. His last appointment 
was Bedford, which he was obliged, by reason of failing 
health, to relinquish in the fall of 1865. He removed 
to Salona, Clinton Co., Fa., where he died, Nov. 27, 1865. 
As a preacher he was discriminating, candid, and direct. 
See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1866, p. 10. 

Sliowbread is the rendering in the A.V.of the 
Heb. phrase 2T15, lechem hap-pumm, lit. bread 

of the face, i. e. of Jehovah (this is the usual form); or 
(in the later books) 2H \, lechem ham-muare- 

keth , bread of the ordering (1 Chron. ix, 32; xxiii, 29; 
2 Chron. xiii, 11 ; Neh. x,33), or simply the latter word 
(1 Chron. xxviii, 16; 2 Chron. ii, 4; xxix, 18); also 
2nb, lechem hat -tumid, the continual bread 
(Numb. iv. 7), and tlHp Cnb, lechem kodesh . holy bread 
(1 Sam. xxi, 5). Onkelos sometimes paraphrases it 
2SN 2nb, bread of the nostrils . The Sept, has lit. 
iipTOi trw 7noi or dproi rov 7rpo<jio7rov, sometimes tip - 
rot rtjg Trpotupopdg (1 Kings vii, 48), or dproi rr t g 
7rpo5tOHog (1 Chron. ix, 32, etc.), as in the New Test. 
(Matt. xii,4; Luke vi, 4); hut i) 7rpo$t(rtg riov dpriov 
in Heb. ix, 2; Josephus directly dproi rou S’fou {Ant. 
viii, 3, 7) ; the Vulg. panes propositioms. (In the fol- 
lowing account we make use, in part, of the statements 
in the dictionaries of Smith and Fairbairn.) 

1. The Table and its A ccessoiies . — Within the ark it 
was directed that there should be a table of shittini 
wood, i.e. acacia, two cubits in length, a cubit in breadth, 
and a cubit and a half in height, overlaid with pure 
gold, and having “a golden crown to the border there- 
of round about,” i.e. a border or list, in order, as we may 
suppose, to hinder that which was placed on it from by 
any accident falling off. The further description of 
this table will be found in Exod. xxv, 23-30, and a rep- 
resentation of it as it existed in the Herod ian Temple 
forms an interesting feature in the bas-reliefs within 
the arch of Titus. The accuracy of this may, as is 
obvious, be trusted. It exhibits one striking corre- 
spondence with the prescriptions in Exodus. We there 
And the following words: “and thou shalt make unto 
it a border of a handbreadth round about.” In the 
sculpture of the arch the hand of one of the slaves who 
is carrying the table, and the border, are of about equal 
breadth. This table is itself called fSEH ",n52‘, “the 
table of the face,” in Numb, iv, 7, and 
“the pure table,” in Lev. xxiv, 6 and 2 Chron. xiii, 11. 
This latter epithet is generally referred by commenta- 
tors to the unalloyed gold with which so much of it 
was covered. It may, however, mean somewhat more 
than this, and bear something of the spiritual force 
which it has in Malaehi i, 1 1. 

It was thought by 1‘hilo and Clement of Alexandria 
that the table was a symbol of the world, its four sides 
or logs typifying the four seasons. In the utter ab- 



Tablc of Showbread. (From the Arch of Titus at Rome). 


SHOW BREAD 


711 


SIIOWBREAD 


senee of any argument in their support, we may feel 
warranted in neglecting such fanciful conjectures, with- 
out calling in the aid of Bahr’s arguments against them. 

In 2 Chron. iv, 19 we have mention of “the tables 
whereon the showbread was set,” and at ver. 8 we read 
of Solomon making ten tables. This is probably ex- 
plained by the statement of Josephus {A fit. viii, 3, 7), 
that the king made a number of tables, and one great 
golden one on which they placed the loaves of God. 
See Temple. 

The table of the second Temple was carried away by 
Antiochus Eptphanes (1 Macc. i, 22), and a new one 
made at the refurnishing of the sanctuary under Judas 
Maccabteus (iv, 49). Afterwards Ptolemy Philadelphus 
presented a magniticent table (Josephus, Ant. xii,2,8,9). 

The table stood in the sanctuary, together with the 
seven-branched candlestick and the altar of incense. Its 
position, according to Josephus (Aw/, iii, 6, G), was on 
the north side of the sanctuary,’ not. far from the veil 
that opened into the most holy. Besides the twelve 
loaves, the showbread table was adorned with dishes, 
spoons, bowls, etc., which were of pure gold (Exod. xxv, 
29). These, however, were evidently subsidiary to the 
loaves, the preparation, presentation, and subsequent 
treatment of which manifestly constituted the ordinance 
of the showbread. See Table. 

II. The Bread and its Significance. — Whether the 
bread was to be leavened or unleavened is not said. 
The Jewish tradition holds it to have been unleavened 
(Josephus, Ant. iii, 6, 6; 10, 7 ; Philo, He Congr. v, 1); 
and as Josephus and Philo could scarcely be ignorant 
of what on such a matter was customary in their time, 
it is not to be doubted that, according to the later 
practice at least, the bread was unleavened, affording 
ground for the inference that the same was the case 
also in earlier times. The cakes or loaves were to be 
placed in two rows; but whether each apart, six in a 
line, or piled up one above another, is not indicated. 
The Jewish tradition, however, is quite uniform ; it 
represents them as ranged in two columns, six in each. 
Two reasons seem to confirm this view : first, the di- 
mensions of the table, coupled with the quantity of 
flour in each eake, which must have rendered it next 
to impossible to have two parallel lines of six loaves 
placed on it; and, second, the regulation concerning the 
frankincense (the Sept, and Philo add salt ) which re- 
quired this to be set, not on each cake as standing in- 
dividually apart, but upon each row, as if forming a 
visible unity (Lev. xxiv, 7). The frankincense was to 
be “on the bread for a memorial, an offering made by 
fire unto the Lord;” the two golden pots containing it 
being, according to Josephus (Aw/, iii, JO, 7), taken out 
along with the bread, and the frankincense burned on 
the altar of burnt-offering before the bread was given 
to the priests to be eaten. On each Sabbath this took 
place; twelve new loaves which had been prepared the 
evening before by a portion of the Levites (1 Chron. 
is, 32) being made every returning Sabbath to replace 
the old, and fresh frankincense put in the golden ves- 
sels in the room of that which had been burned (Lev. 
xxiv, 8, 9). 

The number of the loaves (twelve) is considered by 
Philo and Josephus to represent the twelve months. 
If there was such a reference, it must surely have been 
quite subordinate to that which is obvious at once. 
The twelve loaves plainly answer to the twelve tribes 
(comp. Rev. xxii, 2). But, taking this for granted, we 
have still to ascertain the meaning of the rite, and there 
is none which is left in Scripture so wholly unexplained. 
Though it is mentioned, as we have seen, in other parts 
of the Old Test, besides the Pentateuch, it is never 
more than mentioned. The narrative of David and 
his companions being permitted to eat the showbread 
(l Sam. xxi,4-G) does but illustrate the sanctity which 
was ascribed to it ; and besides our Saviour’s appeal to 
that narrative (Matt, xii, 4), the ordinance is only once 
referred to in the New Test. (Heb. ix, 2), and there it is 


merely named among the other appurtenances of the 
first sanctuary. But although unexplained, it is re- 
ferred to as one of the leading and most solemn ap- 
pointments of the sanctuary. For example, the appeal 
of Abijam to the revolted tribes (2 Chron. xiii, 10, 11) 
runs thus, “ But as for us, the Lord is our God, and we 
have not forsaken him ; and the priests, which minister 
unto the Lord, are the sons of Aaron, and the Levites 
wait upon their business; and they burn unto the Lord 
every morning and every evening burnt-sacrifices and 
sweet incense; the showbread also set they in order 
upon the pure table,” etc. In this absence of explana- 
tion of that which is yet regarded as so solemn, we 
have but to seek whether the names bestowed on, and 
the rites connected with, the showbread will lead us to 
some apprehension of its meaning. 

The first name we find given it is obviously the 
dominant one, m2E Enb, “ bread of the face, or faces.” 
This is explained by some of the rabbins, even by Mai- 
tnonides, as referring to the four sides of each loaf. It 
is difficult to believe that the title was given on a 
ground which in no way distinguished them from oth- 
er loaves. Besides, it is applied in Numb, iv, 7, simply 
to the table, ’jnVj, not, as in the English ver- 

sion, “ the table of showbread,” but the “ show table,” 
the “ table of the face, or faces.” We have used the 
words face an d faces; for 0^22, it need scarcely be said, 
exists only in the plural, and is therefore applied equal- 
ly to the face of one person and of many. In connec- 
tion with this meaning, it continually bears the sec- 
ondary one of presence. It would be superfluous to cite 
any of the countless passages in which it does so. But 
whose face or presence is denoted? That of the peo- 
ple? The rite of the showbread, according to some, 
was performed in acknowledgment of God’s being the 
giver of all our bread and sustenance, and the loaves 
lay always on the table as a memorial and monitor of 
this. But against this, besides other reasons, there is 
the powerful objection that the showbread was unseen 
by the people; it lay in the sanctuary, and was eaten 
there by the priests alone. Thus the first condition of 
symbolic instruction was wanting to the rite, had this 
been its meaning. 

The E*2E, therefore, or presence, is that not of the 
people, but of God. The aproi irtomoi and the dp- 
toi T)\q 7rpo<7<popdg of the Sept, seem to indicate as 
much, to say nothing of I Sam. xxi, G, where the 
words mm ^Eb'a nmo 1EH m2EH "b seem deci- 
sive of the whole question. But in what sense? Spen- 
cer and others consider it bread offered to God, as was 
the Mincbah, a symbolical meal for God somewhat an- 
swering to a heathen Lectisterninm. But it is not easy 
to find this meaning in the recorded appointments. The 
incense is, no doubt, to be burned on the appointed altar, 
but the bread, on the Sabbath following that of its pres- 
entation, is to be eaten in the holy place by the priests. 
There remains, then, the view which has been brought 
out with such singular force and beauty bv Biihr — a 
view broad and clear in itself, and not disturbed by 
those fanciful theories of numbers which tend to abate 
confidence in some parts of bis admirable Symbolik. He 
remarks, and justly, that the phrase m2E is applied 
solely to the table and the bread, not to the other fur- 
niture of the sanctuary, the altar of incense, or the gold- 
en candlestick. There is something, therefore, peculiar 
to the former which is denoted by the title. Taking 
2*2 EH as equivalent to the presence {of God subaud.), 
be views the application of it to the table and t lie bread 
as analogous to its application to tlte angel, m2 E “JNb*2 
(Isa. lxiii, 9, compared with Exod. xxxiii, 14, 15; Dour, 
iv, 37). Of the angel of God’s presence it is said that 
God’s “name is in him” (Exod. xxiii, 20). The pres- 
ence and the name may therefore be taken as equiva* 


SIIOWEI 


12 


SIIRIVIN G-HAND 


lent. Doth, in reference to their context, indicate the 
manifestation of God to his creatures. “The name of 
God,” he remarks, ‘*is himself, but that, in so far as he 
reveals himself, the face is that wherein the being of a 
man proclaims itself, and makes known its individual 
personality. Hence, as name stands for he or himself, 
so face for person: to see the lace, for to see the per- 
son. The ‘bread of the face’ is, therefore, that bread 
through which God is seen ; that is, with the participa- 
tion of which the seeing of God is bound up, or through 
the participation of which man attains the sight of 
God. Hence it follows that we have not to think of 
bread merely as such, as the means of nourishing the 
bodily life, but as spiritual food, as a means of appro- 
priating and retaining that life which consists in see- 
ing the face of God. Bread is therefore here a symbol, 
and stands, as it generally does in all languages, both 
for life and life’s nourishment; but by being entitled 
the breocl of the face , it becomes a symbol of a life 
higher than the physical. It is, since it lies on the 
table placed in the symbolic heaven, heavenly bread. 
They who eat of it and satisfy themselves with it sec 
the face of God” (Bahr, Symbolik, bk. i, ch. vi, § 2). It 
is to be remembered that the showbread was “taken 
from the children of Israel by an everlasting covenant” 
(Lev. xxiv, 8), and may therefore be well expected to 
bear the most solemn meaning. Biihr proceeds to show 
very beautifully the connection in Scripture between 
seeing God and being nourished by God, and points, as 
the coping-stone of his argument, to Christ being at 
once the perfect image of God and the bread of life. 
'Phe references to a table prepared for the righteous 
man, such as Psa. xxiii, 5; Luke xxii, 30, should also 
be considered. See Bread. 

Shower is the rendering in the A. V. of EpS, 0^~ 
shem (Ezek. xiii, 11, 13; xxxiv, 26), a heavy rain (as 
elsewhere rendered); bpfipog (Luke xii, 54); D^T, ze- 
rem (Job xxiv, 8), a pouring rain (elsewhere “storm,” 
“ tempest,” etc.); and rebibim (from their mul- 

titude), drops (Dent, xxxii, 2; Psa. Ixv, 10; Ixxii, 7; 
Jer. iii, 3; xiv, 2; Mic. v, 7). See Kain. 

Shower, Jonx, an eminent Dissenting minister, 
was born at Exeter, England, in 1657, and received his 
early education at that place. At the age of fourteen 
he removed to the academy of Mr. Warren, at Taunton, 
and some time after was placed under the care of Mr. 
Morton, Newington-green, London. lie preached his 
first sermon in his twentieth year; and in 1678, when an 
evening lecture against popery was established in Ex- 
change Alley, he was one of the lecturers. In the fol- 
lowing year he was privately ordained, and chosen as- 
sistant to Mr. Vincent Alsop. In 1683 he travelled on 
the Continent with Mr. Cornish, the nephew of Sir Sam- 
uel Barnardiston, where lie became acquainted with 
many Protestant divines. Returning to England, he 
resumed his lectures in Exchange Alley, but, owing to 
measures pursued by James II, he retired to Holland, 
where he was chosen evening lecturer to the English 
Church. Returning to London in 161)0, lie labored with 
Mr. Howe, but soon took charge of a Church in Old 
Jewry, which, under his labors, greatly prospered. He 
died June 28, 1715. lie published, Mounter's Com - 
pattion ( 1 602, 1 600, 12mo): — Family Iteliyion (Loud. 1691, 
8vo) : — Funeral Discourses (1699, 2 vols. 12mo): — Seri- 
ous Defections on Time and Identity (1699, 8vo), of 
which there are many editions : — Heaven and //cY/(17O0, 
12mo): — Sacramental Discourses (1702, 8vo) : — U Va/er 
Meditations (1709, 8vo). See Tong [Wm.], Memoirs 
ami Funeral Sermon (1716, 8vo); Bennett, II ist. of Dis- 
senters (Lend. 1833), ii, 331. 

Shreeve, Richard S., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was born in Alexandria Coun- 
ty, Va., Oct. 5, 1839. JIc was graduated at Dickinson 
College, Carlisle, Pa., in 1860. lie entered the Confed- 
erate army, serving from the beginning of the war till 


its close. In March, 1869, he was admitted into the 
Baltimore Conference. In 1871 he located, with the 
intention of residing in Kentucky, but was induced to 
remain, and the next year was readmitted, lie, with 
his wife, was killed by lightning at the parsonage of 
Upper Botetourt, Va., June 25, 1874. See Minutes of 
A nnual Conferences of (he M. E . Ch., South, 1875, p. 137. 

Shri Rama. See Visiixu. 

Shrift, the act of absolving a penitent. See Con- 
fess iox A L. 

Shrift-father, the priest to whom confession is 
made. 

Slirift-hand, the priest’s right hand — that is, the 
hand used in shriving a penitent. 

Shrift-mark. See Shrift- sign. 

Shrift-sign, the sign of the cross used by the priest 
in shriving a penitent. 

Shrine (race. Acts xix, 24, a temple, as elsewhere 
rendered), a miniature copy of the Temple of Diana at 
Ephesus containing a small image of the goddess. Sec 
Diana. 

SHRINE (Lat. scrimvm), a feretory or repository 
for relics, whether fixed, such as a tomb, or movable. 
The term is also sometimes applied to the tomb of a 
person not canonized. Shrines were often made of 
the most splendid and costly materials, and enriched 
with jewelry in profusion, as that of St. Taurin at Ev- 
reux, in Normandy. Those which wore movable were, 
on certain occasions, carried in religions processions: 
they were arranged above and behind the altar, on 
rood or other beams, and lamps were suspended before 
or around them. Others were substantial erections, 
generally the tombs of saints, as that of Edward the 
Confessor in Westminster Abbey, and that of St. Cuth- 
bert, formerly in Durham Cathedral, etc. These were 
not (infrequently rebuilt (with additional splendor) 
subsequently to their first erection. — Parker, G loss, of 
A rchiteeture. 



Shrine at Ely Cathedral. 


Shrine-clerk, or Shrine-keeper, is the official 
in a church who receives the voluntary oblations of the 
faithful. At the great and most noted shrines of saints 
the shrine-clerk sat at a table near, or sometimes at, a 
tomb, the slab of which served as such, to accept the 
donations of the pilgrims. 

Slirine-cloth, the curtain hanging before a shrine; 
sometimes called shrine-veil. 

Shrine-keeper. Sec Shrine-clerk. 

Shrine-man, a name by which the shrine-clerk was 
sometimes called. 

Shrine-veil. See Shrine-cloth. 

Shrive (Saxon, serif in'). 1. To absolve a penitent 

after private confession. 2. To take or receive a con- 
fession. 3. To enjoin or impose a penance after con- 
fession. The word is now nearly obsolete, 

Shriver, or Shriving-clerk, a confessor. 

Shriving-haud, that hand by which the sign of 


SH1UVING-MAKK 


713 


SIIUAL 


the cross is made by the priest over the penitent in pro- 
nouncing absolution, i.e. the right hand. Also called 
Shrift-hand anti Shrove -hand . 

Shriving Mark or Sign, the sign of the cross 
made by the priest with his right hand when giving 
absolution. Also called Shrift-mark and Sh rove-sign. 

Shriving-pew, a term sometimes applied to the 
confessional (q. v.). 



Ancient Shriving-pew atTaufield, near Ripon, Yorkshire. 

Shroud is the rendering of the A. V. in Ezek. xxxi, 
3, of 'inn, choresh , a thicket (“forest,” 2 Chron. xxvii, 
4; “bough,” Isa. xvii, 9; elsewhere “ wood”). 

SHROUD, Feast of the Most Holy, a sacred fes- 
tival of the Roman Catholic Church, held on the Friday 
after the second Sunday in Lent, in honor of the shroud 
in which our Lord was buried. Relics bearing the name 
of the shroud of our Blessed Lord are found in various 
1 daces in Italy, France, and Germany, all of which are 
alleged to work miracles. To the altar of the Most 
Holy Shroud at Besan^on, Gregory XIII granted ex- 
traordinary privileges, with indulgences to all who visit 
the same on stated days. Pope Julius II was equally 
liberal in his grants to the Chapel of the Most Holy 
Shroud at Turin. There is a hymn to the shroud in the 
Anglican Breviary, which celebrates it as bearing the 
impression of the body of our Saviour. — Gardner, Faiths 
of the World , s. v. 

Shrouds, The, a term for a covered walk or cloister 
in the old Cathedral of St. Paul. London. 

Shrove, to, means to join in the festivities of 
Shrovetide. 

Shrove-box. See Shriving-pew. 

Shrove-hand. See Shrift-hang. 

Shrove-sign. See Shrift-sign. 

Shrovetide literally means “confession time,” and 
is the name given to the days immediately preced- 
ing Ash -Wednesday. These days were so called be- 
cause on them, and especially on the last of them, people 
were accustomed to confess their sins as a prepara- 
tion for Lent. In most Roman Catholic countries it be- 
gan on the Sunday before Lent. In the modern disci- 
pline of that Church a trace of the custom is still pre- 
served, as in many countries the time of the confession 
which precedes the Paschal, or Easter, communion com- 
mences from Shrovetide. These days are sometimes 


called “ Fastingtide” and “Fast -mass,” names still re- 
tained in some parts of Great Britain. The precept of 
shriving having been fultilled, the faithful, on the eve 
of entering upon Lent, were allowed permission to give 
themselves up to amusements. In England, the pas- 
times of foot-ball, cock-lighting, bull-baiting, etc., were 
down to a late period recognised usages of Shrove- 
tide, but are now gradually disappearing. — Chambers's 
Encgclop. s. v. 

Shrove-Tuesday, the day before Asli-Wednesday, 
so called from the custom among the Roman Catholics of 
confessing their sins on that day, and so qualifying them- 
selves for Lent. In process of time this was turned into 
taking leave of flesh and other dainties, and afterwards, 
bv degrees, into sports and merrymaking. In old Scot- 
land it was called Fastern's-ere, probably the eve of the 
great fast. In England it received the name of “Pan- 
cak e-Tuesday,” from the fritters and pancakes eaten on 
that day. 

Shroving, the festivity of Shrovetide . 

Shrub (tt“>b, siuch; Gen. xxi, 15, a bush, as ren- 
dered in Job xxx, 4, 7 ; “ plant” in Gen. ii, 5). 

Shryving-cloth. Some antiquaries hold that this 
was the veil which was hung before the rood-loft in 
Lent. Others believe it to have been a head -veil as- 
sumed by women when they went to confession in 
church; for as confessionals probably did not generally 
exist in the ancient Church of England, a “shryving- 
cloth” may have been found convenient in protecting 
the penitent from the public gaze. The latter explana- 
tion seems at least reasonable and probable. — Lee, Glos- 
sary of Liturgical Terms , s. v. 

Shu'a, the name of a Hebrew and a Hebrewess, 
which appears in different forms in the original. 

1. (Heb. Shu'a , SVr, wealth , or a cry lor help, or an 
oath ; Sept. Sana or Sana v. r. SouL) A Canannite of 
Adullam, whose daughter (hence named only as Bath- 
shua in the original) was Judah’s wife, and the mother 

i of his first three children (Gen. xxxviii, 2, 12 [in both 
passages the A. V. has incorrectly “Shuah”]; 1 Chron. 

i, 32). B.C. ante 1895. 

2. (Heb. Slum', id. ; Sept. 2wXd.) Daughter 

of Ileber, a grandson of Asher, whose three sons are 
likewise enumerated (1 Chron. vii, 32). B.C. post 1874. 

Shu'ah, the name of three Hebrews, which appears 
in different forms in the original. 

1. (Heb. Shu'ach, HT3, a pit; Sept. Zioe v. r. Stod 
and Stove.) Last named of t he six sons of Abraham by 
Keturah (Gen. xxv, 2; 1 Chron. i, 32). B.C. ante 1988. 
See Siiuciute. 

2. The father of Judah’s Canaanitish wife (1 Chron. 

ii, 3). See Shua. 

3. (Heb. Shuck ah', Sinvr, a pit, Sept. ’Ao-yd.) A 
brother (some MSS. have son ) of Chelnb among the de- 
scendants of Judah (1 Chron. iv, 11). B.C. prob. ante 
1612. 

Shual. See Fox. 

Shu'al (Heb. Shual', a jackal; Sept, in 

Chron. SovdX v. r. SouXd and SovVa-; in Kings, 
SiuydX), the name of a man and of a region. 

1. Third named of the eleven “sons” of Zophah, de- 
scendants of Asher (1 Chron, vii, 36). B.C. post 1612. 

2. A district (“land of Shual”) named only in 1 Sam. 
xiii, 17, to denote the direction taken by one of the three 
parties of marauders who issued from the Philistine 
camp at Michmash. Its connection with Ophrali (proh- 
ably Taiyibeh) and the direction of the two other routes 
named in the passage make it pretty certain that the 
region in question lay north of Michmash. If, there- 
fore, it be identical with the “land of Shalim” (1 Sam. 
ix, 4) — as is not impossible— we obtain the first and only 
clue yet obtained to Saul’s journey is quest of the asses. 
The name Shual has not yet been identified in the 


SIIUBAEL 


714 


SIIUX EM 


neighborhood (*f Taivibeh or elsewhere. It may have 
originated in t lie Hebrew signification of the word 
(“jackal"), in which case itwould be appropriate enough 
to the wild desolate region east of Taivibeh — a region 
containing a valley or ravine at no great distance from 
Taivibeh which bore, and perhaps still bears, the name 
of “ llyamas.” See Zeiioim, Valley of. Others (as 
Thenius. in Exey. llandb.) derive the name from a dif- 
ferent root, and interpret it as “hollow land.” — Smith. 

Shu'bael ( lleb. Shubu'eV, bxrrr, i. q. Shebuel; 
Sept. £01 •f5tn)\ v. r. Nu»/3fii)X, etc.), the name of two Le- 
vites, both elsewhere called Sheruel (q. v.), namely, ( a ) 
a son of Gershom (1 Chron. xxiv, *20; comp, xxiii, Id; 
xxvi, 24); and (6) a son of Ilcman (1 Chron. xxv, 20; 
comp. ver. 4). 

Shuck, John Lewis, a minister of the Baptist de- 
nomination, was born in Alexandria, D. C., Sept. 4, 1812. 
Having received an appoimment as a missionary of the 
Baptist General Convention to labor among t fie Chi- 
nese. he reached the field of his labors — Macao — Sept. 
17, 1 830. where he reninined until XI arch Id, 1842. when 
he removed to llong-Kong, and afterwards to Canton. 
Mr. Shuck returned to the United States in 1845, the 
year in which the separation took place between North- 
ern and Southern Baptists. He was honorably dis- 
missed from the Missionary Union, the name by which 
the Northern organization was known, and in 184G be- 
came a missionary of the Southern Baptist Convention. 
By this society he was sent to labor among the Chinese 
of California. Having spent several years in this work, 
he returned East, and died at Barnwell Court-house, 
S. C., in October, 18C3. (J. C. S.) 

Shuckford, Samuel, a learned English divine, the 
time and place of whose birth are unknown. He was 
educated at Caius College, Cambridge, graduating in 
171G. He became successively curate of Shelton, J 
Norfolk, prebendary of Canterbury (1738), and rector 
of All -hallows, London. He died in 1754. lie pub- 
lished a few occasional Sermons (Camb. 1723, 4to ; 1724, 
4to; 1734, 4 to, and later); but he is principally known 
for bis History of the World. Sacred and Profane 
(Lorn!. 1743, 4 vols. 8vo, and often since), intended to 
serve as an introduction to Prideaux’s Connection , but 
be only lived to bring it down to the time of Joshua. 
See Alii hone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. Authors, s. v. ; 
Hook, Bevies. Jiiog. s. v. 

Shu 'ham (Heb .Shucham' , perhapspit-digger 

[Gesen.], or humility [Elirst] ; Sept. v. r. No/mth); 
Yulg. Sitham ), the son of Dan, and progenitor of a fam- 
ily named after himself (Numb, xxvi, 42); elsewhere 
(Gen. xli, 23) called llusuui (q.v.). 

Shu'hamite (lleb. with the art. hush-Shvchanri\ 
patronymic from 
v. r. No/xfiO/), the descendants (numbering 44GO at the 
Eisode) of Sliubam (q. v.) the sou of Dan (Numb, xxvi, 
42,43). 

Shu'hite (lleb. with the art. hash-Shnchi ', 
patronymic from Shttalt ; Sept. <> v. r. 

NV/uym/e, etc.), an ethnic appellative frequent in the 
book of Job (ii, 11; viii, 1; xviii, 1 ; xxv, 1 ; xlii, 9), 
but only ns l he epithet of one person, Bildnd (q. v.). 
The local indications of the hook of Job point to a re- ! 
giou on the western side of Chnldira. bordering on Ara- 
bia; and exactly in this locality, above Hit and on both 
sides of the Euphrates, are found, in the Assyrian in- 
scriptions, the Tsukhi, a powerful people. It is proba- 
ble that these were the Shnhitcs, and that, having been 
conquered by the Babylonian kings, they were counted 
by Ezekiel among the tribes of the Clialdiunus. Having 
lost their independence, they censed to he noticed; but 
it was no doubt from them that the country on t lie ■ 
Euphrates immediately above Babylonia came to be 
designated as Sofnne, a term applied to it in the Poutin- 
gerian Tables. The Shnhitcs appear to have been de- 


scendants of Abraham by Keturab (Gen. xxv, 2; 1 
Chron. i, 32).- — Smith. Others, however, think that 
Saccmt (Natcxm'a), which Ptolemy (v, 14) places east- 
ward of Batantea, is more probably their representative. 
See A Raima. 

Shukra, in Hindi! mythology, is the planet Venus, 
or the genius who governs and possesses it — a grandson 
of Brahaspadi, the planet Jupiter, and father of the beau- 
tiful Dewajani and a powerful Brahmin. 

Shu'lamite (fleli. with the art. hush-Shulammith * , 
i. e. the Shulammitess ; Sept, j) 'ZovXayint; 
v. r. Xovfiavetrtc, etc.; Yulg. Sulamitis and Suna mitts'), 
one of the personages in t lie poem of Solomon’s Song, 
who, although named only in one passage (vi, 13), is, 
according to most interpreters, the most prominent of 
all the characters, being no other than the bride her- 
self. The name — after the analogy of Shimammite — * 
denotes a woman belonging to a place called Shnleiu. 
The only place bearing that name of which we have 
any knowledge is Shunem itself, which, as far back as 
the 4th century, was so called (Euseb. Onomast. s. v.). 
On the theory that Shularnmite and Shimammite are 
equivalent, some have supposed that the female in ques- 
tion who was the object of Solomon’s passion was Abi- 
ding — the most lovely girl of her day. and at the time 
of David’s death one of the most prominent persons at 
the court of Jerusalem. This would be equally appro- 
priate whether Solomon were himself the author of the 
Song or it were written by another person whose object 
was to personate him accurately. — Smith. See Solo- 
mon. But this is abhorrent to the whole tenor of the 
Canticles, and is opposed to the Oriental usage with re- 
gard to the harem of a deceased king. See Akisiiao. 
It is far more reasonable to suppose that the title the 
Shulammitess was a poetical term applied to the bride 
in imitation of Solomon's name, as they are thus but 
masculine and feminine forms for “ peaceful.” See Can- 
ticles. 

Shulchan Aruk. See Karo, Joseph. 

Shultz, Thomas, a Methodist Episcopal minister; 
was born in Hamburg, Germany, July 11, 1821. He 
came to New York with bis parents in 1834, was licensed 
to preach in 1845. and employed to commence a mis- 
sion at Bloomington, la. In 184G he was admitted on 
trial in the Illinois Conference, and appointed to the 
Galena mission; in 1847 to the Beardstown mission; 
and in 1848 to Burlington, where he died March 20, 
1848. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , iv, 285. 

Shum. See Gahlh k. 

Shumah. See Siiumatiiite. 

Shu'mathite (lleb. collective with the art. hash- 
a gentile or patronymic; Sept, 
Yulg. Semathei), one of the four families 
who sprang from Kirjaih-jearim (1 Chron. ii, 53); so 
called either as being colonists of a village named 
j Shumah (I yarlic [Gesen.], or valuation [Fiirst]), 
somewhere in that neighborhood, or as descendants 
from a man of that name; but in neither case is there 
any other trace of the origin or location. 

Shu'nammite (lleb. with the art. hush-Slmnam- 
with', [in 1 Kings ii, 22, the shorter form 

w**n ], the Shunavunitess ; Sept, t) yhofiavelrig v. r. 
Nou/irtpirtc), a native of Siiunkm, as is plain from 2 
Kings iv, I. It is applied to two persons — Abishag, the 
nurse of king David (1 Kings i, 3, 15; ii, 17,21, 22), and 
the nameless hostess of Elisha (2 Kings iv, 12, 25, 3G). 
See Woodward, Lectures on the Shuuannnite (Lond. 1840). 
The modern representative of Shunem being Solam , 
some have suggested (as Gesen ins, Thesaur. p. 1379 b), or 
positively atlirmod (as Fiirst, Uandwb. ii,422), that Shu- 
iiainmite is identical with Shularnmite (Cant, vi, 13). 
But this lacks probability. 

Shu'nem (lleb. Shunem uneven jdued 


Simulatin ' , 
Shuham; Sept, o 2Cufif i Hit uyaSfiy 


SHUN I 


’715 


SHUR 


[Fiirst] from DDS5, or perhaps [Gesen.] for two 

resting -places ; Sept. Soi wap or 'S.ovvdv v. r. 2W«/< 
or 'SUopciv. etc.), one of the cities allotted to the tribe of 
Issaehar (Josh, xix, 18; where it occurs between Che- 
sulloth and llaphraim). It is mentioned on two occa- 
sions. First as the place of the Philistines’ tirst en- 
campment before the battle of Gilboa (I Sam. xxviii, 4). 
Here it occurs in conuec ion with Mount Gilboa and 
Eii-dor, and also, probably, with Jezrcel (xxix, l). Sec- 
ondly, as the scene of Elisha’s intercourse with the Shu- 
nammite woman and her son (2 Kings iv, 8). Here it 
is connected with adjacent corn-lields, and, more remote- 
ly, with Mount Carmel. It was, besides, the native 
place of Abishag. the attendant on king David (l Kings 
i, 3), and, according to some, of Shulamith, the heroine 
of the poem or drama of “ Solomon’s Song.” By Eu- 
sebius and Jerome (Onomast.) it is mentioned twice, 
under Soil fit'ip and “ Sunem,” as five miles south of 
Mount Tabor, and then known as Sulem (So i>\tjp)i and 
under “Sonam,” as a village in Acrabattine, in the ter- 
ritory of Sebaste called Sanim. The latter of these two 
identifications probably refers to Sanur, a well-known 
fortress some seven miles from Sebastiyeh and four from 
Arrabeh, a spot completely out of the circle of the asso- 
ciations which connect themselves with Shuncm. The 
other has more in its favor, since — except for the dis- 
tance from Mount Tabor, which is nearer eight Roman 
miles than five — it agrees with the position of the pres- 
ent Solum or Sulem, a village on the south-west flank 
of Jebel Duhv (the so-called “Little llermon”), three 
miles north of Jez reel, five from Gilboa (J.FuIuia), lull 
in view of the sacred spot on Mount Carmel, and situ- 
ated in the midst of the finest corn-fields in the world. 
It is named as Salem by the Jewish traveller Ilap-Par- 
chi (Asher, Benjamin , ii, 431). It had then its spring, 
without which the Philistines would certainly not have 
chosen it for their encampment. Now, according to the 
notice of Dr. Rohinson (. Researches , ii, 324), the spring 
of the village is but a poor one. The change of the » 
in the ancient name to l in the modern one is the re- 
verse of that which has taken place in Zerin (Jezrcel) 
and Beitin (Bethel). — Smith. There is nothing spe- 
cially to mark an ancient site in Sulem, for it is only a 
mud hamlet with cactus-bushes. West of the houses 
there is a beautiful garden, cool and shady, of lemon- 
trees, watered by a little rivulet ; and in the village are 
a fountain and trough (Cornier, Tent 1 1 T ork in Palestine , i, 
123). 

Shu'lii (Ileb. Shuni ', quiet [Gesen.], or for- 

tunate [Fiirst]; Sept. So vvt v. r. Smmt'), third named 
of the seven sons of Gad (Gen. xlvi, 16), and progenitor 
of a familv named after him (Numb, xxvi, 15). B.C. 
1874. 

Shu'nite (Heb. collectively with the art .hash-Shu- 
nV, ■'11'i‘n, patronymic from Shuni; Sept.o Sooi'et v. r. 
So/» i'; A. V. “the Shunites”), a designation of the pos- 
terity of Shuni (q. v.) the son of Gad (Numb, xxvi, 15). 

Sliunk, Michael, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born at Berlin, Somerset Co., Pa., 
about 1808, and converted at Mason town, Pa., in his 
twentieth year. He was received into the Illinois Con- 
ference in 1837, and was effective until 1870. From 
that time he was on the supernumerary and superannu- 
ated lists until his death, in Jacksonville, 111., Sept. 1, 
187G. “He was a scriptural, sensible, and practical 
preacher and a faithful pastor.” See Minutes of An- 
nual Conferences , 187G, p. 144. 

Shu'pham, or rather ShepiiuVham (Ileb. She- 
phupham ', DE-IE'*, probably for ’,E"E an adder; Sept. 
2uj<pdr v. r. ’() <pdp), a son of Benjamin, and head of a 
family of the same name (Numb, xxvi, 39j; doubtless 
the same elsewhere (1 Chron. viii, 5) called Shephu- 
phan (q. v.), etc. 

Shu'phamite (Ileb. collectively with the art. hash - 


ShuphamV , “DEV^n, patronymic from Shephupham ; 
Sept, u v. r. ’Ocpapi ; A. V. “ Shuphamitcs”), 

the designation (Numb, xxvi, 39) of the family of She- 
phupham (“A. V. Shuphau”), or Shephuphan, the son 
of Benjamin (1 Chron. viii, 5). See Siiuimmm. 

Shup'pim (Ileb. Shuppim', C3w\ or [1 Chron. vii, 
15] D^sr, prob. serpents [Gesen.], or a contraction for 
Shephupham ; Sept. Ert7r<piV, v. r. I’a^fi/i, Ma/f0tir, 
etc.), the name of two persons. 

1. In 1 Chron. vii, 12, “Shuppim and lluppim, the 
children of Ir,” are reckoned among the posterity of 
Benjamin. B.C. 1856. Ir is, by some, thought to be 
the same as Iri the son of Bela the son of Benjamin, 
and in that case Shuppim would be the great-grandson 
of Benjamin. In Numb, xxvi, 39 he and his brother 
are called Shnpham and Hupham, while in 1 Chron. viii, 
5 they appear as Shephuphan and Iluram, sons of Bela, 
and in Gen. xlvi, 21 as Muppim and Huppim, sons of 
Benjamin. To avoid the difficulty of supposing that 
Benjamin had a great-grandson at the time he went 
down to Egypt, lord A. Hervev conjectures that Shup- 
pim, or Shephuphan, was a son of Benjamin, whose fam- 
ily was reckoned with that of Ir, or Iri. But this is ar- 
bitrary and unnecessary, as the date is that of Jacob’s 
death. As he is elsewhere (1 Chron. v. 15) similarly men- 
tioned as the brother of Huphan or Huppim, who was a 
son of Becher and grandson of Benjamin, he must have 
been such likewise. See Benjamin; Jacoij. 

2. A Levite of the family either of Kohath or Merari 
who, together with Hosah, had charge of the Temple- 
gate Shalleeheth, in accordance with an arrangement 
originally instituted by David (.1 Chron. xxvi, 16). 
B.C. 1013. 

Shur (Ileb. Shur, “Ti* ; Sept. Soup ; Vulg. Sur ), a 
place just without the eastern border of Egypt. Its 
name, if Hebrew or Arabic, signifies “ a wall and there 
can be little doubt that it is of Shemitic origin from the 
position of the place. The Sept, seems to have thus in- 
terpreted it, if we may judge from the obscure rendering 
of 1 Sam. xxvii, 8, where it must be remarked the ex- 
traordinary form VeXap^ovp is found. This word is evi- 
dently a transcription of the words rn^J . . . D51TD, 
the former, save the initial particle, not being translated. 
The Targums of Oukelos and Jonathan interpret Slinr 
by Chagara ($<“^n),and Josephus by Pelusium (JhjXov- 
o-mi' [An/, vi, 7, 3]) ; but the latter was called Sin by the 
Hebrews. 

Shur is first mentioned in the narrative of Ilagnr’s 
flight from Sarah. Abraham was then in southernmost 
Palestine, and when Hagar fled she was found by an 
angel “by the fountain in the way to Shur” (Gen. xvi, 
7). Probably she was endeavoring to return to Egypt, 
the country of her birth — she inav not have been a pure 
Egyptian — and had reached a well in the inland cara- 
van route. Abraham afterwards “dwelled between Ka- 
desh and Shur, and sojourned in Gerar” (xx, 1). From 
this it would seem either that. Shur lav in the territory 
of the Philistines of Gerar, or that this pastoral tribe 
wandered in a region extending from Kadesh to Shur. 
See Gerar. In neither case can we ascertain the posi- 
tion of Shur. The first clear indication of this occurs 
in the account of Ishmael’s posterity : “And they dwelt 
from Havilah unto Shur, that [is] before Egypt, as thou 
goest. towards Assyria” (xxv, 18). With this should l>e 
compared the mention of the extent of the AmaleUitish 
territory given in this passage. “And Saul smote the 
Amalekites from Havilah [until] thou eomest to Shur, 
that [is] over against Egypt” (1 Sam. xv, 7). It is also 
important to notice that the Geshurites, Gezrites, and 
Amalekites, whom David smote, are described as “from 
an ancient period the inhabitants of the land, as thou 
eomest to Shur, even unto the land of Egypt” (xxvii, 8 ). 
The Wilderness of Shur was entered by the Israelites 
after they had crossed the Red Sea (Exod. xv, 22. 23). 
It. was. also called the Wilderness of Etham (Numb. 


S 1 1 LTv I AS A WAR XEX 


7 1 G 


SHUSH AX 


xxxiii, 8). The first passage presents one difficulty, 
upon which the Sept, and Yulg. throw no light, in the 
mention of Assyria. If, however, we compare it with 
later places, we find fP.VA’X riZXZ here remarkably 
like m*rj in 1 Sam, xxvii, 8, and “lYIT TjN'Z in 

xv, 7, as if the same phrase had been originally found 
in the first as a gloss; but it may have been there trans- 
posed, and have originally followed the mention of Ilav- 
ilah. In the notices of the Amalekiti&h and Ishmael- 
itish region, in which the latter succeeded the former, 
there can be no question that a strip of Northern Arabia 
is intended, stretching from the Isthmus of Suez towards, 
and probably to, the Persian Gulf.- The name of the 
wilderness may perhaps indicate a somewhat southern 
position. Shur may thus have been a fortified town 
east of the ancient head of the Bed Sea, but in the hands 
of the Arabs, or at one time the Philistines, not of the 
Egyptians. Prom its being spoken of as a limit, it was 
probably the last Arabian town before entering Egypt. 
The hieroglyphic inscriptions have not been found to 
throw any light upon this question. The /Shorn or 
Shalu mentioned in them is an important country, per- 
haps Syria. — Smith. 

According to recent authorities the “Wilderness of 
Shur” is substantially identical with t lie modern desert 
el-Jfar , which extends between the lied Sea and the 
Mediterranean from Pelusium to the south-west borders 
of Palestine ( I lose mn idler, Alterth. iii, 241 sq.). It con- 
sists of white shifting sand (yet see Schubert, ii, 273), 
has very little signs of habitations, and is some seven 
days’ journey across. The simple word Shur evidently 
designates, in general, a high ridge running north and 
south in the form of a high wall, according to the mean- 
ing of the word before , i. e. on the east side of Egypt 
(Gen. xxv, IS; Exod. xv, 22). This can be no other 
than the high range to the east of Suez, the continua- 
tion of the great chain of Jebel et-Tih northward to- 
wards the Mediterranean, forming a sharp ridge or a high 
wall as seen from a distance east and west, and a grand 
barrier on the east side of Egypt and to the west of the 
great plain in the interior of the wilderness called Des- 
ert et-Tih. There is no other range whatever of the 
kind between Egypt and the interior of the wilderness 
(see Palmer. Desert of the Exodus, p. 44), This must 
lie. therefore, the Wilderness of Shur. It is called by 
the Egyptians, and those who live to the west of it, Je- 
bel er-Balnth. or the Mountain of liahah. lint (accord- 
ing to some travellers) by the Arabs of the interior of 
the wilderness, on the east side of the range, it is called 
Jebel es-Sitr, or the Mountain of Shur. 

Shuriasawarnen, in Hindu mythology, is a dev- 
otee now living, who is destined to become the ruler of 
the great age which shall follow upon the present, over 
which Yaivassada presides. In that age Yishnti will 
appear in his tenth Avatar. — Volhner, I Vorterb. d. My- 
thol. s. v. 

ShurtlefF, William, a Congregational minister of 
Portsmouth, N. IF., who died in 1717, aged about sixty, 
lie published a number of Sermons ami two or three 
religions pamphlets (1720-41). See Allibone, Diet. of 
Brit. otnl A mer. A uthors, s. v, 

Shurtliff, Asaimi, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, came from Canada while yet a young 
man, and settled in Easton, Washington Co., N. Y. 
There he united with the Church, ami was lor many 
years an active and useful local preacher. In 1853 he 
was received into the Troy Conference, and served as a 
travelling preacher for eleven years. In 1 HG I he took 
a supernumerary relation, in which, and that of a super- 
annuate, he continued until his death, in Easton, X. Y.. 
1'eb. 3, 1873. See Minutes of Annual Conferences, 1373, 

p. 08. 

Shushan. See Lily. 

Shu'slian (lleb. Shushan Sept. Soutrai' 
and i'oeffa; Yulg. Susa), or Susa, one of the most im- 


portant towns in the East, in which the kings of Per- 
sia had their winter residence (Dan. viii, 2; Neh. i, 1; 
Esth. i, 2, 5). It is said to have received its name from 
t he abundance of the lily {Shushan. or Shushdnah ) in its 
neighborhood (Atlien. xii. 513). (In the following ac- 
count we ehiefiv follow that found in Smith’s Diet, of 
the Bible*) 

I. History. — Susa was originally the capital of the 
country called in Scripture Elam, and by the classical 
writers sometimes Cissia (Kicrcmi), sometimes Snsis, or 
Susiana. See Elam. Its foundation is thought to 
date from a time anterior to Chedorlaomer, as the re- 
mains found cm the site have often a character of very 
high antiquity. The first distinct mention of the town 
that has been as yet found is in the inscriptions of 
Asshur-bani-pal, the son and successor of Esar-haddon, 
who states that he took the place, and exhibits a 
ground-plan of it upon his sculptures (Lavard, Xin. and 
Bab. p. 452,453). The date of this monument is about 
B.C. (ICO. We next find Susa in the possession of the 
Babylonians, to whom Elam had probably passed at 
the division of the Assyrian empire made bv Cvaxares 
and Nabopolassar. In the last year of Belshazzar (B.C. 
53G), Daniel, while still a Babylonian subject, is there 
on the king’s business, and “at Shushan in the palace” 
sees his famous vision of the ram and he-goat (Dan. 
viii, 2). The conquest of Babylon by Cyrus transferred 
Susa to the Persian dominion ; and it was not long be- 
fore the Acha?meuian princes determined to make it 
the capital of their whole empire and the chief place 
of their own residence. According to some writers 
(Xcnoph. Cyrop. viii, 6, 22 ; Strabo, xv, 3, 2), the change 
was made by Cyrus; according to others (Ctesias, Pers. 
Exc. 9; Ilerod. iii, 30, G5, 70), it had at any rate taken 
place before the death of Cambvses; blit, according to 
the evidence of the place itself and of the other Ach(e- 
menian monuments, it would seem most probable that 
the transfer was really the work of Darius llystaspis, 
who is found to have been (as Pliny says, //. X. vi, 27) 
the founder of the great palace there — the building so 
graphically described in the book of Esther (i, 5, G). 
The reasons which induced the change are tolerably 
apparent. After the conquest of Babylonia and Egypt, 
the western provinces of the empire had become by 
far the most important, and the court could no longer 
be conveniently fixed east of Zagros, either at Ecbatana 
(Hamadan) or at Pasargadie (Murgaub), which were 
cut off" from t lie Mesopotamian plain by the difficulty 
of the passes for fully one half of t he year. Not only 
were the passes difficult, but they were in the posses- 
sion of seini- independent tribes, who levied a toll on 
all passengers, even the Persian kings themselves (Stra- 
bo, xv, 3, 4). It was necessary to find a capital west 
of the mountains, and here Babylon and Susa present- 
ed themselves, each with its peculiar advantages. Da- 
rius probably preferred Susa, first, on account of its vi- 
cinity to Persia (ibid, xv, 3, 2); secondly, because it 
was cooler than Babylon, being nearer the mountain- 
chain ; and, thirdly, because of the excellence of the 
water there ( Geoyraph . Journ. ix, 70). Susa accord- 
ingly became the metropolis of Persia, and is recognised 
as such by .Esc hv 1 us (Pers. 1G, 124, etc.), Herodotus (v, 
25, 40, etc.), Ctesias (Pers. Exc. passim), Strabo (xv, 3, 
2), and almost all tfie best writers. The court must 
have resided there during the greater part of the year, 
only quitting it regularly for Ecbatana or Persepolis in 
the height of summer, and perhaps sometimes leaving 
it for Babylon in tiie depth of winter (see Kawlinson, 
Herod, iii, 25G). Susa retained its pre-eminence to the 
period of the Macedonian conquest, when Alexander 
found there above twelve millions sterling and n\\ the 
regalia of the Great King (Arrian, Exp. A lex. iii, Hi). 
After this it declined. The preference of Alexander 
for Babylon caused the neglect of Susa by his succes- 
sors, none of whom ever made it their capital city. We 
hear of it once only in their wars, when it falls into the 
power of Antigonus (B.C, 315), who obtains treasure 


SIIUSII AX 


717 


SHUSH AX 


there to the amount of three millions and a half ster- 
ling (Diod. Sic. xix, 48, 7). Nearly a century later 
(15.0. '221) Susa was attacked by Molo in his rebellion 
against Antiochus the Great, lie took the town, but 
failed in his attempt upon the citadel (Polyb. v, 48, 14). 
We hear of it again at the time of the Arabian con- 
quest of Persia, when it was bravely defended by Hor- 
muzan (Loftus, Chaldceu and Susiana, p. 344). 

II. Position, etc . — A good deal of uncertainty has ex- 
isted concerning the position of Susa, While most his- 
torians and comparative geographers (Kennel, Geog. of 
Herodotus; Kinneir, Mem. Pers. Empire; Porter [K.], 
Travels , ii, 4, 11 ; Hitter, Erdkunde A siens, ix, 294 ; Pic- 
torial Bible, on Dan. viii, 2) have inclined to identify 
it with the modern Sus, or Shush, which is in lat. 32° 
10', long. 48° 26' east from Greenwich, between the Sha- 
pur and the river of Dizful, there have not been want- 
ing some (Vincent, Commerce and Navig. of the An- 
cients ; Von Hammer, in Mem. of the Geog. Soc. of Pai'- 
is, ii, 320 sq., 333 sq.) to maintain the rival claims of 
Shuster, which is situated on the left bank of the Ku- 
ran, more than half a degree farther to the eastward. 
A third candidate for the honor has even been started, 
and it has been maintained with much learning and 
ingenuity that Susan, on the right bank of the same 
stream, fifty or sixty miles above Shuster, is, if not the 
Susa of the Greeks and Romans, at any rate the Shn- 
shan of Scripture ( Geogr . Journ. ix, 85). But a careful 
examination of these several spots has finally caused a 
general acquiescence in the belief that Sus alone is en- 
titled to the honor of representing at once the scriptu- 
ral Shush an and the Susa of the classical writers (see 
Loftus, Chaldaza and Susiana, p. 338; Smith, Diet, 
of Geog. s. v. ; Rawlinson, Herod, iii, 254). The 
difficulties caused by the seemingly confused accounts 
of the ancient writers, of whom some place Susa on the 
Choaspes (Herod, v, 49, 52; Strabo, xv, 3, 4; Q. Curt, 
v, 2), some on the Eulteus (Arrian, Exp. Al. vii, 7; 
Ptolem. vi, 3 ; Pliny, H. N. vi, 27), have been removed 
by a careful survey of the ground; and it thus ap- 
pears that the Choaspes (Kerkhah) originally bifur- 
cated at Pai Pul, twenty miles above Susa, the right 
arm keeping its present course, while the left flowed 
a little to the east of Sus, and, absorbing the Shapur 
about twelve miles below the ruins, flowed on some- 
what east of south and joined the Karun (Pasitigris) 
at Ahwaz. The left branch of the Choaspes was some- 
times called by that name, but more properly bore the 



Plan of the Ruins of Susa. 


appellation of Eukeus (Ulai of Daniel). Susa thus lay 
between the two streams of the Eukeus and the Sha- 
pur, the latter of which, being probably joined to the 
Eukeus by canals, was reckoned a part of it; and hence 
Plinv says that the Eukeus surrounded the citadel of 
Susa {loc. cit.). At the distance of a few miles cast ami 
west of the city were two other streams — the Coprates, 
or river of Dizful, and the right arm of the Choaspes 
(the modern Kerkhah). Thus the country about Susa 
was most abundantly watered ; and hence the luxuri- 
ance ami fertility remarked alike by ancient and mod- 
ern authors (Athen. xii, 513; Geograph. Journ. ix, 71). 
The Kerkhah water was, moreover, regarded as of pecul- 
iar excellence ; it was the only water drunk by the Great 
King, and was always carried with him on his journeys 
and foreign expeditions (llerod. i, 188; Plutarch, be 
Exil. ii, 601, D; Athen. Deipn. ii, 171, etc.). Even at 
the present day it is celebrated for its lightness and 
purity, and the natives prize it above that of almost all 
other streams (Geogr. J ourn. ix, 70, 89). 

On this site there are extensive ruins, stretching, per- 
haps, twelve miles from one extremity to the other, and 
consisting, like the other ruins of this region, of hillocks 
of earth and rubbish covered with broken pieces of brick 
and colored tile. At the foot of these mounds is the so- 
called Tomb of Daniel, a small building erected on the 
spot where the remains of that prophet are locally be- 
lieved to rest. It is apparently modern; yet nothing 
but the belief that this was the site of the prophet’s 
sepulchre could have led to its being built in the place 
where it stands (Malcolm, Hist, of Persia, i, 255, 256) ; 
ami it may be added that such identifications are of far 
more value in these parts, where occasion for them is 
rare, than among the crowded “ holy places” of Pales- 
tine. The city of Shns is now a gloomy wilderness in- 
fested by lions, hvenas. and other beasts of prev. 

III. General Description of the Ruins . — The ruins of 
Susa cover a space about 6000 feet long from east to 
west, by 4500 feet broad from north to south. The cir- 
cumference of the whole, exclusive of outlying and com- 
paratively insignificant mounds, is about three miles. 
According to Mr. Loftus, “the principal existing re- 
mains consist of four spacious artificial platforms dis- 
tinctly separate from each other. Of these the western 
mound is the smallest in superficial extent, but consid- 
erably the most lofty and important. ... Its highest 
point is 1 19 feet above the level of the Shaour (Shapur). 
In form it is an irregular obtuse-angled triangle, with 
its corners rounded off and 
its base facing nearly due 
east. It is apparently con- 
structed of earth, gravel, 
and sun-dried brick, sec- 
tions being exposed in nu- 
merous ravines produced 
by the rains of winter. The 
sides are so perpendicular 
as to be inaccessible to a 
horseman except at three 
places. The measurement 
round the summit is about 
2850 feet. In the centre is 
a deep, circular depression, 
probably a large court, sur- 
rounded by elevated piles of 
buildings, the fall of which 
has given the present con- 
figuration to the surface. 
Here and there arc exposed 
in the ravines traces of 
brick walls which show 
that the present elevation 
of the mound has been at- 
tained by much subsequent 
superposition” ( Chaldcea 
and Susiana, p. 343). Mr. 
Loftus regards this mound 


Scale of feet. 
q m iooQ 


it 

A 


r mm. 


mm- 



1. Ruins of Susa. 

2 . The high mound or citadel (?) 
3^ The palace. 

4. The great platform. 

5. Rains of the city. 


SIIUSIIAX 


18 


SIIUSHAN 


as indubitably the remains of the famous citadel (axpa 
or crKpoTroXig) <>f Susa so frequently mentioned by the 
ancient writers (Herod, iii, 68; Polyb. v, 48, 14; Strabo, 
xv, o. 2; Arrian, Exp. Al. iii. 16, etc.). ‘‘Separated 
from the citadel on the west by a channel or ravine, 
the bottom of which is on a level with the external 
desert, is the great central platform, covering upwards 
of sixty acres (No. 3 on the plan). The highest point 
is on the south side, where it presents generally a 
perpendicular escarpment to the plain and rises to an 
elevation of about 70 feet; on the east and north it 
does not exceed 40 or 50 feet. The east face meas- 
ures 3000 feet in length. Enormous ravines penetrate 
to the very heart of the mound” (Loftus, p. 345). The 
third platform (No. 2 on the plan) lies towards the 
north and is “a considerable square mass,” about 1000 
feet each way. It abuts on the central platform at its 
north-western extremity, but is separated from it bv 
“a slight hollow,” which was, perhaps, an ancient road- 
way (ibid). These three mounds form together a 
lozenge-shaped mass, 4500 feet long and nearly 3000 
feet broad, pointing in its longer direction a little west 
of north. East of them is the fourth platform, which 
is very extensive, but of much lower elevation than 
the rest (No. 4 on the plan). Its plan is very irregu- 
lar: in its dimensions it about equals all the rest of 
the ruins put together, Beyond this eastern platform 
a number of low mounds are traceable, extending near- 
ly to the Dizful river; but there are no remains of 
walls in any direction, and no marks of any buildings 
west of the Shapur. AH the ruins are contained with- 
in a circumference of about seven miles (Geograph. 
Junrn. ix,71). See PI umpire, Bible Educator, iii, 105. 

IV. Architectural Character . — The explorations un- 
dertaken by general, now Sir Fenwick, Williams of 
Kars in the mounds at Susa, in the year 1851, resulted 
in the discovery of the bases of three columns, marked 
5, 6, 7 on the following plan. These were found to 
be twenty-seven feet six inches apart from centre to 
centre; and as they were very similar to the bases of 
the great hall known popularly as the Chel Minar at 
Persepolis, it was assumed that another row would be 
found at a like distance inwards. Holes were accord- 
ingly dug, and afterwards trenches driven, without any 
successful result, as it happened to be on the spot where 
the walls originally stood, and where no columns, con- 
sequently, could have existed. Had any trustworthy 
restoration of the Persepolitan hall been published at 
that time, the mistake would have been avoided; but 
as none then existed, the opportunity was nearly lost 
for our becoming acquainted with one of the most in- 
teresting ruins connected with Bible history which now 
exist out of Syria. Fortunately, in the following year 
Mr. Loftus resumed the excavations with more success, 
and ascertained the position of all the seventy-two col- 
umns of which the original building was composed. 
Only one base had been entirely removed, and as that 
was in the midst of the central phalanx its absence 
threw no doubt on any part of the arrangement. On 
the bases of four of the columns thus uncovered (shaded 
darker on the plan, and numbered 1,2, 3, 4) were found 
trilingual inscriptions in the languages adopted by the 
Acluemenian kings at llehistun and elsewhere, but all 
were so much injured by the fall of the superincum- 
bent mass that not one was complete, and, unfortunate- 
ly, the Persian text, which could have been read with ; 
most certainty, was the least perfect of any. Notwith- 
standing this, Mr. Edwin Norris, with his usual ingenu- 
ity, by a careful comparison of the whole, made out the 
meaning of the first part certainly, of the latter half 
with very tolerable precision. As this inscription con- 
tains nearly all we know of the history of this building, 
we quote it entire from .Jnurn. vl*. Soc. xv, 162 : “ Says 
Artaxerxes (Mnemon), the great, king, the king of 
kings, the king of the country, the king of the earth, 
the son of king Harms — Darius was the son of king 
Artaxerxes— Artaxerxes was the son of Xerxes — Xerx- 



o 

5 

O 

r \ 3 □ 

□ 

/ 

□ 

2. 

□ 

□ 

1 

d- 

MfL.,o 

o 

o 

Oo> 

fit 

□ 

3 

□ 

6 

□ 

□ 

o 

o 

o 


r a 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

o 

o 

o 

O 


□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

o 

o 

o 

o 

i d 

□ 

□ 

□ 

n 

□ 

o 

o 

o 

o 

4 □ 

□ 

□ 

p 

D 

□ 

0 

o 

1 — 

/00ft 



mt± . 


L 

(00 ft 

I 


Plan of the Great Palace at Susa. 


cs was the son of king Darius — Darius was the son of 
Ilystaspes the Acluemenian — Darius my ancestor an- 
ciently built this temple, and afterwards it was repair- 
ed by Artaxerxes my grandfather. By the aid of Or- 
mazd l placed the effigies of Tanaites and Mithra in 
this temple. May Ormazd, Tanaites, and Mithra pro- 
tect me, with the other gods, and all that I have done.” 

The bases uncovered by Mr. Loftus were arranged as 
on the second plan above, and, most fortunately, it is 
found on examination that the building was an exact 
counterpart of the celebrated Chel Minar at Persepolis. 
They are, in fact, more like each other than almost any 
other two buildings of antiquity, and consequently what 
is wanting in the one may safely be supplied from the 
other, if it exists there. Their age is nearly the same, 
that at Susa having been commenced by Darius Hvstas- 
pis,that at Persepolis — if one may trust the inscription on 
its staircase. (, Journ . .4 s. Soc. x,326) — was built entirely 
by Xerxes. Their dimensions are practically identical, 
the width of that at Susa, according to Mr. Loftus. being 
345 feet, the depth north and south 244. The corre- 
sponding dimensions at Persepolis, according to Flandin 
and Coste’s survey, are 357.6 
by 251.6, or from 10 to 12 
feet in excess; but the. dif- 
ference may arise as much 
from imperfect surveying 
as from any real discrepan- 
cy. The number of columns 
and their arrangement are 
identical in the two build- 
ings, and the details of t be 
architecture arc practically 
the same so far as they can 
be made out. But as no pil- 
lar is standing at Susa, and 
no capital was found entire 
or nearly so, it is not easy to 
feel quite sure that the an- 
nexed restoration is in all re- 
spects correct. It is reduced 
from one made by M r.Ch arch- 
ill, who accompanied Mr. 

Loftus in his explorations. 

If it be correct, it appears 
i bat the great difference be- 
tween the two buildings was 
that double bull capitals were 
used in the interior of the 
central square ball at Susa, 
while their use was appropri- 
ately conlined to the porti- 
cos at Persepolis. In other 
respects the height of the 




SHUSHAN 


719 


SIIUSIIAN 


capital, which measures 28 feet, is very nearly the same, 
but it is fuller, and looks somewhat too heavy for the 
shaft that supports it. This defect was to a great extent 
corrected at Persepolis, and may have arisen from those 
at Susa being the first translation of fhe Ninevite wood- 
en original into stone architecture. The pillars at 
Persepolis vary from GO to G7 feet in height, and we 
may therefore assume that those at Susa were nearly 
the same. No trace of the walls which enclosed these 
pillars was detected at Susa, from which Mr. Loftus as- 
sumes, somewhat too hastily, that none existed. As, 
however, he could not make out the traces of the walls 
of any other of the numerous buildings which he admits 
once existed in these mounds, we ought not to be sur- 
prised at his not finding them in this instance. 

Fortunately, at Persepolis sufficient remains still ex- 
ist to enable us to supply this hiatus, though there also 
sun-burnt brick was too much used for the walls, and 
if it were not that the jambs of the doors and windows 
were generally of stone, we should be as much at a loss 
there as at Susa. The annexed wood-cut. representing 
the plan of the hall at Persepolis, is restored from data 
so complete as scarcely to admit of doubt with regard 
to any part, and will suffice to explain the arrangement 
of both (see Fergusson, The Palaces of Xinevek and Per- 
sepolis Restored [Loud. 1851]). Both buildings consisted 
of a central hall, as nearly as may be 200 feet square, 
and consequently, so far as we know, the largest interior 
of the ancient world, with the single exception of the 
great ball at Karnak, which covers 58,300 square feet, 
while this only extends to 40,000. Both the Persian 
halls are supported by 36 columns, upwards of 60 feet 
in height, and spaced equidistant from one another at 
about 27 feet 6 inches from centre to centre. On the 
exterior of this, separated from it by walls 18 feet in 
thickness, were three great porches, each measuring 200 
feet in width by 65 in depth, and supported by 12 col- 
umns whose axes were coincident with those of the in- 
terior. These were, beyond doubt, the great audience 
halls of the palace, and served the same purposes as the 
House of the Forest of Lebanon in Solomon’s palace, 
though its dimensions were somewhat different — 150 
feet by 75. These porches were also identical, so far as 
use and arrangement go, with the throne-rooms in the 
palaces of Delhi or Agra, or those which are used at this 
day in the palace at Ispahan. The western porch would 
be appropriate to morning ceremonials, the eastern to 
those of the afternoon. There was no porch, as we 
might expect in that climate, to the south, but the 
principal one, both at Susa and Persepolis, was that 
which faced the north with a slight inclination towards 
the east. It was the throne-room par excellence of the 
palace, and an inspection of the plan will show how 
easily, by the arrangement of the stairs, a whole army 
of courtiers or of tribute- bearers could file before the 
king without confusion or inconvenience. The bassi- 
rilievi in the stairs at Persepolis in fact represent per- 
manently the procession which on great festivals took 
place upon their steps; and a similar arrangement of 
stairs was no doubt to be found at Susa when the palace 
was entire. It is by no means so clear to what use the 
central hall was appropriated. The inscription quoted 
above would lead us to suppose that it was a temple, 
properly so called, but the sacred and the secular func- 
tions of the Persian kings were so intimately blended 
together that it is impossible for us to draw a line any- 
where, or to say how far “ temple cella” or “ palace hall” 
would be a correct designation for this part of the build- 
ing. It probably was used for all great semi-religious 
ceremonies, such as the coronation or enthronization of 
the king, at such ceremonies as returning thanks or 
making offerings to the gods for victories — for any pur- 
pose, in fact, requiring more than usual state or solem- 
nity ; but there seems no reason to suppose it ever was 
used for purely festal or convivial purposes, for which 
it is singularly ill suited. 

From what we know of the buildings at Persepolis, 



law 


3 O 

% 

a q b b 0 ss 



D © 

m 

H E3 E3 S3 □ E3 

a 

® <s 

9 O 

□ 

m s sa S9 S3 ■ 

□ 


3) © 

cz 

u □ a a m p 


® <§ 

3 © 

_r ' 

E3 0 E3 O 0 !SI 


© <§ 

& © 

2 

a o □ a □ £3 

Z 

@ <e 




Restored Plan of Great Hall of Xerxes at Persepolis. 

(Scale 1G0 feet to au inch.) 

we may assert, almost with certainty, that the “King’s 
Gate,” where Mordecai sat (Esth. ii, 21), and where so 
many of the transactions of the book of Esther took 
place, was a square hall (see cut below), measuring 
probably a little more than 100 feet each way, and with 
its roof supported bv four pillars in the centre, and that 
this stood at a distance of about 150 or 200 leet from 
the front of the northern portico, where its remains will 
probably now be found when looked for. We may also 
be tolerably certain that 
the inner court, where Es- 
ther appeared to implore 
the king’s favor (Esth. v, 

1), was the space between 
the northern portico and 
this square building, the 
outer court being the 
space between the “King’s 
Gate” and the northern 
terrace wall. We may also 
predicate with tolerable 

rertaintv that the«Roval Restored Plan °f the “King’s 
certainty tnat tne Kp\ at Gate „ at Prtlnce of Persepolis. 

House (i, 9) and the (Scale 100 feet to au inch.) 

“ House of the Women” 

(ii, 9, 11) were situated behind this great hall to the 
southward, or between it and the citadel, and had a di- 
rect communication with it either by means of a bridge 
over the ravine, or a covered way underground, most prob- 
ably the former. There seems also no reasonable doubt 
that it was in front of one of the lateral porticos of this 
building that king Abasuerus (Xerxes) “ made a feast 
unto all the people that were present in Shushan the 
palace, both unto great and small, seven days, in the 
court of the garden of the Icing's palace; where were 
white, green, and blue hangings, fastened with cords of 
fine linen and purple to silver rings and pillars of marble: 
the beds were of gold and silver upon a pavement of red, 
and blue, and white, and black marble” (Esth. i, 5, 6). 
From this it is evident that the feast took place, not in 
the interior of any hall, but out of doors, in tents erected 
in one of the courts of the palace, such as we may easily 
fancy existed in front of either the eastern or the west- 
ern porch of the great central building. 

The whole of this great group of buildings was raised 
on an artificial mount!, nearty square in plan, measuring 
about 1000 feet each way, and rising to a height appar- 
ently of 50 or 60 feet above the plain. As the principal 
building must, like those at Persepolis, have had a talar, 
or raised platform [see Temim.i-:], above its roof, its height 
could not have been less than 100 or 120 feet, and its 
elevation above the plain must consequently have been 
170 or 200 feet. It would be difficult to conceive any- 
thing much grander in an architectural point of view 
than such a building, rising to such a height out of a 
group of subordinate palace-buildings, interspersed with 


SIIUSH AN-EDUTII 


720 


SIAM 


trees and shrubs, and the whole based on such a terrace, I 
rising from the tint but fertile plains that are watered 
by the Eulams at its base. See Persia. 

Shu'shan-e'duth (Ileb. Shu slum' Eduth', yi'Vj 
mr ), an expression occurring in the phrase “To the 
chief musician upon Shushan-eduth,” which is plainly 
a musical direction, whatever else may be obscure about 
it (Psa. lx, title). In Psa. Ixxx we have the fuller phrase 
Si i os 1 1 a x x i M-Ei > ut i r, of w h i ch Rod i ger rega r d s S h u sh a n- 
eduth as an abbreviation (Gesenius, Thesau r. p. 1385). 
As it now stands it denotes the lily of testimony , and 
possibly contains the first words of some psalm to the 
melody of which that to which it was prefixed was sung; 
and the preposition 52, \il (A. V. “upon”) would then 
signify “ after, in the manner of,” indicating to the con- 
ductor of the Temple choir the air which he was to follow. 
The Sept, and Vnlg. appear to have read for 

they render rote dWouoSqaoph’oiQ and pro his qui im- 
mutabuntur respectively. In the Sept, rvnr, eduth, be- 
comes T'.i*, 'dd, in. There does not appear to be much 
support for the view taken by some (as by Joel Bril) i 
that Shushan-eduth is a musical instrument, so called 
from its resemblance to a lily in shape (Simonis), or from 
having lily-shaped ornaments upon it, or from its six 
(shesh) strings. Burst, in consistency with his theory 
with respect to the titles of the Psalms, regards Shushan- 
eduth as the name of one of the twenty-four divisions 
of singers appointed by David, so called after a band- 
master, Sliiishan, and having its headquarters at Eduth, 
which he conjectures may be the same as Adithaim in 
Josh, xv, 30 (/ landwb . s. v.). As a conjecture this is 
certainly ingenious, but it has the disadvantage of in- 
troducing as many difficulties as it removes. Simonis 
(Lex. s. v.) connects eduth with the Arabic ’i ?</, a lute, 
or kind of guitar played with a plectrum, and considers 
it to be the melody produced by this instrument; so 
that in his view Shushan-eduth indicates that the lily- 
shaped cymbals were to be accompanied with playing 
on the lute. Gesenius proposes to render eduth a “rev- 
elation,” and hence a psalm or song revealed ; but there 
seems no reason why we should depart from the usual 
meaning as above given, and we may therefore regard 
the words in question as a fragment of an old psalm or 
melody, the same in character as Aijelcth Shahar and 
others, which contained a direction to the leader of the 
choir. — Smith. See Psalms. 

Shushan Gate of the Temple at Jerusalem 
(P!*"2n -jrvr, Mislina, Chelim, xvii, 9) was located in 
the eastern outer wall, being the only entrance on that 
side. We should naturally identify it with the present 
Golden Gate , which is evidently a llerodian structure; 
but this can hardly be done, as it lay in a direct line with 
the interior gates. See Temple. 

Shute, Daniel, D.D., a Unitarian minister, was 
horn at Malden, Mass., July 19, 1722. lie entered 
Harvard College in 1739, and graduated in 1743. In 
September, 174b, lie accepted a call to the Third (now 
Second) Church in llingham, Mass., and was ordained 
its pastor Dec. 10, 1740, In both the French and Rev- 
olutionary wars Mr. Shute entered warmly into the 
feelings of the people. In 1758 he was appointed by 
Gov. Pownall chaplain of Col. Joseph Williams’s regi- 
ment. lu 1780 he was chosen delegate to the conven- 
tion to frame a constitution for the state, and in 1788 
lie was associated with Gen. Lincoln to represent the 
town in the convention of Massachusetts which ratified 
the Constitution of the United States. Dr. Shute re- 
linquished his public labors in March, 1799, retaining 
bis pastoral relation till bis decease, but giving up bis 
salary, lie died Aug. 30, 1802. Dr. Shute published 
three Sermons (1707, ’08, ’87). See Sprague, A muds of 
the Amer. Pulpit, viii, 18. 

Shute, J osias, rector of St. Man- Woolnot h, I/>ndon. 
lie suffered during the civil wars for his attachment to 


Charles I, and was made archdeacon of Colchester in 
1042, but died the same year. After his death appeared 
Ten Sermons ( Lond. 1044, 4to): — Judgment , or The 
Plague of Frogs Inflicted, Sermons, etc. (1645, 4to): — 
Sarah and J l agar, or Gen, xvii Opened in Nineteen Ser- 
mons (MAS, fob). See Alii bone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. 
A uthors, s. v. 

Shu'thalhite (lleb. collectively with the art .hash- 
ShuthalchV, "Tlbr’En, patronymic from Shutheiah ; 
Sept, o EonSnAru v. r. EonraXae/ and BonuoAm), a 
designation of the descendants of Shuthklaii (q. v.), 
t he son of Ephraim (Numb, xxvi, 35). 

Shu'thelah (Heb. Shutke'lach, PibryVw', perhaps 
noise of breaking [Gesenius], or setting [i. e. son] of 
She/uch [Burst], or fresh plant [M uhlan]; Sept, in 
Numb. Eot'3aX« or EonrnAa v. r. BoixmAa or Bwrxoi;- 
aa\d } in Chron. EwSaAd v. r. EwSaXe and EwS-aAdS), 
the name of two Ephraimites. 

1. First named of the three sons of Ephraim, but not 
father of Eran (Numb, xxvi, 35, 36), through whom he 

j became the progenitor of a family that bore both their 
names (1 Chron. vii, 20). B.C. post 1856 and ante 1802. 
See Bered. 

2. A descendant of the preceding, being the son of 
Zabad and the father of Ezer and Elead (1 Chron. vii, 
21). B.C. apparently post 1618. 

Shuttle. See Weaver. 

Shuttle worth, Philip Nicholas, D.D., an Eng- 
lish clergyman, was born at Kirkham, Lancashire, in 
1782. lie was educated at Winchester, and thence 
elected scholar of New College, Oxford, in 1800. He 
became rector of Foxlev, Wiltshire, in 1824; tutor of his 
college, and in 1820 proctor of Oxford; warden of New 
College in 1822; bishop of Chichester in 1840. He died 
in 1842. 11 is published works consist of Sermons on 

some of the Leading Principles of Christianity (Lond. 
2 vols. 8vo; vol. i, 1827 ; 2d ed. 1829; vol. ii, 1834; 3d 
ed. of both, 1840, 2 vols. 8vo ) : — Paraphrastic Trans- 
lation of the Apostolical Epistles (Oxf. 1829, 8vo; 5th 
ed. 1854) '.-—Consistency of the Whole Scheme, of Revela- 
tion, etc. (Lond. 1832, 12mo) : — Sermons before the Uni- 
versity of Oxford (ibid. 1840, sm. 8vo). See Darling, 
Cyclop. Bibliog. s. v.; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. 
A uthors, s. v. 

Si'a (Ileb. Sid, congregation ; Sept. Eta/a 

v. r. ’Affoiua, etc.), one of the family heads of the 
Nethinim whose “children” returned from the captiv- 
ity with Zerubbabel (Neh. vii, 47). B.C. ante 536. In 
the parallel passage (Ezra ii, 44) the name is written 
Si aii a (q. v.). 

Si'aha (Ileb. Siahd, congregation ; Sept. 

Si ad v. r. *Aaad, etc.), one of tiie chief Nethinim (Ezra 
ii, 44); elsewhere (Neh. vii, 47) called Sia (q. v.). 

Siam (meaning in Malay the brown race) is called 
by its people Muang Thai, “the kingdom of the free,” 
i. e. free from the superstitions of the Brahmins. It is 
the chief kingdom of the peninsula called Indo-China, 
or Farther India. Siam proper occupies the middle 
portion of the peninsula, with all the country surround- 
ing the Gulf of Siam, and stretches between lat. 4° and 
22° N., and between long. 97° and 106° E. Its greatest 
length is 1350 miles, its breadth 450 miles, while its 
area is estimated at from 190,000 to 300,000 square 
miles (probably the latter estimate is nearly correct), 
with a population of between 5,000,000 and 6,000,000. 

I. Soil, Climate, etc . — A considerable portion of Siam 
is covered with mountains and bills. Two mountain 
ranges, extending mainly south-east from the Hima- 
laya. form general natural divisions from China on the 
north, and partly from Anam on the east, and Burmah 
and British India on the west. A third range passes 
through the central regions, and in this is situated the 
P’lira Bat, or mountain of “the sacred foot” of Buddha. 
The great river of the country is called by foreigners 


SIAM 


721 


SIB DEC A I 


Menam, or Meinam, and is the Nile of Siam. Its an- 
nual inundation commences in June and ends in No- 
vember, and the area of land thus fertilized is upwards 
of 22,000 square miles. The coast-liue may be roughly 
estimated at 1100 miles, with several excellent harbors. 
The seasons are two: the wet or hot, and the dry or 
cool. The former begins near the middle of March, the 
latter in October. Siam is rich in natural productions. 
Bice. sugar, pepper, cotton, and hemp are the staple 
products. There are also many valuable articles pro- 
cured from the forests — gutta-percha, lac, dammar, cost- 
ly woods, etc. The animal kingdom is very varied, 
furnishing rhinoceroses, tigers, leopards, bears, otters, 
musks, civets, wild hogs, monkeys, deer, and elephants, 
especially the white elephant. 

II. Inhabitants and Government. — The Siamese are 
mainly of Mongolian type, but there is much reason to 
suppose that they are closely allied to the great Indo- 
European race. According to the researches of the late 
king, out of 12,800 Siamese words metre than 5000 are 
found to be Sanscrit, or to have their root in that lan- 
guage, and the rest in the Indo-European tongue. Be- 
sides the Siamese, a great variety of races inhabit the 
territories of Siam, as the Chinese, Cambodians, etc. Ac- 
cording to the French consul at Bangkok, Gamier (1874), 
the population of Siam proper and its Laos dependen- 
cies is composed of 1,800.000 Siamese, 1,500,000 Chi- 
nese, 1,000,000 Laos, 200,000 Malays, 50,000 Cambo- 
dians, 50,000 Peguans, 50,000 Karens, and others. The 
Siamese proper are gentle, timid, careless, indolent, and 
yet peaceable and polite. Most of the business is in 
the hands of the Chinese. Marriage takes place as 
early as eighteen for males and fourteen for females, with- 
out the aid of priest or magistrate, though the former 
may be present to offer prayers. The number of wives, 
ordinarily one, may, among the wealthy, reach scores 
and hundreds, but the first is the wife proper, to whom 
the rest are subject. Eighty or ninety per cent, of the 
males can read, a limited education being gratuitously 
furnished at the temples. 

The government is theoretically a duarchv, practi- 
cally a monarchy, for although there is a second or 
vice king, the first or senior king is actual sovereign. 
The crown is hereditary, and is bequeathed, with the 
sanction of the nobles, to any son of the queen. The 
second king seems to occupy the place of first counsel- 
lor, and is invariably consulted before taking any im- 
portant step. The council of state comprises the first 
king (as president); the ministers, who have no vote; 
from ten to twenty councillors, who have to draft new 
laws, and from their own number elect a vice-president; 
and six princes of the royal house. The country is di- 
vided into forty-one provinces, each of which is gov- 
erned by a phraya , or council of the first class. 

III. History and Religion. — The early history of 
Siam is entirely unknown. In 1511 the Portuguese, 
after the conquest of Malacca by Albuquerque, estab- 
lished an intercourse with Siam. In the lGth century 
Siam was for many years subject to the Burmans, but 
recovered its independence towards the close of the 
century. In 1604 the Dutch established relations; in 
1612 the first English vessel went to Ayathia. To- 
wards the end of the 17th century a European advent- 
urer, a native of the island of Cephalonia, called Phaul- 
kou, gained the esteem of the king, and was by degrees 
promoted to an important office in the government. 
Th rough his persuasion an embassy was sent to Louis 
XIV of France, who sent two embassies to Siam in 1685 
and 1687, and also a corps of 500 soldiers, who were put 
in possession of the fortress of Bangkok by Phaulkon. 
They were expelled in 1600. About 1760 the Burmans 
laid waste the country and took the capital, Ayathia. 
In 1782 the present dynasty ascended the throne, and 
transferred the seat of government to Bangkok. Trea- 
ties were made with the East India Company in 1822 
and 1825, and with the United States in 1833. 

The religion of the Siamese is Buddhism; neverthe- 
IX.— Z z 


less the lower classes, and in some respects the more 
enlightened, are profoundly superstitious. They have 
peopled their world with gods, daemons, and goblins. 
Over the “footprint of Buddha,” on the P’hra Bat, is 
built a beautiful temple, to which crowds of ardent 
Buddhists perform long and painful journeys, and mill- 
ions of costly gifts are offered. The following account 
of missions is from Appletons' Cyclopaedia (s. v.) : “Mis- 
sions have been carried on bv the Boman Catholics, 
under the greatest vicissitudes, since the middle of the 
16th century. The missionaries are French, and their 
converts were reckoned in 1872 at 10,000, in sixteen 
congregations. At the head of the mission is a vicar 
apostolic. Protestant missions date from the visits of 
Giitzlaff, Tomlin, and Abeel, in 1828 to 1831, and prop- 
erly from the settlement of Jones in 1833. Missions 
have been established by the American Baptist Union, 
and by the American Board of Commissioners for For- 
eign Missions; and the American Missionary Associa- 
tion has established several Protestant congregations, 
schools, and religious papers. The number of the Bap- 
tist congregations in 1874 was 154, and of Presbyte- 
rian, 38.” 

For literature, consult Crawfurd, Embassy to Siam 
and Cochin China (Lond. 1828); Pallogoix, Description 
du Royaume Thai , on Siam (Paris, 1854); Bowring, 
Kingdom and People of Siam (Lond. 1857); Bastian, 
Reisen in Siam (Berlin, 1867); Mrs. Leonowcn, English 
Governess at the Siamese Court (Boston, 1870); M‘Don- 
ald, Siam, its Government, etc. (Phila. 1871); Bacon, 
Siam, etc. (N. Y. 1873); Vincent, Land of the White 
Elephant (ibid. 1874). 

Siamese Version. Siamese is the language 
spoken in the kingdom of Siam, which embraces a large 
portion of the peninsula of India beyond the Ganges. 
Formerly the language of the Siamese was called Sa - 
yama phasa, the “Sa-yam language;” but since the 
reign of P’hra Huang, who set his country free from the 
yoke of Cambodia, they ctill themselves Thai, ‘•free,” 
and their language phasa Thay or Tai, “the language 
of the freemen.” As early as the year 1810 the design 
of providing Siam with a version of the four Gospels 
was entertained by the Calcutta Auxiliary Bible Soci- 
ety, but it was not till the year 1846 that the transla- 
tion and publication of the entire New Test, in Siamese 
were completed. A second edition was published in 
1850. (B. P.) 

Sias, Solomon, a minister of the Methodist Episco- 
pal Church, was born at London, N. H., Feb. 25, 1781. 
He began to preach Sept. 25, 1805, and in 1806 was ad- 
mitted into the New England Conference on trial. lie 
was ordained deacon by bishop Asbury in 1806, and 
elder in 1810. In 1828 he took a superannuated rela- 
tion, which he held, with the exception of one year, 
until his death at Newbury, Vt., Feb. 12, 1853. See 
Minutes of Annual Conferences, 1853, p. 222. 

Sib'becai (I Citron, xi, 29; xxvii, 11) or Sib'- 
bechai (2 Sam. xxi, 18; 1 Chron. xx, 4) [some Sib- 
beca'i and Sibbecha'i] (Heb. Sibbekay', *’’^2^, accord- 
ing to Gesenius and Fiirst for PP thicket [i. e. 

people] of Jehovah, or Jehovah is a thicket [i. e. de- 
fence] ; but rather a weaver, for it is doubtful if the 
final ^ in such cases ever stands for the sacred name; 
Sept. So/3oym' v. r. Ye/Joyd, etc.; Josephus So/Joyytc), 
the eighth named of the subordinate thirty in David’s 
guard, and eighth captain for the eighth month of 
24,000 men of the king’s army (1 Chron. xi, 29; xxvii, 
11). B.C. 1043. He belonged to one of the principal 
families of Judah, the Zarhites, or descendants of Ze- 
rah, and is called “the Hushathite,” probably from an 
ancestor by the name of Tlushah (q. v.). Josephus 
{Ant. vii, 12, 2) calls him “the Ilittite,” bift: this is no 
doubt an error. Sibbecai’s great exploit, which gave 
him a place among the mighty men of David’s army, 
was his single combat with Sapli, or Sippai, the Philis- 


SIBBOLETII 


Y22 


SIBMAII 


tine giant, in the battle at Gezer, or Gob (2 Sam. xxi, 
18; i Chron. xx, 4). In 2 Sam. xxiii, 27 his name is 
written MiiUt’NN.vi by a mistake of the copyist. Jose- 
phus says that he slew “many” who boasted that they 
were of the descent of the giants, apparently reading 
Z”'”" for in I Chron. xx, 4. — Smith. 

Sib'boleth (Heb. Sibbo'leth, for Shibboleth 

[<|. v.]; the Sept, does not represent it, the Greek hav- 
ing no aspirate for <r; Vulg. Sibboleth ), the Epbraim- 
itish (text “ Ephrathite”) pronunciation of Shibboleth 
(Jmlg. xii, 6). 

Sibbs (or Sibbes), Richard, D.D., a learned Eng- 
lish Puritan divine, was born at Sudbury, Suffolk, in 1577, 
and was educated at St. John’s College, Cambridge, where 
he took his degree with great applause, and obtained a 
fellowship. Taking orders, he was chosen lecturer of 
Trinity Church, Cambridge, the living of which he held 
during the last two years of his life. He became preacher 
to the Society of Gray’s Inn in 1G18, and in 1625 was 
chosen master of Katherine flail, Cambridge, which, 
though a Puritan, he held with little molestation until 
his death. Dr. Sibbs died July 5, 1635. His works are 
very numerous, chiefly sermons and pious treatises. An 
incomplete edition of these was published (Lond. 1800; 
Aberdeen, 1812) entitled Sibbs's ITorAs. Mr. Pickering 
published several of his treatises (1837-38.2 vols. 12mo), 
viz. The Soul's Conflict and Victoiy, etc.: — The Inward 
Disquietments of Distressed Spirits , etc.: — The Bruised 
Heed and Smoking Flux: — The Fountain Sealed: — anil 
Description of Christ. Still later we have Complete 
Works of Richard Sibbes, D.D.. ed. by R. A. B. Grosart 
(Ediub. 1862, 7 vols. 8vo). Richard Baxter tells us 
that he in a great measure owed his conversion to The 
Bruised Reed. As a commentator, his principal work 
is his Commentary on 2 Cor. i (1655). See Chalmers, 
Biog. Diet. s. v.; Neal, Hist, of the Puritans, ii, 294. 

Sibel, Caspar, a learned Calvinist and active par- 
ticipant in the controversy of the Dutch Church with 
Arminianism, which eventuated in the Synod of Dort, 
was born near Elberfeld, June 9, 1590, and was reared 
in the practice of piety and study, and educated at Her- 
born and Leyden. When scarcely nineteen years old 
he assumed the pastorate of the communes Randerath 
and Geilenkirchen, in the duchy of Juliers, and, in the 
midst of the discouragements and dangers growing out 
of the war of succession to the ducal throne in which 
the country was then involved, he obtained remarkable 
success. A price of 3000 thalers was ollered for his ap- 
prehension as one of the evangelical pastors of the 
neighborhood, and he thrice narrowly escaped the troops 
of the imperial party; but he nevertheless added three 
hundred and sixty adult members to his Church in the 
brief term of two years. In 1611 he became pastor of 
the military Church in the fortress of Juliers, and was 
again successful in adding to the strength of its mem- 
bership, besides obtaining from the States-General the 
grant of a regular appropriation for the support of its 
pastor. A visitation of the plague in 1616 afforded op- 
portunity for the display, on his part, of indomitable 
courage and unflagging zeal. A call to one of the 
churches at Ximegucn was declined bv him because of 
the opposition raised by the other pastors of that town, 
who were adherents of the Remonstrant party ; but the 
incident turned the attention of a Church in Deventer, 
the important metropolis of the province of Overvssel, 
towards him, and he was installed its pastor in the au- 
tumn of 1 6 1 7. In this position lie spent the last thirty 
years of his life, llis labors extended into many fields 
and gave evidence of the qualities which constituted his 
strength, e. g. a narrow orthodoxy which placed the 
Reformed Confession on an equal footing with the Bible, 
an intolerant and energetic spirit, great learning, con- 
summate skill as a controversialist, a profound devotion 
to duty, and a fervent piety, lie assumed charge, for a 
time, of an orthodox band in the town of Campon, who 


were dissatisfied with the ministry of their resident Re- 
monstrant pastors. In 1618 he was delegated to the 
Synod of Dort, and took an active part in its delibera- 
tions until an attack of fever compelled his return to 
Deventer, May 19, 1619. At the same time he evinced 
a lively interest in the cause of education by the direct 
part he took in the founding and development of a paxl- 
agoginm, and subsequently of an academical gymna- 
sium, It was by his motion that the Synod of Overys- 
sel adopted the canons laid down by the General Synod 
of Dort; and it was on his motion that a number of Re- 
monstrants were suspended or expelled from their min- 
istry by the latter authority. In the preparation of a 
new version of the Scriptures, as ordered by the Synod 
of Dort, Sibel rendered to the Church the most impor- 
tant service of his useful life. One of the revisers for 
the province of Overvssel having died, he was chosen 
to fill the vacancy, and subsequently was made vice- 
secretary of the board of revisers. Eleven months — 
from Oct. 30, 1634, to Oct. 10, 1635 — were given by the 
board to the final revision of the translators’ work. (On 
the version thus prepared, see Kist en Rovaard, A rchief 
voor Kerkelyke Geschiedenis , pt. ii, p. 57-176.) To these 
varied labors must be added the constant care for the 
temporal welfare of numerous churches and individuals 
which was imposed on him by the incessant wars of the 
time. Sibel married Maria Klocker, a daughter of the 
burgomaster of Randerath, and became the father of a 
daughter, Elizabeth, who was married to the pastor 
Lubbert Van Goor. In 1648 a stroke of paralysis com- 
pelled his retirement from active life. The magistracy 
of the town and the presbytery of his Church continued 
to him the salary and honorary rights of an active pas- 
tor, and when lie died, Jan. 1, 1658, they voted an ade- 
quate pension for the support of his widow, and civil 
protection and guardianship for his grandson. 

The productions of Sibel’s pen are very numerous, and 
have often been published in monograph form. They 
contain nothing, however, of considerable importance to 
modern readers, and may be classed as follows: Ser- 
mons and homilies on parts of the Old-Test. Scriptures: 
— Sermons and homilies on sections of the New Test., 
and miscellaneous sermons: — Catechetical writings: 
Meditat. Catecheticarum (1646-50, four parts) : — Proleg. 
et Paralipomena Cafechetica (1650): — Epitome Cate- 
chismi (Dutch [1643]; a Latin ed. approved by clas- 
sis in 1653) : — A devotional manual, Christl. Gebeder 
ende Dankzeggingen (last ed. 1645; Latin ed. approved 
1653): — Translations of the New Test. (Dutch, with 
Sibel’s Marginalia [1640, and often] ; Latin, with notes, 
approved by chassis in 1652 and 1653): — Fasciculus 
CCIY (ineestionum et ad illas Francisci Junii Responsi- 
onum (not printed): — An autobiography, incomplete; 
it extends to 1653, in two volumes, but there is evidence 
that a third volume must have been written. See Her- 
zog, Real- E f icy klop. s. v. 

Sibien, in Hindi! mythology, was a prince of the 
children of the moon, who was father to Sandren, or 
Jandra, and grandfather to the rajah Darmamaden. 

Sib'mah (Heb. SibmaJC , !T2!Z2), coolness , or fra- 
grance [Gesenius].5(t/«f?«-place [Fiirst]; Sept, yitfiapa 
v. r. in Jer. ' Aoepgpd, etc.; A. V. “ Shibmah” in Numb, 
xxxii, 38), one of the places on the east of Jordan 
which were taken possession of by the tribe of Reuben 
(ver. 38) and rebuilt by them (Josh, xiii, 19). It is 
probably the same with Shebam (i. e, Sebam), named in 
the parallel list (Numb, xxxii, 3). It originally be- 
longed to that section of the territory of Moab which 
was captured by the Amorites under Sihon (xxi, 26). 
From the Amorites Moses took it, and gave it to the 
children of Reuben (xxxii, 1 sq.). Sibmah is grouped 
with llcshbon and Nebo, and must, consequently, have 
stood near the western brow of the plateau, east of the 
Dead Sea. Like most of the Transjordanie places, Sib- 
mah disappears from view during the inn in part of the 
Jewish history. We, however, gain a parting glimpse 


SIBOUR 


723 


SIBYLLINE ORACLES 


of it in the lament over Moab pronounced by Isaiah and 
by Jeremiah (Isa. xvi, 8, 9; Jer. xlviii, 32). It was 
then famed for the abundance and excellence of its 
grapes. They must have been remarkably good to 
have been thought worthy of notice by those who, like 
Isaiah and Jeremiah, lived close to and were familiar 
with the renowned vineyards of Sorek (Isa. v, 2, where 
“choicest vine” is “ vine of Sorek”) Its vineyards were 
devastated, and the town doubtless destroyed by the 
“lords of the heathen,” who at some time unknown ap- 
pear to have laid waste the whole of that once smiling 
and fertile district. It will be observed that these proph- 
ets speak of the city as belonging to Moab, whereas in 
the books of Numbers and Joshua it is enumerated among 
the cities of lleuben. The reason is, on the captivity of 
the Transjordanic tribes by the Assyrians, the Moabites 
returned to their ancient possessions and reoccupied 
their ancient cities, and among them Sibmah. See 
Moab. 

Sibmah seems to have been known to Eusebius ( Ono - 
mast. s. v. “Sabama”), and Jerome ( Comment . in Isaiam , 
lib. v) states that it was hardly 500 paces distant from 
lleshbon. He also speaks of it as one of the very strong 
cities ( urbes vcilidissimie) of that region. From the way 
in which it is grouped in the Ilible, it seems to have 
been on the south or south-west of Heshbou ; but even 
the minute researches of De Saulcy, in his recent tour 
through that country, have failed to discover a trace of 
it. There are several nameless ruins mentioned bv him 
and noted in his map, one or other of which may mark 
the site ( Voyage en Terre Sainte, i, 277 sq.), especially 
es-Sameh , or es-Samik , a ruined village near Ilesban, 
on the north-east. It is interesting to observe, how- 
ever, that around lleshbon he found traces of the vine- 
yards for which the region was once celebrated; and 
that from the lips of the Bedawin both he and Tristram 
{Land of Israel , p. 535) heard the name Neba given to 
a mountain-peak a short distance south-west of Hesh- 
bon, — Kitto; Smith. See Nebo. 

Sibour, Marie Dominique Auguste, a French 
prelate, was born at St.-Paul-Trois-Chateaux (Drome), 
April 4, 1792, and was educated in philosophy and the- 
ology chiefly at the seminary of Viviers. He after- 
wards taught the humanities in the seminary of St. 
Nicolas du Chardonnet at Paris. After spending a year 
at Rome, he was ordained priest, June 13, 18L8. and on 
his return to Paris was attached to the parish of St. 
Sulpice, and next to the mission chapel. Nov. 9, 1822, 
he was made canon of the Cathedral of Nismes, but con- 
tinued his duties as teacher till interrupted by the revo- 
lution of July, 1831, when he occupied himself with lit- 
erary labors. In September, 1839, he was appointed 
bishop of Digne, and in October, 1848, he became arch- 
bishop of Paris, in which capacity he was noted for be- 
nevolent, patriotic, religious, and ecclesiastical labors, 
which made him conspicuous in both Church and State. 
He was assassinated Jan. 3, 1857, by a priest whom he 
had offended by a religions penalty. He was the au- 
thor of several ecclesiastical works of local interest, for 
which see Hoefer, Xonv. Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Sib 'r aim [many Sibra'im ] (Ileb. Sibra'yim , 
D"H20, twofold hope [Gesenins], or double hill 
[Fiirst] ; Sept. 2a/3ajoi/u v. r. [tfj’E/Spa/uq or 'E^pa/i. 
[//Xfia/i]; Vulg. Sabarim), one of the landmarks on 
the northern boundary of the Holy Land, between Be- 
rothah and Hazar-hatticon, and between the boundary 
of Damascus and that of Hamath (Ezek. xlvii, 16). 
Keil ( Comment . ad loc.) suggests that it may be identi- 
cal with the Zipiiron (q. v.) of the parallel passage 
(Numb, xxxiv, 9). 

Sibyl ( 2t/3 v\\a, commonly derived from Aioc 
f3ov\r Doric 2 lio£ (36\\a, will of Jupiter'), in Grecian 
and Roman mythology, etc., one of a class of inspired 
virgins who were believed to reveal the decrees of the 
gods, and to whom altars were not unfrequently erected. 


The earliest sibyl was reared by the Muses themselves, 
and her verses were composed in hexameters, probably 
by the priests, who at a later period sold collections of 
such oracles. The number of sibyls is sometimes fixed 
at four, and again at ten. The former list includes the 
Erythraean, the Samian, the Egyptian, and the Sardian 
(/Elian, Var. Hist, xii, 35) sibyls; the latter embraces, 
1, the Babylonian, named Sabba or Sambethe, living in 
the days of Noah, and married to one of his sons (she 
foretold the Tower of Babel, Alexander’s march of con- 
quest, the advent of Christ, etc.) ; 2, the Libyan, a daugh- 
ter of Jupiter and Lamia, the original sibyl, from whom 
all the others obtained the title; 3, the Delphian, born 
in the Temple of Apollo, and living long anterior to the 
Trojan war, which she foretold (there was an elder Del- 
phian, who was a daughter of Zeus and Lamia, and also 
a younger Delphian [Pausan. x, 12, 1]); 4, the Italian 
or Cimmerian, soon after the Trojan war; 5, the Ery- 
thraean, before the fall of Troy (here, too, we find an 
elder and a younger one, who is called Herophile 
[Strabo, xiv, 645]); 6, the Samian, belonging to the 
time of Numa ; 7, the Cumtean, who was the most noted 
of them all (she was consulted by /Eneas before he de- 
scended into the lower world [Ovid, Afetam. xiv, 104; 
xv, 712, etc. ; Virgil, sEneid, vi, 10] ; she wrote her pre- 
dictions on leaves, which she arranged in the morning, 
but then left exposed to the winds; she is stated to 
have attained to the age of a thousand years); 8. the 
Hellespontian or Trojan, who lived in the 6th century 
B.C., and was buried in a temple of Apollo at Gergi- 
thnm; 9, the Phrygian; and, 10, the Tiburtine, whose 
name was Albunea. Pausanias also mentions a Hebrew 
sibyl of the name of Sabbe, who is called a daughter of 
Berosus and Ervmanthe. All these sibyls are more or 
less identified with each other, and their respective ora- 
cles cannot be determined. Modern researches have 
shown that the belief in sibyls cannot well be traced 
back to historical personages, but must instead be as- 
sumed to have sprung from the observation of natural 
phenomena, such as sounds heard in caverns, forests, 
etc. The belief was afterwards employed to serve the 
purposes of deceivers, statesmen, etc. See Bernhardv, 
Griech . Lit. ii, 249 sq.; Herrmann, Gottesdienstl. Alter- 
thiimer d. Griechen , § 37; Klausen, sEneas, i, 201 sq. ; 
Muller [Otfried], Dorier , i, 339; and Fabricii Bibl. Gr. 
tom. i. See Sibylline Oracles. 

Sibylline Oracles. The ancient sibyls were, 
according to the popular belief, female soothsayers or 
prophetesses, who frequently delivered vaticinations, 
especially of a threatening character, and sometimes 
showed how to propitiate the wrath of the gods. The 
most celebrated of the number was the Cumaean, con- 
cerning whom there is the following fable: Apollo, hav- 
ing been enamoured of her, offered to give her what she 
should ask. She demanded to live as many years as she 
had grains of sand in her hand, but unfortunately forgot 
.to ask for continued enjoyment of health and bloom. 
The god granted her request, but she refused in return 
to listen to his suit, and her longevity, without fresh- 
ness and beauty, proved rather a burden than a benefit. 
It was supposed that she was to live about 1300 years, 
and at the expiration of this period she was to wither 
quite away, and be converted into a mere voice (Ovid, 
Met am. 14, 104; Serv. ad Virg. sEn. vi, 321). She is 
variously called Herophile, Demo, Phenomonoe, Dei- 
phobe, Demophile, and Amalthea. She is said to have 
come to Italy from the East (Livy, i, 7), and she is the 
one who, according to most traditions, appeared before 
king Tarquinius, offering him the Sibylline Books for 
sale (Plinv,//. N. xiii, 28; Gellius, i, 19). 

According to an ancient legend, the emperor Augus- 
tus Caesar repaired to the Tiburtine sibyl, to inquire 
whether he should consent to allow himself to be wor- 
shipped with divine honors, which the senate had de- 
creed to him. The sibyl, after some days of medita- 
tion, took the emperor apart and showed him an altar; 
and above the altar, in the opening heavens, and in a 


SIBYLLINE ORACLES 


724 


SIBYLLINE ORACLES 


glory <>f light, he beheld a beautiful virgin holding an 
infant in her arms, and at the same time a voice was 
heard saying, “This is the altar of the son of the liv- 
ing God;” whereupon Augustus caused an altar to be 
erected upon Capiroline Hill, with this inscription, Ara 
Primogeniti Dei; and on the same spot, in later times, 
was built the church called the A ru Cali, well known, 
with its flight of 124 steps, to all who have visited 
Home, A very rude but curious bass-relief, preserved in 
the church of the Ara Cali, is perhaps the oldest rep- 
resentation extant. The Church legend assigns to it a 
fabulous antiquity; and it must be older than the 12th 
century, as it is alluded to by writers of that period. 
Here the emperor Augustus kneels before the Madonna 
and Child, and at his side is the sibyl Tiburtiua, pointing 
upwards (Mrs. Jameson, Legends of the Madonna, p. 197). 

I. Lost Works. — The so-called Sibylline Books of an- 
tiquity were certain writings regarded with much ven- 
eration and guarded with great care. The legend con- 
cerning them is that a sibvl (some say the Curatean, 
others the Ionian) came to Tarquin 11 (or Tarquin the 
Superb) with nine books, which she offered to sell for 
a very high price. Tarquin refusing to purchase, the 
sibyl went away and burned three of the volumes. 
Returning, she asked the same price for the remaining 
six; and when Tarquin again refused to buy, she went 
and destroyed three more. She came once more to 
Tarquin demanding the same price for the three as she 
had for the nine. Her behavior struck the king, and 
upon his augurs advising him to do so. he bought the vol- 
umes. The sibyl disappeared and was never seen after- 
wards. The books were preserved with great care, and 
were called Sibylline Verses , etc. They were said to 
have been written on palm-leaves, partly in verse and 
partly in symbolical hieroglyphics. The public were 
never allowed to inspect them, but they were kept in 
the Temple of Jupiter Capitolinas, preserved in a stone 
chest. A college of priests was appointed to have charge 
of them. It was the duty of this college to consult these 
books on all occasions when the gods manifested their 
wrath by inflicting calamities upon the Homans. The 
answers which were derived from them were almost 
invariably of a religious nature, as they either com- 
manded the introduction of some new worship, or the 
institution of new ceremonies and festivals or the repe- 
tition of old ones. In B.C. 83, the Temple of Jupiter 
was burned and the Sibylline Books consumed. In or- 
der to restore them, commissioners were appointed to 
visit various places in Italy, Greece, and Asia Minor, to 
collect any Sibylline oracles that could be found. They 
collected about a thousand verses, which were placed in 
the Temple of Jupiter, after it had been destroyed. The 
Sibylline Books were also burned in the reign of Nero, 
in the reign of Julian (A.l). 303), and a fourth time in 
that of the emperor llonorius (A.P.395); but they were 
restored each time. Notwithstanding many forgeries 
which had crept in, they were still held in great esteem, 
and we find them consulted even as late as the Oth cen- 
tury. See Ant lion, Class. Diet. s. v. “ Sibyll.e.” 

II. Extant Writings, — 1 1 is certain, from Homan his- 
tory, that Sibylline oracles were committed to writing, 
ami that Sibylline hooks were preserved; and it is a 
well-known fact that when the conquests of Alex- 
ander and the Homans in the Hast brought in a pe- 
riod of religions syncretism, the faith of the nations in 
their traditional religions gave way to superstitions 
of every form, and was replaced no less by an interest 
in prophecies of every sort than by an inclination to 
the practice of secret arts. It is not strange, accord- 
ingly, that traces arc found of a Chaldee and a Uuby- 
lonian and even of a Hebrew sibyl. When Christian- 
ity began to assail heathenism with literary weapons, 
the belief in sibyls was wide-spread and general, ami 
numerous professed oracles were in circulation. Nor 
was Christendom itself disinclined to accept the popu- 
lar belief upon this subject, or to turn that belief to its 
profit. The theologians and writers of the earliest pe- 


riod are especially open to this charge, e. g. Justin, 
Athenagoras, Theophilus, and Clemens Alexandrians. 
So general was the appeal to the Sibylline oracles 
among these writers that their antagonist Celsus terms 
them friends, or even manufacturers, of the sibyls (<ri- 
finWiorai, Origen, Cont . Celmm , v, 01). The tendency 
was less apparent in the Western Church, though Lac- 
tautius makes more extended and reckless use of this 
form of argument than does any other writer in either 
Church; and the writings of Tertullian, Jerome, and 
Augustine are not free from favorable mention of the 
Sibylline Books. See Besan^on, De VJCmploi qne les 
Peres de VEglise out fait des Oracles Sibyllhis (1851). 

1. History of the Text. — The Greek text of the Sib- 
yllines was lost from sight during the Middle Ages, 
and it was reserved for certain humanists of the 16th 
century to unearth a number of manuscripts and pub- 
lish their contents to the world. The oracles are in 
each edition divided into eight books, but the text is 
everywhere exceedingly corrupt, and even marred by 
arbitrary emendations. The earliest critical editions 
date from the beginning of our century, e. g. that of 
cardinal Mai (1817 and 1828), and subsequently ap- 
peared those of Alexandre (Paris. 1841) and Friedlicb 
(Leipsic, 1852). The number of manuscripts thus far 
recovered amounts to scarcely a dozen, and they have 
not yet been fully examined. They exhibit great di- 
vergencies of both text and arrangement; the language 
and versification are not everywhere governed by the 
same standards — the language and even the phrases 
of Homer, Hesiod, Euripides, and Psendo-Orphens be- 
ing contained in them, and no less those of the Septua- 
gint and of the New Test. If to these considerations 
we add that entire sections are wanting from some 
manuscripts, and that whole sections have been added 
in others, and also that the numerous citations in the 
Church fathers from the Sibyllines afford no aid to- 
wards a settling of the text, it will be apparent that 

; definite results in this field are scarcely to be expected. 
See Thorlaeius, Libri Sibyl. Veter is Pcclesia (Copenli. 
1815); Volkmann, De Orac. Sibyl. (Lips. 1853); Fried- 
licb, De Codd. Sibyl. (Bremen, 1817); Floder, Vestigia 
Homer, et Hesiod, in Oracc. Sib . (Ups. 1770); and other 
monographs cited by Volbeding, Index Program, p. 14. 

2. Contents. — The results of criticism show that the 
Sibylline Books are the work of different authors, and 
that they originated in different countries and periods. 
The collection as we now have it includes: 

a. Jev'ish Elements. — Scholars are generally agreed 
that hook iii is, upon the whole, the work of an Egyp- 
tian Jew, though based somewhat on already existent 
beat lien oracles and corrupted by Christian interpola- 
tions. The description of historical events in this book 
reaches to the reign of Ptolemy Physeon (P>.0. 170- 
117), and is followed from that epoch by a fanciful fore- 
casting of the future. To antagonize idolatry, especial- 
ly under its Egyptian form, was evidently tlie object 
of the oracle, which 'to this end employs persuasion, 
historico - mythological description, and threatening 
prophecy — more commonly the latter, as might he sup- 
posed from the assumption of a Sibylline garb. The 
book enumerates successive world-powers, though not 
in the manner of Paniel, and foretells a period of woe 
which should he ended by tbe advent of Messiah, who 
will overthrow his enemies, restore Judah, and gloriously 
deliver the saints. There is no unity of arrangement. 

Book iv belongs next in the order of chronology. It 
consists of not quite two hundred verses, and is com- 
plete in itself. The history of the world is traced 
through twelve generations, six of which are Assyrian, 
two Median, one Persian, and one Grecian. The eleventh 
covers the period of the Homan world-power, ami the 
twelfth is the Messianic period. The events noted in 
the book .as recent arc the destruction of Jerusalem 
and the eruption of Vesuvius in A.l). 79; that which 
is most immediately impending is the return of a mat- 
ricidal emperor from his exile beyond the Euphrates to 


SIBYLLINE ORACLES 


725 


SIBYLLINE ORACLES 


make war on Rome. The date of its composition is ' 
easy to determine from these data. No specifically 
Christian elements appear, and the religious bearing 
of the fragment upon the whole is difficult to deter- 
mine. Its author was probably a Jewish Christian of 
the ordinary type, who had no conception of the con- 
tradiction involved in such a character. 

Rook v is a crux interpret am. The first fifty verses 
recite the list of Roman emperors from Julius Ciesar to 
Hadrian, their names being indicated by the respective 
initial letters, etc. The internal evidence assigns the 
date of composition to the close of Hadrian’s reign 
(A.D. 138). The description it gives of Nero as laying 
claim to divine honors, after he “shall have returned,” 
indicates a Christian pen; but the Christian element is 
so little apparent that judicious critics regard the great- 
er part of the book as a Jewish production. The re- 
peated reference to Nero, the arch-enemy, seems to sug- 
gest that the author wrote in Nero’s time, in which 
case it would become necessary to separate that portion 
of the book which reaches down to Hadrian, and upon 
this point scholars are greatly divided. The subject- 
matter is largely eschatological, but lacks compreben- | 
siveness of view, so that the author or compiler deals 
rather with the doom of particular cities and countries 
than with that of the world. 

b. Christian Elements . — Rook vi is a brief hymn on 
Jesus as the Son of God, which touches on his miracles, 
teachings, and death, and denounces a prophetic curse 
on the Sodom itic land which wove for him the crown 
of thorns. In connection with the baptism in Jordan, 
it introduces the fire mentioned in ancient gospels, and 
presents an idea of the dove greatly at variance with 
the canonical idea. It has been supposed that a form 
of gnosis is here revealed to our notice; but the ques- 
tion may depend for its answer on the connecting of 
this fragment with book vii. The latter also contains, 
among apparently disconnected oracles of threatening, 
a number of extended hymns on Christ, in which the 
baptism is again particularly referred to and a peculiar 
philosophy connected with it (the premundane Logos 
clothed with flesh by the Spirit), and in which, more- 
over, a ritual of sacrifice is recommended (v, 76) to 
which the Church was an entire stranger. The only 
historical allusion which might afford a hint respecting 
the age of the books is that in which it is said that 
“other Persians should reign” in the time of greatest 
trouble (the time then current?). The reference might 
perhaps apply to the beginning of the Sassanid rule. 

Rook viii deals more extensively with ideas peculiar 
to Christianity than any of those described. It is com- 
posed of fragments and devoid of unity, but the first 
half (ver. 1-360) makes the impression of a connected 
whole. It begins where book v left off, and assigns to 
Hadrian’s family three additional kings. A further ref- 
erence to a king of different family (Sept. Severus), with 
his sons, may be a later interpolation. The book is in- 
tended to be a prophetic portrayal of the last judg- 
ment, but it includes a rehearsal of the life of Jesus, 
with the famous lines, thirty -four in number, which 
are known as the Sibylline A c rustic (ver. 217-250) — 
the initial letters forming the words '1 //<to5c Xpeiarog 
(sic) Hcou vibe <nort)p (rravpog. They were early rec- 
ognised, e. g. by Eusebius and Augustine (Civ. Dei , 18, 
23); but it is evident that they originated with a later 
hand. Neither the first nor the last of the lines is in- 
dependent of the context in its structure. Lactautius 
cites at least one of the lines as having a different ini- 
tial letter. The number of the lines is in some copies 
limited to twenty-seven; and the form Xpeitrrog has no 
parallel. The less extended second half (ver. 361-501) 
contains nothing Sibylline in character, and is composed 
of fragments of Christian hymns. It is supposed to be- 
long to the close of the 4th century. 

Rooks i and ii are probably of later date than those 
already discussed. No Christian writer earlier than the 
5th century quotes from them, and they are remarkable 


because of the absence of all reference to Roman history. 
No definite fixing of their date is accordingly possible. 
They are distinguished by greater conformity to a set- 
tled plan than is found in the others, and doubtless owe 
to this quality the place they occupy at the head of the 
collection. The poem follows the outline of Genesis, 
from the creation and the fall of man, through succes- 
sive generations, to Noah and the deluge. The sibyl is 
here introduced into the history, and is identified with 
Noah’s daughter-in-law. After Noah the “golden age” 
opens, then that of the Titans, and later the Messianic. 
Three kings are said to reign in the golden age, who 
are identified by some critics with the sons of Kronos, 
and by others with the sons of Noah, or with the three 
patriarchs of early Hebrew history. The Titans are 
supposed to denote the entire series of heathen powers 
to the time of the Messiah. Rook i continues the his- 
tory through the destruction of .Jerusalem and to the 
final dispersion of the Jews, while book ii deals chiefly 
with the last judgment. It is apparent that a portion 
of the poem has been lost from between the two books 
as they now exist, and it would seem that the loss of 
that section has deprived us of all hope of ascertaining 
the time in which these books originated; but the facts 
that they were wholly unknown to the Church fathers, 
that even the sibyllomaniac Lactantius does not men- 
tion them, and that they are free from all trace of Chil- 
iasm compel criticism to assign their origin to a period 
later than that of the other books contained in the ear- 
lier collections. 

c. The more recently discovered books (xi-xiv) have 
not yet been thoroughly weighed in the scales of criti- 
cism, and opinions with regard to them are very diverse. 
Their contents are as follows: 

Rook xi begins at the deluge and the tower of Rabel, 
and follows the history down through the Egyptian, 
Persian, and Grecian dominions to the time of the Ro- 
man supremacy. In the progress of the poem Joseph 
and the exode are mentioned; and Homer, the Trojan 
war, Alexander and the Diadochi, the Ptolemies, Cleo- 
patra, Ciesar and his successors, with their relations to 
Egypt, are all referred to. The book closes with a re- 
quest from the sibyl for rest from the madness of inspi- 
ration, thus implying that it is the first part of a con- 
tinued poem. The religious element is not made prom- 
inent, though the author was evidently acquainted with 
sacred history. A peculiar wealth of chronological 
statements and reckonings characterizes the book. 

Rook xii begins with the reign of Augustus, and 
mentions the entire succession of Cesars, designating 
each individual by the numerical equivalent of his 
name, with the single exception of Alex. Severus. The 
absence of all reference to religions ideas is a very no- 
ticeable feature, though Vespasian is termed the anni- 
hilator of the righteous, and the coming of a K'prfitog 
Aayog vipirmw is mentioned (ver. 30 sq.), who may be 
the Messiah, as ver. 232 declares that in the reign of 
the first Roman sovereign “the word of the immortal 
God came upon the earth.” The earliest victories of 
the Sassanids over the Romans are mentioned, and a 
repeated prayer from the sibyl for rest closes the book. 

Much of the history of book xii is inexplicable to us, 
and the same is true of book xiii. It is fragmentary and 
Grief, and is almost exclusively devoted to Asiatic wars, 
the different Roman rulers being very indefinitely de- 
scribed. The situation of < Iriental countries during the 
second half of the 3d century appears to have been more 
familiar to the author than it can be to us. The book 
is like those mentioned in the absence of religious ref- 
erences, and closes in the usual form. 

Rook xiv is wholly inexplicable. Lists of emperors 
are given, but in such a manner as to render their iden- 
tification impossible. The internal character of the 
book might suggest the idea that its author was an 
Egyptian living in the reign of Gallienns, who framed 
the history of the world and of the emperors in Sibyl- 
line verses, and added to it a continuation drawn from 


SIBYLLISTS 


726 


SICIIEM 


his own resources. No religions, and especially no Mes- 
sianic, interest is apparent, unless the thought at the 
close (that after all of conflict shall be over, the earth 
shall enjoy undisturbed peace) might he regarded as 
Messianic. 

The collection and arrangement of the Sibylline Books 
were evidently the work of comparatively recent hands, i 
and were made in the interests of Christianity. Lac- 
tantius appears to have known them only as separate 
poems. Most of the manuscripts contain only the first 
eight books, and the differences of arrangement to be 
observed in them would indicate that, before the entire 
collection was completed, certain sections had been 
brought together. The loss of fragments and sections 
was the natural result of the scattered state in which 
the material existed; but the date of the last revision, | 
which preserved the books against further losses, is 
wholly unknown. 

3. Literature. — In addition to works mentioned in 
the body of this article, see Blondel, l)es Sibylles Cel'e- i 
bres taut par IWntiqnite Pa'ienne que par les S. Peres 
(1649); the elder Vossius, Be, Poet is Grcec. (1654); 
Schmid, JJe Sib. Orace. (1618); Boyle, J)e Sibyllis (1661); 
Neh ring, Deutsche Uebersetz . d. sibyll. Weiss. (1702); 
id. Vertheid. d. sibyll. Prophezeihunyen (1720); Vossius 
[Is.], De Oraec . Sibyll. (1680); Bleek, in the Beil, theol . 
A eitschr . 1810, pt. i and ii ; Liicke, Kinl. in d. Apoka- 
lypse (2d ed. 1852); Ewald, Entstehuuy, lnhalt u.Werth 
d. 14 sibyll. Bucher (1858); Diihne, Alexandr. Reli- 
yionsphilosophie (1834), ii, 228; Gfriirer, Philo (1831), 
ii, 121 sq. ; llilgenfeld, Jiid. Apokul . in Hirer yesch. | 
Entwickelung (1857), p. 51 sq. ; Thorlacius, Conspectus 
Doctr . Christ, qualis in Sibyl. Libr. Continent nr, in the 
AJisc. Ilafn. 1816, vol. i. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Sibyllists, a name of reproach given, in early 
times, to the Christians, because in their disputes with 
the heathen they sometimes made use of the authority 
of Sibylla, their own prophetess, against them (Origen, 
Cant. Celsum , lib. v, p. 272). They urged her writings 
with so much advantage to the Christian cause and 
prejudice to the heathen that Justin Martyr ( Apol . 2, 
p. 82) says the 1 Ionian governors made it death for any 
one to read them, or llvstaspes, or the 'writings of the 
prophets. See Bingham, Christ . Antiq. bk. i, ch. ii, § 6. 

Sicanus, in Grecian mythology, was the son of 
Neptune and a nymph from whom the island of Tri- 
nacria is said to have derived its name of Sicania (later 
Sicily). He is sometimes represented as the father of 
Proserpine by Ceres. 

Sicard, Rocn A.mukoise Citcitruox, cibbe of, a 
French philanthropist and educator, was born at Fousse- 
net, near Toulouse, Sept. 20, 1742, and succeeded the 
abbe L’l^pee as master of the deaf-and-dumb school in 
Paris in 1 789. lie had two narrow escapes during the [ 
Revolution, at which epoch he joined Jaullret in pub- ! 
fishing the Religious , Political, and Literary Annuls of 
France, lie wrote several works on the interesting sub- 
ject which chiefly occupied his attention, and in i860 es- 
tablished a printing-press for the use of his scholars. 1 Ic 
died in 1822. See 1] offer, Xour. Bioy. (Jenerale, s. v. 


character, the watchword of which was “ We have no 
lord nor master hut God,” and he boldly denounced the 
payment of tribute to Cresar, and all acknowledgment 
of any foreign authority, as treason against the princi- 
ples of the Mosaic constitution, and signifying nothing 
short of downright slavery. 11 is fiery eloquence anti 
the popularity of his doctrines drew vast numbers to his 
standard, by many of whom he was regarded as the 
Messiah (Origen, ffomil.in Luc. xxv), and the country 
was for a time entirely given over to the lawless depre- 
dations of the fierce and licentious throng who had 
joined themselves to him. But the might of Rome 
proved irresistible: Judas himself perished, and his fol- 
lowers were “dispersed,” though not entirely destroyed 
till the final overthrow of the city and nation. 

With his fellow-insurgent Sadoc, a Pharisee, Judas 
is represented by Josephus as the founder of a fourth 
sect, in addition to the Pharisees, Sadducees, and Es- 
senes (/1 m/. xviii, 1, 1, 6; War, ii, 8, 1). The only point 
which appears to have distinguished his followers from 
the Pharisees was their stubborn love of freedom, lead- 
ing them to despise torments or death for themselves 
or their friends rather than call any man master. 

The Gaulonites, as Judas’s followers were called, may 
be regarded as the doctrinal ancestors of the Zealots and 
Sicarii of later days, and to the influence of his tenets 
Josephus attributes all subsequent insurrections of the 
Jews and the final destruction of the city and Temple. 
James and John, the sons of Judas, headed an unsuc- 
cessful insurrection in the procuratorship of Tiberius 
Alexander, A.D. 47, by whom they were taken prison- 
ers and crucified. Twenty years later, A.D. 66, their 
younger brother, Menahem, following his father’s ex- 
ample, took the lead of a baud of desperadoes, who, af- 
ter pillaging the armory of Herod in the fortress of 
Masada, near the “gardens of Engaddi,” marched to 
Jerusalem, occupied the city, and after a desperate siege 
took the palace, where he immediately assumed the 
state of a king, and committed great enormities. As 
ho was going up to the Temple to worship, with great 
pomp, Menahem was taken by the partisans of Eleazar 
the high-priest, by whom he >vas tortured and put to 
death, Aug. 15, A.D. 66 (Milman, 1 list, of the Jews , ii, 
152, 231 ; Josephus, loc. cit. ; Origen, in Matt. T. xvii, 
§ 25. See Zelotes. 

Sichceus, ill Phoenician mythology, was the hus- 
band of Dido, queen of Carthage, whose brother Pyg- 
malion caused him to be murdered for his treasure. 
The disembodied spirit revealed the place in which the 
treasure was concealed to the widow and bade her fieo. 
She accordingly landed in Africa, and founded Carthage 
(Virgil, xKneid. i, 347, etc.; iv, 20, 502, etc.; vi, 474). 
Justin (xviii, 4) gives the name Acerbos to Dido’s hus- 
band, and states that Pygmalion himself was the mur- 
derer; that Dido fled his kingdom in order to escape 
from the scene which fed her grief, and that she was 
obliged to use stratagem to induce her attendants to 
refrain from delivering her up to the king. After 
touching at Cyprus, the final settlement was made at 
Carthage. — Vollmer, Wortevb. d. Mythol. s. v. 


Sicarii (<r ucdptoi, Gr;ecizod from the Lat. stearins, 
an assassin; “robber,” Acts xxi, 38; so Josephus, Ant. | 
xx, 8, 6; War , ii, 13, 5), the special title of a hand or 
sect of Jewish fanatics who fomented the last war with 
the Romans, and on t fie downfall of Masada retired to ' 
Egypt, where they still maintained their stubborn re- I 
sistancc to the Roman authority (ibid, vii, 10, 1). They 
only appear in the Now Test, in the person of Judas > 
(<j. v.) of Galilee, the leader of a popular revolt “in the 
days of the taxing” (i. e. the census, under the prasfec- j 
tore of P. Snip. <)uiriiniH, A.D. 6, A.IJ.C. 750), referred 
lo by Gamaliel in his speech before the Sanhedrim 
(Acts v, 37). According to Josephus (.la/, xviii, 1, 1), 
Judas was a Gaulonite of the city of Gamala, probably 
taking his name of Galiheau from his insurrection hav- 
ing had its rise in Galilee. II is revolt had a theocratic I 


Si'chem (an incorrect rendering [borrowed from 
the, Vulg.] of the name elsewhere Anglicized Siiechem 
[q. v.]) occurs in two passages of the A. V. 

1. In Gen. xii, 6 the unusual expression “the place 
of Siehem” may perhaps indicate that at that early age 
the city did not exist. The “oaks of Moroh” were 
there, but the town of Shecliem as yet was not; its 
“place” only was visited by the great patriarch. 

2. (T> ’ZiKifiouj; Vnlg. in Sicilians, Ecclns. 1, 26.) 
If there could be any doubt that the sou of Sirach was 
alluding in this passage to the Samaritans, who lived, 
as they still live, at Shecliem, it would be disproved by 
the characteristic pun which he has perpetrated on the 
word Murcli, the ancient name of Shecliem: “That 
foolish people (\ao£ pujpog) that dwell in Sichcra.” — 
Smith, 


SICILIAN VESPERS 


727 


SICKINGEN 


Sicilian Vespers, the name given to the insur- 
rection of Palermo, March 31, 1282. It was at a festi- 
val on Easter-Monday that a multitude of the inhabi- 
tants of Palermo and the neighborhood had thronged to 
the Church of the Holy Ghost, about half a mile out of 
the town. The religions service was over, and amuse- 
ments of all sorts were going gayly on, when a body of 
French soldiery appeared, under the pretext of keeping 
the peace. One of them offering an insult to the daugh- 
ter of Roger Mas trail gel o, he was immediately slain, and 
in the lighting which followed every one of the 200 
Frenchmen present was killed. The insurrection became 
general; 2000 French were slain. A government was 
hastily formed, the towns asserted their independence, 
and formed a league for mutual defence, and in one 
month Sicily was free; the French had disappeared. 
See Milman, Hist, of Latin Christianity , ii, 155 sq. 

Sicily, Council of ( Concilium Siculum ), was held 
in 865 or 3G6 by Eustathius, bishop of Sebaste, and the 
Oriental deputies, who convoked the bishops of the coun- 
try in order to contirm the faith as settled at Nictea and 
to nullify the proceedings at Ariminnm. The use of the 
term “consubstantial” was approved, and the bishops 
drew up a synodal letter after ttie form given by pope 
Liberius. See Mansi, ii, 830. — Landon, Manual of Coun- 
cils, s. v. 

Si emus, in Grecian mythology, was a son of Thoas, 
king of Lemnos, and a Naiad whom he learned to love 
while in the island of CEnoe. He colonized an island 
near Euboea, which received his name. See Sehol. Ad 
A pollon . Rhod. i, 624 ; Strabo, x. 484, 

Sick, Anointing of. See Extreme Unction. 

SICK, Care of, was one of the principal duties of 
the deaconesses (q. v.) in the apostolic age. 

SICK, Communion of tiie, is the celebration of the 
Lord’s supper in a private house for the benefit of one 
so ill as to be unable to attend the church. Of this 
there are many instances in antiquity. Paulinus. bish- 
op of Nola, caused the eucharist to be celebrated in his 
own chamber a few hours before his death. Gregory 
Nazianzen informs us that his father communicated in 
his own chamber; and Ambrose is said to have admin- 
istered the sacrament in a private house in Rome. It 
has been the constant usage of the Christian Church 
to permit persons dangerously sick to receive the sacra- 
ment in their own homes. The Church of England has 
a special office for the communion of the sick. See Hook, 
Church Diet. s. v. 

SICK, Visitation of. The sick being in special 
need of pastoral care, and the visitation of them being 
enjoined by divine authority (Matt, xxv, 36; James i, 
27 ; v, 14, 15), it is made by Christian churches a special 
duty of the clergy. The Church of England has a spe- 
cial order for it in her Book of Common Prayer. The 
usual office contains; 1. Supplications to avert evil, in 
the Salutation ami short Litany. 2. Prayer to procure 
good things, in the Lord’s Prayer and the two collects. 
8. Exhortations, prescribed in the large form of Exhor- 
tation; and directions in the rubric to advise the sick 
man to forgive freely, etc, 4. Consolations, in the Ab- 
solution, the Prayer, etc. There are also added Extraor- 
dinary Prayers and the Manner of Administering Com- 
munion. See Hook, Church Diet. s. v. 

Sickels, William, a Presbyterian minister, was born 
at Troy, N. Y., Aug. 20, 1795. He graduated at Jefferson 
College, Canonsburgh, Pa., in 1824, and at the theologi- 
cal seminary at Princeton, N. J., in 1827 ; was licensed 
by Winchester Presbytery, and ordained by the same, in 
1828; and then removed West and settled at Rushville, 
Ind. He subsequently preached at Washington, Shiloh, 
Bethany, and Hopewell, within the bounds of Indian- 
apolis Presbytery ; also at Connellsville, Pleasant, and 
Jefferson churches in Madison Presbytery. He died in 
Indianapolis, Ind., Aug. 9, 1864. Mr. Sickels was an 
able preacher, always instructive and interesting. He 


was known as a good man, a sound theologian, and a 
genial friend. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac, 1866, 
p. 169. (J. L.S.) 

Sickingen, Franz von, a noble and heroic charac- 
ter, living in the early period of the German Reforma- 
tion, and eminent because of the relation he sustained 
to that movement, was born May 1, 1481, in the Castle 
of Ebernburg, near Kreuznaeh, and in his young man- 
hood entered the armies of the emperor Maximilian, 
where he served until he had acquired fame and high 
rank as a military leader. lie was likewise engaged, 
however, in the less legitimate minor wars between the 
powerful nobles of Germany, which were then so com- 
mon, though his part generally consisted in protecting 
the weaker party and delivering the oppressed. Like 
others, too, of his day, he was often guilty of unneces- 
sary violence. In 1515 he compelled the city of Worms 
to receive back a number of citizens and councillors who 
had been banished during a dispute between the magis- 
trates and the public. He then turned his arms against 
the duke of Lorraine, and compelled the latter to pur- 
chase freedom from violence at the cost of fifty thousand 
florins and a mouth’s pay to Sickingen’s troops. Im- 
munity from punishment for such offences was secured 
through the necessity of retaining Sickingen’s skill and 
experience in the emperor’s service. Maximilian died 
in 15 19, and by that time Sickingen had become so im- 
portant a personage that the candidates for the imperial 
throne — Francis of France and Charles of Spain and 
Austria— both sought to obtain his support in their be- 
half. He decided in favor of the latter, and when his 
choice was ratified and Charles became emperor, June 
28, 1519, he threw himself with enthusiasm into the ser- 
vice of his new lord, and was made commander of the 
imperial armies, councillor, and chamberlain. As early 
as 1521 he was enabled to display his devotion to his 
new master in the field, under the command of count 
Henry of Nassau, in the abortive campaign against the 
Netherlands, when the successful defence of Mezieres by 
the chevalier Bayard compelled the retreat of the in- 
vading army. Sickingen’s next undertaking was in- 
tended to break down the despotism of the princes and 
the superciliousness of the clergy. He was chosen gen- 
eral leader by the nobles of the Upper Rhine, and gath- 
ered an army which he employed against the archbish- 
op of Treves, at first with some success, but ultimately 
to his own injury; as the protracted siege of Treves ex- 
hausted his resources and compelled his retreat, after 
having irritated the allied prinees — the elector-palatine, 
the landgrave Philip of I Jesse, and the archbishop — so 
that they followed him to his Castle of Landstuhl, near 
ZweibrUcken, and stormed that hold. A hostile bullet 
had, in the meantime, given Sickingen a mortal wound, 
so that he died at noon, May 7, 1523, while his chaplain 
was employed in ministering to him the consolations 
of religion. The hostile prinees bowed reverently and 
repeated a Pater-noster for the repose of his soul. He 
left five sons, who were hindered from taking possession 
of their patrimony during nineteen years, when a com- 
promise restored to them their own. His death made 
a profound impression through all Germany, and so 
startled Luther that he at first refused to credit the re- 
port of its occurrence, though he afterwards saw in the 
event a display of God’s wonderful and righteous judg- 
ments. See De Wette, Luther's Brief? , ii, 340, 341. 

Sickingen’s character was unquestionably marred by 
the faults of the chivalry of his time; but he was dis- 
tinguished bv fidelity to his pledges, devotion to his 
friends, courageous intervention in behalf of the op- 
pressed. lie did not receive the benefits of a liberal ed- 
ucation in his youth, but was, nevertheless, possessed of 
high culture when judged by the standard of his time; 
and he became a zealous promoter of learning and a pro- 
tector of scholars. Beuchlin (q. v.) found an asylum 
with him in April, 1519, when the hostile forces of the 
Suabian League entered Stuttgart, and again when the 
Dumiiiicans of Cologne were persecuting him by legal 


SICKLE 


728 


SICKNESS 


process. Still more noteworthy is the fact that Ulrich 
von llutteii (q. v.) resided in the Lbernburg during two 
years, and was thus able to inlhience his former comrade 
to look with favor on the Wittenberg Reformer and his 
work. It was through the inthiencc of Ilutten that 
Sickiugen was released from the fetters of scholasticism, 
and enabled to attain to a recognition of evangelical 
truth. Among Siekingen’s guests were Caspar Aquila, 
Martin Bucer, John CEcolampadius, and Joint Schwebel 
tq. v.), besides others of inferior rank, in such numbers 
that his halls came to be known as “Inns of Righteous- 
ness.” The result of the sojourn of so many reformatory 
spirits in the Lbernburg was apparent in the reform of 
t lie religious services in all of Sickingen’s castles, which 
work was executed, before the expedition to Treves, bv 
(Kcolampadius. Sickiugen endeavored to promote the 
cause of the Reformation with his pen as well as with 
the force of his public and private authority. A Send- 
schreiben (given in Munch, Fr. von Sickinycn, ii, 132- 
130) addressed to his brother-in-law Dietrich von 
1 landschuchsheim aims to show that the Reformation 
is simply a restoration of primitive Christianity, and to 
set forth the author’s views respecting the Lord’s sup- 
per, the mass, eelibaev, and monasticism, the saints and 
images. lie also wrote an Essay on the question 
“Whether it be advisable for the protesting princes of 
the Holy Roman Empire to conclude a universal or par- 
ticular treaty of peace with the pope?” (see Jbcher, Ge- 
lehrten- Lexikon , iv, 5G9. 

See Leodius [ Hubert ], .1 eta et Gesta Fr.de Sick., in 
Erclier, Scriptt. Rev. Germ, iii, 295 sq. ; Spangeuberg, 
A delsspieyel, ii, 44; Sturm, Anyenzeuye n. Herald bei 
Eraberuny von Sickinyen's Huryen ; Seckendorf, Com- 
ment. Hist, et Apoloy. de Lutheranismo (Franco!’. et Lips. 
1092, 4to), i; Rlanck, Gesch. d. prat . Lehrbeyrifs, ii, 150 
sq.; Munch, Fr. von Sickinyen's That en, Plane, Freunde 
n. .1 usgung (Stuttg. 1827, 1828, 2 pts. [pt. ii contains the 
sources]) ; Strauss, Ulrich von Ilutten (Leips. 1858, 1800, 
3 pts.), — Herzog, Reul-Encyklop. s. v. 

Sickle ( chermesh, a reaping -hook, Deut. 
xvi, 9; xxiii,25 [20]; ^5*9, maydl, a reaping-knife, Jer, 
vii, 10; Joel iii [iv], 13, ^pkiravov'), the instrument usu- 
ally employed for cutting grain. See Agkicultuke; 
IIauvlst; Reaping. 



Sickles, Jacoi;, D.D., a Dutch Reformed minister, 
was horn at Tappan, N. V., in 1772. graduated from Co- 
lumbia College in 1792, and prepared for the ministry 
under Drs. S. Froeligh and J. 11. Livingston. He was 
distinguished as a linguist, both in classical and modern 
tongues. After liis licensure, in 1791, he became assis- 
tant to Rev. Dr. Theodoric Romeyn, pastor of the Re- 
formed Church in Schenectady. Two years subse- 
quently he settled over the United churches of Cux- 
sackie and Coeymans, N. V. In 179* he went, hv ap- 
pointment of the General Synod, on a tour of missionary 
exploration among the settlements on the frontier of 
New York and on the Susquehanna ; and in I MOD made 
a similar tour among the elmrehes of his denomination 
in Canada, lie removed to the large and important 
Church of Kiuderhook, N. Y., in 1*07, of which he was 
pastor until 1*35. Here, with a territory which now 
contains live or six congregations that are oflishoots of 
the still vigorous mother Church, lie labored with un- 


tiring zeal and uniform success, until the infirmities of 
age compelled him to resign. About twenty annually 
were added to the Church during his long ministry. 
His most striking traits of character were “his conde- 
scension, love of evangelical truth, gravity, and mental 
independence.” He was everywhere, and always, the 
minister of Christ. ‘ His piety was paramount; his 
daily walk was with God; lie preached, as unbelievers 
admitted, every hour of his life.” As a preacher Dr. 
Sickles was argumentative, exact, ornate, and classical 
in style; calm, deliberate, and impressive in delivery; 
pointed, terse, and practical in his applications of truth. 
In 1*11 his ministry was blessed with a remarkable re- 
vival of religion, particularly among the young. He 
was active in promoting missions, temperance, and other 
benevolent agencies of his time. His latter years wore 
passed in dignified retirement from duties which he 
could no longer perform. Tow ards the last his mental 
powers failed utterly, and he died, a patriarch among 
his flock, Jan. 19, 1*48, having been fifty-four years in 
the ministry, lie left no printed remains. See Sprague, 
A tmals of the A mer. Pulpit, s. v.; Van Zandt [Rev. B.], 
Memorial Sermon . (V'. J. R. 4'.) 

Sickness (usually some form of «"!2n, to be ivorn 
down; derSeveio). The climate of Palestine and the 
adjoining countries is, on the whole, conducive to 
health (Tacitus, Hist, v, 0, 2), and with regularity of 
habits the natives do not sillier much from maladies 
(Niebuhr, Peschr. p. 129). When these do occur they 
are usually of short duration. A list of the more se- 
vere diseases occurs in Lev. xxvi, 10; Dent, xxviii, 
22. in summer dysentery prevails (Acts xxviii, 8); 
in spring and autumn fever (Matt, viii, 14; Luke iv, 
39; John iv, 52; Acts xxviii, 8; comp. Josephus, Life, 
ii ; see Russel, Aleppo, ii, 137; Burckhardt, Arab. 
p. 0 1 5 ; also the Medic.-herm. Cntei’suchunyen, p.348 sq.). 
The latter is specially designated as rpib'n, dalleketh, 
■KvptToq, or inflammation (Deut. xxviii, 22). A pecul- 
iar name is rrn£, kaddehath (“burning ague,” Lev. 
xxvi, 10; “fever,” Deut. xxviii, 22), which the Sept, 
renders iKTfpoc, some acute disease (see Schleusner, 
Thesaur. iii, 100). Mention is also made of consump- 
tion (rSTO, shaehepheth, Lev. loc . cit.), apoplexy (1 
Mace, ix, 55 sq.), sunstroke (Judith viii, 3 [? 2 Kings 
iv, 19]; comp. Jolifte, Trar. p. 7), hypochondria (1 
Sam. xviii, 10); but epilepsy, paralysis, and especially 
cutaneous disorders [see Lepkosv], as likew4.se blind- 
ness, w r ere very common. The most destructively rag- 
ing was the plague (q.v.) Mental diseases (madness, 
of a melancholy type; comp. 1 Sam. xvi. 23) 
were prevalent in New-Test, times. See Possessed. 
The venereal disease, which prevailed in the Old World, 
although in a milder type than since the Crusades (Tlcns- 
Icr, Gesch. d. Lustseuche [Altona, 1783]; Sicklcr, in Au- 
gusti’s Theol. Platt, i, 193 sq.), has been thought to be 
indicated in the form of Gonorrhaa rirulenta in Lev. xv, 
3 (sec Michaelis, Mas. Recht, iv. 282 sq. ; Oriental. Pibli- 
oth. xxii, 2 sq. ; 1 lehenstreit, Citric Sunitatis Publ. ap. 
Vett. Exemplu [Lips. 1779], ii, 15 sq.) and in 2 Sam. iii, 
29; but this is a strained interpretation. See Issue. 
Another disease of the private parts is mentioned in 1 
Sam. v (see Beyer, He Ha mnrrhoidibus cx Lege Mas. hn - 
par. [Lips. 1792]; Sprengcl, A/tfm/.iii,29). See H.kmok- 
hiioids. Jelmrum’s disease (2 (Jhron. xxi, 12 sq.) prob- 
ably w as a severe chronic dysentery of a bloody charac- 
ter. The Sept, seems to indicate the cholera in Numb, 
xi, 10 by the word (see Warn rucli, Pisgnis. Med. 
Choler<r,cujns Mentio in Sacris Pibliis Occnrvit [Vienna, 
1833]); but the term denotes netnsea in general. The 
Mishnn occasionally notices various maladies, e. g. in 
Toma, viii, 0 the bulimmia ( ), or greediness, 

which is a frequent concomitant of other diseases. For 
the bite of a rabid dog -^-), the caul of the 

liver of the animal seems sometimes to have been used 


SICKSA 


729 


SIC YON I A 


as a remedy (see Colin, De Medicina Talmud. [Vratis- 
lav. 1846]; of no account is Goldmann, Diss. de Rel. 
J led. r. T. [ibid. 1845]). In general, see Wed el, Exerci- 
tatt. Afed.-philolog. Sacraz et Profame (Jen. 1686, 1704); 
Schmidt, Bibl. Medicus (Zullichau, 1743); Reinhard, 
Bibelkrankheiten (Frankf. and Leips. 1767, 3 vols. 8vo); 
Michaelis, Philologmata Medlca (Hal. 1758) ; Mead, Med- 
ico Sacra (Lond. 1749) ; Ackermann, Erlciut . d. Krunk- 
heiten im X. T. ( in Weisse’s Material f Gottesgel. «. 
Relig. [Gera, 1784], ii, 57 sq. ; iii, 124 sq.; iv, 73 sq.) ; 
Simpler, Short Exposition of Diseases in the Sacred 
Writings (Lond. 1834). — Winer, i, 673. See Disease; 
Medicine. 

Sicksa, in Slavic mythology, was a mocking sylvan 
sprite who possessed the power of assuming any form, 
but delighted particularly in those shapes which in- 
volved the extreme of startling oddity. 

Sicyon, in Grecian mythology, was a son of Mara- 
thon, Metion, Erechtheus, or Pelops, and the husband 
of Xeurippe, daughter of king Lamedon of Sicyon. The 
town was named Mecone or^Egiate, but is said to have 
received its subsequent name from him (see Pausan. ii, 
1,1; vii, 2, 3 ; Strabo, viii, 382). 

Sic'yon (Suevwi'), a city mentioned with several 
others [see Phaselis] in 1 Macc. xv, 23 as those to 
which the Romans sent a decree in favor of the Jews. 
The name is derived from a Punic root ( sdk , sik, or sok), 
which always implies a periodical market; and the orig- 
inal settlement was probably one to which the inhabi- 
tants of the narrow strip of highly fertile soil between 
the mountains and the southern shore of the Corinthian 
Gulf brought their produce for exportation. The oldest 
name of the town on the coast (the Sicyon of the times 
before Alexander) was said to have been AiyiaXjj , or 
AiyiaAoL This was perhaps the common native name, 
‘and Sicyon that given to it by the Phoenician traders, 
which would not unnaturally extrude the other as the 
place acquired commercial importance. It is this Sicy- 
on, on the shore, which was the seat of the government 
of the Orthagorids, to which the Clisthenes celebrated 
by Herodotus (v, 67) belonged. The commercial con- 
nection of the Sicyon of the Orthagorids with Phoenicia 
is shown by the quantity of Tartessian brass in the 
treasury of the Orthagorid Myron at Olympia. The 
Phoenician (Carthaginian) treasury was next to it 
(Pausan. vi, 19, 1). But the Sicyon referred to in the 
book of Maccabees is a more recent city, built on the 
site which served as an acropolis to the old one, and was 
distant from the shore from twelve to twenty stadia. 
Demetrius Poliorcetes, in B.C. 303, surprised the gar- 
rison which Ptolemy had five years before placed 
there, and made himself master of the harbor and the 
lower town. The acropolis was surrendered to him, 
and he then persuaded the population, whom he re- 
stored to independence, to destroy the whole of the 
buildings adjacent to the harbor and remove thither, 
the site being one much more easily defensible, especial- 
ly against any enemy who might attack from the sea. 
Diodorus describes the new town as including a large 
space so surrounded on every side by precipices as to be 
unapproachable by the machines which at that time 
were employed in sieges, and as possessing the great 
advantage of a plentiful supply of water within its cir- 
cuit. Modern travellers completely confirm his account. 
Mr. Clark, who in 1857 descended upon Sicyon from “a 
ridge of hills running east and west, and commanding a 
splendid prospect of both the [Corinthian and Saronic] 
gulfs and the isthmus between,” after two hours and a 
half of riding from the highest point, came to a ruined 
bridge, probably ancient, at the bottom of a ravine, and 
then ascended the right bank by a steep path. Along 
the crest of this hill he traced fragments of the western 
wall of Sicyon. The mountain which he had descended 
did not fall towards the sea in a continuous slope, but 
presented a succession of abrupt descents and level ter- 
races, severed at intervals by deep rents and gorges, 


down which the mountain- torrents make their way to 
the sea, spreading alluvium over the plain, about two 
miles in breadth, which lies between the lowest cliffs 
and the shore. “ Between two such gorges, on a smooth 
expanse of table-land overlooking the plain,” stood the 
city of Demetrius. “On every side are abrupt cliffs, 
and even at the southern extremity there is a lucky 
transverse rent separating this from the next plateau. 
The ancient walls may be seen at intervals along the 
edge of the cliff on all sides.” It is easy to conceive 
how these advantages of position must at once have 
fixed the attention of the great engineer of antiquity — 
the besieger. 

Demetrius established the forms of republican gov- 
ernment in his new city; but republican government 
had by that time become an impossibility in Hellas. In 
the next half century a number of tyrants succeeded 
one another, maintaining themselves by the aid of mer- 
cenaries, and by temporizing with the rival sovereigns, 
who each endeavored to secure the hegemony of the 
Grecian race. This state of things received a tem- 
porary check bv the efforts of Aratus, himself a native 
of Sicyon, of which his father Clinias for a time be- 
came dynast. In his twentieth year, being at the time 
in exile, he contrived to recover possession of the city 
and to unite it with the Achaean league. This was 
in B.C. 251, and it appears that at this time the 
Dorian population was so preponderant as to make the 
addition of the town to a confederation of Aclueans a 
matter of remark. For the half century before the 
foundation of the new city, Sicyon had favored the anti- 
Lacechemonian party in Peloponnese, taking active part 
with the Messenians and Argives in support of Mega- 
lopolis, which Epaminondas had founded as a counter- 
check to Sparta. 

The Sicyonian territory is described as one of singu- 
lar fertility, which was probably increased by artificial 
irrigation. In the changeful times which preceded the 
final absorption of European Hellas by the Romans it 
was subject to plunder by any party who had the com- 
mand of the sea; and in B.C. 208 the Roman general 
Sulpicius, who had a squadron at Naupactus, landed be- 
tween Sicyon and Corinth (probably at the mouth of 
the little river Nemea, which was the boundary of the 
two states), and was proceeding to harass the neighbor- 
hood, when Philip, king of Macedonia, who was then at 
Corinth, attacked him and drove him back to his ships. 
But very soon after this Roman influence began to pre- 
vail in the cities of the Achaean league, which were in- 
stigated by dread of Nabis, the dynast of Lacedaunon, to 
seek Roman protection. One congress of the league 
was held at Sicyon under the presidency of the Romans 
in B.C. 198, and another at the same place six years 
later. From this time Sicyon always appears to have 
adhered to the Roman side, and on the destruction of 
Corinth by Mummius (B.C. 146) was rewarded by the 
victors not only with a large portion of the Corinthian 
domain, but with the management of the Isthmian 
games. This distinction was again lost when Julius 
Ca?sar refouuded Corinth and made it a Roman colony; 
but in the meanwhile Sicyon enjoyed for a century all 
the advantages of an entrepot which had before accrued 
to Corinth from her position between the two seas. 
Even in the days of the Antonines the pleasure-grounds 
(re/i ej'oc;) of the Sicyonian tyrant Cleon continued ap- 
propriated to the Roman governors of Achaia; and at 
the time to which reference is made in the Maccabees 
it was probably the most important position of all over 
which the Romans exercised influence in Greece (Dio- 
dorus Siculus, xv, 70: xx, 37, 102; Polybius, ii, 43; 
Strabo, viii, 7, 25; Livy, xxxii, 15, 19; xxxv, 25; 
Pausan. ii, 8; v, 14, 9; vi, 19, 1-6, x, 11, 1). — 
Smith. See Clark, Peloponnesus , p, 338 sq. ; Smith, 
Diet, of Class. Geog. s. v. 

Sicyonia, in Grecian mythology, was, 1, an appel- 
lative of Venus, derived from her temple at Sicyon, 
where she was represented in a statue of gold and 


SIDA 


730 


SIDE 


ivory— apparently the famous Venus Yictrix, since, ac- 
cording to Pausanias, it held in its hand an apple; 2, 
a surname of Minerva, to whom Epopeus erected a tem- 
ple after his victory over the Thebans. 

Sida, in Grecian mythology, was the wife of Orion, 
who was banished by Juno to Hades because she pre- 
tended to be more beautiful than the goddess (A polled, 
i, 4. 3). j 

Sid'dim, Vale of (Ileb, E'mek has -Siddim ', 
y Sept. t) <papay!£ i) aXvKi ), and >) KoiXdg 
y uXvKt ) ; Yulg. Wallis Silvestris), a place mentioned in 
Gen. xiv, 3, 8, 10 as the scene of the encounter between 
Chedorlaomer and the tive confederate kings of the plain 
of the Dead Sea. (In the following account we chiefly 
follow that of Dr. Porter in Kitto’s Cyclopedia.') 

1. The Xame. — The word Siddim appears to be from 

the root TTi', stiddd, “ to be straight or level.” The 
singular TJ or {“Hip would thus signify “a level field;” 
and the phrase Emtk Siddim “the valley of 

fields.” Prof. Stanley conjectures ( Sin. and Pal.) that 
Siddim is connected with !TT,1\ sadeh, “a field,” and 
that the signification of the name was thus direct- 
ly the “valley of the fields,” so called from the high 
state of cultivation in which it was maintained before 
the destruction of Sodom and the other cities. Gese- 
nius expresses his conviction (bv inference from the 
Arabic sad, "an obstacle”) that the real meaning of the 
words E/nek has-Siddim is a plain cut up by stony 
channels which render it difficult of transit;” and with 
this agree Fiirst (// andwb . ii. 411 b) and Kaliseh (Gen- 
esis, p. 355). Perhaps more accurately the word may 
in this sense be derived from “HIT, saddd , “to harrow.” 
See Kaliseh, loc cit ., who, however, disapproves of such 
a derivation, and adheres to that of Gesenius. 

The following are the equivalents of the name given 
in the ancient versions: Samar. Vers., PPpbn *lL‘ n, 2; 
Onkelos, 5<^5pn ; Saadias, merj el-hakul; Peshi- 

to, umeka di-sedume ; Aquila, kolXuq rwi< 7rfpnrt$tviov, 
Symm. and Theod., KoiXug tojv ciXaiui' (=nilL , S) ; Jo- 
sephus, <J>p6or« ug'PuXtov ; Jerome (Quest, in Gen.), 
Will Li Salinarnm, The authors of the Sept, probably 
thought that the clause “which is the Salt Sea” was 
explanatory of the word Siddim, which they therefore 
rendered >} uXvki). Or perhaps they may have read 
- " instead of -"'Ti'n ; and aXmct) may be an error 
for uXaiKog = dXaiodifc, “wooded;” a view corroborated 
by the Vulgate, which has silcestris ; and by the read- 
ing of Symmaehus and Theodotion, rm> eiXmov. 

2. Topographical Indications. — The word rendered 

“vale” is in Hebrew pp^’. enuk\ which means a low or 
sunken tract, of land. See Valley. It was probably a 
section of the Arabah somewhat lower than the rest; 
l>crhaps resembling the plain of Sabkah at the southern 
end of the Dead Sea. It was “full of bitumen-pits;” 
or, as the Hebrew idiom expresses it, it was “wells, 
wells of bitumen” (““Cn r^XH). They are so 

numerous as to stud its whole surface (Gen. xiv, 10). 
It was the battle- field on which the king of Sodom and 
his allies were vanquished. It seems probable, though 
it is not stated, that Sodom and Gomorrah were situated 
in the vale. He this as it may, the vale was included 
in the general destruction when “the Lord rained upon 
Sodom and upon Gomorrah brimstone ami lire from the 
Lord in heaven” (xix, 24). 

Hut the most remarkable faet regarding the vale of 
Siddim is that stated in Gen. xiv, 3, “it is the. Halt Sea” 
^ X'H), The moaning of these words cannot 
bo mistaken ; and we have no more ground for ques- 
tioning their genuineness than for questioning the gen- 
uineness of any other passage in Genesis. There is 
abundant evidence that the book us it now stands was 
the production of Moses, lie may have embodied in it 


authentic documents banded down from a remoter age, 
arranging and supplementing them as he deemed neces- 
sary. Hut his additions would be as authoritative as 
the documents themselves. Until we can prove from 
clear evidence that the clause was interpolated by an 
uninspired writer, we must regard it as an integral part 
of the Mosaic record, and we must believe that the vale 
of Siddim was submerged. 

3. Probable Identification . — If we understand, there- 
fore, the latter clause of ver. 3 to designate a part of 
what was afterwards known as “the Salt Sea,” then we 
must agree with Dr. Kobinson and others in identifying 
the Valley of Siddim with the enclosed plain which in- 
tervenes between the south end of the lake and the 
range of heights which terminate the Ghdr and com- 
mence the Wady Arabah. This is a district in many 
respects suitable. In the ditches and drains of the 
Sabkah are the impassable channels of Gesenius. In 
the thickly^ wooded Ghnr es-Salieh are ample conditions 
for the fertility of Prof. Stanley. The general aspect 
and formation of the plain answer fully to the idea of 
an cmek. The most careful explorations of recent trav- 
ellers have not brought to light a single fact calculated 
to overthrow this view. On the contrary, the following 
results of scientific research go far to establish it. At 
the present day there are no bitumen-pits in the plains 
around the Dead Sea, and time could not have effaced 
them had they remained above water. It has been as- 
certained, from masses of bitumen frequently thrown to 
the surface, that there must be wells of bitumen in the 
bed of the sea towards its southern end. Traces of 
what appears to have been “a shower of sulphur” have 
’ been discovered recently on the south-west shore; and 
! with it are layers and lumps of bitumen calcined by 
heat. The section of the Dead Sea south of el-Lisan 
has been found to be very shallow’— only a few feet, and 
J in places only a few inches of water covering a flat, 

! slimy plain — whereas the whole northern section is a 
deep and regularly formed basin. These facts would 
seem at least to suggest that that section of the Dead 
Sea which is south of the peninsula covers the region 
which was called in Lot’s time “the vale of Siddim.” 
Josephus states this view emphatically. His words 
(Ant. i. 9) are, “They encamped in the valley called the 
Wells of Asphalt; for at that time there were wells in 
that spot; but now that the city of the Sodomites has 
disappeared, that valley has become a lake which is 
called Asphaltites.” See also Strabo, xvi, 7(14. See 
Salt Sea ; Sodom. 

Si'de (2icb/, Yulg. Side), a city on the coast of 
Pamphylia, in lat. 3(1° 4(>', long. 31° 27', ten or twelve 
miles to the east of the river Eurvmedon. It is men- 
tioned in 1 Macc. xv, 23 among the list of places to 
which the ltoman senate sent letters in favor of the 
Jews. See Puaselis. It was a colony of Cumaeans. 
In the time of Strabo a temple of Athene stood there, 
and the name of that goddess associated with Apollo 
appears in an inscription of undoubtedly late times found 
on the spot by Admiral Beaufort. It is now called 
Eshky A dalia. Side was closely connected with Aradus 
in Phivuicia by commerce, even if there was not a con- 
siderable Phienieian element in the population; for not 
only are the towns placed in juxtaposition in the passage 
of the Maccabees quoted above, but Antiochus’s ambas- 
sador to the Aohienn league (Livy, xxxv, 48), when 
boasting of his master’s navy, told his hearers that the 
left division was made up of men of Side and of Aradus, 
ns t lie right was of those of Tyre and of Sidon, “quas 
gentes nulhe unqtiam nee arte nec virtute navali tequas- 
seut.” It is possible that the mime has the same root 
as that of Sidon, and that it (as well as the. Side on the 
southern coast of the Kuxine [Strabo, xii, 3J) was orig- 
inally a Plueuieian settlement, and that the Cumiean 
colony was something subsequent. In the times in 
which Side appears in history it. had become a place of 
considerable importance. It was the station of Antio- 
chus’s navy on the eve of the battle with the Khodian 


SIDEROMANCY 


Y31 


SIDONIUS 


fleet described by Livy (xxxvii, 23, 24). The remains, 
too, which still exist are an evidence of its former 
wealth. They stand on a low peninsula running from 
north-east to south-west, and the maritime character 
of the former inhabitants appears from the circumstance 
that the walls towards the sea were but slightly built, 
while the one which faces the land is of excellent work- 
manship, and remains, in a considerable portion, perfect 
even to this time. A theatre (belonging apparently to 
t he Roman times) is one of the largest and best pre- 
served in Asia Minor, and is calculated to have been 
capable of containing more than 1 5,000 spectators. This 
is so prominent an object that, to persons approaching 
the shore, it appears like an acropolis of the city, and, 
in fact, during the Middle Ages, was actually occupied 
as a fort. The suburbs of Side extend to some distance, 
but the greatest length within the walls does not ex- 
ceed 1300 yards. Three gates led into the town from 
the sea, and one, on the north-eastern side, into the 
country. From this last a paved street with high curb- 
stones conducts to an agora, 180 feet in diameter, and 
formerly surrounded with a double row of columns, of 
which only the bases remain. In the centre is a large 
ruined pedestal, as if for a colossal statue, and on the 
southern side the ruins of a temple, probably the one 
spoken of by Strabo. Opposite to this a street ran to 
tiie principal water-gate, and on the fourth side of the 
agora the avenue from the land-gate was continued to 
the front of the theatre. Of this last the lower half is, 
after the manner of Roman architects whenever the site 
permitted, excavated from the native rock, the upper 
half built up of excellent masonry. The seats for the 
spectators, most of which remain, are of white marble, 
beautifully wrought. 

The two principal harbors, which at first seem to have 
been united in one, were at the extremity of the penin- 
sula: they were closed, and together contained a sur- 
face of nearly 500 yards by 200. Besides these, the 
principal water-gate on the north-west side was con- 
nected with two small piers 150 feet long, so that it is 
plain that vessels used to lie here to discharge their 
cargoes. The account which Livy gives of the sea-fight 
with Antiochus, above referred to, also shows that shel- 
ter could also be found on the other (or south-east) side 
of the peninsula whenever a strong west wind was 
blowing. 

The country by which Sidb is backed is a broad 
swampy plain, stretching out for some miles beyond the 
belt of sand-hills which fringe the sea-shore. Low hills 
succeed, and behind these, far inland, are the mountains 
which, at Mount Climax, forty miles to the west, and 
again about the same distance to the east, come down 
to the coast. These mountains were the habitation of 
the Pisidians, against whom Antiochus, in the spring 
of B.C. 192, made an expedition; and as Side was in 
the interest of Antiochus until, at the conclusion of the 
war, it passed into the hands of the Romans, it is rea- 
sonable to presume that hostility was the normal re- 
lation between its inhabitants and the highlanders, to 
whom they were probably objects of the same jealousy 
that the Spanish settlements on the African seaboard 
inspire in the Kabvles round about them. This would 
not prevent a large amount of traffic, to the mutual in- 
terest of both parties, but would hinder the people of 
Side from extending their sway into the interior, and 
also render the construction of effective fortifications 
oil the land side a necessity. (Strabo, xii. xiv; Livy, 
xxxv, xxxvii; Cicero, Epp. ad Fam. iii, II.) — Smith. 
See Fellows, Asia Minor , p. 201; Leake, Asia Minor, 
p. 195; Beaufort, Kara mania, p. 14G sip 

Sideromancy (it idrjpoc, iron, and pavrsia, divi- 
nation), a mode of divination anciently practiced by 
placing straws on red-hot iron, and drawing inferences 
as to the will of the gods from the manner of their 
burning. See Divination. 

Sidesmen (properly synod's-men ; also called quest- 


men). It was usual for bishops in their visitations to sum- 
mon some credible persons out of every parish, whom 
they examined on oath concerning the condition of the 
Church. Afterwards, these persons became standing of- 
ficers, especially in the great cities; and when personal 
visitations were a little disused, and when it became the 
custom for the parishioners to repair the body of the 
church (about the 15th century), these officers were still 
more necessary. They are chosen every year, accord- 
ing to the custom of the place, and their business is to as- 
sist the church-wardens in things relating to the church, 
and to make presentment of such matters as are punish- 
able by the ecclesiastical laws. Hence they are called 
questmen. The whole office now generally devolves 
upon the church-wardens. Sithcondmen and sitheundmen 
were old English terras for sidesmen. See Iiook, Church 
Diet. s. v. 

Sidgrani, in Norse mythology, was a surname of 

Odin. 

Sidha, in Hindu mythology, designates a large class 
of good and strikingly beautiful genii. The latter qual- 
ity is indicated by the name. 

Sidharta, the name of Gotama (q. v.) before he be- 
came a Buddha. For interesting traditions concerning 
Sidharta, sec Hardy, Eastern Monachism, p. 2,3,37,271, 
325. 

Sidhoete, in Norse mythology, was a surname of 
Odin, derived from a hat descending low over the fore- 
head, in which he was accustomed to conceal his face 
when associating with men. 

Sidney, Marv, countess of Pembroke , was the sis- 
ter of Sir Philip Sidney, and married Honrv, earl of 
Pembroke, in 157G. She died in London, Sept. 25, 1G01. 
The countess possessed a talent for poetical composition, 
and translated from the Hebrew many of the Psalms, 
said to be preserved in the library at Wilton, and in 
this was assisted by her brother. She also translated 
(from the French of P. jVIornay) and published .1 Dis- 
course of Life and Death (Wilton, 1590; Loud. 1G00, 
12mo). She wrote an Elegy on her brother: — A Pas- 
toral Dialogue in Praise of A strain (i. e. queen Eliza- 
beth [ 1002]): — and a poem, Our Saviour's Passion 
(Sloanian IMS. No. 1303, British Museum). 

Si'don (i'iCwj'), the Greek form (2 Esdr. i, 1 1 ; Ju- 
dith ii.28; 1 Macc. v, 15; Matt, xi, 21,22; xv,2I ; Mark 
iii, 8; vii, 24, 31 ; Luke iv, 2G; vi, 17 ; x, 13, 14; Acts 
xii. 20; xxviii, 3) of the city called in the Heb. (but in 
the A. V. “Sidon,” also in Gen. x, 15, 19) Zidon (q. v.), 
or rather Tsidon. 

Sido'man(2tCc5nor), the Greek form of the gentile 
Zidonian (q. v.), usually so exhibited in the A. V. of 
the Old Test, (Dent, iii, 9 ; Josh, xiii, 4, G ; Judg. iii, 3 ; 
1 Kings v, 6). 

Sidonius, Caius Sollius, Atollinaris Moi>es- 
tus, a learned ecclesiastic, was born probably in Lyons 
about 431. lie was educated with care, and became 
very skilful in all parts of literature, especially in poet- 
ry. He married Pampianilla, the daughter of Avitus, 
afterwards emperor. When the city of Lyons was tak- 
en by Majorian, the latter treated Sidonius with great 
consideration, and in return for his lenient treatment he 
wrote a poem in honor of Majorian, by whom he was 
created a count and sent to govern the Gallic province 
of Arles, lie also erected a statue to Sidonius in the 
city of Rome. In 4G7 he went to Rome as ambassador 
of the Arverni, and so pleased the reigning emperor, An- 
themius, by a panegyric on him, as to be made governor 
of the city and honored with a second statue. In 472 
he was chosen bishop of Clermont (Averiium), and 
though only a layman, fulfilled his duties faithfully and 
strenuously opposed Arianism. lie died in 487. Of his 
works, nine books of Epistles, with about twenty-four po- 
ems interspersed, arc still extant. They were published 
in Milan (1498) and Paris (1014); republished by Labbfi 
in 1G52 (the best edition). See Chalmers, Biog . Did. s. v. 


SIDONIUS 


732 


SIEVEKING 


Sidonius, Michael, a prelate of the Church of 
Home who became noteworthy through his participation 
in many of the most important transactions connect- 
ed with the Reformation, but whose family name was 
/hiding, was born in Baden in 150l‘>, studied at Tubin- 
gen, and entered the priesthood at Mayence, where he 
became cathedral preacher and rector of the cathedral 
school in 1531. In 1538 he was made suffragan to the 
archbishop of Mayence, and received from pope Paul 
III the title of bishop of Sidon in partibus infddium , 
which gave him the name of Sidonius, by which he is 
commonly known. The Theological Faculty of May- 
cnoe conferred the degree of D.I). on him in 1543, and 
afterwards he for a time represented the elector of May- 
ence in the Council of Trent. In 1547 he w'as made 
imperial councillor by Charles V. He took possession 
<>f the pulpit of the reformer Musculus during the Diet 
of Augsburg, and from it preached a series of anti-Lu- 
theran sermons (Sleidani de Statu Rel. etc. [Frank f. 
1780]). In 1548 he served with Jul. v. Ptlug, bishop 
of Naumburg, and with .Job. Agricola, the court preach- 
er at Ei.deben. on the commission which drew up the 
Augsburg Interim (q. v.), after which he was sent by 
his archbishop to promote the execution of the Interim 
at Frankfort. Prince George of Anhalt was at this time 
coadjutor of the bishopric of Merseburg, having been 
chosen by a majority of the canons; but the emperor 
declared against him and nominated Sidonius in his 
stead (Seckendorf, Comment, de, Lutheranismo [Lips. 
13114], lib. iii, c. 30, § 117, p. 407 sq.), though the oppo- 
sition raised against the measure delayed his investiture 
until 1550. In that year Sidonius was present at the 
Diet of Augsburg, in 155G at that of Regensburg, in 

1557 at the Colloquy of Worms, where he contributed 
according to his ability to render reconciliation impos- 
sible by bis addresses, and bv introducing at the sixth 
session a rejoinder to a declaration of facts submitted by 
the Protestants, in which he not only defended the tra- 
ditional teachings and practice of Rome, but also as- 
serted that the interpretation of difficult and contro- 
verted passages of Scripture belongs rightfully to the 
Romish ( ’liureli. The Romish collocutors finally refused 
to continue the negotiations (Salig, Valid. Hist. d. A ugsb. 
Con/, [llallc, 1735], iii, 292 sip). To the honors al- 
ready enjoyed by Sidonius was added by the emperor in 

1558 the office of judge in chambers. lie died Sept. 30, 
1501, at Vienna, and was buried in St. Stephen’s Church. 
11 is writings include a Catechismus Mogunt. s. Justitut. 
ad Christ. Rieiatem (frequently reprinted and much con- 
troverted by Protestants): — the Sleidaui de Statu Rd. 
already mentioned : — Decreta Count. General. Mognnti- 
ni : — Instruct io VLdtatornm, and Explicatio Raraphrnst. 
Misste. See f r nschufd. Xach rich ten , 1715, p, 391 sq. ; 
1710, j>. 7 sq. — Ilerzog, Real-Entyl'lop. s. v. 

Siebelis, Caul Gottfj:ii:!>, a German theologian, 
was horn in 1709 at Naumburg. After he completed 
his philological studies lie was called in 1798 as collec- 
tor to Zeilz. and in 1804 as rector to Bautzen, where he 
died in 1843. 1 lc wrote, Jtisputat tones Qnhupte. (juibus 

(Menditur in Vet. Gnrcornm et Romanornm Jtoctrina 
Religinnis ar A/orutn l'lnrima esse , tpitr cum Christiana 
( ’onsentiant (Lips 1837 ): — A dditamenta ad Disjnitatinnes 
(Riiur/ne,v tc. (ibid. 18-12) : — Hie Hibeldie besfc tint milage 
tier Kiudererziehuug (Zittau, 1818). See Zucbold, liihl. 
Thud. ii, 1220; Regensb. f’ourerstitionslex. s. v. (B. P.) 

Siege (some form of tsiir, to jtress in a hostile 
manner). The Egyptian and Assyrian monuments de- 
pict all the operations of capturing a city (see Wilkin- 
son, A nr. Egypt. i, 387 sq. ; Layard, X inert h, ii, 281 sq.). 
See Wau. 

Sienna, rnrsni, of (Concilium Settense\ was held 
lirst at Pavia, and subsequently translated to Sienna (a 
central province of Italy, in Tuscany), June 22, 1423. 
This council lasted t ill Fob. 20, 1424, and many sessions 
were held. Among the acts is a decree against the her- 
esies previously condemned at Constance, and against 


all aiding and abetting the Wyeliffites and Hussites. 
Indulgence was granted to their persecutors. The ques- 
tion of a reunion with the Greek Church was also de- 
bated, and its further consideration postponed. It was 
determined that everything relating to the reformation 
of the Church should be referred to the council about to 
be held at Basle, See Mansi, xii, 305. — Landon, Man- 
ual of Councils, s. v, 

Sieva, in Slavic mythology, was the goddess of 
love. She was the wife of Siebog, the patron of mar- 
riage, and was highly venerated by all lovers. The re- 
ports sometimes mentioned concerning beautiful paint- 
ings in which the Wendish artists had represented this 
deity are fabulous. 

Sieve (n~22, kebarah, Amos ix, 9 ; <122, naphdh , a 
winnowing fan, Isa. xxx, 28; to “sift” is 2T ^2, vita, or 
r^2, to tcare [as often rendered], or throw up into the 
air for winnowing; atrta^oj, Luke xxii, 31). Among 
the ancient Egyptians sieves were often made of string, 
but some of an inferior quality, and for coarse work, 
were constructed of small thin rushes or reeds (very 
similar to those used by the Egyptians for writing, and 
frequently found in the tablets of the scribes); a speci- 
men of which kind of sieve is in the Paris Museum. 
The paintings also represent them made of the same 
materials; and the first they used were evidently of this 
humble quality, since the hieroglyphic indicating a 
sieve is borrowed from them. Horse-hair sieves are 
ascribed by Pliny to the Gauls; the Spaniards, he says, 
made them of string, and the Egyptians of papyrus 
stalks and rushes. See Wilkinson, Anc. Egypt, ii, 95. 

Sieveking, Amalia, the founder and long the 
head of the woman’s union for the care of the poor and 
the sick of the city of Hamburg, belonged to one of the 
most respected senatorial families of that city, and was 
born in 1794. She lost her parents at an early age, and 
was received into the home of an elderly relative of her 
mother, where she began, when searce seventeen years 
of age, to display the qualities which stamped her a 
born deaconess. Her earliest efforts were expended on 
an iininstrueted girl living in the same house with her- 
self, and five other girls were soon added to her school. 
She devoted three hours a day to instruction in ele- 
mentary branches, omitting nothing hut religion, which 
she did not at the time either possess or understand. 
Kempis's Imitation of Christ first directed her thoughts 
towards the Bible, and A. II. Fraucke’s Mttnuducfio ad 
Ledionem Script, Sacr, (q. v.) taught her to find the 
sense of Scripture by comparing its parts together, and 
also to transmute all that should be found into experience, 
through prayer and personal application. She claims, 
accordingly, that her faith was grounded on no human 
authority whatever, but solely on that of the Lord. 
The doctrine of the atonement continued to trouble her, 
however, until an enlightened Bible student, who had 
been the school friend of her early - deceased brother, 
was able to relieve her doubts. Religion was now given 
a prominent place in her curriculum, and a weekly 
“ Bible-hour” was added to her labors, for the benefit of 
such as had by confirmation been removed from school 
into the walks of common life. These Bible - hours 
yielded fruit also for a wider circle through a publica- 
tion issued in 1822, and entitled Hetrachtuugen iib. ein- 
zdue Theile d. hdl. Seh rift , upon which followed, in 
1827, Hesch lift ign ngen unt d. he’d. SchriJ't , and in 1855 
rnterhaltungen iib. ehizdne Abschnitte d. heil. Schrift. 
These schools for girls were continued, with rare inter- 
ruptions, down to the last year of her life, the sixth 
class being admitted in 1851 ; and it became a desirable 
thing in the eyes of her neighbors, even when they dif- 
fered from her in religious opinion, to have their chil- 
dren placed under her care. 

The disposition to give and help in every way was 
too strong in Amalia’s nature to be confined within the 
limits of her school. She thought at first of organizing 


SIF 


733 


SIGEBEUT 


an evangelical sisterhood after the pattern of the Rom- 
ish orders. Her way was made clear, however, by the 
tirst breaking-out of the cholera epidemic in Europe in 
the summer of 1831, when she offered her services to the 
cholera hospital, which were accepted. She was at last 
placed over the entire corps of male and female nurses. 
The experience so gained was practically utilized after- 
wards in the forming of a ivomau's society for the relief 
of the poor and the sick instead of the proposed sister- 
hood. It was composed of women belonging to the 
middle and higher classes of society, at first thirteen in 
number (1832), and was placed under stringent rules of 
administration. Direct visitation was made a duty, 
certain families being assigned to a number of mem- 
bers, who were required to visit in succession and record 
the results of the visits in books provided for that pur- 
pose. No case of chronic poverty was received, and the 
most careful inquiries were made with reference to ap- 
plicants for aid, covering the business, number of per- 
sons in the family, their age and sex, attendance on 
schools, the home, and its appearance as to neatness and 
order. A weekly meeting was held in which the claim 
of such applicants to admission was discussed, and at 
which they were placed under the care of certain mem- 
bers if received. It was also a principle never to visit 
tiie poor empty-handed, but never to give them money, 
orders on tradesmen or provisions in kind being pre- 
ferred ; and if want of work was the occasion of the suf- 
fering, the effort was made to secure employment. The 
union even erected a number of manufactories itself, 
and had them managed under its control, for the pur- 
pose of affording employment to the. poor, and its re- 
ports show that this part of its business was not con- 
ducted at a loss. Nor was the spiritual welfare of its 
clients neglected. Every visitor was expected to use 
all proper effort to secure the moral and religious im- 
provement of the persons under her care, no less than 
to minister to their temporal needs. The workings of 
this union caused its fame to spread, not simply through- 
out an appreciative city, but over wide areas, so that 
when a terrible conflagration laid Hamburg low in 1842, 
contributions from women’s unions in numerous German 
cities, all of which called themselves daughters of the 
union of Hamburg, were forwarded to the parent society 
for its use. Amalia Sieveking’s life-purpose was thus 
fully realized, and crowned with blessing beyond all 
her expectations. The last two years of her life were 
shadowed by pulmonary troubles, which destroyed her 
strength and compelled her gradual withdrawal from 
the work whose supervision had become to her a second 
nature. She died April 1, 1853. For her life, see Devk- 
wiirdiykeiten aus d. Leben von A malia Sievekiny , etc. 
(I Iamb. 1860). — Herzog, lieal-Encyklop. s. v. 

Sif, in Norse mythology, was the beautiful second 
wife of Thor, celebrated on <accouiit of her wonderful 
blonde hair, which the evil Loki cut off on one occasion 
while she slept. Thor compelled him, on peril of his 
life, to procure golden hair for Sif instead of that which 
he had stolen, and Loki obtained it from the dwarfs. 
Sif had been previously married, and had given birth to 
a son. Uliar ; Thor’s children by her were named Thrudr 
and Lorride. Sif would appear to have been the most 
virtuous of the asins, for when Loki, at Aeger’s ban- 
quet, charged upon the women and virgins their nu- 
merous loves, he spared Sif such exposure. She handed 
him a cup while thanking him for his forbearance; upon 
which he replied that he must concede to her an emi- 
nence above all others, since she had possessed only one 
lover, who was himself. — Vollmer, Wo Herb. d. Mythol. 
s. v. 

Sifra. See Sipitra. 

Sifridenses. See Siscidences. 

Siga, the name of an alleged Phoenician goddess 
who has been likened to Minerva. 

Sigalon, Xavier, a French painter, was born at 
Uzes (Gard) in 1788, of parents in humble circum- 


stances, and was educated in the school of design at 
Nismes. Tie painted chiefly sacred subjects, especially 
the Last Judgment , a copy of Michael Angelo’s at Rome, 
which made his fortune. lie died of the cholera at 
Rome, Aug. 18, 1837. See Iloefer, Xouv. Bioy. Gene - 
rule, s. v. 

Sigarsholmr, in Norse mythology, was an island 
in the north on which a battle was fought that brought 
forty-six heroes to their graves, and in which their 
swords are buried. The walkure Svava brought the 
most famous of the swords to her lover Hclgi, who was 
under her protection. 

Sigarsvoellur, in Norse mythology, was the place 
where the battle was fought between llelgi and Ilrod- 
mar. Hclgi Ilattingaskade fell mortally wounded, and 
expired in the arms of his beloved Svava, the walkure. 
Sigarsvoellur was subsequently given by Sigmund Wol- 
sungssohn to llelgi Ilundingstodter. his son, in honor 
of his name. — Vollmer, Wortevb. d. Mythol . s. v. 

Sigebert of Gembloux ( Gemblac ), a Belgian 
monk, was born about A.D. 1030, and educated in the 
convent of Gembloux, where he also became a monk. 
About A.D. 1048 he assumed charge of the school at- 
tached to the convent of St. Vincent at Metz, but re- 
turned to Gembloux, after a successful career, about 
1070, and continued during forty additional years to la- 
bor in the work of teaching and authorship, being gen- 
erally admired and revered. He was characterized by 
frankness and piety, gifted with a sound judgment, so 
that he was fitted to administer in secular affairs, and 
was decidedly true to principle. It was because of his 
influence that the Church of Liege remained loyal to 
the emperor, despite the efforts put forth by certain ab- 
bots to subject it to the pope alone. The celebrated 
letter written by Gregory VII to bishop Hermann of 
Metz, which asserted the right of the pope to place a 
sovereign under the ban and dissolve the allegiance of 
his subjects, was answered by Sigebert, and so also was 
the demand of Paschal II, made in 1102 or 1103, that 
count Robert of Flanders should head a crusade to pun- 
ish the Church of Liege for its fidelity to the sovereign. 
With like good judgment he resisted the imposing of 
the yoke of asceticism on the entire Church, though he 
himself was predisposed in favor of a monastic life. His 
fearless attitude with reference to such questions pro- 
duced a strong impression on the minds of his contem- 
poraries. He died Oct. 5, 1112. 

The works of Sigebert are enumerated by himself in 
the work l)e I 'iris Illnsfribns (best ed. in Miner Bibli- 
oih. Keel, ed, ii, cur. J. A. Fabricio), a book whose only 
value now consists in the preservation of a few interest- 
ing facts which it contains. The Vita Deoderici, an 
early work commemorating the founder of the abbey of 
St. Vincent at Metz, gives evidence of the author’s ex- 
tensive reading. He also wrote a life of king Sigebert, 
the founder of the church and abbey of St. Martin, near 
Metz, and a number of saints’ legends in either prose 
or verse, particularly a life of Wiebert, the founder of 
Gembloux, and a history of the convent to 1048; and 
he gave attention to music and chronology. His last 
and most celebrated work is the Chronicon , extending 
from A.D. 381 to HIT. but being a mere compilation 
from other works down to 1023, after which date it pos- 
sesses, to some degree, the character of ail independent 
source. The selections from other books are judicious, 
the treatment of facts cautions, moderate, and impartial, 
and the whole is characterized by something of the 
historic spirit. The work became in time the principal 
source of information with reference to the churches 
and abbeys of Belgium and Northern France. The 
charge that Sigebert had invented the legend of pope 
Joan is now disbelieved, and Bethmatin, in the Monu- 
ment a Germ. SB., omits it from his collection of Sigc- 
bert’s works. See the Monument a Germ. SS. passim ; 
Ilirsch, Be Vita et Script is Siyeberti (Berol. 1841); 
Wattenbach, Deutschland's G esch ich tsquellen (BerL 1858), 


SIGFAUDUIi 


734 


SIGISMUND 


particularly p. 291-299; Pertz, Archie, xi, 1-17.— Her- 
zog, Real- Encyklop. s. v. 

Sigfaudur, in Norse mythology, was a surname of 
Odin, signifying the father of victory (German, Sieges- 
rater). 

Siggautr, in Norse mythology, was a surname of 
Odin , the god of victory (German, Sicgesyott). 

Siggones, the second class of priests among the 
ancient Prussians. They were probably more widely 
scattered over the country than were the Grivaites (the 
lirst class), who dwelt constantly at the sanctuary Rn- 
tnowa; and even there the Siggones were probably 
found, since it was a Siggo who slew bishop Adalbert 
on the borders of the sacred forest of Samland, near Ro- 
mowa. The name Siggo is suggestive of blessing (Ger- 
man, Eegen), to pronounce which, over the people, may 
have been the principal business of these priests. It 
would seem that they also had supervision over the 
sacred groves, forests, fountains, hills, etc. Possibly 
their residences were chosen with reference to such 
places, so t hat they might conveniently receive the 
sacrificial gifts of the people in exchange for their 
blessing. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mgthol. s. v. 

Sigi, in Norse mythology, was a son of Odin, who 
was compelled to forsake the kingdom because he had, 
in the heat of passion, slain the slave Bredi, who had 
been more successful than himself in the hunt. He ob- 
tained ships from Odin and became a powerful viking, 
who subdued mighty kingdoms to bis rule. He fell, at 
an advanced age, in a battle against his wife’s brother, 
who bad rebelled against Ins authority. — Vollmer, Wur- 
terb. d . Mgthol. s. v. 

Sigill [sigillum), a seal , or signature. 

Sigillaria, the last two days of the feast of Saturn, 
so called from little earthenware figures (sigilln) exposed 
for sale at this season, and given as toys to children. 
See Saturnalia. 

Sigillo, Robert de, an English prelate, was pre- 
ferred to the see of London by the empress Maud in 
1141. When the Londoners revolted to king Stephen, 
the bishop was required to take the oath of allegiance 
to that revolution, which he refused. Pope Eugenios 
wrote to king Stephen and his queen, asking that Si- 
gillo be excused from taking the oath. I Ie died in 1 151. 
See Collier, Eccles. llist. ii, 245. 

Sigillum Altaris ( seal of the altar). “The au- 
thentic mark of an altar was its live crosses; and there 
was a small stone called sigillum altaris , by which the 
aperture for the insertion of relics was closed up by mor- 
tar tempered in holy water” (Fosbrooku).— Eadie, Eccles. 
Cyclop . s. v. 

Sigismund {St.), king ok Bukounhy in the 6th 
century, was baptized in youth by Avitus, and suc- 
ceeded his father, Goudcbaml, in 516. In 517 he assem- 
bled a council at Ekaoue, which was attended by twen- 
ty-seven Burgundian bishops, and fixed the limits of his 
kingdom. He governed with wisdom. Being very 
liberal towards the Clmrch, he founded, in 515, the 
monastery of Argauue at Maurice, in Valais, which be- 
came celebrated. He was assassinated in 524, in re- 
venge for the execution of his son, Sigerie, by his first 
wife; ami as he had already taken the tonsure and re- 
ligious habit, he was canonized as a martyr, his festival 
being fixed on May 1. According to Savignv (Geschichte 
des romischen Rechts, vol. ii) it was Sigismund, and not 
his father, who compiled the Burgundian code, called the 
Loi Gombette; hut this is successfully disputed by Gaupp 
( Die germanisrhen A nsiedelungen [Breslau, 18 44J, p. 290- 
317). See lloefer, Xnuv. Ring. Generate , s. v., Mrs. 
Jameson, Legends of the Monastic Orders, p. 173. 

Sigismund, Johann, (lector of Jiramb nbnrg 
(1008-19), was horn Nov. 18, 1572, and became note- 
worthy through his transition from the Lutheran to the 
Reformed Church. His father had endeavored to bind 


him to the support of the Formula of Concord (q. v.) hr 
securing his signature to a declaration approving of that 
standard, and of the existing organization in churches 
and schools. His wife, Anna, a daughter of duke Albert 
of Prussia and Maria Eleonore of Cleve, was a rigid 
Lutheran, and exercised all her influence to prevent a 
change in his Church relations; and the temper of 
many of his subjects in Brandenburg and the district 
of Prussia which he held as a fief from Poland threat- 
ened to render such a step productive of grave compli- 
cations. To these influences must he added the cer- 
tainty that many neighboring princes would withdraw 
their favor. Sigismund, nevertheless, took that step, 
and partook of the Lord’s supper under the Reformed 
ritual, for the lirst time, on Christmas-day of 1013. 
Even his most embittered enemies never charged secu- 
lar or political motives on him for this action, though a 
later generation adopted that explanation (Schrbckh). 
lie had been prejudiced against the Formula of Concord 
from the beginning, and had already, in 1010, issued 
statutes to the University of Frankfort, in which sub- 
scription to the Formula was not required. An im- 
mense excitement was caused. The elector of Saxony 
wrote, under date of Feb. L 1014, to dissuade Sigismund 
from completing the transfer; and on the 24th of the 
same month the latter was compelled to issue an edict 
forbidding the clergy to inveigh against his measures in 
the pulpit. The estates of Brandenburg demanded the 
continuation of the prerogatives enjoyed by the Lutheran 
Church, and the disuse of all measures intended to favor 
the Reformed. The difficulty was finally composed by 
the action of the elector, who (Feb. 5, IG15) engaged that 
the Lutherans should continue to enjoy liberty of con- 
science and to exercise the right of patronage where 
legally entitled thereto; but insured like privileges to 
their Reformed opponents. A colloquium of clergymen 
was held at Berlin in October, 1614, where the resolu- 
tion was reached that defamation of the Reformed party 
should thereafter be avoided. The result of the whole 



SIGMARINGEN 


35 


SIGNET 


contest was that the Reformed Church obtained legal 
recognition. Soon after his entrance into the Reformed 
communion the elector published his Confession of Faith 
( Joh . Sigism. Confessio Fidei), May, 1611. It claims to 
deal with points at issue between Evangelical Protes- 
tants only. Its introduction disclaims the intention of 
introducing novelties, but asserts the necessity for re- 
moving certain remainders of popery, and concludes 
with a recognition of the sole authority of the Word of 
God and an approval of the “Apostolical, the Athana- 
sian, and the Nicene, Ephesian, and Chaleedonian sym- 
bols;” to which list is added the Augsburg Confession 
of 1530, but as afterwards revised and improved. The 
Confessio rejects all later Lutheran additions — as the 
ubiquity of Christ’s body, the involving of Christ’s De- 
ity in his passion, and the ascription of omnipotence to 
his humanity, etc. The remaining articles relate to the 
sacraments and the election of grace, and are entirely 
in accord with the ordinary Reformed, Calvinian view. 
See Hering, Hist. Xachr. r. d. ersten Anfange d. evang.- 
ref. Kirche in Brandenb. u. Preussen (1778); Kiister, 
Altes u. Xeues (Berlin); Von Mulder, Gesch. d. evangel. . 
K i rch en v erf ass u ng in d. Mark Brandenburg (1846); 
M oiler, Joh. Sig. Uebertritt znm ref. Bekenntiiiss, in the 
Deutsche Zeitschr . (Berlin, 1858), p. 189 sq. ; and vari- 
ous Essags by prorector Schmidt, of Schweidnitz, etc. — 
Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Sigmaringen, Fmr>uss of, properly Marc REi,a 
Capuchin monk, was born at Sigmaringen in 1577, and 
educated at Fribourg. He was sent as a missionary to 
the Orisons, by whom he was murdered at Senis, April 
24, 1622. lie was canonized bv Benedict XIV in 1746. 
See Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Sigmund Wolsungssoun, in Norse mythology, 
was a celebrated hero who was invulnerable and proof 
against poison, and who drank the cup of poison intend- 
ed for his brother without injury to himself. He be- 
came the father, by the beautiful Danish queen Borg- 
hild.of Ilelgi Hundingstodter and Sigurd Fafnirstodter. 
— Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mgthol. 5* v. 

Sign is the rendering in the A. V. of several Iieb, 
and Or. words, especially P.1N, 6th, (rggeiov, which usu- 
ally denote a miraculous or, at least, divine or extraor- 
dinary token of an event, generally in the future. See 
Miracle. In Biblical language a sign is a token, or 
whatever serves to express or represent another thing. 
Thus the Lord gave to Noah the rainbow as a sign of 
his covenant (Gen. ix, 12, 13), and for the same purpose 
he appointed circumcision to Abraham (xvii, 11, see 
also Exod. iii, 12 ; Judg. vi, 17). In Isa. vii, 18 the word 
is used for a prophetic similitude: “Behold, I and the 
children whom the Lord hath given me are for signs 
and for wonders in Israel” (see also Ezek. iv, 3). Signs 
and wonders, as they are usually connected, sometimes 
denote those proofs or demonstrations of power ami au- 
thority which were furnished by miracles, and by other 
tokens of the divine presence (John iv, 48, Matt, xii, 
38; Acts ii, 22), sometimes those unusual appearances 
which betoken the approach of great events (Luke xxi, 

1 1, 25), and at other times tokens or pledges as evidences 
of fulfilment (ii, 12; l Cor. i, 22). This word is emphat- 
ically used in Scripture for a miraculous appearance, 
which would attest the divine authority of a prophet 
or teacher. The Jews asked onr Lord for “a sign from 
heaven” (Matt, xvi, 1), meaning, thereby, the appear- 
ance of the Messiah coming in the clouds of heaven, 
which Daniel had foretold (vii, 13), and which “the 
traditions of the elders,” as appears from the Talmud, 
had declared to be the only certain sign of the advent 
of the promised inheritor of David’s throne and deliv- 
erer of the Jewish nation. So onr Lord refers to “the 
sign of the Son of man” (Matt, xxiv, 30), as prefigured 
by the national overthrow of the Jews (see Zettner, 
I)e Astre Judceis quondam Ominoso [Alt. 1724], and the 
monographs cited by Ilase, Leben Jesu, p. 187). See 
Eschatology. 


SIGN, a term used in defining a sacrament to describe 
the relation existing between an external ordinance and 
that which it represents. The former is called the “out- 
ward part, or sign," the latter the “inward part, or thing 
signified .” See Signs. 

SIGN of the Cross. See Cross, Sign of; Sig- 
num Crucis. 

Signe, in Norse mythology, was a daughter of queen 
Bera of Zealand. Hagbart of Drontheim, the bold son 
of Hake and a celebrated viking, came to Zealand with 
the intention of challenging the queen’s sons, Alf and 
Alger, to single combat in order to measure strength 
with them. He saw and loved Signe, but her cruel 
mother hated him and prevented their union. Alf fell 
in the duel, and Hagbart recklessly suffered himself to 
be made a prisoner, because he trusted in his strength, 
but a lock of Signe’s hair bound him fast. He was 
doomed to death, and the archers were prepared to ex- 
ecute the queen’s decree, when the victim took his own 
life. Signe was rescued from her blazing dwelling by 
her brother Alger, but only in order to die beside the 
corpse of her lover, for she had taken poison. Comp. 
GSldenschUiger’s touching tragedy, in which he has 
elaborated this material, entitled Hagbart og Signe . — 
Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mgthol. s. v. 

Signet is the rendering in the A. V. of dPin, eho- 
tham (Gen. xxxviii, 18; Exod. xxviii, 11, 21,36; xxxix, 
6, 14, 30; Jer. xxii, 24; Hag. ii, 23), or PdPn, chothe- 
meth (fern, of the same, only in Gen. xxxviii, 25), a seal, 
as elsewhere rendered; and of the Chald. XpTP, izkd. 
the same (Dan. vi, 17 [18]) ; both so called from being 
engraved ; also of a<ppaytg, Tob. i, 22; Ecclns. xvii, 22; 
xxxii, 6; xlix, 11 ; Bel 11 ; 1 Macc. vi, 15, a seal, as 
elsewhere rendered. 

The importance attached to seals in the East is so 
great that without one no document is regarded as au- 
thentic (Layard, Xin. and Bab. p. 608 ; Chardin, Voyages, 
v, 454). The use of some method of sealing is obvious- 
ly, therefore, of remote antiquity. Among such meth- 
ods used in Egypt at a very early period were engraved 
stones, pierced through their length and hung by a 
string or chain from the arm or neck, or set in rings for 
the finger. The most ancient form used for this purpose 
was the scarabseus, formed of precious or common stone, 
or even of blue pottery or porcelain, on the flat side of 
which the inscription or device was engraved. Cylin- 
ders of stone or pottery bearing devices were also used 
as signets. One in the Alnwick Museum bears the date 
of Osirtasen I, or between 2000 and 3000 B.C. Besides 
finger-rings, the Egyptians, and also the Assyrians and 
Babylonians, made use of cylinders of precious stone 
or terra-cotta, which were probably set in a frame ami 
rolled over the document which was to be sealed. The 
document, especially among the two latter nations, was 
itself often made of baked clay, sealed while it was wet 
and burned afterwards. But in many cases the seal con- 
sisted of a lump of clay, impressed with the seal and at- 
tached to the document, whether of papyrus or other 
material, by strings. These clay lumps often bear the 
impress of the linger, and also the remains of the strings 
by which they were fastened. One such found at 
Nimriul was the seal of Sabaco, king of Egypt, B.C. 
711, and another is believed by Mr. Layard to have been 
the seal of Sennacherib, of nearly the same date (Birch, 
Hist, of Pottery , i, 101, 118; Wilkinson, Anc. Egypt, ii, 
341, 364; Layard, Xin. and Bab. p. 154-160). In a 
somewhat similar manner doors of tombs or other places 
intended to be closed were sealed with lumps of clay. 
The custom prevalent among the Babylonians of carry- 
ing seals is mentioned by Herodotus, i, 195, who also no- 
tices the seals on tombs, ii, 121; Wilkinson, i, 15; ii. 
364; Matt, xxvii, 66; Dan. vi, 17. The use of clay in 
sealing is noticed in the book of Job xxxviii, 14, and the 
signet-ring as an ordinary part of a man’s equipment in 
the case of Judah (Gen. xxxviii, 18), who probably, like 


SIGNET 


130 


SIGNET 


many modern Arabs, wore it suspended by a string from 
bis neck or arm. (See Cant, viii, 6; Gesenius, p.538, 
1 140 : Kobiiifon, i, 30 ; Niebuhr, iJescr. tie I'A rub. p. 00 ; 
Chardin, foe. clt.; Olearius, Travels, p. 317 ; Knobel, on 
Gen, xxxrili, in Kxey. Ilandb.') The ring or the seal 
as an emblem of authority, in Kgypt, lVr.sia, and 
elsewhere, is mentioned in the cases of Pharaoh with 
Joseph, (Jen. xli, 4*2; of Ahab, 1 Kings xxi,S; ofAhasu- 
t*rus, E>th. iii, 10, 12; viii,2; c»f Darius, Dan. /oc. clt. ; 
also 1 Maec. vi. 15; Josephus, .btf. xx, ‘2,2; Herodotus, 
iii, 128 , Curtins, iii, G, 7 ; x, 5, 4; Sandys, Travels, p. 02 ; 
Chardin, ii, 201 ; v, 451,402; and as an evidence of a 
covenant in Jer. xxxii, 10,54; Xeh. ix, 38; x, 1 , Hag. 
ii, 23. Its general importance is denoted by the meta- 
phorical use of the word (Kev. v, l ; ix, 4). Kings with 
seals are mentioned in the Mislina (Shabb. vi, 3), and 
earth or clay as used for seals of bags (viii, 5). Seals of 
four sorts, used in the Temple, as well as special guar- 
dians of them, are mentioned in Shekul. v, 1. 

Among modern Orientals the size and place of the 
seal vary according to the importance both of the send- 
er of a letter and of the person to whom it is sent. In 
sealing, the seal itself, not the paper, is smeared with 


smeared with a black pigment, which leaves the figure 
of the body of the seal upon the paper, in which the 
characters appear blank or white. The characters re- 
quired are often too large or too many to be convenient- 
ly used in a signet-ring, in which ease they are en- 
graved on a seal shaped not unlike those in use among 
ourselves, which is carried in the bosom, or suspended 
from the neck over the breast. 'Fids custom was an- 
cient, and, no doubt, existed among the Hebrews (den. 
xxxviii, 18; Cant, viii, 0, Hag. ii, 23). These seals are 
often entirely of metal (brass, silver, or gold), but some- 
times of stone set in metal. As an appendage thus 
shaped might be inconvenient from the pressure of its 
edges, the engraved stone was sometimes made to turn 
in its metal frame, like our swivel seals, so as to present 
a flat surface to the body. (See below.) 

If a door or box was to be sealed, it was first fastened 
with some ligament, over which was placed some well- 
compacted clay to receive the impression of the seal. 
Clay was used because it hardens in the beat which 
would dissolve wax , and this is the reason that wax is 
not used in the East. A person leaving property in the 


custody of strangers — say in one of the cells of a eara- 
the sealing substance. Thus illiterate persons some- j vansarai — seals the door to prevent the place from being 
times use the object nearest at hand— their own finger, entered without legal proof of t lie fact. The simplicity 


or a stick notched for the purpose — and, daubing it with 
ink, smear the paper therewith (Chardin, v, 545 


of the Eastern locks, and the ease with which they 
might be picked, render this precaution the more nec- 
347; Arvieux, Travels, p. 161 ; Kauwolf, Travels, in Ray, j essarv. Sometimes a coarsely engraved and large 
ii, 01; Niebuhr, lor. clt.; Kobinson, i, 30). Engraved j wooden seal is employed for this purpose. There are 
signets were in use among the Hebrews in early times, ! distinct allusions to this custom in Job xx 


as is evident in the description of the high -priest’s 
breastplate (Exod. xxviii, 11, 30; xxxix, G), and t lie 
work of the engraver as a distinct occupation is men- 
tioned in Ecclus. xxxviii, 27. 

There seem to have been two kinds of seals in use 
among the Hebrews, A notion appears to exist that 
all ancient seals, being signets, were rings, intended to 
be worn on the band. Hut this was bv no means the 
case; nor is it. so now in the East, where signet-rings 
are still, probably, as common as they ever were in an- 
cient times. Their general use of seals was very differ- 
ent from ours, as they were employed not for the pur- 
pose of impressing a device on wax, but in the place of 
a sign manual, to stamp the name of the owner upon 
any document to which he desired to affix it. The 
name thus impressed had the same legal validity as the 
actual signature, as is still the case in the East. This 
practice may be illustrated by a circumstance which oc- 
curred in the last days of George IV. When lie became 
too ill to allix bis sign manual to the numerous docu- 
ments which required it, a fac-simile was engraved on a 
stamp, by which it was in his presence impressed upon 
them. By this contrivance any one may give to any 
paper the legal sanction of his name, although he may 
be unable to write; and the awkward contrivance to 
which we resort in such eases, of allixing a cross or 
mark with the signature of an attesting witness, is un- 
necessary. Eor this purpose the surface of the seal is 




Signet-ring of Cheops, with enlarged view of the engraved face. 


XXVlll, 14 ; 

Cant, iv, 12. 

Signet-rings were very common, especially among 
persons of rank. They were sometimes wholly of metal, 
but often the inscription was borne by a stone set in sil- 
ver or gold. As impression from the signet-ring of a 
monarch gave the force of a royal decree to any in- 
strument to which it was affixed, so the delivery or 
transfer of it to any one gave the power of using the 
roval name, and created the highest office in the State 
(Gen. xli, 42; Esth. iii, 10, 12; viii, 2; Jer. xxii, 24; 
Dan. vi. 10, 13, 17 ; comp. I Kings xxi, 8). Kings, being 
so much employed as seals, were called rvi"3I3, tahbaoth, 
which is derived from a root signifying to imprint, and 
also to seal. They were commonly worn as ornaments on 
the fingers — usually on the little finger of the right hand 
(Exod. xxxv, 22; Luke xv, 22* James ii, 2). Such 
rings were anciently made of silver, gold, or bronze, 
sometimes the hoop was of iron, and the signet part of 
gold. Kings were early set with gems or other stones; 
and when designed for seals or signets, the gems were 
engraved (Exod. xxviii, 1 1,21). In the British Museum 
there are several rings, ear-rings, nose-rings, pendants, 
signets, beads, necklaces, bracelets, and other ornaments, 
from the tombs of Egypt. They are of gold, silver, 
bronze, iron, eleetrum, cornelian, jasper, porcelain, ivory, 
glass, emerald, etc. Some of the signets are set with 
amulets or scarabiei, and bear the pnvnomen of Thotmes 
III. There are finger- rings, 
some in open work, with fig- 
ures of deities, etc.; and on the 
faces of some the prnenomen of 
Amenopliis III; on others, the 
names of Amentuonk, Amoun- 
ra, etc. Among the Egyptian 
antiquities in the possession 
of Dr. Abbot, English resident 
physician at Cairo, is the well- 
authenticated signet -ring of 
Cheops. It is, perhaps, the 
oldest article of the kind in the 
world, and is of fine gold, 
weighing nearly three sover- 
eigns, and bearing the name 
of ShAfft, the Suphis of IVlane- 
tho, and the Cheops of the 
Greeks. This precious relic 


SIGNIFICAT 


737 


SIKES 


of the age of the founder of the Great Pyramid is in 
the highest state of preservation. The style of the 
hieroglyphics is in perfect accordance with those in the 
tombs about the Great Pyramid, and all the details are 
minutely attended to and beautifully executed. It was 
found in a tomb near the pyramids of cd-Gizeh. One 
of the largest signets seen by Wilkinson contained 
twenty pounds’ worth ol gold. It consisted of a mas- 
sive ring, half an inch in its largest diameter, bear- 
ing an oblong plinth, on which the devices were en- 
graved, one inch long, six tenths in its greatest, and four 
tenths in its smallest breadth. On one face was the 
name of king Horus,of the eighteenth dynasty; on the 
second a lion, with the legend “ Lord of strength,” refer- 
ring to the monarch ; on the third side a scorpion , and oil 
the fourth a crocodile (Anc. Egypt. ii, 337). See Seal. 



Signet-ring of Horns. (2 is the entire ring, with its swiv- 
el; 1 is the face-side, with signature of Horns; 3 and 4 
are the other sides.) 


Significat was a brief name for the writ De Ex- 
communicato Capiendo from the word at the beginning 
of the writ — “Significat nobis venerabilis Pater, II. L. 
Episcopus,” etc. See llook, Church Diet. s. v. 

Signorelli, Luca (called Luca of Cortona ), an 
Italian painter, was bom at Cortona about 1440. lie 
was instructed first by Matteo da Sienna and afterwards 
by Pietro della Francesca, whose style he seized so ef- 
fectually that the works of the two have often been 
confounded. He painted many religious subjects, of 
which a list is given in Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate , 
s. v. 

Signs. 1. The great bells at Canterbury in the 12th 
century; one took twenty-four and another thirty-two 
men to sound it. 2. A most intricate system of talking 
with the fingers, used by the Clugniacs to indicate their 
wants in hall. 3. Herbert furnishes a minute account 
of a similar manual telegraph made use of by the pre- 
centor in a choir. — Walcott, Sacred Archoeol. s. v. 

Signum Crucis (sign of the cross), words used in 
the form for confirmation, etc. The modern form in the 
lloman Catholic Chureh is as follows: “Signo te signo 
crucis, et confirmo te chrismate salutis, in nomine 
Pa( -b)tris,et Fi(+)lii, et Spiritus (+) Sancti. Amen.” 

Signy, in Norse mythology, was a daughter of king 
Wolsung, and was married against her consent to Sig- 
gnir of Gothland. She had feared that her husband would 
bring misfortune to her family, and her dread was real- 
ized in the murder of her father and eight of her broth- 
ers, Sigmund, the ninth brother, being rescued by her. 
She lived in concealment in a hut in the forest with Sig- 
mund, and having presented herself before him in a 
changed form, she conceived a son, who was afterwards 
known as Sinfioetli, and who consequently belonged to 
t he Wolsung race by descent from both his father and 
his mother. Like his father, he was immensely strong. 
Sigmund and Signy avenged the murder of their father 
in the blood of Signy’s husband, and Signy then caused 
herself to be burned with the corpse, as she had no wish 
to live after her revenge had been indicted. — Yollmer, 
Worterb. d. MythoL s. v. 

Sigrhoeffundr, in Norse mythology, was one of 
Odin's names, signifying the originator of victory, 

Sigrlin (or Sigurlin), in Norse mythology, was a 
daughter of king Swafnir of Swawaland, and the most 
beautiful of women. She was sought in marriage by 
king Hiorward and also by llrodmar, the former win- 
ning the prize through the cunning of his follower, the 
IX.— A A A 


jarl Idmund, who shot the jarl Franmarr when the lat- 
ter, wearied with the duty of guarding Sigrlin, which 
he did in the form of an eagle, had fallen asleep. — Yoll- 
nier, Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Sigrun, in Norse mythology, was a celebrated he- 
roic maiden of the primitive time. See Swawa. 

Sigrunnur, in Norse mythology, was a surname of 
Odin , signifying the fortunate victor. 

Sigthror, in Norse mythology, was one of Odin's 
names, signifying the mighty victor. 

Sigtifar (the fortunate, victorious gods), in Norse 
mythology, is a name given to all the Asens. 

Sigtopir ( the houses of the blessed ones), in Norse 
mythology, is the abode which shall be occupied by the 
nsas who remain after the destruction of the world. — 
Yollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Sigtun, in Norse mythology, is the residence beside 
the Madar sea in the dominions of king Gylfe which 
Odin selected for himself. It was a temple and place 
of sacrifice. — Yollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Sigtyr, in Norse mythology, is a surname of Odin, 
signifying the god of victory. 

sigurlami, in Norse mythology, was a son of Odin 
who was made king of Garderike (liussia) by his father, 
lie married Heida, the daughter of a Swedish king, and 
became the ancestor of a famous race of heroes. — Voll- 
mer, Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Sigyn, in Norse mythology, was the wife of the 
evil asa Loki, to whom she bore two sons, named Narve 
and Yale. 

Si'hon (Ileb. Sichon', ",'irPO [or “jlTO, Numb, xxi, 
21, 23, 2G, 28, 34; xxxii, 33; Deut. i, 4; ii, 24, 31, 32; 
iii, 2, 6; iv. 4G; xxix, 7 ; Josh, ii, 10; Jer. xlviii, 45], 
sweeping away, i. e. warrior [Gesen.], or bold [ F first] ; 
Sept. v v. r. Xi Josephus, Xiywi'), the king of 
the Amorites when Israel arrived on the borders of the 
Promised Land (Numb, xxi, 21). B.C. 1018. He was 
evidently a man of great courage and audacity. Short- 
ly before the time of Israel’s arrival, he had dispossessed 
the Moabites of a splendid territory, driving them south 
of the natural bulwark of the Arnon with great slaugh- 
ter and the loss of a great number of captives (xxi, 2G- 
29). When the Israelitish host appears, he does not 
hesitate or temporize like Balak, but at once gathers his 
people together ami attacks them. But the battle was 
his last. He and all his host were destroyed, and their 
district from Arnon to Jabbok became at once the pos- 
session of the conqueror. Josephus ( Ant . iv, 5, 2) has 
preserved some singular details of the battle, which 
have not survived in the text either of the Hebrew or 
Sept. He represents the Amoritish army as containing 
every man in the nation fit to bear arms. He states 
that they were unable to fight when away from the 
shelter of their cities, and that being especially galled 
by the slings and arrows of the Hebrews, and at last 
suffering severely from thirst, they rushed to the stream 
and to the shelter of the recesses of the ravine of the 
Arnon. Into these recesses they were pursued by their 
active enemy and slaughtered in vast numbers. Wheth- 
er we accept these details or not, it is plain, from the 
manner in which the name of Sihon fixed itself in the 
national mind, and the space which his image occupies 
in the official records and in the later poetry of Israel, 
that he was a truly formidable chieftain (Deut. xxxi, 
4, Josh, ix, 10; xii, 2, 5; xiii, 10, 21, 27 ; Judg. xi, 19, 
20, 21 ; 1 Kings iv, 19; Neh. ix, 22; Psa. cxxxv, 11; 
cxxxvi, 19). It is probable that a trace of the name 
still remains in the Jebel Shihun, a lofty and conspicu- 
ous mountain just to the south of the Wady Mojeb. — 
Smith. 

Si'hor (Josh, xiii, 3). See Siiiiior. 

Sikes, Henry N.,a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born in Fulton County, Pa., in 1833. 



SIKIIS 


738 


SILENT PLAYER 


He was converted in early youth, and began to preach 
in his nineteenth year, lie united with the Baltimore 
Conference in 1854, and served in the regular ministerial 
work (with the exception of two years — 1801 and 1802 

when he acted as chaplain of the U. S. Penitentiary at 

Washington, D. C.) until his death, June 20, 1805. Mr, 
Sikes had a vigorous and well-stored mind, and was un- 
tiring, industrious, and of unflinching courage. See 
Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1800, p. 17. 

Sikhs (a corruption of Sanscr. sishya, disciple), orig- 
inallv a religious sect, since grown into a nation, and 
inhabiting the Punjab. Their founder was Nanok 
(q. v.), who has been succeeded by nine pontiffs, each 
of whom, like himself, is popularly denominated guru, 
or teacher. His object was to unite Hindus and Mo- 
hammedans on the basis of a pure monotheism and of 
human brotherhood. Sufficient proof of the compre- 
hensive character of his scheme is afforded by the cir- 
cumstance that he accepted concurrently the incarna- 
tions of Nco-Brahmarism and the mission of the Ara- 
bian prophet. Nanok’s three immediate successors, 
while zealously protecting the interests of the infant 
sect, avoided secular pursuits, and held themselves aloof 
from political complications. Arjun (Arjunmal), com- 
piler of the Sikh doctrines in a volume called Adiyranth, 
and founder of Amritsar, the holy city of the Sikhs, also 
rendered himself conspicuous as a partisan of the rebell- 
ious prince Khusru, son of Jahangir. He was im- 
prisoned by the Mussulman government, tortured, and 
put to death in 1606. llis sou, liar Govind, led the 
Sikhs against the Mohammedans, but was driven from 
Lahore to the northern mountains. It was under Guru 
Govind, the tenth of the “ teachers,” that the Sikhs were 
first formed into a separate state. He combated the 
Mohammedan power and religion; and Hinduism, with 
its castes, fictions, and irrational idolatry, fell under his 
ban. He also wrote the second volume of the Sikh 
Scriptures, in which are taught the worship of one God, 
strict morality., and, equally, living by the sword. He 
was assassinated while in the imperial sendee in 1708, 
on the banks of the Godavari. After his death, perse- 
cution from time to time greatly reduced the strength 
of the tribe ; but their religious fanaticism, nourished by 
the sacred writings which successive leaders had pre- 
pared, lent vigor to their warlike energies. In 1764 
they convened a general assembly, formally assumed 
the character of a nation, and issued coin from which 
the name of the emperor was omitted. Their common- 
wealth was designated K balsa, and its twelve compo- 
nent states were called misals , and were governed by 
sirdars , or petty chiefs, of whom Maha Singh was the 
most powerful. His son, Runjtt Singh, consolidated 
the misals into a unity subject to his own sway, A.D. 
1838. The following year he died, aged fifty-nine years, 
leaving a kingdom, called Lahore, which included all 
the principal Sikh states except those east of the Sut- 
lej. In 1846 they were conquered by the English, and 
ceased to be a nation. New complications arising, war 
between the Sikhs and English was renewed in 1848, 
but concluded unfavorably for the Sikhs in February, 
1849. The portion of the Sikh territory remaining in- 
dependent is comprised in the nine small states of Sir- 
hind. The Sikhs were faithful to the English during 
the Sepoy rebellion in 1857, and aided materially in its 
suppression. The Sikhs still maintain their national 
characteristics, being tall, thin, dark, active, excellent 
soldiers, frank, sociable, and pleasure -loving. Their 
number in British India was officially given in 1868 as 
1,129,319. A critical acquaintance with the real views 
of Nanok and Govind must remain a matter of con- 
jecture until a detailed translation is made of their 
works by some scholar completely versed in Himlft 
philosophy. The Adiyranth (the original record) and 
the JJasv'in Paldshi dd Grunth (the record of the tenth 
king) are metrical throughout, and are chiefly in Ilin- 
dfl and Panjabi, the former containing additionally a 
little Sanscrit, and the latter a long chapter in Persian. 


See Cunningham, History of the Sikhs; Malcolm, Sketch 
of the Sikhs ; Asiatic Researches, vols. i, ii ; and The 
Calcutta Review, vols. xxi,xxiii. 

Silanus is mentioned as governor of Syria by Jo- 
sephus ( Aut . xviii, 2, 4, s. f.). According to Tacitus 
(who surnames him Creticus), he was in that office in 
A.l). 16, but removed from the governorship by Tiberi- 
us in the following year, on account of the connection 
of his family with Germanicus, inasmuch as a daughter 
of Silanus had been betrothed to Nero, the eldest of the 
children of Germanicus (Annals, ii, 4, 43), From his 
name, Creticus Silanus, it has been conjectured that 
he originally belonged to the Julia gens, but was adopt- 
ed by the Ciecilia gens. It has been further supposed 
that he is the same person as the consul Silanus of A.D. 

9 (Dion Cass, iv, 30), who is better known as Metellns . 
In that case his full name would have been Q. Geeilius 
Metellus Creticus Silanus. — Smith, Diet, of Class. Biog. 
s. v. 

Si'las (S/Xrtc), an eminent member of the early 
Christian Church, described under that name in the Acts, 
but probably as Silranus (q. v.) in Paul’s epistles, B.C. 
47-55. The Alexandrine writers adopted somewhat bold 
abbreviations of proper names, such as Zcnas for Zeno- 
dorus, Apollos for Apollonius, Hernias for Hermodnrus. 
The method by which they arrived at these forms is 
not very apparent. Silas first, appears as one of the lead- 
ers (jiyovytvoi) of the Church at Jerusalem (Acts xv, 
22), holding the office of an inspired teacher (irpotpi)- 
njf, ver. 32). His name, derived from the Latin silva, 
“ wood,” betokens him a Hellenistic Jew, and he ap- 
pears to have been a Roman citizen (xvi, 37). He was 
appointed as a delegate to accompany Paul and Barna- 
bas on their return to Antioch with the decree of the 
Council of Jerusalem (xv, 22, 32). Having accom- 
plished this mission, he returned to Jerusalem (ver. 33 ; 
the following verse, dt Tty 2i'A ol tTriyui'ai avrou, 
is perhaps an interpolation introduced to harmonize 
the passage with ver. 40). He must, however, have 
immediately revisited Antioch, for we find him selected 
by Paul as the companion of his second missionary 
journey (ver. 40; xvii, 40). At Borcea he was left be- 
hind with Timothy while Paul proceeded to Athens 
(ver. 14), and we hear nothing more of his movements 
until he rejoined the apostle at Corinth (xviii, 5). 
Whether he had followed Paul to Athens in obedience 
to the injunction to do so (xvii, 15), and had been 
sent thence with Timothy to Thessalonica (L Thess. iii, 
2), or whether his movements were wholly independent 
of Timothy’s, is uncertain (Convbeare and llowson, Zi/e 
of St. Paul, i, 458, note). Ilis presence at Corinth is sev- 
eral times noticed (2 Cor. i, 19 ; 1 Thess. i, 1 ; 2 Tliess. i, 
1). lie probably returned to Jerusalem with Paul, and 
from that time the connection between them appears to 
have terminated. Whether he was the Silvanus who 
conveyed Peter’s first epistle to Asia Minor (1 Pet. v, 
12) is doubtful; the probabilities are in favor of the 
identity; the question is chiefly interesting as hearing 
upon the Pauline character of Peter’s epistles ( De 
Wcttc, Einleit. § 4). We have to notice, for the pur- 
pose of rejecting, the theories which identify Silas with 
Tertius (Rom. xvi, 22) through a Hebrew explanation 
of the name (I2pb*j), and again with Luke, or at all 
events with the author of the Acts (Alford, Prolegom . 
in Acts,], 1). — Smith. The traditions (ap. Dorothie- 
nm et llippolytmn) regard Silas and Silvanus as differ- 
ent persons, making the former bishop of Corinth, and 
the latter bishop of Thessalonica (see Fabricins, Lux 
Evany, p. 117; Ccllarius, Biss, de Sila Viro A posted. 
Jen. 1773). See Paul. 

Silent Prayer. In the ancient Church none but 
communicants w'crc permitted to remain in the Church 
during the communion service. The entrance on this 
service w r as made by a mental or silent prayer, offered 
by the people in private, and thence called toy?) diu 
<mu 7 rjjr, the silent prayer, and d'XU Kara didvoiav, the 


3D 


SILK 


SILENTIAKII 


mental prayer (Cone, Laodic. can. 19). Some take the 
prayer in silence here to mean no more than prayers 
made over the communicants by the minister alone, 
the people not making any responses; hut we are to 
understand here such private prayers as each particu- 
lar person made by himself. That there were sucli 
private prayers appears not only from the canon, but 
from several ancient writers (Chrysostom, De non End- 
gandis Peccatis, v,762; Basil, Ep. 63). See Bingham, 
Christ. Antiq . bk. xv, ch. i, § 1. 

Silentiarii, a name given, 1, to some monks in 
early times. This was not a name of any particular 
order, but given to some few for their professing a more 
than Pythagorean silence; such as Johannes Silentia- 
rius, who was first bishop of Colonia in Armenia, but 
renounced his bishopric to become a monk in Palestine, 
where he got the name of Silent iarius from his ex- 
traordinary silence (Cyril, Acta Sanctorum , Mail 13, vol. 
iii, p. ‘234). 

2. More commonly to certain men who were civil 
officers in the emperor’s palace, and served both as ap- 
paritors to execute public business, and as guards to 
keep the peace about him, when they had the name of 
Silentiarii, under which title they are spoken of in the 
Theodosian Code (lib. vi, tit. 23). See Bingham, Christ. 
Antiq. bk. vii, ch. ii, § 14. 

Silentium Indicere, an ancient form of speech 
used to bid the people fall to their private devotions. 
This signal was given by the deacon ; but when the 
bishop gave the signal, he said Oremus (Let us pray). 
See Bingham, Christ. Antiq. bk. xv, ch. i, § 1. 

Silenus, in Grecian mythology, was originally sy- 
nonymous with satyr (q. v.) ; but when the latter term 
became attached to a class of companions to Bacchus, 
a single one of them, Silenus, obtained a special prom- 
inence. Ife was said to be the son of Mercury or of 
Pan, and the inseparable companion of Bacchus, whom 
he brought up and instructed. Silenus was represent- 
ed as a jovial old man, bald-headed, pug-nosed, fat and 
round like the wine-bag which he constantly carried, 
and usually intoxicated, lie did not, consequently, 
trust to his legs, but generally rode on an ass. His 
special delight Avas in music and dancing, a certain 
dance being named from him, Silenus; and the inven- 
tion of the flute is sometimes attributed to him. He 
also appears, in contrast with his undignified' external 
appearance, as a Bacchic inspired prophet who has a 
familiar knowledge of things both past and future, and 
as a despiser of the gifts of fortune and of earthly life. 
When he Avas drunk and asleep, he was in the powder 
of mortals, who might compel him to prophesy and sing 
by surrounding him Avith chains of floAvers. Silenus had 
a temple at Elis, in Greece, Avhere Methe (drunkenness) 
stood by his side handing him a cup of Avine. As the 
companion of Bacchus, he took part in the contest with 
the giants, Avhom he put to flight, in part through the 
braying of his ass. The name is thought to be derived 
from a root signifying to flow or run , so that Silenus 
was considered the rearer of Bacchus, either because 
moisture is necessary to the growth of the vine, or be- 
cause the ancients ahvavs mixed water Avith the wine 
they drank. See Smith, Diet, of Class. J fythol. s. v. ; 
Yollmer, I Vorterb. d. J fythol. s. v. ; Hirt, ]\ fythol. Bilderb. 
p. 104. etc. ; INI tiller, A ncient A rt, etc., § 336. 

Silfintopr, in Norse mythology, Avas one of the 
famous asa-horses on Avhich the gods rode to the daily 
seat of judgment. — Yollmer, Wbrterb. d. Mgthol. s. v. 

Silicerniiim (etymology unknoAvn), a feast given 
in honor of the dead, but it is uncertain on Avhat dav. 
It sometimes appears to haA'e been given at the time 
of the funeral, sometimes on the Novendiale (q. v.), and 
sometimes later. 

Siliniez, in SlaAde mythology, Avas the forest god 
of the Poles, to whom the mosses Avere sacred and Avbose 


altar-fires Avere fed Avith moss alone. — Yollmer, Worterb, 
d. Mythol. s. v. 

Silk. The only undoubted notice of this material in 
the canonical Bible occurs in Rev. xviii, 12, Avhere it is 
mentioned (aigivcov') among the treasures of the typical 
Babylon. So also in 1 Macc. iv, 23, in the enumeration 
of the spoil obtained from the Syrians by Judas. It is, 
hoAvever, in the highest degree probable that the text- 
ure Avas knoAvn to the HebreAvs from the time that 
their commercial relations Avere extended by Solomon. 
For, though Ave have no historical evidence of the im- 
portation of the raAV material to the shores of the Med- 
iterranean earlier than that of Aristotle (Hist. Anim . v, 
19) in the 4th century B.C.,vet that notice, referring as it 
does to the island of Cos, Avould justify the assumption 
that it had been knoAvn at a far earlier period in West- 
ern Asia. The commercial routes of that continent are 
of the highest antiquity, and an indirect testimony to 
the existence of a trade Avith China in the age of Isai- 
ah is probably afforded us in his reference to the Siuiin 
(q. v.). The Avell- knoAvn classical name of the sub- 
stance (a TtjpiKov , sericum ) does not occur in the HebreAV 
language, although Cal met conjectured that 
serikoth (Isa. xix, 9, A. Y. “fine”) Avas connected Avith 
sericum. But the absence of the mention of silk in the 
Old Test, may be accounted for partly on the ground 
that the HebreAvs Avere acquainted only Avith the text- 
ure, and not ivith the raAV material, and partly on the 
supposition that the name sericum reached the Greeks 
by another channel, viz. through Armenia. The He- 
breiv terms Avhich have been supposed to refer to silk 
are m> '£j m 2,weshi, and demeshek . The former oc- 

curs only in Ezek. xvi, 10, 13 (A. Y. “silk”), and is prob- 
ably connected Avith the root mashdh, “ to draAv out,” 
as if it Avere made of the finest drawn silk in the man- 
ner described by Pliny (vi, 20; xi, 26) ; the equivalent 
term in the Sept. (rp<xa 7rroi')j though connected in 
point of etymology Avith hair as its material, is, neA’er- 
theless, explained by Hesychius and Suidas as referring 
to silk, Avhich may Avell have been described as resem- 
bling hair (see Fuller, Miscell. ii, 11; Schroder, Vestit. 
Mulier. p. 324 sq.). The other term, demeshek , occurs 
in Amos iii, 12 (A. V. “Damascus”), and has been sup- 
posed to refer to silk from the resemblance of the Avord 
to our “ damask,” and of this again to “Damascus,” as 
the place Avhere the manufacture of silken textures Avas 
carried on. It appears, hoAvever, that “damask” is a 
corruption of dimdkso, a term applied by the Arabs to 
the raAV material alone, and not to the manufactured 
article (Pusey, Min. Proph. p. 183). The A. Y. con- 
founds shesh, byssus, Avith “silk” in Prov. xxxi, 22. 
We must therefore consider the reference to silk as ex- 
tremely dubious. (See Hartmann, 1/ebraerinn, ii, 126 
sq.; iii, 406 sq.). We have notice of silk under its 
classical name (D^IS) in the Mishna (Kil. ix, 2), where 
Chinese silk is distinguished from floss-silk. The value 
set upon silk by the Romans, as implied in Bev. xviii, 
12, is noticed by Josephus ( War , vii, 5, 4), as Avell as 
by classical Avriters (e. g. Sueton. Calig. 52; Mart, xi, 
9).— Smith. Aristotle (Hist. Anim. v, 19) gave the first 
correct account of its nature by describing it as un- 
Avound from a large homed caterpillar. NotAiithstand- 
ing this information, hoAvever, the most erroneous no- 
tions continued to be entertained respecting its origin; 
for Pliny (Ifist. Nat. xi, 22) attributed it to a Avorm 
that built nests of clay and collected avax; Avhile Vir- 
gil (Georg, ii, 121) and other authors supposed that the 
Seres carded the down from the leaves of plants and 
from floAvers. 

There can scarcely be a doubt that silk, the most 
beautiful of all the fabrics of the loom, Avas knoivn and 
employed by the Assyrians long before the captivity of 
the prophet by the riA r er Chebar. The Medes Avere no- 
torious for the luxuriance and effeminacy of their cos- 
tume, as is Avell shoAvn in Xenophon’s copious details 


SILK 


740 


SILLA 


(Cyrop. passim). After the conquest of Babylon anil 
the possession by the Persians of universal empire, tlie 
very quintessence of maguiticcnce was “the Median 
robe,” which thenceforward became the dress of honor. 
“Cyrus distributed robes to his great men, most beauti- 
ful and noble, all of the Median sort.” These were 
made of silk; for Procopius, writing long afterwards, 
when the silk-worm had become known in Europe, says, 
“The robes which the Greeks used to call Median we 
now call silken.” The author of The Periplus of the 
Krythrean Sea speaks of silk in Malabar as an article 
imported from countries farther east, which, however, 
can only apply to the raw material; for in the Statutes 
of Menu, of an antiquity far more remote, we read of 
“silk and woollen stuffs" and “silken clothes” {Menu, 
v, 1*20; xii, G4); and “woollen cloth, deer-skins, jewels, 
soft silks, variously colored garments, and beautiful or- 
naments” are enumerated as presents in the Ramaydna 
(i,61). Pliny, commenting on the passage in Aristotle 
above cited, states that silk came to Greece from 
Assyria and was worked up by the Grecian women ; 
and we may fairly conclude that the rich and curi- 
ous products of China, her silk and porcelain, reached 
the marts of Egypt, of Phoenicia, and of Greece by va- 
rious routes — one from the south of China through In- 
dia, and thence either by sea up the Persian and Arabi- 
an gulfs or across the Indus through Persia by the 
great Syrian and Arabian caravans; and another bv the 
grand route of Central Asia, by Bactra. “situate on the 
highway of the continence of nations,” whence the op- 
ulence of 'i'li ibet, 'fartarv, and China was poured in a 
ceaseless and splendid tide of traffic through the Caspi- 
an Gates (see Ilecren, Hist. Researches, passim; and 
Wilkinson. Jar. Kyypt. iii, 107). “As t lie dress de- 
scribed [in Ezek. xvi] is intended to be of the richest 
materials, it might well be supposed that the prophet 
would mention silk if silk were known to him. Silk 
continued to bear an astonishingly high price down to 
a comparatively late period. Thus we find that silk 
was forbidden to be worn by men under Tiberius. 
When they did wear it, silk formed only part of the 
fabric, robes entirely of silk being left to the women. 
It is numbered among the most extravagant luxuries 
or effeminacies of Ileliogabalus that he was the first 
man who wore a robe of entire silk ; and the anecdotes 
are well known of the emperor M. Antoninus, who 
caused a silk rohe which had become his property to 
he sold, and of the emperor Aurelian, who refused, on 
the ground of its extravagant cost, a silk dress which 
his consort earnestly requested from him. Such anec- 
dotes have an emphasis here, where, by a figurative 
reference to the most rich and costly articles of dress 
then known, God describes the precious and glorious 
things with which he had invested the people he re- 
deemed from the bondage and misery of Egypt” (Kitto, 
Piet, iiible , ad loc.). 

Tlie silk known to ns is entirely produced by one in- 
sect, the caterpillar of a sluggish moth known as Rom- 
byx tnori, after its proper food-plant, the mulberry ( Mo- 
rns). The larvae of other moths produce silk, and in 
India several species are cultivated, as tlie Tnsxeh and 
the Arrindv silk-worms. But there is none that can 
compete with the Chinese worm for tlie exquisite soft- 
ness, gloss, and beauty of its silk, and its suitability for 
the finer textiles. Every one in this country is now 
familiar with the history of the bom byx; with the 



round, flattened eggs; the gray worms which they pro- 
duce which feed so voraciously on mulberry-leaves, till 
they become plump white caterpillars, three inches 
long, and furnished with a little horn behind; with the 
oval yellow cocoons of silk which these caterpillars form 
around their own bodies; with the short brown pupa 
into which each immured caterpillar changes; and with 
tlie soft, downy, cream-colored moth with feathery an- 
tenna} that in due time emerges from tlie pupa, and 
from the cocoon if undisturbed. The mode of unwind- 
ing the cocoons and reeling off the silken thread is also 
familiarly known. — Eairbairn. 

Sill, CtLU or Sole (Fr. seuil, from Lat. solum). 1. 
The horizontal piece of timber or stone forming the 
bottom of a window, doorway, or other similar open- 
ing. 2. Also the horizontal piece of timber, or plate, 
at the bottom of a wooden partition. 3. Also the 
horizontal piece of timber near the base of bouses 
which are built partly of timber and partly of brick. 
— Parker, Glass, of Architect, s. v. 



Window-sill, Fotheringay, Englaud. 

Sill, George G., a Presbyterian minister, was born 
at Lyme, Conn., Jan. 26, 1791. lie received a good edu- 
cation, studied theology at Auburn Seminary, N. Y., was 
licensed by Rochester Presbytery in 1821. and ordained 
by the same in 1825 as an evangelist among the new 
settlements of the presbytery. He afterwards preached 
at Mendon, N. Y., for some years. In 1827 he edited the 
Rochester Observer , the first religions newspaper in West- 
ern New York. He removed, in 1835, to Illinois, where, 
in 1841, he joined the Reformed Dutch Church, and 
labored at Brunswick, Peoria Co. In J849 he re- 
moved to Farmington, Mich., and finally returned East 
with no regular charge, preaching in the vicinity of 
Albany, N. Y., to the poor and destitute, lie died May 
28, 1859. Mr. Sill was- a good scholar, and specially 
fond of antiquarian research. He was the author of a 
I \rse Rook of Scripture for Sunday-schools (Rochester, 
1834, 8vo): — a Manual of the History and Polity of the 
Reformed Dutch Church : — and a Genealoyicul History 
of the Sill Family (Albany, 1859, 12mo), posthumous. 
See Wilson, Fresh. Hist. A lmanac , I860, p. 204; Whit- 
more, Hand-book of A mer. Geneal. p. 158. (J. L. S.) 

Sil'la (II eh. Silla', X|p, a tidy or basket [Gesen.], 
a highway [Fiirst]; Sept. VadWa and FaXadc; Vnlg. 
Sela). “ The house of Millo which goeth down to Silla” 
was the scene of the murder of king Joash (2 Kings xii, 
20). Millo seems most probably to have been the citadel 
of the town, and situated on Mount Zion. Silla must 
have been in the valley below, overlooked by that part 
of the citadel which was used as a residence. Tlie situ- 
ation of the present so-ealled Pool of Siloam would be 
appropriate, and the agreement between the two names 
is tempting (Schwarz, Palest, p. 241); but tlie likeness 
exists in the Greek and English versions only, and in 
tlie original is too slight to admit of any inference. 
Gesenius, with less than his usual caution, affirms Silla 
to be a town in tlie neighborhood of Jerusalem. Others 
(as Thenius, in Kurzyef exey. Jlandb. on the passage; 
Ewald, Gesch . Jsr. iii, 70) refer it to a place on or con- 
nected with the causeway or flight of steps (lllbop) 
which led from the central valley of the city up to the 
court of the temple. — Smith. This latter is confirmed 


SILO A II 


741 


SILLA 

bv the etymology (from to raise an embankment). 
See Jerusalem. 

Silla, the actual and supreme god in the mythology 
of the Greenlanders, who is also named Pirksowa. The 
name signifies the one above, lie raises the dead to eter- 
nal life, and is graciously or angrily disposed towards 
men in accordance with their character for virtue. The 
training of children is not at all understood by that peo- 
ple; but the invariable earnestness, quietness, and good 
behavior of the older persons produce their effects upon 
the young in begetting in them similar traits. A mother 
may, nevertheless, be heard now and then to rebuke her 
child with the words “ Silla tekoa,” i. e. the one above 
sees it. Silla is to them the Supreme and Incompre- 
hensible Ueing. — Vollmer, Wbrterb. d. Mythol. s, v. 

Sillagik Sartok, a powerful idol, venerated among 
the Greenlanders. He dwells in the fields of ice, and 
causes storms. — Vollmer, Wbrterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Sillery, Fabio Bkulart de, a French prelate, was 
born at the castle of ITessigny (Touraine) Oct. 25, 1055, 
and was a relative of the marquis Nicolas de Brulart. 
He was educated in philosophy at the College de la 
Mareche, and was received into the Sorbonne as a 
teacher in 16S1. In 1689 he was appointed bishop of 
Avranches, and in 1692 exchanged that see for Soissons. 
He died at Faris Nov. ‘20, 1714. lie left a few religious 
works, for which see Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Gene rule, s. v. 

Sillick, John A., a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born in Saratoga, N.Y., May 21, 1805, 
and was converted at the age of twelve. Falling away, 
he was restored when about twenty-lbur. He then spent 
two years at Wilbrahara Academy, and about two years 
at the Wesleyan University. In 1834 he joined the 
New York Conference, and remained in it until its divi- 
sion (1848), when he became a member of the New York 
East Conference. In 1854 he was transferred to the New 
York Conference, and continued effective till 1861, when 
he took a superannuated relation, and settled in York- 
ville, a suburb of New York city, where he died July 10, 
1865. lie was kind and generous, a good preacher, prac- 
tical. entertaining, and instructive. See Minutes of A n- 
nual Conferences , 1865, p. 73. 

Sillon See Brier. 

Silnoy-Bog, a god mentioned in Slavic mythology 
who is believed to be the war-god of the ancient Rus- 
sians and Roles. He is represented as a warrior, heavily 
armed, and having the skulls of men and beasts scattered 
about at his feet. — Vollmer, Wbrterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Silo'ah, Silo'am, or Shilo'ah, a place in the 
vicinity of Jerusalem. We use, in part, the account 
given in Smith’s Dictionary of the Bible. 

I. Xame. — This occurs in a different form both in the 
original and in the A. V., as applied to water, m three 
passages of Scripture, which we here arrange chronolog- 
ically. 

1. “The Waters of Siiilo.ui” (Ileb. Mey hash-Shi- 
lo'ach , HPuTlj : Sept, to vcwo too Yei Xiocig v. r. Yi- 
Xuiap ; Saadias, A in •Seltcan ; Vulg. aquas Siloe ), a certain 
soft-flowing stream employed by the prophet Isaiah (viii, 
6) to point his comparison between the quiet confidence 
in Jehovah which he was urging on the people, and the 
overwhelming violence of the king of Assyria, for whose 
alliance they were clamoring. 

There is no reason to doubt that the waters in ques- 
tion were the same that are better known under their 
later name of Siloam — the only perennial spring of Jeru- 
salem. Objection has been taken to the fact that the 
“waters of Siloam” run with an irregular intermittent 
action, and therefore could hardly be appealed to as 
flowing “softly.” But the testimony of careful inves- 
tigators (Robinson, Bib. Res. i, 341,2; Barclay, City of 
the Great King , p. 516) establishes the fact that the dis- 
turbance only takes place, at the oftenest, two or three 
times a day, say three to four hours out of the twenty- I 


four, the flow being “perfectly quiescent” during the 
rest of the time. In summer the disturbance only oc- 
curs once in two or three days. Such interruptions to 
the quiet flow of the stream would therefore not inter- 
fere with the contrast enforced in the prophet’s metaphor. 

2. “The Fool of Siloah” (Heb. Berekdth liusli-She '- 

lach, “2*^2 ; Sept. KoXvpjMfipa tojv kwCiujv v. r. 

tujv Strou YtXa tag; Vulg. Piscina /Siloe), a locality on 
the southern wall of the city near “the king’s garden” 
(Neb. iii, 15). This was possibly a corrupt form of the 
name which is first presented as Shiloaeh, then as Siloam, 
and is now Selwdn. The root of them all is doubtless 
nVr, shaldch, “ to send.” The meaning of Shelach, 
taken as Hebrew, is “dart.” This cannot be a name 
given to the stream on account of its swiftness, because 
it is not now, nor was it in the days of Isaiah, anything 
but a very soft and gentle stream (Isa. viii, 6). It is 
probably an accommodation to the popular mouth, of 
the same nature as that exemplified in the name Dart, 
which is now borne by more than one river in England, 
and which has nothing whatever to do with swiftness, 
but is merely a corruption of the ancient word, which 
also appears in the various forms of Derwent, Darent, 
and perhaps Trent. 

3. “The Pool of Siloam” (*) icoXvyfMftpa tov Yi- 
\ojctp, which the evangelist immediately explains by 
adding, “which is interpreted Sent,’ 1 ' o ippqvtbtTai ’At re- 
oraXpii’OQ, evidently deriving it from n>23), a bathing- 
place in the vicinity of Jerusalem to which our Lord sent 
the blind man to wash in order to the recovery of his 
sight (John ix, 7-1 1). 

In this connection we may also refer to the only oth- 
er Biblical occurrence of the name by “the Tower in 
Siloam” (o TtcpyoQ tv Tip Y iXioap, Vulg. funds in Si- 
loe), to which Jesus alluded as the cause of a great ca- 
lamity to certain Jews (Luke xiii. 4). There is no good 
reason to suppose a different place to be here meant ; 
but some structure adjoining the fountain is doubtless 
designated. There were fortifications hard by. for of 
Jotham we read, “on the wall of Ophel he built much” 
(2 Chron. xxvii, 3); and of Manasseh that “he com- 
passed about Ophel” (xxxiii, 14); and, in connection 
with Ophel, there is mention made of “a tower that li~ 
eth out ” (Neh. iii, 26); and there is no unlikelihood in 
connecting this projecting tower with the tower in Si- 
loam, while one may be almost excused for the conject- 
ure that its projection was the cause of its ultimate 

The above change in the Masoretic punctuation per- 
haps indicates merely a change in the pronunciation or 
in the spelling of the word, sometime during the three 
centuries between Isaiah and Nehemiah. Rabbinical 
writers, and, following them, Jewish travellers, both an- 
cient and modern, from Benjamin of Tudela to Schwarz, 
retain the earlier Shiloaeh in preference to the later She- 
lach. The rabbins give it with the article, as in the 
Bible (mb^'Y’n, Dac h, Codex Talnuidicus, p. 367). The 
Sept, gives YiXwrr/t in Isaiah; but in Nehemiah vo- 
Xvpfiifipa rwv kojSUov, the pool of the sheep -skins, 
or “fleece-pool;” perhaps because, in their day, it was 
used for washing the fleeces of the victims. In Tal- 
mudical Hebrew S/ielach signifies “a skin” (Levi, Lin- 
gua Sacra); and the Alexandrian translators attached 
this meaning to it, they and the earlier rabbins consid- 
ering Nelierniah’s Shelach as a different pool from Si- 
loam, probably the same as Bethesda, by the sheep-gate 
(John v, 2), the 7rpofiuTuct) KoXupj3ij^pa of Eusebius, 
the probat ica piscina of Jerome. If so, then it is Be- 
thesda, and not Siloam, that is mentioned by Nehemiah. 
We may observe that the Targum of Jonathan, the 
Peshito, and the Arabic versions of 1 Kings i, 33 read 
Shiloah for the Gihon of the Hebrew. The Vnlg. has 
uniformly, both in the Old and the New Test., Siloe; in 
the Old calling it piscina, and in the New natatoria. The 
Latin fathers, led by the Vulg., have always Siloe; the 
old pilgrims, who knew nothing but the Vulg., Siloe or 


SILO All 


742 


SILOAH 


Syloe. The Greek fathers, adhering to the Sept., have 
Siloam. The word does not occur in the Apocrypha. 
Josephus gives both Siloam and Siloa (i'cXwd/* and IV 
Xum), generally the former. 

11. Identification . — Si loam is one of the few undis- 
puted localities (though Iieland and some others mis- 
placed it) in the topography of Jerusalem, still retaining 
its old name (with the Arabic modification, Siltcdn), 
while every other pool has lost its Bible designation. 
This is the more remarkable as it is a mere suburban 
tank of no great size, and for many an age not partic- 
ularly good or plentiful in its waters, though Josephus 
tells us that in his day they were both “sweet and 
abundant” (IFnr, v, 4, 1). Apart from the identity of 
name, there is an unbroken chain of exterior testimony, 
during eighteen centuries, connecting the present Bir - 
ket iSilicdn with the Shiloah of Isaiah and the Silo am 
of John. There are difficulties in identifying the Bir 
Eynb (the well of Salah-ed-dln, Ibn-Eynb, the great 
digger of wells, Jalal-Addin, p. 239), but none in fixing 
Siloam. Josephus mentions it frequently in his Jeu-ish 
War, and his references indicate that it was a somewhat 
noted place, a sort of city landmark. From him we learn 
that it was without the city (i£to rov d<rrew£, B’«r, v, 
9, 4); that it was at this pool that the “old wall” took 
a bend and shot out eastward (draKdp7rrov tig dvaro - 
X//i', ibid, v, 0, 1); that there was a valley under it (n)r 
V7 to Si \wdfx tydpayya, ibid, vi, 8, 5), and one beside it 
( jfj Kara n)v SiXwd/i tyapayyi, ibid, v, 12, 2); a hill 
(Xd0or) right opposite, apparently on the other side of 
the Ivedron, hard by a cliff or rock called Peristereon 
( ibid.) ; that it was at the termination or mouth of the 
Tyropceon (ibid, v, 4, 1); that close beside it, apparent- 
ly eastward, was another pool called Solomon’s Pool, to 
which the “old wall” came after leaving Siloam, and 
past which it went on to Ophlas, where, bending north- 
ward, it was united to the eastern arcade of the Temple. 
In the Antonine Itinerary (A.D. 333) it is set down in 
the same locality, but it is said to be “juxta mu rum,” 
as Josephus implies; whereas now it is a considerable 
distance — upwards of 1200 feet — from the nearest angle 
of the present wall, and nearly 1900 feet from the south- 
ern wall of the 11 aril m. 

Jerome, towards the beginning of the 5th century, 
describes it as “ad radices montis Moriah” (in Matt, x), 
and tells (though without endorsing the fable) that the 
stones sprinkled with the blood (“ rubra saxa”) of the 
prophet Zechariali were still pointed out (in Matt.xxiii). 
He speaks of it as being in the Valley of the Son of 
Ilinnom, as Josephus does of its being at the mouth of 
the Tyro paeon (in Jer. it); and it is noticeable that he 
(like the rabbins) never mentions the Tyropmon, while 
he, times without number, speaks of the Valley of the 
Son of Ilinnom. He speaks of Ilinnom and Tophet, 
with their groves and gardens, as watered by Siloam (in 
Jer. xix, 0; xxxii, 35). “ Tophet, quic est in valle lilii 

Kniiom, ilium locum significat qui Siloc fontibus irriga- 
tur, et est arnejunns atquc nemorosus, hodicque hortorum 
pricket delicias” (in Jer. vim). He speaks of Siloam as 
dependent on the rains, and as the only fountain used 
in his day: “ Uuo fonte Siloe et hoc non perpetuo utitur 
ci vitas; et usque in priesentem diem sterilitas pluvia- 
rum, non solum frngum sed et bibendi inopiam faeit” (in 
Jer. xiv). Now, though Jerome ought to have known 
well the water supplies of Jerusalem, seeing he lived 
the greater part of his life within six miles of it, yet 
other authorities and the modern water provision of the 
city show us that it could never have been wholly de- 
pendent on its pools. Its innumerable bottle-necked 
private cisterns kept up a supply at all times, and lienee 
it often happened that it was the besiegers, not the be- 
ster fed, that suffered most; though Josephus records a 
memorable instance to the contrary, when, relating a 
speech he made to the Jews, standing beyond their 
darts on a part of the south-eastern wall which the Ro- 
mans had carried, lie speaks of Siloam as overflowing 
since the Romans had got access to it, whereas before, 


when the Jews held it, it was dry ( War, v, 9, 4). We 
may here notice, in passing, that Jerusalem is, except 
perhaps in the very heat of the year, a well-watered 
city. I)r. Barclay says that “within a circuit swept 
by a radius of seven or eight miles there are no less than 
thirty or forty natural springs” (City of the Great King , 
p. 295) ; and a letter from consul Finn adds, “This I be- 
lieve to be under the truth, but they are almost all found 
to the south and south-west: in those directions there 
does not appear to be a village without springs.” Stra- 
bo’s statement is that Jerusalem itself was rocky but 
well watered (evvtpor), but all the region around was 
barren and waterless (Xu7Tjodr Ka't drt’fyoi', xvi, 2, 36). 
We have only to add that Jerome (Comment, in Ksa. 
riii, G), indicating its situation more precisely, also men- 
tions its irregular flow — a very remarkable circumstance, 
which has been noticed by most subsequent pilgrims and 
travellers. This assures us that the present fountain of 
Siloam is that which he had in view, and that it is the 
same to which the scriptural notices refer there is no 
reason to doubt. 

Soon after Jerome, Antoninus of riacentia, in his Pil- 
grimage (A.D. 570), gives a similar description, and 
mentions especially that at certain hours only did the 
fountain pour forth much water, lie also distinguishes 
between the fountain and the pool where the people 
washed themselves for a blessing. In the 7tli century 
Antoninus Martyr mentions Siloam as both fountain 
and pool. Bernhard the monk speaks of it in the 9th 
century, and the annalists of the Crusades mention its 
site, in the fork of two valleys, as we find it. Benjamin 
of Tudela (A.D. 1173) speaks of “the great spring of 
Shiloach which runs into the brook Kedron” (Asher’s 
ed. i, 71), and he mentions “a large building upon it” 
(b"), which he says was erected in the days of his fa- 
thers. Is it of this building that the present ruined pil- 
lars are the relics? Caumont (A.l). 1418) speaks of the 
Valley of Siloah, “ou est le fonteync ou le (sic) vierge 
Marie lavoit les drapellez de son enfant,” and of the 
fountain of Siloam as close at hand (Voyage d'Oultremer 
en Jherusalem, etc. [ Paris ed.], p. 08). Felix Fabri (A.D. 
1484) describes Siloam at some length, and seems to 
have attempted to enter the subterraneous passage, but 
failed, and retreated in dismay after filling his flasks 
with its eye-healing water. Arnold von Ilarff (A.D. 
1490) also identifies the spot (Die Pilgerfuhrt [Col. ed.], 
p. 180). After this the references to Siloam are innu- 
merable; nor do they, with one or two exceptions, vary 
in their location of it. We hardly needed these testi- 
monies to enable us to fix the site, though some topogra- 
phers have rested on these entirely. 

Scripture, if it does not actually set it down in the 
mouth of the Tvropoeon as Josephus does, brings us very 
near it, both in Nehemiab ami John. The reader who 
compares Neh. iii, 15 with xii,37 will find that the pool 
of Siloah, the fountain-gate, the stairs of the city of Da- 
vid, the wall above the house of David, the water-gate, 
and the king’s garden were all near each other. The 
evangelist’s narrative regarding the blind man, whose 
eyes the Lord miraculously opened, when carefully ex- 
amined leads us to the conclusion that Siloam was some- 
where in the. neighborhood of the Temple. The Rab- 
binical traditions, or histories, as they doubtless are in 
many cases, frequently refer to Siloam in connection 
with the Temple service. It was to Siloam that the 
Levitt* was sent with the golden pitcher on the “last 
and great day of the feast” of Tabernacles; it was from 
Siloam that he brought the water which was then 
poured over the sacrifice, in memory of the water from 
the rock of Rephidim; and it was to this Siloam water 
that the Lord pointed when he stood in the Temple on 
that day and cried, “If any man thirst, let him come 
unto me and drink.” The Lord sent the blind man to 
wash, not in, as our version has it, but at (iig) the pool 
of Siloam (see Wolfii Cnrer , etc. Or stg gets its force 
from vnayt, riipai coming between the verb and its 


SILOAH 


743 


SILOAII 



preposition, parenthetically, “Go to the pool and wash 
thine eyes there”), for it was the clay from his eyes that 
was to be washed off ; and the evangelist is careful to 
throw in a remark, not for the purpose of telling us that 
Siloam meant an “ aqueduct,” as some think, but to give 
higher significance to the miracle. “Go wash in the 
pool of Siloam” was the command ; the evangelist adds, 
“which is by interpretation, sent.” On the inner mean- 
ing here, the parallelism between “ the sent one” (Luke, 
iv, 18; John x, 36) and “the sent water,” the missioned 
one and the missioned pool, we say nothing further than 
what St. Basil said well, iq his exposition of the 8th of 
Isaiah: rig ovu 6 d7ra(TTa\p.Evog kui dxf/o<ptjri peojv; t] 
7TEpl OV Uf>l]TCU } Kl'iptog «7TEOT«/\fC€ /U€ ' KCti OVK 

ipurei ovdt Kpavydcxei. That “sent” is the natural in- 
terpretation is evident, not simply from the word itself, 
but from other passages where is used in connec- 
tion with water, as Job iii, 10, “he sendeth uniters upon 
the fields;” and Ezek. xxxi. 4, “she sent out her little 
rivers unto all the trees of the field.” The Talmudists 
coincide with the evangelist, and say that Shiloach was 
so called because it sent forth its waters to water the gar- 
dens (Levi, Lingua JSacr a). We may add Homer’s line — 
kvvt)fj.ap 6' ec t €i\oi «et poov (II. xii, 25). 


III. Modern Locality. — 1. General Descidption . — A 
little way below the Jewish burying-ground, but on the 
opposite side of the valley, where the Ivedron turns 
slightly westward, and widens itself considerably, is the 
Fountain of the Virgin, or Um ed-Deraj, near the be- 
ginning of that saddle-shaped projection of the Temple 
hill supposed to be the Ophel of the Bible and the 
Ophlas of Josephus. See En-Rogel. At the back 
part of this fountain a subterraneous passage begins, 
through which the water flows, and through which a 
man may make his way, as did Robinson, Barclay, and 
Warren, sometimes walking erect, sometimes stooping, 
sometimes kneeling, and sometimes crawling, to Silo- 
am. This rocky conduit, which twists considerably, but 
keeps, in general, a south-westerly direction, is, accord- 
ing to Robinson, 1750 feet long, while the direct dis- 
tance between Silwan and Um ed-Deraj is only a little 
above 1200 feet. In former days this passage was evi- 
dently deeper, as its bed is sand of some depth, which 
has been accumulating for ages. 

This conduit has had tributaries, 
which have formerly sent their 
waters down from the city pools 
or Temple wells to swell Siloam. 

Barclay writes, “In exploring the 
subterraneous chanucd conveying 
the water from the Virgin’s Fount 
to Siloam, I discovered a similar 
channel entering from the north, 
a few yards from its commence- 
ment; and on tracing it up near 
the Mugrabin gate, where it be- 
came so choked with rubbish that 
it could be traversed no farther, I 
there found it turn to the west, 
in the direction of the south end 
of the cleft or saddle of Zion ; and 
if this channel was not construct- 
ed for the purpose of conveying 
to Siloam the surplus waters of 
Hezekiah’s aqueduct, I am unable 
to suggest any purpose to which 
it could have been applied” (City 
of the Great King , p. 309). I u an- 
other place he tells us something 
more : “ Having loitered in the 
pool [Virgin’s Fount] till the com- 
ing -down of the waters, I soon 
found several widely separated 
places where it gained admit- 
tance, besides the opening under 
the steps, where alone it had for- The Present “Pool of Siloam,’ 


merlv been supposed to enter. I then observed a large 
opening entering the rock-hewn channel, just below the 
pool, which, though once a copious tributary, is now 
dry. Being too much choked with tessera? and rubbish 
to be penetrated far, I carefully noted its position and 
bearing, and, on searching for it above, soon identified 
it on the exterior, where it assumed an upward direc- 
tion towards the Temple, and, entering through a 
breach, traversed it for nearly a thousand feet, some- 
times erect, sometimes bending, sometimes inching ray 
way snake-fashion, till at last I reached a point near 
the wall where I heard the donkeys tripping along over 
my head. I was satisfied, on subsequently locating our 
course above ground with the theodolite, that this canal 
derived its former supply of water, not from Moriah, 
but from Zion” (ibid. p. 523). Lieut. Warren, of the 
English party exploring Jerusalem, has more recently 
examined the w r ater-passages from the Virgin’s Fount, 
and found several outlets, all blocked up, however, 
w r ith debris , except one which led up through the rock 
to the surface on the west. He is inclined to think that 
the supply of water came from the Temple rock (Jer w- 
salevi Recovered , p. 194 sq.). Certain it is, at all events, 
that the water of both fountains is the same, though 
some travellers have pronounced the w r ater of Siloam to 
be bad, and that of the Fountain of the Virgin good. It 
has a peculiar taste, sweetish and very slightly brack- 
ish, but not at all disagreeable. Late in the season, 
when the water is low r , it is said to become more brack- 
ish and unpleasant. The most remarkable circumstance 
is the ebb and flow of the waters, w hich, although often 
mentioned as a characteristic of Siloam, must belong 
equally to both fountains. Dr. Robinson himself wit- 
nessed this phenomenon in the Fountain of the Virgin, 
where the water rose in five minutes one foot in the 
reservoir, and in another five minutes sank to its former 
level. The intervals and the extent of the flow and 
ebb in this and the fountain of Siloam vary with the 
season; but the fact, though it has not yet been ac- 
counted for, is beyond dispute. 

This conduit enters Siloam at the north-w-est angle; 
or, rather, enters a small rock-cut chamber w hich forms 
the vestibule of Siloam, about five or six feet broad. To 
this you descend by a few rude steps, under which the 


(From a photograph taken by the Editor in 1674.) 


SILOAII 


744 


SILOAII 


water pours itself into the main pool (Xarmtire of 
Mission to the Jews , i, 207 ). This pool is oblong; eigh- 
teen paces in length according to Lath (Yiayyio <tl Santo 
Sejiolcro. A.D. 1G7«), fifty feet according to Barclay, 
and tifty-three according to Bobinsou. It is eighteen 
feet broad and nineteen feet deep according to Kobin- 
sou ; but Barclay gives a more minute measurement: 
•• fourteen and a half at the lower (eastern) end and 
seventeen at the upper; its western end side being 
somewhat bent. It is eighteen and a half in depth, but 
never tilled, the water either passing directly through, 
or being maintained at a depth of three or four feet. 
This is effected by leaving open or closing (with a few 
handfuls of weeds at the present day, but formerly by a 
tlood-gate) an aperture at the bottom. At a height of 
three or four feet from the bottom its dimensions be- 
come eidarged a few feet, and the water, attaining this 
level, falls through an aperture at its lower end into an 
iduct, subterranean at first, but soon appearing in a deep 
ditch under the perpendicular cliff of Ophel, and is re- 
ceived into a few small reservoirs and troughs” (Bar- 
clay, p. 524). This large receptacle is faced with a 
wall of stone, now greatly out of repair. Several col- 
umns stand out of the side walls, extending from the 
top downward into the cistern, the design of which it 
is difficult to conjecture. The water passes out of this 
reservoir through a channel cut in the rock, which is 
covered for a short distance; but subsequently it opens 
and discloses a lively copious stream, which is conducted 
into an enclosed garden planted with tig-trees. It is 
afterwards subdivided, and seems to be exhausted in 
irrigating a number of gardens occupied with fig, apri- 
cot, olive, and other trees, ami some flourishing legumes. 

2. Coincidences with A ncient A ccounts. — The small 
basin at the west end, which we have described, is what 
some old travellers call “ the fountain of Siloe” (F. Fa- 
bri, i, 420). “In front of this,” Fabri goes on, “there 
is a bath surrounded by walls and buttresses, like a 
cloister, and the arches of these buttresses are supported 
by marble pillars,” which pillars he affirms to be the 
remains of a monastery built above the pool. The pres- 
ent pool is a ruin, with no moss or ivy to make it ro- 


mantic; its sides falling in; its pillars broken; its stair 
a fragment; its walls giving way; the edge of every 
stone worn round or sharp by time; in some parts mere 
debris; once Siloam, now, like the city which overhung 
it, a heap; though around its edges “wild flowers, ami, 
among other plants, the caper-tree, grow luxuriantly” 
(Xarratire of Mission, i, 207). The gray crumbling 
limestone of tlie stone (as well as of the surrounding 
rocks, which are almost verdureless) gives a poor and 
worn-out aspect to this venerable relic. The present 
pool is not the original building; the work of crusaders 
it may be; perhaps even improved by Saladin, whose 
affection for wells and pools led him to care for all these 
things; perhaps the work of later days. Yet the spot 
is the same. Above it rises the high rock, and beyond 
it the city wall; while eastward and southward the 
verdure of gardens relieves the gray monotony* of the 
scene, and beyond these the Kedron vale, overshadowed 
by the third of the three heights of Olivet, “the mount 
of corruption” (l Kings x, 7; xxiii, 13), with the village 
of Silwan jutting out over its lower slope, and looking 
into the pool from which it takes its name and draws 
its water. This pool, which we may call the second, 
seems anciently to have poured its waters into a third, 
before it proceeded to water the royal gardens. This 
third is perhaps that which Josephus calls “Solomon’s 
pool” (H v, 4, 2), and which Nehcmiah calls “the 
king’s pool” (Neh. ii. 14) : for this must have been some- 
where about “the king’s garden” (Josephus’s (3ctoi\tKvg 
7 rapaOttfToc, Ant. vii, 14, 4); and we know that this 
was by “the wall of the pool of Siloah” (Xeh. iii, 15). 
The Antonine Itinerary speaks of it in connection with 
Siloa as “ alia piscina grandis foras.” It is now known 
as the Birket el-IIamra, and may be perhaps some five 
times the size of Birket es-Silwan. Barclay speaks of 
it merely as a “ depressed fig-yard ;” but one would like 
to see it cleared out. 

Siloam is in Scripture always called a pool. It is 
not an C5X, that is, a marsh-pool (Isa. xxxv, 7); nor a 
a natural hollow or pit (xxx, 14); nor a fTpp, a 
natural gathering of water (Gen. i, 10; Isa. xxii, 11) ; 



The Village of S'iltr/in (Siloam) and the Lower Bart of the Valley of the Kedron, showing the “ King's Gardens,” which 
jut watered by the Pi ml. The background is the highlands of Judah. The view is from a photograph by James 
Graham, Esq., tukeu from beneath the south wall of the llaram. 


SILOAII 


U5 


SILVA 


nor a 3X3, a well (Gen. xvi, 14) ; nor a “H3, a pit (Lev. 
xi,36); nor an a spring (Gen. iii, 17); but a n3*53, 
a regularly built pool or tank (2 Kings xx, 20; Neb. iii, 
15; Eceles. ii, 6). This last word is still retained in 
the Arabic, as any traveller or reader of travels knows. 
While Nehemiah calls it a pool, Isaiah merely speaks 
of it as “ the waters of Shiloah ;” while the New 'Vest, 
gives icoXvpfiifipa, and Josephus Tnjyi). The rabbins 
and Jewish travellers call it a fountain ; in which they 
are sometimes followed by the European travellers of 
all ages, though more generally they give us piscina , 
natatoria, and stagnant. 

It is the least of all the Jerusalem pools: hardly the 
sixth part of the Birket el-Mamilla; hardly the tenth 
of the Birket es-Sultan, or of the lowest of the three, 
pools of Solomon at El-Burak. Yet it is a sacreil spot, 
even to the Moslem; much more to the Jew; for not 
only from it was the water taken at the Feast of Taber- 
nacles, but the water for the ashes of the red heifer 
(l)aeh, Talm. Babgl. p. 380). Jewish tradition makes 
Gihon and Siloam one (Lightfoot, Cent. Chor. in Matt. 
p. 51 ; Schwarz, p. 265), as if Gihon were “ the bursting 
forth” (n">3, to break out), and Siloam the receptacle 
of the waters “sent.” If this were the case, it might 
be into Siloam, through one of the many subterranean 
aqueducts with which Jerusalem abounds, and one of 
which probably went down the Tyropieon, that Heze- 
kiah turned the waters on the other side of the city, 
when he “stopped the upper watercourse of Gihon, and 
brought it straight down to the west side of the city of 
David” (2 Chron. xxxii, 30). 

The rush of -water down these conduits is referred to 
by Jerome (“per terrarum coneava et antra saxi duris- 
simi cutn magno sonitu venit,” in Isa. viii, 6), as heard 
in his day, showing that the water was more abundant 
- then than now. The intermittent character of Siloam 
is also noticed by him, but in a locality perforated by 
so many aqueducts, and supplied by so many large wells 
and secret springs (not to speak of the discharge of the 
great city baths), this irregular flow is easily accounted 
for both by the direct and the si phonic action of the 
water. How this natural intermittenev of Siloam could 
be made identical with the miraculous troubling of 
Betbesda (John v, 4) one does not see. The lack of 
water in the pool now is no proof that there was not the 
great abundance of which Josephus speaks (IFur, v, 4, 
1); and as to the “sweetness” he speaks of, like the 
“ aqua? dulces” of Yirgil {Georg, iv, 61), or the Old Test. 
pri£ (Exod. xv, 25), which is used both in reference 
to the sweetness of the Marah waters (ibid.) and of the 
“stolen waters” of the foolish woman (Prov. ix, 17 ; it 
simply means fresh or pleasant, in opposition to bitter 
("ip ; TTiKpoo). The miracle performed on the blind 
man gave rise, most probably, to the tradition of the 
healing qualities of the water. We may here note that 
the sacredness and efficacy of the water are still held by 
Jewish tradition, but more particularly at its source, the 
well of the Virgin. It is the S rb >1 33 — the 

bathing-place of rabbi Ismael, where the high-priest 
used to plunge himself, and where the modern Jews of 
Jerusalem visit as one of their holy places, especially on 
the first day of their year {Itosh Jlashshana) and the 
day of atonement {Yam Kippur). 

The expression in Isaiah, “ waters of Shiloah that go 
softly,” seems to point to the slender rivulet, flowing 
gently, though once very profusely, out of Siloam into 
the lower breadth of level, where the king’s gardens, or 
“royal paradise,” stood, and which is still the greenest 
spot about the Holy City, reclaimed from sterility into 
a fair oasis of olive-groves, fig-trees, pomegranates, etc., 
by the tiny rill which flows out of Siloam. A winter- 
torrent like the Kedron, or a swelling river like the 
Euphrates, carries havoc with it by sweeping off soil, 
trees, and terraces; but this Siloam-fed rill flows softly, 
fertilizing and beautifying the region through which it 


passes. As the Euphrates is used by the prophet as 
the symbol of the wasting sweep of the Assyrian king, 
so Siloam is taken as the type of the calm prosperity of 
Israel under Messianic rule, w r hen “ the desert rejoices 
and blossoms as the rose.” The word softly or secretly 
(3X5) does not seem to refer to the secret transmission 
of the waters through the tributary viaducts, but, like 
Ovid’s “molles aqua 1 ,” “ blandie aqua?,” and Catullus’s 
“ molle tinmen,” to the quiet gentleness with which the 
rivulet steals on its mission of beneficence, through the 
gardens of the king. Thus ** Siloah’s brook” of Milton, 
and “cool Siloam’s shady rill,” are not mere poetical 
fancies. The “fountain” and the “pool” and the “rill” 
of Siloam are all visible to this day, each doing its old 
work beneath the high rock of Moriah, and almost be- 
neath the shadow of the Temple wall. 

3. Adjoining Village of the Same Name. — East of the 
Kedron, right opposite the rough gray slope extending 
between Deraj and Silwan, above the kitchen-gardens 
watered by Siloam which supply Jerusalem with vege- 
tables, is the village v-hich takes its name from the 
pool — Kefr-Silicdn. At Deraj the Kedron is narrow, 
and the village is very near the fountain. Hence it is 
to it rather than to the pool that the villagers generally 
betake themselves for water. For as the Kedron widens 
considerably in its progress southward, the Kefr is at 
some little distance from the Birkeh. This village is 
unmentioned in ancient times; perhaps it did not exist. 
It is a wretched place for filth and irregularity; its 
square hovels all huddled together like the lairs of w r ild 
beasts, or, rather, like the tombs and caves in which 
savages or da?moniacs may be supposed to dwell. It 
lies near the foot of the third or southern height of Oli- 
vet ; and in all likelihood marks the spot of the idol- 
shrines which Solomon built to Chemosh and Asbto- 
reth and Milcom. This was “the mount of corruption” 
(2 Kings xxiii, 13), the hill that is before (east ; before 
in Hebrew geography means east ) Jerusalem (1 Kings 
xi, 7); and these “abominations of the Moabites, Zido- 
nians, and Ammonites” were built on “the right hand 
of the mount,” that is, the southern part of it. This is 
the “opprobrious hill” of Milton {Par. Lost , i, 403); 
the “mons offensionis” of the Vulgate and of early trav- 
ellers; the MoffSaS of the Sept, (see Kcil, On Kings ); 
and the Berg des Aergernisses of German maps. In 
Bamboux’s singular volume of lithographs (Col. 1858) 
of Jerusalem and its Holy Places , in imitation of the an- 
tique, there is a sketch of an old monolith tomb in the 
village of Silwan, which few travellers have noticed, but 
of which De Saulcy has given us both a cut and a de- 
scription (ii, 215), setting it down as a relic of Jebusitish 
workmanship. The present village of Siloam occupies 
the site of an old quarry. The houses are often made 
simply by walling up an excavation, and sometimes 
they cling to the scarped face of the cliff. Steps are 
cut in different parts of the village, originally for the 
convenience of the quarrymen, and now serving as 
streets {Ordnance Survey , p. 64). 

For further details, see Bobinson, Biblical Researches , 
i, 460, 492-498; Olin, Travels , ii, 153, 154; Williams, 
Holy City, p. 378, 379; Barclay, City of the Great King , 
p. 311 sq. ; Thomson, Land and Book, ii, 524: Jerusa - 
lent Recovered, p. 20; and especially Tobler, Die Siloah - 
quelle und der Oelberg (Berlin, 1852), 

Silva, S amuet. da, a Jewish physician of the 17th 
century, deserves our attention on account of the part 
he took against Uriel (or Gabriel) Acosta (q. v.). Having 
succeeded in perusing Acosta’s work before it was print- 
ed — a work in which the Pharisaic tradition was not only 
attacked, but also the immortality of the soul and the 
oral tradition denied — Da Silva published his Trudado 
da I inmort alidade da Alma (Amst. 1623), in which he 
combats the ignorance “of a certain adversary of his 
time” {de certo contrariudor de nosso tempo'). In conse- 
quence of this attack, Acosta published his work Ex- 
amen das Tradigoens Phariseas Conferidas con a Ley 


SILVAN US 


*740 


SILVER IUS 


Esc r it a par Uriel, Juris to J/ebreo (ibid. 16*23), with a 
rejoinder against Da Silva, Com Eeposta a hum Samuel 
da Silva, sen /'also Calumniador . Ten years before the 
publication of the Tradudo, Da Silva published a trans- 
lation of Maimouides’ treatise on repentance, Tradudo 
de la Thesuvuh, 6 Contricion. Traduzida Palavra for 
Eidarra da Lingua Ilebr. (ibid. 1613). See Fiirst, I iibl. 
Jud . iii, 3*24; De Kossi, Dizionario Storico detjli .4 atari 
Ebni (Germ. transl.), p. ‘236 sq. ; Wolf, Hibl. llebr. iii, 
Ilia; Kaiserling, Gesch. d. Juilen in Portugal (Leips. 
1867), p. *288 ; Sehudt, Jud. Denku'iirdigki iten, i, ‘287. 

(U. r.) 

Silvanus, an old Italic divinity. The etymology 
of the name denotes a sylvan god, but descriptions of 
the qualities and doings of Silvanus indicate that he 
symbolized the life-giving forces of nature generally. 
11c was the god of arable tields as well as of the forests, 
and in that character watched over the boundaries of 
tields and presided over their fruitfulness. The law of 
the agrimensori (a collection of various instructions re- 
lating to the surveying of land) even requires that every 
landed property should possess three Silvani. The for- 
est, however, woidd seem always to have been the pecul- 
iar domain of Silvanus. II is loud - resounding voice 
would be heard to issue from the wood like that of Pan, 
with whom he was often confounded; and sacrifices of 
corn, pigs, meat, and wine were there presented to him 
in order to invoke his favorable interference with the 
welfare of the herds of cattle. Pigs which devastated 
cultivated tields were also ottered to him in sacrifice. — 
Smith, Diet, of MythoL s. v. ; Yollmer, WOrterb. d. My- 
thol. s. v. 

Silva'nus (Griecizcd Ni\or« roc, from thcLat.^Vra- 
nus for syicanus. “of the grove”), a distinguished Chris- 
tian teacher, the companion of Paul in his journey 
through Asia Minor and Greece (*2 Cor. i, 13; 1 Thcss. 
i. 1 , ‘2 Thess. i, 1 ; 1 Pet. v, 1*2); elsewhere (Acts xv, 
2*2, *27, 3*2, 34, 40; xvi, 13, ‘25, 23; xvii, 4, 10, 14, 15; 
xviii, 5) in the contracted form Silas (q. v.). 

Silver (7^2, keseph, often rendered “money”). 
There is no mention of this metal in Scripture until the 
time of Abraham. Before that time brass and iron ap- 
pear to have been the only metals in use (Gen. iv, 2*2). 
Abraham was rich in gold and silver, as well as in flocks 
and herds, and silver in his day was in general circula- 
tion as money. It was uncoined, and estimated always 
bv weight. Coined money was not in use among the 
Israelites until an advanced period of their history. 
The Homans are said to have had only copper money 
until within live years of the first Punic war, when they 
began to coin silver (Pliny, /list. A ’at. xxx, 3). Their 
coins were extensively introduced into Juda*a after it 
became a liomau province.— Kitto. 

In early times, according to the Bible, silver was used 
lor ornaments (Gen. xxiv, 53). for cups (xliv, *2), for the 
sockets of the pillars of the tabernacle (Kxod. xxvi, 13, 
etc.), their hooks and fillets, or rods (xxvii, 10), and 
their capitals (xxxviii, 17) ; for dishes, or chargers, and 
bowls (Numb, vii, 13), trumpets (x, 2), candlesticks (1 
Chron. xxviii, 15), tables (ver. 16), basins (ver. 17), 
chains (Isa. xl, 13), the settings of ornaments (Prov. 
xxv, II ), studs (Cant, i, 11), anti crowns (Zech. vi, 11). 
Images for idolatrous worship were made of silver or 
overlaid with it (Kxod. xx, *23: l Ins. xiii, *2; Uab. ii, 
13; Bar. vi, 33), and the manufacture of silver shrines 
for Diana was a trade in Ephesus (Acts xix. *24). But 
its chief use was as a medium of exchange, and through- 
out the ( >ld 'lest, we tiud keseph, “ silver,” used for mon- 
ey, like the Fr. aryent. To this general usage there is 
but one exception. See Mktau Vessels and orna- 
ments of gold and silver were common in Egypt in the 
times of < Kirtasen 1 and Thothmcs III, the contempo- 
raries of Joseph and Moses (Wilkinson, .lac. Egypt. iii, 
2*25). In the Homeric poems we find indications of the 
constant application of silver to purposes of ornament 
and luxury. It was used for basins (Od. i, 137 ; iv, 53), 


goblets (II. xxiii, 741), baskets (Od. iv, 125), coffers (II. 
xviii, 413), sword-hilts (i, 213; Od. viii, 404), door- 
handles (i, 442), anti clasps for the greaves (II. iii, 331). 
Door-posts (Od. vii, 83) and lintels (ibid. 30) glittered with 
silver ornaments; baths (iv, 128), tables (x, 355), bows 
(II. i, 43; xxiv, 605), scabbards (xi, 31), sword-belts 
(xviii, 538), belts for the shield (ibid. 480), chariot-poles 
(v, 723), and the naves of wheels (ibid.) were adorned 
with silver; women braided their hair with silver- 
thread (xvii, 52). ami cords appear to have been made 
of it (Od. x, 24); while we constantly find that swords 
(II. ii, 45; xxiii, 807) and sword-belts (xi. 237), thrones, 
or chairs of state (Od. viii, 65), and bedsteads (xxiii, 
200) were studded with silver. Thetis of the silver feet 
was probably so called from the silver ornaments on her 
sandals (II. i, 538). The practice of overlaying silver 
with gold, referred to in Homer ( Od. vi, 232; xxiii, 
153), is nowhere mentioned in the Bible, though infe- 
rior materials were covered with silver (Prov. xxvi, *23). 

Silver was brought to Solomon from Arabia (2 Chron. 
ix, 14) and from Tarshish (ver. 21), which supplied the 
markets of Tyre (Ezek. xxvii, 12). From Tarshish it 
came in the form of plates (Jer. x, 3), like those on 
which the sacred books of the Singhalese are written to 
this day (Tenncnt, Ceylon, ii, 102). The silver bowl 
given as a prize by Achilles was the work of Sidonian 
artists (II. xxiii, 743; comp. Od. iv, 618). In Homer 
(//. ii, 857), Alybe is called the birthplace of silver, and 
was probably celebrated for its mines. But Spain ap- 
pears to have been the chief source whence silver was 
obtained by the ancients. Possibly the hills of Pales- 
tine may have afforded some supply of this metal. 
“When Volney was among the Druses, it was men- 
tioned to him that an ore affording silver and lead had 
been discovered on the declivity of a hill in Lebanon” 
(Kitto, Phys. Ilist. of Palestine , p. 73). 

For an account of the knowledge of obtaining and 
refining silver possessed by the ancient Hebrews, see 
Mine. The whole operation of mining is vividly de- 
picted in Job xxviii, 1-11, and the process of purifying 
metals is frequently alluded to in Psa. xii, 6; Prov. xxv, 
4, while it is described with some minuteness in Ezek. 
xxi, *20-2*2. Silver mixed with alloy is referred to in 
Jer. vi, 30, and a liner kind, either purer in itself or 
more thoroughly purified, is mentioned in Prov. viii, 19. 
— Smith. There is a beautiful allusion in the prophecy 
of Malaehi to the refining of this precious metal. The 
Lord of hosts is represented “sitting as a refiner and 
purifier of silver” (Mai. iii, 3). In the process of refin- 
ing silver, the workman sits with his eye steadily fixed 
on the surface of the molten metal, and the operation is 
only known to be complete when he sees his own image 
refieeted in it. So in this passage we have a beautiful 
figure descriptive of God's purpose in placing his people 
in the furnace of affliction, while he is, as it were, seated 
by their side, his all-seeing eye being steadily intent 
on the work of purifying, and his wisdom and love en- 
gaged on their behalf until his own glorious image is 
retleeted on their souls, and the work of purifying is 
fully accomplished. The way in which silver is spoken 
of in the book of Job (xxviii, 1), “Surely there is a vein 
for the silver and a place for gold where they tine it,” 
affords one of the many instances of the scientific ac- 
curacy of Scripture. An eminent geologist has re- 
marked on the distinction here drawn, and which the 
discoveries of modern science have made clear, between 
t lie “ iv in of silver” and “dust of gold,” indicating that 
there are mines of the one and not of the other (Murchi- 
son, Silnria. p. 457). 

Silverius, Sr., and pope in 536-37. He was a son 
of pope llormisdas, who had been married before he be- 
came a priest, and prior to his elevation to the papacy 
was a subdeacon. That elevation was caused by Theo- 
datus, the Gothic king, who was involved in disputes with 
Justinian, and would not consent that a candidate who 
favored the emperor should be confirmed. It is said, 
however, that Silverius added bribes to the other mo- 


SILVERLING 


47 


SDIEOX 


tives which influenced the king. The imperial general 
Belisarins soon afterwards degraded the new pope on 
the charge of treason, and sent him to Patara, in Lyeia. 
Vigiiins became his successor. Silverius succeeded in 
returning to Italy, but was delivered up to Vigiiins bv 
Belisarins, and sent to the island of Palmaria, where he 
soon afterwards died, lie was canonized by the Rom- 
ish Church, and is commemorated June 20. — Herzog, 
Real- Ency klop. s. v. 

Silverliiig (3]03, keseph , i. e. silver, as elsewhere 
rendered; Sept. cnjcXoe; Vulg. argent eus, i. e. sicltis un- 
derstood), a word used once only in the A. V. (Isa. vii, 
23) to signify apiece of silver (q. v.). In this sense it 
exactly corresponds with the Greek dpyvp tor, which 
was used, however, for the half shekel, or denarius. 

Silvester. See Sylvester. 

Silvestro dk’ Gozzolini, founder of the Order of 
Silvestrians, was born in 1177 at Osimo, where he be- 
came canon and religious teacher. In 1227 he retired 
to a desert in the neighborhood, where he practiced 
rigid austerities, and in 1231 laid the foundation of the 
order named after him and placed it under the ride of 
St. Benedict. Pope Innocent IV approved it in 1248, 
and assigned Silvestro a house at Rome, which still ex- 
ists. He died at Fabiano, Nov. 2G, 12G7. See lloefer, 
Nouv . Biog. Gene rale, s. v. 

Sim, William Rond an, a Presbyterian minister, 
was born in Golconda, 111., Nov. 25, 1831. lie graduated 
at Hanover College, Hanover, lud,, Aug. 9, 1854, and at 
Danville Theological Seminary in 1857, was licensed to 
preach in the autumn of the same year, and in 1858 was 
ordained by Kaskaskia Presbytery and installed pastor 
of the congregations of Jordan Grove and Lively Prai- 
rie, 111. In October, 18G0, he took charge of the Church 
in Golconda, where he remained until his death, July 7, 
18G4. Mr. Sim was a pure-minded Christian, charac- 
terized by a very remarkable degree of refinement, in 
thought, expression, and deportment. See Wilson, Fresh. 
Hist. A Imanac, 18G5, p. 1 20. (J. L. S.) 

Simalcu'e (En'/KiX/cou?/ v. r. EipaXicovai, etc.; 
Vulg. Emulchuel, Malchus; Josephus, Mc/X^oc, Ant, 
xiii, 5, 1 ; comp, xiv, 14, 1 ; War , i, 14, 1), an Arabian 
chief who had charge of Antioehns, the young son of 
Alexander Balas, before he was put forward by Tryphon 
as a claimant to the Syrian throne (1 Mace, xi, 39). Ac- 
cording to Diodorus ( Eclog . xxxii, 1) the name of the 
chief was Diocles , though in another place ( Frag . xxi, 
A1 tiller) he calls him J amhlichus. The name evidently 
contains the element melek, “king,” but the original 
bum is uncertain (comp.Grotius and Grimm on 1 Macc. 
loc. cit). — Smith. 

Siman (]'2“'D), like the Greek a gpuov, oijpa, a 
sign or a symbol, denotes among the Masorites: 

1. A chapter of a book or the number of a psalm. In 
the Pentateuch neither book nor chapter is quoted, but 
always the section, which is called fPUlB, or “HD and 
X““JO. Thus the Masora Finalis on i“l2X3 remarks: 

iy*n X 3 *)^o rrnsTs “1022 a 

1 “> *j*2' 1 0, i. e. “it occurs three times, and "the passages 
are found in Jer. li, and in Job at the beginning 
of ch. xvi.” On C n nbx " l 2sb the Masora h remarks: 
ta n-’bra no*:: ■prr 32 *'oi S, i. e . “ it occurs 

four times, and the passages are quoted in Psa. lvi.” 
On T2X it is remarked, “10*23 *pm:£P 01 1 

i. e. “it occurs six times, and the 
passages are quoted in the section Bereshith ” [i. e. Gen. 
i, 1-6, 8. By comparing the Masoretie note in the Rab- 
binic Bible, it will be found that the passages are quoted 
at the beginning of the third chapter, since the phrase 
DVlbx "V2X occurs here for the first time]. 

2. It denotes passages, examples, which are quoted 
in order to confirm the Masoretie notes. 


3. It is used as a symbol or mnemotechnic il sign. Thus 
when a word occurs three times, four times, etc., as often 
as it occurs a corresponding symbol, which is generally of 
a very artificial character, is given. Thus the Masora 
Farra remarks on np*i (Gen. xviii, 4), p^OI 5 
xbl"iD X“Q5"i, i. e. “ it occurs three times, and the sym- 
bol is ‘the water of the mighty, iron.’ ” Now each of 
these three words represents a symbol, signifying the 
passage in which the word np - ' occurs. Thus “HS, 
“water,” is the symbol of the passage in which we 
read DT3 ars X3 np->, “let a little water be fetched” 
(ver. 4). The second word, X“C5“J } “of the mighty,” 
refers to the passage “1125 “>213 25, “even the 
captivity of the mighty shall be taken away” (Isa. xlix, 
25). The third word, xbflS, “iron,” refers to bno 
np* 1 “IS 5*2, “iron is taken out of the earth” (Job 
xxviii, 2). In the same verse the Masorah remarks on 
Him*!, “and wash,” fcOnj”! 30*2 '">01 5,i.e.“it 
occurs three times, and its symbol is ‘the waters of the 
servant are clean.’” The first word, fcOO, “ the waters.” 
refers to that verse in which before *122 mi is read 

[i. e. in the same verse] ; the second word, N"Q2*"T, “of 
the servant,” refers to C2132, “your servant,” which 
occurs in Gen. xix, 2. The third word, “clean,” 

refers to Isa. i, 1G, lOTH “Him, “wash you, make you 
clean.” 

4. The word imO stands alone without any addi- 

tion or explanation, and in this position it serves as 
a monitor: a. When one word differs from a similar 
one, either by its prefix or through another letter, and 
in this instance it calls the attention to the difference. 
Thus in Lev. xxv, 25 we read “pnx “V2" I “"'D, “if 
thy brother be waxen poor;” but in ver. 35 we read 
“pnx “pO^Zl, “and if thy brother,” etc. To the 
latter passage the Masorah adds ",mo, to call attention 
to the “'D in ver. 25, and “'31 in ver. 35. b. When the 
difference is caused by another word. Thus in Numb, 
iv, G, 14, we read VH3 12UJ1, “and shall put in the 
staves thereof;” but in ver. 8, 11 we read TX 1O0Z1 
TH2, “and shall put,” etc. Here, in this instance, 
the Masorah places “i^D to the first form. Comp, 
also Lev. xix, 5 and xxii, 29; Psa. lvi, 5, 12. c. 
When a difference consists in the accents. Thus in 
Numb, iv, 30 we read fia’U 0‘ 1 i0*2rr*p *T1?, “even 
until fifty years;” but in ver. 35 wc read 121 
n323 D‘ v w*2m‘p. In this instance the attention is 
called to the difference of the accents, viz. the first 131 
has the Tebir. ^ the second the Tiphcha, . These few 
examples will show the importance of the meaning of 
the in its different stages. See Buxtorf, Tiberias, 

seu Massoreticus Commentarius , p. 259 sq. ; Frensdorff, 
Massora Magna , in trod. p. 9. (B. P.) 

Sim'eon (Ileb. Shimon', *p2**22,‘, a hearing, i. e. by 
Jehovah ; Sept, and New Test, i'e/mor, and so Jose- 
phus, Ant. i, 19, 7), the name of one of the heads of the 
Hebrew tribes, and of several other Jews named from 
him. (In our account of the former we largely follow 
Smith’s Dictionary of the Bible.) See also Simon. 

1. The second of Jacob’s sons by Leah. B.C. 1918. 
Ilis birth is recorded in Gen. xxix, 33, and, in the ex- 
planation there given of the name it is derived from 
the root shama “to hear” — “ * Jehovah hath heard that 
I was hated’ . . . and she called his name Shimeon.” 
This metaphor is not carried on (as in the case of some 
of the other names) in Jacob’s blessing; and in that of 
Moses all mention of Simeon is omitted. Flirst (1/ebr. 
llandwb. s. v.) inclines to the interpretation “famous” 
( ruhmreicher ). Redslob (.4 Ittest. Xamen, p. 93), on the 
other hand, adopting the Arabic root shama, considers 


SIMEON 


SIMEON 


US 


the name to mean “sons of bondage/’ or “bondmen.” 
But the above text gives the natural etymology. 

The first group of Jacob's children consists, besides 
Simeon, of the three other sons of Leah — Reuben, Levi, 
and Judah. With each of these Simeon is mentioned in 
some connection. "As Reuben and Simeon are mine,” 
says Jacob, " so shall Joseph’s sons Ephraim and Manas- 
seh be mine” (Gen. xlviii, 5). With Levi, Simeon was 
associated in the massacre of the Shechemites (xxxiv, 
*25), a deed which drew on them the remonstrance of 
their father (ver. 30), and evidently also his dying curse 
(xlix, 5-7). With Judah the connection was drawn 
still closer. lie and Simeon not only “went up” to- 
gether, side by side, in the forefront of the nation, to 
the conquest of the south of the Holy Land (Judg. i. 3, 
17), but their allotments lay together in a more special 
manner than those of the other tribes, something in the 
same manner as Benjamin and Ephraim. Besides the 
massacre of Shcchcm — a deed not to he judged of by 
the standards of a more civilized and less violent age, 
and, when fairly estimated, not wholly discreditable 
to its perpetrators — the only personal incident related 
of Simeon is the fact of his being selected by Joseph, 
without any reason given or implied, as the hostage for 
the appearance of Benjamin (Gen. xlii, 19, 24, 3G; xliii, 
23). 

These slight traits are characteristically amplified in 
the Jewish traditions. In the Targum of Pseudo-Jonathan 
it is Simeon and Levi who arc the enemies of the lad 
Joseph. It is the}' who counsel his being killed, and 
Simeon binds him before he is lowered into the well at 
Dothan. (Sec further details in Fabricius, Cod. Pseudep. 
p. 535.) Hence Joseph’s selection of him as the hos- 
tage, his binding and incarceration. In the Midrash 
the strength of Simeon is so prodigious that the Egyp- 
tians are unable to cope with him, and his binding is 
only accomplished at length by the intervention of Ala- 
nasseh, who acts as the house steward and interpreter 
of Joseph. II is powers arc so great that at the mere 
roar of his voice seventy valiant Egyptians fall at his 
feet and break their teeth (Weil, Pibl Leg. p. 88). In 
the "Testament of Simeon” his fierceness and implaca- 
bility are put prominently forward, and he dies warning 
his children against the indulgence of such passions 
(Fabricius, Cod. Pseudep. p. 533-543). 

Tuntti ok Si.MKox. — The six sons of Simeon and the 
chief families of the tribe are mentioned in the lists of 
Gen. xlvi. 10 (in which one of them, bearing the name 
of Shaul [Saul], is specified as “ the son of the Canaan- 
itess”), Numb, xxvi, 12-14, and 1 Chrou. iv, 24-43. In 
the last passage (ver. 27) it is mentioned that the fam- 
ily of one of the heads of the tribe “had not many 
children, neither did they multiply like to the children 
<>f Judah.” This appears to have been the case not only 
with one family, hut with the whole tribe. At the cen- 
sus at Sinai Simeon numbered 59,300 fighting -men 
(Numb, i, 23). It was then the most numerous but two, 
Judah and Dan alone exceeding it; but when the sec- 
ond census was taken, at Shittim, the numbers had 
fallen to 22,200, and it was the weakest of all the tribes. 
This was no doubt partly due to the recent mortality 
following the idolatry of I’eor, in which the tribe of 
Simeon appears to have taken a prominent share, but 
there nni*t have been other causes which have escaped 
mention. 

The connection between Simeon and Levi implied in 
the blessing of Jacob (Gen. xlix, 5 7) has already been 
adverted to. The passage relating to them may be thus 
rendered : 

Simeon and Levi are [uterine] brethren, 

Instruments of violence are their swords. 

Into their [secret] council come not my soul ! 
Unto their assembly join not my honor 1 
For in their wrath they slew man, 

And in their self-will they houghed ox. 

Cursed be their wrath, for it [was] tierce, 

And their miecr, for it [was] cruel 1 
I will divide them in Jacob, 

And scatter them in Israel. 


The terms of this denunciation seem to imply a close 
bond of union between Simeon and Levi, and violent 
and continued exploits performed under that bond, such 
as the one that now remains on record. The expres- 
sions of the closing lines evidently refer to the more 
advanced condition of the nation of Israel after the time 
of the death of the father of the individual patriarchs. 
Taking it, therefore, to be what it purports — an actual 
prediction by the individual Jacob — it has often been 
pointed out how differently the same sentence was ac- 
complished in the cases of the two tribes. Both were 
‘‘divided” and “scattered.” But the dispersion of the 
Lcvites arose from their holding the post of honor in 
the nation, and being spread, for the purposes of educa- 
tion and worship, broadcast over the face of the coun- 
try. In the case of Simeon the doom refers primarily 
to the fact that originally this tribe had no separate al- 
lotment of territory, but only a series of cities selected 
from the region at first assigned to Judah (Josh, xv, 
21 sq.; comp, with xix, 1 sq.). * See South Countky. 
The eventual dispersion seems to have arisen from some 
corrupting 'element in the tribe itself, which first re- 
duced its numbers, and at last drove it from its allotted 
seat, in the country — not, as Dan, because it could not, 
but because it would not, stay — and thus in the end 
caused it to dwindle and disappear entirely. The non- 
appearance of Simeon’s name in the blessing of Moses 
(Dent, xxxiii, G) may be explained from the circum- 
stance that the tribe is, in accordance with the above 
peculiarities, not regarded as having an independent 
existence. 

During the journey through the wilderness Simeon 
was a member of the camp which marched on the south 
side of the sacred tent. II is associates were Reuben 
and Gad — not bis whole- brothers, but t lie sons of Zilpah, 
Leah’s maid. The head of the tribe at the time of the 
Exode was Shclumiel, son of Zurishaddai (Numb, i, G), 
ancestor of its one heroine, the intrepid Judith. Among 
the spies Simeon was represented by Shaphat, son of 
Hori, i. e. Ilorite, a name which, perhaps, like the “ Ca- 
naanitess” of the earlier list, reveals a trace of the lax 
tendencies which made the Simconitcs an easy prey to 
the licentious rites of Peor, and ultimately destroyed the 
permanence of the tribe. At the division of the land 
iiis representative was Shemuel, son of Ammiluid. 

The connection between Judah and Simeon already 
mentioned seems to have begun with the conquest. Ju- 
dah and the two Joseph -brethren were first served with 
the lion’s share of the land; and then, the Cauaanires 
having been sufficiently subdued to allow the sacred 
tent to be established without risk in the heart of the 
country, the work of dividing the remainder among the 
seven inferior tribes was proceeded with (Josh, viii, 
1-G). Benjamin had the first turn, then Simeon (xix, 
1). By this time Judah had discovered that the tract 
allotted to him was too large (ver. 9), and also too much 
exposed on the west and south for even his great pow- 
ers. To Simeon accordingly was allotted a district out 
of the territory of his kinsman, on its southern frontier, 
which contained eighteen or nineteen cities, with their 
villages, spread round the venerable well of Beershcba 
(ver. 1-8; 1 (Miron, iv, 28-33). Of these places, with 
the help of Judah, the Simconitcs possessed themselves 
(Judg. i, 3, 17) ; and here they were found, doubtless by 
Juab, residing in the reign of David (1 Chron. iv, 31). 
During his wandering life David must have been much 
among the Simconitcs. In fact, three of their cities are 
named in the list of those to which he sent presents of 
the spoil of t lie Amalekites, and one (Ziklag) was his 
own private property. It is therefore remarkable that 
the numbers of Simeon and Judah who attended his 
installation as king of Hebron should have been so 
much below those of the other tribes (xii, 23-37). Pos- 
sibly it is due to the fact that the event was taking 
place in the heart of their own territory, at Hebron. 
This, however, will not account for the curious fact that 
the warriors of Simeon (7100) were more numerous than 


SIMEON 


4D 


SIMEON 



those of Juclah (6800). After David’s removal to Jeru- 
salem, the head of the tribe was Shephatiah, son of 
Maachah (xxvii, 16). 

The following list contains all the names of places in 
this tribe, with the probable modern names. (On the 
possible identifications, see the Quar. Statement of the 
“ Pal. Explor. Fund,” Jan. 1875, p. 23 sq.). See Tribe. 


Ac rabbi m. 

Hills, j 

fSee Maaleii - aorab- 

Adadah. 

Town. 

Kasr-el-A dad ah ? 

Aclar. 

do. 

See IIazar-aiidar. 

Ain. 

do. 

See En-kimmon. 

Amam. 

do. 

See Hazor. 

Arad. 

do. 

Tell- A rad . 

Aroer. 

do. 

Avar ah 

Aruboth. 

District. 

[ Jebel KhahT] ? 

Ashan. 

Towu. 

[Deir Samil] ? 

Athach. 

do. 

Wady A teiche ? 

Azem. 

do. 

[ Teli-Akhmar ] ? 

Azmon. , 

do. 

[On Wady es-Shutein] ? 

Baal. 

Baalah, or Baalath-) 

do. 

See Baalatu-beer. 

beer, or Balah, or> 
Bealoth. j 

do. 

See Leiii. 

Beer-hihai roi. 

Well. 

See Leiii. 

Beer-sheba. 

do. 

IHr es-Srba. 

Bered. 

Town. 

[KhnUixxah] ? 

Besor. 

Brook. 

Wady Gazzeh? 

Beth-birei, or Beth-1 
lebaoth. j 

Town. 

[. Sheta ] ? ? 

Beth-marcaboth. 

do. 

Mirkib. 

Beth-palet <>r -phelet. 

do. 

[Tell-Kuseifeh] ? 

Bethuel, or Bethnl. 

do. 

[Them ait] ? ? 

Bizjoth-jah. 

do. 

See Baalah. 

Chesil. 

do. 

See Bethel. 

Chor-ashau. 

do. 

See Asuan. 

Dimonah. 

do. 

[CTm-Mzoyhal] ? 

Eder. 

do. 

[Wady Rmazj ? 

Eltolad. 

do. 

T Tell-Meraha ] ? 

En-hakkore. 

Spriug. 

Tell- 1 lor a t 

En-riinmon. 

do. 

See Uimmon. 

Esek. 

Well. 

See Gerar. 

Etam. 

/Town and 1 
\ Rock, j 

Tcll-Khewelfeh ? 

Ether. 

Gernr. 

Hndaltah. 
Hazar-addar. 
Hazar-gaddah. 
llazar-sbnal. 
Hazar-susnh, or IIa-1 

Town. 

do. 

do. 

Village. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

T licit A mm] ? 
l r m el-Jerar. 

See 11 azor- ii abatta n. 
[On Wady Madurah]? 
[Jurrali] ? 

See Sdema. 

See Sansannaii. 

zar-snsini. / 

Ilazor. 

do. 

[ Tayibeh ] ? 

Hazor-amam. 

do. 

See Keriotu-iiezuon. 

Hazor-hadattah. 

do. 

[Beyndh] ? 

Heshmou. 

do. 

See Azmon. 

llezron. 

do. 

See Keriotii-iiezron. 

Hormah. 

do. 

See Zepiiatii. 

Iim. 

do. 

[ Jebel Jlukhi] ? 

Ithnar. 

do. 

See Zirn. 

Jagur. 

do. 

[On Wady Jnrrah] ? 

Kabzeel. 

do. 

[On Wady Ivuseib]? 

Kadesh-barnea. 

do. 

Ain-Haxb t 


Karkaa. 

Village. 

[Mr A bn A treibe ] ? 

Kedesh. 

do. 

See Kabf.su. 

Kinah. 

do. 

[On Wady Fikreh] ? 

Lebaoth. 

do. 

See Betii-t.ebaotii. 

Lehi. 

do. 

Tell Lekiuah ? 

Maaleh-acrabbim. 

Ascent. 

Hills S.W.nfDead Sea. 

Madmannah. 

Village. 

See Bkth-mauoabotu. 

IMoladah. 

do. 

Tell Milh. 

Rachal. 

do. 

[Makhul] ? 

Raniath, or Ramoth. 

do. 

See Leiii. 

Rehoboth, 

Well. 

linheiba. 

Rim in on. 

Towu. 

Um er-Rummamin. 

Sausannah. 

do. 

Sim sin ? 

Sharnhen, or Shilhim. 

do. 

[ Tell Sheriah ] ? 

Sheba, or Shema. 

do. 

Stiweh? 

Siphmoth. 

do. 

[Kasr es-Sir] ? 

Situ ah. 

Well. 

See Jf.rai. 

Telem, or Telaim. 

Town. 

[Sttdeid] ? 

Tochen. 

do. 

See Telem. 

Tolad. 

do. 

See Eltolab. 

Zephath, or Ziph. 

do. 

/Ruins S. of Xakb es- 
( Safeh. 

Ziklag. 

do. 

[Musrefa] ? 


What part Simeon took at the time of the division 
of the kingdom we are not told. The tribe was prob- 
ably not in a sufficiently strong or compact condition 
to have shown any northern tendencies even had it en- 
tertained them. The only thing which can be inter- 
preted into a trace of its having taken any part with 
the northern kingdom are the two casual notices of 2 
Chron. xv, 1) and xxxiv, 6, which appear to imply the 
presence of Simeonites there in the reigns of Asa and 
Josiah. But this may have been merely a manifesta- 
tion of that vagrant spirit which was a cause or a con- 
sequence of the prediction ascribed to Jacob. On the 
other hand, the definite statement of 1 Chron. iv, 41- 
43 (the date of which by Hezekiah’s reign seems to 
show conclusively its southern origin) proves that at 
that time there were still some of them remaining in 
the original seat of the tribe, and actuated by all the 
warlike, lawless spirit of their progenitor. This frag- 
ment of ancient chronicle relates two expeditions in 
search of more eligible territory. The first, under thir- 
teen chieftains, leading, doubtless, a large body of fol- 
lowers, was made against the Ilamites and the Mehu- 
nim, a powerful tribe of Bedawin, “at the entrance of 
Gedor at the east side of the ravine.” The second was 
smaller, but. more adventurous. Under the guidance 
of four chiefs a band of live hundred undertook an ex- 
pedition against the remnant of Amalek, who had taken 
refuge from the attacks of Saul or David, or some later 
pursuers, in the distant fastnesses of Mount Seir. The 
expedition was successful. They smote the Amalekites 
and took possession of their quarters; and they were 
still living there after the return of the Jews from cap- 


SIMEON 


750 


SIMEON 


tivitv, or whenever the first book of Chronicles was I 
edited in its present form. | 

The audacity ami intrepidity which seem to have 
characterized the founder of the tribe of Simeon are 
seen in their fullest force in the last of his descendants 
of whom there is any express mention in the sacred 
record. Whether the book which bears her name he a 
history or a historic romance, Judith (q. v.) will always 
remain one of the most prominent figures among the 
deliverers of her nation. Bethulia would almost seem to 
have been a Simeonitish colony. Ozias. the chief man 
of the city, was a Simeonite (Judith vi, 15), and so was 
Manasscs, the husband of Judith (viii,2). .She herself 
had the purest blood of the tribe in her veins. Her 
genealogy is traced up to Zurishaddai (in the Greek 
form of the present text Salasadai, ver. 1), the head of 
the Simeonites at the time of their greatest power. 
She nerves herself for her tremendous exploit by a 
prayer to “the Lord God of her father Simeon” and by 
recalling in the most characteristic manner, and in all 
their details, the incidents of the massacre of Shechem 
(ix, 2). 

Simeon is named by Kzckiel (xlviii, 25) and the 
author of the book of Revelation (vii, 7) in their cata- 
logues of the restoration of Israel. The former removes 
the tribe from Judah and places it hv the side of Ben- 
jamin. See Afefh. Quor. Ilev. Jan. 1875, p. 121. 

2. (A. V. “Shimeon.”) An Israelite of the family 
of llarim who divorced his Gentile wife after the re- 
turn from Babylon (Ezra x, 31). B.C. 458. 

3. A priest, son of Joiarib (i. e. Jchoiarib), father of 
John and grandfather of Mattathias the father of the 
Maccabee brothers (1 Mace. ii. 1). 

4. The son of Judah and father of Levi in the ma- 
ternal genealogy of our Lord (Luke iii, 30). B.C. cir. 
886. lie seems to have been the same with Maaseiah 
the son of Adaiah (2 Chron. xxiii, 1). 

5. V devout Jew, inspired by the Holy Ghost, who 
met the parents of our Lord in the Temple, took him 
in his arms, and gave thanks for what he saw, and 
knew of Jesus (Luke ii, 25-35). B.C. 6. The circum- 
stance is interesting as evincing the expectations which 
were then entertained of the speedy advent of the Mes- 
siah; and important from the attestation which it con- 
veyed in favor of Jesus from one who was known to 
have received the divine promise that he should “not 
taste of death till he had seen the Lord’s Christ.” 

In the Apocryphal gospel of Nicodenms, Simeon is 
called a high -priest, and the narrative of onr Lord’s 
descent into hell is put into the mouths of Charinus 
and Lent bins, who are described as two sons of Simeon, 
who rose from the grave after Christ’s resurrection 
(Matt, xxvii, 53) and related their story to Annas, Cai- 
aphas, Nicodenms, Joseph, and Gamaliel. 

Kabban Simon, whose grandmother was of the fam- 
ily of David, succeeded his father llillel as president 
of the Sanhedrim about A.D. 13 (Otho, Lexicon Rabb. 
p. COT), ami his son Gamaliel was the Pharisee at whose 
feet Paul was brought up (Acts xxii, 3). A Jewish 
writer specially notes that no record of this Simeon is 
preserved in the Mishua (Light foot, I lone. Heb. Luke 
ii, 25). It has been conjectured that he (lVideaux, 
Connection, anno 37, Michaelis) or his grandson (Schott- 
gen, Hone Heb. Luke ii, 25) of the same name may be 
the Simeon of Luke. In favor of the identity it is al- 
leged that the name, residence, time of life, and gener- 
al character are the same in both eases, that the re- 
markable silence of the Mishna and the counsel given 
by Gamaliel (Acts v, 38) countenance a suspicion of an 
inclination on the part of the family of tin; rabhan to- 
wards Christianity. Oil the other hand, it is argued that 
these facts fall far short of historical proof, and that 
Simeon was a very common name among the Jews; 
that Luke would never have introduced so celebrated 
a character as the president of the Sanhedrim merely 
as “a man in Jerusalem ;” and that his Ron Gamaliel, 
after all, was educated as a Pharisee. The question is 


I discussed in Witsius, Afiscellcineci Sacra , i, 21, 14-16, 
See also Wolf, (June Philologicce at Luke ii, 25; and 
Bibl. Ilebr. ii, 682. See Simon bex-Hileel. 

6. A form (Acts xv. 14; also 2 Pet. i, 2 in some 
MSS.) of the name of Simon Peter (q. v.). 

7. The proper name (Acts xiii, 1) of Niger (q. v.), 
an eminent Christian at Antioch. 

Simeon ok Durham, an English chronicler, taught 
mathematics at Oxford, and afterwards was jweecentor 
in the cathedral at Durham. We owe to him a fiisto- 
ria cle Gestis Regnm Anglorum , from 616 to 1129, con- 
tinued down to 1156 by John of Hexham, and inserted 
in the Anglicame Historic Scriptores X of Twvsden 
(Loud. 1652, fob). It is mostly a literal reproduction 
of the Chronicles of Florence of Worcester, who died in 
1118. Simeon is likewise the author of a letter De 
A rchiepiscopis Eboraci; and he has given under his 
own name, without any addition to the work, another 
production, IJistoria de Ditnelmensi Ecclesia, printed in 
Twysdcn’s edition, but which altogether belongs, as Sel- 
den has shoXvn, to Turgot, prior of Durham, who died 
in 1115. Simeon died after 1130. See Wright, Riogr. 
Britann. Literaria, vol. i.— Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Gene- 
rale, s. v. 

Simeon of Polotzk, a Russian monk, poet, and 
ecclesiastical historian, was born at Polotzk in 1628, and 
was brought up by strangers; but after the capture of 
Smolensk he was called by the czar Alexis to educate 
his oldest son, and thus introduced a literary taste at 
the Kremlin. He composed dramas which were ap- 
preciated chiefly by Sophia, the intelligent sister of 
Peter 1. When the emperor Theodore ascended the 
throne (1676), his preceptor obtained permission to es- 
tablish a press in connection with the palace. He con- 
ceived the design of reforming the Church. Being 
suspected, not without reason, of Roman Catholic ten- 
dencies, he was protected by his pupil from the ani- 
madversion of the Muscovite patriarch. We owe to 
Simeon several religious and poetical treatises, but the 
greater part of his works remain buried in the libraries 
of Moscow and Novgorod, lie died at Moscow, Aug. 
25, 1680. — Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Generale, s. v. 

Simeon, St., surnamed Stylites (from arvXoc, a 
pillar), an early anchoret, was born about 390 at Sisan, 
on the confines of Cilicia and Syria, lie was the son 
of a shepherd, and followed the same vocation himself 
till his thirteenth year, when he entered a monastery 
; where several brethren consecrated themselves entirely 
i to a knowledge of the Holy Scriptures. Living among 
, austere devotees, he surpassed them all in the rigor of 
i Ins mortifications, so that the superior, fearful of his 
• example, at last dismissed him. After spending three 
years in solitude on Mt. Selenisissa, where he is said to 
have passed forty days without eating, a feat which he 
, re-enacted for many years afterwards, he betook him- 
, self to the top of a mountain in Syria, and there made 
; for himself a sort of shelter with stones piled on each 
i other. In order to withdraw himself from the impor- 
; t unities of the crowds who came to him for the cure 
• of their maladies, he con tri veil, about the year 423, to 
, establish his residence on the top of a column, which 
■ he raised first from six to twelve, and at length to 
; twenty-eight and thirty-six feet in height. Its sum- 
■ mit. was three feet in diameter and was surrounded 
■ with a balustrade of sullieient height. It was impossi- 
ble to lie down upon it, and Simeon there maintained 
i his abode day and night. A mode of life so extraor- 
i dinary was, in general, regarded as a piece of extrava- 
- gance and vanity, hut by many as a mark of unusual 
holiness. From his aerial retreat the ascetic gave his 
instructions to the people who resorted thither, and held 
: public consultations. Three Christian emperors — Thc- 
I odosius the Younger, Marcion, and Leo — came to see 
- him. His life was compared to that of angels — offer- 
, ing up prayers for men from his elevation and bringing 
5 down graces on them, llis neck was loaded with an 


SIMEON 


1 51 


SIMILITUDE 


iron chain. Tn praying he bent his body so that his I 
forehead almost touched his feet. He took only one ' 
scanty meal a week and fasted throughout the season 
of Lent. He uttered prophecies and wrought an abun- 
dance of miracles. Simeon’s fame became immense. 
Pilgrims from distant lands, as Spain, Gaul, and even 
Pritain, docked to see him. Little tigures of him were, 
during his own lifetime, set up in the workshops of 
Pome as charms against evil. He corresponded with 
bishops and emperors, and influenced the policy both 
of Church and State. By his life and his exhortations 
lie converted multitudes of Saracens and other nomads 
of the desert. Some time after he had adopted his pe- 
culiar manner of life, some neighboring monks sent to 
ask why he was not content with such fashions of ho- 
liness as had sufficed for the saints of earlier days. 
The messenger was charged to bid him leave his pil- 
lar, and. in case of a refusal, to pull him down by force. 
But Simeon, on hearing the order, put forth one of his 
feet as if to descend ; and the messenger, as he had 
been instructed, acknowledged this obedience as a proof 
that the Stylite’s mode of life was approved by God, 
and desired him to continue in it. At length the dev- 
il appeared to Simeon in the form of the Saviour and 
invited him to ascend to heaven in a chariot drawn by 
cherubim. Simeon put out his foot to enter the chari- 
ot, when the tempter vanished, and, in punishment of 
his presumption, left him with an ulcer in his thigh, 
which, for the remaining year of his life, obliged him 
to support himself on one leg. He died Sept. 1,4G0. 
His body was removed with great ceremony to Anti- 
och, the inhabitants of which had requested that it 
might be given to them as a defence for their city in- 
stead of the walls which they had lost. The Latins 
celebrate Simeon’s festival on Jan. 5. There exists 
from lnra a Letter addressed to Theodosius the Younger 
to induce him to return to the Jews their synagogues; 
it is inserted in the Biblioth. Orientalis of Assemani. 
There is also found in vol. vii of the Bibl. Max. Pa. - 
trum a homily, De Morte Assidue Cogitanda , which is 
variously attributed to St. Simeon, to St. Macarius of 
Egypt, to St. Ephrem, and to Theophetus of Alexandria. 
See Hoefer, A r ouv. Biog. Generate , s. v. See Stylites. 

A disciple of Simeon by the name of Daniel succeed- 
ed to his reputation for sanctity and to lus mode of 
life, which he maintained for thirty-three years in the 
still more trying climate of the shore of the Bosphorus, 
about four miles from Constantinople. The marvels of 
Daniel’s career are still more startling. Sometimes he 
was almost blown by the storms from the top of lus 
pillar. At times for days together he was covered with 
snow and ice. How he sustained life, what nourish- 
ment he took, was a mystery to his disciples. The 
emperor at length insisted on a covering being placed 
over the top of the pillar, and Daniel survived till the 
year 404. See Daniel the Stylite. 

See Theodoret, Hist. Ascetica, c. 26; Ceillier, Hist, des 
A uteurs Sucres, x v, 439 ; A eta Sanctorum, Jan. ; M lira- 
tori, Acta Martyrum Orient. (1700) ; Krebs, De Stylitis 
(Lips. 1753) ; Uhlemann, Simeo, der Burst Stylita (Leips. 
1846). See Pillak Saints. 

Simeon, archbishop of TiiessalonTca in the 14tli 
and 15th centuries, and author of a number of works 
which are still extant, was a pronounced advocate of 
monasticism, a patriot, and a determined opponent of 
the Latin Church, against which he directed his most 
notable work, Kara Aipeatwv, etc. (Jassy, 1683, and 
abridged in 11. Simon’s Critique de la Biblioth. de M. 
Du-Pin, p. 403 sq.), and his De Divino Templo, etc. (see 
Leon Allatii De Sim. Scriptis Diatriba [Par. 1664], p. 
185-192). Extracts are given in dac. Goar, Eucholo - 
gium Grcecorum (Par. 1647), and by Morinus, Gessncr, 
and Possevin (De Simeon. Scriptis, p. 193; comp. Bibl. 
Max. Pat rum, xxii, 768 sq.). A number of additional 
writings from his pen are mentioned in Allatius, among 
them several hymns. He conducted a valiant defence 
of Thessalonica against the Turks, and died in A.D, 


1430, about six months before the surrender of the city 
to Arnurath IT. See Allatii De Bccles. Occident, atque 
Orient. Perpetua Consensione Libri Tres (Col. Agripp. 
1648), lib. ii, c. 18, No. 13, p. 862 sq.; Gass, Mystik d. 
Nikolaus Cabasilas vom Leben in Christo (Greifswald, 
1849), p. 157 sq. — Herzog, Iteal-Encyklop. s. v. 

Simeon, Charles, an English clergyman, was 
born at Beading, Sept. 24, 1759, and was educated at 
Eton and at King’s College, Cambridge, of which he 
became a fellow. He was presented to the living of 
Trinity Church, Cambridge, in 1783, which he held un- 
til his death, in 1836. As a preacher, Simeon was dis- 
tinguished for an impassioned evangelicanism in lan- 
guage, sentiment, and doctrine, that at first roused bit- 
ter opposition, but he eventually became the centre of 
evangelical influence. He may be regarded as the 
founder of the Low -Church party. His best-known 
work is the I/orce Homileticce, or Discourses (skeleton) 
upon the Whole Scriptures (1819-20, 11 vols. 8vo; Ap- 
pendix, 1828, 6 vols. 8vo). The entire works of Sim- 
eon, including Claude's Essay on the Composition of a 
Sermon, were published in 21 tols*. 8vo (Loud. 1840). 
Claude's Essay , with notes, etc., and 100 skeletons of 
Ser?nons, etc., were published in London in 1853 (12ino). 
For the copyright of his works he received ,£5000, of 
which Mr. Simeon appropriated £1000 to the Society 
for Promoting Christianity among the Jew's, £1000 to 
the London Clerical Education Society, £1000 to the 
Church Missionary Society, and £210 to the binding of 
twenty large-paper copies presented to dignitaries and 
libraries. This series is now published by Henry G. 
Bohn (London), who issued a new edition of Simeon’s 
select w r orks in 1854, 2 vols. 32mo. See Recollections 
of the Conversation Parties of the Rev. C. Simeon , etc, 
(1862, 8vo); London Reader , 1863, i, 87 ; 1864, ii, 295; 
Carus, Memoirs of Simeon (1847, 8vo ; 2d ed. 1847, 8vo). 
See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Authors, s. v. ; 
Darling, Cyclop. Bibliog. s. v. 

Simeon Metaphrastes was born of noble par- 
ents at Constantinople in the 10th century. He was 
well educated, and raised himself by his merit to very 
high trust under the reigns of Leo the Philosopher and 
his son Constantine Porpliyrogenitus. It is said that 
being sent by the emperor to Cyprus, a contrary wind 
carried his ship to the isle of Paphos. There he met 
an anchoret, who advised him to w’rite the life of The- 
octista, a female saint of Lesbos, and he gradually ex- 
tended Ins w r ork so that it included the lives of 120 
saints. He died in 976 or 977. Ilis 120 Lives of the 
Saints are to be found in Latin translations in Surius; 
the Greek is not extant. See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. 
s. v. ; Darling, Cyclop. Bibliog. s. v. 

Sim'eonite (Hcb. collect, with the art. hash-Shi- 
moni', ; Sept. 'Evptiou), a patronymic desig- 

nation of the descendants of Simeon (Numb, xxv, 14; 
xxvi, 14 ; 1 Chron. xxvii, 16). 

Similitude (n^n, a physical resemblance, 2 
Chron. iv, 3; Dan. x, 16; a pattern , Psa. evi, 

20; cxliv, 12; a shape, Numb, xii, 8; Dent, iv, 

12, 15, 16; bpoiortjq, opoiiopa , opoimai^, similarity in 
general). The word is now chiefly used in a figurative 
sense of a form of speech including the simple metaphor, 
or the extended comparison of various kinds, especially 
the tw r o following of the latter. 

1. The A llegoty, a figure of speech, has been defined 
by bishop Marsh, in accordance with its etymology, as 
“a representation of one thing which is intended to ex- 
cite the representation of another thing;” the first rep- 
resentation being consistent with itself, but requiring, 
or being capable of admitting, a moral and spiritual in- 
terpretation over and above its literal sense. An alle- 
gory has been incorrectly considered by some as a length- 
ened or sustained metaphor, or a continuation of meta- 
phors, as by Cicero, thus standing in the same relation 
to metaphor as parable to simile. But the two figures 


SIMLAI 


752 


SDILEIt 


are quire distinct; no sustained metaphor, or succession 
of metaphors, can constitute an allegory, and the inter- 
pretation of allegory differs from that of metaphor in 
having to do not with words, but things. In every alle- 
gory there is a twofold sense — the immediate < r historic, 
which is understood from the words, and the ultimate, 
which is concerned with the things signified by the 
words. The allegorical interpretation is not of the 
words, but of the things signified by them ; and not only 
may. but actually does, coexist with the literal interpre- 
tation in every allegory, whether the narrative in which 
it is conveyed be of things possible or real. An illus- ■ 
tration of this may be seen in Gal. i\\ 21, where the 
apostle gives an allegorical interpretation to the histor- 
ical narrative of llagar and Sarah; not treating that 
narrative as an allegory in itself, as our A. V. would lead 
ns to suppose, but drawing from it a deeper sense than 
is conveyed bv the immediate representation. 

in pure allegory no direct reference is made to the 
principal object. Of this kind the parable of the prod- 
igal son is an example (Luke xv, 11452). In mixed al- 
legory the allegorical narrative either contains some 
hint of its application, as Psa. lxxx. or the allegory and 
its interpretation are combined, as in John xv, 1-8; but 
this last passage is, strictly speaking, an example of a 
metaphor. 

The distinction between the parable and the allegory 
is laid down by dean Trench (On the Parables, ch. i) as 
one of form rather than of essence. “ In the allegory,” 
he says, “ there is an interpretation of the thing signi- 
fying and the thing signified, the qualities and proper- 
ties of the first being attributed to the last, and the two 
thus blended together, instead of being kept quite dis- 
tinct and placed side bv side, as is the case in the para- 
ble. According to tins, there is no such thing as pure 
allegory as above defined. See Allegory. 

2. The Parable , as a form of teaching, differs from 
the Fable, (1) in excluding brute or inanimate creatures 
passing out of the laws of their nature, and speaking 
or acting like men; (2) in its higher ethical signifi- 
cance. It differs, it mav be added, from the Mythus in 
being the result of a conscious deliberate choice, not the 
growth of an unconscious realism, personifying attri- 
butes. appearing, no one knows how, in popular belief. 
It differs from the Allegory in that the latter, with its 
direct personification of ideas or attributes, and the 
names which designate them, involves really no com- 
parison. The virtues and vices of mankind appear, as 
in a drama, in their own character and costume. The 
allegory is self-interpreting. The parable demands at- 
tention, insight, sometimes an actual explanation. It 
differs, lastly, from the Proverb in that it must include 
a similitude of some kind, while the proverb may assert, 
without a similitude, some wide generalization of expe- 
rience. So far as proverbs go beyond this, and state 
what they affirm in a figurative form, they may be de- 
scribed as condensed parables, and parables as expanded 
proverbs (comp. Trench on Parable*, ch. i; and Grotius 
on Matt. xiii). — Smith. See Parahlk. 

Simlai. Rabbi, a famous Jewish teacher of the 2d 
century, is known as the first who reduced all laws of 
Judaism to certain principles. Thus we read in the 
Talmud Bahyl. Maccofh, fol. 23, col. 2 sq. : “H. Simlai 
said that Mos.cs was instructed to give G13 injunctions 
to the people, viz. 3G3 precepts of omission, correspond- 
ing to the days of the solar year, and 218 precepts of 
commission, corresponding to the members of the hu- 
man body. David reduced them all to eleven in the 
fifteenth Psalm: ‘ Lord, who shall abide in thy taber- 
nacle, who shall dwell on thy holy hill? lie that walk- 
cth uprightly,’ etc. The prophet Isaiah reduced them 
to six (xxxiii, 13); ‘lie that walkcth righteously,’ etc. 
The prophet Mieah reduced them to three (vi, 8): 
‘What doth the Lord require of thee hut to do justly, 
and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thv God?’ 
Isaiah, once more, reduced them to two (1 vi, 1): ‘Keep 
ye judgment and do justice.’ Amos reduced them all 


to one (v, 4) : ‘Seek ye me, and ye shall live.’ But lest 
it might be supposed from this that God could be found 
in the fulfilment of his whole law only, llabakkuk said 
(ii, 4) : ‘ The just shall live by his faith.’ ” Uabhi Sim- 
la! also acquired fame for his virulent opposition to 
Christianity. It has been suggested, and with appar- 
ent probability, that he had been chiefly engaged in 
controversy with the celebrated Origen, who spent con- 
siderable time in Palestine, and, as is well known, in- 
troduced into the Church a kind of Ilagadic exegesis. 
It will readily be conceived that Christian truth was 
placed at disadvantage when made to depend on iso- 
lated portions or texts, and defended by exegetieal nice- 
ties and subtleties, instead of resting on the general 
scope and bearing of the Old-Test, teaching, and on 
whole passages, taken in their breadth and fulness, as 
the individual exponents of general and well-ascertained 
principles. However, Ilagadic studies sometimes led 
to a spirit of zealous inquiry, and to frequent contro- 
versies between Christians and Jews. An instance of 
these has, among others, been recorded by Jerome 
(Quiest. in Genesin ) in a discussion between Jason, a 
converted Jew, and his friend Papiscus. In the Tal- 
mud. Jems. Berachoth, ix, 11 d, 12 a, and Genesis Rab - 
ba, c. vi ii, we still find some of those controversial 
points disputed by Simla!'. See Griitz, Gesch . d. Judea, 
iv, 2G5 sq. ; Edershcim, Hist, of the Jewish Nation, p. 
517; Back, Die Gesch . des jikl. Volkes (Lissa, 1878), p. 
207 ; Cassel, Lehrhuvh der jiidischen Geschichte u. Lite - 
ratur (Leipsic, 1879), p. 182. (B. T.) 

Simler, Johann Jakob, a descendant of the fol- 
lowing, was born in 1716 and died in 1788. He was in- 
spector of the seminary at Zurich, and left at his death a 
comprehensive collection of historical documents relating 
largely to events connected with the Reformation. It 
includes many letters l>v the various Reformers, t hough 
often they are only copies, and it ranks as an ornament 
of the town-librarv of Zurich. A work entitled Sanim- 
lungen alter ?/. never Urkunden zvr Beleuchtung der 
Ki rchengesch ich te, vornehml . d. Schweizerlundes (Zurich, 
1757 sq.) is from his pen. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Simler, Josias, a prominent Swiss theologian, 
was born Nov. G, 1530, at Cappel. near Zurich, being 
the son of a prior who had quitted the convent there 
and married. Young Simler had applied himself with 
success to belles-lettres, the sciences, and theology, de- 
voting several years to visiting the principal schools of 
Germany; and on his return to Zurich in 1549, he first 
assisted Conrad Gessner in the chair of mathematics, and 
afterwards was appointed to the exposition of the New 
Test. (1552) in the capacity of deacon in the Church 
of St. Peter. In 1503 he succeeded Bib! uimler (q. v.) 
and Vermigli in the theological chair at Zurich, and 
distinguished himself by an immense literary activity, 
in addition to a faithful performance of the duties of his 
otlice. He was twice married, and left by his second 
wife four children. Though greatly afflicted with gout, 
he possessed an exceedingly amiable disposition, anil 
was fond of society, given to hospitality, and benevo- 
lent. He died of gout, July 2, 157G. His life was 
written by his colleague Stuck!, of Zurich (1577), and 
his writings arc catalogued in Gessneri Bibliotheca, am- 
plified by Frisium (Zurich, 1583). Letters addressed 
to him from Hungary may be found in Afiscett. Tigur. 
ii, 213 sq., and in the Zurich Letters of the Parker Soci- 
ety. Comp, also Treehsel, Antitrinitarier , ii, 377 sq. 
Shulers works deal with astronomy, geography, histo- 
ry, biography, and statistics, no less than with theology. 
He republished Gessner’s Bibliotheca Universalis in an 
abridged hut much improved form (1555 and 1574). 
11 is Repnbl. Helntiorum was translated into three lan- 
guages, and passed through twenty-nine editions. In 
theology he was chiefly engaged in defence of the doc- 
trine of Christ’s twofold nature. We mention, Respon- 
sio ad Maledicum Francisci Stancari . . . de Trinitate 
et Mediutore Nostro Jesu Christo (1553): — De xEterno 


SIMMONS 


753 


SIMON 


Dei Filio Domino et Servatore Nostro Jesu Christo et de 
/Spirit u iSancto, etc. (1558): — A ssertio Orthod. Doctr . de 
Duabus Nuturis Christi , etc. (1575) : — Script a Ueterum , 
de Una Persona et Duabus Nuturis Christi , etc. (1571). 
The Comment urii in Exodum was published after his 
death, in 1584. The Confessio Helvetica of 1556, by 
Bullinger, has a preface by Simler. See Herzog, Real- 
Encyklop. s. v. ; Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Gene rale , s. v. 

Simmons, George Frederick, a Unitarian 
minister, was born in Boston, Mass., in 1814. He was 
prepared for college at the Latin school in that city, 
entered Harvard University in 1828, and graduated in 
1882. On leaving college he became private tutor in 
the family of David Sears, Longwood, Me. The next 
year he accompanied his family to Europe, and return- 
ing in July, 1835, entered the divinity school at Cam- 
bridge, where he completed his course in 1838. He 
was ordained evangelist, Oct. 9, 1838, and went imme- 
diately to Mobile and commenced his ministry. He 
only remained there until 1840, being obliged to fly be- 
cause of his protest against slavery. In April, 1841, he 
began to preach regularly at Waltham, Mass., and was 
installed as minister in that town in November follow- 
ing. In the spring of 1843, having resigned his charge, 
he repaired to the University of Berlin to still further 
study theology. He returned in October, 1845, and 
preached in several pulpits, till February, 1848, when 
he became pastor of the Unitarian Church, Springfield, 
lately vacated by Dr. Peabody. He was dismissed 
from this church because of his sympathy with George 
Thompson, the English abolition lecturer, and retireil 
to Concord, Mass. In November, 1853, he began to 
supply a church in Albany, N. Y., and was installed as 
its pastor, January, 1854. He died of hasty consump- 
tion, Sept. 5, 1855. The following is a list of his pub- 
lications: Who was Jesus Christ ? (1839) : — The Trinity; 
its Scripture, Foi'midism, etc. : — a Lecture (Springfield, 
1849): — Sermons (1840, 1851, 1854): — A Letter to the 
So-called Boston Churches (1846). A volume of his ser- 
mons was printed in 1855, See Sprague, A nnals of the 
Amer. Pulpit , viii, 554. 

Simmons, John, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, South, was born in Hancock County, Ga., 
Nov. 6, 1791. In his nineteenth year he united with 
the Church, and in 1815 was admitted into the South 
Carolina Conference. After four or five years he lo- 
cated, the better to provide for his family; but he still 
continued to labor. He organized societies, and even 
erected a church at his own expense. In 1847 Mr. 
Simmons was readmitted into the Georgia Conference, 
and again entered upon the regular work of the min- 
istry. until compelled to take a superannuated relation. 
This relation he sustained until his death, in Upson 
County, Ga., Dec. 12, 1865. See Minutes of Annual 
Conferences , M. E. Church , South, 1866, p. 24. 

Simmons, John C., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was born in Jackson County, 
Ga., in 1806. In 1830 he was received on trial into the 
Georgia Conference, and labored thirty-eight years, most 
of the time as presiding elder. He died in 1868. See 
Minutes of A mi. Conf. of M. E. Ch ., South, 1869, p. 319. 

Simmons, Perry A., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Macon County, Tenn., 
Dec. 1, 1833, and united with the Church at the age of 
fifteen. He received license to preach in 1854, removed 
to Missouri in 1861, and in 1868 united with the Mis- 
souri Conference, lie was superannuated in 1870, and 
located at his own request in 1872. In 1875 he was 
readmitted to the conference, but died, near Lancaster, 
Schuyler Co., Mo., Oct. 3, 1876. See Minutes of Annual 
Conferences, 1876, p. 77. 

Simmons, William, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Mason County, Kv., June 
24, 1798, and removed with his parents the next year 
to Ohio. He was converted in 1816, licensed to preach 
July 17, 1820, and received on trial the same year bv 
lX.-llBB 


the Ohio Conference. In his early ministry he trav- 
elled over extensive territory; and in 1825, besides be- 
ing pastor of the church in Detroit, Mich., he served as 
presiding elder of a district including the whole of that 
state ami a part of Northern Ohio. His relation to Ids 
conference, during fifty-four years, was always effective, 
lie was an agent of the Freedman’s Aid Society for a 
number of years, up to the time of his death, Aug. 6, 1874. 

| For several years he was president of the trustees of 
Xenia College. See Minutes of Annual Conferences. 
1874, p. 102. 

Simmons, William S., a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, was born in Bristol, It. I., Sept. 
24, 1813, and was converted at the age of sixteen. Hav- 
ing received a good education, and having served as a 
supply for two years, he joined the New England Con- 
ference on trial, June, 1839. He was ordained deacon, 
June 13, 1841 ; and elder, June 11, 1843. His last ap- 
pointment was Ilopeville, Providence Conference, where 
lie died. Jan. 4, 1867. See Minutes of Annual Confer- 
ences, 1867, p. 102. 

Simoi's, in Grecian mythology, was the god of the 
river Simois, which joins the Seamander, or Xanthus, in 
the plain of Troy. He was the son of Ocean us and 
Tethys, and father of Astyoche and Hieromneme. 

Simon, in Grecian mythology, was one of the Tyr- 
rhenian pirates who attempted to enslave the youthful 
Bacchus and were by him turned into dolphins. 

Si'mon (Ei/joh'), a name of frequent occurrence in 
Jewish history in the post - Babylonian period. We 
here present those found in the Apocrypha, the New 
Test., and Josephus. It is doubtful whether it was 
borrowed from the Greeks, with whom it was not un- 
common, or whether it was a contraction of the He- 
brew Shimeon, i. e. Simeon. That the two names were 
regarded as identical appears from 1 Macc. ii, 65. 

1. Simon Ciiosam.eus, a name that erroneously ap- 
pears in 1 Esdr. ix, 32, in place of the four names “Shim- 
eon, Benjamin, Malluch, and Sheraariah” of the He- 
brew text (Ezra x, 31, 32). “Chosamams” is apparent- 
ly formed by combining the last letter of Malluch with 
the first part of the following name, Shemariah. 

2 . Second son of Mattathias and last survivor of the 
Maccabpeau brothers. See Maccabee, 4. 

3 . Son of Onias, whom he succeeded in the high- 
priesthood (B.C. 302-293), being himself succeeded by 
his uncle Eleazar, although he left a son also called 
Onias (Josephus, Ant. xii, 2, 5; 4, 1, 10). lie is gener- 
ally called “ Simon the Just.” See the following article, 
No. G. He is doubtless identical with the son of Onias 
the high-priest Qtpd%' 6 f.iiyag'), whose eulogy closes 
the “praise of famous men” in the book of Eeclesiasti- 
cus (ch. iv). See Ecclesiasticus. Fritzsche, whose 
edition of Ecclesiasticus ( Exeg. flandb. ) appeared in 
1860, maintains the common view that the reference is 
to Simon II, but without bringing forward any new 
arguments to support it, though he strangely under- 
rates the importance of Simon I (the Just). Without 
laying undue stress upon the traditions which attached 
to this name (Herzfeid, Gesch . Tsr. i, 195). it is evident 
that Simon the Just was popularly regarded as closing 
a period in Jewish history, as the last teacher of “the 
great synagogue.” Yet there is, in fact, a doubt to 
which Simon the title “the Just” was given. Ilerz- 
feld (i, 377, 378) has endeavored to prove that it be- 
longs to Simon II, and not to Simon 1, and in this he is 
followed by Jost (Gesch. d. Judenth. i, 95). The later 
Hebrew authorities, hv whose help the question should 
he settled, are extremely unsatisfactory and confused 
(Jost, p. 1 10, etc.) ; and it appears better to adhere to the 
express testimony of Josephus, who identifies Simon I 
with Simon the Just (Ant. xii, 2, 4, etc.)-, than to follow 
the Talmudic traditions, which are notoriously untrust- 
worthy in chronology. The legends are connected with 
the title, and Herzfeid and Jost both agree in supposing 
that the reference in Ecclesiasticus is to Simon known 


SIMON 


754 


SIMON 


as •• the Just,” though they believe this to be Simon II 
(comp, for the Jewish anecdotes, Raphall, Hist, of Jews , 
i, 115-1*24; Prideaux, Connection, ii, 1). — Smith. 

4 . “A governor of the Temple” in the time of Selcu- 
cus Philopator, whose information as to the treasures of 
the Temple led to the sacrilegious attempt ol'Heliodo- 
rus (2 Macc. iii, 4, etc.). B.C. 175. After this attempt 
failed, through the interference of the high-priest Onias, 
Simon accused Onias of conspiracy (iv, 1, 2), and a 
bloody feud arose between their two parties (ver. 3). 
Onias appealed to* the king, but nothing is known as to 
the result or the later history of Simon. Considerable 
doubt exists as to the exact nature of the office which 
he held ( 7rpooT(iTt)Q tov lepof', iii, 4 ). Various in- 
terpretations are given by Grimm ( Exeg. Ihmdb. ad 
loc.). The chief difficulty lies in the fact that Simon 
is said to have been of “the tribe of Benjamin” (vcr. 
3), while the earlier “ruler of the house of God” (o 
ijyovpevog oiicov tov Ssoii [icvpiov], 1 Chron. ix, 11; 2 
Chron. xxxi, 13; Jer. xx, l) seems to have been always 
a priest, and the “captain of the Temple” (oTpaTgybg 
tov Upov, Luke xxii, 4, with Lightfoot’s note; Acts iv, 
1 ; v, 24, 26) and the keeper of the treasures (1 Chron. 
xxvi, 24; 2 Chron. xxxi, 12) must have been at least 
Levites. Ilerzfcld ( Gesch . Isr. i, 218) conjectures that 
Benjamin is an error for Minjamin , the head of a priest- 
ly house (Xeh. xii, 5, 17). In support of this view it 
may be observed that Menelaus, the usurping high- 
priest, is said to have been a brother of Simon (2 Macc. 
iv, 23), and no intimation is anywhere given that he 
was not of priestly descent. At the same time, the cor- 
ruption (if it exist) dates from an earlier period than the 
present Greek text, for “tribe” (fpvXij) could not be used 
for “ family” (olicog). The various reading dyopavoptag 
(“regulation of the market”) for Tcapavopiag (“dis- 
order,” iii, 4), which seems to be certainly correct, 
points to some office in connection with the supply 
of the sacrifices; and probably Simon was appointed to 
carry out the design of Seleucns, who (as is stated in 
the context) had undertaken to defray the cost of them 
(ver. 3). In this case there would be less difficulty in a 
Benjamite acting as the agent of a foreign king, even 
in a matter which concerned the Temple service. — 
Smith. 

5 . A resident of Jerusalem, son of Boethus, a priest 
of Alexandria, and a person of considerable note, whose 
daughter Herod the Great married, having first raised 
her father’s family to sufficient distinction by putting 
him into the high-priesthood in place of Jesus the son 
of Phabet ( Josephus, A nt. xv, 9,3). B.C. 23. The 
woman having become involved in the domestic con- 
spiracies of his later reign, he divorced her, and dis- 
placed her father in the pontificate by Mattathias the 
son of Theophilus (ibid, xvii, 4, 2). B.C. 5. See IIigii- 
PttircsT. 

6. A slave of Herod who usurped royalty and com- 
mitted many atrocities till he was overcome and be- 
headed by Gratus (Josephus, Ant. xvii, 10,6). B.C. 4. 

7 . A prophet of the sect oft he Esseneswho interpreted 
Archelaus’s dream of the end of his reign (Josephus, A nt. 
xvii, 13, 3). A. I). 6. 

8. The father of Judas (q. v.) Iscariot (John vi, 71 ; 
xii, 4 ; xiii, 2, 20). A. I), ante 27. 

9. t )ne of the apostles, usually designated Simon Pe- 
ter (q. v.). 

10 . Another of the apostles, distinguished from the 
preceding as “ the Canaanitc,” or rather Cam mite (Matt, 
x, I; Mark iii, 18), otherwise described as Simon Ze- 
lotes (Luke vi, 15; Acts i, 13). A.l). 27. The latter 
term (’CijXdoTijg), which is peculiar to Luke, is the 
Greek equivalent lor the Chaldee term ("Xr preserved 
by Matthew and Mark (K avavirijc, as in text, recept., or 
Kavavaiog, as in the Vulg., Canuiurus, and in the best 
modern editions). Each of these equally points out 
Simon as belonging to the faction of the Zealots, who 
were conspicuous for their fierce advocacy of the Mosaic 


ritual. The supposed references to Canaan (A. V.) or to 
Cana ( Luther’s version ) are equally erroneous. See 
Canaaxite. The term Kai'«pir?/c appears to have 
survived the other as the distinctive surname of Simon 
(Const. A post, vi, 14 ; viii, 27). lie has been frequently 
identified with Simon the brother of Jesus, although 
Eusebius (II. E. iii, 11) clearly distinguishes between 
the apostles and the relations of Jesus. It is less likely 
that he was identical with Svmcon, the second bishop 
of Jerusalem, as stated by Sophronius (App. ad f/ieron. 
Catal.). Simon the Canaanite is reported, on the doubt- 
ful authority of the Pseiulo- Dorotheus and of Nicephorus 
Callistus, to have preached in Egypt, Cyrene, and Mauri- 
tania (Burton, Lectures, i, 333, note), and, on the equal- 
ly doubtful authority of an annotation preserved in an 
original copy of the Apostolical Constitutions (viii, 27), 
to have been crucified in Judaea in the reign of Domitian. 
— Smith. 

11 . A relative of our Lord, the only undoubted no- 
tice of whom occurs in Matt, xiii, 55 ; Mark vi, 3, 
where, in common with James, Joses, and Judas, he is 
mentioned as one of the “brethren” of Jesus. A.D. 28. 
lie has generally been identified with Symeon,who be- 
came bishop of Jerusalem after the death of James, A.D. 
62 (Euseb. II. E. iii, 11 ; iv, 22), and who suffered mar- 
tyrdom in the reign of Trajan at the extreme age of 120 
years (Hegesippus, ap. Euseb. II. E. iii, 32) in the year 
107, or, according to Burton (Lectures, ii, 17, note), in 
104. A very considerable probability also has from 
early times been attached to the opinion which identi- 
fies him with the subject of the preceding paragraph, 
for in all the lists of the apostles he is named along with 
James the son of Alphaeus, and Jude or Thaddaeus. But 
in whatever sense the term “ brother” is accepted — a 
vexed question which has been already amply discussed 
under Brother and James— it is clear that neither 
Eusebius nor the author of the so-called Apostolical 
Constitutions understood Svmeon to be the brother of 
James, nor consequently the “brother” of the Lord. 
Eusebius invariably describes James as “the brother” 
of Jesus (//. E. i, 12; ii, 1, ah), but Svmeon as the son 
of Clopas and the cousin of Jesus (iii, 11 ; iv, 22), and 
the same distinction is made by the other author (Const. 
Apost. vii, 46). — Smith. 

12 . A Pharisee in whose house a penitent woman 
anointed the head and feet of Jesus (Luke vii, 40). 
A.D. 28. 

13 . A resident at Bethany, distinguished as “the 
leper,” not from his having leprosy at the time when he 
is mentioned, but at some previous period. It is not 
improbable that he had been miraculously cured by Je- 
sus. In bis house Mary anointed Jesus preparatory to 
his death and burial (Matt, xxvi, 6, etc,; Mark xiv, 3, 
etc.; John xii, 1, etc.). A.D. 29. Lazarus was also 
present as one of the guests, while Martha served (John 
xii, 2). The presence of the brother and his two sisters, 
together with the active part the latter took in the pro- 
ceedings, leads to the inference that Simon was related 
to them ; but there is no evidence of this, and wc can 
attach no credit to the statement that he was their fa- 
ther, as reported on Apocryphal authority by Nicepho- 
ros (//. E. i, 27), and still less to the idea that he was 
the husband of Mary. Simon the leper must not be 
confounded with the preceding. — Smith. 

14 . A Hellenistic Jew, born at Cyrene on the north 
coast of Africa, who was present at Jerusalem at the 
time of the crucifixion of Jesus either as an attendant 
at the least (Acts ii, 10) or as one of the numerous set- 
tlers at Jerusalem from that place (vi, 9). A.l). 29. 
Meeting the procession that conducted Jcsns to Gol- 
gotha as he was returning from the country, he was 
pressed into the service (t)yydptvoav, a military term) 
to hear the cross (Matt, xxvii, 32; 31 ark xv, 21 ; Luke 
xxiii, 26) when Jesus himself was unable to bear it any 
longer (comp. John xix, 17). Mark describes him as 
the father of Alexander and Unfits, perhaps because 
this was the Unfits known to the Uoman Christians 


I 


SIMON" 


SIMON 


u 

(Rom. xvi, IS), for whom he more especially wrote. 
The Easilidiau Gnostics believed that Simon suffered in 
lieu of Jesus (Burton, Lectures , ii, 64). — Smith. 

15 . A Samaritan living in the apostolic age, distin- 
guished as a sorcerer or “ magician” from his practice 
of magical arts (paytvtor, Acts viii, 9) — A.D. 30 — and 
hence usually designated in later history as Simon Ma- 
gus. His history is a remarkable one. He was born at 
Gitton, a village of Samaria (Justin Mart. Apol. i, 26), 
identified with the modern Kimjct .lit, near Nablus 
(Robinson, Bib. Res. ii, 808, note). Some doubt has 
been thrown on Justin’s statement from the fact that 
Josephus {Ant. xx, 7, 2) mentions a reputed magician 
of the same name and about the same date who was 
born in Cyprus. It has been suggested that Justin bor- 
rowed his information from this source, and mistook 
Citium, a town of Cyprus, for Gitton. If the writers 
had respectively used the gentile forms Ktnsuc and 
riTTitvi;, the similarity would have favored such an 
idea. But neither does Josephus mention Citium, nor 
yet does Justin use the gentile form. It is far more 
probable that Josephus would be wrong than Justin in 
any point respecting Samaria. Simon Magus was prob- 
ably educated at Alexandria (as stated in Clem. JJomil. 
ii, 22), and there became acquainted with the eclectic 
tenets of the Gnostic school. Either then or subse- 
quently he was a pupil of Dositheus. who preceded him 
as a teacher of Gnosticism in Samaria, and whom he 
supplanted with the aid ofCleobius {Const. Apost. vi, 8). 
He is first introduced to us in the Bible as practicing 
magical arts in a city of Samaria, perhaps Svchar (Acts 
viii, 5: comp. John iv, 5), and with such success that 
he was pronounced to be “ the power of God which is 
called great” (Acts viii, 10). The A. V. omits the word 
KaXovpei'r), and renders the words “ the great power of 
God.” But this is to lose the whole point of the desig- 
nation. The Samaritans described the angels as dwd- 
f-itiQ (D^n), i.e. uncreated influences proceeding from 
God (Gieseler, Eccl. Hist, i, 48, note 6). They intend- 
ed to distinguish Simon from such an order of beings by 
adding the words “which is called great,” meaning 
thereby the source of all power — in other words, the 
Supreme Deity. Simon was recognised as the incarna- 
tion of this power. He announced himself as in a spe- 
cial sense “some great one” (Acts viii, 9), or, to use his 
own words (as reported by Jerome, on Mutt, xxir, 5), 
“ Ego sum sermo Dei, ego sum Speciosus, ego Paracle- 
tus, ego Omnipotens, ego omnia Dei.” The preaching 
and miracles of Philip having excited Simon’s observa- 
tion, he became one of his disciples, and received bap- 
tism at his hands. Subsequently he witnessed the ef- 
fect produced by the imposition of hands as practiced 
by the apostles Peter and John, and being desirous of 
acquiring a similar power for himself, he offered a sum 
of money for it. Ilis object evidently was to apply the 
power to the prosecution of magical arts. The motive 
and the means were equally to be reprobated; and his 
proposition met with a severe denunciation from Peter, 
followed by a petition on the part of Simon, the tenor 
of which bespeaks terror, but not penitence (Acts viii. 9- 
24). The memory of his peculiar guilt has been per- 
petuated in the word simony (q. v.) as applied to all 
traffic in spiritual offices. Simon’s history subsequent- 
ly to his meeting with Peter is involved in difficulties. 
Early Church historians depict him as the pertinacious 
foe of the apostle Peter, whose movements he followed 
for the purpose of seeking encounters, in which he was 
signally defeated. In his journeys he was accompanied 
by a female named Helena, who had previously been a 
prostitute at Tyre, but who was now elevated to the po- 
sition of his tvi'Oia, or divine intelligence (Justin Mart. 
A pol. i, 26; Euseb. II. E. ii, 13). In the two in, as em- 
bodied in Helena’s person, we recognise the dualistic ele- 
ment of Gnosticism derived from the Manichavm sys- 
tem. The Gnostics appear to have recognised the dvva- 
pig and the ivvoia as the two original principles from 


whose junction all beings emanated. Simon and Helena 
were the incarnations in which these principles resided. 
Simon’s first encounter with Peter took place at Ciesarea 
Stratonis (according to the Const. Apost. vi, 8), whence 
he followed the apostle to Rome. Eusebius makes no 
mention of this lirst encounter, but represents Simon’s 
journey to Rome as following immediately after the in- 
terview recorded in Scripture {II. E. ii, 14) ; but his 
chronological statements are evidently confused, for in 
the very same chapter he states that the meeting be- 
tween the two at Rome took place in the reign of Clau- 
dius, some ten years after the events in Samaria. Justin 
Martyr, with greater consistency, represents Simon as 
having visited Rome in the reign of Claudius, and omits 
all notice of an encounter with Peter. His success there 
■was so great that he was deified, and a statue was erected 
in his honor with the inscription “Simoni Deo Sancto” 
{Apol. i, 26, 56). Justin’s authority has been impugned 
in respect to this statement on the ground that a tablet 
was discovered in 1574 on the Tiberina insula, which 
answers to the locality described by Justin {iv toj 17 - 
fSspi 7roTaptj) ptra^v rutv Svo yt(f>i •ptov'), and bearing 
an inscription, the first w r ords of which are “Semnni 
Sanco Deo Fidio.” This inscription, which really applies 
to the Sabine Hercules {St tncus Remo'), is generally sup- 
posed to have been mistaken by Justin, in his ignorance 
of Latin, for one in honor of Simon. Yet the inscrip- 
tion goes on to state the name of the giver and other 
particulars : . “ Semoni Sanco Deo Fidio sacrum Sex. 
Pompeius, Sp. F. Col. Mussianus Quinquennalis decus 
Bidentalis donum dedit.” That Justin, a man of litera- 
ry acquirements, should be unable to translate such an 
inscription — that he should misquote it in an Apology 
duly prepared at Rome for the eye of a Roman emperor 
— and that the mistake should be repeated by other 
early writers whose knowledge of Latin is unquestioned 
( Iremeus, Adc. IJceres. i, 20; Tertullian, Apol. 13) — 
these assumptions form a series of difficulties in the way 
of the theory (Salmasius, Ad Spartu&ium , p. 38; Van 
Dale, De Omculis , p. 579; Burton, Heresies of the Apos- 
tolic Age , p. 374, etc.). The above statements can be 
reconciled only by assuming that Simon made two ex- 
peditions to Rome — the first in the reign of Claudius; 
the second, in which he encountered Peter, in the reign 
of Nero about the year 68 (Burton, Lectures , i, 233, 318) ; 
and even this takes for granted the disputed fact of Pe- 
ter’s visit to Rome. See Peter. This later date is to 
a certain extent confirmed by the account of Simon’s 
death preserved by llippolytus {Adc. II ceres, vi, 20) ; for 
the event is stated to have occurred while Peter and 
Paul (the term a7rooT<)\otg evidently implying the 
presence of the latter) were together at Rome. Simon's 
death is associated with the meeting in question. Ac- 
cording to llippolytus, the earliest authority on the 
subject, Simon was buried alive at his own request, in 
the confident assurance that he would rise again on the 
third day {ibid, vi, 20). According to another account, 
he attempted to fly, in proof of his supernatural pow ? er, 
in answer to the prayers of Peter, he fell and sustained 
a fracture of his thigh and ankle bones {Const. Apost. 
ii, 14; vi, 9); overcome with vexation, he committed 
suicide (Arnob. A dr. Gent, ii, 7). Whether this state- 
ment is confirmed, or, on the other hand, weakened, bv 
the account of a similar attempt to fly recorded by 
heathen writers (Sueton. Nero, 12; Juven. Sat. iii, 79), 
is uncertain. Simon’s attempt may have supplied the 
basis for this report, or this report may have been erro- 
neously placed to his credit. Burton ( Lectures , i, 295) 
rather favors the. former alternative. Simon is gener- 
ally pronounced by early writers to have been the found- 
er of heresy. It is difficult to understand how he was 
guilty of heresy in the proper sense .of the term, inas- 
much as he was not a Christian. Perhaps it refers to 
his attempt to combine Christianity with Gnosticism, 
lie is also reported to have forged works professing to 
emanate from Christ and his disciples {Const. Apost. 
vi, 16). — Smith. See Tillemont, Memoires , i, 158 sq. ; 


SIMON 


T56 


SIMON 


Beau sob re, Hist, du Manicheisme, vol. i ; Ittigins, Hist. 
Eccles. Selecta Capita , v, 10, etc. ; Mosheim, History of 
the Church , cent, ii, 5, 12; lJe Rebus Christ ianorum t etc., 
p. 190 sq. ; Burton, Heresies of the Apostolic Aye, lect. 
iv ; Milman, //wf. o/* Christianity, ii, 90 sq., etc. 

16. A tanner and a Christian convert living at Jop- 
pa at whose house IV ter lodged (Acts ix, 43). A.D. 
32. The profession of tanner was regarded with con- 
siderable contempt, and even as approaching to unclean- 
ness, by the rigid Jews. See Tanner. That lVter 
selected such an abode showed tlse diminished hold 
which Judaism had on him. The house was near the 
seaside (x, 0, 32), lor the convenience of the water. — 
Smith. The traditionary “house of Simon” is still 
shown at Jaffa in a not improbable position. Some 
time since an order was issued by the sultan for remov- 
ing the old walls and fortifications at Jaffa (Joppa). In 
cutting a gate through a wafer battery at an angle of 
the sea-wall built by Vespasian, and directly in front of 
the reputed house of Simon the tanner, the men came 
on three oval-shaped tanners' vats, hewn out of the nat- 
ural rock and lined with Homan cement, down very 
near the sea, and similar in every respect to those in 
use eighteen centuries ago. There is also a fresh-water 
spring flowing from the cliffs close by, long known as 
tlie town spring. This discovery at least proves that 
the house on the rocky bluff above, and from which 
steps lead down to the vats, must have belonged to 
some tanner; and, as perhaps not more than one of that 
trade would be living in so small a place as Jaffa, some 
probability is given to the tradition that t his is the 
identical spot where the house of Simon stood with 
whom Peter was sojourning when he saw his vision. 
See JorPA. 

17. A well-informed citizen of Jerusalem who per- 

suaded the people to exclude Agrippa from the Temple, 
but was pardoned for the offence on his confession (Jo- 
sephus, Ant. xix, 7, 4). A.!). 38. 

18. Son of Saul, and a distinguished Jew who slew 
many of the inhabitants of Scylhopolis, and finally 
killed himself, with his entire family (Josephus, War, 
ii, 18, 4). A.D. 09. 

19. Son of Gioras of Gerasa, and a prominent leader 
of the Jews in their last struggle with the Jiomans, ac- 
cording to Josephus, who relates at length some of his 
exploits against Cestius Gallus (117/?*, ii, 19, 2), his in- 
trigues at Massada, his campaigns in Aerabbattine and 


Idumsea ( ibid, iv, 9, 3 sq. ), and his final capture and 
execution bv the Homans {ibid. vii. 2, 1 : 5, 6). A.D. 70. 

20. Son of Cat Idas and one of the Idunuean generals 
who came at the invitation of the Zealots during the 
intestine broils at the final siege of Jerusalem. Jo- 
sephus recites a speech of his on the occasion {War, iv, 
4, 4.) A.D. 70. 

Simon, a name common to a number of Jewish rab- 
bins and literati, of whom we mention the following: 

1. S Lai ox Duran. See Hasiihaz. 

2. Si . a ion ben-Gauauel I, A.D. cir. 50-70, succeed- 

ed his father Gamaliel (q. v.). The authentic notices 
of him are very few. We get a glimpse or two of him 
in the storm which Avas then so fiercely raging in Jeru- 
salem. As the resolute opponent of the Zealots, he took 
an active part in the political struggles tvhose convul- 
sions hastened the ruin of the state. He also took an 
active part in the defence of Jerusalem, and fell, one of 
the many victims of the national struggle. Josephus 
{Life, §38) says of him: o Si ovrog t)i> 7roX tojg 

fiti> 'itpnooXvfjaov, yivovg Si GtyoSpa Xaperpov , rijg Si 
fyapuaLov ciiptatiog, or 7 repi rci ndrjtia vopipet Sotcovai 
rwv dWtov aKpi(3da Sia<pipttv. Hi' St ovrog drrjp 
7r\i)p?}g avvkv tibg rt Kai Xoytapov, Svvdptiog rt repay- 
para icaiciog Ktiptra (ppovijaei ry iavrou SiopStovaaibai. 
His recorded maxim is: “The Avorld exists by virtue 
of three things — viz., truth, justice, and peace; as it is 
said, Truth and the judgment of peace shall be in your 
gates” {A both, i, 18). He also belongs to the ten teach- 
ers who Avere called rvzb'S “the killed for the 

kingdom,” and their death is celebrated on the 25th of 
Si wan, for Avhich day a fast is ordained. Comp. Sch ii- 
rer, Lehrbuch der neatest. Zeitgeschichte (Leips. 1874), p. 
335, 453, 459 ; Derenbourg, Essai sur V Histoire et la Ge- 
ographic de la Palestine, p. 270 sq, ; Back, Gesch . desjiid. 
Volkes (Lissa, 1878), p. 157 ; Griitz, Gesch. d. Jit den, iii, 
324, 354, 370, 388 sq. ; Cassel, Lehrbuch der ji'td. Gesch . 
u. Literatur (Leips. 1879), p. 147, 150, 166, 168, 177. 

3. Slaion hen-Gamalikl II, A.D. cir. 140-160, a con- 
temporary of Nathan the Babylonian (q. v.), Avas the only 
schoolboy Avho escaped from the slaughter at Bethira un- 
der Bar-cocheha. He Avas the father of the famous Judah 
the Holy (q. v.), and was elected to the presidency when 
yet a youth. Simon Avas much regarded by the people 
for the sake of his illustrious forefathers; but his stri\'- 
ing for autocratic power aroused an opposition party 



Kepiitcd Llout>e, Well, and Vut of Simon the Tuuuer at Jatfa. (From a photograph by the Editor.) 


SIMON 


757 


SIMON 


against him, which rendered his position very difficult. 
From some of the decisions of Simon which have come 
down to us, he seems to have been not only a man with 
a passable knowledge of Hebrew law, but, for a Jew at 
that time, an extraordinary proficient in Gentile litera- 
ture. He cultivated the study of the Greek language, 
and gave his countenance to the reading of the Sept. 
Comp, the essay by Ph. Bloch on Simon, in Frankel’s 
M onutsschrift , 1864, p. 8 1 sq. 

4. Simon ben-Hillel, who succeeded his father 
Hillel (q. v.) A.D. cir. 10-30, is said (Baronins, A.D. 1, 
n. 40), upon the authority of Athanasius and Epiphani- 
us, to have been that same Simon whom Luke described 
as embracing the infant Saviour in the Temple and pro- 
nouncing the Nunc dimittis (ii, 23-35). Whether he is 
the same whom Josephus (Ant. xix, 7, 4) describes as 
accusing king Agrippa of an unholy living, and that he 
should be excluded from the Temple, since it belonged 
only to native Jews ( 7 rpo(Ti]Kov(Ti]e roit; iyytvkai) is dif- 
ficult to tell. Simon’s recorded maxim is found in A both, 
i, 17 : “All my life have I been brought up among sages, 
nor have 1 found anything better than to keep silence; 
for to act, and not to explain, is the principle and basis 
of all; but he who multiplies words only induces sin.” 
See Simeon 5. 

5. Simon ben-Jociiai, the reputed author of the Zo- 
har (q. v.), lived in the 2d century. The biographical 
notices of him are so enveloped in mythical extrava- 
gances as to make it difficult to give a true statement 
of his life. Ilis whole life was absorbed in the study of 
the Cabala, in which science he was regarded as one 
of the most eminent masters. He existed in a world of 
his own, a region beyond the bounds of ordinary nature, 
and peopled by the genii of his own imagination. His 
occasional intercourse with his coreligionists did not 
propitiate their good affections; he was disliked by some 
for the moroseness of his disposition, and feared by oth- 
ers from his supposed connection with the spirits of the 
other world. “He had the character of being an un- 
pleasant companion and a bitter opponent; moreover, 
lie merited the reproaches of his countrymen by causing 
the overthrow of the school at Jamnia. At a time when 
their Gentile rulers were grudging the Jews the partial 
relaxation they had lately enjoyed from the severe dis- 
cipline of Hadrian, and when the jealousy and suspicion 
entertained against them were so great that the pa- 
triarch, who dared not use the title of nasi nor assume 
any outward mark of authority, was constrained to screen 
the ordinar}' routine of the schools as much as possible 
from observation, and not only to prohibit the publica- 
tion of books, but also to forbid the students to take 
written notes of the lectures, Simon ben-Jochai was rash 
enough to inveigh against their oppressors in a public 
discourse.” The affair, becoming a topic of public con- 
versation, aroused the displeasure of the civil authori- 
ties. A process of law was instituted, and Simon was 
doomed to die. He managed, however, to escape, and, 
accompanied by his son, he concealed himself in a cav- 
ern, where he remained for twelve years. Here, in the 
subterranean abode, he occupied himself entirely with 
the contemplation of the sublime Cabala, and was con- 
stantly visited by the prophet Elias, who disclosed to 
him some of its secrets which were still concealed from 
the thcosophical rabbi. Here, too, his disciples resorted 
to be initiated by their master into those divine mys- 
teries; and here Simon ben-Jochai expired with this 
heavenly doctrine in his mouth while discoursing on it 
to his disciples. Scarcely had his spirit, departed when 
a dazzling light filled the cavern, so that no one could 
look at the rabbi; while a burningfire appeared outside, 
forming, as it were, a sentinel at the entrance of the 
cave, and denying admittance to the neighbors. It was 
not till the light inside and the fire outside had disap- 
peared that the disciples perceived that the lamp of Is- 
rael was extinguished. As they were preparing for his 
obsequies, a voice was heard from heaven, saying, “Come 
yc to the marriage of Simon ben-Jochai; he is entering 


into peace, and shall rest in his chamber!” 'When the 
funeral procession moved towards the grave, a light re- 
vealed itself in the air; and when the remains were 
deposited in the tomb, another voice was heard from 
heaven, saying, “This is he who caused the earth to 
quake and the kingdoms to shake!” Such is the state- 
ment concerning Simon ben-Jochai, and in its tradition- 
al garb it is probably more, intended to show the affec- 
tion and reverence with which this sage was regarded 
by his disciples. See Fiirst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 329 sq. ; Eth- 
eridge, Introduction to Jeicish literature , p. 80 sq. ; Gius- 
burg, The Kabbalah , p. 9 ; Edersheim, History of the Jew- 
ish Nation , p. 261 ; Gratz, Gesch. d. Juden, iv, 196 sq. ; 
470 sq. ; Back. Gesch. des jud. Volkes, p. 199; Cassel, 
Lehrbuch der jud. Gesch. u. Literatur (Leips. 1879), 
p. 176 ; Herzog, Heid-Encyklop. s. v. 

6. Simon I “the Just” (B.C. cir. 300-200). Under 
this name he was known did re to i rpog StLv evnefitg 
Kai to 7 rpiig rove dpotpvXovg tvvovv (Josephus, Ant. 
xii, 2). Dercnbourg has conclusively established that 
this Simon is the same that is spoken of in Ecclesiasti- 
cus. There arc many legends about him. According 
to one, it was he who encountered Alexander the Great.; 
according to another, he was the last surviving member 
of the Great Synagogue (•"ib'Hnn HC!- w?2) ; ac- 
cording to another, it was he who warned Ptolemy Phi- 
lopator not to enter the Temple. All the traditions, 
however, combine in representing Simon as closing the 
better days of Judaism. “ Down to his time,” says dean 
Stanley ( History of the Jewish Church , iii, 276 sq.), “it 
was always the right hand of the high-priest that, drew 
the lot of the consecrated goat; after his time the left 
and right wavered and varied. Down to his time the 
red thread round the neck of the scape -goat turned 
white, as a sign that the sins of the people were forgiv- 
en ; afterwards its change was quite uncertain. The 
great light at the entrance of the Temple burned, in his 
time, without fail; afterwards it often went out. Two 
fagots a day sufficed to keep the flame on the altar 
alive in his time; afterwards piles of wood were insuf- 
ficient. In his last year he was said to have foretold 
his death, from the omen that, whereas on all former 
occasions he was accompanied into the Holy of Holies 
on the Day of Atonement, to the entrance only, by an 
old man clothed in white from head to foot, in that year 
his companion was attired in black, and followed him 
as he went in and came out. These were the forms in 
which the later Jewish belief expressed the sentiment 
of his transcendent worth, and of the manifold changes 
which were to follow him.” In the book called Ecclesi- 
asticus we arc told of Simon’s activity for his people. 
Thus he made the city of Jerusalem, which had suffered 
much through the wars, a great stronghold, in order 
that it might not be so easily taken, for which many 
gloomy prospects continually sprang up. The Temple 
Simon also fortified, repaired all damaged places, and 
raised the foundation of the fore court. The reservoir 
in the Temple, holding the water, he enlarged to the 
extent of a pond, in order that the inhabitants might 
not suffer from scarcity of water in case of a siege. 
Since that time, the Temple had always large quanti- 
ties of water in store, which, in a hot climate, and on dry 
soil like Jerusalem, was looked upon with great astonish- 
ment. If Simon thus cared for the material interest of 
his people, he was not the less severed from the idea of 
Judaism, that Israel’s strength does not depend upon 
such means. “Of three things Israel’s salvation is 
composed” is taught by the choice sentence preserved 
to us — “upon observance of the law (Torah'); upon rec- 
onciliation with God by virtue of means of grace, which 
the Temple worship furnishes ( Abodah); and upon 
works of charity ( Gemiluth Chassadim ).” His piety 
was a purified one, free from ascetic excess. Ilis period, 
full of wars and troubles, brought about many evils, and 
the strictly pious sought, as during the time of the 
prophets, to withdraw from human society altogether, 


SIMON 


75S 


SIMON 


and to consecrate themselves in vowing to lead a Naza- 
ritish life— the first step to the sect of the Asskhcans. 
Simon did not like this mode of life, and showed his pro- 
test against it by not allowing the priests to use the 
pieces due to them from the sacrifices of the Nazaritcs. 
Only once he made an exception in favor of a young 
beautiful shepherd who came to him as a Nazarite. 
“ Why do you wish,” inquired the high-priest of the 
youth, with a splendid head full of ringlets, “to destroy 
thy beautiful head of hair?” To this the shepherd re- 
plied, “Because my head full of ringlets has nearly en- 
ticed me to sin from mere vanity. I once saw my re- 
flection in a clear stream, and, as my likeness thus met 
my eye, the thought of self-deification took hold of me; 
wherefore I consecrated my hair unto the Lord through 
the Nazarite vow.” On hearing these words Simon 
kissed the young shepherd of such morally pure sim- 
plicity, and said to him, “Oh, if there were only in Is- 
rael many Nazaritcs like yourself!” Beautiful, indeed, 
is the magnificent eulogy of Bcn-Sira, the writer of Ec- 
clesiasticus, in which he describes our Simon (1, 1-21) : 

“How beanteons was he when, coming forth from the 
temple, 

lie appeared from withiu the veil ! 

He was as the morning star in the midst of clouds, 

And as the moon in the days of Nisau: 

As the snu shining upon a palace, 

And as the rainbow in the cloud: 

As the waving wheat in the field, 

As the Persian lily by a fountain, 

And as the trees of Lebanon in the days of vintage: 

As the perfume of frankincense upon a censer, 

As a collar of gold of variegated beauty 
And adorned with precious stones: 

As a fair olive-tree whose boughs are perfect, 

And as the tree of anointing whose branches are full.” 

This description, says Stanley, “is that of a venerable 
personage who belonged to a nobler age and would be 
seen again no more.” See Derenbourg, Kssai sur I'His- 
foire et la Geoyraphie de la Palestine , p. 47-51 ; Griitz, 
Gesch. d. Juden, ii, 235 sq., and his essay, Simon der Ge- 
rechte und seine Zeit , in Frankel’s Monatsschrift , 1857, 
p.45-56; Etheridge, Introduction to Hebrew Literature, 
p. 19 sq.; Edersheim, The Temple, its Ministry and Ser- 
vices at the Time of Jesus Christ , p.325; Milman, History 
of the Jeirs , i, 495 ; Stanley, History of the Jewish Church, 
iii, 276 sq.; Ilerzog, Real- Fncyklop. xiv, 383; Back, 
Gesch. d.jiid. Volkes, p. 37 sq. 

7. Simon bkn-Lakish, was born at Bostra A.D. cir. 

200, and died cir. 275. lie was a man remarkable for 
his bodily stature and a corresponding magnitude of in- 
tellect. For some time he served as a legionary in the 
Roman army, and after his restoration to a life of study 
became, by marriage, the brother-in-law of R. Jochanan 
Bar-Napacha (q. v.). Ben-Lakish, or more commonly 
Rcsh-Lakish, is the same who held that the book of Job 
was only an allegory, xbx STH S3 STX 

mn i.e. “Job never lived and never existed, but 
is a parable.” See Griitz, Gesch. d. Juden, iv, 2(10 sq. 

8. Simon ukn-Suktach was the brother of Alexan- 
dra (q. v.), queen of Alexander Jannacus (q. v.). When 
the Jews revolted against Janmetis and six thousand 
were killed, Simon beu-Slietach was saved by escaping 
to Egypt; hut soon returned to Jerusalem, having been 
recalled through the influence of his sister. By way of 
supplement to what has already been stated on Simon 
ben- Shetacb in the art. Scribes (q. v. ), wo will add 
I he following. He was a man of inflexible rigor, a 
high-minded ecclesiastic, sensitive withal, thought it 
no sin to refuse forgiveness to an adversary, and was 
over on the alert to magnify his office before his flight 
to Alexandria. In the Talmud ( Sanhedrin . tr. 

3 Via) we read the following: “One of the king’s ser- 
vants had committed a murder and then absconded. 
The king, as master of the fugitive, was summoned to 
answer for his servant, and, as master, did honor to the 
law by coming. As king, he remembered his dignity 
and sat down in court, Ben- Shot ach being judge. 


‘Stand up, king Jannai!’ shouted this haughty judge, 
‘stand up upon thy feet while they bear witness con- 
cerning thee; for thou dost not stand before us, but be- 
fore Him who spake and the world was.’ . . . The royal 
displeasure was so signally manifested in consequence 
that a law was enacted to this effect : ‘ The king nei- 
ther judges nor is judged’” (Mishna, ii, 1). See Griitz, 
Gesch. d. Juden, iii, 107, 109, 111, 126, 133 ; Rule, History 
of the Karaite Jews, p. 22 sq. ; Derenbourg, Histoire et 
Geoyraphie de la Palestine, p. 96 sq.; Pick, The Scribes 
Before and in the Time of Christ, in Lutheran Quarterly, 
1878, p. 260 sq. ; Schurer, Lehrbuch der nevtest. Zeitye- 
schichte, p, 122 sq., 128 sq., 411, 452, 454. (B. P.) 

Simon, Count de. See Saint-Simon. 

Simon of Sudbury was archbishop of Canterbury 
in 1375, lord chancellor in 1379, and was murdered by 
Wat Tyler’s followers June 13, 1381. 

Simon of Tourxay was a dialectician who taught 
in the University of Paris at the beginning of the 13th 
century, and who was among the first to apply the Aris- 
totelian philosophy to theology. He is charged by 
Matthew Paris with having on one occasion interrupted 
his lecture, in which he had refuted certain arguments 
raised by himself against the doctrine of the Trinity, 
with the exclamation “O Jesus, Jesus, how much have 
I done to establish and honor thy teachings! If I were 
to become their opponent, I could certainly attack them 
with yet stronger objections!” Upon this he lost both 
speech and memory; and though he subsequently re- 
covered his mind to some little degree, he was unable 
to impress on his memory more than the Lord’s Prayer 
and the Creed. Thomas Cantipratensis ascribes to him 
the crime usually attributed to the emperor Frederick 
II, of having said that “there are three who have de- 
ceived and oppressed the world through their sects — 
Moses, Christ, and Mohammed.” Both writers assert, 
but do not adequately prove, the immorality of Simon’s 
life. Henry of Ghent, who became a doctor of the Sor- 
bonne in about 1280, and who held a canonrv at Tournav, 
merely says that Simon had followed Aristotle too far, 
and that he was for that reason regarded by some as a 
heretic. None of Simon’s writings have appeared in 
print. The list of them is given by the authors of the 
Hist. Litteraire de la France, xvi, 393, and they state that 
nothing is contained in them which confiicts with the 
belief of the Church. — Ilerzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Simon (St.) and Jude’s (St.) Day, a holy day 
appointed by the Church for the commemoration of 
these two saints, associated probably because of their 
relationship (Matt, xiii, 55), Oct. 28. When this festi- 
val was instituted history does not inform us; but it is 
usually referred to the 12th or 13th century. See Rid- 
dle, Christ. Antiq.; llook, Ch. Diet. 

Simon, Honore Richard, a French scholar, but 
no connection of the following, was born at Castellane in 
the latter part of the 17th century. After having been 
curate of St. Uze, a small parish in the neighborhood 
of St. Yallier, he went for his health to Lyons, where he 
compiled his Grand Dictionnaire de la Bible (1693, fol.), 
a work the reputation of which is attested by several 
later editions (ibid. 1713, 1717, 2 vols. fob), and which 
maintained its place till supplanted by that of Calmet, 
who made great use of it in his own Dictionary. Simon 
died at Lyons in 1693.— Ilocfer, Kouv. Bioy. Generale , s. v. 

Simon, Richard, a French Hebrew scholar, was 
born at Dieppe May 13, 1638. lie entered the Congre- 
gation of the Oratory in 1662, and soon distinguished 
himself in Oriental studies. He taught philosophy first 
at Juilly and then at Paris, where he employed himself 
in forming a catalogue of the numerous and valuable 
Oriental MSS. in the library of the Oratory, and thence 
making collections which assisted him greatly in his 
subsequent labors. From the beginning of his career he 
was distinguished by a boldness of thought and action 
which is rarely found in members of his communion; 


SIMONETTA 


759 


SIMONIS 


and the first work of magnitude which he attempted was 
prompted by the offer of 12,000 livres by the Protestants 
of Charenton for a new translation of the Bible in place 
of that of Geneva, which was objected to as antiquated 
and obscure. But his plan of a version which should be 
equally acceptable to Protestants and Iioraau Catholics 
had no result except to bring upon him the rebukes of ■ 
his Roman Catholic brethren. His celebrity is chiefly 
owing to his Critical History of the Old Test., first pub- 
lished in 1078. In the course of this work he denies that 
Moses was the author of the Pentateuch, and attributes 
its compilation to scribes of the time of Esdras, acting 
under the direction of the Great Synagogue. So daring 
a criticism could not fail to excite the alarm of his cen- 
sor Pirot, and the book was by him submitted to Bossuet, 
who obtained an order from the chancellor to forbid its 
publication until more rigorously examined. The result 
of the examination was a decree of council suppressing 
the work, and ordering all copies of it to be destroyed. 
One of these escaped, and was the basis of a defective 
edition published by the Elzevirs in Holland. A Latin 
translation by Aubert de Verse is still more defective. 
But a very correct edition, with preface, apology, mar- 
ginal notes, and controversial tracts, was published at 
Rotterdam in 1685 by Raineer Leers. An English trans- 
lation was published in London in 1682. In consequence 
of his views, Simon was compelled in 1678 to quit the 
Oratory, and retired to the village of Belleville in Nor- 
mandy, of which he had been appointed curate in 1676. 
In 1682 he resigned this charge and went to Paris, 
where he occupied himself entirely in literary labor. lie 
finally returned to Dieppe, where he died of fever April 
1 1, 1712. He bequeathed his MSS. to the cathedral of 
Rouen. Besides the above work, Simon published a large 
number of others, chiefly on Biblical subjects, which are 
enumerated in Hoefer, Nouv . Biog. Generale , s. v. 

Simonetta, Giacomo, an Italian cardinal, was 
born' at Milan about 1475, and after education at Padua 
aud Pavia was made priest and went to Rome, where Ju- 
lius I appointed him advocate consistorial in 1505, and 
later auditor of the Rota. Clement VII gave him the I 
bishopric of Pesaro in 1529, and Paul III created him 
cardinal in 1535, giving him also the bishopric of Perugia 
as well as the administration of the dioceses of Lodi, j 
Sutri, Nepi, and Conza. Simonetta died at Rome Nov. 
1, 1539, having published only two treatises: De Reser - | 
vationihus Benefciorum (Cologne, 1583; Rome, 1588), 
and De Vita et Miraculis Franciscide Paula (ibid. 1625). I 

His younger brother, Giacomo Filippo, likewise 
born at Milan, also became an ecclesiastic, and was 
provided with rich benefices. He wrote Epigrammata 
(Milan, s. d.) and other poems. — Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. 
Generale, s. v. 

Simonetta, Ludovico, an Italian cardinal, was 
born at Milan early in the 16th century. After having 
received the diploma of doctor in utroque jure (1535), he 
entered holy orders, and succeeded his uncle Giacomo as 
bishop of Pesaro in 1536. In 1560 he was called to the 
episcopal see of Lodi, and was made cardinal in 1561, and 
in 1564 one of the legates at the Council of Trent. He 
died at Rome, April 30, 1568. There is preserved in the 
Ambrosian Library at Milan part of his Correspondence 
with Charles Borromeo, whose friend he was. — Hoefer, 
Nouv. Biog. Generale , s. v. 

Simonians, a heretical sect which arose in the 
2d century, and owed its origin to the antichristian in- 
fluence and teaching of Simon Magus (q. v.). The re- 
cent discover}" of The Refutation of A ll Heresies, a work 
written by Hippolvtns early in the 3d century, gives a 
summary of a work by Simon Magus, called The Great 
Announcement , a Revelation of the Voice and Name Rec- 
ognisable by means of I ntellectual Apprehension of the 
Great Indejinite Power , in which his system was set forth. 
That system is one of thorough and unflinching panthe- 
ism. He introduced into his very definition of the Di- 
vine Nature that its substance is exhibited in material 


things. He ascribes the formation of the world to certain 
portions of the divine fulness (rcous). The originating 
principle of the universe is fire, of which is begotten the 
Logos, in which exists the indefinite power, the power 
of the godhead, the image of which power is the spirit 
of God. These aeons, called roots, are in pairs — mind 
and intelligence, voice and name, ratiocination and re- 
flection. In them resides, coexistently, the entire in- 
definite power, potentially with regard to these “secret” 
portions of the divine substance, actually when the im- 
ages of these portions are formed by material embodi- 
ment. For mind aud intelligence becoming “ manifest” 
are heaven and earth; voice and name are sun and 
moon; ratiocination and reflection are air and water. 
The indefinite power becomes then the seventh actual 
power, the spirit of God wafted over the water, which 
reduces all things to order. The Logos employs the di- 
vine roots or jeons, which are both male and female. To 
the first pair of aeons is assigned the first three days’ 
work of the creation ; to the second pair is referred the 
fourth day’s; to the third pair the fifth and sixth days’. 
Every man may become an embodiment of the Logos; 
an “image,” that is, of the Logos, a conversion of the 
“secret” portion of the divine power into the “mani- 
fest.” In this system the persons of the Trinity are 
confused, and Simon professed himself to be the Power 
of God, with the right of assuming the name of any of 
the three. Simon taught that Jesus was a man, and 
suffered only in appearance. Such, in brief, is the sys- 
tem of Simon, a heresy not properly classed with those 
that bear the name of Christ (Epiph. Hcer. xxi, 1). The 
Simonians pretended to be Christians that they might 
insinuate themselves into the Church ; and many con- 
victed of this heresy were excommunicated (Eusebius, 
Hist. Eccl. ii, 1, 13). The pretensions of Simon were 
supported by magic, and magic in several forms was 
practiced by the sect. Many see nothing unreasonable 
or nnscriptnral in supposing that supernatural agencies, 
the power of evil spirits, may have been permitted to 
enter into those delusions. Irenanis accuses the sect of 
lewdness, and his statement is confirmed by the Great 
Announcement itself, v’hich speaks of promiscuous inter- 
course of the sexes as “sanctifying one another” (Hip- 
polvtus, Refut. Hcer. vi, 14). Of the number of this 
sect Justin Martyr writes that almost all the Samari- 
tans, and a few even of other nations, worshipped Si- 
mon. Simon had been much honored at Rome, but 
his influence fell before the preaching of Peter: and 
Origen writes, about A.D. 240, that not thirty of Si- 
mon’s followers could be found in the whole world 
(i Contr . Cels, i, 57). By almost universal consent Si- 
mon is regarded as the first propagator in the Church, 
but acting from without, of principles which developed 
into Gnosticism. Indeed, there are many points in com- 
mon : i. e. both reject the notion of absolute creation ; 
both hold the unreality of the Lord’s body. See Bunsen, 
Hippolytus, i, 47, 48 ; Burton, Bampton Lectures ; Blunt, 
Dictionary of Sects , s. v. 

Simonians (Saint-). See Saint-Simon. 

Simonis, Johann, conrector of the gymnasium and 
professor of Church history and antiquities in the Uni- 
versity of Halle, was born Feb. 10, 1698, at Drusen, near 
Schmalkalden, and died Jan. 2, 1768. lie wrote, Ono- 
masticon Vet. Test, sire Tract atus Philologicus, in quo 
Nomina Vet. Test. Propria, etc. (Halle, 1741): — Intro- 
duct io Grammatico - critica in Linguam Grcecam, etc. 
(ibid. 1752): — Introductio Grammatico-critica in Lin- 
guam Hebraicam, etc. (ibid. 1753): — Arcanum Forma- 
rum Nomiuum llebraicce Lingua’, etc. (ibid. 1735): — 
Lexicon Manuale llebr. et Chald. (ibid. 1752; Amst. 
1757 and often; last ed. by Winer, Leipsic, 1828; Engl, 
transl. by Ch. Seagar, The Smaller Heb. and Chald. Lex- 
icon Translated and Improved, Lond. 1832) : — Onomasti - 
cum Novi Test, et Librorum Vet. Test . A pocryphorum, 
sive Tractutus Philol., quo Nomina Propria Novi Test, 
et Librorum Apocryphorum Vet. Test, ex Ipsorum Origi- 


SIMONTON 


760 


SIMONY 


riibus et For mis Explicantur. Besides these and many 
other works, mentioned by Furst and Winer, he edited 
the Biblia 1 lehr aka Mann alia ad Optimas quttsqne 
Editiones Becensita , etc. (Ilalle, 1752; 2d ed. 1707; 3d 
ed. 1822; 4th ed. 1828 [the latter two eds. bv Rosen- 
mnller]). Simonis’s object in editing his edition of the 
Hebrew Bible was to publish a correct, but at the same 
time a cheap, edition of Van der nought's text. But, 
in spite of all care, some inaccuracies have crept into 
the text. See Furst, Bibl. dud. iii, 337 sq. ; Winer, 
llandbnch der theol. Lit . i, 39, 115, 119, 121, 122, 127, 
137, 535, 007 : Rosenmiiller, llandbnch Jitr die Literatur 
der bibl. Kritik nnd Exegese, i, 238 sq. ; Steinschueider, 
Bibliog. llandbnch, p. 132 sq. (B. P.) 

Simonton, Asubkl Gkeen, a missionary of the 
Presbyterian Church, was born at West Hanover, Dau- 
phin Co., Pa., Jan. 20, 1833. He pursued his prepara- 
tory studies in the academy at Harrisburg, Pa., gradu- 
ated at the College of New Jersey in 1852, studied law in 
1854, and was admitted to the privileges of the Church 
in May, 1855. He entered the Theological Seminary 
at Princeton in September of the same year, and at an 
early stage of his course was led to consider his duty in 
relation to the foreign missionary work. He was li- 
censed by Carlisle Presbytery, April 14, 1858, and his 
formal application to the board for appointment as a 
foreign missionary was sent to New York Oct. 25, 1858. 
The executive committee decided to send him to Brazil, 
as the pioneer of a numerous company of laborers. The 
time fixed upon for his departure was May, 1859. Mean- 
while he spent two months in New York, taking lessons 
in the Portuguese language, and lecturing, as opportu- 
nity was afforded, upon Brazil. He was ordained by 
the Presbytery of Carlisle, April 14, 1859. His sermon 
on this occasion was upon the words, “Come over into 
Macedonia and help us,” and it was an able presentation 
of the claims of the unevaugelized upon the Church, 
and was afterwards published in Dr. Van Rensselaer's 
Presbyterian Magazine . He arrived at Rio Janeiro 
Aug. 12, 1859, and, after two years of study and explo- 
rations of the field, began a Bible-class, May 19, 1801, 
at which two were present; but the audiences soon in- 
creased to such dimensions that larger accommodations 
were demanded. In 1803 it was deemed best to enlarge 
the operations of the mission by taking in the province 
of Sao Paulo. In November, 1864, appeared the first 
number of the fmprensa Evangelica, a semi-monthly 
paper established for the diffusion of religious intelli- 
gence among the more cultivated class of minds. The 
greater part of the labor of writing for its columns and 
superintending its publication devolved upon him until 
September, 1866, when he had an assistant. The unan- 
imous impression of those who read his leading editori- 
als in the fmprensa was that they were characterized by 
great ability, clearness, and comprehension of the sub- 
jects treated. The paper continued to increase in circu- 
lation, and during the three years of his connection with 
it mucli good was effected through its instrumentality. 
In March, 1865, Mr. .Simonton made a missionary tour 
into the province of Sao Paulo, and while there the Pres- 
bytery of Rio Janeiro was organized. He died Dec. 9, 
1867, Mr. Simonton possessed a clear, penetrating in- 
tellect, well disciplined by diligent study, lie excelled 
as a preacher, and had few superiors as a sermonizer. 
lie greatly loved the missionary work, for which he 
was eminently fitted by nature, culture, and grace, and 
labored from first, to last with unabated zeal and energy. 
See Wilson, Presb. Hist. A linunac , 1868, p. 135. (J. L. S.) 

Simony, the crime, in ecclesiastical law, of buy- 
ing or selling holy orders and offices. The term is de- 
rived from the sin of Simon Magus (q. v.), who wished 
to purchase from the apostles for money the power to 
confer the IIolv Ghost (Acts viii, 19). The ancient 
Christian Church distinguished simony into three dif- 
ferent kinds: 1. Buying and selling spiritual gifts; 
2. Buying and selling spiritual preferments; 3. Am- 


bitious usurpation and sacrilegious intrusion into eccle- 
siastical functions without legal election or ordination. 
Of course the first sort was that which most properly 
had the name of simony, resembling most closely the 
sin of Simon Magus. This crime was thought to be 
committed when money was offered or received for or- 
dinations, and it was always punished with the severest 
censures of the Church. The apostolical canons ( Can . 
A post. 29) seem to lay a double punishment, both depo- 
sition and excommunication, upon such of the clergy as 
were found guilty of this crime. Among the councils 
which have condemned simony are Chaleedon ; second 
of Orleans; second of Constantinople; second of Braga; 
fourth, eighth, anil eleventh of Toledo"; second of Nice; 
liheims; Placentia; and Trullo — the term of the canons 
being according to the various circumstances and forms 
of the crime prevalent. The ancients also include in this 
sort of crime the exacting of any reward for administer- 
ing baptism, the eucharist, confirmation, burying the 
dead, consecration of churches, or any like spiritual of- 
fices. The second sort of simony (traffic in spiritual 
preferments) was denounced by both ecclesiastical and 
secidar law’s (Coneil. Chalced. can. 2; Justinian, Novel. 
123, c. 1), the former ordering the deposition of the 
bishop that “sets grace to sale, and ordains a bishop, 
etc., for filthy lucre;” the latter ordering every elector 
to make oath “ that he did not choose the party elected 
either for any gift or promise,” etc. The third sort of 
simony was when men by ambitious arts and undue 
practices, as by the favor and pow-er of some wealthy or 
influential person, got themselves invested in any office 
or preferment to which they had no regular call or legal 
title; or when they intruded themselves into other men’s 
places, already legally filled. Thus Novatian got him- 
self secretly and simoniacallv ordained to the bishopric 
of Rome, to which Cornelius had been legally ordained 
before him (Cyprian, Ep. 52, al. 55, ad A ntoniecn.). Such 
ordinations w ere usually vacated and declared null, and 
both the ordained and their ordainers prosecuted as 
criminals by degradation and reduction to the state and 
communion of laymen. There were also general impe- 
rial laws made by Gratiau and Ilonorius {Cod. Theod. 
lib. xvi, tit. 2, “ De Episc. Leg. 35 Honorii”), obliging all 
bishops w’ho w f ere censured and deposed by any synod 
to submit to the sentence of the synod, under the pen- 
alty of being banished a hundred miles from the city 
where they attempted such disturbance. See Bingham, 
Christian A ntiq. bk. xvi, ch. vi, § 28-30. 

This crime became quite common in the Church dur- 
ing the 11th and 12th centuries. Benedict IX, when a 
bov of twelve years (A.D. 1033), was elected pope “in- 
tercedente thesaurorum pccunia.” Guido, archbishop of 
Milan (A.D. 1059), lamenting the prevalency of simony 
in his Church, promised for himself and successors ut- 
terly to renounce it. Hildebrand, afterwards Gregory 
VI 1, was a vigorous opponent of the practice. At a 
council at Lyons the archbishop and forty-five bishops 
confessed themselves simoniacal and were deposed. The 
fortieth of the canons of 1603 (Church of England) is 
directed against simony, as being “execrable before 
God,” and provides an oath to be taken personally by 
every one admitted to a benefice that no simoniacal 
payment, contract, or promise has been or shall he made. 
While in Great Britain the cognizance of simony and 
punishment of simoniacal offences appear originally to 
have belonged to the ecclesiastical courts alone, the 
courts of common law would have held simoniacal con- 
tracts void, as being contra bonos ? nores and against 
sound policy. According to English law' (statutes of 
Eliz. and 12 Anne, o. 12; 7 and 8 George IV, c. 25; 9 
George IV, c. 91; also 1 William and Mary, c. 16), it 
is not simony for a layman or spiritual person, not pur- 
chasing for himself, to purchase while the church is full 
either an advowson or next presentation, however im- 
mediate may he the prospect of a vacancy, unless that 
vacancy is to be occasioned by some agreement or ar- 
rangement between the parties. Nor is it simony for a 


SIMOOM 


7G1 


SIMPSON 


spiritual person to purchase for himself an advowson, 
although under similar circumstances. It is, however, 
simony for any person to purchase the next presenta- 
tion while the church is vacant; and it is simony for a 
spiritual person to purchase for himself the next pres- 
entation, although the church be full. See Milman, 
Latin Christianity, iii, 237, 244, 370 sq. ; vii, 270 ; Willis, 
1 list, of Simony (Loud. 1865, 2d ed.) ; and the mono- 
graphs cited by Volbeding, Index Proyrammatvm, p. 75. 

Simoom. See Wind. 

Simpkins, Solomon G., a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, South, was born in Maryland 
in 1811; moved to Vicksburg, Miss., in 1837; was li- 
censed to preach in 1840, and became a member of the 
Mississippi Conference. In 1849 he was appointed to 
Bayou Pierre Circuit, but died before he could reach it. 
See Minutes of Annual Conferences of M. E. Church , 
South, 1849, p. 243. 

Simple Feasts were, according to the Salisbury 
use, those on which only the initial words of the anti- 
phon to the Benedictus and Magnificat were sung. 
They were comprised under three classes, the first, of 
nine lessons, with triple or double invitatorv; the sec- 
ond, of three lessons, with double invitatorv; the third, 
of three lessons, with simple invitatorv; the latter, in 
distinction from the former two, were marked “sine re- 
gimine chori.” Simple feasts, like ferials and vespers, 
had no first vespers. 

In the Roman use simple feasts, without ruling the 
choir, are classed as simples; the simple, with ruling 
the choir, as semi-doubles. Accordingly, the highest 
class of Salisbury simples became the Roman doubles, to 
which succeed greater doubles, doubles of the second, and 
doubles of the first class. — Walcott, Sac . A rchceol. s. v. 

Simplices (simple), a term of reproach frequently 
bestowed upon the early Christians. 

Simplicianus, archbishop of Milan (398-400), was 
a friend and teacher of Ambrose, who wrote to him four 
epistles (comp. Migne, xvi, 874). Augustine dedicated 
to Simplicianus his De Diversis Qncestionibus, and men- 
tions him very often. Virgilius of Trent addressed to 
him his De Marty Ho S. Sisinnii et Socinorum (Migne, 
vol. xiii), and Ennodius of Pavia wrote an epigram in 
his honor. See Gennadius, De Yiris Illust. p.27. (B. P.) 

Simplicius, pope from A.D.4G8 to 483, in the period 
of the Monophvsite (q. v.) disputes by which the West- 
ern Church was violently agitated. He participated in 
the controversy, taking sides with Acacius, the patriarch 
of Constantinople, and anathematized Timotheus yEIu- 
rus, Petrus Fullo, Petrus Mongus, John of Apamea, and 
Paul of Ephesus; but he afforded aid and protection to 
John Talaja, whom Acacius refused to acknowledge as 
successor to the see of Alexandria. Simplicius also 
added to the estimation in which the papacy was held 
by appointing the bishop Zeno of Seville to be apostol- 
ical vicar, and bv depriving the bishop of Arles in 
France of his right to convoke synodal meetings. It 
is stated that this pope died March 2, 483, and his 
memory is honored in the Romish Church annually on 
the recurrence of that date. See Herzog, Real-Ency- 
klop. s. v. 

Simplicius, a philosopher of the 6th century, was 
a native of Cilicia, a disciple of Ammonius the Peripa- 
tetic, and endeavored to unite the Platonic and Stoic 
doctrines with the Peripatetic. Distrusting his situa- 
tion under the emperor Justinian, he went to Chosroes, 
king of Persia, but returned to Athens after it had 
been stipulated in a truce between the Persians and 
the Romans, A.D. 549, that he and his friends should 
live quietly and securely upon what was their own, 
and not be compelled by the Christians to depart from 
the religion of their ancestors. Simplicius wrote com- 
mentaries on Aristotle’s Categoric, Physica, De Calo, 
and De Anima, which are the most valuable of all the 
extant Greek commentaries on Aristotle. They are 


printed in some of the early editions of Aristotle, and 
are also contained in Scholia in Aristotelem, collegit 
Ch. A. Brandis (Berl. 1836). Simplicius also wrote a 
Commentary on the Enchiridion of Epictetus, which for 
its pure and noble principles of morality has command- 
ed general admiration. The best separate edition of 
this commentary is that by Schweighnuser, with a 
Latin translation, in two volumes (Lcips. 1800); it has 
been translated into English by Dr. G. Stanhope (Lond. 
1704, 8vo); into French by Dacier (Paris, 1715); and 
into German by Schulthess (Zurich, 1778). 

Simpson, Benjamin Franklin, a minister of 
the Methodist Episcopal Church, was born at York, Me., 
Dec. 30, 1835, and was educated at Wilbraham, Mass. In 
1858 he went to Rahway, N. J., to take charge of an acad- 
emy; then to the Biblical Institute at Concord, in I860. 
He joined the Newark Conference in 1862; was drafted 
into the army July 13, 1864, and in October was ap- 
pointed chaplain. In September, 1865, he returned from 
the war and resumed his ministerial work, which lie 
was obliged to give up early in 1869, He died at Man- 
over, N. J., July 12, 1871. See Minutes of Annual Con- 
ferences, 1872, p. 34. 

Simpson, David, an English clergyman, was born 
at Ingleby, Yorkshire, Oct. 12, 1745. lie was educated 
at St.John’s College, Cambridge, and was successively 
curate of Bamsdon, Essex, of Buckingham, and of the 
Old Church, Macclesfield. In all three places his alleged 
Methodism gave offence, and, while at the last place, he 
was silenced by the bishop of Chester. But his friends 
erected a new edifice (Christ Church, Macclesfield) for 
him, in which he officiated until his death, in 1799. He 
published, Sacred Literature (Birm. 1788-90, 4 vols. 
8vo) : — Discourse on Stage Entertainments (1788): — 
Key to the Prophecies (Maccles. 1795, 8vo; 3d ed. 1812, 
8vo) ; — A Plea for Religion, etc. (Lond. 1802, 8vo, with 
numerous later editions): — Plea for the Deity of Jesus 
arid the Doctrine of the Trinity (1812, 8vo) : — Sermons 
(8vo). See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. A uthors , 
s. v. 

Simpson, Edward, S.T.D., a learned English di- 
vine, was born at Tottenham, in May, 1578. Having 
been prepared at the Westminster School, he entered 
Trinity College, Cambridge, from which he graduated 
in 1600, and the next year was admitted fellow. In 
1603 he received liis degree of A.M., and his A.B. in 
1610. lie was chaplain to Sir Moyle Finch, 1615-18, 
and rector of Eastling in 1618, in which year he took his 
degree of doctor of divinity and was made prebendary 
of Coringham. lie died in 1651. He published, J/o- 
saica, etc. (Cantab. 1636, 4to): — Positive Divinity : — 
Knowledge of Christ: — God's Providence in Regard to 
Evil : — Regeneration Defended : — Declaration : — De 
Justifcatione : — Notre Sekctiores in Horatium, etc. See 
Allibone, Diet . of Brit, and A mer . A uthors, s. v. 

Simpson, George W., a Presbyterian minister, 
was born near Churchtown, Lancaster Co., Pa., June 1, 
1821. He early embraced religion, and, feeling it to 
be his duty to preach, he pursued his studies at Easton 
College, Pa., and Princeton Theological Seminary. He 
chose Africa as his field of labor, and sailed for the Ga- 
boon in Sept., 1849, where he was cordially received by 
Rev. J. L. Wilson and other missionaries. Corisco was 
chosen as a missionary station, and Mr. Simpson and liis 
wife immediately occupied it. They embarked March 
25, 1850, in an English vessel for Fernando Po, but on 
the evening of April 5 the ship was capsized by a tor- 
nado, and all on board except one of the crew were lost. 

Simpson, Robert, D.D., a Scottish divine and in- 
structor, was born at Little Tillerye, near Milnathort, 
in Kinross-shire, Feb. 15. 1746. Having completed his 
academic studies, he preached in Yorkshire and Lan- 
cashire, and was for several years pastor of a Church at 
Bolton-le-Moors, near Manchester. He went to London 
in 1786, where his preaching attracted considerable at- 


SIMPSON 


762 


SI MULTAN EUM 


tention. He was chosen president of the Dissenting 
school afterwards known .as the lloxton Academy, and 
applied himself wholly to this work, llis health fail- 
ing in May, 1817, he tendered his resignation, although 
he continued to lecture his classes as often as illness 
would permit. He died Dec. *21, 1817. 

Simpson, or Sympson, Sydrach, B.D., a Pu- 
ritan divine, was educated at the University of Cam- 
bridge, and became curate and lecturer of St. Margaret’s, 
Fifth Street. London. He was summoned before arch- 
bishop Laud for nonconformity in 1035, and retired to 
Holland. I Jet uming to England at the commencement 
of the civil wars, he was chosen one of the AssembH of 
Divines in 1013. He joined the Independents against 
the Presbyterians, was appointed by Cromwell’s visitors 
master of Pembroke College, Cambridge, in 1G50, and 
died in 1055. He published a few sermons and the- 
ological treatises, for which see Darling, Cyclop. Biblioy. 
s. v. ; Watts, Biblioth. Brit. s. v. 

Simpson, William, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Huntingdon County, 
Pa., Jan. *22, 1812. He professed conversion and united 
with the Church in June, 1832, and received license to 
preach June 3, 1837, at Bloomington, 111. He entered 
the Illinois Conference in Sept., 1837, and was ordained 
deacon in Sept., 1839, and elder in August, 1841. His 
ministry closed with his life, Feb. 22, 1804. See Min- 
utes of Annual Conferences , 1864, p. 178. 

Sim'ri (IChron. xxvi, 10). See Shtmrt. 

Sims, Edward Dru.mgoole, a minister of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church, South, was born in Bruns- 
wick County, Va., March 24, 1805. He graduated at 
the University of North Carolina in 1823; was tutor in 
that institution, and afterwards principal of an academy 
at La Grange, Ala.; and on the establishment of the 
college at that place was elected professor of mathe- 
matics and natural philosophy. He then travelled two 
years in connection with the Tennessee Conference ; 
afterwards was professor of languages in Randolph Ma- 
con College, Va. In 1836 he visited Europe and spent 
two years at the University of Halle, in Germany; in 
1837 he travelled through France and Germany, Italy, 
Holland, Belgium, and England; in 1838 he returned 
to the United States, and tilled the chair of English 
literature in Randolph Macon College; ami in December, 
1841, was elected by a unanimous vote of the trustees 
of the University of Alabama to the same department, 
lie died April 12, 1845. Prof. Sims was a man of 
various, extensive, and accurate learning, especially in 
the department of language in general. Besides the 
ordinary classics, he wrote and spoke French and Ger- 
man. He was master of the philosophy of language, and 
almost the entire circle of the sciences; and had col- 
lected materials for an Anglo-Saxon grammar, and also 
for an English grammar, which he designed publishing. 
As a minister, the qualities of his mind and piety in- 
fused themselves into his preaching and distinguished 
it. Eminent as he was in learning and the social vir- 
tues, his Christian character was his highest ornament. 
His religion was deeply experimental. See Minutes of 
A nn. Conferences of M. E. Church, South, 1845-53, p.48; 
Sprague, A nnals of the A mer. Pulpit , vii, 700. (J. L. S.) 

Simsterla, a goddess of the Slavic mythology, 
ehielly worshipped by the Russians, but not unknown 
among the Poles. She was the awakener of spring, 
and the wife of Pogoda (the weather). She possessed 
wondrous beauty and grace. — Vollmcr, Worterb.d. My - 
thol. h. v. 

Simultaneum (scil. Bdiyionis Exercitium ) is a 
term which in Europe designates, in its general bear- 
ing, the religious services common to churches or de- 
nominations having diverse creeds, and which has par- 
ticular reference to the employment in common of cer- 
tain religious arrangements ami institutions. 

The denial of a churchly character by Romanism to 


any but the Papal Church renders a simultaneum impos- 
sible on that assumption; but the Peace of Westphalia 
in 1048 insured to the Evangelicals both that character 
and the resultant rights of worship. The progress of 
the new Church, however, was irregular, in some places 
being much more vigorous and rapid than in others, 
so that the relations existing between Romanists and 
Protestants were very diverse ; and it was thought 
necessary to provide legal prescriptions for the exer- 
cise of a common worship. These prescriptions erect- 
ed a barrier against religious persecution on the part 
of a sovereign prince, but they also suggested the de- 
nial of religious privileges to certain parties, since the 
status of the year 1624 was made the condition for 
granting or refusing the free exercise of religion — they 
who had then enjoyed it being held to he entitled to a 
continuance of the privilege, while others were gener- 
ally, though not always, judged to have no claim to its 
enjoyment. These regulations were intended to settle 
the case as between Romanists and Protestants. A dif- 
ferent arrangement regulated the affairs of the Luther- 
an and the Reformed parties, so that the condition of 
the churches at the conclusion of the Peace of West- 
phalia was made the basis of their future relations. 

The admissibility of a simultaneum was much de- 
bated in Germany, until the recess of the diet resolved, 
Feb. 25, 1803, § 63, that “the exercise of religion as 
hitherto practiced in any country shall be protected 
against all interference and interruption; especially 
shall the possession and undisturbed enjoyment of its 
separate ecclesiastical property, including the school- 
fund, be insured to each religion according to the direc- 
tions of the Peace of Westphalia. The sovereign may, 
however, tolerate the adherents of other religions and 
allow them the exercise of all civil rights.” 

The simultaneum does not affect the dogmatic rela- 
tions of the several churches. The Church of Rome 
still regards Protestants as heretics and schismatics, 
and refuses to recognise the validity of their services; 
and the different sections of Protestantism have fre- 
quently maintained towards each other an attitude no 
less hostile. Circumstances, however, have done much 
to bring about a state of things in which the spirit of 
a simultaneum is measurably realized. Legislation has 
done much in this regard, and the felt need of fraternal 
relations has not been least among the influences at 
work. 

When the simultaneum has been fixed by special 
treaties, it must be judged in accordance with their 
terms, otherwise general principles must determine. 
The State does not assume the right to ordain the ob- 
servance of the usages belonging to one religious com- 
munity by another and different community on general 
grounds; but it may extend the benelits of institutions 
enjoyed by any community to others as well, e. g. when 
civil functions have been intrusted to the clergy of a 
particular Church, or when but a single burial-ground is 
available for any community. 

It is reported ( Prot . Kirchen - Zeituny, 1854, No. 5, 
p. 102) that a very peculiar simultaneum existed at 
Gilldenstadt, in Osnaburg, during two hundred years 
prior to 1850. A Roman Catholic and an Evangelical 
congregation had a common house of worship, and em- 
ployed in common a Romish priest and a Protestant 
clerk. The priest and Romanists began the service 
with the fntroit , after which the Evangelicals chanted 
the Kyrie Eli Ison. Alternate ehantings and readings 
followed, until the offering of the mass, in which the 
Evangelicals took no part. A sermon was preached to 
both parties in common, and was usually followed by 
the singing of an appropriate evangelical hymn. One 
instance is mentioned in which a sermon assailing the 
Lutheran Confession of Faith was followed by the sing- 
ing of Luther’s hymn, “ Fine feste Burg,” etc. 

In America what are called “ Union Services” are 
frequently held in a church used in common by several 
denominations. In such cases the services are some- 


SIN 


16 3 


SIN 


times of a mixed character; at other times the different 
denominational services are held alternately. 

On the general subject, see Instrum . Pacts Osnabntg. ; 
Piitter, Geist des westph. Friedens (Gott. 1795) ; Enders, 
Diss. de Pactorum JJildens. in Confirm. Comm. Cathol. 
Doctr. circa Simultaneuni Efiicacia (17G5, 1771); and in 
Schmidt, Thesaar. Juris Keel. tom. v, Nos. 7, 8, p. 257 sq., 
326 sq. ; Diirr, Diss. de eo, quod Jnstum est ch'ca Jus Re- 
form. in Territor. Oppignevato , etc. (Mogunt, 1760, and 
in Schmidt, loc . cit.) ; Schottl, Gegenseit. Gemeinsch. in 
Cultushandl. zw. Katholiken u. Akathol. etc. ( Kegensb. 
1853). Comp, also the Austrian law of Jan. 30, 1849; 
Circular d. Consist, zu Detmold , July 27, 1857 ; Yon 
Moser, in Allg. Kirckenbl.fi. d. evangel. Deutsckl. 1857, 
p. 372, etc. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Sill (Heb. Sin, "pO ; Sept. SaVt; [v.r. Tdwc] or Su- 
r)vi ] ; Vulg. Pelusium'), the name of a town and of a 
desert perhaps adjoining. (The following account is 
chiefly taken from Smith’s Diet, of the Bible.') 

1. A city of Egypt, which is mentioned in Ezek. 
xxx, 15, 16, in connection with Thebes and Memphis, 
and is described as “the strength of Egypt,” showing 
that it was a fortifled place. The name is Hebrew, 
or, at least, Shemitic. Gesenius supposes it to signify 
“clay,” from the unused root j*0, probably “he or it 
was muddy, clayey.” It is identified in the Vulg. with 
Pelusium, ID/Xontnor, “the clayey or muddy” town, 
from t ri]\og; and seems to be preserved in the Arabic 
Et-Tineh, which forms part of the names of Fum et- 
Tineh, the Mouth of Et-Tineh, the supposed Pelusiac 
mouth of the Nile, and Burg or Kal’at et-Tineh, the 
Tower or Castle of Et-Tineh, in the immediate neigh- 
borhood, “ tin” signifying “ mud,” etc., in Arabic. This 
evidence is sufficient to show that Sin is Pelusium. 
The ancient Egyptian name is still to be sought for; 
it has been supposed that Pelusium preserves traces of 
it, but this is very improbable. Champollion identities 
Pelusium with the Poresouni or Peresom (the second 
being a variation held by Quatremere to be incorrect) 
and Baresoum of the Copts, El-Farma of the Arabs, 
which was in the time of the former a boundary-city, 
the limits of a governor’s authority being stated to have 
extended from Alexandria to Pilak-b, or Phi he, and 
Peremoun (Acts of St. Sarapamon MS. Copt. Vat. 67, 
fol. 90, ap. Quatremere, Memoires Geog. et Hist, sur 
VEgypte, i, 259). Champollion ingeniously derives this 
name from the .article ph prefixed to ep, “to be,” and 
own , “ mud” ( VEgypte , ii, 82-87 ; comp. Brugsch. Geogr. 
Jnschr. i, 297). Brugsch compares the ancient Egyp- 
tian Ila-rem, which he reads Pe-rema, on our system 
Pe-rem, “the abode of the tear,” or “of the fish rem” 
(ibid. pi. lv, No. 1679). Pelusium he would make the 
city Samhat (or, as he reads it Sam-hud), remarking 
that “the nome of the city Samlmd” is the only one 
which has the determinative of a city, and comparing 
the evidence of the Boman nome-coins, on which the 
place is apparently treated as a nome; but this is not 
certain, for there may have been a Pelusiac nome, and 
the etymology of the name Samhat is unknown (ibid. 
p. 128; pi. xxviii, 17). 

The exact site of Pelusium is not fully determined. 
It has been thought to be marked by mounds near 
Burg et-Tineh, now called El-Farma, and not Et-Tineh. 
This is disputed by Capt. Spratt, who supposes that the 
mound of Abu-Khivar indicates where it stood. This 
is further inland, and apparently on the west of the old 
Pelusiac branch, as was Pelusium. It is situate be- 
tween Farma and Tel-I)efenneh. Whatever may have 
been its exact position, Pelusium must have owed its 
strength not to any great elevation, but to its being 
placed in the midst of a plain of marsh-land and mud, 
never easy to traverse. The ancient sites in such al- 
luvial tracts of Egypt are in general only sufficiently 
raised above the level of the plain to preserve them 
from being injured hv the inundation. It lay among 
swamps and morasses on the most easterly estuary of 


the Nile (which received from it the name of Ostium 
Pelusiacum), and stood twenty stades from the Med- 
iterranean (Strabo, xvi, 760; xvii,801,802; Pliny, llist. 
Nat. v, 11). The site is now only approachable by boats 
during a high Nile, or by land when the summer sun 
has dried the mud left by the inundation; the remains 
consist only of mounds and a few fallen columns. The 
climate is very unwholesome (Wilkinson, Mod. Egypt. 
i, 406. 444; Savary, Letters on Egypt , i, let. 24; llcnni- 
ker, Travels). 

The antiquity of the town of Sin may perhaps he 
inferred from the mention of “the wilderness of Sin” 
in the journeys of the Israelites (Exod. xvi, 1 ; Numb, 
xxxiii, 1 1). It is remarkable, however, that the Israel- 
ites did not immediately enter this tract on leaving the 
cultivated part of Egypt, so that it is held to have been 
within the Sinaitic peninsula, and therefore it may take 
its name from some other place or country than the 
Egyptian Sin. (See No. 2.) 

Pelusium is noticed (as above) by Ezekiel, in one 
of the prophecies relating to the invasion of Egypt by 
Nebuchadnezzar, as one of the cities which should then 
suffer calamities, with, probably, reference to their later 
history. The others spoken of are Noph (Memphis), 
Zoan (Tanis), No (Thebes), Aven (Heliopolis), Pi-be- 
seth (Bubastis), and Tehaphnehes (DaphnaQ. All these, 
excepting the two ancient capitals, Thebes and Mem- 
phis, lay on or near the eastern boundary; and, in the 
approach to Memphis, an invader could scarcely ad- 
vance, after capturing Pelusium and Daphna?, with- 
out taking Tanis, Bubastis, and Heliopolis. In the 
most ancient times Tanis, as afterwards Pelusium, 
seems to have been the key of Egypt on the east. Bu- 
bastis was an important position from its lofty mounds, 
and Heliopolis as securing the approach to Memphis. 
The prophet speaks of Sin as “the stronghold of 
Egypt” (xxx, 15). This place it held from that time 
until the period of the Komans. Pelusium appears to 
have been the perpetual battle-field between the Egyp- 
tians and their foreign enemies. As earh’ as the time 
of Kameses the Great, in the 14th century B.C., we find 
Sin proving itself to be what the prophet termed it, 
“the strength of Egypt.” One of the Sallier papyri in 
the British Museum contains a record of the war be- 
tween the Egyptians and the Sheta; and the victory 
which Kameses gained in the neighborhood of Pelusium 
is detailed at length. The importance of this victory 
may be gathered from the fact that the Sheta are said 
to have made their attack with 4500 chariots. As Di- 
odorus specifies the number of this Pharaoh’s army, 
which he says amounted to 60,000 infantry, 24,000 cav- 
alry, and 27,000 chariots of war, it is no wonder that he 
was enabled successfully to resist the attacks of the 
Sheta. Diodorus also mentions that Kameses the Great 
“ defended the east side of Egypt against the irruptions 
of the Syrians and Arabians with a tvall drawm from 
Pelusium through the deserts, as far as to Heliopolis, 
for the space of 1500 furlongs.” lie gives a singular 
account of an attempt on the part of his younger brother 
to murder this great Pharaoh, when at Pelusium alter 
one of his warlike expeditions, which w as happily frus- 
trated by the adroitness of the king (Diod. Sic. i, 4). 
Herodotus relates (ii, 141) that Sennacherib advanced 
against Pelusium, and that near Pelusium Cambyscs 
defeated Psammenitus (iii, 10-13). In like manner the 
decisive battle in which Ochns defeated the last native 
king, Nectanebos (Nekht-nebf), was fought near this 
city. It was near this place that Pompev met his 
death, being murdered by order of Ptolemy, whose pro- 
tection he had claimed (Hist. Bell. . I lex and. p. 20, 27; 
Livv, xlv, 11 ; Josephus, Ant. xiv, 8, I ; IPttr, i, 8, 7; i, 
9, 3). It is perhaps worthy of note that Ezekiel tw’ice 
mentions Pelusium in the prophecy which contains the 
remarkable and signally fulfilled sentence, “There shall 
be no more a prince of the land of Egypt” (xxx, 13). 
As he save the long train of calamities that were to fall 
upon the country, Pelusium may w T ell have stood out as 


SIX 


704 SIX 


the chief place of her successive humiliations. Two 
Persian conquests and two submissions to strangers — 
tirst to Alexander, and then to Augustus — may explain 
the especial misery foretold of this city: “Sin ^hall 
suffer great anguish” (Ezek. xxx, 1G). 

We find in the Bible a geographical name which has 
the form of a gentile noun derived from Sin, and is usu- 
ally held to apply to two different nations, neither con- 
nected with the city Sin. In the list of the descendants 
of Xoah, t he Sinite, occurs among the sons of Ca- 

naan (Gen. x, 17 ; 1 Citron, i, 15). This people, from 
its place between the Arkite and the Arvadite, has been 
supposed to have settled in Syria north of Palestine, 
where similar names occur in classical geography, and 
have been alleged in confirmation. This theory would 
not, however, necessarily imply that the whole tribe 
was there settled, and the supposed traces of the name 
are by no means conclusive. On the other hand, it 
must be observed that some of the eastern towns of 
Lower Egypt have Hebrew as well as Egyptian names, 
as Heliopolis and Tanis; that those very near the bor- 
der seem to have borne only Hebrew names, as Migdol; 
so that we have an indication of a Shemitic influence 
in this part of Egypt, diminishing in degree according 
to the distance from the border. It is difficult to ac- 
count for this influence by the single circumstance of 
the Shepherd invasion of Egypt, especially as it is 
shown yet more strikingly by the remarkably strong 
characteristics which have distinguished the inhabi- 
tants of North-eastern Egypt from their fellow-country- 
men from the days of Herodotus and Achilles Tat ins to 
our own. Nor must we pass by the statement of the 
former of these writers that the Palestine Syrians dwelt 
westward of the Arabians to the eastern boundary of 
Egypt (iii, 5). Therefore it does not seem a violent 
hypothesis that the Sinites were connected with Pelu- 
sium, though their main body may perhaps have settled 
much farther to the north. The distance is not greater 
than that between the Hittites of Southern Palestine 
and those of the valley of the Orontes, although the 
separation of the less powerful Hivites into those dwell- 
ing beneath Mount Hermon and the inhabitants of the 
small confederacy of which Gibeon was apparently the 
head is perhaps nearer to our supposed case. If the 
wilderness of Sin owed its name to Pelusium, this is an 
evidence of the very early importance of the town and 
its connection with Arabia, which would perhaps be 
strange in the case of a purely Egyptian town. The 
conjecture we have put forth suggests a recurrence to 
the old explanation of the famous mention of “the land 
of Sinim,” f HX, in Isaiah (xlix, 12), supposed 

hv some to refer to China. This would appear from the 
context to be a very remote region. It is mentioned 
after the north and the west, and would seem to be in a 
southern or eastern direction. Sin is certainly not re- 
mote, nor is the supposed place of the Sinites to the 
north of Palestine; but the expression may be prover- 
bial. The people of Pelusium, if of Canaanitish origin, 
were certainly remote compared to most of the other 
Cauaanites, and were, separated by alien peoples, and it is 
also noticeable that rhev were to the south-east of Pales- 
tine. As the sea bordering Palestine came to designate 
the west, as in this passage, so the land of Sinim may 
have passed into a proverbial expression for a distant 
and separated country. See, however, Sinim; Sinite. 

2, A “wilderness” (‘("p Q"|p; Sept, ipjjpog Sin; 

Vulg. desert am Siii) which the Israelites reached after 
leaving the encampment by the Bed Sea (Numb, xxxiii, 
11, 12). Their next halting-place (Exod. xvi, 1 ; xvii, 
1 ) was Kephidiin, either Wady I'eiran, or the month of 
Wady es-Sheikh [see Bkimiiimm] ; on which supposition 
it would follow that Sin must lie between those wadies 
ami the coast of the Gulf of Suez, and of course west of 
Sinai. Since they were by this time gone more than a 
month from Egypt, the locality must he too far towards 
the south-east to receive its name from the Egyptian 


Sin of Ezek. xxx, 15, called Sdic by the Sept., and 
identified with Pelusium. (See above.) In the wilder- 
ness of Sin the manna was first gathered, and those who 
adopt the supposition that this was merely the natural 
product of the turf a bush find from the abundance of 
that shrub in Wady es-Sheikh, south-east of Wady 
Ghurundel, a proof of local identity. See Elim. As 
the previous encampment by the Bed Sea must have 
been in the plain of Mukhah, the “wilderness of Sin” 
could not well have been other than the present plain 
el-Kua, which commences at the mouth of Wady Tai- 
yibeh, and extends along the whole south-western side 
of the peninsula. At tirst narrow, and interrupted by 
spurs from the mountains, it soon expands into an un- 
dulating, dreary waste, covered in part with a white 
gravelly soil, and in part with sand. Its desolate as- 
pect appears to have produced a most depressing effect 
upon the Israelites. Shut in on the one hand by the 
sea, on the other by the wild mountains, exposed to the 
full blaze of a burning sun, on that bleak plain, the 
stock of provisions brought from Egypt now exhausted 
— we can scarcely wonder that they said to Moses, 
“Would to God we had died by the hand of the Lord 
in the land of Egypt, when we sat by the flesh-potvS, 
when we did eat bread to the full ; for ye have brought 
us forth into this wilderness, to kill this whole assembly 
with hunger” (Exod. xvi, 3). See Exode. 

Sin (properly HX-H, agapria , both originally sig- 
nifying to miss ) is any action, word, desire, purpose, or 
omission contrary to the law r of God; a voluntary vio- 
lation of, or failure to comply with, the divine law 
(Bom. iii, 20; iv, 15; vii, 7 ; James iv, 17). Whether 
such a law be revealed in the holy oracles, or in the 
constitution of our nature, the violation constitutes the 
transgressor a sinner (Bom. i, 19-32; ii, 11-15). The 
various words by which sin and wickedness are set forth 
in the Old Test, throw considerable light upon the real 
nature and tendency of the evil. 

1. The proper and original idea of sin appears to be 

that it is a coming short of our true destiny , a “ missing” 
the mark (X^HI, The ent ^ man ’ s being 

is to be like unto God, to have his will in thorough 
harmony with the divine will, and so to glorify God 
and enjoy him forever. God is love; and to love him 
and be beloved by him is true blessedness. The whole 
law is summed up in love, whence sin, which is contrary 
to love, is a failure in the purpose of our existence. 

2. This leads us to the second idea of sin, namely, 
that it is the transgression of God's law. From the 
Christian theistic standpoint there is no doubt as to tbe 
existence of an eternal moral order. That which, ac- 
cording to this rule, ought to be done is good ; that which 
ought not to be done is sin. The law being neither 
advice nor prayer, hut a positive demand, our only re- 
lation to it can be either that of submission or trans- 
gression. Whether we look upon God’s law as moral, 
that is, stamped upon our nature, or positive, that is, 
revealed to us from without, in either case it should he 
considered binding upon our hearts, and should be im- 
plicitly obeyed, because it proceeds from the holy and 
loving Author of our being. Duty is represented in 
Scripture as a path along which we should walk, and to 
sin is to transgress or to go out of the way of God’s com- 
mandments ; hence the use of the word "02, to pass over. 

3. Again, every transgression is represented in the 
Bible as an act of rebellion (J'lES and PH'S). God is 
the Bulcr of his people, the Father of the human race. 
In both these capacities he demands obedience. To sin 
is to rebel against his paternal rule, to revolt from his 
allegiance. It is to act independently of him, to set up 
the will of the creature against the will of the Creator, 
to put self in the place of God, and thus to dishonor his 
holy name. 

4. Further, to sin against God implies distrust of him 
and a willingness to deceive him. and to act treacherously 


SIN 


'765 


SIN 


towards him (Vl3; comp, also *153 and *53*2). To en- 
tertain a suspicion of God’s goodness is to distrust him ; 
and when onee that suspicion has been planted in the 
heart, alienation begins, and deceit is sure to follow. 

5. Another remarkable fact about sin is that it is 
perversion or distortion (TV13) ; it is a wrong, a wrench, 
a twist to our nature (-£5*), destroying the balance of 
our faculties, and making us prone to evil. Man is 
thrown out of his centre and cannot recover himself, the 
consequence of which is that there is a jarring of the 
elements of his nature. Sin is not a new faculty or a 
new element introduced, but it is the coulusion of the 
existing elements — which confusion the Son of God 
came to take away, by restoring man to his right bal- 
ance, and leading him once more to a loving and selt- 
sacrificing trust in God. 

6. Sin is also unrest (3133), a perpetual tossing like 
the waves of the sea; a constant disturbance, the flesh 
against the spirit, the reason against the inclination, 
one desire against another, the wishes of one person 
against the wishes of another; a love, of change and 
excitement and stir; and withal no satisfaction. Man 
was never intended to find rest except in God; and 
practically when God is not his centre he is like a wan- 
dering star, uncertain and erratic, like a cloud without 
water, and like seething foam. 

7. Connected with this is the idea which identifies 
sin with toil (b*23). Wickedness is wearisome work ; 
it is labor without profit; it is painful, sorrowful trav- 
ail; it is grief and trouble. And after all the labor ex- 
pended on sin, nothing comes of it. The works of 
darkness are unfruitful; sin is vanity , hollowness, noth- 
ingness ("jlX) ; the ungodly are like the chaff which the 
wind scatters away; they can show no results from all 
their toil. 

8. Sin is also ruin, or a breaking in pieces (33). Ad- 
versity, calamity, distress, misery, trouble, are repre- 
sented by the same words as wickedness, mischief, harm, 
evil, and ill-doing. 

Gathering together the foregoing observations, they 
bring us to this result, that sin is wilful disobedience of 
God’s commands, proceeding from distrust, and leading 
to confusion and trouble. Sin lies not so much in the 
act as in the nature of the agent, whose heart and life 
have been perverted. We are taught by the Scriptures 
that man was led into sin originally by the Evil One, 
who insinuated suspicions of God’s goodness; and was 
thus misled, deceived, ruined, and dominated over by 
Satan. 

See Burroughs, Sinfulness of Sin ; Dwight, Theology; 
Fleteher, Appeal to Matter of Fact; Fuller, 1 Forks ’ ; 
Gill, Body of Divinity, art. “Sin;” Goodwin. Aggrara- 
tions of Sin ; Hagenbaeh, Hist, of Doctrines; 1 lowe. Liv- 
ing Temple; King and Jenvn, Origin of Evil; INI idler, 
Christian Doctrine of Sin ; Orme, Blasphemy against the 
Iloly Ghost ; Owen, Indwelling Sin; Fayson, Sermons; 
Williams, A nswer to Belsham ; Watts, Ruin and Recovery. 

SIN, Actual, is a direct violation of God’s law, and is 
generally applied to those who are capable of commit- 
ting moral evil; as opposed to idiots or children, who 
have not the full scope for their moral faculties. It 
may be a sin either of commission or omission (q. v.). 

SIN of Commission is the doing a thing which we 
ought not to do. 

SIN against the Holy Giiost. See Unpardon- 
ablk Sin. 

SIN of Infirmity. Sins of infirmity are those which 
arise from the infirmity of the flesh, ignorance, surprise, 
snares of the world, etc. 

SIN, Mortal or Deadly. See Mortal Sin. 

SIN OFFERING. See Sin-offering. 

SIN of Omission differs from that of commission in 
being negative, and consists in the leaving those things 


undone which ought to he done. “Ye pay tithe of 
mint, and anise, and cummin, and have omitted the 
weightier matters of the law, judgment, mercy, ami 
faith : these ought ye to have done, and not to leave 
the other undone” (Matt, xxiii, 23). 

SIN, Original. 1. Definition. — “Original sin” is 
usually defined as “that whereby man is very far gone 
from original righteousness, and is of his own nature in- 
clined to evil.” This absence of “original righteous- 
ness” is not only a deprivation, bnt also a depravation; 
such an estrangement of the heart from God as to lead 
to a defiance of his authority and law. Original sin is 
not only negative, but positive; it is not merely the lack 
of a thing — viz., original righteousness — but the presence 
of an inherited tendency towards evil, which tendency 
is the controlling principle (Eph. ii, 1-8; Col. i, 13; 2 
Tim. ii, 26 ; 1 John iii,4) ; and the inexhaustible source 
of all actual sins (Horn, v, 12-19). But original sin, or 
this tendency of the mind to evil, is by no means to be 
regarded in the same sense as guilt ; inasmuch as invol- 
untary developments of natural susceptibilities have no 
moral character. A mere desire, growing out of the 
natural constitution of the mind, excited by temptation, 
may be innocent. Moral evil only commences when 
the desire or temptation is followed by the determina- 
tion, or volition, to gratify the desire or yield to the 
temptation. See Sin, Actual. All men, as the de- 
scendants of Adam, have this original depravity (1 Cor. 
xv, 21, 22), derived by continual descent from father to 
son. See Depravity. 

II. Theories. — There are four principal hypotheses, to 
one or the other of which all the various explanations 
offered on this subject may probably be reduced. 

1. The first theory is that the whole human race was 
literally in Adam as the oak is in the acorn, and thus par- 
ticipated in his transgression. In other words, the race 
is a unit, and God deals with it as a unit — not with in- 
dividuals as individuals. Thus, though unconsciously, 
every sold participated in the first great transgression, 
and. in the words of the catechism, “sinned in him 
(Adam), and fell with him in that first transgression.” 

2. The second theory is that Adam was the repre- 
sentative of the race; that as a king, or as an ambassa- 
dor, or a congress represent the nation, and the entire 
nation is held responsible for the act of its representa- 
tive, so Adam represented the human race, was chosen 
as the type to stand for humanity, and by bis trial the 
whole race was tried, thus sinning in his sin and falling 
in his fall. Acting thus as representative for the race, 
his sin was imputed, i. e. charged, to the whole race. 1 1 
is said, moreover, that in point of fact this choice of 
Adam as a representative was not arbitrary ; that Adam 
and Eve fairly represented the race, and that the con- 
tinual sin of his descendants, placed in similar circum- 
stances of trial, shows that no injustice was done by 
submitting them to a trial in the person of such a rep- 
resentative. These two views are held, one or the oth- 
er of them, by those who are known in modern times as 
belonging to the old school. In them the entire race is 
treated by God as a unit, and is, because of Adam’s sin, 
under divine condemnation ; and, irrespective of the sin 
or the virtue of the individual, requires to be pardoned 
and redeemed. 

3. The third theory holds that Adam fell, and in fall- 
ing became a sinner. The universal law of nature is 
that like begets like. So all his descendants have in- 
herited from him a nature like his own, a nature de- 
praved and prone to sin. Those who maintain this the- 
ory add, usually, that man is not responsible for this de- 
praved nature, and that he is not in any strict sense 
guilty before God for it.; that while infants must be re- 
deemed from it through the power of God in Christ Je- 
sus, because nothing impure can enter heaven, still they 
cannot be said to be guilty until they have arrived at 
an age when they are capable of choosing between good 
and evil, and that they are then held responsible for 
that voluntary choice, and for that alone. In other 


SIN 


SIN 


7GG 


words, tins school distinguishes between sin and de- 
pravity, holding all sin to consist in voluntary action, 
and depravity to be simply that disordered state of the 
soul which renders it prone to commit sin. This view 
is the one generally entertained by the new-school di- 
vines in the Presbyterian Church, by a majority of the 
Congregationalists, and by many of the Episcopalians 
and the Methodists. According to this view, mankind 
are overwhelmed in ruin, which Adam brought upon 
the race, but are not guilty except as they become so 
by personal conduct. 

4. The fourth theory, known in theological language, 
from its most eminent expounder, Pelagius, as Pelagi- 
an ism (q. v.), denies that there is any connection be- 
tween Adam and his posterity, or that (he race is in any 
sense held responsible for, or on account of, Adam’s sin. 
Each soul, according to this theory, is created as was 
Adam, pure and innocent, and undetermined towards 
either sin or holiness. Each soul, for itself, chooses its 
own destiny by its voluntary choice of good or evil, right 
or wrong. The universality of sinfulness, it is said, is 
sutlicientlv explained by the evil influence and example 
of those by whom the young are from their earliest years 
surrounded. According to this theory it is possible, or 
at least quite conceivable, that a man should be utterly 
sinless: and in such a case there would be no need of 
any divine Saviour or any regenerating Spirit. That 
need is occasioned in each individual case by each indi- 
vidual deliberately choosing for himself the way of sin. 
A modification of this view, by which there is an en- 
deavor to combine it with the others, is termed Semi- 
Pelagianism (q. v.). According to this view there is no 
ruin except that which each individual brings upon 
himself; and, consequently, no need of redemption ex- 
cept such as springs from the individual’s own guilt in 
departing from God and disobeying his law. 

111. History of the Doctrine . — The early Church, it 
is maintained by some, was unacquainted with the doc- 
trine; and the most orthodox admit that the doctrine 
had not at that time been fully developed. We offer 
the opinions of some of the early fathers. Gregory of 
Xaziunzum maintained that both the rout; and the \pox*l 
have been considerably impaired by sin, and regarded 
the perversion of consciousness seen in idolatry, which 
previous teachers had ascribed to the influence of d;e- 
mons, as an inevitable effect of the first sin. But lie 
was far from asserting the total depravity of mankind 
and the entire loss of the free will. Athanasius main- 
tained man’s ability to choose good as well as evil, and 
even allowed exceptions from original sin, alleging that, 
several persons prior to Christ were free from it. Cyril 
of Jerusalem assumes that (he life of man begins in a 
state of innocence, and that sin enters of the free will. 
Chrysostom insisted upon the liberty of man and his 
self-determination. Augustine laid down that every 
natural man is in the power of the devil, and upheld the 
justice of this as a punishment for the share which the 
individual had in Adam’s transgression. Pelagius , on 
the other hand, who rejected the Tradueian theory, de- 
nied that the fall of Adam has exercised any prejudicial 
influence on the moral condition of his posterity. lie 
maintained that all men are born in innocence, possess 
the power ol free will, and may live without sin. The 
views of Augusi ine never secured a footing in the East- 
ern ( 'liurcli, and even in (lie West, they met with oppo- 
sition. The iieformers of the Hilh century made orig- 
inal sin a leading doctrine, and thus were enabled effec- 
tively to combat the lloman Catholic doctrine' of the | 
merit of works. 

See Cunningham, Historical Theology , i, 33.3 ; Hagen- ' 
bach, Hist, of Doctrines ; Van Oosterzee, Christian Dog- 
matics; Edwards, Wesley, and Taylor, on Original tiin. 
Comp. Fall; I m imitation. 

SIN. TiiiLosomicAi.. Philosophical sins, in opposi- ; 
tinn to theological, according to l lie Jesuits, are those in 
which a man at the time of committing them has not 
God and his law before his mind. 


out thinking of God, transgresses natural or revealed law. 
These sins the Jesuits held to be venial; that is, such as 
do not draw after them a loss of divine grace, and do not 
deserve eternal, but only temporal, punishment.. 

SIN, Pkesumi'TUOUS. Presumptuous sins are those 
which are done boldly, and against light and conviction. 
See Puesumftion. 

SIN, Punishment of. That God punishes those 
who disobey him is a fact generally recognised by men ; 
it is justified by the voice of conscience, and illustrated 
by the dealings of every parent and judge. The Bible 
confirms this opinion and reveals the wrath of God 
against all sin, whether that sin be outward immorality 
or inward impurity; whether it be positive rebellion 
against divine law or the absence of a childlike, trust- 
ing love exercised towards our heavenly Father. 

There are three principles on which punishment is 
inflicted by men — the remedial, the deterrent, and the 
retributive; and we find each of these recognised in 
Scripture as the principles on which God punishes na- 
tions and individuals. 

1. National punishments are for national sins. They 
are inflicted where a nation as a whole takes part in 
sins of a grievous character. This was the case with 
Sodom and Gomorrah, the punishment of which was 
retributive, not remedial, though intended, doubtless, 
to deter other nations from similar wickedness. But 
before a city was visited with final retribution a time 
of repentance was allowed, and God is represented as 
waiting till the iniquity of a place was complete, and 
till it was ripe for destruction. Thus a time was given 
to Nineveh, and it repented; and the cities of the Ca- 
naanites were not destroyed until they had filled up 
the measure of their iniquity; so it was, also, in the case 
of the final destruction of Jerusalem. We constantly 
find that God recognises corporate civil existence and 
official acts, and that he punishes a nation for the acts 
of its rulers, as when the pestilence came upon Israel 
for the sin of David in numbering the people. In many 
cases the sins of the fathers were visited on the chil- 
dren; for, as an ungodly nation grew older, its sins 
grew more abundant and its rebellion more unpardona- 
ble, until at last the time came when long-suffering 
turned to wrath (Jer. iv, 4; vi, 11) and God poured out 
his fury and indignation on the people. The case of 
Israel is clearly set before ns. When, as a nation, they 
forgot God. he chastised them in order to bring them 
to a sense of their sins; he warned them from time to 
time that these chastisements, which were remedial, 
would be followed by more severe punishments, and in 
due season, when all warnings were in vain, retribution 
came — their land was desolated and they were carried 
into captivity. Here their history would have ended, 
as the history of many other nations has ended, had 
not God a special purpose to fulfil through their means. 
They were brought back to their country, not because 
they were better than they had been before — though 
it is true that their punishment had its effect in giving 
them a lasting abhorrence of idolatry — hut because God 
had made a promise to Abraham which involved the 
continuation of t.lieir national existence. We do not 
find this in the case of other nations; and 1 1ms God’s 
dealings with the heathen mark the retributive prin- 
ciple of punishment, while his conduct towards the 
chosen people gives more frequent illustrations of re- 
medial chastisement . 

2. The punishment of indiridnals was either judicially 
inflicted by the hand of man for breaches of positive 
law, as was, doubtless, ordinarily the case in the history 
of Israel; or it was a special providential visitation for 
an act of disobedience against God’s revealed will, as 
in the case of the man of God who prophesied against 
the altar in Bethel; or else it was inflicted to mark 


God’s abhorrence of all sin, however trilling it might 
seem in man’s sight, as in the case of the punishment 
lie, therefore, with- , of Moses. 


SIN 


767 


SINAI 


3. On the nature of the far sorer punishment to be 
inflicted on those who reject the merev of God in Christ 
Jesus, see Perdition; Punishment, Future; Retri- 
bution. 

81 N, Secret. Secret sins are those committed in 
secret, or those which we, through blindness or preju- 
dice, do not see the evil of (Psa. xix, 12). 

SIX, Unpardonable, seems to consist in the mali- 
cious ascription of the dispensations, gifts, and influ- 
ences of the Spirit to the power of Satan. The reason 
why this sin is never forgiven is not beeause of any 
want of sufficiency in the blood of Christ nor in the 
pardoning merev of God, but because sueh as commit 
it despise and reject the only remedy, i. e. the power 
of the Holy Spirit, applying the redemption of the Gos- 
pel to the souls of men. See Meth. Quar. Rev, April, 
1858. See Blasphemy; Unpardonable Sin. 

SIN, Venial. Venial sins are those which, accord- 
ing to the theology of the Church of Rome, do not 
bring spiritual death to the soul, or which do not turn 
it away from its ultimate end, or which are only slight- 
ly repugnant to the order of right reason. “It is, more- 
over, certain,” says Dens, “ not only from the divine 
compassion, but from the nature of the thing, that there 
are venial sins, or such slight ones, as in just men may 
consist with a state of grace and friendship with God; 
implying that there is a certain kind of sin of which 
a man may be guilty without offending God.” Such 
doctrine as this meets with no countenance from the 
Word of God, whieh declares that “ the wages of sin is 
death,” without making any distinction among sins. — 
Gardner, Faiths of the World , s. v. See Venial. 

SiTia (Sso'd)), the Greek form (Judith v, 14; Acts 
vii, 30, 38) of the well-known name which in the Old 
Test, universally, and as often as not in the Apocrypha 
and New Test., is given in the A. V. Sinai (cp v.). 

Si'nai (Heb. Sinay', perhaps [if Shemitie] 
thorny , i. e. cleft with ravines; possibly [if Egyptian or 
Zabian] devoted to Sin, i. e. the moon ; Sept. Stud [v. r. 
in Judg. v, 5, Set vd, and in Neh. ix, 13, 2tnai] ; in the 
New Test. Stud; Josephus, to 'Sivaiov opoc, Ant. ii, 
12, l; Vulg. Sinai; A. V. “ Sina” [q.v.] in a few pas- 
sages), a well-known mountain in the peninsula formed 
by the gulfs of Suez and Akabah. The name appears 
to be primeval, and its meaning is unknown. It is 
mentioned thirty-one times in the Pentateuch and only 
four times in the rest of the Old Test. (Judg. v, 5; Neh. 
ix, 13; Psa. Ixviii, 8, 17) and four in the New Test. 
(Acts vii, 30, 38 ; Gal. iv, 24, 25). It would thus appear 
that the name had, in a great measure, become obsolete 
at an early period. (In the following aceount we fol- 
low, in part, the articles in the Dictionaries of Ivitto, 
Smith, and Fairbairn.) 

I. Biblical Notices and Occurrences. — The leading 
statements made regarding Sinai in the Pentateuch de- 
mand special notice, as they constitute the ehief evi- 
dences in establishing its identity. A small section of 
the wilderness through which the Israelites passed 
took its name from the mountain (Exod. xix, 1, 2). In 
one direction was Eephidim, only a short day’s march 
distant; while Kibroth-hattaavah lay a day’s mareh in 
another. The “desert of Sinai,” therefore, could only 
have been a very few miles across. 

In the third month of their journey the Israelites 
“departed from Rephidim, came into the wilderness of 
Sinai . . . and camped before the mount ” (Exod. xix, 1, 
2). The base of the mount in front of the camp ap- 
pears to have been so sharply defined that barriers were 
put up to prevent any of the people from approaching 
rashly or inadvertently to “touch the mount” (ver. 12). 
The “top of the mount” was in full view from the 
camp; so that when the Lord “came down” upon it 
the thick cloud in which his glory was shrouded was 
“in sight of all the people” (ver. 11, 16). While Moses 
was receiving the law on the summit of Sinai, “the 


thunderings and lightnings, and the voice of the trum- 
pet” were so near the camp that the people, in terror, 
“ removed and stood afar off'" yet still remained in sight 
of the mount, for “the sight of the glory of the Lord 
was like devouring fire on the top of the mount in the 
eyes of the children of Israel” (comp, xx, 18; xxiv, 17). 
Upon that peak the tables of the law were twice given 
to Moses, with all the details of the rites and ceremo- 
nies recorded in the Rentateuch (xxxi, 18; xxxiv). 
Sinai was thus emphatically “the mount of the Lord” 
(Numb, x, 33). There the Lord spake with Moses “face 
to face, as a man speaketh unto his friend" (Exod. 
xxxiii, II); and there he revealed himself in sueh glo- 
ry and majesty as were never witnessed on earth. 

II. Distinction between Sinai and Iloreb. — Those crit- 
ics who disintegrate the Pentateuch and assign to it a 
variety of authors are ready to support their view by 
pointing to a variety of diction ; and one evidence of 
this they find in the use of Iloreb throughout the book 
of Deuteronomy (except in the song of Moses, xxxiii, 
2, whieh they attribute to a still different writer); 
whereas the person whom they suppose to have been 
the original composer of the first four books uses Sinai, 
which is the name always employed except in Exod. 
iii, 1 ; xvii, 6; xxxiii, 6; and these passages they at- 
tribute to a supplementary writer. This view is still 
strongly asserted by Ewald (Geschichte, ii, 57), who pro- 
nounces Sinai the older name, therefore occurring in 
the aneient song of Deborah (Judg. v, 5); whereas IIo- 
reb is not discoverable till the time of his fourth and 
fifth narrators, in whose age, however, it had become 
quite prevalent. Ilis statement is a very fair sample 
of the precision and confidence with which these crit- 
ics speak of matters as to which there is no evidence 
except their own critical sagacity, or their imagination, 
as others may be apt to consider it who claim no sueh 
peculiar insight. For while it is quite possible that the 
same writer might use two names indiscriminately for 
the same place, as in the case of Bethel and Luz, Baa- 
lah and Kirjath-jearim, the Sea of Galilee and the Lake 
of Tiberias, yet this last example indicates how readily 
two names may come to be in use indifferently, though 
originally the one was more definite than the other. 
Accordingly, Gesenius suggested that Sinai might be 
the more general name, and Iloreb a particular peak; 
and in this conjecture he was followed by Rosenm filler. 

Another supposition was made by Hengstenberg 
(Pentateuch, ii, 325-327) which has gained the assent 
of almost all the German authorities since his time, as 
also of Robinson ( Bib . Res. i, 120, 501). apparently after 
having inclined to the conjecture of Gesenius. Heng- 
stenberg agrees with Gesenius that the one name is 
more general than the other; but he differs in this re- 
spect — that he makes Iloreb the mountain-ridge, and 
Sinai the individual summit from whieh the ten com- 
mandments were given. The reasons for this opinion 
as urged by him and by others may be arranged un- 
der a threefold division: (1.) The name Sinai is used 
at the time that the Israelites were upon the very 
spot of the legislation, that is, from Exod. xix, 11 and 
onwards till Numb, iii, 1 ; whereas it is Horeb that 
is always used in the recapitulation in Deuteronomy; 
as a writer close beside a particular mountain would 
naturally single it out when describing his locality, 
though afterwards, when writing at a distance from it 
and taking a general retrospect, he might use the more 
comprehensive name of the entire mass of mountains 
to whieh it belonged. The only exception in Deuter- 
onomy is that case in the song of Moses already alluded 
to (xxxiii, 2), which is universally admitted to be a 
peculiar composition both by the impugners and by the 
defenders of the Mosaic authorship. When we take in 
the additional expression, “the wilderness of Sinai.” as 
denoting the place in which the Israelites encamped, 
we have Sinai occurring as early as Exod. xix, 1, 2, 
and continuing till Numb, x, 12, where the march from 
Sinai is described. That particular spot would natu- 


SINAI 


768 


SINAI 


rally take its name from the mountain-peak beside it, 
whereas the name “wilderness of Horeb” is unknown 
to Scripture. The name Sinai never occurs in the Pen- 
tateuch after the departure from the spot except in 
three instances. Two of these (Numb, xxvi, G4 ; xxxiii, 
15) refer expressly to events in language already em- 
ployed upon the spot about the census, and in the list 
of stations or encampments, and both use that phrase 
“the wilderness of Sinai,” which never occurs with the 
name lloreb; so that, they are no exceptions in reality. 
The third (xxviii, G) is, therefore, the only exception — 
“It is a continual burnt-offering which was ordained 
in Mount Sinai;” and this also is explicable on the 
principle that the phrase had become so common in 
the legislation. Once, also, Sinai occurs before the Is- 
raelites reached it (Exod. xvi, 1), “the wilderness of 
Sin, which is between Elim and Sinai,” and here the 
precision of this term is thoroughly natural. (2.) The 
name Horeb occurs in the earlier books thrice, all in 
Exodus, but it is in circumstances which best suit the 
general or comprehensive meaning which we attach to 
it. Moses, while acting as the shepherd of Jethro (iii, 
1), “came to the mountain of God [even] to Horeb,” 
or, more literally, “came to the mountain of God Ho- 
reb-ward.” Our translators have identified the moun- 
tain of God with Horeb, an identification which is at 
least uncertain; for the original may quite as natural- 
ly be interpreted that he came to a particular peak in 
that mass of mountains which had the name of Horeb, 
to the sacred peak which is to be sought in the direc- 
tion of Horeb. Particularly distinct is the second in- 
stance (xvii, 6), “ Behold I will stand before thee there 
upon the rock in Horeb,” etc.; lor this miraculous gift 
of water took place while the Israelites were encamped 
in Rephidim (ver. I), the station before the station in 
the wilderness of Sinai (xix, 2). Probably the like 
should be said of the third instance (xxxiii, 6), “ And 
the children of Israel stripped themselves of their or- 
naments by the mount Horeb,” retiring every family 
apart, and every individual apart, as in other cases of 
humiliation and repentance; and the propriety of the 
use of the general rather than the specific term is the 
more apparent if those are right who translate the pe- 
culiar Hebrew phrase as exactly as they can, “stripped 
themselves, etc. [retiring], from Mount Horeb.” (3.) 
An argument may be drawn from the use of the prepo- ! 
sitions connected with these two names. Reverting to 
Exod. xvii, G, we find the Lord saying, “ Behold, I will 
stand upon the rock in Horeb,” that is, upon the partic- 
ular spot, but in the district. Accordingly, it is the 
preposition in (in t lie English version needlessly varied 
into “at” once or twice) which is used with Horeb, 
not only here, but almost always where the name oc- 
curs in Deuteronomy, perhaps always, except “from” 
(i, 2, 111). The same is true of all the passages in which 
Horeh is mentioned in later Scripture (1 Kings viii,9; 

2 Citron, v. 10; Psa. evi, 10; Alai, iv, 4 [lie* b. iii, 22]), 
except l Kings xix, 8, •• unto Horeb the mount of God,” 
or better, “up to tbe mount of God Horeb [ward],” for 
it is plainly an expression referring to Exod. iii, 1, of 
which we have already spoken. With Sinai, on the | 
other hand, there are connected several prepositions, 
“in” and “from” as in the case of lloreb; also “to,” < 
but especially “ upon” (Exod. xix, 11. IS, 20; xxiv, 1G), 
which describes the descent of the Lord, or the resting 
of the symbol of his presence, upon that individual peak 
from which the law was given, whereas we have no rea- 
son to think that it rested upon the whole mass of moun- 
tains which are clustered together. The same preposi- i 
tion, “upon,” is found in the only passage in later Old- < 
Test. Scripture where Sinai occurs with a preposition • 
(Nch. ix, 13). Indeed, besides this text wo find Sinai 
nowhere hut in Judg, v, f»; P>a. lxviii, 8, 17 (lleh. !), 18), 
in passages which indisputably stand in a very close i 
connection with Dent, xxxiii, 2. 

Not much can be. inferred from the usage of later 
Scripture in regard to these names; though from what 1 


’ has been mentioned it may be seen that Horeb is very 
decidedly the predominant name in the rest of the Old 
Test., as it is with one exception in Deuteronomy, and 
probably in both cases for the same reason — that at a 
distance in time and place the more general name was, 
oil the whole, more natural. Yet the distance may be- 
come so great that the peculiarities of the two names 
fall out of view, and mere usage may determine in fa- 
vor of the one or the other appellation, now that they 
have become entirely equivalent. Certainly in the 
| New Test, we find only Sinai (Acts vii, 30, 38 ; Gal. iv, 

I 24, 25), though reasons might be, perhaps, alleged for 
I tbe use of the stricter name; for instance, in the first 
of these, that it is “the wilderness of Mount Sinai,” in 
which connection we have said that Horeb does not oc- 
cur. Josephus seems also to confine himself to the name 
Sinai. In the Apocrypha we have noted Judith v, 
14, “ to the way of Sinai,” or, according to another read- 
ing, “to the mount Sinai;” and Eccles. xlviii, 7, where 
“in Sinai” and “in lloreb” occur in a poetical parallel- 
ism : but these determine nothing. Perhaps nothing 
can be concluded from the fact that Horeb never has 
the prefix “mount” except in Exod. xxxiii, 6, whereas 
Sinai always has it in both the Old Test, and the New ex- 
cept in Exod. xvi, I, and Dent. xxxiii, 2, and the passages 
depending upon this one, Judg. v, 5; Psa. lxviii, 8, 17. 

Once more, it is very doubtful whether etymology 
can contribute anything to the settlement of the ques- 
tion. Horeb certainly means “dry,” or “dried up,” a 
name very descriptive of tbe region. But the meaning 
of Sinai is much debated. Gesenius suggests “ muddy,” 
but with hesitation, and he appears to have no follow- 
ers. More, probably, Knobel proposes “sharp-pointed,” 
“ toothed,” or “ notched.” The old derivation of Simonis 
ami Hiller understood Sinai, to be equivalent to 

“'^D, sinyni, “the bush of Jehovah,” with reference to 
Exod. iii, 2. Possibly as simple a meaning as any 
would be “bushy,” or “that which has the bush.” If 
so, the etymologies of the two names, so far as they 
went, would favor the view given of their respective 
meanings. Kodiger (additions to Gesenius, Thesaur.) 
makes it. “sacred to the God of the moon.” Ewald and 
Ebers regard it as equivalent to “belonging to [tbe 
Desert of] Sin.” 

Understanding lloreb to be tbe more general name, 
there might still be differences of opinion how wide a 
circuit should be included under it; though tbe com- 
mon opinion seems to be that there is no necessity 
for taking it wider than that range (some three miles 
long from north to south) which is called hv the mod- 
ern Arabs Jebel Tur, or Jebel et-Tur, sometimes with 
tbe addition of Sina, though Robinson says extremely 
rarely. 

III. Identification of the Particular Mountain. — In 
tbe Biblical notices “there are implied three specifica- 
tions, which must all be present in any spot answering 
to tbe true Sinai: 1. A mountain-summit overlooking 
the place where the people stood. 2. Space suflieient, 
adjacent to tbe mountain, for so large a multitude to 
stand and behold the phenomena on the summit; and 
even, when afraid, to remove afar off and still be in 
sight. 3. The relation between this space where the 
people stood and the base of the mountain must be such 
that they could approach and stand at ‘ the nether part 
of the mount;’ that they could also touch it; and that 
bounds could be set round the mount” ( /Jiblioth . Sac. 
May, 184!), p. 382). There are three claimants for the 
name Sinai, and it will be necessary to examine (hem 
successively. 

1. Jebel Serbiil. — Its claims were suggested by Burck- 
liardt ( Trnrels , p. GO!)), and are advocated by Lepsius 
( Letters from Eyypt [Loud. 1853]), Bartlett (Forty hays 
in the Desert), Stewart ( The Tent and the Khan), and 
others. The arguments in its favor may be thus sum- 
med up: It was the most conspicuous mountain in the 
peninsula, and therefore the best known to the Egyp- 


SINAI 


SINAI 


769 



Jebel Serbal. 


tian colonists. Near its north- 
ern base was the oasis of Feiran, 
which was probably the centre 
of the primeval Sinaitic popula- 
tion ; and the summit of Serbal 
would form their natural sanc- 
tuary. Moses, knowing such a 
fertile and well-watered spot as 
Feiran, would never have led 
the Israelites past it, but would 
naturally select it as the place 
of the permanent camp (Lepsius, 
p, 35G-3G3). Besides, it is sup- 
posed to be more in accordance 
with the narration of the wil- 
derness journey than any other 
mountain; and it is alleged that 
early historical tradition is whol- 
ly in its favor. The last two ar- 
guments are the only ones of any 
weight ; and neither of them 
stands the test of critical exam- 
ination. The basis of Lepsius’s 
argument is that Rephidim is 
identical with Feiran, and that 
Moses selected this spot as the 
site of a permanent camp be- 
cause it was well watered and fertile; but the sacred 
writer tells ns that in Rephidim “ there was no water 
for the people to drink” (Exotl. xvii, 1). With strange 
inconsistency Lepsius affirms that the “wonderful foun- 
tain of Feiran” was opened by the miracle recorded in 
ch. xvii. If so, then how could the place have been 
well watered previously? But further: Rephidim was 
a day’s march — probably a short one — from the perma- 
nent camp before Sinai (xix, 1). These facts totally 
overthrow the alleged argument from Scripture. 

The historical argument is not more convincing, 
although dean Stanley somewhat rashly says: “It 
(Serbal) was undoubtedly identified with Sinai by Eu- 
sebius, Jerome, and Cosmas ; that is, by all known 
writers till the time of Justinian” {Sinai and Palestine , 
p. 40). Eusebius merely states that “Rephidim is 
a place in the wilderness by Iloreb, and that there 
Joshua fought with Amalek near Pharan ” ( Onomast . 
s. v.). Jerome only translates his words without addi- 
tion or comment (he renders iyyvt; by prope). The 
language of Cosmas is equally indefinite ( Topogr . Christ. 


v), especially as it is known that Pharan w-as a pret- 
ty large district, and that Iloreb is said to be six miles 
distant from it. 

It is hardly necessary to discuss the argument ground- 
ed on the remarkable Sinaitic inscriptions, though Lep- 
sius presses it, and Stanley says that the natural infer- 
ence from them is that Serbal “in the earlier ages en- 
joyed a larger support of tradition than Gebel Mousa” 
(p. 39). But how can this be? Wady Mokatteb, in 
which most of the inscriptions are found, is the leading 
route to Jebel Musa as well as to Serbal. Inscriptions 
have also been discovered on the northern road from 
Egypt to Jebel Musa by Surabet el-Khadem ; and they 
are much more numerous in the passes around Jebel 
Musa — in Wady Leja, Nukb Hawy. etc. — than in Wady 
Aleiyat, the only pass leading to Serbal. It may be 
safely affirmed that the Sinaitic inscriptions do not, for 
the present at least, atfect the question at issue in anv 
way (Porter, Handbook , p. 1G sq.). 

But the nature of the country around Serbal is suf- 
ficient of itself to show r that it could not possibly have 



The Summit «»f Jebel Musa. 


IX.-C c C 


SINAI 


770 


SINAI 


been Sinai. Wady Feirnn is three miles distant, and 
from it an occasional glimpse only can be got at the sum- 
mit. Wady Aleiyat, which leads up to Serbal, is nar- 
row, rugged, ami rocky, affording no place for a large 
camp. This is acknowledged on all hands (Lepsius, p. 
423 sq.; Bartlett, p. f>7 ; Stanley, p. 44; Sandie, Jloreb 
and Jerusalem, p. 14'.)); and as there is no other valley 
or plain at the base of the mountain, it follows that Ser- 
bs! 1 cannot be Sinai. 

2. Jebel Musa is the Sinai of recent ecclesiastical 
tradition, and it has found some advocates among mod- 
ern travellers (Wilson. Lands of the h’ible, i, 21ff ; Sandie, 
Itoreb, etc.). It is situated in the very centre of t lie 
mountain group; but it is neither so lofty nor so com- 
manding as some others around it. Its elevation is 
only about 7000 feet, while Jebel Katherin. three miles 
south, is 8700 feet, and Urn Shaumer, beyond it, attains 
an altitude of 0300 feet. Jebel Musa is the highest 
point of a short isolated ridge which runs from north- 
west to south-east, between the two parallel ravines of 
Sliueib and Leja. At one end (the south-east) it is 
bounded by a rugged wady called Sebatyeh, at the oth- 
er by the upland plain of Er-lialiah. In Wady Shueib, 
on the north-east of the ridge, stands the convent of St. 
Catherine, with the naked cliffs rising almost perpen- 
dicularly over it. In t he glen of Leja, on the opposite 
side, is the reputed rock of Moses. The peak of Jebel 
Musa (“Moses’ Mountain” ), which the monks identify 
with Sinai, is at the southern extremity of the range, 
overlooking Wady Scbaiyeh and a confined region of 
rugged gravelly hills near it. The summit is a plat- 
form about thirty paces in diameter, partly covered 
with ruins. At its eastern end is a little chapel, and 
near it a mosque. Notwithstanding the elevation, the 
view is not extensive, and no plain is in sight on which 
the camp of the Israelites could have stood; nor is the 
base of the peak at all so clearly defined as the incidents 
of the sacred narrative require. 

Various traditions — Jewish, Christian, and .Moham- 
medan — have found a local habitation on t his moun- 
tain. A rugged ancient path, in many places hewn 
into flights of steps up t he granite cliffs, passes a 
grotto of the Virgin, the cave where Elijah dwelt in 
Uoreb, the footmarks of Mohammed’s camel, and oth- 
er spots equally apocryphal, in its winding course to 
the summit. This is the Sinai of tradition, but cer- 
tainly not that of the Bible, 

3. ft as es-Snfsafh is the third claimant for the name 
Sinai: and its claim is valid. It forms the north-west- 
ern point of the ridge of which Jehel Musa is the south- 
eastern. The name signifies “ the peak (or head ) of the 
willow:” and is derived from a willow-tree which grows 
in a cleft on its side. The sum- 
mit. is very clearly defined, ris- 
ing high above all the other 
peaks near it. In front it de- 
scends in broken crags of na- 
ked granite to Wady er-KA- 
hah. The view from it is not 
so extensive as that from Jehel 
MAsa, but it is far more inter- 
esting and impros>ivo. Tbe 
whole extent of the plain of 
Er-Kahah, measuring more 
than two miles in length, and 
ranging from one third to two 
thirds of a mile in breadth, is 
visible. The eve can follow 
its windings as it runs away 
among the mountains in the 
distance, 
of Wadv 
joins Er- 

opening out on t lie right, while 
opposite it on the left is an- 
other section of plain forming 
a recess in the mountains. 


From near the summit a wild ravine runs down the 
front of the mountain, conveying a winter torrent into 
Er-liahah. Up this ravine the ascent may he made 
from the plain; it is rugged and steep, but an active 
mountaineer, such as Moses was, could easily accom- 
plish it. 

There can scarcely be a doubt that lias es-Sufsafeh 
is Sinai, “the mount of the Lord.” Every requirement 
of the sacred narrative is supplied and every incident 
illustrated by the features of the surrounding district. 
Here is a plain sufficient to contain the Israelitish camp, 
and so close to the mountain’s base that barriers could 
be erected to prevent the rash or the heedless from 
touching it. Here is a mountain-top where the clouds 
that enshrined the Lord when he descended upon it 
would be visible to the vast multitude, even when in 
fear they would withdraw from the base and retire to a 
distance. From this peak the thunderings and the 
voice of Jehovah would resound with terrific effect 
through the plain, and away among the cliffs and 
glens of the surrounding mountains. When descending 
through the clouds that shrouded it, Moses could hear 
also t lie songs and shouts of the infatuated people as 
they danced round the golden ealf ; and in “the brook 
that descends out of the mount” (Deut. ix, 21), through 
the ravine into Er-liahah, he could cast the dust of the 
destroyed idol. In fact, the mountain, the plain, the 
streamlet, and the whole topograph}' correspond in 
every respect to the historical account given by Moses. 
The words of dean Stanley are equally graphic and 
convincing: “No one who has approached t lie lias 
Sufsafeh through that noble plain, or who has looked 
down upon the plain from that majestic height, will 
willingly part with the belief that these are the two es- 
sential features of t he view of the Israelitish camp. That 
such a plain should exist at all in front of such a cliff is 
so remarkable a coincidence with the sacred narrative 
as to furnish a strong internal argument, not merely of 
its identity with the scene, but of the scene itself hav- 
ing been described by an eye-witness. The awful and 
lengthened approach, as to some natural sanctuary, 
would have been the fittest preparation for the coming 
scene. The low line of alluvial mounds at the foot of 
the cliff exactly answers to the ‘bounds’ which were to 
keep the people off from ‘touching the mount.’ The 
plain itself is not broken and uneven, and narrowly shut 
in, like almost all others in the range, but presents a 
long retiring sweep, against which the people could 
‘remove and stand afar off.' The cliff, rising like a 
huge altar, in front of the whole congregation, and vis- 
ible against the sky in lonely grandeur from end to end 
of the whole plain, is the very image of ‘the mount 



SIX A I 


SIXAI 


that might be touched,’ and from which the voice of 
God might be heard far and wide over the stillness of 
the plain below, widened at that part to its utmost ex- 
tent by the confluence of all the contiguous valleys. 
Here, beyond all other parts of the peninsula, is the 
adytum, withdrawn, as if in the ‘end of the world,* 
from all the stir and confusion of earthly things*’ (p. 42, 

43). 

The remarks of Mr. Beamont, a recent and observant 
traveller, are of some importance, as showing that some 
traces of the ancient Scripture names still linger around 
Mount Sinai: “Two or three facts seem to me well 
worthy of observation. Immediately above Wady es- 
Sheikli rises Jebel Fureia, the front of this is named 
Jebel Senefi . Of this name our sheik from Tor knew 
nothing, but our guide on Ras es-Sufsafeh needed no 
prompting to give it its designation. This cluster of 
Fureia, or Zippo rah, is nearly parallel with the cluster 
of Jebel Musa, and extends northward from it to the 
head of the central Sinaitic cluster. Separated from 
the same central cluster of Jebel Musa on the left by 
Wady Leja, runs another parallel range of Sinaitic rocks. 
To one of these, and separated from Jebel Fureia by 
the broad Er-Rahah, the name Urrebbeh is given. This 
name also, as w'ell as the name of the other group, was 
spontaneously assigned to it by our guide Mohammed. 
I was rather sceptical on the point, and made him re- 
peat his designation three or four times, that there 
might be no mistake. My orthography is intended to 
express, as nearh' as I can, the sound of his utterance, 
for it would have been vain to ask him to spell the 
word. Supposing, then, that his nomenclature was cor- 
rect, we have a cluster bearing the name of Seneh {Si- 
nai; comp. Stanley, p. 42) on the right of Jebel Musa, 
and one bearing the name Urrebbeh {Horeb) on the left; 
the central cluster itself has no local appellative, and is 
called after the prophet Moses. May we not, then, sup- 
pose that this central cluster bore the name Sinai or 
Iloreb indiscriminately, serving as the nucleus to which 
the ranges of Sinai and Iloreb trended; and that, after 
the delivery of the law' from the peak of Ras es-Sufsa- 
feh, this bore the special name of ‘Mountain of Moses,’ 
and that subsequently the local designations were re- 
stricted to the ridges on the right, and left?” ( Cairo to 
Sinai, p. 81, 82). The name Wady er-Rahah, which is 
given to the upland plain in front of Ras es-Sufsafeh. is 
also suggestive. It signifies “the vale of rest” — rest 
after labor, as that enjoyed by beasts of burden at the 
close of the day. This is very expressive as applied to 
the long encampment of the Israelites in this plain, after 
the toilsome march from Egypt. The monks, as has 
been stated, give the name of Jebel Musa to the south- 
ern peak of the central ridge, identifying it with Sinai; 
but they identify Ras es-Sufsafeh with Iloreb. There 
are several traditional sites pointed out in Wady er-Ra- 
hah along the base of Sufsafeh, but they are so mani- 
festly apocryphal as to be scarcely worth notice — such 
as the hill on which Aaron stood, the mould in which 
the golden calf was formed, and the pit of Korah (Por- 
ter, Handbook, p. 35). It is worthy of note that no oth- 
er district in the whole peninsula, with the exception 
of a small portion of Wady Feiran, possesses such sup- 
plies of water and pasture as that, around Mount Sinai. 
When the springs and wells are dry elsewhere, the 
Bedawin resort hither. On Sinai itself, on Jebel Iva- 
therln, in Wady Leja, in the convent, and in the plain 
of Knhah are perennial sources. The pastures, too, 
among the rocks and in the glens and little upland 
plains, are comparatively abundant (see Olin, Travels, 
i, 386, 415). 

4. The late Dr. Beke of England broached the theory 
that Sinai was not in the peninsula at all. but east of 
the Gulf of Akabah, a position that carries its refutation 
on its own face. In order to accommodate it. he did not 
hesitate to remove the Mizraim, or “ Egypt” of the Bible, 
into the peninsula. He finally made a visit to the 
region, and imagined he discovered the requisite local- 


n 

ity in Jebel Xttra , up Wadv Ithm, a short distance 
from Akabah ; and although the main object of his jour- 
ney, which was to prove “Mount tSinai a volcano,” was 
effectually exploded bv the facts on the spot, he still 
maintained his general views as stoutly as ever, hut 
without the concurrence of a single writer of note. Soon 
after his return he died of fatigue and disappointment, 
and his w'idow has published the notes of his journey 
with more affection than discretion {Sinai in Arabia 
[Lond. 1878]). 

IV. Description of the Region . — The physical features 
of the peninsula are broadly and deeply marked. In 
form a triangle, it is shut in on two sides "by the gulfs of 
Akabah and Suez, and on the third by the desert of Tih. 
Within these outer barriers are others, enclosing what 
may be termed the shrine. Along the southern edge of 
Tih runs, like a vast wall, a bare limestone ridge; and 
south of it again is a parallel belt of sandy plain, appro- 
priately termed Debbet er-Barnleh. A naked gravelly 
plain called El-Kaa extends along the whole shore of 
the Gulf of Suez. Between El-Kaa, Debbet. er-Ramleh, 
and the Gulf of Akabah lies a group of mountains, tri- 
angular in shape, w hich forms, as it were, the nucleus of 
the peninsula, and is now' called emphatically El-Tor, 
“the mountains.” On the north and west the group 
has projecting buttresses of ruddy sandstone, on which 
most of the inscriptions in the “written valley” are 
traced; but the main body and all the loftiest peaks 
are granite, and exhibit a variety of coloring — red, 
yellow', purple, and green — making them objects of 
singular beauty when bathed in the bright sunshine. 
They are all, however, naked and desolate. As the eye 
wanders over their riven sides and up their jagged 
peaks, not a tree, not a shrub, not a blade of grass is 
seen (see Olin, Travels, i, 383). Rugged passes, almost 
as bare and dry and desolate as the granite cliffs over- 
head, w'ind from the outer borders up into the centre of 
the group. On penetrating these ravines, a few acacias 
are here and there seen in a cranny of the rocks, and a 
clump of w'ild palms is occasionally met with fringing 
a w'ell or fountain. In the heart of these mountains, in 
nature’s profouudest solitude, amid scenery unsurpassed 
for wild and stern grandeur, history, tradition, and ge- 
ography have combined to locate Sinai, “the mount of 
the Lord,” and all those wondrous events which were 
enacted round it. 

The Sinaitic group has been arranged (Stanley, Sin. 
and Pal. p. 11) in three chief masses as follows: (1.) 
The north-western cluster above Wady Feiran; its 
greatest relief found in the tivc-pcaked ridge of Serbal, 
at a height of 0342 feet above the sea. (For an ac- 
count of the singular natural basin into which the wa- 
ters of this portion of the mountain mass are received, 
and its probable connection with scriptural topography, 
see Kepiiidim.) (2.) The eastern and central one; its 
highest point the Jebel Katherin, at a height of 80(53 
(Riippell) to 8108 (Russegger) feet, and including the 
Jebel Musa, the height of which is variously set (by 
Schubert, Riippell, and Russegger) at 6790. 7033, and 
7097 feet. (3.) The south-eastern one, closely connect- 
ed, however, with 2; its highest point, Urn Shaumer, 
being that also of the whole. The three last-named 
peaks all lie very nearly in a line of about nine miles 
drawn from the most northerly of them, Musa, a little 
to the w'est of south; and a perpendicular to this line, 
traced on the map westward for about twenty miles, 
nearly traverses the whole length of the range of Ser- 
bal. These lines show the area of greatest relief for 
the peninsula, nearly equidistant from each of its em- 
bracing gulfs, and also from its northern base, the range 
of Et-Tih, and its southern apex, the Ras Mohammed. 

The vegetation of the peninsula is most copious at 
El-Wady, near Tiir, on the coast of the Gulf of Suez, in 
Wadv Feiran, the two oases of its waste, and “in the 
nucleus of springs in the Gebcl Mousa” (Stanley, p. 19). 
As regards its fauna, Seetzen (iii, 20) mentions the fol- 
lowing animals as found at Er-Ramleh, near Sinai : the 


SIX A I 


SIXAI CODEX 



The Mountains of Sinai. (From a model constructed after the Ordnance Survey.) 


wild goat, the wubber, hyena, fox, hare, gazelle, pan- 
ther (rare), field-mouse (el-jurdy, like a jerboa), and 
a lizard called cl-dsob, which is eaten. Sec Wilder- 
ness OK THE WaNDEUING. 

It is a remarkable fact that Sinai never became a 
place of Jewish pilgrimage. Elijah went there, but it 
was at the command of God, and to escape the ven- 
geance of Jezebel. It has been thought possible that 
Paul may have visited Sinai (Gal.i, 17) and been familiar 
with the name /I ajar as given commonly to it, signify- 
ing k * a rock” (Ewald, Sctulschreiben, p. 41)3). At a very 
early period, however, in the Christian tera, Sinai began 
to be an object of reverence. It appears that refugees 
from persecution in Egypt first sought an asylum amid 
the mountains. Anchorets consequently Hocked to it, 
and convents were at length founded. The poor monks 
had hard fare, and were exposed during a long course 
of ages to persecutions and fearful massacres at the 
hands of the wild nomads. In the early part of the 
Gth century the emperor Justinian caused a church to 
be erected, and a fortified convent to be built round it. 
to protect the monks from the incursions of the Isli- 
maelitcs. It is the present Convent of St. Catherine. 
The number of resident monks is now usually about 
twenty-four, though in the lltli century it is said to 
have been as high as four hundred. They are ruled by 
a prior, but there is an archbishop who always resides 
at Constantinople, and is one of the four independent 
archbishops of the Greek Church. The library of the. 
convent contains some 1500 printed books, and about 700 
manuscripts. A few of the latter are of great antiquity 
and value. Among them Tischendorf discovered, in t lie 
year 1850, the celebrated Codex Sinaiticus (ip v.). 


V. Literature . — Mount Sinai and its vicinity have 
been visited by hundreds of travellers in modern times, 
and multitudes of descriptions have been written, few of 
which, however, contain anything specially new. The 
best accounts are those of Robinson, Bill. Res. i, 88-144 ; 
Burckliardt, Travels in Syria, p. 541-500; Biblioth. Sac. 
May, 1840, p. 381-38G; Stanley, Sin. and Pal. p. 3-77 ; 
Beamont, Cairo to Sinai, p. 58-85; Sandie, Iloreb and 
Jerusalem, p. 154-224. The German writers — Ritter, 
Pal . und Syr. vol. i ; Riippcll, Reise ; Schubert, Reise , vol. 
ii ; and Niebuhr, Description de VA rabie — may be con- 
sulted with advantage; and full descriptions of the con- 
vent, with views, are given in Laborde’s J fount Sinai 
and Petra , and in Bartlett’s Forty JJays in the Desert. 
The vicinity is minutely described in Porter’s Hand- 
book for J ^destine, and in Biideker’s also. The results 
of the English Ordnance Survey — which, however, only 
extended over the western half of the peninsula — have 
been published in three noble volumes with two supple- 
mentary series of photographs (Loud. 18G8-G9), and a 
good abstract may be found in Palmer’s Desert o f the 
F. rod ns (Loud, and X. V. 1872), and more, brielly in his 
Sinai from the Monuments (Loud. 1878). 

Sinai Codex, Heurew. This M S., which con- 
tains the Pentateuch, contains many variations of the 
accents, as and he heard (Exod. xviii, 1), has 

the accent C.ershaitn, but in Sinai it has Relria; again, 
•CTSit, the desert (vcr. 5), has Zakeph, while in Sinai 
it has Zakeph r/adol. As to the name of the codex, 
whether it is so called from the author or from the place 
where it was written is a matter of dispute. According 
to Lcvita it would be the name of a codex ; Filrst ( [Gesch . 


SINAITIC INSCRIPTIONS 


773 


SINAITIC INSCRIPTIONS 


der Kariier , i, 22, 138) thinks that this codex derives 
its name from Mount Sinai, while Joseph Eshoe, the 
expositor of the Masorah, says, on Exod. xviii, 1, “As 
to the remark Sinai has Rebia, know that the inventors 
of the vowel-points and accents were mostly from the 
spiritual heads and the sages of Tiberias. Now the 
name of one of these was Sinai, and he differed from 
the Masorah, which remarks that 3? 0 113 ''I lias Gershaim, 
and said that it has the accent Hebia.” From this it 
will be seen that this great Masoretic authority does 
not take n 3"D as Codex Sinaiticus , but regards it as a 
proper name of one of the inventors of the vowel-points 
and accents. Delitzsch (in his Hebrew translation of 
Paul’s Epistle to the Romans, p. 41, 121) thinks that 
the name "ISO, Sinai Codex, refers rather to the 
place where it was written or found. See Strack, Pro- 
legomena Crilica in Vet. Test, ffebraicum (Lips. 1873), p. 
23 sq. ; Levita, Massoreth ha-Mussoreth (ed. Ginsburg), 
p. 259; Hottinger, Thes. Philologicus (3d ed.), p. 107 ; 
Eichhorn, Einkitung in das alte Test, i, 375; Tychsen, 
Tentamen de Varies Codd. llebr. p. 215. (B. P.) 

Sinaitic Inscriptions is the name usually given 
to certain singular marks cut or rather scratched on the 
rocks of the Sinaitic peninsula, which have in all ages 
given rise to great curiosity and many queries. Dio- 
dorus Siculus states that in his time there was an oasis 
in the wilderness of Sinai containing a sacred shrine, 
to which the inhabitants of the surrounding country 
were accustomed to make pilgrimages every five years. 
There was a stone altar at the spot with an inscription 
in ancient unknown characters. This appears to be the 
first mention of the now famous Sinaitic inscriptions. 
The oasis was probably Feirail, though some think it 
was the village of Tur, on the coast of the Red Sea. The 
quinquennial festival is mentioned by Strabo. But the 
first description of the inscriptions is given (about A.D. 
535) by Cosraas, who supposed them to be the work of 
the Israelites. They are also referred to by several ear- 
ly travellers, as Neitzsehitz and Monconvs. Pococke 
and Niebuhr attempted to copy them, but with little 
success; Seetzen and Burckhardt were more accurate in 
their transcripts. In the Transactions of the Royal So- 
ciety of Literature (1832, iii, 1), 177 of them are careful- 
ly engraved ; nine of these are (freek, and one is Latin; 
the rest are of that peculiar character which recent pa- 
lieographists, as Beer, have denominated Nabatluean. 
They are accompanied, wherever they occur, by rude 
figures of men with shields, swords, bows, and arrows; 
of camels and horses, of goats and ibexes with horns 
wondrousiy exaggerated ; of antelopes pursued by grey- 
hounds; of lizards and tortoises, besides a number of 
nondescripts which will puzzle the zoologist. They are 
met with in almost every part of the mountainous re- 
gion of the peninsula, in groups and singly. They have 
been seen in wadies Sidry, Magharah, and Feiran; in 
wadies Ilumraud Birah, on the northern route to Sinai; 
on and around Mount Serbiil ; in Wady Leja at Sinai ; 
on the plateau between wadies Seyal and El-Ain, on the 
route to Akabah ; at Petra, and on the southern border 
of Palestine. They occur, however, in greatest num- 
bers in Wady Mokatteb. 

The inscriptions are in general very short, consisting 
of one or two brief lines; the letters are from two to 
three inches long, rudely cut with a sharp-pointed instru- 
ment. The surface of the rock is generally soft, so that 
with a pocket-knife one could cut a shallow inscription 
in a few minutes. A few, however, are more deeply and 
regularly formed. Though Lepsius discovered some of 
the Sinaitic characters engraved over older Greek names, 
yet the Greek inscriptions are generally of a much more 
modern date than the others, judging from their appear- 
ance. Some of them have crosses attached; but these 
are not in all cases of Christian origin. The very same 
figures are found on Egyptian obelisks. Their position 
on the face of the cliffs is generally so low that a man 
could reach them. Some are higher, and would require 


a ladder, or at least an expert climber. None are so 
high as to suggest the necessity for ropes or scaffold- 
ing- 

Prof. Beer, of Leipsic, has examined them with great 
care and constructed an alphabet. The results of the 
researches of this distinguished scholar are as follows : 
1. The alphabet is independent ; some of the letters 
are unique, others like the Palmyrene, Estrangolo, and 
Cutic. They are written from left to right. 2. The con- 
tents of the inscriptions, so far as examined, consist only 
of proper names preceded by some such words as eblS, 
“peace,” "HS*! , “in memory,” and “blessed.” 

The word “|H3, “priest,” is sometimes found after them. 
The names are those common in Arabic; not one Jew- 
ish or Christian name has yet been found. 3. The lan- 
guage is supposed to be the Nabatlneau, spoken by the 
inhabitants of Arabia Petnea. 4. The writers were pil- 
grims. The great number around Scrbal leads to the 
supposition that it was once a holy place. That some 
of the writers were Christian is evident from the cross- 
es. 5. The age of the inscriptions he supposes to be 
not earlier than the 4th century. Had they been later, 
some tradition respecting them would probably have 
existed in the time of Cosmas. 

Prof. Tuch, of Leipsic, while agreeing with Beer in 
his alphabet and translations, differs from him in regard 
to the history of the inscriptions. lie says the language 
is Arabic; the authors of them were ancient inhabitants 
of these mountains, in religion heathens. Pilgrimages 
were the occasions of the inscriptions. Their date he 
fixes not later than the 2d century B.C. 

Dean Stanley, in his careful re'snme, states that there 
is a great difference of age manifested both in the pict- 
ures and letters; that they are intermixed with Greek, 
Arabic, and even one or two Latin words, apparently 
of the same date; that crosses are very numerous, and 
of such form as to show their Christian origin, lie con- 
cludes that they are, for the most part, the work of Chris- 
tian pilgrims. 

It will be seen from the above statements that these 
singular inscriptions chiefly occur in the wadies, and on 
the roads leading to particular spots, such as mounts 
Sinai and Scrbal, and the Deir at Petra. They seem 
to have been the work of idle loiterers, rude in their 



Sinaitic Inscriptions in Wady Mokatteb. 


SINAITIC MANUSCRIPT 


774 


SINCERITY 


ideas of art, and ruder still in their morals; for the fig- 
ures of animals are generally ludicrous, and occasionally 
obscene. Many of the inscriptions are evidently of re- 
mote antiquity, while others are plainly not older than 
our own ivra. That they are of Israelii ish origin, as 
Mr. Forster maintains, no satisfactory evidence has as 
yet been produced. The letters are not Hebrew. Some 
of them resemble Phoenician characters, others are dif- 
ferent. from those of any known language. And yet it 
would seem they were the symbols of a language at one 
period universally known throughout the whole penin- 
sula. It docs seem strange that all knowledge of these 
characters and the people who used them has been en- 
tirely losr, and it seems stranger Mill that it was already 
lost in the 4th century. The researches of the greatest 
scholars of our age have been unable to solve the mys- 
tery of these inscriptions, or afford any satisfactory clue 
to their origin, authors, and object (Porter, Handbook 
for Pa Its (. p. 17). 

Prof. Palmer has carefully investigated these inscrip- 
tions in the Ordnance Surrey of Sinai, and his conclu- 
sions are thus summarily expressed : “They are mere 
scratches on the rock, the work of idle loungers, consist- 
ing, for the most part, of mere names interspersed with 
rude figures of men and animals. In a philological point 
of view they do possess a certain interest, but otherwise 
they are as worthless and unimportant as the Arab, 
Greek, and European graffiti with which they are in- 
terspersed. The language employed is Aramaean, the 
Shemitic dialect which in the earlier centuries of our 
tera held throughout the East the place now occupied 
by the modern Arabic, and the character differs little 
from the Xabatluean alphabet used in the inscriptions of 
Idumajaand Central Syria” {Desert of the Exodus, p. 160). 
See. in addition to the above, and travellers in the region, 
Peer, Inscript ioues ad Montem Sinai, etc. (Lips. 1840); 
Lemirmant, VOrigine Chretienne des /user. Sin. (Paris, 
1856); Schulmann, Uebcr sinnit. Inschriften (Wilna, 
1856); Ebers, Dttrch Goseu und Sinai (Lcips. 1872); 
Sharpe, Ileb. Inscriptions between Kggpt and Sinai (Loud. 
1875); Jour. Sac. Lit. July, 1853; Ch. of Engl. Revieic, 
April, 1857. See Insckiutions. 

Sinaitic Manuscript {Codex Sinaiticus, desig- 
nated as X), a MS. of the Septuagint and Greek New 
Test., brought from the Convent of St. Catherine, on 
Mount Sinai, by Tischemlorf in 1850. It consists of 345 
leaves and a half, 100 in the Old Test, and 147 in the 
New Test. The Coder Sinaiticus contains the following 
portions of the Old lest, and Apocrypha in the order 
lierc given: 1 Chron. ix, 27-xi, 22; Tobit, ii, 2 to the 
end: Judith i, 1-xi. 13; xiii, 9-xvi ; i Mace.; 4 Mace. ; 
Isaiah; Jer. i, 1-x, 25; Joel; Obadiah; Jonah; Nahum; 
Ilabakkuk; Zephaniah; llaggai; Zcchariah; Malachi; 
Psalms; Proverbs; Ecclesiastes; Canticles; Wisdom of 
Solomon; Ecclesiasticus; .lob. Of the missing portions 
the following arc supplied by the Coder Eriderico-A u- 
gnstanus, and the fragments afterwards published by 
Tischemlorf, which were originally parts of the Sinaitic 
MS. : a few verses of (Ion. xxiii, xxiv, ami of Numb, v- 
vii ; also 1 Citron, xi, 22 xix, 17 ; Ezra ix, 9 to the end; 
Nchcmiah; Esther; Tohit i. I — ii, 2; Jer. x, 25 to the 
end; Lam. i, 1-iii, 20. This codex contains the entire 
New Test., together with t ho epistle of Barnabas and 
parts of the Shepherd of Hennas. There arc four col- 
umns in each page. The character of the letters, the 
inscriptions and subscription* to different books, the ab- 
sence of the Ammonian sections and Eusebian canons, 
the nature of the readings, and other peculiarities, 
agree in a remarkable manner with 15, or the Vatican. 
Tischemlorf supposes that it is somewhat older than B, 
belonging to the 1th century. Probably it is of the 6th 
century, though made from a text older than that of B. 
The copyist, writing perhaps from dictation, has made 
many blunders. The value of this acquisition to the 
critical apparatus of the Bible can hardly be overesti- 
mated. In Tischemlorf s Xotitia Editionis Codicis Diblio - 


KA.I O M OAOrOyMe 
N CO € M GFAeCTl N 
TOTHCeyceBGIAC 
MycxHfioNoce 

<j>ANepCJD0HGNcxp 
K^eABKAICDGHGN 
ffN BCD<j>© HATFAF 
GKHpyxeneNe 
© Neci Nerucxey 

0H6 HIKOCMQ3* 

ANeAHM<j>©H€N 

A02H 

Specimen of the Codex Sinaiticus (containing 1 Tim. Hi, 16: 

Hat eaTtv I to Trj? ci'ce/ifiaf | pvarr]- 

piov of e ev <rap[K<* eStKatui^T] ev [ 5 Fw u><p5r\ 07 - 
ie\oit | eKrjpt'xS’a ev fijjveffiv C‘3r*0'xcw | S’rj ev Ko<rpa>" J ait- 
Xrjyu^rj ev I ^ofrj). 

rum Sinaitic 7, etc. (Lips. 1860, sm. fol.), the indefatigable 
critic has given nine pages entire from the New Test., 
eight from the Old Test., and one from the epistle of 
Barnabas and the Shepherd of Hernias (p. 22 sq.). lie 
has also furnished upwards of six hundred readings from 
all the books of the New Test. (p. 14 sq.). A fac-simile 
is given above. Tischendorf has likewise printed a brief 
Xotitia Codicis to accompany the seventh edition of his 
Greek Test, of the same size. It may be remarked that 
the Codex Sinaiticus agrees with B in omitting the last 
twelve verses of Mark’s gospel; that it lias oc etyavepioSt;, 
not&o£ ; that it omits the passage respecting the woman 
taken in adultery (John vii, 53-viii, 11); agrees with B 
in omitting ev 606 ato in Ephes. i, 1 {a pri/na mamt ) ; 
wants the doxology in Matt, vi, 13, as do B I) Z; agrees 
with B in reading rgv tKicXrjatav rov Qtov (Acts xx, 
28) ; with B C I)** in having ovSevog \oyov 7rotot»- 
pai rt]v ipvxrjv rt t liav epavTio (vcr. 24), and has jiioi'o- 
yev/j c Oeog with B C L in John i, 18 — a reading un- 
doubtedly wrong. The MS. has been published at St. 
Petersburg in fac-simile (4 vols. fob), the edition being 
limited to 300 copies. In 1863 the New-Test, part was 
published in ordinary type at Leipsic, 4to, with columns 
the same as the original, and in 1865 Tischemlorf issued 
a new edition in 8vo. Scrivener has also printed its 
readings in a small vol. (1863), and Ilansell has added 
them to his edition of the New Test. (1864). — Kitto. 
See Amer. Theol. Her. April, 1861 ; Princeton Rev. Jan. 
1861; Land. (Wesl.) Rev. Oct. 1863; Brit. Quar. Rev. 
Oct. 1863; Stud. u. Krit. 1864, iii ; Zeitschr.f. wisscnsch . 
Theologie , iv, 1864. See Manuscripts, Biblical. 

Sincerity (from sincerus , “without wax;” honey 
separated from the wax, perfectly pure). In Scripture 
sincere {ddo\og,ei\ncptvi)g) signifies pure, without, mixt- 
ure. Sincerity is opposed to double-mindedness, or de- 
ceit, when the sentiments of the heart are contrary to 
the language of the lips. Paul (Phil, i, 10) would have 
the Philippian* to be pure, their behavior innocent, free 
from offence, “ t hat ye may be sincere and wit bout offence 
till the day of Christ.” Peter (2 Epist. iii, 1) exhorts the 
pure, sincere mind oft he faithful. Paul speaks (I Cor. v, 
8) of sincerity ami truth, or of purity and truth, in oppo- 
sition to the leavened bread of iniquity. lie reproaches 
the false apostles with not preaching Jesus Christ sin- 
cerely, purely, with upright and disinterested sentiments 
(Phil, i, 15). The reader is referred to a discussion of 
this subject by Guruall, Christian Armor, ii, 121-148. 


SINCLAI1 


i i O 


SINGHALESE VERSION 


Sinclair, John, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born in Loudon County, Ya., April 
9, 1793. In his twenty -lirst year, while residing in 
Lexington, Ky., he professed conversion and joined the 
Church. lie was received on trial in the Kentucky 
Conference in September, 18*24, but was transferred to 
the Illinois Conference in 1830. Here lie labored as 
pastor and presiding elder until 1844, when he was su- 
perannuated. This relation he sustained until 1810, 
when he again became effective, serving as presiding 
elder eight years and pastor two. lie again took a 
superannuated relation in 1857, and made bis home in 
Evanston until his death, in 18(>0 or 1801. lie was 
delegate to the General Conference of 1844. See Min- 
utes of Annual Conferences , 1801, p. 200. 

Sind, a fabulous hero of the Oriental mythology, 
who is said to have migrated with his brother Hind to 
India, and to have there founded several empires. — 
Yolhner, Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Sindhee Version. Sindhee is a dialect spoken 
by the inhabitants of Sinde, an extensive country of 
Western India, and attached since 1839 to the Bombay 
presidency. As early as 1815 a translation of the Script- 
ures was commenced by the Serampore missionaries, but 
it was not till 1825 that the Gospel of Matthew was com- 
mitted to press. A translation of the same gospel was 
also made by Capt. G. Stack, and an edition of 500 copies 
printed by the Bombay auxiliary of the British and For- 
eign Bible Society. In 1859 an edition of 580 copies of 
John’s Gospel issued from the same source, having been 
executed under the care of Kev. A. Burn : 280 copies of 
this edition were printed in the Arabic character, and 
300 copies in the Gurmukhi. In 1800 the book of Gen- 
esis, in the Arabic character, was printed, together with 
000 copies of the Gospel of John, while the printing of 
the Acts of the Apostles was commenced by the Kev. Mr. 
Sheldon. According to the report of 1878 of the Brit- 
ish and Foreign Bible Society, besides Genesis, the four 
Gospels and the Acts are the only parts printed, and all 
copies distributed amounted to 44,734. See The Bible 
of Every Land , and the Annual Reports of the British 
and Foreign Bible Society. (B. P.) 

Sindhu, in Hindu mythology, one of the compan- 
ions of Ganga, and, like the latter, a river. 

Sindon (literally a cotton cloth), a word having sev- 
eral ecclesiastical meanings: 1. A napkin; 2. A cloth 
for holding and enclosing the bread offered for the holy 
eucharist in the Eastern church; 3. A term sometimes 
applied to the communion-cloth which the faithful, in 
certain parts of the Church, hold before them when 
partaking of the sacrament; 4. In the Liturgy of the 
Church of Milan this term is applied to the linen cloth 
which covers the altar-slab. — Lee, Gloss, of Liturgical 
Terms , s. v. 

Sindonary. Sec Sindon. 

Sindri, an abode in Gimle— the Scandinavian heav- 
en — which is constructed entirely of gold. 

Sindur, in Norse mythology, was one of the nine 
giant- virgins who together became the mothers of 
Heimdal by Odin. 

Sinecure (sine cura, “without care,” i. e. of souls), 
in ecclesiastical usage, may be either — t. A bcneticc of 
pecuniary value, a rectory, or vicarage, in which there 
is neither church nor population ; 2. A benefice in which 
the rector receives the tithes, though the cure of souls, 
legally and ecclesiastically, belongs to some clerk; or 3. 
A benefice in which there arc both rector and vicar, in 
which case the duty commonly rests with the vicar, and 
the rectory is called a sinecure ; but no church in which 
there is but one incumbent is properly a sinecure. A 
church may be down, or the parish become destitute of 
parishioners; but still there is not a sinecure, for the in- 
cumbent is under an obligation of performing divine 
service if the church should be rebuilt or the parish be- 
come inhabited.— Lee, Gloss, of Liturgical Terms, s. v. 


Sinecurist, one who holds a sinecure or is an ad- 
vocate for sinecures (q. v.). 

Siner, in Norse mythology, was one of the twelve 
famous asa- horses employed by the gods when they 
rode to the place of judgment by the fountain of Urdar. 

Sinew (once for a gnawer, i. e. pain [Job 

xxx, 17]; elsewhere Y’S, gid) occurs especially in the 
phrase iTwSn "PJ, gid han-nasheh, “the sinew that 
shrank” (Gen. xxxii,33), i. e. the nerrus ischiadiais, or 
thigh-cord (Gesenius, Thesaur. p. 921). Josephus ren- 
ders it the broad nerce (ytvpov 7r \arb, Ant. i, 10, 2), be- 
ing that which is on the thigh (q'Yfi Cj3 b^*), extend- 
ing from the knee upwards, and in iact but a continua- 
tion of that along the shin (Rosen m idler, I/and. d. A na- 
tornie , Gth ed. p. 519). Many understand by it the ham- 
string, or tendo A chillis; but this is no proper nerve 
nor muscle. Modern Jews, in general, regard this part, 
even of clean animals, to be inedible, although the Mo- 
saic law contains no prohibition on the subject. For 
the Talmudic prescription see the Mishna ( Cholin , vii). 
The rabbins mostly understand the sinews of the hips 
to be intended (sec Philippson, ad loc.). — Winer, ii, 484. 

Sinfloetli, in Norse mythology, was a son of Sig- 
mund by his sister Siguv (q. v.). The latter had, with- 
out being recognised, submitted herself to the embraces 
of her brother in order that she might obtain a son in 
whose veins should flow the unmixed blood of Wolsung’s 
race. That son was intended to become the avenger of 
her father’s murder, and he justified his mother’s expec- 
tations by the utmost boldness and fearlessness. — Voll- 
mer, Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Singer (properly "id, shdr, or some other form of 
TIT, /o sing; occasionally of “'^T, to plug an accompa- 
niment; but the “chief singer” is styled 
tseach. the pnecentor of the Levitical orchestra). ►Sing- 
ing was always natural to the Hebrews, and formed part 
of the Levitical worship ( sec Schmid, De Cantoribus 
Eccl. V.et N. T. [Ilclmst. 1708]). Sec IIymn; Music. 

SINGERS, in Christian Worship, one of the subor- 
dinate orders of the clergy in the^arlv Church, which 
seems to have taken its rise about the beginning of the 
4th century. Mention is made of them by the Council 
of Laodicea; and the reason assigned for instituting 
them seems to have been to regulate and encourage the 
ancient psalmody of the Church. They >vere afterwards 
called canonical or registered singers. They were also 
called u7ro/3o\t7c, monitors, or suggesters, from their 
office, which was to act as precentors of the people. 
Their ordination required no imposition of hands, nor 
solemn consecration, and might be conferred by a pres- 
byter using this form of words : “ See that thou believe 
in tlw heart what thou singest with thy mouth, and ap- 
prove in thy works what thou believest in thy heart.” 
Their station in the church was in the ambo, or reading- 
desk. See Bingham, Christ. Antiq. iii, 7 ; viii, 5. See 
Singing. 

Singhalese Religion. See Buddhism. 

Singhalese Version. This version— intended 
for the inhabitants of the southern part of Ceylon, from 
Batticaloa on the east to the river Chilaw on the west, 
and for those of the interior — was first made when Cey- 
lon was in the possession of the Dutch. In 1737 the 
Dutch governor, Van Imhoff, established a printing- 
press at Colombo, with the view of disseminating 
Christian knowledge among the natives. In 1739 an 
edition of the four gospels in Singhalese was completed 
at this press, under the care of the Rev. J. P. Wetzel, a 
minister at Colombo. The translation was prepared 
from the original Greek by the Rev. W. Konym, and 
was published under the title Ret Ileylige Evangelium 
onses Ileeren en Zaligmakers Jtsu Christi na de Beschry- 
vinge van de Mar men Gods en II. Evanyelisten Mutthcus, 
Marcus, Lucas, en Johannes, uyt het Oorspronkelyke Grieks 


SINGING 


SINGULAR 


in de Singaleete Tale Overgebracht , etc. A revised and 
corrected edition was published in 1780 by the Revs. 
Fvbrands and Philipsz, who also superintended an edi- 
tion of the Acts printed in 1771, and published under 
the title De Handel ingen der A postclen Beschreven door 
den Evangelist Lucas. For this part of the New Test, 
two learned Singhalese natives were engaged, who pros- 
ecuted their translation under the direction of the Rev. 
S. Cat. In 1770 the whole New Test, was issued, 
while of the Old Test, only some parts were published. 
When, in 1812, the Colombo Auxiliary Bible Society 
was formed, one of the first measures adopted by the 
society was the examination of the Singhalese version 
of the New Test. It was found that a thorough revi- 
sion or a new translation was deemed indispensable. 
The work of revision progressed but slowly; and it was 
not till 1817 that the revised New Test, left the Colom- 
bo press. Six years later the Old Test, was printed. 
In the meantime, the Rev. Mr. Lambrick, of the Church 
Mission at Cotta, a village near Colombo, had under- 
taken another translation of the Singhalese Scriptures, 
which was completed in 1834 at the expense of the 
Church Missionary Society. This version, which is 
generally distinguished as the “ Cotta Version,” differs 
from the one set forth by the Colombo Rible Society in 
the following particulars: “ 1. All the honorific termina- 
tions — that is, peculiar terminations of the verbs, nouns, 
and pronouns indicative of respect — used in books in the 
high Singhalese dialect are omitted in the Cotta ver- 
sion. 2. Those terminations of notins, etc., in common 
use in the colloquial dialect are adopted. 3. One pro- 
noun for the second person singular (there are twelve 
others in use in Singhalese books) is uniformly used 
throughout the Cotta version, whoever may be the per- 
son spoken to, human or divine. 4. Words in common 
use are invariably substituted for learned ones.” As 
both versions had their merits, yet the missionaries of 
various denominations engaged in Ceylon came to the 
conclusion that one version should be for common use; 
and a revision committee was appointed in 1853 to pre- 
pare a new translation. In 1857 the revision of the New 
Test, was completed; but when that of the Old Test, 
will be completed it is difficult to say. Meanwhile 
it has been found necessary to print more than one edi- 
tion of the Old Test, according to the previously exist- 
ing versions. See Le Long-Masch, Bibliotheca Sacra 
(Habv, 1778), II, i, 210 sq. ; The Bible of Every Land , 
p. 147 sq. ; the Annual Reports of the British and For- 
eign Bible Society, 1857 sq. (II. P.) 

Singing, an ordinance of divine worship, in which 
we express our joy in God, and gratitude for his mer- 
cies. It has always been a branch both of natural and 
revealed religion in all ages and periods of time. It 
was a part of the worship of the heathen. It was prac- 
ticed by the people of God before the giving of the law 
of Moses (Fxod. xv); also under the ceremonial law. 
Under the Gospel dispensation, it is particularly en- 
joined (Col. iii, 1 G ; Eph. v, 19). It was practiced by 
Christ and his apostles (Matt, xxvi, 30), and in the ear- 
liest times of Christianity. The praises of God may be 
sung privately in the family, but chiefly in the house 
of God; and should be attended to with reverence, sin- 
cerity, joy, gratitude, and with the understanding (1 
Cor. xiv, 15). 

From the apostolic age singing was always a part of 
divine service, in which the whole body of the Church 
joined together; and it was the decay of this practice 
that first brought the order of singers into the Church. 
The Council of Laodicea (canon 15) prohibited singing 
by the congregation; but this was a temporary provi- 
sion, designed only to restore and revive the ancient 
psalmody. We find that in after-ages the people en- 
joyed their ancient privilege of singing all together. 

Among the Anti-lVdobaptists, during the early part 
of their existence, psalmody was generally excluded as 
a human ordinance; but some congregations having 
adopted it about the beginning of the 18th century, a 


rc 

violent controversy was excited. About the middle of 
the century, however, the praises of God were sung in 
even' Anti-Pa*dobaptist church. 

It was customary, early in the present century, for 
the precentor in the Church of Scotland to read the 
psalm line by line as it was sung. 'When the practice 
of continuous singing was introduced, it was a source of 
great and numerous congregational disturbances, and it 
was popularly stigmatized as an innovation. As to the 
use of instrumental music as an accompaniment to sing- 
ing, see Ciioiu; Music; Singer. 

Singing -cakes, a name given formerly among 
Romanists to the consecrated wafers used in private 
masses. 

Singing-schools were established for the instruc- 
tion of the order of singers as early as the Gth century, 
and became common in various parts of Europe, partic- 
ularly in France and Germany. These schools were 
very much patronized by Gregory the Great, under 
whom they gained great celebrity. From them origi- 
nated the famous Gregorian Chant (q. v.), a plain sys- 
tem of Church music. The prior, or principal, of these 
schools was a man of great consideration and influence. 
The name of this officer at Rome was archicantor eccle- 
site Romame, and, like that of prelatus cantor in their 
chapters and collegiate churches, it was a highly re- 
spectable and lucrative office. — Coleman, Christian 
tiquities. 

Single Combat has always been, among semi- 
civilized nations, a favorite resort to decide a dispute 
without the effusion of much blood. Classical history 
abounds with instances. The Bible also gives a few 
noteworthy cases, of which the contest between David 
(q. v.) and Goliath is the most remarkable. Similar 
customs still prevail among the Arabs (Burckhardt, 
Notes on the Bedouin , p. 174). The practice has in mod- 
ern times degenerated into that of duelling. See the 
monographs on the subject cited by Yolbeding, Index 
Programmatum , p. 160. 

Single Eye is a phrase used in the A.Y. (Matt, 
vi, 29; Luke xi. 34) for o<p$a\pbq cnrXovg, an ?/«- 
clouded vision, rather than a single aim. See the com- 
mentators ad loc., and the monographs of Zorn in the 
Miscell. Duisb. ii, 240; and Sommel (Loud, and Goth. 
1787). 

Singlin, Antoine, a French theologian, was born 
at Paris early in the 17th century, and by the advice of 
Yincent de Paul embraced the monastic life at the age 
of twenty-two. After learning Latin in the College dc 
Paris, he entered the Hopital de Pitie to teach the cat- 
echism to children. Later he attached himself to the 
abbe of St. Cyran, who induced him to become a priest, 
and procured him a nomination as confessor to the Port- 
Royal recluses, to which duty he joined that of superior 
of two of their houses. His timidity at length caused 
him to seek a retreat with Madame de Longueville, 
where he died, April 17, 16(54. lie was possessed of 
moderate learning, but sound sense, and a good knowl- 
edge of the Scriptures and the fathers — qualities which 
he showed in his Instructions Chretiennes (Paris, 1671-73, 
and later), being a collection of his sermons, which are 
highly spoken of. lie is also the author of several let- 
ters in the Nouvcaux Memoircs de Port - Royal. See 
his Life prefixed to Gonjet’s edition of the former work. 
— llocfer, Xouv. Blog. Generale , s. v. 

Singular, a word used by old writers in the sense 
of incomparable , matchless , of unequalled excellence. The 
following examples arc taken from king Edward YI’s 
Primer: “Breathe into my heart by thy Holy Spirit 
this most precious and singular gift of faith, which 
worketh by charity, . , . that when thou shalt call me 
out of this careful life [a life full of cares], l may en- 
joy that thv most singular and last benefit, which is 
everlasting glory through Jesus Christ our Lord.” — 
Staunton, Diet, of the Church , s. v. 


SINIM 


SIN-OFFERING 


777 


Si'llim (IIeb. Sinim ', prob. of foreign ety- 

mology ; Sept. Tlipaai ; Yulg. australis), a people whose 
country (“the land of Sinim”) is noticed in Isa. xlix, 
12 as being at the extremity of the known world, either 
in the south or east. The majority of the early inter- 
preters adopted the former view, but the Sept., in giv- 
ing Persians, favors the latter, and the weight of mod- 
ern authority is thrown into the same scale, the name 
being identified by Gesenius, Hitzig, Knobel, and others 
with the classical Since, the inhabitants of the southern 
part of China . No locality in the south equally com- 
mends itself to the judgment: Sin, the classical Pelu- 
sium, which Bochart ( Phaleg , iv, 27) suggests, is too 
near, and Sycne (Michaelis, Spicil. ii, 32) would have 
been given in its well-known Hebrew form. There is 
no a priori improbability in the name of the Sime being 
known to the inhabitants of Western Asia in the age of 
Isaiah ; for though it is not mentioned by the Greek 
geographers until the age of Ptolemy, it is certain that 
an inland commercial route connected the extreme east 
with the west at a very early period, and that a traffic 
was maintained on the frontier of China between the 
Sinae and the Scythians, in the manner still followed by 
the Chinese and the Russians at Kiachta. If any name 
for these Chinese traders travelled westward, it would 
probably be that of the Since, whose town Thinse (an- 
other form of the Since) was one of the great emporiums 
in the western part of China, and is represented by the 
modern Tsin or Tin , in the province of Shensi . The 
Since attained an independent position in Western China 
as early as the 8th century B.C., and in the 3d century 
B.C. established their sway under the dynasty of Tsin 
over the whole of the empire. The Rabbinical name 
of China, Tsin, as well as “ China” itself, was derived 
from this dynasty (Gesenius, Thesaur. s. v.). — Smith. 
This ancient people were known to the Arabians by the j 
name of Sin, and to the Syrians by that of Tsini ; and ! 
a Hebrew writer may well have heard of them, espe- 
cially if sojourning at Babylon, the metropolis, as it 
were, of all Asia. This name appears to have been 
given to the Chinese by other Asiatics; for the Chinese 
themselves, though not unacquainted with it, do not 
employ it, either adopting the names of the reigning 
dynasties, or ostentatiously assuming high-sounding 
tiiles, e. g. Tclnmykue, “central empire.” But when the 
name was thus given by other nations, and whence it 
was derived, is uncertain. The opinion of those writers 
is possibly correct who suppose that the name Q^lPO, 
Sineses, came from the fourth dynasty, called Tshin, 
which held the throne from B.C. 249 to 206 (Du Ilalde, 
Descript, de la Chine, i, 1, 306; A. Remusat, Nouv. 
Melanges A siatiques, ii, 334 sq. ; Klaproth, Journ. 
Asiat. x, 53 sq,). A people called Tshinas are spoken 
of in the laws of Menu, and the name of this dynasty 
may have been known among foreign nations long be- 
fore it acquired the sovereign power over all China. — 
Kit to. See the Zeitschr.Jiir wissensch. Theol. 1863, vol. 
iv. See China. 

Sinir, in Norse mythology, was one of the asa- 
horses. 

Sinis, two characters in Grecian mythology. 

1. The son of Polvpemon, Pemon, or Poseidon, by 
Svlea, who was surnamed Pityocampes (fir-bender), or 
Procrustes. He dwelt on the isthmus of Corinth as a 
robber, and destroyed the travellers who fell into his 
power by fastening them to the tops of two fir-trees 
which he had bent down, and which he then permitted 
to spring back to their upright condition. He was 
himself killed by Theseus in the same manner. 

2 . A son of Neptune and Anaxo, and brother to Cer- 
cyon. Ilis mother dwelt in Trcezen. Theseus mur- 
dered her sons and defloured her daughters, in accord- 
ance with the custom of victors at that day. — Vollmer, 
Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Si'nite (Heb. collectively with the art. has-Sini 


"'S * 5 ft , probably of local etymology; Sept. ’Acevvalog ; 
Yulg. Sinceus), a tribe of Canaanites (Gen. x, 17; 1 
Chron. i, 15) whose position is to be sought for in the 
northern part of the Lebanon district. Various locali- 
ties in that district bear a certain amount of resem- 
blance to the name, particularly Sinna, a mountain for- 
tress mentioned by Strabo (xvi, 755); Sinum or Sint, 
the ruins of which existed in the time of Jerome (Qucest. 
Gen. loc. cit.); Syn, a village mentioned in the 15th 
century as near the River Area (Gesenius, Thesaur. p. 
948); and Dunniyeh, a district near Tripoli (Robinson, 
Researches, ii, 494). The Targums of Onkelos and Jon- 
athan give Orthosia, a town on the coast to the north- 
east of Tripolis. — Smith. See Canaanite. 

Sinlessness of Christ. See Christ, Sinless- 
ness of. 

Sinoe, in Greek mythology, was an Arcadian nymph 
who brought up the god Pan, and from whom he was 
named Sinoeis. 

Sin-offering (niC2ll, chatidth; Sept, apapria , to 
ti}q apapriag, 7repl apapnag ; Vulg. pro peccato). The 
sin-offering among the Jews was the sacrifice in which 
the ideas of propitiation and of atonement for sin were 
most distinctly marked. It is first directly enjoined in 
Lev. iv, whereas in ch. i-iii the burnt-offering, meat- 
offering, and peace-offering are taken for granted, and 
the object of the law is to regulate, not to enjoin, the 
presentation of them to the Lord. Nor is the word 
cluittdth applied to any sacrifice in ante-Mosaic times. 
Its technical use in Gen. iv, 7 is asserted, and supported 
by high authority. But the word here probably means 
(as in the Vulgate and the A.V.) “sin.” The fact that 
it is never used in application to any other sacrifice in 
Genesis or Exodus alone makes the translation “sin- 
offering” here very improbable. It is therefore pecul- 
iarly a sacrifice of the law, agreeing with the clear defi- 
nition of good and evil, and the stress laid on the “sin- 
fulness of sin,” which were the main objects of the law 
in itself. The idea of propitiation was, no doubt, latent 
in earlier sacrifices, but it was taught clearly and dis- 
tinctly in the Levitical sin-offering. The ceremonial 
of the sin-offering is described in Lev. iv and vi. The 
animal — a young bullock for the priest or the congrega- 
tion, a male kid or lamb for a ruler, a female kid or lamb 
for a private person, in all cases without blemish — was 
brought by the sacrificer to the altar of sacrifice ; his 
hand was laid upon its head (with, as we learn from 
later Jewish authorities, a confession of sin, and a prayer 
that the victim might be its expiation) ; of the blood 
of the slain victim some was then sprinkled seven times 
before the veil of the sanctuary, some put on the horns 
of the altar of incense, and the rest poured at the foot 
of the altar of sacrifice. The fat (as the choicest part of 
the flesh) was then burned on the altar as a burnt-offer- 
ing; the remainder of the body, if the sin-offering were 
that of the priest himself or of the whole congregation, 
was carried out of the camp or city to a “clean place” 
and there burned ; but, if the offering were that of an in- 
dividual, the flesh might be eaten by the priests alone 
in the holy place, as being “most holy.” 

The “trespass-offering” TrXijppeXeia, to Tijg 

7 rXrjpptXeiac ; pro delicto) is closely connected with the 
sin-offering in Leviticus, but at the same time clearly 
distinguished from it, being in some cases offered with 
it as a distinct part of the same sacrifice, as, for exam- 
ple, in the cleansing of the leper (ch. xiv). The victim 
was in each case to be a ram. At the time of offering, 
in all cases of damage done to any holy thing, or to any 
man, restitution was made with the addition of a fifth 
part to the principal; the blood was sprinkled round 
about upon the altar, as in the burnt-offering, the fat 
burned, and the flesh disposed of as in the sin-offering. 
The distinction of ceremonial clearly indicates a differ- 
ence in the idea of the two sacrifices. The nature of that 
difference is still a subject of great controversy. Look- 


SIN-OFFERING 


778 


SIN-OFFERING 


ing first to the derivation of the two words, we find that 
rX'JH is derived from Ni:n, which is, properly, to 
••miss” a mark, or to “err" from a way, and, secondarily, 
to “sin.” or to incur “penalty;” that Zl'X is derived 
from the root which is, properly, to “ fail,” having 
for its “primary idea negligence , especially in gait” (Ge- 
seuius). It is clear that, so far as derivation goes, there 
appears to be more of reference to general and actual 
sin in the former, to special cases of negligence in the 
latter. Turning next to the description, in the book 
of Leviticus, of the circumstances under which each 
should be offered, we find one important passage (Lev. 
v, 1-13) in which the sacrifice is called first a “ trespass- 
offering” (ver. 6), and then a “ sin-offering” (ver. 7, 9, 1 1, 
12). But the nature of the victims in ver. 0 agrees with 
the ceremonial of the latter, not of the former; the ap- 
plication of the latter name is more emphatic and reit- 
erated; and there is at ver. 14 a formal introduction of 
the law of the trespass-offering, exactly as of the law 
of the sin-offering in iv, 1. It is therefore safe to con- 
clude that the word C — X is not here used in its techni- 
cal sense, and that the passage is to be referred to the 
sin-offering only. See Tiu:si*ass-ofkeuing. 

We timi, then, that the sin-offerings were— 

A. Regut.ar. 

(1.) For the ichole people , at the New Moon, Passover, 
Pentecost, Feast of Trumpets, and Feast of Tabernacles 
(Nninb. xxviii, 15-xxix, 3S) ; besides the solemn offering 
of the two goats ou the Great Day of Atonement (Lev. 
xvi). 

(2.) For the priests and Levites at their consecration 
(Exod. xxix, 10-14, 36); besides the yearly sin-offering (a 
bullock) for the high-priest ou the Great Day of Atone- 
ment (Lev. xvi). 

(3.) To these may he added the sacrifice of the red heif- 
er (conducted with the ceremonial of a sin-offering), from 
the ashes of which was made the “ water of separation,” 
used in certain cases of ceremonial pollution (Numb. xix). 

li . Special. 

(1.) For any sin of “ ignorance" against the command- 
ment of the Lord, on the part of priest, people, ruler, or 
private man (Lev. iv). 

(2.) For refusal to bear witness under adjuration (Lev. 
v, 1). 

(3.) For ceremonial defilement not wilfully contracted 
(Lev. v, 2, 3), under which may be classed the offerings at 
the purification of women (xii,0-S), at the cleansing of 
leprosy (xiv, 19.31) or the uncleamiess of men or women 
(xv, 15, 3u), ou the defilement of a Nazarite (Numb, vi, fi- 
ll) or the expiration of his vow (ver. lfi). 

(4.) For the breach of a rash oath , the keeping of which 
would involve sin (Lev. v, 4). 

The trespass-offerings, on the other hand, were always 
special, as — 

(1.) For sacrilege “ in ignorance ,” with compensation for 
the harm done, and the gift of a fifth part of the value, be- 
sides, to the priest (Lev. v, 15, 1G). 

(2.) For ignorant transgression agaiust some definite 
prohibition of the law (Lev. v, 17-19). 

(3.) For fraud , suppression of the truth, or perjuru 
against man, with compensation, and with the addition 
of a fifth psirt of the value of the property in question to 
the person wronged (Lev, vi, 1-fi). 

(4.) For rajw of a betrothed slave (Lev. xix, 20, 21). 

(5.) A t the purification of the b-per (Lev. xiv, 12), and the 
po tinted Xazarite (Numb, vi, 12), offered with the sin-of- 
tering. 

From this enumeration it will be clear that the two 
classes of sacrifices, although distinct, touch closely upon 
each other, as especially in li (1.) of the sin-offering, 
and (2.) of the trespass-offering. It is also evident that 
the sin-offering was the only regular and general recog- 
nition of sin in the abstract, and accordingly was far 
more solemn ami symbolical in its ceremonial; ihc tres- 
pass-offering was confined to special cases, most of which 
related to the doing of some material damage, either to 
the holy things or to man, except in (5.), where the tres- 
pass-offering is united with the sin-offering. Josephus 
(Ant. iii, 9,3) declares that the sin-offering is presented 
by those “who fall into sin in ignorance” (kut uyvoi- 
«*/), ami the trespass-offering by “one who has sinned 
ami is conscious of his sin, but has no one to convict 
him thereof.” From this it may be inferred (as by 
Winer ami others) that the former was used in cases of 


known sin against some definite law, the latter in the 
case of secret sin, unknown, or, if known, not liable to 
judicial cognizance. Other opinions have been enter- 
tained, widely different from, ami even opposed to, one 
another. The opinions which suppose one offering due 
for sins of omission, and the other for sins of commis- 
sion, have no foundation in the language of the law. 
Others, with more plausibility, refer the sin-offering to 
sins of pure ignorance, the trespass-offering to those of 
a more sinful and deliberate character; but this does not 
agree with Lev. v, 17-19, and is contradicted by the sol- 
emn contrast between sins of ignorance, which might be 
atoned for. and “sins of presumption,” against which 
death without mercy is denounced in Numb, xv, 30: 
A third opinion supposes the sin-offering to refer to sins 
for which no material and earthly atonement could be 
made, the trespass-offering to those for which material 
compensation was possible. This theory has something 
to support it in the fact that in some cases (see Lev. v, 
15, 10; vi, 1-0) compensation was prescribed as accessory 
to the sacrifice. Others seek more recondite distinc- 
tions, supposing, e. g., that the sin-offering had for its 
object the cleansing of the sanctuary or the common- 
wealth, and the trespass-offering the cleansing of the 
individual; or that the former referred to the effect of 
sin upon the soul itself, the latter to the effect of sin as 
the breach of an external law. Without attempting to 
decide so difficult and so controverted a question, we 
may draw the following conclusions: 

First, that the sin-offering was far the more solemn and 
comprehensive of I lie two sacrifices. 

Secondly, that the sin-offering looked more to the guilt 
of t lie sin done, irrespective of its consequences, while the 
trespass-offering looked to the evil consequences of sin, 
either against the service of God or against man, and to 
the duty of atonement, as far as atonement was possible. 
Hence the two might with propriety he offered together. 

Thirdly, that in the sin-offering especially we find sym- 
bolized the acknowledgment of sinfulness as inherent in 
man, and of the need of expiation bv sacrifice to renew 
the broken covenant between man and God. 

There is one other question of some interest, as to 
the nature of the sins for which either sacrifice could be 
offered. It is seen at once that in the law of Leviticus 
most of them, which are not purely ceremonial, are 
called sins of “ ignorance” (see Heb. ix, 7); and in Numb, 
xv, 30 it is expressly said that while such sins can be 
atoned for by offerings, “ the soul that doeth aught pre- 
stnnpfuonslg" (Ilcb. with a high hand ) “shall be cut off 
from among his people. . . . His iniquity shall be upon 
him” (comp. Ileb. x, 20). But there are sufficient indi- 
cations that the sins here called “of ignorance” are more 
strictly those of “negligence” or “frailty,” repented of 
by the unpunished offender, as opposed to those of de- 
liberate and unrepentant sin. The Hebrew word itself 
and its derivations are so used in Psa. cxix, 07 (Sept. 
fc7rX>; ppiXrjaa)', 1 Sam. xxvi, 21 (i)yvoi]Ka ) ; Psa. xix. 
13 (7rapa7rTiofiara) ; Job xix, 4 (7r\ai'ot;)» The words 
(iyvtniptt and dyvota have a corresponding extent of 
meaning in the New Test. ; as when in Acts iii, 17, the 
Jews, in their crucifixion of our Lord, are said to have act- 
ed ignorantly (/car dyvoiar); and in Kph.iv, 18; I Pet. 
i, 14 the vices of heathenism, done against the light of 
conscience, are still referred to dyroia. The use of the 
word (like that of dyinopovtXv in classical Greek) is 
found in all languages, and depends on the idea that 
goodness is man’s true wisdom, and that sin is the fail- 
ing to recognise this truth. If from the word we turn 
to the sins actually referred to in Lev. iv, v, we find 
some which certainly are not sins of pure ignorance; 
they arc, indeed, few out of the whole range of sinful- 
ness, hut they are real sins. The later Jews (sec Ou- 
tran!, J)e Sacrijiciis ) limited the application of the sin- 
offering to negative sins, sins in ignorance, and sins in 
action, not in thought, evidently conceiving it to apply 
to actual sins, but to sins of a secondary order. 

In considering this subject it must be remembered 
that the sacrifices of the law had a temporal as well as 
a spiritual significance and effect. They restored an 


SIXOLD 


779 


offender to his place in the commonwealth of Israel; 
they were, therefore, an atonement to t lie King of Is- 
rael for the infringement of his law. It is dear that 
this must have limited the extent of their legal appli- 
cation; for there are crimes for which the interest and 
very existence of a society demand that there should be 
no pardon. Hut so far as the sacrifices had a spiritual 
and typical meaning, so far as they were sought by a 
repentant spirit as a sign and means of reconcilement 
with God, it can hardly be doubted that they had a 
wider scope and a real spiritual effect, so long as their 
typical character remained. See Sacrifice. 

For the more solemn sin-offerings, sec Day of 
Atonement; Leprosy, etc. — Smith. 

Siiiold, Philip Balthasar, a German jurist, was 
born near Giessen, May 5, 1057, studied at Jena, and 
died at Laubach, March 6, 1742. He wrote many 
devotional books under t lie assumed name Ludwig 
Ernst von Faramund and Amadeus Kreuzberg. llis 
Goitseiige Betrachtungen auf ctlle 7 age ties ganzen 
Jahres has been edited anew by Bev. C. J. Ileinersdorf, 
with a preface of Dr. Ahll'eld (Halle, 1850). He also 
composed about seventy -two hymns, one of which, 
Lebsi du in mir , o icahres Leben, has been translated 
into English, “If Thou, True Life, wilt in me live,” by 
Miss Wink worth, in Lyra Gentian, i, 19. See Wezel, 
J/ymnop. iv, 87, 91 ; Neubaur, Nachriehten (Ziillichau, 
1743), p. 1119 sq. ; Jocher, Allgem. Gelehrten- Lexikon, 
s. v. ; Koch, Gesch. d. deutsch. Kirchenliedes, v, 404 sq. ; 
Knapp, Evangel. Liederschaiz, p. 1345, s. v. (B. P.) 

Silion, in Grecian mythology, was a son of TEsi- 
mus or Sisyphus, grandson to Autolycus, and related to 
Odysseus, and was said to have permitted the Trojans 
to make him prisoner in order to persuade them to ad- 
mit the wooden horse within their walls. lie repre- 
sented that it had been constructed in atonement for 
the robbery of the Palladium, and succeeded in obtain- 
ing its admission into Troy, after which he gave the 
preconcerted signal and opened the door in the horse 
through which the Greeks poured forth and took pos- 
session of the city. — Vollmer, Wbrterb. d. J lyihol. s. v.; 
Smith, Diet, of Afgthol. s. v. 

Sinope, in Grecian mythology, was a daughter of 
Asopus and Metope, or of Ares and /Egina or Parnassa. 
Apollo became enamoured of her beauty and carried her 
off from Bceotia to Paphlagonia, where she brought 
forth Syrus and gave her name to the town of Sin- 
ope. 

Sinriod, in Norse mythology, was one of the four 
W'ivcs of king Hioward, who w'ere accounted the most 
beautiful women on the earth. She became the mother 
of Hylming. 

Sinsart, Bf.nott, a French controversialist, was 
born at Sedan in 1G9G, and after having served as an 
engineer in Holland, embraced a monastic life in 171G, 
entering the congregation of the Benedictines at St. 
Vaune. He taught philosophy and theology at the 
abbey of Senones, passed into that of St. Gregory at 
Munster, and became abbot of the latter in 1745, where 
he died June 22, 177G. Sinsart was a well-educated, 
laborious man. He wrote several religious works, which 
are enumerated in Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Sintenis, a name common to a number of German 
theologians, of whom w r e mention the following: 

1. Christian Friedrich, was born at Zerbst in 
1750, where he was appointed deacon in 1773. In 1791 
he was made professor of theology and metaphysics, 
and died in 1820 as member of consistory and pastor of 
Trinity Church, lie published, Theologische Schrifta- 
gende fur Prediger (Leipsic, 1808) : — Elpizon, oder meine 
Fortdauer nach dem Tode (Dantzic, 1792,3 pts.), and a 
number of other books. See Von Schiitz’s biography 
of Sintenis (Zerbst, 1820); Winer, Ilandbuch, i, 290, 410, 
413, 470, 477, 840 ; ii, 90, 138, 141, 227, 280, 353, 35G, 3GG, 
398,779; Theol. Universal- Lexikon, s. v. ; Itegensburger 


SION 

Conversations -Lexikon, s. v.; Fitrst, Bill. Judaica, iii, 
340. 

2. Johann Christian Sigismund, brother of Chris- 
tian, was born at Zerbst in 1752. In 1785 he was ap- 
pointed pastor at Dornburg in Anhalt ; in 1794 lie was 
called to Koslan; in 1798 he was appointed inspector of 
church and school, and died in 1829, He published, 
Oejfhitliche katechetische Prufungen nebst Schlussreden 
(Halle, 1803-G, 3 vuls.). See t lie Regensburger Con- 
versations- Lexikon, s. v. ; Winer, Uamlbuch, ii, 2G9, 780 ; 
Theol. Universal- Lexikon , s. v. 

3. Karl Heinrich, brother of the above, was born 
in 1744 at Zerbst, and appointed in 1771 rector at Tor- 
gau. In 1783 he was called to Zittau, and died at Zerbst 
in 181G. lie wrote, Theophron (Zerbst, 1800): — Lehr - 
bitch der moralischen Vernunftreligion (Altenburg, 1802) : 
— Geron und Paldmon (Zerbst, 1803). See the Regens- 
burger Conversations - Lexikon, s. v. ; Theol. Universal- 
Lexikon, s. v. 

4. Wilhelm Franz, son of Johann Christian Sigis- 

mund, w’as born April 2G, 1794, at Dornburg in Anhalt, 
lie studied at Zerbst and Wittenberg. In 1824 he was 
called to Magdeburg as second preacher of the Church 
of the Holy Ghost, and in 1831 lie was made pastor 
primarius. His rationalistic views brought him in con- 
diet with his ecclesiastical superior. The consequence 
w'as that the rationalistic preachers organized a union 
of so-called Friends of Light in 1841. Sintenis died 
Jan. 29, 1859, having retired some years before from 
the ministry. He published a great many sermons 
and discourses, which are enumerated in Zuchold, Bib- 
liotheca Theo/ogica, ii, 1231 sq. See also Theol. Univer- 
sal-Lexikon, s. v. ; Kurtz, Lehrbuch der Kirchengeschichte, 
§ 175, 1. (B. P.) 

Sinto, Sintuism. Sec Siiinto. 

Siofn or Siofna, in Norse mythology, was the 
goddess of youth, gracefulness, and the first motions of 
love. She excites love in the breasts of young men 
and maidens and disposes them to mutual affection ; 
but she is not to be confounded with Freya, t lie proper 
goddess of love. — Vollmer, Wbrterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Si'on, Mount, the name of two hills in the Script- 
ures. 

1. (Heb. har Sion', 111; Samar. “in ; 

Sept.ro bpog rov Si/wy; Vul g. mons Sion.) One of 
the various names of Mount Hcrmon which are for- 
tunately preserved, all not improbably more ancient 
than “ Ilermon” (q. v.) itself. It occurs in Dent. iv. 48 
only, and is interpreted by the lexicographers to mean 
“ lofty.” Fiirst conjectures that these various appella- 
tions w’ere the names of separate peaks or portions of 
the mountain. Some have supposed that Zion in Psa. 
cxxxiii, 3 is a variation of this Sion; but there is no 
warrant for this beyond the fact that so doing over- 
comes a difficulty of interpretation in that passage. 

2. (ro op og Eiuir.) The Greek form of the Hebrew 
name Zion (Tsion), the famous Mount of the Temple 
(1 Mace, iv, 37, GO ; v, 54 ; vi, 48. G2 ; vii, 33 ; x, 1 1 ; 
xiv, 27 ; lleb. xii, 22; Bcv. xiv, 1). In the books of 
Maccabees the expression is always “Mount Sion.” In 
the other Apocryphal books the name “Sion” is alone 
employed. The New Test, usually employs the simple 
form “Sion” (Matt, xxi, 5; John xii, 15; Bom. ix, 33; 
xi, 2G ; 1 Pet. ii, G). Further, in the Maccabees t lie 
name unmistakably denotes the mount on which the 
Temple w r as built; on which the Mosque of the Aksa, 
with its attendant mosques of Omar and the Mogreb- 
bins, now r stands. The lirst of the passages just quoted 
is enough to decide this. If it can be established that 
Zion in the Old Test, means the same locality with Sion 
in the books of Maccabees, one of the greatest puzzles 
of Jerusalem topography will be solved. — Smith. 

Sion, Nuns of. These nuns belonged to the order 
of St. Bridget, and had their house at Sion, near Brent- 
ford, Middlesex. It was broken up by Ilenry VIII, 


SION IT A 


780 


SIRA 


reassembled by Mary, and finally dispersed under Eliza- 
beth. Many of the nuns settled in Lisbon. In 1810 
the house there was broken up, anil many of its mem- 
bers sought a refuge in England, some of whom were 
living in 1825 in {Staffordshire. — Eadie, Eccles. Cyclop. 
s. v. 

Sionita. See Gabriel Sionita. 

Sionites, a sect which arose in Norway in the first 
half of the 18th century. They called themselves Sion- 
ites, as professing to set forth the reign of the king of 
Sion, of whom they claimed to be children, and with 
whom they were in such close communion that their 
acts were identified with his. They also took the name 
of Pilgrims and Strangers. It was their custom to wear 
long beards, a linen girdle, and to have the word “Sion,” 
with some mystical character, embroidered in red on 
their sleeves. They delivered passports to their emis- 
saries, whom they charged to aid in establishing the 
kingdom of Sion. One of their number, George Klei- 
non, gave out that he was inspired with the spirit of 
prophecy, and under his guidance they repudiated the 
baptism of their converts, and rebaptized them when 
they entered their community. Jeren Bolle, who had 
studied theology at Copenhagen, was their minister, 
and celebrated their marriages. Their principal resi- 
dence in Norway was Bragernes, from which they were 
exiled in 1743, and obliged to settle at Altona. King 
Christian VI, in August of the same year, issued orders 
for dissolving the community on account of its disobe- 
dience to the laws, and its pretensions of setting up a 
kingdom which claimed to be independent. Some chose 
to emigrate, while others gave up their peculiar customs 
and adopted those of the country. See Gregoire, Hist, 
des Sectes Rtlig.; Blunt, Diet, of Sects, s. v. ; Gardner, 
Faiths of the World , s. v. 

Siph'moth ( Ileb. Siphmoth ', n’VESb, fndtful 
[Filrst]; Sept. 'Satyd v. r. 'Satyafubg-, Vulg, Sepha- 
moth), one of the places in the south of Judah which 
David frequented during his freebooting life, and to his 
friends in which he sent a portion of the spoil taken 
from the Amalekites (1 Sam. xxx, 28). It is not named 
by Eusebius or Jerome. It is perhaps the present ruined 
site Kasi es-Sir in a wady of the same name not far 
south-east of Arair, or Aroer (Palmer, Desert of the Exo- 
dus , p. 341). 

Si'phori, a sect found under this name in Genna- 
dius Massiliensis, but it is supposed to be a misreading 
for Saccophoui (q. v.). 

Siphra (also compounded Be-sipiira, De-sipiira), 
from the Heb. “SO, “a book,” is an expression used 
by the Masorites to denote a certain book to which refer- 
ence is made, and it is generally quoted with the prefix 
2 and “l, X"iE02, X“iEO"I, and is also abbreviated in 
E02, OE. Thus, on bzi in Gen. ii, 5, the Masora Par- 
va remarks X"1S02 e"~i H, i.e. “bzl occurs five times 
as the beginning of a verse in this book,” viz. Genesis. 
Where books consist of two, as Samuel, Kings, Ezra, 
and Chronicles [Ezra and Nehemiah forming, according 
to the Jewish canon, lmt one book], they are only quoted 
as one. Thus, on Xlbn in 1 Kings ii, the Masorah re- 
marks X“!202 n^xb^E i.e. “the word Xlbn occurs 
seventeen times written plene in that book,” i. c. in 1 
and 2 Kings. The same is the case with the twelve 
minor prophets, which are also regarded as one book. 
Thus, on *VCX HZ in Amos iii, 12, the Masoretic note 
is X~irOE C7’23n, i.e. “the word “‘EX <"12 occurs five 
times in that book [viz. in the twelve minor prophets] 
with the accent.” Hence the Masora Magna laid down 
the following rule: XE^n bz “j-PE wXbbs ^XH -Jipa 
bz ri^Ts x"ieoe in urn •p-iExn : 

1*1*? "“in “I EC, i.e. “take this rule into thine hand: 
where in the Masorah the twelve minor prophets are 


spoken of as ‘in the book,’ the whole book of the minor 
prophets is to be understood.” Thus, on EE^riEX in 
Zech. i, 2 the note is X“iDOE E^xbE \ i.e. “the word 
EE^p-EX is written three times plene in the book,” viz. 
in the minor prophets; or DX*l in xiv, 18, S “I 3 
X“EQ2, i. e. “ CXI occurs three times at the beginning 
of a verse in the book,” i. e. not in Zechariah alone, but 
also in all the other books constituting the minor proph- 
ets. It must, however, be observed that when the Ma- 
sora Parva on the word CPIX in Lev. xv, 29 remarks 
X1E02 C^xbc b C, i.e. “there are thirty-nine instances 
where CPTX is written plene in this book,” viz. in the 
Pentateuch, this is a mistake, since X“1ED2 is never 
used for the “Pentateuch,” but always miTE. With 
the servile "1 = X1EC“l we read on Gen. xxxiv, 25, on 
the word rrzz. xisd“i xnnsnxE *pnns "in, i.e. 
“it is one of the words written with a Pattach and Ath- 
nach in that book.” To understand this remark, we must 
call attention to the laws of the vowel-points, viz. that 
when .4 thnach and Soph-pasuk come under Pattach and 
Segol, they convert the lat ter into a long Kamels. Some 
instances, however, are left in each book of the Bible 
which have not been thus converted, and these are 
called XPECI nHS= Pattach de-Siphra, i.e. “ Pattach 
of the book ;” and to this the Masoretic remark alludes. 
See Buxtorf, Tiberias sen Commenturius Massoreticus, 
p. 2G2 sq. ; Levita, Massoreth Ha-Massoreth (ed. Gins- 
bnrg), p. 234 sq., 197 ; Frensdorff, Massora Magna , p. 9 
sq. (UP.) 

Sip'pai (Ileb. Sippay ', ^EC, my bowls or sills; 
Sept. 'ZacpovT v. r. Vulg. Sapha'i), one of the 

sons of the Rephaim,or “ the giants,” slain bv Sibbechai 
the Hushathite at Gezer (1 Chrou. xx, 4), called in the 
parallel passage (2 Sam. xxi, 18) by the equivalent 
name Sapii (q. v.). 

Siproetes, in Grecian mythology, was a Cretan 
youth who accidentally observed Diana while the god- 
dess was bathing, and who was accordingly transformed 
into a girl. 

Sipydus, in Grecian myth ology, was one of the sons 
of Amphion and Niobe, who vainly tried to avoid the 
fatal arrows of Apollo (Apollod. iii, 5, C ; Ovid, Met. vi, 
231). 

Si quis (Lat. if any one), the name of a notice, so 
called from its first two words, put forth for any objector 
to dispute the fitness of a candidate for holy orders. It 
was formerly posted up on the church doors, but now 
, is read from the altar, and is as follows: “Notice is 
hereby given that A B, now resident in this parish, in- 
tends to offer himself a candidate for the holy office of 
deacon (or priest) at the ensuing ordination of the lord 

bishop of , and if any person knows any just 

cause or impediment for which he ought not to be ad- 
mitted into holy orders, he is now to declare the same, 
or to signify the same forthwith to the bishop.” In the 
case of a bishop, the si quis is affixed to the door of Bow 
Church by an officer of the Court of Arches. This no- 
tice corresponds to the pradicatio of the primitive 
Church and the epikeruxis of Chalcedon (45!). See 
Eadie, Eccles. Cyclop, s. v. ; Walcott, Sac. A rchieol. s. v. 

Sir. See Tiiorx. 

Sir (as the English of dominus ) was the title adopted 
by priests, as “ dom” by monks, and in consequence they 
were commonly called Sir Johns. There were three 
sirs — sir king, sir priest, and sir knight. At the Refor- 
mation it was the title of those in orders, but not grad- 
uated — those who had graduated being kAown as magis- 
ters (masters). 

Sira (Ben-), Alphabet of. Under the title of 
“Alphabet of Ben -Sira” (X“PO “,E1 XPPEXsbx), 
there exists a collection of proverbs in Hebrew and 


SIEACH 


781 


SIREN 


Chaldee, which is of a later date than those commonly 
ascribed to Joshua ben-Sirach. In the preface ben-Sira 
is called the son of Jeremiah. Among these sayings 
there are some genuine fragments, with much that is 
worthless. As they oiler parallels to the book known 
under the name of “Ecclesiasticus” (q. \\), we will give 
them here : 

The First or Chaldee Alphabet of Ben-Sira. 

1. Give care no place in thy heart, for many has care 

slain (comp. Ecclns. xxx, 23). 

2. Let a son who does not conduct himself as a son swim 

away on the water (i. e. leave him to himself). 

3. Pick the bone which has fallen to thy share, whether 

it be good or bad (i. e. be content with what thou 
hast). 

4. Gold requires to be beaten, and a boy requires chas- 

tisement. 

5. Be good, aud withdraw not thine hand from him who 

is good. 

C. Woe to the wicked, and woe to his companions. 

7. Cast thy bread on the waters or cast it on the dry land ; 

at last thou wilt find it again (comp. Ecclns. xi, 1). 

S. Hast thou seen a black donkey ? Neither a black nor 
a white one (i. e. do not be inveigled in matters of 
which yon are ignorant). 

0. Do not good to the evil (person), aud evil will not be 

done thee. 

10. The bride enters ber chamber, and kuows not what 

may happen to her. 

11. To a wise man a nod, to a fool a kick. 

12. He who honors a person that despises him is like an 

ass. 

13. One burning light sets fire to many fields of corn. 

14. You must run a hundred times to a good and one hun- 

dred thousand times to a bad cautioner. 

15. Separate your table, and quarrels will cease. 

10. May good sons fall to thy lot, if thou art obliged to 
carry on business. 

17. Ifyour goods are at hand, you may eat of them ; ifthey 
are at a distance, they will eat you. 

IS. Deny not an old frieud (comp. Ecclns. ix, 14). 

19. You may have sixty counsellors, but do not give up 

your own counsel. 

20. Always appear to be full, and not to have been hungry 

and afterwards to have become full. 

The Second or Hebrew Alphabet of Ben-Sira. 

1. Woe to him who follows his eyes, although he knows 

that they are the children of seduction, and that he 
will gain uothing by them. 

2. Every person likes male children, but alas for the par- 

ent of daughters ! 

3. Keep at a distance from a bad woman, who by her 

tongue rules over thee, for a bad woman is like to 
rabid dogs. Her gates are closed eveu wheu she 
talks mildly. 

4. Withdraw thy countenance from evil companions; 

walk not iu the way with them; refrain thy foot 
from their path, lest thou be caught iu their snare. 

5. My son, conceal thy money during thy life; keep it 

secret, and give it not to thine heirs till the day of 
thy death (comp. Ecclns. xxxiii, 20, 24). 

6. Procure property, a good wife who fears the Lord, and 

increase thy children — even though they were a hun- 
dred. 

7. Withdraw from bad neighbors and be not reckoned 

one of their companv/for their feet run to evil and 
make haste to shed* blood. But still have pity on 
thy companions, even if they are wicked, and give 
them part of thy food, for they will bear witness for 
thee when thou standest in the judgment. 

8. Gain gold and goods, but tell not thy~ wife where they 

are, even although she be a good wile (comp. Ecclns. 
xxxiii, 20). 

(We have omitted three proverbs belonging to the sec- 
ond alphabet as being more or less unfit for translation.) 

The alphabet was first published at Constantinople, 
s. a.; then at Venice (1514, and often). In Hebrew 
and Latin they are given in Bartolocci Bill. Rabbinica , 
i, G84, and were also edited in Hebrew and Latin with 
annotations by Fagius ( Isny, 1542); in Latin they 
are given in Von Stein, Comment, ad Ecclesiast. p. 29; 
in Judmo-German they were published by Salomo ben- 
Jacob (Amst. 1600). They are also given by Duke, 
Rabbinische Blumeulese (Lcips. 1844), p. 31 sq. See also 
Zunz, Gottesdienstliche Vortrdgc, p. 105. (11. P.) 

Sirach (Efipoy, Sipdy; in Habbinic writers Sira, 
NH^D), the father of Jesus (Joshua), the writer of the 
Hebrew original of the book of Eeclesiasticus (Ecclus. 
prol. i, 1; 1, 27). See Winer, De Utriusque Siracidce 
yEtate (Erlang. 1832). See Ecclesiasticus ; Jesus 
the Son of Sirach. 


Si'rah (Heb. with the art. has-Sirah rr.Sin, the 
turning [perhaps, as Fiirst suggests, from a khan in the 
vicinity]; Sept. 6 Ettpd/i; Vulg. Sira ), a well (*'3; 
Sept. <ppedp ; Vulg. cistern ) marking the spot from 
which Abner was recalled by Joab to his death at He- 
bron (2 Sam. iii, 26). It was apparently on the north- 
ern road from Hebron — that by which Abner would 
naturally return through Bahurim (ver. 16) to Maha- 
naim. There is a spring and reservoir on the western 
side of the ancient northern road, about one mile out of 
Hebron, which is called Ain Sara, and gives its name 
to the little valley in which it lies (see I)r. Posen’s pa- 
per on Hebron in the Zeitschrift der dentschen morgcnl. 
Gesellschaft , xii, 486, and the excellent map accompany- 
ing it). This may be a relic of the well of Sirah. It is 
mentioned as far back as the 12th century’ by rabbi Pe- 
tachia, but the correspondence of the name with that 
of Sirah seems to have escaped notice.— Smith. Lieut. 
Conder suggests that the modern Arabic name, “ like 
the Hebrew, means withdrawn, and the title is due to 
the fact that the spring is under a stone arch at the end 
of a little alley with dry stone walls, and is thus with- 
drawn from the high-road” ( Tent I York in Palest, i. 86). 
Josephus, however, says {Ant. vii, 1, 5) that the place 
was twenty furlongs from Hebron, and was called A’e- 
sira tpd). 

Sirani, Giovanni Andrea, an Italian painter, was 
born in 1610 at Bologna, where he also died in 1670. 
He was a pupil of Guido, some of whose works he fin- 
ished. His own paintings are of a similar style, being 
on religions subjects, and found iu several churches in 
Italy. 

Sirani’s three daughters were among his pupils, the 
eldest of whom, Elisabetta (born at Bologna in 1638, 
and died there in 1665), left a considerable number of 
paintings on religious subjects, after the style of Guido, 
which are quite celebrated even beyond the limits of 
her own country. See Iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate , 
s. v. 

Sirath, in Islamism, is a bridge, narrower than a 
hair and sharper than a sword, which passes over the 
abyss of hell, and which all human beings must attempt 
to cross after their death. Moslems are enabled, by sus- 
taining angels, to pass over safely; but Christians, Jews, 
and other unbelievers fall into the abyss below. — Voll- 
mer, Worterb. d. M ythol. s. v. 

Sireda, in Indian religion, is a name for chief priests 
among the Burmese, who enjoy the veneration of other 
priests and the people generally to a high degree. Their 
bodies are embalmed after death, and interred in the Con- 
vent of Immortality. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. M ythol. s. v. 

Siren, a name For fabulous beings occurring in Gre- 
cian mythology and first mentioned in the Odyssey of 
Homer, who enticed seamen by the magic sweetness of 
their songs and then slew them. Ulysses escaped their 
power by stopping the ears of his companions with wax 
and causing himself to 
be bound to the ma.st of 
his vessel until beyond 
the reach of their mu- 
sical charms; and the 
Argonauts were pre- 
served by the singing 
of Orpheus, which ex- 
celled that of the Si- 
rens. The number of 
the Sirens was at first 
two, but afterwards 
three. Their names 
were said to be Aglai- 
opheme ( clear voice) 
and Thelxiepea (i magic 
song), Pisinoe being 
afterwards added, and 

others being substitut- Antique Figure of a Siren. 



SIRET 


SIRMOXD 


ed hy different writers — e. g. Parthenope. Ligea. and 
Leucosia. They were fabled to have descended from 
Aehtdoiis, a river-god, by the muse Terpriehore or Cal- 
liope. or by Sterope, daughter of Porthaon, from Phoreys, 
or from the earth. Their form was also variously rep- 
resented — part woman and part fish or bird, endowed 
with wings, etc., the latter conception leading to their 
being sometimes identified with the Harpies. The place 
of the abode of the sirens was also uncertain — the Sicil- 
ian headland Pelorum. the island ofCapnea, the Sirenu- 
sian isles, the island Anthemum. and the coast of Par- 
thenope (the modern Xaples) all having been so desig- 
nated. At Parthenope the tomb of the siren of that 
name was shown; and a temple dedicated to the wor- 
ship of these beings stood near Surrentura. See Yoll- 
mer, 1 Vorterb. d. Mytkot. s, v. ; Smith, Diet, of Mythol. 
s. v.; Anthou. Classical Diet, s. v. 

Siret, Pierre Hubert Christopiie, a French 
preacher, was born at Rheims. Aug. 3, 17.34, and was ad- 
mitted to the Congregation of the Canons of Sr. Gene- 
vieve. where he taught theology, lie became prior of 
t lie abbey of the Yal des Ecoliers; afterwards he devoted 
himself to preaching, and he has left some remarkable 
productions in that line. At the time of the Revolu- 
tion he was curate of Sourdin. near Provins: but he re- 
nounced the priesthood and held several civil offices, 
lie died at Paris. May 11), 1834. See Iloefer, Xouv. 
Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Siri, Yictor, an Italian historian, was bom in 1G0S, 
and was a monk of Parma, where he employed his leis- 
ure hours in writing a history of his times. Of the 
writings of Siri cardinal Mazarin held a very high 
opinion, and persuaded Louis XIY to invite him to 
Paris. On his arrival he was preferred to a secular 
abbey: and. quitting his ecclesiastical functions, lived 
at court in great intimacy and confidence with the 
king and his ministers, lie was made almoner and 
historiographer. Siri died in Paris, Oct. 6, 1685. He 
published a kind of political journal. Memorie Recondite, 
afterward> collected into volumes, running up ro the 
eighth (4to3: — It Mer curio, or r era Istoria dc Conenti 
Tempi (1647-82. 15 vols. 4to). lie also published some 
mathematical works, and replies to his critics ( 1653. 
1671). See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. ; Hoefer, Xouc. Biog. 
Generate, s. v. 

Siricius, pope from 384 to 398. was a firm defender 
of the orthodox laith and a zealous promoter of the power 
of the Church through the exercise ofa rigid discipline. 
He condemned the monk Jovinian and bishop Bonosus 
of Sardica (q. v.) as heretics, and zealously prosecuted 
the suppression of the Mauieluean and Priseillianist 
heresies at Rome. By carefully making use of circum- 
stances he succeeded in attaching Eastern Illyria to the 
see of Rome, and induced the bishop of Thessalonica to 
acknowledge himself the vicar of Rome for that prov- 
ince. lie was the tirst to make celibacy a law of the 
Church, and furnished in his A put. ad I/imerium Kp'isc. 
Tarntconenseni the earliest decretal to this end. Epis- 
1 1 os from his pen are still extant. See Petr. Constant. 
Kpi.<t. Rom. Pontifcum in Gieseler’s Lehrbnch d. Kirchen- 
grschichte, i, 2 : Bonn. p. 333. and comp. p. 199, 276. See 
Herzog. Real-Kucytdnp. s. v. 

Sir'ion (Heb. Siryon'. in Dent., but in Psa. 

xxix S ’hiryon', , g* ; Samar. * * “ ’1" ; Sam. Yc r. ; 

Sept. Ynlg. Bariou), one of the various names 

of Mount Hermon fq. v.\ that by which it was known 
to the Zidonians (L)eut. iii. 9). The word is almost 
identical with that (“"“C) which in Hebrew denotes a 
breastplate, or cuirass;” and Gesenius therefore ex- 
presses his belief that it was applied in this sense to the 
mountain just as the name Thorax (which has the same 
meaning) was given to a mountain in Magnesia. This 
is not supported by the Sam. Yer.. the rendering in which 
— Rabban— seems to be equivalent to Jtbtl tsk-Shtik, 


rhe ordinary, though not the only modern, name of the 
mountain. — Smith, 

Sirius, a name which occurs in both mythology and 
astronomy — the dog which stands near Orion in the 
skies, and which belonged either to that hero, to Ceph- 
alus. to l>is, or to Erigone : the dog-star, 

Sirleto, Gugi.ielmo, a learned Italian, was born in 
1514 at Guardavalle.near stiro, in Calabria, of a poor but 
honorable family, and was early destined to the Church. 
His intelligence and prodigious memory enabled him to 
make remarkable progress in study, and he soon gained 
influential friends, who at length procured him the po- 
sition of librarian of the Yatican in 1549, Successive 
popes added to his honors and emoluments, including 
the cardinalate (1565), and the bishopric of San Marco 
in Calabria (1566). then that of Squillaci (1568). which 
he resigned in 1573, to devote himself wholly to the 
Yatican library. lie died at Rome, Oct. 8, 1585, leaving 
some religious works, which are enumerated in Hoefer, 
Xouv. Biog, Generate , s. v, 

Sirmium, Councils of ( Concilium Sirmiense). I. 
The first Synod of Sirmium was held in 351 against 
Photinus. bishop of that see. His heresy was similar to 
that of Paul of Samosata. He denied the exigence of 
our Lord before his birth of the Yirgin. and maintained 
that he was merely man: but admitted that the Holy 
Spirit descended into him. and that he might in a sub- 
ordinate sense be called the Son of God. After having 
been condemned in the Council of Milan in 347, he be- 
took himself to Constantius. and demanded a fresh hear- 
ing before judges to be appointed by the emperor. This 
was granted to him; and he pleaded his cause against 
Basil of Ancyra in the presence of certain judges, all 
laymen, nominated by the emperor. He was. however, 
again condemned in the Synod of Rome (A.D. 349), in 
which Yalens and Ursaces embraced the communion of 
Athanasius. An information of the decree against him 
having been forwarded to the East, the Oriental bish- 
ops met at Sirmium this year to confirm the act of con- 
demnation. and to pass sentence of deposition upon Pho- 
tinus. which was accordingly done. There seems to be 
some question about the orthodoxy of the bishops who 
composed this council, as they drew up a formulary of 
faith which is denounced by Athanasius as erroneous. 
Hilary, however, commends it as Catholic. It is not to 
be confounded with the confession which Hosius of Cor- 
dova was, by threats and violence, compelled to sign in 
a subsequent council, held in 357. from which the words 
obfua. bpovmov, were rejected. See Mansi, ii, 729; Pagi. 
in Barouii -4 hh. (A.D. 351), note xii; Cave, Apostotici, 
p. 406. 

II. The second Council of Sirmium was held by order 
of the emperor Constantius. who was at the time in Sir- 
mium. at the instigation of the Arian bishops, who, hav- 
ing drawn tip a new formulary of faith, rejecting the 
words oi'o’ia. bpoorrria, and opotovaia, iu which the 
Father was declared to be greater than the Son, endeav- 
ored to force the Catholic bishops to subscribe it, and 
especiallv llosius of Cordova. The old man. yielding 
to torture and imprisonment, at last consented, and sign- 
ed the confession of faith: but Athanasius testifies that 
before his death lie anathematized the Arian heresy 
(Cave, .-! postotici ). 

Sirruond, Antoine, n French Jesuit, nephew of 
the following, was bom at Kiom in 1591. and admitted 
at the age of seventeen to the Order of the Jesuits, in 
which he taught philosophy, and afterwards devoted 
himself to preaehing. He died at Paris, Jan. 12, 1643, 
leaving several religious works, which are mentioned in 
Hoefer, Xouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Sirmond, Jacques, a learned French Jesuit, was 
bom at Riom. Oct. 12. 1559. being the son of the provost 
of that place. At the age of ten he was sent to the Col- 
lege of Billon, entered the Society of Jesuits in 1576. and 
took the vows two years after. He was sent to Paris, 


SIRNAME 


SISSON 


783 


where he taught classical literature two years and rhet- 
oric three, having Francis de Sales as one of his pupils. 
During this time he acquired his knowledge of the < Jreek 
and Latin languages. In 1 580 he began his course of 
divinity, which lasted four years. In 15110 he was sent 
to Lome by the general of the order, Aquaviva, to be- 
come his secretary, which office he tilled for sixteen 
years. The study of antiquities was at that time his 
principal object, and he became noted as an antiquarian. 
He returned to Paris in 1008. Pope Urban VIII had a 
desire to draw him again to Pome, and caused a letter 
for that purpose to be sent to him by father Vittellesehi, 
general of their order; but Louis XIII retained him, 
and in 1037 appointed him his confessor. In 1043, after 
the death of Louis XIII, he left the court and resumed 
his ordinary occupations. In 1045 he went to Pome, 
for the sake of assisting at the election of a general, upon 
the death of Vittellesehi ; and then returned to France 
and resumed his studies. But, having engaged in a 
warm dispute in the College of the Jesuits, the exertion 
brought on a disorder which carried him off in a few 
days. He died Oct. 7, 1051. Much of Sirmond’s life 
and the better part of his reputation relate to his 
labors as an editor. His works, as author and editor, 
amount to fifteen volumes, folio, five of which contain 
his original productions. They were printed at the 
royal printing-house, Paris, 1090, under the title Jacobi 
Sirmondi Opera Curia, nunc primum Collecta, ex ipsius 
S cited is Kmendatiora , Xotis Posthumis, Epistolis, et Opus - 
cults aliquibus Auciiora . See Iloefer, Noui\ Biop . Ge- 
nerate, s. v. 

Sirname. See Surname. 

Sirona, in Poman mythology, is a name designating 
a goddess mentioned in several inscriptions in connection 
with Apollo Grannus. Some writers regard the name 
- as a local appellative of Diana, while others think that 
it designates a Gallic divinity. The most recent inscrip- 
tion was discovered by the side of a mineral spring at 
Nierstein, on the Phine, which is accordingly known as 
the Sirona spring. Another inscription in stone, having 
the names of both Apollo and Sirona, and dating from 

A. D. 201, was dug up at Grossbottwar, in Wi'irtemberg. 
— Vollmer, Worterb. d. My t hoi . s. v. 

Sirpad. See Brier. 

Sis. See Crane. 

Sis'amai [most Sisam'a'i, some Sisama’i~\ (Heb. 
Sismay', of uncertain etymology, perhaps distin- 

guished; Sept. 1’orro/iaV), son of Eleasah, and father of 
Shallum, descendants of Sheshan, of the line of Jerah- 
meel, the grandson of Judah (1 Chron. i, 40). B.C. 
apparently not long ante 1018. 

Siscidenses, a sect of the Waldenses which is men- 
tioned by Beinerius as agreeing with them in everything 
except that they received the sacrament of the eucha- 
rist (Reiner. Contr. Waldens, in Bibl. Max. Luyd. xxv, 
260 sq.). Gieseler {Keel. Hist, iii, 440, n. G, Clark’s ed.) 
thinks that their name is properly spelled Sifridenses , and 
that they took it from some local leader named Sifred. 

Sis'era (Heb. Sisera' , SOw^D, battle-array [Gese- 
nius],or lieutenant [Fiirst]; Sept. Siffdpa v. r. [in Ezra 
and Xeh.] SarapiS, etc.; Josephus, d ^Krdpijg [Ant. v, 
5, 4]), the name of two men. 

1. Captain (T^) of the army of Jabin, king of Canaan, 
who reigned in Ilazor. He himself resided in Haro- 
sheth of the Gentiles. As this is the only instance in 
those early times of armies being commanded by other 
than kings in person, the circumstance, taken in con- 
nection with others, intimates that Sisera was a general 
eminent for his abilities and success. All that we really 
know of him is stated in the Biblical account of the bat- 
tle. under the conduct of Barak and Deborah (Judg. v). 

B. C. 1409. See Jabin. The army was mustered at the 
Kishon, on the plain at the foot of the slopes of Lejjun. 
Partly owing to the furious attack of Barak, partly to 


the impassable condition of the plain, and partly to the 
unwieldy nature of the host itself, which, among other 
impediments, contained 900 iron chariots— a horrible 
confusion and rout took place. Sisera deserted his troops 
and tied on foot. lie took a north-cast direction, pos- 
sibly through Nazareth and Safed, or, if that direct road 
was closed to him. stole along by more circuitous routes 
till he found himself before the tents of lleber the 
Kenite, near Kedesh, on the high ground overlooking 
the upper basin of the Jordan valley. Here he met his 
death from the hands of Jael, Heber’s wife, who, although 
“at peace” with him. was under a much more stringent 
relation with the house of Israel (Judg. iv, 2-22; v. 20 
26, 28, 30). II is name long survived as a word of fear 
and of exultation in the mouths of prophets and psalm- 
ists (1 Sam. xii, 9; Psa. lxxxiii, 9). See Jael. The 
number of Jabin’s standing army is given by Josephus 
{Ant. v, 5, 1) as 300,000 footmen, 10,000 horsemen, and 
3000 chariots. These numbers are large, but they are 
nothing to those of the Jewish legends. Sisera “had 
40,000 generals, every one of whom had jOO.OOO men 
under him. lie was thirty years old, and had con- 
quered the whole world; and there was not a place the 
walls of which did not fall down at his voice. When 
he shouted, the very beasts of the field were riveted to 
their places. Nine hundred horses went in his chariot” 
{J alien t, ad loe.). “Thirty-one kings (comp. Josh, xii, 
24) went with Sisera and were killed with him. They 
thirsted after the waters of the land of Israel, and they 
asked and prayed Sisera to take them with him without 
further reward” ( Her. Rab. c. 23; comp. Judg. v, 19). 
See Stanley, Hist, of the Jewish Church , leet. xiv. 

It is remarkable that from this enemy of the Jews 
should have sprung one of their most eminent charac- 
ters. The great rabbi Akiba, whose father was a Syrian 
proselyte of justice, was descended from Sisera of Ilaro- 
sheth (Bartoloeci, iv. 272). The part which he took in 
the Jewish war of independence, when he was standard- 
bearer to Bar-coeheba (Otho, Hist. Poet. Misti. 134, note), 
shows that the warlike force still remained in the blood 
of Sisera. 

2 . After a long interval the name reappears in the 
lists of the Nethinim as the head of one of the families 
who returned from the captivity with Zerubbabel (Ezra 
ii, 53; Neh. vii, 55). B.C. ante 530. Sisera is another 
example of the foreign names occurring in these lists, 
and doubtless tells of Canaanitish captives devoted to 
the lowest offices of the Temple, even though the Sisera 
from whom the family derived its name were not actual- 
ly the same person as the defeated general of Jabin. It 
is curious that it should occur in close companionship 
with the name Harsha (Ezra ii, 52), which irresistibly 
recalls Harosheth. — Smith. 

Sisin'nes (S«riVr//e), the form in which the name 
of Tatnai (q.v.) of the Ileb. text (Ezra v,3, 0; vi, 0, 13) 
appears in the Apocrypha (1 Esdr. vi, 3, 7 ; vii, 1) and 
Josephus {Ant. xi, 4, 5, 7), being that of the governor of 
Syria and Phoenicia under Darius, and a contemporary 
of Zerubbabel, who attempted to stop the rebuilding of 
the Temple, but was ordered by Darius, after consult- 
ing the archives of Cyrus’s reign, to adopt the opposite 
course, and to forward the plans of Zerubbabel. 

Sisilinius, pope, was born in Syria, and elected to 
the pontificate Feb. 7, 708, in place of John VII. lie 
died twenty-eight days afterwards, and was succeeded by 
Constantine. See Artaud de Montor, Hist, des Papes, i. 

Sisson, George L., a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was born in Fairfax County, Va., Jan. 5, 1811 ; converted 
in 1829; admitted on trial in the Pittsburgh Conference 
in 1833, and appointed to Connellsville Circuit; in 1834, 
Braddoeksfield Circuit; in 1835, Burgettstown ; in 1830, 
again on Connellsville Circuit; in 1837-38, Chartiers 
Circuit; in 1839, supernumerary ; in 1840-41, Birming- 
ham; in 1842-43, West Newton Circuit, where he died, 
April 1, 1843. Me was a devout Christian man— faith- 
ful, zealous, and successful as a minister, and an excel- 


SISTERHOODS 


SISTER 784 


lent preacher. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , iii, 
451. 

Sister (riHN, ackoth'; adeXtpif), a term often hav- 
ing, in the style of the Hebrews, equal latitude with 
brother (q. v.). It is used, not only for a sister by nat- 
ural relation from the same father and mother, but also 
for a sister by the same father only, or by the same 
mother only, or a near relation only (Matt, xiii, 56; 
Mark vi, 3). Sarah is called sister to Abraham (Gen. 
xii, 13 ; xx, 12), though only his niece according to some, 
or sister by the father’s side according to others. Bv 
the Mosaic law (Lev. xviii, 18) it is forbidden to wed 
the sister of a wife, i. e. to marry two sisters ; or, accord- 
ing to some interpreters, to marry a second wife, having 
one already; literally, “Thou shalt not take a wife over 
her sister to afflict her,” as if to forbid polygamy. Some- 
times the word sister expresses a resemblance of condi- 
tions and of inclinations. Thus the prophets call Jeru- 
salem the sister of Sodom and of Samaria, because that 
city delighted in the imitation of their idolatry and in- 
iquity (Jer. iii, 8, 10; Ezek. xvi, 45). So Christ describes 
those who keep his commandments as his brothers and 
his sisters (Matt, xii, 50). — Calmet. 

Sisterhoods, associations of women, in the Roman 
Catholic Church, devoted to the attainment of ascetic 
perfection and works of charity, and bound together by 
religious vows. See Nuns. Some of these congrega- 
tions devote themselves exclusively, or in a very special 
manner, to hospital work, and the care of aged or infirm 
poor, orphans, and penitent women ; others devote them- 
selves entirely, or in a great degree, to the instruction 
of the young. Such associations of women date back 
as far as the 5th century, when we find mention made 
of them at Rome, Milan, and other chief cities of the 
Roman empire, as giving up their time and riches for 
the relief of the suffering poor. Of the many orders in 
the Church of Rome, some have already been given. See 
Augustinian Nuns; Benedictine Nuns; Brigit- 
tines; Calvary, Congregation of our Lady of; 
Capuchins; Carmelites; Carthusians; Charity, 
Sisters of; Cistercian Nuns; Clare, St., Nuns 
of; Cross, Orders of the; Dominican Nuns;] 
Elizahethines ; Genevieve, St., Daughters of; 
Immaculate Conception of Mary, Nuns of the; 
Jesus, Sacked Heart of, Congregation of; 
Minims; Notre Dame, Congregation of; Provi- 
dence, Nuns of; School Sisters, Shepherd, Or- 
der of the Good. 

Of the very many orders of these sisterhoods wc here 
mention the following: 

1. Adoration , Perpetual , Sisters of — This order was 
founded at Avignon by Antoine Lequien, a Dominican 
friar, in 1639, and in 1659 the first regular house was 
established at Marseilles. The members follow the rule 
of Augustine, and wear the Dominican habit. They 
continued to be a congregation until 1674, when they 
were raised to an order, and placed under the jurisdiction 
of Marseilles. After the suppression of the convents in 
France, some fled to Rome and others were condemned 
to die, but escaped through the death of Robespierre. 
They returned to Marseilles in 1816, and in 1836 erected 
a new convent. There arc live houses of this order in 
France, viz. at Marseilles, Bolleue, Aix, Avignon, and 
Carpentras. 

2. Adoration Reparutriee , Congregation of the , was 
founded at Paris in 1848, with the object of making 
reparation for the many evils existing in the world and 
Church. It was approved by pope Pius IN in 1853, and 
special privileges were granted for the dispensing of 
indulgences, etc. With this Congregation is associated 
another, that of the (Envres des Tabernacles. It lias 
only one house, located in Paris. 

3. Agnes , St., The Sisters of — This order was founded 
at Arras in 1636 by Jeanne Biscot, and was specially en- 
gaged in hospital work. It escaped entire destruction 
in the Revolution, and was re-established by Napoleon. 


It had in the United States in 1879 (see Sadlier, Catholic 
Directory') 7 convents and about 141 sisters. 

4. Ann , St., Daughter’s of. — This order was founded 
in 1848 by the bishop of Montreal, and has its mother- 
house at Lachinc, with 293 sisters and novices. It had 
in 1879 (see Sadlier, Catholic Directory) 17 sisters, 2 
schools, and about 50 pupils in the United States, 16 
houses in the diocese of Montreal, and 4 in Vancouver’s 
Island and British Columbia. 

5. Assumption, Daughters of the , called also Ilaudri- 
ettes . were founded by Etienne Ilaudrv in the time of St. 
Louis of France. Their habit consists of a blue dress and 
mantle, a sash of white linen, and a scapulary. A new 
convent building was erected during the last century in 
Paris wfflich was called the Convent of the Assumption, 
from which the order has taken its name. It has in 
British America 11 convents, 88 sisters and novices, and 
teaches about 1100 pupils (see Sadlier, Catholic Direc- 
tory, 1879). 

6. A ugustine , Sisters of a congregation of Hospitallers, 
were founded at Arras in 1178. Their house was broken 
up in 1550, but reopened in 1563 as the Hospital of St. 
John. They experienced much persecution during the 
Revolution ; but in 1810 they were reorganized, with a 
slight change of their rules. 

7. Calvary , Daughters of. — This congregation was 
founded at Genes, France, by Yirginic Centurion, in 
1619, and approved by pope Pius VII in 1815. Greg- 
ory XVI bestowed upon it a yearly endowment. The 
work of this order is similar to that of the Order of St. 
Vincent de Paul, with the exception that the Daughters 
are employed only in hospitals, and do not attend the 
sick at their homes. They are also called Brignole Sis- 
ters. 

8. Childhood of Jesus, Sisters of the, were founded in 
Rome, Oct. 1 5, 1835, by canon Triest,and on J ulv 20. 1836, 
recognised as a regular religious community. Tlieir 
special object is to care for poor and sick children under 
ten years of age. They have only one house, situated 
at Rome. 

9. Cross, Holy, Sisters of the, have their mother- 
house at Le Mans, France. They have a convent at St. 
Laurent, near Montreal, with 100 sisters and novices; 
and in the United States (see Sadlier, Cnth. Directory , 
1879), 5 convents, 743 sisters, 33 schools, with 266 pu- 
pils, and 5 asylums, etc., with 150 inmates. 

10. Cross, our Lady of the, Sisters of, were founded 
by M. Buisson at Murinais, Grenoble, France, in 1832. 
Their constitution was approved by the bishop of Gre- 
noble, and they had in 1859 G establishments and 97 
sisters. 

11. Father , Eternal, Sisters of the. — This order was 
founded at Vanncs, France, by Jeanne de Queler. in the 
latter part of the 17th century. It was only a secular 
community until 1701, when the bishop of Vanncs gave 
it a regular constitution. It was the sole order in Brit- 
tany in which the perpetual adoration was established. 
It is not now in existence. 

12. Holy Family, Sisters of the. — This congregation 
was founded by Madame Rivier about 1827, and was in 
reality an outgrowth of the Sisters of the Presentation 
of Mary. It has in the United States (see Sadlier, Cuth. 
Directory, 1879) 2 convents, with 9 sisters. 

13. Holy Names, Sisters of the, were founded in 1843 
in the diocese of Montreal, and have their headquarters 
at Longueil. They have in the diocese 10 houses, 402 
sisters, novices, etc., and 1026 pupils; in the diocese of 
St. Hyacinth, 2 houses, with 213 pupils; in the diocese 
of Sandwich, 3 houses, with 793 pupils; and in the 
United States, 13 houses, with 2060 pupils (sec Sadlier, 
Cuth. Directory, 1879). 

II. Humility of Mary, Sisters of the. — There is a con- 
vent of the Sisters of the Humility of Mary at New 
Bedford, Pa., which had (according to Barnnm. Roman- 
ism as It Is) 18 sisters, 8 pupils, and 20 orphans; also 
communities at Newburg, Louisville, and Harrisburg, O. 
Beyond this no information is given, except that they 


SISTERHOODS 


785 


SISTERHOODS 


now have in the United States (Sadlier, Cath. Directory , 
1879) 4 houses, 58 sisters, and 120 pupils. 

15. Incarnate Word , Sisters of the , have in the United 
States (Sadlier, Cath. Directory , 1879) 3 houses, 40 sis- 
ters, and 250 pupils. 

1G. Jesus, Daughters of founded in 1820 by the bish- 
op of Cahors, France, and recognised by the government 
in 1853. Their vows are taken annually for the first 
eight years of their profession, after which they are 
taken for five years. 

17. Jesus, the Child , Sisters of founded at Paris by 
Nicolas Barre in 1678. They are dependent on their 
superiors for their support, not even being allowed to 
dispose of any property without their consent. They 
are engaged in teaching from place to place under the 
direction of their superiors. They confess twice a week 
before the assembled community. There are several of 
these establishments in France. In the United States 
(see Sadlier, Cath. Directory) they had in 1879 L house, 
with 39 sisters and 3G pupils. 

18. Jesus and Mary, Sisters of—' This congregation 
was founded in Lyons, France, in I8IG, by Andre Coin- 
dre, assisted by Mile. Claudiue Thevenet. The Sisters 
employ themselves in the education of young children. 
A branch establishment w as founded in Puy, Haute Loire, 
in 1822; and in 1842 sisters went to Hindustan, and 
founded schools in several cities. In 1849 they founded 
an establishment in Barcelona, Spain, from which have 
arisen several others. In 1854 they came to America, 
and opened a school in Quebec, in which diocese they 
have 4 houses, with 102 sisters and novices, and 643 pu- 
pils. In the United States they have 2 houses, 10 re- 
ligious, and 748 pupils (see Sadlier, Cath. Directory). 

19. St. John of Penitence, Sisters of — The two mon- 
asteries of this name were founded in Spain bv cardinal 
Ximenes, the one at Alcala in 1504, and the other at 
Toledo in 1511. Pope Leo X approved the order in 
1514. and granted it liberal benefices, which were in- 
creased by Philip II. The house at Alcala was removed 
to Madrid, and transferred from the Franciscan rule to 
that of the Augustines. 

20. St. Joseph, Sisters of— This order was founded at 
Puv, France, by father Medaille, in 1650, confirmed by 
the bishop of the diocese in 1G61, and received the royal 
sanction in 1665. In IG67 an Asylum of Penitence was 
established in connection therewith. Another congre- 
gation was founded at Bourg in 1823. The principal 
house is at Clermont. In the United States the order 
has (see Sadlier, Cath. Directory, 1879) 29 houses, with 
680 sisters and novices; 77 schools, with 7847 pupils; 
and 21 asylums, etc., with about 2400 inmates. 

21. St. Louis, Sisters of an order founded in 1808 
by Madame Malesherbes and her daughter, Madame 
Mole'. There are four establishments, devoted to in- 
struction and religious contemplation. 

22. St. Madeleine, Sisters of. — This order was found- 
ed at Strasburg in 1225, and approved by pope Greg- 
ory IX in 1257. It is under the Augustinian rule. In 
1474, during the wars, it was broken up, and the build- 
ings destroyed. The order was afterwards restored, and 
largely beneficed by the pope. In 1523, so greatly had 
its income increased that the magistrates obliged it to 
contribute largely of its revenue for civil purposes, and 
in 1525 its entire income was confiscated. 

23. St. Mai tha, Sistei m s of an order that was founded 
in 1813 by Mile. Edwige de Vivier at Romans. In 1815 
it was settled into a community, having had a house 
built for its accommodation. It was confirmed by the 
government in 1826, and in 1848 had 30 establishments 
and about 4500 sisters. 

24. St. Martha, Sifters of at Periguenx, founded in 
1643, and approved by the bishop in 1650. In 1701 a 
general hospital was established, and another in 1711. 
During the Revolution the Sisters were nearly destroyed, 
being expelled from their house. Afterwards they w’ere 
allowed to return, but in 1839 took possession of a new 
convent. At present thev have 30 houses. Another 

IX.— D D i) 


branch of this order, called the Sisters of the Orphans, 
was founded at Gras in 1831. It has 9 houses and about 
45 sisters. 

25. Modesty , Sisters of founded at Venice about 1573 
by Dejanara Valmarana, under the rule of St. Francis. 
Their employment consists in teaching, visiting the 
poor, and religious exercises. They have several houses. 

26. Nativity oj' our Lord, Sisters of the, founded at 
Crest, France, in 1813, and a second house at Valence in 
1814. The order was approved by the king in 1826, 
and by pope Pins IX in 1855. 

27. Nativity of the Virgin, Sisters of the, founded at 
Saint - Germain -en- Lave, France, in 1818. They are 
under the Augustinian rule, and devote themselves to 
the education of girls, having a large boarding-school. 
They have also a free school for poor children. 

28. Nazareth, Holy Family of, Sisters of the, founded 
in 1851. Their object is principally to prepare girls for 
vocations by religious instruction. They were approved 
by the bishop in 1855. Another house, Notre Dame of 
Nazareth, was founded at Marseilles about 1840 by brother 
Olivier. It w r as established for the purpose of instructing 
slave-girls purchased in the markets of the Levant. The 
Society of Ladies of Nazareth was formed at Montmirail, 
France, in 1822. In 1853 the Ladies founded a house at 
Nazareth, in Palestine. They now have three houses. 

29. Paul, St., Daughters of, founded at Trdguier, 
France, in 1699. Their several establishments were 
broken up during the Revolution, and their convents 
are now occupied by the LTrsulines. 

30. Paul, St., Hospital Sisters of called Sisters of 
St. Maurice de Chartres , were founded in 1690, re-es- 
tablished in 1808, and approved by the government, and 
also by an imperial edict, in 1811. They had in 1859 
38 establishments in the diocese of Chartres, and G7 in 
the remainder of France; in England, 9 houses, and 1 
in Hong-Kong. 

31. Paul, St., Sisters of. — This congregation \vas 
founded at Angouleme, France, in 1826, and was under 
the Franciscan rule. The Sisters are sometimes called 
Ladies of Doyenne, and have three houses in France. 

32. Philippines, Oblate Sisters of, were founded at 
Rome by Rutilio Brandi in 1620, and confirmed by Ur- 
ban VIII. The object of the sisterhood was the educa- 
tion of poor girls, and they were under a cardinal pro- 
tector. 

33. Philomene, St., Sisters of were established at Poi- 
tiers, France, in 1835, and approved in 1838. They 
founded a small agricultural college for boys, and in 
1859 had about 56 sisters. 

34. Poor, Little Sisters of the, were founded at Saint- 
Servan, Brittany, by the abbe Le Pailleur in 1840. 
Much opposed at first, they soon opened houses in all 
the cities of France. They were approved by Pius IX, 
July 9, 1854, and recognised by the French government 
in 1856. In 1868 they came to Brooklyn, N. Y., and now 
have houses in Cincinnati, New Orleans, Baltimore, St. 
Louis, New York, Philadelphia. Louisville, and Boston. 
There is another community, styled Sisters of the Poor 
of St. Francis, which originated at Aix-la-Chapelle in 
the present century, and came to t he United States in 
1857. They have many establishments in the large 
cities. 

35. Presentation, Sisters of the. — Under this general 
name were several congregations. That of Notre Dame, 
founded in the diocese of Digue, France, by Mgr. Miol- 
1 iss, bishop of Digue, was recognised by royal ordinance 
in 1826. In 1859 they had 3 establishments and 160 
sisters. 

36. Presentation of the Virgin, Sisters of the. — This 
order was founded at Tours, France, in 1684 by Marie 

I Poussepin. It has been a nourishing community, hav- 
ing a large number of establishments, with about 1200 
sisters, who are chiefly engaged in hospital work. The 
Presentation of Mary was founded at Bourg Saint- 
Andeol, France, by Madame Rivier, in 1796, and ap- 
proved by Gregory XVI in 183G, Several other estab- 


SISTERHOODS 


786 


SISTY 


lishments exist in France. In 1853 an establishment 
was formed at Sainte-Marie-de-Monnoir, Canada, which 
has now (1879) in the diocese of St. Hyacinth 9 houses, 
•200 sisters, and 1500 pupils. Of the Order of the Pres- 
entation there arc in the United States 3 houses, 58 
sisters, and 875 pupils. 

37. a Saviour, Good, Sisters of the, were founded at 
Caen, Normandy, in 1720 by two poor girls, who in 
1730 opened asylums for homeless children and others. 
They were suppressed in 1789, but persevered in their 
labor until May 22, 1805, when 15 sisters met in com- 
munity. They were charged with the care of insane 
women in 1817, and soon after with that of insane men. 
In 1874 the mother-house numbered 300 sisters, and up- 
wards of 1000 insane patients. They have 3 establish- 
ments — Albi, Pont l’Abbe, and Brucourt. In Canada, 
the care of the insane at Quebec devolved on the Sisters 
of the general hospital till 1844. 

38. Solitaires, nuns of the Order of St. Peter of Al- 
cantara, instituted by cardinal Barberini in 1G70. They 
imitate the austere practices of their patron saint, ob- 
serve perpetual silence, and employ their time wholly 
in spiritual exercises; they go barefoot, gird themselves 
with a cord round the waist, and wear no linen. 

39. Trinity, Holy, Sisters of the, founded at Valence, 
France, by mother Andrean de Sainte-Esprit in 1685. 
The congregation suffered much during the Revolution, 
but was not expelled from its home. In 1837 it received 
the royal approval, since which time it has largely in- 
creased in establishments and numbers. 

40. Union , Christian, Sisters of, founded at Fontenav- 
le-Comte, France, by Madame Polaillon in 1652, and 
confirmed by the archbishop of Paris in the same year. 
This order is under the protection of the Iloly Family — 
Jesus, Mary, and Joseph. Dispersed by the Revolution, 
the Sisters were authorized to reunite themselves into 
a community. The order is very flourishing, having 
houses in many of the provinces of France. 

41. Virgin, Holy, Sisters of the, or Ladies of Bndes, 
an order founded at Rennes, France, in 1676, and au- 
thorized by Louis XIV in 1678. It was founded for the 
reception of girls who had been converted from Calvin- 
ism to the Church of Rome, but has not grown much 
since the general decline of the Reformation in France. 

See Appletons' American Cyclop . s. v. ; Barnnm, Ro- 
manism as It Is; Migne, Dict.des Ordres Reliyieux, vol. 
i-iv; Sadlier, Catholic Directory, 1879. 

SISTERHOODS, Puotestant. In the Church of 
England, several communities of women devoted to 
works of charity have been organized in the present 
century. 

1. Sisters of Mercy were founded at Devonport, about 
1845, by Miss Lydia Scllon, and were at first under the 
visitorial control of the bishop of Exeter. The society 
is composed of three orders, viz. those living in the com- 
munity and leading an active life; those unable to take 
work, but who wish to lead a (juiet, contemplative life; 
and married and single women who live in the world, 
but are connected with and assist the community. The 
Sisters are bound only by the vow of obedience to 
the superior, and are free to abandon their vocation at 
will. 

2. A sisterhood for nursing the sick at their homes, 
or in hospitals, etc., was founded at East Crinstead 
bv l)r. John Mason Neale in 1855. In 1874 it had 
houses in bunion, Aberdeen, Wigan, and Frome-Sel- 
wood. 

3. Sisterhood of St . John the Baptist was founded at 
(’lower in 1819, and embraces (I) choir and lay sisters 
living in community; (2) a second order (formed in 
I860) of those who enter for periods of three years, to 
be renewed at their own desire and with the consent of 
i In* Sisters; (3) associates, who live in their own home 
and render such assistance as they may. 

4. Sisterhood of St, Mary, Wangate, was established 
in 1850, and has branch houses at Bedminster, Plym- 
outh, and other places. 


5. Sisterhood of St. Mary the Virgin was established 
at Wymcring in 1859, and consists of sisterhood (resi- 
dents) and ladies of charity (associates). It has branch- 
es at Manchester and Aldersholt. 

6. Sisterhood of St. Thomas the Martyr has its parent 
house at Oxford, and branches at Liverpool and Plym- 
outh, 

7. Sisters of the Poor were founded in 1851, and have 
their parent house in London, with branches at Edin- 
burgh, Clifton, Eastbourne, and West Chester. 

In the Protestant Episcopal Church, the Sisters of the 
Holy Communion were founded by the exertions of the 
Rev. W. A. Muhlenburg, in connection with the Church 
of the Holy Communion in New York. They are un- 
der no vows, and leave whenever they please. They 
are usually received between the ages of twenty-tive 
and forty years; if under twenty-five, they must secure 
the consent of their parents or guardians. Since 1858 
they have had charge of St. Luke’s Hospital, New York. 

There is also a community of four or five sisters asso- 
ciated with the “ House of Prayer,” Newark, N. J. 

Sistrum (Gr. oCiarpov'), a mystical instrument of 
music used by the ancient Egyptians in the worship of 
Isis. Its most common form is seen in the annexed 
wood-cut, which represents an ancient sistrum formerly 
belonging to the library of St. Genevieve, at Paris. Apu- 
leius (Alet, xi, 119, 121, ed. Aid.) describes the sistrum 
as a bronze rattle, consisting of a narrow plate curved 
like a sword-belt, through which passed a few rods that 
rendered a loud, shrill sound. He says that these in- 
struments were sometimes made of silver, or even of 
gold. Plutarch says that the shaking of the four bars 
within the circular apsis represented the agitation of 
the four elements within the compass of the world, by 
which all things are continually destroyed and repro- 
duced, and that the cat sculptured upon the apsis was 
an emblem of the moon. 



Sisty, John, a minister of the Baptist denomination, 
was born near Newark, N. J., March 26, 1783, and be- 
came a member of tbe First Baptist Church in Phila- 
delphia, July 4, 1803. For some years he was engaged 
in a successful business in Philadelphia, being a manu- 
facturer of pocket-books. 1 1 is heart being set upon the 
preaching of the Gospel, he was licensed by the Church 
in Mount Holly, N. J., whither he had removed, Aug. 
13, 1814. For a time he preached without ordination. 
A congregation having been formed in Iladdoulield, he 
was ordained as its pastor in August, 1819, and held 
that office for nineteen years, not only without charge 
to the Church, but proving his love for it by contrib- 
uting liberally to the erection of a house of worship for 
bis people from bis own funds. lie resigned Sept. 
30, 1838, and removed to Philadelphia, where he died, 
Oct. 2, 1863. He was a member of the body which in 
1814 organized the Baptist General Convention, and 
was the last of the thirtv-three who were the constit- 


sisyfiius 


7S7 


SITTING 


uent members of that important society. See The Mis- 
sionary Jubilee , p. 118. (J. 0. S.) 

Sisyphus, in Grecian mythology, was a son of iEo- 
lus and Enarete, though authorities differ, who married 
Merope, the daughter of Atlas and a Pleiad, and became 
the father of Glaucus. He is said to have built the 
town of Ephyra, or Corinth. He was noted for crafti- 
ness, and numerous instances of this quality are pre- 
served respecting him. Autolycus, the son of Mercury, 
the celebrated cattle-stealer of Parnassus, had robbed 
the herds of Sisyphus among others, and defaced the 
marks by which they might be distinguished; but Sisy- 
phus was able to select his own from the herds on Par- 
nassus, because the initial of his name had been stamped 
under the hoof. In revenge, Sisyphus violated Anticlea, 
according to a later tradition, and thus became the real 
father of Ulysses. When Jupiter carried off iEgina, the 
daughter of Asopus the river-god, Sisyphus informed 
the father who the ravisher was, and the king of gods i 
punished him in Tartarus by compelling him to roll a 
stone up a hill, from which it incessantly rolls back as 
soon as it reaches the summit. Innumerable reasons 
are, however, given for the infliction of this punishment. 
See Yollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. ; Ant lion, Class. 
Viet. s. v. ; Smith, Viet, of Mythol. s. v. 

Sita, in Hindu mythology, was an avatar of the 
goddess Lakshmi, in which she emerged from the blood 
exacted as a tribute from holy devotees who had noth- 
ing else, by the tyrant of Lanka. Sita was made the 
consort of Rama or Vishnu. According to others, she 
was the daughter of Janaka, a king of Mithila. The 
word means literally “ furrow,” as she was not born in 
the usual sense of this word, but arose from a furrow 
when her father was ploughing the ground, whence she 
is also called Parthivi (from pr'thivi, “the earth”). 

Sitalcas, in Grecian mythology, was a surname of 
the Delphian Apollo. 

Site of Churches. By the Christian religion the 
worship of God is not limited to place, and yet from a 
very early period a preference was manifested for cer- 
tain favorite situations. The primitive Christians se- 
lected the summit of some high hill or elevated ground, 
unless compelled, for the sake of concealment, to resort 
to some less conspicuous place. They also erected their 
churches over the tombs of martyrs and confessors. Not 
un frequently they built subterranean churches and ora- 
tories; but this was always on account of some local 
and special reason. Such churches were called Kpvtrrai, 
cryptve. 

Si-Tenno, in Japanese mythology, is a name for 
the four superior deities of the thirty-third heaven of 
Shintuism. 

Siteresia (fhrripioia, trijiria), an annual allowance 
of corn granted (out of the yearly tribute of every city) 
to the clergy, virgins, and widows of the Church. This 
grant was ordered by Constantine, and continued to the 
time of Julian, who withdrew the whole allowance. Jo- 
vian restored it in some measure, granting a third of 
the former allowance, and promising the whole as soon 
as the public storehouses were better replenished. See 
Bingham, Christian Antiq. bk. v, ch. iv, p. 7. 

Sith, in Norse mythology, was one of the streams 
which flow down from the antlers of the stag zEjk- 
thyrner. 

Sithmd&s, in Grecian mythology, were nymphs 
who were highly venerated at Megara, insomuch that 
Thcagenes surrounded their fountain with a magnifi- 
cent enclosure of columns. One of them became, by 
Jupiter, the mother of Mcgarus, ancestral hero of the 
Mcgarians. 

Sithon, in Grecian mythology, was represented as 
the son of Poseidon and Assa, or of Ares and Achiroe, 
and as married to the nymph Mcndeis, by whom he 
had Pallene and Khoeteia. He was king of the Ha- 


domantes in Macedonia, or of Thrace. Pallene, being 
sought by many suitors, was by Sithon promised to the 
aspirant who should successfully wage a single combat 
with him, and eventually to either Dryas or Cleitus, as 
the duel might determine. By the connivance of Pal- 
lene, Dryas was overcome and killed ; but her trick 
having been discovered by Sithon, he built a pyre on 
which to burn her with the body of Dryas. Aphrodite, 
however, extinguished the already blazing pile, and so 
caused Sithon to change his mind and give Pallene to 
Cleitus. See Smith, Viet, of Gr. and Rom. Mythol. s. v. 

Sithsekur, in Norse mythology, the long beard, 
was a surname of Odin. 

Sit'nah (Ileb. Sitnah', njlpb; Sept, i^pia; Jose- 
phus, Strej'ra, Ant. i, 18, 2; Vulg. Jnimicitite ), the sec- 
ond of the two wells dug by Isaac in the valley of 
Gerar, and the possession of which the herdmen of the 
valley disputed with him (Gen. xxvi, 21). Like the 
first one, Esek, it received its name from the disputes 
which took place over it, Sitnah meaning, as is stated 
in the margin, “ hatred,” or more accurately “accusa- 
tion,” but the play of expression has not been in this 
instance preserved in the Hebrew. The Sept., how- 
ever, has attempted it — ticpivovro . . . tx^pia. The 
root of the name is the same as that of Satan, and this 
has been taken advantage of by Aquila and Symma- 
chus, who render it respectively avriicuptvt} and ivav - 
riwaiG. — Smith. See Isaac. 

Sito, an appellative of Ceres in Grecian mythology, 
particularly prevalent in Syracuse. 

Sitrangaden, in Hindu mythology, was a son of 
Santancn and Satiawedi, who suspected his mother of 
criminal intercourse with her step-son, but, on the man- 
ifestation of her innocence and virtue, atoned for his 
suspicion by eausing himself to be burned to death in a 
hollow tree. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Sitsi Siki, the evening festival, is celebrated in Ja- 
pan on the seventh day of the seventh month. 

Sitting (prop. yashdb, KaSsZopat). This is 
the favorite posture of Orientals. In the absence of 
chairs, it beeomes a necessity to sit upon the floor with 
the feet crossed under one. “ In Palestine people sit 
at all kinds of work. The carpenter saws, planes, and 
hews with his hand-adze sitting upon the ground or 
upon the plank he is planing. The washerwoman sits 
by the tub; and, in a word, no one stands where it is 
possible to sit. Shopkeepers always sit, and Levi sit- 
ting at the receipt of custom (Matt, ix, 9) is the exact 
way to state the case” (Thomson, Land and Booh , i, 
191). “No Moslem will move when he can stand, or 
stand when he can sit. We observed three men in a 
farrier’s shop devoting their combined energies to the 
shoeing of a little mule. One sat under the mule’s 
nose, and held it down with a halter; another sat with 
its foot turned up in his lap; and a third sat alongside 
while he fitted and nailed the shoe. Even the masons 
must sit on their haunches, and fill their panniers with 
lime ; and a little farther on, where some new pave- 
ment was in progress, all the paviors sat at their work, 
from the boys lolling on their hams, who passed the 
stones from the heap, to the two men who sat vis-a-vis 
with a great mallet between them, and in that posture 
lazily poised and let it fall. But the acme of the art 
of sitting seemed to have been reached by a parly of 
reapers in a wheat-field through which we rode. All 
in a long row, men and women, sat to reap, and jerked 
themselves forwards or sideways as their work pro- 
gressed” (Tristram, Land of Israel , p. 616). See At- 
titude; Bed; Eating. 

SITTING, as a posture of Christian adoration, never 
had (according to Bingham) any allowance in the prac- 
tice of the ancient Church, being considered by them 
as very irreverent. Neither did they ever receive sit- 
ting the sacrament of the Lord’s supper, but always 


SIVA TSS SIXTUS 


kneeling or standing. It was quite a general custom 
in the early Church for the people to stand while lis- 
tening to tiie sermon. This custom was most observed 
in Africa. France, and some of the Greek churches, while 
in the churches of Italy the contrary custom prevailed. 
This posture is allowed in the Church of England at 
the reading of the lessons in the morning and evening 
prayer, and also of the first lesson or epistle in the com- 
munion service, hut at no other time except during the 
sermon. Some of our Protestant denominations use 
Htting as the posture of prayer, and of receiving the 
Lord's supper. Some Arians in Poland have done this 
for the avowed reason of showing that they do not be- 
lieve Christ to be God, but only their fellow-creature. 
See Bingham, Christ . Antiq. ; Hook, Church Diet. s. v. 

Siva, in Hindu mythology, is the third member of 
the Hindi! trinity, the terrible destroyer. According 
to the doctrine of the Sivaites, he is, next to Brahrn, 
the highest god, to whom Brahma and Vishnu are sub- 
ordinate; but the worshippers of Vishnu and Brahma 
rank Siva lower than either of these deities. He is 
commonly represented as riding on the ox Nundi (the 
symbol of wisdom), and holding his beautiful consort 
Parvati on his lap. Painters and sculptors have sought 
to introduce into his countenance every imaginable re- 
pulsive element, 
and he is regard- 
ed as cruel and 
blood-thirsty, so 
as to require the 
most terrible sac- 
rifices; but be is 
nevertheless filled 
with ten derest 
love towards his 
wife, and has es- 
tablished her in 
one half of his 
own body, to the 
end that she need 
never be sepa- 
rated from him. 
He is, according- 
ly, the god who 
presides over the 
generation of all 
“ ~ — — living beings. To 

renounce the joys 

of love is to act contrary to his will, fur lie himself 
passed a hundred celestial years in the arms of the fas- 
cinating Uma, an earlier form of Parvati. lie conse- 
quently awakens all life, as he destroys it — a contradic- 
tion whose solution must be found in the fact that the 
natural and religious teachings of the Hindfts do not 
recognise any real annihilation, but simply a transfor- 
mation, change, the passing from one condition into 
another. Siva appears as an immeasurable pillar of 
fire whose dimensions Vishnu and Brahma cannot es- 
timate, and as Mahadeva (the great god); and also in 
a large number of additional avatars, in all of which he 
promotes the welfare of the world by means of destruc- 
tion. The worship paid him is accordingly both cruel 
and lascivious. The frequent devedashies celebrated 
in the pagodas of India are chiefly in his honor. — Voll- 
mer, Wurterb. d. Afythol. s. v. 

Sivabramnals, in Hinduism, are Brahmins of the 
sect of Sivaites, who recognise Siva as the supreme 
deity. 



Si'van (Hob. Shan', ; Sept. Nnrai'), the third 
month of the Hebrew year, from the new moon of June 
to the new moon of July. The name admits of a He- 
brew etymology; but as it occurs only in Esth. viii, 9, it 
is better to regard it as of Persian origin, like the other 
names of months; the corresponding Persian month be- 
ing Sef end-armed ; Zend, Cpevti A rmaiti ; Pelilvi, Sa- 
pand-omad (Betifev, Alonutsuamen, p. 13,41 sq., 122 sq. ; 


Gescnius, Thesaur. p. 946). — Kitto. See Calendar; 
Month. 

Sivpasadana, a term employed by the Buddhists 
in Ceylon to denote almsgiving when practiced in re- 
lation to the priests. Of this almsgiving there are four 
divisions: 1. Chiwara-dana, the gift of robes: 2. Ahara- 
china, the gift of food; 3. Savaiiasana-dana, the gift of 
a pallet on which to recline: 4. Gilanapratva-dana, the 
gift of medicine or sick diet. See llardv, Eastern 
Monachism. 

Six-Principle Baptists. See Baptists, Six- 
Principle. 

Sixt, Christian Heinrich, D.D., a German theo- 
logian, member of consistory, and dean of Nuremberg, 
who died Aug. 20, 1866, is best known as the biographer 
of Paul Eber (q.v.) (Heidelberg, 1843; Ansbach, 1857). 
He also wrote, Petrus Paulus Bergerius, papstlicher Nun- 
tins, katholischer Bischof und Yorkdmpfer des Evan - 
geliums (Brunswick, 1855); the same in a popular edi- 
tion (ibid. 1856). See Zuchold, Bibliotheca Theol. iii, 
1233; Literariscker Handweiser , 1866, p. 356. (B. P.) 

Sixtus Senensis, an Italian convert from Judaism, 
was born at Sienna in 1520. After his conversion to 
Christianity he joined the Order of Franciscans, and 
distinguished himself by his preaching in many cities 
of Italy. Having been accused of heterodoxy, the In- 
quisition condemned him to the stake, but he was saved 
through the intervention of the cardinal Michael Ghis- 
lieri, afterwards pope Pius V, with whose aid he joined 
the Dominicans. He now betook himself to the study 
of Greek, Hebrew, history, and philosophy, and distin- 
guished himself both as a writer and a preacher. He 
died in 1569. The work which immortalized his name 
is his Bibliotheca Sancta ex Prcecipnis Catholicee Eccl. 
A uctoribus Collecta (Venice, 1566, and often ; lastly Na- 
ples, 1742), which he dedicated to pope Pins V, and in 
his dedication he states, “Me, quern tu olim, ab inferis 
revocatum et errorum tenebris erntum, sineero veritatis 
lumine illustrasti,” etc. The Bibliotheca is divided into 
eight books; the first treats of the division and author- 
ity of the Scriptures; the second contains a historical 
and alphabetical index of the matter; the third treats 
of the interpretation of the Holy Writings; the fourth 
gives an alphabetical list of Catholic interpreters; the 
fifth (published also separately with the title Ars In- 
terpret andi S. Scripturas Absolutissima [Cologne, 1577- 
88]) contains a hermeneutic of the Scriptures, the sixth 
and seventh contain exegetieal disquisitions; and the 
last an apology of the Scriptures. The work was highly 
esteemed among both Catholics and Protestants. Be- 
sides this, he also published homilies and mathematical 
writings. See Kalkar, Israel it . die Kirche , p. 72 sq. ; 
Theologisches Universal- Lexikon, s. v. ; Dupin, BibL vol. 
xvi ; Wolf, BibL l/ebrcea, i, 930; Simon [II.], llistoire 
Critique , p.457 sq. ; Fabricii Delectus Argnmentorum et 
Syllabus, p. 516; Iloefer, Nouv . Blog. Generate, s. v. 

(ii. p.) 

Sixtus I (St.), pope, was born at Borne, of a senato- 
rial family, near the close of the 1st century, and sue-, 
cecdcd Alexander 1 in 119. We know little of his life, 
except that he perished in 127 during the persecution 
ordered by the emperor Hadrian. He was canonized, 
and his day was fixed as Aug. 6, although lie appears 
in the martvrologies likewise under April 3 or 6. There 
have been attributed to him two decretal Letters , which 
are spurious; there is also a Commentary under his 
name in the patristic collections, lie was succeeded in 
the episcopal ollicc by Telesphorus. 

Sixtus II (St.), pope, was born at Athens about 
the year 180, and was originally a philosopher. Being 
elected (Aug. 24, 247) to succeed Stephen 1, he was ac- 
cused, during t he persecution under Valerian, of preach- 
ing Christianity, and was brought to the Temple of 
Mars to offer sacrifice, but, refusing, he was martyred, 
Aug. 6, 258, Two of the false decretals [see Decke- 


SIXTUS 


789 


SKANDA 


tals, Pseudo-Isidortan] are attributed to him. He 
was succeeded by Denis. 

Sixtus III (St.), pope, was born at Rome about 
the beginning of the 5th century. He became a priest 
under Zosimus, whose decree against the Pelagians he 
wrote in 418, and to him Augustine directed his cele- 
brated letter on grace. He was elected (July 31,432) 
to succeed Celestine I, and labored with more zeal than 
success to reconcile Cyril of Alexandria with John of 
Antioch. Sixtus built several churches, adorned oth- 
ers, and enlarged the basilica of Tiberius (now St. Mary 
Major), as well as that of St. John Lateran. He died at 
Rome, Aug. 18, 440, and was succeeded by Leo the Great. 
There remain of this pope eight Letters , some poems, 
and a few supposititious works. — Hoefer, Nouv . Biog . 
Generate, s. v. 

Sixtus IV, pope (originally Francesco della Ro - 
vere), was born July 22, 1414, it is said of the family of 
Rovere; but, according to the best historians, he was 
the son of a poor fisherman. He was brought up by 
cardinal Bessarion, and entered the Order of the Minor- 
ites, whose head he eventually became. Paul II made 
him a cardinal, and he succeeded him as pope, Aug. 9, 
1471. His pontificate was occupied with schemes of re- 
form, and with expeditions against the Turks; but he 
also engaged earnestly in efforts for the maintenance 
of the privileges of the Holy See, laying the city of 
Florence under an interdict, and finally Venice like- 
wise. Being of a weak and unprincipled character, he 
wasted the public and papal resources in his extrava- 
gant intrigues. He died at Rome, Aug. 18, 1484, and 
was succeeded by Innocent VIII. It was he who built 
the Sistine Chapel and founded the Festival of the 
Conception of the Virgin. There are a few theological 
treatises by him, also some Letters , etc., for which see 
Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Sixtus V, one of the most celebrated of the popes 
of Home, was descended from Slavonian parents, who 
had fled to Italy at the period of the Ottoman conquest 
of their country. His father, Pereto Peretti, was a 
vine-dresser in the humblest circumstances, but so hope- 
ful of the fortunes of his son that he named him Felix , 
or Felice. This child was born in 1521, and educated 
by his uncle, Fra Salvatore, who had fortunately joined 
the Franciscan order of friars. Before passing under 
his care, however, the young Felix had acted as swine- 
herd, or in am r field occupation by which a scanty ad- 
dition could be made to his parents’ income. Felix Pe- 
retti made great progress in scholarship and dialectics, 
and being ordained priest acquired a valnable reputa- 
tion by his oratory as Lent preacher in Rome in the 
year 1552. His firmness in the Catholic faith at this 
time, under trying circumstances, procured him also the 
friendship of the grand inquisitor, and the now rising 
churchman attached himself to the severe party of Ig- 
natius and others, whose influence was then beginning 
to be felt. In quick succession he became commissan r - 
general at Bologna, inquisitor at Venice, and procura- 
tor-general of his order; and these steps gained, by dint 
of a pushing and resolute ambition, he is said to have 
assumed the greatest humility, and affected the infirmi- 
ties of old age. The truth of such statements, however, 
is denied by Ranke, who justly observes that the high- 
est dignities are not to be won by such means. It is 
much more probable that Peretti’s energy as a reformer 
of his order, and the discriminating friendship of the 
pope, Pius V, marked him out as the man for the epoch, 
and we know that he stood firmly by his favorite, whom 
he clothed with the purple in 1570. The son of the 
vine-dresser was now ranked with the princes of Italy 
by the title of cardinal Montalto, and he still varied his 
public labors by rural occupations. We are not in- 
formed of all the circumstances attending his election 
to the papacy, but he succeeded Gregory XIII in 1585, 
and at once commenced the administrative and social 
reforms in Italy that he had so long contemplated. Un- 


like a recent example, he carried his measures with a 
high and firm hand, and so vigorously enforced justice 
that the instances often read more like cold-blooded 
cruelty. His measures had the desired effect, however, 
of extirpating the bandits who had so long overrun the 
country, and of bringing some show of order out of the 
general lawlessness of society. We cannot enumerate 
here his groat enterprises in administrative reform, or 
the magnificence of his public works, but they all mark 
his passion for order and completeness. His foreign 
policy was of the same trenchant description; no half 
measures or vaporings were to be tolerated. For exam- 
ples of this spirit it may be sufficient to name the great 
Catholic league, and the invasion of England by the 
Spanish Armada. Still more surprising and gigantic 
were his conceptions as he grew old, as his rigid financial 
system enabled him to amass a large public treasure in 
the vaults of St. Angelo. 1 1 is designs now were sufficient 
to prove that he had perfected the government of his 
own states and improved the discipline of the Church 
as an instrument of a more universal dominion than the 
papacy had ever reached; even the Greek Church and 
the empire of Mohammed were destined to be trans- 
formed under his hand. Sixtus V breathed his last 
amid these visions of grandeur Aug. 27, 1590. A storm 
burst over the palace of the Quirinal at the moment 
of his death, and it became an article of the popular 
faith that he had achieved his enterprises by a com- 
pact with the evil one, which had then expired. See 
Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate , and the literature there 
cited. 

Sjobu-no-sit is a martial and religious festival in 
which the male youth of Japan engage; the Kalamus 
festival. 

Sjugo-nitsi Adsugi Kaju Kurahi is a Japanese 
popular festival, observed on the fifteenth day of the 
first month, and in connection with which it is custom- 
ary to serve a favorite dish of beans. 

Sju-go-zin is a subordinate or adjunct deity of the 
Japanese mythology, who, in the form of a fox, accom- 
panies the moon-god in his travels. He was highly 
venerated, but even more greath r feared. II is form, 
however, was changed, and he now enjoys the high re- 
gard of the people as a protector, though he sometimes 
appears as the attendant spirit of Inari as well. In the 
latter character he is honored in the form of a fox, and 
his image of clay is sold at the annual fairs which fall 
on the days of the Inari festival, to serve as the patron 
of the common people. It may be found in every house 
and in the little temples throughout the land. The be- 
lief is still common that the foxes assemble once a year 
in some unknown place where a flame bursting from 
the earth foretells the fruitfulness of the year. — Yollmer, 
Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Skade, in Norse mythology, was the wife of Njord 
and daughter of the giant Thjasse. She lives in her 
father’s dwelling, Thrymheim, and hunts the wild boar 
with bow and arrow as she rides on snow-shoes down 
the mountain. See Norse Mythology. 

Skalds (or Scalds) were the poets, reciters, and 
singers, and also the historiographers, of the ancient 
Scandinavians. Like the Celtic bards, they went before 
the heroes to battle with inspiring war-cry, and ob- 
served the warriors’ deeds, recounted them in song, and 
transmitted their fame to succeeding generations. As 
the insurers of posthumous fame and as divinely in- 
spired wise -men and prophets, they were in high es- 
teem at the courts of princes. They were known 
throughout Norway, Sweden, Iceland, Denmark, and the 
north of Germany. The legends of the Edda, pre- 
served for us by Snorre Sturlcson, were the work of 
these Skalds. — Yollmer, Worterb . d. Mythol. s. v. 

Skanda, in Hindfl mythology, was the child of 
Rudra (Siva) and the sisters Ganga and Uraa, the for- 
mer of whom was the consort of all the gods, the latter 


SKAPIDUR 


790 


SKIN-BOTTLE 


of Rudra alone. Skanda was taken in charge at his 
birth by the stars Kartigas, who were six nymphs, ami 
thus obtained his other name, Kartikeya. He was 
washed and nourished and became so bright that he 
eclipsed the brilliancy of the sun. lie received six 
heads and twelve arms, and was appointed leader of 
the heavenly armies when they should march against 
the evil daemons and spirits of the underworld. Nu- 
merous pagodas were erected to him in India, in which 
he was always represented as accompanied by his con- 
sorts Devanei and Velliamen. The name Skanda sig- 
nifies the rapidly conquering one. — Yollmer, Worttrb. d. 
M ythol. s. v. 

Skapidur was one of the celebrated skilled dwarfs, 
in Norse mythology, who came from Swains Ilaugi to 
Orwanga on Jornwall. 

Skatalundr, in Norse mythology, was the grove 
where Odin caused the beautiful Brvnhildur to fall 
into a magic sleep and encased her with shields, leav- 
ing her in that condition until Sigurd wrought her de- 
liverance. 

Skaugul, in Norse mythology, was one of the bat- 
tle-virgins, the beautiful Valkvrias. 

Skeggoeld, in Norse mythology, was a Yalkyria. 
The name signities time of axes. 

Skeidbrimer was one of the asa-horses, in Norse 
mythology, on which the asas (excepting Thor, who 
walked) rode to the place of daily judgment. 

Skelton, Philip, a worthy and learned clergyman 
of Ireland, was born in the parish of Derrvaghy, near 
Lisburn, February, 1707, and educated at Trinity Col- 
lege, Dublin. Soon after graduation he went to reside 
with his brother John at Dundalk, and was ordained 
deacon for the cure of Newtown-Butler, Fermanagh Co., 
about 1729. This, after two years, he resigned and re- 
turned to his brother’s, where he remained until 1732, 
when he settled on the curacy of Monaghan, in the dio- 
cese of Clogher. In 1750 the living of Peltigoe, Coun- 
ty Donegal, was given to him; and in 1759 he received 
the living of Devenish, Fermanagh Co., worth about 
three hundred pounds a year. In 1706 he removed to 
Fintona, in the County of Tyrone, from which, in 1780, 
he took his final leave and removed to Dublin to 
end his days. He died May 4, 1787. Mr. Skelton was 
somewhat eccentric, but was a very charitable, unas- 
suming, and useful minister. lie published, A Vindica- 
tioji of the Bishop of Winchester (1736) : — Some Propo- 
sals for the Revival of Christianity (1736) : — Disserta- 
tion on the Constitution , etc., of a Petty Jury (1737): — 
Vecessity of Tillage and Granaries (1741): — Truth in 
a Mask (1743):— The Candid Reader (1744):— The 
Chevalier's Hopes (1745) : — Deism Revealed (1749, 2 vols. 
8vo; 2d ed. 1751, 2 vols. 12mo) : — The Consultation 
(1753) : — Discourses , Controversial and Practical (1754, 
2 vols.). He published his works by subscription in 
1770, 5 vols. 8vo ; in 1784 vol. vi, and in 1786 vol. vii ; 
also in the same year A Catechism. See Allibone, Diet, 
of Brit. <ind A mer. A uthors , s. v. ; Darling, Cyclop. Bib- 
liog. s. v. ; London Monthly Review , Dec. 1792; London 
Gent. Mag. lxxxi, 104; lxxxii,349; lxxxvii,58; South- 
ey [R.], Life and Correspondence , ch. x^xii; Chalmers, 
Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Skevi-Kare, a small sect in Sweden. In 1734 a 
little society of Pietists, driven from Denmark and other 
countries, took shelter on the little isle of Wermdoc, near 
Stockholm. Their contempt for the established worship 
had drawn them into disagreeable circumstances, but 
in 1746 they were permitted to fix themselves on this 
island, where their descendants still remain. Having 
taken the domain of Skevic, they arc called Skevi- 
Kare. 

Skew or Askkwtarlk. The term skew is still 
used in the north of England for a stone built into the 
bottom of a gable or other similar situations to support 
the coping above it. It appears formerly to have been 



Skew (A). 


r applied to the stones 
forming the slopes 
of the set-offs of 
buttresses and other 
projections. Skew- 
table was probably 
the course of stone 
weathered, or sloped, 

| on the top, placed 
over a continuous 
set-off in a wall. — 

Parker, G loss, of A r- 
chitecture , s. v. 

Skialgr ( the 
\ bent one) was the 
name of the moon in 
Norse mythology. 

Skidbladner, in Norse mythology, was a splen- 
did ship belonging to the god Frev. It was built by 
I skilful dwarfs, the sons of Iwald, and was made large 
| enough to hold all the asas with their armor, but is 
nevertheless capable of being reduced to so small di- 
; mensions that it may be carried away in one’s pocket. 
It. also commands favorable winds, whatever may be 
the destination of its voyage. — Yollmer, Worterb.d. 
M ythol. s. v. 

Skidmore, Jeremiah, an eminent elder in the 
j Presbyterian Church, was born at Kockawav, L. I., 
March 23, 1797. He came to New York at the age of 
sixteen, where for fifty -seven years he was engaged 
in business. He was senior member of the firm of 
j Jeremiah Skidmore & Sons. He early became a mem- 
ber of the Rutgers Street Presbyterian Church, and re- 
moved with it to its present location on Madison Av- 
enue, filling successively the office of deacon and elder, 
lie often represented the Church in her higher judica- 
tories, and in Church matters his judgment was highly 
prized. He maintained an unspotted and honorable 
business reputation. In social life he was regarded 
with the highest esteem, and in the domestic circle his 
Christian virtues were still more prized because better 
known. His example and infiuence were an untold 
blessing to society, and his death was a great loss to 
the Church. He died in New York, November, 1877. 
(W. P.S.) 

Skierstuves, among the ancient Prussians, was 
a sausage-festival celebrated in memory of the dead. 

Skilfingr, in Norse mythology, was a surname of 
Odin. 

Skill (prop, "iis*, or, so called, perhaps, from its 
nudity; once TP5, geled, so called from its smoothness 
[Job xvi, 15] ; once improperly for basdr [Psa. cii, 
5 ],fesh, as elsewhere rendered ; fteppa), th ecuticle of man 
(Exod. xxxiv, 29; Lev. xiii, 2; Job vii, 5, etc.), or the 
hide of an animal (Job xl, 31); the latter chiefly as tak- 
en off (Gen. iii, 21 ; xxvii, 16; Lev. iv, 10; vii, 8), also 
as prepared or wrought into leather (xi, 32; xiii, 48; 
Numb, xxxi, 20). So in the plur. (Exod. xxvi, 14; 
xxxix, 34). For the ta'c^tfs/i-skins (Numb, iv, 8; xi, 
12), see Badger. For the use of holding water, see 
Skin-rottlk. The word in Ileb. is poetically put for 
body (Job xviii, 13). The phrase “skin for skin” (ii, 4) 
means like for like, or what is intimate and dear as the 
skin. “ Skin of the teeth” (xix, 20) is evidently a pro- 
verbial phrase for the barest nothing. 

Skin-bottle. The people of Asia west of the In- 
dus use the skins of animals, on a journey, for carrying 
water and other liquids, as well as, in general, other ar- 
ticles of provision which they are obliged to take with 
them in their journeys across the deserts or thinly in- 
habited plains. The preference of such vessels is well 
grounded. Earthen or wooden vessels would soon be 
broken in the rough usage which all luggage receives 
while conveyed on the backs of camels, horses, or mules; 


SKIXFAXt 


791 


SKOLL 


anti if metal were used, the contents would be boiled or ' 
baked by the glowing heat of the sun. Besides, such 
skins exclude the encroachments of ants, which swarm 
in those countries, and also effectually guard against 
the admission of fine impalpable dust. The scarcity of 
streams and wells renders it indispensable for all travel- 
lers to carry water with them. When a party is large, 

and the prospect 
of a fresh supply 
of water distant, 
large skins of the 
camel or ox, two 
of which are a 
good load for a 
camel, are used. 
Goat -skins serve 
ordinary cir- 
cumstances. Individual travellers, whether in large or 
small parties, mounted or on foot, usually carry a kid- 
skin of water, or else a sort of bottle of prepared leather 
shaped something like a powder-flask. The greater 
portability of such skins is another advantage. The 
skins of kids and goats are those used for ordinary pur- 
poses. The head being cut off, the carcass is extracted 
without opening the belly, and the neck serves as the 
mouth of the vessel. See Bottle. 



Skin-bottles. (From the Mnseo Bor- 
bonico, Naples.) 


Skinfaxi (bright mane), in Norse mythology, was 
the steed of Dagur (day), with which he makes his 
daily progress round the earth. The glitter of its mane 
gives light to the world. 

Skinner, Ezekiel, a Baptist preacher, was born 
in Glastenbury, Conn., June 27, 1777. He was appren- 
ticed to a blacksmith, but bought the last year of his 
apprenticeship and studied medicine. He received his 
license to practice medicine in 1801, and settled at Gran- 
ville, Mass. Here he professed religion and united with 
the Congregational Church; but afterwards adopting 
the view's of the Baptists, he was immersed and joined 
the Baptist Church in Lebanon. He enlisted in the 
army in the w r ar of 1812; but was discharged in a few 
months on account of the failure of his health, and re- 
moved to Stafford, Conn. While there he began to 
preach, and w r as licensed in 1819 by the Baptist Church 
in that place. In 1822 he was ordained pastor of the 
church in Ashford, where he officiated nine years; and 
also pastor at Westford, where he officiated seventeen 
years, including a period of four years which were spent 
in the service of the Colonization Society. In the sum- 
mer of 1834 he went to Liberia, and rendered important 
services to that colony. On his final return in 1837, he 
resumed his pastoral relations with his former charge, 
which he resigned in April, 1855, and w r ent to reside 
with his son (Dr. E. D. Skinner, Greeuport, L. I.), where 
he died, Dec. 25, 1855. Mr. Skinner published a series 
of articles On the Prophecies, in the Christian Secretary 
(1842). See Sprague, A nnals of the A mer . Pulpit, vi, 094. 

Skinner, James, a missionary of the Presbyterian 
Church, was born in Dundee, Scotland, in 1801. 1 1 is 

parents w'ere members of the Secession Church of Scot- 
land. He was educated at St. Andrew’s College and at 
Marischal College; studied divinity under John Mitchell, 
D.D., and John Dick, at Glasgow; was licensed in the 
summer of 1832; w f as accepted by the Mission Commit- 
tee of the United Associate Synod, and designated to go 
to Canada; and was ordained for that work by the Pres- 
bytery of Forfar March 31, 1834. He landed at Montreal 
in May, 1834, and immediately directed his steps west- 
ward to the township of Southwold, on Lake Erie, where 
he began a series of itinerancies and explorations, setting 
up regular stations and starting new congregations in 
every direction. He died Oct. 17, 1805. Mr. Skinner 
was emphatically a missionary. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. 
Almanac, 1867, p. 481. (J. L. S.) 

Skinner, Thomas E., a minister of the Metho- 
dist Episcopal Church, w’as born on Kent Island, Queen 
Anne Co.,Md,, April 26, 1838. He w'as educated at Bal- 


timore (w’here he w r as converted in his sixteenth year) 
at Dickinson College, and graduated as Doctor of Medi- 
cine at the Maryland University of Baltimore. In 1859 
he abandoned the profession of medicine, and entered 
the Philadelphia Conference. Consumption soon began 
to prey upon him, and he died June 14, 1862. See Min- 
utes of Animal Conferences, 1863, p. 45. 

Skinner, Thomas Harvey, D.D., a Presbyte- 
rian minister, was born at Harvey’s Neck, Perquimans 
Co., N. C., March 7, 1791. He graduated at Princeton 
in 1809, and commenced the study of law in his native 
state. After pursuing this study for eighteen months, 
he experienced religion, and determined to preach. He 
returned to Princeton, where he remained one year. 
The year 1812 was mainly spent with Rev. John Mc- 
Dowell at Elizabeth, N. J., and he was licensed to preach 
in December of that year. He was ordained co-pastor 
with Dr. Janewav, Philadelphia, June 10, 1813, and in 
1816 became pastor of the Fifth Presbyterian Church in 
Locust Street. He remained in Philadelphia until 1832, 
w hen he accepted the chair of Sacred Rhetoric in Ando- 
ver Seminary. He occupied this for three years, and 
then became pastor of the Mercer Street Church, New' 
York. After thirteen years of service he became profess- 
or of sacred theology in the Union Theological Semi- 
nary, N. Y., and continued to discharge the duties of 
this professorship until his death, Feb. 1, 1871. He 
published, Religion of the Bible (1839) : — A id in Preach- 
ing and Hearing (1839) : — Hints to Christians (1841): — 
Thoughts on Evangelizing the World: — Religious Life 
of Francis Markoe: — Vinefs Pastoral Theology , anti 
Vinet's Homiletics (1854): — Discussions in Theology 
( 1868). See Plumley, Presb. Church throughout the 
World, p. 410. 

Skiold, in Norse mythology, was a son of Odin, who 
obtained for his consort the beautiful Gefion after she, 
aided by the giants’ sons in the form of oxen, had plough- 
ed Zealand off from Sweden. Skiold w T as ancestor of the 
Danish kings, traces of whose graves and monuments 
yet occur near Lcira. Leira w r as the early Illeidra, or 
Lethra, the principal place of sacrifice among the hea- 
then Danes. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Skirner, in Norse mythology, was an intimate friend 
and companion of the god Frey. 

Skirt is the rendering in the A. Y. properly of 
shul (so called as being pendulous ), the flowing train of 
a female dress (“skirts,” Jer. xiii, 22, 26; Lam. i, 9; 
Nahum iii, 5; “train,” Isa. vi, 1; elsewhere “hem”); 
more vaguely of C|33, kanaph (literally a wing), th e flap 
of a robe (Deut. xxii, 30 ; xxvii, 20; Ruth iii, 9; 1 Sam. 
xv, 27; xxiv, 4, 5, 11; Ezek. v, 3; Hag. ii, 12; Zecli. 
viii, 23) ; improperly of T\B,peh (literally the mouth, as 
usually rendered), the upper opening of a garment around 
the neck (Psa. cxxxiii, 2; “hole,” Exod. xxviii, 32; 
xxxix, 23; “collar,” Job xxx, 18). To raise the skirts 
of a female’s garment is pur Ibr a symbol of the greatest 
insult and disgrace (Jer. xiii, 22, 26; Nah. iii, 5; comp. 
Isa. xlvii,2) ; w hereas to cover her with one’s skirt was 
a token of matrimony (Ruth iii, 9), or to remove it was 
preliminary to sexual intercourse (Deut. xxiii, 1); the 
wide Oriental outer garment serving as a coverlet bv 
night. See Dkess. 

Skjoeldr, in Norse mythology, is the name of a fa- 
mous Danish king who, alter many conquests and great 
deeds, caused himself to be placed with his treasures on 
board a ship and exposed to the mercy of the winds. — 
Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Skoll (or Skoell), in Norse mythology, was the 
terrible son of Fenris and Gyge, whose form was that of 
a monstrous giant resembling a wolf. lie steadily pur- 
sues the sun in order to devour it, and in this purpose 
he will eventually succeed. His brother Hate will, in 
like manner, devour the moon in the end of the w r orld, 
— Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 


SKOPTZI 


Y92 


SLAFTER 


Skoptzi. See Russian Sects. 

Skuld, in Norse mythology, was (1) the youngest 
of the three Xorns, or Fates, who guide the life of men. 
The gods often seek counsel from them ; and even Odin 
has not the power to alter their decrees. (2) A Yal- 
kyria who, accompanied by two others, rides to the bat- 
tle-field to invite the heroes to Odin’s banquet in Valhalla. 

Skull (PpSipa, gulgoleth , so called from its round 
form [2 Kings ix, 35; “ head,” 1 Chron. x, 10; elsewhere 
“poll;” Kpdnov ; the Lat. cra?n‘MW,Matt.xxvii,33; Mark 
xv, 22; Luke xxiii,33; John xix, 17]). See Calvary. 

Sky stands in the A. V. as the rendering only of 
pn’yT. shdchak (Dent, xxxiii, 26; 2 Sam. xxii, 12; Psa. 
xviii, 11 ; lxxvii, 17 ; Isa. xlv, 8; Jer. li, 9), the thick 
black clouds (as elsewhere rendered) spread over the 
whole firmament ; and thrice (Matt, xvi, 2, 3; Heb. xi, 
12) of ovpavog, the visible expanse of air (elsewhere 
“ heaven” ). In Scripture phraseology the heavens 
(C^*J), as the opposite of the earth (Gen. i, 8, 10), 
constitute with it the world (i, 1 ; ii, 1 ; Deut. xxx, 
19; Psa. 1, 4), for which idea the Ileb. had no other 
proper expression. According to the Mosaic cosmogony, 
the sky seems to have been regarded as physical, being 
a space between the upper and lower waters, or rather 
as a fixed expanse (3 : "'pP, “firmament”) which sep- 
arates these (Gen. i, 6, 8; Psa. civ, 3; cxlviii, 4). 
Through this oceanic heaven were poured upon the 
earth rains, dews, snow, and hail (Job xxxviii, 2) by 
means of openings, which were under the divine control, 
and which are sometimes called windows (rHapx, Gen. 
vii, 11; viii, 2; 2 Kings vii, 2, 19) or doors (D?PD?J, 
Psa. lxxviii, 23). In the sky hung the sun, moon, and 
stars as lights for the inhabitants of the earth (Gen. i, 
14 sq.), and above it sat Jehovah as on a throne (Psa. 
ciii, 3; comp, xxix, 3; Ezek. i, 26). These, however, 
were rather poetical than literal representations (comp. 
Exod. xxiv, 10; Dan. xii, 3; Job xxxvii, 18; Ezek. i, 
22 ; Rev. iv, 6), for there are not wanting evidences of a 
truer conception of the cosmical universe (Job xxvi, 7; 
xxxvi, 7). See Earth. 

Skyndir, in Norse mythology, is an additional 
name for the moon , signifying the hastening one. 

Slack, Comfort I., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Mexico, N. Y., Ang. 12, 1835. lie graduated at 
Hamilton College, Clinton, N. Y., studied theology in 
Auburn Seminary, was licensed to preach bv the Cayu- 
ga Presbytery, and in 1863 was ordained and installed 
pastor of Westminster Church at Newton, Jasper Co., 
la. This was his only charge, and here he labored 
faithfully till his death, Feb. 24, 1865. Mr. Slack was 
distinguished for his fidelity as a student, his interest 
in the missionary cause, and his devoted piety. The 
Rev. George Ransom, of Muir, Mich., writes of him: 
“ He brought into the work of the ministry an accuracy 
of judgment, a perspicuity of reasoning, and a safety in 
his conclusions which are rarely achieved save by the 
discipline of a long and trying experience.” See Wil- 
son, Presb. Hist. Almanac, 1866, p. 224. (J. L. S.) 

Slack, Elijah, LL.D.. a Presbyterian divine, was 
born in Lower Township, Bucks Co., Pa., Nov. 24, 1784. 
He professed religion in 1801, attended the grammar- 
school at Trenton, N. J., from 1803 to 1806, and grad- 
uated at the College «f New Jersey, Princeton, in 1808. 
He was principal of the Trenton Academy three years, 
during which time he studied theology privately; was 
licensed by the New Brunswick Presbytery in 1811; 
was elected vice-president of the College of New Jersey 
and professor of natural philosophy and chemistry in 
1812, and continued to discharge the appertaining duties 
for five years; removed to Cincinnati, O., in 1817, and 
was elected superintendent of the Literary and Scientific 
Institute in that city. In 1819. the Cincinnati College 
being established, be was appointed president and pro- 


fessor of natural philosophy and chemistry, in which 
position he remained until 1828, when, from deficient 
endowment, the college closed. During this time he 
had, in connection with Dr. Daniel Drake, established 
the Cincinnati Medical College and Commercial Hospi- 
tal. In 1837 he removed to Brownsville, Tenn., and 
established a high -school for young men, which was 
very successful; but in 1842 returned to Cincinnati, and 
retired from public life. He died May 29, 1866. Dr. 
Slack was very closely identified for several years with 
the early educational interests of the West. A short 
time before his death his alma mater conferred upon 
him the title of Doctor of Laws. See Wilson, Presb. 
Hist. Almanac, 1867, p. 197. (J.L. S.) 

Slade, John, a minister of the Methodist Episco- 
pal Church, was born on Beech Branch, Beaufort Dis- 
trict, S. C., April 7, 1790. He joined the Church when 
about thirty years of age, and was licensed to preach in 
1822. In 1823 he was admitted on trial in the South 
Carolina Conference, and was received in full connection 
in 1825. In 1828 he was ordained elder; but his health 
having been impaired by excessive labors and exposure, 
lie was made superannuated. In 1830 he was located, 
and held this relation until 1845. when upon the organi- 
zation of the Florida Conference he was readmitted into 
the travelling connection. He continued his ministe- 
rial labors until he was stricken with paralysis, which in 
a few days resulted in death, June 25, 1854. Mr. Slade 
possessed an intellect of high order, and was endowed 
with great courage, both physical and moral. He was 
distinguished for his humility, his self-denial, his de- 
votedness to Christ, and his fidelity to all his Christian 
obligations. See Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit , 
vii, 682. 

Slafter, Coroden H., a Baptist missionary, was 
born in Norwich, Vt., Jan. 31, 1811. He removed with 
his parents to the town of Lawrence, St. Lawrence Co., 
N. Y., and remained there until 1831. Soon after his 
hopeful conversion, he felt it to be his duty to preach 
the Gospel. Like so many other young men whom God 
calls to be his servants in the ministry, he was poor, 
and saw no way by which he could obtain the funds 
necessary to procure an education. Trusting, however, 
in him who, he believed, had chosen him to enter upon 
what proved to be his life-work, he went to Hamilton, 
and entered the Baptist institution in that place. His 
frank statement of his feelings and wishes won the con- 
fidence of sj'mpathizing friends, and, along with what he 
was able to earn by his own efforts, he was supplied 
with an amount of funds sufficient to carry him through 
his studies. On leaving the institution, he carried with 
him the sincere esteem of friends who had given him 
their love and their aid to fit him for the service upon 
which he purposed to enter. The cause of Christian 
missions had taken strong hold upon the mind of Mr. 
Slafter. It is related of him that “even before his con- 
version what he had heard and read on the subject had 
made a deep impression upon his mind, and while pur- 
suing his studies, on looking over the field, the condi- 
tion of the ‘poor perishing heathen’ presented a claim 
which he could not resist.” Having decided what was 
the path of duty, he offered himself as a missionary, and 
was appointed to the Siam field, lie sailed from Bos- 
ton in December, 1838, and arrived at Bangkok via 
Singapore Aug. 22, 1839. The hopes which had been 
raised with reference to Mr. Slafter’s qualifications for 
his work were not disappointed. Having acquired the 
language, he entered upon his missionary labors with 
characteristic zeal and energy. Having in his mind 
made a survey of the great field of his missionary opera- 
tions, he determined in person to see as much of it as it 
was possible for him to visit. In order that he might 
carry out his purpose, he procured and had fitted up a 
family boat, in which he and his companion made sev- 
eral excursions upon the River Meinaur, and the canals 
which connect this with the other principal rivers. He 


SLAGFIDR 


79 : 


SLAVERY 


penetrated farther into the interior of the country than 
any other Protestant missionary has ever done. It was 
his earnest desire to do a work which no other one had 
done before him, and it was his delight to distribute 
tracts and such portions of the Bible as had been trans- 
lated into Siamese where the good news of salvation 
through Christ had never before been proclaimed. 
While thus engaged, the messenger of death came to 
him, and he was removed from the scene of his earthly 
toils April 17, 1841. It seemed a dark and mysterious 
Providence which thus early in his career brought to a 
termination so many cherished plans. But the cause 
was God’s, not man’s, and “he doeth all things well.” 
See The Baptist Memorial , i, 82. (J. C. S.) 

Slagfidr (or Finnr), in Norse mythology, was a 
prince of Finnish race, who was a great hero or singer, 
and whom the Valkyria Swanwit chose for her consort. 
She forsook him after eight years, and he now seeks her 
incessantly, but in vain. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. 
s. v. 

Slander, according to Dr. Barrow, is uttering false 
speeches against our neighbor, to the prejudice of his 
fame, safety, welfare, and that out of malignity, vanity, 
rashness, ill-nature, or bad design. The principal kinds 
of slander are these : (1) charging others with faults they 
are not guilty of: (2) affixing* scandalous names and 
odious characters which they deserve not; (3) aspersing 
a man’s actions with foul names, importing that they 
proceed from evil principles, or tend to bad ends, when 
it does not or cannot appear; (4) perverting a man’s 
words or acts disadvantageouslv by affected miscon- 
struction; (5) partial or lame representation of men’s 
discourse or practice, suppressing some part of the truth 
or concealing some circumstances which ought to be 
explained; (6) instilling sly suggestions which create 
prejudice in the hearers; (7) magnifying and aggravat- 
ing the faults of others; (8) imputing to our neighbor’s 
practice, judgment, or profession evil consequences which 
have no foundation in truth. — Buck, Tkeol. Diet. s. v. 

Slater (or Slatyer), William, a learned English 
divine and poet, was born in Somersetshire in 1587, en- 
tered St. Mary’s Hall, Oxford, in 1600, removed to Brase- 
nose College in 1607, took his degree of Bachelor of 
Arts the following year, and was chosen to a fellowship. 
In 1611 he entered holy orders, and was beneficed. In 
1623 he took his degrees in divinity, and had acquired 
considerable reputation as a poet. He died in Otterden, 
Kent, where he was beneficed, October (or November), 
1647. II is works are, Threnodia , sive Pandionium, be- 
ing elegies and epitaphs on queen Anne of Denmark, 
to whom he had been chaplain : — Palce- Albion, or His- 
tory of Great Britain (Lond. 1621, fol.): — Genet hi ia don, 
sive Stemma Regis Jacobi (ibid. 1630, fol.) : — The Psalms 
of David , in Foure Languages — Hebrew , Greek , Latin , 
and English (1652, 16mo), in four parts, set to music, 
etc. See Burney, Hist, of Music; Chalmers, Biog. Diet. 
s. v. 

Slaughter, Devereaux J. C., a minister of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church, South, was born in Din- 
widdie County, Va., Nov. 8, 1817. He was converted 
Aug. 16, 1835, joined the Church May, 1836, was licensed 
to preach Sept. 25, and received on trial into the Vir- 
ginia Conference in November, 1842. He received 
deacon’s orders in November, 1844, and elder’s in No- 
vember, 1846. lie was effective and very useful un- 
til 1862, when, because of ill-health, he obtained a su- 
pernumerary relation, which he retained until his death, 
Nov. 6, 1870. See Minutes of Annual Conferences of 
M. E. Church , South , 1870, p. 403. 

Slavery, Biblical. (In the discussion of this 
question we make use of whatever appropriate matter 
we find in the dictionaries of Kitto, Smith, and Fair- 
bairn.) 

I. Terms Employed to Designate this Condition . — The 
word “slavery” does not occur in the English Bible, 
and the word “ slave” is but rarely used, once (in italics) 


| to supply a noun to the adj. phrase yelid 

beyth , “home-born” (Jer. ii, 14, “servant” having been 
already used in the former clause) ; once (Rev. xviii, 13) 
by way of paraphrase for the peculiar use of oCjp.a,body , 
i. e. person; and four times in the Apocrypha (Judith 
v, 11; xiv, 13, 18; 1 Mace, i ii, 41) for £of>Aoc, which is 
the appropriate classical word. The lleb. and Greek 
terms designating servitude are, for the male, ebed, 
CqvXoq\ for the female, amah, or fins©, shiph - 

kah, dovXr /, usually rendered “bondman,” “servant,” 
etc., which our translators have instinctively felt were 
more euphonious and appropriate words. Indeed, the 
regular term for bondman in the Hebrew tongue, 
^5? (ebed), is used in a far greater variety of applica- 
tions than our word slave ; and collateral circumstances 
are always needed to determine the nature and extent 
of the service which it denotes. The term is used to 
describe individuals viewed as the servants of God, as 
when David and Daniel, speaking of themselves in 
prayer to the Most High, say, “But not away thy ser- 
vant in anger” (Psa. xxvii, 9) ; “Now, therefore, O our 
God, hear the prayer of thv servant” (Dan. ix, 17). It 
is also applied to the relation of men to one another 
who occupied high positions, as to Eliezer, who hail a 
place in Abraham’s household something similar to that 
of a prime-minister at court (Gen. xv, 2; xxiv, 2), and 
to Jacob with reference to his brother Esau (xxxiii, 5). 
See the Bibl. Sac. xii, 740-743; Gesenius, Thesaur . p. 
978, 979. 

It thus appears that the term slavery, though fre- 
quently applied to the Jewish system of servitude, is 
not wholly appropriate. Among the Greeks and Ro- 
mans it properly expressed the legal condition of cap- 
tives taken in war, or the victims of the existing slave- 
trade and the offspring of female slaves. Those slaves 
were held to be the absolute property of their masters, 
and their slavery was regarded as perpetual and heretli- 
tar}'. Nor does Jewish servitude bear any resemblance 
to modern slavery, which, however it may differ from 
the Greek and Roman in some of its minor incidents, 
resembles it in its essential principles. If under the 
Roman law slaves were held “pro nullis, pro mortuis, 
pro qnadrupedibus,” so, until lately, under the laws of 
several of the United States, they were adjudged to be 
chattels personal in the hand of their owners, to all in- 
tents, constructions, and purposes whatsoever; and their 
slavery, like that of the ancient Romans, was, as a nec- 
essary consequence, perpetual and hereditary. 

In the heat of modern controversy, indeed, some writ- 
ers have been led to deny that the Hebrew and Greek 
words noticed above necessarily, or in point of fact ever 
do, designate a condition of absolute bondage ; but what- 
ever may be said of V, it is certain that SovXoq, both 
from its etymological signification (from Sew, to bifid), 
and its classical usage, is the prevalent and appropriate 
word for slave in the current acceptation of the term. 
See Servitude. 

II. Foi'ms of Scriptural Slavery. — It is difficult to 
trace the origin of slavery. It may have existed before 
the Deluge, when violence filled the earth, and drew 
upon it the vengeance of God. But the first direct ref- 
erence to slavery, or rather slave-trading, in the Bible 
is found in the history of Joseph, who was sold by his 
brethren to the Ishmaelites (Gen. xxxvii, 27, 28). In 
Ezek. xxvii, 12, 13 we find a reference to the slave-trade 
carried on with Tvrc by Javan, Tubal, and Meshech. In 
the Apocalypse we find enumerated in the merchandise 
of pagan Rome (the mystic Babylon) slaves (owpara) 
and the souls of men (Rev. xviii, 13). The sacred his- 
torians refer to various kinds of bondage: 

1. Patriarchal Servitude. — The exact nature of this 
service cannot be defined : there can be no doubt, how- 
ever, that it was regulated by principles of justice, equi- 
ty, and kindness. The servants of the patriarchs were 


SLAVERY 


794 


SLAVERY 


of two kinds, those “bom in the house” and those 
*• bought with money” ((Jen. xvii, 13). Abraham ap- 
pears to have had a large number of servants. At one 
time he armed three hundred and eighteen young men, 
“born in his own house,” with whom he pursued the 
kings who had taken “ Lot and his goods, and the wom- 
en also, and the people,” and recaptured them (xiv, 1- 
16). The servants born in the house were, perhaps, en- 
titled to greater privileges than the others. Eliezer of 
I >amascus, a home-born servant, was Abraham’s stew- 
ard, and, in default of issue, would have been his heir 
(xv, *2-4). This class of servants was honored with the 
most intimate confidence of the masters, and w*as em- 
ployed in the most important services. An instance of 
this kind will be found in Gen. xxiv, 1-9, where the 
eldest or chief-servant of Abraham’s house, who ruled 
over all that he had, was sent to Mesopotamia to select 
a wife for Isaac, though then forty years of age. The 
authority of Abraham was that of a prince or chief over 
his patriarchate or family, and was regulated by usage 
and the general consent of his dependents. It could 
not have been otherwise in his circumstances; nor, from 
the knowledge which the Scriptures give of his char- 
acter, would he have taken advantage of any circum- 
stances to oppress or degrade them : “ For I know him.” 
saith the Lord, “that he will command his children and 
his household after him, and they shall keep the way 
of the Lord, to do justice and judgment, that the Lord 
may bring upon Abraham that which he hath spoken of 
him” (xviii, 19). The servants of Abraham were admit- 
ted to the same religious privileges with their master, 
and received the seal of the covenant (xvii, 9, 14, 24, 27). 

There is a clear distinction made between the “ ser- 
vants’^ Abraham and the things which constituted his 
property or wealth. Abraham was very rich in cattle, 
in silver, and in gold (Gen. xiii, 2, 5). But when the 
patriarch’s power or greatness is spoken of, then servants 
are spoken of as well as the objects which constituted 
his riches (xxiv, 34, 35). It is said of Isaac, “And the 
man waxed great, and went forward, and grew until he 
became very great, for he had possession of flocks, and 
possession of herds, and great store of servants ” (xxvi, 
13, 14, 16, 20, 28, 29). When II amor and Shechem 
speak to the Ilivites of the riches of Jacob and his sons, 
they say, “Shall not their cattle and their substance 
and every beast of theirs be ours ?" (xxxiv, 23). Jacob’s 
wives say to him, “All the riches which God hath taken 
from our father, that is ours and our children’s.” Then 
follows an inventory of property: “all his cattle,” “all 
his goods,” “the cattle of his getting.” II is numerous 
servants are not included with his property (comp, xxxi, 
43, and also vcr. 1 6, 18). When Jacob sent messengers to 
Esau, wishing to impress him with an idea of his state 
and sway, he bade them tell him not only of his riches, 
but of his greatness, and that he had oxen and asses and 
flocks, and men-servants and maid-servants (xxxii,4, 5). 
Vet in the present which he sent there were no servants, 
though he manifestly selected the most valuable kinds 
of property (ver. 14, 15; see also xxxiv, 23; xxxvi, 6, 
7). In no single instance do we find that the patriarchs 
either gave away or sold their servants, or purchased 
them of third persons. Abraham had servants “bought 
with money.” Jt has been assumed that they were 
bought of third parties, whereas there is no proof that 
this was the case. The probability is that they sold 
themselves to the patriarch for an equivalent; that is to 
say, they entered into voluntary engagements to serve 
him lor a longer or shorter period of time, in return for 
the money advanced them. It is a fallacy to suppose 
that whatever costs money is money or property. The 
children of Israel were required to purchase their first- 
born (Numb, xviii, 15, 16; iii, 45, 51 ; Exod. xiii, 13; 
xxxiv, 20). They were, moreover, required to pay 
money for their own souls; and when they set them- 
selves or their children apart by vow unto the I>or«l, t lie 
price of release was lixed by statute (Lev. xxvii, 2-8). 
Boaz bought Built (Both iv, 10). llosca bought his 


wife (ITos. iii, 2). Jacob bought his wives Rachel and 
Leah, and, not having money, paid for them in labor, 
seven years apiece (Gen. xxix, 16-23). That the pur- 
chase of wives, either with money or by service, was 
the general practice is plain from such passages as 
Exod. xxii, 17 and 1 8am. xviii, 25. But the idea of 
property does not appear in any of these purchases. 
For the various ways in which the terras “bought,” 
“buy,” and “bought with money” are used, consult 
Neb. v, 8; Gen. xlvii. 18-26, etc. In Lev. xxv, 47 will 
be found the case of the Israelite who became the ser- 
vant of the stranger. The words are, “ If lie se/l himself 
unto the stranger.” Yet the 51st verse says that this 
servant was “bought,” and that the price of the pur- 
chase was paid to himself. For a further clue to Script- 
ure usage, the reader is referred to 1 Kings xxi, 20, 25; 
2 Kings xvii, 17 ; Isa. lv, 1 ; Iii, 3; see also Jer. xxxiv, 
14; Bom. vi, 16; vii, 14; John viii, 34. Probably Job 
had more servants than either of the patriarchs to w’hom 
reference has been made (Job i, 2, 3). In what light 
he regarded, and how r he treated, his servants, may be 
gathered from Job xxxi, 13-23. That Abraham acted 
in the same spirit we have the divine testimony in Jer. 
xxii, 15, 16, 17, where his conduct is placed in direct 
contrast with that of some of his descendants, who used 
their neighbor’s service without wages, and gave him 
not for his w’ork (ver. 13). 

2. Egyptian Bondage. — The Israelites w r ere frequently 
reminded, after their exode from Egypt, of the oppres- 
sions they endured in that “ house of bondage,” from 
which they had been delivered by the direct interposi- 
tion of God. The design of these admonitions w r as to 
teach them justice and kindness towards their servants 
when they should have become settled in Canaan (Deut. 
v, 15; viii, 14; x, 19; xv, 15; xxiii, 7, etc.), as well as 
to impress them with gratitude towards their great de- 
liverer. The Egyptians had domestic servants, w^ho 
may have been slaves (Exod. ix, 14, 20, 21 ; xi, 5). But 
the Israelites were not dispersed among the families of 
Egvpt ; thev formed a special community (Gen. xlvi, 
34 ;’ Exod. ii, 9; iv, 29; vi, 14: viii, 22, 24; ix, 26; x, 
23; xi, 7 ; xvi, 22; xvii, 5). They had exclusive pos- 
session of the land of Goshen, “ the best part of the land 
of Egypt.” They lived in permanent dwellings, their 
own houses, and not in tents (xii, 22). Each family seems 
to have had its own house (ver. 4; comp. Acts vii, 20) ; 
and, judging from the regulations about eating the Pass- 
over, the houses could scarcely have been small ones 
(Exod. xii, etc.). The Israelites appear to have been 
well clothed (ver. 11). They owned “flocks and herds, 
and very much cattle” (ver, 4, 6, 32, 37, 38). 'I 'hey had 
their own form of government, and although occupying 
a province of Egypt and tributary to it, they preserved 
their tribes and family divisions, and their internal or- 
ganization throughout (ii, 1; iii, 16, 18; v, 19; vi, 14, 
25; xii, 19, 21). They had to a considerable degree 
the disposal of their own time (ii, 9; iii, 16, 18; iv, 27, 
29, 31 ; xii, 6). They were not unacquainted with the 
fine arts (xxxii, 4 ; xxxv, 22, 35). They were all armed 
(xxxii, 27). The women seem to have knmvn some- 
thing of domestic relinement. They were familiar with 
instruments of music, and skilled in the working of fine 
fabrics (xv, 20; xxxv, 25, 26) ; and both males and fe- 
males were aide to read and write (Dent, xi, 18, 20; 
xvii, 19; xxvii, 3). Their food w*as abundant and of 
great variety (Exod. xvi, 3; Numb, xi, 4, 5; xx, 5). 
The service required from the Israelites by their task- 
masters seems to have been exacted from males only, 
and apparently a portion only of the people w*erc com- 
pelled to labor at any one time. As tributaries, they 
probably supplied levies of men, from which the wealthy 
appear to have been exempted (Exod. iii, 16; iv, 29; 
v, 20). The poor were the oppressed, “and all the ser- 
vice wherewith they made them serve was with rig- 
or” (i, 11-14). But Jehovah saw their “afflictions and 
heard their groanings,” and delivered them after having 
inflicted the most terrible plagues on their oppressors. 


SLAVERY 


795 


SLAVERY 


3. Jewish Slavery . — The institution of slavery was 
recognised, though not established, by the Mosaic law 
with a view to mitigate its hardships and to secure to 
every man his ordinary rights. Repugnant as the no- 
tion of slavery is to our minds, it is difficult to see how 
it can be dispensed with in certain phases of society 
without, at all events, eutailing severer evils than those 
which it produces. Exclusiveness of race is an instinct 
that gains strength in proportion as social order is weak, 
and the rights of citizenship are regarded with peculiar 
jealousy in communities which are exposed to contact 
with aliens. In the case of war carried on for conquest 
or revenge, there were but two modes of dealing with 
the captives, viz. putting them to death or reducing 
them to slavery. The same may be said in regard to 
such acts and outrages as disqualified a person for the 
society of his fellow-citizens. Again, as citizenship in- 
volved the condition of freedom and independence, it 
was almost necessary to offer the alternative of disfran- 
chisement to all who through poverty or any other con- 
tingency were unable to support themselves in indepen- 
dence. In all these cases slavery was the mildest of 
the alternatives that offered, and may hence be re- 
garded as a blessing rather than a curse. It should 
further be noticed that a laboring class, in our sense of 
the term, was almost unknown to the nations of antiq- 
uity. Hired service was regarded as incompatible with 
freedom; and hence the slave in many cases occupied 
the same social position as the servant or laborer of 
modern times, though differing from him in regard to 
political status. The Hebrew designation of the slave 
shows that service was the salient feature of his condi- 
tion; for the term ebed , usually applied to him, is de- 
rived from a verb signifying “to work,” and the very 
same term is used in reference to offices of high trust 
held by free men. In short, service and slavery would 
have been to the ear of the Hebrew equivalent terms, 
though he fully recognised grades of servitude, accord- 
ing as the servant was a Hebrew' or a non-Hebrew', and, 
if the latter, according as he was bought with money 
(Gen. xvii, 12; Exod. xii, 44) or born in the house 
(Gen. xiv, 14; xv, 3; xvii, 23). We shall proceed to 
describe the condition of these classes, as regards their 
original reduction to slavery, the methods by which it 
might be terminated, and their treatment w hile in that 
state. 

(I.) Hebrew Slaves . — (1.) The circumstances under 
which a Hebrew might be reduced to servitude wore — 
(a) poverty; (5) the commission of theft; and (c) the 
exercise of paternal authority. In the first case, a man 
who had mortgaged his property, and was unable to 
support his family, might sell himself to another He- 
brew, with a view both to obtain maintenance and per- 
chance a surplus sufficient to redeem his property (Lev. 
xxv, 25, 39). It has been debated whether, under this 
law, a creditor could seize his debtor and sell him as a 
slave. The words do not warrant such an inference, for 
the poor man is said in Lev. xxv, 39 to sell himself (not 
as in the A. V., “be sold;” see Gesenius, Thesaur. p. 
787); in other w'ords, to enter into voluntary servitude, 
and this under the pressure, not of debt, but o ['poverty. 
The instances of seizing the children of debtors in 2 
Kings iv, 1 and Neh. v, 5 were not warranted by law, 
and must be regarded as the outrages of lawless times, 
while the case depicted in the parable of the unmerciful 
servant is probably borrowed from Roman usages (Matt, 
xviii, 25). The w ords in Isa. 1, 1, “ Which of my cred- 
itors is it to whom I have sold you?” have a prima fa- 
cie bearing upon the question, but in reality apply to 
one already in the condition of slavery. The com- 
mission of theft rendered a person liable to servitude, 
whenever restitution could not be made on the scale 
prescribed by the law (Exod. xxii, 1, 3). The thief 
was bound to work out the value of his restitution- 
money in the service of him on whom the theft had 
been committed (for, according to Josephus, Ant. xvi, 
I, l, there was no pow r er of selling the person of a thief 


to a foreigner); when this had been effected he w’ould 
be free, as implied in the expression “sold for his 
theft,” i. c.for the amount q/’his theft. This law con- 
trasts favorably with that of the Romans, under w hich 
a thief became the actual property of his master. The 
exercise of paternal authority w'as limited to the sale 
of a daughter of tender age to be a maid-servant, with 
the ulterior view of her becoming a concubine of the 
purchaser (Exod. xxi, 7). Such a case can perhaps 
hardly be regarded as implying servitude in the ordi- 
nary sense of the term. 

(2.) The servitude of a Hebrew might be terminated 
in three ways: (</) by the satisfaction or the remission 
of all claims against him; (5) by the recurrence of the 
year of Jubilee (Lev. xxv, 40), which might arrive at 
any period of his servitude; and (c), failing either of 
these, the expiration of six years from the time that his 
servitude commenced (Exod. xxi, 2; Deut. xv, 12). 
There can be no doubt that this last regulation applied 
equally to the cases of poverty and theft, though Rab- 
binical writers have endeavored to restrict it to the for- 
mer. The period of seven years has reference to the 
sabbatical principle in general, but not to the sabbati- 
cal year, for no regulation is laid dow'n in reference to 
the manumission of servants in that year (Lev. xxv, 1 
sq.; Deut. xv, I sq.). We have a single instance, in- 
deed, of the sabbatical year being celebrated by a gen- 
eral manumission of Hebrew slaves, but this was in 
consequence of the neglect of the law relating to such 
cases (Jer. xxxiv, 14). To the above modes of ob- 
taining liberty the Rabbinists added, as a fourth, the 
death of a master without leaving a son, there being no 
pow er of claiming the slave on the part of any heir ex- 
cept a son (Maimonides, Abaci. 2, § 12). 

If a servant did not desire to avail liimself of the op- 
portunity of leaving his service, he was to signify his 
intention in a formal manner before the judges (or, more 
exactly, at the place of juilcpnent ), and then the master 
was to take him to the door-post, and to bore his ear 
through with an awl (Exod. xxi, 6), driving the awl 
into or “unto the door,” as stated in Deut. xv, 17, and 
thus fixing the servant to it. Whether the door was 
that of the master’s house, or the door of the sanctuary, 
as Ewald (Alterth. p.245) infers from the expression el 
ha-elohim, to which attention is drawn above, is not 
stated; but the significance of the action is enhanced 
bv the former view ; for thus a connection is established 
between the servant and the house in which he was to 
serve. The boring of the ear was probably a token of 
subjection, the car being the organ through which com- 
mands were received (Psa. xl, 6). A similar custom 
prevailed among the Mesopotamians (Juvenal, i, 104), 
the Lydians (Xenophon, Anab. iii, 1, 31), and other an- 
cient nations. A servant who had submitted to this 
operation remained, according to the words of the law’, 
a servant “forever” (Exod. xxi, 6). These words are, 
however, interpreted by Josephus (Ant. iv. 8, 28) and 
by the Rabbinists as meaning until the year of Jubilee, 
partly from the universality of the freedom that was 
then' proclaimed, and partly perhaps because it was 
necessary for the servant then to resume the cultivation 
of his recovered inheritance. The latter point no doubt 
presents a difficulty, but the interpretation of the word 
“forever” in any other than its obvious sense presents 
still greater difficulties. 

(3.) The condition of a Hebrew servant was by no 
means intolerable, llis master was admonished to treat 
him, not “as a bond-servant, but as a hired servant and 
as a sojourner and again, “ not to rule over him with 
rigor” (Lev. xxv, 39, 40, 43). The Rabbinists specified 
a variety of duties as coming under these general pre- 
cepts: for instance, compensation for personal injury, 
exemption from menial duties, such as unbinding the 
master’s sandals or carrying him in a litter; the use of 
gentle language on the part of the master; and the 
maintenance of the servant’s wife and children, though 
the master was not allowed to exact work from them 


SLAVERY 


796 


SLAVERY 


(Miclziner, Sklaven bei den Hebr. p. 31). At the termi- 
nation of his servitude the master was enjoined not to 
“let him go away empty,” but to remunerate him lib- 
erally out of his dock, his door, and his wine -press 
(I)eut. xv, 13, 14). Such a custom would stimulate the 
servant to faithful service, inasmuch as the amount of 
the gift was left to the master’s discretion ; and it would 
also provide him with means wherewith to start in the 
world afresh. 

In the event of a Hebrew becoming the servant of a 
“stranger,” meaning a mm- Hebrew, the servitude could 
be terminated only in two ways, viz. by the arrival of 
the year of Jubilee, or by the repayment to the master 
of the purchase-money paid for the servant, after de- 
ducting a sum for the value of his services proportioned 
to the length of his servitude (Lev. xxv, 47-55). The 
servant might be redeemed either by himself or by one 
of his relations, and the object of this regulation ap- 
pears to have been to impose upon relations the obliga- 
tion of effecting the redemption, and thus putting an 
end to a state which must have been peculiarly galling 
to the Hebrew. 

A Hebrew woman might enter into voluntary servi- 
tude on the score of poverty, and in this case she was 
entitled to her freedom after six years’ service, together 
with the usual gratuity at leaving, just as in the case 
of a man (Deut. xv, 12, 13), According to Kabbinical 
tradition, a woman could not be condemned to servitude 
for theft; neither could she bind herself to perpetual 
servitude by having her ear bored (Mielziner, p. 43). 

Thus far we have seen little that is objectionable in 
the condition of Hebrew servants. In respect to mar- 
riage, there were some peculiarities which, to our ideas, 
would be regarded as hardships. A master might, for 
instance, give a wife to a Hebrew servant for the time 
of his servitude, the wife being in this case, it must he 
remarked, not only a slave, but a non-Hebrew. Should 
he leave when his term had expired, his wife and chil- 
dren would remain the absolute property of the master 
(Exod. xxi, 4, 5). The reason for this regulation is, 
evidently, that the children of a female heathen slave 
were slaves; they inherited the mother’s disqualifica- 
tion. Such a condition of marrying a slave would be re- 
garded as an axiom by a Hebrew, and the case is only in- 
cidentally noticed. Again, a father might sell his young 
daughter to a Hebrew, with a view either of the latter’s 
marrying her himself or of his giving her to his son 
(ver. 7-9). It diminishes the apparent harshness of this 
proceeding if we look on the purchase-money as in the 
light of a dowry given, as was not unusual, to the par- 
ents of the bride; still more, if wc accept the Kabbini- 
cal view (which, however, wc consider very doubtful) 
that the consent of the maid was required before the 
marriage could take place. lint even if this consent 
were not obtained, the paternal authority would not ap- 
pear to be violently strained; for among ancient nations 
that authority was generally held to extend even to the 
life of a child, much more to the giving of a daughter 
in marriage. The female slave was in this case termed 
as distinct from nnSwi, applied to the ordinary 
household slave. The distinction is marked in regard 
to Hagar, who is«Iescribcd by the latter term before the 
birth of Ishmael, and by the former after that event 
(comp. Gen. xvi, 1; xxi, 10). The relative value of 
the terms is expressed in Abigail’s address. “Let thine 
handmaid («»/«/*) be a servant ( shiphkdh ) to wash,” 
etc. (I Sam. xxv, 41). The position of a maiden thus 
sold hy her father was subject to the following regula- 
tions: [1] She could not “go out as the men-servants 
do;” i. e. she could not leave at the termination of six 
years, or in the year of Jubilee, if (as the regulation as- 
sumes) her master was willing to fulfil the object for 
which he had purchased her. [2] Should he not wish 
to marry her, he should call upon her friends to procure 
her release bv the repayment of the purchase-money 
(perhaps, as in other cases, with a deduction for the 


value of her services). [3] If he betrothed her to his 
son, he was bound to make such provision for her as he 
would for one of his own daughters. [4] If either he 
or his son. having married her, took a second wife, it 
should not be to the prejudice of the first. [5] If nei- 
ther of the three above-specified alternatives took place, 
the maid was entitled to immediate and gratuitous lib- 
erty (Exod. xxi, 7-11), 

The custom of reducing Hebrew's to servitude ap- 
pears to have fallen into disuse subsequently to the 
Babylonian captivity. The attempt to enforce it in 
Nehemiah’s time met wfith decided resistance (Neh. v, 

5) , and Herod’s enactment that thieves should be sold 
to foreigners roused the greatest animosity (Josephus, 
Ant. xvi, 1, 1). Vast numbers of Hebrews were reduced 
to slavery as war-captives at different periods by the 
Phoenicians (Joel iii, 16), the Philistines (ibid.; Amos i, 

6) , the Syrians (1 Macc. iii, 41; 2 Macc. viii, 11), the 
Egyptians (Josephus, Ant. xii, 2, 3), and, above all. by 
the Romans (IFar, vi, 9, 3). We may form some idea 
of the numbers reduced to slavery by war from the sin- 
gle fact that Nicanor calculated on realizing 2000 tal- 
ents in one campaign by the sale of captives at the rate 
of ninety for a talent (2 Macc. viii, 10, 11), the number 
required to fetch the sum being 180.000. The Phoeni- 
cians w r ere the most active slave-dealers of ancient times, 
purchasing of the Philistines (Amos i, 9), of the Syrians 
(2 Macc. viii, 21), and even of the tribes on the shores 
of the Euxine Sea (Ezek. xxvii, 13), and selling them 
w’herever they could find a market about the shores of 
the Mediterranean, and particularly in Joel’s time to 
the people of Javan (Joel iii, 6), it being uncertain 
whether that name represents a people in South Arabia 
or the Greeks of Asia Minor and the peninsula. It w’as 
probably through the Tyrians that Jews were trans- 
ported in Obadiah’s time to Sepharad, or Sardis (Obad. 
20). At Rome vast numbers of Jew s emerged from the 
state of slavery and became freed men. The price at 
which the slaves w’ere offered by Nicanor was consider- 
ably below the ordinary value either in Palestine or 
Greece. In the former country it stood at thirty shek- 
els (=about $18), as stated below; in the latter at 
about one and a quarter mina ( =about $20), this 
being the mean between the extremes stated by Xeno- 
phon (Mem. ii, 5, 2) as the ordinary price at Athens. 
The price at which Nicanor offered them was only about 
$12 a head. Occasionally slaves were sold as high as 
a talent (about $1058) each (Xenophon, loc . cit. ; Jo- 
sephus, A nt. xii, 4, 9). 

(II.) Non-Hebrew Slaves. — (1.) The majority of non- 
Hebrew slaves w f ere war-captives, either the Canaanitcs 
who had survived the general extermination of their 
race under Joshua, or such as were conquered from the 
other surrounding nations (Numb, xxxi, 26 sq.). Be- 
sides these, many w r ere obtained hy purchase from for- 
eign slave-dealers (Lev. xxv, 44, 45) ; and others may 
have been resident foreigners who were reduced to this 
state either by poverty or crime. The Rabbinists fur- 
ther deemed that any person who performed the services 
of a slave became ipso facto a slave (Mishna, Kedush. i, 
3). The children of slaves remained slaves, being the 
class described as “born in the house” (Gen. xiv, 14; 
xvii, 12 ; Eceles. ii, 7), and hence the number was likely 
to increase as time went on. The only statement as to 
their number applies to the post -Babylonian period, 
when they amounted to 7337, or about one to six of the 
free population (Ezra ii, 65). We have reason to be- 
lieve that the number diminished subsequently to this 
period, the Pharisees in particular being opposed to the 
system. The average value of a slave appears to have 
been thirty shekels (Exod. xxi, 32), varying, of course, 
according to age, sex, and capabilities. The estimation 
of persons given in Lev. xxvii, 2-8 probably applies to 
war-captives who had been dedicated to the Lord, and 
the. price of their redemption would in that case repre- 
sent the ordinary value of such slaves. 

(2.) That the slave might be manumitted appears 


SLAVERY 


797 


SLAVERY 


from Exod. xxi, 26, 27 ; Lev. xix, 20. As to the meth- 
ods by which this might be effected, we are told nothing 
in the Bible; but the Rabbinists specify the following 
four methods: [1] redemption by a money payment; 
[2] a bill or ticket of freedom ; [8] testamentary dispo- 
sition ; or [4] any act that implied manumission, such 
as making a slave one’s heir (Mielziner, p. 65, 66). 

(3.) The slave is described as the “ possession” of his 
master, apparently with a special reference to the power 
which the latter had of disposing of him to his heirs as 
he w r ould any other article of personal property (Lev. 
xxv, 45, 46); the slave is also described as his master’s 
“ money” (Exod. xxi, 21), i. e. as representing a certain 
money value. Such expressions show that he was re- 
garded very much in the light of a mcincipium , or chat- 
tel. But, on the other hand, provision was made for 
the protection of his person : wilful murder of a slave 
entailed the same punishment as in the case of a free 
man (Lev. xxiv, 17, 22). So, again, if a master inflicted 
so severe a punishment as to cause the death of his ser- 
vant, he was liable to a penalty, the amount of which 
probably depended on the circumstances of the case ; for 
the Rabbinical view that the words “ he shall be surely 
punished,” or, more correctly, “it is to be avenged,” 
imply a sentence of death, is wholly untenable (Exod. 
xxi, 20). No punishment at all w r as imposed if the 
slave survived the punishment for a day or two (ver. 
21), the loss of the slave being regarded as a sufficient 
punishment in that case. There is an apparent dispro- 
portion between this and the following regulation, aris- 
ing probably out of the different circumstances under 
which the injury was effected. In this case the law' is 
speaking of legitimate punishment “ with a rod in the 
next, of a violent assault. A minor personal injury, 
such as the loss of an eye or a tooth, w r as to be recom- 
pensed by giving the servant his liberty (ver. 26, 27). 
The general treatment of slaves appears to have been 
gentle — occasionally too gentle, as w'e infer from Solo- 
mon’s advice (Prov. xxix, 19, 21), nor do we hear more 
than twice of a slave running away from his master (1 
Sam. xxv, 10; 1 Kings ii, 39). The slave was consid- 
ered by a conscientious master as entitled to justice 
(.lob xxxi, 13-15) and honorable treatment (Prov. xxx, 
10). A slave, according to the Rabbinists, had no pow r er 
of acquiring property for himself; whatever he might 
become entitled to, even by way of compensation for 
personal injury, reverted to his master (Mielziner, p. 
55). On the other hand, the master might constitute 
him his heir either wholly (Gen. xv, 3), or jointly with 
his children (Prov. xvii, 2): or, again, he might give 
him his daughter in marriage (1 Chron. ii, 35). 

The position of the slave in regard to religious privi- 
leges was favorable. He was to be circumcised (Gen. 
xvii, 12), and hence was entitled to partake of the Pas- 
chal sacrifice (Exod. xii, 44) as well as of the other re- 
ligious festivals (Deut. xii, 12, 18; xvi, 11, 14). It is 
implied that every slave must have been previously 
brought to the knowledge of the true God, and to a will- 
ing acceptance of the tenets of Judaism. This would 
naturally be the case with regard to all who were “ born 
in the house,” and who were to be circumcised at the 
usual age of eight days; but it is difficult to understand 
how those who were “bought with money,” as adults, 
could ahvays be induced to change their creed, or how 
they could be circumcised without having changed it. 
The Mosaic law certainly presupposes a universal ac- 
knowledgment of Jehovah within the limits of the 
promised land, and would therefore enforce the dismis- 
sal or extermination of slaves wffio persisted in hea- 
thenism. 

The occupations of slaves were of a menial character, 
as implied in Lev. xxv, 39, consisting partly in the work 
of the house and partly in personal attendance on the 
master. Female slaves, for instance, ground the corn in 
the handmill (Exod. xi, 5; Job xxxi, 10; Isa. xlvii, 2), 
or gleaned in the harvest-field (Ruth ii, 8). They also 
baked, washed, cooked, and nursed the children (Mishna, 


Ketkub. v, 5). The occupations of the men are not speci- 
fied; the most trustworthy held confidential posts, such 
as that of steward or major-domo (Gen. xv, 2; xxiv, 2), 
of tutors to sons (Prov. xvii, 2), and of tenants to per- 
sons of large estate ; for such appears to have been the 
position of Ziba (2 Sam. ix, 2, 10). 

In Mohammedan Asia the slaves termed “house- 
born” are regarded with peculiar esteem. They form 
part of their master’s family, and their welfare is an ob- 
ject of his peculiar care. They are the most attached 
of his adherents, and often inherit a large share of his 
w r ealth. It is sometimes the practice of childless per- 
sons to adopt a favorite slave of this class as their own 
child and heir, or sometimes they purchase promising 
boys when young; and, after having brought them up in 
their own faith, formally adopt them as their children. 

4. Gibeonitish Servitude. — The condition of the in- 
habitants of Gibeon, Chephirah, Beeroth, and Kirjath- 
jearim, under the Hebrew eommomvealth, was not that 
of slavery; it was voluntary (Josh, ix, 8-11 ). They 
were not employed in the families of the Israelites, but 
resided in their own cities, tended their own flocks and 
herds, and exercised the functions of a distinct, though 
not independent, community (x, 6-18). The injuries 
inflicted on them by Saul were avenged by the Al- 
mighty on his descendants (2 Sam. xxi, 1-9). They 
appear to have been devoted exclusively to the service 
of the “house of God,” or the Tabernacle; and only a 
few of them, comparatively, could have been engaged 
at any one time. The rest dwelt in their cities, one 
of which was a great city, as one of the royal cities. 
The service they rendered may be regarded as a natural 
tribute for the privilege of protection. No service seems 
to have been required of their wives and daughters. 
On the return from the Babylonian captivity they dwelt 
at Ophel (Neh. iii,26; see also 1 Chron. ix, 2; Ezra >i, 43 ; 
Neh.vii,24; viii, 17 ; x,28; xi,21). See Nktihnim. 

5. Roman Slavery . — Our limits will not allow us to 
enter into detail on the only kind of slavery referred to 
in the New Test., for there is no indication that the 
Jews possessed any slaves in the time of Christ. Suf- 
fice it, therefore, to say that, in addition to the fact that 
Roman slavery was perpetual and hereditary, the slave 
had no protection whatever against the avarice, rage, or 
lust of his master. The bondman was viewed less as a 
human being, subject to arbitrary dominion, than as an 
inferior animal, dependent w-holly on the will of his 
ow r ner. The master possessed the uncontrolled power 
of life and death over his slave — a power which contin- 
ued, at least, to the time of the emperor Hadrian. He 
might, and frequently did, kill, mutilate, and torture his 
slaves, for any or for no offence, so that slaves were some- 
times crucified from mere caprice. He might force them 
to become prostitutes or gladiators; and, instead of the 
perpetual obligation of the marriage-tie, their temporary 
unions ( 'contubernia ) W'ere formed and dissolved at his 
command, families and friends w’ere separated, and no 
obligation existed to provide for their wants in sickness 
or in health. But, notwithstanding all the barbarous 
cruelties of Roman slavery, it had one decided advan- 
tage over that which was introduced in modern times 
into European colonies — both law and custom being de- 
cidedly favorable to the freedom of the slave (Blair, In- 
quiry into the State of Slavery among the Romans [ 1833 J). 
The Mohammedan law, also, in this respect, contrasts 
favorably with those of the European settlements. 

Although the condition of the Roman slaves was no 
doubt improved under the emperors, the early effects of 
Christian principles were manifest in mitigating the 
horrors, and bringing about the gradual abolition, of 
slavery. Onesimus, according to the concurrent testi- 
mony of antiquity, was liberated by Philemon (ver. 21) ; 
and in addition to the testimonies cited in Wright’s Sla- 
very ( ui infra , p. 60), see the preface of Euthalius to this 
epistle. The servile condition formed no obstacle to 
attaining the highest dignities of the Christian priest- 
hood. Our space will not allow us to pursue this sub- 


SLAVERY 


798 


SLAVERY 


ject, “ It was,” says M. Guizot, “ by putting an end to | 
the cruel institution of slavery that Christianity extend- 
ed its mild intliicnce to the practice of war; and that 
barbarous art. softened by its humane spirit, ceased to 
be so destructive” (Mil man's Gibbon, i, Cl). “It is not,” 
says Robertson, “the authority of any single detached 
precept in the Gospel, but the spirit and genius of the 
Christian religion, more powerful than any particular 
command, which has abolished the practice of slavery 
throughout the world.” Although, even in the most 
corrupt times of the Church, the operation of Christian 
principles tended to this benevolent object, they unfort- 
unately did not prevent the revival of slavery in the 
European settlements in the lGtli and 17th centuries, 
together with that nefarious traffic the suppression of 
which has rendered the name of Wilberforce forever 
illustrious. Modern servitude had all the characteristic 
evils of the Roman, except, perhaps, the uncontrolled 
power of life and death, while it was destitute of that 
redeeming quality to which we have referred, its ten- 
dency being to perpetuate the condition of slavery. It 
has also been supposed to have introduced the unfortu- 
nate prejudice of color, which was unknown to the an- 
cients (Linstant, Essiti [1841]). It was the benevolent 
wish of the philosophic llerder (History of Man [1788]) 
that the time might come “when we shall look back 
with as much compassion on our inhuman traffic in ne- 
groes as on the ancient Roman slavery or Spartan hel- 
ots.” This is now legally, if not actually, the case in all 
civilized countries. See Slavery. Modern. 

III. Ethical Considerations . — These have been inci- 
dentally touched upon in the foregoing discussion ; but 
their importance in connection with the occurrence of 
slavery in the Bible requires a fuller notice, especially 
as it has been boldly claimed that the above facts justi- 
fy the detention of human beings in menial servitude. 

1. The circumstances of patriarchal slavery were so 
very different from those of modern times that no argu- 
ment in this regard can fairly be drawn from a com- 
parison of the two. It is obvious, for example, that if 
Abraham’s “servants” had chosen to run away, there 
was no power by which they could have been compelled 
to return. But even if there had been, and if their state 
could be proved to be ever so severe, there is no evidence 
that this condition of society had the approval, much 
less the authority, of God, either in its institution or its 
continuance. There were many social usages in those 
days which were only tolerated for a time, until a bet- 
ter economy should supervene. 

2. This last consideration likewise applies, in part, to 
the whole system of Jewish slavery. But we are not 
left to this mode of vindicating Mosaism on the point 
in question. The moral law is a revelation of great 
principles. It requires supreme love to God and univer- 
sal love among men ; and whatever is incompatible with 
the exercise of that love is strictly forbidden and con- 
demned. Hence, immediately after the giving of the 
law at Sinai, as if to guard against all slavery and slave- 
trading on the part of the Israelites, God promulgated 
this ordinance: “lie that stealeth a man and selloth 
him, or if he be found in his hands, he shall surely be 
put to death” (Exod. xxi, 10; Dent, xxiv, 7). The 
crime is stated iy its threefold form — mai\-sfe<din(/, sell- 
ing, and holding — the penalty for either of which was 
death. The law punished the stealing of mere property 
by enforcing restitution; in some cases twofold, in oth- 
ers livefold (Exod. xxii, 14). When property was sto- 
len the legal penalty was compensation to the person 
injured; but when a man was stolen no property com- 
pensation was allowed : death was indicted, and the 
guilty offender paid the forfeit of his life for his trans- 
gression, God thereby declaring the infinite dignity and 
worth of man and the inviolability of his person. The 
reason of this may be found in the great fact that God 
created man in bis own image (Gen. i, 26-28) — a high 
distinction, more than onee repeated with great solem- , 
nity (v, 1 ; ix, G). Such was the operation of this law, J 


and the obedience paid to it, that we have not the re- 
motest hint that the sale and purchase of slaves ever 
occurred among the Israelites. The cities of Jud:ea 
were not, like the cities of Greece and Rome, slave-mar- 
kets, nor were there found throughout all its coasts 
either helots or slaves. 

3. It has been made a question whether servitude, 
even of the modified kind described in the Old Test., 
existed in Palestine in the days of our Lord. There 
is some reason to believe that after the return from 
Babylon the system gradually lost ground and disap- 
peared. Certainly there is nothing in the Gospel his- 
tory to indicate the existence of what could with any 
propriety be called slavery. It admits of no doubt, 
however, that slavery of the most obnoxious type did 
prevail in Italy and Greece and Asia Minor; and it 
has been argued that since the apostles did not every- 
where openly denounce it, therefore it cannot be viewed 
as inconsistent with the principles of the Gospel. But 
there is a \vide, unbridged interval here between the 
premises and the conclusion. The whole spirit and pre- 
cepts of Christianity are quite opposed to the idea of 
the subjugation of one man to the arbitrary will of an- 
other. The mutual love which it enjoins, the brother- 
hood of believers which it established, the golden rule 
of doing to others as we would have them do to us, the 
model of self-sacrificing love exhibited by the blessed 
Saviour himself, are all utterly repugnant to the prac- 
tice of stealing men, buying and selling them, and hold- 
ing them to enforced labor; and accordingly it has ever 
been found that just in proportion to the footing which 
the Gospel has obtained in any country the system of 
slavery has declined and in the end died out. This un- 
just system has its root in the evil passions of depraved 
human nature, and in certain states of society it flour- 
ishes, but the moral and spiritual renovation effected 
by the merciful religion of Jesus gradually brings a 
withering blight upon it which ultimately quite de- 
stroys it. 

Why, then, it may be asked, did not the apostles 
place themselves in more direct and obvious opposition 
to it while visiting the cities and countries of heathen 
nations? Why did they not everywhere denounce it 
and command the w’hole world to relinquish it? Now 
such questions betray a total ignorance of the whole 
circumstances of the case. Who were the apostles in 
the estimation of mankind in that age? They were 
men of no worldly influence, few, and poor, and despised, 
strangers wherever they appeared; and the effect of 
their entering into a hand-to-hand fight with any of 
the institutions of society would have been to throw 
an insuperable barrier in the way of the progress of 
the Gospel. This course, moreover, would have mani- 
fested the folly of expecting to reap before the seed 
was sown. First of all, it w r as indispensable that men's 
moral notions should be rectified; that the principles 
of love and universal brotherhood should be inculcated 
upon them ; that they should discover in the one sac- 
rifice of Christ for rich and poor, for bond and free, for 
men of all colors and climes, that God looked upon them 
all with equal favor; and not until these ideas were 
embraced by multitudes, and, in fact, permeated the 
great mass of society, was it possible that a system so 
rooted as slavery could be plucked up or even much 
changed. 

The laws which the great Deliverer and Redeemer 
of mankind gave for the government of his kingdom 
were those of universal justice and benevolence, and as 
such were subversive of every system of tyranny and 
oppression. To suppose, therefore, as has been rashly 
asserted, that. Jesus or his apostles gave their sanction 
to the existing systems of slavery among the Greeks 
and Romans is to dishonor them. That the reciprocal 
duties of masters and servants (<W>\oi) were inculcated 
admits, indeed, of no doubt (Col. iii, 22; iv, 1 ; Tit. ii, 
fi; 1 Ret. ii, 18; E plies, vi, 5-9). But t he performance 
of these duties on the part of the masters, supposing 


SLAVERY 


799 


them to have been slave-masters, would have been tan- I 
tamount to the utter subversion of the relation. There 
can be no doubt either that “servants under the yoke,” 
or the slaves of heathens, are exhorted to yield obedi- 
ence to their masters (1 Tim. vi, 1). But this argues 
no approval of the relation; for (1) Jesus, in an analo- 
gous ease, appeals to the paramount law of nature as 
superseding such temporary regulations as the “hard- 
ness of men’s hearts” had rendered necessary (see 
Wright [Rev. W.], Slavery at the Cape of Good Hope 
[1831], p. 58) ; and (2) Paul, while counselling the du- 
ties of contentment and submission under inevitable 
bondage, inculcates at the same time on the slave the 
duty of adopting all legitimate means of obtaining his 
freedom (1 Cor. vii, 18-20). We are aware that the 
application of this passage has been denied by Chrysos- 
tom, Photius, Theodoret, and Theophvlact, who main- 
tain that it is the state of slavery which Paul here rec- 
ommends the slave to prefer. But although this in- 
terpretation is indeed rendered admissible by the con- 
text, yet the more received meaning, or that which 
eounsels freedom, is both more easily connected with 
the preceding phrase, “if thou mavest he made free, 
use it* rather,” and is, as Neander observes, “more in 
accordance with the liberal views of the free-minded 
Paul” (Bilroth, Commentary on Corinthians , in Bib. Cab.). 
Besides, the character of the existing slavery to which 
we now refer was utterly inconsistent with the entire 
tenor of the moral and humane principles of the pre- 
cepts of Jesus. 

Blit it has been alleged that as Paul sent back Ones- 
imus to Philemon, he thus not only testified his appro- 
bation of slavery, but even countenanced the princi- 
ples of modern fugitive-slave law. This is one of the 
weakest arguments that could well be employed. Did 
Paul send back Onesimus against his will, bound hand 
and foot, and labelled as a piece of property ? On the 
contrary, he sent him as one brother to another — a con- 
vert, like his master, to Christianity; and the w'hole 
epistle implies that Onesimus returned with his own 
free consent, because persuaded that he would now be 
more happy with Philemon than anywhere else. What 
countenance is there here for a fugitive -slave law to 
enforce the restoration of runaways? Can we imagine 
that Paul would have spontaneously acted upon the 
principle of such a law when it was in direct contra- 
diction to the religion he had been reared in, which ex- 
pressly forbade that any servant who had fled from his 
master should be sent back to him? This would have 
been not only to ignore the benign spirit of the Gospel, 
but even to fall below the lower platform of the pre- 
paratory dispensation. This would have been to follow 
the advice of the foolish counsellors of Rehoboam, and 
to exchange the whip of Solomon’s gentle reign for the 
scorpion of intolerable oppression. The return of Onesi- 
mus to Philemon was the return of one friend to another 
with the congratulations of a common friend who was 
unspeakably dear to both. Slavery finds no support at 
all in the Word of God, and the attempt to deduce its 
principles from Scripture does the utmost dishonor to 
the benign and merciful spirit of the Gospel. 

IV. Literature . — A calm and complete view of He- 
brew servitude is given in the above-mentioned treatise 
of Mielziner, Die Yerhdltnisse der Sklaven bei den alten 
Iiebraern , nach biblisclien und talmndischen Quellen dar- 
gestellt (Copenhag. and Leips. 1859), which w r as trans- 
lated by Prof. Schmidt in the (Gettysburg) Evangelical 
Review , Jan. 1862, p. 31 1-355. Older treatises arc those 
of Abicht, De Sends Hebr. (Lips. 1704); Mieg, Consti- 
tutiones Servi Ileb. ex Script, et Rabbin. (Herb. 1785). 
See also Barnes, Scriptural Views of Slavery ( Phi la. 
1846); Raphall, Bible View of Slavery (N. Y. 1861); 
Jour. Sac. Lit. Oct. 1859; Jan. 1860; New- Englander, 
May, 1860; Amer. Theol. Rev. April, 1861 ; A mer. Presb. 
Rev. July, 1861 ; Bibliotheca Sacra , Jan. and July, 1862; 
Row, Bampton Lectures for 1878, p. 147. Comp, the nil- i 
merous earlier controversial articles cited by Poole, In- I 


SLAVERY 

dex, s. v. See also the two articles immediately follow- 
ing. 

SLAVERY, Modern. Ancient slavery, especially 
among the Romans and Greeks, became a system of ex- 
treme cruelty. Christianity, though it did not do away 
with slavery, tended to ameliorate the condition of the 
slave. Sec Slavekv, Relation of, to Christianity. 

1. In Asia and Europe. — Justinian did much to pro- 
mote the eventual extinction of slavery, and the Church 
excommunicated slave-owners who put their slaves to 
death without w arrant from the judge. But the num- 
ber of slaves again increased, multitudes being brought 
by the barbarian invaders, and in the countries W'hich 
had been provinces of the empire slavery continued long 
after the empire had fallen to pieces. It eventually 
merged into the mitigated condition known as serfdom, 
which prevailed all over Europe in the Middle Ages. 
The contact between Christianity and Mohammedan- 
ism during the Crusades gave a new impulse to slav- 
ery, neither party having scruples about the enslaving 
of those belonging to the other. From the 10th to 
the 14th century there grew up a considerable slave- 
trade, of which Rome was the centre. The great com- 
mercial republics of Italy engaged largely in slave- 
trading, the Venetians even selling Christians to Mos- 
lems. Slavery also existed in Florence, the slaves be- 
ing, however, mostly Moslems and other unransomed 
prisoners of war. Under the Saxons, the slave-trade 
flourished in England, Bristol being the chief market, 
whence many slaves were exported to Ireland. But in 
England slavery was never very popular, and the Irish 
early emancipated their bondmen. Slavery still exists 
in most Mohammedan countries, but in a very mild 
form. It being a political rather than a social institu- 
tion, it is possible for the slave not only to obtain lib- 
erty, but also to secure the highest social position. For 
a long time the Algerine corsairs took large numbers of 
captives from among the Christian nations around the 
Mediterranean, and sailed as far north as Ireland, seiz- 
ing people whom they reduced to slavery. The Euro- 
pean powers made frequent wars on the Barbarv states, 
and the United States also resorted to force to secure 
the liberty and commerce of its citizens. The success- 
ful bombardment of Algiers in 1816 by an English fleet 
commanded by lord Exmouth put an end to w hite slav- 
ery in Barbarv. 

2. Negro Slavery . — The slave-trade in negroes existed 
three thousand years ago, at least, and the Carthagini- 
ans brought numbers of black slaves from Central and 
Southern Africa. The Venetians, no doubt, distributed 
some negro slaves over the various European nations 
which they visited. Black slaves have been found in 
Mohammedan countries since the time of the prophet, 
but they have often risen very high, both in the state 
and in the household. The negro formerly was sold, 
not because he was a negro, but under the same condi- 
tions as the Greek or Arab. The initiative in the Afri- 
can slave-trade w r as taken by the Portuguese, who in 
1444 formed a company at Lagos, although it is doubt- 
ful whether it was organized expressly for the trade in 
men. In 1445 four negroes w r ere taken by the Portu- 
guese, but rather accidentally than of set purpose to 
make them slaves. The trade quickly increased, and 
another factory was established in one of the Angnin 
islands, which sent from seven to eight hundred black 
slaves to Portugal every year. The discovery of Amer- 
ica (1492) gave a new r impetus to the trade, which had 
declined fully one half. The Spaniards, finding the 
Indians unable to do the work required of them, soon 
began to import neerroes into the New World, and 
were encouraged by the priest Las Casas and other 
Roman Catholic leaders on the plea of preventing the 
extinction of the natives. The trade, under the stimu- 
lus afforded by the American demand, rapidly increased, 
and was engaged in by the English, who had already 

| brought negroes into their own country and sold them 
I as early as 1553. In the time of the Stuarts four eom- 


SLAVERY 


800 


SLAVERY 


panics were formed for carrying on the traffic, which 1 
furnished negroes to America. In 1713 the privilege 
of supplying negroes to the Spanish colonies was se- 
cured by the English for thirty years, during which 
time 144,000 were to be landed. Other European na- 
tions engaged in the commerce, and the tirst slaves 
brought to the old territory of the United States were 
sold from a Dutch vessel, which landed twenty at 
Jamestown, Va., in 1020. The Continental Congress, 
in 1770, resolved that no more slaves should be import- 
ed : but when the American Constitution was formed, in 
1788, Congress was prohibited from interfering with the 
traffic until 1808, at which time it. was abolished. In 
1820 it was declared to be piracy. The State of Georgia 
prohibited the traffic in 1708. In England, as early as 
1702, chief-justice Holt ruled that “as soon as a negro 
comes into England he is free: one may be a villein in 
England, but not a slave and later, “ In England there 
is no such thing as a slave, and a human being never 
was considered a chattel to be sold for a price.” In 1772 
lord Mansfield decided, in the case of Sharp vs. Somerset 
[see Sharp, Granville], that a slave could not by force 
be compelled to go out of the kingdom. The first legisla- 
tive action in favor of the abolition of the slave-trade was 
in 1793, when the Commons passed an act for its gradual 
abolition, which failed in the House of Lords. In 180G 
abolition was brought forward as a government measure, 
and was carried in 1807. It received the royal assent 
on March 25, and made all slave-trading illegal after 
.Tan. 1, 1808. British subjects, however, continued to 
carry on the trade under cover of the Spanish and Por- 
tuguese flags. The ships were more crowded than ever, 
through fear of capture; and the negroes were often 
thrown overboard when the vessel was pursued. In 
1811 an act of Parliament made the trade felony, pun- 
ishable with fourteen years’ transportation, or from three 
to live years’ imprisonment with hard labor. An act 
of 1824 declared it piracy, and as such a capital crime 
if committed within the admiralty jurisdiction, but the 
statute of 1837 left it punishable with transportation for 
life. In the course of time the slave-trade was abol- 
ished by Venezuela, Chili, Buenos Ayres, Sweden, Den- 
mark, Holland, and France. The accession of Portugal 
and Spain to the principle of abolition was obtained by 
the treaties of 1815 and 1817; and by a convention con- 
cluded with Brazil in 1826 it was declared piratical for 
the subjects of that country to be engaged in the slave- 
trade after 1830. By treaties with different countries 
various steps have been taken for its suppression, which 
have resulted in its almost entire extinction. 

Having secured the suppression of the slave-trade, 
philanthropists turned their attention to efforts to se- 
cure the emancipation of the slave himself. After con- 
siderable agitation, an emancipation bill passed both 
houses oft he English Parliament, ami obtained the roy- 
al sanction Aug. 28, 1833. Slavery was to cease Aug. 
1, 1834, but the slaves were for a certain duration of 
time to be apprenticed laborers to their former owners. 
This was objected to, and the complete disfranchisement 
took place in 1838. The slave-owners were indemnified 
in the smn of £‘20,000,000. The French emancipated 
their negroes in 1848. as did most of the new republics 
of South America at the time of the Revolution, while 
the Dutch slaves received their freedom in 1863. In 
Ilayti slavery ceased in 1791, its abolition being the re- 
sult of an insurrection of that year. In Brazil a law for 
the gradual emancipation of slaves was passed in 1871. 
A recent treaty between Great Britain and the sultan 
of Zanzibar secures in promise the speedy abolition of 
the slave-trade on the opposite eastern coast of Africa. 
In the United States the feeling was generally averse 
to slavery at the time of their founding, and in some of 
the Southern states t hat feeling was stronger than in 
most of i lie Northern. Vermont abolished slavery in 
1777, before she joined the Union; Pennsylvania, in 
1780, provided for general emancipation. In Massachu- 
setts the abolition of slavery was provided for by the 


[ constitulion of 1780. Rhode Island gradually emanci- 
pated her slaves, and had but five left in 1840: New 
York adopted a gradual emancipation act in 1799, and 
in 1817 passed another act declaring all her slaves free 
on July 4, 1827. New Jersey pursued the same course 
in 1804. The increase in the demand for cotton and 
the invention of the cotton-gin made slavery very prof- 
itable, and probably prevented voluntary emancipation 
by the Southern states. In 1820, when Missouri was 
admitted into the Union as a slave state, the “Missouri 
Compromise” was entered into, by which slavery was 
legalized to the south, but prohibited to the north, of 
36° 30' N. lat. The South obtained in compensation 
an amendment of the Fugitive-slave Law, making it 
penal to harbor runaway slaves or aid in their escape. 
In Boston, Mass., Jan. 1, 1831, William Lloyd Garrison 
began to oppose slavery in The Liberator , and on Jan. 1, 
1832, the first emancipation society was formed, on the 
basis that “slaveholding is a sin against God and a 
crime against humanity; that immediate emancipation 
was the right of every slave and the duty of every mas- 
ter.” This society was organized in Boston, by twelve 
men, with Arnold Bufl'um as president. Very soon the 
results of their efforts were manifest in the religious sects 
and parties. In 1840 some of its members seceded and 
formed the “American and Foreign Antislavery Society,” 
and t he same year the “ Liberty party” was organized, 
which was mostly absorbed by the “ Free-soil party” in 
1848. This party was in turn absorbed by the Republi- 
can party, which in 1860 elected Abraham Lincoln presi- 
dent. The “American Abolition Society” was formed 
in Boston in 1855, to advocate the view that the na- 
tional government had the constitutional right to abol- 
ish slavery from every part of the Union. In 1859 the 
“ Church Antislavery Society” was organized for the 
purpose of convincing ministers and people that slavery 
was a sin. In the same year an attempt was made by 
John Brown and bis followers to subvert slavery, but it 
was defeated. The secession of the states forming the 
Confederate States (1861) wholly changed the relation 
of the government towards slavery. War soon fol- 
lowed, notwithstanding the assurances of Mr. Lincoln 
of his purpose to abide faithfully by all constitutional 
compromises relating to slavery. In May, 1861, major- 
general Butler, of the department of Eastern Virginia, 
declared all slaves who had been employed for mil- 
itary purposes of the confederacy to be contraband of 
war. The president recommended, March 2, 1862, that 
Congress adopt a resolution “that the United States, in 
order to co-operate with any state which may adopt 
gradual abolition of slavery, give to such state pecun- 
iary aid. to be used by such state in its discretion, to 
compensate it for the inconvenience, public and private, 
produced by such change of system.” The resolution 
was adopted, but produced no effect. Mr. Lincoln is- 
sued a proclamation on Sept. 22, 1862, declaring his in- 
tention to announce that on Jan. 1, 1863, all persons held 
by any state, or part of a state, which should then be 
in rebellion, should be free. The final proclamation of 
freedom was issued Jan. 1, 1863. On June 9, 1862, 
Congress passed an act declaring that “from and after 
the passage of this act there shall be neither slavery nor 
involuntary servitude in any of the territories now ex- 
isting,” etc. On June 23, 1864, all laws for the rendi- 
tion of fugitive slaves to their masters were repealed. 
On Jan. 31, 1865, the vote was taken submitting to the 
several states for ratification the 13th amendment to 
the Constitution: “Neither slavery nor involuntary 
servitude, except as a punishment for crime whereof 
tlii* party shall have been duly convicted, shall exist 
within the United States or any place subject to their 
jurisdiction.” This amendment was approved bv twen- 
ty-seven of the states, and consequently adopted. Tbe 
14th amendment, adopted in 1867-68, absolutely forbade 
compensation for loss of slaves being made either by the 
United States or by any state. 

3. In Lyypt and Africa. — Slavery has existed in 


SLAVERY 


801 


SLAVERY 


Egypt through all its known history. In modern slav- 
ery there has not been very great severity, the male 
black slave being treated with more consideration than 
the l'ree servant. lie leads a life well suited to his lazy 
disposition, and if discontented with his situation, can 
easily compel his master to sell him. The female slaves 
are generally negroes, Abvssinians, Georgians, or Greeks. 
They occupy all positions from that of the lowest menial 
to the favorite companion, and even wife, of the master 
(Lane, Manners and Customs of Modern Egyptians, i, 
275 sq.). Slavery has been nominally abolished in 
Egypt, although it still exists to a large degree in Nu- 
bia and Upper Egypt. In the interior of Africa the 
slave-traffic is still carried on with much severity, prin- 
cipally by Arab traders. See Chambers's Encyclop. s. v. ; 
Johnson's Cyclop, s. v. For literature, see Appletons' 
Cyclop . s. v. 

SLAVERY, Relation of, to Christianity. This 
topic has necessarily been touched upon in the preced- 
ing articles, but its importance justifies a fuller consid- 
eration separately. (In doing this we avail ourselves 
in part of the treatment in Herzog’s Real- Ency Hop.') 

The New Test, teaches that salvation is the common 
privilege of all mankind, and that all men have an 
equal right to the benefits it confers (Tit. ii, II; 1 
Tim. ii, 4). This principle alone would, of necessity, 
determine the Christian view of slavery and lead to 
the extinction of that state (Gal. iii, 28; Col. iii, 11). 
Christianity, moreover, does not deal with nations and 
masses of people, but with individuals, whom it sever- 
ally invites, exhorts, and receives into its communion. 
It sets forth faith as an inward liberating life-principle 
(John viii, 36), through which the individual lays hold 
on Christ and becomes united with him. This in- 
volves a recognition of the rights of the inner man, 
which the heathen nations never apprehended, and 
which were veiled from sight even in the Old Test., 
though clearly stated in the New (Gal. ii, 19-21; Acts 

ii, 41; xiii, 46), and which in their progress and com- 
plete realization under Protestantism must ultimately 
bring about the utter extirpation of slavery from the 
eartli. Christ postulated the law of liberty, and made 
freedom the privilege of believers (John viii, 32; James 
i, 25; ii, 12; Rom. viii, 2), thereby accomplishing the 
predictions of the Old Covenant (comp. Luke iv, 18-21 
with Isa. lxi, 1 sq.); and, though the proclamation of 
liberty by the apostles had primary reference to the 
inward states of the soul (l Cor. vii, 23; Gal. v, 1 ; 1 
Pet. ii, 16; comp. Gal. ii, 4, 5, 13; 2 Pet. ii, 19), it nec- 
essarily led to the great principle that with Christ lib- 
erty in general had come to man (see Luke i, 79; 2 
Cor. iii, 17). They taught that while freedom begins 
in the religious consciousness, it is not restricted to that 
field, but involves consequences in other departments 
of human life as well, even as the saving of the soul in- 
volves that of the body likewise (Itom. viii, 23); and 
that the Christian is a freeman, and entitled to all the 
blessings which God sheds abroad in the earth (1 Cor. 

iii, 21-23). The realization of that ideal, however, was 
shown to be the work of a progressive Christianity, ad- 
vancing in knowledge and in influence over the con- 
ditions of the world; and they consequently discoun- 
tenanced all tendency to rebellion against the properly 
constituted and existing authorities of the nations of 
the earth. It is evident from Pom. xiii, l sq. that a 
disposition to refuse obedience to governments existed 
to some extent in apostolic times, and, from the case 
of Onesimus, that bondmen sometimes broke away from 
their masters’ rule. In the latter instance Paul suc- 
ceeded in effecting the voluntary return of the fugitive 
Christian slave by imparting to him a deeper and more 
correct knowledge of the nature and aims of Christian- 
ity (Philem. 10-16). A similar principle is embodied 
in the important passage l Cor. vii, 21 : existing con- 
ditions, however adverse to the spirit of Christianity, 
are not to be subverted by outward force, but are to 
be displaced by new conditions whose root is the prin- 

IX.— E E E 


ciple of Christian freedom implanted in the human 
heart. As a rule, converts to Christianity are exhort- 
ed to continue in the station and condition of life to 
which the Providence of God has assigned them. The 
argument by which that rule is enforced, that the pres- 
ent is a time of distress in which it becomes prudent 
for the unmarried to retain their virgin state and the 
slave to remain contentedly in his bondage, indicates 
its primary reference to the Corinthian Christians of 
that day; but the further considerations adduced, that 
the time is short, the work to be done is all-important, 
and the grand catastrophe through which the world’s 
conditions shall be changed is drawing near, have uni- 
versal force, and adapt the rule to the conditions of all 
Christians. It is, however, evident that the apostle 
does not strike at the right to liberty and personal in- 
dependence in these instructions. 1 Cor. vii, 23 asserts 
that right most forcibly, and shows that the saving 
grace of the Lord involves a setting-aside of all human 
bondage. A denial of that right would bring him into 
conflict with his own claim to freedom (1 Cor. ix, 1). 
and with his fundamental statement that in Christ all 
things shall become new (2 Cor. v, 17). 

From the opposite point of view, Christianity is seen 
, to be equally opposed to slavery. Masters are to treat 
their slaves kindly, and as brothers (Eph. vi, 9; Col. iv, 
1; Philem. 16). In practice, the early Christians were 
accustomed to give freedom to their slaves, and to pur- 
chase the freedom of the slaves of others; witness the 
action of Gregory the Great in the 6th century in pur- 
chasing a number of British captives and returning 
them in freedom to their native land, that they, aid- 
ed by the monk Augustine, might carry the blessings of 
Christianity to their countrymen. Where slavery ex- 
ists in a Christian land in any pronounced form, it is 
because Christianity itself has remained in a low state 
of development — as, for instance, in Russia — or because 
it has relapsed into such a state, as was the case in Eu- 
rope during the Middle Ages. In its fundamental nat- 
ure, Christianity is the law of liberty, and, therefore, 
opposed to the enslaving of individual men, on the one 
hand, and to the exercise of absolutism and despotism 
in the government of states, on the other. 

The extirpation of slavery has been made a part of 
the mission of Protestantism. It is among Evangeli- 
cal Christians alone that the evils of slavery have ar- 
rested attention, and it is chiefly through their influ- 
ence that its sway has been contested. The attitude 
of the Papal Church has been that of indifference or 
of impotency. The first place among the opponents 
of human slavery belongs to Great Britain, whose West- 
Indian colonies and naval supremacy compelled a rec- 
ognition of responsibility in the matter; but the Chris- 
tian spirit ruling in Protestant lands will allow none 
of the nations which they shelter to rest until the last 
vestige of human slavery is wiped from the face of the 
earth. 

The earliest endeavors for the overthrow of slavery 
date back to A. I). 1270, when an alliance between Eng- 
land and France was formed to punish the pirates of 
the Barbary states. The object was to compel the lib- 
eration and subsequent immunity from slavery of white 
persons. Philip the Bold attacked Tunis with this in- 
tention, and England repeated the attack in 1389, in 
each instance compelling the liberation of all Christian 
slaves; but the states of Oran, Algiers, Tunis, and Tripoli, 
nevertheless, devoted themselves, from the close of the 
15th century, to piracy as their leading industry. Re- 
peated inflictions of punishment were received bv them 
at the hands of England, France, and America; but they 
continued at the same time to exact tribute and ran- 
som from the subjects of those powers. The first ef- 
fectual hindrance to this business was realized in the 
present century through the conquest and colonization 
of Algiers by the French. 

The idea of breaking up the trade in negro slaves is 
of much more recent birth. The Pennsylvania Quak- 


SLAVERY 


802 


SLAVES 


ers passed resolutions against slavery in 1G9G. and re- 
peatedly afterwards, and enforced them practically since 
1727, George Fox and William Penn were especially 
active in this movement. The earliest authors who 
wrote against slavery were William Purlin (1718) and 
afterwards Thomas Lay. John Woolman became prom- 
inent in this work, as did his friend Anthony Penezet, 
who was connected with John Wesley, George White- 
Held, and the Countess of Huntingdon. In 1751 the 
Quakers gave up the trade in slaves among them- 
selves, which led Sidmouth, Wellesley, and others to 
advocate in Parliament the abrogation of trade in ne- 
groes generally. It was. however, chiefly through the 
ctforts of Granville Sharp that the principle was estab- 
lished, in 1772, that “a slave who treads on English 
soil is free.” Public opinion was now with him, and 
Sharp proceeded to demand the closing of the slave- 
trade, and the liberation of the slaves in all the colo- 
nies of England. Clarkson’s prize-essay on the ques- 
tion “Is it right to make slaves against their will?” ap- 
peared in 1785. Wilberforce, Pitt, and Fox were gain- 
ed over to the cause of abolition soon afterwards; and 
in 1788 a petition by the first of these men led to an of- 
ficial inquiry into the slave-trade and its consequences 
by a commission raised by the privy-council. Facts 
were accumulated which caused the passage of the 
first bill for the restriction of the slave-trade in 1789. 
The Commons passed a bill for the abolition of slavery 
in 1792 by a majority of nineteen votes; and in 1807 
the definitive “Abolition Act of Slavery” became a law. 
In 1811 conscious participation in the slave-trade was 
made a penal offence, to be punished with banishment, 
or hard labor for fourteen years; and in 1827 Canning’s 
resolution, which declares the slave-trade to be piracy, 
was adopted. Treaties for the suppression of the traf- 
fic were entered into at various times with other na- 
tions; expeditions were repeatedly sent into the heart 
of the African continent charged to make every effort 
to secure the co-operation of the native kings in the 
work of stopping the supply of slaves ; and fleets were 
sent out and kept on the African coast, at great ex- 
pense, to prevent their exportation. Negroes rescued 
from their captors were sent to the colony of Sierra 
Leone, where they have made most rapid progress in 
civilization under the influence of Christian teaching. 
Denmark and France were equally prompt in their ac- 
tion. The former in 1793 restricted the slave-trade in 
its West-Indian colonies, and in 1804 forbade it entire- 
ly ; and the latter liberated all slaves within its coloni- 
al territories by act ol the National Convention. 

The earliest negro slaves were introduced into Eu- 
rope by the Portuguese, though Spanish historians 
claim the unenviable distinction for their own nation; 
and these nations likewise introduced them into Amer- 
ica. The first slaves found in an English colony were 
obtained bv Virginia from a Dutch vessel in 1G20. 
'Flic Puritans in the Northern colonies enslaved the 
native Indians at first, and displayed no repugnance to 
the idea of negro slavery, though the nature of their 
soil and the conditions of their life prevented any con- 
siderable employment of such bondmen. In the South, 
James Oglethorpe, the founder of the colony of Georgia, 
interdicted the holding of slaves; but when, in 1752, 
Georgia became a royal colony, its inhabitants were 
freed from all restrictions of this kind, and slave-hold- 
ing became general. After the Revolutionary War, in 
1790, the census reported G57,527 slaves in t lie United 
States, of whom 40,370 were in t lie North; but in the 
latter section interest combined with a growing moral 
sentiment to excite hostility against any increase in 
t lie number of slaves or the permanent retention of 
slavery as an institution. The situation of i lie South- 
ern States, on the other hand, was entirely favorable to 
t lie development of slavery. The cultivation of tobac- 
co and cotton, the great staples of that section, afforded 
opportunity for the profitable employment of the slaves. 
Gradually the dislike of slavery felt by the more intel- 


ligent of the early Southern statesmen and clergymen 
died out, and a sentiment favorable to its existence 
arose; and the reaction was carried so far that the pul- 
pits devoted their powers to the demonstration of a 
divine origin and a divine character for slavery. The 
slave-trade had, however, come to a close by act of 
Congress on Jan. 1, 1808 — the passing of the measure 
preceding that of the Hritish Parliament by seven days. 
Hut the inter-state trade in slaves continued. The 
breeding of negroes for the slave -market became a 
regular business, whose proportions enlarged with the 
extension of the slave-using territory. The political 
measures of the Southern States were wholly designed 
to promote the interests and the extension of slavery, 
culminating in the Fugitive -slave Law of 1850, by 
which any slave-owner was authorized to follow an es- 
caped slave into any part of the Union, and compel the 
assistance of citizens for the recovery of the bondman. 
The operation of this law outraged the moral sense of 
the world, and led to the initiation of antislavery efforts 
by which the sentiment of the free states was thor- 
oughly revolutionized. In these agitations the names 
of Garrison, Wendell Phillips, and others became prom- 
inent as the leaders of the abolition movement, which 
realized its object when, on Jan. 1, 18G3, the eman- 
cipation of slaves went into effect wherever the author- 
ity of the United States was recognised. The success 
of the Northern arms soon made that proclamation uni- 
versally prevalent. 

The relation of the churches to the question of slav- 
ery involved grave inconsistencies of practice, among 
Evangelicals, at least. The Roman Catholic and Prot- 
estant Episcopal churches never expressed an authori- 
tative condemnation of slavery, and in the war for the 
Union the influence of the Papal Church was emphati- 
cally favorable to the South; but other churches were 
opposed in principle to slavery, while they tolerated it 
in practice, and tried hard to persuade themselves that 
slavery is right. The Methodist Episcopal Church was 
set right by the separation of 1844; the Presbyterian 
Church by the New-school Assembly’s declaration of 
1857, and by the separation, consequent on the war, in 
1861. In each denomination of Protestants, except the 
Protestant Episcopalian, the remarkable fact came to 
pass that the churches in slave - holding communities 
became the defenders, while those in free territory be- 
came the determined opponents, of slavery. The prog- 
ress of events has, however, wrought a great change of 
opinion among the more influential classes of the South. 
The extinction of slavery in the United States is, at 
any rate, a fact whose influence over the ideas of the 
people cannot be resisted. For the attitude of each 
particular Church towards this subject, see the articles 
devoted to the several denominations. 

The latest aspect of the relation of slavery to Chris- 
tianity appears in connection with the planting of 
Christian missions in the interior of Africa, as one of 
the consequences of the recent explorations of Living- 
stone, Stanley, and others. The Christian communities 
of Liberia and Sierra Leone afford opportunity for an 
invasion of African heathendom from the west, which 
is expected to be made sooner or later. The day is ev- 
idently near when the superior might of Christian prin- 
ciples shall control the world, to the exclusion of all 
trade in human flesh , when it shall be impressed on 
the entire human family that to every individual man 
belongs the right “to life, liberty, and the pursuit of 
happiness.” 

See 11 ilne, Vollst. Darstellung alter Verlinder. d. Xe- 
f/ersklarenhandels (Gbtt. 1820); Wadstrbm, Observa- 
tions of the Slave-trade ; Clarkson, Hist, of the A boli- 
tion of the Slave-trade ; Hurkhardt, Eranr/el. Mission n li- 
ter d. Xee/evu in 1 1 'est-Afrika (Hielefeld, 1859) ; Wilson, 
/ Use and Fall of the Slave Power in A mevica ; Greelcv, 
The American Conflict (Hartford, 18GG). 

Slaves in tii k Early Christian Church labored 
under several disabilities as regarded their Church re- 


SLAVIC MYTHOLOGY 


803 


lations and privileges. This did not arise from any 
hostility or desire to oppress on the part of the Church, 
but rather from the necessity of respecting the legal 
rights of the master. 1. They were debarred from the 
privilege of ordination, for the reason that, being orig- 
inally tied by birth or purchase to their patron’s or 
master’s service, they could not be legally ordained ; 
the service of the Church being incompatible with 
their other duties, and no man was to be defrauded 
of his right under pretence of ordination. If, however, 
a slave was found worthy, and his master gave con- 
sent, then he might he ordained. 2. If the master of 
a slave was a Christian, his testimony concerning the 
life and conversation of the slave was required before 
the latter could be admitted to the privilege of bap- 
tism. The design of this course was to enlist the in- 
terest of the master, and prevent the over-hastv ad- 
mission of unfit persons. 3. The slave could not mar- 
ry without his master’s consent, being looked upon 
in this respect as a child; nor could he enter a mon- 
astery without this permission, because this would de- 
prive his master of his legal right of service. 4. The 
privilege of sanctuary was also denied them if it would 
excuse them from the proper duties of their station. 
If they fled to a church, they might be reclaimed and 
brought out immediately. Other facts relating to 
slaves may not be uninteresting: e. g. exception was 
made in their favor so that the judge might on Sun- 
day go through the civil process of law necessary for 
their emancipation. It was thought a highly proper 
and commendatory act to celebrate Easter by grant- 
ing freedom to slaves. Further, if the slave of an 
apostate or a heretic fled from his master and took 
sanctuary in the church, he was not only to be pro- 
tected, but to have his manumission or freedom grant- 
ed him likewise. See Bingham, Christ, Antiq. 


Slavic Mythology. This term may cover the 
religions of the early l'oles, Russians, Wends, Bohe- 
mians, Moravians, Servians, Masuri, and Silesians. The 
teaching of these systems is based on the idea of dual 
principles, a race of good and another of evil deities, 
with whom are associated numerous inferior gods. The 
principal divinities may be connected with a tree whose 
root is God — called Bog or Swantewit. All the subor- 
dinate gods are in pairs, as Belbog and Czernebog, (jood 
and evil, and Razi and Zirnitra, counsellors and magi- 
cians , as follows : 


Swantewit, Triglaf, or Bog=zGod. 


Belhog 


Czernebog 

Radegast 

1 

Razivia Flins 

Ilela 

(Zirnitra) 

(Razi) (Zirnitra) | < 

1 

1 

Mita 

Prove 

Podaga 

(Razi) 

Hierowit Slebog 

1 

Sieva Zilsbog 

1 


1 

1 

Berstnk 

Gilbog Jutrbog 

1 1 

Rugiewit Karewit 

1 1 

(Razi) 

1 


Perkun 


Swaixtix 


Nemisa 

(Zirnitra) 


Gasto 

(Razi) 


Silka Gudji 


Marowit. 


This plan assumes that the principal seat of the Sla- 
vonic religions was at Arcona, since Swantetvit was 
there only venerated as the supreme divinity: at Kief 
and Romowa the lightning-darting rerun, or Perkun, 
stood first, and at Rhetra Radegast ; but Swantewit 
was at all events the chief deity worshipped among all 
the Western Slavs, and was esteemed as one of the 
chief gods among the Eastern Slavs as well. The Rus- 
sians and the Poles residing nearest to Kief or Novo- 
gorod distinguished the gods into four classes, which 
contrasted with each other, and whose respective mem- 
bers were similarly various in their natures. There 
M 7 ere, for instance, gods of men and of beasts. In the 


SLAVONIC VERSIONS 

former class were found gods of love and of pain ; in 
the latter, gods of growth and of destruction. 'Die 
other classes were that of the nation and that of inan- 
imate nature — the one including gods of war and of 
peace; the other, gods of the land and of the water, of 
the house and of the field. To these deities of the gen- 
eral populace must be added innumerable private and 
local gods, especially among the Poles, each tribe, town, 
or institution having its own patron divinity, and each 
one regarding its own god as superior to others of his 
class. The most insignificant duties, such as the light- 
ing of lamps, the cutting of bread, the tapping of a fresh 
barrel, etc., were under the guidance of the gods. A 
numerous priesthood conducted the religious rites, 
which generally took place in front of the temples, 
and sometimes involved bloody sacrifices of human be- 
ings. Princes were accustomed to devote prisoners of 
war in this way, though the interested priests would 
sometimes spare the latter for a life of servitude; and 
the people were in the habit of contributing material 
of every kind and in lavish quantity to the support of 
their religion. Such contributions afforded the sup- 
port by which the priestly class was sustained. The 
temples were rude structures of logs and were sur- 
rounded by hanging cloths. The devastating cam- 
paigns of Henry the Lion destroyed the temples of 
the western Slavonian tribes and brought the preva- 
lent paganism to an end, though certain superstitious 
customs have been preserved in the regions of their 
former occupancy to this day. — Vollmer, WOrterh, c/. 
MythoL s. v. 

Slavonians is the general designation of a race 
of great antiquity, who were found on the Don among 
the Goths, and afterwards on the Danube among the 
Huns and the Bulgarians. Their ancient religion was 
a system of unmixed paganism, their chief god being 
Perun {thunder), while the other principal deities were 
Lada (goddess of love and pleasure), Kupala (god of 
the fruits of the earth), and Koleda (god of festivals). 
From Procopius we learn that they worshipped also 
rivers, nymphs, and other deities, to whom they offered 
sacrifices, making divinations at the same time. The 
most celebrated deity of the Baltie Slavonians was 
Swantewit, whose temple was at Arcona, the capital of 
Riigen. For a lengthened and graphic account of the 
temple and worship of Swantewit, see Gardner, Faiths 
of the World, s. v. Each of the different Slavonian 
nations had its own special deities. At Plon, in Hol- 
stein, there was an idol called Podaga, and at Stettin 
there was a temple dedicated to the Slavic god Trig- 
laf, whose image was triple-headed. Notwithstanding 
the numbers of their deities, the Slavonians seem to 
have believed in a supreme God in heaven, and held 
that all other gods issued from his blood. In addition 
to their gods, they believed in good and evil spirits and 
daemons of different kinds, in the immortality of the 
soul, and in a retribution after death. Worship was 
held in forests and temples, and sacrifices of cattle and 
fruit were offered. The dead were burned and their 
ashes preserved in urns. For literature, see Miklo- 
sich, Vergleichende Gi'ammatik der slaviscken Sprachen 
Wien, 1852-71); Naake*, Slavonic Fairy Tales (Lond. 
1874); Schafarik, SlarUche Alterthiimer (Leips. 1843, 
2 vols.); Talvi, Historical View of the Languages and, 
Literature of the Slavic Nations (N. Y. 1850). See 
Sehvia. 

Slavonic Versions. Under this head we shall 
have to speak of different versions, all belonging to one 
and the same family. The oldest otl these is — 

1. The Slavonic Version, which was executed during 
the 9th century by Cyril (q. v.) and Methodius (q. v.), 
the first missionaries to the Slavonians, and who, con- 
trary to the course pursued by Xavier, but anticipating 
the labors of modern and Protestant missions and Bible 
societies, conferred on that half-savage nation the ines- 
timable blessing of a valuable translation of the Bible. 


SLAVONIC VERSIONS 


804 


SLAVONIC VERSIONS 


The first portion of the Slavonic version which was 
printed was the Psalter, published in 1491 at Cracow, 
Poland, and reprinted in 1495 in Montenegro. The 
four gospels were printed in 1512 at Ugrovallachia, 
which edition was followed by another in 1552 at Bel- 
grade. and a third, in Montenegro, in 1502. In 1581 
the first edition of the Slavonic Bible was published 
at Ostrog. a number of Creek MSS. having been used 
for this edition. In 1033 a second edition of the Bi- 
ble was published at Moscow. In 1712 the czar Pe- 
ter the Great issued a ukase ordering the printed Sla- 
vonic text to be carefully compared with the Greek of 
the Sept., and rendered in every respect conformable 
to it. The revision was not completed till the year 
1723. having occupied nearly twelve years. In the 
following year Peter the Great ordered the revised 
copy to be put to press, but his death in that year 
greatly retarded the progress of its publication. Besides 
the death of the czar, other obstacles occasioned still 
further delay, and it was not till 1751 that this revised 
edition was published in a ponderous folio form, contain- 
ing, besides the text, long and elaborate prefaces, with 
tables of contents and other useful additions. This edi- 
tion, which served as the basis of all subsequent ones, 
has often been printed by the Russian Bible Society; 
and up to the year 181(5 not fewer than twenty-one 
editions of the whole Bible, besides many others of the 
New Test., were put into circulation. According to 
the last report (1878) of the British and Foreign Bible 
Society, about 246,418 copies of the Bible have been dis- 
tributed. Owing to the comparatively late date of this 
version, it has no claim as a critical authority. Of late, 
parts of the New Test, have been published based on 
the oldest manuscript text, as Ostromirovo Evangelic , 
edited after a MS. of 1056 by Vostokov (St. Petersburg, 
1843) ; Evangelium Jfuttluei Palteoslovenice , e codd. 
ed. Fr. Miklosich (Vindob. 1856); Mark i-x, by the 
same, in Altslocenische Formenlehre (ibid. 1874); John, 
bv Leskien, in Jlamlbuch der altbulyarischen Sprache 
(Weimar, 1871). See the Introductions by Hug, Eich- 
horn, Kaulen, Scholz; the art. “Slavonic Version” in 
Kitto's Cyclop. and Smith’s Diet, of the Bible; David- 
son, Biblical Criticism, p. 238 sq. ; Kohl, Lntroductio in 
J/ist.et Rem Lit/. Slavorum ; Dobrowsky, Slav in : Bei- 
trdge zur Kennfniss der slavischen Liferatur ( Prague, 
1808); The Bible of Every Lund, p. 292 sq. ; Dalton, 
Das Gebet des fierrn in den Sprachen Russ lands, p. 37 sq. 

2. Russian Version (q. v.). 

3. Polish Version, — A translation of the Scriptures 
into Polish is said to have been made prior to 1390 by 
order of queen Hedwig, the first wife of Jagello. Since 
the middle of the 16th century no fewer than six differ- 
ent versions have been executed. The first in order of 
time was a translation of the New Test., made by Sek- 
lucyan, a Lutheran, and a competent Greek scholar. It 
was printed at Kbnigsberg in 1551. and was thrice re- 
printed before 1555. The first version of the entire Old 
Test, appeared at Cracow in 1561. It was translated 
from the Vulg. by Leonard, and reprinted in 1575 under 
the title Biblia , to jest Ksiegi Starego y Xowego Zakomt , 
na Polski jezyk\ etc.; w Krakowie, w druk. Alik. Szarf- 
fenbergera (1575, and again in 1577). Although designed 
for Unman Catholics, it never received the sanction of 
the pope, because many passages had been taken from 
the Bohemian Bible. It is known as the “Old Cra- 
cow Bible,” and copies are now very rare. The New 
Test, of this version lirst appeared at Cracow in 1556, 
and in the course of time other translations were pub- 
lished. Thus in 1563 the famous Radziwill Bible was 
published at Brzesc, under the title Biblia Swieta , to 
jest , Ksiegi Starego y X omega Zakonu, udasnie z Zydow - 
skieyo, Greckiego, y Lntinskiego , noiro na Polski je t zyk z 
pilnosria y vdernie wylozone. This edition was exe- 
cuted from the original texts by an anonymous trans- 
lator for the Calvinists, and printed at the expense of 
prince Uadziwill; but bis son, who became a Roman 
Catholic, carefully bought up all the copies lie could 


find and burned them. In 1570 the Socinian Bible, 
translated from the original texts by Budnv, a Unita- 
rian clergyman, was published at Nieswicz, in Lithuania, 
and was reprinted at the same place in 1572. Only 
three copies are said to be extant. The authorized Po- 
lish Bible was first printed in Cracow in 1599, with the 
title Biblia, to jest Ksiegi Starego y Xowego testa mento ; 
przez D. Jak. Woyka, w Krakowie, w druk. Lazarzo- 
wey (1599, fob). This edition, having been designed for 
Roman Catholics, was sanctioned by Clement VI II. The 
translation is accounted one of the best of European 
versions of the Vulg., the language being pure and clas- 
sical, though in some places slightly antiquated. It 
was executed by the Jesuit Jacob Wuvck. At present 
a cop}" of this edition is sold at Leipsic for 360 marks, 
or about $90. Two other editions followed in 1740 and 
1771. In 1632 the Dantzic Bible, translated by Paliu- 
rus, Wengierscins, and Micolaievius, from the original 
texts, was sent forth by the Reformed Church at Dant- 
zic, mider the title Biblia Sacra, to jest Ksiegi Starego y 
Xowego Przymierza z Zydowskiego y Greckiego jezyka 
na Polski pilnie y wiernie przetlumaczone ; we Gdansku 
w druk. Andrzeja Hunefelda, This Bible had passed 
through many editions before the British and Foreign 
Bible Society commenced its operations. In 1808 the 
Berlin Bible Society projected an edition of the Polish 
Scriptures. The text selected was that of the Dantzic 
edition. In 1813 the St. Petersburg Bible Society com- 
menced an edition of the New Test, from the text of 
Jacob Wuvck. Other editions from both of the above 
texts were issued by the Berlin society with the aid of 
the British and Foreign Bible Society, which are at 
present in circulation. According to the latest report 
(1878) of the latter society, a revision committee is en- 
gaged to prepare a translation of the New Test, from 
the original, the work to be completed in three years. 

4. Bohemian Version. — It seems that the greater 
part of a Bohemian version of the Scriptures was ex- 
tant at the close of the 14th century. When lluss be- 
gan to preach against the evils of Rome, the several 
portions of Scripture that had been translated into 
Bohemian were for the first time collected together. 
After his martyrdom, in 1415, copies of t his Bible were 
greatly multiplied by his followers, and from A.D. 1410 
to 1488 (when this Bible was first printed), no less than 
four different recensions of the entire Scriptures can 
be distinctly traced, and many more of the New Test. 
From the date of the first publication of this Bible in 
1488 to. the year 1804, fourteen editions of the same 
left the press. Between the years 1579 and 1601, a ver- 
sion of the Scriptures executed by the United (or Mora- 
vian) Brethren from the original texts was published in 
six quarto volumes at Kralitz, in Moravia: Biblij Ceske 
dil prvnTsetsy. Fourteen translators are said to have 
been engaged on this splendid work (the price of which 
is given in a Leipsic catalogue at 510 marks, or about 
$128), and the whole was executed at the expense of 
baron John Zerotimus. This edition is now very scarce, 
most of its copies having been destroyed by the Jesuits. 
As to the translation and the notes accompanying the 
same, Schafarik has remarked that “they contain a 
great deal of that which, two hundred years later, the 
learned coryphrei of exegesis exhibited to the world as 
their own profound discoveries.” A third edition of this 
Kralitz Bible was published in 1613 under the title 
Biblij Scuta, to jest, Knihu , i' niz se vsecka Pjsma S. 
Stareho y Xoveho Zakona obsuhnji ; v nove vvtis- 
tena, a vydanii, which is also remarkable for its high 
price ($90) given in a Leipsic catalogue. In addition 
to the two versions above mentioned, a translation of 
the entire Scriptures from the Vulg. into Bohemian was 
published in, 1804 by ITochazka and Durich, under the 
title Biblij Ceskd . . . podle stareho obecneho Latinskeho 
od scute rjmske Katolicke Cyrkce scdleneho vykladu. 
(Prague, 2 vols.). The design of issuing an edition 
of the Bohemian Bible was entertained by the Berlin 
society as early as 1805. The current of political events, 


SLAVONIC VERSIONS 


805 


SLAVONIC VERSIONS 


however, impeded the progress of the edition, which was 
not completed till 1807. In 1808 an edition of the Bible, 
carefully printed from the text of 1593, was edited by 
Prof. Palkovitch, of Hungary, with a list of obsolete 
words. After one hundred copies had been circulated, 
the British and Foreign Bible Society purchased in 1812 
the whole stock for distribution. Numerous other edi- 
tions have been issued since that time by the same soci- 
ety, and, in spite of the great opposition to the circula- 
tion of the Scriptures among the Bohemians, the latest 
report (1878) of that society shows that up to March 30, 
1878, all in all, 402,090 portions of the Holy Scriptures 
have been disseminated. 

5. Servian Version. — The Servian approximates more 
closely to the Old Slavonic than to any modern idiom, 
and its chief characteristic is the softness of its sound. 
Schafarik,in comparing the various Slavonic languages, 
fancifully but truly said, “Servian song resembles the 
tone of the violin ; Old Slavonic, that of the organ ; Pol- 
ish, that of the guitar. The Old Slavonic, in its psalms, 
sounds like the loud rush of the mountain-stream ; the 
Polish, like the bubbling and sparkling of a fountain; 
and the Servian, like the quiet murmuring of a stream- 
let in the valley.” As to the version into that language, 
it is of a comparatively recent period, since the ancient 
Slavonic version, more intelligible to the Servians than 
to any other members of the Slavonic family, has always 
been in use. We are told that in 1493 a translation of 
the Pentateuch into Servian was printed at Zenta, in 
Herzegovina: but it is probable that the language of 
this version approached nearer to the Old Slavonic than 
to the modern idiom. In 1815 a communication from 
Mr. Kopitar. of Vienna, was addressed to the committee 
of the British and Foreign Bible Society through baron 
De Sacy, of Paris, calling attention to the necessity of 
furnishing Servia with a version intelligible to the mass 
of the people. A Servian, by name Yuc Stephanovitch, 
was engaged to prepare an edition of the New Test, in 
Servian, which was not completed at press until 1824. 
As his translation was written in the common dia- 
lect of the people, many objections were made to it bv 
those who preferred a more elevated style, bearing a 
stricter conformity to the Old Slavonic idioms. Soon 
after the appearance of this version, Prof. Stoikovitch 
was appointed by a committee of the St. Petersburg so- 
ciety to prepare a new version, holding a middle course 
between the common and the more ancient and classical 
phraseology of the language. This edition was printed 
at St. Petersburg. When a second edition of the New 
Test, became necessary for Servia, the committee of 
the British and Foreign Bible Society, having ascer- 
tained that the latter edition proved more acceptable to 
the people, resolved to take Stoikovitch’s text, and is- 
sued an edition of 2000 copies at Leipsic in 1830. which 
was followed by other editions published at different 
times. In 1864 the same society purchased the manu- 
script translation of the Psalms prepared by Prof. Da- 
ni<;i9 y which was published in 1865. From that time on, 
different parts of the Old Test, were published as soon as 
their translation was approved, and in 1869 the Servian 
Bible was completed. As to the merit of this translation, 
we will mention the fact that the bishop of Pakrac, in 
Slavonia, the most talented of the Servian hierarchy, 
and in former days a strong opponent, has written to 
Mr. I)ani<j!iQ, the translator, in the following terms: “I 
am more pleased with your translation of the Bible than 
with any other. I only regret that I cannot express my 
approbation of your glorious work as freely as you de- 
serve and as I wish.” “ Danin’s version,” as the Zagre- 
bagki Katholigke List (a Roman Catholic periodical) 
states, “is a valuable addition to our national literature. 
The clergy of both churches (Greek and Roman) can 
avail themselves of it with advantage; but, although 
the translation is an honest one, neither the Greek Ori- 
ental nor the Catholic Church can approve of it in its 
present state, nor can it be recommended to the people. 
What is to be done in the case? The Greek Oriental 


Church, unless it desire to abide by its custom of using 
the ancient Slavonic and quoting from that, might 
easily bring Danin’s version into conformity with its 
rules. The Catholic Church may do the same. ... It 
is not worthy of praise that, with so many bishops of 
both churches, it should have been left to the British 
and Foreign Bible Society to produce a more popular 
translation than we have had hitherto. If things are 
allowed to remain as they are now, no prohibitions will 
be of any avail. The people will grasp at this transla- 
tion, unless an authentic one be provided for them.” 
That the writer in that journal was correct in his an- 
ticipation may be seen from the fact that up to March 
30, 1878, 132,109 copies of the Servian version had been 
distributed. 

6. Croatian Version. — The Servians and Croatians 
speak the same language, the only difference being in 
the written characters. The Servians belong almost 
without exception to the Greek Church, and use a modi- 
tied Cvri Ilian character, while- the Croats, having re- 
ceived instruction in the Christian religion originally 
from Latin priests, belong in general to the Roman 
Catholic Church, and use the Roman character. A 
translation of the gospels into Croatian, or Dalmato- 
Servian, by Bandulovitch, appeared at Venice in 1613, 
hut never obtained much circulation. In 1640 a Jesuit, 
by name Bartholomew Cassio, prepared a translation of 
the entire Scriptures, but it never was printed. After 
the lapse of another century, Stephen Rosa, a Roman 
Catholic priest, executed a new translation, which he 
forwarded to the pope with the request that it might be 
used in all the churches instead of the Old Slavonic ver- 
sion ; but at the consideration of a committee appoint- 
ed by the pope, the project was formally rejected in 1754. 
At length, in 1832, by the renewed efforts of the Romish 
Church and the zealous aid of the deceased primate of 
Hungary, cardinal Rtidnav, another version was com- 
pleted and permitted to pass through the press. It was 
printed in Roman letters, and was at once adopted hv 
the Roman Cat Indies of Dalmatia and Croatia. This 
version, translated from the Yulg., and rendered con- 
formable in all points to the dogmas of the Romish 
Church, was executed by Katancsich, a Franciscan 
monk and professor. An entire new translation was 
commenced by Mr. Karad^i^, completed by Mr. Dani- 
^i<; in 1868, and published in 1869. In 1877 an edition 
of the Old and New Tests, was commenced by Dr. Su- 
lek, with the orthography revised and obsolete words 
changed. Of this revised edition the New Test, was 
published in 1878, which proves to be more acceptable 
because more intelligible than formerly. Altogether 
the British and Foreign Bible Society had circulated up 
to March 30, 1878, 52,025 copies of the Croatian version. 

7. Slovenian Vei'sion. — Slovenian is a dialect spoken 
in the Austrian provinces of Carinthia, Carniola, and 
Styria, and has been the vernacular of these regions 
since the 5th century, but was never embodied in a 
written form till towards the epoch of the Reformation. 
The first who wrote in this dialect was Truber, a canon 
and curate of several places in Carniola and Carinthia. 
In his endeavors to give to his people the Bible in the 
vernacular, he met with so much discouragement and 
opposition that he was obliged to take refuge with 
Christopher, duke of Wurtemberg. Here he completed 
his translation, the first portion of which was the Gospel 
of Matthew, published at Tubingen in Roman letters in 
1555, while the entire New Test, was completed at press 
in 1557. Dalmatin, who assisted Truber, translated the 
Old Test., and an edition of the entire Scriptures in 
Slovenian was printed under his direction, with the aid 
of Melancthon, in 1584. This edition was designed for 
the Protestants of Carinthia and Carniola, who were 
then very numerous; hut they have been exterminated 
by the Jesuits, and almost all the copies of this edition 
seem to have been destroyed. In 1784 a version of the 
Scriptures for the use of Roman Catholics was printed 
at Laybach, it being executed from the Yulg. by George 


SLAVONIC VERSIONS 


SOG 


Japel. This version has since been reprinted. About 
the year 1817 another version is said to have been pre- 
pared by Havnikar, a Homan Catholic divine at Laybaeh. 
Of late, however, the British and Foreign Bible Society 
has undertaken a new translation of the New Test, into 
this dialed, made directly from the Greek. In 1870 the 
sixt v-sixth Annual Report of that society announced the 
publication of the gospels of Matthew and Mark. Al- 
though the most violent opposition has been awakened 
by the circulation of these gospels, not a word has been 
uttered which could lead to the supposition that the 
translation is in any degree a failure. In 1871 an edi- 
tion of the four gospels and the Acts of the Apostles 
was published, which was followed in 1875 by an edition 
of '2000 copies of the Epistle to the Homans, and in 1877 
by the publication of three additional epistles. Of the 
Old Test, the Psalms are prepared lbr publication. Al- 
together the British and Foreign Bible Society has cir- 
culated in about eight years 23,500 copies of the New 
Test., the best evidence of the timely undertaking of 
this version. 

8. Slovakian Version, — This dialect is spoken in the 
north-west of Hungary. It approximates closely to 
the Servian, but has been greatly influenced by the 
Bohemian, which the Slovaks have adopted as their 
literary language. A translation of the Bible, made by 
the canon G. Palkowic, was printed in 1831. 

9. Bulgarian Version . — The first translation into this 
dialect was commenced in 1820 by the archimandrite 
Theodoseos, and completed in 1822. Only the Gos- 
pel of Matthew was printed at St. Petersburg in 1823. 
In 1827 another translation of the New Test, was com- 
pleted by Saponnoff, of which the four gospels only were 
printed. In 1836 the British and Foreign Bible Society 
set an entirely new translation on foot, and the complete 
New Test, was published at Smyrna in 1840. Other 
editions have since been issued from the London press, 
and up to March 30, 1878, 51,918 copies of the New 
Test, had been distributed. The earnest demand for 
the Word of God evinced by the Bulgarian population 
encouraged the British and Foreign Bible Society to 
take steps for obtaining a translation of the entire Old 
Test., and this work was completed in 1858, under the 
superintendence of Dr. Higgs, of the American mission. 
It was printed at Smyrna, and left the press in Septem- 
ber, 1863. In 1873 the report of the British and For- 
eign Bible Society stated that a new edition of the 
Bulgarian Bible was in course of preparation by the 
Rev. Dr. Dmg, introducing some small corrections in 
order to make the whole work uniform in style and 
phraseology. Since 1875 this new edition has been in 
circulation. 

10. Wendish Version. — The Latin term Venedi, Ger- 
man 1 1 'enden, is the spccitic appellation of a Slavonic 
tribe located in U'pperand Lower Lusatia. Two dialects 
are predominant among them— that of Upper Lusatia 
and that of Lower Lusatia, t lie former resembling more 
the Bohemian, the latter the Polish. At an early peri- 
od attempts seem to have been made to translate por- 
tions of the Bible into Wendish, In 1728 a version of 
the entire Scriptures in Upper Wendish appeared at 
Budissen, or Bautzen, in Upper Lusatia, which was fol- 
lowed by an emended edition in 1742, and a third edi- 
tion in 1797. All these editions strictly follow the Ger- 
man version of Luther. With the aid of the British and 
Foreign Bible Society, the Dresden society published an 
edition of 3000 copies of the version of 1728 in 1817. 
For Lower Lusatia an edition was also published in 
1818. New editions soon followed, and in I860 an edi- 
tion of 5000 copies, carefully revised by the Rev. Mr. 
Tcschinr, was published at Berlin. 

11. Weiidish- Hungarian Version. — A peculiar dialect 
of the Wendish is spoken by about 15,000 Protestant 
Slavonians in the Szala and other districts of Hungary. 
The New Test, has been translated for this race by 
Stephen Kuznieo, or Kugmits, an edition of which has 
been printed by the British and Foreign Bible Society, 


SLAVONIC VERSIONS 

together with a version of the Psalms by the Rev. Mr. 
Trplan. 

12. Lettish or Livonian Version . — The maritime por- 
tion of Livonia bordering on the Baltic, and also part 
of Courland, are occupied by a small nation to whom 
this dialect is vernacular. According to Dalton, their 
number amounted in 1870 to about 900,000 souls, of 
whom 150,000 belong to the Church of Rome and the 
remainder to the Lutheran Church. The Livonians are 
indebted for their version of the Bible to Ernest Gluck, 
dean of the Lutheran Church in Livonia. He was a 
native of Saxony, and bestowed eight years upon this 
version. After it was revised by John Fischer, a Ger- 
man professor of divinity and general superintendent of 
Livonia, it was printed at the command and expense of 
Charles XI in 1689. This edition was so favorably re- 
ceived that a second was soon demanded, and in 1739 u 
second and revised edition, consisting of 9000 copies, was 
printed at Kbnigsberg, the New Test, having previously 
been published at Riga in 1730. In 1815 another impres- 
sion of the New Test., according to the received edition 
of Fischer, was printed by the Courland section of the 
St. Petersburg Bible Society at Mittau, consisting of 
15,000 copies. Numerous copies of the Lettish Testa- 
ment have also within a recent period been distributed 
in the province by the agency of the American Bible 
Society. An edition of 20.500 New Tests, was printed 
in 1854 at the expense of the British and Foreign Bible 
Society. In 1866 another edition, together with the 
Psalms, was issued, under the title Ta Jauna Derriba 
muhsu Kunga Jesus Kidstus jeb Deewa sicehti wahrdi 
Kas pekz ta Kunga Jesus Kristus peedsimsekanas no 
teem swehteem preezas-mahzitftjeem un A pnstuteem irr 
usrnkstiti. The seventieth report (1874) of the British 
and Foreign Bible Society stated that “a revision of 
the Lettish Scriptures is in progress, partly at the ex- 
pense of the Livonian and Courland synods, the prin- 
cipal reviser being Prof. Bielenstein. The committee 
have ordered an edition of the New Test, according to 
this version. It is expected that the Old Test, will also 
be revised shortly.” Altogether, the British and For- 
eign Bible Society had distributed up to March 30, 1878, 
158,750 New Tests, with Psalms. 

13. Lithuanian Version. — The Lithuanian dialect is 
now spoken only by the peasantry, Polish being the lan- 
guage of the middle and upper classes. It is interesting 
that the dialect used by the Protestant Lithuanians dif- 
fers from thatspoken by the Roman Catholic Lithuanians. 
This difference is not to be traced back to any confession- 
al quarrel, but rather to territorial influences — the Lu- 
therans and Reformed living more in the northern part 
(Kovno, Wilna, Courland), the Catholics more in the 
southern part (Poland). Hence Lithuanian proper is 
spoken by the former, while the latter use the Shamaitic 
or Samogitian dialect. See Samogitiax Version. The 
first translation into this dialect was made at the close 
of the 16th century by John Bret kins, of Bammeln, near 
Friedland. and pastor of Labiau. He afterwards became 
pastor of the Lithuanian Church at Kbnigsberg, and 
there lie commenced his version in 1579, which he com- 
pleted in 1590. From the MS., which was deposited in 
the Royal Library at Kbnigsberg, the. New Test, was 
printed at Strasburg in 1700, b}’ order of Frederick I, 
king of Prussia. A new translation was undertaken by 
Rev. John Jacob Quandt, at the order of Frederick Will- 
iam, king of Prussia. The New Test, and the Psalms 
were completed in 1727, and t he entire Bible in 1735, in 
which year it was also printed, with the title Biblin , tai 
esti : Wissas sztrentas rdsztas, seno ir Xaujo Testamento . 
A second edition of the Bible, with Luther’s German text, 
was published at Kbnigsberg in 1755. In 1806 the 
British and Foreign Bible Society was informed that, 
although the province of Lithuania possessed 74 church- 
es and 460 schools, the people were almost destitute of 
the Scriptures. An edition of 3000 copies of the Bible 
was accordingly printed by the society at Kbnigsberg 
iti 1810, which was followed by other issues. The New 


SLEEP 


807 


SLEIDAN 


Test, now in circulation has the title Kaujas Testa- 
mentas mus'u I Vieszpaties ir fszganytojo Iezaus Krista us 
i sietuwiszkaje. Kalba iszwerstas . Up to March 30, 1878, 
the British and Foreign Bible Society had distributed 
13,000 Bibles and 53,111 New Tests, with the Psalms. 

14. Samogitian Version (q.v.). 

See The Bible of Every Land ; Dalton, Das Gebet des 
Herrn in den Sprachen Russlands; but more especially 
the Annual Reports of the British and Foreign Bible 
Society. (B. I’.) 

Sleep (properly Ka^ev^o) is taken in Script- 
ure either (1) for the sleep or repose of the body (Jonah 
i, 5, 6; Psa. iv, 8) or (2) the sleep of the soul, i. e. su- 
pineness, indolence, or stupid inactivity of the wicked 
(Rom. xiii, 11, 12; Eph. v, 14; 1 Cor. xv, 34), whose 
“damnation slumbereth not” (2 Pet. ii, 3); or (3) for 
the sleep of death (Jer. li,39; Dan. xii, 2; John xi, 11 ; 
1 Cor. xv, 51 ; 1 Thess. iv, 13, 14). See Death, 

The early Christians looked upon the death of the 
body as a sleep from which they should awake to in- 
herit glory everlasting. In the Creek word cemetery , 
signifying a sleeping - place, applied by them to the 
tomb, there is a manifest sense of hope and immortal- 
ity, the result of Christianity. In the catacombs of 
Rome, where multitudes of the early Christians rest in 
hope, among the inscriptions may be read, in a Latin 
dress, “Victorina Sleeps;” “ Zoticns laid here to 
Sleep;” “The Sleeping- place of Elpis;” “ Gemella 
sleeps in Peace.” Emblems of their sure and certain 
hope of a resurrection abound; such as a vessel support- 
ing a burning flame, and the palm branch and wreath ; 
signifying victory over death. See Inscriptions. 

The manner of sleeping in Eastern climates is very 
different from that in colder regions. The present 
usages appear to be the same as those of the ancient 
Jews. Beds of feathers are altogether unknown, and 
the Orientals generally lie exceedingly hard. Poor 
people who have no certain home, or when on a jour- 
ney, or employed at a distance from their dwellings, 
sleep on mats, or wrapped in their outer garment, which 
from its importance in this respect was forbidden to be 
retained in pledge over night (D’Arvieux, iii, 257 ; Gen. 
ix, 21, 23; Exod. xxii, 26, 27; Dent, xxiv, 12, 13). 
Under peculiar circumstances a stone covered with some 
folded cloth or piece of dress is often used for a pillow 
(Gen. xxviii, 11). The wealthy classes sleep on mat- 
tresses stuffed with wool or cotton, which are often no 
other than a quilt thickly padded, and are used either 
singly or one or more placed upon each other. A sim- 
ilar quilt of finer materials forms the coverlet in winter, 
and in summer a thin blanket suffices; but sometimes 
the convenient outer garment is used for the latter pur- 
pose, and was so among the Jews, as we learn from 1 
Sam. xix, 13, where Michal covers with a cloak or man- 
tle (corresponding to the modern abba or hyp) the im- 
age which was to represent her husband sleeping. See 
Bolster. The difference of use here is, that the poor 
wrap themselves up in it, and it forms their whole bed ; 
whereas the rich employ it as a covering only. A pil- 
low is placed upon the mattress, and over both, in good 
houses, is laid a sheet. The bolsters are more valuable 
than the mattresses, both in respect of their coverings 
and material. They are usually stuffed with cotton or 
other soft substance (Ezek. xiii, 18, 20) ; but instead 
of these, skins of goats or sheep appear to have been 
formerly used by the poorer classes and in the hardier 
ages. These skins were probably sewed up in the nat- 
ural shape, like water-skins, and stuffed with chaff or 
wool (l Sam. xix, 13). See Pillow. 

It is evident that the ancient Jew, like the modern 
inhabitants of their land, seldom or never changed their 
dress on going to bed. Most people only divest them- 
selves of their outer garment, and loosen the ligatures 
of the waist, excepting during the hottest part of the 
summer, when they sleep almost entirely unclad. See 
Couch. 


As the floors of the better sort of Eastern houses 
were of tile or plaster and were covered with mats or 
carpets, and as shoes were not worn on them, and the 
feet were washed, and no filthy habits of modern times 
prevailed, their floors seldom required sweeping or 
scrubbing ; so that frequently the thick, coarse mat- 
tresses were thrown down at night to sleep upon 
(llackett, I llust. of Script. p. 104). See Bedchamber. 
The poorer people used skins for the same purpose, and 
frequently they had but a simple mattress, or a cloak, 
or a blanket, which probably also answered to wrap 
themselves in by day (Exod. xxii, 26, 27 ; Dent, xxiv, 
12, 13). Hence it was easy for the persons whom Jesus 
healed “to take up their beds and walk” (Matt, ix, 6; 
Mark ii, 9; John v, 8). See Bedstead. 

To be tormented in bed, where men seek rest, is a 
symbol of great tribulation and anguish of body and 
mind (Job xxxiii, 19 ; Psa. xli, 3 ; Isa. xxviii, 20). See 
Bed. 

Sleeper, Joseph Jonathan, a minister of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church, was born in Vincenttown, 
N. J., Jan. 24, 1793, and was converted Aug. 31, 1812, 
uniting with the Methodist Episcopal Church in Bur- 
lington. In 1823 he received a local preacher’s license, 
and in 1837 was admitted into the New Jersey Con- 
ference. In 1857 he took a supernumerary relation, in 
which, and that of a superannuate, he remained until 
his death in Pemberton, N. J., Feb. 27, 1873. See Min- 
utes of Annual Conferences , 1873, p. 25. 

Sleepers, Seven, The. See Seven Sleepers. 

Sleidan (originally Philippson), Johann, a celebrat- 
ed historian of the Reformation in Germany, and an actor 
in the scenes he describes, was born in 1506 at Schleiden, 
in the present governmental district of Aix-la-Chapelle, 
Prussia, and educated at Liege and Cologne. At the age 
of eighteen he became private tutor to a son of count 
Mandersheid, in whose domain the village of Schleiden 
was situated, and in that capacity visited France, where 
he devoted himself to the study of jurisprudence and 
became licentiate of that faculty (at Orleans, 1525). 
Through the influence of cardinal John du Bellay of 
Paris, Sleidan was appointed by king Francis I inter- 
preter to the embassy which attended the diet at 11a- 
genau in 1540; and in the following year the landgrave 
Philip of Ilesse secured his appointment as messenger, 
interpreter, and historiographer to the Smalcald League 
(see Von Rummel, Philipp d.Grossmiithige, etc. [Giessen, 
1830], ii, 439). It is evident, therefore, that Sleidan 
was by that time an adherent of the evangelical faith; 
and he soon afterwards proved himself a determined 
opponent of the Church of Rome by publishing two 
addresses, the one to the princes of the empire and 
the other to the emperor ( Orationes Dine [Argent. 
1544, and in German, 1567]). He also left the ser- 
vice of king Francis, and established his home per- 
manently at Strasburg. In 1545 he published a Latin 
version of Philip Comines’ history of Louis XI and of 
the duke Charles of Burgundy; and in the same year 
he was instructed by the Smalcald League “to write a 
complete history of the renewed religion.” He there- 
fore began his famous work De Statu Relig. et Reipubl. 
Carolo Quinto Ccesare Commentarii. He also, in that 
year, accompanied the Protestant embassy to England, 
in order to negotiate a peace with France, and on his 
return in 1546 he married Jola von Nidbruck, who bore 
him three daughters and lived with him in wedlock to 
her death, in 1555. In 1548 he published a Latin edi- 
tion of Comines’ Charles VIII, and in 1550 a Smnma 
Doctr. Platon, de Republica et Legibns (Argent.), and a 
Latin edition of De Sevsel on the French State and the 
duty of kings. lie attended the Council of Trent in 
1551 in the capacity of representative of the city of 
Strasburg, but was not received, and in 1552 he went 
to the camp of king Francis, near Saverne, for the pur- 
pose of inducing the king to modify his demands for 
the support of the army. In 1554 he visited the Con- 


SLEIPNER 


808 


SLIME 


vent of Nanmburg as the ambassador of Strasburg (Salig, 
f/ht. d. Augsb. Con/, i, 082; ii, 1043). The somewhat 
noted work Be Quatuor Summit Imperils Libri Tres 
(Argent. 1557) was probably written in the last year 
of the author’s life. lie died in 1556. Sleidan was 
characterized by frankness and a love for the truth. 
His style as an author was natural and easy, his Latin 
classical, his sources well chosen. 11 is works accord- 
ingly commanded attention at an early period, and will 
always be important for the history of the Reformation. 
They were published in numerous editions, that of 1785 
and 1786 (Frankfort-on-the-Main) being the best in 
German. Sec Dr. Theod. Paur, J. Sicilian's Comment, 
iiber d. Regierungszeit Karls F, etc. (Leips. 1843), where 
a rich literature relating to Sleidan is given. — Herzog, 
Ileal- Encyklop. s. v. 

Sleipner, in Norse mythology, was the famous 
eight-footed horse of Odin. See Svapilfar. 

Sleipnisfraendi, in Norse mythology, was a sur- 
name of Lake , who assumed the form of a marc and en- 
ticed the steed Svadilfar away from his lord, afterwards 
giving birth to the eight-footed horse Sleipner (q. v.). 

Slicer, IIenuy, D.D., a distinguished minister of 
the Methodist Episcopal Church, was born in Annapo- 
lis, Md., March 27, 1801. He joined the Church in 
Baltimore in his seventeenth year, and was licensed to 
preach in his twentieth year. He was received into 
the Baltimore Conference in 1822, and his appointments 
(from 1822 to 1874) may be thus classified: seven years 
on circuits; twenty years in stations; two years agent 
of the Metropolitan Church, Washington, D. C.; eight 
years chaplain of the Seamen’s Union Bethel, Balti- 
more; and fifteen years as presiding elder. He was a 
member of eight General Conferences — namely, 1832, 
1840, 1844, 1852, 1856, 1860, 1868, 1872. When the East 
Baltimore Conference was formed he became a member 
of it, and continued such until 1868, when he returned 
to the Baltimore Conference, lie died April 23, 1874. 
Mr. Sheer was a man of vigorous intellect, self-reliant 
and indefatigable. His ministry is an instructive ex- 
ample of devotion to primitive Methodist usage, of 
sympathy with judicious changes, and of punctilious 
discharge of official duties. See Minutes of Annual 
Conferences , 1875, p. 16. 

Slidrugtanni, in Norse mythology, was a sur- 
name of the golden boar, Guilin Bursti , made by the 
dwarfs. 

Slidur, in Norse mythology, was one of the Eli- 
vogs, rivers which flow from the well Hoergelmer, 

Slime is the constant rendering in the A. V. of the 
Heb. "i -H, chemdr , the hommar of the Arabs, translated 
da<pa\roQ by the Sept., and bitumen in the Vulg. That 
our translators understood by this word the substance 
now known as bitumen is evident from the following 
passages in Holland’s Pliny (ed. 1634): “The very 
clammy slime Bitumen, which at certainc times of the 
yere tloteth and swimmeth upon the lake of Sodom, 
called Asplialtitcs in Jury” (vii, 15; vol. i, p. 163). 
“The Bitumen whereof I speake is in some places in 
manner of a muddy slime; in others, very earth or min- 
eral 1” (xxxv, 15 ; vol. ii, p. 557). 

The three instances in which it is mentioned in the 
Old 'lest, are abundantly illustrated by travellers and 
historians, ancient and modern. It is first spoken of 
as used for cement bv the builders in tbe plain of Shi- 
nar, or Babylonia (Gen. xi, 3). The bitumen pits in the 
vale of JSiddim arc mentioned in the ancient fragment 
of Canaanitish history (xiv, 10); and the ark of papy- 
rus in which Moses was placed was made impervious to 
water by a coating of bitumen and pitch (Exod. ii, 3). 

Herodotus (i, 17D) tells ns of the bitumen found at 
Is, a town of Babylonia, eight days’ journey from Baby- 
lon. The captive Eretrians (Herod, vi, 110) were sent 
by Darius to collect asplialtum, salt, and oil at Arderic- 
ca, a place two hundred and ten stadia from Susa, in 


the district of Cissia. The town of Is was situated on 
a river or small stream of the same name which flow- 
ed into the Euphrates and carried down with it the 
lumps of bitumen which were used in the building of 
Babylon. It is probably the bitumen springs of Is 
which are described in Strabo (xvi, 743). Eratosthe- 
nes, whom he quotes, says that the liquid bitumen, 
which is called naphtha, is found in Susiana, and the 
dry in Babylonia. Of the latter there is a spring near 
the Euphrates, and when the river is flooded by the 
melting of the snow the spring also is filled and over- 
flows into the river. The masses of bitumen thus pro- 
duced are fit for buildings which are made of baked 
brick. Diodorus Siculus (ii, 12) speaks of the abun- 
dance of bitumen in Babylonia. It proceeds from a 
spring, and is gathered by the people of the country, 
not only for building, but, when dry, for fuel instead of 
wood. Ammianus Marcellinns (xxiii, 6, 23) tells us 
that Babylon was built with bitumen by Semiramis 
(comp. Pliny, xxxv, 51 ; Berosus, quoted by Josephus, 
A nt. x, 1 1, 1 ; Contra A pion. i, 19 ; Arrian, Exp. .4 /. vii, 
17, 1, etc.). The town of Is, mentioned by Herodotus, 
is, without doubt, the modern Hit, on the west, or right, 
bank of the Euphrates, and four days’ journey north- 
west, or rather west-northwest, of Bagdad (Sir R. Ker 
Porter, Trav. ii, 301, ed. 1822). The principal bitumen 
pit at Hit, says Mr. Rich {Memoir on the Ruins of Bab- 
ylon, p. 63, ed. 1815), has two sources, and is divided by 
a wall in the centre, on one side of which the bitumen 
bubbles up, and on the other the oil of naphtha. Sir 
R. K. Porter (ii, 315) observed “ that bitumen was chief- 
ly confined, by the Chalda?an builders, to the founda- 
tions and lower parts of their edifices, for the purpose 
of preventing the ill effects of water.” “With regard 
to the use of bitumen,” he adds, “I saw no vestige of 
it whatever on any remnant of building on the higher 
ascents, and therefore drier regions.” This view is in- 
directly confirmed by Mr. Rich, who says that the te- 
nacity of bitumen bears no proportion to that of mor- 
tar. The use of bitumen appears to have been con- 
fined to the Babylonians, for at Nineveh, Mr. Layard 
observes {Kin. and Bab. ii, 278), “ Bitumen and reeds 
were not employed to cement the layers of bricks as 
at Babylon; although both materials are to be found 
in abundance in the immediate vicinity of the city.” 
At Nimrud bitumen was found under a pavement (ibid. 
i, 29), and “the sculpture rested simply upon the plat- 
form of sun-dried bricks without any other substructure, 
a mere layer of bitumen about an inch thick having 
been placed under the plinth” (ibid, p. 208). In his de- 
scription of the firing of the bitumen pits at Nimrihl 
by his Arabs, Mr. Layard falls into the language of our 
translators. “ Tongues of flame and jets of gas, driven 
from the burning pit, shot through the murky canopy. 
As the fire brightened, a thousand fantastic forms of 
light played amid the smoke. To break the cindered 
crust and to bring fresh slime to the surface, the Arabs 
throw large stones into the spring. ... In an hour 
the bitumen was exhausted for the time, the dense 
smoke gradually died away, and the pale light of the 
moon again shone over the black slime pits ” (ibid. p. 
202). Sec Bauvuon. 

The bitumen of the Dead Sea is described by Strabo, 
Josephus, and- 1 ’liny. Strabo (xvi, 763) gives an ac- 
count of the volcanic action by which the bottom of 
the sea was disturbed and the bitumen thrown to the 
surface. It was at first liquefied by the heat, and then 
changed into a thick, viscous substance by the cold 
water of the sea, on the surface of which it floated in 
lumps (fiibXot). These lumps arc described by Jose- 
phus ( War, iv, 8, 4) as of the size and shape of a head- 
less ox (comp. IMiny, vii, 13), 'Pile semi-liquid kind 
of bitumen is that which Plinv says is found in the 
Dead Sea, the earthy in Syria about Sidon. Liquid 
bitumen, such as the Zacynthian, the Babylonian, and 
the Apolloniatic, he adds, is known by the Greeks by 
the name of pis-nsphaltum (comp, Exod. ii, 3, Sept.). 


SLING 


SLITH 


809 


He tells ns, moreover, that it was used for cement, and 
that bronze vessels and statues and the heads of nails 
were covered with it (Pliny, xxxv,51). The bitumen 
pits by the Dead Sea are described by the monk Bro- 
cardus ( Descr. Terr. Sand. c. 7, in Ugolino, vi, 1044). 
The Arabs of the neighborhood have perpetuated the 
story of its formation as given by Strabo. “They say 
that it forms on the rocks in the depths of the sea, 
and by earthquakes or other submarine concussions is 
broken off in large masses and rises to the surface” 
(Thomson, Land and Book, i, 336). They told Burek- 
hardt a similar tale. “The asphaltum, hommar, which 
is collected by the Arabs of the western shore is said to 
come from a mountain which blocks up the passage 
along the eastern Ghor, and which is situated at about 
two hours south of Wady Mojeb. The Arabs pretend 
that it oozes up from tissures in the cliff, and collects in 
large pieces on the rock below, where the mass gradu- 
ally increases and hardens until it is rent asunder by 
the heat of the sun with a loud explosion, and, falling 
into the sea, is carried by the waves in considerable 
quantities to the opposite shores” (Trav. in Syria, p. 
3 ( J4). Dr. Thomson tells us that the Arabs still call 
these pits by the name biuret kummar, wdiich strikingly 
resembles the Heb. beeroth chemar of Gen. xiv, 10 (lit 
sup.). See Salt Sea. 

Strabo says that in Babylonia boats were made of 
wicker-work and then covered with bitumen to keep 
out the water (xvi, 743). In the same way the ark of 
rushes or papyrus in which Moses was placed was plas- 
tered over with a mixture of bitumen and pitch or tar. 
Dr. Thomson remarks (p. 224): “This is doubly inter- 
esting, as it reveals the process by which they prepared 
the bitumen. The mineral, as found in this country, 
melts readily enough by itself; but then, when cold, it 
is as brittle as glass. It must be mixed with tar while 
melting, and in that way forms a hard, glossy wax per- 
fectly impervious to water.” We know from Strabo 
(xvi, 764) that the Egyptians used the bitumen of the 
Dead Sea in the process of embalming, and Pliny (vi, 
35) mentions a spring of the same mineral at Corambis 
in Ethiopia. — Smith. See Bitumen. 


Sling (v\p, kela ; Sept . <j<ptv66ini ; Ynl g.fitnda), 
an implement which lias in all ages been the favorite 
weapon of the shepherds of Syria (1 Sam. xvii, 40), and 
hence was adopted by the Israelitish army as the most 
effective weapon for light-armed troops. The Benja- 
mites were particularly expert in their use of it; even 
the left-handed could “sling stones at a hair and not 
miss” (Judg. xx, 16; comp. 1 Chron. xii, 2). Accord- 
ing to the Targum of Jonathan and the Syriac, it was 
the weapon of the Cherethites and Pelethitcs. It was 
advantageously used in attacking and defending towns 
(2 Kings iii, 25; Josephus, War, iv, 1, 3), and in skir- 
mishing (ibid, ii, 17,5). Other eastern nations availed 
themselves of it, as the Syrians (1 Maec. ix, II), who 
also invented a kind of artificial sling (1 Macc. vi, 51), 
the Assyrians (Judg. ix, 
7 ; Layard, Xin. and Bab. 
ii, 344), the Egyptians 
(Wilkinson, i, 357), and 
the Persians (Xenophon, 
A nab. iii, 3, 18). The 
construction of the weap- 
on hardly needs descrip- 
tion. It consisted of a 
couple of strings of sin- 
ew, or some fibrous sub- 
stance, attached to a 
leathern receptacle for 
the stone in the centre, 
which was termed the 
kaph (T3), i. e. pan (1 
Oo Sam. xxv, 29). The 
£2x sling was swung once or 
Ancient Assyrian Slinger. twice round the head, 




and the stone was then discharged by letting go one of 
the strings. Sling-stones (??£"*: ^>t) were selected for 
their smoothness (I Sam. xvii, 40), and were recognised 
as one of the ordinary munitions of war (2 Chron. xxvi, 
14). In action the stones were either carried in a bag 
round the neck (1 Sam. xvii, 40), or were heaped up at 
the feet of the combatant (Lavard, Xin. and Bab. ii, 344). 
The violence with which the stone was projected sup- 
plied a vivid image of sudden and forcible removal (Jer. 
x, 18). The rapidity of the whirling motion of the sling 
round the head was emblematic of inquietude (1 Sam. 
xxv, 29, “ the souls of thine enemies shall he whirl 
round in the midst of the pan of a sling”), while the 
sling-stones represented the enemies of God (Zeeh.ix, 15, 
“ they shall tread under foot the sling-stones”). The 
term muryemak (n£}“]'2) in Prov. xxvi, 8 is of doubtful 
meaning. Gesenius ( Thesaur . p. 1263) explains of “a 
heap of stones,” as in the margin of the A. V., the Sept.; 
Ewaldand Hitzig,of “a sling,” as in the text. The sim- 
ple weapon with which David killed the giant Philistine 
was the natural attendant of a shepherd, whose duty it 
was to keep at a distance and drive off anything attempt- 
ing to molest his flocks. The sling would be familiar to 
all shepherds and keepers of sheep, and, therefore, the 
bold metaphor of Abigail has a natural propriety in the 
mouth (jf the wife of a man whose possessions in flocks 
were so great as those of Nabal (1 Sam. xxv, 29). 

Later in the monarchy, slingers formed part of the 
regular army (2 Kings iii, 25), though it would seem 
that the slings there mentioned must have been more 
pon(k*rous than in earlier times, and that those which 
could break down the fortifications of so strong a place 
as Kir- haraseth must have been more like the engines 
which king Uzziali contrived to “shoot great stones” 
(2 Chron. xxvi, 15). In vcr. 14 of the same chapter 
we find an allusion (concealed in the A. Y. by two in- 
terpolated words) to stones specially adapted for slings, 
“ Uzziah prepared throughout all the host shields and 
spears . . . bows and sling-stones.” — Smith. 

Shepherd life in Syria and Arabia affords peculiar fa- 
cilities for the cultivation and acquirement of this art; 
and Burckhardt notes of the modern Bedawin that “the 
shepherds who tend flocks at a distance from the camp 
are armed with short lances, and also with slings, which 
they use very dexterously in throwing stones as large 
as a man’s fist” (Xotes on the Bed. i, 57). Thomson 
speaks of the extraordinary skill of the lads of Ilasbeya 
with this weapon ( Land and Book , ii, 372). In various 
other countries the use of the sling was much practiced 
in aneient times; the inhabitants of the Balea res (Ma- 
jorca and Minorca) were particularly distinguished for 
it. See Akmoh. 

Slith, in Norse mythology, was one of the thirty- 
seven rivers of Hell, which rise in the well Hoergelmer, 
and flow around Niflheim. 


SLOANE CODEX 


810 


SLUYTER 


Sloane Codex (Ileb.). Thi9 codex, formerly 
known as Kenn. 120, is now designated as Sloane 4708. 
It originally belonged to Da Costa of Amsterdam, and 
is now in the library of the British Museum. It con- 
tains the later prophets. It has no Masoretic notes; 
but the lveri, vowels, and accents have been added by 
a later hand. According to Hcidenheim, this codex 
was written between the Gth and 8th centuries; but 
Strack says, “Ilunc codicem esse antiquum libenter 
concedimjis, minime vero plus undecim siecula eum ha- 
bere demonstratum cst, cum e sola literarnm ligura de 
librornm llebraicornm ictate accurate concludi nequeat.” 
Whatever may be the age, the Sloane codex contains 
a great mam r various readings as well as omissions. 
Thus, e. g., we notice : 

Isaiah i, 30, mbs', V. D. H. ftbv. 
ii, 6, nV?" >31, V.D. II. 

Hi, 6, "p-p, V. D. H. ""P. 

in, is, mm mim, v. d. n. mo\ 
iv, 4, v. d. ii. 

vi, 5, N*2I3 ZV “irZT omitted. 

vii, 14, lH3n omitted, 

xi, 11, omitted. 

xvii, io, v. d. ii. C'aisra. 

T 

xx, 1, "pSnO omitted, 
xxv, 11, nnrtt omitted, 
xxvii, 0, Spm omitted. 

Ii, IS, mbi TL'X, V. D. II. 
liii, 11, PIX"P and omitted, 

ivi, 2, lbbrra rair "navr omitted. 

] vi, 7, r'Z omitted. 

Ivi, 11, IST sb l-TCm PS* omitted. 

ivii, 7, aiy, v. d. h. rnair. 

3 vii, 15, Zb omitted. 

Ivii, 18, *lb omitted, 
lx, 10, -pin-ur“' omitted, 
lx, 10, "b omitted. 

Ixiv, 8, m omitted. 

Ixv, 3, TX omitted, 
lxv, S, omitted. 

These readings we have taken from Ileidenheim’s 
Deutsche Vierteljahrsschrift fur englisch - theolor/ische. 
For sell ung nnd Kritik , where in i, 208-274, 308-405, 
553-502; ii, 73-70, the variations and omissions of this 
codex are noted down. See also Strack, Prolegomena 
Critica (Lips. 1873), p. 47. (lb I*.) 

Sloss, James Lo.no, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in tbe parish of liellaghy, County of Derry, Ire- 
land, March 13. 1701. lie enjoyed good opportunities 
for early education in his native country, emigrated to 
the United States with his father’s family in 1803, and 
settled in Lexington, Va. lie was apprenticed to the 
printer’s trade for seven years; after this he pursued his 
studies under private instruction, at the same time teach- 
ing as an assistant, and completed his preparatory course 
for the ministry under the care of Lev. Dr. Moses Wad- 
del, of Willingtou, S. C. lie was licensed by the Pres- 
bytery of South Carolina Nov. 18, 1817; the next day 
received a commission as a missionary through portions 
of (ieorgia and the newly formed settlements of thethen 
Alabama Territory; and was ordained Oct. 3, 1818, 
Subsequently be became pastor of the following charges : 
The Church at St. Stephens, Clarke Co., Ala., Ibr three 
years; the three churches of Selma, Pleasant Valley, 
and Cahawba, three years; at Somerville, Morgan Co., 
six years; at Florence, Lauderdale Co., eleven years, 
where he died, Aug. 5, 1841. Mr. Sloss was a man of 
fine intellectual abilities — every exercise of his mind 


evincing a clear, logical, and discriminating judgment. 
As a pastor he had few, if any, equals, being always 
intensely devoted to the spiritual interests of his peo- 
ple. See Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit , iv, 581. 
(J.L.S.) 

Slovenian Version. Slovenian is a South-Sla- 
vic dialect, spoken in parts of Styria, and in Carinthia, 
Carniola, Croatia, etc. In all the southern provinces of 
the present empire of Austria, the doctrines of the Ref- 
ormation made rapid progress in the beginning of the 
lfith century. In 1599, according to a letter written by 
a Romish bishop to pope Paul V, only one fifth of the 
population of the capital city of Lay bach was left to the 
Burnish Church, and that small portion consisted main- 
ly of the poor and ignorant. In 1572 primus Truber, 
once a Romish priest, afterwards a minister of the Gos- 
pel, completed the first translation of the New Test, into 
the Slovenian, which was published in 1577. In 1584 
Truber’s successor, George Dalmatin, published at Wit- 
tenberg the first entire Slovenian Bible, based on Lu- 
ther’s translation. In 1G28 the empress of Austria per- 
emptorily ordered “all non -Catholic gentlemen and 
farmers, and all nobles (male and female),” to leave the 
realm within the space of one year. This was the end 
of the Reformation in those parts, and Rome succeeded 
in putting out the light of the glorious Gospel. The 
Slovenian language, never fully developed, but since 
then greatly neglected, has of late years revived in a 
remarkable degree. One sign of this revival appears 
in the translation into this dialect of the gospels of 
Matthew and Mark, which were printed in 18G9. The 
Roman Catholic priests, who for the last two hundred 
years have had things all their own way, did certainly 
not look with a kindly eye on this small book; but the 
success which attended the circulation of these two gos- 
pels encouraged the committee of the British and For- 
eign Bible Society to go on, and subsequently, in 1871, 
the remaining gospels and the Acts of the Apostles, 
forming together the first volume of the New Test., 
were added. As to the translation itself, and its effect, 
the sixty-seventh Annual Report (1871) of the British 
and Foreign Bible Society states: “It would be idle to 
set up a plea for perfection in a first translation ; but the 
fruits of honest and competent criticism will be avail- 
able for improvement in subsequent editions, which, 
it is hoped, may be speedily in . demand. The appear- 
ance of the version has produced some consternation, 
and it is regarded as an uncomfortable sign that, after 
the Bible bad been successfully suppressed for ages, it 
should again emerge in the J9th century clothed in the 
vernacular of the Slovenian race.” But the consterna- 
tion thus produced seems to be without any effect upon 
the arduous and important task of rekindling this lamp 
of life; for not only is the New Test, almost complete, 
but the Psalms also are in preparation. That there is 
a great demand for this translation may be seen from 
tbe fact that from the publication of the parts of the 
New Test, up to March 30, 1878, 23,500’ copies had 
been disposed of. For this version comp, the Annual 
Reports of the British and Foreign Bible Society since 
18G9. (B. P.) See Slavonic Versions. 

Sluice is in Isa. xix, 10 the improper rendering of 
the A. V. for "Cb, seker, hire (“reward,” in Prov. xi, 
18). 

Sluyter, Richard, a minister of the Reformed 
(Dutch) Church, born at Nassau, N. V., 1787. lie grad- 
uated at the New Brunswick Theological Seminary in 
1815, and became pastor at Claverack, Columbia Co., 
N. Y., from 181G to 1813, when he died, lie served also, 
in connection with his Claverack Church, one or two 
neighboring churches for some years, lie was eminent 
ns an apostolic spirit, and for the numerous remarkable 
revivals that blessed his labors. In some of these “ the 
converts were numbered by hundreds, lie wore himself 
out in the work. His memory, as a man of God, is still 
fresh in the hearts of the people of all that region, which 


SMALBROKE 


811 


SMALTZ 


was spiritually transformed by his labors.” He had 11 a 
fine, ami even martial, appearance, great conversational 
powers, energy, hopefulness, courage, simplicity, and gen- 
erosity. He was an unusually excellent singer. He was 
incessantly visiting his people and talking about their 
souls. He was active, self-denying, in the establishment 
of new churches, in whole or part formed out of his own. 
His death-bed was a scene of great spiritual beauty and 
power.” His Memoir was prepared by Rev. II. O. Currie, 
D.D. See Corwin, Manual, p. 209. (\V. J. li. T.) 

Smalbroke, Richard, an English prelate, was 
born at Birmingham in 1072, and graduated from Mag- 
dalen College, Oxford, in 1094. He took his degree of 
Bachelor of Divinity in 1706 and of Doctor of Divinity 
in 1708. He was chaplain to archbishop Tenison, treas- 
urer of Llandaff in 1712, and afterwards prebendary of 
Hereford. He was consecrated bishop of St. David’s 
Feb. 2, 1723; whence he was translated to the see of 
Lichfield and Coventry Feb. 20, 1730. He died Dec. 
22, 1749. He published, Inquiry into the Authority of 
the Primitive Complutensian Edition of the New Test . 
(Lond. 1722, 8 vo): — Refections on Mr, Whiston's Con- 
duct: — and Animadversions on the New A idan Reproved. 
1 1 is great work was A Vindication of our Saviour's 
Miracles (ibid. 1728, 8vo): — also Sermons and Charges 
(ibid. 1700-32). See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. 
Authors, s. v. ; Darling, Cyclop. Bihliog. s. v. ; Lardner, 
1 1 r or ks ; London Gent. Mag. lxxv; Nichol, Lit. Anec .; 
Shaw, Staffordshire ; Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Smalcald, Articles of. See Articles of 

SCIIMALKALD. 

Smalcald, League of. See Scioialkald, 

League of. 

Small, Arthur M., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Charleston, S. C. He was converted in early 
life, and, alter an academical training in his native city, 
he graduated at Oglethorpe University, Milledgeville, 
Ga.; studied theology in the Columbia Seminary, S. C. ; 
was licensed by Charleston Presbytery in 1854, and or- 
dained by Harmony Presbytery in 1857. lie preached 
for some time at Liberty llill, S. C., then two years at 
Tuskegee, Ala., and finally at Selma, in the bounds of 
South Alabama Presbytery. During one of the raids 
made by portions of the United States army in the sup- 
pression of the rebellion, the town of Selma was at- 
tacked, and, with others, 51 r. Small rallied to its defence, 
and was instantly killed in the fight, on April 2, 1865. 
Mr. Small’s talents were of a high order. As a preacher 
of the Gospel, he was universally and greatly admired, 
always aiming to present its plain, simple truths with 
great distinctness. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac, 
1866, p. 362. (J. L. S.) 

Small, Samuel M , a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born a slave in Maryland about 
1803. lie was converted when twenty-six, and in 1836 
was taken to New Orleans, where, in 1850, he was li- 
censed to preach by the Rev. (now bishop) N. ,H. 
M‘Tveire, of the Methodist Episcopal Church, South. 
During the war he was removed to Alabama, but re- 
turned to New Orleans when peace was restored, lie 
was sent by the Rev. ,T. P. Newman as a missionary 
among the freedmen, and upon the organization of the 
Louisiana Conference in 1865 was admitted on trial. In 
1871 he was granted a superannuated relation, and set- 
tled in East Feliciana Parish, where he died, Oct. 12, 1873. 
See Minutes of Animal Conferences, 1873, p. 16; Simp- 
son, Cyclop . of Methodism , s. v. 

Smalley, Elam, D.D., a Presbyterian divine, was 
born in Dartmouth, Mass., Oct. 27, 1805. He graduated 
at Brown University, Providence, R. I., studied theology 
privately, was licensed by the Mention Congregational 
Association of Massachusetts, and ordained, June 17, 
1829, as colleague with the Rev. Dr. Emmons, over the 
Church at Franklin, Mass. In 1838 he became pastor 
of Union Church, Worcester, Mass., and in 1854 of the 


Second Presbyterian Church, Troy, N. Y., as successor 
of the Rev. Charles Wadsworth. l ie died July 30, 1858. 
Dr. Smalley was a man of decided piety and ability, and 
was the author of The Worcester Pulpit, with Notices 
Historical and Biographical (Boston, 12m<>). See Wil- 
son, Presb . Hist. Almanac, 1860, p. 78; Allibone, Diet, 
of Brit, and Amer. .4 uthors , s. v. (J. L. S.) 

Smalley, Henry, a Baptist preacher, was born in 
Piscatawav, N. J., Oct. 23, 1765, and was admitted by 
baptism to the communion of the Baptist Church there 
when about sixteen years old. lie w-as educated first 
at Queen’s College, New Brunswick, and then at Prince- 
ton, where he graduated in 1786. He was licensed to 
preach in 1788, and in 1790 he began to preach for the 
Cohansey Baptist Church, Cumberland Co., N. J., and 
on Nov. 8 of the same year was ordained its pastor. In 
this charge he continued forty-nine years, until removed 
by death, Feb. 11, 1839, See Sprague, Annals of the 
Amer. Pulpit, vi, 281. 

Smalley, John, D.D., a Congregational minister, 
was born in Lebanon, Conn., June 4, 1734; graduated 
at Yale College in 1756; studied theology under the 
Rev. Joseph Bellamy; was ordained pastor of the New 
Britain Society, Berlin, Conn., April 19, 1758; and died 
June 1, 1820. He was a distinguished theologian, and 
a faithful and successful preacher, lie published, Ser- 
mons on Natural and Moral Inability (1769): — Eternal 
Salvation not a Just Debt (1785), against John Murray : 
— Condo ad Clerum: At the Election (1800): — Sermons 
on Connected Subjects (1803): — Sermons (1814). See 
Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit , i, 559. 

Smalridge, George, a learned English prelate, 
was born in Lichfield, Staffordshire, in 1663. He was 
sent to Westminster School in 1678 by Ashmole, the 
celebrated antiquary. In 51 ay, 1682, be was elected to 
Christ Church, Oxford, where, having taken his degree 
of B.A., he became tutor. In July, 1689, he entered 
holy orders, and about 1692 was appointed minister of 
Tot bill Fields Chapel. In 1693 he was collated to a 
prebend in the cathedral of Lichfield. He was chosen 
lecturer of St. Dunstan’s in the West, London, in 1708, 
which he resigned in 1711, when he was made one of 
the canons of Christ Church, and succeeded Atterburv 
in the deanery of Carlisle, as he did likewise in the 
deanery of Christ Church in 1713. In 1714 lie was 
consecrated bishop of Bristol, and queen Anne soon after 
appointed him her lord-almoner, in which capacity he 
for some time served her successor, George I. Refusing 
to sign the declaration which the archbishop of Canter- 
bury and the bishops in and about London had drawn 
up against the rebellion in 1715, he was removed from 
that place. He soon regained the favor of the princess 
of Wales, afterwards queen Caroline, who was his patron 
until his death, in 1719. He published, Animadversions 
on the Eight Theses, etc., in 1687, having for its full title 
Church Government, Part U, a Relation of the English 
Reformation, etc.: — Actio Davisiana (1689, 4to): — 
Twelve Sermons (1717, 8vo). Also Sixty Sermons pub- 
lished by his widow (1726 fol. ; 2d cd. 1727; new ed. 
Oxf. 1832, 2 vols. 8vo). See Allibone. Diet, of Brit, 
and A mer. A uthors, s. v. ; Darling, Cyclop. Bibliog. s. v. ; 
Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Smaltz, John II., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Philadelphia, Pa., Feb. 17, 1793. lie enjoyed 
the advantages of an early religious training; gradu- 
ated at Rutgers College, New Brunswick, N. J.; studied 
theology in the seminary in that place; was licensed 
by the Classis of New Brunswick, 51ay 27, 1819; en- 
tered upon his work as a missionary in New Jersey, and 
for three years performed the toilsome duties of his call- 
ing. In 1822 he connected himself with the Presbyte- 
rian Church; was ordained by the Philadelphia Second 
Presbytery over the Third Presbyterian Church, Balti- 
more, 51d., and subsequently was settled in German- 
town, Pa.; Frederick City, 51 d. ; Trenton, N. J.; and 
i Harrisburg, Pa. He died July 30, 1861. 5Ir. Smaltz was 


812 


SMERXITZA 


SMARA 


a plain, practical preacher, and conscientious in the dis- 
charge «>f all his duties. See Wilson, Fresh. Hist. Al- 
manac , 1862, p. 1 18. (.1. L. S.) 

Smara, in Hiiulil mythology, is a surname of the 
love-god, Kamadeca. See Kama. 

Smaragdus, the name of several monkish writers 
in the Middle Ages. 

1. An ablx>t of the Convent of St. Michael, in the di- 
oce^e of Verdun, who was one of the mo>t learned of 
Kranki-Ji theologians in the Carlovingian period, lie 
stood high in the regard of the emperor Charlemagne, 
as appears from the fact that in A.D. 810 he was asso- 
ciated with a commission to convey to pope Leo III t lie 
decisions of the Synod of Aix-la-Chapelle of 809 with 
regard to the Filinqne dispute, and served as its secre- 
tary (comp, the record from his pen entitled Acta Cotta - 
(i>>u is li Huantr. in Baronin s, Ann. ad anil. 809, No. 54 03 ; 
Lnbbe, /'oil. Count, tom. vii; and in Migne’s complete 
cd. of Smaragdus [Paris, 1852], |>. M7 1 sq.). Louis the 
Pious also esteemed Smaragdus highly, and not only 
gave donations and immunities to st. Michael's Con- 
vent (sec the ('hartie Junior id . , . ct Lotharii . . . 
]>ro Monas/. S. MichaelD, in Baluzc, Miscett. lib. iv. and 
Migue, p. 1*75 sq.), hut also constituted him one of the 
aroitrators in the quarrel of the abbot Ismnnd of Titian 
with his monks (see the Fpis/.ad Lndov. Aupust. in Du- 
chesiie. Script. AVr. Franc, ii, 7 1 sq.). The year of Sma- 
r.ig lits’s death is not known, though he does not seetn to 
have outlived the king. Louistlic Pious. His writings, 
now very largely accessible in Migue, as above, give 
evidence of considerable familiarity with patristical 
lore and of a pious and practical mind, somewhat influ- 
enced by the healthful and sober tendency of the I'raiik- 
idi-t Lrunn theology of the time. There is, however, 
no ;*igii of originality in them. II is principal exegeti- 
cal work— the t'ornmenf.s. Collect, in Fcanpel. et Fpist. 
etc. fist cd. Strasburg. 151*1 > — is a mere compilation, 
without other method than the mere concatenation of 
opinions expressed by older writers, and without a defi- 
nite adhesion to either hisiurico-grammatieal interpre- 
tation or excessive allegorizing. His second important 
work — Fxpostiio s. Comment, in Rep. S. Ilened . — is more 
independent. In it Smaragdus appears as a supporter of 
the strict principles of monastic reform advocated by his 
con temporary Benedict of Aniane. A similar tendency 
is displayed in Dindemn Monachorum, a collection of 
ascetic rules for the government of .monks, compiled 
from the Church fathers. The IV#/ Repin is essentially 
an extract from the last-mentioned work. The above, 
with others of minor importance, are printed in Migue; 
and, together with certain imprinted manuscripts (con- 
cerning which, see Maliilloii, A mud. p, 350 sip), con- 
stitute all of the works of .Smaragdus which have been 
preserved to us. 

2. A friend and pupil of Benedict of Aniane, whose 
real name was Ardo. Having witnessed the death of 
Benedict, he was appointed to write his biography (see 
the work, I »/</ S. lienettn'ti . I ninnrnsis, in Mabillon, 
Arfa SS. ft. S. /{. S;ec. iv, pt. j, p. HU sq. ; and Migue, 
pt. eiii. p, 351 sq.;. Smaragdus died in «SI3, aged sixty 
year*. 

3. The abbot of a monastery at Llhieberg, Saxonv, 
which was founded in lb *2 by duke Hermann Billung, 

I hat he could not belong to a period earlier than about 
A.H. I non. Nothing is known with regard to literary 
I ibor performed by bis hand, though he uinv he the au- 
thor of a 1 1 rammatmi .Major s. Comment, in Ihntotnm , 
from which Mabillon gives eitalious {Annul, p. 35.S .s<j.), 
and whii-h is sometimes ascribed to Smaragdus No. 1. 
.See 1 1'Aehery, Spirit, p. i, 238. Herzog, R< at- Fnnj/dop. 

K. V. 

Smart, James P., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Huntingdon, Pa., July I i. 1 *11. He received 
a careful home training, graduated in Jefferson College, 

1 n., studied divinity in the Associate Seminary in (’an- 
ousburg, was licensed by the Charters Preshy terv and I 


1 ordained by the Miami Presbytery in 1830, and his first 
and only charge was Massey’s Creek, O. Here he la- 
bored with true apostolic zeal and earnestness, and died 
I V b. *28. 1861. Mr. Smart was a man of vigorous mind 
mul noble heart, lie was for many years stated clerk 
of the Xenia Presbytery. See Wilson, Fresh. Hist. Al- 
manac, 1862, p. 235. (J. L. S.) 

Smart, John G., D.D.. a Presbyterian divine, was 
horn in Huntingdon, Pa., Aug. 3, 1804. He graduated 
at Jefferson College, Pa., in 1826, studied theology pri- 
vately, was licensed by the Associate Presbytery of 
Philadelphia, Aug. 17, 1820, and ordained pastor of the 
Associate Church in Johnstown, N. Y., Nov. 5, 1829, 
where he continued to labor until 1837, when he re- 
moved to Baltimore, Md., and in 1838 was installed pas- 
tor of the Church in that city. This relation was dis- 
solved in 1850, and he removed to Cambridge, XV Y., 
where he continued without a charge, but was engaged 
in preaching almost constantly in the many vacancies 
which occurred in the Presbytery of Cambridge, to 
which he belonged, lie died July 18, 1862. I)r. Smart 
was a man of very superior mental power. He was 
well skilled in the languages, particularly the Latin, 
and while a student of theology edited the Orations of 
Cicero for Tower & Hogan, publishers in Philadel- 
phia. II is distinguishing characteristic was his ac- 
quaintance with the rules of Church order. Such was 
his reputation as an ecclesiastical disciplinarian that he 
was chosen by the General Assembly of the United 
Presbyterian Church as chairman of the committee to 
draft a book of discipline. See Wilson, Fresh. Hist. Al- 
manac, 1863, p. 363; The Kvanpelical Repository, s. v. ; 
Allibonc, Diet, of Frit, and .1 mer. A uth. s. v. (J. L. S.) 

Smectymnuus, an answer to bishop Hall's re- 
monstrance to Parliament in defence of his book Epis- 
copacy of Divine Ripht. The name of the treatise is 
fictitious, made up of the initial letters of the authors, 
viz. Stephen Marshal, Edward Calamy, Thomas Young, 
Matthew Newcomen, and William Spurston. When 
the bishop replied to their book, these divines published 
a vindication of their answer to the Humble Remon- 
strance. This being an appeal to the legislature on 
both sides, may be supposed to contain the merits of the 
controversy. The debate was upon these two heads — 
(1) of the antiquity ofliturgies, or forms of prayer; (2) 
of the apostolical institution of diocesan episcopacy. — 
Lndie, Kcctes. Cpclop. s. v. 

Smell ( Cl‘3 or PTH, fraprance ; Tlfizi, stench). 
Jacob said to his sons, after the slaughter of the She- 
cliemites (Gen. xxxiv, 30). “Ye have troubled me, to 
make me to stink among the inhabitants of tbc land" — 
Ye have given me an ill scent, or smell, among this people. 
The Israelites, in a similar manner, complained to Moses 
and Aaron ( Exod. v, 21 ), “The Lord look upon you, 
and judge, because yon have made our savor to be ab- 
horred in the eyes of Pharaoh and in the eyes of his 
servants.” This manner of speaking occurs frequently 
in the Hebrew. In a contrary sense, Paul says (2 Cor. 
ii, 15, 16), “ We are unto God a sweet savor of Christ in 
them that are saved and in them that perish; to the one 
we are the savor of death unto death, and to the other 
the savor of life unto life.” In the sacrifices of the old 
law, the. smell of the burnt-offerings is represented in 
.Script lire as agreeable to God (Gen. viii, 21), “And 
tluni shall burn the whole ram upon the altar; it is a 
burnt-offering unto the Lord; it is a sweet savor, an of- 
fering made by lire unto the Lord.” The same thing, 
by analogy, is said of prayer (Psa. cxli, 2), “ Let my 
prayer he set lortli before thee as incense, and the lift- 
iug-up of my hands as the evening sacrifice.” So John, 
in allusion to this service of the Old Test., represents 
tin* twenty-four elders with “golden vials full of odors, 
which are the prayers of the saints” (liev. v, 8). — 
Cal met. 

Smernitza, in Slavic mythology, wa9 an appari- 


SUET 


813 


SMITH 


tion whose coming always occasioned the decease of 
persons who were sick. The phantom was invisible to 
the dying themselves, but neighbors might observe it 
skulking about and finally entering the house of the 
victim, whose fate was then inevitable. The spasmodic 
twitchings and the throat-rattle of the last hour were 
evidences of the force which Smeruitza employed to 
separate the soul from the body. — Vullmer, Worterb. d. 
31 ythol. s. v. 

Smet, Hans von der Ketten, son of the Dutch 
antiquarian of the same name, was born in Nimeguen 
about 1630, and was pastor at Alkmaer until 1684, when 
he received a call to Amsterdam, where he died May 23, 
1710, leaving several religious works. 

Smet, Peter John de, a Homan Catholic mis- 
sionary. was born in Dendermonde, Belgium, Dec. 31, 
1801. He came to the United States in August, 1821 ; en- 
tered the Jesuit novitiate at Whitemarsh, Md.; went to 
Missouri in 1823, and aided in founding the University 
of St. Louis, in which he labored until 1838. He was 
then sent to found a mission among the Pottawattomies, 
afterwards laboring among the Flatheads and the Black- 
feet. Taking a general superintendence of these mis- 
sions, he travelled to collect money for them, lie died 
in St. Louis, May 23, 1873. His principal works are. 
Letters , sketches, and Residence in the Rocky Mountains 
(Phila. LS43, 12mo): — Oregon Missions and Travels over 
the Rocky Mountains (N. Y. 1847) : — Western Missions 
and Missionaries (1863, l2mo): — Reiseyi in den Felsenye- 
biryen , etc. (St. Louis, 1865). See Appletons ’ Cyclop. ; 
Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Authors , s. v. 

Smeton, Thomas, a learned Scotch divine and 
educator, was born in Cask, near Perth, in 1536. He 
was educated at the University of St. Andrew’s, and af- 
terwards studied in Paris. He went to Home, and en- 
tered the Society of Jesuits; but, going to Geneva, he 
was confirmed in his intention of leaving the Church of 
Borne. From Geneva he went to Paris, where he nar- 
rowly escaped the massacre. Arriving in London, he 
publicly renounced popery, and settled at Colchester, 
Essex, as a schoolmaster. In 1578 he returned to Scot- 
land, joined Knox and the other Keformers, was appoint- 
ed minister of Paislev # and member of the General As- 
sembly which met at Edinburgh the same year, and was 
chosen moderator in the Assembly of 1579. lie was soon 
after made principal of the College of Glasgow, and died 
in 15S3. His only publication is entitled Responsio ad 
llamiltonii Dialogum (Edinb. 1579, Svo), a defence of 
the Presbyterians, to which is added Eximii Vivid oannis 
Knoxii, Bcoticance Ecclesue I nstaurutoris, etc. See Al- 
libone, Diet . of Brit, and A mer . A uthors , s. v. ; Chal- 
mers, Bioy. Did . s. v. 

Smiglecius, Martin, a learned Jesuit, was born 
in Poland in 1562. He entered the Society of Jesuits 
in Borne in 1581, and after making great progress in his 
studies was sent back to Poland, and taught philosophy 
at Wilna for four years and divinity for ten. He became 
rector of several colleges and superior of the convent at 
Cracow. He died July 26, 1618. He published many 
works against the Protestants, but his principal work is 
his Logic (Ingolst. 1618, 2 vols. 4to). See Chalmers, 
Bioy. Did. s. v. 

Smik, in Lettish mythology, was a god of the Lith- 
uanians, to whom they dedicated the first furrow turned 
ii]) by the plough, and whatever should grow on it. To 
cross such a furrow was regarded as an insult to the 
god. — Vollmer, Wbrterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Smilax, a young girl in Grecian mythology who 
tenderly loved Crocus. As their love was hopeless, the 
gods changed them into flowers bearing their respective 
names. 

Smintheus, in Grecian mythology, is a surname 
given to Apollo in the Troad, from the town of 
Sminthe. It is derived, by some, from sminthos, a 
mouse. 


Smite (PCS, rvTTTio , etc.), to strike, is often used in 
Scripture for to kill. Thus David smote the Philistine, 
i. e. lie killed Goliath. The Lord smote Nabal and Uz- 
ziah, i. e. he put them to death. To smite an army is to 
conquer it, to rout it entirely. To smite with the 
tongue is to load with injuries and reproaches, with 
scandalous reflections. To smite the thigh denotes in- 
dignation, trouble, astonishment (Jer. xxxi, 19). — Cal- 
met. 

Smith (ij^n, church)) a workman in stone, wood, 
or metal, like the Lat .faber, but sometimes more ac- 
curately defined by what follows, as VH5 a 

workman in iron, a smith; Sept. tektujv, tektwv oih)- 
pov, yaXiCEvg, texvitijq ; Vulg. faber and faber ferrari- 
us (1 Sam. xiii, 19; Isa. xliv, 12; liv, 16; 2 Kings xxiv, 
14; Jer. xxiv, 1 ; xxix, 2). In 2 Chron.xxiv, 12 “ work- 
ers in iron and brass” are mentioned, The first smith 
mentioned in Scripture is Tubal-cain, whom some writ- 
ers, arguing from the similarity of the names, identify 
with Vulcan (Gerh. Vossins, De Oriy. Idolol. i, 16). He 
is said to have been “an instructor of every artificer in 
brass and iron” (Gen. iv, 22), or, perhaps more properly, 
a whetter or sharpener of every instrument of copper 
or iron. So Montanus, “ acuentem omne artitieium reris 
et ferri Sept. o(pvpoK07rog yoXicer£ %a\icoi’ rat atCi)- 
pov; Vnlg. “fuit malleator et faber in euueta opera feris 
et ferri.” Josephus says that he first of all invented 
the art of making brass (,4«h i, 2, 2). As the art of 
the smith is one of the first essentials to civilization, 
the mention of its founder was worthy of a place among 
the other fathers of inventions. So requisite was the 
trade of a smith in ancient warfare that conquerors re- 
moved these artisans from a vanquished nation, in or- 
der the more effectually to disable it. Thus the Philis- 
tines deprived the Hebrews of their smiths (1 Sam. xiii, 
19; comp. Judg. v, 8). So Nebuchadnezzar, king of 
Babylon, treated them in later times (2 Kings xxiv, 14 ; 
Jer. xxiv, 1; xxix, 2). With these instances the com- 
mentators compare the stipulation of Porsenna with the 
Roman people after the expulsion of their kings: “Ne 
ferro, nisi in agricultura, uterentur” (Pliny, /list. Nat. 
xxxi, 14). Cyrus treated the Lydians in the same 
manner (Herodotus, i, 142). See Handicraft. 

masyer, smith, occurs in 2 Kings xxiv, 14. 16; 
Sept. ov^kXeiojv ; Jer. xxiv, 1 ; xxix, 2; Vulg. clusor, 
or inclusor. Buxtorf gives “ claustrarius, faber ferra- 
rius.” The root PSD, to close, indicates artisans “with 
busy hammers closing rivets up,” which suits the con- 
text better than other renderings, as setters of precious 
stones, seal-engravers, etc. 

In the New Test, we meet with Demetrius, “ the sil- 
versmith,” at Ephesus, dpyvpoico ttoq, “a worker in sil- 
ver;” Vulg. aryentarius ; but the commentators are not 
agreed whether he was a manufacturer of small silver 
models of the Temple of Diana, raorg dpyvpodg, or, at 
least, of the chapel which contained the famous statue 
of the goddess, to be sold to foreigners, or used in pri- 
vate devotion, or taken with them by travellers as a 
safeguard ; or whether he made large coins represent- 
ing the temple and image. Beza, Sealiger, and others 
understand a coiner or mint- master (see Kuinbl, ad 
loc.). That the word may signify a silver T /bM?«/er is 
clear from the Sept, rendering of Jer. vi, 29. From 
Plutarch (Opp. ix, 301, 473, ed. Beisk.) and llesvehius 
it appears that the word signifies any worker in silver or 
money. A coppersmith named Alexander is mentioned 
as an opponent of Paul (2 Tim. iv, 14). — Kitto. 

Other Heb. terms substantially indicating the handi- 
craft of a smith are: lotesh ; Sept. <T(pvpoKv7rog ; 

Vulg. malleator, a hammerer (A. V. “instructor”); a 
term applied to Tubal-cain in Gen. iv, 22 (see Geseu. 
Thesaur. p. 530, 755; Saalschiitz, Arch, llebr. i, 143) ; 
and cbin , holem ; Sept.o tvtttmv, he that smites (A. V. 
“smootheth”) the anvil (2^*2, atyvpa, incus), Isa. xli, 7. 


SMITH 


814 


SMITH 


A description of a smith's workshop is given in Ecclus. 
xxxviii, 28. — Smith. See Mechanic. 

Smith, Albert, D.D., a Congregational minister 
ami teacher, was l>orn in Milton, Yi.. Feb. 15, 1804. In 
1 mV» he went to Hart fonl. Conn., and U\gan a course of 
study preparatory to entering upon the profession of the 
law. lie soon after experienced a change of heart, which 
also brought a change in his views of life, and led him 
to turn his attention to the ministry. lie graduated at 
Middlchury College, Vt., in 1831 ; also at Andover The- 
ological Seminary in 1835; and in 18311, having been 
licensed by Andover Congregational Association, he was 
ordained by the Congregational Council, and became 
pastor of tiie Congregational Church at Williamstown, 
Mass. In 1830 he was called to the professorship of 
languages in Marshall College, Mercerslmrg, Pa., and in 
is 11 to the chair of rhetoric and oratory in his alma 
mater at Middlebury, Vt. In 1815 he returned to the 
ministry, ami became pastor of the Church in Vernon, 
Conn., where he remained till 1854, when, compelled by 
declining health, he removed to Peru, Ind. In the 
summer of 1855 he was employed in Dmpioin, in the 
southern part of Illinois, in t lie service of the Home 
Missionary Society: and in t lie fall of that year lie set- 
tled at Monticello, III., where he died, April *24, 1863. 
Hr. Smith was a man of uncommon intellectual power. 
He was an accurate ami eloquent writer, an acute ami 
profound theologian, ami a wise, faithful, and affec- 
tionate pastor. See Wilson, J'resb. Hist. Almanac. 
1861, p. 321; Congregational Quarterly, 1803, p. 349. 
(J. 1.. S.) 

Smith, A. B., a minister of the Methodist Episco- 
pal Church, was horn on Hell Creek, Fayette Co., West 
Ya.. June 13, 182*3. lie joined the Church in his thir- 
teenth year. He was received into the West Virginia 
Conference in the spring of 1850, took a superannuated 
relation in 1802, hut was ordained elder in 1803. lie 
w,v made effective in 1868, but died in the spring of 
1870. See Minutes of Animal Conferences, 1871, p. 40. 

Smith, Alexander J M a minister of the Method- 
ist Episcopal Clmrch, was born in South Carolina in 
1831. lie united with the Church when nine years of 
age, and was licensed to preach and admitted on trial 
in the Mississippi Conference, Methodist Episcopal 
Church, South, in 1855. After being ordained elder, 
he was located at his own request, lie was admitted 
into the Arkansas Conference of the Methodist Episco- 
pal Church in 1800, and labored faithfully until his 
death, I* eh. 2, 187.5. See Minutes of .1 initial Confer - 
mns, is 75, p, 158. 

Smith, Alexander L., a minister of the Meth- 
odi-i Episcopal ( 'hureh. South, was born in Marlborough 
Dm riel, S. t\, Dec. 5, 1823. and was received into the 
South Carolina Conference in 1847. lie remained ef- 
fertive for twenty years, supernumerary one year, and 
superannuated for nearly four years. He died ill Spar- 
tanburg, 8*. ('., Aug. 2.>, 1872, See Minutes of Annual 
Coif rtnns of M. E. ('ft.. South, 1N72, p. 071. 

Smith, Amos, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was lx.rn in Frederick County, Ya., April 
30, 1795, and profe**cd conversion in 1811, * H e served 
as a soldier during the war of 18 1 2, after which he stud- 
ied in Anbury College, Baltimore. In 1820 be was ad- 
mitted on trial into the Baltimore Conference, ami thus 
commenced u long life of usefulness, lie was ordained 
dcnrou >«*pt. 2'J, 1 822. and elder April 10, 1825. In 183*1 
h<* was appointed to the office of presiding elder, but 
w-is compelled to resign, mi account of ill-health, in the 
winter of 18 1 1 12. lie became a member of the East 
Hdtimore Coiilerenee upon its formation in 1857. and 
in Ino.I was a superannuate, continuing, however, to 
preach frequently. He died Jan. 20, |N68. See Min- 
uf»s i> t Annual ('onfrums. I Nil*, p, 20. 

Smith, Anson C., a minister of the Methodist 
Epewiqml Church, was born in Bridgewater, X. H„ Dec. 


20, 1810, and made profession of religion in 1831. He 
entered the ministry in 1834 as local preacher, and was 
admitted into the New Hampshire Conference in 1835, 
receiving ordination as deacon in 1837, and as elder 
in 1839. His health failed in 18.59, and lie died April 
23, 1862, See Minutes of Annual Conferences, 1863, 
p. 103, 

Smith, Archer B., a Baptist minister, was born 
in Georgetown, S. C., and graduated at Brown ITiivcr- 
sitv in the class of 1828, and pursued his theological 
studies at Newton. His ministerial life was spent at 
the South, chiefly in Virginia, where he was highly 
respected. He died at his residence at Auburn Mills, 
Hanover Co., Va., Dec. 5. 1877. (J. C. S.) 

Smith, Archibald G., a minister of the Method- 
ist Episcopal Church, was born in New York in 1826, 
and was admitted into full connection in the Rock River 
Conference in 1856. lie sustained an effective relation 
for eleven years, and was superannuated four years. He 
died at Shell Bark. Butler Co., 111.. August, 1870. See 
Minutes of Annual Conferences, 1870, p. 275. 

Smith, Asa, a Methodist Episcopal minister, was 
received on trial in the Philadelphia Conference in 1800, 
and appointed to the Northumberland and Wyoming 
Circuit, He subsequently travelled Salem, Freehold, 
Gloucester, Bristol, Cecil, Chester, Bohemia, Kent, Do- 
ver, Queen Ann’s, Lancaster, Northampton, Essex, Stat- 
en Island, Somerset. Snow Hill, Annamessex, Dorches- 
ter, Accomac, and Salisbury circuits, which terminated 
his active ministry. He died in April, 1847. Mr. Smith 
was abundant in labors, and was often denominated a 
son of thunder.” See Minutes of Annual Conferences, 
iv, 203. 

Smith, Asa D., D.D., LL.D„ a Presbyterian minis- 
ter, was born in Amherst. Mass., in September, 1804. At 
the age of seventeen, while living at Windsor, Vt.. lie was 
called by divine grace to a new life, and there lie con- 
secrated himself with all his characteristic earnestness 
to the service of Christ. The vows he then took he 
most sacredly kept, nor ever turned aside from the one 
great purpose God had wrought in his soul. lie very 
soon commenced a preparatory study for the work of 
the ministry, and entered Dartmouth College in 1826. 
Here the traits of character which distinguished him in 
after-life — industry, energy, fidelity, and singleness of 
purpose to the one great object of his early consecra- 
tion — were made conspicuous. His remarkable power 
of extemporaneous speech drew to him the marked and 
admiring attention of the students. He ranked very 
high as a scholar, and was among the very first in his 
class, in some respects he had no superior. He was a 
decided Christian, and knew the secret, which so many 
fail to learn, of living a decidedly godly life at col- 
lege. lie never was more active, or accomplished more 
for the salvation of souls in his after-life, than during 
his college course of four years. After leaving college he 
taught an academy one year in Maine. During that 
year the school was blessed with a revival of religion. 
From Maine he went to the Theological Seminary at 
Andover. After completing the course he was ordained 
to the ministry, and settled as pastor over a church in 
New York city, in which charge he continued for thirty 
years. While in that city he was associated with its 
leading men in all the public, benevolent, and religious 
movements of the time. 1 1 is prominent position in the 
literary and religious world brought many applications 
for him to leave the pulpit for services in colleges and 
seminaries for which he was regarded as so eminently 
fitted. From the retirement of Dr. Lord from t he pres- 
idency of Dartmouth College, attention was directed to 
him ns his successor. He received a unanimous call 
from the trustees of the college, which, after prayerful 
deliberation, he accepted. Dr. Smith entered upon his 
work in the full maturity of life with all the fire and 
energy of youth. Endowed with every quality which 
the highest mental culture could give, and freighted 


SMITH 


815 


SMITH 


with an experience rich in every department of litera- 
ry, social, anil religious life, he resolved to carry out the 
design of the founders of the college to impart a sanc- 
tified learning to all who should gain access to its halls. 
So thoroughly was he devoted to his great work that 
every moment was consecrated to the interests of the 
institution. He knew but one work, and every interest 
in which he took a part w r as made to contribute to the 
welfare of the college. His life as a pastor was, as it 
were, acted over again, for, while his care extended to 
the temporal welfare of his flock, he was, if possible, 
more anxious about their salvation. He improved oc- 
casions to converse with them on the subject of religion, 
and prayed much for them, while he asked for them an 
interest in the prayers of others. Dr. Smith not only 
took an interest in the affairs of the college, but in all 
things that pertained to the welfare of the community. 
As a citizen he w r as public-spirited, always earnest for 
improvements, quite up to the means of securing them, 
always willing to bear his full share of labor or expense. 
No one in the community was more free, more gener- 
ous in aid of ever}' good cause, or more read}' to con- 
tribute of his substance to those in need. By over-ex- 
ertion his health became somewhat impaired and it 
was necessary for him to remain abroad during the 
winter and spring of 1870. With that exception he 
was rarely laid aside from labor during the thirteen 
years of his connection with the college. In Novem- 
ber of the last year, near the close of the fall term, he 
was suddenly stricken down bv acute disease, and from 
that blow he never fully recovered, nor had sufficient 
strength to attend to his official duties. Following the 
advice of his physician and his own judgment, he ten- 
dered, early in the winter, his resignation of the presi- 
dency. It was accepted with reluctance on the part 
of the trustees, but only when they saw there was no 
hope of his final recovery, lie w r as grateful to God for 
having permitted him to render so long a service, and, 
though he could have wished it protracted, yet he was 
resigned to the divine will. During the last few days 
he was extremely weak, and at the close, without pain, 
he gently fell asleep in Jesus to enjoy the ‘-rest that 
remains for the people of God,” Aug. 17, 1877. Dr. Asa 
D. Smith was author of the following: letters to a 
Young /Student: — Memoir of Mrs . L. A . Leavitt : — Im- 
portance of a Scriptural Ministry : — A Discourse on 
the Life and Character of Charles Hall , D.D.: — The 
Puritan Church's Stewardship : — Beneficence our Life 
Work: — Two Baccalaureate Discourses : — Obedience to 
Heaven's Law : — Death Abolished: — Introduction to Pi- 
oneer American Missions in China : — with numerous 
articles in the A merican Theological Review and Bibli- 
cal Repository. See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. 
A uthors , s. v. (W. P. S.) 

Smith, Azariah, M.D., a minister of the Congre- 
gational Church, was born in Manlius, N. Y., Feb. 1G, 
1817. From a very early age he was kept at school, 
studying, in addition to the ordinary branches, algebra. 
Latin, and Greek. In the spring of 1834 he entered 
the freshman class in Yale College. In 1835, during a 
revival, he was the subject of converting grace. Soon 
after his conversion lie became interested in the subject 
of missions, and made his impressions known to Dr. 
Armstrong, one of the secretaries of the American 
Board. Immediately after graduation he went to Ge- 
neva, N. Y., where he pursued the study of medicine in 
the office of Prof. Spencer, attending six lectures a day. 
He engaged in Sunday-school work and was secreta- 
ry of the village Tract Society. In 1839 he went to 
Philadelphia, where he spent three months, enjoying, 
under the special favor of Prof. Hodge, access to the 
Pennsylvania Hospital and also to the dispensary and 
almshouse. In October he entered the Theological Sem- 
inary at New Haven. During the winter he kept up 
his medical as well as theological studies, and received 
from the medical school connected with the college the 
degree of M.D., Jan. 24, 1840. lie also, day by day, at- 


tended the lectures of the law-school on Blackstone’s 
Commentaries. His was not a mere smattering, but 
his application was such that he thoroughly mastered 
what he undertook. On Ang. 30, 1842, he was ordained 
at Manlius, and he embarked for Western Asia in No- 
vember following, arriving at Smyrna after a voyage 
of fifty-three days. After residing at Brnsa and Con- 
stantinople for a few months, he proceeded to Trebi- 
zond, where he remained five months, spending the 
most of his time in studying Turkish and practicing 
medicine. In 1844 he visited Smyrna, Rhodes, Cyprus, 
and Beirut, and made a tour in the interior to Aleppo, 
Orfa, Diarbekir, and Mosul. lie was at Mosul when 
Botta was disentombing one of the palaces of Nineveh; 
he also travelled for a time with Mr. Layard. At Mo- 
sul it was his sorrowful privilege to attend the dying 
couch of the excellent Dr. Grant. This year he made 
a trying and dangerous tour in the mountain Nestori- 
an districts of Kurdistan, going, through much peril, 
as far north as Julamerk, returning to Mosul, and 
thence to Alexandretta. In 1845 he travelled exten- 
sively after visiting Constantinople, including a visit to 
Trebizond and Erzerum, where he remained a year and 
a half. This year he was mobbed for affording protec- 
tion to an Armenian priest who had fled to his house, but 
by his determined courage and perseverance the offend- 
ers were punished and damages were recovered from 
the Turkish government. His travels were extensive, 
and he often went many miles out of his way to ad- 
minister medicine for the cholera at different missiona- 
ry stations. What was so widely known and exten- 
sively used in this country in 1849 as “Dwight’s Chol- 
era Mixture” was his own preparation. Once he was 
attacked with this disease in the wilderness, his only 
attendant forsaking him through fear; but after two 
days’ suffering he recovered sufficiently to proceed on 
his journey. At length, in 1848, he arrived at Aintab, 
seventy miles north of Aleppo, which he made his mis- 
sionary home. It had a population of Armenian Chris- 
tians amounting to 12,000, twice that of the [Mohamme- 
dan residents— a field large enough to wear out the 
most untiring energy. He returned to America the 
same year, was married, and went back to his field. 
Everything he knew, he knew thoroughly; and every- 
thing he did, it w\as with all his might. As the author 
of valuable papers on meteorology, Syrian antiquities, 
and natural history, published in the American Journal 
of Science, he at once took rank with the best scholars 
of his own land, thus confirming the declaration that 
“none have made richer contributions to the material 
of the naturalist and geographer than are being made 
by the missionaries of the Cross.” He who lived and 
labored so faithfully for others was not forgotten by his 
Lord in the trying hour. When death came, June 3, 
1851, it found him prepared. In the midst of painful 
struggles which amounted almost to agony, he uttered, 
in Turkish, his last words — “Jov, joy! praise, praise!” 

ov.i’.s.) 

Smith, Bela, a Methodist Episcopal minister, was 
born in 1784, converted when about eighteen years of 
age, and admitted on trial by the New York Conference 
in 1809. In 1810 he was ordained deacon as a mission- 
ary to Canada; in 1811 admitted into full connection 
and appointed to Ulster Circuit. He was ordained, in 
1812, elder, and appointed to Delaware Circuit; 1813, 
Newburg Circuit; 1814-15, New Windsor; 181 G, Dela- 
ware; 1817, Schenectady; 1818, Albany; 1819, Pitts- 
field; 1820-21, Stratford. In 1822, owing to failing 
health, he took a superannuated relation, in which he 
continued to the termination of his life, July 2, 1818. 
He was a faithful and successful ambassador for Christ, 
and in all the relations of life he was highly valued and 
universally esteemed. See Minutes of Annual Confer- 
ences, iv, 223. 

Smith, Benjamin A., a minister of the Method- 
ist Episcopal Church, South, was born in Warren Co.. 


81 G 


SMITH 


SMITH 


Ga., in 1*13. lie embraced religion in his seventeenth 
year and united with the Church. He was licensed 
to preach in is is, and in 1X49 was admitted into the 
Georgia Conference. II is brief ministry was closed by 
death June 13. 1*50. >ee Minutes of Annual Confer- 
tnctf of M. E. Ch., South, 1X51. |>. 301. 

Smith, Benjamin Coleman, a Presbyterian 
minister, was l>«»rn in Windsor. \ t., May, 1X00. lie 
was educated in the Woomfield Academy. N. J.; gradu- 
ated at the Theological Seminary at Auburn, X. V.; and 
was liccn.-cd hv Windsor Congregational Association, 
Vt.. and ordained by the same in 1X36. lie was cliap- 
lain of the state -prison at Auburn for twelve years, 
agent for the Western Educational Society for two 
years, and in IS II was installed pastor of the Presby- 
terian Church at Prattslmrgh, X. V., by Path Presby- 
tery, which relation existed until 1*59, when he was 
disabled by paralysis, and died Oct. 17, 1X61. Mr. 
Smith was a good preacher, decidedly Cnlvinistic; an 
excellent pastor, a godly man. See Wilson, Presb. Hint. 
Aluutnuc, 1X63, p. 206. (J. L. S.) 

Smith, Benjamin F., a minister of the Method- 
ist Episcopal Church, South, was born in Hardin Coun- 
ty, Tonn.. Oct. 2X. 1830. lie was brought into the 
Church in 1*1*, and admitted into the Tennessee Con- 
ference in 1*57. During the year 1X62 he enlisted in 
the Confederate army and was killed at Jackson, Tenn., 
July 13. 1*63. -lie was a man of sound judgment, 
deep piety, and a promising preacher.” See J finntes 
of Annual Co/ ft reacts of M. E. Ch., South, 1X65, p. 545. 

Smith, Caleb, a Presbyterian minister, was horn 
in Hrookhaven, L. I.. Dec. 29, 1723. He received good 
preparatory training, graduated at Yale College in 1743. 
remained at college lbr some time ns a resident gradu- 
ate. gave instruction in the languages at Elizabeth- 
town. X. J., and at the same time studied theology un- 
der the direction of the Rev. Jonathan Dickinson, lie 
was licensed to preach in April, 1747. and was ordained 
and installed pastor of Newark Mountains (now Or- 
ange), X. J., Nov. 3o. 174X. In 1750, shortly after his 
settlement in the ministry, he was appointed a trustee 
of the College of New Jersey and clerk of the board, 
and continued as such officer till the removal of the col- 
lege to Princeton. After the death of president Ed- 
wards he was chosen president pro tempore, and for 
several months continued to discharge the duties of 
that important position with much dignity and ability. 
He was for many years stated clerk of the presbytery, 
ami usually conducted its correspondence. lie died 
< >cl. 22. 1762. Mr. Smith ranked among the more pop- 
ular preachers of his day. 11 is only publication was a 
St mum an the I tenth of A /iron liurr (1757). A Brief 
Arnmnt of h in Life from his JJitny, etc., was published 
at \\ oodhridge, X. J..in 1763. See Sprague, Annals of 
the A nor. Pulpit, iii, 1 46; Steam, Hist, of First Church , 
A rtrark; Alliboiie, Diet. of Brit. utul A mer. Authors, 
s. v. (3. E.S.) 

Smith, Carlos, D.D.. a Presbyterian minister, wits 
h.rn in llopkiutoii, N. 11., July 17, 1X1)1. He was grad- 
uated at l nion College in 1X22. lie became a teacher 
in Petersburg. Va., and in Thetford, Vt., going from 
the latter place to Catskill, X. Y., where he taught six 
years, ll< was ordained by Oneida Presbytery at Th- 
ru, N. Y., iu 1X32, and was installed pastor of the Pres- 
byterian ( liiircli at Manlius, X. Y, lie remained iu 
this charge lour years, and then removed to Paiuesville, 

1 1., where he was pastor eight years, lie next look 
charge of the Ma^illon Church, O., where he continued 
three years, lie then accepted a call to Talhnadgc, ( ).. 
and was pastor of that Church fourteen years. His 
next and last charge was Akron, (>., where he remained 
eleven years, alter which he was without charge. Dr. 
Smith died at \kron, April 22, 1x77. He published, 
Protest p, /timer (1*17): Voice Misunder- 

' I' 1 *' P'Vpit Hume (lx5|) ; Lfs and So E/jes 
(1x5,;) : Sj, ii il mil ism, or the Bible a Sujjicient Witness 


' (1X56) : — God's Call to the Xation (1861) ; — The Memio- 
rg of Our Xoble Dead (1864): — Christ in the Bible 
( | H70) : — Self in// of 'Intoxicating Drinks Immoral (1872) : 
— Homan and Grecian Civilization : — To Young Men 
(1X72 ): — Value of a Good Man (1873): — Historical 
Discourse (1X75): — .4 n Adventure at Sea : — and sever- 
al minor articles. (\Y. P. S.) 

Smith, Charles A., D.D., a Presbyterian minis- 
ter, was born in the city of New York in 1X09. lie re- 
ceived a classical education in the Ilartwick Seminary, 
ami subsequently passed through a theological course. 
His early labors were in the Lutheran Church, and at 
the age of twenty-one he was ordained and installed 
pastor of the Palatine Church on the Mohawk River, 
west of Albany. After seven years’ service he was 
called to take charge of a new Church enterprise in 
Haiti more, Md. While there he was a contributor to 
the Southern Observer, and in connection with Dr. J. G. 
Morris he prepared and published a Popular Exposition 
of the Gospel in four volumes. He was next called to 
the rural parish of Wurtemberg and Khinebeck on the 
Hudson, where he remained nine years, during which 
he conducted successfully several controversies in be- 
half of evangelical religion in opposition to a dead for- 
mality. Many, through his faithful ministrations, were 
brought to a saving knowledge of the truth. After 
tins, he received a call to Christ Church, Easton, and 
after a few years of successful labor was called to St. 
Mark’s Church, Philadelphia. Here he accepted a 
call to the Western Presbyterian Church in that city. 
In this Church he remained seven years, doing effective 
service. From this charge he was called to the Pres- 
byterian Church at East Orange, X. J. After a suc- 
cessful pastorate of five years, lie resigned his charge 
and returned to Philadelphia, where one of his sons, 
Rev. Henry A. Smith, has for a long time been pastor 
of a nourishing Presbyterian Church (Xorthminster), 
and another son, E. C. Smith, has for twelve years 
proved his excellent qualities as an educator as princi- 
pal of Rugby Academy. I)r. Smith died iu Philadel- 
phia, Feb. 15, 1X79. He w r as, in the judgment of those 
who knew’ him best, a man of rare attainments. He 
was frank, ingenuous, unpretending, and manly. His 
writings w’ere numerous, and his style, especially in 
translations from the German and in his descriptive 
works, w’as remarkably happy. Among those w’orks, 
besides those already mentioned, were a translation of 
Krummachers Parables: — J /lustrations of Faith : — Men 
of the Olden Time: — Familiar Talks about the Five 
Senses: — Among the Lilies: — and last, perhaps best of 
all, Stoneridge, made up of pastoral sketches and scenes 
from bis early ministry. His contributions to the peri- 
odical press w'ere numerous. See Allibone, Diet, of 
Brit, and A mer. A u/hors, s. v. (W. P. S.) 

Smith, Charles Mouzon, a minister of the 
Methodist Episcopal C’hureh, South, was born June 28, 
1811, and joined the Church when he was sixteen. lie 
was licensed to preach in 1859, and the same year en- 
tered the Georgia Conference. In 1862, because of the 
absence of his senior preacher, a chaplain in the South- 
ern army, he was overtaxed, and was taken with a vio- 
lent hemorrhage of the lungs. From this he never re- 
covered. He was made a superannuate in 1862, and 
died Oct. 9. 1X63. See Minutes of Annual Conferences 
of the M. E. Church, South, 1X63, p. 454. 

Smith, Clark A., a Methodist Episcopal minis- 
ter. was horn iu Salem, Washington Co., X. Y., Dec. 3, 
1X10; converted Sept. 11, 1X2X; licensed to exhort in 
1X30, and as local preacher iu 1x35; received on trial 
soon after, and travelled Lawrenceville, Loyalsock, Che- 
mung, Townnda. Eairport, and Millmont circuits, lie 
died Sept. 13, 1X14. Sec Minutes of Annual Confer- 
ences , iii, 643. 

Smith, Cotton Mather, a Congregational min- 
ister, was born iu Suffield, Conn., Oct. 26, 1731, and 
graduated at Yale College in 1751. lie studied theol- 


SMITH 


817 


SMITH 


ogy under the direction of the Rev. T. Wood bridge, of 
Ilatfield, but before his course was completed he took 
charge of a school among the Indians at Stookbridge. 
lie resumed his theological studies at Hatfield, and was 
licensed to preach in 1753. lie was installed pastor of 
the First Church, Sharon, Conn., Aug. 28, 1755. Mr. 
Smith served as chaplain in the campaign of general 
Schuyler in 1755. lie preached his last sermon on the 
first Sunday in January, 1806, but lingered for several 
months, dying Nov. 27, 130(5. lie published single 
Sermons (1770, 1771, 1793). “Mr. Smith was not only 
a polished gentleman, and a discreet and affectionate 
pastor, but a devout and earnest Christian, and an in- 
structive and animated preacher.” See Sprague, A n- 
nab of the Amer. Pulpit , i, 500. 

Smith, Daniel (l), a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Philadelphia in 1769. 
Although his early educational advantages were small, 
he had a great taste lor knowledge, and acquired a con- 
siderable stock of useful information, lie was admitted 
into the travelling connection in 1789, and in 1790 was 
appointed to Boston with Jesse Lee. In 1791 he was 
admitted into full connection by the conference. In 
1794 Mr. Smith located, and continued in that relation 
till the close of his life. Me settled in New York city, 
and engaged to some extent in secular business; but 
continued in the vigorous exercise of his ministry till 
the close of life. He died Oct. 23, 1815. See Sprague, 
Annuls of the A mer. Pulpit, vii, 172. 

Smith, Daniel (2), a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Salisbury, Conn., Sept. 
‘2(5, 180(5. When nineteen years of age he was convert- 
ed, and shortly after began to study at the Wilbraham 
Academy. In 1831 he was admitted on trial into the 
New York Conference. He labored on the Derby Cir- 
cuit; at Sag Harbor; Winstead, Conn.; Forsyth Street, 
New York; Bridgeport, Beading, and Stratford, Conn.; 
Tarry town ; Seventh Street and Green Street, New 
York ; and at Kingston, N. Y. He was a delegate to the 
General Conference of 1848, and a reserve in 1852. He 
died June 23, 1852. lie was a plain, practical, earnest 
preacher. See Minutes of Annual Conferences, 1853, p. 
192. 

Smith, Darius, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born in Pittsford, N. Y., July 19, 
1805, and united with the Church in April, 1827. He 
was licensed to preach in May, 1833, and in 1835 was 
received on trial by the Pittsburgh Conference. After 
laboring, with the exception of one year (superannu- 
ated), until 1874, he became superannuated, and died in 
Savbrook, O., May 12, 1875. He was at the time of 
his death a member of the Erie Conference. See Min- 
utes of Annual Conferences, 1875, p. 139. 

Smith, David, a Presbyterian minister, was born 
in Wilmington, Del., about the year 1772; graduated 
at Hampden Sidney College in 1791; studied theology 
privately; was licensed by Redstone Presbytery Nov. 
14, 1792; was ordained and installed by the same pres- 
bytery as pastor of the congregations of George’s Creek 
and the Tent in Fayette Co., Pa., Aug. 20, 1794, and of 
the congregations of Iiehoboth and KoiindhiH, West- 
moreland Co., in 1798, where he remained until his 
death, Aug. 24, 1803. Air. Smith was a well-read di- 
vine, and an earnest and faithful preacher. See Sprague, 
Annals of the Amer. Pulpit , iii, 280, note. (J. L. S.) 

Smith, Eben, a Methodist Episcopal minister, was 
born in Lenox, Berkshire Co., Mass.. July 18, 1774. His 
parents were religions persons, and members of the Bap- 
tist Church. He was converted at the age of thirteen 
years, was licensed to preach in 1801, began his itiner- 
ant labors in the Litchfield Circuit, Conn., in November, 
1803, was admitted on trial in the New York Conference 
in 1804, and appointed to Litchfield Circuit. He con- 
tinued to fill appointments until 1819, when he was 
made presiding elder of the Hudson River District. In 
IX. — F l' p 


1823 he was appointed presiding elder of the Saratoga 
District; in 182(5 without an appointment; six of the 
years between 1827 and 1840 he held an effective rela- 
tion and received appointments; seven of these years 
he was a supernumerary ; and from 1840 until his 
death, May 18, 1814, he was superannuated. Mr. Smith 
was a member of the General Conference in the years 
1812, 1816, 1820, and 1824. lie was a man of much 
zeal, diligence, and usefulness, and a great lover of 
Methodism. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , iii, 
473; Bangs, Ilist. of the M. E. Church , ii, 305; iii, 33. 
(J. L. S.) 

Smith, Edward, an Irish prelate, was born in Lis- 
burn, County of Antrim, in 1(5(55, and was educated at the 
University of Dublin, of which he was elected a fellow 
in 1G84. In 1G89 he went for safety to England, and 
was recommended and appointed chaplain to the fac- 
tories of the Smyrna Company at Constantinople and 
Smyrna. In 1G93 he returned to England, and was 
made chaplain to William III, whom he attended four 
years in Flanders. He was promoted to the deanery of 
St. Patrick’s, Dublin, in 1695, and advanced to the bish- 
opric of Down and Connor in 1G99, being soon after ad- 
mitted to the Privy Council. He died at Bath in Oc- 
tober, 1720. In 1G95 he was elected a member of the 
Ro}'al Society of London, and contributed papers upon 
various subjects. He also printed four Sermons. See 
Allibone, Piet, of Brit, and Amer, Authors, s. v. ; Chal- 
mers, Biog. Piet, s. v. 

Smith, Edward Parmelee, a Congregational 
minister, was born in South Britain. Conn., June 8, 1827. 
He graduated at Yale College in 1849, and went there- 
after to Mobile, Ala., where he engaged in teaching, and 
continued in that occupation for three years, when he 
returned and entered the New Haven Theological Sem- 
inary. After remaining one year, he entered the Union 
'Fheological Seminary, which he left in 1854 for the 
Andover Theological Seminary, where he finished his 
somewhat erratic course. He was ordained and in- 
stalled pastor of the Congregational Church in Pepper- 
ell, Mass., in 185G, and continued in this relation for six 
years, when he resigned and became field agent for the 
United States Christian Union, Philadelphia, Pa. In 
18G6 he became field agent for the American Mission- 
ary Association, and remained such until 1871, when he 
received the appointment from government of Indian 
agent in Minnesota. In 1873 he was appointed United 
States Commissioner of Indian Affairs. From the year 
last named he was president of Howard University, 
and continued such until 187G, when he took a voyage 
to Africa. lie died at Accra, Western Africa, June 15, 
1876. after a laborious and useful life spent in the ser- 
vice of God and his country. (W. P. S.) 

Smith, Eli, D.D., an eminent scholar and mission- 
ary, was born in Northfield, Conn., Sept. 13, 1801. He 
graduated at Yale College in 1821, and at Andover Theo- 
logical Seminary in 1826. In May of the same year he 
embarked on his mission to the East, to take charge of 
the printing establishment of the American Board at 
Malta. In 1827 he went to Beirut to study Arabic, and 
in 1828 returned to his work at Malta. In 1829 he made 
a tour with Dr. Anderson through Greece, and in 1830- 
31, with Dr. Dwight, of Constantinople, through Arme- 
nia and Georgia to Persia, opening the way for the Nes- 
torian mission at Urumiah. He returned to the United 
States in 1832, and embarked on his return to Syria in 
September, 1833. Mrs. Smith died at Smyrna, Sept. 30, 
183G. Until 1841, with the exception of a second visit 
to the United States, he was actively engaged in mis- 
sionary duty, and in the critical study of the Arabic lan- 
guage. Among other important services performed by 
him in this period was the production of a new and im- 
proved font of Arabic type, conformed to the calligraphy 
of a first-rate manuscript of the Koran, the types being 
made by Mr. Homan Hallock, the ingenious printer for 
the mission, from models prepared by Dr. Smith. The 


SMITH 


818 


SMITH 


firvt font was cast bv Tauehnitz, at Leipsio. linger Dr. 
Smith’s superintendence, anti others of different sizes 
have since been cut ami east by Mr. llallock in the 
I’nitetl States, lie resumed his missionary work in 
.svria in the summer of 1*11. In the autumn of 1*46 
Ih* commenced the translation of the Scriptures into the 
Arabic language. The importance of this work is seen 
in the fact that that language is spoken bv more than 
>ixiv millions of the human family. After more than 
fight vears of exhausting and incessant toil, he completed 
the New Test., the Pentateuch, the minor prophets from 
Ilo-ea to Nalmm. and the greater part of Isaiah. At this 
stage of the enterprise, he was called from the scene ol 
his earthly lalnirs to his heavenly reward, lie died at 
IkirAt on Sabbath, dan. 11. 1*57. Dr. Smith was a 
thorough scholar and a most laborious missionary. By 
hi* \vi*e counsels and practical and comprehensive views, 
he. independently of his labors as translator, rendered 
important service to the American Board, with the op- 
erations of which in the Levant he was identified for a 
quarter of a century. The value and completeness of 
Dr. L. Robinson's Researches in Palestine are largely 
due to 1 >r. Smith's co-operation. See Allibone, Diet, of 
Jirif. anti A mer. A uthars . s. v. 

Smith, Eli Burnham, D.D., a distinguished min- 
ister of the Baptist denomination, was born in Slmreham, 
Yu April 16, 1« >3. and was a graduate of Middlebnry 
College in the class of 1*23. lie pursued his theolog- 
ical studies at Andover and Newton. Mass., where he 
was graduated in the class of 1*26. He was ordained 
as pastor of the Baptist Church in Buffalo, X. Y., where 
he remained three years, and then was pastor at Poult- 
nev, Yt., for four years. He was elected president of the 
New 1 lampton Literary and Theological Institution (now 
Fairfax Institution) in 1*33. Here he remained for near- 
ly twenty-eight years — 1*33-6). In this position he 
devoted himself with great zeal and self-denial to his 
work, and sent forth from i lie seminary under his charge 
a large number of ministers, who have done good service 
iu the cause of Christ. President Smith died at Col- 
chester, Yu Jan. 5, 1*01. (J. C. S.) 

Smith, Elijah, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born in Newport, X. Y., Sept. 4, 1797. 
lie united with the Church in 1*20, and iu 1*32 was ad- 
mitted on trial into the t hieida Conference. His effect- 
ive ministry closed in 1*55. He was a member of the 
Black Liver Conference at the time of his death, which 
occurred in lx- Hoy, X. Y.. Sept. 30, 1*70. See Minutes 
of Annual ('inferences. 1*71, p. Ml. 

Smith, Ethan, a Congregational minister, was bom 
Dec. 19, 1762, in Helchertown, Mass. He learned the 
shoemaker’s trade, and entered the army in 17*0; but af- 
ter leaving it was converted ami determined to preach. 
Having prepared l<*r college, he entered Dartmouth, and 
graduated iu 171)0. He was ordained pastor at Haver- 
hill, X. I L, early iu 1791, where he remained until 1799, 
when he was settled in llopkinton, which place he left 
in 1*1* and became pastor of the Presbyterian Church in 
Hebron, X. V. From tbe latter place be went to Poult- 
ney, Yt., and remained five years as pastor of tbc Con- 
gregational Clmrcli, when he went to Hanover, Mass., 
but left iu n short lime, and was appointed city mission- 
ary in Boston, lly died in BnyDtou. Mass., Aug. 29, 1*49. 
lie published, . 1 Dissertation on the Prophecies (1*09) : — 
.1 ytothe Eiyuratice Tanyuaye of the Prophecies ( 1*14): 

1 I 'ii ir *T/’ the Trinity, l tisiymd as an A nstcer to Xoah 
Wore* st* Ts Hihh A 5 irs (1*21) : — .4 1 'ieic of the Hebrtics, 
Ins it fiinl to Prove, umony other Things, that the Aljoriy- 
ims of . 1 mi rial an l hsciuded from the Ten Tribes of 
Israel (1*25): — Memoirs of Mrs. Abiyail Hailey : — 
/ our i.icfuns on the .Subject anil Mode of Jiaptism : — 
t A**/ to the Ra-t lotion (1*33): — Prophetic Catechism 
to /.uni to tin Study of the Prophetic Scriptures (1*39): 
— and a number of orendonnl Sermons. See Sprague, 
.1 unnls of thi .1 mer. Pulpit , ii, 296. 

Smith, Fieldon M., a minister of the Methodist 


Episcopal Church, was born near Ilodginville, Hardin 
Co., Kv„ June 16, 1*33, but removed to Warren Co., 111., 
with his father in 1*40. He joined the Church Jan. 5, 
1*51, and was licensed to preach in the conference year 
1*53-54. He was received on trial bv the Lock Liver 
Conference in September, 1*54, and was ordained dea- 
con at the first session of the Central Illinois Conference 
in 1*56. and elder in 1*5*. He was superannuated in 
1*62, but became effective in 1*64, and so continued 
until bis death, in Avon, 111.. Dec. 20, 186*, See Alin- 
htes of Annual Conferences , 1*68, p. 2*5. 

Smith, Francis, a Baptist minister, was born in 
Wakefield. Mass., July 12, 1812, and was a graduate of 
Brown Cniversitv in tbe class of 1837. and of the New- 
ton Theological Institution in the class of 1840. He was 
ordained in Providence, R. L, as pastor of the Fourth 
Baptist Church, and remained there thirteen years — 
1841-54. He supplied the Baptist Church in Rutland, 
AT., for some time, and then accepted an appointment as 
district secretary of the American Baptist Publication 
Society. Having resigned this position, be acted for 
some time as missionary of tbe Rhode Island State Con- 
vention. He died in Providence, Jan. 29, 1872. (J.C. 8.) 

Smith, Friend W., a minister of tbe Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Lenox, Bucks Co., Mass., 
Dec. 4, 1799. He entered the ministry' in 1821, and 
continued to perform efficient service until the day be- 
fore his semi-centennial conference, when be suddenly 
died, April 4, 1871. Mr. Smith was attractive and use- 
ful in his services, even to the last. See Minutes of 
Annual Conferences , 1871, p. 102. 

Smith, Gad, a Methodist Episcopal minister, was 
born in Goshen, Litchfield Co., Conn., iii 1788; convert- 
ed in 1807 ; approved of as an exhorter in 1810; licensed 
as a local preacher in 1811; received into the itiner- 
ancy on trial in June, 1812, and into full connection in 
1814, and was stationed as follows: Middletown Circuit; 
Litchfield Circuit, 1812; New Haven, 1813-14 ; lloteh- 
kissville, 1815. He died Sept. 24. 1817. He was a 
man of deep piety, good natural and acquired abilities, 
and sound and acceptable preaching talents. See Min- 
utes of Annual Conferences, i.309; Stevens, Hist, of the 
M. K. Church , iv, 324 ; Bangs, / list, of the M. E. Church , 
iii, 79. 

Smith, Gad N., a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was born in Sharon, Litchfield Co., Conn., Dec. 25, 
1*12; converted in his eighteenth year; received on 
trial in the New York Conference in June, 1836, and was 
appointed to Wethersfield Circuit. He subsequently 
preached at Litchfield in 1837-38; in Burlington Cir- 
cuit in 1839-40; at Norwalk, Conn., in 1*41 ; supernu- 
merary in 1842; at Sullivan Street Church, New A'ork, 
in 1843; at Seventh Street Church, New A’ork, in 1845, 
where he died, Oct. 22 of the same year. Mr. Smith, as 
a man, was amiable, modest, and unassuming in manners. 
11 is preaching was solid and instructive. As a pastor 
he excelled, always faithful to the personal interests of 
cver\ r one of his Hock. See Minutes of Annual Confer- 
ences , iv, 30. 

Smith, George (1), a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was born in Litchfield, Conn., 
in 1801. Of Presbyterian parentage, he, nevertheless, 
joined the Methodist Episcopal Clmrcli in Chenango 
County, X. Y., iu November, 1817. He joined tbe Pitts- 
burgh Conference in 1832, and was ordained deneon in 
1*34 and elder in 1*36. He afterwards went West and 
joined the Missouri Conference. He died Sept. 1, 1*72. 
See Minutes of Annual Conferences of the M. E. Church , 
South. 1*72, j 1.737. 

Smith, George (2), a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Hampshire Co., ATi., in 
1*10, hut was removed in early life to Ohio. In 1*30 
he was licensed as a local preacher, and joined the Ohio 
Conference iu 1*33. He was ordained deacon in 1*35 
and elder in 1*36, at the first session of the Detroit Con- 


SMITH 


819 


SMITH 


ferenee. Tie served the Church thirty-five years, twenty- 
two as presiding elder, and died May 4, 1868. He was 
a member of the General Conference of 1844. lie was 
a man of sound judgment, comprehensive views, and 
eminently earnest and practical as a preacher. See 
Minutes of A nnual Conferences , 1SG8, p. 175. 

Smith, George R. W., a Methodist Episcopal 
minister, was born in Lincoln Co., Ga., Aug. 8, 18*20; 
converted in October, 183*2; licensed to exhort in 1838, 
and as local preacher in 1830. He was received on trial 
in the Alabama Conference in January, 1840, and sent 
to the Tombigbee Circuit; in 1841, the Coosa Circuit. 
In 184*2 he was received into full connection and sent 
to Pensacola; in 1843, to Apalachicola, where he organ- 
ized a Church and began the building of a house of 
worship. He died April 1G, 1843. See Minutes of An- 
nual Conferences , iii, 4G2. 

Smith, George W., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Nelson, Madison Co., 
N. Y., in August, 1816, and was licensed to preach in 

1854. In 1855 he entered the Oneida Conference; was 
superannuated in 1858 and made effective in 1859; was 
appointed in 1863 to the Oneida Indian Mission, and 
labored efficiently until 1872, when he was granted a 
superannuated relation, being at the time a member of 
the Central New York Conference, lie died May 12, 
1873. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1873, p. 130. 

Smith, Giles Chapman, a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, was born in Union District, S. C., 
July 9, 1805. When four years of age his parents 
settled in Wayne Co., Ind. He studied one year in 
Harpeth Academy, Tcnn., and graduated at Columbia 
(now Jackson) University April 3, 1830. His conver- 
sion took place while at college, and his ministry was 
spent in the Indiana and afterwards in the South-eastern 
Indiana Conference. In 1865 ill-health compelled him 
to take a superannuated relation, and he made his home 
in Urownstown, Ind., where he resided until his death, 
April 12, 1870. He represented his conference in t he 
General Conference in 1864. His writings were pub- 
lished in the periodicals of the day. See Minutes of 
Annual Conferences , 1870, p. 19*2. 

Smith, Griffin, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born in Upper Canada May 14, 1814. 
Previous to his conversion he was a practicing physician, 
but was admitted to the ministry bv the Genesee Con- 
ference in October, 1853. In 1866 be took a superan- 
nuated relation, but in 1867 accepted an appointment in 
Seottsville, Monroe County, N. Y. Here be died April 
29, 1868. See Minutes of A nnual Conferences , 1868, p. 273. 

Smith, Harvey S., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Moukton, Vt., in 1820. 
lie was received on trial in the Troy Conference in 1843, 
and labored faithfully wherever appointed. His work, 
however, was short, for death overtook him at the early 
age of thirty-live years. He died in Albany, April 8, 

1855. Mr. Smith was deeply pious, an industrious stu- 
dent and a devoted pastor. See M inutes of A nnual Con- 
ferences , 1855, p. 539. 

Smith, Henry (1), an English clergyman, was born 
in Withcoek, Leicestershire, in 1550, and after pursu- 
ing his studies at Oxford entered the Church. II is 
scruples, however, as to subscriptions and ceremonies 
were such that he resolved not to undertake a pastoral 
charge, hut accepted the office of lecturer of the Church 
of St. Clement Danes, London. The circumstances of 
his death are unknown; Fuller thinks that he died 
about 1600, Wood in 1593. Granger says that “he was 
called the Silver-tongued Preacher.” llis sermons and 
treatises, published at various times about the close of 
the 16th century, were collected in one volume, 4to, in 
1675, with a life of the author by Fuller. See Allibone, 
Diet . of Brit, and Avier. A it t hors, s. \\; Chalmers, Biot/. 
Diet. s. v. 

Smith, Henry (2), a veteran minister of the Meth- 


odist Episcopal Church, was born near Frederick City, 
Md v April 23, 1769. He was admitted into the Church 
as a seeker of religion in 1790, and soon after experienced 
a change of heart. In August, 1793, he was licensed to 
preach, and in the following October was admitted on 
trial into the conference held in Baltimore. For about 
ten years he labored in Western Virginia, Kentucky, 
and the North-west, in the face of dangers, hiss, and 
extreme hardships. Mr. Smith was actively employed 
in the work of a travelling preacher forty-two years. 
In 1835 he took a superannuated relation, and settled in 
Hookstown, Baltimore Co., Md., where he continued to 
reside until his death, in 1862. Mr. Smith published an 
autobiography, A n Old Itinerant Preacher (New York, 
P2mo). See Minutes of Annual Conferences, 1863, p. 17. 

Smith, Henry Boynton, D.D., LL.D., an emi- 
nent Presbyterian minister and educator, was born in 
Portland, Me., Nov. 21, 1815. He graduated at Bowdoin 
College in 1834, and remained as tutor in the same for 
some time. He prosecuted his theological studies at 
Bangor and at the Andover Theological Seminary. De- 
siring to pursue them still further, he went to llalle and 
Berlin, Germany. Here he developed his peculiarly 
Germanic conception of scholarship in the breadth of 
scope, and that critical accuracy, that patient and labori- 
ous research of study, which marked him so strong- 
ly even among the conspicuous American students of 
that day. In 1842 he became pastor of the Congre- 
gational Church at West Amesbiirv, Mass., which posi- 
tion be held for five years, enjoying happy and affec- 
tionate relations with the congregation. Two years 
from the above time, he filled the chair of Hebrew in 
the Andover Seminary in connection with his pastoral 
duties. In 1847 lie accepted the professorship of mental 
and moral philosophy in Amherst College, whence, after 
a service of three years, be went, at the anxious solicita- 
tion of Dr. Adams and the trustees and faculty, to the 
Union Theological Seminary, New York city, lie was 
called originally to the professorship of Church history, 
but it was subsequently exchanged for the chair of sys- 
tematic theology in 1855, which he held until 1873, a 
period of eighteen years, when, broken down by un- 
remitting toil, he retired from the chair, but was still 
retained in connection with the faculty as emeritus pro- 
fessor of apologetics until his death, Feb. 7, 1877. In 
speaking of himself he said, “My life has been given 
to the seminary,” and it may be added that it was 
characterized by a lucid intensity. To strangers be 
seemed distant and unapproachable. lie was not in 
any sense of the word magnetic; yet though he did 
not seem to draw, he never repelled. He took a deep 
and abiding interest in the students, and held them 
“with hooks of steel.” lie was punctual in his attend- 
ance at church, being latterly a member of Dr. Prentiss’s 
Church of the Covenant, which he was principally in- 
strumental in organizing in 1862, where on Sabbath and 
at the week-day prayer-meetings lie was always found, 
taking an active part when his health would permit. 
Ilis piety was of a pure, deep, and even kind. He en- 
tered into the discussions of the higher judicatories of 
the Church. In all matters of Church polity he was at 
home, and in the discussions relating to the contemplat- 
ed reunion of the New and Old School branches of the 
Church he took an active interest. As moderator of the 
New-school General Assembly in 1864, his utterances on 
Christian union were in the highest degree impressive, 
and conduced greatly to bring about the happy result 
which four years later was so successfully accomplished. 
As a delegate to the General Assembly in 1867 his sound 
sense as well as modesty was made apparent. On the 
presentation of the plan of reunion there wanted hut a 
few lines to hind it stronger, and the two lines offered by 
Prof. Smith and sent up to the Assembly ol'18G8 became 
one of the strongest strands of the bond of union. The 
words were, “It being understood that this confession 
is received in its proper — that is, historical — Calrinistic 
or Reformed seme.” Dr. Jessup, writing from Beirut 


820 


SMITH 


SMITH 

in 1*77. thus speaks of a visit made by Prof. Smith to 
Svria a few years before: *' As F write there rises a vi- 
sion before niy mind of two of t lie Uirri's eminent saints 
who met on yonder heights of Lebanon, and are now 
walk ini: the golden street." in the New Jerusalem. 1 re- 
fer to >imeon 11. Calhoun nml Henry 11. Smith. When 
Profs. Smith, Park, and Hitchcock visited this land a 
few venrs ago. they came up to Alieili, on Mt. Lebanon, 
to meet Mr. Calhoun. Prof. Smith was my gue»t, anil 
it was a rich treat to me to have a visit from my old 
teacher. At the time of my graduation in 1*55, onr 
clftM* invited him to a social gathering one evening. I Ie 
made a brief mid re**, but so sententious that it seemed 
apostolic, lie said. ‘ When I went to Germany, I passed 
through an intense struggle with rationalistic doubt and 
unbelief. Hut in the midst of it till there came before 
me a vision of Christ. so distinct, so sweet — of Christ as 
a Person, a living, divine, and human Saviour — that 
all shadows were driven away, and 1 never doubted 
more. This* vision of Christ we all must have. No 
man can be a true and living Christian until he lias had 
this vision of a living Christ/ The whole sentiment 
and substance of his theological lectures was permeated 
with this glorious conception of Christ, lie seemed to 
lift up his pupils to the same high plane on which he 
himself stood. It brings heaven nearer to think that 
such men as Calhoun and Smith are actually there, for 
heaven seemed to he in them while they were here." 
In the April number. 1*77, of the Princeton Review is an 
editorial by Hr. Atwater on Prof. Smith, who was his 
colleague in the conduct of the Review Ibr a period of 
nine years. This noble tribute is followed by one from 
Hr. > her wood. It contains a reminiscence of Prof. 

Smith's labors as an editor of the Rerietr, and the larg- 
cM contributor to its columns. It contains a list of the 
title* of all his contributions to the several Reviews with 
which he was connected and the date of their appear- 
ance, making live pages of the Review. The record will 
prove of special interest to many who may wish to read 
or reread the always interesting, and often elaborate ami 
l»>werful. productions of Ids pen. lie beipieathed his large 
and valuable library to the Union Seminary. l>r. Smith’s 
principal publications are as follows: The. Relations of 
Faith ami Philosophy : — Xature ami Worth of the Science 
of t '/torch History: — Problem of the Philosophy of il is- \ 
tory : — The Reformed Churches of Fit rope and .1 merica 
in Relation to C, aural Church History: — The Idea of 
t 'hristian Thettbtyy as a System : an . I ryument for Chris- 
tian Col/eyes: — History of the t ' lunch of Christ : — Chrnu- 
* dot find Tables : — .1 Synchronic View uf the Events. (Ahar- 
aettrs, and ('allure of each Period, inchtditty the History 
of Polity. Worship. Literature , and Doctrines , together 
with a Sttppfenn nttiry Table tut the t'hnrch in America, 
and an .1 ppmdix coutaininy the Series of Councils, 
Popes . Patriarchs . mol other His hops, and a Full Index, 
making matter for four large volumes of print: — .1 
Translation of Dr. tiiese/rrs Text Imoh of Church His - 
tory: — Translation of Dr. llnyrnhach's ('hristian Doc- 
tnnes :—A / tiscmirse tut Christian Fnian ami Ecclesias- 
tical Reunion htfttre the t lateral Assembly of 1*04 : — 
State of Relajinu in the Foiled States in a Report made 
to the Frauyelical Alliance: Numerous contributions 
to the American Thenloyintl Review and to the Hiblio- 
fhera Sacra. >re Allihoue, Diet, of licit, ami Amer. 
.1 ttfhats , k v. ( W. P. S.) 

Smith, Henry F. ( a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, >otith. was born Lee. 21, l*l«, and 
entered the Honda Conference in 1*57. He died in 
Ueola. Marion Co.. Ha., June 12, 1 k. He was a Chris- 
tian r*l dei p and ardent piety, and an excellent, preach- 
er. See 1 linnhs of Annual t'oufrtncvs of the M. E. 

ch.. South , p. 521. 

Smith, Henry H., a minister of the Methodist 
Lpucopal t hnreh, win horn in llennon, Vt..in 1*01 ; nml 
ni the age of tilieen joined the Congregational Church, 
lie pr<|-<md I »r colli go; hut rcliinpiishcd his studies 


because of failing health, and engaged in teaching and 
the study of medicine. In 1*34 he united with the 
Methodist Episcopal Church, was licensed to exhort, 
and in 1*35 joined the New England Conference on 
trial, and was ordained deacon in 1*37. lie became a 
member of the Providence Conference at its formation, 
laboring until 1*70. when he superannuated, lie died 
in South Yarmouth, Mass.. Jan. 80, 1*71. See Minutes 
of Annual Conferences, 1*71, p. 71. 

Smith, Henry Ryan, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Canada, April 29, I* 12. 
He was converted at an early age, and commenced to 
preach when about nineteen. At the age of twenty-six 
lie entered the Genesee Conference; and his ministerial 
life was interrupted bv but one year’s superannuation 
(1*47). lie died at Wilson, N. Y., April 29. 1873. lie- 
lore coming to the United States, Mr. Smith occupied 
an honorable position in his Conference in Canada, fill- 
ing the two previous years one of the chief pulpits in 
Hamilton, Canada. He was a man of positive Chris- 
tian conviction and masterly in his preaching. See 
Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1*73, p. 111. 

Smith, Hervey, a Congregational minister, was 
born in Granby. 51 ass., Sept. 19, 1793. lie pursued bis 
preparatory studies with Lev. Enoch Hale, of West 
Hampton; entered Williams College, and graduated 
in 1*19. and studied theology with Mr. Hale and 
Lev. Moses Ilallock, of Plainfield, Mass. He was or- 
dained and installed over the First Church in Stafford, 
Conn., Oct. 9, 1*22, and remained pastor of this Church 
eight years. He was called to the Feeding Hills Church, 
West Springfield, Mass., whore he remained three years, 
and was installed pastor of Ireland Parish, now Holy- 
oke, continuing such for eight years. He was without 
charge while residing at Granby, East Hampton, and 
West Hampton until his death, June 4, 1877. For sev- 
eral years he was secretary of Hampden County Home 
Missionary Society, lie published two Sermons, one 
preached after the death of his wife, and the other after 
the death of his only daughter. (W. P. S.) 

Smith, Hezekiah, D.D.. a llaptist minister, was 
born on Long Island, N. Y., April 21, 1737, and joined the 
Paptist Church in New York city in his nineteenth year. 
He began his education at Hopewell Academy, X. J., 
and graduated from Princeton in 17G2. He was ordain- 
ed in Charleston, S. C., where he preached until the 
spring of 1704. when he went to New England, lie 
organized the First Paptist Church in Haverill, Mass., 
May 9. 17(15; and was recognised as its pastor Nov. 
12. 1700. In 1770 Air. Smith was appointed chaplain 
in the American army, and continued to serve until the 
close of the war. lie greatly assisted in the establish- 
ment and prosperity of Prown University, and con- 
tinued to be pastor of the First Church, Haverill, for 
forty years, when, after preaching from John xii,24, he 
was smitten with paralysis, and died, after a week’s ill- 
ness, Jan. 22, 1805. l)r. Smith was a man of commanding 
presence and winning manners, and was strictly evan- 
gelical. See Sprague, .*1 nnals of the A mer. Pulpit, vi, 97, 

Smith, Hugh, D.D., an Episcopal clergyman, was 
horn near Fort Hamilton. L. L, Aug 29, 1795. lie was 
trained for college at the Flatbush Academy; and, grad- 
uating from Columbia College, New York, in 1813, he 
pursued his theological studies under bishop Hobart, 
from whom he received deacon’s orders in 181(1 and 
priest’s orders in 1*19. In April, 1817, he was appoint- 
ed by Dr. Prmvn his assistant in Grace Church, and 
in the same year accepted the rectorship of St. Ann’s 
Church, Prooklyn. In 1819 he became rector of the 
Episcopal Church in Augusta, Ga. liesigning this 
charge in 1831, lie returned to the North, and was called 
to the rectorship of Christ Church, Hartford, Conn., 
where he remained till 1833, when he became mission- 
ary of the Church of the Holy Evangelist in New York. 
St. Peter’s Church, his last parish, was offered to him in 
, 1*30; and in the same year lie became professor of Pas- 


SMITH 


821 


SMITH 


toral Theology and Pulpit Eloquence in the General j 
Theological Seminary, New York. lie died in the St. 
Peter’s rectory, March 25, 1849. Dr. Smith published, j 
The Heart Delineated in its State of Nature, and as Re- 
ne wed by Grace (1834, 12mo) : — also Sermons (1827, 1835). 
See Sprague, A nnals of the A mer. Pulpit , v, 005. 

Smith, Isaac (0, an eminent early minister of 
the Methodist Episcopal Church, was born in New Kent 
Co., Va., Aug. 17, 1758. lie had few early educational 
advantages; and at the age of thirteen was appren- 
ticed to a house carpenter. Previous to the Declara- 
tion of Independence he enlisted as a volunteer, and 
was for more than four years in active service; and re- 
ceived an honorable discharge at Goshen, N. Y., in Au- 
gust, 1779. At the age of twentv-live he made a pub- 
lic profession of faith, and immediately began to labor 
as exhorter; and in April, 1784, he was admitted to the 
travelling connection, on trial, in Virginia, and travelled 
that year the Salisbury Circuit, N. C. ; Tar River Cir- 
cuit in 1785; Charleston, S. C., in 1786; Santee Circuit 
in 1787; Edisto Circuit in 1789; Charleston in 1790; 
Broad River in 1791 ; Santee Circuit in 1792. lie was 
presiding elder from 1793 to 1795. In 1796 he retired 
front active work on account of ill-health, took a loca- 
tion, and went into the mercantile business. He made 
his residence at Camden, S. C., where he remained 
twenty-four years, when (1820) he was readmitted to 
the Conference. In 1822 lie was appointed missionary 
to the Creek Indians, and remained among them live 
years. He took a superannuated relation in 1827, left 
the Creek Nation in February, 1828, and went to Mis- 
sissippi, where he labored two or three years. He died 
in Monroe County, Ga., July 20, 1834. Mr. Smith was 
a man of sterling Christian character, and of a sweet 
and loving disposition. Believing every word of God, 
meek above the reach of provocation, and thoroughly 
imbued with the spirit of love and devotion, he was a 
saint indeed. As a preacher he was earnest in manner, 
and concise and energetic in language. See Sprague, 
A mials of the .4 mer. Pulpit , vii, 102 ; Minutes of A imual 
Conferences , ii, 346; Stevens, Hist, of the M. E. Church , 
ii, 140 ; iii, 57, 384 ; Simpson, Cyclop . of Methodism , s. v. 

Smith, Isaac (2), a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Wilmington, Vt., Nov. 1, 
1817. He tirst joined the Methodist Episcopal Church, 
but relapsed into a backslidden state. At the age of 
twenty-one was reclaimed and united with the Baptist 
Church. He was educated at Oherlin, O., and at New- 
bury Seminary, Vt. While in the hitter institution he 
reunited himself with the Methodist Church, and was 
licensed to preach. In 1843 he joined the New Hamp- 
shire Conference, and at its division became a member 
of the Vermont Conference. In 1852 he was transferred 
to the New England Conference, in which he continued 
to render elfective service until a few months previous 
to his death, in Chicopee, Mass., July 16, 1860. See 
Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1861, p. 54. 

Smith, Israel Bryant, a Presbyterian minister, 
was born at West llills or Huntington, Long Island, 
Sept. 12, 1822. At an early age his father removed to 
New York, and there the son united with Dr. Hattield’s 
Church in his fourteenth year. After three years spent 
in business pursuits he determined to study for the min- 
istry, and with this end in view entered the New York 
University, from which he graduated in 1846. He then 
entered the Union Theological Seminary, and graduated 
in 1849. He was ordained July 12, 1851 ; and, with the 
exception of three years at Mount Pleasant and Union- 
dale, Pa., he passed his entire ministerial life on Long 
Island. He supplied successively t lie churches at East 
Hampton, Fresh Pond, Northport, and Green Lawn. In 
1875 he relinquished his charge, but continued to reside 
at Green Lawn until his death, which occurred suddenly 
after an illness of only a few days, July 6, 1878. He 
was an earnest, hard-working man, and his memory will 
be tenderly cherished by the churches. (W. P. S.) 


Smith, James (1), a Methodist Episcopal minis- 
ter, was born in Virginia in 1782, converted in early 
youth, and in 1802 received as a travelling preacher 
into tiie Virginia Conference, lie soon gave evidence 
of strong powers of mind, and evinced a taste and ca- 
pacity for intellectual improvement. On some occa- 
sions, especially, he was truly eloquent, and rose far 
above ordinary speakers in sublimity of sentiment and 
energy of thought and expression. He died in 1826. 
See Minutes of Annual Conferences , i, 542; Stevens, 
Hist, of the M. E. Church, iii, 401, 402 ; Sprague, *4 muds 
of the .4 mer. Pulpit , vii, 373-377 ; Bangs, Hist, of the M. 
E. Church , ii, 307 ; iii, 371. 

Smith, James (2), a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Kent Co., Del., May 
15, 1788. His conversion took place in 1804, and he 
was received on trial into the Philadelphia Conference 
in 18 LI. He became supernumerary in 1830, but again 
entered the active work in 1833. lie was also presiding 
elder of the North Philadelphia District and of the Wil- 
mington District. He died March 30, 1852. See Min- 
utes of Annual Conferences , 1852, p. 22. 

Smith, James (3), a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born in Washington Co., Pa., in 1791. 
He was converted in early life, and in 1818 was licensed 
to preach, aud admitted cm trial into the Ohio Confer- 
ence, lie was ordained deacon in 1820, and elder in 
1822. For thirty years he rendered effective service, 
and when, in 1852, the conference was divided, he be- 
came a member of the Cincinnati Conference, and re- 
ceived a supernumerary relation, which he sustained 
until his decease. He died in Sidney, O.. April 7, 1856. 
See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1856, p. 152; Simp- 
son, Cyclop, of Methodism, s. v. 

Smith, James (4), a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Andover, N. Y., Jan. 21, 
1807, aud united with the Church in his seventeenth 
year. He entered the ministry in 1833, and for eigh- 
teen years did effective service, and then took a super- 
annuated relation, which he held until his death, at 
Westfield, Vt., Nov. 20, 1875. He was a member of the 
Vermont Conference. See Minutes of Annual Confer- 
ences , 1876, p. 85. 

Smith, James (5), a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Scotch Valley, Blair Co., Pa., Sept. 5, 1819. His 
father was an elder in the Church at Hollidaysburg, of 
which the son afterwards became a member. He was 
graduated at Jefferson College in 1843, and entered 
Princeton Theological Seminary in the autumn of the 
same year. After completing the course he graduated, 
and was licensed by the Presbytery of Huntingdon at 
Clearfield, Pa., Oet. 8, 1846. The following April he 
was dismissed to the Presbytery of Clarion, and was or- 
dained as an evangelist by that presbytery Sept. 1, 1847. 
After preaching one year as an evangelist., he was again 
received into the Presbytery of Huntingdon in 1848, 
and in April, 1849, he was called to the pastorate of the 
Little Valley Church. He did not choose to be installed 
as pastor, but supplied the pulpit until 1855. Joining 
the Allegheny Presbytery, he was, soon after leaving 
his former charge, installed by the last-named presby- 
tery over the Church at Bridgewater. In 1857 he again 
changed his relation, and was installed pastor of the 
Church at Mount Joy by the Donegal Presbytery. Here 
he continued to labor with great acceptability and use- 
fulness among a people strongly attached to him, and 
he to them, for a period of ten years, when, owing to 
the failure of his health, he was obliged to submit to 
the dissolution of the pastoral relation. For the last 
eight years of his life feeble health prevented him from 
performing ministerial duties, and lie gradually declined 
until his death, Oct. 4, 1875. (W. P. S.) 

Smith, James Bradford, a minister of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church, South, was born in War- 
ren Co., Ga., and united with the Cburcli in 1836. lie 


822 


SMITH 


SMITH 

received license to preach in IS 15, and in 1846 joined | 
Hie Georgia Conference. Mis last appointment was 
Oglethorpe, where hi> brief ministry closed with death, 
,l„lv 7, I sod. Nee Minutes of A nitual Conferences of 
M. E. ( A., South, 1*53, p. 170. 

Smith, James C., a minister of t he Methodist 
Kpi-copal Church, w as born in New IJberty, Lycoming 
Co., Pa., Aug. 31, 1*21, and was converted at the age 
of nine. lie wa> admitted into the Iowa Conference in 
is it; (or 1*17), and was transferred to the Missouri Con- 
ference in May, 1*5*. After serving in Je Her son City 
and Nt. Dm is he was appointed presiding elder of the 
Kansas City District. Persecuted in the war. he es- 
caped with his family into Iowa, where he continued 
until the next session of the conference, when he was 
placed in charge of the St. Louis District. In 1*05 he 
took a supernumerary relation, and died May *, 1*60. 
See Minutes o/‘.l mum l Conferences, 1*60, p. *204. 

Smith, James M., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born at Jamaica, X. V.. in 1*10. He entered Prince- 
ton Theological Seminary in 1*37. and, alter remain- 
ing one year, finished his theological studies in the 
Union Theological .seminary in 1*40. lie was ordained 
and installed pastor of the Upper Ten-mile Creek and 
Miami Nebo churches, Pa., remaining such till 1*43, 
when he resigned, and became a stated supply of the 
churches at IJetldehem and North Branch, Pa. lie 
then became pastor of the Church at Tarcntum, Pa., in 
1*11, and continued in this relation until 1*53, a period 
of nine years, laboring with success and usefulness. He 
removed to Grand Spring. Wis., ami remained without 
charge until his death, in 1*51. (\V. P. S.) 

Smith, Jeremiah, an English Dissenting minis- 
ter. was horn about 1053. It is not known where he 
received his education, lie was lirst pastor of a Church 
at Andover, in Hampshire, and afterwards succeeded 
Mr. Spademan, as co-pastor with Mr. Kosewell, in Silver 
Street, where he was also otic of the Friday -evening 
lecturers. Amid the theological contentious of the year 
1719, he stood forward the champion of the Trinity. 
He continued to preach with great zeal the faith which 
others were attempting to destroy until the day of his 
death, Aug. *29, 1723. lie was one of four who com- 
posed the work entitled The Doctrine of the Trinity 
Shift'd find Of ended, The Exposition of the Epistles to 
'Titus uwl Philemon, in the continuation of Henry’s Com- 
mentary, was by his pen. He published several sepa- 
rate Sermons (I7P2 and 1713, Svo) : — Four Sermons 
(1715 and 1710, 8vn): — On the I tenth of Sir Thomas 
Ahmy (17*22, 4to). See Dennett, Hist, of Dissenters, ii, 
319. 

Smith, John (1), an English clergyman, was born 
in Warwickshire in 17)03, and elected in 1577 a scholar 
of St. John’s College, Oxford, where he also obtained 
a fellowship. He succeeded Dr. Lancelot Andrew's as 
lecturer in St. Paul’s Cathedral, London. In Septem- 
ber, 1.592, he was presented to the living of Clavering, 
Essex, lie died in November, 1010. His works are, 
The Esstx I tore, etc., in three treatises (1029, 4to) : — 
Exposition on the ('retd, and Explanation of the A rticles 
of our Christian Faith , in seventy-three sermons (1032, 
fol.J. See Chalmers I tiny. J)irt. s. v. 

Smith, John (2), an English divine and instruct- 
or, w as burn in ArhurHi, near ( hmdle, in 101*. He en- 
tered Emmanuel College, Cambridge, in 1030, and in 
1011 was clitilsen fellow of Queen's College, lie diet! 
Ang.7, 1052. Certain treatises by Mr. Smith were pid>- 
lidied by Dr. John Worthington (Cambridge, 1000, 4to) 
under the title of St hot Discourses. A second edition, 
corrected, with a funeral sermon by Patrick, was pub- 
lished at Cambridge (1078. 4to), One of the discourses, 
that Epon Prophecy, was translated into Latin by Le 
( lerc, and prefixed to bis Commentary tm the ]*n>phets 
(DJI). See Allibone, Piet, of liv'd, and Amer . Au- 
thors, s. v.; Darling, Cy<lo/>. ilihliny. s. v.; Hook, Ec- 
clesiastical Hioyraphy , s. v. ; Chalmers, Uioy. Did. s. v. 


Smith, John (3), a learned English divine, was born 
in Lowther. Westmoreland, Nov. 10, 1059. After being 
under several teachers, he was for some time at the. school 
of Appleby, whence he went to St.John’s College, Cam- 
bridge, June 11, 1074. Jle took his degree of A. D. in 1077, 
and of A.M. in 10*1, and was also ordained both deacon 
and priest. In the same year he was invited to Durham 
by Dr. Denis (Iranvillc, and in July, 1082, was admitted a 
minor canon of Durham. About the same time he was 
collated to the curacy of Croxdale, and in July, 10*4, to 
the living of Wittou Hilbert. In 1080 he went to Ma- 
drid as chaplain to lord Lansdowne, the English am- 
bassador. In 1094 Crew, bishop of Durham, appointed 
him his domestic chaplain, collated him to the rectory 
and hospital of Gateshead in June, 1095, and to a prebend 
of Durham in September following. In 1090 he was 
created 1).D. at Cambridge, and treasurer of Durham 
in 1099, to which bishop Crew*, in July, 1704. added the 
rectory of Dishop Wearmouth. lie died at Cambridge, 
July 30, 1715. Dr. Smith was learned, generous, and 
strict in the duties of his profession. Besides his edition 
of Bede’s History , he published four single Sermons. 
See Allibonc, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Authors, s. v. ; 
Bitty. Brit.; Hutchinson, Durham , i, 01; Nicholson, 
Letters , i, 224; Chalmers, Bioy. Diet. s. v. 

Smith, John (4), D.D., a Congregational minister, 
was born in Newbury (Bytield Parish), Mass., Dec. 21, 
1752. lie entered the junior class in Dartmouth Col- 
lege in 1771, graduating in 1773, and immediately after 
was appointed precept or of Moor’s School at Hanover. 
While occupying this position, he studied theology un- 
der the direction of president Wheelock. In 1774 lie 
was appointed tutor in the college, continuing in that 
office until 1778, when he was elected professor of lan- 
guages. This position he retained until the close of 
his life, April 30, 1*09. He served as college librarian 
for thirty years (1779-1809). For two years he deliv- 
ered lectures on systematic theology, and officiated as 
stated preacher in the village of Hanover. Dr. Smith 
prepared a Hebrew Grammar (dated May 14, 177*2; re- 
vised Feb. 11, 1774). He also prepared a Chaldee Gram- 
mar : — a Latin Grammar (1802) : — a Greek Grammar 
(1809): — an edition of Cicero de Ora tore, and Sermons. 
See Sprague, A nnals of the A mer. Pulpit , ii, 90, 

Smith, John (5), a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was born in Kent Co., Mil., March 10, 1758; converted 
June 9, 1780; received on trial in the travelling con- 
nection in 1784, and into full connection in 1780, and 
afterwards travelled the following circuits; New Hope, 
Redstone, Greenbrier, Cecil, Talbot, Milford, Somerset, 
Annamcsscx (twdee), Caroline, and Dover, when he be- 
came supernumerary for several years, and afterwards 
superannuated until his death, May 10, 1812. See Min- 
utes of Annual Conferences , i, 224; Stevens, Hist, of the 
M. E. Church , ii, 147 ; iv, 281. 

Smith, John (0), D.D., a Congregational minister, 
was born in Belchertown, Mass., March 5, 1700. He 
graduated at Darmouth College in 1794, entered the 
ministry in 1790, and was ordained Jan. 4, 1797, co- 
pastor at Salem, N. II., but resigned his charge Nov. 
21, 1810. He became pastor in Wenham, Mass., Nov. 
20, 1*17, but was dismissed Sept. *, 1819, to accept the 
professorship of theology in the Theological Seminary, 
Danger, Me., which he held until his death, April 7, 
1831. He published, Treatise on Infant Baptism: — 
Two Sermons on the A ’ationul East (1812), and a few 
occasional Sermons. See Sprague, Annals of the Amer . 
Pulpit, ii, 389, 

Smith, John (7), a Presbyterian minister, was born 
in Hopewell, Pa., May 8, 1770. He was carefully edu- 
cated by his parents, graduated at Dickinson College; 
studied theology privately at Princeton, N. J. ; was li- 
censed hv New Brunswick Presbytery in 1809; and or- 
dained by Oneida Presbytery as pastor of the Church 
at Cooperstown, N. V., in 1810, where, for nearly a quar- 
ter of a century lie went in and out as a true shepherd 


SMITH 


823 


SMITH 


before bis people. In 1834 he became principal of Cher- 
ry Valley Academy, at the same time preaching in the 
church at Middletield, a distance of six miles. In 1830 
he was stated supply of the Church at Painted Post, in 
Chemung Presbytery, in 1840 of the Church in llam- 
mondsport, in Bath Presbytery, where he preached as 
opportunity and his increasing years would permit, un- 
til 1855, when he removed to Pen Van and took up his 
residence with his son-in-law. He died here, June 17, 
1800. On the announcement of Mr. Smith’s death, the 
members of Bath Presbytery held a meeting and passed 
resolutions in view of his great worth as a Christian 
and minister. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac, 1802, 
p. 1 95. (J. L. S.) 

Smith, John (8), a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born in Kirby, Vt., in 1808. He was 
converted and joined the Church in 1824, was licensed 
to preach in 1827, and joined the New England Confer- 
ence in 1829. He labored for about twenty years in the 
active ministry, and then, compelled by ill-health, took 
a supernumerary relation, which he held until his death, 
March 27, 1872, in West Burke. See Minutes of An- 
nual Conferences, 1873, p. 58. 

Smith, John Blair, D.D., an eminent Presbyte- 
rian divine and educator, and brother of Samuel Stan- 
hope Smith, D.D., was born in Pequea, Lancaster Co., 
Pa., June 12, 1750. He very early evinced great thirst 
for knowledge and uncommon facility in acquiring it. 
received most watchful and faithful parental training, 
and was converted when fourteen years of age. He 
graduated at the College of New Jersey in 1773 under 
l)r. Witherspoon; pursued his theological studies under 
the direction of his brother, was licensed by the Pres- 
bytery of Hanover, April 29, 1778, and ordained by 
the same presbytery, Oct. 20, 1779. lie became suc- 
cessor to his brother as president of Hampden Sidney 
College in the same year, and in the spring of 1780 
also as pastor of the clnirehes of Cumberland and 
Briery, in Prinee Edward Co., Va., where he became 
very popular, and before he left the state is said to 
have been “at once more attractive and powerful than 
any other clergyman in Virginia from the time of 
Samuel Davies.” In 1789 he resigned his position as 
president of Hampden Sidney College, in 1791 be- 
came pastor of the Third Presbyterian Church, Phila- 
delphia, Pa. ; in 1795 president of Union College, N. Y., 
and for three years presided over the infant institution 
with great credit ami success. In Mav, 1799, he re- 
turned to his former charge in Philadelphia, where he 
died, Aug. 22, of the same year, of yellow fever. Dr. 
Smith was a fervent ami eloquent preacher, earnestlj r 
devoted to his work, and drew immense congrega- 
tions, which would hang upon his lips in breathless si- 
lence. As a patriot and a citizen he also exerted an 
important influence in the civil concerns of the state, 
especially as connected with the interests of religion. 
When the Legislature, in 177(3, abolished the establish- 
ment of the Church of England in the state, they at 
the same time passed an act incorporating the Epis- 
copal clergy, and giving them a right to the glebes and 
churches which had been procured by a tax upon the 
inhabitants in general, including Dissenters of every de- 
scription as well as Episcopalians. Another bill was 
introduced, but not yet passed, to extend the privileges 
of the Aet of Toleration, as passed by William and Mary, 
to the State of Virginia. Dr. Smith framed a remon- 
strance against those acts, which he induced the Pres- 
bytery of Hanover to adopt and send to the Legislature, 
which was a very able State paper and hail the desired 
effect. About this time another great excitement was 
raised in Virginia by a bill introduced in the Legisla- 
ture for a general assessment for the support of religion, 
a scheme which was advocated by Patrick Henry and 
other popular politicians. An adverse petition was pre- 
pared, and it, together with a memorial from the pres- 
bytery, was presented to the Legislature by Dr. Smith 


(whose handwriting the papers show), who was heard 
for three successive days at the bar. of the House in sup- 
port of them. So decided was the influence of the strug- 
gle in Virginia as to procure the withholding from the 
Federal Constitution of all power to erect a religious es- 
tablishment of any kind. Dr. Smith’s only publication 
was The Enlargement of Christ's Kingdom, a sermon at Al- 
bany in 1797. See Sprague, A finals of the A mer. Pulpit , 
iii, 397 ; Alii bone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. J uthors, s. v. ; 
Davidson, Hist, of Presb. Ch. in Kentucky , p.37-39; Gen. 
Assenib. Miss. Mag. 1805; Foote, Sketches of Virginia, 
1st series; Life of Dr. Ashbel Green; Graham, Lett. VII; 
Smyth, Eccles. Republicanism, p. 90-103 ; Baird, Religion 
in America, p. 109, 110; Lang. Religion and Education 
in America, p. 94, 115, Bice, Evangel. Mag. ix, 30, 33, 
35, 42, 43. (J. L. S.) 

Smith, John Blakely, a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, South, was born in Charlotte, 
N. C., July 11, 1820. In 1843 he joined the Church, and 
in December, 1847, was admitted into the Georgia Con- 
ference. After its division he became a member of the 
South Georgia Conference. Besides serving as pastor, 
he was Sunday-school agent of the latter conference, 
three years agent of the American Tract Society, and 
three years agent of the Wesleyan Female College. In 
1850 he was elected conference secretary, and continued 
in office for twenty-two years. He died near Americus, 
Ga., Sept. 30, 1872. See Minutes of Annual Conferences 
of M. E. Ch., South, 1872, p. (380. 

Smith, John Cross, D.D.. a Presbyterian minis- 
ter, was born in Baltimore, Mil., Oct. 29, 1803. lie re- 
ceived his classical education in a private school. After 
studying theology under Dr. Duncan, he entered Prince- 
ton Seminary and remained one year. He was licensed 
in 1828, and soon after began to preach as an evangelist 
at Fortress Monroe, Va. While here he received a call 
from Portsmouth, and he was ordained and installed 
over that Church. Here he labored with great zeal and 
success until 1832, when he accepted a call to the Bridge 
Street Church, Georgetown, D.C. He went to work in 
his new charge with zeal, clearing his Church of a heavy 
debt, and securing its prosperity and growth. In 1839 
the pastoral relation was dissolved, and he beeame agent 
of the American Tract Society; but in a few months he 
was called to the Fourth Church in Washington, D. C., 
over which he was installed in September, 1839. Here 
he labored with untiring zeal and energy for thirty-eight 
years, and his Church was blessed with numerous and 
powerful revivals. He was quite successful in building 
churches free from debt, and still more successful in 
raising funds to liquidate the debts of others. In 18(31 
he offered his services gratuitously as chaplain in the 
Union army, and served with fidelity for more than a 
year. In 1876 he received an injury in the street from 
which he never recovered, and his system gradually 
gave wav. He died in Washington, Jan. 23, 1878. 
(W. P. S.) 

Smith, John Faris, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in York County, Pa., Jan. 29, 1822. He graduated 
at Jefferson College, Canonsburg, in 1812, studied the- 
ology at Princeton, N. J., was licensed by Donegal Pres- 
bytery in 1844, and ordained and installed pastor of 
Owensborough (Kv.) Church, lie preached successive- 
ly at Bardstown. Ivy.; Vincennes, Richmond, and Hope- 
well, Ind. ; and afterwards undertook a temporary labor 
in behalf of the United States Christian Commission in 
the army, whence he returned sick, and died among his 
kindred in York, Pa., July 4, 18(34. The Indianapolis 
Presbytery recorded the following minute: “Brother 
Smith was an honored and useful member of presby- 
tery, was well known and greatly confided in in all our 
ecclesiastical councils. Taken off in the prime of life, 
while pastor of a flourishing Chureh, the lamentations of 
his people follow him to his grave.” See Wilson, Presb. 
Hist. A Inianac, 1865, p. 120 ; 1866, p. 170. (J. L. S.) 
Smith, John G., a minister of the Methodist Epis- 


SMITH 


S24 


SMITH 


copal Church, wnsborn in Marlborough, Ulster Co.. X. V., | 
Jvpt.Sn. I sop. IK* was licensed to preach at the age of 
twentv-two. ami was also atlmiucd into the New York 
Conference on trial. When this conference was divided, 
Mr. Smith being stationed at Willett Street, New York 
oitv. became a member of the New York East Confer- 
ence. 11 i> last appointment was to the Second Church, 
New Haven, Conn., where his health failed. lie re- 
moved to Warwick in July, 1854. and died Sept. 30, in 
the same year. Sec Minutes oj' Annual Conferences, 
Is jo, p. 5-1 o. 

Smith, John M.,a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was Iwirn in Brooklyn, N. Y., Oct. 10, 1 71*5. lie was 
converted in the spring of IS 10, and immediately joined 
the Church; graduated at Columbia College in the city 
of New York: entered upon the study of medicine, but, 
becoming impressed that it was his duty to preach, re- 
Iinquiidicd that design and entered the itinerant min- 
istry in 1817, and was stationed on Jamaica Circuit, 
L. I. lie continued in this work until September, 1820, 
when he was elected bv the New York Conference prin- 
cipal of the Wesleyan Seminary in New York city, in 
which he continued until that institution was removed 
to White Plains, of which he also took the oversight. 
From this he was transferred, in May, 1832, to the pro- 
fessor-hip of languages in the Wesleyan University. 
He entered upon the duties of his professorship with 
great ardor of mind and promising hopes of distin- 
guished usefulness; but his days were soon cut off. and 
be died Hoc. 27, 1832. Mr. Smith was a diligent and 
successful student; a tine classical scholar; sound and 
systematical as a preacher; meek, modest, and polished 
as a man. Sec Minnies of Annual Conferences , ii, 216; 
Bangs, Hist, of the M. K. Church , iv, 146-151. (J. L. S.) 

Smith, John Pye, I).D., LL.D., F.B.S., an emi- 
nent English Presbyterian divine, was born in Shof- 
ticld. May 25, 1771. He was educated at the Indepen- 
dent Academy at Botherham, was ordained to the min- 
i-iry in the Independent Church, and, without entering 
upon the regular work, he accepted the appointment of 
resident professor of classical literature and theology in 
the Theological Seminary at Uomerton. Subsequent- 
ly (in 1815) he became sole professor of divinity, and 
discharged l'is duties with acceptability, training hun- 
dreds of young men for the ministry. In 1813 lie re- 
signed this post and became president of the institu- 
tion, and again took t lie chair of classical literature, 
which he retained until 1850, when New College. St. 
John’s Wood, was formed by the junction of Uomerton, 
Highbury, and Coward colleges. Dr. Smith retired to 
private life aided by a testimonial fund of £ 15,000. 
For forty-three years be was pastor of the celebrated 
(travel Pits Chapel, Uomerton. He took a great in- 
terest in scientific pursuits and was honored by a mem- 
bership in t lie lioyal and Geological societies, lie died 
at Guildford, Surrey, Feb. 5, 1851. Dr. Smith wrote, 
The Scripture Test i tut my to the Messiah (1818-21,2 vols. 
*vo; 182!*, 3 vols.; 1837.3 vols.; 18 17,2 vols.) -.—Four 
1 discourses on the Sacrifice and Priesthood of Christ 
(18J8, 3d ed. 18 17) : — Principles of Interpretation as Ap- 
plied to (he Prophecies of Scripture (1823, 2d ed. 1831) : 
— The I i> It it ion In (men Holy Scripture and Some Parts 
of (it tdoyical Science (1833, 8vo; 4th ed. l8 |S);_/Vr- 
sonnlity anti Pirinity of the Holy Spirit ; — Mosaic Ac - 
count of the (’ reatitm and / fringe ; — Manual of Latin 
d nun not r : —Synoptic T aides Hensons of the Protes- 
tant Pel it /ton; besides many sermons, controversial pieces, 
and reviews. After bis death appeared First Lines of 
Christian Tfoolot/y, being notes of his lectures to his 
indents ( 1 85 1, 2d ed. |8i;u). He was one of the great- 
est Biblical scholars of his day; and the works above 
enumerated are lull of most valuable criticism and ex- 
ege is. See Medway [ .1. ]. Memoirs of the Life am! 
Writing* of John Pye Smith (1853); Alii lx me, Diet, of 
Frit, and A no r. A uthors , s. v. 

Smith, J oseph (1), an English clergyman, was born 


' in Lowther, Westmoreland, Oct.l 0,1 670, and was admit- 
ted to Queen's College, Oxford, May 10, 1689. In 1693, 
being chosen taberder, he took his first degree in arts, but 
was afterwards removed from college by Sir Joseph Will- 
iamson, who appointed him bis deputy keeper of the 
Paper-office at Whitehall; and soon alter, being made 
plenipotentiary at Uvswick, be took Mr. Smith with 
him as secretary, lie was created A.M. while abroad, 
March 1, 1696, and a fellow, Oct. 31, 1698. Desiring to 
enter the Church, be returned to Oxford in 1700 and 
was ordained by Dr. Talbot, bishop of Oxford. Not 
long after be was presented to the donative of Iflcy, 
near Oxford, and at the same time was appointed di- 
vinity lecturer in the college. In 1704 be served as 
senior proctor. In 1705 Dr. Lancaster presented him 
to linssel-eourt Chapel, and then to the lectureship of 
Trinity Chapel, Conduit Street. Taking up his resi- 
dence in London, he was soon after appointed chaplain 
to Edward Villiers, earl of Jersey, and by him was pre- 
sented at court. Made D.D. Nov. 2, 1708, lie was pre- 
sented by bis college to the rectory of Knights-Emham, 
and the donative of Upton Gray, both in Southampton 
County. In 1716 he exchanged Upton Gray for the 
rectory of St. Dionis Back-church, London, over which 
lie presided for forty years. On the accession of George 
I he was made chaplain to the princess of Wales. He 
was promoted to the prebend of Dunlmlm, Lincoln; and 
received the donative of Paddington, near London. He 
was also promoted to the prebend of St. Marv, Newing- 
ton, in St. Paul’s Cathedral. He was chosen lecturer 
of St. George’s Church, Hanover Square. He had be- 
fore resigned the lectureship of Trinity Chapel, Conduit 
Street, and in 1731 resigned also that of St. George’s 
in consequence of having been, on Oct. 20, 1730, elected 
provost of Queen’s College. His provostship. which 
lasted twentv-six years, was of great financial benefit 
to the college. He died in Queen’s College, Nov. 23, 
1756. He published only two Sermons , and a pam- 
phlet entitled A Clear and Comprehensive View of the 
Being and Attributes of God. etc. See Alii bone, Piet, 
of Frit, and Amur. Authors, s. v. ; Chalmers, Biog. Diet . 
s. v. 

Smith, Joseph (2), one of the early ministers of 
the Presbyterian Church in Western Pennsylvania, was 
born in Nottingham. Pa., in 1736. Of bis early edu- 
cation and religious convictions nothing is known. He 
graduated at Princeton in 1764; was licensed by the 
Presbytery of Newcastle at Draw vers, Ang. 5, 1767 ; 
was ordained and installed pastor of the Congregation 
of Lower Brandywine, April 19, 1769; of the united 
congregations of Wilmington, Del., and Lower Brandy- 
wine, Oct. 27, 1774; and of Buffalo and Cross Creek 
congregations in Westmoreland County, Pa., in Decem- 
ber, 1780, where he spent the remainder of his life. He 
died April 19. 1792. Mr. Smith was an extraordinary 
preacher and laborious pastor. “I never beard a man,” 
said the liev. Samuel Porter, “who could so completely 
as Mr. Smith unbar the gates of hell and make me look 
far down into the abyss, or who could so throw open 
the gates of heaven and let me glance at the insuffera- 
ble brightness of the great white throne.” See Sprague, 
Annals of the A mer. Pulpit, iii, 274. (J, L. S.) 

Smith, J oseph (3), D.D., a minister of the Presby- 
terian Church, was born in Westmoreland County, Pa., 
July 15, 1796. lie entered Jefferson College and was 
graduated in 1815. From thence he went to Princeton 
Theological Seminary, where he graduated in 1819. 
lie was ordained and commenced preaching in Vir- 
ginia, where he remained several years, lie was prin- 
cipal of the academy at Staunton, Va., and also of that 
at Frederick City, Md. lie subsequently became presi- 
dent of Franklin College, O., and also of a college at 
Frederick City. After this lie became general agent 
of the Presbyterian synods of Western Pennsylvania, 
Northern Virginia, and Eastern Ohio. He was pastor 
of the churches of Bound Hill, and at Greeusburg, Pa., 


SMITH 


S25 


SMITH 


at which latter plaee he died, Dec. 4, 18G8. He was 
the author of Old Red & 'tone and a History of Jefferson 
Colleye. lie possessed great versatility of talent, and 
served the Church in the various relations he sustained 
to it with great acceptability and usefulness. See 
Plum ley, Presbyterian Church , p. 2%. (W. P. S.) 

Smith, Joseph (4) (Mormon prophet). See Moit- 
mons. 

Smith, Joseph (5), a Baptist minister, was born 
in Hampstead, N. H., Jan, 31, 1808, and pursued his 
studies at the New Hampton and Newton institu- 
tions. Wishing to secure a full collegiate education, 
he entered Brown University and was graduated in 
the class of 1837, and was ordained Sept. 27, 1837. His 
pastorates were at Woonsocket and Newport. P. I., and 
at Grafton and North Oxford, Mass. In the latter place 
he died, April 20, 1800. (J. C. S.) 

Smith, Josiah, a Congregational minister, was 
born in Charleston, S. C., in 1704, and graduated at 
Harvard College in 1725. He began to preach within 
about a year of his graduation, ami was ordained July 
11, 1720. In 1729 he maintained a learned dispute with 
Ilev. H. Fisher on the right of private judgment, and in 
1740 he espoused the cause of Mr. Whitefield. In 1749 
he received a stroke of palsy, from which he never 
recovered so far as to be able to articulate distinctly. 
He nevertheless continued writing sermons, many of 
which were published. Mr. Smith was an earnest 
friend of the cause of American independence, and on 
the surrender of Charleston became a prisoner of war, 
but was released on parole. In 1781 he was ordered 
out of Charleston, and landed in Philadelphia, where he 
died in October of that year. Mr. Smith was a respect- 
able preacher, a learned divine, and a writer of consider- 
able reputation. He published, Sermons (1720-45): — 
Sermons (1752, 8vo): — The Church of Ephesus Ar- 
raigned (1765) Letters, etc. See Sprague, Annals of 
the A mer. Pulpit, i, 351. 

Smith, Josiah D., D.D., a Presbyterian divine, 
was born in Westmoreland County, Pa., Nov. 20, 1814. 
He was educated in South Hanover College, Iud„ studied 
divinity in the South Hanover Theological Seminary, 
was licensed by the Madison Presbytery and ordained 
by the Columbus Presbytery, O., in 1841, and installed 
pastor of the Truro and Hamilton churches in that 
state. He subsequently became pastor of the West- 
minster Presbyterian Church in Columbus, where he 
died May 29, i803. Dr. Smith was a man of high in- 
tellectual worth. He published, Truth in Love: — Ser- 
mons (Phila. 1864), with a biographical preface bv the 
Ilev. James INI. Platt and an introduction by M. W. Ja- 
cobus, D.D. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac , 1864, 
p. 193; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer . Authors. 
(J. L. S.) 

Smith, Leonard, a minister of . the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Aneaster. Wentworth 
Co., Canada, May 2, 1838, and joined the Church there 
in 1854. He was licensed to preach in 1857, and en- 
tered the Illinois Conference in 1860. In 1873 he was 
granted a supernumerary relation, and held that posi- 
tion until his death, Nov. 18, 1874. See Minutes of 
Annual Confei'ences , 1875, p. 133. 

Smith, Matthew, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Antrim County, near Belfast, Ireland, in 1825, 
where he received his early education. lie studied 
theology at Paisley, Scotland, and was ordained and in- 
stalled pastor of a Presbyterian church near Belfast in 
1840. In 1850 he emigrated to America, and was 
stated supply for the Associate Reformed Presbyterian 
Church at Milton, Pa., where he labored for more than 
a year, and afterwards removed to Wisconsin as an As- 
sociate Beformed missionary. In 1854 he accepted a 
commission from the American Home Missionary So- 
ciety, and became stated supply of the Presbyterian 
Church at Centreville, la. He died Aug. 13, 1859. 


Mr. Smith was a faithful minister, attending diligently 
to all the duties of his calling, and endearing himself to 
all his people. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac , 1801, 
p. 164. (J. L. S.) 

Smith, Miles, an English prelate, was born in the 
city of Hereford, and about 1508 entered Corpus Chri>ti 
College, Oxford, but graduated at Brasenose. lie af- 
terwards became one of the chaplains or petty canons 
of Christ Church, where he took his bachelor of divinity 
degree. In due course he was preferred to the otlice of 
residentiary of Hereford Cathedral, was created doctor 
of divinity in 1594, and on Sept. 20, 1612, became bish- 
op of Gloucester. 1 1 is knowledge of the Oriental lan- 
guages was so extraordinary that he was employed by 
James I upon the translation of the Bible, lie began 
with the first, and was the last man engaged upon that 
work, having also written the preface. For this service 
he was appointed bishop of Gloucester, and had leave 
to hold in commemlam his former livings, viz. the preb- 
end of Hinton in the Church of Hereford; the rectories 
of Upton-upon-Severn and Hartleburv, in the diocese of 
Worcester; and the first portion of Ledbury, called Over- 
hall. According to Willis, he died Oct. 20, but Wood says 
in the beginning of November, 1024, and was buried in 
his own cathedral. His published works are, Sermons 
(Lond. 1632, fol.): — Sermon (published without his con- 
sent by Bobcrt Burhill. 1002). He was the editor of 
bishop Babington’s works, to which he prefixed a pref- 
ace. See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Authors, 
s. v. ; Darling, Cyclop. Biblioy. s. v. ; Chalmers, Bioy. 
Diet. s. v. 

Smith, Moses, D.D.. a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Chatham County, N. C., 
Feb. 28, 1817. When two years old, his parents moved 
to Highland County, O., where he was converted, and 
united with the Church. He graduated from Augusta 
College in August, 1842 ; was licensed to preach, Jan. 
31, 1843, and admitted into the Ohio Conference on Sept. 
27. His ordination as deacon took place in 1844, and 
that of elder in 1840. For twenty-seven years he was 
constantly engaged in the work. He died in Newton, 
Jasper Co., Ia., Aug. 25, 1869. He was twice a delegate 
to the General Conference. He wrote works on Mental 
and Moral Science, the former of which was published. 
See Minutes of Annual Conferences, 1869, p. 282. 

Smith, Noah, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, South, was admitted into the Georgia 
Conference about 1837 or 1838. He was a very popu- 
lar and useful preacher until 1858, when he took a 
superannuated relation. He died Sept. 14, 1860. Mr. 
Smith was a man of right principles, ardent piety, and 
indefatigable in his labors. See Minutes of A nnual Con- 
ferences of the M. E. Ch., South, 1800, p. 257. 

Smith, Peyton Pierce, a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, South, was born in Franklin 
County, Ga., Jan. 12, 1812, and joined the Church in Sep- 
tember, 1826. He was licensed to preach by the Gwin- 
nett Circuit Quarterly Conference, Nov. 12, 1831, and 
at the next session of the Georgia Annual Conference 
was received on trial. According to his journal, he was 
a travelling preacher for thirty years and four months, 
during which time he preached 4414 sermons, baptized 
1529 persons, made 5979 visits, wrote 4941 letters, and 
travelled, chiefly by private conveyance, 123.623 miles. 
In 1863 he was returned to Madison district as presiding 
elder, where he labored until the day before his death, 
May, 1863. Mr. Smith was one of the oldest and most 
efficient members of the Georgia Conference, mid as a 
minister was eminently successful. See Minutes of An- 
nual Conferences of the M. E. Church, South, 1863, p. 
466; Simpson, Cyclop, of Methodism, s. v. 

Smith. Philander, D.D., third bishop of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church in Canada after the sepa- 
rate organization in 1828, was born in Delaware Coun- 
ty, N. V., in 1790, He was reared a Calvinist, and at 


SMITH 


82 G 


SMITH 


an early age settled in Elizabethtown, near Broekville, 
Canada. Ik* was converted in 1817 under the preach- 
ing of bishop George. ami united with the Methodists. 
In |>2<‘ he joined the Genesee Conference, and w as duly 
ordained deacon and elder. In 1826 lie was appointed 
presiding ehler of the l'pper Canada work, ami labored 
regularly till the union of the Canada Conference with 
the British Wole ■vans in 1833. Uprising this action, 
dissatisfied with the abandonment of the episcopacy, 
and with the terms of the union generally, he ceased 
travelling fora time. Ill 1856 he united with the Meth- 
imIim Episcopal Church, w hich had again rallied, and in 
lsdj was elected to the episcopate, w hich office lie held 
until his death, iu 1870. As a preacher he was earnest 
ami t fleet ive; as an administrator lie was calm and 
judicious; as an overseer in the Church of Christ he 
was watchful, self-sacriticing. and laborious. i>ee £ump- 
mui, (. ycb>j>. oj M tthodism, s. v. 

Smith, Reuben, a Presbyterian minister, was born 
in Nmtli Hadley. Mass., Sept. 26, 1789. lie enjoyed a 
g.M»d aca«lemical training, graduated at Middlebiirv Col- 
legc, Vi., in I 8 1 2, and at Princeton Theological .Semi- 
nary, N. .1., iu is Id. Licensed by the New York Presby- 
tery. he w as ordained and installed pastor of the Church 
at Balktnii Centre. N. Y.. in 1*10. by the Troy Presby- 
tery. lie afterwards labored in the Third Presbyterian 
Church at Albany for some years; in 1829 became pas- 
ter of a Congregational Church in Burlington, Vt. ; in 
1*32 of the Church at Waterford, X. Y.. where he re- 
mained sixteen years; in 1 S4-S again at Ballston Cen- 
tre. In 1*54 he removed West, joining the Winnebago 
Preshy lory, ami living at Beaver Dam. Wis. ; but in- 
creasing age prevented his taking that active part in 
the ministerial duties which marked his earlier years. 
He died Now 7. lsfln. Mr. Smith was a man of deep, 
earnest piety, a close Biblical student, and in his prime 
an eloquent preacher. He was the author of Africa 
Given to Christ (Burlington, Vt.. 1800), a sermon : — The 
Pastoral tfjjice, embracing Experiences and Observations 
f’nun a Pastorate of Forty Years (Phila. ]8mo). See 
Wilson, Presb. J list . Almanac , 1802, p. 119; Allibone, 
Dirt. of Jirit. and .1 mer. Authors, s. v. (.T, L. S.) 

Smith, Richard (O, a learned Roman Catholic 
divine of England, was Ixirn in Worcestersliire in 1500, 
and educated at Oxford. In 1527 he was admitted a 
probationary fellow of Merton College, took his degree 
of A.M. iu 1.550, and was elected registrar of the univer- 
sity in the following year, lie afterwards became rec- 
tor of Cuxham, Oxfordshire: principal of St. Alban’s 
Hall, divinity reader of Magdalen College, regius pro- 

0 v*>r of divinity, nud look his degree of D.D. in that 

family. In 1557 he was made master of Wittiugton 
College, l>*ndon, hut was deprived in the reign of 
l.il ward \ 1. In the lir>t year of that reign he re- 
canted his opinions at St. Paul’s Cross, but was obliged 
to resign his profe>n»rship at Oxford. He went to St. 
Andrew’s Scotland; thence to Paris in 1550, and then 
to bnivain, where lie was made professor of theology. 
On the aivexMon «»f queen Mary he returned to England, 
was restored to his professorship, made canon of Christ 
Church, and chaplain to her majesty. He was one of 
the witness* .. against Crauttu r. and at the burning of 
Ri< ley and Latimer he preached, from I Cor. xiii, 3, a 
sermon, lasiing iiL.ut tifteen minutes, lull of invective 
agninsi the martyr*. for t hi* conduct lie was deprived 
of all his p r * b nnmts u|»on the accession of Kli/aheth.and 
1 'lni‘ il hi i he custody of archbishop Parker, by whose 
|MT*un«ioti he recanted part of what hi* lin«l written in 
ib f* i i e <if the celibacy of the clergy. He escaped to 
D >onv. 1 Inn hr-, where in* obtained the denucrv of St. 
I'lifrs Churrli and a professorship, lb* died in 1563. 
Smith wrote at h »ii i sixteen trneis in favor of popery : 

1 hr \t*rrf> u nud / h fence nj the Sarrammts (Lmd. 

lelo.sui.Xvi* ; | Jft/turt of the San ijice the Masse 

(IMil. Itltoo: 1517, Nvn): I Jtovc/ief of the Cal!,., like 

tayth oj t hnsit'j Church (2 pt>. tlv o). The entire Hat 


may be seen in Dodd or Wood. See Chalmers, Biog. 
Diet . s. v. 

Smith, Richard (2), an English Roman Catholic 
prelate, was born in Lincolnshire in 15G6, and educated 
at Trinity College, Oxford, and afterwards at Rome, 
lie then completed his studies in Spain, taking his doc- 
tor’s degree at Valladolid, anil in 1603 arrived in Eng- 
land as a missionary. lie sided against the Jesuit 
party, ami was opposed by them when named for the 
bishopric of Chalcedon. On Feb. 4 he was. however, 
appointed bishop of that diocese. A controversy shortly 
arose betw een him and the regulars of his own Church, 
and Smith was ordered to drop the title of Ordinary of 
England which he had assumed. In 1629 two procla- 
mations w ere issued against him. which induced him to 
leave the kingdom and retire to France. There he ex- 
ercised his jurisdiction over the English Romanists by 
vicars-general and other ecclesiastical officers. He ex- 
perienced the kindness of cardinal Richelieu, who be- 
stowed upon him the abbacy of Cbarroux: but his suc- 
cessor, Mazarin, withdrew his protection, and deprived 
him of that position, lie afterw ards retired to an apart- 
ment near the convent of some English nnns in the 
vicinity of Paris, where he died, March 18, 1655. Smith 
w rote several w orks in defence of himself and of popery 
in his dispute with the regulars. See Allibone, Diet, 
of Brit, and A mer. A vthors, s. v. ; Chalmers. Biog. Diet . 
s. v. ; Dodd, Church History, vol. iii ; Hook, Bcelts. Biog . 
s. v. 

Smith, Robert (1), an English divine and edu- 
cator, was born in 1689, and educated at Trinity College, 
Cambridge, w here he took his degrees of A.B. in 1711, 
A.M. in 1715. LL.P. in 1723. and D.D. in 1739. Infor- 
mation respecting Dr. Smith is very meagre. He was 
mathematical preceptor to William, duke of Cumber- 
land, and mnsfer of mechanics to George II. In 1716 
he became Plumian professor at Cambridge, and after- 
wards succeeded Bentley as master of Trinity, lie died 
iu 1768. Smith’s works are, A Ccujlete System of 
Optics (1728, 2 vols. 4to). and Harmonics. or the Philos- 
ophy of Musical Sounds (1760). See Allibone, Diet, of 
Bril, and .1 mer Authors, s. v. : Cumbi'idye Graduates ; 
Cumberland, Life ; Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Smith, Robert (2), D.D.. an eminent Presbyte- 
rian divine, and father of the Revs. John Blair Smith, 
P.P.. and Samuel Stanhope Smith, D.D.. was born in 
Londonderry. Ireland, in 1723. His family came to 
America when he was seven years old, and settled at 
the head-waters of the Brandywine River, about forty 
miles from Philadelphia. At the age of fifteen his mind 
became deeply impressed with the subject of religion 
under the preaching of Wliitelield, during his first visit 
to America, and lie soon felt a strong desire to devote 
himself to the minktry. He accordingly placed him- 
self under the instruction of the Rev. Samuel Blair, w ho 
was then conducting an institution for the education of 
young men for the ministry at Faggs Manor, Chester 
Co.. Pa. There he made very rapid improvement in 
both classical and theological knowledge; was licensed 
by the New Side Presbytery of Newcastle Dec. 27, 
1749, and ordained and installed \ asfor of the churches 
in Pequea and Leacock, Pa.. March 25, 1751. Shortly 
after his settlement he founded a school, designed chiefly 
for the instruction of youth in the Latin, Greek, and 
Hebrew languages, which was afterwards resorted to by 
many who were subsequently greatly distinguished in 
the different professions. In 1759 he resigned the care 
of the congregation of Leacock: in 1760 lie received 
the degree of D.D. from the College of New Jersey, 
ami in 1772 he was appointed one of its overseers, 
and held the office during the rest of his life. He 
wa> the second moderator of the General Assembly, ami 
the last public act of his life was to attend a meeting 
of the lxiaril of trustees of the College of New Jersey. 
He died April 15, 1793. Dr. Smith was distinguished 
for his activity, being in labors most abundant. ‘’Few 


smith 


827 


SMITH 


men in the holy ministry have been more useful or 
more esteemed.” lie published a sermon preached on 
the union of the Old and New Side Presbyteries of 
Newcastle, entitled .1 Wheel in the Middle of a Wheel , 
or the Harmony and Connection of the Various Acts of 
Divine Providence : — Tiro Sermons on Sin and Holiness 
(1767): — A Sermon (1774): — Three Sermons on Saving 
Faith . in the Anier. Preacher , vol. iv (1791). See 
Sprague, Annals of the Amer . Pulpit , iii, 172; Allibone, 
J)ict. of Brit, and A mer. .4 id hors, s. v. ; Gen. A ssembfy 
Miss. Mag. vol. ii; Timlow, Hist. Serm. (J. L. S.) 

Smith, Robert (3), D.D., an efficient Episcopal 
minister in America, and afterwards bishop of South 
Carolina, was born in Norfolk, England, Aug. 25, 1732. 
lie passed A.B. and A.M. at Cambridge, of which lie 
was also elected fellow, and was ordained in 1756. On 
his arrival in America he was successively assistant and 
rector of St. Philip’s, Charleston, S. C., and was spe- 
cially interested in the negro school. He exerted him- 
self in favor of the American cause, and went to the 
lines as a common soldier at the siege of Charleston. 
During the Revolutionary war he was chaplain to the 
Continental Hospital, S. C., and had charge of St. 
Paul’s, Queen Anne’s Co., Md. He devoted the re- 
mainder of his life to teaching and the care and organi- 
zation of the Episcopal Church. In 1789 he was made 
D.D. by the University of Pennsylvania, and in 1795 
was elected bishop. He died Oct. 28, 1801. See 
Sprague, Annuls of the Amer. Pulpit, v, 170. 

Smith, Robert A., a Methodist Episcopal minis- 
ter, was born in Robertson County, Tenn., in 1809; 
converted in 1828, licensed as a local preacher in 1832, 
received on trial in the Tennessee Conference in the 
same year, transferred and stationed on Oakmulgee Cir- 
cuit in 1833, at Jones’s Valley in 1834-35, and admitted 
into full connection at Montgomery, in 1836, where he 
died, Oct. 25, 1836. lie was a man of deep and ardent 
piety, a good preacher, and a most agreeable compan- 
ion. See Minutes of Annual Conferences, ii, 487. 

Smith, Robert D., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was born in Lancaster County, 
Pa., Oct. 21, 1802. In 1813 his family removed to 
Champaign County, O., where he lived till 1824, when 
lie went to Mississippi to teach school. There he was 
converted, and united with the Church Nov. 9, 1824. 
He was licensed to preach in 1826, and preached under 
the presiding elder until 1828, when he was received on 
trial into the Mississippi Conference. lie labored as 
missionary to the Choctaw nation for two years and six 
months. In 1831 he was stationed in Montgomery, 
Ala.; 1832, Mobile; 1833, Vicksburg; 1834, New Or- 
leans; 1835, Natchez; 1836, Cole’s Creek Circuit; 1 837— 
38, Vicksburg District; 1839, Warren Circuit ; 1840-41, 
appointed president of the Elizabeth Female Academy 
at Washington; and in 1842 he was at Centenary Col- 
lege. In 1843^15 he labored as missionary among the 
colored people in Madison Parish, La., where he closed 
his life and work, May 16,1845. See Minutes of An- 
nual Conferences of the M. K. Church, South, 1845, p. 33. 

Smith, Samuel, an English clergyman and pop- 
ular writer of tracts, was born in or near Dudley, Worces- 
tershire, in 1588, and studied for some time at St. Mary’s 
Hall, Oxford. He left without taking a degree, and 
became beneticed at Prittlewell, Essex, and afterwards, 
as Wood says, in his own county; but, according to 
Calamv, he had the perpetual curacy of Cressedge and 
Couud, Shropshire. On the breaking-out of the Rebell- 
ion he went to London, and sided with the Presbyte- 
rians. On his return to the country he was appointed 
an assistant to the commissioners for the ejection of 
“scandalous and ignorant ministers and schoolmasters.” 
At the Restoration he was ejected from Cressedge. The 
time of his death is unknown, hut, according to Wood, 
he was living near Dudley in 1663. Smith’s works are, 
David's Blessed Man (Lond. 8vo): — The Great Assize 
(12mo; thirty -one editions of which appeared before 


1684): — A Fold for Christ's Sheep (printed thirty-two 
times): — The Christian's Guide: — besides other tracts 
and sermons. See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. 
A u t hors, s. v. ; Darling, Cgclop. Bibliog. s. v. ; Chalmers, 
Biug. Diet . s. v. 

Smith, Samuel Stanhope, D.D., LL.D., a dis- 
tinguished divine and educator of the Presbyterian 
Church, and son of the Rev. Robert Smith, D.I)., was 
born in Pequca, Lancaster Co., Pa., March 16, 1750. At 
a very early period he gave indications of possessing 
a mind of no common order. When he was only six 
or seven years old he commenced the study of the lan- 
guages in his father’s school. “ lie made the best of 
his opportunities, and was distinguished for his im- 
provement in every branch to which he directed his 
attention.” lie became a communicant in the Church 
under his father’s care while he was yet under the pa- 
ternal roof; and before he was eighteen years of age 
graduated at the College of New Jersey under circum- 
stances the most honorable and gratifying. After grad- 
uation he returned to his father’s house and spent some 
time “partly in assisting him in conducting his school, 
and partly in vigorous efforts for the higher cultivation 
of his own mind.” In 1770 he became tutor of the 
classics and of belles-lettres in the College of New Jer- 
sey, where he remained for upwards of two years, dis- 
charging his duties with great fidelity ami acceptance, 
while at the same time he was pursuing a course- of 
theological study privately. In 1773 he resigned the 
position of tutor, was licensed to preach by the Presby- 
tery of Newcastle, and immediately went as a mission- 
ary to the western counties of Virginia, where he soon 
became an almost universal favorite. So powerful an 
impression did he make that some of the most wealthy 
and influential persons soon set on foot a project for 
detaining him there as the head of a literary institu- 
tion. A seminary was subsequently chartered under the 
name of Ilampden Sidney College, and he took upon 
himself the double office of principal of the seminary 
and pastor of the Church, and the duties of both he 
discharged with the most exemplary fidelity. In 1779 
he accepted the professorship of moral philosophy in 
the College of New Jersey. The college was then in 
ruins in consequence of the uses and abuses to which it 
had been subjected by both the British and American 
soldiers; its students were dispersed, and all its oper- 
ations had ceased; but it is not too much to say that 
during this whole period, although I)r. Witherspoons 
name could not fail to shed glory over the institution, 
and lie was always intent upon the promotion of its 
interests, it was mainly by the energy, wisdom, and 
generous self-devotion of Dr. Smith that the college was 
speedily reorganized and all its usual exercises resumed. 
In 1783 Yale College honored him with 1).D., and in 
1810 Harvard University with LL.D. In 1785 he was 
elected an honorary member of the American Philo- 
sophical Society in Philadelphia; and the same year 
was appointed to deliver their anniversary address, and 
he met the occasion in a manner which, of itself, would 
have conferred lasting honor upon his name. The ad- 
dress was afterwards published in the Transactions of 
the society, and subsequently in an enlarged and im- 
proved form in a separate volume. With this work his 
reputation as a philosopher both at home and abroad 
is, in no small degree, identified. In 1786 be was as- 
sociated with several of the most distinguished and 
venerable men in the Presbyterian Church in prepar- 
ing the Form of Presbyterial Government. In 1794, 
Dr. Witherspoon having died, he became president of 
the College of New Jersey, lie had now acquired a 
wide reputation as a pulpit orator. His baccalaureate 
discourses particularly attracted large numbers, even 
from remote parts of the country, to listen to them; but 
one of ins most splendid performances was bis oration, 
delivered at Trenton, on the death of Washington. The 
occasion roused his faculties to the utmost, and the re- 
sult was a production of great beauty and power. In 


SMITH 


828 


SMITH 


1 S0*2 the college edifice was burned, together with the 
libraries, furniture, ami fixtures of every description. 
'Hie trusters resolved to rebuild it immediately. l>r. 
.Smith made a begging tour through the Southern 
States, and returned in the following spring with about 
one hundred thousand dollars, which, with other liberal 
aid. enabled him to accomplish vastly more than he 
ha<l ventured to anticipate. “This was his crowning 
achievement, lie had won new honors and gained 
many new friends. The college was popular and pros- 
perous ami numbered two hundred students. New 
buildings were soon erected, ami several new professors 
were added to the faculty.” During the whole period 
of his presidency he continued to contribute to t lie ele- 
vation of the college to a position of the highest use- 
fulness. and ever proved himself to be one of the ablest 
and most successful disciplinarians of any age. In 1*1*2. 
living too much enfeebled to discharge any longer the 
duties of hi> otlice, he tendered his resignation as pres- 
ident and retired to a place which the board of trustees 
provided for him, and there spent the remainder of 
iiis life. He died, in the utmost tranquillity, Aug. 21, 
1*10, ami his remains were laid by the side of his illus- 
trious predecessors. Dr. Smith was an indefatigable 
student; conversant with the literature, science, philos- 
ophy. and i*»lities of ancient and modern times; a clas- 
sical scholar in the highest acceptation of the phrase; 
and wrote and conversed in Latin with great facility 
and was a first-rate prosodist. As a preacher, the uni- 
form testimony was that his eloquence in his best days 
had no parallel, llis superior talents as professor and 
principal were everywhere spoken of and acknowledged. 
As a man. the saintly aspect, the tranquil resignation, 
the humble faith, the generous sympathy, the compre- 
hensive charity, the modest, unpretending gentleness 
of his whole manner, all proclaimed the Christian gen- 
tleman and the mature and gifted good man. The fol- 
lowing is a list of his publications: Essay on the Cannes 
of the Variety of Com pier ion and Figure of the Unman 
Species, etc. (I’iiila. 17*7, *vo; Edin. 17**, *vo ; Loud. 
1799. *vo; 2d ed. New Brunswick. N. J„ 1*10, *vo): — 
Sermons (Newark. N. J., 1700, *vo; Load. 1*01. *vo): — 
J.uftntx on the Incidences of the Christian Religion (Phila. 
1***9. 12rno) : — Lectures on Moral and Political Philoso- 
phy (Trenton, N. .1., 1*12, 2 vols. *vo ): — C ompreheusire 
View of Principles of Xatnrul and Revealed Religion 
(New Brunswick, l*!5.*vo). He also published a num- 
ber of single sermons, orations, and discourses (17*1- 
!*!**). After his death appeared Sermons, with a Hrief 
Mtnudr of his Life and Writings ( Phila. 1*21, 2 vols. 
*vo). See Sprague, Annals of the Amer . Pulpit, iii. 
115 04.'» ; Life and Works of J'hilip L indsley (1*66). iii, 
652; I. ife of hr, Archibald Alexander, \\CJ\th\ Xew York 
M*d. and Phyx. Journ. 1*00; Mitchell | Dr. John], Es- 
say on the f 'noses of the hijferent ( 'oh o s of People in 
Fife cent Climates ; A toiler. May. xv, I 1.1; xvi, 1 ; Bam- 
wiv Dr. David], Hist, of the United States. 1607 1*0*; 
cm 1 1 iinied to the treaty of tilled! hv S. S. Smith, D.D.. 
LLD., and other literary gentlemen; AHiltonc, hict. of 
Frit, and .1 nor. .1 nfhors ; 1 iavidson, Hist, of the P resit. 
Church in Kentucky, p. 10 ; Thomas, Ring. hict. s. v. 
(J. L. s.) 

Smith, Samuel W. (I\a minister of the Meth- 
od i-t Episcopal Church, wn.s born in England in 1*12, 
and l*cgnn to preach at the age of nineteen. In 1*11 
lie joined the itinerant ministry, in which he continued 
In lalior until bis death, March Hi. 1*5*. See Minutes 
oj Annual Cnnfinnns , I *5*, p. 00, 

Smith, Samuel W. (2), a minister of the Meih- 
<>di't Kpisropal Church, was a native of Ireland, and 
identified himself with the Wesleyan Methodists in 
Cork. Oil May ‘Jo, 1*11, he reached Duehec, Cn. t and 
shortly after removed to l\»int of Locks, Md„ still fol- 
lowing his pro fens ion of lonelier. He was licensed to 
preach in January, 1*15, and was received on trial into 
the Baltimore Conference in March, 1*1*. After twen- 


ty vears of active service, he was disabled by an acci- 
dent, being struck by a fire-engine, and soon after died, 
J mie 7, 1*59. See Minutes of A nuual Conferences , 1*00, 
p. 19. 

Smith, Seth, a minister of the Methodist Episco- 
pal Church, was horn in I Bristol County. Me.. I 4 eb. 1, 
1*05, and was converted in Onondaga County, X. Y., 
June, 1*29. lie removed to Indiana in 1814. was li- 
censed to preach in 1*17, and joined the travelling con- 
nection in 1*1*. He was a member of the South-east 
Indiana Conference, and labored faithfully until about 
a month previous to his death, Oct. 1, 1*53. See Min- 
utes of A nnual Conferences, 1*53, p. 290. 

Smith, Socrates, a minister of the Presbyterian 
Church, was born in llenniker, N. H., June 16, 1814. 
He graduated from Dartmouth College in 1842 and en- 
tered the Union Theological Seminary, where he took 
the full course and graduated in 184’5. He was soon 
thereafter ordained, and accepted a call Nov. 23, 1*45, 
to lleardstown. Ilk, as a stated supply. After remain- 
ing one year, he became a stated supply to the Panther 
Creek Church, 111., where he remained until 1*49, and 
then became teacher of a classical school in Oreenville, 
111. He continued in this position until 1853, when he 
received a commission as home missionary, and labored 
at Jersey ville and Troy, Ilk, to 1859. After this he re- 
signed his commission and remained without charge in 
Greenville, where lie died in 18G9. (W. P. S.) 

Smith, Stephen, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, South, was born in Hampshire County, 
Ya., Nov. 1, 1*02, and united with the Church in 1815. 
lie was received into the Baltimore Conference in 1830. 
In 1844 he lost his voice while preaching in a new, 
damp church, and took a superannuated, and afterwards 
a supernumerary, relation. In 1867 he again became 
effective, so continuing until his death, Oct. 9, 1871. 
See Minutes of Annual Conferences of the M.E. Church , 
South. 1872, p. G48. 

Smith, Sydney, an English clergyman and cel- 
ebrated humorist, was born in Woodford, Essex, in 
1771, and was educated at Winchester School and New 
College, Oxford, where, in 1790, he obtained a fellowship 
of one hundred pounds a year. Having entered the 
Church, he became, in 1794, curate of Amesluirv, Wilt- 
shire, but three years later went to Edinburgh as a pri- 
vate tutor to the son of the squire of Ids parish. Dur- 
ing this time, he officiated in the Episcopal chapel 
there. In 1802, in connection with Jeffrey, llorner, 
Brougham, I)r. Thomas Brown, Playfair, ami others, 
Smith started the Edinburgh Review, to the first num- 
ber of which, as editor, he contributed seven articles. 
In 1803 he went to London, ami was soon popular as a 
preacher, as a lecturer on moral philosophy (1804-6), 
and as a brilliant conversationalist. In 180G, during 
the short reign of the Whigs, lie was presented bv lord 
Krskinc to the rectory of Eoston-le- Clay, Yorkshire, 
worth about five hundred pounds a year. Failing to 
exchange this for some more desirable living, lie built 
a new rectory, and in 1814 moved into it with Ids fam- 
ily. Some eighteen years afterwards the duke of Dev- 
onshire gave him the living of Londesborough (seven 
hundred pounds a year) to hold until 51 r. Howard, son 
of the earl of Carlisle, came of age. In 1828 lord chan- 
cellor Lyndhurst presented him to a prebendal stall in 
Bristol, and enabled him to exchange Boston for Combe 
Morey, Somersetshire. In 1*31 earl Grey appointed 
him one of the canons residentiary of St. Pan Vs. Hav- 
ing inherited considerable property from Iiis brother 
Courtenay, he invested largely in the public stock of 
Pennsylvania; and the neglect of t bat state to pay the 
interest on her bonds called out his Petition to Congress 
and Litters on American Jiebts , He died in London, 
Eel). 22, IK-15. Sydney Smith was not only the witti- 
est, hut one of the wisest, men of Iiis age. Iiis life was 
devoted to the removal of great abuses, and to 1 1 ic ex- 
posure of public vices and crimes at a time when vice 


SMITH 


S29 


SMITH 


was enthroned in high places, and when so many perils 
environed the path of a reformer as to require, in even 
the mildest innovator, a large stock of humanity and 
an equal share of courage. Without the power and 
prestige which in England usually follow high birth or 
wealth, he exercised a greater influence over the pub- 
lic mind of his day than any man except, perhaps, lord 
Brougham. He erred at times in treating sacred sub- 
ject3 with levity and seeming irreverence; but this 
fault was one of natural temperament and had no root 
in intidelity. Although his Christianity partook of the 
temper of the time and circle in which he moved, and 
had, therefore, far less of the evangelical element than 
could he desired, it is yet clear that his life was main- 
ly regulated by a strong sense of duty and that he 
found peace and comfort in his abiding faith in the 
great truths of religion. 11 is writings are, Six Sermons 
(Edinb. 1800, small 8vo): — contributions to the Edin- 
burgh Review (published 1830) : — Peter Plymley's Let- 
ters (1807), to promote Catholic emancipation: — Ser- 
mons (1809,2 vols.) : — Speeches on Catholic Claims ami 
Reform Bill (1825-31): — Three Letter's to Archdeacon 
Singleton on the Ecclesiastical Commission (1837-39) : — 
The Ballot (1837): — Letter to Lord John Russell on the 
Church Bills (1838): — Letters on Railways (1842): — 
Letters on American Debts (1843). After his death ap- 
peared, Fragments on the Irish Roman Catholic Church 
(Loud. 1845, 8vo) : — -Sermons (ibid. 184G, Svo) : — Ele- 
mentary Sketches of Moral Philosophy (1850, 8vo). See 
Memoir of Rev. Sydney Smith , by his daughter, lady 
Holland (N. Y. 1855, 2 vols. 12mo) ; Alliboue, Diet, of 
Brit, and A trier, A uthors, s. v. 

Smith, Thomas (1), a learned English divine and 
writer, was born in the parish of Allhallows, Barking, 
Essex, June 3, 1638, and was' educated at Queen’s Col- 
lege, Oxford, being elected fellow in 1666. In June, 
1668, he, as chaplain, accompanied Sir Daniel Harvey, 
ambassador to Constantinople, and returned in 1671. 
In 1676 he travelled in France, and returning shortly 
he became chaplain to Sir Joseph Williamson, secretary 
of state. In 1683 he took the degree of D.D., and the 
year following was presented by his college to the rec- 
tory of Stanlake, diocese of Oxford, but, resigned it in a 
month. In 1687 he was collated to a prebend in the 
Church of Hevtesbury, Wilts. In August, 1688, lie was 
deprived of bis fellowship by Dr. Ciffard because he 
refused to live among the new popish fellows of that 
college. He was, however, restored in October follow- 
ing; but afterwards, refusing to take the oaths to Will- 
iam and Mary, bis fellowship was pronounced void, 
July 25, 1692. He died at London, May 11, 1710. 
Among his learned works are the following: Diatriba 
de Chaldaicis Paraphrastis (Oxon. 1002, Svo) : — Syntag- 
ma de Druidum Mo rib ns ac Institutis (Loud. 1664, Svo) : 
— Epistolce Duce, etc. (Oxon. 1672, 8 vo ) : — De Grcecce Ec - 
clesire Ilodierno Statu Epistola (ibid. 1676. 8v<>) : — Mis- 
cellanea (2 vols. 12mo; vol. i, 1686; vol. ii, 1690) : — Epis - 
tolce et Annales Carndeni ab A.D. 1603 ad 1623, etc. 
(1691, 4to). See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Arner. 
1 uthors , s. v. ; Darling, Cyclop. Bibliog. s. v. ; Chalmers, 
Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Smith, Thomas (2), a Congregational minister, 
was born in Boston, Mass., March 10, 1702, graduated 
from Harvard in 1720, and was licensed to preach in 
April, 1722. On account of his youth he declined a 
call from the Church in Bellingham, Mass., but preach- 
ed in various places as a supply. On March 8, 1727, a 
Church was constituted at Falmouth and Mr. Smith 
was ordained its pastor, and continued such until 1764, 
when, on account of infirmity, he received Rev. Samuel 
Deane as his colleague. He, however, preached in his 
turn till the close of 1784. 11 is death took place May 

23, 1795. The only publications of Mr. Smith are a 
Sermon (1756) at the ordination of Rev. Solomon Lom- 
bard, and a Practical Discourse to Seafaring Men (1771). 
See Sprague, Annals of the Arner. Pulpit , i, 326. 


Smith, Thomas (3), a Methodist Episcopal min- 
ister, was born in Kent County, Md., June 3, 1776. He 
was converted in early life, began to preach in his eigh- 
teenth year, was received into the Philadelphia Confer- 
ence May 20. 1798, and “the demonstrations which had 
attended Abbott’s labors were repeated at almost all his 
appointments, and hundreds of souls were gathered into 
the societies.” He labored as follows: Caroline Circuit, 
1798; Flanders Circuit, N. J., 1799; Northampton Cir- 
cuit, Ya., 1800-1 ; Dover, Del., 1802; Annamessex, Md., 
1803 ; Talbot Circuit, 1804 ; Seneca Circuit, N. Y., 1805 ; 
Burlington, N. J., 1806; Asbury, N. J., 1807; Lewiston, 
Del., 1808; St. George’s, Philadelphia, 1809; Cecil, Md., 
1810; Smyrna, Del., 1811 ; Kent, Md., 1812 ; Accomack, 
Ya., 1813; from 1814 to 1816 lie was allowed a respite 
on account of ill-health ; Kent Circuit, 1817 ; New 
Brunswick, 1818; Kensington, 1819; Kent, 1820-21 ; su- 
pernumerary in 1822, in which relation lie continued 
until his death, in May, 1844. Mr. Smith was a man of 
unquestioned piety, a superior pastor, and a powerful 
preacher, lie preached “with the utmost brevity, but 
with the utmost power.” He possessed a faith admira- 
ble in its earnestness and sublime in its power. See 
Minutes of Annual Conferences, iii, 595; Experience and 
Ministerial Labors of the Rev. Thomas Smith, edited by 
the Rev. David Daily (N. V. 1848); Stevens, llist. of the 
M. E. Church , iii, 379, 415; iv, 269. (J. L. S.) 

Smith, Thomas (4), a Congregational minister, 
was born in Litchfield, Me., Aug. 17, 1812. Converted 
at the age of twenty-one, lie set out to prepare himself 
Ibr the ministry, and, by bis own exertions prepared 
for college, graduated at Bowdoin College in 1840, and 
at Bangor Theological Seminary in 1843. He preached 
in Maine at Clierryfield and Orrington, and in 1849 be- 
came pastor of Brewer Tillage, where he continued un- 
til his death, April 7, 1861. Mr. Smith was pre-emi- 
nently excellent as a pastor, and was much beloved 
by his people, lie was much attached to his work, 
and pursued his objects with unconquerable energy. 
See Congregational Quarterly, 1861, p.376. 

Smith, Thomas C., a Methodist Episcopal min- 
ister, was born Jan. 1, 1807, embraced religion in 1824, 
was admitted on trial in the South Carolina Conference 
Feb. 11, 1828, and appointed to Washington Circuit, 
Ga. ; Reedy River Circuit in 1828; received into full 
connection in 1830, and sent to Morganton Circuit; 
Cooper River Circuit in 1831-32; supernumerary on 
Lancaster Circuit in 1833; returned effective and ap- 
pointed to Lincolnton Circuit in 1834: superannuated 
in 1835, in which relation he continued until his death, 
Nov. 27, 1837. As a minister he possessed good preach- 
ing abilities, and was much beloved by those with 
whom he labored. See Minutes of Ann. Corf, ii, 575. 

Smith, Thomas G\, a Dutch Reformed minister, 
was born in Scotland in 1756, came to America in 1774, 
and enlisted actively in the cause of American indepen- 
dence. After the Revolutionary war he studied for the 
ministry under Dr. John Mason, and obtained license to 
preach in 1791 from the Associate Reformed Church, 
llis ministry covered the period of forty-six years, dur- 
ing most of which (1808 to 1837) he was pastor of the 
Reformed Dutch Church at Tarrytown, N. Y. lie had 
previously been settled in the Associate Reformed Church 
in Orange County, and then in Ulster County, in the 
churches of Esopus, Bloomingdale, and Hurley. He 
was always a favorite preacher, popular in manner, 
evangelical in spirit, and Calvinistic in creed, and in 
the pulpit was particularly practical and experimental. 
He possessed a sound mind in a sound body, and a warm 
heart with a vigorous intellect. His ministry was dis- 
criminating, and in every respect useful and honored. 
See Corwin, Manual of the Reformed Church , p. 219, 
220. (W. J. R. T.) 

Smith, Turner H., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church. South, was born ill Buncombe Coun- 
ty, N. C., May 15, 1818, and moved to Missouri iu 1833. 


SMITH 


S30 


SMITH 


He united with the Church in 1839, was licensed to 
preach in 1846, and entered the St. buds. Conference in 
18.51. lie was ordained deacon Oct. 1. 1851: and elder 
Oct. 12. I s 56. lie died April 20, |x,57. See Minute* 
of t nnmil Continue es of the M . K. ( 'hunch, South, 1857, 
p. 711. 

Smith («»r Smyth). William (1), an English 
prelate, was a native of Lancashire, and ln»rn about the 
middle of the loth century, lie took his LL.lt, degree 
at Oxford In* fore 1 492. w hen lie was presented to the 
rectory of Cheslitint, Hertfordshire, by the countess of 
Richmond. Previous to this (Sept. 20, 148,5) he was 
appointed clerk of the hanaper. and a few years after 
wa> promoted to the deanery of St. Stephen’s, Westmin- 
ster. In I 433 he was consecrateil bishop of Lichlield 
and Coventry. lie was shortly afterwards made presi- 
dent of the prince's council within the inarches of Wales. 
There was a renewal of this commission in the’ seven- 
teenth year of Henry VII, of which Smith was again 
lord-president. In 1 105 he rebuilt tbo hospital of St. 
John. Lichfield, and gave a new body of statutes for 
the tiM* of the society. Bishop Smith was translated to 
flic see of Lincoln in November, 1195. In 1501 1 he was 
elected chancellor of Oxford. and in 1507-8 he con- 
cert nd the plan of llrnsenosc College, along with his 
friend Sir L’ichard Sutton, and lived to see it completed, 
lie died at Ihickden, Jan. 2, 1513 (lol l), and was in- 
terred in Lincoln Cathedral. See C’hurton, Lives of the 
Founders ; Chalmers. Hist, of Oxford ; Hook, Fccles. 
Jiiot Chalmers, Bitty, Hid. s. v. 

Smith, William (2), a learned English divine, 
was born in Worcester in 1711, and educated at the 
grammar-school of that city, and afterwards at New 
College, Oxford, from which he graduated in 1732. In 
1735 he was presented by .lames, earl of Derby, to the 
rectory of Trinity Church, Chester, and hy his son to 
the deanery of Chester in 17.5s. He hold the master- 
ship of Brentwood School, Essex, for one year, 17 IS; 
and in 175S was nominated one of the ministers of St. 
(ieorge’s Church. Liverpool, which he resigned in 17(57. 
With bi> deanery be held the parish churched of Hand- 
ley and Trinity, hut in 17S1) resigned the last for the 
rectory of West Kirk by. lie died Jan. 12,1787. He 
is known in the literary world chiefly by bis valuable 
translation of Lonyinus oh the Sublime (173S, 8vo): — 
TU ury i lilies (1753, 2 vuD. 4to; reprinted in 1781, 8vo): 

Xt rnt/thnn* History of the A fairs of Greece (1770, 
4 1 o ) : — Sine Sermons on the Beatitudes ( 1 7 82, 8 vo). See 
Alii bone, l nd. of Hrit. and Amor. Authors, s. v. ; Dar- 
ling, • flop. Hit ditty, s. v. ; Gentlemans Magazine, vol. 
lxi ; Chalmers, Hiity, Hirt. s. v. 

Smith, William (3), D.D., an Episcopalian cler- 
gyman, was born in Aberdeen, Scotland, in 1727, and 
wn« graduated at the college in bis native city in 1747. 
l or three years lie taught a parochial school, and in 
DoM came to the United States. He acted ns private 
tutor in the family of Cov. Martin, on Long Island, for 
two years, when he was invited to take charge of the 
Seminary in Philadelphia, which has since become the 
1 niversiiv of Pennsylvania. lie accepted, went to 
England for holy orders, and being ordained in Decem- 
ber, 17.Vi. returned, and in the May following took charge 
of the itisi itntioii. In 1753 Ik* returned to England and 
received his degree of D.D. from the I’niversitv of < )x- 
f*»rd, and alniiit the same time from Aberdeen College. 
A few years alter the same degree was oonlerred upon 
lmn by I rinity t ollege, Dublin. In 17(56 (be mission 
in Oxford being vacant. Dr. Smith undertook to supplv 
it twice in three weeks, and was placed by bis own 
reipn-vt on the list of the society’s missionaries the next 
Dr. Smith held a somewhat indecisive attitude 
in tli* roi i« “>( thru resulted in the nation’s independence. 

I he charter of the College of Philadelphia Iwing taken 
away in November, 1773, Dr. Smith became rector of 
( Ik st« r Parish, Md., and established a classical semi- 
nary, which in June, I7 m* 2, was chartered as Washing- 


ton College, of which he became president. lie was 
president of the convention which organized the Prot- 
estant Episcopal Church, and in June following was 
elected bishop of Maryland; but finding strong opposi- 
tion to an episcopate in that state, and others elsewhere 
opposed to his consecration, he gave up the matter al- 
together. In 1783 he took charge also of St. Paul’s 
Parish, Kent Co., which he held for two years. He 
was on the committee appointed in 1785 to revise the 
Prayer-book. In 1783, the charter of the College of 
Philadelphia having been restored, be again became its 
president. lie died at Philadelphia, May 14, 1803. 
*• Dr. Smith was a learned scholar, an eloquent and 
greatly popular preacher, and distinguished as a teacher 
of the liberal sciences, and an astronomer.” lie was 
the author of many occasional sermons, addresses, let- 
ters, pamphlets, etc., of which a selection was published, 
with a preface hy bishop White, under the title of The 
Works of William Smith, H.H. (Phila. 1803, 2 vols. 
8vo). For a complete list of these works, see Sprague, 
Annals of the Amer. Pulpit , v, 161 ; also Allibone, Diet, 
of Brit, and Amer. Authors, s. v. ; Duyckinck, Cyclop, 
of Amer. Lit . i, 388; Rich, Bill. Amer. Nova, i, 111, 
123, 225, 245, 379. 

Smith, William (4). D.D., an Episcopal clergy- 
man. was born in Scotland about 1754, and came, an 
ordained minister, to the United States in 1785. Short- 
ly after he was settled in Stepney Parish, Md., and after 
remaining there two years became rector of St. Paul’s 
Church, Narraganset, R. 1. He left Jan. 28, 1790, to 
assume the rectorship of Trinity Church, Newport, R. I. 
He was instrumental in organizing the Church in Rhode 
Island. He left Newport April 12, 1797, to take charge 
of St. Paul’s Church, Norwalk, Conn., where he remained 
until 1800, when he removed to New' York, where he 
opened a grammar-school. In 1802 he became principal 
of the Episcopal Academy at Cheshire, N. Y., which he 
left in 180(5, and returned to New York,wdiete he died, 
April 6, 1821. He was author of The Reasonableness of 
Settiny Forth the Braises of God (N. Y. 1814, 12mo): — 
Fssays on the Christian Ministry: — Chants J or Public 
Worship: — Office of Institution of Ministers, in the 
American Prayer-hook: — also occasional sermons and 
articles in periodicals. See Allibone, JJict. of Brit, and 
A mer. A uthors, s. v. ; Sprague, .1 nnals of the A mer. 
Pulpit, v, 345. 

Smith, William (5), D.D.. a Presbyterian minis- 
ter, was born in Harrisburg, Pa., July 17, 1793. He 
entered Jefferson College, and after his graduation was 
appointed to a tutorship in the same. In 1821 he was 
inducted into the professorship of ancient languages. 
He held this position with marked ability for a quarter 
of a century, when, on the division of the chair and the 
appointment of a professor of the Latin language, he 
was made vice-president of the college and professor of 
the Creek language and literature. Such he continued 
at i lie union of t lie Canonsburg anti Jefferson colleges 
in 1865. Dr. Smith was a profound linguist, anil an able 
teacher of the languages. Preferring retirement after 
so long a service, he resigned, and was made emeritus 
professor, the college being unwilling to part with a 
man of such eminent attainments. He died at Canotis- 
bnrg, July 17, 1878. (W. P. S.) 

Smith, William (6), a minislcr of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was admitted on trial in the Phila- 
delphia Conference in 1832, was ordained deacon in 1804, 
ami elder in 1806. lie located in 1819, but in 1825 bis 
name appears on the Minutes as supernumerary, which 
relation lie held until 1832. when he became superannu- 
ated. and so continued until his death at Long Branch, 
N. J.. April 8, 18.54. .See Minutes of A nmuil Conferences, 
1854, p.352. 

Smith, William (7), a Methodist Episcopal min- 
ister, was born in Niagara, Upper Canada, March 2G, 
1802, w f fls converted when about twenty years of age, 
joined the Methodist Episcopal Church in Canada, and 


SMITH 


831 


SMYRNA 


prepared himself for the ministry in Cazenovia (N. Y.) 
Seminary. He was admitted to the Canada Conference 
in 1827, which he served with fidelity and acceptance 
during a period of eight years, tilling such responsible 
stations as lhrockville, Kingston, and Toronto, In 1835 
he removed to New England, and in 1830 was received 
into the New England Conference, and preached succes- 
sively at Williamsburg, Westfield, Charlestown, Lynn, 
Wood End, and Church Street, Boston, where he died, 
March 30, 1843. He was a good man. and benevolence, 
faithfulness, and conscientiousness were among the traits 
of his character. In doing the work of a pastor he shone 
pre-eminently bright. See Minutes of Annual Confer- 
ences, iii, 450. 

Smith, William (8), a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Kenilworth, England, 
Feb. 26, 1826, was converted at the age of eleven, and 
was licensed to preach when but sixteen. He came to 
the United States in 1857, and was received on trial by 
the Upper Iowa Conference in 1858. In 1871 he was 
appointed presiding elder, but was prevented from com- 
pleting his term of four years’ service by death, May 20, 
1875. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1875, p. 128. 

Smith, William (9), a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was converted and united with the 
Mount Pleasant (Pa.) Church, Radnor Circuit. In 1856 
he was licensed to preach, and received on trial in the 
Philadelphia Conference. In 1864 his health declined, j 
and he was superannuated. He died June 7, 1864, aged 
thirty-one. See Minutes of Ann. Conf 1865, p. 35. 

Smith, William Andrew, a minister of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church, South, was born in Fred- 
ericksburg, Va., Nov. 29, 1802. He received a good Eng- 
lish education in Petersburg, united with the Church at 
the age of seventeen, and was admitted into the Vir- 
ginia Conference in February. 1825. In 1833 he became 
agent for the Randolph Macon College, and afterwards 
continued to fill the chief stations in his conference until 
1846, when he accepted the presidency of the college. 
This office he held for twenty years, and acted also as 
professor of rhetoric, logic, and mental and moral phi- 
losophy. In 1866 he resigned the presidency, and was 
transferred to the St. Louis Conference. He was elect- 
ed president of Central College, Mo., in 1868. In Octo- 
ber of the same year he became the subject of a disease 
that eventually caused his death, March 1, 1870. Mr. 
Smith was one of the leading minds of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South. See Minutes of Annual Con- 
ferences of the M. E. Church , South, 1870, p. 479. 

Smith, William R., a Preshy t-erian minister, and 
son of Robert Smith. D.D., was born in Pequea, Pa., May 
10, 1752. He graduated at Princeton, N. J„ in 1773, was 
licensed to preach by the Presbvtcrv of Newcastle, Del., 
in 1776, and was settled as pastor of the Second Church 
in Wilmington about 1786. lie resigned his charge in 
1796, and became pastor of the Reformed Dutch church- 
es of Harlingen and Shannock, N. J., in which relation 
he died, about the year 1815. The Rev. Dr. Thomas 
Dewitt writes, “ I remember him while I was studying 
theology at New Brunswick. 1810-12. He was plain in 
his manners, a judicious and instructive preacher, with- 
out much power of elocution ; a faithful pastor, and ami- 
able and exemplary in his spirit and deportment,” See 
Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit, iii. 173. 

Smith, Worthington, D.D., a Congregational 
minister, was born in Hadley, Mass., 1795. He gradu- 
ated at Williams College in 1816, studied theology at 
Andover, and was licensed to preach in 1819. He was 
minister at St. Albans. Vt., 1823-49, and was president 
of the University of Vermont from 1849 until his death 
at St. Albans, Feb. 13, 1856. He published separate 
Sermons (1846, 1848, 1849) : — and a volume of Sermons, 
with a Memoir of his Life by Rev. Joseph Torrev (An- 
dover, 1861, 12mo). 

Smithers, William Collier, D.D., an English 
clergyman, was born in 1796, and was educated at 


Queen’s College, Oxford. lie served the cure of St. 
Alpliage, Greenwich, for eighteen years, that of Charl- 
ton for five years; and was also principal of a school. 
He died at Maize Hill, Greenwich, Feb. 19, 1861. His 
works were principally educational, as, The Classical 
Student's Manual: — On the Particles, the Middle Verb, 
etc. See Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. A uthors , s. v. 

Smoke (usually ashdn , Ka7rvug; but in Gen. 

xix, 28; Psa. cxix, 83, the stronger word kit dr, 

is used, like TV<f>Ofiai, Matt, xii, 20). On the expression 
“ pillars of smoke” (Joel ii, 30, 31 ; Acts ii, 19, 20) Thom- 
son remarks ( Land and Book, ii, 31 1 ) that they “are 
probably those columns of sand and dust raised High in 
the air bv local whirlwinds, which often accompany the 
sirocco. On the great desert of the Hauran I have seen 
a score of them moving with great rapidity over the 
plain.” See Whirlwind. 

Smotherman, Jesse S., a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, South, was admitted into the 
Memphis Conference in 1854. He labored in the reg- 
ular work of the ministry (with the exception of one 
year’s service in the army during the rebellion) until 
his death, in 1863. See Minutes of Annual Conferences 
of the M. E. Church , South , 1863, p. 435. 

Smyrna, in Grecian mythology, was (1) the moth- 
er of Adonis, commonly called Myrrha ; (2) one of the 
Amazons from whom the town in Asia Minor derived 
its name. 

Smyr'na ('Epvpva, myrrh), a city which derived its 
Biblical importance from its prominent mention as the 
seat of one of the Apocalyptic churches of Asia Minor 
(Rev. ii, 8-11). (In the following account we freely 
use the matter in the Classical and Biblical dictionaries 
on the subject.) 

I. History . — This celebrated commercial city of Ionia 
(Ptol. v, 2) is situated near the bottom of that gulf of 
the .Egean Sea which receives its name from it (Mela, 
i. 17, 3), at the mouth of the small river Meles, and 320 
stadia north of Ephesus (Strabo, xv, 632). It is in N. lat. 
38 3 26', E. long. 27° 7'. Smyrna is said to have been a 
very ancient town founded by an Amazon of the name 
of Smyrna, who had previously conquered Ephesus. In 
consequence of this, Smyrna was regarded as a colony of 
Ephesus. The Ephesian colonists are said afterwards to 
have been expelled by iEolians. who then occupied the 
place, until, aided by the Colophonians, the Ephesian col- 
onists were enabled to re-establish themselves at Smyrna 
(ibid, xiv, 633 ; Steph. B. s. v. ; Pliny, v, 31). Herodo- 
tus, on the other hand (i, 150), states that Smyrna origi- 
nally belonged to the iEolians, who admitted into their 
city some Colophonian exiles; and that these Colopho- 
nians afterwards, during a festival which was celebrated 
outside the town, made themselves masters of the place. 
From that time Smyrna ceased to be an /Eolian city, 
and was received into the Ionian confederacy (comp. 
Pans, vii, 5, 1). So far, then, as we are guided by au- 
thentic history, Smyrna belonged to the iEolian con- 
federacy until the year B.C. 688, when, by an act of 
treachery on the part of the Colophonians, it fell into the 
hands of the lonians and became the thirteenth city in 
the Ionian League (Herod, loc. cit . ; Paus. loc. cif). The 
city was attacked by tbe Lydian king Gvges, but suc- 
cessfully resisted the aggressor ( 1 lerod. i, 14 ; 1 *aus. ix. 29, 
2). Alvattes, however, about B.C. 627, was more suc- 
cessful ; lie took and destroyed the city, and henceforth, 
for a period of 400 years, it was deserted and in ruins 
(Herod, i, 16; Strabo, xiv, 646), though sonic inhabitants 
lingered in the place, living KtopijCuv, as is stated by 
Strabo, and as we must infer from the fact that Sevlax 
(p. 37) speaks of Smyrna as still existing. Alexander 
the Great is said to have formed the design of rebuild- 
ing the city (Paus. vii, 5, 1) soon after the battle of 
the Grauicus. in consequence of a dream when he had 
lain down to sleep after the fatigue of hunting. A tem- 
ple in which two goddesses were worshipped under the 
name of Nemeses stood on the hill, on the sides of which 


832 


SMYRNA 


SMYRNA 


i he new town was built under (he auspices of Antignnus 
and Lysimaelius. who carried out the design of the con- 
queror after his death. The new city was not built on 
the site of the ancient one, but at a distance of twenty 
stadia to the south of it. on the southern const of the 
buy. and partly on the side of a hill which Pliny calls 
Mu'tiisifl, but principally in the plain at the foot of it 
extending to the sea. After its extension ami embel- 
lishment by Lysiinachus, new Smyrna became one of 
the most magnificent cities, and certainly the finest in 
all Asia Minor. The streets were handsome, well paved, 
and drawn at right angles, and (he city contained sev- 
eral squares, porticos, a public library, and numerous 
temples and other public buildings; but one great draw- 
back was that it bad no drains (Strabo, loc.cit. ; Mann. 
Oxon. No. 5). It also possessed an excellent harbor 
which could be closed, and continued to be one of the 
wealthiest and most flourishing commercial cities of 
Asia. It afterwards became the seat of a con rent n a jn - 
ridicus which embraced the greater part of.Eolis as far as 
Magnesia, at the loot of Mount Sipvlus (Cic. Pro Flare. 
p. 30; riiny, v, 31). During the war between the K»>- 
mans ami M it bridates, Smyrna remained faithful to the 
firmer, for which it was rewarded with various grants 
and privileges ( hi v. xxxv, 42; xxxvii. Iff, 54; xxxviii, 
30). Hut it afterwards suffered much when Trebonius, 
one of t'a*>ar‘s murderers, was besieged there by l)ola- 
bella. who in the end took the city, and put Trebonius 
to death (Strabo. Inc. cit.; Cic. Phil, xi, 2; Liv. Ejnt. 
119; Dion Cass, xlvii, 29). In the reign of Tiberius, 
Smyrna bad conferred upon it the equivocal honor of 
being allowed, in preference to several other Asiatic 
cities, to erect a temple to the emperor (Tac. Ann. iii, 
03; iv. 50). During the years 178 and 180 Smyrna 
suffered much from earthquakes, but the emperor M. 
Aurelius did much to alleviate its sufferings (Dion Cass. 
lxxi,32). It is well known that Smyrna was one ol the 
places claiming to he the birthplace of Ilomer, and the 
Smyrmeans themselves were so strongly convinced of 
their right to claim this honor that they erected a tem- 
ple to the great bard, or a 'Qpijptiov, a splendid edifice 
containing a statue of Homer (Strabo, loc.cit . , Cic. Pro 
A rch. 8) • they even showed a cave in the neighborhood 
of their city, on the little river Melcs, where the poet 
was said to have composed his works. Smyrna was at 
all times not only a great commercial place, but its 
schools of rhetoric and philosophy also were in great 
repute. The Christian Church also nourished through 
the zeal and care of its first bishop, Polycarp, who is 
said to have been put to death in the stadium of Smyr- 
na in A.D. lfiti (Iren, iii, 17G). Under the Kyzamine 
emperors the city experienced great vicissitudes. Hav- 
ing been occupied by Tzachas, a Turkish chief, about 
(be close of the Htli century, it was nearly destroyed 
by a Creek tleet, commanded by John Ducas. It was 
restored, however, by the emperor Comnenns, hut again 
subjected to severe sufferings during the siege of Tam- 
erlane. Not long after, it fell into the hands of the 
Turk#, who have retained possession of it ever since. 

li. Characteristics. — Smyrna contained a temple of 
the Olympian Zeus, with whose cult that of the Homan 
emperors was associated. Olympian games were cele- 
brated here, and excited great interest. On one of these 


1 occasions (in the year GS), a Rhodian youth of the 
name of Artemidorus obtained greater distinctions than 
any on record, under peculiar circumstances which Pau- 
sanins relates. He was a pancratiast, and not long be- 
fore had been beaten at Elis from deficiency in growth. 
Hut when the Sniyrnnjan Olympia next came round, his 
bodily strength had so developed that he was victor in 
three trials on the same day — the first against his former 
competitors at the Peloponnesian Olympia, the second 
with the youths, and the third with the men; the last 
contest having been provoked by a taunt (Pans, v, 14, 
4). The extreme interest excited by the games at 
Smyrna may perhaps account for the remarkable feroc- 
ity exhibited by the population against the aged bishop 
Polycarp. It was exactly on such occasions that what 
the pagans regarded as the unpatriotic and anti-social 
spirit of the early Christians became most apparent; 
and it. was to the violent demands of the people assem- 
bled in the stadium that the Homan proconsul yielded 
up the martyr. 'Hie letter of the Smyrmeans, in which 
the account of his martyrdom is contained, represents 
the Jews as taking part with the Gentiles in accusing 
him as an enemy to the state religion — conduct which 
would be inconceivable in a sincere Jew, but which was 
quite natural in those which the sacred writer charac- 
terizes as “a synagogue of Satan” (Rev. ii, 9). 

In the vicinity of Smyrna was a Macedonian colony 
settled in the country under the name of Hyrcani. The 
last are probably the descendants of a military body in 
the service of Selencus, to whom lands were given soon 
after the building of new Smyrna, and who, together 
with the Magnesians, seem to have had the Smvrnsean. 
citizenship then bestowed upon them. The decree con- 
taining the particulars of this arrangement is among 
the marbles in the University of Oxford. The Romans 
continued the system which they found existing when 
the country passed over into their hands. 

Not only was the soil in the neighborhood eminently 
productive, so that the vines were even said to have 
two crops of grapes, but its position was such as to ren- 
der it the natural outlet for the produce of the whole 
valley of the Hermus. The Pramnean wine (which 
Nestor, in the Iliad , and Circe, in the Odyssey, are rep- 
resented as mixing with honey, cheese, and meal, to 
make a kind of salad-dressing) grew even down to the 
time of Pliny in the immediate neighborhood of the 
temple of the Mother of the Gods at Smyrna, and doubt- 
less played its part in the orgiastic rites both of that 
deity and of Dionysus, each of whom in the times of 
imperial Rome possessed a guild of worshippers fre- 
quently mentioned in the inscriptions as the itpd tnVo- 
£o g pouTwv ptjrpog l'i7rvX?jio/c and the iepd <jui'o- 
fiog puoriov Ktti rf\rtr(oy Aiovvtrov. One of the most 
remarkable of the chefs-d'oeuvre, of Myron which stood 
at Smyrna, representing an old woman intoxicated, il- 
lustrates the prevalent habits of the population. 

The inhabitants of new Smyrna appear to have pos- 
sessed the talent, of successfully divining the course of 
events in the troublous times through which it was 
their destiny to pass, and of habitually securing for 
themselves the favor of the victor for the time being. 
Their adulation of Selencus and bis sun Antiochus was 
excessive. The title 6 Stoc Kal oion)p is given to the 



SMYRNA 


833 


SMYRNA 


latter in an extant inscription; and a temple dedicated 
to his mother, Stratonice, under the title of ’A^pohn) 
'SrpciTovuciQ, was not only constituted a sanctuary it- 
self, but the same right was extended in virtue of it to 
the whole city. Yet when the tide turned, a temple 
was erected to the city of Home as a divinity, in time 
to save the credit of the Smvniseans as zealous friends 
of the Roman people. Indeed, though history is silent 
as to the particulars, the existence of a coin of Smyrna 
with the head of Mithridates upon it indicates that 
this energetic prince also, for a time at least, must have 
included Smyrna within the circle of his dependencies. 
However, during the reign of Tiberius, the reputation 
of the Smyrmeans for an ardent loyalty was so unsul- 
lied that on this account alone they obtained permis- 
sion to erect a temple, in behalf of all the Asiatic cities, 
to the emperor and senate, the question having been 
for some time doubtful as to whether their city or Sar- 
dis (q. v.) — the two selected out of a crowd of competi- 
tors — should receive this distinction. The honor which 
had been obtained with such difficulty was requited 
with a proportionate adulation. Nero appears in the in- 
scriptions as <nort)p rov avp-jravrog av$pio7r&iov ytvovg. 

It seems not impossible that just as Paul’s illustra- 
tions in the Epistle to the Corinthians are derived from 
the Isthmian games, so the message to the Church in 
Smyrna contains allusions to the ritual of the pagan 
mysteries which prevailed in that city. The story of 
the violent death and reviviscenee of Dionysus entered 
into these to such an extent that Origen, in his argu- 
ment against Celsus, does not scruple to quote it as 
generally accepted by the Greeks, although by them 
interpreted metaphysically (iv, 171, ed. Spence). In 
this view, the words b 7rpibrog icai 6 sa \arog, og- iykvaro 
7'Eicpbg Kcii afyjaev (Rev. ii, 8) would come with peculiar 
force to ears perhaps accustomed to hear them in a very 
different application. The same may be said of Sibaio 
rroi top gteQcipop rijg Zioijg, it having been a usual 


practice at Smyrna to present a crown to the priest 
who superintended the religious ceremonial, at the end 
of his year of office. Several persons of both sexes 
have the title of are<paPi](t)6poi in the inscriptions; and 
the context shows that they possessed great social con- 
sideration. These allusions derive additional force from 
the superstitious regard in which the Smyrmvans held 
chance phrases (tc\i]S6ptg) as a material for augury. 
They had a k\i/S6pujp Upon just above the city outside 
the walls, in which this mode of divination was the or- 
dinary one (Pausan. ix, 11, 7). 

III. Present Condition . — From the convenience of its 
situation, Smyrna has still maintained its rank as a 
great city and the central emporium of the Levantine 
trade; and seeing the terrible decay which lias fallen 
upon the numerous great and beautiful cities of Asia 
Minor, its relative rank among the existing cities of 
that region is probably greater than that which it an- 
ciently bore. The Turks call it Izmir. It is a better- 
built town than Constantinople, and in proportion to 
its size there are few places in the Turkish dominions 
which have so large a population. It is computed at 
from 180,000 to 200,000, according to the season of the 
year; and the Franks compose a far greater proportion 
than in anv other town of Turkey; and they are gen- 
erally in good circumstances. Next to the Turks the 
Greeks form the most numerous class of inhabitants, 
and they have a bishop and two churches. The unusu- 
ally large proportion of Christians in the town renders 
it peculiarly unclean in the eyes of strict Moslems, 
whence it has acquired among them the name of 
Giaour Izmir, or Intidcl Smyrna. There are in it 20,000 
Greeks, 8000 Armenians, 1000 Europeans, and 9000 
Jews: the rest are Moslems. 

The prosperity of Smyrna is now rather on the in- 
crease than the decline; houses of painted wood arc 
giving way in all directions to mansions of stone; and 
probably not many years will elapse before the modern 



IX. — G g G 


SMYRNA 


834 SMYT0X1TE CONTROVERSY 


town may not unworthily represent that city which 
the ancients delighted to call "the lovely— the crown 
of Ionia— the ornament of Asia.” It is the seat of a 
pnslmlik. and is the centre of all important movements 
in Am? i Minor. 

Smyrna stands at the foot of a range of mountains 
which enclose it on three sides. The only ancient 
ruins are ii|K*n Hie mountains behind the town, and to 
the south. l T pon the highest summit stands an old 
dilapidated ca>tlc, which is supposed hv some to mark 
the previous (hut not the most ancient) site of the city; 
frequent earthquakes having dictated t lie necessity of 
removing it to the plain below, and to the lower de- 
clivities of the mountains. Mr. Arundel! says, "Few 
of the Ionian cities have furnished more relics of an- 
tiquity than Smyrna; but the convenience of trans- 
porting them, with the number of investigators, has 
exhausted the mine. It is therefore not at all wonder- 
ful that of the stoas and temples the very ruins have 
vanished; and it is now extremely difficult to deter- 
mine the sites of any of the ancient buildings, with the 
exception of the stadium, the theatre, and the Temple 
of .Jupiter Acneus, which was within the acropolis” 
(Discoreries in Asia Minor, ii, 407). < )f the stadium 

here mentioned the ground-plot only remains, it being 
stripped of its seats and marble decorations. It is 
supposed to be the place where Polycarp, the disci- 
ple of .John, and probably ‘‘the angel of the Church 
of Smyrna” (John ii, 8), to whom the Apocalyptic mes- 
sage was addressed, suffered martyrdom. The Chris- 
tians of Smyrna hold the memory of this venerable 
person in high honor, and go annually in procession to 
iiis supposed tomb, which is at a short distance from 
the place of martyrdom. 

Smyrna has a deep interest to Christians from this 
fact. During one of* the Homan persecutions many 
Christians suffered the most dreadful torments here. 
They were put to death at the stake, or by wild beasts 
in the amphitheatre; and the only test applied to them 
was whether they would throw a few grains of incense 
into the lire as a sacrifice to the genius of the emperor, 
or whether they would refuse. A circular letter ad- 
dressed to the churches in the Christian world from 
ihat of Smyrna gives a most interesting account of 
Poly carp’s death, and Xeamler has admirably trans- 
lated. abridged, and systematized it. The proconsul 
before whom Polycarp was accused did all he could to 
save the venerable bishop, now in his ninetieth year; 
and when, like Pontius Pilate before him, he found it 
imjn>ssihle to restrain the popular fury, he refused to 
allow any wild beasts to be let loose, and Polycarp, 
abandoned to the populace, was fastened to a stake and 
soon surrounded with flames. An old tradition states 
that the flames formed an arch above the head of the 
martyr, and left him uninjured; seeing this, a Homan 


soldier pierced him to the heart with a spear, and the 
tire then did its office, and consumed the lifeless body. 
It is, however, as Neander observes, more rational to be- 
lieve that Polycarp died as Ridley and Latimer have 
done in more modern times. It is by no means im- 
probable that Polycarp was confined in some one of 
t lie arched vaults* within the acropolis, which remain 
to this day. An ancient mosque is also standing, which 
is said to have been the Church of St.John; but tra- 
dition is not much to be depended upon for assigning 
the correct site to such buildings, and the edifices of 
Smyrna are constructed of a white and peculiarly fri- 
able marble not adapted for great permanency. The 
Apocalyptic message to the Church at Smyrna is one 
winch conveys no reproach, and it has been often 
brought forward as a proof of the inspiration of the book 
in which it is found, that Smyrna has been always a 
flourishing city, and that there has been, ever since the 
davs of the apostle, a numerous congregation of Chris- 
tians among her inhabitants. This, however, has not 
been, strictly speaking, the ease, and it is easy to carry 
such a mode of proving the truth of Scripture too far; but 
it is satisfactory to know that true religion is greatly on 
the increase in this important city, and that the labors of 
Protestant missionaries have been abundantly successful. 

IV. Authorities. — 1. Ancient, — Strabo, xiv, 183 sq. ; 
Herodotus, i, 16; Tacitus, Anncil. iii, 63; iv, 56; Pliny, 
II. X. v, 29; Bdckh, Inscripf. Gnrc. “ Smyrnsean In- 
scriptions,” especially Nos. 3163-3176; Pausanias, loc. 
cit., and iv, 21, 5; Macrobius, Saturnalia , i, 18. 

*2. Modern.- — Rosen m filler, AUerthumsk. i, 2, 224 sq.; 
Turner, Travels , iii, 138-141, 285-291 ; Arundell, ut 
sup.; Richter, p. 495; Schubert, i. 272-283; Narrative 
of Scottish Mission, p. 328-336; Eothen , ch. v; M‘Far- 
lano, Progress o f the. Turkish Empire ; Prokesch, in the 
Wiener Jahrb. d. IAteratur , 1834; Wrangel, Skizzen aus 
(/. Osten (Dantz. 1839); Murray, Handbook for Turkey 
in Asia , p. 262 sq. See Asia Minor. 

Smyth, Thomas, D.D., a Presbyterian minister, 
ivas born in Del fast, Ireland, July 14, 1808. He was 
educated at Belfast and at London, and came to the 
United States in 1830. He was graduated at Prince- 
ton Theological Seminary, N. J., after which he was 
pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church at Charleston, 
S. C., from 1832 until his death, Aug. 20, 1873. lie was 
the author of numerous works, chiefly in illustration 
and defence of the Presbyterian form of Church govern- 
ment; also of The Unity of the Human Pace Proved to 
be the Doctrine of Scripture. Pea son, and Science (1850), 
and The True Origin and Source of the Mecklenburg 
Declaration of Independence. (W. P. S.) 

Smyth, William. See Smith, William (1). 

Smytonite Controversy was a dispute which 
arose in the Secession Kirk about the middle of the 



View of Smyrna. (From a photograph.) 


SNAIL 


835 


SNAKE 


18th century respecting the elevation of the elements 
in celebrating the Lord’s supper. One of the ministers 
of that body, Mr. Smy ton, of lvilmaiirs, considered such 
elevation an essential part of the ordinance, but the syn- 
od determined that it should be left an open question.— 
Blunt, Diet, of Sects , s. v. 

Snail is the representative in the A. V. of two He- 
brew words, which are certainly the names of very dif- 
ferent animals. 

1. Chomet ('J^h ; Sept, aavpa ; Vulg. lacerici) occurs 
only as the name of some unclean animal in Lev. xi, 30. 
The Sept, and Vulg. understand some kind of lizard by 
the term; the Arabic versions of Erpenius and Saadias 
give the chameleon as the animal intended. The Yeneto- 
(Ireek and the rabbins, with whom agrees the A. V., 
render the Heb. term by “snail.” Bochart ( Uieroz . ii, 
500) has endeavored to show that a species of small sand- 
lizard, called chulaca by the Arabs, is denoted; but his 
argument rests entirely upon some supposed etymologi- 
cal foundation. The word c hornet in Chaldee is said to 
signify “to bow down,” and therefore “suggests the 
Lacerta stellio , which is noted for bowing its head, in- 
somuch that the followers of Mohammed kill it, because 
they say it mimics them in the mode of repeating their 
prayers. It is about a foot in length, and of an olive 
color shaded with black” (Kitto, Piet. Bib. ad loc.). The 
lizard referred to appears to be the skink (Scineus offi- 
cinalis}, which is very abundant throughout Northern 
Africa, Arabia, and Syria. MM. Dumeril and Bibron, 
in their elaborate work on reptiles, give us the following 
information of the species: “M. Lefebvre, who collected 
several of these animals during his excursion to the 
oasis of Barhriah, has communicated to us several ob- 
servations on the habits of this species which we can- 
not omit. According to this zealous entomologist, the 
skink is found on hillocks of fine light sand, which the 
south wind accumulates at the bottom of hedges that 
border on cultivated grounds, and around the roots of 
tamarisk-trees, which grow on the confines of the desert. 
It may be there seen basking in the rays of the sun, 
when the heat is intense, and, from time to time, giving 
chase to beetles and other insects which happen to pass 
near it. It runs with considerable rapidity, and when 
alarmed it buries itself in the sand with singular quick- 
ness, burrowing in a few moments a gallery of many feet 
in depth. When caught it struggles to escape, but nei- 
ther attempts to bite nor to defend itself with its claws.” 

Col. H. Smith, without specifying his reasons, takes 
the chomet to be the true lizard (that is, we presume, 
the genus Lacerta) as restricted in modern herpetology — 
“several (probably many) species existing in myriads 
on the rocks in sandy places and in ruins in every part 
of Palestine and the adjacent countries. There is one 
species particularly abundant and small, well known in 
Arabia by the name of sarabandi .” Of these lord Lind- 
say says, speaking of his approach to Sinai, “hundreds 
of little lizards, of the color of the sand, and called by 
the natives sarabandi, were darting about.” 

In the present imperfect state of our acquaintance 



Skink (Scincus officinalis). 


with the reptiles of Western Asia, it is perhaps impos- 
sible to determine with satisfaction the actual species 
intended by some of the ancient Hebrew names. 'That 
the chomet was some one or other of the commoner 
kinds there can be little doubt, and this is all we can 
venture to say. Lizards of many sorts abound in these 
lands; they delight in a burning sun, in a dry sandy soil, 
in stony deserts, in ruined editices. Moore’s picture of 

“Gay lizards glitt’ring on the walls 
Of min’d fanes, busy and bright, 

As they were all alive with light,” 

is intensely true, and highly characteristic of the sun- 
scorched East. All travellers are struck with this ele- 
ment of the scene. Major Skinner says of the Syrian 
desert, “The ground is teeming with lizards: the sun 
seems to draw them from the earth, for sometimes, when 
l have fixed my eye upon one spot, I have fancied that 
the sands were getting into life, so many of these creat- 
ures at once crept from their holes.” Lord Lindsay 
describes the ruins at Jerash as “absolutely alive with 
lizards.” Bruce says, “ I am positive that I can say 
without exaggeration that the number I saw one day 
in the great court of the Temple of the Sun at Baalbec 
amounted to many thousands: the ground, the walls, 
the stones of the ruined buildings, were covered with 
them ; and the various colors of which they consisted 
made a very extraordinary appearance glittering under 
the sun, in which they lay sleeping and basking.” — 
Fairbairn. See Lizard. 

2. Shabiul (b^bz'r ; Sept. Ktjpog: Aq. tvrfpor; Sym. 
Xopiov; Vulg. cera) occurs only in Psa. Iviii, 9 (8, A. V.) : 
“Asa shabiul which melteth let [the wicked] pass away.” 
There are various opinions as to the meaning of this 
word, the most curious, perhaps, being that of Symma- 
chus. The Sept, reads “ melted wax,” similarly the Vulg. 
The rendering of the A. V. (“snail”) is supported by the 
authority of many of the Jewish doctors, and is proba- 
bly correct. The Chaldee Paraphr. explains shabiul by 
thiblala (xbpn^r), i. e. “a snail or a slug,” which was 
supposed by the Jews to consume away and die by rea- 
son of its constantly emitting slime as it crawls along. 
See Schol. ad Gem. Moed Katun, 1 fol. 6 B, as quoted by 
Bochart ( Uieroz . iii, 5G0) and Gesenius(77tm/i/r. p.‘2P2). 
Snails and slugs are not very common in countries so 
dry in summer as Palestine. Hence, perhaps, the fact 
that there is only one allusion to them in Scripture, 
where the figure seems to be more significant if under- 
stood of snails without shells, i. e. slugs, rather than 
shell -snails, though true of both. The name itself, 
shabiul. from a verb signifying “to smear” or “soil,” 
has reference to the slime and moisture of this animal 
(like XttpaZ, from Ati/Sw). Probably some species of 
slug (Limax) is intended which differs from the snails 
proper ( Helix ) in being unprotected by an external 
shell. The slugs delight in dampness, and hence dewy 
nights and rainy weather are the seasons of their activ- 
ity. Over a dry surface they cannot crawl without 
pouring out that copious effusion of mucus which con- 
stitutes their shining trail; and every one must have 
seen some miserable slug which, roving over a stone 
pavement in the dewy night, has been overtaken by 
the morning sun. The absorbent surface rapidly be- 
comes dry; in vain the wretched creature pours out its 
slimy secretion, the sun is drying up its moisture, which 
at every moment becomes less and less copious with the 
demands made upon it, and it “ melts away as it goes.” 
We possess no information respecting the puhnoniferous 
mollusca of Palestine. They do not present many at- 
tractions to general travellers, and doubtless are rarely 
seen. In so dry a country probably the species are few ; 
and it is only in situations permanently humid, and dur- 
ing the night, that they would be likely to occur, at 
least in any abundance. 

Snake (1TH3, A.V. “serpent”), a creature found in 
Palestine (Robinson saw some there six feet long \_Bibl. 
Bes. ii, 154]), but still more abundantly in the neigh- 


830 


SXODDY 


SXAPE 


boring countries, esj»eoially Egypt (Ammian. Glared], 
xxii. la; p. 324 eel. Hip.) ami Arabia (Herod. ii, 75; iii, 
pi’J; .Elian, A niiti. ii. 3s ; Strabo, xvi, 759, 778; Diod. 
Sic. iii. 47; Agntliarc. in Phot, Cod. 250. |>. 13i6; comp. 
Nmnl*. xxi, 0 m|. ; Isa. xxx, 0; see Prosp. Alpin. Rtr. 
*Ewpt. iv, 4 ; Hiirckhardt, Tmr. ii, 814; Tiscliendorf, 
Jiti.lt, i, itil : Russell. Altppo, ii, 1-0 sq. ; Sclmbert, iii, 
rji); Forskal, jitter. Anim. p. 13 sq.) ; sometimes in the 
deserts, frequently ut poisonous species. I bey belonged 
to unclean animals according to tlu* Mosaic classification 
(Lev. xi, 10, 41 s(|.\ The seienlilic investigation of 
t lie different species in the Last is not sullieieutly accu- 
rate to enable tts to determine with any certainty t lie' 
various kinds mentioned ill Scripture. See Skiwkxt. 

Snape, Anokkw, a learned English divine, was 
born at Hampton Court, and educated at Eton and 
King's College. Cambridge, whore he received bis de- 
grciTof A.B. in 11 '*'.'3. of A..M. in 1697, and a fellowship. 

1 le went to London, was elected lecturer uf St, Mannik- 
in -the- Fields, and afterwards held the rectory of St. 
Mary-at-1 lill. lie was created I>.D. in 1705, and rep- 
resented Cambridge in that faculty at tbc Jubilee at 
Frankfort in 1707. In this year, on the breaking-out of 
the Uaitgorian controversy, he took part against lload- 
1 v ; but t he latter's interest at court prevailed, and Hr. 
Snape was removed from the ollice of chaplain to I lie 
king, lie had been installed a canon of Windsor in 
1713. and oil Feh.il, 1 711), was elected provost of King’s 
College. In 1723 he served as vice-chancellor of the 
university, lie was for a short time rector of 1\ neb- 
worth. Hertfordshire, and afterwards (1737) of West 
lldeslev, Berkshire, which latter lie retained until bis 
death, Dec. So, 1742. Dr. Snape was for several years 
head -master of Eton school, lie was a man of 
great learning, of an amiable temper, and had a great 
zeal for the principles of the Church of England. He 
was r lie editor of dean Moss’s Sermons: — the author of 
a letter to the Rishop of Rauyor, during the Bangorian 
controversy, which passed through seventeen editions in 
a year -.—Sermons ( 1745, 8vo), by Drs. Berriman and 
Chapman. See A 1 li bone. Diet, of Jirit. and Anier , Au- 
thor*, s. v. ; Chalmers, I Hoy. Diet. s. v. 

Snare (usually the rendering in the A. V. of UPp, 
— ic"' ° r -it-, all kindred roots signifying to catch by 
the foo t in a spring -noose; occasionally of ns, etc.; 
/3po\or, nayir), a gin, net, or trap, especially of the 
fowler (ha. viii, 11; Amos iii, 5); also such a one as 
seizes and holds beasts or men by the foot (Job xviii. 9; 
Jer. xviii, 2 2). They were set in the path or hidden in 
a he ground (Prov. vii, 23; xxii, 5; l’sa. cxl, 5; exix, 
11D; Jer. xviii. 22). The form of this spring or trap- 
net appears from the original word pack (Amos iii, 5; 
l’sa. lxix, 23). It was in two parts, which, when set, 
were spread out upon the ground and slightly fastened 
with a stick (trap-stick), so that as soon as a bird or 
Ix-nM touched the stick, the parts Hew up and enclosed 
i In* bird in the net or caught the foot of the animal (Job 
xviii, 9 . In l’sii. lxix, 23, “ Let their table before them 
become a net," here the shulrhdn is the Oriental cloth 
or leather spread upon the ground like a net. Thu origi- 
nal term is figuratively put for any cause of destruction 
< Josh, xxiii, 13; lh»s. v, l; Job xxii, 10), Tims is 
usually rendered l’sa. xi, 11, “I'pon the wicked Cod 
shall rain snares, lire, and brimstone.” But the Hebrew 
word might here be rendered coals, hurtling coals, and 
then lightning, Still the significations nets, snares, mav 
lure well be retained as an emblem of destruction to the 
wicked. The “snares of death" (2 Sam. xxii, 6; l’sn. 
x\ iii, 5) are poetically put in apposition with the cords 
( A. V. improperly “sorrows”) of Shcol. See Nkt. 

Sneath, L’n It, Mtn, a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was lx.ru in Ireland, Dec. 2, 1751, He emigrated to 
America in 177 1, embraced religion in 1782, and entered 
tlu- itinerancy in 1 71MJ. For twenty-eight years his la- 
ln»rs were unremitting, and lie ceased not until he was 
literally worn down in the glorious work, lie died Oct, 


24, 1824. 1 le was known for his integrity, benevolence, 

and Christian character. See Minutes of Annual Con- 
ferences , i, 475; Meth. May. viii, 287 ; Bangs, JJist. of 
the M. E. Church, ii, 307. 

Sneed, Georg is W., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was born in Davidson Conn- 
tv, Teuu., Dec. 20, 1799, and professed faith in Christ in 
1*822. Some years .subsequently he received a license 
to preach, and joined the Tennessee Conlerenee. \\ ith- 
in its bounds he labored for many years, and became 
superannuated about 1848. Removing to Texas, bis 
health failed, and he died suddenly about 1851. See 
Minutes r>/' .4 Conferences of the M. E. Church , 

South, 1851, p. 337. 

Snell, Thomas, D.D., a Congregational minister, 
was born in Cummington, Mass., Nov. 21, 1774; gradu- 
ated at Dartmouth College in 1795, and was ordained 
pastor at North Brookfield, Mass., in 1798, where lie 
continued pastor until his death, May 4, 1862. Dr. 
Snell’s influence upon the Church, town, and brethren 
in the ministry was much felt. He was a pioneer in 
temperance and slavery reform, and was much inter- 
ested in missionary and educational movements, lie 
published several sermons, conversations on baptism, 
etc. See Conyreyational Quarterly, 1862, p. 317-332. 

Snethen, Nicholas, an influential minister of 
the Methodist Protestant Church, was born at Fresh 
Pond (now Glen Cove), L. I., Nov. 15, 1769. Remov- 
ing to Belleville, N. J.. he there experienced religion, 
and began to speak and pray in public. In 1794 be en- 
tered the ministry of the Methodist Episcopal Church, 
and preached for four years in Connecticut, Vermont, 
and Maine. In 1798-99 he preached in Charleston, 
S. C., and in 1800 was ehosen as travelling companion 
to bishop Asbnry. He was elected secretary of the 
General Conference of 1800, and was also a member in 
1804 and 1812. He took a prominent part in favor of 
limiting the episcopal prerogative, a delegated General 
Conference (his plan for which was adopted in 1808), 
and was an early advocate of anti-slavery principles, 
lie located in 1806, and removed to his farm on Longa- 
nore, Frederiek Co., Aid. By his marriage he became 
the holder of slaves, whom he emancipated as soon as 
the law would permit (1829). In 1809 lie re-entered 
the itinerancy, and was stationed in Baltimore, George- 
town, and Alexandria, and while at Georgetown was 
elected chaplain of the House of Representatives. He 
located again in 1814. In 1829 he removed to Indiana, 
and upon the formation of the Methodist Protestant 
Church (q. v.) he united with if, and in connection with 
it continued to travel and preach till within a short time 
of his death. In 1834 he became one of the editors of 
The Methodist Protestant, in Baltimore. In 1836 the 
Methodist Protestants started a college in New York, of 
which Air. Suet lien took charge. The enterprise did 
not succeed, and in 1837 he returned to the West and 
took charge of a Alanual Labor Alinisterial College at 
Lawrencelmrg, lnd., but that institution also failed. 
Alueli of his subsequent labor was performed in Cincin- 
nati. He died May 30, 1845. Air. Snethen was a elcar 
and forcible writer and an eloquent minister. 11c be- 
came a contributor to The Wesleyan Repository in 1821, 
and afterwards to its successor, The Mutual Rights. In 
1800 he wrote a Reply to O' Kelly's Apology , and in 1801 
his A nsuKr to O' Kelly's Rejoinder: — Funeral Oration on 
Hishnp A slimy (1816) : — Lectures on Preaching (1822); 
— Essays on Jjty Representation (1835): — lectures on 
FUblical Subjects (1836): — Sermons ( 1846), edited by 
W. G. Snethen. 

Snio (snow), in Norse mythology, was one of the 
Fornjot nature -gods, whose father was Frost e (cold, 
frost), grandfather Knre (air), and great-grandfather 
Fornjoter, the oldest of gods, lie was also named S niter. 

Snoddy, Koukkt II. , a Presbyterian minister, was 
horn in JelVerson County, Tenn., in I860. Alter the 
usual training in academical schools, lie graduated at 


SNOTR 


837 


SNOW 


the college at Maryville, Term., and also at the South- 
western Theological Seminary at Maryville; was li- 
censed by Union Presbytery in 1831 ; was ordained in 
1833, and preached for Lebanon and Eusebia churches; 
took charge of New Prospect Church in 1836. Having 
organized Spring Place Church, he added that to his 
other places of preaching till 1853. He took charge of 
Ebenezer Church in 1855, where he labored until his 
death, June 22, 1850. Mr. Snoddy was a faithful and 
devoted minister of the Gospel. Sec Wilson, Fresh. 
JHst . Almanac. 1861, p. 192. 

Sliotr, in Norse mythology, was the goddess of vir- 
tue and modesty, and the protectress of virtuous men. 

Snow (3?g3, sheleg , so called probably from its glis- 
tening ; Sept, and New Test, \tiov; but Cpoao y in Prov. 
xxvi; Tulg. nix). The historical books of the Bible 
contain only two notices of snow actually falling (2 Sam. 
xxiii, 20; 1 Macc. xiii, 22), but the allusions in the poet- 
ical books are so numerous that there can be no doubt 
as to its being an ordinary occurrence in the winter 
months. Thus, for instance, the snow-storm is men- 
tioned among the ordinary operations of nature which 
are illustrative of the Creator’s power (Psa. cxlvii, 16: 
cxlviii, 8). We have, again, notice of the beneficial 
effect of snow on the soil (Isa. lv, 10). Its color is ad- 
duced as an image of brilliancy (Dan. vii.O; Matt, xxviii. 
3; Lev. i, 14), of purity (Isa. i. 18; Lam. iv. 7, in refer- 
ence to the white robes of the princes), and of the blanch- 
ing effects of leprosy (Exod. iv, 6: Numb, xii, 10; 2 
Kings v, 27). In the book of Job we have references 
to the supposed cleansing effects of snow-water (ix, 30), 
to the rapid melting of snow under the sun’s rays (xxiv, 
19), and the consequent flooding of the brooks (vi, 16). 
The thick falling of the flakes forms the point of com- 
parison in the obscure passage in Psa. Ixviii, 14. The 
snow lies deep in the ravines of the highest ridge of 
Lebanon until the summer is far advanced, and indeed 
never wholly disappears (Robinson, iii, 531); the sum- 
mit of Ilermon also perpetually glistens with frozen 
snow (ibid, ii, 437). From these sources probably the 
Jews obtained their supplies for the purpose of cooling 
their beverages in summer (Prov. xxv, 13). as is still 
done (llackett, Jllust. of Script, p. 53). This, allusion 


removes the apparent contradiction of this passage in 
Prov. xxvi, 1. As snow — that is, a fall of snow — in 
summer is unnatural and ill timed, so honor is not seem- 
ly for a fool; but it is quite out of character, out of sea- 
son. The “ snow of Lebanon” is also used as an expres- 
sion for the refreshing coolness of spring water, probably 
in reference to the stream of Siloam (Jer. xviii, 14). 
Lastly, in Prov. xxxi, 21, snow appears to be used as a 
synonym for winter or cold weather. The liability to 
snow mtist of course vary considerably in a country of 
such varying altitude as Palestine. Josephus notes it 
as a peculiarity of the low plain of Jericho that it was 
warm there even when snow was prevalent in the rest 
of the country (IFor, iv, 8, 3). At Jerusalem snow 
often falls to the depth of a foot or more in January 
and February, but it seldom lies long (Robinson, i, 429). 
At Nazareth it falls more frequently and deeply, and it 
has been observed to fall even in the maritime plain at 
Joppa and about Carmel (Kitto, Phys. Hist. p. 210). A 
comparison of the notices of snow contained in Scripture 
and in the works of modern travellers would, however, 
lead to the conclusion that more fell in ancient times 
than at the present day. At Damascus snow falls to the 
depth of nearly a foot, and lies at all events for a few 
days (Wortabet, Syria , i, 215, 236). At Aleppo it falls, 
but never lies for more than a day (Russell, i,69). — Smith. 

Scientifically, snow is nothing more than the frozen 
visible vapor of which the clouds are formed. A quan- 
tity of very minute crystals of ice having been formed, 
they are enlarged by the condensation and freezing of 
vapor, and, merging together, constitute flakes, which 
increase in size during their descent. In equatorial 
regions snow is unknown at the ocean level, and in all 
latitudes less than thirty-five degrees it is rare; but it 
is found in all latitudes in the higher regions of the 
atmosphere. If would scarcely be supposed that the 
broad flakes of snow which every blast of wind blows 
hither and thither as it lists are perfectly formed col- 
lections of crystals, delicate in their structure, and regu- 
lar in their measurement. Flakes of snow are best ob- 
served when placed upon objects of a dark color, cooled 
below the freezing-point, a method first described by 
Kepler, who expressed the highest admiration of their 
structure. The minute crystals exhibit an endless di- 



Crystals of Snow, magnified. 


SNOW 


83S 


SNYDER 


versitv of regular ami beautiful forms. Scoresby de- 
scribed ninety-six varieties of combination ; ami they 
probably amount to several hundreds. Snow-flakes are 
under-lood to belong to the hexagonal system of crystals. 
Kemtz remarks that llakes which fall at the same time 
have generally the same form; lint if there is an interval 
between two consecutive falls of snow, the forms of tbe 
second arc ol»« rved to differ front those of the first, al- 
though always alike among themselves. The tempera- 
ture and density of the atmosphere have doubtless an 
intluenee upon their strurtnres. Nunc have thought 
that t lie expression "treasures of the snow" in Job 
xxxviii. 22 has reference to these variegated forms 
(Kit to, /'/<•/. /Hide, nd Joe.). 

I'be substance which has received the name of red or 
crimson-adored smnr is common in all alpine districts; 
vet no one ever pretends to have seen this kind of snow 
fall. This substance has been observed bv Boss. Parry, 
and others in the Arctic regions; ami even green snow 
was observed about an inch beneath the white by tbe 
French Expedition at Spitsbergen. Prof. 31. Ch. Mar- 
tius and his companions in the French Expedition con- 
cluded generally that the red and green granules of 
colored snow are one and the same microscopic plant in 
different stages of development; that red is the color 
of the primitive state, which afterwards becomes green 
under the intluenee of light, and air. This very mi- 
nute red or crimson-colored plant, sometimes called the 
I'nhmtto niralis, finds nourishment on the surface of the 
snow within the limits of perpetual congelation; it is 
also found covering long patches of snow in the Alps 
and Pyrenees. See Sehliehter, l)e Xire ejnsque Usn 
.1 ntiqun (| | al. 1738). See Frost; Ice. 

Snow, Jonathan M., a minister of the Methodist 
Epi-copal Church. was horn in Montpelier, Yt., Oct. 30, 
]xi)9. lie embraced religion and joined the Church 
when seventeen, and in 1838 was admitted into the Il- 
linois Conference. lit 1X52 he located, hut in 1859 he 
was admitted into the Wisconsin Conference and grant- 
ed a superannuated relation, which continued until his 
death, in Chicago, April 3o, 1802. bee M unites of An- 
nual Conferences, 1802, p. 218. 

Snow, William, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was horn in Providence, X. J., July 14, 
17Kb lie joined the New York Conference in 1807; 
located in 1818; in 1831 re-entered the itinerancy; but 
in 1x05 became superannuated, and remained such until 
hi" death, in Genesee, X. Y., July 0, 1871. See Minutes 
of Annual C inferences , 1871, p. 157. 

Snow, William T. t a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Providence, I!. 1., about 
ixuJ. In 1x20 he embraced religion, was licensed to 
preach, and soon after joined tin* < )hio Conference. For 
a number of years he labored in the mountains of West- 
ern Virginia, Southern Ohio, ami the wilds of Michigan. 
In 1*30 37 his health failed, ami lie retired from active 
work, residing in Oakland County, Mich., and preaching 
to the Indians as his strength permitted, lie died Oct. 
10, lx, 5, See Minutes of A nm Coif. 1X75, p. 110. 

Snowden, James Ross, EE.!)., an eminent elder 
of the Presbyterian Church, was born in Philadelphia, 
Pa., in ixio. I’nr many years he was prominently con- 
nected with the affairs of Pennsylvania, having repeat- 
edly been elected to the Legislature ol the state, where 
he served two terms in the speaker’s chair, lie subse- 
quently tilled th<* positions «>f state treasurer, treasurer 
of the I nited States Mint, and assistant -treasurer of the 
l ulled States at Philadelphia. In lx;»x he was ap- 
|H>iuic«| director of the Fnited States Mint, and held 
thit po 1 1 i< m till 1X01. 1 1 is connection with the mint 
h I hi n to indy numismatics with great thoroughness, 
and lie was the author of several important works on 
the subject. Ill 1X0-1 l,o published The Co his of the 
Jiihle ,m,l ,t Mumy 7V rms. In 1808 he contributed 
the art u le on the coins of the Fnited States to Bouvier’s 
Lair hn ti nun y, also several addresses on currency, coin- 


1 age, and other kindred subjects. He contributed a num- 
ber of articles to the Xew York Observer on The Coins 
of the Bible, Evidencing the Truth of the Scripture Testi- 
mony. 31 r. Snowden frequently represented the Phila- 
delphia Presbytery in the General Assembly. He died 
in llulmcville, Pa., in March, 1878. (W. l\ S.) 

Snowden, L. D., a minister of the 3Iethodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born in How ard County, 3Td., in 182(5. 
In 1807 lie was admitted on trial in the Washington 
Conference: was ordained deacon in 1809, and elder in 
1871. lie died in Romney, West Ya., Dec. 5, 1875. See 
Minutes of' Annual Conferences , 1870, p. 31. 

Snowden, Samuel Finley, a Presbyterian min- 
ister, was born in Philadelphia, Pa., Nov. 0, 1707. He 
graduated at the College of New 7 Jersey in 1786; studied 
theology privately; was licensed to preach by tbe New 
Brunswick Presbytery, April 24, 1794; was ordained ami 
installed pastor of the Church in Princeton Nov. 25 of 
same year; resigned, on account of ill-health, April 29, 
1801 ; was afterwards settled successively at Whites- 
' borough, New r Hartford, and Sackelt’s Harbor, N. YE; 
j and died in 3Iay, 1845, See Sprague, Annals of the 
Amer. Pulpit, iii, 341, note. 

Snuff-dish (ni^n^, machtdh , Exod. xxv, 38 ; 
xxvii, 23; Sept. inroStpa; Yulg. vasuni ; elsewhere 
“censer” or “fire-pan”), a tray for catching the snuff of 
the lamps of the golden candelabrum ; resembling a 
fire-pan or shovel, as the same Hebrew word elsewhere 
means (Lev. xvi. 12; Exod. xxvii, 3; xxxviii, 3; Numb, 
xvi, 0 sq.; 1 Kings vii, 50, etc.). See Candlestick. 

Snuffer (r“S7*0, nieza miner eth, a cutting instru- 
ment; 1 Kings vii, 50; 2 Kings xii, 14; xxv, 14; 2 
Chron. iv, 22, Jer. Iii, 18; C^np^, melkacha'yitn , 
Exod. xxxvii, 23; tongs , as elsewhere rendered), an im- 
plement for removing the snuff from the lamps of the sa- 
cred candelabrum. Judging from tbe latter of the above 
Hebrew terms, it was double, but not of the scissors form. 
Instruments like ours for cutting the wick of a lamp w 7 erc 
not anciently known, unless the instrument represented 
in the cut, copied from one in the British 3Inseum, may 
be supposed to have been used for such a purpose, but 
a sort of tweezers was employed to draw up tbe trick 



Snuffers and Pincers. 

when necessary, anil for pinching off any superfluous 
portion. Every one is aware that lamps when properly 
replenished with oil do not need snuffing, like candles. 
The sort of tweezers we have mentioned is still used in 
I he East for trimming lamps. Snuffers are only known 
in those parts of Western Asia tvhere candles are par- 
t billy used during winter. Snuffers are candle, not lamp, 
instruments; and candles arc but little used in any part 
of Asia, the temperature being generally too warm. 
See Candlestick. 

Snyder, George Niver, a minister of the Re- 
formed Dutch Church, was born in Ilonesdnle, Pa., 
31 arch 27, 1844. He graduated at Hamilton College, 
X T . 3., in 1808, and entered Union Theological Semi- 
nary, where he graduated in 1871. lie was ordained, 
and became a stated supply of the Church at Elmsford, 
N. \ and after remaining one year became pastor of 


so 


SNYDER 839 


the Church at "White Plains, N. Y., where he died, Nov. 
2, 1872. (\V. P. S.) 

Snyder, Henry (1), a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born near Schcllsburgh, Bedford 
Co., Pa., Sept. 16, 1813. He was converted, and united 
with the Church Sept. 26, 1831. lie was admitted on 
trial into the Pittsburgh Conference in 1848, ordained 
deacon in 1850, and elder in 1852. He continued in ac- 
tive labor until his death, Oct. 3, 1861. As a preacher 
he was eminently successful ; gracious revivals attended 
his ministry wherever he went. See Minutes of Annual 
Conferences , 1862, p. 43. 

Snyder, Henry (2), a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Stephensburg, Frederick Co., Va., Dec. 2, 1814. 
He graduated at Jefferson College, Canonsburg, Pa., in 
1838, studied theology privately, was licensed by the 
Ohio Presbytery, and in 1850 was ordained by the same 
presbytery as an evangelist. In 1841 he was appointed 
adjunct professor of mathematics in Jefferson College, 
Pa.; in 1843, professor of mathematics; in 1850, re- 
signed; in 1851, professor of Latin in Centre College, 
Danville, Kv. ; in 1853, removed to Bridgeton, N. J. ; 
in 1854, to Winchester, Ya. ; in 1856 was stated supply 
to the Church at Amelia Court-house, Va. ; in 1857, 
professor of mathematics in Hampden Sidney College, 
Prince Edward Co., where he remained until the out- 
break of the war, when he and his family were compelled 
to abandon everything and seek refuge in the North. 
After a time he obtained a chaplaincy, and was stationed 
at Fort Richmond, S. I., New York Harbor. Here he 
remained until he was mustered out of the service, and 
was making arrangements to settle in Sharpsburg, Pa., 
to resume the work of teaching, when, on the evening 
of Feb. 22, 1866, he was drowned. Mr. Snyder was well 
read in English literature, a remarkable conversational- 
ist, and possessed of a clear and logical mind, quick in 
discernment. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac, 1867, 
p. 198. (J. L. S.) 

Snyder, Peter, a Presbyterian minister, was born 
in Schoharie, N. Y., Oct. 18, 1814. lie graduated at 
Union College, Schenectady, N. Y., in 1836; studied 
theology one year at Princeton Seminary, N. J., and 
two years at Union Seminary, New York city; was 
licensed by New York Third Presbytery in 1839, and in 
1840 was ordained by Rockawav Presbytery, and after- 
wards labored two years at Whippanv, N. J. ; two years 
at New Rochelle, N. Y. , then at Cairo, Greene Co., 
N. Y.; and the remainder of his ministerial service, six- 
teen years, at Watertown, N. Y., where he died, Dec. 13, 
1863, Mr. Snyder was a thorough scholar, and his read- 
ing extensive, few men being better versed in current 
literature, and none more devoted to the moral, religious, 
and educational movements of the day. From his birth 
he suffered from an optical infirmity, but, although never 
using his own or another’s pen in preparing for the pul- 
pit, his discourses were always systematic, well digested, 
and specially eloquent. See Wilson, Presb. Ilist. Al- 
manac, 1864, p. 323. (J. L. S.) 

So (Heb. So, KID; Sept. top; Vulg. Sun), a king 
of Egypt whom Iloshea, the last king of Israel, called 
to his help against the Assyrians under Shalmaneser, 
evidently intending to become the vassal of Egypt, and 
therefore making no present, as had been the yearly 
custom, to the king of Assyria (2 Kings xvii, 4). B.C. 
726. The consequence of this step, which seems to have 
been forbidden by the prophets, who about this period 
are constantly warning the people against trusting in 
Egypt and Ethiopia, was the imprisonment of Iloshea, 
the taking of Samaria, and the carrying captive of the 
ten tribes. See Israel, Kingdom of. It has been 
questioned whether this So was the same with Sabtico 
(Manetho Sabacon ), the first king of the Ethiopian dy- 
nasty in Upper Egypt, or his son and successor Sevechus 
(Manetho SebicJws ), the second king of the same dynas- 
ty, and the immediate predecessor of Tirliakah. Winer 
hesitates between them, and Gesenius concludes for the 


latter. Sevechus reigned twelve years, according to 
Manetho, fourteen according to Syncellus. This name, 
in Egyptian Sebech, is also that of the god Saturn 
(Champollion, Panth. Egypt. No. 21, 22; Winer, Real - 
1 Vorterb. s. v. ; Gesenius, Comment, in Jes. i, 696). — Kit- 
to. See Egypt. 

The accession of Teharka, the Tirliakah of Scripture, 
may be nearly fixed on the evidence of an Apis-tablet, 
which states that one of the bulls Apis was born in his 
twenty-sixth year, and died at the end of the twentieth 
of Psammetichus I. This bull lived more than twenty 
years, and the longest age of any Apis stated is twenty- 
six. Supposing the latter duration, which would allow 
a short interval between Teharka and Psammetichus II, 
as seems necessary, the accession of Teharka would be 
B.C. 695. If we assign twenty-four years to the two 
predecessors, the commencement of the dynasty would 
be B.C. 719. But it is not certain that their reigns were 
continuous. The account which Herodotus gives of the 
war of Sennacherib ami Sethos suggests that Tirliakah 
was not ruling in Egypt at the time of the destruction 
of the Assyrian army, so that we may either conjecture, 
as Dr. Hincks has done, that the reign of Sethos followed 
that of Shebetek and preceded that of Tirhakah over 
Egypt (Journ. Sac. Lit. Jan. 1853), or else that Tirha- 
kah was king of Ethiopia while Shebetek, not the same 
as Sethos, ruled in Egypt, the former hypothesis being 
far the more probable. It seems impossible to arrive at 
any positive conclusion as to the dates to which the 
mentions in the Bible of So and Tirhakah refer, but it 
must be remarked that it is difficult to overthrow the 
date of B.C. 721 for the taking of Samaria. If we adopt 
the earlier dates, So must correspond to Shebek ; if the 
later, perhaps to Shebetek ; but if it should be found 
that the reign of Tirhakah is dated too high, the former 
identification might still be held. The name Shebek 
is nearer to the Hebrew name than Shebetek; and if the 
Masojetic points do not faithfully represent the original 
pronunciation, as we might almost infer from the con- 
sonants, and the name was Sewa or Seva, it is not very 
remote from Shebek. \Ye cannot account for the tran- 
scription of the Sept. 

From Egyptian sources we know nothing more of 
Shebek than that he conquered and put to death Boc- 
choris, the sole king of t lie twenty-fourth dynasty, as 
we learn from Manetho’s list, and that he continued the 
monumental works of the Egyptian kings. There is a 
long inscription at El-Karnak in which Shebek speaks 
of tributes from “the king of the land of Khala (Sha- 
ra),” supposed to be Syria (Brugsch, Hist. d'Egypte, i, 
244). This gives some slight confirmation to the iden- 
tification of this king with So, and it is likely that the 
founder of a new dynasty would have endeavored, like 
Shishak and Psammetichus 1, the latter virtually the 
founder of the twenty-sixth, to restore the Egyptian 
supremacy in the neighboring Asiatic countries. The 
standard inscription of Sargon in his palace at Khorsa- 
bad states, according to M. Oppert, that after the capt- 
ure of Samaria, 11 anon, king of Gaza, and Sebech, sultan 
of Egypt, met the king of Assyria in battle at Rapih, 
Raphia, and were defeated. Sebech disappeared, but 
Hanon was captured. Pharaoh, king of Egypt, was 
then put. to tribute (Les ' Inscriptions Assyriennes c les 
Sargonides, etc. p, 22). This statement would appear 
to indicate that either Shebek or Shebetek, for we can- 
not lay great stress upon the seeming identity of name 
with the former, advanced to the support of Iloshea 
and his party, and being defeated fled into Ethiopia, 
leaving the kingdom of Egypt to a native prince. T his 
evidence favors the idea that the Ethiopian kings were 
not successive. — Smith. See Tirhakah. 

In a room in the ruins of the palace of Sennacherib 
at Koyunjik, Mr. Layard found a piece of clay upon 
which was impressed* the signet of Sabak, or Sabaco, 
king of Egypt. On the same piece of clay is impressed 
an Assyrian seal, probably that of Sennacherib, with a 
device representing a priest ministering before the king, 


SO AX EX 


840 


SOAP 



Soul of ami Sonnnchorib. 


«>r perhaps (ho symbol of the high contracting parties. 
Tlu* original of this remarkable seal is now deposited in 
the British Museum. The Egyptian portion of it rep- 
resents sahak as about to smite an enemy, perhaps in 
sacrifice to Amun-Ba. with a kind of mace. Above and 
before him are hieroglyphs, expressing AYfr tt/r nb ar 
cht Sabak — " the perfect god, (lie lord who produces 
tilings. Sabak.’’ Behind him, slat sanch-huf — “‘life 
follows his head.” « >n the left edge., 7 mi mi nak~“\ 
have given to thee." This seal, impressed with the 
royal -ignets of the two monarch*, probably Sennache- 
rib and Sabak, or So. appears to have been affixed to a 
treaty between Assyria and Egypt and deposited among 
i he archives of the kingdom. As the two monarch* 
were undoubtedly contemporary, this piece of clay fur- 
nishes remarkable continual orv evidence of the truth of 
.Scripture history. See Piiakaoii, 

Soanen, Jkan. a French prelate, was born in Eiom, 
Jan. <*». Hi 17, and entered the Congregation of the Ora- 
tory at Baris in I ML where he chose father Quesnel for 
his confessor. Leaving that establishment, he taught 
ethics and rhetoric in several provincial towns, and de- 
voted himself afterwards to the pulpit, for which he had 
great talents. Having preached at Lyons, Orleans, ami 
Baris with applause, he was invited to court, preached 
there during Lent in I CM and 10SS. and was appointed 
bishop of Senez soon after. Appealing from the bull 
l ’niyemtns to a future council, and refusing to listen to 
any terms of accommodation on the subject, he pub- 
lished a Pastoral Instruction, giving an account to his 
diocesans of his conduct. This Instruction gave great 
offence, and occasioned the famous Council of Embrun 
(17*27), in which M. de Tencin procured its condemna- 
tion a>< ra»h, scandalous, etc., and the bishop to be sus- 
pended from all episcopal jurisdiction and ecclesiastical 
functions. After this council, M. Soanen was banished 
to La t'linLe lhcu, where he died. l)ec. 25, 1740. ilis 
writings are. Pastoral Instructions : — Mandates : — and 
I.eftns. The Lettrrs have been printed with his Life ((> 
veil-. 4to, or x voN. 1 2nm). 1 1 is Sermons were published 
in 17U7 (2 vols. l2mo). See f’halmers, Bioy. Diet, s. w; 
Hoofer, An nr. liiotf, Dim' rale , s. \\ 

Soap (r^Z. borith; Sept. 7rdo) occurs in Jer. ii, 
22, For though thou wash thee with nitre, and take 
thee much soap, yet thine inhpiitv is marked before mo, 
Mitli the Lmi Hod;” and again in Mai, iii, 2, “ But 
who may abide the day of his coming? and who shall 
stand when he nppeareth? for he is like n refiner’s lire, 
and like fullers’ soap.” From neither of these passages 
does it distinctly appear whether the substance refer- 
red to by the name of borith was obtained from the 
mineral or from the vegetable kingdom; hut it is evi- 
dent Hint it was posse-sed of eleaiiMiig properties, and 
thi« is continued by the origin and signification of the 
word, which is thus illustrated by tVlsius: ** A verbo 
barur, i>nrijiearit, qua* vox etiam apud C’hahkeos, 
Syros, Arabes, in n-ti fui(, deseendit nomen *Z, bor, pu- 
ritan" (I/inoltot. i, So Maimonides, on the 'Tal- 

mud trait Sin mitt ah , “Species ablut ionihus apt a*, lit i 
sui t loritli et ahal.” In fact, the simple 12, bar, it- 
to If lei.otes a vegetable alkali used for washing (Jobix, 
«'h 1 ) and ns a tin x for metals ( 1-n. i, 25). See Alkali. 
The word boiith is very similar to the bonik of the 


Arabs, written baurakh in the Latin translations of Se- 
rapiim and Avicenna, and translated nit rum, that is, na- 
tron, or carbonate of soda. Boruk appears, however, to 
have been used in a generic rather than in a specific 
sense, as in the Persian works on materia medica (de- 
rived chiefly from the Arabic) which have been collated 
we find that no less than six different kinds of boruk 
(Persian bitreh) are enumerated, of which some are nat- 
ural, as the Armenian, the African, etc., and others ar- 
tificial, as that obtained from burning the wood of the 
poplar, also that employed in the preparation of glass. 
Of these it is evident that the last two are chemically 
nearly the same, being both carbonates of alkalies. The 
incineration of most plants, as well as of the poplar, 
yields the carbonate of potash (commonly called potash, 
or pearlash); while carbonate of soda, or barilla, i9 the 
alkali used in the preparation of glass. Previous to the 
composition ol bodies having been definitely ascertained 
by correct chemical analysis, dissimilar substances were 
often grouped together under one general term; while 
others, although similar in composition, were separated 
on account of some unimportant character, as difference 
of color or of origin, etc. It is unnecessary for our 
present purpose to ascertain the other substances in- 
cluded by the Arabs under the general term of boruk, 
which may have been also included under the nilrnm 
of the (Ireeks. It is evident that both the carbonate 
of soda and of potash were comprehended under one 
name by the former. It would be difficult, therefore, 
to distinguish the one from the other, unless some cir- 
cumstances were added in addition to the mere name. 
Thus in the above passage of Jeremiah we have neter 
(nitre) and borith (soap) indicated as being both em- 
ployed for washing or possessed of some cleansing prop- 
erties, and yet, from occurring in the same passage, they 
must have differed in some respects. The term natron, 
we know, was in later times confined to the salt ob- 
tained chiefly from the natron lakes of Egypt, and neter 
may also have been so in earlier times. Since, there- 
fore, the natural carbonate of soda is mentioned in one 
part of the verse, it is very probable that the artificial 
carbonates may be alluded to in the other, as both were 
in early times employed by Asiatic nations for the pur- 
poses of washing. The carbonate of potash, obtained 
from the burning of most plants growing at a distance 
from the sea or a saline soil, might not have been dis- 
tinguished from the carbonate of soda, produced from 
the ashes of plants growing on the shores of the sea or 
of salt-water lakes. Hence it is probable that the ashes 
of plants, called boruk and boreh bv Asiatic nations, 
may be alluded to under the name of borith, as there is 
no proof that, soap is intended, though it may have been 
known to the same people at very early periods. Still 
less is it probable that borax is meant, as lias been sup- 
posed by some authors, apparently from the mere simi- 
larity of name. 

Supposing that the ashes or juices of plants are in- 
tended by the word borith, the next point of inquiry is 
whether it is to be restricted to those of any particular 
plants. The ashes of the poplar are mentioned by Ara- 
bian authors and of the vine by Dioscorides; those of 
the plantain and of the Bitten Jrondosit by Sanscrit au- 
thors — thus indicating that the plants which were most 
common, or which were used for fuel or other purposes 
in the different, countries, had also their ashes, that is, 
impure carbonate of potash, employed for washing, etc. 
Lsually the ashes only of plants growing on the sea- 
shore have been thought to be intended. All these, as 
before mentioned, would yield barilla, or carbonate of 
soda. Many of them have been burned for the soda 
they yield on the coasts of India, of the Ked Sea, and 
of the Mediterranean. They belong chiefly to the nat- 
ural family of the Chenopodem and to that of the J/c- 
snnbryanthenanns. In Arabic authors, the plant yield- 
ing soda is said to be called ishnun , and its Persian name 
is stated to be ej/ntsiil, both words signifying “the 
washer,” or “washing-herb.” Kauwolf points out two 


SOBRIETY 


841 


SOCIALISM 


plants in Syria and Palestine which yield alkaline salts. 
Hasselquist considered one of them to be a Mesembry- 
t intkemnm . Forskal has enumerated several plants as 
being burned for the barilla which they afford, as Me - 
sembryanthemum genicu latum and nodiflorum , both of 
which are called ghasul. Salsola kali and his Suceda 
monoica, called asul, are other plants, especially the 
-last named, which yield sal-alkali. So on the coasts of 
the Indian peninsula, ISaliconiia Indica and Salsola 
nudijlora yield barilla in great abundance and purity, 
as do Salsola satica kali, and tragus , and also Sulicor - 
•ttia annua on the coasts of Spain and of the south of 
France. — Kitto. In Palestine we may especially notice 
the plant named hubeibeh (the Salsola kali of bota- 
nists), found near the Dead Sea, with glass-like leaves, 
the ashes of which are called el-Kuli from their strong 
alkaline properties (Robinson, Bill. Res. i, 505) ; the 
ajram, found near Sinai, which when pounded serves 
as a substitute for soap (ibid, i, 84) ; the gillu, or “ soap 
plant” of Egypt (Wilkinson, A7ic. Egypt, ii, 10G) and 
the heaths in the neighborhood of Joppa (Kitto, Phys. 
J/ist. p. 267). From these sources large quantities of 
alkali have been extracted in past ages, as the heaps of 
ashes outside Jerusalem and Nablus testify (Robinson, 
Bill. Res. iii, 201, 299), and an active trade in the 
article is still prosecuted with Aleppo in one direction 
(Russell, Aleppo, i, 79) and Arabia in another (Rurck- 
liardt, Trav. i, 66). We need not assume that the ashes 
were worked up in the form familiar to us, for no such 
article was known to the Egyptians (Wilkinson, A nc. 
Egypt, i, 186). 

The uses of soap among the Hebrews were twofold — 

(1) for cleansing either the person (Jer. ii, 22; Job ix, 
30, where for “never so clean” read “with alkali”) or 
the clothes; (2) for purifying metals (Isa. i, 25, where 
for “purely” read “as through alkali”). Hitzig sug- 
gests that borith should be substituted for berith , “cov- 
enant,” in Ezek. xx, 37 and Alai, iii, 1. — Smith. 

Sobriety, freedom from any inordinate passion — 
that quiet self-possession which enables one to devote 
himself to the matter in band, whether prayer, medita- 
tion, study, forming schemes, laboring to carry them 
out, and which keeps the individual from undue eleva- 
tion in prosperity or depression in case of failure. The 
necessity of sobriety is especially obvious: (l) In our 
inquiries after truth as opposed to presumption ; (2) in 
our pursuit of this world as opposed to covetousness ; (3) 
in the use and estimate of the things of this world as 
opposed to excess: (4) in trials and afflictions as op- 
posed to impatience; (5) in forming our judgment of 
others as opposed to censoriousness; (6) in speaking of 
one’s self as opposed to egotism. Many motives might 
be urged to this exercise, as (1) the general language 
of Scripture (1 Pet. iv, 7 ; v.8; Phil, iv, 5; Tit. ii, 12); 

(2) our profession as Christians; (3) the example of 
Jesus Christ; and (4) the near approach of death and 
judgment. — Buck, Theol. Diet. s. v. 

Sochereth. See Marble. 

So'cho (Heb. Soko f , IZVw, for “jilito, bushy; Sept. 

Vulg. Soeho), the name of a town, which oc- 
curs in this form, among those settled by the sons of 
Ezra of the tribe of Judah (1 Chron. iv, 18). It appar- 
ently was the same as the town of Socotr (q. v.), in 
Judah, probably the one in the lowland, which was 
better known than the other, and in the vicinity of 
the associated places. It appears from its mention in 
this list that it was colonized by a man or a place named 
Ilebcr. “ The Targum, playing on the passage after the 
custom of Hebrew writers, interprets it as referring to 
Moses, and takes the names Jered, Soco, Jekuthiel, as 
titles of him. He was ‘the rabba of Soco because he 
sheltered ("pD) the house of Israel with his virtue’” 
(Smith). See Siioco; Siiocno. 

So'choh (Heb. Sokoh', PlZb, i.q. Socho and Socoh; 
Sept. Swyw v. r. ; Vulg. Socho), a town in Solo- 


mon’s commissariat assigned to Hepher (1 Kings iv, 
10) ; probably the same as the Socon (q. v.) in the low- 
land of Judah (Josh, xv, 35). 

Socialism, a general term applied to several 
schemes of social arrangement which advocate com- 
munity of property, and abandon or modify individual 
industry, the rights of marriage, and of the* family. In 
discussing the subject of Socialism, two elements are to 
be considered : (1) the judgment of socialism on existing 
institutions and practices and on their results; (2) the 
various plans which it has proposed for doing better. 
Socialism affirms that the. evils it complains of arc ir- 
remediable in the present constitution of society. In 
the opinion of Socialists, the existing arrangements of 
society in respect to property and the production and 
distribution of wealth are, as a means to the general 
good, a total failure. First among existing evils may 
be mentioned that of poverty. The institution of prop- 
erty is upheld and commended principally as being the 
means by which labor and frugality are insured their 
reward and mankind enabled to emerge from indigence. 
But Socialism urges that an immense proportion of the 
industrious classes are, at some period or other of their 
lives, dependent on legal or voluntary charity; that 
many are outstripped by others who are possessed of 
superior energy or prudence; that the reward, instead 
of being proportioned to the labor and abstinence of the 
individual, is almost in the inverse ratio to it; that the 
great majority are what they are born to be— some to 
be rich without work, others to become rich by work, 
but the great majority are born to hard work and pov- 
erty through life; that competition is, for the people, a 
system of extermination, resulting from the continual 
fall of labor. “ Cheapness,” they say, “is advantageous 
to the consumer at t he cost of introducing the seeds of 
ruinous anarchy among the producers.” The Fourierists 
(M. Considerant, Destinee Sociale i, 35-37) enumerate 
the evils of existing civilization in the following order : 
“ 1. It employs an enormous quantity of labor and of 
human power unproductively, or in the work of destruc- 
tion, e. g. in sustaining armies, courts, magistrates, etc. ; 
in allowing ‘good society,’ people who pass their lives 
in doing nothing, also in allowing philosophers, meta- 
physicians, political men, who produce nothing but dis- 
turbance and sterile discussions. 2. That even the in- 
dustry and powers which, in the present system, are de- 
voted to production do not produce more than a small 
portion of what they might produce if better directed 
and employed,” e. g. “the wastefulness in the existing 
arrangements for distributing the produce of the country 
among the various producers.” Socialism seeks to put 
an end to the vices and suffering of men, not by indi- 
vidual regeneration and reformation, but by a new social 
organization. It is the employment of political and eco- 
nomic measures for a moral purpose. Rroceeding upon 
the supposition that the individual is wholly or largely 
the creature of circumstances, it seeks to make the lat- 
ter as favorable as possible. Thus it makes a religion 
of social regeneration, and proposes to renovate the 
world by a new arrangement of property and industrial 
interests. Although in sonic measure anticipated by 
movements in the ancient world, socialism may be con- 
sidered a product of the French Revolution, which was 
an anarchic attack on the social system that had its 
roots in the feudalism of the Middle Ages. The first to 
revive or bring socialistic ideas into general notice was 
Francois Noel Babeuf (1764-97), in his paper Le Tri- 
bun du Peuple. The idea from which he started was 
that of equality, and he insisted that there should be 
no other differences than those of age and sex; that 
men differed little in their faculties and needs, and con- 
sequently should receive the same education and food. 
After his death his system, Babouvism, was for some 
time entirely forgotten, until, in 1834, Buonarotti again 
attempted its propagation in the Moniteur Republicain 
and IJomme Libre. The three most noted develop- 
ments of Socialism arc Communism, Fourierism, and 


842 


SOCIALISM 


SOCIALISM 


Saint - Simonism or Ilumanitarianism. The Nihilists; 
of Hu-mu ni this time attract considerable attention be- 
ca u m* of the efforts made by the government towards 
their extinction. They believe that, in order to human 
jirogre***. it is not only possible, but absolutely necessary, 
to liegin at once with the present complicated social 
phenomena in the way of a sudden and complete social 
reform, or with a revolution. In April, 1879, an attempt 
was made by one of their number to assassinate tlie 
emperor. This lias led to the arrest of hundreds, many 
of whom have been sent to Siberia. A number of 
Nihilistic communities have been established in the 
I nited Mates, some of which have already been no- 
ticed. See 1 1 a unionists ; Skpakatists ; Siiakkks. 
Others will be treated in this article. 

1. The Annum Society.—' I'll is society takes its name 
from the Bible (Cnut.iv. 8), and has its location in Iowa, 
in the town of Amana. The members call themselves the 
True Inspiration Congregations" ( Wahre Inspirations- 
t; t me im l> a), and are ( Icrmaus. They came from t iermanv 
in 18 12. and settled near Buffalo, N. 4 hut in 185.) they 
removed to their present location. The ‘‘work ot inspi- 
ration" began far back in the 18th century, an account 
of the journeys, etc., of “ Brother John Frederick Hock” 
in 1719 being given in the Thirty -sixth Collection 
of the Inspiration Record. Finally, in 1810, Michael 
krau>ert became what they call an “ instrument," and 
to him were added several others, among them Christian 
Metz, who was for many years, and until his death (1807), 
the spiritual head of the society. Another prominent 
instrument" was Barbara lleynemann, whose husband, 
tieorge Landman, became spiritual bead of the society. 
The removal to this country was inaugurated by Metz, 
who profiled to have a revelation so directing. 

1. Soiial Economy . — The society was not communis- 
tic in t lermany. ami even after removal to this country 
the community intended to live simply as a Christian 
congregation. Being obliged to look after the temporal 
interests of each other, they built workshops, etc., out of 
a common fund, and thus drifted into their present prac- 
tice. They have now seven villages, and carry on farm- 
ing. woollen, saw, and grist mills. Each family has a 
house for i i self; but the members eat in common, in cook- 
ing- or eating-houses, of which there are fifteen. Each 
business has its foreman; and these leaders, in each vil- 
lage, meet every evening to consult and arrange for the 
following day. The civil or temporal government is vest- 
ed in thirteen trustees, chosen annually by the male 
members, the trustees choosing t he president of the so- 
ciety. The elders arc men of presumably deep piety, 
appointed by inspiration, and preside at religious assem- 
blies. The members are supplied with clothing and 
other articles, excepting food, by an annual allowance 
to each individual. L’suallv a neophyte enters on pro- 
bation for two years, and, if a suitable person, is admit- 
ted to full membership; although some are received at 
mice into full membership by “ inspiration.” They for- 
bid the ti-e of musical instruments (except a flute), and 
exclude photographs and other pictures, as tending to 
i lol-worsliip. Although not forbidding marriage, cel- 
ibacy is looked upon as meritorious; and young men 
an** not allowed to marry until twenty-four years of 
a^ r c. 1 1 h* society is financially prosperous, has no debt, 
lias money at inierest, and owned in |s7l about *25,000 
n r»** of laud, 3<HH) sheep. 1 500 head of cattle. 200 horses, 
and 25o0 hogs, with a population of altout 1500. 

2. lolit/ion an*! Lifintfun. The society is pictistic, 
and believes in inspiration ns a result of entire conse- 
cration to Hud. It accepts both the Old and the New 
I* lament, but not to the exclusion of present inspira- 
tion. It does not practice baptism, but celebrates the 
lord’s supper whenever led hv “ inspiration.” Inspira- 
tion isHometimes private, at other times public ; and the 
wariu i/H, r« proof*, etc., thus received are written down 
in > early \olitiiie*. entitled Year -hook* of the ' True 
Inspiration t 'onyrtyatiun*. When a member offends 
against the rules of society, he is admonished by the 


elders; and if he do not amend, expulsion follows. 
These rules arc twenty-one in number, and encourage 
sobriety, reverence, honesty, and abstinence. They 
bold religious services on Wednesday, Saturday, and 
Sunday mornings, and every evening. They keep New- 
year's as a holiday, and Christmas, Easter, and Holy 
Week are their great religious festivals. At least once 
a year there is an “ Untersuchuny ” or inquisition of the 
wiiole community, including children- — an examination 
of its spiritual condition, in which each member is ex- 
pected to make confession of sins. Their hymnologv is 
found in The Voice from Zion (Ebenezer, 1851, pp. 958), 
and another hymn-book in regular use, Psalms after the 
Manner of Da r id,” etc. (Amana, la., 1871). Among 
their books is Innocent Amusement ( Unschuldiger Zeit- 
r&rtreib ), a mass of pious doggerel: Jesus’ .1, B, C for 
his Scholars, also in rhyme ; Rhymes on the Sufferings, 
J tenth, Burial, and Ascension of Christ. 

II. Perfectionists of Oneida and Wallingford . — This 
society is of American origin, having for its founder the 
present head, John Humphrey Noyes, born in Brattle- 
borough, Vt., in 181 1. He was educated at Dartmouth, 
Andover, and Vale. While in the latter institution he 
entered upon a new experience and new views of the 
way of salvation, which took the name of Perfection- 
ism. In 1834 he went to Poultney, Vt., and slowly 
gathered about him a small company of believers, and 
in 1847 bad forty persons in his own congregation, be- 
sides small gatherings in other states who recognised 
him as leader. Not a Communist at first, Mr. Noyes, 
in 1845, made known his peculiar views, and began cau- 
tiously to practice them in 184G. The community were 
mobbed and driven from the place, and in 1848 settled 
in Oneida. Madison Co., N. Y. Other communities were 
established, but all were eventually merged in those of 
Oneida, N. V., anil Wallingford, Conn. After various re- 
verses. they began to accumulate property, engaged in 
manufacture and the preserving of fruits, etc., and in 1874 
had 040 acres of land near Oneida, with 240 at Walling- 
ford. In ten years (1857-66) they hail netted $180,580, 
and were worth over $500,000. The two communities 
must be counted as one, and the members are inter- 
changeable at will. In February, 1874, they numbered 
283 persons, 131 males and 152 females. The members 
are mostly Americans, largely recruited from New Eng- 
land. 

1. Daily Life, etc. — The members live in one large 
building, the older people occupying separate chambers, 
the younger sleeping two together. There is no regula- 
tion style of dress, although plainness is expected of all. 
They have twenty-one standing committees — on finance, 
amusements, arbitration, etc.; and, besides this, the du- 
ties of administration are divided among forty-eight de- 
partments, as publication, education, agriculture, manu- 
facture, etc. Every Sunday morning a meeting is held 
of the “ Business Board,” composed of the heads of all 
the departments, and any members of the community 
who choose to attend. The children are left to the care of 
their mothers until weaned, when they are placed in the 
general nursery, under “care-takers,” who arc both men 
and women. They have no sermon or public prayers, 
and address one another as M r. or Miss, except when the 
women were married before they entered the society. 
An annual allowance of thirty-three dollars is made to 
each woman, the men ordering clothes when in need. 
In the school the. Bible is tbe prominent text-book, but 
a liberal education is encouraged. They receive mem- 
bers with great care, but exact no probation. 

2. Religious Belief . — The Perfectionists bold to the 
Bible as the “ text-book of tbe spirit of truth,” to Jesus 
( ’lirist as “ the eternal Son of ( lod,” and to “ the apostles 
and Primitive Church as the exponents of the everlasting 
Hospel.” They believe that the second advent of Christ 
took place at the period of the destruction of Jerusa- 
lem ; that the final kingdom of Hod then began in the 
heavens ; that the manifestation of the kingdom in the 
visible world is now approaching ; that its approach is 


SOCIALISM 


843 


SOCIALISM 


ushering in the second and final resurrection and judg- 
ment; that a Church on earth is now rising to meet the 
approaching kingdom in the heavens, and to become its 
duplicate and representative; that inspiration, or open 
communication with God and the heavens, involving 
perfect holiness, is the element of connection between 
t he Church on earth and the Church in the heavens, and 
the power by which the kingdom of God is to be estab- 
lished and to reign in the world. They also teach that 
“ the Gospel provides for complete salvation from sin,” 
which, they say, “is the foundation needed by all other 
reformers.” Community of goods and of persons they 
believe* to have been taught by Jesus, and hold that 
communism is “ the social state of the resurrection.” In 
their system, “ complex marriage takes the place of sim- 
ple,” they affirming that there is no intrinsic differ- 
ence between property in person and property in things; 
and that the same spirit which abolished exclusiveness 
in regard to money would abolish, if circumstances al- 
lowed full scope for it, exclusiveness in regard to wom- 
en and children. “Complex marriage” means that, 
within the limits of their community, any man and 
woman may freely cohabit, having gained each other’s 
consent through a third party. They are firm believ- 
ers in the efficacy of the “faith cure,” and quote in- 
stances in which invalids have been instantly restored 
to perfect health in answer to prayer. 

This community has lately taken an important step 
towards reorganization by formally abandoning the sys- 
tem of complex marriage that father John Humphrey 
Noyes has consistently advocated for so many years. 
Considerable opposition having been experienced be- 
cause of the promiscuous commerce of the sexes asserted 
to exist, father Noyes has decided to abandon his scheme 
called stir pi cult u re in practice, while retaining it in 
theory. He accordingly wrote (Aug. 20, 1879) a mes- 
sage to the community, containing modifications in their 
platform, of which the following is a summary: 

I. To give up the practice of complex marriage, not as 
renouncing belief in the principles and prospective finality 
of that institution, but in deference to the public sentiment 
evidently rising against it. 

II. To place themselves as a community, noton the plat- 
form of the Shakers, on the one hand, nor on that of the 
world, on the other, but on Paul’s platform, which, while 
allowing marriage as a concession to human weakness, 
prefers celibacy as the holier and more perfect state. 

III. To continue to hold their husiness and property in 
common ; to continue to live together, and to eat at the 
same table ; to retain the common department for infants 
and juveniles, and to maintain the practice of regular 
evening meetings for mutual criticism. 

The platform contained in the communication was 
adopted by a formal vote on the evening of Tuesday, 
Aug. 26, abolishing the offensive abomination of com- 
plex marriage at a stroke. The society will hereafter, 
therefore, consist of two classes of members — celibates, 
and married persons living together as husband and 
wife under the laws of marriage as generally under- 
stood. The family idea is left, it is true; but with per- 
manent families within the community family it is 
shorn of its main significance, and takes the form of a 
common work, a common interest in commercial vent- 
ures, and a common property. Among the literary pro- 
ductions of this community are, Paul not Carnal ; The 
Perfectionist; The Way of Holiness ; Berean Witness; 
Spiritual Magazine; Free Church Circular; Bible Com- 
munism; History of American Socialism ; and Essay on 
Scientific Propagation (the latter two by J. II. Noves). 

III. A urora and Bethel Communes. — The founder and 
present ruler of these communities is I)r. Keil, a Prus- 
sian, born in 1811. At first a man-milliner, he became 
a mystic, and afterwards, at Pittsburgh, made open pro- 
fession of his belief. He gathered a number of Germans 
about him, to whom he represented himself as a being to 
be worshipped, and later as one of the two witnesses in 
the Book of Revelation. He began to plan a commu- 
nism somewhat resembling that of Rapp, but without 
the celibate principle. His followers, in 1844, removed 


to Bethel, Mo., and took up four sections of land, or 
2560 acres, to which they added from time to time, until 
they possessed 4000 acres. In 1874 they numbered 
about 200 persons. In 1855 Dr. Keil, with about 80 
persons, removed to Oregon, and the following year set- 
tled at Aurora. They numbered in 1874 nearly 400 
people, and owned about 18,000 acres of land. 

The government at Aurora is vested in Dr. Keil, who 
is both president and preacher, and has for his advisers 
lour of the elder members, chosen by himself. The 
preacher and head of the Bethel Commune is Mr. Giese, 
with six trustees, chosen by the members. The people 
of both communes are plain, frugal, industrious Ger- 
mans, with simple tastes, and seem contented and hap- 
py. They hold to principles which are chiefly remark- 
able for their simplicity. 1. That all government should 
be parental, to imitate the parental government of God. 
2. That society should be formed upon the model of the 
family, having all interests and property absolutely in 
common. 3. That neither religion nor the harmony of 
nature teaches community in anything further than 
property and labor. Hence the family life is strictly 
maintained, and all sexual irregularities are absolutely 
rejected. Religious service is held twice a month, and 
after the Lutheran style. 

IV. Jcarians. — This community was the offspring 
of the dreams of I^tienne C’abet, who was born in Dijon, 
France, in 1788. Cabet was educated for the bar, but 
became a politician and writer. He was a leader of 
the Carbonari, a member of the French Legislature, 
wrote a history of the French Revolution of July, was 
condemned to two years’ imprisonment, but fled to Lon- 
don, where he wrote the Voyage to Icaria. In this book 
he described a communistic Utopia, and in 18J8 set 
sail, with a number of persons, for Texas, where he 
started an actual Icaria. Sixtv-ninc persons formed 
the advance-guard, which was attacked by yellow fever, 
and disorganized by the time Cabet arrived in the next 
year. They went to Nauvoo, 111., and were established 
in that deserted Mormon town, May, 1850. They num- 
bered here, at one time, not less than 1500 persons, and 
labored and planted with success; but Cabet developed 
a dictatorial spirit, which produced a split in the socie- 
ty. He and some of his followers went to St. Louis, 
where he died in 1856. Shortly after, the Illinois colo- 
ny came to an end, and between fifty and sixty settled 
upon their Iowa estate, about four miles from Corning. 
They own at the present time 1936 acres of land; num- 
ber 65 members and 11 families, most of whom are 
French. They live under the constitution prepared by 
Cabet, which lays down the equality and brotherhood 
of mankind and the duty of holding all things in com- 
mon. abolishes servitude and servants, commands mar- 
riage under penalties, provides for education, and re- 
quires that the majority shall rule. In practice they 
elect a president once a year, who is the executive offi- 
cer, but whose powers are strictly limited. They have 
also four directors, who carry on the necessary work 
and direct the other members. They have no religious 
observances. Sunday is a day of rest and amusement. 

V. Bishop Hill Commune , now extinct, was formed by 
Swedish pietists, who settled in Ilenrv County, 111., Oc- 
tober, 1846. Others followed, until, by the summer of 
1848, they numbered 800 persons. At first they were 
very poor, living in holes in the ground and under sheds ; 
but by industry and economy they prospered, so that, 
in 1859, they owned 10,000 acres of land and a town. 
Their religious life was very simple. Two services were 
held on Sunday and one each week-night. They dis- 
couraged amusements as tending to worldliness, and af- 
ter a while the young people became discontented with 
the dull community life. It was determined, in the 
spring of 1860, to divide the property, which was done. 
Dissensions still continuing, a further division was made, 
each family receiving its share, and the commune ceased 
to exist. 

VI. Cedar Vale Community is a communistic society 


SOCIALISTS 


$44 


SOCINIANISM 


near Cedar Vale. Howard Co.. Kansas, and was begun in 
January. 1*71. I is members, were recruited from among 
l wo essonrially diflerciil claves of Socialists — the IIus- 
sian Materiali'is and American Spiritualists. They 
numbered in 1*74 four males, one female, one child; 
and on probation, two males, one female, and one child. 
They are organized under the name of the I'notJiiKssivK 
Co.MMfMTV, and hold to community of goods and to 
entire freedom of opinion. 

VII. Social Fret dam t'ommunity is a communistic 
society established early in 1*71. in Chesterfield County, 
Ya. It has two women, one man, and three hoys as 
••full nicmliers," with four women and live men as •• pro- 
‘ bationary members.” They own a farm of 333 acres, 
and are attempting general farming, sawing, grinding, 
etc. The members are all Americans. 'Huy hold to 
•♦unity of interests, and political, religious, and social 
freedom; t hat every individual shall have absolute con- 
trol of herself or himself.” They have no constitution 
i*r by-laws; ignore man’s total depravity, ami believe 
that all who arc actuated by a love of truth and a desire 
of progress can lie governed by love and moral suasion. 

>ec lltdvoake. History of Co-operation (1*75); Noves, 
Hi*tnry of American Socialism (1*70); Stein, I)er So- 
cialism us nwl ( ’um/nitnisMHs ties heutigen Frankreiehs 
(1*11), ami ( ifschichte t/tr sociaten Jieiregungen in 
Frank tric/i (1*10-51). For information as to societies 
mentioned in this article we are largely indebted to 
Nnrdlioff. Communistic Societies of the United States 
(N. V. 1*75). 

Socialists. Sec Socialism. 

Society, a combination of persons uniting in a fel- 
lowship f<«r any purpose whatever, and having com- 
mon objects, principles, and laws. Many such combina- 
tions have been made of late years for the purpose of 
promoting dilfereiit religious objects, among the ear- 
liest of which are the Society for Promoting Christian 
Knowledge, for the circulation of liibles, prayer-books, 
and tracts, founded in 1C!)*; the Society for the Propa- 
gation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts, for carrying 
Christianity to the colonies and other dependencies of 
the Piritish empire, established in 1701 ; and others, 
mo>t of which will he found under their appropriate 
heads, ns Hmu; Sociktiks, etc. Since convocations 
and diocesan synods have fallen into disuse, the duty 
of providing for missions, the circulation of the Script- 
ures, the preparation and publication of devotional 
i\nrk-, ami similar objects, have devolved upon volun- 
tary associations. These societies, being formed inde- 
pendent o( ecclesiastical authority, arc necessarily free 
tr-mi ecclesiastical rule or regulation, and their consti- 
tution is thus determined by the nature of their object. 
In the (’lum'h of F.uglaml a controversy lias arisen in 
relation to these societies, respecting the necessity of 
members of the Church having the sanction of their 
diocesan before joining such associations. The real 
tpiestioii is, whether any such society involves in its 
constitution or practices a violation of canonical law 
or established discipline. The* matter was linallv left 
to the judgment of the individual. In the Hinted 
States such societies are often organized by the au- 
thorities of the (’Inireh they represent, or are endorsed 
by several cliiirebes, and thus become their acknowl- 
edged ngeiiev in that direction. Of the latter the 
American I hide Society is a notable example. 

Society People, a name given to the Covenant- 
ers in Se aland by Wodrow (iii, 357) and others, bo- 
enuse they lormed themselves into societies for mutual 
religious iutereour.se and edification. 

Socinianism, a development of the Arinn heresy, 
has for its leading feature the denial of our Lord's di- 
vine nature, with the belief that be was a typical and 
unique mnti, display tug in so unprecedented a manner 
thoHc higher characteristics of tinman nature which 
make it a shadow of the divine nature that he was 
culltd the Sou iif God. See Sim. ini s. 


I. System of Theology . — Socinianism represents Jesus 
as having been bom of the Virgin Mary by a super- 
natural interposition of the Holy Ghost, in consequence 
of which lie was a man free from original sin and its 
evil inclinations, but only a man. He was outwardly 
anointed prophet, priest, and king at bis baptism by a 
material descent of a divine force and efficacy upon 
him in the form of a dove; but his full commission 
was given to him during some one or more interviews 
which he had with God when rapt up into heaven, 
probably during the forty days in the wilderness. He 
was (shutting out any idea of deity) the anointed Son 
of (iod. and was established in the fulness of his do- 
minion l»v (iod, who raised him (not by any co-opera- 
tioii of bis own) from the dead, and delegated to him a 
supreme authority over men and angels. Hut in all 
this be is only a created being, and worship rendered 
to him should only be given to him as the representa- 
tive of tiod, not as bis own right. The Sociniau sys- 
tem discards altogether the idea of union between di- 
vine and human nature, alleging that the two are so 
infinitely removed from each other that union between 
them is an impossibility. Its later development does 
not recognise Christ as. in any sense, an object of wor- 
ship, denies the supernatural origin which was attrib- 
uted to him by the earlier form of the heresy, and 
looks upon him only as a very exalted saint and moral 
teacher. 

Socinianism, however, is not merely a system of ne- 
gations, but includes positive propositions. It not only 
denies the doctrine of the Trinity, but positively asserts 
that the Godhead is one in person as well as in essence. 
It not only denies the proper divinity of Jesus Christ, 
but positively asserts that he was a mere man — that 
is, a man, and nothing else or more than a man. It 
not only denies the vicarious atonement of Christ, but 
it asserts that men, bv their own repentance and good 
works, procure the forgiveness of their sins anil the 
enjoyment of God’s favor; and thus, while denying 
that, in any proper sense, Christ is their Saviour, it 
teaches that men save themselves — that is, in so far as 
they need salvation. It denies that the Spirit is a per- 
son who possesses the divine nature, and teaches that 
the Holy Ghost in Scripture describes or expresses 
merely a quality or attribute of God. 

In its theology Socinianism represents God as a be- 
ing whose moral character is composed exclusively of 
goodness and merev, desiring merely the happiness of 
his creatures; thus virtually excluding from his char- 
acter that immaculate holiness which leads him to hate 
sin, and that, indexible justice which constrains him to 
inflict upon the impenitent the punishment they de- 
serve. It also denies that God foresees the actions of 
his creatures, or knows anything about them until 
they come to pass; except in some special cases in 
which he has foreordained the event, and foresees it 
because he foreordained it. That they may not seem 
to derogate from God’s omniscience, they admit that 
God knows all things that are knowable; hut the}' 
contend that contingent events are unknowable, even 
by an infinite being. 

In its anthropology Socinianism denies, in substance, 
the fall of man, and all original depravity, and asserts 
• hat men are now, as to all moral qualities, tendencies, 
and capacities, in the same condition as when the race 
was created. Having no original righteousness, Adam, 
when he sinned, did not lose any quality of that sort, 
lie simply incurred the divine displeasure, but retained 
the same moral nature with which be was created. 
Created naturally mortal, be would have died whether 
lie had sinned or not. Men are now, in their moral 
nature ami tendencies, just as pure and liolv as Adam 
when created; without, however, any positive tendency 
towards God or towards sin. Diet) are now under more 
unfavorable circumstances than Adam was, because of 
the many examples of sin, which increase the proba- 
bilities of actually falling into sin. Some avoid sin 


SOCINIANISM 


845 


SOCINUS 


altogether, and obtain eternal blessedness as a reward ; 
others sin, but there is no difficulty in obtaining for- 
giveness from God, and thus escaping the consequences 
of transgression. 

In its Christology this system naturally denies the 
necessity of an atonement, ami declares that Christ had 
nothing to do in the world for the fulfilment of his 
mission but to communicate fuller and more certain 
information about the divine character and govern- 
ment, the path of duty and future blessedness, and to 
set before men an example of obedience to God’s law 
and will. The old Socinians rejected, therefore, the 
priestly office of Christ altogether, or conjoined and 
confounded it with the kingly one; while the modern 
Socinians abolish the kingly office and resolve all into 
the prophetical. His suffering of death, of course, did 
not belong to the execution of the priestly, but of the 
prophetical office; in other words, its sole object and 
design were confined within the general range of serv- 
ing to declare and confirm to men the will of God. 
Thus was revealed an immortality beyond death, of 
which no certainty had been given to men before 
Christ’s death. 

With respect to eschatology Socinianism denies the 
resurrection of the body, as a thing absurd and impossi- 
ble. It holds to what is called a resurrection, which 
is not a resurrection of the same body, but the forma- 
tion and the union to the soul of a different bod}'. It 
repudiates the doctrine of eternal punishment; but 
Socinians are divided between the two theories of the 
annihilation of the wicked (held by older Socinians) 
and the final restoration of all men (adopted by modern ! 
Socinians). 

As regards the Church and its sacraments, Socinian- 
ism teaches that the Church is not, in any proper sense, 
a divine institution, but is a mere voluntary association 
of men, drawn together by similarity of views and a 
desire to promote one another’s welfare. The object 
of the sacraments is to teach men, and to impress di- 
vine truth upon their minds; and they are in no way 
whatever connected with any act on God’s part in the 
communication of spiritual blessings. 

II. The Sect . — Ladius Soeinus (q. v.) is usually re- 
garded as the true founder of the Socinian system, 
though his nephew, Faustus, was its chief defender and 
promulgator. The origin of the sect is usually traced 
by their own writers to the year 1546, when colleges 
or conferences of about forty individuals were in the 
habit of meeting, chiefly at Vicenza, in the Venetian 
territory, with a view of introducing a purer faith by 
discarding a number of opinions held by Protestants as 
well as Papists — although this account is discredited by 
Mosheim and others. The first catechism and confes- 
sion of the Socinians was printed at Cracow, Poland, 
in 1574, at which time the sect received the name of 
Anabaptists. See Catechism, II, 8. George Schomann 
is believed to have been the author of this early So- 
ci uian creed. This catechism was, however, supplanted 
in the 17th century by the Racovian Catechism, com- 
posed by Schmalz, a learned German Socinian, who 
had settled in Poland. From Poland, Socinian doc- 
trines were carried, in 1563, into Transylvania, chiefly 
through the influence and exertions of George Blan- 
drata, a Polish physician. For upwards of a hundred 
years Poland was the stronghold of this sect; but in 
1658, by a decree of the diet of Warsaw, they were ex- 
pelled from the kingdom; and this severe edict being 
repeated in 1661, they were completely rooted out from 
the country. The father of Socinianism in England ' 
was John Biddle, who, towards the middle of the 17th j 
century, was the first who openly taught principles sub- 
versive of the received doctrine of the Trinity. The ; 
publication of Biddle’s Twofold Catechism caused great 
excitement both in England and on the Continent. 
Various answers to this Socinian pamphlet appeared; 
but the most able was that of the celebrated l)r. John 
Owen, in his Yindiciie Evangelical. The Biddeliaus 


were never numerous, and speedily disappeared. The 
modern Socinians, who took the name of Unitarians 
(q.v.),were not a conspicuous party iu England till the 
close of the 18th century, when Priestley and others pub- 
licly avowed and propagated antitrinitarian sentiments. 
A considerable difference, however, exists between the 
opinions of the ancient and those of the modern So- 
cinians. Both the Soeini, uncle and nephew, as well 
as their immediate followers, admitted the miraculous 
conception of Christ by the Virgin Mary, and that he 
ought to be worshipped, as having been advanced by 
God to the government of the whole created universe 
— doctrines usualh' rejected by the modern Socinians. 
These latter are now, at least in the United States, 
quite generally substituting, for Socinianism proper, the 
pantheistic infidelity of Germany, though under a sort 
of profession of Christianity. 

See Cunningham, Historical Theology , ii ; Gardner, 
Faiths of the H 'or Id, s. v. ; Cottle, Essays on Soeini an- 
ism; Best, Letters on Socinianism ; Fuller, Socinian and 
Calvinistic Systems (8vo) ; Groves, Lines to a Socinian 
Friend; Socinianism, Rise, Growth, and Danger of, in 
the Christian Disciple, iii, 429; also the list in Malcom, 
Theological Index, s. v. 

Socinians. See Socinianism. 

Soeinus, Faustus ( Fausto Sozzini ), the real 
founder of the Socinian sect, was the nephew of Lrelius 
Soeinus (q. v.), and was related, through his mother, 
with the famous race of the Piccolomini. He was born 
in Sienna, Italy, in 1539, and was orphaned at a tender 
age. His early training was neglected, and his education 
irremediably defective. Theological questions engaged 
his mind while he was yet employed in the study of ju- 
risprudence on which he had entered, and his conclu- 
sions were largely determined by the anti-Roman train- 
ing he received, his uncle Radius acting as his principal 
instructor. In 1562 the papers of Ladius, then recently 
deceased, came into the possession of Faustus, and their 
study confirmed the opinions held by him, so that they 
became convictions. He was wont to declare that, aside 
from the Bible, his only instructor had been liis uncle 
Lad i us. 

I. Life and Labors. — The literary life of Soeinus be- 
gan in 1562 with the publication of a work entitled 
Explicatio Primes Partis Primi Capitis Erang. Joannis 
— in effect a declaration of antitrinitarian principles; 
but twelve years of courtier life iu Florence interrupted 
his activity in this direction. A single minor work, 
De S. Script. Autoritate, belongs to this period. He 
subsequently devoted four years (1574 to 1578) to the 
perfecting of his system and the propagating of his 
views, his residence being at Basle; and at this time he* 
wrote two of his most important works, the De Jesu 
Christo Serratore and the De Statu Primi llominis ante 
Lapsum. From Basle he went to Transylvania, and 
thence, in 1579, to avoid the plague, to Poland, where 
he spent the remainder of his life. 

Soeinus now undertook the work of unifying and or- 
ganizing the scattered Unitarian elements which exit- 
ed, especially among the upper classes of Polish society; 
but his success was not at first encouraging. Anabap- 
tist views prevailed to a degree which prevented his 
own admission into the Unitarian society at Cracow 
during four years, because he declined rebaptism as a 
needless ceremony. He came, however, to he in time 
regarded as the recognised and principal champion of 
the sect. His discussions and writings secured to it 
prominence and reputation, and gradually produced a 
measure of agreement in the views of its adherents. In 
1C03 the Synod of Rakov, or Raeovia, settled the special- 
ly controverted question of rebaptism by approving the 
teachings of Soeinus. 

But few events belong to Socinus’s private life which 
claim notice in this place. He left Cracow in 1583 to 
avoid persecution by the king, Stephen Bathori.and set- 
tled in the adjoining village of Pawlikowice, where he 


SOCIXUS 

married a lady of noble rank, the daughter of Christoph 
Mor>/tvn. At the same time he beeainc impoverished 
through the loss of his Italian properties, lie soon re- 
turned to Craeow. In 15*8 he secured the favor of the 
Litliiinuian Unitarians whose synod he visited at Brzese. 
The other features of his history arc simply illustrative 
of the higotrv of liis age. lie was exposed to frequent 
persecution, now at the hands of a military nioh (1504), 
then through the fanaticism of the students of Cracow, 
who were incited to their action by Homish priests 
(l.V.is). They dragged him from a sick-bed to the 
streets, heat hint, sacked his house, and burned It is books 
ami writings. To avoid his foes lie again left Cracow, 
and lived in a neighboring village, Luclawice, until he 
died, in HUM. Mis works were collected and published 
in the Pibliotheca Fratrum Polononim , vol. i and ii. 
They also bear the title Fansti Sinensis Opera Omnia 
in Onos Tom os Oistincta. They include expositions of 
Scripture; polemics against Humanists, Protestants, and 
Unitarians; and dogmatical writings. The more im- 
portant are the Pmelectiones Tfteohgiae and the Chris- 
tiame Jteliyionis /irerissima Institutio per I n( error;, et 
JOspons., etc., to which may be added a Fragmentuni 
Caftchismi F rioris F. L . S. fjui peri it in Cracovieusi 
Hr rum rjus Oireptione. 

Immediately after Socinus’s death tlic RacovianCate- 
chism , which had been prepared by him, but which was 
completed l>y Schnialz, Moskorzowski, and Vblkel, was 
published in the Polish language (1005). A German 
edition appeared in 1008, and one in Latin, with notes 
and additions, in 1000. Oedor brought out a new edition 
in 1700, which was based on that of 1009, ami which 
affords a good compendium of Socinian theology. It is 
accompanied with a refutation hv the editor. 

II. Fnlloirers . — Xumormiseongrcgationsof Unitarians, 
whose members were chiefly of noble rank, had been 
formed in Poland by the time Soeinus died, that at Ba- 
kov being the largest. They supported many schools, to 
which the most capable teachers were appointed, and in 
which the most prominent theologians delivered occa- 
sional lectures. A press connected with the establish- 
ment at Bakov promoted the dissemination of the prin- 
cipal writings of Socinian authors. A general synod, 
winch met annually at liakov.and subordinate particular 
synods, furnished an effective organization which con- 
tributed greatly to the progress of the Socinian cause. 
But the most influential factor at work in securing this 
result is to be found in the large number of distin- 
guished pastor*, theologians, and scholars which the 
community produced. The names of Valentin Schmalz, 
Jerome Moseorovius (Moskorzowski), Johann Crell 
(q. v.), ami others, are recognised as those of men who 
in their time exercised a most powerful influence over 
the history of the Polish Church mid State, 'flic prog- 
ress of Soei uian i mii was, however, stopped, and its very 
oxi-loncc assailed, by the Burnish reaction under Sigis- 
mtmd II of Poland and his son, Vladislav IV. An insult 
otf.-red to the crucifix by some pupils of the Bakov 
school furnished the occasion for a complaint of sacri- 
Icg**, which involved the whole community of Unita- 
rians. In violation of law, and in disregard of the facts 
of the ease, they were condemned. The school at Ha- 
coviu was destroyed, the church transferred Irmn the 

l K, " ,,s 'i it-* Ariau owners, ami the clergy and 

teachers declared infamous and oulawed. Other schools 
ami churches were nlterwards involved in similar ruin. 
'Ihe decisive blows of Jesuit ism against the Unitarian 
sect were not inflicted, however, until after the acces- 
sion of John (a imir a Jesuit and cardinal— in I01.S. 
i he < otsnck wars which raged in Southern Poland 
ruined many congregations; and when the Swedes in- 
va<l« I the country many Socinian*, as well as others, 
joim d t h- 1 r party. This was made the occasion for 
tmti. g them as traitors to the country. The Diet of 
V arww in decreed l heir banishment, to take effect 
withm lliree years, and this term was afterwards .short- 
ened to two years, 'flic protests of Socinian delegates, 


SOCIXUS 

1 and likewise those of Electoral Brandenburg and Swe- 
den, were disregarded, and the edict was rigorously ex- 
ecuted. 

In Germany, Socinianism had established itself in the 
University of Altorf through the influence of Prof. Ernst 
Sutler (died 101*2); but when its existence was discov- 
ered the authorities of Nuremberg effected its over- 
throw. Polish exiles settled in Silesia, and held synods 
in 1001 and 1003; but their efforts to gain proselytes 
led to unfavorable action on the part of the State, and 
to their eventual removal in 1000. Certain depart- 
ments of Brandenburg contained numerous Socinian 
congregations and communities during the last decades 
of the 10th century. Everywhere, however, they were 
merely tolerated. Often they were persecuted. The 
repeated efforts to extirpate them were so far successful 
that in 1838 only two Socinians were found in Prussia, 
both of them old men. 

In the Netherlands, antifrinitarianism was at first 
connected with the Anabaptist movement. An Anti- 
trinitarian, Herman van Vleckwyck, was burned at 
the stake at Bruges in 1509. Amsterdam and Leyden 
each contained a band of Socinians at the close of the 
10th century, whose expulsion was attempted by the 
States-General, though not with entire success. The 
sect continued to grow, even in the face of the active 
efforts of the orthodox synods to bring about its extir- 
pation. The influx of Polish coreligionists, who were 
banished from their native country, greatly strength- 
ened its numbers. Constant repression of its worship 
and interference with its tenets eventually produced the 
intended effect, however; the Socinian party gradually 
melted away, and its members were absorbed by the 
Bemonstrants, the more liberal Anabaptists, and tlie 
Collegiants. 

Antitrinitarian ideas found reception in England as 
early as the reign of Henry VIII, and furnished numer- 
ous martyrs. So late as the time of James 1 three Anti- 
trinitarians were burned at the stake. The Polish So- 
cinians forwarded a copy of their Catechism to the lat- 
ter monarch, which was not favorably received, but 
proved the tirst of an uninterrupted series of Socinian 
writings which circulated from that time. John Biddle 
(q. v.) became the prominent advocate of a modified 
Socinianism, and the rise of deism secured to it a wide- 
spread existence, even though it was excluded from the 
Vets of Toleration, and was under the ban of stringent 
laws; and it became a tendency among the clergy of 
the Established Church. Lindsey and Priestley event- 
ually brought about a breacli with the Church. The 
old repressive laws were finally repealed in 1813. For 
the present status of Unitarian ism in England, recourse 
must be bad to the census-tables of 1851, the census of 
1801 not giving information respecting the creed of the 
inhabitants. In 1851 Groat Britain contained 239 Uni- 
tarian churches, which afforded 08,554 sittings, and at- 
tracted 37,150 attendants — nearly all of them being in 
England. 

Unitarianism was planted in North America in the 
middle of the 18th century, and obtained its lirst Amer- 
ican church in November, 1787, when James Freeman 
(q. v.) was ordained pastor over the King’s Chapel con- 
gregation in Boston. The movement spread in secret., 
care being taken by its supporters to avoid alarming 
the orthodox part of the population; so that when the 
state of affairs was dually understood, nearly every 
Congregational Church in Boston had become Unita- 
rian, and many churches in other parts of New England 
had adopted Unitarian views. A controversy growing 
out of tiie publication in 1815 of a pamphlet entitled 
I me r icon Cnitarianistn led to the withdrawal of Uni- 
tarians from the orthodox, and their separate organiza- 
tion. Chanuing (q. v.) became the foremost represent- 
ative of the new sect. The American Unitarian As- 
sociation, founded in 18*25, became its centre, and the 
Christian F.raminer its leading periodical. It has now 
less than 300 churches, about 350 ministers, a member- 


846 


SOCINUS 


847 


SOCRATES 


ship estimated at about 30,000, two theological schools, 
and a number of benevolent and other societies. The 
Socinian view has many supporters, besides, in the 
Christian churches (q. v.) aud among the Universalists. 

See Fock, Der Sociniunismus nach seiner Stellung in 
d. Gesammtentwicklung des christf. Geistes, n. seinem hist. 
Verlavf n.n.seinem Lehrbegriff (Kiel, 1847); Hurst, Hint, 
of Rationalism, ch. xxiii; Gieseler, Ch. Hist, iv, 358- 
365; Baunigarten-Crusius, Compend. i, 334; Bibliotheca 
Fratrum Polonoj'um, etc. (Amst. 1626, 6 vols. fob); 
Lindsey, Historical View of Uni tarian ism from the Ref- 
ormation (Lond. 1783); Belsham, Memoir of Lindsey 
(1812); Keez, Racovian Catechism , with historical in- 
troduction (Lond. 1818, etc.). — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. 
s. v. See Social ax ism. 

Socinus, Laelius (Lelio Sozzini), a noted Italian 
heresiarch, uncle of the preceding, was born in Sienna in 
1525, being the son of Mariano Sozzini, Jun., a lawyer, 
of a family that made considerable pretensions to learn- 
ing. Lelio gave himself to the study of theology, then 
quickened by the discussions of Luther, and for this 
purpose read the Bible in the original tongues. This 
made him suspected by the Church authorities, and he 
left Italy about 1544, and wandered for four years over 
France, England, the Netherlands, and Germany in 
search of knowledge. He at last settled at Zurich, 
where his erudition and personal qualities at first gained 
him consideration, and there entered upon a series of 
investigations and a course of correspondence which re- 
sulted in undermining his belief in the divinity of Jesus 
Christ. These convictions rendering him unpopular at 
Zurich, he retired, after the death of his father, in 1558 
or 1559, to Poland, where Sigismund II received him 
favorably, and gave him letters that enabled him to re- 
turn with prestige to Zurich ; and he spent the remain- 
der of his days there in peace, dying May 16, 1562. He 
left the following works : Uialogus inter Calvimtm et 
Vaticanum (s. 1. 1612, 8vo), in which he opposes the 
punishment of heretics: — l)e Sacrumentis and Be Re- 
sarrectione Corporum, both inserted in Fausti et Lcelii 
Socini Tractatns ( Eleutheropolis [Holland], 1654). 
Sand ( Biblioth . Antitrin. p. 18-25) speaks of some other 
doubtful writing attributed to Laelius Socinus. — Iloefer, 
Nouv. Biog. Generale , s. v. 

Socket (I'lX, e'den), the base, e. g. of the planks 
of the tabernacle (Exod. xxvi, 19, etc.), the pedestal of 
a pillar (xxxviii, 10 sq. ; Cant.v, 15); the “foundation” 
of a building (Job xxxviii, 6). See Column. 

So'coh (Heb. Sokoh VsT, Josh. xv, 35, 48 [marg. 
Soho', iwi’23, which occurs in the text at 1 Cliron. iv, 18, 
“ Socho 2 Chron. xi, 7, “ Shoco ;”xxviii, IS, “ Shocho 
“Shocboh,” 1 Sam. xvii, 1 twice], or nbb, 1 Kings iv, 
10, “ Socholi another form for Socho [q. v.]), the name 
of two towns, both in the tribe of Judah (q. v.). 

1. (Sept. v. r. Swyw ; Yulg. Soccho .) A 

place in the district of the lowland or Shephelah (Josh, 
xv, 35). It is a member of the same group with Jar- 
muth, Azekah, Shaaraim, etc., which were located in 
the N. W. corner (see Keil, Comment, ad loc.). The 
same relative situation is implied in the other passages 
in which the place (under slight variations of form) is 
mentioned. At Ephes- dammini, between Socoh and 
Azekah (1 Sam. xvii, 1). the Philistines took up their 
position for the memorable engagement in which their 
champion was slain, and the wounded fell down in the 
road to Shaaraim (ver. 54). Socho, Adullam, Azekah, 
were among the cities in Judah which Kehoboam forti- 
lied after the revolt of the northern tribes (2 Chron. xi, 
7), and it is mentioned with others of the original list 
as being taken by the Philistines in the reign of Ahaz 
(xxviii, 18). In the time of Eusebius and Jerome ( Ono - 
must. “Soccho”) it bore the name of Soechoth (fojjx wS), 
and lay between eight and nine Roman miles from 
Eleutheropolis, on the road to Jerusalem. Paula passed 


through it on her way from Bethlehem (?) to Egypt 
(Jerome, Ep. Panic, § 14). As is not (infrequently the 
case in this locality, there were then two villages, an 
upper and a lower ( Onomust .). Dr. Robinson’s identifi- 
cation of Socoh with esk-Shtnceikeh (a diminutive of 
Shaukeh ) in the western part of the mountains of Judah 
is very probable (Bibl. Res. ii, 21 ). It lies about one mile 
to the north of the track from Beit Jibrin to Jerusalem, 
between seven and eight English miles from the former. 
To the north of it, within a couple of miles, is Yarmuk, 
the ancient Jarmuth. Damun, perhaps Ephes-dammim, 
is about the same distance to the east, and Azekah and 
Shaaraim, no doubt, were in this neighborhood. To 
complete the catalogue, the ruins which must be those 
of the upper one of Eusebius’s two villages stand on 
the southern slope of the Wady es-Sumt, which with 
great probability is the Valiev of Elah, the scene of Go- 
liath’s death (see Tobler, Britte Wandernng, p. 122). The 
ruins are extensive, with many caverns, “ nearly half a 
mile above the bed of the wady, a kind of natural ter- 
race covered with green fields (in spring), and dotted 
with gray ruins” (Porter, Hatidb. p. 249). 

From this village probably came “ Antigomis of Soco.” 
who lived about the commencement of the 3d century 
B.C. He was remarkable for being the earliest Jew who 
is known to have had a Greek name; for being the dis- 
ciple of the great Simon, surnaraed “the Just,” whom 
he succeeded as president of the Sanhedrim; for being 
the master of Sadok, the reputed founder of the Saddu- 
cees; but most truly remarkable as the author of the 
following saying which is given in the Mishna ( Pirke 
A both, i, 3) as the substance of his teaching, “ Be not ye 
like servants who serve their lord that they may receive 
a reward. But be ye like servants who serve their lord 
without hope of receiving a reward, but in the fear of 
heaven.” Socoh appears to be mentioned under the 
name of Sochus in the acts of the Council of Nice, though 
its distance from Jerusalem as there given is not suffi- 
cient. for the identification proposed above (Reland, Pa- 
Icest. p. 1019). 

2 . (Sept. Etuyd v. r. Etayw; Vulg. Soccho.') Also a 
town of Judah, but in the mountain district (Josh, xv, 
48). It is one of the first group, and is named in com- 
pany with Anab, Jattir, Eshtemoh, and others. It has 
been discovered by Dr. Robinson (Bibl. Res. i, 494) in the 
Wady el-Ivhalil, about ten miles S.W. of Hebron ; bear- 
ing, like the other Socoh, the name of esh-Shmveikeh , 
and, with Anab, Semoa, ’Attir, within easy distance of 
it. — Smith. 

Socordia, in Roman mythology, was the daughter 
of ^Ether and the Earth ; a personification of dulness. 

Socrates, the most notable and the best known of 
all the Greek philosophers, to whom the designation 
of “ the Father of Philosophy” Qmretts philosophic ) 
has been deservedly given. His prominence during 
life, his influence after death, and his notoriety through 
his death affected the character and development of 
speculation more than they have ever been affected by 
any other philosopher. It is the impress of his own 
heart and mind upon the growing thought of the world 
— the impulse and direction which he gave to intel- 
lectual inquiry and to moral action — much more than 
any special doctrine, which have insured to his name 
the distinction and affectionate reverence that have at- 
tended it through all the ensuing centuries. Even if 
no regard should be paid to the peculiarities of his phil- 
osophical doctrine, the career and the character of Soc- 
rates would merit the highest admiration in any age. 
The}" were singularly remarkable in a pagan age, and 
amid all the corruptions, the sophistries, and the brill- 
iant license of Athens during the Peloponnesian war. 
He was a heathen, with many of the virtues and more 
of the aims of Christianity. In a period of unrestrain- 
ed ochlocracy, of eager ambition, of greed, of self-seek- 
ing, and of rapacity, he, though conscious of the highest 
intellectual vigor, and associating with the ablest public 


848 


SOCRATES 


SOCRATES 


men. was content with the humble station in which he 
was born, ami never sought ollice or command. Sur- 
rounded with opportunities for acquiring wealth and 
luxurious indulgences, he was heedless of poverty, hun- 
ger, exposure, ami all hardships. 11c was at all times 
I *at riot ie, and observant of law in matters religious, po- 
litical. mid social, lie was without superstitions other 
than those inseparable from his time and country, lie j 
was faithful and fearless in the discharge of every pub- 
lic and private duty, lie gave his thought, his heart, 
his energies, to the improvement of his fellow-citizens, I 
and spent his life as a missionary of moral and intel- 
lectual reformation. His temperament, at least in his 
later years, was withal so serene; his disposition so 
amiable, earnest, and unaffected; his manner so sincere 
and winning; his intercourse so kindly and sportive; 
his resolution so steadfast ; his heart at all times so 
simple and devoid of selfishness or guile, that lie might 
well appear to Alcihiades and the contemporaries of Al- 
cibiades such a man as was not elsewhere to he en- 
countered. “ We shall not look upon his like again.” 
lie will remain, as he lias remained, a unique exemplar 
in the history of humanity. In accounting for the un- 
equalled fascination which Socrates since death, as in 
life, has exercised upon all intellectual and cultivated 
men, to the merits and charms ami singularities of his 
career must he added the quiet and unostentatious 
grandeur of his death, when he freely surrendered life 
under an undeserved sentence, in order to maintain the 
laws of his country, though misapplied, and to seal his 
doctrine and his practice with t he most solemn of all 
signatures. As a missionary, and as a zealous, self-ab- 
negating and untiring moralist, Socrates suggests a 
comparison with the apostles and martyrs of Christian- 
ity, and with the founders of monastic communities in 
the dissolute and stormy Middle Age. As a preacher 
and teacher of moral regeneration, he provokes, though 
with reverential assertion of the vast interval, a more 
daring comparison, which has impressed devout Chris- 
tians no less than unbelievers and misbelievers like 
Housseau and Haur. It adds new dignity and a loftier 
interest to the life and death of Socrates to contemplate 
his career as an essential part of the providential and 
patient preparation of the civilized world for the ac- 
ceptance of Christianity. 

I. Life . — It is peculiarly needful, in the case of Soc- 
rates, to pay careful attention to the course and circum- 
stances of his life, because his remarkable personality is 
so strongly and so strikingly impressed upon his doc- 
trine and upon the whole tenor of his procedure. The 
Njcratic philosophy, in its active development and in 
its theoretic import, is distinctly the product of the 
idiosync rasies of Socrates, and of the requirements and 
tendencies of the memorable age in which lie lived, and 
which he rendered more illustrious by his life. This 
lias been fully recognised hv Hitter, by Zeller, hv Grote, 
and by other historians of philosophy and historians of 
Athens. It may he thought that they have overlooked 
some considerations not less weighty and significant 
than any that they have adduced. Hut they have not 
failed to note the intimate correspondence between the 
man and his doctrine, between his teachings and his 
limes. His life? is his philosophy, his philosophy the 
reflection of his life. Yet it is difficult to present a true 
|H»rtrnil of the great teacher, or n just biography of 
him. The materials arc- abundant, are, indeed, redun- 
dant ; but they are all presented “in such questionable 
guise” as to he of doubtful credibility. Socrates reap- 
ers in nearly all later writers, t ireek or Homan, whose 
subjects allowed any reference to him, or who sought, 
“to |x»int a moral or adorn a tale.” Incident mid anec- 
doto, t ,. x( nM) i ,. 01 n, n eut, are multiplied indefinitely; 
but no confidence can be accorded to the traditions re- 
port. d * r repeated by t'ieero, Seneca, or Quintilian, by 
I luiar. li or Hiogcncs Laertius, or by other authorities 
having still l. ss claim on our belief. Hevcrent conject- 
ure imt' ted, credulous admiration accepted, eager tra- 


dition expanded, and curious repetition distorted or 
transmuted detail after detail, till the genuine Socrates 
of the 5th ante-Christian century became an accumula- 
tion of myths. This process of transfiguration com- 
menced, in no respectful way, in the lifetime of the 
sage. Aristophanes, in his Cloud s, and Ameipsias, in 
his Coming , exposed to immortal laughter his appear- 
ance, his rags, his manners, and his speculation. Yet 
the caricature of t he comedians may be welcomed as a 
likeness with almost as much security as the delinea- 
tions of his disciples. It is fortunate that we possess 
the Memorabilia and the Symposium of Xenophon and 
the Dialogues of Plato. Hut both these biographers 
were manifest writers of fiction, and all their produc- 
tions were dyed in the brighter or more subdued colors 
of fancy. The author of the Memorabilia composed 
the Cyropcedia , the Agesilans, and the Micro. The au- 
thor of the exquisite Apologia w as also the dreamer of 
the Republic and the Laws. All the writings of both 
these glories of Attic literature may be included under 
Pindar’s category : d&daidaXpsv oi xptvdeoi 7toiki\oic . . . 
pb$oi. Aristippus wrote to Plato repudiating bis rep- 
resentations of their common teacher (Aristotle, Rhet. 
ii, 23), and Democliarcs denied Plato’s statements re- 
garding the exploits of Socrates at Delium and Am- 
phipolis. The contrasts and discrepancies between Xen- 
ophon and Plato have been long and prominently noted. 
They have been explained by diversity of aim, differ- 
ence of intellectual susceptibilities, and disparity of tal- 
ents. It has been held by Zeller, by Grote, by Mason, 
in an able article in Smith’s Dictionary of Biography, 
that the apparent contradictions may be reconciled. It 
is alleged that Xenophon regarded only the practical 
side of the Socratic instructions, and sought to convince 
the Athenians of the innocence of the master; while 
Plato w r as ahvays contemplating the speculative import 
of the Socratic doctrine, and sublimating teaching and 
teacher in accordance with his own philosophical fan- 
tasy. This may be freely admitted, but it does not 
leave a sufficient or a safe basis for accurate biography : 
“The trail of the serpent is over it all.” Even those 
who espouse this scheme of conciliation are compelled 
to exclude from the Memoires pour servir the greater 
and the more characteristic part of the Platonic Dia- 
logues, in which Socrates is evidently a mere lay fig- 
ure, or, rather, a tailor’s mannikin for the exhibition of 
the Platonic robes and other finery. Agreement may 
be imagined between the representations of Xenophon 
and Plato by considering them as dill'ercnt views of the 
same personage. Such agreement, however, is not in- 
consistent with a lavish employment of decoration by 
each; since all forms of flattery and of caricature re- 
quire some observance of characteristic features. Yet 
it may reasonably be concluded that the Socrates of 
Xenophon as well as of Plato is posing or attitudiniz- 
ing, though there be great difference in the grace and 
fascination of the two figures. Still Xenophon and 
Plato are our best, and almost our only real, authorities 
for the life and opinions of Socrates. They must be 
accepted as nearly our sole genuine sources of informa- 
tion. Due caution must be shown in their employ- 
ment ; and it must be remembered that something of 
coherence and consistency, the softening of some asper- 
ities, and the exaggeration of some angularities, which 
were originally due to the fictitious ingredient, will re- 
main after all our care. There may he little real ground 
for regret in the want of perfect assurance of the literal 
truth of the portraiture. There is a hazy concept ion, 
and nil exaggeration through the haze, of all the im- 
ages of the past. There will be a general truth of pres- 
entation, resulting from the affectionate anil admiring 
pictures of dissimilar followers, which will be more im- 
pressive and inspiriting than anj’’ mechanical though 
faithful daub could be. At any rate, Xenophon and 
Plato furnish fortli the Socrates w ho kindled, guided, 
charmed, the later world. Those who are satisfied of 
the substantial agreement of the two contemporary hi- 


SOCRATES 


840 


SOCRATES 


ographers introduce Aristotle to check or to confirm 
their statements. The indications of Aristotle are em- 
inently valuable. They are rarely biographical. They 
do not diminish the regret that all the works of the 
censors and even calumniators of Socrates, except the 
Clouds , and all the sources whence Atheiueus drew his 
discrediting reports, have been utterly lost, hut lost 
without having influenced the general judgment of 
men. 

Socrates was born at Athens in B.C. 4f>8 or 469; be- 
fore 469 says Uebenveg, with great plausibility. Ilis 
birthday was in later times commemorated as a sacred 
day on the 6th of Thargelion, which would fall in May. 
Ilis father, Sophroniscus, was a sculptor or statuary, in 
humble circumstances; not a common stone-mason, if 
his distinguished sou, who learned and practiced the fa- 
ther’s art, produced the Graces in front of the Acropo- 
lis, which were seen and noted by Pausanias (i, 22, 
8; ix, 35, 1). His mother was Phtenarete, a mid- 
wife, whose occupation he often employed to illustrate 
his own intellectual procedure, which may have been 
confirmed or suggested by it. The father’s condition 
did not allow the son any special advantages of educa- 
tion. The statement that Socrates was the pupil of 
Anaxagoras and Prodicus can have no other meaning 
than that he may have read the works of the former, 
and may have conversed with both. They, as well as 
Gorgias and Parmenides, were at Athens during his 
early or mature manhood. The ordinary education 
of an Athenian, with the varied aids and stimulations 
which rendered the average Athenian more than equal 
to an average member of the British Parliament, were 
open to him, and were doubtless turned to the best 
account. He would learn music and gymnastics, and 
these were, probably, his only school acquirements; 
but music and gymnastics embraced the elements of all 
intellectual and physical training. He has expressed, 
through Plato, his obligations for his public education 
( Crito , xii). The free intercourse of a democracy, and 
of such a democracy as that of Athens in the age of 
Pericles, with its boast of freedom of speech and of as- 
sociation, would afford Socrates, who ever sought inti- 
macy with noted persons, every chance of instruction 
and information that could be desired. The education 
of living communion far transcends all that can be 
learned from books. Socrates himself professes to have 
been self-educated in philosophy (Xenophon, Symp. i, 
5), and the profession is just, for he had none to point 
the way which he pursued, lie might also have claim- 
ed self-education in other respects, but it was an educa- 
tion resulting from habitual intercourse with the most 
intelligent and the best informed of all classes and of 
both sexes — with the associates of Pericles and Phidias, 
with Aspasia and Diotima, as well as with poets, art- 
ists, sophists, and artisans. Ilis indefatigable perti- 
nacity and curiosity would enable him readily to ac- 
quire the extensive knowledge ascribed to him by Xen- 
ophon. 

There are no authentic details of the first half of the 
life of Socrates. To Plato and to Xenophon he was al- 
ways an old man. Is there not room here for suspect- 
ing that the tenets and inquiries and practices which 
were ridiculed by Aristophanes and Ameipsias, before 
an audience familiar with the object of caricature, may 
have been the pursuits and investigations of Socrates 
iu.his earlier years, while groping his way towards his 
ultimate vocation? This suspicion merits examina- 
tion. It may, however, be fairly inferred from the tenor 
of Xenophon’s and of Plato’s remarks that Socrates pur- 
sued the simple path of his obscure life, in the perform- 
ance of every public and private duty, without failure 
and without blame. He discharged the civil functions 
devolving on every Athenian faithfully, but without 
thought of advancement. lie rendered the regular 
military service without seeking or holding command. 
Me distinguished himself, or is said to have done so, at 
Potidaea, Delium, and Amphipolis by his courage, pa- 
IX.— II h u 


tience, and endurance. The story of the rescue of Al- 
cibiades by Socrates at Potidaea is incredible, for the 
former was barely fifteen years of age at the time. The 
compensating story that Alcibiades afterwards rescued 
Socrates has the air of fiction about it. These military 
expeditions were the only occasions of absence from 
Athens, except one visit to the Isthmus, to which Aris- 
totle adds a visit to Delphi (Fray. 3). Socrates loved 
Athens, loved its scenes, its bustle, and its people. He 
married and had children, but he was happy neither in 
his wife nor his children. Xanthippe had the reputa- 
tion of a shrew throughout all antiquity; and the sons 
of Cimon, Pericles, and Socrates are commemorated to- 
gether as worthless (Aristotle, Rhet.W, 15). It may easily 
be credited that Socrates neglected wife and family 
while interminably discussing and debating through- 
out the livelong day. It is a question whether lie had 
one or two wives — the much-known Xanthippe, the 
mother of his daughter, and Myrto, the daughter or 
descendant of Aristides the Just. This bigamy, or mat- 
rimonial duplicity, is repudiated by Arhenaeiis (xiii, 2), 
by Grote, Zeller, and nearly all the moderns. Athenseus 
says that the allegation rests upon the authority of Cal- 
listhenes, Demetrius Phalereus, Satvrns, and Aristoxe- 
nus. This is early testimony, and in the main reputa- 
ble. It rests also on the higher evidence of Aristotle 
{Frag. 84), as reported by Diogenes Laertius, but the 
reporter may be suspected. 

We may believe that Socrates displayed the highest 
civic virtue and the highest moral courage on the only 
two occasions when he is stated to have been clothed 
with an official character, lie was at all times averse 
to political employment, and avoided it as unsuited to 
his temperament and habitudes; but be renounced no 
duty. As presiding member of the Pry t any, he refused 
to put to the vote the iniquitous decree against the 
generals inculpated at Arginusa?; and, under the Thirty 
Tyrants, he opposed the execution of the infamous order 
for the arrest of Leon the Salaminian. In one case lie 
braved the furious mob, in the other the despotic oli- 
garchs. The vocation of Socrates lay not in art, nor in 
litigation, nor in war, nor in politics. His mission was 
that of a reformer of morals and of speculation, and was 
created by and for himself. At what time be entered 
upon this career it is impossible to ascertain. It prob- 
ably grew upon him gradually, and strengthened and 
shaped itself as it grew, until at length it became rec- 
ognised as a definite and irrecusable duty. There is so 
much in both method and doctrine that springs from 
the peculiarities of the man, so much in the fashion of 
his apostolate that reflects and elucidates any possible 
interpretation of his character, that his marvellous ca- 
reer must be deemed primarily spontaneous and uncon- 
scious. The deliberate and systematic prosecution of 
bis high vocation must have begun soon after the death 
of Pericles, though it probably did not assume its char- 
acteristic form till a later time. He must have attained 
public notoriety in those years, for Aristophanes and 
Ameipsias offered him to the merciless ridicule of the 
Athenian people in the spring after the battle of Deli- 
um. The new teacher presented as curious a spectacle 
as the fancy of a caricaturist could devise, lie was 
earnest, enthusiastic, untiring, pertinacious; pressing 
forward, “in season and out of season,” with “line upon 
line and precept upon precept;” tackling everybody, 
high and low, at work or at recreation, in street and 
temple, theatre and banquet- hall, court, dock -yard, 
and grove; in school, workshop, conference, and as- 
sembly. He claimed to be impelled to catechise, and 
to expose ignorance, under the solemnity of a divine 
call. But the missionary was grotesque in all respects, 
repulsive in many, lie was garrulous beyond meas- 
ure, an interminable disputant ; boring everybody with 
an unceasing and pitiless storm of questions, and an- 
swering others only with a fresh shower of questions. 
This concorporatcd note of interrogation was ugly be- 
yond known examples of human ugliness, with short, 


850 


SOCRATES 


SOCRATES 


squat figure, fat. round belly, goggle eyes, thick lips, lug 
mouth, pug-nose, transcending in its pug-nnsi-tg all ob- 
served puggishness. Even friends and admirers called 
him a satyr, ami compared him to the comic masks of 
Sileinis. Kabelais wittily assimilated him to a patent- 
phv>ie-lH>ttle. lie was habitually unwashed and un- 
shod. and clothed with an old, worn, greasy chlamys. 
II is maimers tended to increase repugnance. 11 is speech 
was rude and inelegant, his voice grating, his immedi- 
ate topics ami examples humble, if not positively vul- 
gar; his hearing was obtrusive, without bring presump- 
tuous; his address plain and unpolished, though not 
discourteous. I lis manners were termed coarse and 
clow nidi by Aristoxenus. Politicians, legists, orators, 
philosophers, sophists, magistrates, generals, and citi- 
zens were decried by him as fools ami knaves, and coin- 
j>clled to gaze in the mirror hold before them, that they 
might recognise their own folly, fraud, and ignorance. 
This drastic medicine was forced upon those who en- 
joyed the discomfiture of others, but not their own, by 
tin* quaint j*ersonagc who could stand, and keep others 
standing, from morning to night, and who talked without 
intermission, though able sometimes to listen with the 
utmost patience. Nevertheless, this portentous mouth- 
piece of the gods had strange powers of enchantment, 
and lulled those on whom lie fastened like a vampire, 
fanning them while sucking their blood, or held them, 
like the skinny finger of the Ancient Mariner, so that 
*• they could not choose but hear.” The lustre ol an- 
other world broke forth in his speech, like t lie moon 
emerging from a shapeless bank of clouds, and re- 
vealed a tenderness of sentiment, a purity of feeling, a 
depth of thought, a fertility of illustration, an over- 
tlowing humor, a playful and penetrating wit, a wealth 
of knowledge, an ingenuity of argument, and a concen- 
t rat ion of noble aims. His magic wrought like the Vice 
of the poet; 

“A monster of so frightful mien 
A«, to he hated, needs but to be seen ; 

Yet seen too oft, familiar with her face, 

"We first endure, then pity, then embrace.” 

It could scarcely increase the favor of Socrates with 
the multitude, who knew him only by sight, to sec him 
attended by Critias, Aleibiades, Charmides, Xenophon, 
Aristippus, etc., and to hear that this zealot of a new 
doctrine, who condemned present conduct and current 
opinion, professed to keep a little divinity of his own, 
and was declared hv the Delphic oracle to be the wisest 
of men. The humility of his interpretation of the oracle 
might he unknown, or might seem a mock-humility, cor- 
respondent to his familiar and habitual irony. The only 
ground of the oracular utterance, he said, was that he 
knew that he knew nothing, while others mistook their 
own ignorance for knowledge. There is more wit than 
reason in the remark of Athemeus (v, (ill), “ If knowing 
nothing is wisdom, knowing all things must be folly.” 
lie proceeds to say that Socrates was worthy of belief 
when he professed himself •* not to he wise;” and that it 
was as needless to consult the god on this point as to ask 
“whether any one was more pug-nosed than Socrates.” 

Such, then, was the reformer who undertook to con- 
vert the Athenians from the error of their ways. lie 
was more frugal than a Neapolitan la/./.aronc or a Greek 
mendicant ( inrcnlns esurims. lie was abstemious, 
given neither to wine nor to pleasure, lie was able and 
willing to drink more than any of his minpotutors; yet 
“no man ever saw Socrates drunk” (Plato, Symp. p. 2*20). 
lie was ascetic, inviting hardships and careless of pain, 
like the (\enohites of the desert or the founders of 
mediieval fraternities. He declined tin* invitations of 
princes and potentates because ho could not return their 
favors. He refused to take money for his instructions, 
denounced the Sophists for their mercenary practice, 
and sent hack to Aristippus the gains which he desired 
to share with him. lie condemned existing usages, 
procedures, and theories; derided the political institu- 
tions of Athens; invited all to abandon their delusive 


and pernicious doctrines and reasonings; attached him- 
self specially to the young for the conversion of the 
rising generation; yet was himself observant of estab- 
lished customs and prescription in religion, in law, in 
political and social conduct. 

A character like this could hardly receive due appre- 
ciation in the lively and captious community in which 
lie lived and moved without resting, and which he tor- 
mented through all ranks without ceasing. How dif- 
ficult the appreciation must have been may be esti- 
mated from the diverse portraits drawn by his friends 
and pupils, Xenophon and Plato, without either achiev- 
ing a fair picture. Socrates might win the admiration 
of many by his brilliant display of dialectical ingenui- 
ty and intellectual power; he might attract ambitious 
politicians by the hope of acquiring his arts; but lie 
could secure the devotion only of the few who caught 
glimpses of his purpose and desired to share his aims. 
To the populace and to the upper multitude he must 
have seemed a strange and unwelcome phenomenon, 
lie must have gone about multiplying dislikes, nursing 
enmities and antagonisms, and storing up wrath against 
the day of wrath. In the Platonic Apology he express- 
es greater apprehension of chronic misconception and 
calumny and odium than of the immediate capiial 
charge. This is consonant with probability. The dis- 
tinct reference to Aristophanes is a Platonic device, 
and excites a suspicion that there is as little authentic 
and uncolored fact as in the Latin Panegyrica, or the 
Diogenes of Dion Cassius. 

Full acquiescence maybe accorded to Grote’s remark 
that the indictment and condemnation of Socrates are 
less surprising than his long escape from prosecution. 
For twenty or thirty years he had been suffered, with- 
out molestation, to infest the streets of Athens, to con- 
sort with oligarchs and tyrants, to preach novel doc- 
trines to idlers, to interrupt and deride every one, and 
to offend prevailing sentiment. The Jews would have 
stoned such a prophet without such patient endurance. 

At length, in B.C. 399, after the restoration of the 
democracy and the re-establishment of the old consti- 
tion, Socrates was indicted. 1 lis accusers had little ob- 
vious reason for personal enmity. Mclctus, or Melitus, 
was a youthful poet, otherwise almost unknown. Any- 
tus was a wealthy tradesman and active politician, who 
had co-operated efficiently with Thrasvbulns in the re- 
cent overthrow of the Thirty, and whose son had been 
dissuaded from following his father’s trade. Lycon was 
a professional rhetorician, and was thus involved in the 
Socratic censure of the Sophists. Anytns alone had 
any personal grievance. It was very slight, but it 
concurred with a general antipathy to Socrates. The 
charge was that Socrates neglected his country’s gods, 
introduced new divinities, and corrupted the Athenian 
youth. These charges may now be admitted to be sub- 
stantially unjust; but they were then very plausible, 
and gave utterance to what may well have been the 
common impression in regard to the tenor and tendency 
of his disputations. The purity of the motives, designs, 
and conduct of Socrates none will now gainsay. None 
will now repeat the fatal accusations with any thought 
that Socrates could conceive them to be just. II is strict 
observance of the religious rites of his country is in- 
sisted upon in both the Apologies written after the 
event, lie will not he less reverenced now from a con- 
viction that his religious views inclined vaguely to the 
assertion of monotheism and to the adoration of “the 
unknown God.” This would result in the negation of 
existing superstitions and creeds, and would sustain the 
allegation of the introduction of new divinities. This 
allegation would be confirmed by his claim of special 
inspiration, and by the announcement of his mysterious 
and divine, counsellor, whose essential character has not 
yet been satisfactorily explained. The third charge of 
corrupting young men would be even more plausible 
among the ancient Athenians than the other two. The 
Socratic method contemplated the compulsory confes- 


SOCRATES 


851 


SOCRATES 


si on of ignorance, and proceeded by a perplexing series 
of questions and constrained answers, designed to re- 
move the false conceit of knowledge in order to prepare 
the way for a careful and unprejudiced investigation of 
truth. Most of the sufferers would stop with the neg- 
ative result, as Socrates himself appears practically to 
have done. Others, who did not understand the proc- 
ess and could not appreciate the design, would con- 
clude that the purpose as well as the effect of the So- 
cratic elenchns was to unsettle belief in accredited in- 
stitutions no less than in established convictions. This 
apprehension would be aggravated bv remembering that 
Alcibiades, Critias, and Charmides had been among his 
most cherished associates; that his chief disciple, Plato, 
perhaps not yet prominent, was the nephew of Charmi- 
des, one of the Thirty, and had recently been active in 
aristocratical opposition; that Socrates had always dis- 
approved the existing modes of appointment to office; 
and that he had displayed a constant distrust and dis- 
approval of democratic institutions — a censure which 
democracies always jealously and passionately resent. 

Socrates was brought to trial. His divine monitor 
forbade his making a defence in the customary spirit. 
If he spoke what is reported by Plato, his Apology was 
calculated only to irritate his judges, '['here was no 
fixed or systematic law at Athens, especially in crimi- 
nal matters. Every indictment was a bill of attainder. 
Nevertheless, Socrates was condemned by a majority 
of only five or six voices in a dicastery of more than 
five hundred. After the condemnation the penalty had 
to be determined. Athenian procedure required the ac- 
cusers to name a penalty and the accused to offer an 
alternative satisfaction. The accusers had specified 
death. The alternative proposed by Socrates was a 
virtual negation of the verdict by substituting for death 
public support in the Prvtaneum, the highest honor 
that could be bestowed; or, in deference to the urgency 
of his friends, a fine of thirty minas (about seven hun- 
dred dollars). The jury could choose only one or oth- 
er of these penalties. Socrates had already been de- 
clared guilty. The sentence could scarcely be other 
than — death. 

Polvcrates among the Greeks, and Cato among the 
Homans, justified the condemnation of Socrates. Le'lut 
and Forchhammer did the same thing forty } r ears ago, 
and Dresig preceded them by a century. Grote holds 
the balance even between the judges and the judged. 
The judgment of Polycrates may have been merely a 
rhetorical exercise, an intellectual tour de force ; or it 
may have been serious, and may have called out the 
Apologia of Xenophon as a reply. It was recognised 
by friends and contemporaries, it was generally recog- 
nised in antiquity, it has usually been recognised by 
the moderns, that the condemnation and death of Soc- 
rates were his own act. He did not desire to live. His 
work was done, his career was bending to its close. lie 
was willing, if not eager, to perpetuate his influence and 
to confirm his life and doctrine by his death. Nothing 
can be more exquisitely touching, more ennobling, or 
more memorable than the account given by Plato of 
the last days of Socrates, and of the cheerful, playful 
serenity with which he welcomed the hastening term 
of life. The closing scenes are among the noblest ex- 
hibitions of human, and almost of superhuman, virtue. 
That there is much of Plato in the pathetic story is 
indubitable. The artistic arrangement of details, the 
subdued coloring, the solemn calm, the dramatic pres- 
entation, are all Plato’s; but the substantial significances 
may be confidently ascribed to the genuine Socrates. 
We shall not repaint the rose or reperfume the lily. The 
tale must be read in the pages of the reverent disciple 
and consummate artist. 

Socrates should have drunk the fatal hemlock the 
day after the sentence. But the sacred embassy had 
just sailed for Delos, and capital punishments were sus- 
pended till its return. Socrates lay in prison for a 
month, suffering, perhaps, the indignity of fetters, sur- 


rounded by sorrowing friends, to whom he repeated the 
instructions of his life. Provision was made for his es- 
cape. He refused such release because firm in his obe- 
dience to the laws, whether just or unjust in their oper- 
ation upon him. At the appointed time, towards the 
end of May, he drank the deadly cup with perfect com- 
posure, and welcomed death in the hope, but without 
the confident expectation, of a tranquil immortality. 

The death of Socrates scattered his disciples : he nev- 
er formed a school. The dispersion of the disciples 
disseminated his doctrine and method. Many years 
elapsed before philosophy revisited Athens. A* long 
and troubled time intervened before Plato returned to 
renew with caution, and to remodel, expand, and trans- 
figure the speculations of his master. 

The Athenians have been alleged to have soon re- 
pented of the condemnation and execution of Socrates, 
and to have prosecuted his accusers capitally. There 
is neither valid evidence for this nor inherent probabil- 
ity in it. The supposed remorse of Elizabeth for the 
execution of Essex is not more fanciful. There was 
occasion for deep regret ; there was none for repentance. 
Socrates had left his judges little room for hesitation. 
There is no reason to suppose that they had decided 
contrary to their convictions of right and of law. M ore- 
over, the Athenians were oblivious of past incidents 
and of melancholy events. They were always engrossed 
with the enjoyment or the expectation of something 
new. No reaction was known when Demosthenes and 
^Eschines were rival orators, nor, previously, to Xeno- 
phon or Plato. A statue made by Lysippus in Mace- 
donian times is said to have been erected at Athens 
in memory of Socrates. This may be questioned; yet 
from this tribute, or from the belief in such a tribute, the 
legend of the repentance may have arisen. 

II. Philosophy. — There is no such thing, properly 
speaking, as a Socratic philosophy. There was a So- 
cratic impulse, a Socratic method, a Socratic inquiry, 
but no positive or systematic Socratic speculation. He 
planted the vigorous seed; he did not cultivate the 
plant or gather the harvest. He was the father of all 
wholesome investigation by indicating, not by con- 
structing, the route. Like Bacon, he was the herald 
of conquest, not the conqueror. Potest videri ostendisse 
posteris, non tradidisse . “ Still, enough remains to stamp 
him as the originator of the philosophy of conceptions, 
as the reformer of method, as the first founder of a sci- 
entific doctrine of morals.” The characteristic and es- 
sential features of the philosophical career of Socrates 
were his aim and method. These determined all his 
philosophical developments, and were themselves deter- 
mined by the complexion and requirements of his time. 
Pericles, during his long ascendency, had “wielded at 
will the fierce democratic,” and had restrained the vi- 
olent, excessive appetencies of a capricious and domi- 
neering populace and of their ambitious and unscrupu- 
lous guides. Yet the agitations of demagogues, the 
disappointments, disasters, and sorrows of the opening 
years of the Peloponnesian war, the distress and demor- 
alization produced by the plague, had gravely shaken 
his control in his latter life. After his death the polit- 
ical conflict lay between the wealthy but weak and su- 
perstitious Nicias and the turbulent, boastful, and rapa- 
cious Cleon. The voting and dicastic mass of the peo- 
ple were gravely debauched and completely misled by 
noisy bawlcrs and greedy flatterers. The corrosion of 
public, and, to a great extent, of private morals was 
fearfully aggravated by the destruction of all political, 
jural, ethical, and speculative principles through the 
harangues on the bema, the arguments in the courts, 
the predominance of rhetorical ingenuity, and the soph- 
istries of brilliant and mercenary teachers, who reduced 
all truth to semblance, all discussion to a conflict of 
showy words and dazzling plausibilities. The Atheni- 
ans had been brought to accept that most pernicious of 
all delusions — “There is nothing either good or bad but 
thinking makes it so” (see Protag. ap. Aristot. Met. iii, 


SOCRATES 


So2 


SOCRATES 


o; l’lato, Sophist, xlvii ; Erasmus, CVnV. — “ Non est bea- 
ms, t sM* «|iii sc neseiat •• Nil passus cs mail si dissi- 
mulaverW). It was in i his condition of the Stale and 
of I i reek society that Socrates felt himself urged. as by 
n divine voice, to interpose for the reclamation and re- 
generation of his country men, and to appear as a per- 
M«.teut mi-sionary in the cause of justice, honesty, and 
i rut 1* (Plato, Apolog. xxii). It has already been ob- 
served that his career mu»t have been gradually devel- 
oped. lie may have proceeded at tirst in an intuitive, 
unconscious, tentative sort of wav, following his natu- 
ral impulse to inquiry, to the pursuit of information, to 
hive of company and conversation, till his course shaped 
itself out Indore him, hoset him as the special duty of 
Id- life, and assumed the imperative form of a divine 
monition. The increasing perception of the decline of 
public and private faith and morals would conduce to 
such a result in a nature highly sensitive to all intel- 
lectual and moral demands. Whatever opinion may be 
entertained of the claim of the Platonic Apology to be 
regarded as a just representation of the actual defence 
made by Socrates, it is very remarkable that Plato puts 
into the mouth of the accused the distinct declaration 
that he had received his mission from the divinity, and 
that if his life were taken another divine messenger 
might he sent (.1 pn/og. xviii). This special and con- 
trolling influence is familiarly known as the tla>mon of 
Socrates, What that daunoii was is still under discus- 
sion. Some critics, commentators, and hk-torians of 
philosophy conceive it to have been a personal genius, 
or, at lea-r, to have been so regarded by Socrates. Oth- 
ers look upon it as simply a divine pressure or mysteri- 
ous suggestion. Those who recognise the direct action 
of the Holy Spirit and the divine call to Christian be- 
lievers cannot utterly reject the possibility of the like 
agency even in pagan times (Korn, ii, In), t trhers, again, 
consider the Socratic Catpovtov to have been “the still, 
small voice of conscience” gradually transmuting itself 
into a prepo-ses^ion. Others, finally, regard the alle- 
gation of Mich divine guidance or restraint as halluci- 
nation, hypocrisy, or pretence. Neither pretence nor 
hypocrisy would have been apt to assume such a form 
in those sceptical times, and would he at variance with 
any plausible or consistent conception of the character 
of Socrates. Pure hallucination is not consonant with 
the singular sobriety of mind and sentiment which dis- 
tinguished him from all other enthusiasts. That this 
dicrnon was sometimes regarded by him and by his dis- 
ciples as personal cannot he denied. As Socrates says 
that every earnest servant of the gods may have a like 
divine illumination, as Plato spealis of the daemon of ev- 
ery man leading him after death to the judgment (Pha>ri. 
Ivii), it is apparent that it was regarded, at an early 
period* as a guardian or attendant angel. This conclu- 
sion scarcely militates against the second supposition, 
which will not appear extravagant or unreasonable to 
those who remember the numerous echoes, through all 
ages and all creeds, and from the most eminent men in 
all lines of thought, of the Homeric phrase ti'CTri'ciwc 
Cdifnov ((hlyss. xix, 13S). Says Cicero (Dr A 'at. 
ltror. ii, till, 1157), “ Nemo vir inaguus sine aliqno di- 
viuo atllatu nuupiam fit it.” 'I'he testimonies arc end- 
less, and from sources that would not be anticipated; hut 
there is no room to cite them. Waiving, however, such 
transcendental speculations, and admitting that there 
•nay he delusion in imagining any special inspiration, 
it will not do to resolve the Socratic da-monism into 
practical wisdom with 1 1 rote, or into moral tact with 
I 'cherveg. These might he the results of the moni- 
tions of the damion, or independent of them; lint they 
an- w holly distinct from them. There is a curious psy- 
chological phenomenon, rarely noted because of infre- 
ipo ot occurrence and less frequently subjected to crit- 
ical ohs4* r Nation, which merits grave estimation in this 
count'd ion. A mind and nature quick, earnest, com- 
} ,n 'her in e, and impressible with unusual faculties of 
int it ion — ten only occupied with any serious moral 


or intellectual pursuit, has visions of the day “which 
have elsewhere their rising,” and spring neither from 
the reason nor from the volition; hears voices in the si- 
lence which others never hear; has sudden convictions 
which descend upon him without logical inducement 
or antecedent evidence; has iirm assurances which rest 
upon inexplicable faith; and is led reverently to pre- 
sume that “it is the Lord which giveth him under- 
standing” by an immediate revelation. Of such men 
was Socrates. 

In the assurance of a heavenly vocation, Socrates put 
aside all other thoughts, cares, interests, employments, 
aims, and devoted himself exclusively to the task of 
reforming his felloNV-citizens by disclosing their intel- 
lectual procedure and bv enlightening their consciences. 
He pretended to be seeking evervNvhere for knowledge 
to improve himself and to acquire fixed knowledge, 
lie disclaimed any pretence of teaching, for ignorance 
Nvas his profession and the ground, as he alleged, of his 
being declared by Apollo “the wisest of men.” He 
spent the whole day and everyday, from early morn 
till set of sun, amid the gatherings of men, inquiring 
into the opinions, and the grounds of their opinions, of 
persons in every profession and of every grade. lie 
Nvas never tired of asking questions, and he did nothing 
but ask questions, drawing out by the answers obtained 
t lie fallacy and inconsistency of dogmas, and making 
every one confute himself and apprehend the baseless- 
ness of his supposed knowledge. Hence he always pro- 
fessed to do nothing more than practice intellectual ob- 
stetrics. and to deliver men of their onvh intellectual 
progeny, for the most part monstrously deformed. This 
was the method of Socrates, and his method Nvas his 
whole philosophy. The curtain was the picture. Yet 
this method was productive of nearly all the philosophy 
that followed, and Nvas then the one thing needful — the 
effectual exposure of the false conceit of knowledge. 
“ Hum falsas ment is vires mirantur homines et cele- 
brant, veras ejusdem, quae esse possint, . . . prcetereunt 
et perdunt. Kestabat illud unnm, ut resde integro ten- 
tetur, melioribus priesidiis” (Bacon, Xov. Org. Monitum ; 
comp. 1 Aph. ix, 31). To those who were subjected 
to this catechising process it may have appeared a 
preconcerted scheme for their confusion. Such it may 
ultimately have become, being scarcely disguised by 
the pretension of ignorance and the solicitude for en- 
lightenment. So the practice was regarded and pre- 
sented by Xenophon and Blato. So it has been uni- 
versally esteemed by later writers, who have explained 
it by the Socratic irony. Is it not more reasonable 
and more consistent with every probability to suppose 
that this interrogatory inquisition was begun in simple 
honesty with the view of gaining information, and that 
it assumed its definite purpose as a criterium fahitatis 
only after (hose who were consulted were found to be 
without settled principles or tenable doctrines? With 
the prevalent arrogance of knowledge which was no 
knowledge, with the consequent substitution of blunt 
assurance for intelligent investigation, with such a blind 
indifference to logical proof that the possibility of ei- 
ther rational or moral principles was often theoretically 
denied, with the vitiation of all intellectual procedure 
and of all authoritative rules of moral conduct thence 
ensuing, the first duty of the reforming missionary was 
to discover the reality and the basis of truth. What 
is truth? was the great question. What is true? was 
the question that Socrates propounded. There was, 
however, a preliminary task to he performed before such 
inquiries could be hopefully prosecuted. It was neces- 
sary to purge the minds of the inquirers, to disclose the 
nature and the sources of uncertainty, to reveal the hol- 
loNvuess and fallacy of current maxims, postulates, de- 
ductions, and argumentations, to expose the ambiguity 
and deception of popular phrases and received terms, 
and to establish the elementary principles of valid rea- 
soning: CiuXiKTiKt) yap ov 7 rio tot ijv (Aristot. 

Mrtaph. xiii, 4). Socrates never got beyond the pre- 


SOCRATES 


853 


SOCRATES 


liminarv task. His whole life was engrossed with it. 
He only laid the foundations and discovered the ele- 
ments of dialectical science. 

Socrates thought — at first, perhaps, only instinctively 
felt or ascertained by experience — that any hope of 
moral reform must be preceded or accompanied bv in- 
tellectual reform. lie examined himself, he examined 
others, and discerned that received doctrine was noth- 
ing better than ingenious fantasy or unauthenticated 
opinion. The first effort, then, was to remove delusion, 
prejudice, presumption, and what Grote calls “the con- 
ceit of knowledge.” The humble confession of igno- 
rance w'as the indispensable preparation for a candid 
and hopeful search for truth. Grote has acutely and 
ingeniously compared the procedure of Socrates with 
that of Bacon. It may be as justly compared to that 
of Descartes. Hence the Delphic Xosce teipsum became 
the point of departure (Aristot. Fragm. 4), and both in 
his own case and in the case of all with whom he con- 
versed his effort was to unveil ignorance under the pre- 
sumption of knowledge. This was his special function 
with all who approached him— friends and opponents, 
young and old. notable and simple; for school and schol- 
ars he had none. This was his unpaid office, for which 
he would take no pay. Why should he take pay when 
he disclaimed teaching or having anything to teach? 
Why should he seek gain when the teaching for gain 
and the pursuit of gain had engendered the mental and 
moral diseases which he attempted to cure? In ac- 
cordance with his function, he required those whom he 
catechised to examine the precise import of their terms 
and propositions. By a succession of adroit cavils he 
compelled them to apprehend the absence of precision 
and consistency in the vague phraseology which they 
employed and the hazy meaning which they attached to 
their statements. It was purely an inquisitive or investi- 
gative process — an examination of mind and conscience, 
confined to negative results, the recognition and admis- 
sion of ignorance, or of false knowledge, which was 
worse than ignorance. These negative results involved 
living germs of positive and active growth. Much, 
too, was learned by the way. The investigation of 
duplicities of expression and of the derivative fallacies 
and discords compelled attention to the meaning and 
to the strict use of language. It compelled the habit 
of strict definition and regard to the comprehension of 
terms and the limitation of conceptions. It compelled 
also habitual observation and observance of the just 
processes of reasoning, and thus introduced dialectics. 
The purpose and results of the method of Socrates may 
be fitly compared with the tenor of John Locke’s Essay 
on the Ihnnan Understanding , which is occupied with 
the legitimate import of words and the cautions need- 
ful in their employment. Aristotle says ( MeUtph . xiii, 
4) that Socrates deserves the credit of two inventions 
— the definition of general terms and the introduction 
of inductive (or anagogieal) reasoning. It was neces- 
sary to induce men to look into their own minds, to 
dissect their own thoughts, to test their own language, 
that they might detect their own meaning, or want of 
meaning, and thus arrive at actual knowledge, or at the 
conditions precedent to any valid knowledge. This les- 
son once taught was taught forever. The character of 
the day, the character of the habits, doctrines, specula- 
tions of the day, no less than his own temperament and 
gradual self- development, inevitably led Socrates to 
adopt this procedure. It was not deliberately chosen : 
it was forced upon him. Some influence may be as- 
cribed to the outdoor life of the Athenians, and to 
their addiction to free converse, inquiry, and disputa- 
tion. The process, it will be seen, w r as not adapted to 
instruction, but to compulsory introspection. In the 
exercise of his peculiar vocation, Socrates furnished 
continual illustrations of ingenious cross-examination 
to those who sought dexterity in eristic arts. He irri- 
tated many, and among them persons of note, whose ig- 
norance and sophistries were skilfully exposed by him; 


but in others — sages, anxious for knowledge, for im- 
provement, for intellectual and moral growth — he kin- 
dled a zeal, an enthusiasm, and an affectionate admira- 
tion which no other education has ever equalled (Plato, 
Symp. p. 219). It must be manifest how effectual this 
continual introspection, this constant testing of terms 
and torturing of significances, this inspection of the in- 
terdependence of thoughts, must have been in clearing 
the ground for health}' inquiry and in stimulating 
wholesome investigation. Socrates thus inaugurated 
genuine philosophy, or the earnest search for truth sim- 
ply as truth; and communicated the impulse whence 
all real Hellenic philosophy proceeded. 

The primary and abiding purpose of Socrates to pro- 
mote moral regeneration through intellectual reform in- 
clined his thoughts almost exclusively to ethical specu- 
lation. He was dissatisfied with the development of the 
physical theories of Anaxagofas, which he studied in 
early life; but he was dissatisfied on grounds whose in- 
validity Bayle has pointed out ( Hist . Grit. Diet. “Anax- 
agoras,” note R). lie rejected physical inquiries entire- 
ly, deeming them beyond human apprehension and hu- 
man application : “Quod supra nos nihil ad nos.” Grote 
thinks that he excluded physics only provisionally, and 
that he contemplated such studies as an ultimate por- 
tion of his scheme. But he had no system, and could 
have no system; and Grote is directly contradicted by 
Aristotle (J/etaph. i, 6 ; xiii, 4). Ethics, in the widest 
! sense of the term, w'as the special and peculiar domain 
of Socrates. He deserves Grote’s designation as “the 
first of ethical philosophers.” This commendation had 
been anticipated by Augustine (De Civ. Dei , viii, 8) : 
“Socrates primus universam philosophiam ad eorrigen- 
dos eomponendosque mores flexisse memoratur.” Hence 
he is said to have been the first to draw down philosophy 
from heaven to dwell with men (Cicero, Tasc. Disp. v, 
4). But there was no systematic doctrine; there were 
principles and tendencies which might be developed 
into a system, or into several systems, but they were not 
1 adapted by him for the places which they might occupy 
in such systems. They were undeveloped and discon- 
nected; not inharmonious, but unharmonized; requiring 
explanation and discussion to be understood in their true 
bearing. Thus he holds that all virtue is knowledge, 
and may be acquired by instruction — a doctrine accept- 
ed and partially developed by Plato, and corrected by 
Aristotle. His test of good is practical utility — a narrow 
and dangerous principle, which he was far from aeting 
on himself. In government he advocated the rule of 
the best and most instructed — an optimist delusion — 
without showing, or being able to show', how' the best 
and most competent w r ere to be discovered, or to secure 
obedience, lie censured democratic elections and ap- 
pointments by lot; and, with good reason, condemned 
the contemporaneous practices in his own State. Hov'- 
ever wise in purpose. Socrates wras a dreamer in practi- 
cal affairs, despite Xenophon’s admiration of his sagacity 
in counsel. In that higher department of ethics wffiich 
consists of theology he manifested an inclination to- 
wards monotheism, though maintaining the formal ob- 
servance of the religious ceremonial and w-orship of his 
country. Like the best of the ancients, he had not at- 
tained to the conviction of the immortality of the. soul. 
It was a wish, a hope, a probability, not an assured be- 
lief. It must be remembered, however, that everything 
we seem to know of Socrates, of his tenets, and of his in- 
structions is seen through stained glasses, and glasses 
of a wonderfully magnifying and distorting power. We 
eannot safely trust either Xenophon or Plato, and there 
is none other whom we can trust except xVristotle; and 
his indications are loose and rare. The number of coin- 
cidences between the alleged Socratic utterances and 
the precepts of Scripture, under both the first and the 
second covenant, are singularly noteworthy. These pre- 
cepts may or may not be the real expressions of Socra- 
tes; they may be eagerly accepted as such, but some 
doubt must aiways remain. After all uncertainties are 


SOCRATES 


S54 


SODOM 


entertained, ami all reasonable deductions made, there 
can be no reluctance to reverence Socrates as one of the 
most memorable, best, and wisest of men: “ Bonum vi- 
rum facile credcres, magnum libenter.” Erasmus de- 
clared that he was often tempted to exclaim, -Sancte 
.Socrate, ora pro nobis! and bis impulse may excite 
sympathetic appreciation in others. The highest at- 
testation of the moral excellence, the sublime purpose, 
ami the intellectual greatness of Socrates is to be found 
not in the beautiful biographical notices of bis loving 
disciples Xenophon and I'lato, which have the taint ot 
fiction on them, but in the reputation which he left per- 
manently behind; in the universal reverence early and 
ahvavs accorded to his name; in the volume of philoso- 
phy which traced its descent from him; and in the 
broader, loftier, healthier, soberer spirit which animated 
all subsequent speculation. 

III. Influence of Socrates. — The unquestioned influ- 
ence of Socrates was not revealed by any marked im- 
provement in the political or private morals of the 
contemporary and succeeding generations, but in the 
changed tone of thought ami sentiment among the 
higher natures of the following times, and pre-eminent- 
ly in the enlargement and more sedate and rational de- 
velopment of philosophy. Xenophon and Plato, Euclid 
ami IMuedo, Autisthcnes and Aristippus, were his im- 
mediate disciples, and from them proceeded all the 
great sects of the Greek philosophers, with the excep- 
tion of Epicurus — and the morals of Epicurus accorded 
with Socratic purity. It is useless to add that from 
this Hellenic philosophy issued all Homan, ami nearly 
all that is valuable in medhvval or modern philosophy, 
so far as these have been independent of revelation. 
No such extensive and enduring influence has ever 
been, or can ever again be, exercised upon the world by 
any other uninspired teacher. No such unending in- 
fluence could have been exercised by any system or by 
any founder of a system. 

IV. Literature. — Dresig, De Socrate juste Damnato 
(Lips. 1732) ; F re re t , Observations sur les Causes et sur 
qoelques Circonstonces de la Condemnation de Socrate 
(1730; Paris, 1809); Wiggers , Sokrates, als Mensch, Biir- 
ger n. Dhilosoph (Host. 1307) ; Schleiermaelier, Ueber den 

Werth des Sokrates, etc. (Berlin, 1815); Meiners, Ueber 
den Genius des Sokrates ; Brandis, Ueber die Grundlinien 
der Lehre des Sokrates (Khein. Mus. 1817); Lelut, Le 
Demon de. Socrate (Paris, 1830); Baur, Sokrates und 
Chr'istus, in the Tub. Zeitschrift, 1837 ; Eorchhammer, 
Die Athener und Sokrates, etc. (Berlin, 1837); Van Lim- 
burg Brower. . I poloyia contra Meliti Redieiri Calumniam 
(Groningen, 1838) ; ( I rote, History of Greece, ch. Ixviii; 
II anno, Sokrates als Genius der Humanitdt (Brunsw. 
1 H-l l ) ; Brikler, Sokrates und sein Zeitalter (Elhv. 1848) ; 
Ilurmlall, De Dhilosophia A/orali Socrutis (Ileidclb. 
1853) ; Lasaulx, Des Sokrates Leben, Lehre und Tod 
(Munich, 1859); Volquardsen, Das Ddmoninm des So - 
krates (Kiel, 1802); 1 1 Ogle, Das Diimonium des So - 
knifes (Berne, 1804); Zeller, Socrates and the Socratic 
School ( Loud. 1808) ; Alberti, Sokrates (Gutting. 18G9) ; 
Nietzsche, Sokrates, etc. (Basel, 1871); Lnbriola, La 
Dottrina di Socrate (Naples, 1871). (G. F. II.) 

Socrates, Sciioi.astkts, an ecclesiastical histori- 
an, was born at Goustanlinoplc towards the end of the 
5th century. lie studied grammar and rhetoric under 
Amtnonius and 1 lelladius, of Alexandria, and afterwards 
followed the profession of advocate or scholastic. Me 
ap[H-firs, however, to have abandoned this profession in 
order wholly to devote himself to the study of ecclesi- 
aMie/d history. In the latter part of his life he under- 
took to write the history of the Ghtireh, beginning at 
309 , where Eusebius ends, ami continued it down to 
410, in seven books, lie is generally considered the 
most exact ami jmlieious of the three conliuuators of 
I he history of Eusebius, being less florid in his style 
and more careful in his statements than Sozornen, and 
le*s credulous t linn Theodoret. “Mis impartiality is 
ao strikingly displayed,” says Waddiugtou, “as to 


make his orthodoxy questionable to Baronins, the cele- 
brated Koman Catholic historian; but Valesius, in his 
life, has shown that there is no reason for such suspi- 
cion. lie is generally suspected of being a Novation, 
though lie shows but little knowledge upon the subject, 
and confounds Novation, a priest at Home, with Nova- 
tus of Africa” llis history has been abridged by 
Epiplianius, the scholastic, in his Ilistoria Tripartita, 
and was published for the first time as a continuation 
of Eusebius by Hubert Stephens (Paris, 1544, fob). 
There was an edition with notes, published by Beading 
(Loud. 1720,3 vols. fol.), and an English edition (Cam- 
bridge, 1083, fob). There is a good French translation 
of it bv the president Cousin. See Smith, Diet, of Gr . 
and Rom. lVioy. s. v. 

Socratltae, a local name for the Gnostics, which is 
to be found under the number 20 in St. John Damas- 
cene’s treatise On Heresies . 

Sodalities (Lat. for societies'), a term applied to 
certain associations in the Koman Catholic Church. 
These are composed of laymen, and are instituted for 
the encouragement of devotion, or for promoting cer- 
tain works of piety, religion, and charity, under some 
rules or regulations, though without being tied to them 
so far as that the breach or neglect of them would be 
sinful. An example is afforded by the Sodality of the 
Living Hosarv. Fifteen persons form a company or cir- 
cle, each taking by lot one of the fifteen “Mysteries of 
the Hosarv” and reciting its decade ( = ten Hail-Marys, 
with a Lord’s Prayer before it, and a Gloria Patri) every 
day. A number of circles, united under a clergyman as 
director, constitute a sodality. 

Soder. See Soldeu. 

So'di (Ileb. Sodi', “HID, intimate; Sept. 2ov^i), fa- 
ther of the Zebulnnite spy Gaddiel at the Exode (Numb, 
xiii, 10). B.C. ante 1057. 

Sod'om (Ileb. Sedom', t3“JO, meaning uncertain 
[see below 7 ]; Sept, and New Test, [rd] Jose- 

phus, Socopa, Ant. i, 9, 1 ; Vnlg. Sodoma), an ancient 
city in the vale of Siddim, where Lot settled after his 
separation from Abraham (Gen. xiii, 12; xiv, 12; xix, 
1). It had its own chief or “king,” as had the other 
four cities of the plain (xiv, 2,8, 10), and was along with 
them, Zoar only excepted, destroyed by fire from heaven 
on account of the gross wickedness of the inhabitants; 
the memory of which event has been perpetuated in a 
name of infamy to all generations (ch. xix). (In the 
following account of this remarkable place we freely 
avail ourselves of the discussions found in the diction- 
aries of Kitto and Smith.) See Sodcxhitish Ska. 

1. The Name. — The word Sedom has been interpreted 
to mean “ burning” (Gesenius, Thesaur. p. 939a), taking 
cHd - fTC^'d, and that as = HSTd. This is possible, 
though not at all certain, since Gesenius himself hes- 
itates between that interpretation and one which iden- 
tities it with a similar Hebrew word meaning “vine- 
yard,” and Fitrst ( Handwb . ii, 72), with nearly equal 
plausibility, connects it with an Arabic root meaning 
to enclose or fortify pTO, as the base also of Siddim), 
a view in which M Uhlan coincides. Simonis, again 
(Onomast. p. 303), renders it “ abundance of dew or wa- 
ter,” Hiller (ibid. p. 170), “fruitful land,” and Chytnens, 
“mystery.” In fact, like most archaic names, it may, 
l>v a little ingenuity, be made to mean almost anything. 
Stanley (Sin. and Dal. p. 289) notices the first of these 
interpretations, and, comparing it with the “Phlegneau 
fields” in the Campagna at Home, says that “the name, if 
not derived from the subsequent catastrophe, shows that 
t lie marks of fire had already passed over the doomed 
valley.” Apparent “marks of tiro” there are all over 
t lie neighborhood of the Dead Sea. They have been 
regarded by inanv travellers as tokens of conflagration 
and volcanic action, and in the same manner it is quite 
possible that they originated the name Sedom, for they 


SODOM 


855 


SODOM 


undoubtedly abounded on the shores of the lake long 
before even Sodom was founded. 

II. Historical Notices. — Sodom is commonly men- 
tioned in connection with Gomorrah, but also with Ad- 
mah and Zeboim, and on one occasion (Gen. xiv) with 
Bela or Zoar. Sodom was evidently the chief town iu 
the settlement. Its king takes the lead, and the city is 
always named first in the list, and appears to be the 
most important. The four are first named in the eth- 
nological records of Gen. x, 19 as belonging to the Ca- 
naanites: “The border of the Canaanite was from Zidon 
towards Gerar unto Azzali, towards Sedom and Amorah 
and Admah and Tseboim unto Lasha.” The meaning 
of this appears to be that the district in the hands of 
the Canaanites formed a kind of triangle — the apex at 
Zidon, the south-west extremity at Gaza, the south- 
eastern at Lasha. 

The next mention of the name of Sodom (Gen. xiii, 
10-13) gives us more definite information as to the city. 
Abram and Lot are standing together between Bethel 
and Ai (ver. 3), taking, as any spectator from t hat spot 
may still do, a survey of the land around and below 
them. Eastward of them, and absolutely at their feet, 
lay the “ circle (*123) of Jordan,” i. e. the ghor. It was 
in all its verdant glory — that glory of which the traces 
are still to be seen, and which is so strangely and irre- 
sistibly attractive to a spectator from any of the heights 
in the neighborhood of Bethel — watered in the northern 
portion by the copious supplies of the Wady Kelt, the 
Ain Sultan, the Ain Duk, and the other springs which 
gush out from the foot of the mountains; and in the 
southern part by Wady Tufileh, and the abundant brooks 
of the Ghor es-Safieh. These abundant waters even now 
support a mass of verdure before they are lost in the 
light, loamy soil of the region. But at the time when 
Abram and Lot beheld them, they were husbanded and 
directed by irrigation, after the manner of Egypt, until 
the whole circle was one great oasis — “a garden of Je- 
hovah” (ver. 10). In the midst of the garden the four 
cities of Sodom, Gomorrah, Admah, and Zeboim appear 
to have been situated. To these cities Lot descended, 
and retaining his nomad habits among the more civil- 
ized manners of the Canaanitish settlement, “ pitched his 
tent” by (“12, at , not “towards”) the chief of the four. 
At a later period he seems to have been living within 
the walls of Sodom. It is necessary to notice how ab- 
solutely the cities arc identified with the district. In 
the subsequent account of their destruction (ch. xix), 
the topographical terms are employed with all the pre- 
cision which is characteristic of such early times. “The 
Ciccdr ” (q. v.), the “land of the Ciccdr “ Ciccdr of 
Jordan,” recurs again and again both in ch. xiii and xix, 
and “the cities of the Ciccdr ” is the almost technical 
designation of the towns which were destroyed in the 
catastrophe related in the latter chapter. See Joudan. 

The remaining passages of Scripture respecting Sod- 
om relate merely to the event of its destruction (Gen. 
xix), and to its perpetual desolation: “Brimstone, and 
salt, and burning . . . not sown, nor beareth, nor any 
grass groweth therein” (l)eut. xxix, 22); “Never to be 
inhabited, nor dwelt in from generation to generation ; 
where neither Arah should pitch tent nor shepherd 
make fold” (Isa. xiii, 19); “No man abiding there, nor 
son of man dwelling in it” (.Jer. xlix, 18; 1, 40); “A 
fruitful land turned into saltness” (Psa. evii, 34); “Over- 
thrown and burned” (Amos iv, 11); “The breeding of 
nettles and salt-pits, and a perpetual desolation” (Zeph. 
ii, 9); “A waste land that smoketh, and plants bearing 
fruit which never cometh to ripeness” (Wisd. ix, 7); 
“ Land lying in clods of pitch and heaps of ashes” (2 
Esdr. ii, 9) ; “ The cities turned into ashes” (2 Pet. ii, 6), 
where their destruction by fire is contrasted with the 
deluge. The miserable fate of Sodom and Gomorrah is 
held up as a warning in these and ot her passages of the 
Old and New Tests. By Peter and Jude it is made 
*“an ensample to those that after should live ungodly,” 


and to those “ denying the only Lord God, and our Lord 
Jesus Christ” (2 Pet. ii, 6; Jude 4-7). Our Lord him- 
self, when describing the fearful punishment that will 
befall those that reject his disciples, says that “it shall 
be more tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrah in the day 
of judgment than for that city” (Mark vi, 11; comp. 
Matt, x, 15). 

In agreement with the above Scripture accounts is 
the statement of Josephus (IPttr, iv, 8, 4). After de- 
scribing the lake, he proceeds: “Adjoining it is Sodo- 
mitis, once a blessed region abounding in produce and 
in cities, but now entirely burned up. They say that 
it was destroyed by lightning for the impiety of its 
inhabitants. And even to this day the relics of the 
divine fire and the traces of five cities are to be seen 
there, and, moreover, the ashes reappear even in the 
fruit.” Josephus regarded this passage as his main 
statement of the event (see Ant. i, 11, 4). In another 
passage (lEnr, v, 13, G) he alludes incidentally to the 
destruction of Sodom, contrasting it, like Peter, with a 
destruction by water. By comparing these passages 
with A«hi,9, it appears that Josephus believed the vale 
of Siddira to have been submerged, and to have been a 
district adjoining Sodom. Similar are the accounts of 
heathen writers, as Strabo and Tacitus; who, however 
vague their statements, are evidently under the belief 
that the remains of the towns were still to be seen. 
These passages are given at length by De Sanlcy (iVarr. 
i, 448). There is a slight variation in the account of the 
Koran (xi, 84): “We turned those cities upside down, 
and we rained upon them stones of baked clay.” 

The name of the bishop of Sodom, “ Severus Sodo- 
morum,” appears among the Arabian prelates who signed 
the acts of the first Council of Nice. Roland remon- 
strates against the idea of the Sodom of the Bible being 
intended, and suggests that it is a mistake for Zuzuma- 
on or Zoraima, a see under the metropolitan of Bostra 
( Palaist . p. 1020). This De Saulcy (Narr. i, 454) re- 
fuses to admit. He explains it by the fact that many 
sees still bear the names of places which have vanished, 
and exist only in name and memory, such as Troy. The 
Coptic version to which he refers, iu the edition of M. 
Lenormant, does not throw any light on the point. 

III. Physical Means of the Catastrophe to the City . — 
The destruction of Sodom claims attention from the so- 
lemnity with which it is introduced (Gen. xviii, 20-22) ; 
from the circumstances which preceded and followed — 
the intercession of Abraham, the preservation of Lot, 
and the judgment which overtook his lingering wife 
(ver. 25-33 ; xix) ; and from the nature of the physical 
agencies through which the overthrow was effected. 
Most of these particidars are easily understood ; but the 
last has awakened much discussion, and may therefore 
require a larger measure of attention. The circum- 
stances are these. In the first place, we learn that the 
vale of Siddim, in which Sodom lay, was very fertile, 
and everywhere well watered — “like the garden of the 
Lord;” and these circumstances induced Lot to fix his 
abode there, notwithstanding the wickedness of the in- 
habitants (xiii, 10, 11). Next it appears that this vale 
w r as full of “slime-pits.” This means sources of bitu- 
men, for the word is the same as that which is applied 
to the cement used by the builders of Babylon, and 
we know that this was bitumen or asphaltum (xiv, 10; 
comp, xi, 3). These pits appear to have been of con- 
siderable extent; and, indeed, it was from them doubt- 
less that the whole valley derived its name of Siddim 
(CHU?). At length, when the day of destruction ar- 
rived, “ the Lord rained upon Sodom and upon Gomor- 
rah fire and brimstone from the Lord out of heaven ; and 
he overthrew those cities, and all the plain, and all the 
inhabitants of those cities, and that which grew upon 
the ground” (xix, 24, 25). In the escape from this 
overthrow’, the w'ife of Lot “looked back, and became a 
pillar of salt” (ver. 2G). When Abraham, early that 
same morning, from the neighborhood of his distant 


SODOM 


856 


SODOM 


camp, “ looked towards Sodom and Gomorrah, and to- 
wards all l ho laud of the plain, and beheld, and lo, the 
Mnoke of the country went up as the smoke of a fur- 
iviee" (v«*r. '27). These are the simple facts of the ease. 
The following are the naturalistic explanations that 
have been attempted of the phenomena: 

1. It has usually been assumed that the vale of Sid- 
dim occupied the basin of what is now the Dead Sea, 
which did not previously exist; but was one of the re- 
sults of this catastrophe (see Milmaii, Hitt, of the Jen-s, 
i, lo*].). It has now. however, been established that 
a lake to receive the Jordan and other waters must have 
occupied this basin long before the catastrophe of Sod- 
om, as nil the geological characteristics of the region go 
to show that its present configuration is in its main feat- 
ures coeval w ith the present condition of the surface of 
the earth in general, and is not the effect of any local 
catastrophe at a subsequent period (Dr. Huist. in Trans, 
of lintiJmt/ Ceofjr. Sac. xii, p. xvi). Sec I)kal> Ska. 

*. 1 . Hut although a lake must then have existed to re- 
ceive the Jordan and other waters of the north, w hich 
could not have passed more southward, as w*as at oue 
time supposed, and which must even, as is now proved, 
have received the waters of the south also, we are at 
liberty to assume, and it is necessary to do so, that the 
Dead Sea anciently covered a much loss extent of sur- 
face than at present. The cities which were destroyed 
must have been situated at the edge of the lake as it 
then existed, for Lot lied to Zoar, which was near Sod- 
om (Gen. xix. 20). This view* has the support of sev- 
eral incidental circumstances. Thus the abundant water 
supply (as above noticed) still exists at both ends of 
the lake. “Even at the present day,” says Robinson, 
“more living streams tlow into the Ghor, at the south 
cud of the sea, from wadvs of the eastern mountains 
than are to he found so near together in all Palestine; 
and the tract, although now mostly desert, is still bet- 
ter watered through these streams and by the many 
fountains than any other district throughout the whole 
country” ( Hibl . lies, ii, l>03). The slime-pits, or w*ells 
of asphalt um, are no longer to be seen; but it seems 
that masses of floating asphalt nm occur only in the 
southern part, of the lake; and as they arc seen but 
rarely, and immediately after earthquakes, the asplml- 
tnm appears to he gradually consolidated in the lake, 
and not Ixdng able to tlow off, forms by consequence a 
layer at the bottom, portions of which may be detached 
by earthquakes and other convulsions of nature, and 
then appear on the surface of the w*atcr or upon the 
slmre. The eminent geologist Leopold von Hitch, in 
his letter to Dr. Robinson (Hill. lies. ii.COb-ttOS), thinks 
it quite probable that this accumulation may have taken 
place in remote times as well as at the present day. 

I bus another circumstance of importance is produced 
iu coincidence with the sacred accounts, especially with 
reference to the southern portion of the present lake, 
suggesting the probability that the remarkable bay, 
or “back water,” at its southern extremity, is the por- 
tion of it which did not iu ancient times exist— that 
it, in fact, covers the more fertile vale of Siddim, and 
the site of Sodom and the other cities which the Lord 
destroyed; and that, in the words of Dr. Robinson, “ bv 
some convulsion or catastrophe of nature connected with 
the miraculous destruction of the cities, either the sur- 
face of ibis plain was scooped out or the bottom of the 
sen was heaved up so as to cause the waters to overllow 
and cover permanently a larger tract than formerly. 

1 lie country is. as we know, subject to earthquakes, mid 
exhibits also frequent traces of volcanic action. It 
would have been no iineommon effect of either of these 
causes to heave up the Uittorn of the. ancient lake, and 
tlms produce the phenomenon iu question. Hut the J 
histohe.il account of the destruction of the cities implies 
also the agency of tire. 1 ’crimps both causes were there- 
fore at work, for volcanic, action and earthquakes go 
hand in hand, and the accompanying electric discharges 
usually cause lightnings to play and thunders to roll. 


In this way we have all the phenomena which the 
most literal interpretation of the sacred records can 
demand.” The same writer, with the geological sanc- 
tion given above, repeats the conjecture of Le Clerc and 
others that the bitumen had become accumulated around 
the sources, and had perhaps formed strata, spreading 
for some distance upon the plain; that possibly these 
’ strata in some parts extended under the soil, and* might 
thus approach the vicinity of the cities: ‘‘If, indeed, 
we might suppose all this, then the kindling of such a 
heap of combustible materials, through volcanic action 
or lightning from heaven, would cause a conflagration 
sufficient not only to ingulf the cities, but also to de- 
stroy the surface of the plain, so that ‘the smoke of the 
country would go up as the smoke of a furnace, and the 
sea rushing in, would convert it lo a tract of waters.’ 
The supposition of such an accumulation of bitumen, 
with our present knowledge, appears less extraordinary 
than it might in former times have seemed, and re- 
quires nothing more than nature presents to our view 
iu the wonderful lake, or rather tract, of bitumen in the 
island of Trinidad. The subsequent barrenness of the 
remaining portion of the plain is readily accounted for 
by the presence of the masses of fossil salt which now 
abound in its neighborhood, and which were perhaps 
then, for the tirst time, brought to light. These, being 
carried by the waters to the bottom of the valley, would 
suffice to take away its productive power. In connec- 
tion with this fact, the circumstance that the wife of 
Lot ‘became a pillar of salt' is significant ami suggestive, 
whatever interpretation we may assign to the fact re- 
corded” (sec Baier, l>t Kxcidio Sodomee [Francf. 1095]), 
See Lot. 

This view of the catastrophe of the cities of the plain 
has, however, not passed without the dissent of some 
writers. It was easy to explode the opinion long cur- 
rent that when the five cities were submerged in the 
lake their remains — walls, columns, and capitals — might 
still be discerned below the water, for exploration has 
discovered no such relies. Not content with this, Re- 
land led the way in modern times in attacking the 
whole theory in question of the meteorological and 
geological agencies employed in the event ( Palevst . 
p. 257), and De Saulcv ( Dead Sea, i. 370, Amer. ed.) and 
Stanley ( Sin. and Pal. p. 289) have followed in the 
same line. Their arguments are the following: 

(1.) Only two words are used in Gen. xix to describe 
what happened: r^TY^n, to throw down, to destroy 
(ver. 13, 14). and 7|?*T to overturn (ver. 21, 25, 29). 
In neither of these is the presence of water — the sub- 
mergence of the cities or of the district in which they 
stood — either mentioned or implied. This would per- 
haps he a valid objection if the submersion were re- 
garded as the principal cause of the destruction ; but as, 
under the above statement, it comes in merely as a con- 
sequence of that event (see Keil. Comment, ad loc.), the 
argument hardly applies. Moreover, in the latter of 
the two terms employed (Ti?*"l, haphiiJc, to overturn) 
there docs seem to he a covert allusion to the under- 
mining action of a subterranean force; and perhaps in 
the former (rVYlin, hisvhlth, to wipe out) there is im- 
plied the erosive violence of a rush of water. Certainly 
these terms do not forbid such an explanation of the 
mode of destruction; and in the confessed inability of 
the opponents of this view to suggest any other natural 
means, we may well acquiesce in this as the most plau- 
sible hitherto found. 

(2.) “The geological portion of the theory does not 
appear to agree with the facts. The whole of the lower 
end of the lake, including the plain which borders it on 
the south, has every appearance not of having been 
lowered since the formation of the valley, but of under- 
going a gradual process of tilling up. This region is, 
in fact, the delta of t lie very large, though irregular, 
streams which drain the highlands on its east, west, and 


SODOM 


857 


SODOMITE 


south, and have drained them ever since the valley was 
a valley. No report by any observer at all competent 
to read the geological features of the district will be 
found to give countenance to the notion that any dis- 
turbance has taken place within the historical period, 
or that anything occurred there since the country as- 
sumed its present general conformation beyond the 
quiet, gradual change due to the regular operation of 
the ordinary agents of nature, which is slowly tilling up 
the chasm of the valley and the lake with the washings 
brought down by the torrents from the highlands on all 
sides. The volcanic appearances and marks of fire, so 
often mentioned, are, so far as we have any trustworthy 
means of judging, entirely illusory, and due to ordinary, 
natural causes.” On the contrary, we have adduced 
above the testimony of travellers and the opinion of 
competent, scientists to sustain the convulsive character 
of the region in modern times. Until counter-evidence 
shall have been brought forward of a more decided 
character than merely round assertions and general in- 
ferences, we may rest the case upon these grounds. 
Prof. Hitchcock shows ( Bibliotheca Sacra , July, 18G7, 
p. 4G9 sq.) that the present geological features of the 
region confirm the Scriptural account of the fate of the 
cities of the plain where Sodom stood. 

(3.) “The ‘plain of the Jordan,’ in which the cities 
stood (as has been stated), can hardly have been at the 
south end of the lake.” This position of Sodom favors, 
indeed, the foregoing theory, bv reason of the compara- 
tive shallowness of the water in the southern end of the 
Dead Sea; but it is not essential to the mechanical 
agencies employed, whether volcanic, meteorological, or 
fluvial. As, however, the two questions have been in- 
volved in each other, we will proceed to consider, 

IV. The Locution of the City. — Until a very recent 
period it has universally been held that the cities of the 
plain were situated at the southern end of the Dead Sea. 
Josephus, although he speaks indefinitely about the po- 
sition of Sodom, expressly fixes Zoar {Ant. i, 1 1 ; War, 
iv, 8) in Arabia, under which name he was in this case 
referring to the south-east end of the Salt Sea; and to 
the same effect is the testimony of Eusebius {Onomast. 
s. v.) and of Jerome (Ep. cviii, 1 1 ; Comment, in Esa. xv, 
5). This view seems to have been universally held by 
the mediaeval historians and pilgrims, and it is adopted 
by modern topographers, almost without exception. In 
the words of one of the most able and careful of mod- 
ern travellers, Dr. Robinson, “ the cities which were de- 
stroyed must have been situated on the south end of 
the lake as it then existed” {Bill. Res. ii, 188). This 
is also the belief of De Saulcy, except with regard to 
Gomorrah ; and, in fact, is generally accepted, Besides 
the above arguments in favor of the submersion beneath 
the shallow waters of the south end of the sea, a con- 
sideration of much force is the existence of similar names 
in that direction. Thus, the name Uschtm , attached to 
the remarkable ridge of salt which lies at the south- 
western corner of the lake, is usually regarded as the 
representative of Sodom (Kobinson, Van de Velde, De 
Saulcy, etc.), notwithstanding a slight difference be- 
tween the two words. See Sodomitisu Sea. The 
name ’ Amrah , u’hich is attached to a valley among the 
mountains south of Masada (Van de Velde, ii, 99, and 
map), is an almost exact equivalent to the Hebrew of 
Gomorrha (’Amorah). The name Dra'a, and nearly 
as strongly that of Zoghal , recall Zoar. The frequent 
salt pinnacles in the same vicinity are likewise a striking 
memento of the saline incrustation which overtook Lot’s 
wife, although, from the miraculous character of the lat- 
ter incident, we are not inclined to press this coincidence. 
See Lot’s Wife. 

On the other hand, Mr. Tristram, w r ho has explored 
the lake neighborhood more carefully than any previous 
investigator, strenuously contends for the northern loca- 
tion of Sodom with its neighboring cities, chiefly on 
account of the following considerations: 

(1.) When it is said that Lot encamped “at” (not 


“towards”) Sodom (Gen. xiii, 12; Sept. Iv 'Soddpeuc), 
the statement is made in such a connection with the 
“ Ciccdr or circle, of Jordan as to imply that Sodom was 
in it. Now t this Ciccdr was in view’ from a mountain on 
the east of Bethel (Gen. xii, 8; xiii, 3, 10), whence no 
portion of the south end of the lake can be discerned; 
the headland of Feshkah shuts out the view in that 
direction. There is good reason to believe, however, 
that the Ciccdr , or circle, of the Jordan comprehended 
the wiiole crevasse on both ends of the Dead Sea (see 
Jour. Sac. Lit. April, 18GG, p. 3G sq.), and in the above 
passages it is not expressly said that Zoar itself w as vis- 
ible from Abraham’s encampment at Bethel. Similarly, 
in the account of Abraham’s view of the plain from the 
place of his intercession with Jehovah (Gen. xviii, 1G; 
xix, 27, 28), the cities themselves are not said to be in 
sight, but only glimpses of the general Ghor, such as are 
still attainable through the mountain gaps from the tra- 
ditionary spot near Hebron (Kobinson, Bibl.Res.n, 189). 

(2.) In the account of the invasion of Chedorlaomer 
(Gen. xiv) he is described as marching from Mount. Seir 
to flazezon-tamar (Engedi) ; and it is said that after- 
wards he met the king of Sodom and his confederates 
in the vale of Siddim. Now r , as Mr. Tristram urges, 
“had Sodom and the other cities been situated- at the 
south end of the sea, it was certainly not after smiting 
the Amalekites and Amorites at Engedi that they would 
have met the invader, but long before he reached Haze- 
zon-tamar. But when w r e [dace these cities in the plain 
(circle) of the Jordan, there is a topographical sequence 
in the whole story, while Abraham and his allies hur- 
riedly pursue the plunderers up the Ghor without delay 
or impediment until the}' overtake them at the sources 
of the Jordan” {Land of Israel , p. 362). On the con- 
trary, it is impossible to proceed directly from Engedi 
to the plain of Jericho, owing to the impassable heights 
of Ain Feshkah, whereas the way is open along the 
whole shore of the Dead Sea southerly. It was from 
Kadesh, on the western side of the Arabah, that Chedor- 
laomer passed northerly through the Negeb, or south of 
Palestine, and then came dow’n upon the Dead Sea by 
the pass of Engedi, where he could have encountered 
the natives only from the southern Ghor. 

(3.) The location of Zoar at the south-eastern end of 
the Salt Sea is inconsistent with the statement that 
Moses beheld it in his view' from Mount Nebo (Deut. 
xxxiv, 3); for only the western outline of the lake can 
be seen from the most commanding position among those 
heights, one of which must be the mount in question. 
To this argument the same reply may be made as in the 
above (No. 1), namely, that Zoar itself is not said in this 
passage to be seen, but only “ the plain,” or Ghor. We 
have had occasion under the article Pisgaii to notice 
the sw eeping character of the panorama there disclosed 
to Moses — one doubtless of miraculous extent ; and the 
discussion of the location of the guilty cities will be re- 
sumed under Zoar. For the present we may say that, 
although Tristram has reiterated his view's on this sub- 
ject in his Land of Moab (p. 343, Am. ed.), yet it is 
privately understood that he has since changed his 
mind, and now adheres to the traditionary opinion. 
Dr. Merrill revives the arguments in favor of the north- 
ern position of Zoar {Bulletin of the American Geo- 
graphical Society, condensed in the Quar . Statement of 
the “Palestine Exploration Fund,” July, 1879, p. 144). 
See Siddim. 

SODOM, Fruit of. See Apples of Sodom ; Vine 
of Sodom. 

Sod'oma (Sodopa), the Greek form (Rom. ix, 29) 
of the name elsewhere Anglicized Sodom (q.v.). 

SocUomite (w ; ^p. kadesh , i. e. consecrated; Yulg. 
scortator , effem hiatus). This word does not denote an 
inhabitant of Sodom (except only in 2 Esdr.vii, 3G), nor 
one of their descendants; but is employed in the A.V. 
of the Old Test, for those who practiced as a religious 
rite the abominable and unnatural vice from which the 


S5S 


SODOM ITISII SEA 


SODOMITISII SEA 


inhabitants of Sodom and Gomorrah have derived their 
lasting infamy. It occurs in l>eut. xxiii, 17 ; 1 Kings 
xiv, 21 ; xv, Vi; xxii, 40; 2 Kings xxiii, 7; and Job 
xxxv i. 14 (margin). The Hebrew word bullish is said 
to be derived from a root hiddsh , which (strange as it 
may appear) means “pure,” and thence “holy.” The 
words siti\r in Latin, and “devoted” in our own lan- 
guage, have also a double meaning, though the subor- 
dinate signification is not so absolutely contrary to the 
principal one as it is in the case of kadi’sh. “ T. his dread- 
ful ‘consecration,’ or rather desecration, was spread in 
different forms over Pluenicia, Syria, Phrygia, Assyria, 
Babylonia. Ashtaroth, the Greek Astarte, was its chief 
object.” It appears also to have been established at 
Rome, where its victims were called Galli (not from 
Gallia, but from the river Gallus in Bithynia). There 
is an instructive note on the subject in Jeromes Com- 
ment. on II os. iv, 14. See Sodomy. 

The translators of the Sept., with that anxiety to 
soften and conceal obnoxious expressions which has 
often been noticed as a characteristic of their version, 
have, in all cases but one, avoided rendering la flesh by 
its ostensible meaning. In the first of the passages cited 
above they give a double translation, 7roprevu)v and 
TtXiffKvfitvoc (initiated). In the second, nvvctofwg (a 
conspiracy, perhaps reading TwJ?) ; in the third, rdr,’ 
ThXkTiig (sacrifices) ; in the fourth the Vat. MS. omits 
it, and the Alex, has -on hcujWayfisv on; in the fifth, 
run' Kacijaifi ; and in the sixth, in rb dyytXwv. There 
is a feminine equivalent to kadesh, viz. kadeshdh. This 
is found in Gcu. xxxviii, 21, 22; Deut. xxiii, 17; and 
II os. iv, 14. In each of these cases it throws a new 
light on the passage to remember that these women 
were (if the expression may be allowed) the priestesses 
of a religion, not plying for hire, or merely instruments 
for gratifying passing lust. Such ordinary prostitutes 
are called by the name zonuh. In 1 Kings xxii, 38 the 
word zmuth is rendered “armor.” It should be “har- 
lots” — “and the harlots washed themselves there” (early 
in the morning, as was their custom, adds Procopius of 
Gaza). The Sept, has rendered this correctly. The 
“strange women” of Prow ii, 1G, etc., were foreigners, 
zardth. — Smith. See IIaklot. 

Sodomi'tish Sea (Mare Sodomitieum), a name 
once given in the Apocrypha (2 Esdr. v. 3) to the 
brad Sea (q. w). evidently from its supposed connec- 
tion with the overthrow of Sodom. A striking illustra- 
tion of this coincidence in name (which in some form 
has ever since clung to that lake) is found in the names 
of one or two natural features of that region. See 
Sodom. 

(I.) At the soutli-wost corner of the lake, below where 
the wadys Zuwcirali anti Mahauwat break down through 
the enclosing heights, the beach is encroached on by the 
salt mountain or ridge of Khashm t'silum . This remark- 
able object is hitherto but imperfectly known. It is said 
to l>e quite independent of the western mountains, lying 
in front of and separated from them by a considerable 
tract filled up with conical hills and short ridges of 
tin* soft, chalky, marlv deposit just described. It is a 
Icv<-1 ridge or dike several miles long. Its northern 
portion runs smith-southeast ; but after more than half 
iis length ii makes n sudden and decided bend to the 
right, and then runs south-west. It is from three to 
four hundred feet in height, of inconsiderable width. 
'I lu re is great uncertainty about its length. Dr. liobin- 
*"11 states ii at live miles and “a considerable distance 
Ian her” ( ii, lo7, 112). Van de Velde makes it ten miles 
fn, 113), or three mid a half hours (p. UG). But when 
ilu se dimensions arc applied to the map they are much 
too large, nnd it is difficult to believe that it can be 
nu.ro than live miles in all. I)r. Anderson (p. 1K1) says 
it is about two and a half miles wide; hut this appears 
to cm trudiet Dr. Robinson’* expressions (ii, 107). The 
hitler are corroborated by Mr. t’lowes’s partv. Thov 
also noticed salt in large quantities among the rocks in 



Salt Rocks of Uedflni. (From a photograph by the Editor.) 


regular strata some considerable distance back from the 
lake. The mountain consists of a body of crystallized 
rock-salt, more or less solid, covered with a capping of 
chalky limestone and gypsum. The lower portion — the 
salt rock — rises abruptly from the glossy plain at its east- 
ern base, sloping back at an angle of not more than 45°, 
often less. It has a strangely dislocated, shattered look, 
and is all furrowed and worn into huge angular buttresses 
and ridges, from the face of which great fragments are 
occasionally detached by the action of the rains, and ap- 
pear as “pillars of salt,” advanced in front of the general 
mass. At the foot the ground is strewn with lumps 
and masses of salt, salt streams drain continually from 
it into the lake, and the whole of the beach is covered 
with salt — soft and sloppy, and of a pinkish line in win- 
ter and spring, though during the heat of summer dried 
up into a shining, brilliant crust. An occasional patch 
of the Kali plant (S 'ulicorniiv, etc.) is the only vegeta- 
tion to vary the monotony of this most monotonous spot. 
It is probable that from this mountain rather than from 
the lake itself was anciently procured the so-called “salt 
of the Dead Sea,” which was much in request for use in 
the Temple service. It was preferred before all other 
kinds for its reputed effect in hastening the combination 
of t lie sacrifice, while it diminished the unpleasant smell 
of (he burning llesli. Its deliquescent character (due 
to the chlorides of alkaline earths it contains) is also 
noticed in the Talmud ( Menachoth , xxi, 1 ; Jalkut ). It 
was called “Sodom salt,” but also went by the name of 
the “salt that does not rest” (rr2*u nb^), be- 

cause it was made on the Sabbath as on other days, like 
the “ Sunday salt” of the English salt-works. It is still 
much esteemed in Jerusalem. See Salt Ska. 



SODOMY 


859 


(2.) Between the north end of Khashm Usdum and 
the lake is a mound covered with stones and bearing 
the name of um-Zoyhal (Robinson, ii, 107). By De 
Saulcy the name is given Redjom el-Mezorrahl (the gh 
and rr are both attempts to represent the ghain). The 
“ Pilgrim” in Athenaeum, April 2, 1854, expressly states 
that his guide called it Rudjeim ez-Zogheir. It is about 
sixty feet in diameter and ten or twelve high, evidently 
artificial, and not improbably the remains of an ancient 
structure. A view of it, engraved from a photograph 
by Mr. James Graham, is given in Isaacs’s Dead Sea 
(p. 21). This heap De Saulcy maintained to be a por- 
tion of the remains of Sodom. Its name is more sug- 
gestive of Zoar, but there are great obstacles to either 
identification. See Zoar. 

Sodomy, an unnatural crime, consisting of the de- 
filement of man with man, and thus differing from best- 
iality, which is the defilement of man with brutes. 
The name is derived from Sodom, in which city the 
crime was frequent. Sodomy was strictly forbidden in 
the Mosaic law, and was punishable with death (Lev. 
xx, 13). Among the pagan nations of antiquity, as 
still in many heathen countries, this was a very com- 
mon vice (Rom. i, 27); the Greeks and Romans desig- 
nated it by the term pcederasty (see Wilcke, De Saty ri- 
ots Romanis [Viteb. 1760]). In the early Church this 
was considered, not an ordinary, but a monster crime. 
The Council of Ancyra has two canons relating to this 
and similar crimes, imposing heavy ecclesiastical pen- 
alties upon offenders. St. Basil (Can. 62, 63) imposes 
the penalty of adultery, viz. twenty years’ penance; 
and the Council of Eliberis refused communion, even at 
the last, hour, to those guilty of this crime with boys. 
There was an old Roman law against it, called the Lex 
Scantinia , mentioned by Juvenal {Sat. ii, 44) and oth- 
ers; but it lay dormant until revived by Christian em- 
perors. Constantius made it a capital offence, and or- 
dered it to be punished with death by the sword; while 
Theodosius decreed that those found guilty should be 
burned alive. According to modern legislation, it is 
considered a very heinous crime, and severely punished. 
See Bingham, Christ. Antiq. bk. xvi, ch. xi, p. 9. 

Sodor and Man, Diocese of. The Norwegians 
and Danes, who in ancient times occupied the Orkneys 
and other islands on the coast of Scotland, divided these 
islands into two groups: to the former they gave the 
name of Nordnreyar , or Northern Isles; and to the lat- 
ter, which included the western islands, that of Surdu- 
reyar , or Southern Isles. By Sodor , therefore, is meant 
the western islands of Scotland, especially those most 
contiguous to the Isle of Man, which, with them, formed 
a diocese. 


Soffit (erroneously 
is seldom used except 
in reference to the 
subordinate parts and 
members of buildings, 
such as staircases, en- 
tablatures, archways, 
cornices, etc., the un- 
der-sides of which are 
called the soffit. — 
Parker, Gloss. of A rch - 
itect . s. v. 


Soqdieaf), a ceiling. The word 



c. ~ x /v , Soffit (SS). 

Sogane (Swya- 

vi], Suidas Stoyavt]), the name of two towns in Pales- 
tine. 

1. A city of Galilee (Josephus, Life , p. 51 ; War, ii, 
20, 6), situated twenty stadia from Araba, and the same 
distance from Gabara (Reland, Palcest. p. 1021); now 
Sukhnim, a village in the centre of Galilee, first visited 
by G. Schultz, and identified by Grossz (Ritter, Erdk. 
xvi, 768 ; see also Robinson, Later Res. p. 83, 85). There 
are at Sukhnim graves of some famous Jewish rabbins 
(Schwarz, Palest . p. 188). 

2. A city of Gaulonitis (Josephus, War, iv, 1,1; Re- 


SOISSONS, COUNCILS OF 

land, Palcest. p. 1021), discovered by Dr. Thomson (A”. Y. 
Observer, Oct. 15, 1857) in a ruin by the name of Sujan, 
on the high brow of the mountains that rise above the 
Iluleh marshes on the eastern side. — Van de Velde, 
Memoir, p. 350. 

Sohar. See Zoiiar. 

Sohn, Georg, a theologian of Hesse, was born in 
Rossbach, Dec. 31, 1551. In 1571 he obtained the de- 
gree of master of liberal arts at Wittenberg, and in the 
following year began to teach at Marburg. In 1574 he 
entered the faculty, and was intrusted with the exposi- 
tion of Melancthon’s Loci Communes, and soon after- 
wards with the professorship of Hebrew. In 1578 he 
was made doctor of theology. A constant attendance 
on the synods of 1578 and 1582 involved Sohn in the 
controversies of the time. Egidius Ilunnius was the 
strenuous advocate of strict Lutheranism in the Marburg 
faculty, while Sohn ranked as the leading supporter of 
the Melancthonian doctrine in the Hessian Church, and 
this led to his final removal from Marburg. The land- 
grave William of Hesse- Cassel vented his anger on 
Hunnius as the disturber of the Church, and the land- 
grave Louis, at Marburg, retaliated by holding Sohn 
responsible for the existing troubles. The latter was 
accordingly prepared to seek a new field, when he was 
called in 1584 to the University of Hcrborn, in Nassau, 
and to that of Heidelberg. He accepted the latter call, 
and delivered his inaugural address as professor of the- 
ology on July 18 of that year. Four years later he be- 
came a regular member of the Church Council. He died 
April 23, 1589. The works of Sohn are chiefly doctrinal, 
and of the Melancthonian type. A complete list is given 
in Strider, Grundlage einer hess. Gelehrtengesch. xv, 
109-112. The more important works were published 
in 4 vols. at Herborn in 1591, and in a third edition in 
1609. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Soissons, Councils of {Concilium Suessionense'), 
were held in the town of Soissons, department of Aisne, 
France. 

I. Held March 3, 744, by order of Pepin. Twenty- 
three bishops were present. The heretic Adelbert was 
condemned in this council, and ten canons were pub- 
lished. 

I. Recognises the Nicene Creed. 

4. Forbids fornication, perjury, and false witness to the 
laity; orders all priests to submit to their bishop, to ren- 
der an account to him every year of their conduct, to re- 
ceive him when making his visitations, aud to obtain from 
him the holy rite and chrism. 

5. Forbids to receive strange clerks. 

0. Directs bishops to take all possible measures for the 
extirpation of paganism. 

7. Orders that the crosses which Adelbert had set up iu 
his diocese should be burned. 

S. Forbids clerks to retain any women in their houses, 
except their mother, sister, or niece. 

9. Forbids lay persons to retain in their houses women 
consecrated to God; forbids them also to marry the wife 
of another man in his lifetime, siuce no man may put 
away his wife except for adultery. 

See Mansi, vi, 1552. 

II. Held April 26, 853, in the monastery of St. Me- 
dard, under Ilincmar of Rheims, composed of twenty- 
six bishops, from five provinces. The king, Charles the 
Bald, was present during the deliberations of the Coun- 
cil, which lasted through eight sessions. Thirty canons 
were published. 

1. Recapitulates and confirms the judgment pronounced 
against Ebho aud the clerks whom he had ordained; also 
confirms the elevation of Ilincmar to his see. 

2. Relates to the case of Henman, bishop of Nevers, at 
the time out of his mind, whose church was committed to 
the care of his archbishop. 

4. Orders Ainaulry, archbishop of Tours, to take charge 
of the hishopric of Mans, the bishop, Aldricus, being af- 
flicted with paralysis, having addressed a letter to the. 
synod for assistance, asking tor their prayers during his 
life and after his decease. 

7. Orders that the king he requested to send commis- 
sioners, who should re-establish divine service in the 
monasteries. 

Mansi adds three other canons (i, 929; viii, 79). 


8G0 


SOLDIER 


SOJOURNING 


III. IIi*M Aug. 18, 8GG. by order of Charles. Thirty- 
five hUhops attended. The clerks ordained by Ebbo, 
and who had been deposed in the Council of 853, were, 
bv indulgence, rc-establifdied. Vulgude, one of the 
i lumber, was in this same year consecrated archbishop 
of Bourses. See lliueinar, Opus c. vol. xviii; Mansi, 
viii, 80S. 

IV. Held in 1002 or K»93 by K ay n aid us, archbishop 
of Khcims, against Koscelin the Trit heist. Fuleo, bish- 
op of Beauvais, attended in behalf of Anselm, abbot of 
lice (afterwards archbishop of Canterbury), whom Kos- 
celiu. both in private and in his writings, had falsely 
charged with holding the same opinions as himself, viz. 
that the Father. Son, and Ilolv Spirit were three dis- 
tinct beings, existing separately, and that it might be 
s lid that there were three Cods, were not the expression 
bar.sh. and contrary to the phraseology in use. Being 
questioned before the assembly, Koscelin explained his 
views, and abjured the heresy imputed to him; but no 
sooner was the council dissolved than he recanted, de- 
claring that he had made his abjuration before the syn- 
od merely through fear of being assassinated by the 
ignorant populace unless he did so. I pon this Anselm 
wrote his tract he Incarnationc , which he dedicated to 
I rban II. Subsequently Koscelin. tinding himself re- 
garded by all Catholics as a heretic and avoided, betook 
himself to 1 vo. bishop of Chartres, imploring bis assist- 
ance. and abjuring again all his errors. At last he died 
in retreat in Aquitaine. See l’agi, in Baronins, A. D. 
]i»9l ; Mansi, x, 101. 

V. 1 1 eld in 1 1 15 by Conon. bishop of I'rameste. From 
this council deputies were sent to the Carthusians, en- 
treating and commanding them to send back into his 
diocese Godfrey. bishop of Amiens, who had retired 
among them. This command was executed in the be- 
ginning of Lent. Another council was held in the same 
year at Khcims upon the same subject by the legate 
Conon. See Mansi, x. 801. 

VI. Held in February. 1121, by Conon, bishop of 
Bnenesle and legate. In this council Abelard was com- 
pelled to burn bis book upon (lie subject of the Blessed 
Trinity, and was desired to make a confession of faith; 
he accordingly, with many tears and much difficulty, 
read the Creed of St. Athanasius. He was then sent to 
the monastery of St. Medard at Soissons, and subse- 
quently to that of St. Hen vs. Sec Mansi, x, 885. 

VII. Held July 11, 1450, by John, archbishop of 
Khcims, who presided. The execution of the decrees 
of Basle was ordered, and the acts of the Assembly of 
Bonrgcs were confirmed. Several other canons were 
enacted, which relate, among other things, to the dress 
of bishops, the approval of confessors, the preaching of 
indulgences, etc. See Mansi, xiii, 1390. — Laiulon, Man- 
ual of Council*, s. v. 

Sojourning (-’l’*-, a resilience; Exod. xii, 40; 
elsewhere ‘•dwelling,” “habitation,” etc.; 7rapoiKia, 1 
Pet. i, 17; so the verb and noun, wa point m and napo i- 
Kor). 'The 130 years of the “sojourning of the children 
of Israel in Egypt" (Hal. iii, 17) may be reckoned thus: 


From the mil of Atmihnui (Acts vii, 12) till the re- Yra. 

•nov.d from llnrnn '(Jen. xii, f>), about r> 

In t a ii t> ;i a u before Hie birth of Isaac (Hen. xxi,5) 2r» 

Till l lie birth of Jacob (Hen. xxv, 20) l>u 

'ITII tin* migration Into Egypt ((Jen. xlvll, U) l-m 

The time p.i-serl In Egypt, only 2tn 

The w hole period of sojourning (Exod. xii, 40) 4;;u 

Beduei ye. rs lu llaruii 4- 2.% till Isaac's birth Bn 


'1'he sojoiirulng of the “ seed" (Gen. xv, 13; Acts vii, G) 400 

See ( ’ll UONOl.l a ,V, 

Sol, in Koinan mythology, is the Latin name for 

//# lots, t he mil. 

Sola (ahmc\ a term used in old English registers 
to designate a Mpinsfir or unmarried woman. 

Sola, l>.\vti» Aaiuis me. senior minister of the 
Spanish and Portuguese Congregation in bunion, Eng- 
land, was born Dec. 2d, 1790, in Amsterdam. Having 


been duly prepared in bis native country for the Jewish 
ministry, besides having studied several modern lan- 
guages, he came to England, having been elected min- 
ister of the Sephardi Congregation of London. In 1831 
lie began to preach in the Portuguese synagogue, and 
his sermons were in all probability the first ever deliv- 
ered in the English tongue in those precincts. He 
died Oct. 29, 18(50. Besides some sermons, he published 
.1 Historical Essay on the Poets, Poetry , and Melodies 
of the Sephardic Litvryy , to E. Aguilar’s ancient melo- 
dies of the liturgy of the Spanish and Portuguese Jews 
(London, 1857 ): — FAyhteen Treatises from the Mishna, 
translated in connection with M.J. Kaphall (q. v.) (ibid. 
1845, 2d ed .) : — The Festival Prayers according to the 
Custom of the German and Polish Jeics , the Hebrew r 
text with an English translation (ibid. 1800, 6 vols.). 
See Picciotto, Sketches of A nylo-Jeicish History (ibid. 
1875), p. 359 si]. ; F first, Bibl.Jud. iii, 349. (B. P.) 

Solar, Sou.ei: (Lat. solarium ), a loft, garret, or 
upper chamber. In a mediaeval house it was usually 
situated behind the dais, separated from it by the end 
of the hall, and had a cellar under it; these two stories 
together were not so high as the hall, leaving the gable 
of the lofty roof with the window in it free above them. 
This was the lord’s chamber, ami there generally was a 
small opening from the solar into the hall, from which 
the lord could overlook the proceeding, and hear all 
that passed. The term solar is also used for the rood- 
loft (q. v.) of a church. In Norfolk, Forby observes 
that the belfry-loft is termed the soller, or the bell- 
soller. 

Solares, or Chamsi, a small sect inhabiting a 
certain district of Mesopotamia, and supposed by some 
to be descendants of the Samsaeans mentioned by Epi- 
phauius. Hyde ( History of the Ancient Religion of the 
Persians ) describes them as amounting to not more 
than a thousand souls; having no priests nor doctors, 
and no places of meeting except eaves, w T here they per- 
form their religious worship, the mysteries of which 
are kept so secret that they have not been discovered 
even by those who have been converted to the Chris- 
tian religion. Being compelled by the Mohammedans 
to declare themselves members of some Christian com- 
munion, they chose the Jacobite sect, baptizing their 
children and burying their dead according to the cus- 
tom of these Christians. They are considered by some 
to be the same as the Elkesaites (q. v.). See Gard- 
ner, Faiths of the World , s. v.; Mosheim, Eccles. Hist. 
iii, 124. 

Solari, Andrea, surnamed del Golbo , an Italian 
painter, flourished in the former half of the lGth cen- 
tury. He was a good colorist, and evidently belonged 
to the school of Da Vinci, lie painted the members 
of the Holy Family for various museums, and took part 
in the decoration of the castle of Gaillon. 

Solari, Ci istoforo, surnamed il Gobho, an Italian 
sculptor and architect, brother of the preceding, flour- 
ished in the latter part of the 15th century, lie was 
one of the most illustrious artists that worked at Char- 
treuse and Bavin, and on the cathedral of Milan. It is 
difficult to distinguish his pieces, except some sacred 
figures in Milan. 

Solder (pp'n, debek, from pp’T to stick), welding of 
metal (Isa. xii, 7). The same lleb. word likewise de- 
notes a “joint” of a coat of mail (l Kings xxiii, 24; 2 
Clirou. xviii, 33). 

Soldier (in II eh. only collect, for an army; 

or by periphrase; ffrparuorqt;). See Aumy. 

SOLDI Eli OF CIIKIST, an expression borrowed 
from a well-known Scripture simile, and frequently in- 
troduced or alluded to in the Braver-book (see Offices 
for Baptism). In some of the older writers of the 
Church of England the word “knight” was used in 
the same sense; “The fourth gift of the lloly Spirit is 


SOLDINS 


861 SOLOMON 


the gift of strength which armeth God’s knight, and 
maketh his soul hardy and strong to suffer divers dis- 
eases for God’s love” (Wycliffe).— Stanton, Diet, of ike 
Church, s. v. 

Soldins, a Christian sect, so called from their lead- 
er, one Boldin, a Greek priest. They appeared about 
the middle of the 5th century in the kingdoms of Saba 
and Godolia. They altered the manner of the sacrifice 
of the mass; their priests offered gold, their deacons 
incense, and their subdeacons myrrh; and this in mem- 
ory of the like offerings made to the infant Jesus by 
the wise men. Very few authors mention the Soldins, 
neither do we know whether they still subsist. 

Sole (C]3, prop, th epalm of the hand). See Foot. 

Solea (<r oj\ecty aoXta), a part of the church respect- 
ing which ecclesiastical writers are not agreed. Latin 
writers use the word solea. It is supposed to denote 
certain seats at the entrance of the chancel appropri- 
ated to the use of emperors, kings, magistrates, or other 
persons of distinction. The seats of the inferior clergy 
and monks are sometimes designated by the same name. 
According to Walcott ( Sacred Archieol. s. v.) it was 
the space in a Greek church between the ambon and 
sanctuary; in a Latin church between the choir and 
presbytery. In the basilica it was raised several steps 
above the ambon and the choir of minor clerks. Here 
the communion was given to all but the clergy, and 
subdeacons and readers sat, and the candidate for the 
priesthood was led from this part to the altar. 

Solemn League and Covenant. See Cove- 
nant (Solemn League and). 

Solemn Service, a modern x\nglican term used 
to signify a choral celebration of the holy eucharist with 
priest, deacon, and subdeacon, or with music. It is 
equivalent to the “high mass” or “solemn mass” of 
the Homan Catholics, and if used of evening service is 
the same as “ solemn vespers.” 

Solemnities, The, was an ancient term to desig- 
nate the holy eucharist. 

Solicitant, one who, abusing the privacy of the 
confessional, tempts women to a violation of chastity. 
This kind of solicitation became so common in Spain 
that pope Paul IV promulgated a bull against solici- 
tants. Nor was this custom confined to Spain ; it was 
rife in Portugal, England, France, and Germany. A 
German council held A.D. 1225 charged the priests 
with unchastity, voluptuousness, and obscenity. Greg- 
ory XV issued a bull on this accursed practice in 1622, 
bearing the title Universi Domini , which was con- 
firmed by Benedict XIV, June, 1741. Another bull 
was also issued by the same pontiff in 1745. 

Solifidianism, the doctrine that faith is the whole 
of religion, such doctrine being preceded hv an errone- 
ous description of faith. There are two forms of Soli- 
fidianism — one resting the whole of religion in the re- 
ception by the intellect of correct dogma; the other in 
an inner sense or persuasion of the man that God’s 
promises belong to him. Those who hold the latter 
view are called also Fiduciaries . It is easily seen that 
Solifidianism, in both its forms, destroys the nature of 
faith. The former refers faith to the intellect alone, 
with a suppression or entire exclusion of the grace of 
God and the renewed will, and tends to the superseding 
of good works; the latter suppresses the action of the 
reason and understanding, and substitutes for a reason- 
able faith an unreasoning and groundless persuasion. 

The former error may take the shape of a mainte- 
nance of orthodoxy, which, however, will be found to be 
an extremely deficient representation of Christian doc- 
trine, omitting those doctrines which have most power 
to move the will, and striving to bring others within 
the comprehension of man’s understanding. The more 
common form is that of advancing the doctrine of justi- 
fication by faith into the substance of the Gospel. Such 


Solifidians teach that good works are not necessary to 
justification. 

The second form of Solifidianism generally connects 
itself with a one-sided or perverted view of the doctrine 
of election. It advances the error that Christ died only 
for the elect, and that the elect cannot fall from grace, 
and it rests on an inward sense or persuasion of one’s 
own election. It speaks of faith, but makes fdes the 
same as fducia ; and the latter it makes to be, not the 
witness of the Spirit with our spirits, i. e. with an en- 
lightened conscience and understanding, but a mere in- 
ner sense or persuasion, held without appeal to the con- 
science. Both forms of Solifidianism lead to Antino- 
mianism. — Blunt, Diet, of Doct. Theol. s. v. 

Solifidians, those who maintain the principles of 
Solifidianism (q. v.). 

Solimena, Francesco, an Italian painter, was 
born Oct. 4, 1657, near Naples, and studied first under 
his father, Angelo, but was afterwards sent by cardinal 
Orsini to Naples, where he studied under various emi- 
nent painters, lie became in some sort a universal art- 
ist, but executed several sacred designs, which are found 
in the churches of Naples. See lloefer, Xonv. Bioy. 
Gene rale, s. v. 

Solis, Antonio de, a Spanish ecclesiastic and poet, 
was born at Piacenza, in Old Castile, July 18, 1610, and 
was sent to Salamanca to study law. His preference, 
however, was fur poetry, which he cultivated with great 
success, so that he. was considered by Cornero to have 
been the best comic poet that Spain ever saAv. He be- 
came secretary to the count de Oropesa, and in 1642 
Philip IV made him one of his secretaries. After Phil- 
ip’s death the queen-regent made him first historiog- 
rapher of the Indies, a place of great profit as well as 
honor. Eventually Solis resolved to dedicate himself 
to the service of the Church, and was ordained a priest 
at the age of fifty-seven. He now wrote nothing but 
some dramatic pieces upon subjects of devotion, which 
are represented in Spain on certain festivals. He died 
April 19, 1686. His Comedies were printed at Madrid 
(1681, 4to) : — his sacred and profane poems at the same 
place (1716, 4to) : — his History of Mexico often, but par- 
ticularly at Brussels (1704, fob). There is also a collec- 
tion of his Letters (Madrid, 1737). See Hoefer, Kouv. 
Bioy. Gene? ale, s. v. 

Solitaires, nuns of the Order of St. Peter of Alcan- 
tara, instituted by cardinal Barberini in 1670. They 
imitate the austere practices of their patron saint, ob- 
serve perpetual silence, and employ their time wholly in 
spiritual exercises. 1 hey go barefoot, gird themselves 
with a linen cord, and wear no linen. — Gardner, Faiths 
of the 11 T orld, s. v. 

Solitaries, a term which designates such as addict 
themselves to a retired or solitary life. It was original- 
ly applied not only to such as retired to absolute soli- 
tude in caves and deserts, but also to such as lived apart 
from the world in separate societies. 

Solitarii, a branch of the Manicileans (q. v.). 
While the Theodosian Code decreed capital punishment 
upon some of the other branches of this obnoxious sect, 
the Solitarii were only punished with confiscation. — 
Gardner, Faiths of the World, s. v. 

Sol'omon (lleb. Shelomoh ', i“P2‘Vw', peaceful; Sept. 
"EaXidp/ov; New Test, and Josephus, XoXojuwr; Vulg. 
Salonto), the son of David by Bathsheba, and his suc- 
cessor upon the throne. B.C. 1013-973. (The impor- 
tance of his character and reign justify a full treatment 
here, in which we make use of whatever materials we 
find appropriate in the Biblical dictionaries.) See 
David. 

I. Sources.— 1. The comparative scantiness of his- 
torical data for a life of Solomon is itself significant. 
While that of David occupies 1 Sam. xvi-xxxi, 2 Sam. 
i-xxiv, 1 Kings i, ii, 1 Cliron. x-xxix, that of Solomon 
fills only the eleven chapters 1 Kings i-xi and the nine 


SOLOMON* 


862 


SOLOMON 


2 Chron. i-ix. The compilers of those books felt, as by | 
a true inspiration, unlike the authors of the Apocryphal 
literature cited below, that the wanderings, wars, and ■ 
sufferings «.f David were better fitted for the instruction 
of after-ages than the inaguitieence of his son. They 
manifestly give extracts only from larger works which 
were before them, "The book of the acts of Solomon” 
(1 Kings xi, 41); “The book of Nathan the prophet, 

I he hook of Vhijah the Shilouite, the visions of lddo 
the seer" (2 Citron, ix, 29). Those which they do give 
hear, with what for the historian is a disproportionate 
fulness, on the early glories of his reign, and speak but 
little (those in 2 Chron. not at all) of its later sins and 
misfort unes, and we are consequently unable to follow' 
the annals of Solomon step by step. 

2. Ewald. with all his usual fondness for assigning 

different portions of each book of the Old lest, to a se- 
ries of successive editors, goes through the process here 
w ith much ingenuity, hut without any very satisfactory 
result hr. iii, 259-2(53). A more interesting 

inquiry would be to which of the hooks above named 
we may refer the sections that the compilers have put 
together. We shall probably not be far wrong in think- 
ing of Nathan, far advanced in life at the commence- 
ment of the reign, David’s chief adviser during the 
vears in which he was absorbed in the details of the 
Temple and its ritual, himself a priest (T Kings iv, 5 
[Hob.]; comp. Ewald, Gesch. hr. iii, 11(5), as having 
written t he account of the accession of Solomon and the 
dedication of the Temple (l Kings i-viii, (56, 2 Chron. 
i -viii, 15). The prayer of Solomon, so fully r< pro- 
duced and so obviously precomposed, may have, been 
written under his guidance. To Ahijah the Shilouite, 
active at the close of the reign, alive some time after 
Jeroboam’s accession, we may ascribe the short record 
of the sin of Solomon, and of the revolution to which he 
himself had so largely contributed (1 Kings xi). From 
the lw>ok of the acts of Solomon probably came the mis- 
cellaneous facts as to the commerce and splendor of his 
reign (ix, 10 x, 29). 

3. Besides the direct history of the Old Test., w e may 
find some materials for the life of Solomon in the books 
that hear his name, and in the psalms which are refer- 
red by some to his time ( Psa. ii, xlv, lxxii, cxxvii ). 
Whatever doubts may hang over the date and author- 
ship of Ecclesiastes and the Song of Songs, we may at 
lea>t see in them the rcllection of the thoughts and feel- 
ings of his reign. If we accept the latest date which 
recent criticism has assigned to them, they elaborately 
work up materials which were accessible to the writers 
and are not accessible to us. If we refer them in t heir 
substance, following the judgment of the most advanced 
Sliemitic scholars, to the Solomonic period itself, they 
then come before us with all the freshness and vividness 
of contemporary evidence ( Kenan, I Jisf.ihs Langues Se- 
mit . p. 131). 

I. Other materials are very scanty. The history of 
Josephus i«, for the most part, only a loose and inac- 
curate paraphrase of the Old-Test, narrative. In him, 
and in the more erudite among early Christian writers, 
we find some fragments of older history not without 
their value extracts from archives alleged to exist at 
'l yre in the first century of the Christian sera, and from 
the Ph<enicinn histories of Menander and Dins (.!«/, 

viii, 2, <5; f>, 3), from Kupolcmus (Ensch. Prop. Ertntq. 

ix, 30), from Alexander Polyhistnr, Menander, and Lai- 
tns (Clem. Al. Strom, i, 21). Writers such as these 
w «-ro of course only compilers at second-hand, hut they 
probably bad access io some earlier documents which 
has e now perished, 

5. The legends of later Oriental literature will claim 
a distinct notice. All that iliey contribute to history is 
the help they give us in realizing the impression made 
bv the eolohsal greatness of Solomon, as in earlier and 
Inti r times by that of Nimrod and Alexander, on the 
minds of men of many countries and through tnanv 
ages. 


II. Early Life. — 1. The student of the life of Solo- 
mon must take as his starting-point the circumstances 
of his birth. He was the child of David’s old age, the 
last-born of all his sons (I Chron. iii, 5). B.C. 1034. 
The narrative of 2 Sam. xii leaves, it is true, a different 
impression. On the other hand, the order of the names 
in 1 Chron. iii, 5 is otherwise unaccountable. Josephus 
distinctly states it (.4/rt. vii, 14, 2). Ilis mother had 
gained over David a twofold pow'er — first, as the object 
of a passionate though guilty love; and, next, as the 
one person to whom, in bis repentance, he could make 
something like restitution. The months that preceded 
his birth were for the conscience-stricken king a time 
of self-abasement. The birth itself of the child w f ho 
was to replace the one that had been smitten must have 
been looked for as a pledge of pardon and a sign of hope. 
The feelings of the king and of his prophet -guide ex- 
pressed themselves in the names with which they wel- 
comed it. The yearnings of the “ man of war,” w r ho 
“ had shed much blood,” for a time of peace — yearnings 
which had shown themselves before, when he gave to 
his third son the name of Ab-salom ( = father of peace) — 
now led him to give to the new' -born infant the name 
of Solomon (Shelomoh = the peaceful one), Nathan, 
w ith a marked reference to the meaning of the king’s 
own name ( = the darling, the beloved one), takes an- 
other form of the same w'ord, and joins it, after the 
growing custom of the time, with the name of Jehovah. 
David had been the darling of his people. Jedid-jah 
(the name w r as coined for the purpose) should be the 
darling of the Lord (2 Sam. xii, 24, 25, see Ewald, Gesch. 
Isr. iii, 215). See Jeijidiah. According to the re- 
ceived interpretation of Prov. xxxi, 1, his mother also 
contributed an ideal name, Lemuel ( — to God, Deoda- 
tus), the dedicated one (comp. Ewald, Poet. Bitch, iv, 
173). On this hypothesis the reproof w r as drawn forth 
by the king’s intemperance and sensuality. Ill contrast 
to what his wives w f ere, she draw's the picture of what 
a pattern w ife ought to be (Pineda, De Reb. Sol. i, 4). 

2. The influences to which the childhood of Solomon 
was thus exposed must have contributed largely to de- 
termine the character of his after-years. The inquiry 
what was the education w'hich ended in such wonderful 
contrasts — a wisdom then, and perhaps since, unparal- 
leled, a sensuality like that of Louis NY — cannot but be 
instructive. The three influences which must have en- 
tered most largely into that education were those of his 
father, his mother, and the teacher under whose charge 
i he was placed from his earliest infancy (2 Sam. xii, 25). 

(1.) The fact just stated that a prophet-priest w*as 
made the special instructor indicates the king’s earnest 
wish that this child at least should be protected against 
the evils which, then and afterwards, showed them- 
selves in his elder sons, and be worthy of the name he 
bore. At first, apparently, there w r as no distinct pur- 
pose to make him ids heir. Absalom is still the king’s 
favorite son (2 Sam. xiii. 37 ; xviii, 33) — is looked oil 
by the people as the destined successor (xiv, 13; xv, l- 
6). The death of Absalom, when Solomon was about 
ten years old, left the place vacant, and David, passing 
over the claims of all Ids elder sons, those by Bathshcba 
included, guided by the. influence of Nathan, or by Ids 
own discernment of the gifts and graces which were 
tokens of the love of Jehovah, pledged his word in se- 
cret to Bathshcba that he, and no other, should be the 
heir (1 Kings i, 13). The words which w'ere spoken 
somewhat later express, doubtless, the purpose which 
guided him throughout (1 Chron. xxviii, 9, 20). The 
son’s life should not be as his own had been, one of 
hardships and wars, dark crimes and passionate repent- 
ance, but, from first to last, he pure, blameless, peaceful, 
fulfilling the ideal of glory and of righteousness, after 
which he himself had vainly striven. The glorious 
visions of I *sn . lxxii may he. looked on as the prophetic 
expansion of those hopes of his old age. So far, all was 
well. But we may not ignore the fact that the later 
i years of David’s life presented a change for the worse 


SOLOMON 


SC3 


SOLOMON 


as well as for the better. His sins, though forgiven, 
left behind it the Nemesis of an enfeebled will and a 
less generous activity. The liturgical clement of relig- 
ion becomes, after the first passionate outpouring of 
Psa. li, unduly predominant. He lives to amass treas- 
ures and materials for the Temple which he may not 
build (xxii, 5, 14). lie plans with his own hands all 
the details of its architecture (xxviii, 19). He organ- 
izes on a scale of elaborate magnificence all the attend- 
ance of the priesthood and the choral services of the 
Levites (xxiv, xxv). Put, meanwhile, his duties as a 
king are neglected. He no longer sits in the gate to 
do judgment (2 Sam. xv, 2, 4). He leaves the sin of 
Amnon unpunished “ because he loved him, for he was 
his first-born” (Sept, at 2 Sam. xiii, 21). The hearts of 
the people fall away from him. First Absalom and 
then Sheba become formidable rivals (2 Sam. xv, 6; 
xx, 2). The history of the numbering of the people 
(xxiv; 1 Chron. xxi) implies the purpose of some act 
of despotism — a poll-tax or a conscription (2 Sam. xxiv, 
9 makes the latter the more probable) — such as startled 
all his older and more experienced counsellors. If in 
“the last words of David” belonging to this period there 
is the old devotion, the old hungering after righteous- 
ness (xxiii, 2-5), there is also — first generally (ver. 6, 
7), and aftenvards resting on individual offenders (1 
Kings ii, 5-8) — a more passionate desire to punish those 
who had wronged him, a painful recurrence of vindic- 
tive thoughts for offences which he had once freely for- 
given, and which were not greater than his own. We 
cannot rest in the belief that his influence over his son’s 
character was one exclusively for good. 

(2.) In Eastern countries, and under a system of polyg- 
amy, the son is more dependent, even than elsewhere, 
on the character of the mother. The history of the 
Jewish monarchy furnishes many instances of that de- 
pendence. It recognises it in the care with which it 
records the name of each monarch’s mother. Nothing 
that we know of Bathsheba leads ns to think of her as 
likely to mould her son’s mind and heart to the higher 
forms of goodness. She offers no resistance to the king’s 
passion (Ewald, Gesch. Isr . iii, 211). She makes it a 
stepping-stone to power. She is a ready accomplice in 
the scheme by which her shame was to have been con- 
cealed. Doubtless she, too, was sorrowful and penitent 
when the rebuke of Nathan was followed by her child’s 
death (2 Sam. xii, 24), but the after-history shows that 
the grand-daughter of Ahithophel had inherited not a 
little of his character. A willing adultrcss, who had be- 
come devout, but had not ceased to be ambitious, could 
hardly be more, at the best, than the Madame de Main- 
tenon of a king whose contrition and piety were render- 
ing him, unlike his former self, unduly passive in the 
hands of others. See Batusueba. 

(3.) What was likely to be the influence of the prophet 
to whose care the education of Solomon was confided? 
(Ileb. of 2 Sam. xii, 25). We know, beyond all doubt, 
that he could speak bold and faithful words when they 
were needed (2 Sam. vii, 1-17; xii, 1-14). But this 
power, belonging to moments or messages of special in- 
spiration, does not involve the permanent possession of 
a clear-sighted wisdom or of aims uniformly high, and 
we in vain search the later years of David’s reign for 
any proof of Nathan’s activity for good. He gives him- 
self to the work of writing the annals of David’s reign 
(I Chron. xxix, 29). He places his own sons in the 
way of being the companions and counsellors of the fut- 
ure king (I Kings iv, 5). The absence of his name 
from the history of the “numbering,” and the fact that 
the census was followed early in the reign of Solomon 
by heavy burdens and a forced service, almost lead us 
to the conclusion that the prophet had acquiesced in a 
measure which had in view the magnificence of the 
Temple, and that it was left to David’s own heart, re- 
turning to its better impulses (2 Sam. xxiv, 10), and to 
an older and less courtly prophet, to protest against an 
act which began in pride and tended to oppression. Jo- 


sephus, with his usual inaccuracy, substitutes Nathan 
for Gad in his narrative ( Ant . vii, 13, 2). 

3. Under these influences the boy grew up. At the 
age of ten or eleven he must have passed through the 
revolt of Absalom and shared his father’s exile (2 Sam. 
xv, 16). lie would be taught all that priests or Levites 
or prophets had to teach ; music and song; the book of 
the law of the Lord in such portions and in such forms 
as were then current; the “proverbs of the ancients,” 
which his father had been wont to quote (1 Sam. xxiv, 
13); probably also a literature which has survived only 
in fragments; the book of Jasher, the upright ones, the 
heroes of the people; the book of the wars of the Lord ; 
the wisdom, oral or written, of the sages of his own 
tribe, Heman, and Ethan, and Calcol, and Darda (1 
Chron. ii, 6), who contributed so largely to the noble 
hymns of this period (Psa. Ixxxviii. lxxx*ix), and proba- 
bly were incorporated into the choir of the tabernacle 
(Ewald, Gesch. Isr. iii, 355). The growing intercourse 
of Israel with the Phoenicians would naturally lead to a 
wider knowledge of the outlying world and its wonders 
than had fallen to his father’s lot. Admirable, however, 
as all this was, a shepherd -life, like his father’s, fur- 
nished, we may believe, a better education for the king- 
ly calling (Psa. lxxviii, 70, 71). Born to the purple, 
there was the inevitable risk of a selfish luxury. Cradled 
iu liturgies, trained to think chiefly of the magnificent 
“palace” of Jehovah (I Chron. xxix, 19) of which he 
was to be the builder, there was the danger first of an 
aesthetic formalism and then of ultimate indifference. 

III. A ccession. — 1. The feebleness of David’s old age 
led to an attempt which might have deprived Solomon 
of the throne his father destined for him. Adonijah, 
next in order of birth to Absalom, like Absalom, “was 
a goodly man” (I Kings i, 6), in full maturity of years, 
backed by the oldest of the king’s friends and counsel- 
lors, Joab and Abiathar, and by all the sons of David, 
who looked with jealousy — the latter on the obvious 
though not as yet declared preference of the latest-born, 
and the former on the growing influence of the rival 
counsellors who were most in the king’s favor, Nathan, 
Zadok, and Benaiah. Following in the steps of Absa- 
lom, he assumed the kingly state of a chariot and a 
body-guard; and David, more passive than ever, looked 
on iu silence. At last a time was chosen for openly 
proclaiming him as king. A solemn feast at En-rogel 
was to inaugurate the new reign. All were invited to 
it but those whom it was intended to displace. It was 
necessary for those whose interests were endangered, 
backed apparently bv two of David’s surviving elder 
brothers (I Chron. ii, 13, 14; Ewald, Gesch. Isr. iii, 266), 
to take prompt measures. Bathsheba and Nathan took 
counsel together. The king was reminded of his oath. 
A virtual abdication was pressed upon him as the only 
means by which the succession of his favorite son could 
be secured. The whole thing was completed with won- 
derful rapidity. Biding on the mule well known as be- 
longing to the king, attended by Nathan the prophet 
and Zadok the priest, and, more important still, by the 
king’s special company of the thirty Gibborim.or mighty 
men (1 Kings i, 10, 33), and the body-guard of the Chc- 
rethites and Pelethites (mercenaries, and therefore not 
liable to the contagion of popular feeling) under the 
command of Benaiah (himself, like Nathan and Zadok, 
of the sons of Aaron), he went down to Gihon and 
was proclaimed and anointed king. (According to later 
Jewish teaching, a king was not anointed when he suc- 
ceeded to his father, except in the case of a previous 
usurpation or a disputed succession [Otlio, Lex. Rabbin. 
s. v. “ Bex”].) The shouts of his followers fell on the 
startled ears of the guests at Adonijah’s banquet. Hap- 
pily they were as yet committed to no overt act, and 
they did not venture on one now. One by one they 
rose and departed. The plot had failed. The counter 
coup d'etat of Nathan and Bathsheba had been success- 
ful. Such incidents are common enough in the history 
of Eastern monarchies. They arc usually followed by 


SOLOMOX 


SG4 


SOLOMOX 


a massacre of the defeated party. Adonijali expected 
Midi an »>mic, and took refuse at tlie horns of the altar. 
In this instance, however, the young conqueror u«ed his 
triumph gciieroiijdy. I he lives Iwitli i » 1 Adonijali an<l 
hi^ partial ns were spared, at least lor a time. What 
had been done hurriedly was done afterwards in more 
solemn form. >olomou was presented to a great gath- 
ering of all the notables of Israel with a set speech, in 
which the old king announced what was, to his mind, 
the programme of the new reign, a time of peace and 
plenty, of a stately worship, of devotion to Jehovah. A 
lew months more and Solomon found himself, by his 
father s death, the sole occupant of the throne. 

2. The position to which he succeeded was unique. 
Never before, and never after, did the kingdom of Israel 
take its place among the great monarchies of the East, 
aide to ally itself or to contend on equal terms with 
Egypt or Assyria, stretching from the river Euphrates 
to the Imrdcr of Egypt, from the Mediterranean to the 
t ; ulf of Aknba, receiving annual tributes from many 
subject princes (see llasc, Reyni iStdnm. I Script in [No- 
ritnh. 1739]). Large treasures accumulated through 
many years were at his disposal. The sums mentioned 
are (I) the public funds for building the Temple. 100,000 
talents ( kikarim ) of gold and 1,000,000 of silver; (2) 
David’s private idle rings, 3000 talents of gold and 7000 
of silver. Besides these, large sums of unknown amount 
were believed to have been stored up in the sepulchre 
of David, .'lotto talents were taken from it by Hvrca- 
nus (Josephus, .1 nt. vii. 15, 3: xiii,K,4; xvi.7,1). The 
people, with the exception of the tolerated worship in 
iiigii places, were true servants of Jehovah. Knowl- 
edge. art. music, poetry, had received a new’ impulse, 
and were moving on with rapid steps to such perfection 
as the age and the raee were capable of attaining. We 
may rightly ask what manner of man he was. outward- 
ly mid inwardly, who at the age of about twenty w’as 
called to this glorious sovereignty? We have, it is 
true, no direct description in this case as w*e have of 
the earlier kings. There are, however, materials for till- 
ing up the gap. The wonderful impression which Sol- 
omon made upon all who came near him may well lead 
ns to believe that wit li him. as with Saul and David, Ab- 
salom ami Adonijali. ns with most other favorite princes 
of Eastern peoples, there must have been the fascination 
and the grace of a noble presence. Whatever higher 
mystic meaning may be latent in Psa. xlv, or the Song 
of Songs, we are compelled to think of them as having 
had, at East, a historical starting-point. They tell us 
of one w ho was, in the eyes of the men of his own time, 
“fairer than the children of men,” the face “bright and 
ruddy” a** his father’s (Taut, v, 10; 1 Sam. xvii, 42), 
bushy locks, dark ns the raven's wing, vet not without 
a golden glow (possibly sprinkled with gold-dust, as was 
the hair of the youths who waited on him [Josephus, 
.In/, viii, 7, 3 ], or dyed with henna [Miehaclis, note in 
1/owtli, /Vo/, xxxij), the eves soft as “the eves of 
doves/' the “countenance as Lebanon, excellent as the 
cetlars/’ “the chi< f<*st among ten thousand, the alto- 
gether lovely” (Cant, v, 9-10). Add to this all gifts 
of a noble, far-reaching intellect, large and ready sym- 
pathies. a playful and geuinl humor, the lips “full of 
graii*," the soul “anointed” as “with the oil of glad- 
lu ns” (Psa. xlv), and we may form some notion of what 
the king was like in that dawn of his golden prime. 

.'k Tin* historical starting-point of the Song of Songs 
just s|Hiken of connects itself, in all probability, with 
the earlie*t facts in the history of the new reign. The 
narrative, as told hi 1 Kings ii, is not a little per- 
plexing. llithsheha, who had before stirred up David 
ng/no-t Adonijali, now appears as interceding for him, 
begging that Abishng the Shnnamite, the virgin con- 
cubine of David, might he given him as n wife. Sol- 
omon, who till then had prolessed the profoiiudest rev- 
i r»*nc* for his mother, his willingness to grant her any- 
thing, u bit nlv dashes into fiercest w rath at this. He 
deicct-i what her unsuspicious generosity had not per- 


l ceived. The petition is treated as part of a conspiracy 
in which Joab and Abiathar are sharers. Benaiah is 
once more called in. Adonijali is put to death at once. 
Joab is slain even within the precincts of the taberna- 
cle, to which he had tied as an asylum. Abiathar is 
deposed and exiled, sent to a life of poverty and shame 
(1 Kings ii, 31-80), and the high-priesthood transferred 
to another family more ready than he had been to pass 
from the old order to the new, ami to accept the voices 
of the prophets as greater than the oracles which had 
belonged exclusively to the priesthood. See Ukim and 
Tiiimmim. Abiathar is declared “worthy of death,” 
clearly not for any new’ offences, but for his participa- 
tion in Adouijah’ss original attempt; and Joab is put 
to death because he is alarmed at the treatment of his 
associates (ver. 26-29), which implies collusion on his 
part. The king sees in the movement a plot to keep 
him still in the tutelage of childhood, to entrap him 
into admitting his elder brother’s right to the choicest 
treasure of his father’s harem, and therefore virtually to 
the throne, or at least to a regency in which he would 
have his own partisans as counsellors. With a keen- 
sighted promptness he crushes the whole scheme. He 
gets rid of a rival, fulfils David’s dying counsels as to 
Joab, and asserts bis own independence. Soon after- 
wards an opportunity is thrown in his way of getting 
rid of one [see Siiimei] who had been troublesome be- 
fore and might be troublesome again. He presses the 
letter of a compact against a man w r ho by his infatuated 
disregard of it seemed given over to destruction (ver.36- 
46). (An elaborate vindication of Solomon’s conduct in 
this matter may be found in Menthen, Thesaur . vol. i; 
Slisser. Piss, de Salom, Pi'ocessn contra Shirnei .) There 
is, hmvever, no needless slaughter. The other “sons of 
David” are still spared, and one of them, Nathan, be- 
comes the head of a distinct family (Zech. xii, 12) which 
ultimately fills up the failure of the direct succession 
(Luke iii, 31). As he punishes his father’s enemies, he 
also show’s kindness to the friends who had been faithful 
to him. Chimham, the son of Barzillai, apparently re- 
ceives an inheritance near the city of David, and prob- 
ably in the reign of Solomon displays his inherited hos- 
pitality by building a caravansary for the strangers 
whom the fame and wealth of Solomon drew to Jeru- 
salem (2 Sam. xix, 31-40; 1 Kings ii, 7; Jer. xli, 17; 
Ewald, Gesch. Isr. iii, 247 ; Proph . ii, 191). 

IV. Foreign Policy . — The wmiit of sufficient data for 
a continuous history has already been noticed. All that 
we have are («) The duration of the reign, forty years 
I (1 Kings xi, 42). (Josephus, again inaccurate, length- 
| ens the reign to eighty years, and makes the age at ac- 
cession fourteen [Ant. viii, 7, 8].) ( b ) The commence- 

ment of the Temple in the fourth, its completion in the 
eleventh year of his reign (vi, 1,37,38). (c) The com- 
mencement of his own palace in the seventh, its com- 
pletion in the twentieth year (vii, 1; 2 Chron, viii, 1). 
(d) The conquest of Hamath-zobah,and the consequent 
foundation of cities in the region north of Palestine after 
the twentieth year (ver. 1-6). With materials so scanty 
as these, it will he better to group the chief facts in an 
order which will best enable us to appreciate their sig- 
nificance. 

I. Fgypt . — The first act of the foreign policy of the 
new' reign must have been to most Israelites a very 
startling one. He made affinity with Pharaoh, king of 
Egypt, lie married Pharaoh's daughter (1 Kings iii, 
I). Since (lie time of the Exode there had been no 
intercourse between the two countries. David and his 
counsellors had taken no steps to promote it. Egypt 
had probably taken part in assisting Edom in its resist- 
ance to David (1 Chron. xi, 23; Ewald, Gesch. Isr. iii, 
182), and had received llatlad, the prince of Edom, with 
royal honors. The king had given him his wife’s sister 
in marriage, and adopted his son into his own family 
(I Kings xi, 14-20). These steps indicated a purpose 
to support him at some future time more actively, and 
Solomon’s proposal of marriage w r as probably intended 


SOLOMON 


865 


SOLOMON 


to counteract it. It was at the time so far successful 
that when Hadad, on hearing of the death of the dread- 
ed leaders of the armies of Israel, David and Joab, 
wished to seize the opportunity of attacking the new 
king, the court of Egypt rendered him no assistance 
(xi, 21, 22). The disturbances thus caused, like those 
of a later date in the north, coming from the foundation 
of a new Syrian kingdom at Damascus by Kezon and 
other fugitives from Zobah (vcr. 23-25), might well 
lead Solomon to look out for a powerful support, to ob- 
tain for a new dynasty and a new kingdom a recognition 
by one of older fame and greater power. The immedi- 
ate results were probably favorable enough. The new 
queen brought with her as a dowry the frontier city of 
Gezer, against which, as threatening the tranquillity of 
Israel, and as still possessed by a remnant of the old 
Canaanites, Pharaoh had led bis armies. She was re- 
ceived with all honor, the queen-mother herself attend- 
ing to place the diadem on her son’s brow on the day 
of his espousals (Cant, iii, II). Gifts from the nobles 
of Israel and from Tyre (the latter offered perhaps by a 
Tyrian princess) were lavished at her feet (Psa. xlv, 12). 
It is to be remarked that the daughter of Pharaoh ap- 
pears to have conformed to the Hebrew faith, for she is 
mentioned as if apart from the “strange women” who 
seduced Solomon into the toleration or practice of idol- 
atry (1 Kings xi, 1), and there are no accounts of any 
Egyptian superstitions being introduced during his 
reign. The Egyptian queen dwelt in a separate por- 
tion of the city of David till a palace was reared — the 
presence of the ark on Zion precluded the near residence 
of such a foreigner, though she might have abandoned 
her national gods (2 Chron. viii, 11). She dwelt there 
apparently with attendants of her own race, “the vir- 
gins that be her fellows,” probably conforming in some 
degree to the religion of her adopted country. Accord- 
ing to a tradition which may have some foundation in 
spite of its exaggerated numbers, Pharaoh (Psusennes, 
or, as in the story, Yaphres) sent with her workmen to 
help in building the Temple to the number of 80,000 
( Eupolemus, in Euseb. Prcep. Evany, ii, 30-35). The 
“chariots of Pharaoh,” at any rate, appeared in royal 
procession with a splendor hitherto unknown (Cant. 

i, 9). 

The ultimate issue of the alliance showed that it 
was hollow and impolitic. There may have been a 
revolution in Egypt, changing the dynasty and trans- 
ferring the seat of power to Bubastis (Ewald, iii, 389). 
There was at any rate a change of policy. The court 
of Egypt welcomes the fugitive Jeroboam when he is 
known to have aspirations after kingly power. There, 
we may believe, by some kind of compact, expressed or 
understood, was planned the scheme which led first to 
the rebellion of the Ten Tribes, and then to the attack 
of Shishak on the weakened and dismantled kingdom 
of the son of Solomon. Evils such as these were hardly 
counterbalanced by the trade opened by Solomon in the 
fine linen of Egypt, or the supply of chariots and horses 
which, as belonging to aggressive rather than defensive 
warfare, a wiser policy would have led him to avoid 
(l Kings x, 28, 29). 

2. Tyre. — The alliance with the Phoenician king 
rested on a somewhat different footing. It had been 
part of David’s policy from the beginning of his reign. 
Hiram had been “ever a lover of David.” He, or his 
grandfather (comp, the data given in 2 Sam. v, 11; Jose- 
phus, A nt. vii,3, 2; viii, 5, 3 ; Cont. Ap. i, 18; and Ewald, 
iii, 287), had helped him by supplying materials and 
workmen for his palace. As soon as he heard of Solo- 
mon’s accession he sent ambassadors to salute him. A 
correspondence passed between the two kings, which 
ended in a treaty of commerce. (The letters are given 
at length by Josephus [Ant. viii, 2,8] and Eupolemus 
[Eusebius, Prcep. Evany, loc. cit. ].) Israel was to be sup- 
plied from Tyre with the materials which were wanted 
for the Temple that was to be the glory of the new 
reign. Gold from Ophir, cedar -wood from Lebanon, 
IX.— 1 1 1 


probably also copper from Cyprus, and tin from Spain 
or Cornwall (Niebuhr, Lect. on Anc. llist. i, 79), for the 
brass which was so highly valued, purple from Tyre it- 
self, workmen from among the Zidoniaus — all these were 
wanted and were given. The opening of Joppa as a 
port created a new coasting -trade, and the materials 
I from Tyre were conveyed to it on fioats, and thence to 
Jerusalem (2 Chron. ii, 1(5). The chief architect of the 
Temple, though an Israelite on his mother’s side, belong- 
ing to the tribe of Dan or Naphtali [see IIikam], was 
yet by birth a Tyrian, a namesake of the king. In re- 
turn lbr these exports, the Phoenicians were only too 
glad to receive the corn and oil of Solomon’s territory. 
Their narrow strip of coast did not produce enough for 
the population of their cities, and then, as at a later 
period, “ their country was nourished” by the broad val- 
leys and plains of Samaria and Galilee (Acts xii, 20). 

The results of the alliance diil not end here. Now, for 
the first time in the history of the Israelites, they entered 
on a career as a commercial people. They joined the 
Phoenicians in their Mediterranean voyages to the coasts 
of Spain. See Tarshish. Solomon’s possession of the 
Edomitish coast enabled him to open to his ally a new 
world of commerce. The ports of Elath and Ezion- 
geber were filled with ships of Tarshish, i. e. merchant- 
ships, for the long voyages, manned chiefly by Phoe- 
nicians, but built at Solomon’s expense, which sailed 
down the iElanitic Gulf of the Bed Sea, on through the 
Indian Ocean, to lands which had before been hardly 
known even by name, to Ophir and Sheba, to Arabia 
Felix, or India, or Ceylon; and brought back, after an 
absence of nearly three years, treasures almost or alto- 
gether new — gold and silver and precious stones, nard, 
aloes, sandal-wood, almug-trees, and ivory; and last, 
but not least in the eyes of the historian, new forms of 
animal life, on which the inhabitants of Palestine gazed 
with wondering eyes, “apes and peacocks.” The. in- 
terest of Solomon in these enterprises was shown by his 
leaving his palaces at Jerusalem and elsewhere and 
travelling to Elath and Ezion-geber to superintend the 
construction of the fleet (2 Chron. viii, 17); perhaps 
also to Sidon for a like purpose. (The statement of 
Justin Martyr [Dial. c. Tryph. c. 34], iv ^.tdona tiSuj- 
\o Xdrpu, receives by the accompanying Sid yvvahea 
the character of an extract from some history then ex- 
tant. The marriage of Solomon with a daughter of the 
king of Tyre is mentioned by Eusebius [Prcep. Evany. 
x, 11].) To the knowledge thus gained we may ascribe 
the wider thoughts which appear in the psalms of this 
and the following periods, as of those who “see the 
wonders of the deep and occupy their business in great 
waters” (Psa. evii, 23-30); perhaps also as an expe- 
rience of the more humiliating accidents of sea-travel 
(Prov. xxiii, 34, 35). (See the monographs De Kaviy. 
Salom. by Wichmannshausen [Viteb. 1709], Hnetius 
[in Ugolino, vol. vii], Konigsmann [Slesv. 1800], and 
Beil! [in Germ.] [Dorp. 1834 J.) 

According to the statement of the Phoenician writers 
quoted by Josephus (Ant. viii, 5, 3), the intercourse of 
the two kings had in it also something of the sportive- 
ness and freedom of friends. They delighted to perplex 
each other with hard questions, and laid wagers as to 
their power of answering them. Hiram was at first the 
loser and paid his forfeits; but afterwards, through the 
help of a sharp-witted Tyrian bov, Abdemon, he solved 
the hard problems, and was in the end the winner. (The 
narrative of Josephus implies the existence of some 
story, more or less humorous, in Tyrian literature, in 
which the wisest of the kings of earth was baffled by a 
boy’s cleverness. A singular pendant to this is found 
in the popular mediaeval story of Solomon and Morolf, 
in which the latter [an ugly, deformed dwarf] outwits 
the former. A modernized version of this work may 
be found in the Wulhalla [Leipsic, 1844]. Older cop- 
ies, in Latin and German, of the 15th century, are in 
the British Museum Library. The Anglo-Saxon Dia- 
logue of Solomon and Saturn is a mere catechism of 


SOLOMON 


SOG 


SOLOMON 


scriptural knowledge.) The singular fragment of his- 1 
tore inserted in 1 Kings ix, 11-11, recording the cession 
hv Solomon of sixteen cities, and Hiram’s dissatisfaction 
with them. is perhaps connected with these imperial 
wagers. The king of Tyre revenges himself by a Pine- j 
nician Innunot. See C.M»ut- lie fulfils his part of the j 
contract, and pays the stipulated price. 

3. These were the two most important alliances. The 
absence of any reference to Babylon and Assyria, and 
the fact that the Euphrates was recognised as the boim- ! 
dary of Solomon’s kingdom (2 Chron. ix, 20), suggest | 
the* inference that the Mesopotamian monarchies were 
at this time comparatively feeble. Other neighboring 
nations were content to pay annual tribute in the form 
of gifts (ix. 21 ). The kings of the 11 it tiles and of Syria 
welcomed the opening of a new line of commerce which 
enabled them to tind in Jerusalem an emporium where ( 
they might get the chariots and horses of Egypt (1 
Kings x, 210. This, however, was obviously but a small 
part of the t radio organized by Solomon. The founda- | 
tion of cities like Tadinor in the wilderness, and Tipli- , 
sah (Thapsacus) on the Euphrates; of others on the j 
route, each with its own special market for chariots or 
horses or stores (2 Chron. viii, 3 0); the erection of 
lofty towers on Lebanon (2 Chron. loc. cit.; Cant, vii, 1), 
pointed to a more distant commerce, opening out the 
resources of Central Asia, reaching, as that of Tyre did 
afterwards (availing itself of this very route), to the 
nomad tribes of the Caspian and the lllack seas, to 
Tognrmah and Meshech and Tubal (Ezek. xxvii, 13, 

1 1 ; comp. Milmati, //Lit. of the Jeics , i, 270). 

With the few exceptions above noted, the reign of 
Solomon veritied his name. It was a time of peace: 

•• he had peace on all sides round about him, ami Judah 
and Israel dwelt safely” (l Kings iv, 24, 25). The arms 
of David had won the empire which Solomon now en- 
joyed. It was an empire in the Oriental sense, ex- 
tending from the Euphrates to the Mediterranean, from 
Thapsacus to t Liza. The outlying territories paid trib- 
ute to their suzerain; “they that dwell in the wilder- 
ness bowed before him; the kings of Tarshish and of 
the isles brought presents; the kings of Sheba and Seba 
offered gifts;” the Syrian tribes beyond Lebanon and as 
far as Damascus, with Moab, Ammon, and Edom, the 
Arabian clans, the surviving aborigines, and the Philis- 
tines, did homage and paid tribute — “they brought 
proems, and served Solomon all the days of his life.” 
At the same time proper measures or precautions were 
taken to preserve peace. Fortresses seem to have been 
built along the ridges of Lebanon, and on the frontiers 
•* were chariot-cities, and cities of horsemen.” The two 
Ik tli-horons, on the boundary-line of the great and un- 
easy tribe of Ephraim, and on the high-road between 
Jerusalem and the sea-coast, as well from the cast as 
from Pliilistia and Egypt, were strongly fortified — be- 
came “fenced cities, with walls, bars, and gates” (2 
Chron. viii, ;>). For a similar reason the old city of 
tiezer, on the Philistine border, was rebuilt and garri- 
soned; and llazor and Megiddo, guarding the plain of 
Esdraelon from Syrian or Assyrian attack, rose into 
great fortifications. No doubt, also, on the south, and 
fronting Iduma-a and the desert, similar military sta- 
tions were placed at intervals. Such a congeries of 
kingdoms has hut a loose coherence, and continues united 
only so long ns the central controlling power maintains 
its predominance, so that Solomon's empire, made up 
<>f those heterogeneous materials, fell to pieces at his 
death and the revolution that so closely followed it. 

•1. The survey of the iullucnee exercised by Solomon 
on surrounding nations would be incomplete if we were 
to juiv* over that which was more directly personal — 
the fame of his glory and his wisdom. The legends 
which pervade the East are probably not merely the 
expansion of the scanty notices of the Old Test., but (as 
suggested alsive), like those which gather round the 
names of Niinrod and Alexander, the result ol the im- 
prevtiuu made by the personal presence of one of the 


mighty ones of the earth. Cities like Tadmor and 
Tiphsah were not likely to have been founded by a king 
who had never seen and chosen the sites. 2 Chron. viii, 
3, t, implies the journey which Josephus speaks of (A nt. 

viii, 0, 1), and at Tadmor Solomon was within one day’s 
journey of the Euphrates, and six of Babylon. (So 
Josephus, loc. cit.; but the clay’s journey must have 
been a long one.) Wherever the ships of Tarshish 
went, they carried with them the report, losing nothing 
in its passage, of what their crews had seen and heard. 
The impression made on the Incas of Peru by the power 
and knowledge of the Spaniards offers perhaps the near- 
est approach to what falls so little within the limits of 
our experience, though there was there no personal cen- 
tre round which the admiration could gather itself. The 
journey of the queen of Sheba, though from its circum- 
stances the most conspicuous, did not stand alone. The 
inhabitants of Jerusalem, of the whole line of country 
between it and the Gnlf of Akaba, saw with amazement 
the “great train;” the men with their swarthy faces, 
the camels bearing spices and gold and gems, of a queen 
who had come from the far South, because she had 
heard of the wisdom of Solomon, and connected with it 
“the name of Jehovah” (1 Kings x, 1). She came with 
hard questions to test that wisdom, and the words just 
quoted may throw light upon their nature. Not riddles 
and enigmas only, such as the sportive fancy of the 
East delights in, but the ever-old, cver-new, problems 
of life, such as, even in that age and country, were vex- 
ing the hearts of the speakers in the book of Job, were 
stirring in her mind when she communed with Solomon 
of “all that was in her heart” (2 Chron. x, 2). She 
meets us the representative of a body whom the dediea- 
tion-praver shows to have been numerous, the strangers 
“coming from a far country” because of the “great 
name” of Jehovah (1 Kings viii, 41), many of them 
princes themselves, or the messengers of kings (2 Chron. 

ix, 23). The historians of Israel delighted to dwell on 
her confession that the reality surpassed the fame, “the 
one half of the greatness of thy wisdom was not told 
me” (vcr. 6 ; Ewald, iii, 353). (See Schramm, Be Fama 
Saloin, [Herb. 1745].) 

The territory of Sheba, according to Strabo, reached 
so far north as to meet that of the Nabathteans, al- 
though its proper seat was at the southernmost angle 
of Arabia. The very rich presents made by the queen 
show the extreme value of her commerce with the He- 
brew monarch ; and this early interchange of hospitality 
derives a peculiar interest, from the fact that in much 
later ages — those of the Maccabees and downward — the 
intercourse of the Jews with Sheba became so intimate, 
and their influence, and even power, so great. Jewish 
circumcision took root there, and princes held sway 
who were called Jewish. The language of Sheba is be- 
lieved to have been strongly different from the literate 
Arabic; yet, like the Etliiopic, it belonged to the great 
Syro-Arabian family, and was not alien to the Hebrew 
in the same sense that the Egyptian was; and the 
great ease with which the pure monotheism of the Mac- 
cabees propagated itself in Sheba gives plausibility to 
the opinion that even at the time of Solomon the people 
of Sheba had much religious superiority over the Arabs 
and Syrians in general. If so, it becomes clear how 
the curiosity of the southern queen would be worked 
upon by seeing the riches of the distant monarch, 
whose purer creed must have been carried everywhere 
with them bv bis sailors and servants. See Siusiu. 

V. Interval History . — I. A dnnni.it rat ire Capacity . — 
We can now enter upon the reign of Solomon, in its 
bearing upon the history of Israel, without the necessity 
of a digression. The first prominent scene is one which 
presents his character in its noblest aspect. There were 
two holy places which divided the reverence of the 
people — the ark and its provisional tabernacle at Jeru- 
salem, and the original tabernacle of the congregation, 
which, after many wanderings, was now pitched at (iih- 
coii. It was thought right that the new king should 


SOLOMON 


8G7 


SOLOMON 


offer solemn sacrifices at both. After those at Gibeon 
there came that vision of the night which has in all 
ages borne its noble witness to the hearts of rulers. Not 
for riches, or long life, or victory over enemies, would 
the son of David, then at least true to his high calling, 
feeling himself as “a little child” in comparison with 
the vastness of his work, offer his supplications, but for 
a “wise and understanding heart,” that he might judge 
the people. The “speech pleased the Lord.” There 
came in answer the promise of a wisdom “like which 
there had been none before; like which there should 
be none after” (1 Kings iii, 5-15). So far all was well. 
The prayer was a right and noble one. Yet there is 
also a contrast between it and the prayers of David 
which accounts for many other contrasts. The desire 
of David’s heart is not chiefly for wisdom, but for holi- 
ness. He is conscious of an oppressing evil, and seeks 
to be delivered from it. He repents, and falls, and re- 
pents again. Solomon asks only for wisdom. He has 
a lofty ideal before him, and seeks to accomplish it; but 
he is as yet haunted by no deeper yearnings, and speaks 
as one who has “no need of repentance.” 

The wisdom asked for was given in large measure, 
and took a varied range. The wide world of nature, 
animate and inanimate, which the enterprises of his 
subjects were throwing open to him, the lives and char- 
acters of men, in all their surface-weaknesses, in all their 
inner depths, lay before him, and he took cognizance of 
all. 15ut the highest wisdom was that wanted for the 
highest work, for governing and guiding, and the his- 
torian hastens to give an illustration of it. The pat- 
tern-instance is in all its circumstances thoroughly Ori- 
ental. The king sits in the gate of the city, at the early 
dawn, to settle any disputes, however strange, between 
any litigants, however humble. In the rough-and-ready 
test which turns the scales of evidence, before so evenly 
balanced, there is a kind of rough humor as well as sa- 
gacity specially attractive to the Eastern mind, then 
and at all times (1 Kings iii, 16-28). 

But the power to rule showed itself not in judging 
only, but in organizing. The system of government 
which he inherited from David received a fuller expan- 
sion. Prominent among the “ princes” of his kingdom, 
i. e. officers of his own appointment, were members of 
the priestly order: Azariah the son of Zadok, Zadok 
himself the high-priest, Benaiah the son of Jehoiada 
as captain of the host, another Azariah and Zabud, the 
sons of Nathan— one over the officers (A iitstmbwi) who 
acted as purveyors to the king’s household (1 Kings iv, 
2-5), the other in the more confidential character of 
“king’s friend.” In addition to these, there were the 
two scribes ( Sopke?'im t), the king’s secretaries, drawing 
up his edicts and the like [see Scribe], Elihoreph and 
Ahiah, the recorder or annalist of the king’s reign (Mitz- 
Hr), the superintendent of the king’s house and house- 
hold expenses (Isa. xxii, 15), including probably the 
harem. The last in order, at once the most indispensa- 
ble and the most hated, was Adoniram, who presided 
“over the tribute,” that word including probably the 
personal service of forced labor (comp. Keil, Comm, ad 
loc., and Ewald, Gesch . Isr. iii, 33d). 

2. Exchequer. — The last name leads ns to the king’s 
finances. The first impression of the facts given us is 
that of abounding plenty. That all the drinking-ves- 
sels of the two palaces should be of pure gold was a 
small thing, “ nothing accounted of in the days of Solo- 
mon” (1 Kings x, 21). “Silver was in Jerusalem as 
stones, and cedars as the sycamorc-trces in the vale” 
(x, 27). The people were “eating and drinking and 
making merry” (iv, 20). The treasures left by David 
for building the Temple might well seem almost inex- 
haustible (1 Chron. xxix, 1-7). (We labor, however, 
under a twofold uncertainty, [1] as to the accuracy of 
the numbers, [2] as to the value of the terms. Pri- 
deaux, followed by Lewis, estimates the amount at 
£833,000,000, yet the savings of the later years of Da- 
vid’s life, for one special purpose, could hardly have 


surpassed the national debt of England [comp. Milman, 
History of the Jeirs , i, 267].) The large quantities of 
the precious metals imported from Ophir and Tarshish 
would speak, to a people who had not learned the les- 
sons of a long experience, of a boundless source of wealt h 
(1 Kings ix, 28). All the kings and princes of the sub- 
ject provinces paid tribute in the form of gifts, in mon- 
ey and in kind, “ at a fixed rate year by year” (x, 25). 
Monopolies of trade, then, as at all times in the East, 
contributed to the king’s treasury, and the trade in the 
fine linen and chariots and horses of Egypt must have 
brought in large profits (ver. 28,29). The king’s domain- 
lands were apparently let out, as vineyards or for other 
purposes, at a fixed annual rental (Caiit. viii, 11). Upon 
the Israelites (probably not till the later period of his 
reign) there was levied a tax of ten per cent, on their 
produce (1 Sam. viii, 15). All the provinces of his own 
kingdom, grouped apparently in a special order for this 
purpose, were bound each in turn to supply the king’s 
enormous household with provisions (1 Kings iv, 21-23). 
The total amount thus brought into the treasury in 
gold, exclusive of all payments in kind, amounted to 
666 talents (x, 14). See. Tax. 

The profound peace which the nation enjoyed as a 
fruit of David’s victories stimulated the industry of all 
Israel. The tribes beyond the Jordan had become rich 
by the plunder of the Hagarenes, and had a wide dis- 
trict where their cattle might multiply to an indefinite 
extent. The agricultural tribes enjoyed a soil and cli- 
mate in some parts eminently fruitful, and in all richly 
rewarding the toil of irrigation ; so that, in the security 
of peace, nothing more was wanted to develop the re- 
sources of the nation than markets for its various prod- 
uce. In food for men and cattle, in timber and fruit- 
trees, in stone, and probably in the useful metals, the 
land supplied of itself all the first wants of its people in 
abundance. For exportation, it is distinctly stated that 
wheat, barley, oil, and wine were in chief demand ; to 
which we may conjecturally add, wool, hides, and other 
raw materials. The king undoubtedly had large dis- 
tricts and extensive herds of his own ; but besides this, 
he received presents in hind from his own people and 
from the subject nations; and it was possible in this 
way to make demands upon them, without severe op- 
pression, to an extent that is unbearable where taxes 
must be paid in gold or ^silver. He was himself at once 
monarch and merchant; and we may with much confi- 
dence infer that no private merchant will be allowed to 
compete with a prince who has assumed the mercantile 
character. By his intimate commercial union with the 
Tyrians, he was put into the most favorable of all posi- 
tions for disposing of his goods. That energetic nation, 
possessing so small a strip of territory, had much need 
of various raw produce for their own wants. Another 
large demand was made by them for the raw materials 
of manufactures, and for articles which they could with 
advantage sell again ; and as they were able to furnish 
so many acceptable luxuries to the court of Solomon, a 
most active change soon commenced. Only second in 
importance to this, and superior in fame, was the com- 
merce of the Red Sea, which could not have been suc- 
cessfully prosecuted without the aid of Tyrian enter- 
prise and experience. The navigation to Sheba, and 
the districts beyond — whether of Eastern Arabia or of 
Africa — in spite of its tediousness, was highly lucrative, 
from the vast diversity of productions between the coun- 
tries so exchanging; while, as it was a trade of monop- 
oly, a very disproportionate share of the whole gain fell 
to the carriers of the merchandise. The Egyptians 
were the only nation who might have been rivals in 
the southern maritime traffic; but their religion and 
their exclusive principles did not favor sea-voyages ; 
and there is some reason to think that at this early 
period they abstained from sending their own people 
abroad for commerce. The goods brought back from 
the south were chiefly gold, precious stones, spice, al- 
mug or other scented woods, and ivory, all of which 


SOLOMON 


SOLOMON SOS 


were probably so abundant in iheir native regions as to 
Ik' parted with on easy terms; and of course were all 
admirably suited for re-exportation to Europe. The 
earrving-trnde. which was thus shared between Isolo- 
mon and the Tyrians, was probably the most lucrative 
part of the southern and eastern commerce. How large 
a portion of it went on bv caravans of camels is wholly 
unknown, yet that this branch was considerable is cer- 
tain. From Egypt Solomon imported not only linen 
yarn, but even horses and chariots, which were sold 
again to the princes of Syria ami of the Hit tiles ; ami 
were probably prized for the superior breed of the 
horses and for the light, strong, and elegant structure 
of the chariots. Wine, being abundant in Palestine, 
and wholly wanting in Egypt, was no doubt a principal 
means of repayment. Moreover, Solomon's fortifying 
of Tadmor ^>r Palmyra), and retention of Thapsacus on 
the Euphrates, show that he had an important interest 
in the direct land ami river trade to Babylon; although 
we have no details on this subject. The difficulty 
which meets ns is, to imagine by what exports, light 
enough to hear land-carriage, he was able to pay for his 
imports. We may conjecture that he sent out Tyrian 
cloths and trinkets, or Egyptian linen of the finest fab- 
ric; yet in many of these things the Babylonians also 
excelled. ( >n the whole, when we consider that in the 
case of Solomon t lie commercial wealth of the entire 
community was concentrated in the hands of the gov- 
ernment. that much of the trade was a monopoly, and 
that all was a sms ted or directed by the experience and 
energy of the Tyrians, the overwhelming riches of this 
eminent merchant-sovereign are perhaps not surprising. 

It was hardly possible, however, that any financial 
system could bear the strain of the king’s passion for 
magnificence. The cost of the Temple was, it is true, 
provided for by David’s savings ami the offerings of 
the people; hut even while that was building, yet more 
when it was finished, one structure followed another 
with ruinous rapidity. A palace for himself, grander 
than that which Hiram had built for his father; anoth- 
er for Pharaoh’s daughter; the house of the forest of 
Lebanon, in which he sat in his court of judgment, the 
pillar* all of cedar, seated on a throne of ivory and gold, 
in which six lions on either side, the symbols of the 
tribe of .fmlah, appeared (as in the thrones of Assyria, 
I^avard. Xiu. and Hub. ii. 30) standing on the steps and 
supporting the arms of the chair (l Kings vii. 1-12; x, 
l*-20) ; ivory palaces and ivory towers, used apparently 
for the king’s armory (Psa. xlv,S ; Cant. iv,4; vii, 4); the 
ascent from his own palace to the house or palace of Jeho- 
vah ( l Kings x, 5 ) ; a summer-palace in Lebanon (ix, 10; 
Cant. vii. 4); stately gardens at Etham. paradises like 
those of the great Eastern kings (Ecdos. ii, 5. 0; Jose- 
phus. .1 ut. viii. 7,3) [see Pauauisk ] ; the foundation of 
something like a stately school or college; costly aque- 
ducts bringing water, it may be, from the well of Beth- 
lehem, dear to David’s heart, to supply the king’s pal- 
ace in Jerusalem ( Kwald, iii, 323); the fortifications of 
Jerusalem completed, those of other cities begun (1 
King* ix, lf> 10); and. above all. the harem, with all 
the expenditure which it involved oil slaves and slave- 
dealers, on columbines and eunuchs (I Sam. viii, 15; 1 
( hroii. xx viii, I ). on uien-singers and wumen-si tigers ' 
( 1 .teles, ii, Xj these rose before the wondering eyes of 
his people ami dazzled them with their magnificence. 
All the equipment of his court, the “apparel” of his 
servants, was on the same scale. If hi* went from his 
hall ot judgment (<> iho Temple, Ik? marched between 
two lines of soldiers, each with a burnished shield of 
gold (I Kings x. Ifi, 17; Ewald, iii,320). If he went 
on a royal progress to his paradise at El ham. he went 
in snow-white raiment, riding in a stately eliariot of 
cedar, deeked with silver and gold and purple, carpeted 
with the eostliest tapestry worked by the daughters of 
Jerusalem (t’lint. iii, 9, i’ll), A body-guard attended 
him, ** threescore valiant men,” tallest and handsomest 
of the sous of Israel, in the freshness of their youth, ar- , 


rayed in Tyrian purple, their long black hair sprinkled 
freshly every day with gold-dust (ver. 7, 8; Josephus, 
A nt. viii, 7, 55). Forty thousand stalls of horses for his 
chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen, made up the 
measure of his magnificence (1 Kings iv, 20). If some 
of the public works had the plea of utility — the fortifi- 
cation of some cities for purposes of defence (Millo 
[the suburb of Jerusalem], Ilazor, Megiddo, the two 
Beth-horons) ; the foundation of others (Tadmor and 
Tiphsah) for purposes of commerce — these were simply 
the pomps of a selfish luxury; and the people', after the 
first dazzle was over, felt that they were so. As the 
treasury became empty, taxes multiplied and monopo- 
lies became more irksome. Even the Israelites, besides 
the conscription which brought them into the king’s 
armies (ix,22), were subject, though for a part only of 
each year, to the corvee of compulsory labor (v, 13). 
The revolution that followed had, like most other revo- 
lutions, financial disorder as the chief among its causes. 
The people complained, not of the king’s idolatry, but 
of their burdens, of his “ grievous yoke” (xii,4). Their 
hatred fell heaviest on Adoniram, who was over the 
tribute. If, on the one side, the division of the king- 
dom came as a penalty for Solomon’s idolatrous apos- 
tasy from Jehovah, it was, ou another, the Nemesis of a 
selfish passion for glory, itself the most terrible of all 
idolatries. 

3. Structures . — It remains for us to trace that other 
downfall, belonging more visibly, though not more real- 
ly. to his religions life, from the loftiest height even to 
the lowest depth. The building and dedication of the 
Temple are obviously the representatives of the former. 
That was the special task which he inherited from his 
father, and to that he gave himself with all his heart 
and strength, lie came to it with all the noble thoughts 
as to the meaning and grounds of worship which his 
lather and Nathan could instil into him. We have al- 
ready seen, in speaking of his intercourse with 'lyre, 
what measures lie took for its completion. All that 
can be said as to its architecture, proportions, materials, 
and the organization of the ministering priests and Le- 
vites, will he found elsewhere. See Temple. Here it 
will be enough to picture to ourselves the feelings 
of the men of Judah as they watched, during seven 
long years, the evclopean foundations of vast stones 
(still remaining when all else has perished [Ewald, iii, 
297]) gradually rising tip and covering the area of the 
thrcshing-tloor of Araunah, materials arriving contin- 
ually from Joppa, cedar and gold and silver, brass 
“without weight” from the foundries of Succoth and 
Zaretlian, stones ready hewn and squared from the 
quarries. Far from colossal in its size, it was conspicu- 
ous chiefly by the lavish use, within and without., of 
the gold of Ophir and Parvaim. It glittered in the 
morning sun (as has been well said) like the sanctuary 
of an El Dorado (Milman, Hist, of the Jews , i, 259). 
Throughout the whole work the tranquillity of the 
kingly city was unbroken by the sound of the work- 
man’s hammer : 

“ Like some tall palm the noiseless fabric sprung.” 

We cannot ignore the fact that even now there were 
some darker shades in the picture. Not reverence only 
for the holy city, but the wish to shut out from sight 
the misery he had caused, to close his ears against cries 
which were rising daily to the ears of the Lord of Sab- 
aoth. led him probably to place the works connected 
with the Temple at as groat a distance as possible from 
the Temple itself. Forgetful of the lessons taught hv 
t lie history of his own people, and of the precepts of 
the law (Kxod. xxii,21 ; xxiii, 9 et «/.), following the 
example of David’s policy in its least noble aspect (1 
< liron. xxii, 2). lie reduced the “strangers” in the land, 
the remnant of the Cauaanitish races who had chosen 
the alternative of conformity to the religion of their 
conquerors, to the state of helots, and made their life 
‘•bitter with all hard bondage.” See I'koselvte. 


SOLOMON 


8G9 


SOLOMON 


Copying the Fharaohs in their magnificence, he copied 
them also in their disregard of human suffering. Act- 
ing, probably, under the same counsels as had prompt- 
ed that measure, on the result of David’s census, lie 
seized on these “strangers” for the wearv, servile toil 
against which the free spirit of Israel would have re- 
belled. One hundred and fifty-three thousand, with 
wives and children in proportion, were torn from their 
homes and sent off to the quarries and the forests of 
Lebanon (L Kings v, 15; 2 Chron. ii, 17, 18). Even the 
Israelites, though not reduced permanently to the he- 
lot state (viii, 9), were yet summoned to take their 
share, by rotation, in the same labor (1 Kings v, 13, 14). 
One trace of the special servitude of “ these hewers of 
stone” continued long afterwards in the existence of a 
body of men attached to the Temple, and known as 
Solomon’s servants (q. v.). 

Besides the great work which has rendered the name 
of Solomon so famous — the Temple at Jerusalem — we 
are informed of the palaces which he built, viz. his own 
palace, the queen’s palace, and the house of the forest 
of Lebanon, his porch (or piazza) for no specified object, 
and his porch of judgment, or law-court. He also added 
to the walls of Jerusalem, and fortified Millo (“in the 
city of David,” 2 Chron. xxxii, 5) and many other 
strongholds. The Temple seems to have been of very 
small dimensions — sixty cubits long, twenty broad, and 
thirty high (1 Kings vi, 3) — or smaller than many 
moderate-sized parish churches; but it was wonder- 
ful for the lavish use of precious materials. Whether 
the three palaces were parts of the same great pile re- 
mains uncertain. The house of the forest of Lebanon, 
it has been ingeniously conjectured, was so called from 
the multitude of cedar pillars, similar to a forest. That 
Solomon’s own house was of far greater extent than the 
Temple appears from its having occupied thirteen years 
in building, while the Temple was finished in seven. In 
all these works he had the aid of the Tyrians, whose 
skill in hewing timber and in carving stone, and in the 
application of machines for conveying heavy masses, 
was of the first importance. The cedar was cut from 
Mount Lebanon, and, as would appear, from a district 
which belonged to the Tyrians; either because in the 
Hebrew parts of the mountain the timber was not so 
fine, or from want of roads by which it might be con- 
veyed. The hewing was superintended by Tyrian car- 
penters, but all the hard labor was performed by Hebrew 
bondmen. This circumstance discloses to us an impor- 
tant fact— the existence of so large a body of public 
slaves in the heart of the Israelitish monarchy, who are 
reckoned at 153,600 in 2 Chron. ii, 17 ; see also l Kings 
ix, 20-23. During the preparation for the Temple, it is 
stated (ver. 13-18) that 70,000 men were employed to 
bear burdens, 80,000 hewers of wood in the mountains, 
besides 3300 overseers. The meaning of this, however, 
is rather obscure; since it also states that there was a 
“levy” of 30,000, of whom 10,000 at a time went to 
Lebanon. Perhaps the 150,000 was the whole number 
liable to serve , of whom only one fifth was actually called 
out. From the large number said to “bear burdens.” 
we may infer that the mode of working was very lavish 
of human exertion, and little aided by the strength of 
beasts. It is inferred that at least the Hittites had 
recognised princes of their own, since they are named 
as purchasers of Egyptian chariots from Solomon; yet 
the mass of these nations were clearly pressed down by 
a cruel bondage, which must have reacted on the op- 
pressors at every time of weakness. The word C2, 
which is translated “levy” and “tribute,” means espe- 
cially the personal service performed by public slaves, 
and is rendered “task” in Exod. i, 11, when speaking 
of the Israelites in Egypt. 

Until the Temple was finished, the tabernacle ap- 
pears to have continued at Gibeon, although the ark 
had been brought by David to Zion (2 Chron. i, 3, 4). 
David, it appears, had pitched a tent on purpose to re- 


ceive the ark, where Asaph and his brethren the Levites 
ministered before it with singing, while Zadok and his 
brethren the priests ministered before the tabernacle at 
Gibeon with sacrifices (1 Chron. xv, 16-24: xvi, 37-40). 
This shows that even in David’s mind the idea of a sin- 
gle centre of religious unity was not fully formed, as 
the co-ordinate authority of Abiathar and Zadok indi- 
cates that no single high-priest was recognised. But 
from the time of the dedication of the Temple, not only 
the ark, but all the holy vessels from the tabernacle 
were brought into it (I Kings viii, 4), and the high- 
priest naturally eonfined his ministrations to the Tem- 
ple, Zadok having been left without an equal by the 
disgrace of Abiathar. Nevertheless, the whole of the 
later history of the Jewish monarchy, even under the 
most pious kings, proves that the mass of the nation 
never became reconciled to the new idea, that “in Jeru- 
salem (alone) was the place where they ought to wor- 
ship.” The “ high places,” at which Jehovah was wor- 
shipped with sacrifice, are perpetually alluded to in terms 
which show that, until the reign of Josiah, it was im- 
possible for kings, priests, or prophets to bring about a 
uniformity and central superintendence of the natioual 
religion. 

After seven years and a half the work on the Tem- 
ple was completed, and the day came to which all Isra- 
elites looked back as the culminating glory of their na- 
tion. Their worship was now established ou a scale 
as stately as that of other nations, while it yet retained 
its freedom from all worship that could possibly become 
idolatrous. Instead of two rival sanctuaries, as before, 
there was to be one only. The ark from Zion, the tab- 
ernacle from Gibeon, were both removed (2 Chron. v, 5) 
and brought to the new Temple. The choirs of the 
priests and Levites met in their fullest force arrayed in 
white linen. Then, it may be for the first time, was 
heard the noble hymn “ Lift up your heads, O ye gates, 
and be ye lifted up, ye everlasting doors, and the King 
of Glory shall come in” (Milman, Hist, of Jews, i, 263). 
The trumpeters and singers were “as one” in their 
mighty hallelujah — “O praise the Lord, for he is good, 
for his mercy endureth forever” (2 Chron. v, 13). The 
ark was solemnly placed in its golden sanctuary, and 
then “the cloud,” the “glory of the Lord,” filled the 
house of the Lord. The two tables of stone, associated 
with the first rude beginnings of the life of the wilder- 
ness, were still, they and they only, in the ark which had 
now so magnificent a shrine (ver. 10). They bore their 
witness to the great laws of duty towards God and man, 
remaining unchangeable through all the changes and 
chances of national or individual life, from the begin- 
ning to the end of the growth of a national religion. 
Throughout the whole scene the person of the king is 
the one central object, compared with whom even priests 
and prophets are for the time subordinate. Abstaining, 
doubtless, from distinctively priestly acts, such as slay- 
ing the victims and offering incense, he yet appears, 
even more than David did in the bringing-up the ark, 
in a liturgical character, lie, and not Zadok. blesses 
the congregation, offers up the solemn prayer, dedicates 
the Temple. He, and not any member of the prophetic 
order, is then, and probably at other times, the spokes- 
man and “preacher” of the people (Ewald, Gesch. Jsr. 
iii, 320). He takes, at least, some steps towards that 
far-off (Psa. cx, 1) ideal of “a priest after the order of 
Melehizedek,” which one of his descendants rashly 
sought to fulfil [see Uzziah], but which was to be ful- 
filled only in a Son of David, not the crowned leader of 
a mighty nation, but despised, rejected, crucified. From 
him came the lofty prayer — the noblest utterance of the 
creed of Israel — setting forth the distance and the near- 
ness of the eternal God, one, incomprehensible, dwelling 
not in temples made with hands; j r et ruling men, hear- 
ing their prayers, giving them all good things — wisdom, 
peace, righteousness. 

The solemn day was followed by a week of festival, 
synchronizing with the Feast of Tabernacles, the time 


870 


SOLOMON 


SOLOMON 

of the completed vintage. Representatives of all the 
tribes, elders, fathers, captains, proselytes, it may be, 
from the newly acquired territories in Northern Syria 
Chron. vi, 32; vii, 8) — all were assembled, rejoicing 
in the actual glory and the bright hopes of Israel. For 
the king himself then, or at a later period (the narrative 
of 1 Kings ix and 2 Chron. vii leaves it doubtful), there 
was a strange contrast to the glory of that day. A crit- 
icism, misled by its own acuteness, may see in that 
warning prophecy of sin, punishment, desolation, only a 
niticininot ex treat u , added some centuries afterwards 
( Kwald, iii. ldj). It is open to us to maintain that, 
with a character such as Solomons, with a religious 
ideal so far beyond his actual life, such thoughts were 
psychologically probable, that strange misgivings, sug- 
gested by the very words of the jubilant hymns of the 
day's solemnity, might well mingle with the shouts of 
i he people and the hallelujahs of the Levites, It is in 
harmony with all we know of the work of the Divine 
Teacher that those misgivings should receive an inter- 
pretation, that the king should be taught that what he 
iiad done was indeed right and good, but that it was not 
all, and might not he permanent. Obedience was better 
than sac ri rice. There was a danger near at hand. 

4. [(Inidfry.—' Thedaugercame, and, in spiteof the warn- 
ing. the king fell. Not very long afterwards the priests 
anil prophets had to grieve over rival temples to Moloch, 
Cliemosh, Ashtaroth; forms of ritual not idolatrous only, 
hut cruel, dark, impure. This evil came, as the com- 
piler of 1 Kings xi, 1-8 records, as the penalty of another. 
Partly Irom policy, seeking fresh alliances, partly from 
the terrible satiety of lust seeking the stimulus of change, 
he gave himself to ‘‘strange women.” He found him- 
self involved in a fascination which led to the worship 
of strange gods. The starting-point and the goal are 
given us. We are left, from what we know otherwise, 
to trace the process. Something there was perhaps in 
his very “largeness of heart,” so far in advance of the 
traditional knowledge of his age, rising to higher and 
wider thoughts of Hod, which predisposed him to it. 
11 is converse with men of other creeds and climes might 
lead him to anticipate, in this respect, one phase of mod- 
ern thought, as the confessions of the preacher m Kohe- 
leth anticipate another. In recognising what was true 
in other forms of faith, he might lose his horror at what 
was false — his sense of the pre-eminence of the truth re- 
vealed to him — of the historical continuity of the nation’s 
religious life. His worship might go backward from 
Jehovah to Klohim, from Klohim to the “gods many 
and lords many” of the nations around. Jehovah, Baal, 
Ashtaroth, Cliemosh, each form of nature worship, might 
come to seem equally true, equally acceptable. The 
women whom he brought from other countries might 
well he allowed the luxury of their own superstitions; 
and, if permitted at all. the worship must be worthy of 
bis fame and be part of bis magni licence. With this 
there may, as Ewald suggests (iii, 380), have mingled 
political motives. He may have hoped, by a poliev of 
toleration, to conciliate neighboring princes, to attract a 
larger t radio. But probably also there was another in- 
tliieneo less commonly taken into account. The wide- 
spread belief of the East in the magic arts of Solomon 
is not, it is believed, without its foundation of truth. 
On the one hand, an ardent study of nature, in the pe- 
riod that precedes science, runs oil inevitably into the 
pursuit of occult, mysterious properties. On the other, 
throughout the whole history of Judah, the element of 
idolatry which has the strongest hold on men’s minds 
was the thaumaiurgic— soothsaying, incantations, divi- 
liatioiis (2 Kings i,2, Isa. ii.ti, 2 Chron. xxxiii, 0 etui.), 
1 In* religion of Israel opposed a stern prohibition to all 
Biich perilous yet tempting arts (Dent, xviii, 10 et al). 
1 he religious of the nations around fostered them. Was 
it strange that one who found his progress impeded in 
one path should turn into the other? So, at any rate, 
it was. 1 in* reign which began so gloriously was a step 
backw ard into the gross darkness of fetich worship. As 


he left behind him the legacy of luxury, selfishness, op- 
pression, more than counterbalancing all the good of 
higher art and wider knowledge, so he left this, too, as 
an ineradicable evil. Not less truly than the son of 
Nebat might his name have been written in history as 
Solomon the son of David who “made Israel to sin,” 
The idolatry of Solomon is commemorated in the tradi- 
tionary name of “the Mount of Offence,” given to the 
southernmost peak of the range of which Olivet (q. v.) 
forms a part. ( See Brncker, De Stiloin. Idololutria 
[Lips. 1755] ; Niemeyer, Charnkt. iv, 562 sip) 

Disasters followed before long, as the natural conse- 
quence of what was politically a blunder as well as re- 
ligiously a sin. The strength of the nation rested on 
its unity, and its unity depended on its faith. What- 
ever attractions the sensuous ritual which he introduced 
may have had for the great body of the people, the 
priests and Levites must have looked on the rival wor- 
ship with entire disfavor. The zeal of the prophetic 
order, dormant in the earlier part of the reign, and, as 
it were, hindered from its usual utterances by the more 
dazzling wisdom of the king, was now kindled into ac- 
tive opposition. Ahijali of Shiloh, as if taught by the 
history of his native place, was sent to utter one of those 
predictions which help to work out their own fulfilment, 
fastening on thoughts before vague, pointing Jeroboam 
out to himself and to the people as the destined heir to 
the larger half of the kingdom, as truly called as David 
had been called to be the anointed of the Lord (1 Kings 
xi, 28-39), The king in vain tried to cheek the cur- 
rent that was setting strong against him. If Jeroboam 
was driven for a time into exile, it was only, as we have 
seen, to be united in marriage to the then reigning dy- 
nasty, and to come back with a daughter of the Pha- 
raohs as his queen (Sept, ut sup .). The old tribal jeal- 
ousies gave signs of renewed vitality. Ephraim was 
prepared once more to dispute the supremacy of Judah, 
needing special control (1 Kings xi, 28). With this 
weakness within there came attacks from without. Ha- 
dad and Rezon — the one in Edom, the other in Syria — 
who had been foiled in the beginning of his reign, now 
found no effectual resistance. The king, prematurely 
old (about sixty -one), must have foreseen the rapid 
breaking-up of the great monarchy to which he had 
succeeded. Rehoboam, inheriting his faults without 
his wisdom, haughty and indiscreet, was not likely to 
avert it. 

5. 1 1 'ritings . — Of the inner changes of mind and 
heart which ran parallel with this history Scripture is 
comparatively silent. Something may be learned from 
the books that bear his name, which, whether written 
by him or not, stand in the canon of the Old Test, as rep- 
resenting, with profound, inspired insight, the successive 
phases of his life ; something, also, from the fact that so 
little remains out of so much — out of the songs, proverbs, 
treatises, of which the historian speaks (1 Kings iv, 32, 
33). Legendary as may be the traditions which speak 
of llezekiali as at one and the same time preserving 
some portions of Solomon’s writings (Prov. xxv, 1) and 
destroying others, a like process of selection must have 
been gone through by the unknown rabbins of the Great 
Synagogue after the return from the exile. Slowly and 
hesitatingly they received into the canon, as they went 
oil with their unparalleled work of the expurgation by 
a people of its own literature, the two books which 
have been the stumbling-blocks of commentators — Ec- 
clesiastes and the Song of Songs (Ginsburg, Koheleth , 
p. 13 15). They give excerpt a only from the 3000 
proverbs. Of the thousand and five songs (the precise 
number indicates a known collection) we know abso- 
lutely nothing. 'They were willing to admit Kohe- 
leth for the sake of its ethical conclusion; the Song 
of Songs, because at a very early period, possibly even 
then, it had received a mystical interpretation (Keil, 
Kiuhit. In dasAlte 'Jest. § 127) — because it was, at any 
rate, tin* history of a love which, if passionate, was also 
tender and pure and true. But it is easy to see that 


SOLOMON 


871 


SOLOMON 


there are elements in that poem— the strong delight in 
visible outward beauty, the surrender of heart and will 
to one overpowering impulse — which might come to be 
divorced from truth and purity, and would then be per- 
ilous in proportion to their grace and charm. (But see 
Bollin, Saloni. a Scepticismo Defensus [Host. 1710].) 
Such a divorce took place, we know, in the actual life of 
Solomon. It could not fail to leave its stamp upon the 
idyls in which feeling and fancy uttered themselves. 
The poems of the sou of David may have been like 
those of Hafiz. The scribes who compiled the canon 
of the Old Test, may have acted wisely, rightly, chari- 
tably to his fame in excluding them. 

The wisdom of Solomon is specially dwelt on in 
Scripture — “God gave him wisdom and understanding 
exceeding much, and largeness of heart, even as the 
sand which is on the sea-shore.” The term “heart” is 
often used for “mind,” and the meaning is, that Solo* 
mon was endowed with great faculties and capacities; 
and that his intellect was not only stored with vast and 
varied information, but was so active, shrewd, and pen- 
etrating as to be successful in its studies and investiga- 
tions. He had at once an unwearying eagerness in the 
pursuit of knowledge, and he had also the creative pow- 
er of genius. Nature and man were his study; botany 
and zoology shared his attention with men and man- 
ners; and his spirit gave utterance to its thoughts and 
emotions in poetry. He was a sage, a poet, and a nat- 
uralist — “he spake three thousand proverbs: and his 
songs were a thousand and five. And he spake of trees, 
from the cedar-tree that is in Lebanon, even unto the 
hyssop that springeth out of the wall : he spake also of 
beasts, and of fowl, and of creeping things, and of fishes” 
(1 Kings iv, 32, 33). The value of his zoological or bo- 
tanical researches we know not. No doubt his knowl- 
edge took minute cognizance more of external peculiar- 
ity than of inner structure, but it may have had the 
rudiments of a science, though he may not be compared 
to Linnaeus or Hooker, Cuvier or Owen. He was not 
so absorbed in royal cares or royal state and luxury as 
to forget mental culture. Amid much that was weak 
and wrong, he was “yet acquainting his heart with wis- 
dom” (Eecles. ii, 3). The “ wisdom of Egypt” was pro- 
verbial in geometry, astronomy, and medicine; but Sol- 
omon outstripped it. Arabia was the home of that sa- 
gacity that clothes itself in proverbs and of that subtle- 
ty which created riddles and queries; but “Solomon’s 
wisdom excelled the wisdom of all the children of the 
east country.” There had been men of noted intelli- 
gence in his own country, such as Ethan, who had 
charge of the temple music in David’s time*, Heman, 
one of the famous singers and “ the king’s seer in the 
words of God;” and Chaleo! and Darda; but Solomon 
was “wiser than all men” (1 Kings iv, 29-31). (See 
the monographs De Sap. Sal. by Moller [Kil. 1703J, 
Lund [Upsala, 1705], and Scherer [Argent. 1770].) 

The books that remain meet us, as has been said, as 
at any rate representing the three stages of his life. 
The Song of Songs brings before us the brightness of 
his youth ; the heart as yet untainted ; human love pas- 
sionate, yet nndetiled, and therefore becoming, under a 
higher inspiration — half-con seiouslv, it may be, to itself, 
but, if not, then unconsciously for others — the parable of 
the soul’s affections. (See Krurmnacher, Solomon and 
Shvlammith [Lond. 1838].) Then comes in the Book 
of Proverbs, the stage of practical, prudential thought, 
searching into the recesses of man’s heart, seeing duty 
in little things as well as great, resting all duty on the 
fear of God, gathering, from the wide lessons of a king’s 
experience, lessons which mankind could ill afford to 
lose. Both in Eeelesiastes (ii, 3-12) and yet more in 
Proverbs (i, 11-17 ; vii, 6-23) we may find traces of ex- 
periences gained in other ways. The graphic picture of 
the life of the robbers and the prostitutes of an Eastern 
city could hardly have been drawn but by one who, like 
Haroun al-Kasliid and other Oriental kings, at times 
laid aside the trappings of royalty and plunged into the 


other extreme of social life, that so he might gain the 
excitement of a fresh sensation. The poet has become 
the philosopher, the mystic has passed into the moral- 
ist. But the man passed through both stages without 
being permanently the better for either. They were to 
him but phases of his life which he had known and ex- 
hausted (Eceles. i, ii). Therefore there came, as in the 
Confessions of the Preacher, the great retribution. The 
“sense that wore with time” avenged “the crime of 
sense.” There fell on him, as on other crowned volup- 
tuaries, the weariness which sees written on all things, 
Vanity of vanities. Slowly only could he recover from 
that “vexation of spirit,” and the recovery was incom- 
plete. It was not as the strong burst of penitence that 
brought to his father David the assurance of forgive- 
ness. He could not rise to the height from which he 
had fallen, or restore the freshness of his first love. The 
weary soul could only lay again, with slow and painful 
relapses, the foundations of a true morality. See Ec- 
clesiastes. 

Here our survey must end. We may not enter into 
the things within the veil, or answer either way the 
doubting question, Is there any hope? Others have 
not shrunk from debating that question, deciding, ac- 
cording to their formula:, that he did or did not fulfil 
the conditions of salvation so as to satisfy them, were 
they to be placed upon the judgment-seat. It would 
not be profitable to give references to the patristic and 
other writers who have dealt with this subject. They 
have been elaborately collected by Calmet ( Diet . s. v. 
“ Salomon, Nouvelle Dissert, de la Saint du Sal.”). It is 
noticeable and characteristic that Chrysostom and the 
theologians of the Greek Church are, for the most part, 
favorable, Augustine and those of the Latin, for the 
most part, adverse, to his chances of salvation. (See 
Petersen, De Salute Salomonis [Jen. 1605] ; Keime, Har- 
monia Vitie Salomonis [ibid. 1711]; Ewald, Salomo 
[Gera, 1800].) 

VI. Lerjends.— 1. The impression made by Solomon 
on the minds of later generations is shown in its best 
form by the desire to claim the sanction of his name for 
even the noblest thoughts of other writers. Possibly in 
Ecclesiastes, certainly in the Book of Wisdom, we have 
instances of this, free from the vicious element of an 
Apocryphal literature. Before long, however, it took 
other forms. Bound the facts of the history, as a nu- 
cleus, there gathers a whole world of fantastic fables, 
Jewish, Christian, Mohammedan — refractions, colored 
and distorted according to the media through which they 
pass, of a colossal form. Even in the Targum of Ec- 
clesiastes we find strange stories of his character. He 
and the rabbins of the Sanhedrim sat and drank wine to- 
gether in Jabne. 1 1 is paradise was filled with costly 
trees which the evil spirits brought him from Iudia. 
The casuistry of the rabbins rested on his dicta. Ash- 
medai, the king of the daemons, deprived him of his 
magic ring, and he wandered through the cities of Isra- 
el weeping, and saying, I, the preacher, was king over 
Israel in Jerusalem (Koran, sur. 38; Ginsburg, Koheleth, 
app. i, H). He left behind him spells and charms to 
cure diseases and cast out evil spirits; and for centuries 
incantations bearing bis name were the special boast of 
all the “vagabond Jew exorcists” who swarmed in the 
cities of the empire (Josephus, Jw/.viii, 2, 5; Just. Mart. 
Respons. ad Orthod. 55 , Origcn, Comm, in Matt, xxri, 
3), His wisdom enabled him to interpret the speech 
of beasts and birds, a gift shared afterwards, it was said, 
by his descendant llillel (Koran, sur. 37 , Ewald, iii, 
407). He knew the secret virtues of gems and herbs 
(Fabricius, Codex Pseudep. F. T. p. 1042). The name 
of a well-known plant, Solomon’s-seal ( Convallaria ma- 
ja Ks), perpetuates the old belief. He was the inventor 
of the Syriac and Arabian alphabets {ibid. p. 1014). 

2. Arabie imagination took a vet wilder flight. Af- 
ter a long struggle with the rebellious Afrits and Jinns, 
Solomon conquered them and cast them into the sea 
(Lane, A rabian Sights, i, 36). The remote pre-Adam- 


SOLOMON 


872 


SOLOMON’S POOLS 


ite past was peopled with a succession of forty Solomons 
ruling over different races, each with a shield and sword 
that gave them sovereignty over the Jinns. ' To Solo- 
mon himself belonged the magic ring which revealed 
to him the past, the present, and the future. lie cause 
he stayed his march at the hour of prayer, instead of 
riding oil with his horsemen, tlod gave him the winds 
as a chariot, and the birds tiew over him, making a per- 
petual canopy. The divmons in t heir spite, wrote books 
of magic in his name; but lie, being aware of it, seized 
them and placed them under his throne, where they re- 
mained till his death, and then the dannons again got 
hold of them and .scattered them abroad (Koran, sur. 21 ; 
DM lerbelot. s. v. “Soliman hen Daond”). The visit of 
the queen of Sheba furnished some three or four ro- 
mances. The Koran (sur. 27) narrates her visit, her 
wonder, her conversion to the Islam, which Solomon 
professed. She appears under three dillerent names — 
Xieaule (Calmel, bid. s. v,), Balkis (DM lerbelot, s. v.\ 
Makcda (l’ineda, v, 14). The Arabs claim her as be- 
longing to Vemen ; t lie Et hiopians as coming from Me- 
roe. In each form of the story a son is born to her, 
which calls Solomon its father— in the Arab version, 
Meilekli; in the Ethiopian, David, after his grandfa- 
ther, the ancestor of a long line of Ethiopian kings (Ln- 
dolf, //«/. .Ethiop. ii,3-5). Twelve thousand Hebrew’s 
accompanied her on her return home, and from them 
were descended the Jew’s of Ethiopia, and the great ! 
Prestor John (Presbyter Joannes) of mediieval travel- 1 
lers ( DM lerbelot, loe. vit ; Pineda, loc. cit. ; Cory 1 us, Piss, 
tie Regina . I ustr. in Mcut hen’s Thesaurus, vol. i). She 
brought to Solomon the self-same gifts which the Magi 
afterwards brought to Christ. See M,u;r. One, at least, 
of the hard questions with which she came was rescued 
from oblivion. Fair boys and sturdy girls were dressed 
up l»v her exactly alike, so that no eye could distinguish 
them. The king placed water before them and bade J 
them wn-di; and then, when the boys scrubbed their 
faces and the girls stroked them softly, lie made out 
which were which (tilvcas, A mud. in Fabricius, loc. 
rit.). Versions of these and other legends are to be 
found also iu Weil, Bibl. Legends, p. 171; Furst, Per- 
Itnschniire , eh, xxxvi. 

3. The fame of Solomon spread northward and east- 
ward to Persia. At Shiraz they showed the Meder- 
Sulciman, or tomb of Hath-shcba, said that Perscpolis 
hail been built by the Jinns at his command, and point- 1 
cd to the Tnkht-i-Suleiinan (Solomon’s throne) in proof. 

1 hrough th«-ir spells, too, he made his wonderful jour- 
ney, breakfasting at Perscpolis, dining at Baalbek, and | 
supping at Jerusalem (Chardin, iii, 135, 113; Ouseley, 
ii, II, -137 ). Persian literature, w hile it had no single 
life of David, boasted of countless histories of Solomon ; 
one, the Suleinuin-Xanieh , in eighty books, ascribed to 
the |Hiet 1‘ inlu-d (DM lerbelot, loc. cit.; Chardin, iii, 
E ,s ). In popular belief he was confounded with the 
great Persian hero Jem-dud (Ouseley, ii, til). 

I. As might be expected, the legends appeared in 
their ennrM*il ami basest form in Europe, losing all their 
l»>eiry, the mere appendages of the most detestable of 
A|MM*rypha. books of magic, a 1 lygromanteia, a Coulra- 
dietio .'siilomouis (whatever that may be) condemned 
bv < ieladus, Incnulntioiies, t ’lavicula, and the like. Two 
of these strange books have been reprinted in fac-simile 
by Sebeibel (h foster, v). Tlie Plarienla Salmnonis 
A Wnunantini consists of iueautatioiis made up of He- 
brew words; and the mightiest spell of the enchanter 
is the Sn /ilium .Sulo/nnms, engraved with Hebrew cliar- 
aetcr**, such as might have been handed down through 
a long siieces-sinii of Jewish exorcists. It is singular 
(uulens this, loo, was part of the imposture) that both 
i In- hooks profe*s to be published with the special license 
of |H»p<w Julius 1 1 and Alexander VI. Was this the form 
of lb-brew literature which they were willing to en- 
courage/ A plea "ant Persian apologue teaching a les- 
son deserves to be rescued Iroin the mass of fable*. The 
king ul Israel met otic dav the king of the ants, took 


| the insect on his hand, and held converse with it, ask- 
ing, Crtesus-like, “Am not I the mightiest and most 
glorious of men?” “Not so,” replied the ant-king, 
| “Thou sittest on a throne of gold, but I make thy hand 
my throne, and thus am greater than thou” (Chardin, 
iii, 138). One pseudonymous work has a somew’hat 
higher character, the Psalterium Salomonis , altogether 
without merit, a mere cento from the Psalms of David, 
but not otherwise offensive (Fabricius, i,917 ; Tregelles, 
Introd . to the Xcw Test. p. 154), and therefore attached 
sometimes, as in the great Alexandrian Codex, to the 
sacred volume. One strange story meets ns from the 
omnivorous Xote-book of Bede. Solomon did repent, 
and in his contrition he offered himself to the Sanhe- 
drim, doing penance, and they scourged him five times 
with rods, and then he travelled in sackcloth through 
the cities of Israel, saying as he went, “Give alms to 
Solomon” (Bede, Dc St do in. ap. Pineda). 

VII. Xeic-Testament Vieivs . — We pass from this wild 
farrago of Jewish and other fables to that which pre- 
sents the most entire contrast to them. M'he teaching 
of the New M’est. adds nothing to the materials for a 
life of Solomon. It enables us to take the truest measure 
of it. The teaching of the Son of Man passes sentence 
on all that kingly pomp. It declares that in the hum- 
blest work of God, in the lilies of the field, there is a 
grace and beauty inexhaustible, so that even “ Solomon 
in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these” (Matt, 
vi, 20). It presents to us t lie perfect pattern of a grow’th 
in wisdom, like, and yet unlike, his, taking, in the eyes 
of men, a less varied range; but deeper, truer, purer, 
because united with purity, victory over temptation, 
self-sacrifice, the true large-heartedness of sympathy 
with all men. On the lowest view w’hich serious think- 
ers have ever taken of the life of Jesus of Nazareth, 
they have owmed that there was in him one “greater 
than Solomon” (xii, 42), The historical Son of David, 
ideally a tyjie of the Christ that w Y as to come, w’as in his 
actual life the most strangely contrasted. It was re- 
served for the true, the later, Son of David, to fulfil the 
prophetic yearnings w’hich had gathered round the birth 
of the earlier. lie was the true Shelomob, the prince of 
peace, the true Jcdid-jah, the w r ell-beloved of the Father. 
(See De Pineda, JJe Rebus Salomonticis [Cologne, 1G13. 
1G86] ; Hess, Gesch. Salomons [Ziir. 1785] ; Miller, Lect- 
ures on Solomon [Loud. 1838].) 

SOLOMON’S GARDENS (Eccles. ii, 5). See Gar- 
den. 

SOLOMON’S POOLS (Eccles. ii, 6). Of the vari- 
ous pools mentioned in Scripture, or usually regarded 
as such, perhaps the most celebrated are the Pools of 
Solomon in Wady Urtas, between Hebron and Bethle- 
hem, called by the Arabs el-Rurak , from w’hich an 
aqueduct w T as carried which still supplies Jerusalem 
with water (Eeclus. xxiv, 30, 31). They are three in 
number, partly hewn out of the rock, and partly built 
with masonry, but all lined with cement, and formed 
on successive levels, w ith conduits leading from the up- 
per to the lower, and flights of steps from the top to the 
bottom of each (Sandy s, Trav. p. 150). They are all 
formed in the sides of the valley of Etbam, with a dam 
across its opening, which forms the east side of the low- 
est pool. Their dimensions are thus given by Dr. Rob- 
inson {Jiibl. Res. i, 348, 374) ; (1.) Upper pool : length 
380 feet; breadth at. the east 23(5 feet, at the w'est 229 
feet ; depth at the cast 25 feet ; distance above the mid- 
dle pool 1(50 feet. (2.) Middle pool: length 423 feet; 
breadth at the east 250 feet, at the w’est 1(50 feet; depth 
30 feet; distance above the low'er pool 218 feet, (3.) 
Lower pool : length 58*2 feet; breadth at the cast 207 
led, ai the west 1 18 feet; depth 50 feet. They appear 
to be supplied in part from a spring iu the ground above 
(see MMiomson, Land and Rook, i,3l 1), but they are ev- 
idently tilled mostly by surface-w’ater in the rainy sea- 
son, as they drain the neighboring bill-sides. M’hc 
aqueduct has two lines, an upper and a lower level; the 


SOLOMON’S PORCH 


SOMA 


873 



former tunnelling the hill, and the latter passing near 
the surface by way of Bethlehem (see Ordnance Survey 
of Jerusalem , Notes, p. 80 sq.). See Pool. 

SOLOMON’S PORCH, a name given in Scripture to 
two very different structures in Jerusalem : (a) The 
“porch of judgment” attached to the palace (1 Kings 

vii, 7), for which see Palace ; and (b) “ Solomon’s 
Porch,” or portico (arod SoAopiovog), the outer eastern 
corridor of the Temple (John x, 23; Acts iii, II ; v, 12), 
for which see Temple. 

SOLOMON’S PSALTER. See Psalter of Solo- 
mon. 

SOLOMON’S SERVANTS (nb'PlU ; Sept, 

inoi ’AfSSrjffeApd, Ezra ii, 58; tnoi dovAiov SaXwjutor, 
ver. 55; Neh. vii, 57, 60; Vulg. flii servomm Salomo- 
?iis). The descendants (“sons”) of persons thus named 
appear in the lists of the exiles who returned from the 
captivity. They occupy all but the lowest places in 
those lists, and their position indicates some connection 
with the services of the Temple. First come the priests, 
then Levites, then Nethinim, then “the children of Sol- 
omon’s servants.” In the Greek of 1 Esdr. v, 33, 35, 
the order is the same, but instead of Nethinim we meet 
with iqoo&mXoi, “ servants” or “ ministers” of the Tem- 
ple. In the absence of any definite statement as to 
their office, we are left to conjecture and inference. (1.) 
The name, as well as the order, implies inferiority, even 
to the Nethinim. They are the descendants of the 
slaves of Solomon. The servitude of the Nethinim, 
“ given to the Lord,” was softened by the idea of dedi- 
cation. (2.) The starting-point of their history is proba- 
bly to be found in I Kings v, 13, 14; ix, 20,21 ; 2 Chron. 

viii, 7, 8. Canaanites, who had been living till then with 

a certain measure of freedom, were reduced by Solomon 
to the helot state, and compelled to labor in the king’s 
stone-quarries, and in building his palaces and cities. 
To some extent, indeed, the change had been effected 
under David, but it appears to have been then connect- 
ed specially with the Temple, and the servitude under 
his successor was at once harder and more extended (1 
Chron. xxii, 2). (3.) The last passage throws some 

light on their special office. The Nethinim, as in the 
case of the Gibeonites, were appointed to be hewers of 
wood (Josh, ix, 23), and this was enough for the ser- 
vices of the tabernacle. For the construction and re- 
pairs of the Temple another kind of labor was required, 
and the new slaves were set to the work of hewing and 
squaring stones (1 Kings v, 17, 18). Their descendants 
appear to have formed a distinct order, probably inherit- 


ing the same functions and the same skill. The prom- 
inence which the erection of a new Temple on their re- 
turn from Babylon would give to their work accounts 
for the special mention of them in the lists of Ezra and 
Nehemiah. Like the Nethinim, they were in the posi- 
tion of proselytes, outwardly conforming to the Jewish 
ritual, though belonging to the hated race, and, even in 
their names, bearing traces of their origin (Ezra ii, 55- 
58). Like them, too, the great mass must either have 
perished, or given up their position, or remained at 
Babylon. The 392 of Ezra ii, 55 (Nethinim included) 
must have been but a small fragment of the descendants 
of the 150,000 employed by Solomon (1 Kings v, 15). — 
Smith. See Nethinim. 

SOLOMON’S SONG. See Canticles. 

SOLOMON, WISDOM OF. See Wisdom, Book of. 

Solomon ben-Gabirol. See Ibn-Gebirol. 

Solomon ben-Isaac. See Rashi. 

Solotaja Baba (the golden woman), a deity of the 
Slavic mythology, who was worshipped in the extreme 
east of European Russia, and whose image was covered 
with gold. The nomads and hunters of the steppes 
offered her beasts taken from their herds, or the skins 
of animals taken in the chase. The hollow statue of 
the goddess was oeeupied by the priest who was se- 
lected to pronounce her-oraeles; and the opportunity 
so afforded was largely used to persuade the assembled 
shepherds to make more liberal offerings. The blood 
of the sacrifices was used to smear the eyes and mouth 
of the goddess, and what remained of the animal be- 
came the property of her servants. — Vollmer, Worterh. 
d. MythoL s. v. 

Solus (alone), a term used in old English registers 
to designate an unmarried man. 

Soluta (free), a term sometimes used in old Eng- 
lish registers to designate a spinster. 

Soma, in Hindu mythology, the moon; also termed 
Chandra, was (1) an entire dynasty of Hindu kings 
who bore the title “children of t lie moon;” (2) the 
moon-plant (A sclepias acida ), from which a milky juice 
was extracted, that, when mixed with barley and fer- 
mented, formed an intoxicating drink much used ill the f 
ancient Vedic worship. This plant was held sacred 
and worshipped by the Hindus of the Vaidic period. 
The hymns comprising one whole section of the Rig- 
Veda are addressed to the Soma, and its deification is 
still more prominent in the Sama-Veda. As early as 
the Rig- Veda, the Soma sacrifice is called amrita (im- 
mortal), and, in a secondary sense, the liquor which 



874 


SOMMER 


SOMASCIIIAXS 

Communicates immortality. It was the more impor- 
tant part of the ancient daily offering among the Hin- 
dus. The plants were gathered on the hills by moon- 
light, nml brought home in carts drawn by rams; the 
stalks are bruised with stones and placed with the juice 
in a strainer of goat’s hair, and further squeezed by the 
pri«M ,f * ,411 lingers, ornamented by rings uf flattened 
gold. EmmIv, the juice, mixed with barley and clari- 
fied butter, ferments, and is then drawn off in a scoop 
for the gods. and in a ladle for the priests*. They finally 
sac to lndra (its discoverer), Thy inebriety is most 
intense, nevertheless thy acts are most beneficent.” See 
Gardner. Faiths of the World, s. v. ; 1 Sutler. Land of the 
l \da. ( ilo'sarv : Vollmer, WOrterb.d. Alythol. s. v. 

Somaschians, The Order of. The Somaschi- 
ans are a religions order in the Church of llome, and 
their congregations rank with the most important, in- 
stitution? called into being by the effort to retard the 
progress of the Protestant Reformation in the 16th 
century. The name is derived from the solitary ham- 
let of Soinascho, between Milan and Bergamo, where 
Girolamo Miaui (Hieronymus .Emiliamis). the founder, 
undertook the definitive organization of the order and 
wrote it? tir?t rule. Miani was a noble Venetian who 
served with distinction against Charles VIII and Louis 
XII. and who was given over to frivolity and worldli- 
ne*s until the capitulation of Cnstelnuovo, near Treviso, 
where he commanded, made him the prisoner of the 
German? under Maximilian I (1508). He was thrown 
into a dark dungeon and there abjured his sins, and 
vowed a thorough reformation of life to God if he 
should once more become free. It is related that his 
prayers were heard, and that the Blessed Virgin caused 
his shackles to fall from his limbs and led him through 
the mid?t of the guard to freedom. lie now renounced 
the dignity of podcsta of Castelnnovo, given him in 
recognition of his bravery, and accepted an inferior 
position in Venice itself, where he displayed great be- 
nevolence in caring for the poor and the sick, especially 
during a famine and pestilence in 1528. Eventually, 
he devoted himself chiefly to the care of poor orphan 
children and fallen women. He founded an orphan 
n-yhim in connection with the Church of St. Iioch in 
Venice, in 1528, and afterwards others in Verona, Ber- 
gamo, and Brescia. In 1532 he established a magdalen 
asylum in Venice; and finally he united with a num- 
ber of like-minded clergymen in founding a congrega- 
tion for the care and administering of the institutions 
In* had e?tablished, and for the training of young per- 
sons to succeed in that work. Pope Clement VII high- 
ly approved of this benevolent order, and favored it. 
Its seat was fixed at Somascho, though other houses 
were subsequently established at Pavia and INI i lan. 
Miaui died I* eh. 8, L>37. He was succeeded by Augehts 
Marcus Gambnrnnn, under whose administration the 
community was solemnly constituted an order of regu- 
lar clergy under the rule of St. Augustine, and denom- 
inated fbriri Reyn la res S. Alajoli Papitv ( 'ongregationis 
Snmasehtr, from a rlmrch in Pavia presented to them 
by nrchbi-diop Charles Borromoo of Milan. The order 
wa? afterwards temporarily united with the 7 'heatines 
(1516 55), ami with the Fathers uf Christian Iht ctriue 
in France ( 1616 *17 ), and increased largely in num- 
lx-rs mid influence, mi that in 1661 Alexander VII ap- 
proved iis division into three provinces — Lombard, 
Venet inn. and Roman. It sustained numerous colleges, 
aid was earnestly devoted to the instruction of the 
young. A French province was subsequently added. 

1 he con*,! it nt ions of the order are based on tin* ideas 
of its founder as collected by the procurator-general, 
Ai t. Palit ns, and approved hv pope Urban VIII, and 
tln v ha\e continued without essential change until 
lew. 1 hey prescriln* simple and poor clothing, in all 
rt -jM-ci? like that of the regular clergy, simple food, fre- 
qiu'iii prayers by day mid night, fastings, bodily morti- 
fication?, mat ud labor, rare of tin* sick and of orphans, 
and tie instruction of the young. They may he seen 


in Ilolstenius, Cod. Reg. Afon. iii, 199-202; comp, also 
the Bollaudists’ I 'it a flieronymi M'miliani, February, 
vol. ii ; Helyot, Gesch. d. K loafer- u. Ritterorden, iv. 263 
sq. ; Fehr, Gesch . d. A1 onchsorden } ii, 41 sq. — Herzog, 
Real- Fncyklop. s. v. 

Somasquo, Fathers of. See Clerks of St. 

MAJOLUS ; So.MASCItlANS. 

Somatist, one who denies the existence of spirit- 
ual substances, and admits that of corporeal or material 
beings only. See Materialism. 

Somatology, the doctrine of bodies or material 
substances. 

Somerville, Mrs. Mary, a distinguished scientist 
and mathematician, w’hose studies tended to the ad- 
vancement of Christian learning, was born in Jedburgh, 
Scotland, Dec. 26, 1780, and was the daughter of admiral 
William Fairfax. In her early childhood she gave no 
promise of genius, but was apparently beneath mediocri- 
ty. Iler mind w r as awakened to higher aspirations and 
endeavors by a slow f and spontaneous process. At the 
age of eleven, while spending a vacation at Burnt Island, 
she occupied her time gathering sea-shells, the beginning 
of her knowledge of natural history. From her father 
she inherited a passion for flowers, and turned the gar- 
; den of her home into a studio, the beginning of her 
love of botany. Two small globes in the house at- 
tracted her attention, and thus began her study in ge- 
ography and astronomy. She soon learned to play on 
the piano, and in a little w r hile became an accomplished 
painter, studying under Nasmyth in Edinburgh. The 
love of knowledge became an irrepressible passion. She 
took up Euclid alone, which she soon mastered; stud- 
ied navigation, and taught herself Latin enough to 
read Ciesar's Commentaries. In 1804 she tvas married 
to Samuel Greig, and resided in London. After three 
years she returned, a widow with tw*o children, to Burnt 
Island, where she resumed her studies with more dili- 
gence than ever. Prof. Wallace, of Edinburgh Uni- 
versity, gives the following catalogue of books which 
she mastered: F rancour's Pure AJ at hematics, Elements 
of AJechanics ; Lacrqjx's Algebra , Differential Calculus , 
Finite Differences and Series ; Biot’s .4 nalytical Geom- 
etry and Astronomy ; Poisson’s Treatise on Mechanics ; 
La Grange’s Theory of Analytical Functions; Euler’s 
Algebra, Jsoperimetrica l Problems (in Latin); Clai- 
rault’s Figure of the Earth ; Monge’s Application of 
Analysis to Geometry; Cadet’s Logarithms; La Place’s 
Afecanique Celeste , and Analytical Theory of Probabili- 
ties. In 1812 she married her cousin. Dr. William Somer- 
ville, who deeply sympathized with her in her studies. 
She soon became a correspondent of such men as Fara- 
day and La Place, and was elected a member of most 
of the learned societies of Europe. Losing her fortune, 
she was dependent upon a government pension, first of 
j one thousand, later of fifteen hundred pounds, and lived, 
for economy, many years in Italy. Mrs. Somerville 
continued to keep up her studies in her advanced 
years, working from 8 A.M. till 12 or l PAL, even in 
her ninetieth year. She died Nov. 29, 1872. Her 
w orks are, Alevlmnism of the Heavens (Loud. 1831, 8vo; 
Phila. 1832, 18mo): — On the Connection of the Physical 
Sciences (Loud. 1834, 12mo; 8th ed. 1819. 8vo ; com- 
pletely revised, 1859, 8 vo ; American editions, N. Y. 
1810, etc. 12tno) : — Physical Geography (Loud. 1848, 2 
vols. 12mo; 2d ed, 1849; 3d ed. 1851 ; 4th cd. 1858, 8vo; 
5th ed. 1862, 8vo; American editions, Phila. 1848, 1850, 
1853, 1856, 12mo):— -On A/olecular and AHcroscopic 
Science (Loud. 1869, 2 vols. 8vo). 

Sommer- or Summer-beam, a main beam or 
girder in a floor, etc. ; a name now seldom used except 
in the compound breast-summer. 

Sommer, Peter Nicholas, a Lutheran minister, 
was horn in Hamburg, Germany, Jan. 9, 1709. lie re- 
ceived a thorough classical and professional education, 
and on the completion of his course was licensed as a 


SOMMIER 


875 


SON" 


theological candidate. He received a call from a Church 
in Schoharie County, X. Y.,left for America Oct. 24, 1742, 
and arrived at his destination, May 25, 1743. Here for 
nearly fifty years he labored, having a wide field, often 
travelling from thirty to fifty miles to care for destitute 
Lutheran settlements. In 1708 he was suddenly smitten 
with blindness, but still continued to serve the Church 
for about twenty years, when his sight was as unex- 
pectedly restored. In 1788 lie retired from the active 
ministry and removed to Sharon, Schoharie Co., N. Y., 
where he remained until his death, Oct. 27, 1795. “Mr. 
Sommer held a high rank in his denomination, as an 
able, earnest, laborious, and successful minister.” See 
Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit , ix, 13. 

Sommier, Jean Claude, a French prelate, was 
born July 22, 16G1, at Vauvillers, and studied at Besan- 
9011 , where he became doctor in theology and law. lie 
was first curate of Girancourt, and afterwards (1G96) at 
Champs. He became preacher to Leopold I of Lorraine, 
and was engaged in several important negotiations of 
state. Benedict XIII made him archbishop of Ctesarea 
and prothonotary apostolic in 1725, and the same year he 
received the provostship of St. Die and other ecclesias- 
tical honors. His zeal for clerical privileges involved 
him in a controversy with the bishop of Toul, which 
continued till his death, Oct. 3, 1737. He is the author 
of several works on local Church history, for which see 
Hoefer^ Xouc. Biog . Generate , s. v. 

Sommonacodom, in Siamese mythology, was a 
most wise legislator, who was conceived by his virgin- 
mother from the sun. He traversed the world, passing 
through repeated births until he had occupied five hun- 
dred and fifty bodies, and blesses the world with his 
teachings until his mission is accomplished and the 
earth is free from sin. He trained many pupils, and 
died from eating the flesh of a hog which contained the 
soul of an evil genius whom he had once conquered. 
Temples and numerous statues were erected in his hon- 
or throughout Siam. — Vollmer, Worterb. d. Afythol. s. v. 

Somnia (dreams), in Homan mythology, were chil- 
dren of Erebus and Night, whose palace in Tartarus had 
two gates, the one of ivory and the other of bone. From 
the latter issued the truthful, from the former the fan- 
ciful and deceptive, dreams. 

Somnists, a name for those who maintain that the 
soul is in an unconscious state from the time of death 
until the resurrection ; called also Soul Sleepers (q. v.). 

Somnus, or Hypxos. in Homan and Grecian my- 
thology, was the god of sleep. 

Somoda, in Hiudft mythology, is one of the most 
attractive of female genii, belonging to the race of the 
Gantharvas; a servant of the holy Tshuli. 

Somovansham, in Hindu mythology, is the fa- 
mous family of kings which claimed descent directly 
from the moon (Soma or Chandra), and assumed the 
title of Children of the Moon. 

Sompnour (i. e. sumtnoner). a term found in Chau- 
cer and other of our older writers to designate the officer 
who is now called an apparitor, whose duty it is to sum- ' 
mon delinquents to appear in ecclesiastical courts. 

Son, properly "(2, hen (often rendered in the plural 
“children”), uiuf. From the root H22, to build , are de- 
rived both “| 2 , son , as in Ben-hanan, etc., and P3, daugh- 
te r, as in Bath-sheba. The Chald. also “ 12 , son , occurs 
in the Old Test., and appears in the New Test, in such 
words as Barnabas, but which in the plural '|" , 22 (Ezra 
vi, 16) resembles more the Hebrew. Cognate words are 
the Arabic Beni, so?is, in the sense of descendants, and 
Renat, daughters (Gesenius, Thes. Hehr. p. 215, 23G; 
Shaw, Travels , p. 8). See Bah-; Bex-. 

1 . The word “son” is used with a great variety and 
latitude of significations both in the Old and the New 
Test., especially in the former, some of which often dis- . 


j appear in a translation. The following is a summary of 
j these applications: It denotes (l) the immediate off- 
spring. ( 2 .) Grandson: so Laban is called son ofXahor 
I (Gen. xxix, 5), whereas he was his grandson, being the 
| son of Bethuel (xxiv, 29) ; Mephibosheth is called son 
' of Saul, though he was the son of Jonathan, son of Saul 
| (2 Sam. xix, 24). (3.) Remote descendants : so we have 
the sous of Israel, many ages after the primitive ances- 
tor. (4.) Son-in-law: there is a son born to Naomi 
(Ruth iv. 17). (5.) Son by adoption, as Ephraim and 

Manasseh to Jacob (Gen. xlviii). See Adoption. 
( 6 .) Son by nation: sons of the East (1 Kings iv, 30; 
Job i, 3). (7.) Son by education, that is, a disciple: 

Eli calls Samuel his son (1 Sam. iii, G). Solomon calls 
his disciple his son in the Proverbs often, and we read 
of the sons of the prophets (1 Kings xx, 35, et ah ), that 
is, those under a course of instruction for ministerial 
service. In nearly the same sense a convert is called 
son (1 Tim. i, 2; Titus i. 4; Philem. 10 ; 1 Cor. iv, 
15; 1 Pet. v, 13). See Prophet. (8.) Son by dispo- 
sition and conduct, as sons of Belial (Judg. xix, 22; 1 
Sam. ii, 12), unrest rai liable persons; sons of the mighty 
(Psa. xxix. 1 ), heroes; sons of the band (2 Chron. xxv, 
13), soldiers, rank and tile; sons of the sorceress, who 
study or practice sorcery (Isa. lvii, 3). (9.) Son in ref- 

erence to age : son of one year (Exod. xii, 5), that is, 
one year old ; son of sixty years, etc. The same in ref- 
erence to a beast (Micah vi, 6 ). ( 10 .) A production or 

offspring, as it were, from any parent: sons of the burn- 
ing coal, that is, sparks which issue from burning wood 
(Job v, 7). “ Son of the bow,” that is, an arrow (iv, 19), 
because an arrow issues from a bow; but an arrow may 
also issue from a quiver, therefore, son of the quiver 
(Lam. iii, 13). “Son of the floor,” threshed corn (Isa. 
xxi, 10 ). “Sons of oil” (Zech. iii, 14), the branches of 
the olive-tree. (11.) Son of beating, that is, deserving 
beating (Dent, xxv, 3). Son of death, that is, deserving 
death (2 Sam. xii, 3). Son of perdition, that is, deserv- 
ing perdition (John xvii, 12). (12.) Son of God (q. v.), 

by excellence above all; Jesus the Son of God (Mark 
i, 1 ; Luke i, 35; John i, 34; Horn, i, 4; Hob. iv, 14; 
Rev. ii, 18). The only begotten; and in this he differs 
from Adam, who was son of God by immediate creation 
(Luke iii, 18). (13.) Sons of God (q. v.), the angels 

(Job i, 6 ; xxxviii, 7), perhaps so called in respect to 
their possessing power delegated from God; his dep- 
uties, his vicegerents; and in that sense, among others, 
his offspring. (14.) Genuine Christians, truly pious per- 
sons; perhaps also so called in reference to their posses- 
sion of principles communicated from God by the Holy 
Spirit, which, correcting every evil bias, and subduing 
every perverse propensity, gradually assimilates the par- 
ty to the temper, disposition, and conduct, called the im- 
age, likeness, or resemblance of God. Believers are sons 
of God. (See John i, 12; Phil, ii, 15; Rom. viii, 14; 1 
John iii, 1.) (15.) Sons of this world (Luke xvi, 8 ) are 

those who, by their overweening attention to the things 
of this world, demonstrate their principles to be derived 
from the world; that is, worldly-mind.ed persons. Sons 
of disobedience (Eph. ii, 2 ; v, G) are persons whose con- 
duct proves that they are sons of Belial, of unrest rain- 
ableness, sons of libertinism. Sons of hell (Matt, xxiii, 
5). Sons of the devil (Acts xiii, 10). 

In addition to these senses in which the word son is 
used in Scripture, there are others which show the ex- 
treme looseness of its application. So when we read 
of sons of the bride-chamber (Matt, ix, 15; Mark ii, 19) 
it merely indicates the youthful companions of the 
bridegroom, as in the instance of Samson. And when 
the holy mother was committed to the care of the 
apostle John (John xix, 3G), the term son is evidently 
used ivith great latitude. — Calmet. See Daughter, 
etc. 

2 . The blessing of offspring, but especially, and some- 
times exclusively, of the male sex, is highly valued 
among all Eastern nations, while the absence is regard- 
ed as one of the severest punishments (llerod. i, 13G; 


sox 


S7G 


SOX OF GOD 


Strabo, xv. 733. See Gen. xvi. 2 ; xxix, 31 ; xxx, 1,14; 
Dent, vii, 14 ; l Sam. i, G; ii. 5; iv, 20; 2 Sam. vi, 23; 
xviii. IS; 2 Kings iv, 14: I ml xlvii, 9; Jer. xx, 15; 
11 os. ix, 1 1 ; Esth. v. 1 1 ; 1'mi. c.xxvii, 3, 5 ; Eccles. vi, 3. 
t omp. 1 Irusius Pror. Hen- Si nr, in Crit. Suer, viii, 1887 ; 
Lane, Mod. Egypt. '■ - (,s * 240; Toole [Mrs.], Enylishic. in 
Efftfpt, iii, 1G3 ; Niebuhr, lies cr. de /’.)/•. p. 07; Chardin, 
I '<>'/. vii, 1 10 ; Bussell, Xubia. p. 3 13). Childbirth is in 
the Kn«t usually, but not always, attended with little 
ditliculty, and accomplished with little or no assistance 
(Cien. xxxv, 17; xxxviii, 28; Exod. i, 19; 1 Sam. iv, 
10. 20; see Hurckhnrdt, Xotes on Hit ion ins, i, 00; llar- 
mer, iv, 125; Montagu [Lady M. W.], Letters, ii, 217, 
210, 222). As soon as the child was born, and the um- 
bilical cord cut, it was washed in a bath, rubbed with 
salt, and wrapped in swaddling-clothes. Arab mothers 
sometimes rub their children with earth or saud(Ezek. 
xvi. 4; Johxxxviii.il; Luke ii, 7 ; see llurckhardt, /or. 
riV.). On the eighth day the rite of circumcision in the 
ease of a boy was performed, and a name given, some- 
times, but not usually, the same as that of the father, 
and generally conveying some special meaning (Gen. 
xxi, 1 . xxix, 32, 35; xxx, G, 21 ; Lev. xii, 3; Isa. vii, 
11: viii, 3; Luke i, 59; ii, 21). Among Mohammedans, 
circumcision is most commonly delayed till the fifth, 
sixth, or even the fourteenth year (Spencer, De Legg. 
J/tbr. v, f»2; Strabo, xvii. *24 ; Herod, ii, 3G, 104 : Burck- 
hardt, ut sup.; Lane, Mod, Egg pi. i, 87 ; Poole [Mrs.], Eng- 
lish tr. i n Egg pi, iii, 158 ; Niebuhr, LJescr. p. 7 0). See C I u- 
iTMctsinN. After the birth of a male child the moth- 
er was considered unclean for 7+33 days; if the child 
was a female, for double that period, 14 +GG days. At 
the end of the time she was to make an offering of 
purification of a lamb as a burnt-offering, and a pigeon 
or turtle-dove as a sin-offering; or, in case of poverty, 
two doves or pigeons, one as a burnt-offering, the other 
as a sin-ollVring (Lev. xii, 1-8; Luke ii, 22). The pe- 
riod of nursing appears to have been sometimes pro- 
longed to three years (Isa. xlix, 15; 2 Mace, vii, 27; 
comp. Livingstone, Trued.*, vi, 12G; but Burckhardt 
h-ads to a different conclusion). The Mohammedan 
law enjoins mothers to suckle their children for two full 
years if possible (Lane, Mod. Egypt, i, 83; Poole [Mrs,], 
English ir. in Egypt, iii, 1G1). Nurses were employed in 
cases of necessity (Gen. xxiv, 50; xxxv, 8; Exod. ii, 
0 ; 2 Sam. iv, 4 ; 2 Kings xi,2 ; 2 Chron. xxii, 1 1). The 
time of weaning was an occasion of rejoicing (Gen. xxi, 
H), Arab children wear little or no clothing for four or 
five years, 'flic young of both sexes are usually carried 
by the mothers oil the hip or the shoulder, a custom to 
which allusion is made by Isaiah (xlix, 22; Lxvi, 12; 
see I>niie, Mttd. Egypt, i, 83). Both boys and girls in 
their early years, boys probably till tiioir fifth year, 
were under the care of the women (Prov. xxxi, 1 ; see 
Herod, i, 13G; Strabo, xv, 733; Niebuhr, Hescr. p, 24). 
Afterwards the boys were taken bv the father under his 
charge. Those in wealthy families had tutors or gov- 
ernors irau'aytoyoi), who were sometimes eu- 

nuchs (Numb, xi, 12; 2 Kings x, 1,5; Isa. xlix, 23; 
t »al. iii. 2 1 ; Ksth. ii, 7 ; See Josephus, Life, § 7G ; Lane, 
Mod. Egypt, i, KJ). Daughters usually remained in the 
women's apartments till marriage, or, among the poorer 
elassos, were employed in household work (Lev, xxi, 1); 
Numb, xii, 11; 1 Sam. ix, 1 1 ; Prov. xxxi, ID, 23; Ec- 
clos. vii, 2«>; xlii, 9; 2 Mace, iii, If)), The example, 
however, and authority of the mother were carefully up- 
held to ehildreu of both sexes (Dent, xxi, 20; Prov. x, 

1 ; xv, 20 ; 1 Kings ii, If) ). 

1 lu* first-horn male children were regarded as devoted 
to God. and were to be redeemed by tin offering (Exod. 
xm, Lt; Numb, xviii, 15; Luke ii* 22). Children de- 
voted by special VOW, as Samuel was, appear to have 
In rn brought up from very early years in a school or 
pl;»co o| education near the tabernacle or temple (1 Sam. 
i, 21.2*). See Etna vrios. 

lhe authority of parents, especially the father, over 


children was very great, as was also the reverence en- 
joined by the law to be paid to parents. The disobedi- 
ent child, the striker or reviler of a parent, was liable to 
capital punishment, though not at the independent will 
of the parent. Children were liable to be taken as 
slaves in case of non-payment of debt, and were expect- 
ed to perform menial offices for them, such as washing 
the feet, and to maintain them in poverty and old age. 
How this last obligation was evaded, see Corban. The 
like obedience is enjoined by the Gospel (Gen. xxxviii, 
24; Lev. xxi, 9; Numb, xii, 14; l)eut. xxiv, 1G: 1 
Kings ii, 19; 2 Kings xiv,G; iv, 1 ; Isa. 1,1; Neh. v, 5; 
Job xxiv, 9; Prov. x, 1 ; xv, 20; xxix, 3; Col. iii, 20; 
Eph. vi, 1 ; 1 Tim. i, 9. Comp. Virg, sEti. vi, 009; and 
Scrvins, ad loe. ; Aristoph. Ran. 14G; Plato, Phmlo, 
144; J)e Legg. ix. See Drusius, Qucest. iltbr. ii, G3, in 
Crit. Saer. viii, 1547). 

The legal age was twelve, or even earlier, in the case 
of female, and thirteen for a male (Maimon. JJe Pros. c. 
5; Grotius and Calmet, On John ix, 21). 

The inheritance was divided equally between all the 
sons except the eldest, who received a double portion 
(l)eut. xxi, 17 ; Gen. xxv, 31 ; xlix, 3 ; 1 Chron. v, 1,2; 
Judg. xi, 2, 7). Daughters had by right no portion in 
the inheritance; but if a man had no son, his inheri- 
tance passed to his daughters, but they were forbidden 
to marry out of their father’s tribe (Numb, xxvii, 1, 8 ; 
xxxvi, 2, 8). — Smith. See Child. 

Son, in Norse mythology, was one of the barrels in 
which Fialar and Galar caught the blood of the white 
Quasar, in order to brew from it the mead which pro- 
duced poetic intoxication. 

Son of God. This expression occurs, and even 
with some frequency, in the plural before it is found in 
the singular; that is, in the order of God’s revelations 
it is used in a sense applicable to a certain class or class- 
es of God’s creatures prior to its being employed as the 
distinctive appellation of One to whom it belongs in 
a sense altogether peculiar. It seems necessary, there- 
fore, in order to obtain a natural and correct view of 
the subject, that we first look at lhe more general use 
of the expression, and then consider its specific and 
higher application to the Messiah. 

1. Sons of Goi> viewed generally. We first meet 
with this designation in a passage which has from early 
times been differently understood. It is at Gen. vi, 1- 
4, where, in reference to the growing corruption of an- 
tediluvian times, it is said, “The sons of God ( bene Elo- 
hini) saw the daughters of men that they were fair, and 
they took them wives of all whom they chose” (that is, 
having regard only to natural attraction). And again, 
“ There were giants in the earth (literally, “ the nephi- 
lim were on the earth”) in those days; and also after 
that, when the sons of God came in unto the daughters 
of men, and they bare [children] unto them, these were 
the mighty men (the heroes, who were of old, 

men of renown.” The sons of God in these verses, say 
many of the .Jewish interpreters, were persons of quali- 
ty, princes and nobles, and the daughters of men they 
married were females of low birth — as if the climax of 
disorder and corruption in the Bible sense were marry- 
ing below one’s rank! Such a view carries improba- 
bility in its very front, and is without any support in 
the general usage of the terms. In the Apocryphal 
book of Enoch, then by many of the fathers, and in 
later times not a few Catholic and Lutheran theologians 
(including among the last class Stier, Hofmann, Kurtz, 
Delitzsch), the sons of God is a name for the angels, 
in this case, of course, fallen angels; who they think 
form the only proper contrast to the daughters of men. 
In other passages, also, angels are undoubtedly called 
“sons of God” (Job i, G ; ii, 1 ; xxxviii, 7; Dan. iii, 
25) and “sons of Elim,” or the Mighty (Tsn. xxix, 1; 
Ixxxix, 7). There are, however, other passages in 
which men standing in a definite relation to God, his 
peculiar people, are so called. Israel, as the elect na- 


SON OF GOD 


877 


SON OF GOD 


tion, is called his son, his first-born (Exod. iv, 22); but 
within this circle a narrower circle still bore the name 
of his sons, as contradistinguished from those who cor- 
rupted themselves and fell away to the world (Deut, 
xxxii, 5); and those who had backslidden, but again 
returned, were to be designated sons of the living God 
(Hos. i, 10). Also in Psa. lxxx, 17, Israel in the strict- 
er sense, as the elect seed, is named the son whom God 
(Elohim) made strong for himself. There seems no 
reason, therefore, for supposing that the expression “sons 
of God” should be understood of angels any more than 
of men. Its actual reference must be determined from 
the connection, and in the case under consideration an- 
gels are on various accounts necessarily excluded. For 
(1) the procedure ascribed to those sons of God — choos- 
ing beautiful women for wives and marrying them — 
cannot, without the greatest incongruity, be associated 
with angelic natures, among which there is neither 
marrying nor giving in marriage (Luke xx, 35. 36). 
Even carnal intercourse between such parties was im- 
practicable; but the actual taking of wives (the term 
used being that uniformly employed to denote the mar- 
riage relationship) is still more abhorrent to the ideas 
set forth in Scripture as to the essential distinctions be- 
tween the region of spirits and the world of sense. (2.) 
If a relation of the kind had been possible, it would still 
have been entirely out of place in such a narratives 
where the object of the historian manifestly is to trace 
the progress of human corruption — implying that the 
prominent actors in the drama were men, and not be- 
ings of another sphere, lienee, immediately after the 
first notice of the angels of God marrying the daughters 
of men, the Lord says, “My spirit shall not always 
strive with man, for that he also is flesh” (Gen. vi, 3) ; 
as if the whole quarrel were with the partakers of flesh 
and blood. (3.) The moral bearing and design of the 
narrative also point in the same direction, which un- 
doubtedly aimed at presenting, from the state of things 
which drew on the Deluge, a solemn warning to the Is- 
raelites against those heathen marriages which brought 
incalculable mischief on the covenant people. (4.) In 
like manner, the allusion of our Lord to the marrying 
and giving in marriage before the Flood as things which 
were going to be repeated after the same fashion before 
the second advent (Luke xvii, 27) requires them to be 
understood of earthly relationships, otherwise the al- 
lusion could have furnished no proper parallel to the 
state of things anticipated in the last days, and would 
have been beside the mark. (See Stosch. De Filiis Dei 
[Linga?, 1749]; Quintorp, ibid. [Host. 1751]; Scholz, 
Ehe d. iSuhne Gottes , etc. [Fiatisb. 1866].) 

We are therefore decidedly of opinion that by “sons 
of God” in the narrative of Genesis is meant, as the great 
body of the best interpreters have understood it, a se- 
lect class of men on earth, those who belonged to the 
line that had maintained in a measure the true filial 
relationship to God (the Sethites). Though fallen and 
sinful, yet, as children of faith and heirs of promise, 
they were the spiritual as well as natural offspring of 
one who was originally made in God’s image, and who 
still through grace could look up to God as a father. 
From this select class the Caiuites were cut off, the un- 
believing and godless spirit they manifested showing 
them to be destitute of the childlike spirit of faith and 
love; whence Adam and Eve, by reckoning their seed 
only through Seth, had in a manner disowned them. 
Alienated from God, the offspring of Cain were merely 
sons of men, and their daughters might fitly be called 
in an emphatic sense the daughters of men, because 
knowing no higher parentage. Hut the other class 
contained members of a family of God on earth ; for, if 
“in that olden time there were pious men, who, like 
Enoch and Noah, walked with God, or who, even if they 
did not stand in this close, priestly relation to God, 
made the divine image a reality through their piety 
and fear of God, then these were sons of God (Elohim), 
for whom the only correct appellation was ‘sons of 


Elohim,’ since sonship to Jehovah was only introduced 
with the call of Israel” (Keil). The name in question, 
“sons of God,” was made prominent at the critical time 
when it was on the eve of becoming altogether inap- 
plicable in order the more distinctly to show how will- 
ing God w-as to own the relationship as long as he well 
could, and how grievous a degeneracy discovered itself 
when the distinction belonging to them as God’s elect 
began practically to be obliterated by their ungodly al- 
liances with the world. It is impossible here to enter 
into the collateral arguments urged by those who op- 
pose the view given in the text and understand by 
“ sons of God” the fallen angels. They are chiefly two. 
They conceive the nephilim (q. v.), the men of gigantic 
energy, or superhuman might, mentioned in Gen. vi, 4, 
to be the product of those unnatural connections, and a 
proof of it. But the text speaks of the nephilim as 
being on the earth before the improper marriages in 
question were formed; and it is not at all clear that the 
ejibborim , or “ mighty men” subsequently referred to, 
were the same or similar persons (see Keil, On Gen. vi, 
4). The other line of support is derived from the sup- 
posed reference, in Jude 6, 7, to the wickedness of the 
fallen angels in a lustful and fleshly direction, as if 
they left their proper habitation to mingle in the pol- 
lutions of sensual indulgence here; but this is quite a 
fanciful interpretation. The sensuality and defiling of 
the flesh spoken of have reference, not to them, but to 
the people of Sodom and Gomorrah, who indulged in 
wanton and rebellions courses like the angels, but in 
these took, of course, a different direction. Going after 
fornication, or strange flesh, implies, as Keil remarks, 
a flesh of one’s own (idia acipZ), which the angels had 
not. 

It was thus plainly in reference to men’s moral state 
and relationship that the epithet “sons of God” was 
applied to some before the Deluge; and so w r as it ever 
afterwards. In a mere physical sense, as having de- 
rived their being from God, men are not in Scripture 
designated his sons; though there is an approach to it 
in the appropriation by Paul of a passage from a hea- 
then poet (“We are also his offspring,” Acts xvii, 28), 
in order to give it a higher application. Israel, when 
about to be called out of Egypt, or when actually de- 
livered, was called collectively the son of Jehovah, or, 
in the plural, sons (Exod. iv, 22, 23 ; Deut. xiv, 1 ; Hos. 
xi, i); and this because they were by special election 
and privilege called to be “a holy people unto Jeho- 
vah their God, and Jehovah had chosen them to be a 
peculiar people unto himself, above all the nations that 
are upon the earth” (Deut. xiv, 2 ; Exod. xix, 5, 6). In 
this sense are to be understood all the passages which 
speak of God as the Father, the Former, or Begetter, 
of Israel (Dent, xxxii, 18; Jer. ii, 27 ; Isa. lxiv, 8; Mai. 
i, 6; ii, 10). The sonship they indicate is one of a mor- 
al or spiritual nature, having its origin in the free grace 
of God. and its visible manifestation in the peculiar re- 
lation of Israel to the know' ledge, service, and blessing 
of Jehovah. They are also called God’s first-born, be- 
cause the distinction thus conferred upon them was not 
to be theirs exclusively; they only took precedence of 
others, and received their place and privileges in or- 
der that through them all the nations of the earth 
might be similarly blessed. But from the manifest 
failing, on the part of the great body of the people, to 
fulfil their calling and destiny, the sonship v T as again, 
as it v’ere, denied of the collective Israel, and limited 
to the better portion of them. The one had not the 
marks of true children (Dent, xxxii, 5), and the other 
alone could properly call God Father, or be owned by 
him as sons (Jer. iii,4; llos. i, 10). And even in their 
case all v'as imperfect, and cotdd not but be till “the 
time of reformation,” when God’s purpose of grace reach- 
ed its full development, and the partakers of it attained 
to a far higher position in the gifts and blessings of 
the divine kingdom. From that time it was formally 
as the regenerate, those who have been born again 


SOX OF GOD 


STS 


SOX OF GOD 


of God or have received from him the adoption, that 
they become members of the kingdom (John i, 1*2. 13; 
iii, 3, 5; Gal. iii, 5, etc.); and ( lie Spirit is conferred 
ujHin them, not with a kind of secrecy and reserve, blit 
in the full plenitude of grace, and expressly as the 
spirit of son ship or adoption, leading them to cry in a 
manner altogether peculiar, "Abba, Father” (Horn, viii, 
1,’>), As compared with this higher stage of sonship, 
those who lived in earlier times, while they enjoyed 
the reality, scarcely knew how to use it. In the tone 
of their spirits and the general environments of their 
condition they approached nearer to the state of ser- 
vants than that of sons. See Abba. 

2. Son of (Ion. in its special application to Jesus 
Christ. Even in Uhl-Test. Scripture, and with respect 
to the participation of sonship by the common mem- 
bers of the covenant, there was, as already stated, a 
narrowing of the idea of sonship to those in whom it 
was actually, realized. Hut within that narrow circle 
there was a narrower still of which divine sonship was 
predicated, and this in connection with the family of 
David, the royal house. Even in the first formal an- 
nouncement of God’s mind on the subject, when the 
prophet Xathan declared so distinctly that David’s son 
should also be God’s son, and that the throne of his 
son’s kingdom should be established forever (2 Sara, vii, 
14-1G), there was an elevation of the idea of sonship 
beyond what had yet been given in the revelations of 
G»»d to bis people. The king on the throne of Israel 
in David’s line was to be in the most emphatic sense 
God's son — combining, therefore, royalty and sonship — 
and this associated with actual perpetuity. Could such 
things be supposed to have their full accomplishment 
in a son who had about liini only the attributes of hu- 
manity? Must not the human, in order to their real- 
ization, be in some peculiar manner interpenetrated 
with the divine? Thoughts of this description could 
scarcely fail to occur to contemplative minds from the 
consideration of this prophecy alone; but other and 
still more explicit utterances were given to aid their 
contemplations and render their views in this respect 
more definite. For David himself in Psa. ii speaks of 
the future God -anointed king of Zion as so anointed 
and destined to the irreversible inheritance of the king- 
dom, just because he was Jehovah’s son and had a right 
to wield Jehovah’s power and exercise his sovereignty 
to t ho utmost bounds of the earth. This seemed to be- 
speak for him who was to he king bv way of eminence 
an own tinlly divine standing; and in Psa. xlv he is 
addressed formally as God, whose throne should be for 
ev.-r and ever. The same strain was caught up at a 
later period by Isaiah (vii, 1 1), whore it is said of the 
child one day to be born in the house of David of a 
virgin that lie should be Immanuel (God with us), 
and, again, in ix, G, that the child so singularly to be 
given should he called ‘‘Wonderful, Counsellor, the 
Mighty God (literally, the God-hero), the Everlasting 
Father, the Prince of Peace” — epithets which had been 
unmeaning, or at least extravagantly hyperbolical, if 
the destined bearer of them bad not been possessed of 
strictly divine attributes. So, also, in t)io prophet Mi- 
cab, the contemporary of Isaiah, it is allirmed of the 
future ruler of Israel, whose birth was to throw a pe- 
culiar glory around the little town of Bethlehem, that 
bis goings-forth have been from old, from everlasting 
( v * -)• It i* but to give a specific application to these 
prophecies, and to many besides that spoke of the glo- 
rious powers and prerogatives of Him who should come 
ns the angel or messenger of l he eovenant to redeem 
bis people and rectify the affairs of the divine kingdom, 
wlnn at tin* In-ginning of the Gospel icra the birth was 
announced of otic who should be called the Son of the 
Highest, and who should sit on the throne of David 
(Luke i, 32); and when this same person, as soon as he 
had begun to manifest himself to the people, was ac- 
kn >\\ lodged as at once “ the King of Israel and the Son 
of God” (John i, 49). 


Nothing, however, can be more clear from the records 
of New-Test. Scripture than that the Jews, while they 
expected a Messiah who should be king of Israel, were 
all but unanimous in the rejection of the idea that he 
should be possessed of a nature essentially divine. 
They could scarcely doubt that he was to enjoy in a 
very peculiar manner the favor and help of God so as 
to occupy the very highest rank among God’s messen- 
gers to men; but there is no evidence that they carried 
the matter higher (Schbttgen’s proofs [/>e Messia, vol. 
iii] to the contrary are insufficient); and, accordingly, 
whenever our Lord made declarations which amounted 
to an assumption of proper divinity, he was always met 
hv an uncompromising opposition, except within the 
circle of his immediate disciples. Once and again, when 
he spoke in such a way as to convey the impression 
that God was his own (ithoc) Father — Father in a sense 
that implied equality of nature — the Jews proceeded to 
deal with him as a blasphemer (John v, 18; viii, 59; 
x, 30-33). When assuming the divine prerogative of 
forgiving sins, they charged him in their hearts with 
blasphemy (Matt, ix, 3), but, so far from desisting from 
the claim, he appealed on the spot to what should have 
been regarded as an i n con tro Avertible proof of his right 
to maintain it — his power and capacity to perform an 
essentially divine work. When at a later period he 
challenged them to reconcile their belief in the fact as 
to the Christ being David’s son with David’s own rec- 
ognition of him as his Lord, they were unable to meet 
it (Luke xx, 41-44), plainly because they were unpre- 
pared to allow any strictly divine element in the con- 
stitution of Christ’s person. Finally, when driven from 
all other grounds of accusation against Jesns, they at 
last found their capital charge against him in his con- 
fession that he was the Son of the living God (Matt, 
xxvi, 63-6G). In all the passages referred to, and very 
specially in the last, it admits of no doubt both that 
Jesus claimed a really divine character and that his 
adversaries rejected the claim and held the very mak- 
ing of it to be a capital crime. Jesns knew perfectly 
that they so understood him, and yet he deliberately 
accepts their interpretation of his words, nay, consents 
to let the sentence pronounced against him run its 
course rather than abandon or modify the claim to di- 
vinity on which it was grounded. The conclusion is 
inevitable on both sides: on the side of the Jewish au- 
thorities that the idea of divine sonship was utterly ab- 
horrent to their view of the expected Messiah, while 
in the mind of Jesns it was only as possessing such a 
sonship that the real characteristics of the Messiah 
could be found in him. Stier, however, has conclusively 
shown (Horcfc of the Lord Jesus } on John ix, 3G) that 
the title “Son of God” was not a mere equivalent for 
“ Messiah.” 

The mistake of the Jews respecting the person of 
Christ did not come of itself; it sprang from superficial 
views of the work of Christ. The national king of Is- 
rael, such as they had come to anticipate in the Mes- 
siah, might have been a mere man only specially as- 
sisted by God. There was nothing in the contemplated 
office which lay above the reach of human capacity or 
prowess, and it could not appear otherwise than blas- 
phemy to associate with it an incarnation of Deitv. 
Had t hey seen the more essential part of the work to 
lie in the reconciliation of iniquity, and laying open, 
through an atonement of infinite value and a righteous- 
ness all perfect and complete, the way to eternal life 
for a perishing world, they would have seen that un- 
speakably higher than human powers were needed for 
tin* task. Misapprehending the conditions of the great 
problem that had to he solved, they utterly mistook 
the kind of qualifications required for its solution, and 
remained blind to the plainest testimonies of their own 
Scriptures on the subject. They alone saw it who came 
to know Jesus as the Saviour of sinners, the Redeemer 
of the world ; and their testimony to his divine charac- 
ter was, like his own, explicit and uniform. If, as has 


SON OF MAN 


879 


SONCINO 


been well said — gathering up the substance of their I 
statements and our Lord’s own on the subject — “if the 
only-begotten and well-beloved Son of God, who always 
was, and is to be, in the bosom of the Father, in the 
nearness and dearness of an eternal fellowship and an 
eternal sonship; who is the manifestation, the expres- 
sion, the perfect image of God, such a reflection of his 
glory and express image of his person that whoever 
has seen the Son has seen the Father also; who is the 
agent and representative of God in the creation and 
preservation of the material and the spiritual universe, 
in the redemption of the Church and the reconciliation 
of the world and the government of both, in the gener- 
al resurrection of the dead and the final judgment of 
men and angels, in all divine attributes and aets, so 
that he is manifestly the acting Deity of the universe 
— if he is not God, there is no actual or possible evidence 
that there is any God” (Dr. Tyler, in Bill. Sacra for 
October, 1865). — Fairbairn. See Sonshir of Christ. 

Son of Man. 'This designation, which, like the 
Son of God, is now chiefly associated with Christ, has 
also an Old as well as a New Test, usage; it had a gen- 
eral before it received a specific application. In a great 
variety of passages it is employed as a kind of circum- 
locution for man, with special reference to his frail nat- 
ure and humble condition; as, when speaking of God, 
it is said, “He is not the son of man that he should 
repent” (Numb, xxiii, 19); and “ What is man that 
thou art mindful of him, or the son of man that thou 
visitest him?” (Fsa. viii, 4). For some reason not cer- 
tainly known, but probably from its being either a mere 
adoption of ChahUean usage, or its possessing a sort of 
poetical and measured form, the designation “ son of 
man” is the style of address commonly employed in 
Ezekiel’s writings when he was called to hear the 
word of God (ii, 1; iii, 1, etc.). That Chahhean usage 
had, at least, something to do with it may be inferred 
from its similar employment by Daniel; as, when speak- 
ing of a heavenly messenger appearing to him in the 
visions of God, he describes the appearance as being of 
one, not simply like a man, but “like the similitude of 
the sons of men” (x, f6), while in other parts of the de- 
scription this is interchanged with the simple designa- 
tion or appearance of a man (ver. 5, 18). Nor have we 
any reason to think that, as regards the expression it- 
self, anything else is indicated by “son of man” in the 
vision of Daniel which most directly points to New- 
Test. times and relations. In that vision, after behold- 
ing successively four different monstrous and savage 
forms imaging so many earthly monarchies, the proph- 
et saw “like a son of man came with the clouds of 
heaven, and came to the Ancient of Days; . . . and there 
was given him dominion, and glory, and a kingdom, 
that all people, nations, and languages should serve 
him” (vii, 13, 14). The expression here, “like a son of 
man,” is evidently equivalent to one having a human 
aspect, and as such differing essentially from those 
beastly and rapacious natures that had already passed 
in vision before him. The kingdoms represented by 
such natures, though presided over by human beings, 
were to be characterized by the caprice, selfishness, and 
cruelty which were instinctively suggested by those 
ideal heads; while in the higher kingdom that should 
come after them, and which was really to attain to the 
universality and perpetuity that they vainly aspired 
after, there were to be the possession and display of 
qualities distinctively human — those, namely, which are 
the image and reflex of the divine. This, however, it 
could only be by the head of the kingdom himself oc- 
cupying a higher platform than that of fallen humani- 
ty, and being able to pervade this lower sphere with 
the might and the grace of Godhead. Hence in the 
vision, not only is ideal humanity made to image the 
character of the kingdom, but the bearer of it appears 
coming in the clouds of heaven, the proper chariot of 
Deirv — as himself being from above rather than from 
beneath — emphatically, indeed, the Lord fromheaveu. 


It may be regarded as certain that in so frequently 
choosing for himself the designation of “the Son of 
man” (in all fully fifty times), our Lord had respect to 
the representation in Daniel. It w r as the title under 
which, with a few rare exceptions, he uniformly spoke 
of himself; and it is remarkable how, when acquiescing 
in his right to be acknowledged by others in the most 
peculiar sense “the Son of God,” he sometimes imme- 
diately after substituted for this the wonted designation 
of “ the Son of man” (John i, 49-51 ; Matt, xxvi, 63, 
64), as if to show that what belonged to the Son of 
God might equally be affirmed (when the terms were 
rightly understood) of the Son of man. This comes out 
with peculiar force in the latter of the tw r o passages re- 
ferred to; for no sooner had our Lord confessed to the 
adjuration of the high-priest as to his being the Son of 
God than he added, “Hereafter ye shall see the Son of 
man sitting on the right hand of power and coming in 
the clouds of heaven,” appropriating the very language in 
Daniel’s vision, and asserting of himself as Son of man 
what belonged to him as the fellow of Godhead. Along 
with and behind the attribution of humanity, which he 
loved to place in the foreground, there lay the heaven- 
ly majesty. Hence, while the epithet in question may 
well enough be understood to imply that Jesus was “ the 
ideal man” (w’hich is all that rationalistic interpreters 
would find in it), it includes much more than that : it 
makes him known as the new man, who had come f rom 
heaven, and in whom, because in him the Word w*as 
made flesh, manhood had attained to the condition in 
which it could fulfil the high destiny of exercising lord- 
ship for God over “the world to come” (Heb. ii, 5). 

Bv this title, then, to use the words of Luthardt, 
“Jesus, on the one side, includes himself among other 
men — he is one of our race; while, on the other, he 
thereby exalts himself above the whole race besides, as 
in a truly exclusive sense the Son of mankind, its genu- 
ine Offspring — the one Man towards whom the whole 
history of the human race was tending, in whom it 
found its unity, and in whom history finds its turning- 
point as the close of the old and the commencement of 
the new aera.” But this, coupled with the authority 
and power of judgment which he asserts for himself 
over all flesh as the Son of man, bespeaks his posses- 
sion of the divine as well as of the human nature. “ No 
rationalistic ideal of virtue can avail us here. To call 
Jesus the mere prototype and prefigurement of mankind 
will not suffice to justify such language; we are con- 
strained to quit the limits of humanity, and to look for 
the root of his being, the home of his nature and life, in 
God himself to explain the possibility of such declara- 
tions. The absolute relation to the world which he at- 
tributes to himself demands an absolute relation to God. 
The latter is the necessary postulate of the former, 
which cannot be properly understood but from this 
point of view. Only because Jesus is to God what he 
is can he be to us what he says. He is the Son of man, 
the Lord of the world, its judge, only because he is the 
Son of God” ( Fundamental Truths o f Christianity , p. 289, 
290). — Fairbairn. For literature, see Hase, Lebtn Jesu , 
p. L27. 

Sonargaultr, in Norse mythology, was the great 
golden boar which was placed on the table of the he- 
roes on every recurring Juel evening, and upon whose 
back they plaeed their hands while making the vows 
which were to bind them during the ensuing year. 

Soncino. This appellation designates a Jewish 
family who won a lasting name by their early and ex- 
tensive enterprises in Hebrew typography. They were 
of German origin, and may be traced to the city of 
Spire, but take the name by which they are best 
known from Soncino, a small town in Lombardy, where 
they established a press, from which issued a number 
of valuable works in Hebrew literature, more espe- 
cially some of the earliest-printed Hebrew Bibles. The 
first production of the Soncino press is the treatise Be - 


SONG 


S 80 SONG OF THE HOLY CHILDREN' 


rakoth. dated I 181. a full description of which is given 
hv ]>c Rosm ill Annul** Htbrtrn- Typogra/du'ri, Bee. A 1 
( 1 ‘arma*. 1795), p. 2* sq. The printer was Joshua Sol- 
omon iK'ii-I-racl Nathan, who was the head of the fam- 
ily, and with him was associated his brother Moses, 
whoM* son ( lemon established a press at Constantinople. 
In the pro face the printer speaks of himself as “ Gerson, 
a man of Sonvino. the son of R. Moses, the son of the 
ui<H‘ and excellent R. Israel Nathan ben-Samuel ben- 
Rahbi Mom*, being of the fifth generation from the 
rabbi Moses of Spirah.” Soon after the printing of the 
treatise Berakoth this press issued the former and later 
prophets (i. e. Joshua. Judges. Samuel, Kings. Isaiah, 
Jeremiah. Ezekiel, and the twelve minor prophets), 
with Kimchi’s commentary. The whole comprises 459 
U-aves. The first word in Joshua, Judges, and Samuel 
(T"'.) is printed in large letters: in the greater and 
smaller prophets the first word is wanting, but a great 
space is left. Neither pages, chapters, nor verses are 
numbered: above the text the name of the book is 
printed. Kach page is divided into two columns; the 
commentary stands below the text, which has no mi- 
miscular <>r majuseular letters, no vowels or accents. A 
full description of this part of the Old Test. (Soncino, 

1 isO-St?) is given in Rich horn’s Bepertorium, viii, 51 
s(j.. together with its variations. At the same time 
(14*13) there appeared the live Megilloth, i. c. Canticles, 
Ruth, Lamentations, Ecclesiastes, and Esther, and also 
the Psalter; ami two years later (1488) the Biblia He- 
braira Integra, cum I 'u net is et Accentibus (fob). This is 
the first complete Hebrew Bible with vowel-points and 
accents. This Bible is very rare; only nine copies are 
known to be extant, viz. one at Exeter College, Oxford, 
two at Rome, two at Florence, two at Parma, one at 
Vienna, and one in the Baden-Durlach Library. It has 
a title, but at the end of the Pentateuch we find a post- 
script, which seems to have been added after the com- 
pletion of the twenty-four books. According to Kenni- 
cott, this edition is said to contain more than 12,000 
variations which is probably an exaggeration. The 
firm of the Soncini extended their operations by erect- 
ing presses at Naples, Brescia. Fano, and other places: 
and to their operations Jewish literature is greatly 
indebted. For a list of the works edited by the Soncini, 
see Ftlrst, Bibl. Jnd. iii, 352 sq. (B. P.) 

Song (prop, “"w, shir , yet)). Songs were gener- 
ally used on occasions of thanksgiving and triumph, 
as tin* song of Moses at the deliverance from Pharaoh 
and his host (Kxud. xv, 1): the song of Israel at the 
well of Beer (Numb, xxi, 17); the song of Moses, in 
Deuteronomy (ch. xxxii); that of Deborah (Judg. v, 
12); that of David on bringing up the ark (I Citron, 
xiii,*); of Hannah (1 Sam. ii); of the Virgin (Luke i, 
•1»3); of the four-mid-twenty elders (Rev, v, 8); of Mo- 
ses and the Lamb (xv, 3). But a lew also were sung 
on occasions of sorrow, such ns that of David on Saul 
ami Jonathan (2 Sam. i. 1*. etc.); the Lamentations of 
Jeremiah, and the song be composed on the death of 
JoAali (2 ('It rou. xxxv, 25). It is said of Tyre, in Ezck. 
xxvi. 13, ns one mark of her desolation, 

“ 1 will cause the noise of thy hoii^s to cense, 

And the sound of thy harps shall be no more heard.” 
Si ngs utid viols were the usual accompaniments of sac- 
rifices among the Jews and heathens (Amos v, 23). 

•‘.Mci Him, dole- tihhi eflumhit modus, 

Et niven mugim viclinm ante liras ciulat.” 

(Settee. Trond.) 

E cries, xi. I, “And all the daughters of song shall he 
brought low,” i. e. all the organs which perceive and 
distinguish mmdcnl sounds, and those also which form 
mid modulate the voice; age producing incapacity of 
enjoyment, ns old Bar/.illni remarks (2 Sam. xix, *35) ; 

1 ns Juvenal notices, thus translated by Drvden: 

** " hut music or enchanting voice cun cheer 
A • lupld, old, linpenctnihle eurl” 

IVn. lx'iii descriljes the manner of Jewish musical Tes- 
tis itic»: 


“ The singers went before, 

After came the players on instruments, 

Between the damsels playing on timbrels.” 

In Hos. ii, 15 singing implies the manifestation of the 
divine favor, where the Targuni says, “ I will work mir- 
acles for them, and perforin great acts, as in the day 
when they ascended up out of the land of Egypt.” In 
this sense a song denotes a great deliverance and a new 
subject of thanksgiving; so a new song, as in Psa. xl, 
3; Rev. v, 9, and elsewhere, implies a new work of sal- 
vation and favor, requiring an extraordinary return of 
gratitude and praise. See Hymn; Psalm; Singing. 

SONG OF DEGREES. See Degrees, Song of; 
Gkalujau 

SONG OF SOLOMON, or SONG OF SONGS. See 
Canticles. 

SONG OF THE THREE HOLY CHILDREN is 
the title of one of the minor pieces found in the Apoc- 
rypha, and placed in the English Version immediately 
after the hook of Baruch. See Apocrypha. The full 
caption of the translators is as follows: “The Song of 
the Three Holy Children, which followeth in the third 
chapter of Daniel after this place — fell down bound into 
the midst of the burning fiery furnace , ver. 23. That 
which followeth is not in the Hebrew, to wit, And they 
walked [the first words of the piece in question] — unto 
these words, Then Nebuchadnezzar , ver. 24:.” It contains 
sixty-eight verses. 

I. Title and Position. — This piece is generally called 
The Song , or Hymn, of the Three Iloly Children because 
ver. 28 says that “ the three, as out of one mouth, 
praised, glorified, and blessed God,” though it ought 
rather to be denominated The Prayer of A zarias, and 
the Song of the Three Holy Children , inasmuch as nearly 
half of it is occupied with the prayer of Azarias. Orig- 
inally it was inserted in the 3d chapter of Daniel, be- 
tween the 23d and 24th verses; but, being used liturgi- 
cally in connection with similar fragments, it was after- 
wards transposed to the end of the Psalms in the Codex 
Alexandriims as Hymn ix and x. under the titles of 
“The Prayer of Azarias,” and “The Hymn of our Fa- 
thers.” It occupies a similar position in many of the 
Greek and Latin psalters, and most probably was so 
placed already in the old Latin version. 

II. Design. — This piece is evidently liturgical in its 
purpose, being suggested by the apparent abruptness 
of the narrative in Daniel (iii, 23), as well as by the 
supposition that these confessors, who so readily submit- 
ted to be thrown into a tierv furnace, in which they re- 
mained some time, would employ their leisure in prayer 
to the God whom they so fearlessly confessed. Accord- 
ingly, Azarias is represented as praying in the furnace 
(ver. 2-22), and, in answer to his prayer, we are told 
that the angel of the Lord appeared, who, notwithstand- 
ing the increased heat of the furnace, cooled the air like 
** a moist whistling wind” (ver. 2G, 27) ; whereupon all 
the three martyrs burst into a song of praise (ver. 28- 
6*), thus affording an example of prayer and thanks- 
giving to the atllicted and delivered Church, which she 
has duly appreciated by having used it as a part of ber 
service ever since the 4th century, and by its being 
used in the Anglican Church to the present day. 

III. Unity, Author, Date, and Original Language . — 
There is hardly any connection between the prayer of 
Azarias and the song of the Three Holy Children. The 
former docs not even allude to the condition of the mar- 
tyrs, and is more like what we should expect from an 
assembly of exiled Jews on a solemn fast-day than from 
confessors in a furnace. This want of harmony between 
the two parts, coupled with the fact that ver. 14, which 
tells that the Temple and its worship no longer exist, 
contradicts ver. 3o, 31, (31, 02. where both are said to 
exist, and that the same author would not have put 
the prayer into the month of Azarias alone, shows that 
the two parts proceed from different sources. Those 
who are acquainted with the multifarious stories where- 
with Jewish tradition has embalmed the memory of 


SONjSTA 


8S1 


SONSHIP OF CHRIST 


scriptural characters well know that it is almost impos- 
sible to trace the authors or dates of these sacred legends. 
Neither can the language in which they were originally 
written be always ascertained. These legends grew 
with the nation ; they accompanied the Jews into their 
wanderings, assumed the complexions and were re- 
peated in the languages of the different localities in 
which the Jews colonized. An Apocryphal piece may, 
therefore, have a Palestinian or Babylonian origin, and 
yet have all the draper}’- of the Alexandrian school. 

De Wette ( Lehrbuch ) conceives that the prayer and 
the hymn betray marks of two different authors (Dan. 
iii, 38; comp, with ver. 53, 55,84, 85, Stephen’s Divi- 
sion), and that the latter has the appearance of being 
written with a liturgical -object. Certain it is that, 
from a very early period, it formed part of the Church 
service (see Rufinus, in Symbol. A post., who observes 
that this hymn was then sung throughout the whole 
Church; and Athanasius, De Viryinitate'). It is one of 
the canticles still sung on all festivals in the Roman, 
and retained in the daily service of the Anglican, Church. 
In its metrical arrangement it resembles some of the 
ancient Hebrew compositions. De Wette adduces (i loc . 
cit .) several proofs from the style to show that it had a 
Chaldee original, and had undergone the labors of va- 
rious hands. It is maintained by those who contend 
for the divine authority of this hymn that the context 
requires its insertion, as without it there would be an 
evident hiatus in the narrative (Dan. iii, 23). “Then 
these men, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego, fell 
down bound into the midst of the burning fiery furnace," 
after which we tind immediately (ver. 24, Ileb.), “then 
Nebuchadnezzar was astonished," etc. The cause of 
this astonishment is said to be supplied by the Greek 
translation — “And they walked in the midst of the fire 
praising God, and blessing the Lord (ver. 1, A. V. Apocr.) 

. . . but the angel of the Lord came down into the 
oven," etc. (ver. 27). But this addition seems by no 
means necessary in order to account for Nebuchadnez- 
zar’s astonishment, as the cause of it is given in Daniel, 
ver. 92 (ver. 25 in the lleb. and A.Y.). See Daniel, 
Apocryphal Additions to. 

Sonna, in Mohammedan law, is, according to the 
Book of Definitions, the observance of religion in mat- 
ters respecting which there is no positive and necessary 
command; also the general practice of the prophets, 
with some few exceptions. Now this general practice 
in matters of religion is called the Sonna of guidance, 
but in those of common occurrence the Sonna of excess. 
The Sonna of guidance is that by the due performance 
of which religion is rendered complete, and the derelic- 
tion of which is either detestable or sinful. The Sonna 
oiexcess is that to embrace which constitutes guidance; 
that is, it performs, insures good works, but the derelic- 
tion of which is neither detestable nor sinful; as, for 
instance, the custom of the prophet in rising, sitting, 
putting on his clothes, etc., is not binding, but if fol- 
lowed is meritorious. The Sonna, therefore, comprises 
the Mohammedan traditions. See Sunna. 

Sonnites are the orthodox Mohammedans who 
rigidly adhere to the traditions, and are famous for 
their opposition to the several heretical sects, especial- 
ly the Shiites (q. v.), who reject the traditions. The 
Turks belong to the former, the Persians to the latter 
sect. The}' regard the Sonna (q. v.), or traditions, as of 
equal authority with the Koran, but still do not under- 
value the latter. They are accounted orthodox Mo- 
hammedans. and recognise the Ottoman emperor as the 
caliph and spiritual head of Islam. There are four or- 
thodox sects of Sonnites, who agree in points of dog- 
matic and speculative theology, but differ on ceremonial 
points and questions of civil and political administration. 
These sects all unite in hostility to the house of Ali, and 
to the Shiites, who support his cause. 

Sonntag, Christoph, a German Lutheran theolo- 
gian, was born Jan. 28, 1G54, at Wevda. In 1676 he was 
IX.— K K K ‘ 


called to the pastorate of Oppurg, in 1686 he was made 
superintendent at Schleusingen, and four years later he 
was appointed professor of theology at Altdorf, where he 
died, July G, 1717. He wrote, Disputatio de Allegatis 
Apocryphis in Codice IV Evanyeliorum (Altdorf, 1716): 
— Scrntminm Biblicum (ibid. 1703) : — Ennea Periocha - 
rum Philoniarum (ibid. 1713): — De Sacerdotum Vet . 
Test. Ephemeris (ibid. 1691): — Miculee XX Authentic 
Chahluicce (ibid. 1703): — Dissertatio in Vatic. Esaim 
liii, II (ibid. 1692): — Triadologia Vet. Test. Catholica 
(ibid. 1698) : — Tituli Psalmorum in Methodurn A nnicer- 
sarium Redacti (1687). See Fiirst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 355 
sq. ; Winer, f/andbuch der theol. Lit. s. v. ; Koch, Gesch. 
d. deutsch. Kirchenliedes , v, 419. (B. P.) 

Sons OF GOD. See Son of God, 1. 

SONS OF THUNDER. See Boanerges. 

Sonsliip of Christ. The Creed of Nice declares, 
“ We believe in our Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of God, 
the only begotten of the Father, that is, of the essence 
of the Father, God of God, Light of Light, very God of 
very God, begotten, not made, of one essence with the 
Father." These sentiments have been the faith of the 
Church in every age, but they have been in many in- 
stances explained by unjustifiable imagery and lan- 
guage, often taken in the earlier centuries from the 
Platonic ontology, and drawn in later times from ma- 
terial sources. The two constituent elements of the 
divine sonship are, the Son’s consubstantialitv with the 
Father, and his peculiar ante-mundane origin in the 
Father. 

1. Dependence of the Son. — The name implies the 
Son’s dependence on the Father, and this relation of 
dependence lies also at the basis of other scriptural ex- 
pressions relating to Father and Son, e. g. “Image of 
the invisible God," “ Word of God," etc. The depen- 
dence of Jesus on the Father is expressly taught in 1 
Cor. iii, 23 and xi, 3: “Ye are Christ’s, and Christ is 
God’s:” “The head of Christ is God.” But it would 
be opposed to the central idea of Christian doctrine to 
maintain a dependence of the Son on the Father incon- 
sistent with his true divinity. By “dependence” in 
this relation is only meant that relation by which the 
second Person in the Trinity derives his godhead in 
virtue of his unity of nature with the Father. It is 
because he is the Son of God that he is himselflikewise 
fully and truly God. There is no inequality or inferi- 
ority implied in this expression. The dependence is 
one of essence, of nature, and not of creation, production, 
or emanation. Precisely in the same way the Holy 
Spirit is said to “ proceed” from the Father and the Son ; 
i. e. he is an outflow of the same essential being, but a 
different personality. The language employed on this 
subject must necessarily be mysterious, as the theme 
itself transcends human thought. See Person. 

2. Consubstantiality. — Here we set out with the words 
of Christ himself, “As the Father hath life in himself, 
so hath he given to the Son to have life in himself" 
(1 John v, 26). As the fountain of life, as the inde- 
pendent dispenser of life, the Son is entitled to the ap- 
pellation of Lord in conjunction with the Father. The 
world has its existence only in him who upholds and 
fills it with his gifts; in God only man lives, moves, 
and has his being (Acts xvii, 28). But the world has 
its being in the son. He is not only living, but the 
fountain of life. Sonship we understand to mean simi- 
larity of essence, and not a procreation as among men. 
Not only is the Son of the same essence with the Father, 
but he is also cwroStog — God in and from himself. 
Sonship appears to mean not a distinction of essence, 
but of existence — not of being in itself, but of being in 
its relations. The term does not characterize a separa- 
tion of nature so much as personality. But such differ- 
ence of position is not inequality of essence, and when 
rightly understood will be found as remote from the 
calumnious imputation of Tritheism as from the heresy 
of Modalism or Sabellianism. 


8S2 


SOPIIEPJM 


SOOFES 

3. Eternity of Sonship.— This clement in the sub- 1 
stance of the S«»n is expressed in Christ’s own words: j 
“And now, () Father, glorify thou me with thine own 
self with the glory which I hail with thee before the 
world was” (John xvii, . r >). These words evidently im- 
ply that Christ was conscious of having a life that had 
mi lieginning, ami the self-designation of Jesus, “ 1 am 
Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending” (Hev. 
i, S), teaches the same truth. The Son. as superior to 
time, is distinct from the world in a threefold sense : (o) 
he is above the necessity of change, while the world is 
in a constant change; ( b ) he knows no end, while the 
world will come to an end ; (c) his existence has not 
been preceded by a state of non-existence, as has been 
the case with t lie world. The life of the Son is exalted 
above time, without beginning, exempt from subjection 
to change and deeav. 

*1. Brgettin y of the Son. — A misconception of the 
eternal generation of the Son must be guarded against. 
According to our present mode of thinking, generation 
seems to be identical with calling into existence what 
did not exist before, llut how is it with the thoughts 
and self-consciousness of Cod? They are called forth 
by (toil, and yet there never was a time when God 
was without self-consciousness and without thoughts, 
lienee it must be evident that there must be in (iod a 
producing not subject to time, and productions which 
have no beginning; and, if so, the eternal generation 
f »f (iod ofters no insurmountable dilliculties. That Je- 
sus Christ was not called the “Son of (lod” because of 
the miraculous conception seems to be clearly shown by 
Watson ( Exposition , at Luke i, 35): “First, we have 
the act of the Holy Ghost, producing that Holy Tinny 
which was to be born of the Virgin, and wc have the 
di>tinet act of the power of the Highest uniting himself, 
the eternal Word, to that which was so formed in the 
womb of the Virgin. From these two acts all that the 
angel mentions followed. It followed that that should 
he a Holy Thing which should be born of Mary, as be- 
ing produced immediately by the Holy Ghost; and it 
followed that this Holy 'Filing should be called the Son 
of God. That power of the Highest which overshad- 
owed, exerted his influence upon the Virgin, took the 
Holy 'Filing into personal union with himself, who was 
in bis divine nature the Son of God, and this became 
the appellation of the one undivided Christ, but wholly 
by virtue of the hvpostatical union. The mode of ex- 
pression by which the concluding clause is introduced 
leads aI>o to the same conclusion. The particle tho, 
‘therefore,’ is consequential, and is not to be understood 
as if the angel were giving a reason why Christ should 
become the Son of God, but why lie should be owned 
and acknowledged as such. We have also the addition 
of ku\ in the sense of also; ‘Therefore, also, that Holy 
I’hing which shall he born of thee shall lie called the 
Son of God;* it shall not merely be called holy , which 
would follow from its being the immediate production 
of the Holy Ghost, but, more than that, it shall be called 
the Son of (iod, because of another and an additional 
eircmiiMiiiieo — the union of the two natures. For since 
human nature was united to the Son of God, it was to 
Itonr the same name ns being in indissoluble union with 
him.” It is the eternal Logos, and not merely the hu- 
man Jesus, that is and ever was the Son of (iod. See 
Cess, I'vrson of Christ (transl. by J. A. lieubelt, Ando- 
ver, |H,0); Kidd, f'hrisfophany (Loud. 1852, 8 vo); Sar- 
torius, Tt hre mu Christ i l*t rsnu and II Wf (llniiib. 1*41, 
Kvo; Lngl. trniisl. Boston, 184b, 12mo). See Trinity. 

Soofes, See Sf i is. 

Sool. See Si ns a. 

Soothsayer (-CJT, kosvm y Josh, xiii, 22; else- 
where “diviner;” uoonvn, Isa. ii, 0; Mie. v, 12 

{ 1 1 eh. 11 ]; elsewhere “ enchanter,” “sorcerer;” Cliald. 
t j*. gari Han. ii, 2< ; i v, 7; v, 7, 1 1 ; payrtvopat, 
“soothsa\ ing,” Acts xvi, Hi). See Divination. 


Soothsaying in Christian Times. Although 
j Christianity was a professed enemy to soothsaying and 
its kindred practices, yet the remains of such supersti- 
tion continued in the minds of many in the Church. 
The Church was therefore obliged to make severe laws 
to restrain them. The Council of Eliberis (can. G2) 
makes the renunciation of this art a condition of bap- 
tism, and a return to its practice was followed by expul- 
sion from the Church. This was the rule in the Apos- 
tolical Constitutions (lib. viii, cap. 32), and the councils 
of Agile (can. 42), Vannes (Cone. Venet. can. IG), Orleans 
(Cone. Aurel. 1, can. 30), and several others. A peculiar 
sort of augury was condemned by the French councils 
last named, under the name of sortes scicrce. divination 
by holy lots. It is also known as sortes Biblical. Bible 
lots. The practice of the Homans in opening a book of 
Virgil and taking the first passage that appeared as an 
oracle was imitated by many superstitious Christians. 
These used the Bible to learn their fortune by “sacred 
lots.” taking the first passage that presented itself to 
make their divination and conjecture upon. This was 
also called “The Lot of the Saints,” and was practiced 
for gain by some of the French clergy; bnt it. was de- 
creed by the Council of Agde that any who “should be 
detected in the practice of this art, either as consulting 
or teaching it, should be cast out of the communion of 
the Church.” The custom of using the Bible in this 
way still lingers in England, Scotland, and other coun- 
tries, more, however, as sport for children. See Bing- 
ham, Antiquities of the Christian Church , bk. xvi, ch. v, 
§ 2. See Superstition. 

Sop (xpwpior, a morsel ), a piece of bread dipped into 
sauce (John xiii, 2G-30). 

So'pater (fhb7rarpoc, i. e. savior of his father , a 
common Greek name), the son of Pyrrhus of Bercwt, was 
one of the companions of Paul on his return from Greece 
into Asia as he came back from his third missionary 
journey (Acts xx, 4). A.D. 55. Whether he is the same 
with SostPATKR (q. v.) mentioned in Bom. xvi, 21 can- 
not be positively determined. The name of his father, 
Pyrrhus, is omitted in the received text, though it has 
the authority of the oldest MSS., A, B, D, E fc and the 
recently discovered Codex Sinaiticus , as well as of the 
Vulgate, Coptic, Sahidic, Philoxenian-Syriac, Armenian, 
and Slavonic versions. Mill condemns it, apparently 
without reason, as a traditional gloss. — Smith. 

Sope, See Soap. 

Soplier. See Scribe. 

Sophe'reth (Ileb, id. r^sb, writing ; Sept. Sc- 
( pijod , 'HZatyapaT, v. r. ’AatcpopdS, SacpapdS), one whose 
children were a family that returned from Babylon with 
Zeruhhabel among the descendants of Solomon’s ser- 
vants (Ezra ii, 55; Nch. vii, 57). B.C. ante 530. 

Sopherim is the title of a Talmudic treatise, which 
is generally found at the end of the ninth volume of 
the Babylonian Talmud, together with other treatises 
which belong to the post-Talinudic period. The whole 
consists of twenty-one chapters, and is divided into 
three parts, the lirst of which has given the title So- 
pherim to the whole treatise. Part lirst, comprising 
ch. i v, contains directions for the copyist of the Iloly 
Writings. With this part corresponds what we read 
in the treatise Sepher Torah (edited by B. Kirehlicirn, 
Frankf.-on-tlie-Main, 1851), in the Septem Libri Tal - 
mudici Earri Hierosolymitani. Part second, compris- 
ing ch. vi-ix, contains the Masoretic part of the hook, 
and treats of the ten words of the Pentateuch which 
have the pwncta extruordinaria , viz. Gen. xvi, 5; xviii, 
1); xix, 33; xxxiii, 4; xxxvii, 12; Numb. iii. 39; ix, 
10; xxi, 30; xxix, 15; Dent, xxix, 28; of the Ken 
and Kethih , the variations between Psa. xviii and 2 Sam. 
xxii, between Isa. xxxvi sq. and 2 Kings xviii sq. 'Flic 
enumeration of the words, which arc written, but not 
read, and of those portions which are not to he read pub- 
I liclv, leads us to the third part, which is subdivided into 


SOPHIA 


883 


SOI 


two sections, viz. ch. x-xvi, which treat of the laws for 
the public reading in general, while ch. xvii-xxi treat 
of the holydays. From the contents we see the impor- 
tance of this treatise for the text of the Old Test. Its 
redaction probably belongs to the 9t.h century; in the 
12th century it is cited by the school of Southern 
France. This treatise lias often been commented upon 
—thus by A. L. Spira, who published the text with the 
commentary PT’X ", im bafnX rb J13 (Dyrhenfurt, 
1732), and by Jac. Nanmburg, in his T5n3 

(Fiirth, 1793). The first part (ch. i-v) has been edited, 
together with a Latin translation, by J. G. Chr. Adler, 
in his J uda’ovum Codicis Sacri Rife Scribtndi Leges 
(Hamb. 1779). Of late the treatise Sopherim has been 
published by J. Muller ( Leips. 1878), under the title 
Masechet Sopherim, der talmudische Tractat der Sehrei- 
ber , eine Einleitung in das Studium der althebriiisehen 
Graphik , der Musora uml der altjudischen IJturgie. 
This edition contains, besides the Hebrew text, ex- 
planations in German, which are very valuable in spite 
of the many mistakes which we often find in the writing 
of proper nouns, as Kennikut for Kennicott, etc. For a 
review of Muller’s edition, see Schiirer, Tlieolog. Lite- 
raturzeitung , 1878, p. G2G sq. ; Jiidisehes Lifer at urblatt, 
1879, p. 53 sq. ; G1 sq. See Talmud. (B. P.) 

Sophia. This name occurs frequently in the cata- 
logues of saints and martyrs of the ancient Church, but 
in no instance with historical authentication. 

1. A Christian widow, living at Pome under Hadrian,- 
about A.D. 120, with her daughters Fides, Spes, and 
Charitas. Accused before the pnefect Antiochus, they 
made joyous confession of their faith. The daughters 
were condemned to be thrown into a fire of pitch and 
sulphur, but as they remained uninjured in the tire, they 
were taken out and beheaded. The mother was tem- 
porarily released, and buried her children, but after 
three days she, too, sealed her faith with her blood. 
Her day is Sept. 30, or, according to other authorities, 
Aug. 1. The legend is found in Simeon Metaphrastes 
and later collections (ap. Lipom. tom. vi; ap. Sur. tom. 
iv; Mombrit. tom. ii; Acta SS. ad 30 Sept.). 

2 . A virgin martyred under Decius at Fermo, in 
Picenum, April 30, and buried in the church of that 
town. The Fasti Westphalice, however, commemorate 
a Sophia on the same day at Minden {Martyr. Rom. 
[cd. Baron.] ; Ferrarius, in Catal. SS.; comp. A eta SS. 
ad 30 April ). 

3 . Mentioned in Roman (Martyrol. Rom. [ed. Baron.]) 
and Greek ( Menolog . Sirletian.) lists as having been be- 
headed at Milan, Sept. 18. 

4 . An Egyptian, whose daughters were named Diba- 
mona and llistamona ( Fasti 1 1 abessinorum) , and with 
whom were associated a St. Varsenopha and her mother. 
Their natalities are assigned to June 4 ( Acta SS.) , 
their time is uncertain. 

5 . Sophia Senatrix , a nun of ^Enos, in Thrace, the 
widow of a senator at Constantinople, who returned to 
Thrace after the death of her six children in order to 
devote herself exclusively to works of Christian love. 
She died June 4, in the 10th or 11th century. The 
Acta SS. ad h. d. furnish a brief description of her life 
in Greek, taken from a Synaxarium Divionense. — Her- 
zog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Sophists is a title given to the leading public 
teachers in ancient Greece during the 5th and 4th cen- 
turies B.C. The most noted of these were Gorgias of 
Leontium and Protagoras of Abdera. The foundation 
of their doctrine was laid in scepticism, absolute truth 
being denied, and only relative truths being admitted 
as existing for man. Gorgias attacked the existence 
of the finite, but at the same time he maintained that 
all notion of the infinite is unattainable by the human 
understanding. He expressed his nihilism in three 
principal propositions: (a) nothing exists; (6) if any- 
thing existed, it would be unknowable; ( c ) if anything 
existed and -were knowable, the knowledge of it could, 


nevertheless, not be communicated to others. The doc- 
trine of Protagoras was that the phenomena both of ex- 
ternal nature and of the processes of mind are so fluctu- 
ating and variable that certain knowledge is unattain- 
able. He held that nothing at any time exists, but is 
always in a state of becoming. Man, he declared, is the 
measure of all things. Just as each thing appears to 
each man, so it is for him. All truth is relative. The 
existence of the gods, even, is uncertain. Thus this 
leading sophist succeeded in annihilating both existence 
ami knowledge, lie founded virtue on a sense of shame 
and a feeling of justice seated in the human constitu- 
tion. The sophists made use of their dialectic subtle- 
ties as a source of amusement, as well as intellectual ex- 
ercise, to the youth of Greece. They were opposed by 
Socrates (q. v.) and Plato, and Aristotle defines a sophist 
as “ an imposturous pretender to knowledge — a man who 
employs what he knows to be fallacy for the purpose of 
deceit and of getting money.” Mr. Grote contends that, 
so far from this being true, the morality of the Athenian 
public was greatly improved at the end of the 5th cen- 
tury as compared with the beginning of the century. 

Sophoni'as (Sophonias), a Greek (or rather Latin) 
form (2 Esdr. i, 40) of the name of the prophet Zlpha- 
kiah (q. v.). 

Sophronius. 1. A contemporary and friend of 
Jerome in Palestine about the close of the 4th century. 
He would seem to have been a Greek, who composed 
original works, and also translated a portion of Jerome’s 
Latin version of the Scriptures into Greek, lie is men- 
tioned in the De Vi ns JUustr. c. 134. See Cave, lie 
Script. Eccl. p.236; Fabric. Rib!. Eccl. p. 11 ; Vallarsii 
Opp. I Heron, (ed. Alt.), II, ii, 818; Fabric. Rib!. Gnec . 
(ed. Harl.), ix, 158; Schrockh, Kirchengesch. ii. 132. 

2 . A monk of Damascus, who was termed a scholar 
or sophist, and who became patriarch of Jerusalem in 
A.D. G34. He opposed the endeavors of Cyrus, pa- 
triarch of Alexandria, to secure the general acceptance 
of Monothelite views, and though temporarily induced, 
in a conference with Sergius, patriarch of Constantino- 
ple, and with Cyrus, to consent to the phrase SeavcpiKt) 
hdpyeia without insisting further on the consequences 
therefrom in favor of a dual nature in Christ, he refused 
to be intimidated after he became patriarch. In a cir- 
cular letter addressed to Sergius and Honorius of Rome, 
he gave a detailed exposition of the doctrine of Christ’s 
person, anil demanded that no further concessions should 
be made to Monothelitism. The emperor Heraclius is- 
sued his edict Ecthesis (q. v.) in G38 with the design of 
putting an end to the discussion; and as Jerusalem had 
fallen into the possession of the Saracens two years earlier, 
Sophronius was no longer able to bring any considerable 
influence to the support of his cause. The epistola en - 
cyclica referred to above is given in Hardouin, A eta Cone. 
iii, 1258, 1315 (Cone. (Ecumen. vi, II et Acta 12). The 
work by Joannes Moschns, Pratum Spirituale ( A up top 
UvfvpariKoc), is frequently cited under the name of 
Sophronius. It was perhaps dedicated to Moschns, or 
composed by Sophronius and Moschns together. Sev- 
eral additional writings by Sophronius exist in MS. or 
in Latin editions (comp. Cave, De Script. Eccl. p. 451 ; 
Walch, Gesch . d. Ketzereien. ix, 17, 37, 115 sq. ; Nean- 
der, Kirchengesch. iii, 248). The Menologium Grtecornm 
(Urbini, 1727) cites this Sophronius as a saint, and fixes 
his day on March 11. 

3 . Possibly identical with No. 1 , is mentioned in 
Photius’s Bibl. Cod. v as having written a Liber pm 
Basilio adr. Eunomium. The name is also found in 
lists of the patriarchs of Alexandria and Constantinople. 
See Fabric. Bibl. Grecc. (ed. llarl.), ix, 158 sq. 

Sor, in Persian mythology, is the personification of 
a deadly drought and heat. He is an evil deva. created 
by Ahriman and opposed to the devas of Ormuzd, for the 
purpose of hindering the growth of plants, and thus to 
cause famine and misery. — Vollmer, Worterb.d. Mythol. 
s. v. 


SOli A 


SS4 


SORBOX 


Sora, called aUo Matt a Mechassia. a town on the 
Kuphrnn**.. nbout twenty-two parasnngs south of Pumba- 
diiha. i* famous in Jcwi>h history as t lie seat of a re- 
now iml academy, which was inaugurated A. I). 211) by 
Abba Art kit. more commonly known by his scholastic 
title of linb (q. v.\ Kab died in 247 at Sora, where for 
twenty-eight years he had presided over the Sornuic 
sohtxd. remarkable for the pleasantness of its site and 
accommodations, and numbering, at times, from a thou- 
sand to twelve hundred students. lJab’s successor in 
N»ra was h\ Hana (horn about 212: died in 297), a dis- 
liugui'licd scholar of Kab's. llis learning contributed 
to sustain the reputation of the school, which could, un- 
der him. yet number eight hundred students. After an 
administration of forty years lluna died, and the rector- 
ship was filled by Jthudufi bar-Jecheskel. who died in 
299. Bar-Jechcskel was succeeded by K. Chusda of 
Kapliri (horn in 217; died in 3«»9). a scholar of Bab. 
Although the colleague of lluna for many years, he was 
tar advanced in life— eighty years of age — when he at- 
tained the n-ctorship, the duties of which he discharged 
l<>r tell years, and died in 80 ‘) at the age of ninety-two. 
Chanda, who was the last of the men who had been per- 
sonally instructed by Bab, was succeeded bv a scholar 
of hi> own, 


Itahba bar-Iluna .1 fare, in the rectory, and when A.D. 
he died the college was without a redor for 

nearly fifty years.. 309-320 

Ashi ben-Si Inal, surn.uned Kabbann (our teacher), 
re«u«eitated the college of Sora, and was its 
rector fifiy-two years, during which time seven 
rector® died in Pninbadilha.- Ashi immortal- 
ized his name by collecting the Babylonian Tal- 
mud 375-427 

li. Jcmar , or Mar-Jemar , contracted Maremar , suc- 
ceeded It Ashi as rector of the college 427-432 

11. I<1i bar- A bin. his successor 432-452 

11. Xaehman bar- lluna, who is not once mention- 
ed in the Talmud, held the office 452-455 

Mur bar-li. A nAi, continued collecting the Talmud, 

w hich hi* father began, and officiated 455-4GS 

llahba Tusjthah succeeded Murbar-B. Ashi 46S-474 


Sora, where one oftheolde-t Jewidi academies 
stood, was now destroyed by the Persian kiug 
Firuz. 

Af »r the death of Firuz (435), the academy was re- 
opened, and Kahina occupied tin* rectory of Sora 4SS-499 
In connection with J{. Jose nfPiunbaditha,und 
other scholars of that time, they completed the 
Talmud Dec. 2, 499. For the next one hundred 
and fifty years Jewish chronology leaves us in Ihe 
lurch, as this period was rather troublesome for 
the Jews; ami from the middle of the 7tli cen- 
tal v i he presidents of the Soranie school are 
styled <{tmn — i. e. Excellence — a word which is 
either of Arabic or Persian origin. The first 


gaon i*_ 

Mm Inane cir. G57-G70 

lie wie* succeeded by— 

li. 1 1 mini G70-G80 

Mar Shr-bun ben-Tachlipha Csstl-GSO 

Mur rhauiiiaT «»f Ncliar Pak<r GS9-G97 

Nabllai Halevi of Nmes 097-715 

Jaeoli of Nahur-Pjikor 715-732 

Mur ben-Sinmiel 733-751 

Mari lla-kohen 751-759 

lb Ac ha a few months 

It Jebudah the Blind 759-762 

Afhuiini Kaliana hen-Pa])a 7ti‘2-7G5 

('liiininai Kalmna ben-Uuna 7**5-775 

M rl I in- Levi ben-Me-harshaja 775-77s 

Belml 1 l.ilevl ben-Abba 77s-7ss 

Hlhu ben Marl 7ss_7«>7 

Jacob ben-MardoraT 797-SI 1 

Ahtnnnl beii-.Manlocai 8n_st9 

Z.olok. or l ane beu-Adii M 9-82 I 

liiho heii-Cliaiilniii 8*21-8*24 

Kiriioj lieil-Ashl 824-827 

Most*** ben- Jacob 3*27-837 

1 >> tern an mu 837-839 

Mur t'nlun y.nh-k I, brn-Ahima'i 839-849 


th<* author of 1 lit* first collection of the Jewish 
order of prayers p“TI3). 


Mar Sur-Shalmn fs-n- float 1 349-359 

.N atrown //, It4ii-llihv , the first gaon who used the 

Arabie aiiguage In bin correspondence 359-369 

Mur .1 w raw htni-Shrshna 8*19-881 

.\arhnliou ben-Zadok (q. v.) S8]-KS9 

Mur /. murlt ben-i 'haji in 889-895 

H. Mab hi ta only one month 

//■*' ben- A arhshon S95-9UG 


1 The Soranie academy loses its importance un- 
I der the next president— 

Uilai ben-Mishael 906-914 

It lingers ou, but without any outside influence. 

The study of the Talmud had so diminished at 
this academy that there was no Talmudic au- 
thority worthy of being invested with the gaon- 
ate, or presidency, in order not to give up this 
school entirely, 

Jacob ben-Xatro'nal-Amram was elected 914-926 

For want of a learned man, a weaver was elect- 
ed a* the next incumbent — 

Jom-Tob Kahana ben- Jacob- 11 a") -ben- K i mai 926-923 

Against the customary usage, after Jom-Tob’s 
death, an outsider was elected for the rectorship, 

Saadia ben- Joseph (q. v.) 92S-932 

Under Saadia the Koranic high-school revived 
again. Saadia, unwilling to become a blind tool 
in the hands of those who called him to his po- 
sition, was deposed in 930 through the jealousy 
of others and his own unflinching integrity ; and 
an anti-gaon in the person of 

Joseph ben- Jacob ben-Satia was elected 930-932 

Saadia, however, retained his office in the pres- 
ence of an anti-gaon for nearly three years more 
(930-933), when he had to relinquish his diguity 
altogether, llis opponent, 

Josejdi ben- Jacob ben-Satia was now sole gaon 933-937 

but when deposed in 937, 

Saadia hen-Josepli was again incumbent 937-942 

When Saadia died, the deposed anti-gaon was 

again elected 942-94S 

But with Saailia’s death the last snn-et light of 
the Soranie academy had passed away; and the 
dilapidated state of that once so famous school 
obliged Joseph ben -Satin to relinquish Sora, 
and to emigrate to Bassrn, in 943. The school 
founded by Kab, after it had flourished for more 
than seven hundred years, was now closed. But 
the Soranians, it seems, could not get over the 
downfall of the venernhle academy, and used all 
their endeavors to continue the same. They 
sent four famous Talmudists outside of Babylo- 
nia to interest the Jewish congregations for this 
old alma mater. But these messengers never 
returned; they fell into the hands of a Spanish 
corsair. Among these captives was Moses ben- 
Chanoeh (q. v.), who was brought to Spain, where 
he propagated Jewish learning on the peninsula. 

In the meantime there was au 

Interregnum at Sora from 943-1009 

when Samuel ben-Chofni 1009-1034 

was elected to the presidency, to close up the 
list of presidents of that old school. 


See Griitz, Gesch. d. Juden , iv, v, vi. See Schools, 
Jewish. (11. I\) 

Soranus, in old Italian mythology, was a name of 
Pluto in use among the Sabines, Boman poets some- 
times identified Soranus with the Greek Apollo (Virgil, 
sEneid, xi, 78G). 

Soracte, a mountain in ancient Italy which, accord- 
ing to Servius, was sacred to the infernal gods, especial- 
ly to Diespiter. It was a custom among the Hirpi (or 
llirpini) that at a festival held on Mount Soracte they 
walked with bare feet upon glowing coals of fir-wood, 
carrying about the entrails of victims which had been 
sacrificed. This ceremony is connected by Strabo with 
the worship ofFeronia. — Gardner, Faiths of the World , 
s. v. 


Sorbin, de Sainte-Foi , Aknaud, a French prelate, 
was born at Montecli-cn-()uerci. July 14, 1537. From 
a child he possessed an insatiable thirst for knowledge, 
which he pursued at Toulouse, where he finally became 
doctor of theology; and in 1557 he obtained the neigh- 
boring curacy of Sainte-Foi de Pevrolieres. At (he in- 
vitation of the archbishop of Audi he preached in the 
churches of Toulouse, Narbonne. Lyons, and Paris; and 
in 1507 became court preacher of Catherine de Mcdicis. 
He spent a laborious life in public labors, controversies, 
and historical writings (a list of which is given in lloe- 
fer, Xour. Jiiog. Gene rale, s. v. ), and died at Nevers, 
March 1, 1000. 

Soibon, Bobert t>e, founder of the famous French 
institute of the Sorbonne (q. v.), was born at Sorbon, Oct. 
0, 1201. From the position of an almoner student he 
became successively priest, doctor of theology, and canon 
of the Church of Oamhray. llis piety and sermons 
gained him the notice of Louis IX, who made him his 


SORBONNE 


885 


SORBONNE 


chaplain and confessor. For the aid of poor students he 
formed a society of secular ecclesiastics, who lived in 
common, and gave gratuitous instruction. Out of this, 
under royal and papal patronage, eventually grew the 
school of theology known by his name, lie died at 
Paris, Aug. 15, 1274, leaving all his property to the in- 
stitution. The Sorbonne formed one part only of the 
faculty of theology in the University of Paris; but its 
name became so famous that it was often given to the 
whole, and graduates were proud to name themselves of 
the Sorbonne rather than the university. Sec Hoefer, 
Nouv. Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Sorbonne, The, of Paris, originally a seminary 
for indigent young men preparing for the secular priest- 
hood, but in course of time a college of learned men 
whose influence over theological thought was widely 
recognised. This body of scholars has frequently, but 
erroneously, been identitied with the theological faculty 
of the University of Paris, and also with the university 
itself. 

The University of Paris may trace its origin to the 
time of Alcuin, inasmuch as an uninterrupted current of 
teaching extends from that period until the present. 
P>ut there was then no organization of faculties. Will- 
iam of Champeaux and Abelard taught philosophy and 
theology, and especially dialectics, at the beginning of 
the 12th century, but in any place where opportunity 
was afforded. During that century the Corpus Uni - 
vers it at is was founded, and it was fully organized, be- 
ing divided into three faculties, etc., when the Sorbonne 
was opened. The founder of this college, the canon 
Robert of Sorbon or Sorbonne, in Champagne, was 
chaplain to Louis IX. His purpose was to assist poor 
young men in securing a theological education by af- 
fording them free tuition and training for the service 
of the Church. lie obtained a site with a few build- 
ings from the crown-domains in the street Coupe-gorge, 
and there built his school. The proper spiritual au- 
thorities granted the necessary license for the institu- 
tion of a Congregatio pauperiini magistrorum studentium 
in theologica facilitate , and pope Clement confirmed it 
in A.D. 1268. The school began with sixteen students, 
four taken from each of the four parts into which the 
university was divided ; but its fame grew so rapidly 
that in a brief time over four hundred pupils thronged 
its halls. Eminent men were called to occupy its the- 
ological chairs, the first being William of Saint-Amour, 
Ernies of Douai, and Laurent L’Anglois; and finally a 
preparatory school was added, called the College de C al- 
ly i, and more generally known as the Little Sorbonne , de- 
signed for five hundred boys. 

The principal source of the reputation in which the 
school was held, and of the influence it exercised over 
school, Church, and State, and particularly over theol- 
ogy and philosophy, is to be found in the fact that 
many docteurs and bacheliers of the house associated 
themselves with the teachers as resident guests, and 
joined in the harmonious and earnest pursuit of a com- 
mon object, thus constituting a compact society for the 
promotion of learning. The union of powers in the as- 
sociation of the Sorbonne was perfect, and the govern- 
ment firm. A proviseur had control of general and ex- 
ternal affairs, and regulated the intercourse with the 
outer world, with the university, and with all authori- 
ties. Though subordinated to the university, th e pro- 
viseur held a position of such dignity that none vent- 
ured to infringe upon his rights. He was at first 
chosen from among the professors, but later from the 
number of most eminent prelates, and was consequently 
able to afford protection and impart lustre to the insti- 
tution over which he presided. Internal matters were 
regulated by a semen r des docteurs . 

For admission to a permanent residence in the Sor- 
bonne it was required of a baccalaiireus art i urn that he 
should teach philosophy in any college of the univer- 
sity, and that he should defend the These Robert ine, 
even before be could obtain the licence en Theologie. 


Once admitted, the associates were divided into two 
classes, the fellows and the- guests, the latter being affili- 
ated, but not incorporated, with the house. The privi- 
lege of such residence was eagerly sought after, it ap- 
pears, however, that doctors of theology connected with 
other colleges were also called docteurs en Sorbonne, per- 
haps because the theological faculty was accustomed to 
hold its regular meetings in the halls of the Sorbonne, 
and they actually were doctors of the Sorbonne, inas- 
much as they had there acquired their title by defend- 
ing a thesis. If to all this be added the fact that the 
theological professors of several colleges were invariably 
taken from the Sorbonne, it will he easy to understand 
how the mistake of identifying the Sorbonne with the 
theological faculty of the university originated. 

The Sorbonne has during its career pursued two lead- 
ing tendencies — that of reconciling theology with phi- 
losophy, and that of preserving theology in orthodox 
purity and unquestioned supremacy. Philological and 
philosophical studies were taught in its halls; but its 
spirit and importance, as well as its true merit, are to be 
sought in its theological effectiveness alone. The ap- 
paratus of learning was at first too meagre to admit of 
noticeable results. Dowm to the 14th century the study 
of Latin constituted the whole of philology. Philoso- 
phy stimulated theological inquiry, but theology could 
lay no claim to a scientific character. It had no exe- 
gesis, and could not presume to a knowledge of dogmat- 
ics. The students lacked books, the teachers acquaint- 
ance with the most necessary languages. But under 
the circumstances, and .according to its opportunity, 
the Sorbonne watched over the orthodoxy of theology 
according to the councils and the fathers, though such 
supervision belonged to the diocesan. Its influence 
was, however, exercised indirectly over the theological 
faculty, the university, and even the conseils du roi. 
The Sorbonne as an association did not appear publicly 
in defence of doctrine, or send representatives to Church 
councils, or take part in political meetings. Statements 
made to that effect must be understood as referring to 
the university or the theological faculty rather than 
the Sorbonne ; though the fact that all the principal 
doctors belonged to the Sorbonne assured her practical 
participation in all important affairs. More than once 
it opposed the collection of Peter’s pence and the Inqui- 
sition. In April, 1531, it condemned several tenets taken 
from Luther’s writings, and during the Keformation of 
the 16th century it laid under the ban of its censure a 
long list of writings bv different authors, some of them 
even the works of eminent bishops, and one of them the 
Catholic versiou of the Bible by Rene Benoit. 

It is to be noted that in all this the Sorbonne was not 
a blind agent of the Church. It contended against all 
Protestant aspirations, but also against all Jesuitical as- 
sumptions. It was the earliest defender of the Gallican 
liberties and of the accepted doctrines of the Church. 
When the cardinal of Lorraine had procured from Hen- 
ry II the right to build a Jesuits’ college in Paris, the 
Sorbonne declared the Order of Jesuits dangerous to the 
faith, the peace of the Church, and the monastic disci- 
pline. When Martin Becan published his Controversia 
Anglicana de Potestate Regis et Pontificis (1612), and 
queen Marie de Medicis forbade the intervention of the 
Sorbonne, the latter, nevertheless, denounced the book 
as dangerous to morality, etc. It defended the purity 
of the received doctrines against even the pope and the 
curia. Of 128 doctors, only forty-nine were ready to 
accept the bull Unigenitus without protest, though the 
absolute king Louis XIV favored it, and many declared 
themselves directly opposed to its reception. 

The Sorbonne, i. e. the theological faculty, considered 
itself the guardian of a pure faith and t lie scientific or- 
gan of the Church down to the beginning of the 18th 
century. In 1717 it put forth an effort, on the occasion 
of the presence of Peter the Great in Paris, to bring 
about the union of the Greek and Roman churches. It 
was at the time the highest authority in the Gallican 


SORBOXXE 


SSG 


SOIIEK 


Church in matters of theology. Political interferences, 
which coulil not he wholly avoided in the condition of 
affair*. linallv undermined its intluenee. It released 
the .subjects of Henry III from their allegiance, and its 
preacher* counselled’ resistance, to the degree of regi- 
cide. It declared Henry IV, the legitimate heir to 
the crown, unworthy, and debarred because of obstinate 
jHTM'tenec in heresy. J>till more was done bv its mis- 
takes in philosophy to hasten its ruin. In 11)24 it se- 
cured from the Parliament a decree forbidding any per- 
son to teach contrary to the doctrines of approved an- 
ihor> — i he resolution being aimed at Des Cartes, in de- 
fence of Aristotle. Neither the Meditations of l)cs 
Caries nor the works of Malehranche, Penelon, Bossuet, 
and Leibnitz could arouse the slumbering intelligence 
of the learned faculty, lint the issuing, by Boilean, of 
the burlesque .1 rretdonne enla Grande Chanibredu Par- 
tiasse exposed the position of the Sorbonne to ridicule, 
ami rendered any further invoking of legal aid to the 
defence of Aristotle impossible. This was followed, in 
1751, by Voltaire’s Le Toinbeau de la Sorbonne {(Pur res 
de Voltaire, par Chr. Beuchot, xxxix, 534). In this 
work special emphasis was laid on the, fact that Des 
Cartes’ I dees Jnnees were now defended by the Sorbonne 
a> a bulwark of religion, though he had been at first de- 
nounced by the same authority as a most destructive 
heretic, etc. The position became more dilhcult with 
every day. until the decrees of 1781) and 1790 confiscated 
the property and financial resources of the Sorbonne for 
the benefit of the nation. About two thousand manu- 
scripts were transferred to the Bibliothcque Nationalc, 
while the printed works were distributed among differ- 
ent libraries in the metropolis. The buildings came 
into the possession of t he imperial university in 1807, 
and have been used as residences for professors, deans, 
rectors, etc. The three faculties, Theologie, Lett res, and 
Sciences, delivered their lectures and held their exam- 
ination.'', and the minister of public instruction distrib- 
uted the annual prizes of the conconrs general in the 
balls of the Sorbonne. The monument of Richelieu 
still adorns the chapel. He was a former pupil, ami had 
caused the ancient and narrow rooms to be replaced 
with the modern palace-like edifices which are yet re- 
membered. The modern Bibliothcque de la Sorbonne, or 
de lTniversite, possesses nothing whatever of the former 
library. Even the homilies of Robert of Sorbon, writ- 
ten by bis own band, are in the National Library. The- 
ology, philosophy, ami philology still meet within its 
walls, ami perhaps each retains some measure of the 
forim-r spirit; but the substance and form are of the 
13th century. ’Hie course of many prominent profess- 
ors of the SorlMinnc, following the example of Laromi- 
gm-re and Roycr-Collard, in connection with the polit- 
ical ami social revolutions of the period from 1817 to 1830, 
is familiarly known. No other school in Europe has 
played such a role as the Sorbonne. In the domains of 
polities and the Church its influence was perhaps too 
prominently exercised, and perhaps no adequate results 
were produced in philosophy, theology, ami science gen- 
erally, in comparison with t he means and opportunity 
enjoyed. 

•V-e Rubens, Hist, Puirersif. Paris. (Paris, 1005, and 
often, 0 vols. fob), censured by the .Sorbonne; Crevier, 
Hist, de r l ’ uirers. de Paris (ibid. 1701, 7 vols. 12tno), 
ext rarted from Bukcits, and extending only to A.l). 
I *1 * m ► ; Diiveniet, Hist.de la Sorbonne, etc. (ibid. 1730, 
2 voN. xvo;, declamatory ; 1 Jubarle, Hist. de. I' Cnir.de 
Po/ is (ibid. 1*1 1,2 vols.Xvo) ; Prat, Muldonut et l' Unit. 
d> Paris an AT Jr Siecle (ibid. 1850. 8vo); Purge/, des 
Sri, nets it ibs Arts (Ncucliiitcl, 1775), tom. xv ; Ber- 
gii r, hirt.de Then/, s. v.; *• Sorbonne” in the Pncycl.Me- 
tbndii/oe, tom. iii (Paris, 1730); Hist.de V Pglise Gul/i- 
r in» . tom. xit, li v. 34, to A.l ). 1 272. See also I o.v des J 'eves 
it ibs Martyr* , vii, 025; Saint-Savin, tpiirres de Hoi- 
l‘Uh~/ti*/niniis,v\v. (Par. 1821), iii, 1 1 ) ; Beuchot f (’hr.], 
t/.urrr* de Voltaire, xxxix, 534.— llerzog, Ueul-Pney- 
klop. », v. 


Sorcerer, Sorcery (usually some form of 
kashuph , to mutter incantations). See Divination. 

Sorcery in Christian Countries. In early times 
those who gave themselves to magic and sorcery were 
usually termed venejici and mu/ejici, because either by 
poison or by means of fascination they wrought per- 
nicious effects upon others. The laws of the The- 
odosian Code (lib. ix, tit. 1(5, J)e Mejiciis') frequently 
brand them with this name of malejici. Constant ius 
{Cod. Theod. leg. 5) charges them with disturbing the 
elements or raising of tempests, and practicing abom- 
inable arts in the evocation of the infernal spirits to 
assist men in destroying their enemies. These lie 
therefore orders to be executed, as unnatural monsters, 
and quite divested of the principles of humanity. They 
were also excepted at the granting of indulgence to 
criminals at the Easter festivals, as guilty of too hei- 
nous a crime to he comprised within the general pardon 
granted to other offenders. The Council of Laodicea 
(can. 30) condemns them under the name of magicians 
and enchanters, and orders their expulsion from the 
Church. — Bingham, Christ. Antiq. bk. xvi, ch. v, § 5. 

The early Christians were derided as sorcerers in 
accordance with the impious charge brought by Cel- 
sus and others against our Lord, that be practiced mag- 
ic, which they supposed him to have studied in Egypt. 
Augustine ( I)e Consens. Prang, i, 9) says that it was 
generally believed among the heathens that our Sav- 
iour wrote some books upon magical arts, which he de- 
livered to Peter and Paul for the use of the disciples. 

So'rek (Heb. Sorek', red ; Sept. Nwp/jjc [in 

some copies compounded with a part of the preceding 
word]), the name of a valley (5H2, wady) in which lay 
the residence of Delilah (Judg. xvi, 4). It appears to 
have been a Philistine place, and possibly was nearer 
Gaza than any other of the chief Philistine cities, since 
thither Samson was taken after his capture at Delilah’s 
house. Beyond this there are no indications of its po- 
sition, nor is it mentioned again in the Bible. Eusebi- 
us and Jerome {Onomast. 2wpi)x) state that a village 
named Cupharsorech was shown in their day “on the 
nor tli of Eleutheropolis, near the town of Saar (or Saraa), 
i.e. Zorah, the native place of Samson.” Zorah is now 
supposed to have been fully ten miles nortli of Beit- 
Jibrin, the modern representative of Eleutheropolis, 
though it is not impossible that there may have been 
a second further south. Van de Velde ( Memoir , p,350) 
proposes Wady Simsim, which runs from near Beit- 
Jibrin to Askulan; but this he admits to be mere con- 
jecture. On the south side of the ridge on which the 
city of Zorah stood, and between it and Bethshemesh, 
runs a wide and fertile valley, whose shelving sides of 
white limestone are admirably adapted for the cultiva- 
tion of the vine. It winds away across the plain, pass- 
ing the sites of Eknm and Jahneel. This may possi- 
bly be the valley of Sorek. Its modern name, Wady 
cs-Sitrur , bears some remote resemblance, at least in 
sound, to the Biblical Sorek (Porter, Handbook, p. 282). 
“The view up this valley eastward is picturesque. 
The vale, half a mile across, is full of corn, and in the 
middle runs the white shingly bed of the winter tor- 
rent. Low white hills think it on either side, and the 
high rugged chain of the mountains of Judah forms a 
prottv background” (Cornier, Tent Work in Palest, ii, 
175). 

’Hie word Sorek in Hebrew signifies a peculiarly 
choice kind of vine, which is said to have derived its 
name from the dusky color of its grapes, that perhaps 
being the meaning of the root (Geseuius, Thesaur. 
p. 1312). It occurs in three passages of the Old Test. 
(Isa. v. 2; Jer. ii, 21 ; and, with a modification, in Gen. 
xlix, 11). It appears to he used in modern Arabic for 
a certain purple grape, grown in Syria, and highly es- 
teemed, which is noted lor its small raisins and minute 
soft pips, and produces a red wine. This being the 


SOROIiES 


887 


SOTAI 


case, tlie valley of Sorek may have derived its name 
from the growth of such vines, though it is hardly safe 
to affirm the fact in the unquestioning manner in which 
Gesenius (ibidl) does. Ascalon was celebrated among 
the ancients for its wine ; and, though not in the neigh- 
borhood of Zorah, was the natural port by which any 
of the productions of that district would be exported to 
the west. See Vine. 

Sorores (sisters). See Agapet^e. 

SORORES ECCLESIiE {sisters of the Church ), a 
name given in early times to nuns. 

Sororia, in Roman mythology, was a surname of 
Juno. The sole survivor of the famous contest of the 
Horatii and the Curiatii is said to have erected an altar 
to the goddess, under this name, after he had been puri- 
fied of the murder of his sister (Livy, i, 26). 

Sorrow (representing in the A. V. many Hebrew 
and several Greek words), mental pain or grief, arising 
from the privation of some good we actually possessed. 
It is the opposite to joy. This passion contracts the 
heart, sinks the spirit, and injures the health. Script- 
ure cautions against it (Prov. xxv, 20; Eccles. xiv, 1- 
3; xxx, 24, 25; 1 Thess. iv, 13, etc.), but Paul distin- 
guishes two sorts of sorrow — one a godly, the other a 
worldly sorrow (2 Cor. vii, 10): “Godly sorrow worketh 
repentance to salvation, not to be repented of; but the 
sorrow of the world worketh death.” So the wise man 
(Eccles. vii, 3) says that the grave and serious air of a 
master who reproves is more profitable than the laugh- 
ter and caresses of those who flatter. Our Lord upbraided 
that counterfeit air of sorrow and mortification which 
the Pharisees affected when they fasted, and cautioned 
his disciples against all such affectation which proposes 
to gain the approbation of men (Matt, vi, 16). — Calmet. 
See Grief. Though sorrow may be allowable under a 
sense of sin, and when involved in troubles, yet we must 
beware of an extreme. Sorrow, indeed, becomes sinful 
and excessive when it leads us to slight our mercies, 
causes us to be insensible to public evils; when it di- 
verts us from duty, so oppresses our bodies as to en- 
danger our lives, sours the spirit with discontent, and 
makes us inattentive to the precepts of God s Word and 
to the advice of our friends. In order to moderate our 
sorrows, we should consider that we are under the direc- 
tion of a wise and merciful Being; that he permits no 
evil to come upon us without a gracious design ; that 
he can make our troubles sources of spiritual advantage ; 
that he might have afflicted us in a far greater degree; 
that though he has taken some, yet he has left many 
other comforts; that he has given many promises of 
relief ; that he has supported thousands in as great 
troubles as ours; finally, that the time is coming when 
he will wipe away all tears, and give to them that love 
him a crown of glory that fadeth not away. — Buck. 
See Resignation. 

Sortes Biblicae. Sec Soothsaying. 

Sortes Sacrae (holy lots), a species of divination 
which existed among some of the ancient Christians. 
See Soothsaying. 

Sortilegi, a name for those among the ancient 
heathens who foretold future events by the sortes, or 
lots. 

Sosano Yono Mikoto, in Japanese mythology, is 
the moon-god, who begot of the sun -goddess, Inada- 
hime, eight children, generally symbolized under the 
figure of an eight-headed dragon. Temples were erect- 
ed to these two deities in the sacred garden of Miako, 
and in them a number of festivals are held each year in 
their honor. — Vollmer, WOrterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Sosianus, in Greek mythology, is a surname of 
Apollo at Seleucia, or, according to others, at Rome, 
where the name was derived from the statue of that 
god which the quaestor C. Sosius brought from Seleucia 
(Cicero, Ad Alt. viii, 6 ; Pliny, 11. X. xiii, 5 ; xxxvi, 4). 


Sosip'ater (SojoiTrarpog, surer of his father, a 
common Greek name), the name of two meu in the 
Apocrypha and New Test. 

1. A general of Judas Maccabajus who, in conjunc- 
tion with Dositheus, defeated Timotheus and took him 
prisoner (2 Mace, xii, 19-24). B.C. cir. 164. 

2. A kinsman or fellow-tribesman of Paul, mentioned 
as being with him in the salutations at the end of the 
Epistle to the Romans (xvi, 21). A.D. 54. lie is 
probably the same person as Sopatek (q. v.) of Bereea 
(Acts xx, 4). 

Sosipolis, in Grecian mythology, was a patron-god 
of the State, venerated among the Eleans. His wor- 
ship originated, as it is fabled, at a time when the Ar- 
cadians had invaded Elis. A woman appeared among 
the Eleans, and related that in a dream the child at her 
breast had been pointed out to her as the savior of the 
State. The leaders thereupon placed the child naked 
before their ranks, and when the battle began it was 
metamorphosed into a serpent, which frightened the 
Arcadians and won the victory. After the battle the 
snake disappeared, and on the spot where it was last 
seen a temple was erected to the child anil his mother, 
Eileitlivia (Pausan. vi, 20, 2; iii, 25, 4). — Smith, Diet, 
of Bioy. and Mythol . s. v.; Vollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. 
s. v. 

Sospita, in Roman mythology, was a surname of 
Juno, especially at Lanuvium. 

Sos'thenes ( SwoSha/g , perhaps for 'Shooi-eSi’ijg, 
surer of his nation; a not infrequent Greek name) was 
a Jew at Corinth who was seized and beaten in the 
presence of Gallio, on the refusal of the latter to enter- 
tain the charge of heresy which the Jews alleged against 
the apostle Paul (see Acts xviii, 12-17). A.L). 49. His 
precise connection with that affair is left in some doubt. 
Some have thought that he was a Christian, and was 
maltreated thus by his own countrymen because he was 
known as a special friend of Paul. But it is improba- 
ble, if Sosthenes was a believer, that Luke would men- 
tion him merely as “ the ruler of the synagogue” (ap- 
Xiowdyioyog), without any allusion to his change of 
faith. A better view is that Sosthenes was one of the 
bigoted Jews, and that “the crowd” (irdvreg simply, 
and not TrdvTtg oi "E\\t]veg, is the true reading) were 
Greeks who, taking advantage of the indifference of 
Gallio, and ever ready to show their contempt of the 
Jews, turned their indignation against Sosthenes. In 
this case he must have been the successor of Crispus 
(ver. 8) as chief of the synagogue (possibly a colleague 
with him, in the looser sense of dpx u iwaywym, as in 
Mark v, 22), or, as Biscoe conjectures, may have be- 
longed to some other synagogue at Corinth. Chrysos- 
tom’s notion that Crispus and Sosthenes were names of 
the same person is arbitrary and unsupported. 

Paul wrote the First Epistle to the Corinthians joint- 
ly in his own name and that of a certain Sosthenes 
whom he terms “the brother” (1 Cor. i, l). A.D. 54. 
The mode of designation implies that he was well known 
to the Corinthians; and some have held that he was 
identical with the Sosthenes mentioned in the Acts. If 
this be so, he must have been converted at a later period 
(Wettstein, N. Test, ii, 576), and have been at Ephesus, 
and not at Corinth, when Paul wrote to the Corinthians. 
The name was a common one, and but little stress can 
be laid on that coincidence. Eusebius says (11. E. i, 12, 
1) that this Sosthenes (1 Cor. i, 1) was one of the sev- 
enty disciples, and a later tradition adds that he became 
bishop of the Church at Colophon, in Ionia. — Smith. 

Sos'tratus (2<*Wrpnro£, probably a contraction ffir 
^loaiorparog, a common Greek name), a commander 
of the Syrian garrison in the Aera at Jersusalcm (b rijg 
ciKpo7r6Xtwg tirapxog) in the reign of Antiochus Epiph- 
anes (2 Macc. iv, 27, 29). B.C. cir. 172. 

Sotah. See Talmud. 

So'tai (lleb. Sotay turners, or changer 


S8S 


SOTO 


SOTAMTAM15U 

ful ; Sept. V ovrti , v. r. Sovnti in Nell.), ft per- 

son whose “children" were a family of the descendants 
of Solomon’s servants that returned with Zcrubbubcl 
(Ezra ii, 55; Neh. vii, 77). B.U. ante 536. 

Sotamtambu, in Lamaisra, is a region in hell 
where the damned are tormented with unbearable cold. 

Soteira (the saving goddess) was a surname in Gre- 
ciau mythology of Diana at Toga* in Mcgaris, at 1 ru?- 
zeuc, at B«e;e in Laconia, and near IVllene; of Proser- 
pine in Laconia and Arcadia; and of Minerva and F«- 
uuuiia. 

Soter (Zojn'ip, Savior ), in Grecian mythology, was 
a surname of Jupiter. and also of Bacchus and Helios 
(Kansan, ri, *20, 5; 31, 4; iii, 23, 6; i\\ 31, 5; viii, 9, 1 ; 
3d. 5; 31, 4; Aristoph. Ran. 1433; Pliny, II. X. xxxiv, 
M; Plutarch, Aratus, 53; Lycoph. 20G). It was a title 
likewise assumed by some of the Ptolemies and Syrian 
kings. 

Soter, pope from A.D. 108 to 170 or 177, is said to 
have been a native of Campania, and to have written 
against the Momanists. his work eliciting a reply from 
Tcrtullian. A letter to the Corinthians, now lost, but 
used for reading in the Sunday worship of the Church, 
is also attributed to him. Decretals said to have been 
issued by him are not genuine. Some authorities re- 
port that he died a martyr’s death. — Herzog, Real-En- 
cyklop. s. v. 

Soteriology (Or. trwrjfpiag \nyoc , doctrine of 
salvation ), treats of the work of Christ as man’s Redeem- 
er, and its logical study requires that we should consec- 
utively look at the deeds Christ has wrought for the 
salvation of the world, and at t heir application, through 
faith, to individuals. The former is called Objective 
Soteriology, the latter Subjective Soteriology. 

a. Objective. — Under this head are included the incar- 
nation of Christ, his holy life, obedience unto death, the 
intermediate state, resurrection, exaltation to heaven, 
Christ’s coming again, the threefold ollice of Christ, and 
the work of the Holy Ghost — all of these entering into 
the work of atonement. 

b. Subjective . — Under this head are discussed the sever- 
al steps which constitute the way of salvation — the de- 
mands upon the sinner, and how he is enabled to satisfy 
these demands. These are, desire for salvation, saving 
faith, true repentance, good works, Christian sanctifi- 
cation, the work of grace (necessity, extent, character, 
result). 

Soteriology received little theoretical investigation 
in the ancient Church compared with that bestowed 
upon the Trinity and original sin. The chief defect in 
the patristic soteriology is that the distinction between 
justification and sanctification was not always so care- 
fully drawn as to preserve the doctrine of atonement in its 
integrity. The holiness of the Christian is sometimes 
represented as co-operating with the death of Christ in 
constituting the ground of the remission of sin. 

'Phe pnjial statements during the Middle Ages were 
too influent ini to allow of an improvement in soteriology, 
and the Church was holding a theory of salvation whol- 
ly opposed to that which prevailed in the fourth century. 
Anselm interrupted this dogmatic decline, and set the 
Church once more upon the true path of investigation. 
The leading features of his theory are: I. Sin is an of- 
fence against the divine honor. 2. This offence can- 
not lx* waived, but most be satisfied for. 3. Man can- 
not mnke this satisfaction except bv personal endless 
suffering. 4. God must, therefore, make it for him, if 
he is to Is; saved. 5. God doe* make it in the incar- 
nation and atonement of the Son of God. The soteriol- 
ogy of Anselm exerted hut little influence upon Roman 
Catholic Christendom, hut Luther’s assertion of justifi- 
cation by faith alone caused soteriology to become the 
centre of dogmatic controversy between Protestant and 
Papist, The principal point of dispute between the 
Council of Trent and the Protestant theologians related 
to the appropriate place of sanctification. The Roman 


divine maintained that holiness of heart is necessary to 
the forgiveness of sin, as a meritorious cause; while the 
Protestant threw out the human element altogether, 
and claimed that the blood of Christ is the only merito- 
rious cause and ground of forgiveness. 

In the Protestant Church discussions have been ex- 
cited by the Sociuian opposition and the Grotian modi- 
fication. 

For the historical examination of this subject, see 
Banr [F. C.J, Die christ 1. Lehre von der 1 \rsbhnung 
(1838); Ritschi, Die christl. Lehre run der Rechtf und 
Verso hnuny (1870), vol. i. For other phases, see the 
Dogmatics of Lange, Martensen, Nitzsch ; Evangelical 
Quar. Rev. Oct. 1808; Edwards, Justification and JlTs- 
doni in Redemption; Hodge, Theology , vol. ii; Grotius, 
Sacrifice of Christ ; Pressense, Snr la Redemption , in 
Bulletin Theol. 1807, i sep ; Schoberlein, art. Erliisung , in 
Ilerzog, iv, 129-140; Shedd, Hist, of Doct. p. 201-386. 

Sothis, the name given by the Egyptians to the 
dog-star, or Sirius. Their year began with the rising 
of this star, and the coincidence of the latter phenome- 
non with the new moon marked the great sidereal or 
world year of 1461 civil years. Sothis was also, in 
Egyptian mythology, a designation of Isis, ami the star 
Sirius was accordingly sacred to that divinity. 

Soto, Francisco Domingo de, a monk and 
theologian, was born of poor parents, in A.D. 1494, at 
Segovia. He began life as a sacristan at Orchando. and 
after a severe struggle with difficulties growing out of 
bis indigent condition, be entered the University of 
Alcala, where be was the pupil of Thomas de Yillanova, 
and afterwards the University of Paris. In 1520 he be- 
came teacher of philosophy at Alcala, and took ground 
as a victorious opponent of the nominalism then preva- 
lent in the university. He wrote a Comment, in A ris- 
totelis Dialecticam (Salam. 1544, and often) : — Categories, 
(Venet. 1538); — Libri VI 1J Physicorum (Salam. 1545); 
— and Summuhe (1575). lie was suddenly induced 
to become a monk, and entered first at Montferrat, but 
finally became a Dominican at Burgos in 1524. At 
Burgos he taught philosophy and theology until 1532, 
when he removed to Salamanca, and was associated 
with John Victoria and Melchior Can us in the promul- 
gation of scholastic theology. In 1545 he was appoint- 
ed by Charles V to participate in the Council of Trent, 
and at once took prominent rank. In the first four ses- 
sions he represented his order, and in the fifth and sixth 
filled the place of the new general of the Dominicans, 
Fr. Romeo. He also contributed much towards the set- 
tling of the canons of the fifth and sixth sessions, lie 
was spokesman of the Thomist school, and met with de- 
termined opposition from the Scotist Ambrosius Catba- 
rinus; their disputations dealing with the doctrines of 
original sin, the condition of the human will after the 
fall, justification, grace and predestination, the works 
of unbelievers, and similar matters. These controver- 
sies gave occasion for his works De Xatura el Gratia 
Lib. Ill, etc. (Yenct. 1547 ; Antwerp, 1550 ) : — Apologia, 
qua Episcopo Minorensi de Certitndine G rathe respondet 
D. S. ( Venet. 1 547) : — Discept. F. A inbr. Catharini Episc. 
Minor, ad Dorn, de Soto, Ord. Prredic. super Quinque 
A rticnlis Liber (Rom. 1552). On the removal of the 
council to Bologna, Soto returned to the court of Charles 
V. lie became confessor to the emperor and archbish- 
op of Segovia in 1549, but renounced both dignities, and 
went back to the monastery of Salamanca, where he be- 
came prior in 1550. At this time lie wrote, against 
Protestantism, Comment, in Epist. Pauli ad Romanos 
(Antwerp, 1550; Salam. 1551). After two years’ service 
as prior, he resumed a professorship in the University of 
Salamanca, and wrote De Ratione Tegendi et Detcgendi 
Secretnm Helvetia Theofogica (Salam. 1552): — Annot.in 
,/. Peri Francisc. Mognnt , Comment, super Erang. Johan - 
vis (Salam. 1551). Four years after resuming the pro- 
fessor’s chair, he returned to the convent, was re-elected 
1 prior, and died Nov. 15, 1560, In addition to a num- 


SOTO 


SS9 


SOUL 


ber of minor works, he composed, besides those already 
given, De Justitia etJure Libri YU , etc. (Salam. 1556) : 
— Sententiariim Comment . s. de Sacra mentis (1557 and 
1560): — a Commentary on the Gospel according to St. 
Matthew , not printed: — a treatise De Ratione Promul- 
gandi Eoangelium , etc. See Antonio [Nicolao], Bibli- 
oth. Ilispanica , etc. (Rom. 1672), i, 255-258. — Herzog, 
Real-Encyl'lop. xiv, s. v. 

Soto, Pedro de, a Dominican theologian and bit- 
ter foe of German Protestantism, was born of aristocrat- 
ic parentage, at Cordova, and in 1519 became a monk, 
lie gradually obtained the reputation of great learning, 
particularly in scholastic theology, where he took ground 
as a stanch Thomist. Charles V appointed him privy- 
councillor and father-confessor, ami his order appointed 
him vicar of the province of Low Germany. In this 
capacity he accompanied the emperor to Germany, but 
there exchanged the emperor’s service for that of the 
seminary at Dillingen, where he became a teacher of 
theology, and began his literary activity by writing his 
Romish Institntiones Christiance (Aug. Vi ml. 1548, and 
afterwards) : — Method. Confessionis s. Doctr. Pietatisque 
Christ. Epitome (Antwerp, 155G ) : — Tract at. de I nstitut . 
Sacerdotum , etc. (Dill. 1558), a sort of pastoral theol- 
ogy. The Assertio Catholicce Fidei, etc., involved him 
in a controversy with Brentius (q. v.), which called 
forth the further work Defensio Cathol. Confessionis, 
etc. (An tv. 1557). He also came into contact with 
cardinal Pole (q. v.) at Dillingen. After a time he ac- 
companied Philip II to England, and was employed by 
queen Mary to restore Romanism and teach theology 
in the University of Oxford. In 1558, on Mary’s death, 
he returned to Dillingen, and in 15G1 accepted the call 
of pope Pius IV to Trent, in order to participate in the 
reopened council. Soto died April 20, 1503. See Bi- 
blioth. I lisp . , etc. (Rom. 1672), ii, 193 sq. — Herzog, Real- 
Encyklop. s. v. 

Sot well (properly Southwell , Lat. Sotwellus'), Na- 
thaniel, an English Jesuit of the 17th century, is en- 
titled to notice as one of the historians of his order; but 
particulars of his life are wanting. Being employed to 
write the lives of eminent authors among the Jesuits, 
he carried on the plan of Ribadeneira and Alegambe 
down to his own times. His improved edition was pub- 
lished under the title of Bibliotheca Scriptorum Soeieta- 
tis Jesu , Opus inchoatum a R. P. Petro Ribadeneira, et 
prod net uni ad annum 1609, etc., a Nathanaelo Sotwello 
(Rome, 1676, fob). See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Souchai (or Soucliay), Jean Baptiste, a French 
ecclesiastic and writer, was born at Saint-Amand, near 
Vendome, in 1688, and was educated by his uncle. Re- 
moving to Paris, he gained the applause and esteem of 
all the learned, and in 1720 was elected a member of the 
Academy of Inscriptions. He was also made canon of 
Rodez, counsellor to the king, and reader and professor 
of eloquence to the College Roval. lie died at Paris, 
Aug. 25, 1 746. lie wrote, Tar sis et Zelie (1720 ) : — A u- 
sone, Latin text (1730, 4to) : — Astree,par d'Urfe (1733): 
— (Eurres Diuerses de Pellisson (1735, 3 vols. 8vo): — 
(E nc res de Bo ilea u (1735, 1745, 12mo; 1740, 2 vols. fob 
and 4 to): — .4 vec des Eclaircissements II istoriques, Josephe, 
trad, par A rnauld d\ 1 ndilly (1744, 6 vols. 1 2mo) : — trans- 
lation into French, L'Essai sur les Erreurs Populaires de 
Th. Brown (Paris, 1738) : — six Dissertations. See Chal- 
mers, Biog. Diet. s. v . ; Hoofer, A T onv. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Souchon, Adolf Friedrich, a German theologi- 
an, was born at Magdeburg, Aug. 10, 1807. He studied 
theology at Berlin, and in 1830 he entered upon his first 
ministerial duties in Strasburg in the Uckcrmark. In 
1834 he was called to Berlin, first as pastor of the French 
Church in the Louisenstadt, and in 1854 as pastor of 
Trinity Church, where Schleiermacher and Krumraa- 
cher preached before him. Soon after 1854 he was also 
made a member of consistory. Early in 1878 he was 
obliged to retire from the ministry on account of bodily 
infirmities, and died at Mirow, in Mecklenburg-Strelitz, 


Aug. 27, 1878. Souchon was one of the most prominent 
ministers of Berlin, and enriched the homiletical litera- 
ture by his collections of sermons on the gospels and 
epistles of the Christian year, his sermons on the passion 
of Christ, and other sermons. See Zuchold, Biblioth. 
Theologica, ii, 1241 sq. (B. P.) 

Souchon, Francois, a French painter, was born 
at Alais, Nov. 19, 1785, and was early sent by his par- 
ents, who were simple artisans, to Paris, in order to im- 
prove his talents under the tuition of David, and after- 
wards of Gros. He soon began to paint sacred subjects 
for a livelihood, and in 1823 accompanied his friend 
Sigalon to Rome, where he aided Michael Angelo on his 
cartoons. In 1838 he was made professor in the school 
of design at Lille, but retired in 1853, and died April 5, 
1857. His works are of moderate merit. See Hooter, 
Xour. Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Soufflot, Jacques Germain, a French architect, was 
born at Trend, near Auxerre, in 1713 (or 1714). 1 1 is 

father desired him to study law, but he evinced so strong 
a taste for architecture that he was allowed to choose 
that profession. Travelling in Italy to pursue his stud- 
ies, his assiduity and talents recommended him to the 
duke of St. Aignau, ambassador of France to the Holy 
See, who secured him favors. Returning to France, he 
was engaged by the magistrates of Lyons as architect, 
and built the Hotel-Dieu, Exchange, Concert-room, and 
Theatre, lie was shortly after appointed comptroller 
of the buildings of Marli and the Tuileries, besides 
being the recipient of many other honors. The com- 
mission to rebuild the Church of St. Genevieve was 
given him, and the foundation was laid in 1756. In the 
following year he received the Order of St. Michel, and 
was nominated commissioner and general superintend- 
ent of the public buildings. Envy endeavored to de- 
stroy the fame of Soufflot, and so vexed him that he 
was hastened, before the completion of the Church of St. 
Genevieve, to his death, Aug. 29 (30), 1780. See lloefer, 
Nouv. Biog. Generate, s. v., Cresy, Lives of A rchitects, s. v. 

Soul (prop, nn, rcvtvpa, the rational spirit ; but oc- 
casionally 12TB3, 'I'l’X'h the animal principle of life), that 
vital, immaterial, active substance, or principle, in man 
whereby be perceives, remembers, reasons, and wills. 
The rational soul is simple, uncom pounded, and imma- 
terial, not composed of matter and form ; for matter can 
never think and move of itself as the soul does. In the 
fourth volume of the Afemoirsof the Literary and Philo- 
sophical Society of Manchester the reader will find a very 
valuable paper by Dr. Ferricr, proving, by evidence ap- 
parently complete, that every part of the brain has been 
injured without affecting the act of thought. It will be 
difficult for any man to peruse this without being con- 
vinced that the modern theory of the Materialists is 
shaken from its very foundation. See Materialism. 

The soul is rather to be described as to its operation 
than to be defined as to its essence. Various, indeed, 
have been the opinions of philosophers concerning its 
substance. In the second book of his treatise Ilept 
'Pi Aristotle has given two definitions of it. In the 
first of these he calls it “the Entelechy (’EvreXfyffrt), 
or first form of an organized body which has potential 
life.” The Epicureans thought it a subtile air, composed 
of atoms, or primitive corpuscles. The Stoics maintained 
it was a flame, or portion of heavenly light. The Car- 
tesians make thinking the essence of the soul. Critias, 
a Sophist, regarded the blood as the seat and substratum 
of the soul. According to Plato, “The first or invisible 
clement of the soul in man is the instrument of rational 
cognition, the other element is the organ of perception 
and representation. With this soul, having its seat in 
the head, are combined the courageous and the appeti- 
tive souls, the whole resembling the composite force of a 
driver and two steeds.” Aristotle distinguished several 
forms of soul, viz. the rational, which is purely spiritual, 
and infused by the immediate inspiration of God, the 
appetitive, which was the source of desire and will — the 


SOUL 


800 


SOUL 


mot ire of locomotion; the sensitive, which, being com- | 
inon t«) man and brutes, is supposed to be formed of the 
element, and is the cause of sensation and feeling, and, 
lastly, the veyetutire soul, or principle of growth and 
nutrition, as the tirst is of understanding, and the sec- 
ond ot animal life. 

Modern philosophy has made many attempts to define 
the soul, of which we give the following resume. “It 
is not / that thinks, but it thinks in me, and it is not 
/ that am, hut it is something in me” (Haggesen, Zeit- 
schr. von Fichte, xxxiv, 153). “Spirit is a substance, 
immediately immanent in thinking, or of which think- 
ing is immediately the form of activity. Spirit is think- 
ing substance, the soul is dynamically present in the 
entire organism” (Chalyballs, ibid, xx, GO). “Wc are 
compelled to suppose that there must he a real essence 
as the Mibstantial bearer of all psychical conditions. 
This essence is the soul. It must stand with other real 
evinces in causal relation, in order to the generation 
in it of manifold internal conditions. In brief, the soul 
needs the body, the body needs the soul” (Cornelius, 
Zeitschr. Jlir exact e Philosophic, iv, 99-102). “In the 
organism formed of atoms, which are spiritual essences, 
one unfolds its spiritual force to the point of sclf-con- 
seiniMiess; this atom, which as gasiform atom inter- 
penetrates the entire organism and occupies space as a 
centre, is the soul” (Drossbnch, Hurmonieder Eryebnisse 
d. Xaturfaschuny , p. 101-129, *229). “The phenomena 
of ImuIv and soul hang together as internal and external 
phenomena of the same essence. This primary essence 
is however, nothing more than the conjunction of phe- 
nomena themselves in the unity of the general conscious- 
ness. The soul becomes aware only of its own proper 
phenomena, the body becomes aware only through that 
which appears of it to the soul itself. It is a common 
evacuee which appears externally as body, internally as 
sold” (Fcehner, Physical, und philosoph. Atomeulehre, 2d 
<d. p. 258, 259). “The soul is no more than nature; it 
i> a phenomenon of the internal sense” (J. G. Fichte, 
Grundtnye d. yes. 1 1 'issensch < t fts/ch re, 1794, 1802). “ The 
fact of self-consciousness can only he explained on the 
snpposiiimi that the soul is a real essence, distinct from 
the organism, capable of reflection upon itself, that is, of 
consciousness.” “ Soul and body are diverse substances, 
but in the most intimate union and mutual interpenetra- 
tion. It is the idea of its body.” “ Every soul acquires 
for itself an organic body. The external material body 
i* hut the changing image of the internal process of 
soul and life” (1. 11. Fichte, Zeitschr. xii, 24(3; xxv, 

1 7G 17k ). “Spirit is hut a higher potency, a mere con- 
tinuation of development of the animal soul, and the 
animal soul itself is a mere exaltation of the vital force 
of the plant. These three principles are in man, in vir- 
tue of his self-consciousness, comprehended in one and 
the same Ego” (Fischer, Metaphysik , p. ofi-88 ; Site der 
.s’.#/#, p. 1(5). “The soul is a substantial essence. The 
inmost essence, the Ego, is unattainable to our cognition” 
(Frohsehammcr, .1 (fiend uni, ii. 1 1G, 1 19). “The body is 
the Hiune life ns tin? soul, and yet they may be spoken 
of as lying asunder. A soul without body would be 
nothing living, and the converse is true. The soul pos- 
its and produces itself; it has a body in itself, not with- 
out which it composes one total and actual, and in which 
ii is omnipresent” ( Hegel, UV/Ac, v, III; viii, 22, 23; xv, 
83!» ; w iii, 29, 93). “ We have no cognition of what is 

strictly the essence of our hoiiI. We cannot reach the Ego 
i(**' lf with our consciousness; we can only reach it in 
Hie constantly shifting modifications, as it thinks, feels, 
"ill**. especially ns it possesses the power of representa- 
tion. ’ “ I he soul is a simple essence without parts, and 

without plurality in its quality, whose intellectual man- 
i foldings is conditioned by a varied concurrence with 
ot her and yet real essences" ( I lerbnrt, U'erkc, i, 193. etc.). 

“ I lie I .go is tin absolute unity, and, as it is no object of 
outward w iixr, is immaterial; and though it. is present 
in "pace, and operates in it, occupies no space and has 
no special place in the body. The body is, rather, hut 


the form of the soul ; and birth, life, and death are but 
the diverse conditions of the soul. The conception of 
soul can only be reached by deductions” (Kant, Vorle- 
sunyen iiber Metaphysik , p. 133-254; Werke, vii, GO-78). 
“The what of the soul, its nature, comes as little into 
view as does the essential nature of things in general; 
the essential nature of the soul in itself remains unknown 
to us before it comes into a situation within which alone 
its life unfolds itself. The soul is also the focus into 
which flow together the movements of the bodily life 
that play hither and thither. The soul neither arises 
from the body nor from nothing, but goes forth from the 
substance of the infinite with the same substantiality 
which pertains to all the actual in nature that has 
sprung from the same infinite source. Our personali- 
ty is not composed of body and soul; rather does our 
true essence lie exclusively in the soul. The spirit is 
something higher than the soul. In the spirit is the 
unity of our being, our true Ego. The soul is but an 
element in its service. At death the soul passes away, 
the spirit ripens to a new existence” (Lotze, Mikrokos- 
mus ; Streitschriften, i, 138). “The soul, the conscious- 
ness a posteriori , is nothing but the individual being, so 
far as it is conscious, and can neither be, nor be thought 
of, apart from that individual being” (Scliellwien, Seyn 
mid Beicusstseyn , p. 1 17, 122). “The Ego which now ap- 
prehends itself as sentient or percipient, now as putting 
forth effort, willing, etc., knows itself at the same time 
as one and the same, the same abiding self. It is but 
an expression of this consciousness of unity when we 
speak of our own soul, and impute to it this or that 
predicate; that is, when we distinguish our own soul, 
with its manifold characteristics, from ourselves, and in 
this act implicitly contrast ourselves as unity with the 
mutation and manifoldness of our intellectual life” (Ul- 
riei, Ghntben und 1 1 'issen, p. G4-G6; Zeitschr. von Fichte , 
xxxvi, 232 ; Gott u. die Natur , p. 414-417). 

Modern philosophers in Germany thus make a dis- 
tinction between \pv\i] ( Seele ) and irvEvpa (Geist), or 
spirit and soul ; but they reverse the relative significance 
of these terms. Prof. (3. H. Schubert says that the soul is 
the inferior part of our intellectual nature, while the spirit 
is that part of our nature which tends to the purely ra- 
tional, the lofty and divine. The doctrine of the natural 
and the spiritual (q.v.) man, which we find in the writ- 
ings of Paul, may, it has been thought, have formed the 
basis upon which this mental dualism has been founded. 
The plainest and most common distinction taken in the 
use of the words soul and mind is, that in speaking 
of the mind of man we refer more to the various powers 
which it possesses, or the various operations which it 
performs; and in speaking of the soul of man we refer 
rather to the nature and destiny of the human being. 
The following distinguishing features of spirit, mind, 
and soul have been given: “The first denotes the ani- 
mating faculty, the breath of intelligence, the inspiring 
principle, the spring of energy, and the prompter of ex- 
ertion; the second is the recording power, the preserver 
of impressions, the storer of deductions, the nurse of 
knowledge, and the parent of thought; the last is the 
disembodied, ethereal, self-conscious being, concentrating 
in itself all the purest and most refined of human excel- 
lences, every generous affection, every benevolent dis- 
position, every intellectual attainment, every ennobling 
virtue, and every exalting aspiration” ( The Purpose of 
Existence [1850, 12mo], p. 79). spirit, when con- 

sidered separately, signifies the principle of life; rovg, 
mind , the principle of iutelliyencc. According to Plu- 
tarch, spirit is the cause and beginning of motion, and 
mind of order and harmony with respect to motion. To- 
gether they signify an intelligent soul. Thus we sav 
the “immortality” of the son/, and the “powers” of the 
mind (Fleming, I ’ ocabulary of Science, s. v.). See INI 1 ni>. 

In the Holy Scriptures three principles are recognised 
(see especially 1 Thess. v, 23) as essential components 
of man — the soul (H^P, 7 rvtvpct), the spirit (w£3, 


SOUL 


891 


SOUL 


and the body pt'2, oapZ or odjpa); but these are not 
accurately, much less scientifically, defined. The first 
and the last of these elements clearly correspond to the 
material or physical and the immaterial or spiritual 
parts of man’s nature, i. e. the soul and the body, as 
ordinarily defined by modern philosophers and scien- 
tists; but the middle term, the “spirit,” is hard to be 
distinguished. Yet in all earthly creatures, even in the 
lowest forms of animals, there is clearly observable a 
principle, inherent indeed in the body, and yet distinct 
from the rational faculty of man or the instinctive in- 
telligence of brutes. This is usually styled “ the animate 
principle,” or briefly life. It is this which moulds the 
whole physical organism, and for this end controls, and 
to a large degree overrides, mere chemical and inorganic 
laws, producing combinations and results impossible to 
un vitalized substance. This power or essence — for it 
lias not yet been determined whether it be distinct from 
or a mere result of the combination of soul and body — 
has hitherto eluded the analysis of scientific and philo- 
sophical research, and it will probably remain an in- 
scrutable secret; but it is a sufficiently separate element 
of human and animal nature to warrant the distinctive I 
use of a special term for it by the Biblical writers (which 1 
is carefully observed by them in the original, although 
frequently obscured in the English version). Thus 
spirit (’IT S3, is never applied to Goil or to angelic 

beings, who are incorporeal; nor, on the other hand, is 
soul (n.*n, TTvsvpa) ever used of beasts (except in Eccles. 
iii, 19, 21, where it is evidently employed out of its proper 
sense for the sake of uniformity). Yet life (i"P>n) is as- 
cribed equally to all these classes of existence , although 
those only who have bodies are endowed with the or- 
ganic locomotive principle (Gen. i, 20; ii, 7). See Psy- 
chology. 

On the general subject, see Baxter, On the Soul; 
Drew, Immateriality and Immortality of the Soul; Dod- 
dridge, Lectures , p. 92-97 ; Flavel, On the Soul ; Locke, On 
the Understandiny ; Moore, Immortality of the Soul; 
Ueberweg, I list, of Philosophy. See Spirit. 

SOUL, Immateriality of. See Immateriality. 

SOUL, Immortality of. See Immortality. 

SOUL, Origin of. Inspecting the manner of the 
propagation of the soul among the posterity of Adam, 
the sacred writers say nothing. The text (Eecles. xii, 
7) gives us, indeed, clearly to understand that the soul 
conies from God in a different manner from the body, 
but what this manner is it does not inform us. The 
texts (Isa. xlii, 5; Job xii, 10) which are frequently 
cited in this connection merely teach that God gave to 
ma \\%reath and life , and so do not relate to this subject. 
Nor can anything respecting the manner ol' the propa- 
gation of the soul be determined from the appellation 
Father of spirits, which was commonly given to God 
among the Jews, and which occurs in Heb. xii, 9 (see 
VYettstein, ad loc.). This appellation implies nothing 
more than that as man is the father of an offspring of 
the same nature with himself, so God, who is a Spirit, 
produces spirits. It is doubtless founded upon the de- 
scription of God (Numb, xvi, 22) as “the God of the 
spirits of all flesh.” The whole inquiry, therefore, with 
regard to the origin of human souls is exclusively philo- 
sophical, and scriptural authority can be adduced nei- 
ther for nor against any theory which we may choose 
to adopt. But notwithstanding the philosophical nat- 
ure of this subject, it cannot be wholly passed by in 
systematic theology, considering the influence which it 
has upon the statement of the doctrine of original sin. 
It is on account of its connection with this single doc- 
trine (for it is not immediately connected with any oth- 
er) that, it has been so much agitated by theologians, 
especially since the time of Augustine. They have 
usually adopted that theory respec ting the origin of the 
soul which was most favorable to the views which they 
entertained respecting the native character of man. 


lienee the followers of Augustine and of Pelagius, the 
advocates and opponents of the doctrine of native de- 
pravity, are uniformly ranged on opposite sides of the 
question concerning the origin of the soul. There have 
been three principal hypotheses on this subject, which 
will now be stated. 

1. The Hypothesis of the Pre-existence of Souls . — 
Those who support this hypothesis, called Prteexisti- 
ani, affirm that God, at the beginning of the world, 
created the souls of all men, which, however, are not 
united with the body before man is begotten or born 
into the world. This was the opinion of Pythagoras, 
Plato, and his followers, and of the Cabalists among the 
Jews. Among these, however, there is a difference of 
opinion, some believing that the soul was originally 
destined for the body, and unites with it of its own ac- 
cord; others, with Plato, that it pertained originally to 
the divine nature, anil is incarcerated in the body as a 
punishment for the sins which it committed in its heav- 
enly state. This hypothesis found advocates in the an- 
cient Christian Church. Some Christians adopted the 
entire system of the Platonists, and held that the soul 
was a part of the divine nature, etc. Priscillianns and 
his followers either held these views or were accused of 
holding them by Augustine {De Ilceres. c. 70). All who 
professed to believe in the pre-existence of the soul can- 
not be proved to have believed that it was a part of the 
divine nature. This is true of Origen, who agreed with 
the Platonists in saying that souls sinned before they 
were united with a body, in which they were impris- 
oned as a punishment for their sins (see Iluetius, in his 
Origeniame, lib. ii, c. 2, qiuest. 0). The pre-existence of 
the soul was early taught by Justin Martyr ( Dial . cum 
Tryphone Jud.). This has been the common opinion 
of Christian mystics of ancient and modern times. 
They usually adhere to the Platonic theory, and regard 
the soul as a part of the divine nature, from which it 
proceeds and to which it will again return. This doc- 
trine of the pre-existence of the soul is, however, almost 
entirely abandoned, because it is supposed irreconcilable 
with the doctrine of original sin. If the mystics be ex- 
cepted, it has been left almost without an advocate ever 
since the time of Augustine. 

2. The Hypothesis of the Creation of the Soul. — The 
. advocates of this theory, called Creatiani , believe that 

the soul is immediately created by God whenever the 
body is begotten. A passage in Aristotle {De Gener. ii, 
3) was supposed to contain this doctrine — at least, it was 
so understood by the schoolmen ; and, in truth, Aristotle 
appears not to be far removed from the opinion ascribed 
to him. Cyril of Alexandria and Theodoret, among the 
fathers in the Greek Church, were of this opinion, and 
Ambrose, Hilary, and Jerome in the Latin Church. 
The schoolmen almost universally professed this doc- 
trine, and generally the followers of Pelagius, with whom 
the schoolmen, for the most part, agreed in their views 
with regard to the native character of man; for these 
views derived a very plausible vindication from the 
hypothesis that the soul was immediately created by 
God when it was connected with the body. The argu- 
ment was this: If God created the souls of men, he 
must have made them either pure and holy or impure 
and sinful. The latter supposition is inconsistent with 
the holiness of God, and consequently the doctrine of 
the native depravity of the heart must be rejected. To 
affirm that God made the heart depraved would be to 
avow the blasphemous doctrine that God is the author 
of sin. The theory of the Creatiani was at first favored 
by Augustine, but he rejected it as soon as he saw how 
it was employed by the Pelagians. It has continued, 
however, to the present time to be the common doctrine 
of the theologians of the Tiomish Church, who in this 
follow after the schoolmen, like them making little of 
native depravity, and much of the freedom of man in 
spiritual things. Among the Protestant teachers, Me- 
lnncthon was inclined to the hypothesis of the Creati- 
ani , although, after the time of Luther, another hvpoth- 


SOUL 


802 


SOUL-SLEEL 


e*K which will shortly he noticed, was received with 1 
nnicli approbation by Protestants. Still many distin- 
guished Lutheran teachers of the 17th century followed 
Melauethoii in his views concerning this doctrine — e. g. 
G. Cali xt us. In the Reformed Church, the hypothesis 
which we are now considering lias had far more advo- 
cates than any other. though even they have not agreed 
in the manner of exhibiting it. Luther would have this 
subject left without being determined, and many of his 
contemporaries were of the same opinion. 

The Hypothesis of the Propagation of the Soul . — 
According to this theory, the souls of children, as well 
a> their bodies, are propagated from their parents. 
These two suppositious may he made: Either the souls 
of children exist in their parents as real beings (entia) — 
like the set-t.1 in plants, and so have been propagated 
from Adam through successive generations, which is 
the opinion of Leibnitz, in his Theodicee , i, 91 — or they 
exist in their parents merely potentially, and come from 1 
them j*r propayinem or traducem . Hence those who 
hold this opinion are called 1'radueiani. This opinion 
agrees with what Epicurus says of human seed, that it 
is atoparor rt rai \lo\tjg mroarraerpa. This hypothe- 
sis formerly prevailed in the ancient Western Church. 
According to .lerome, both Tertullian and Apollitiaris 
were advocates of this opinion, and even “maxima pars 
Oceidentalium” (see Fpist. ad Marcel! in.). Tertullian 
entered very minutely into the discussion of this subject 
in his work he .1 nima, c. 25 sip, where he often uses the 
word tradux; hut he is very obscure in what he has 
said. This is the hypothesis to which the opponents 
of the 1'elagians have been most generally inclined (see 
No. 2), though many who were rigorously orthodox 
would have nothing definitely settled upon this subject. 
Even Augustine, who in some passages favored the 
Crea/iani, allirmed in his book he Oriyine Aniune 
“nullum ( sententiam ) temere affirmare oportebit.” i 
Since the Reformation this theory has been more ap- I 
proved than any other, not only by philosophers and 
naturalists. but also by the Lutheran Church. Luther 
hiuM-elf appeared much inclined towards it, although he 
did not declare himself distinctly in its favor, lint in 
the Formula Cwicordve it was distinctly taught that 
the soul, as well as the body, was propagated by parents 
in ordinary generation. Tin* reason why this theory is 
so nimh preferred by theologians is that it affords the 
on»iest solution of the doctrine of native depravity. If 
in the souls of our lirst progenitors the souls of all their 
)n»teriiy existed potentially, and the souls of the former 
were polluted and sinful, those of the latter must be so 
too. This hypothesis is not. however, free from ohjee- I 
lions, and it is very difficult to reconcile it with some j 
philosophical opinions which are universally received. I 
We cannot, for example, easily conceive ln>w genera- ) 
tion and propagation can take place without extension , j 
hut we cannot predicate extension of the soul without 
making it a material substance. Tertullian and other \ 
of tin' lathers nltirin. indeed, that the soul of man. and I 
that spirit in general, is not perfectly pure and simple, | 
hut ot a relined material nature, of which, consequently, 

• xttHsinn may he predicated. With these opinions the 
theory oft he propagation oft he soul agrees perfectly well, j 
certainly far better than wit h the opinions which ween- ; 
t« rtnin respecting the nature of spirit, although even j 
with i he-e opinions we cannot he sure that a spiritual 
generation and propagation are impossible; for we do 
not understand the true nature of spirit, and cannot 
there!. .re determine with certainty what is or is not 
|H*%-ihle respecting it. There are some psychological 
phenomena which seem to favor the theory nmv under 
consideration : mid lienee it has always been the favorite 
theory of psychologist sat id physicians. The natural dis- 
|M.«ii iou of children not niifrequently resembles that of 
t.ieir parents, and the menial excellences and imperfec- 
tions of fin rents are inherited nearly as often by their 
i lnldri u ns any bodily attributes. Again, the powers 
ot the soul, like those ot the body, are at lirst weak, anil 


attain their full development and perfection only by 
slow degrees. Many more phenomena of the same sort 
might be mentioned. Ihit after all that may be said, 
we must remain in uncertainty with regard to the origin 
of the human soul. Important objections can he urged 
against these arguments and any others that might be 
uttered. If the metaphysical theory of the entire sim- 
plicity of the human soul be admitted, the whole sub- 
ject remains involved iu total darkness. — Knapp, Christ . 
Theol . p. 200 sq. 

SOUL, Puts- existence of. See Fre-existents. 

Soul-bell, the knell tolled on the decease of a per- 
son. See Passing-bell. 

Soul-cakes, a term used for the gifts of sweet- 
ened bread, anciently distributed at the church-doors 
on All-souls’-day (Xov. 2) by the rich to the poor. 
They were frequently stamped with the impression of 
a cross, or were triangular in form. They were given 
away with inscriptions on paper or parchment, soliciting 
the prayers of the receivers for the souls of certain de- 
parted persons, whose names were thus put on record. 
Some of the earliest specimens of block-printing con- 
sist of “soul-papers.” as they were termed. — Lee, Gloss, 
of Liturgical Terms, s. v. 

Soul-chime, the ringing of the passing or soul bell. 

Soul-mass, mass for the dead. 

Soul-papers. See Soul-cakes. 

Soul’s-cot, or Soul’s Scot, the payment made 
at the grave to the parish priest in whose church the 
service for the departed had been said. 

Soul-seat, that place where the friends of a de- 
parted Christian, in the Middle Ages, offered alms, at 
or near the high-altar, for the use of the clergy, the 
benefit of the Church, and for the good estate of the de- 
parted soul. While offering, they recited the psalm he 
Profundis , and then a versicle and response, asking for 
eternal rest and peace for the person passing away. — Lee, 
Gloss, of Liturgical Terms, s. v. 

Soul-service, mass for the departed. 

Soul-sleep is the name given to one among the 
many conceptions entertained bv the human mind with 
respect to the state of the soul after the death of the 
body. It assumes that the sonl sleeps so long as the 
body lies in the grave, and that it will arise together 
with the body at the Resurrection. The term psycho - 
pannyrhisin (q. v.) has been applied to this doctrine be- 
cause it teaelics a continuous night, for the sonl “until 
the day dawn and the day-star arise” (2 Pet. i, 19), 
or until the eternal day shall begin in which there 
is no more alternation of light and darkness (Rev. 
xxi, 25, xxii, 5). The doctrine of psychopannyehism 
originated in the East among the Arabian and Ar- 
menian sects, and from thence spread into the West 
of Europe. Traces of it are found with several of the 
Church fathers. It was condemned by the Councils of 
Ferrara (148X) and of Florence (1489), earlier by that 
of Lyons (1274), and later, in the Kith century, by the 
Council of Trent (sess. vi, 25). Pope John XXII (died 
18()4), however, held the doctrine of the soul’s sleep 
himself, and openly promulgated the view that the 
souls of the pious dead do not see the face of Hud until 
after the body has been raised. Later, after the rise of 
Protestantism, certain of the Socinians and also of the 
Armininns showed themselves inclined to hold an indef- 
inite, not thoroughly apprehended, psychopannyehism ; 
and the Anabaptists (q. v.) allowed the doctrine to at- 
tain to its complete development among their adhe- 
rents. Calvin repeatedly rejected it. first in his treatise 
he Psychopanuyehia (1584), and afterwards in his Trac- 
tatns Var. ii, 449 sq. etc. Luther, on the other hand, 
was inclined to accept the doctrine of the soul’s sleep 
as correct. A related error is that of the soul's death , 
which was taught as early as A.D. 2 IX by the Arabian 
Thuetopsychites (q.v.). Peter Pompomitius (died 1525) 


SOULE 


803 


SOURDIS 


became especially prominent among tbe advocates of 
this doctrine, and his activity led pope Leo X to con- 
demn this and other similar errors disseminated since 
the time of Averroes. 

The errors in question are based in part upon certain 
expressions in the Scriptures (see Job xiv, 11, 12; Psa. 
vi, 5; Ixxxviii, 11; cxv, 17, 18; Isa. xxxviii, 18; 1 
Thess. iv, 13-15; v, 10). The exposition of such pas- 
sages by which soul -sleep is proved certainly rests 
on a misconception, since the New-Test, language does 
not refer to the soul’s sleep nor to the soul’s death, 
but simply to the soul’s 7'est (see llev. xiv, 1.3, where 
the dead are described as Mewed). The Old -Test, 
language usually referred to in behalf of this theory 
merely regards the life of this earth as a period of 
gracious opportunity and privilege which comes to 
end at death (see Hcb. ix, 27; John ix, 4). It must 
be conceded that the Old-Test, revelation was incom- 
plete; it does not disclose everything with reference 
to eschatological questions, as in other departments of 
inquiry, and much is left for the New-Test, revelation 
to perfect. But the earlier revelation contains no error 
that might contradict New-Test, truth. 

The principal basis for the soul-sleep view is found, 
however, not in the Scriptures, but in the assumption 
that death causes a complete disintegration of the con- 
stituent parts of the human being. This point has been 
met by regarding the living soul (Gen. ii, 7) as a con- 
crete real. an<l not simply abstract being; but more sat- 
isfactorily by the scriptural statement of the blessedness 
of the soul after death, from henceforth (Uev. xiv, 13) — 
in other words, by the intermediate state , which is to 
continue until the final redintegration of the entire man 
and of the race at the day of the general resurrection. 
This latter doctrine is expressly taught by Calvin, Insti- 
tutes. iii,25. (See also Ursinus, Mittelzustand der Seelen; 
Delitzsch, Bibl. Psychol. [Leips. 1859], p.389-394.) 

The idea of soul-sleep has, nevertheless, a measure of 
truth belonging to it, inasmuch as death may really be 
likened to sieep as it stands related to a future resurrec- 
tion. It actually does lead pious souls to a sabbatism 
of rest, i. e. to the katapausis (Heb. iv, 9-11) and the 
ana pan sis (Ucv. xiv, 13). Nor is it accidental that the 
God-man rested in the grave on the Sabbath, and arose 
on the first day of the week. Finally, the soul-sleep 
theory claims in its behalf the idea that the night 
of death is to the sleepers but as a moment, however 
long it may seem to us who have not entered on its 
experience. The views entertained by the adherents 
of the theory are not constant, however, and they are 
found sometimes to postulate a distinction between soul 
and spirit (Eccles. xii, 7), and at other times to ignore 
it. 

Bordering on the errors of sonl-sleep and soul-death 
is the monstrous doctrine of a soul-migration, or metemp- 
sychosis (q. v.), accompanied by no recollections of any 
former state, inasmuch as it postulates a previous sleep, 
or even death (see Lange [J. P.], Positive Uoymatik, 
p. 1258, etc.). This conception transcends the limits 
of Christian thought. Sleep and night, death and 
Shcol. are rest compared with such a migratory state. 
The theory, associated with that of pre-existence, occurs 
chiefly, however, in Gnosticism and the Cabala. 

In addition to works already mentioned, see Backer, 
Mittheil unyen aus Loscher's Samml. a us d. 17 ten it. 18te« 
Jahrhumlert iib. d. Zustand d. Seelen nach d. Tode (1835, 
183G), I, ii ; Frantz, Gebetfur d. Todten im Zusammen- 
hang mit Cultus u. Lehre (Nordh. 1857); Hahn, Lehre 
d. christl. Glanbens (1858), p. 20, 425 sq. ; Gdschel, Lehre 
v. d. letzten Dinyen (Berlin, 1850); Id. Der Mensch, nach 
Leib, Seele, v. Geist (Leips. 1850). — Herzog, Ueal-Encykl. 
s. v. See Intermediate State; Metempsychosis. 

Soule, George, a Congregational minister, was 
born at Willhigton, Conn., Oct. 12, 1823. He studied at 
Amherst College, and, completing the course, graduated 
in 1847. Soon after lie entered the East Windsor The- 
ological Seminary, Conn., where he remained two years, 


and then went to the Union Theological Seminary, where 
lie remained one year, and returned to the East Wind- 
sor Seminary, where he graduated in 1851. He was 
ordained Oct. 18, 1851, and became a stated supply of 
the Congregational Church at Ashford, Conn., where he 
remained two years; after which he supplied the pulpit 
of the church at Hampton, and was installed pastor in 
1853, and continued in this relation, honored, beloved, 
and successful, until his death, Oct. 4, 1867. (W. P. S.) 

Soule, Justus, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was horn in Columbia County, N. V., Sept. 
1, 1807. He was licensed to preach in 1835, and was ad- 
mitted into the Oneida Conference on trial in 1837. lie 
received his ordination as deacon in 1839, and elder in 
1841. He was transferred to the Peoria (afterwards the 
Central Illinois) Conference in 1856. He died while la- 
boring at Moline, Oct. 25, 1859. “ lie was a useful min- 

ister and a faithful pastor.” See Minutes of Annual 
Conferences , 1860, p. 259. 

Soule, Joshua, a bishop of the Methodist Episco- 
pal Church, South, was born in Bristol, Hancock Co., 
Me., Aug. 1, 1781. He was converted in June, 1797, 
and began to travel in 1798 with Joshua Taylor, a pre- 
siding elder, and was admitted into the New England 
Conference the next year. In 1804 he was appointed 
presiding elder, and served as such (with one year’s ex- 
ception) until 1816, when he was appointed book agent 
in New York. In 1820 he was stationed in New York 
city, spent the next two years in Baltimore, and in 1824 
was elected to the episcopacy. When the Church di- 
vided in 1845, he identified himself with the Southern 
section, continuing in the bishopric. He died near 
Nashville, Tenn., March 6, 1867. Mr. Soule was for four 
years ( 1816—19) editor of the Methodist Magazine, and 
in 1808 drew up the plan of a delegated General Confer- 
ence, which now appears in the Discipline. “ In the 
pulpit he was slow, elaborate, almost entirely destitute 
of imagination or figurative illustrations, but strongly 
fortified in the main positions of his subject, and vigor- 
ous in style. His discourses showed more breadth than 
depth, but were often overwhelmingly impressive. See 
Stevens, Hist, of the M. E. Ch. iv, 44-49. 

Souls, Cure of, the technical terra by which the 
canon law describes the charge which is given to a pas- 
tor, no matter of what degree of divinity, over the spir- 
itual concerns of a fiock; and the words especially im- 
ply the right of administering the sacraments. In this 
sense, the phrase is used to mark an important distinc- 
tion between twoclasses of benefices, or church-livings — 
“benefices with,” and “ benefices without,” the cure of 
souls. Of the latter class are canonries, prebends, and 
the whole class known in the canon law as “ simple 
benefices.” Of the former are parochial cures, vicarial 
cures, and, still more, the higher charges of archbishop, 
bishop, etc. — Chambers's Encyclop . s. v. 

Sound-holes, perforations in the wooden shutters 
of the belfry-windows in church-towers, for the emission 
of the sound of the bells. In early times they were sim- 
ply horizontal divisions obtained by the arrangement of 
the planks. Afterwards the perforations were ornamen- 
tal in character, shaped like a trefoil or qnatrefoil, and 
harmonized with the character of the structure. 

Sounding-board, a board or structure, canopy or 
tester, with a fiat surface, suspended over a pulpit to 
prevent the sound of the preacher’s voice from ascend- 
ing, and thus sending it out farther in a horizontal di- 
rection. 

Sourdis, Franpois d’Escoubleau, cardinal of 
was born in 1575 at Bordeaux, of a noble house, origi- 
nally from Poictou. In youth he accompanied the duke 
of Ncvers to Home in a military capacity, but suddenly 
entered holy orders under the good graces of Clement 
VIII, and was furnished with the rich deanery of Au- 
brac. By solicitation of Henry IV, he was made cardi- 
nal at the age of twenty-three ("March 3, 1598); and 


804 


SOUTH 


SOUISDIS 


was nominated as archbishop of Bordeaux in 1500, while 
yet n deacon. He established a threat number of relig- 
ious houses, and assisted at the elections of popes Leo 
XI and Paul V. lie eventually became embroiled with 
the civil authorities, and died l'eb. 8, 10*28. See lloeler, 
AWe. ftivy. den? rale, s. v. 

Sourdis. Henri i>’Ksrorni.E.\r m-:. a French prel- 
ate. brother of the preceding, was born in 1503. and was 
early provided with severttl considerable beneticcs, and 
in 10*20 succeeded his brother as archbishop <d‘ Bordeaux, 
lie was associated with Kichelicu in State a Hairs, but 
ultimately became involved in troubles which ended 
only wit it Kichelieu’s death (Dec. 4. 101*2), when De 
Smrdis returned to his see. He died at Auteuil. near 
Paris. ,1 unc is, 1045. See I loefer, Xour. Jiioy, Cenerule, 
s. v. 

Souse, an ancient term for a corbei, (q. v.). 

South, the country or quarter of the heavens which 
the Miemite. standing with his face to the east, supposes 
to be on his right hand. It is denoted by seven Hebrew 
words, nearly all of which refer to some characteristic 
of the region to which they are respectively applied. 

1 233, neyeb (root lit in Syr. and Chald. to be dry), 
probably derived its name from the hot drying winds 
which annually blow into Syria, over Africa and Arabia. 
••In March,” says Voinov, "appear in Syria the perni- 
cious southerly winds with the same circumstances as 
in Egypt : that is to say, their heat , which is carried to 
a degree so excessive that it is dithcult to form an idea 
of it without having felt it; but one can compare it to 
that of a great oven when the bread is drawn out” 
( I oynye rtt Syrie ft Eyyptc, i, 297 ; comp. Luke xii, 55, 
‘•When ye see the south wind blow, ye say there will 
be heat and see Kitto, Physical Hist, of J*alestine, 
month of March, p. *2*21. *2*2*2). The word is occasional- 
ly applied to a parched or dry tract of land. Caleb’s 
daughter says to her father, “Thou hast given me a 
south,” or rather “dry land;” 233H i’“X (Vulg. terram 
urentem ); “give me also springs of water" (Judg. i, 15; 
comp. vcr. 9). At other times the word refers to those 
arid regions, notwithstanding their occasional fertility, 
over which the south wind blows into Syria. So the 
Sept, and Vulg. understood the “ whirlwinds from the 
south” (ha. xxi, 1 : <Y ipifpov, turbines ab Africa), 
“ The burden of the beasts in the south" is rendered 
twv TfrfMTroC ton Ttui' iv ry ipipup (xxx, G). At other 
times the word is rendered by vuroy and \ixf/ t which 
Inner is the llclleni/.ed form of Libs, rent us ex Libya , 
the south-west wind, ami, hv metonymy, the cpiiirter 
whence it blows. In several instances the Hebrew 
word is simply put into Creek letters, thus, rbv Sayifi 
(.Tosh, x, 41»); rt)v yijv N uytfi, Alex. rt)v 'Sayifi, uL 
'Styifi (xi. 10) ; N ayifl v. r. ‘Ayifi (Ohad. 10, ‘20) ; and 
once, probably by a corruption, it is dpydji (1 Sam. 
xx. 11 ), v. r. viyt’ifi, vtyifi, ipydfi. The Vulg. renders 
the word hv “ meridies,” “australis plnga,” “terra nteri- 
dinua,” “anster ah Aphrico.” “terra australis.” More than 
once the Sept, differs widely from the present Hebrew 
text; thus in Ezek. xxi, I [0] it renders fZ'Ji "33*2 hv 
d 7T*> tnrti\aoTov iiotj /loppd ; Vulg. “ah mistro usque 
ad aquilonem;” so also in Kxod. xxvi, IS !“!233 ~S,£ is 
rendered 7rpor /Inpbiiv; Vulg. “ml anstrum.” It is also 
U"ed in the geographical sense in Numb, xxxiv, 3; Josh, 
xv, *2, I Clmm. ix, *2 1 ; *2 Chron. iv, 4 ; Ezek. xl, 2 ; xlvi, 
0, etc. Hut a further and important use of the word is 
a* the name or designation of the desert regions lying 
at the south of Judien, consisting of tin* deserts of Slmr, 
/.in. ami Paran, the mountainous country of Kdom or 
bhitmea, and part of Arabia l Vinca (comp. Mai. i, 3; 
Shaw, Travth , p. 438). Thus Ahralmm, at his first en- 
trance into Canaan, is said to have “gone on towards 
the south" (Hen. xii, 9), Sept, iv ry ipt)pip, Aqiiila 
I'orni'o, Svmuiaclms h'c vnntv, and upon his return 
from l.gvpi into Canaan he is said to have gone “into 
the south” (xiii, Ij; Sept. tt£ rt)v iptjpuv ; Vulg. "ml 


anstralem plagam,” though he was in fact then travel- 
ling northward. Comp. ver. 3, “He went from the 
south to Bethel Sept. €<*<; r») v tpqpov; Vulg. “a me- 
ridic in Bethel.” In this region the Amalckites are 
said to have dwelt, “in the land of the south,” when 
Moses sent the spies to view the land of Canaan (Numb, 
xiii, *20), viz. the locality between Idum.ea and Egypt, 
and to the cast of the Dead Sea and Mount Seir. See 
Amai.kkitk. The inhabitants of this region were in- 
eluded in the conquests of Joshua (Josh, x, 40). When- 
ever the Sept, gives the Hebrew word in the Greek let- 
ters, Nnyf/ i3, it always relates to this particular district. 
To the same region belongs the passage “Turn our 
captivity as the streams in the south” (Psa. exxvi. 4); 
Sept. \ttpdpf)o vg iv r<y Norf/J, “as winter torrnits 
in the south” (Vulg. “ sient torrens in Austro”), which 
suddenly till the wadys or valleys during the season of 
rain (comp. Ezek. vi, 3; xxxiv, 13; xxxv, 8; xxxvi, 
4. G). These are dry in summer (Job vi, 15-18). The 
Jews had, by their captivity, left their country empty 
and desolate, but by their return would “How again 
into it.” Through part of this sterile region the Israel- 
ites must repass in their vain application to Egypt 
(Isa. xxx, G; comp. Dent, viii, 15). It is called the 
Wilderness of Juda?a (Matt, iii, 1 ; Josh, xv, G1 ; comp. 
Psa. Ixxv, G, Ileb. or margin; sec also Jcr. xvii, 20; 
xxxii, 44; xxxiii, 14; Ezra xx. 46, 47; xxi, 4; comp. 
Ohad. 19, 20; Zecli. ix, 7). Through part of this re- 
gion lay the road from Jerusalem to Gaza, “which is 
desert” (Acts viii, 2G). Thus, as Drusius observes, the 
word often means not the whole southern hemisphere 
of the earth, but a desert tract of land to the south of 
Judiva. Sometimes it is used in a relative sense; tints 
the cities of Jiulah arc called “ the cities of the south” 
(Jcr. xiii, 19), relatively to Chalda?a, expressed by “the 
north” (i, 14; comp, iv, 6; vi, 1). Jerusalem itself is 
called “ the forest of the south Held” or country, like the 
Latin ayer (Ezek. xx, 4G; comp. Gen. xiv, 7). Sec 
Forest. Egypt is also called “the south;” thus, “the 
king of the south” (Dan. xi, 5) is Ptolemy Soter and 
his successors; comp. ver. 6, 9, 11, 15,25, 29, 40, but in 
the last-named verse Mede understands t he Saracens 
from Arabia Felix (IPorZs, p. 674, 81G). See South 
COUXTRY. 

2. c’vn. dardm , which, according to Gescnins. is a 
word of uncertain derivation. It is in the Sept, ren- 
dered by Dent, xxxiii, 23; by roroc, Ecclcs. i, G; 
xi. 3; Ezek. xl, 24. 27, 28, 44, 45;* xii, 11 ; and by StU 
Aotjua, Ezek. xiii, 18: Vulg. “meridies,” “anster,” “au- 
stralis.” “ vent us australis.” This word as a proper name 
is usually understood to be applied to tbc southernmost 
part of Judaea in Job xxxvii, 17; Eccles. i, G , Ezek. 
xxi, 2; xl, 24. lienee the name of “ Daroma” is given 
by Eusebius and Jerome to the region which they de- 
scribe as extending about twenty miles from Elcuther- 
opolis oti the way towards Arabia Petriea, and from east 
to west as far as from the Dead Sea to Gerara and Beor- 
shoha. A little to the south of Gaza there is now a spot 
called Bab cd-Daron, a name probably derived from the 
fortress Daron, celebrated in the time of the Crusades. 
'Dint fortress was built on the ruins of a Greek convent 
of the same name, which, being traced so far hack, may 
well he identified with Darom as the ancient name of 
t his territory. In Dent, xxxiii, 23 the Hebrew word 
is applied to the sunny southern slope of Naphtali to- 
wards the Lake Mulch. See Darom. 

3. •j-a-'n, 7Vym«»,and its adverb 113 ’2*’ H, strictly what 
lies to the riyht ; Sopr. voto£, Xn£/; and sometimes the 
word is simply put into Greek letters; thus,Oerijuro' (I lab. 
iii. 3). Indeed, all I he three preceding words arc so ren- 
dered (Ezek. xx, 46 [xxi, 2 ]),Vit duSyxoTrou, aTtiptnov to 
7rpei7»i>7r«/' (uw hri Sutpdv, Kai iwifSAEtpov irri Fapvf i, 
v«c 7rpo(piiTttuTov ini rpvpbv t) yovpevov vayifi. where 
perhaps the vocabulary of the translator tlid not allbrd 
him sufficient variety, 'flic Vulg. here gives “viam 
austri,” “ail aphricinn,” “ad saltum agri meridiani,” 


south 


895 


south 


and elsewhere renders the Hebrew word by “ meridi- 
ana plaga,” “ad meridiem.” It occurs in Exod.xxvi,35; 
Numb, ii, 10; iii, 29; x, 6; Job ix, 9; xxxix, 2G ; Psa. 
Ixxviii, 2G; Cant, iv, 16; Isa. xliii, 6; Hab. iii, 3; Zeeh. 
ix, 14; xiv, 4. In Zech. vi, 6 it denotes Egypt. It is 
poetically used for the south wind, like Shakspeare’s 
“sweet south;” Psa. lxxvii, 2G, no roe, africum, and 
Cant, iv, 1G, von ; for the explanation of the latter see 
North. Observe that PtS^n and 233 are interchanged 
in Exod. xxvi, 18; xxxvi, 23; Ezek. xlvii, I. See Te- 

31 AX. 

4. “P'S* 1 , yamin, also meaning the riyht side and south. 
Thus, Psa. lxxxix, 12, “Thou hast made the north and 
the south Sept. SdXaooa ; Vnlg. mare. The word is 
evidently here used in its widest sense, comprehending 
not only all the countries lying south, but also the In- 
dian Ocean, etc., the whole hemisphere. Aquila has 
13 oppdv Kai delicti’ ; Theodotion, Boppdz' tent Ndron. In 
some passages where our translation renders the word 
right , the meaning would have been clearer had it ren- 
dered it south (1 Sam. xxiii, 19, 24; 2 Sam. xxiv, 5; 
Job xxiii, 9). 

5. “inn, cheder, “Out of the south cometh the whirl- 
wind” (Job xxxvii, 9), literally “chamber” or “store- 
house,” Ik rapituov. (tb interior ibus. The full phrase oc- 
curs in ix, 9, “ ( 2P1 "HTn, raptla vbrov, interiora austri, 
the remotest south; perhaps in both these passages the 
word means the chambers or storehouses of the south 
wind. 

G. *“2“12, mulbdr , “Promotion cometh not from the 
south” (Psa. Ixxv, 6), literally “ wilderness,” «7ro ipi)- 
pov, desertis montibus. See Desert. 

7. 2^2, mayim , water , “And gathered them out of 
the sands, and from the south” (Psa. evii, 3), SdXaaaa, 
mare; where Gesenius contends that it ought to be 
translated “west,” though it stands opposed to *pE3£. 
as it is indeed so translated under exactly the same cir- 
cumstances in Isa. xhx, 12. He refers to Dent, xxxiii, 
23, and Amos viii, 12. It is also thus rendered in our 
version of the first of these references, and on the latter 
we can only refer to archbishop Newcomers Version of 
the Minor Prophets (Pontefract, 1809), p. 51, 52. 

In the New Test, we have rorog in the geographical 
sense, /iatTiXnrrra noron, regina austri, Matt, xii, 42 
[see Sheba] and Luke xiii, 29; Rev. xxi, 13. The 
word pemjpfipia is also translated “south” in Acts viii, 
2G, Kurd fjLEGig.ifipiav, contra meridianum. It is used 
in the same sense by Josephus (Ant. iv, 5, 2). In Sym- 
maehus (1 Sam. xx, 41) for 233. Hesvehius defines 
Mg<T lpifipia' rd rou Norou /ftp;/ Kai rb rij g gpipag 
ytcrov. The south-west Xixp occurs in Paul’s dangerous 
voyage (Acts xxvii, 12) ; “a haven of Crete,” /3\t7ronr« 
Kara \i/3a, respicientem ad africum , by metonymy the 
wind for the quarter whence it blows. The south wind 
is mentioned ver. 13, vbrog, auster, and xxviii. 13. — 
Kit to. See Wind. 

Egypt and Arabia lay south in respect of Canaan, and 
were therefore frequently mentioned by that designa- 
tion. But from the Egyptians they may have learned 
the existence of nations living still farther to the south- 
ward, for representations of victories over the negroes, 
and of negro captives, are not uncommon on the tombs 
in the valley of the Nile. One which is here copied 
represents the triumph of one of the Pharaohs over 
a negro chief, proba- 
bly designed to be the 
type of his nation. It 
is evident that the fig- 
ure exhibits the usual 
characteristics of the 
negro features as 
strongly as they arc 
found at the present 
day. See Ethiopia. 


South Country (233, Negeb, south, or, according to 
Buxtorf, Parkhnrst, and Gesenius, arid or dry country'). 
There was a certain tract of country or portion of Pales- 
tine which was variously designated as “ the South,” 
“the South Country,” or “the Land of the South.” It 
was so called whether it lay to the south or to the north 
of the point from whence reference was made to it, i. e. 
by persons who stood to the south of it or were ap- 
proaching it from the south, as well as by those who 
lived to the north of it or were approaching it from the 
north. Thus Abraham, not only when he was journey- 
ing towards the south, as he proceeded southward from 
Bethel and from Hebron (Gen. xii, 9; xx, 1), but when 
he was travelling northward, is said to go into “ the 
south:” “Abraham went up out of Egypt into the 
south,” that is, into the South Country, or that part of 
the land of Canaan which was called “ the south,” and 
then “went on his journeys from the south,” or South 
Country, “ even to Bethel” (xiii, 1, 3). When Moses 
sent the spies from Kadesh to search the land, he said 
unto them, “Get you up this way southward not to- 
wards the south, or that point of the compass, accord- 
ing to the obscure rendering of the English translation, 
which he could not mean when he was directing them 
northward, but, according to the Hebrew, into the Negeb, 
or the south, i. e. the South Country, or that part of the 
Land of Promise which was so called ; and then it is 
said that “they ascended by the south,” that is, by or 
through the South Country, “and came into Hebron” 
(Numb, xiii, 17, 22). It was the abode of the Amalek- 
ites at the time that the spies searched the land, for in 
their report they said, “The Amalekites dwell in the 
land of the south” (ver. 29), and when Israel came by 
the way of the spies, or the second time to Kadesh, king 
Arad, who had come out against them, is said to have 
dwelt in the south, i. e. in the South Country, when his 
seat lay at the time to their north (xxi, 1). 

This district or tract of country was evidently the 
south part of Judaea, or the southern portion of the Land 
of Promise. It is spoken of in Judg. i, 16 as “the wil- 
derness of Judah, south of Arad;” and it is found to be, 
according to the meaning of the word udlderness, a hilly 
region, a strip of hilly country, running from the Dead 
Sea westward across the land of Palestine, or somewhat 
obliquely to the south-west, rising abruptly in grand 
precipices from the shore of the Dead Sea; next forming 
a high and extensive elevated plateau, intersected to- 
wards the west by one or two ranges of mountains; and 
finally sloping westward or sinking gradually into the 
land of Gerar, or the great plain south and south-east 
of Gaza. It constituted in general the portion of Judah 
(q. v.) that was set off to the tribe of Simeon (q. v.), and 
its boundaries (which have been inordinately extended 
by some, e. g. Wilton, The Negeb [Loud. 1863]) are to 
be defined by the cities specified in Josh, xv, 21-32; 
xix, 1-G. See ToroGRAi*niCAL Terms. 

South End, the end of an altar on the south or 
epistle side; that is, on the right-hand side of a person 
looking eastward towards it. See South Side. 

South, Queen of the. See Sheba. 

South Ra'moth (I Sam. xxx, 27). See Ramoth- 
negeb. 

South, Robert, D.D., an English clergyman, was 
born at Ilaeknev, Middlesex, in 1633, and became a 
king’s scholar at Westminster at the age of fourteen. 



Tribute from the South to the Kings of Egypt. 


SOUTH SIDE 


89G 


SOUTIICOTTIAXS 


111 Idol he wa« admitted a student of Christ Church. 
Oxford, under the care of his relative Dr. John Smith. 
In 1 1;;>;> and 1057 successively lie took his degrees of 
A. II. and A.M. .Mr. Smith was privately ordained in 
n;;>s bv «ni«> of the deprived bishops. At the restoration 
of CluirK-s H. i he opportunity was a Horded him of show- 
ing his peculiar eloquence. In August. IGtIO, he was 
chosen public orator in his university, and presently af- 
ter preached before the king’s commissioners. Claren- 
don up|M)iutcd him. without delay, his domestic chap- 
lain. < hi the disgrace of that minister he was nomi- 
nated to the same otliee in the family of the duke of 
York; the king, in the meantime, placing him on the 
list of royal chaplains, lie was installed prebendary of 
Westminster in March, 1003, and on Oct. 1 following 
was admitted to the degree of D.D. Afterwards he 
had a sinecure in Wales bestowed upon him by bis pa- 
tron. the earl of Clarendon, and in 1070 was installed 
canon of Christ Church. In 1070 lie attended, as chap- 
lain. Laurence I lyde, ambassador extraordinary to the 
king of Poland. I* pun his return he was presented, in 
1078. by the dean and chapter of Westminster to the 
pleasant rectory of 1 slip, near Oxford. To this Church 
lie became a considerable benefactor — rebuilding the 
ehaticcl in )t'»N>, allowing £H»0 a year to his curate, and 
spending the rest in educating the poorer children of 
t lie parish. After the Devolution, South took the oath 
of allegiance to the new king and queen, and is said to 
have declined the oiler of a great dignity vacated by one 
who refused the oaths. It was at this time that he be- 
came engaged in the violent controversy with Dr. Sher- 
lock. dean of >t. Paul’s. Sherlock’s Vimlication of the 
Doctrim ‘ of tin Trinity appeared in 1090, and was an- 
swered by Ninth in his .1 ninuttl versions. Sherlock re- 
plied in 1094 in a Defence, which was replied to by South 
in Tritfn ism. etc. This was a sharp contest, and men 
of great note espoused the cause of each. During the 
greatest part of queen Anne’s reign, South was a severe 
su Hirer from illness; and he did little as minister, save 
attending divine service at Westminster Abbey. He 
was o 111 red the bishopric of Kochester with the deanery 
of Westminster; but declined to leave his private sta- 
tion. He died July 8, 1710, and was buried in West- 
minster Abbey. Dr. South was a man of uncommon 
abilities and attainments; of judgment, wit, and learn- 
ing. Ili> wit was his bane, for he could not repress it, 
even on the most solemn occasions. II is works arc, 
J/usira Jorantans.sire Intent a E.rpt rimens M aside Vires , 
etc. ( l 055 ; Ifi«i7, 4 to): — .1 ninuulcersions upon Dr. Sher - 
luck '* Hunk * utitlnl . I Vimlication of the Holy ami Ever- 
hhssnl Trinity ( 1 1 ) : — Tritheism Charynl upon Dr. 
Sherlock's Al *r .Votion of the Trinity (1095). lie pub- 
lished a number of his Sermons singly, and a collective 
edition ( 1092, f» vols. Kvo; other editions in 1 (597, 1701, 
17i:>, 17 22. 17-27). To these were added (1711) 5 vols. 
8vo. These eleven volumes were republished at Ox- 
ford (1*23. 7 vols. Kvo). They have been reprinted in 
Philadelphia (1 vols. in *2 vols. Kvo), in New York (4 vols. 
Kvo), and by llurd and Houghton ( 1X(>7, f> vols. Kvo). 
Nee ( 'atterinolo. Literature of the Church of Enylaml, ii, 

112 *H*Tl ; Chalmers, Hioy. Diet. s. v. ; Alii bone, Diet, of 
Ih it. ami .1 no r. .1 uthors , s. v. 

South Side, tin* side of an altar on the south or 
epistle side: that part of the altar at which the priest, 
during the Mas-., says or sings the collects and the epis- 
tle for the day. Nee Norm Km>. 

Southcott. .Ioanna, a noted enthusiast, was horn 
aUnit 1750 at Hiliislinm, in Devonshire. She was the 
daughter of a farmer at St. Mary Ot lory’s, in Devon- 
shire, and, inn il her name heeatuc celehrat’ed, she ob- 
tained lie r living as a domestic servant. Her case is a 
u rv curious one, both in the history of psychology and 
of religious enthusiasm. From her mother, who lived 
till Joanna had reached the age of womanhood, she re- 
ceived the most exalted religious ideas, the exuberance 
of which h< r lather often lilt himstlf called upon to 


cheek : she was still, however, a sober member of the 
Church of England. At length she joined the early 
morning and evening meetings of the Wesleyans, and 
in 1792 associated exclusively with that body; but she 
was soon expelled from it on account of her pretend- 
ed visions. The religious exercises to which Joanna 
was thus introduced seem to have produced, as exciting 
causes, her remarkable visions and dreams, which soon 
took the form of prophecies, and commanded universal 
attention. Some of her predictions received a remark- 
able fulfilment, especially that which she published itn- 
diatcly after the conclusion of the Peace of Amiens, in 
1801; for she then derided the joy of the nation, and 
gave the solemn assurance that a calamitous scries of 
wars were about to break out, the events of which 
would he more terrible than any on record. At a later 
period, she as solemnly asserted that Napoleon would 
never land in England, and that his power would be 
overthrown. The visions which formed the ground of 
these prophecies are often very striking as dramatic 
pictures, and the rude doggerel of her prophetic chants 
as frequently becomes picturesque, if once the cultivated 
mind can overcome the disgust first excited by their 
uncouthness, and their deficiency in common grammat- 
ical correctness. She began the publication of her pro- 
phetic pamphlets in 1704, and about 1804 was brought 
up to London and lodged at the West End by some of 
her admirers, many of whom were persons of consider- 
ation in society. Soon after this event, an old man 
named Thomas Dowland and a poor boy named Jo- 
seph also had visions, and a paper-manufacturer named 
Carpenter (in whose employment they were) finally 
published many of them. We mention them here, how- 
ever, because this Carpenter, conceiving himself to be 
the “ right man” of Joanna’s prophecies, finally took her 
place as the chief of the sect who followed her, having 
first led the secession when she was believed by the 
more enlightened of her followers to have fallen under 
a delusion. That delusion consisted in the belief that 
she was destined to bring forth Shiloh, or the Messiah, 
and its origin is explained by Carpenter as the result of 
her believing that she was the Church, or bride, itself, 
instead of its shadow or representative. We may here 
mention that previous to its arrival at this idolatrous 
pitch, which it is still painful to contemplate, Joanna 
had occupied a year in “ sealing” her followers, general- 
ly hut most unjustly regarded as a mere trick to make 
money. The old man Dowland expired in 1804, ten 
years after the commencement of his, Joseph’s, and Jo- 
anna’s prophecies, and 1814 was fixed upon by her for 
the birth of Shiloh. She was deceived by appearances, 
and expired on the 27th of December in that year, hav- 
ing previously declared her conviction that “if she was 
deceived, she had, at all events, been the sport of some 
spirit, good or evil.” The whole case, like many others 
of the kind, may be explained by the easily ascertained 
laws of psychology. The appearance which Joanna 
mistook for pregnancy was the result of a diseased con- 
dition, explained when her body was opened. The pre- 
vailing thought of her writings is the redemption of 
man by tin* agency of woman, the supposed cause of his 
fall. Sec Soi tikottians. 

Southcottians, or Soutiicottrrs, the followers 
of Joanna Southcott (q. v.\ who in 171)2 professed to be 
a prophetess. The book in which Joanna published her 
prophecies is dated London, April 25, 1804 ; and she be- 
gins by declaring that she herself did not understand the 
communications given her by the Spirit till they were 
afterwards explained to her. In November, 1803, she 
was told to mark the weather during the twenty-four 
first days of the succeeding year, and then the Spirit 
informed her that the weather each day was typical of 
the events of each succeeding month : New-year’s-day 
to correspond with January, January 2 with February, 
cte. After this she relates a dream she had in 1792, 
and declares she foretold the death of bishop Duller, 
and appeals to a letter put into the hands of a clergy- 


SOUTHGATE 


897 


SOUTH WORTH 


man whom she names. One night she heard a noise as 
if a ball of iron were rolling down the stairs three steps, 
and the Spirit afterwards, she says, told her this was a 
sign of three great evils which were to fall upon the 
land — the sword, the plague, and the famine. She af- 
firms that the then late war and the extraordinary har- 
vest of 1797 and 1800 happened agreeably to the pre- 
dictions which she had previously made known ; and 
particularly appeals to the people of Exeter, where it 
seems she was brought up from her infancy. In No- 
vember, 1803, she says she was ordered to open her Bi- 
ble, which she did at Eecles. i, 9; and then follows a 
long explanation of that chapter. In March, 1805, we 
find Joanna published a pamphlet in London, endeav- 
oring to confute “Five Charges” against her which had 
appeared in the Leeds Mercury ^ and four of which, she 
says, were absolutely false. The first charge was re- 
specting the sealing of her disciples; the second, on 
the invasion; the third, on the famine; the fourth, 
on her mission; the fifth, on her death. Sealing is the 
grand peculiarity and ordinance of 
these people. Joanna gave those 
who professed belief in her mission 
and who subscribed to the things re- 
vealed in her “Warning” a sealed 
written paper with her signature, for 
which they had to pav half a crown, 
and by which they were led to think 
that they were scaled against the day 
Seed. of redemption, and that all those who 

were possessed of these seals would 
be signally honored by the Messiah when he comes 
again. This seal was affixed to most of the voluminous 
waitings which she printed, but the papers given to her 
disciples generally contained the words “The sealed of 
the Lord— The Elect Precious Man’s Redemption — To 
inherit the Tree of Life — To be made heirs of God and 
joint-heirs of Jesus Christ.” It is said they looked 
upon Joanna as the bride, the Lamb’s yvife ; and that 
as man fell by a woman, he will be restored by a wom- 
an. Some of her followers pretended also to have vis- 
ions and revelations. Joanna went so far at last, when 
past sixty years of age, as to declare herself pregnant, 
with another Messiah, who was to be called Shiloh. 
Her followers made costly preparations for the birth of 
their expected prince, and had a cradle constructed at 
an expense of two hundred pounds. The disease by 
which she was deceived terminated in her death; but 
her deluded disciples, after having been compelled to in- 
ter her, persisted in the belief that she was to bear the 
Shiloh, and gave out that she would rise again with the 
child in her arms. The members of her society have 
been gathered chiefly from among the more ignorant 
members of the seceding denominations, especially 7 the 
Wesleyans, with whom she had once been associated, 
and of the Established Church. Mr. Foley 7 , rector of 
Old Swi nford, near Stourbridge, was said to be a firm 
believer in the resurrection of the prophetess; and an- 
other clergyman used to go regularly to expound her 
writings at Bristol. The Southeotters abound princi- 
pally in the northern counties. At Ashton-under-Lyne 
they have a splendid temple, which cost them nine 
thousand pounds. Their yvorship is described as awful- 
ly yvild and tumultuous. The men are known by their 
wearing long beards and brown bats. At present, it 
seems, both yvarning and sealing have subsided; they 
are waiting in awful suspense for the commencement of 
the thousand years’ reign on the earth. Yet it is said 
they do not mean that Christ will come in person, but 
in spirit, and that the sealed yvho are dead before that 
time yvill be raised from their graves to partake of this 
liappv state. See Blunt, Diet, of Sects , s. v, 

Southgate, Richard, an English divine, yvas born 
at Alwaltou, Huntingdonshire, March 16, 1729, and yvas 
educated partly at Uppingham, but chiefly at Peter- 
borough, under Rev. T. Marshall, lie entered St.John’s 
College, Cambridge, in 1745, and took his degree of A.B. 

IX.— L L L 


in 1749. Retiring to his father’s house on account of 
some unpleasant family occurrence, he continued his 
studies; yvas ordained deacon September, 1752, and 
priest September, 1754, bv Dr. Thomas, bishop of Lin- 
coln. In the last year he yvas presented with the rec- 
tory of Woolley, in Huntingdonshire, but resigned it 
when Mr. Peacock, the patron, took orders. On Jan. 2, 
1763, he yveut to London, and became a subetirate of St. 
James’s, and served that cure until 1766. In December, 
1765, be entered upon the curacy of St. Giles’s, which 
he retained throughout his life. He received, May, 1783, 
the small rectory of Little Steeping, in Lincolnshire; 
and the following year was appointed assistant libra- 
rian of the British Museum. In 1790 he was present- 
ed with the living of Warsop, Nottinghamshire, and in 
the same year became a member of the Society for 
Propagating Christian Knowledge; in 1791, a fellow of 
the Society of Antiquaries, and afterwards of the Lin- 
mean Society. He died Jan. 25, 1795. Mr. Southgate 
never committed any of his writings to the press, al- 
though he yvas thoroughly qualified, and did make prep- 
arations for a neyv History of the Saxons and Danes in 
Eat /land. He yy r as a distinguished antiquarian, and left 
a choice and valuable collection of books, coins, medals, 
shells, etc., yvhicli yvere sold at auction. His Sermons 
(1798,2 vols.) yvere published by Dr. Gaskin. See Chal- 
mers, Blog, Diet. s. v. ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. 
A uthors , s. y 7 . 

South-sea Islanders. See Polynesia. 
Southwell, Nathaniel. See SoTyvELL, Na- 
thaniel. 

Southwell, Robert, an English Jesuit, yvas born 
at Horsham, St. Faith’s, Norfolk, in 1560. He was ed- 
ucated at Douai, and became a Jesuit at Rome in Octo- 
ber, 1578. In 1585 he was appointed prefect of the 
English college there, and the next year yvas sent as a 
missionary to England. 11c resided principally yvith 
Anne, countess of Arundel, secretly ministering to the 
scattered Roman Catholics. Apprehended in 1592, he 
yvas imprisoned in the Toyver, and sey r eral times sub- 
jected to torture to make him disclose a plot against 
queen Elizabeth. In February, 1595, he yvas tried at 
the bar of the King’s Bench, Westminster, and executed 
the next day (Feb. 21) at Tyburn. He yvas much re- 
vered among Roman Catholics for his gentleness and 
purity of life, and his name has lately been introduced 
for canonization in the Roman ecclesiastical courts. He 
yvrote, St. Peter's Complaint , yvith other poems (Loud. 
1593, 4to; last edition, yvith sketch of life, b} 7 W. J. 
Walter, 1817): — Supplication to Queen Elizabeth (ibid. 
1593): — Mieonice, or Certain Excellent Poems , etc. (ibid. 
1595, 4to). Ilis chief prose works are, Triumph over 
Death (ibid. 1595): — Epistle of Comfort to those Catho- 
lics who Lie under Restraint (1605, 8vo): — Marie Mag- 
dalen's Funeral Teares (ibid, 1609, 1772; neyv ed. 1823): 
— Rules of a Good Life , etc. Collective editions of his 
yvorks yvere published in 1620, 1630, 1634, 1637, and 1828; 
and a complete edition of his poetical yvorks in 1856, 
See Chalmers, Blog. Diet. s. y 7 . ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, 
and A mer. A uthors , s. v. 

Southworth, Alanson, a Congregational min- 
ister, yvas born at Winthrop, Me., Aug. 16, 1826. He 
studied law at Lowell, Mass., yvas cony r erted in 1853, and 
entered Bangor Theological Seminary, graduating in 
1858. He labored at Otisticld for a year, and yvas or- 
dained at South Paris, Me., in 1859, yvliere his ministry 
of nearly six years yvas y'cry useful. After returning 
from a voyage to Cuba for his health, he entered the 
service of the Christian Commission, and labored yvith 
great assiduity in ministering to the bodies and souls 
of the soldiers in the Army of the Potomac. He re- 
turned to South Paris, and yvas soon stricken doyvn with 
typhoid fever, of yvhicli he died, March 25, 1864. Mr. 
Southworth yvas an earnest, unselfish worker for Christ, 
and endoyved yvith true nobility of soul. In 1863 he 
published a small but valuable book on Universalism. 



SOUTIIWOKTII 


60S 


SPACE 


Two of bis brothers entered the ministry. See Congre- 
gational Quarterly, 1835, p. 2l»5. 

Southworth, Tertius Dunning, a Congrega- 
tional minister, was ln>rn at Koine, N, V., July 25, 1801. 
lie entered Hanover College and pursued his studies, 
only taking a partial course, lie received the degree 
of A.M. from that institution in 1831. lie spent one 
year in Auburn Theological Seminary, and graduated 
at Andover Seminary in 1829. lie commenced his la- 
in. rs in Paris, X. V., where he preached two years. Me 
was ordained at I’tica, N. V., Oct. 7, 1832, and installed 
at Claremont. X. 11., June 18, 1834. Me remained 
t Mere until 1838. While there lie received a call from 
Franklin, Mass., which he accepted, and was installed 
in January, 183'J, in a pulpit made famous by the long 
occupancy of the same by Dr. Kmmons, After remain- 
ing there eleven years the pastorate was dissolved, and 
he was called to take charge of the Church in Lyndon, 
Yt.. where he remained four years, and accepted a call 
to the pastorate of Pleasant Prairie, Kenosha, Wis., in 
March, 18.VJ. 11c remained at this post until 1838, and 

in the following year returned to his home in Bridge- 
waler, X. V. lie was a man of line presence and im- 
pressive delivery. Mis thinking was clear, and his ser- 
mons were logical and pithy. As a successor of Dr. 
Kmmons, it is enough to say he tilled the pulpit to the 
entire satisfaction of the people. Me died at Bridge- 
water Aug. 7, 1871. (W. 1*. JS.) 

Sovereignty of Goi> is his power and right of 
dominion over his creatures, to dispose and determine 
them as seemeth him good. This attribute is evidently 
demonstrated in the systems of creation, providence, 
and grace; and may be considered as absolute, univer- 
sal, and everlasting (Dan. iv, 35; Epli.i, 11). SeeCole,0« 
thr Sttrert it/n/y of (Jodi Clinrnock, On the Dominion of 
(l»tl in hi* Works, i, 390; Kd wards, S( j rmoi}*, ser. 4; 
Mrfh. (Rtar. Rev. Jan. 1855. See Powek of Goo; 
TithnmcY. 

Sow. See Swine. 

Sowan, the first of the four paths an entrance into 
which secures, either immediately or more remotely, the 
attainment of the Buddhist Nirvana (q.v.). The path 
N)wan is divided into twenty-four sections, and after it 
has been entered there can he only seven more births 
bciwoen that period and the attainment of the Nirvana, 
w hich may he in any world but the lour hells. This is 
the second gradation of being.— Gardner, Faiths of the 
World, s. v. 

Sower, Sowing (usually some form of V**,zard, 
fTTrufjto). The operation of sowing with the hand is 
one of so simple a character as to need little description. 
The Egyptian paintings furnish many illustrations of 
the mode in which it was conducted. The sower held 
i Ik* vessel or basket containing the seed in his left hand, 
while with lii.s right he scattered the seed broadcast 
(Wilkinson, ,l//c. Egypt, ii, 12, 18, 39). The “drawing- 
out" of the seed is noticed, as the most characteristic 
action of the sower, in P.sa. cxxvi, 3 (A. V. “precious”) 
mid Amos i\. 13: it is uncertain whether t his expression 
r* firs to draw ing out the handful of seed from the bas- 
ket, or to tin* dispersion of the seed in regular rows over 
the ground (< ieseiiius, Tlasnur. p. H-J7). In some of the 
Egyptian paintings the sower is represented as preced- 
ing the plough: this may be simply the result of had 
perspective, hut we are told that such a practice actu- 
ally prevails in the East in the ease of sandy soils; the 
plough serving the purpose of the harrow for covering 
the sro.l i Kuhn- 11, . 1 A />/»'*, i, 71 ). In wet soils the seed 
was trodden in by the feet of animals (Isa. xxxii, 20), 
as represented in Wilkinson’s . I nr, Egypt, ii, 12. The 
sowing season commenced in October and continued to 
the end of February, wheat being put in before and 
barley afu r the beginning of January (Kussell, Ahppn, 
i. i 1 ). 1 lie Mosaic law prohibited the sowing of mixed 

Kid < Uv. xix, 19;' Dent, xxii, 9): Josephus (.Dtf. iv, 


8, 20) supposes this prohibition to be based on the re- 
pugnancy of nature to intermixture, but there would 
appear to be a further object of a moral character, viz. 
to impress on men’s minds the general lesson of purity. 
The regulation tillered a favorable opportunity for Kab- 
binical refinement, the results of which are embodied in 
the treatise of the Mishna entitled Kilaim , § 1-3. That 
the ancient Hebrews did not consider themselves pro- 
hibited from planting several kinds of seeds in the same 
field appears from Isa. xxviii, 25. A distinction is made 
in Lev. xi, 37, 38, between dry and wet seed, in respect 
to contact with a corpse; the latter, as being more sus- 
ceptible of contamination, would he rendered unclean 
thereby, the former would not. The analogy between 
the germination of seed and the effects of a principle or 
a course of action on (be hitman character for good or 
for evil is frequently noticed in Scripture (l’rov. xi, 18; 
Matt, xiii, 19, 24; 2 Cor. ix, 6; Gal. vi, 7). — Smith. 
See Agriculture. 

Sozomen, Salamanes Uermias, a Greek writer 
of Church history, almost contemporary with Socrates 
as an author, was born at Bethelia, a town of Pales- 
tine. After being liberally educated, he studied law 
at Berytus, in Phoenicia, and then pleaded at the bar 
in Constantinople. Me afterwards applied himself to 
the writing of ecclesiastical history, and drew' up a 
compendium in two books, from the ascension of Christ 
to A.D. 323; but this is lost. Then lie continued his 
history in a more circumstantial manner to A.D. 440; 
and this part is extant in nine books. A comparison 
renders it probable that Sozomen was acquainted with 
the work of Socrates, his own additions and enlarge- 
ments being more important with regard to volume 
than quality, and relating principally to hermits and 
monks. For those recluses he had a high veneration, 
so that he frequently extolled the monastic life in 
hymns. Mis vision saw' only what was extreme and 
imposing, so that he was not able to appreciate the 
more moderate phases of life, and the ordinary conflicts 
between virtue and vice. In point of style he is supe- 
rior to Socrates, as was already seen by Phot ins (h> ri) 
typc'iot i but in every other respect he is infe- 

rior. Attention has often been called to material mis- 
apprehensions in his statements, e. g. by Dupin ( Xou - 
vellr Dibliotheque, iv, 80). An edition of Sozomen, bound 
with Eusebius and Socrates, was published by Yalesius 
in 1359, and often republished. See Dupin, as above; 
Schrdckh, Kirvhengpsch. vol. vii ; Holzhausen, De Eon - 
fibus qnibns Socrates, <Soz., et Theod. usi sunt (Gutting. 
1825); Baur, Epovheu d. lire hi. Gesehiehtschreibung ; 
Herzog, Deal- Encylclop. s. v. ; Smith, Diet, of Or. and 
Rom. Jiiog. s. v. 

Spaadisir, in Norse mythology, is a name of the 
norns, a class of goddesses represented hv the skalds as 
being beneficent and wise, and as employed in directing 
the way of heroes and exalted personages through life, 
and in securing the prosperity of such favorites through 
the means of prudent counsel. — A’ollmer, Worterb. d. 
Mythol. s. v. 

Space (Lat. spat in m) is a term which, taken in its 
most general sense, comprehends whatever is extended, 
and mav he measured by the three dimensions, length, 
breadth, and depth. In this sense it is the same with 
extrusion. Space, in this large signification, is either 
occupied by body or it is not. If it be not, but is void 
of all matter and contains nothing, then it is space in 
i lie strictest meaning of the word. This is the sense in 
which it. is commonly used in English philosophical lan- 
guage, and is the same with what is called a vacuum. 

Very many theories have been held respecting space, 
a few of which arc mentioned below. Zeno of Elea ar- 
gues against the reality of space, and says, “If all that 
exists were in a given space, this space must he in an- 
other space, and so on ad infinitum .” Melissus of Samos 
declares that “there exists no empty space, since such 
a space, if it existed, would be an existing nothing.” 


SPACE 


899 


SPAIN 


The Atomists, on the other hand, held to an empty 
space, arguing (1) that motion requires a vacuum; (2) 
that rarefaction and condensation are impossible with- 
out empty intervals of space; and (3) that organic 
growth depends on the penetration of nutriment into 
the vacant spaces of bodies. Aristotle held that “space 
is limited; the world possesses only a finite extension; 
outside of it is no place. The place of anything,” he de- 
fines, “is the inner surface of the body surrounding it, 
that surface being conceived as fixed and immovable. 
As nothing exists outside of the world except God, who 
is pure thought and not in space, the world naturally 
cannot be in space, i. e. its place cannot be defined.” 
The Stoics believed that “beyond the world exists an 
unlimited void.” According to Epicurus, “space exists 
from eternity, and that in the void spaces between the 
worlds the gods dwell.” Arnobius, the African, asserted 
that God is “ the place and space of all things.” Space, 
as containing all things, was by Philo and others iden- 
tified with the infinite. So the text (Acts xvii, 28) 
which says that “in God we live, and move, and have 
our being” was interpreted to mean that space is an af- 
fection or property of the Deity. Eckhart declares that 
“out of God the creature is a pure nothing; time and 
space, and the plurality which depends on them, are 
nothing in themselves.” According to Campanula 
(1508-1G39), God produced space (as well as ideas, 
angels, etc.) “by mingling in increasing measures non- 
being with his pure being. Space is animate, for it 
dreads a vacuum and craves replenishment.” Newton 
regards space as infinite, the sensorium of the Deity. 
Leibnitz defines space as “the order of possible co-exist- 
ing phenomena.” Locke has attempted to show that 
“ we acquire the idea of space bv sensation, especially 
by the senses of touch ami sight.” In the philosophy 
of Kant, “space and time are mere forms of the sensibili- 
ty, the form of all external phenomena; and as the sen- 
sibility is necessarily anterior in the subject to all real 
intention, it follows that the form of all these phenom- 
ena is in the mind a priori. There can, then, be no 
question about space or extension but in a human or 
subjective point of view. The idea of space has no ob- 
jective validity; it is real only relatively to phenom- 
ena. to things, in so far as they appear to us; it is pure- 
ly ideal in so far as things are taken in themselves and 
considered independently of the forms of sensibility.” 
Herder says that “space and time are empirical concep- 
tions.” Schopenhauer teaches, with Kant, that “space, 
time, etc., have a purely subjective origin, and are only 
valid for phenomena, which are merely subjective rep- 
resentations in consciousness. Space and time have the 
peculiarity that all of their parts stand to each other in 
a relation, w r ith reference to which each of them is de- 
termined and conditioned by another. In space this re- 
lation is termed position, in time it is termed sequence.” 
llerbart holds that extension in space involves a con- 
tradiction. Extension implies prolongation through 
numerous different and distinct parts of space, but by 
such prolongation the one is broken up into the many, 
while yet the one is to be considered as identical with 
the many. Trendelenburg seeks to show that space is 
a product or phase of motion, its immediate external 
manifestation. In the philosophy of Thomas Keid 
(17S5), “space and its relations, with the axioms con- 
cerning its existence and its relations, are known di- 
rectly in connection with the senses of touch and sight, 
but not as objects of these senses.” James Mill thus 
explains infinite space: “We know no infinite line, but 
we know a longer and a longer. ... In the process, then, | 
by which we conceive the increase of a line the idea of 
one portion more is continually associated with the pre- 
ceding length, and to what extent soever it is carried 
the association of one portion more is equally close and 
irresistible. This is what we call the idea of infinite 
extension, and what some people call the necessary 
idea.” According to lord Monboddo, place is space 
occupied by body. It is different from body as that ! 


which contains is different from that which is con- 
tained. Space, then, is place potentially; and when it is 
tilled with body, then it is place actually. See Kraut Ids 
Fleming, Vocabulary of the Philosophical Sciences, s. v. ; 
Ueberweg, l/ist. of Philosophy (see Index). 

Spada, Bernardino, an Italian cardinal, was born 
at Brisighella, in Romagna, April 21, 1594, of an obscure 
family. After studying the humanities with the Jes- 
uits in Home, he applied himself to ecclesiastical juris- 
prudence, in which he acquired considerable reputation. 
He was honored with several dignities by Paul V and 
Gregory XV, and afterwards by Urban VIII, who sent 
him on various commissions to France and Parma, and 
gave him the archbishopric in partibus of Damietta. the 
cardinalate in 1620, and the legation to Bologna in 1027. 
He was a patron of the fine arts, and left some Poems 
and Letters addressed to Mazarin. Spada died in Home, 
Nov. 10, 1601. 

Spada, Fabrizio, nephew of Bernardino, born 
March 18, 1643, was made archbishop of Patras, nuncio 
to Savoy and France, and cardinal in 1075. lie died 
June 15, 1717. 

Spada, Giambattista, brother of Bernardino, 
born at Lucca, Aug. 27, 1597, likewise became an eccle- 
siastic, and was made governor of Kome in 1035, pred- 
dent of the Romagna in 1044, cardinal in 1052, and 
bishop of Rimini and Palestrina. He died in Kome, 
Jan. 23, 1675. 

Spada, Orazio Filippo, brother of Fabrizio, be- 
came bishop of Osimo and papal nuncio to Poland, and 
was made cardinal in 1700. He died June 24, 1724. 

Spafford, William M., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was admitted into the North Ohio 
Conference on trial in 1841. lie labored effectively un- 
til 1865, when he took a supernumerary relation. In 
1808 he became superannuated, and so continued until 
his death, in Effingham County, 111., in 1870. Mr. 
Spafford was a man of brilliant intellect, but of peculiar 
sensitiveness. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1870, 

p. 111. 

Spahr, William E., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Greene County, O., Aug. 
1, 1843, and united with the Church at fourteen years 
of age. He received a license to preach in 1801, and in 
the fall of 1803 entered the Cincinnati Conference. He 
was ordained deacon in 1805, but consumption had 
seized upon him, and he died Nov. 30. He was hum- 
ble, modest, teachable, and kind. See Minutes of An- 
nual Conferences, 1806, p. 150. 

Spain (27rttW«, Rom. xv, 24, 28 ; T<r7r«i'/a. 1 Macc. 
viii, 3 ; Vulg. flispunia). This name was anciently ap- 
plied to the whole peninsula which now comprises Spain 
and Portugal (Cellar. Sot it. i, 51 sq.). The early his- 
tory of Spain is enveloped in great obscurity. The 
natives were called Iberians, the country Iberia, ami 
one of the chief rivers the Iberns (the Ebro); and 
William von Humboldt has shown that the Iberian 
language was the same in every part of the country, 
and that it exists with certain modifications in the 
modern Basque. The Carthaginians, during the flour- 
ishing times of their republic, established many settle- 
ments upon the Spanish coast, such as Carthago (now 
Cartagena), and Malacca, the royal city (now Malaga). 
Gades (now Cadiz) was a Phoenician settlement, prob- 
ably coeval with Carthage itself, was never subject to 
Carthaginian ride, and during the Punic war embraced 
the side of the Romans. Under the management of 
llamilcar Barcas ami Hannibal, a considerable part of 
Spain became a Carthaginian colony. It gradually 
passed under the power of the Romans, and in the apos- 
tolic period formed no inconsiderable portion of the 
Roman empire. See Smith, Diet, of Geoy. s. v. “ Ilis- 
pania.” 

The Hebrews were acquainted with the position and 
I the mineral wealth of Spain from the time of Solomon, 


SPA IX 


000 


SPAIN 


whose alliance with the Plnvnicians enlarged the circle 
of their geographical knowledge m a very great extent. 
Nei* !' \iNiisii. The local designation. Tnrshish, repre- 
senting the J'tirtt'.'t.iHS of the Greeks, probably prevailed 
until the fame of the liotnan wars in that country 
reached the Hast, when it was superseded by its clas- 
sical name, which is traced back by Hochart to the 
Shemitic tsaphdn, “ rabbit," and by Humboldt to the 
lhiMpir HzpaiUi. descriptive of its position on the eih/e 
of the continent of Europe. 'l‘!je Latin form of this 
name is represented by the above passages which con- 
tain all the liihlical notices of Spain : in the former the 
conquests of the Womans are described in somewhat 
exaggerated terms; for though the Carthaginians were 
exjwiled as early as 1U\ 20fi, the native tribes were not 
finally subdued until 1 5.0. 'Jo, and not until then could 
it be said with truth that “they had conquered all the 
place" (1 Maec. viii, -1). It seems clear from Worn, xv, 
21, 28, that Paul formed the design of proceeding to 
preach the Gospel in Spain, That he ever executed 
this intention is necessarily denied bv those who hold 
that the apostle sustained hut one imprisonment at 
Pome — namely, that in which the Acts of the Apostles 
leave him; and even those who hold that he was re- 
leased from this imprisonment can only conjecture that 
in the interval between it and the second he fulfilled 
hi-> intention. There is, in fact, during the three first 
centuries no evidence on the subject beyond a vague 
intimation by Clement, which is open to dilferent ex- 
planations; and later traditions are of small value. See 
P.u i, The mere intention, however, implies two inter- 
Csting facts, viz. the establishment of a Christian com- 
munity in that country, and this by mentis of Helle- 
nistic .lews resident there. We have no direct testi- 
mony to either of these facts; but as the Jews had 
spread along the shores of the Mediterranean as far as 
Pyrene in Africa and Pome in Europe (Acts ii, 10). 
there would be no ditlicuity in assuming that they 
were also found in the commercial cities of the eastern 
coast of Spain. The early introduction of Christianity 
into that country is attested by Ircnanis (i, 3) and Ter- 
tiilli.in (.h/r. Jtul. 7). An inscription, purporting to re- 
cord a persecution of the Spanish Christians in the 
reign of Nero is probably a forgery (Cieseler, Church 
Hist. i. H-_>, note o). 

SPAIN. In ancient times what is now the king- 
dom of Spain was called Jheritt. Its Latin name was 
Hiiptmvi , which, changed into Spanish, became Kspufui. 
With Portugal, it forms what is called the Pyrentvan 
PciiitiMiln. the whole constituting the most southerly 
and a ho the most westerly part of Europe. The aver- 
age breadth of the whole peninsula is not far from 480 
miles, and its length fil)0 miles, with an area of nearly 
220,1 NN) square miles. The area of Spain, which occu- 
pies by far the greater part of the Pyrenseau Peninsula, 
h a little more than 1*1,000 square miles. It is bound- 
ed on the north by the Pay of Piseay and the Pyre- 
nees, on the east by the Mediterranean Sea, on the 
Ninth by the Mediterranean, the Straits of Gibraltar, 
and the Atlantic Ocean, nod on the west, its south- 
westerly section by Portugal, and its north-westerly 
section by the Atlantic Ocean. 

1. Physical Aspect. Spain lias an extended coast- 
line, it being not far from I 1 00 miles in length, of 
\Oiich <<(> miles belong to the Mediterranean mid G00 
miles to the Pay of Piseay mid the Atlantic. A part 
of thP coast-line is moiniiaiimiLH, ami a part of it, espe- 
cially to the south-west, is low and swampy, until it 
renclien the extreme south, when it rises suddenly to 
the well-known Pock of Gibraltar. Another noticeable 
feature in the physical aspect of the country is its 
mountain system. Geographers lay down live dis- 
tinct mountain belts, which are subdivided into minor 
ranges. 1 liesc are the Pyrenees, which separate Spain 
from franco, the Sierra de Giindarrnmn, the mountains 
of loledo, the Sierra Morelia, and the Sierra Nevada. 
Among the highest of these mountains arc the (Jerry 


de Mulahacen, 11,055 feet; Mount Net lion, 11,427 feet; 
Vignemale, 10,1180 feet; Peak of Oo, 9730; and the 
Puerto del Pi eo, 8000. The river system of Spain em- 
braces many deep and rapidly flowing streams. Among 
the largest of these are the Ebro, which flows east and 
empties into the Mediterranean, and the Duuro, the 
Tagus, the Guadiana, and the Guadalquivir; the first 
two flowing nearly west and the last two south-west, 
and emptying into the Atlantic. Some of the smaller 
rivers are the Minim, the Guadalaviar, ami the Xucar. 
So long a coast-line as that ofSpain furnishes, as might be 
supposed, many commodious bays and harbors. Among 
those on the east are Pareeloua, Tarragona, Valencia, 
Alicante, and Cartagena; on t lie north are Santander 
and Bilbao. The physical features of Spain to which 
allusion has been made give to this country marked 
variety in climate and soil and vegetable productions. 
The northern section of the kingdom is mountainous 
and hilly, and the character of the climate is such as 
to invite the labors of l lie husbandman. Accordingly 
this section of Spain has been givtn up largely to ag- 
riculture. The middle section is not so well situated. 
The absence of rains is followed by sterility and unpro- 
ductiveness of the soil. There are great extrums of 
temperature, the summers being very hot and the win- 
ters very cold, while the springs and autumns are pleas- 
ant. Passing to the southern section, we find ourselves 
in a country having the characteristics of a tropical 
region. The winds from Africa blow upon it, and the 
effect of the hot rays of the sun reflected from the lofty 
mountain-walls is very marked. And yet, as a whole, 
Southern Spain is exceedingly fertile. Frosts are not 
knowui in Andalusia. Snow seldom falls, and when it 
does melts at once. Such is the character of the cli- 
mate and soil of the country that Spain ranks among 
the most fruitful of all the countries of Europe. Ev- 
ery kind of cereal can be grown in some part of the 
kingdom, and the fruits of the most northern part of 
the temperate zone and of the most southern part of 
the tropical regions arc raised there. The cultivation 
of the vine has been carried to a high state of perfec- 
tion, and the Spanish vines are reckoned among the 
finest in the world. Perhaps the most noted of these 
are the Xercs, or sherry, and the Malaga. 

11. Political Divisions . — We give these as they were 
a year or two ago. no essential changes having occurred 
since, with the population as shown by the census ofl870. 


Provinces. 

Area in 
Sq. Miles. 

Population. 

Sew Castile . 

Marl rid 

2,097 

4$7,4S2 
342,272 
20$. 038 
23$, 731 

Toledo 

5,586 

Guadalajara 

Cuenca 

4,809 

0.720 

Total 

‘20,178 

1,277.123 

La Mancha 

7, $40 

204,049 1 



Old Castile. 

Hiirgos 

5,051 

1,045 

2,113 

2f3,£G0 

Logroflo 

Santander 

ls‘2,941 ; 
241,581 

Soria 

Segovia 

Avila 

3,830 

2,714 

2,082 

158,099 

150,812 

175,219 

Palenchi 

3,2 10 

1*4,008 

242,384 

Valladolid 

3,043 

Total 

25,500 

1,589,804 


Leon. 

Leon : 

0,107 

4,135 

4,940 

350,092 

250.098 

280.870 

Zamora 

Salamanca 


Total 

15,242 

881,000 

A st arias. 

Oviedo 

4,091 

010, 8S3 


Galicia. 

Corunna 

3,079 

3,787 

030.504 

475,830 

l’ontevedra 

2,73!) 

1,739 

402,790 1 
480,145 | 

Total 

11,344 

1,989,281 | 


SPAIN 


901 


SPAIN 


Provinces. 

Area in 
Sq. Miles. 

Population. 

Extremadura. 



Badajos 

8,G8S 

431,922 

C ace res 

$,ol4 

302,455 

Total 

16,702 

734,377 

Andalusia. 



Seville 

5,295 

515.011 

Cadiz 

2,809 

426,499 

Huelva 

4,122 

196,469 

Cordova 

5,190 

382,652 

Jaen 

5,184 

392,100 

Granada 

4,937 

485,346 

Almeria 

3,302 

361,553 

Malaga 

2,824 

505.010 

Total 

33,663 

3,264,640 

Murcia. 



Murcia 

4,478 

439,067 

Albacete 

5,972 

220,973 

Total 

10,450 

660.040 

Valencia. 



Valencia 

4,352 

665,141 

Alicante 

2,098 

440.470 

Castellon 

2,447 

296,222 

Total 

8,807 

1,401,833 

Catalonia. 



Barcelona 

2,985 

762,555 

Tarragona 

2,451 

350,395 

Lerida 

4,775 

330,385 

Gerona 

2,272 

325,110 

Total 

12,4S3 

1,768,445 

A rayon. 


401.S94 

Saragossa 

6,607 

Iluesca 

5,S7S 

274,623 

Teruel 

5,494 

852,201 

Total 

17,979 

1,528,718 

Navarre 

4,046 

318, 6S7 

Basque Provinces. 



Biscay 

849 

187,926 

Gnipuzcoa 

728 

180,743 

Alava 

1,205 

103,320 

Total 

2.782 

471,989 

Balearic Islands 

1,860 

2S9,225 

Canary Islands 

2.S08 

2S3,S59 

Total of Spaiu iu Europe and ) 
Canaries j 

195,865 

17,335,273 


We add to the above the area and population of the 
Spanish colonies as follows : 


Colonies in America. 

CJnhn. * 

45,S83 
3,596 
_ 49,479~ 

1,400,000 

625,000 

Porto Rico 

Total 

1 2,025,00<T 

A sia and Oceanica. 



Philippines (exclusive of inde-) 
pendent parts) / 

65, 90S 

6,000,000 

Carolines and Palaos 

916 

2S,000 

Ladrones, or Marianas 

417 

5,610 

Total 

67,241 

6,033,610 

Africa. 



The Guinea Islands 

489 

35,000 

Total Spauish colonies 

117,209 

8,093,610 


III. History . — We divide the history of Spain into 
three periods: first, from the earliest traditions respect- 
ing its settlement down to A.l). 427, when it fell into 
the hands of the Goths; seeond, from A.l). 427 to the 
latter part of the 15th century, bringing us to the reign 
of Ferdinand and Isabella; third, from this latter period 
to the present time. 

1. There are some traditions which refer the early set- 
tlement of Spain to t he grandson of Noah, Tubal, who 
was said to have conducted colonies thither from the 
East. Little confidence, however, can he placed in these 
traditions. The Iberians are the earliest inhabitants 
of whom we have any trustworthy account. At what 
time the Celts migrated to this section of Europe, and 
precisely from what region they came, is matter of un- 
settled dispute. The Phoenicians, whose colonies were 
found in so many places, established themselves at au 


early period on the coasts of Spain, founding such places 
as Tartesus (the Tarsi fish of the Bible) and Gades. now 
Cadiz. Next came the Carthaginians, who succeeded 
in gradually subduing no small part of Andalusia, and 
brought it under subjection to Carthage, B.C. 238. Then 
followed the conquest of Spain by the Roman arms, two 
centuries being occupied in almost continual fighting. 
The Punic wars are among the most celebrated in his- 
tory — wars which always more or less alfected the 
fortunes of Spain, because of the intimate connection 
which that country held with Carthage, the rival and 
foe of Rome. Upon its subjugation the name by which 
the country had been known, Iberia, was changed to 
Hispania ; and the whole region, brought under the 
Roman power, was divided by the river Ebro into two 
sections, the one called Citerior and the other Ulterior. 
These two sections Augustus formed into three, giving 
them the names of Bietiea, Lusitania, and Tarraco, the 
second of these divisions corresponding in large part with 
what is now Portugal. The Roman emperor, with a 
wise policy, removed the cohorts of the army, composed 
mostly of natives of the country, to other and more dis- 
tant sections of the empire, substituting for them the im- 
perial legions, and in this way Romanizing the country 
which he had brought under his subjection. The end 
aimed at was at length in great measure secured, and 
Hispania, or Spain, became very largely Roman in spirit 
and manners, and perhaps the wealthiest and the most 
productive of all the provinces annexed to the empire. 
Gibbon, quoting from Strabo and Pliny, after alluding 
to the circumstance that almost “ every part of the soil 
was found pregnant with copper, silver, and gold,” says 
that “mention is made of a mine near Cartagena 
which yielded every day twenty-five thousand drachms 
of silver, or about three hundred thousand pounds a 
year. Twenty thousand pounds’ weight of gold was an- 
nually received from the provinces of Asturia, Galicia, 
and Lusitania.” On the whole, general prosperity at- 
tended the administration of affairs under the emperors 
down to the death of Constantine, A.D. 337. Some- 
what more than a half century passed away when the 
vast hordes of Northern barbarians, who brought such 
desolation to the Roman empire, had made no incon- 
siderable progress in their attacks upon their more civ- 
ilized neighbors of the South. Spain fell before their 
victorious onsets. The Vandals, the Suevi, and other 
Germanic tribes so wasted the country that many parts 
of it became almost literally a desert. After the con- 
querors had somewhat restored the desolated region, 
there eame another fierce tribe, the Goths, who under 
Wallia wrested it from their hands. The tribes which 
for so many years had held sway over the land were in 
part subjugated and in part destroyed or exiled from the 
country, and the Goths remained masters of nearly the 
whole of Spain (427). 

2. We date the commencement of the second period 
of the history of Spain at A.l). 427, when, as we have seen, 
the Goths were in possession of the country. But that 
possession was never an undisturbed one. The subju- 
gated Suevi called to their aid the Romans, and suc- 
ceeded in recovering a part of the territory they had 
lost. “The peninsula, having become one great battle- 
field to three contending hosts — the Goths, the Romans, 
and the Suevi — was plunged into the most abject misery, 
and, from the Pyrenees to the Sea of Africa, was over- 
spread with innumerable swarms, which, like so many 
locusts, utterly destroyed the spots on which they set- 
tled.” The names of the Gothic kings which stand out 
in special prominence during the next century or two are 
Euric, who ascended the throne in A.l). 4(16, and was 
really the founder of the Gothic kingdom in Spain and 
its first legislator ; Amalaric, the grandson of Euric, 
A.D. 522, the first king who set up anything like a 
court iu Spain; Recared I, A.D. 587, who induced the 
Goths, who had been Arians, to adopt the Catholic faith ; 
Wamba, A.D. 673, who, anticipating t he inroads of the 
Saracens into Spain, built a fleet to guard the coasts 


002 


SPAIN 


SPAIN 


against their attacks; and lloderic, who came into pos- 
M>*>ion «>t* i lie throne in A. I). G*0. A party was formed 
against him which called to its assistance the Arabs 
dwelling on the north coast of Africa, in Mauritania, 
and hence called Moors — a name so memorable in sub- 
sequent Spanish history. A battle, waged for three 
days and accompanied with fearful slaughter on both 
sides, wa> fought on (lie plains of .lores de la Frontera 
in July. 711. and the linihs were defeated. Other vic- 
tories of the Moors in a tew years brought the whole 
of Spain, with the exception of some mountain fast- 
no'*-es, under the dominion of the Moors. The story 
of Moorish ascendency in Spain is too long to rehearse 
in this place. There were periods of great prosperity 
under t lie rule of the Moors. So celebrated became 
some of their institutions of learning that they were re- 
sorted to by Ghristiau scholars from all parts of civilized 
Europe. Gradually the Christians of Spain, who, un- 
der the general subjugation of the country, had fled 
to its hill* and mountains, grew more courageous, and 
were able not only to stand on the defensive, but even to 
attack the common foe. Three confederated provinces — 
Navarre, Castile, and Leon— took up arms against the 
toe, and nearly succeeded in gaining a victory over the 
Moors in 1001. A check was given to their hitherto 
successful career from which they never fully recovered; 
and henceforth there was very distinctly a Christian 
Spain in t lie more northerly sections of the country, 
and a Mohammedan Spain in the more southerly sec- 
tions, which were continually at war with each other. 
Neither side was seldom in perfect accord within its 
own domains. Petty rivalries existed among both the 
Christian and the Moorish princes, which prevented 
long-continued success on the side of either party. At 
la-t, the Christian princes succeeded in laying aside for 
a time their petty animosities, and formed a league 
combining all their forces. A sanguinary battle was 
fought in A.I). 1*212 on the plains ofTolosa. in the Sier- 
ra Morcna, in which the Moors were defeated. During 
the next half-century the conquest of the Moors went 
on. Their territorial limits continually grew more re- 
stricted, until there was left to them little besides the 
kingdom of Granada. At length, in t lie year 1482, in 
tin- reign of Ferdinand and Isabella, the last sovereign 
of Granada, lloabdil, was defeated, and the empire of 
the Moors in Spain, after an existence of nearly eight 
centuries, came to an end. 

•h ' 'or survey of the history of Spain from the over- 
throw of the Moors, in the reign of Ferdinand and lsa- 
Inlla, down to the present time must necessarily be 
rapid. The condition of the conquered race was made 
exceedingly wretched, worse even, as it would seem, 
than was that of the Christians while under the Sara- 
cenic authority. It has justly been remarked by Iiob- 
ortsoii, the historian, that ** the followers of Mohammed 
are the only enthusiasts who have united the spirit of 
toleration with zeal for making proselytes, and who, at 
riie wiine time that they took arms to propagate the 
doeirine of their prophet, permitted such ns would not. 
embrace it to adhere to their own tenets and to practice 
tin ir own rites.” As a consequence of the persecutions 
whirli they suffered at the hands of the Spaniards, the 
M' M, rs abandoned the country in which for so many 
hundreds of years they had lived, and to the possession 
of which their natural right was just as good as that 
°f 'be Spaniards. It is estimated that from the reign 
of Ferdinand of Castile Lo that of Philip III more than 
time millions of these people left their native land, 
carrying with them not only a great part of their ac- 
quiretl wealth, hut that industry and love of labor which 
arc the foundation of national prosperity. Another 
1 tinl blow to the prosperity of Spain was the expulsion 
ot the Jews, w ho directed the commerce of the country, 
and In Id in their hands so large a part of its movable 
projK-rty in the torm of tier precious metals and of 
coil I v j, w e|s. 

I he great events which occurred under the reign of 


Ferdinand and Isabella are too familiar to need a special 
recital, and we may pass on to the times of Charles V 
(the title by which he is best known), being Charles I 
of Spain, the grandson of Isabella. During his long 
reign of forty years Spain reached the highest point 
of her prosperity. What she accomplished on both 
sides of the Atlantic, how the Spanish arms were every- 
where victorious in Europe, how the proud Francis I 
of France and the Protestant princes of Germany were 
humbled, and the onsets of the barbarous Turks were 
repelled, and bow Charles V saw himself standing tirst 
among the sovereigns of Europe' — all these things are 
well known to readers of history. Philip II succeeded 
his father, Charles V. The great aim of his adminis- 
tration was the extirpation of heresy and the complete 
establishment of the Homan Catholic faith. The proc- 
ess of decay in Spain commenced under his reign. The 
immense riches which flowed into the country from the 
Spanish possessions in America proved a curse instead 
of a blessing. The people became luxurious, indo- 
lent. and effeminate, so that when Philip II, who, with 
all the glaring faults of his character, was an enetgetic 
monarch, died, and the sceptre came into the hands of 
his successor, Philip III, a weak and unenterprising 
prince, Spain rapidly fell from its high estate. The 
destruction or expulsion of hundreds of thousands of 
Moriscos, descendants of the Moors, brought about the 
same state of things in Spain which the destruction and 
expulsion of the Huguenots had produced in France. 
Some of the most profitable of the industrial arts almost 
ceased to be practiced. Large sections of the country 
were so completely depopulated that tliev have been 
but little better than barren wastes ever since. Under 
succeeding monarchs the decline in the fortunes of un- 
happy Spain continued. The falling-off in the popula- 
tion was so great that in thirty-two years, from 1GG8 
to 1700, it had gone down from eleven millions to eight 
millions. With the accession to the throne of Philip 
of Anjou, a Bourbon prince, who was king of Spain 
under the title of Philip V, a better day seemed to dawn 
on Spain, not because her own sons took the lead in 
civil affairs, but because they were guided by the more 
skilful hands of French statesmen. But the claim of 
Philip to the throne was resisted by Germany, England, 
and Holland; and the War of the Spanish Succession,” 
continued on for thirteen years, was the result of the 
controversy. Although Philip retained his throne, yet 
he came out of the contest stripped of no small part 
of the territories which had once belonged to Spain. 
Coming down to the times of Charles III (1759-88), 
we tind an improved state of things, at least so far as 
the internal affairs of the kingdom were concerned. 
Externally, however, constant humiliation attended the 
military movements of Spain. Both on the land and 
the sea defeat was the rule, victory the exception. In 
1797 occurred the defeat of the Spanish fleet near Cape 
St. Vincent, and the almost complete annihilation of 
the combined fleets of France and Spain by Lord Nel- 
son at Trafalgar, Oct. 21, 1805. A few years later we 
tind Napoleon setting aside the claims of all aspirants 
to royal authority in Spain, and placing his brother 
Joseph on the throne. Insurrection everywhere fol- 
lowed what was considered a high-handed outrage. 
A treaty of alliance was formed with England, which 
recognised Ferdinand VII as lawful monarch of Spain. 
Fortune, for a time, everywhere favored the French 
arms. 'The two victories of Wellington, however — that 
at Victoria, June 21, 1813, anil at Toulouse, April 10, 
1K| 4 — turned the scale, and Spain was once more free. 
But for years everything was in a most unsettled con- 
dition, Liberal opinions gradually gained a foothold 
among the people. Attempts were made to bring about 
radical reforms. At times success seemed to crown 
these efforts, hut soon the order of things would lie re- 
versed. Absolutism and despotism would crush out all 
progress, and the liberal party he thrown again into 
the shade. Such has been the state of things the last 


SPAIX 


903 


SPAIX 


half-century. The story of the reign of queen Isabella 
11 is full of interest, but it is too long to relate in a 
brief article like this. It must suffice to say that from 
the time when she was declared to be of age, Nov. 8, 
1843, down to her flight to France, on the defeat of the 
royal army at Alcala, Sept. 28, 18(58, her life and fort- 
unes were of a singularly checkered character. The 
departure of Isabella led to the formation of a provincial 
government, which in a year or two was followed by 
the accession to the throne of king Amadeus, the sec- 
ond son of Victor Emmanuel of Italy, who accepted the 
crown Dec. 4, 1870. It was an uncomfortable position 
in which the new king found himself, and he resigned 
it Feb. 11, 1873. The attempt to establish a repub- 
lic (the most distinguished leader in which movement 
was Don Emilio Castelar), the efforts put forth by Don 
Carlos to obtain the throne, and the failure of both re- 
publicans and royalists to accomplish their purposes 
bring us down almost to our own times. Alfonso, the 
son of Isabella 11, was proclaimed king Jan. 9, 1875, 
and is now apparently in permanent possession of the 
crown. But in a kingdom whose history for so many 
centuries has been a history of change and revolution 
there can be but little stability ; and he must be a wise 
man who can with certainty predict what will be the 
condition of things in Spain a year hence. 

IV. Religion . — When the Christian religion was in- 
troduced into Spain is not a settled question with ec- 
clesiastical historians. Paul, writing from (yorintli to 
the disciples in Pome, alludes to a journey which he 
proposes to take into Spain, blit whether he went or 
not is not known. One of t he fathers, Theodoret, says 
that after Paul was released from his captivity — when 
lie had been tried at the bar of Nero and acquitted- — he 
went to Spain, and there spent two years. In Cony- 
beare and Howson’s Life and Epistles of St. Paul, the 
authorities on the subject are given (ii, 437-439), and the 
conclusion is reached that the apostle went to Spain 
and there preached the Gospel. Tradition also asserts 
that James the elder went to Spain as a herald of the 
Gospel. If we come down to the times of t he persecu- 
tions by the Homan emperors, we shall find abundant 
evidence that all along during those ages of trial 
through which Christianity passed martyrs to the faith 
were found in Spain as well as in other parts of the 
Roman empire. The conversion of Constantine the 
Great was followed everywhere throughout the coun- 
tries which had been brought into subjection to the 
lioman arms by the widest toleration of the faith 
which he had embraced. And when, subsequently, the 
Goths obtained possession of Spain, we find that as, in 
the lapse of time, the affairs of the kingdom became 
settled, the jurisdiction of the monarch extended to the 
nomination of bishops, and that he presided, if he wished, 
at ecclesiastical tribunals, convoked national councils, 
and regulated the discipline of the Church. In due 
time the supremacy of the pope came to be acknowl- 
edged, and the peculiarities of the episcopal form of 
Church government were generally carried out. There 
were metropolitan sees, the heads of which held juris- 
diction over their subordinates; while these subordi- 
nates, in turn, exercised authority over the lower grades 
of the ministry. It is said that the cathedrals and 
parish churches were in general well endowed, lay pat- 
ronage excited, and monasteries introduced. 

The conquest of Spain by the Moors introduced a 
new state of things into the country. The Moors were 
Mohammedans; but, as has already been stated, they 
were inclined to be tolerant so long as the Christians 
conducted themselves in an orderly manner and did not 
oppose or revile the religious faith of their conquerors. 
'I' here were not wanting cases of persons who, because 
they could not do otherwise, in the exercise of their 
conscientious convictions, than attempt to make con- 
vert from Mohammedanism, or in some way show 
their contempt for the religion of the Moors, suffered 
martyrdom. A candid review, however, of the whole 


history of Spain during the eight hundred years nearly 
that the Saracens held sway over that country must 
convince us that the sufferings which the Christians en- 
dured during this very long period bore no comparison 
to those which the Moors endured in the comparatively 
short period that Philip II was on the throne. 

Upon the expulsion of the Moors from Spain, the 
whole country may be said to have come under the 
jurisdiction of the pope of Pome, and to have become 
as intensely Poman Catholic as any country in Europe, 
not excepting Italy itself. Previous to the year 1868 
no other religion was recognised by law, and to at- 
tempt to introduce any one of the forms of the Protes- 
tant faith was an indictable offence. This is not the 
place to speak at large of t lie persecutions which the 
Romish Church for ages carried on against heretics ami 
infidels, of the establishment and atrocities of the In- 
quisition — first introduced by St. Dominic to * £ inquire” 
after the condition of the Jews and Moors who became 
Christians — or of the acts of the Jesuits in Spain. It 
is more pleasant to speak of the dawn of what, it is to 
be hoped, will prove to be a brighter day in respect to 
religious toleration. Although Protestauism has gained 
but the smallest foothold, comparatively, in the king- 
dom, and its followers are still subject to many disabil- 
ities, it is matter for congratulation that the right of 
private judgment in matters of religion is, in form at 
least, recognised, and the hope may reasonably be cher- 
ished that persecution on account of one’s religious faith 
will not again be sanctioned by law. 

V. The authorities to which the general reader is 
referred on matters relating to the history, etc., of Spain 
are very numerous. Among English and American 
writers are Gibbon, Robertson, Hallam, Prescott. Irving, 
and Tick nor, whose Spanish Literature (N. Y. 1854) 
holds a place acknowledged even by Spanish writers 
to be second to the production of no other author. 
Sketches of the history of the introduction and progress 
of Christianity in Spain may be found in all ecclesias- 
tical historians. Likewise all writers of French and 
English histories treat largely of matters connected 
with Spanish history, because of the intimate connec- 
tion which these three countries have sustained to each 
other. The article in the Encyclopiediu Bntanmca 
gives a good account of the history of Spain. See also 
the following: Hurtado de Mendoza, Guerra de Gra- 
nada , que hizo el Rei 1). Felipe 11 contra los Morisots 
de aquel Reino sus Reheldos (Valencia, 1776, sm. 4to, 
new ed.); History of Spain, from the Establishment of 
the Colony of Gades by the Phoenicians to the Death of 
Ferdinand, sumamed the Sage, by the .4 nth or of the His- 
tory of France (Loud. 1793), vol. i-iii, map; Beawes, 
Civil, Commercial, Political, and Literary History of 
Spain and Portugal (ibid. 1793, 2 vols. tbl.); Murphy, 
The History of the Mohammedan Empire in Spain, con- 
taining a General History of the A rabs, their Institu- 
tions, Conquests, Literature, Arts, Sciences, and Man- 
ners, to the Expulsion of the Moors, designed as an Intro- 
duction to the A rabian Antiquities of Spain; Power, The 
History of the Empire of the Mussulmans in Spain and 
Portugal, from the First Invasion of the Moors to their 
Ultimate Expulsion from the Peninsula (Loud. 1815, 
8vo); Dunham, History of Spain and Portugal (ibid. 
1832-33, 5 vols. I2mo), Vianlot, Essai sur VHistoire 
des A rabes ft des Mores d'Espagne (Paris, 1833-34. 3 
vols. 8vo); Mahon [Lord], History of the War of the 
Succession in Spain (2d ed. Loud. 1836); Ahmed Ben 
Jusof Teifacite, The History of the Mohammedan Dy- 
nasty in Spain, transl. bv Pascal de Gavangos (ibid. 
1840,4 vols. 4to); Londonderry [Marquis of]. Story of 
the Peninsular IFttr (new ed. revised, with considerable 
additions, N. Y. 1848, I2mo); Southey, The Chronicle of 
the Cid, from t lie Spanish (Loud. 1840, 8 vo); Ferreras, 
Ilistoire Generate d'Espagne, transl. from the Spanish 
bv M. d'llcrmillv (Amsterdam, 1851, 10 vols. 4tu). (J. 

C. S.) 

Spain, IIaktweix, a minister of the Methodist 


4 


SPA L ATI X 


904 


SPALDING 


Episcopal Church, South, was horn in Wake County. ' 
N.C., Feb. in, 1795, lie was converted in August, 1811), 
lieetwd to preach ill November, 1*1G, and admitted 
into the South Carolina Conference in I>eccmber. In 
!>•_* i he was made a superannuate, locating the follow- 
ing venr. fn 182* he was rcadmitteil ; in 1*37 was 
again superannuated ; in 1*3* was made presiding elder 
of the Columbia District; in 1*41 was superannuated, 
and continued iti this relation during his life, lie was 
a delegate to the General Conference of 1*32, and re- 
serve in is.}*, I MO, and 1*19. He died, March 9, 1*GS, 
in Clarendon, S. (’. See Minute* nf Annual Conferences 
of the M. A\ ( 'h.. South. I*t>*. p. 212. 

Spalatin, Gi-.om;, the friend of Luther and chap- 
lain of the elector Frederick the Wise of Saxony, a 
leading Reformer and judicious superintendent of the 
churches, was horn A.l>. 1-1*1 at Spalt, in the diocese 
<4 Eiclistiidt, whence was derived the name Spalatin, 
his real name being Burkhardt. lie attained his bac- 
calaureate at Erfurt in 1000, and from 1501 was a fel- 
low-'otudcni with Luther. In 1502 he was made master 
at Wittenberg, but soon returned to Erfurt, where he 
became tutor (15<>5) in a patrician family, and first 
learned to know the Bible, a copy of which he pur- 
chased at great cost, lie was ordained priest in 1507, 
and stationed in the parish of llohenkirchcn, near ( io- 
tha: and a year later was called to assume, in addition 
to his parochial duties, the functions of teacher in the 
neighboring convent of Georgenthal. His reputation 
bad, however, already extended beyond the narrow lim- 
its of the Held of labor to which lie was assigned; and 
he was called to the electoral court in 1509 to assume 
charge of the education of the young crown-prince, John 
Frederick. Two years later he exchanged his place at 
court for the post of tutor to ( )tto and Ernest of Bruns- 
wick- Etlneburg, the elector's nephews, who were then 
students at Wittenberg; and at the same time he was 
apiw/inted by his patron canon of St. George’s in Alten- 
burg. From this period dates the intimate friendship 
between Luther and Spalatin and between Spalatin and 
other Reformers. e. g. Melancthon. Justus Jonas, Link, 
Bugeubagen. Amsdorf, etc. His relations with the elec- 
tor likewise became more intimate, so that his advice 
and nv-istance were sought when the latter founded the 
Church of All-Saints at Wittenberg, and the university 
library (1512), and lie was made librarian. In 15M 
Spalatin was appointed chaplain and private secretary 
to the elector, and immediately became one of the most 
intlucniial personages of the electoral court. He placed 
biniH-lf ami bis inlluenee unreservedly at the service of 
the Reformation. and became t lie medium through which 
Luther wan wont to intluenee the elector. Home recog- 
nised his power, and every important measure of the 
time showed traces of his shaping hand. He has been 
charged with timidity ami an excessive fondness for 
peace; but all bis actions show that be was possessed of 
a noble and upright character, and governed wholly bv 
indexible and fervent religions principle. Both as a 
man of a flairs and as n literary character lie established 
for hi illicit an unequivocal reputation among his con- 
tem|K*rnries. In t 1m* former capacity he accompanied 
his patron (<> the Diet of Augsburg in 151*, to the elec- 
tion of emperor in 1519, the coronation of Charles V in 
l •’*-'*» the Diet of Worms ill 1521, the Diet of Nurein- 
U rg in 1523 and 1521, conducting the electoral corre- 
s|Mii»denre and participating in the progress of events 
eitlu r directly »>r by means of counsel and inlluenee, 
hi literature his attention was fixed principally on his* 
torii-al studies, particularly on tin* history of Germany; 
and lie wrote, 1‘hri*tHrht lltligions~/Himb /, or Hfligions- 
ftirhtu, hegil uillg in 151* f subsequently published |>y 
( \ primi under (be title AV formations-. I nnuhn) y besides 
undertaking the collection of materials for the history 
of the popes, emperors, and dukes, and electors of Sax- 
"n\, so <|,at he became known as (be “ Saxon bistoriog- 
ra dur. ’ On 1 he death of the elector Frederick, in 
l.>2o, >pnl.itm ttiH appointed l >y John the Constant to 


the post of evangelical superintendent of Altenburg in 
connection with the diocese of Altenburg. He now 
married Catharine Ilcidenreich, and established a home 
at Altenburg. In 152G he attended the Diet at Spires, 
in the suite of the elector. During 1527 to 1529 he par- 
ticipated in a visitation of the churches and schools. In 

1530 he was present at the Diet of Augsburg, and in 

1531 at Cologne, where a protest against the election 
of Ferdinand as king of Borne was premeditated. At 
the Convention of JSchweinlurt in 1532 he contributed 
materially towards the securing of the Reformation ill 
that vicinity. Such incessant labors, added to a con- 
stant literary activity and the unceasing demand on bis 
strength made by his prince and the churches, impaired 
his health and necessitated his release from a portion 
of liis multifarious duties. He was, however, sent to 
Weimar in 1533, when the papal legate Rangnni visited 
that place in order to initiate measures for the calling 
of a council. In 1534 we Hml him journeying with the 
elector through Northern Germany, and in the follow- 
ing year through Bohemia and Moravia to Vienna, 
where the elector John wished to make his peace with 
Ferdinand. He was present at the renewal of the Smal- 
kald League, and then went to Venice to make pur- 
chases for the library of Wittenberg; and, on his re- 
turn, participated in the settling of the Wittenberg Con- 
cord. In 1537 he signed the Articles of Smalkald, and 
undertook t lie visitation of the Church at Freiberg. 
He then attended the Convention of Zerbst.and defend- 
ed the claims of his prince to the county of Magdeburg. 
He was finally selected to attend the proposed conven- 
tion at Nuremberg in 1539, which was to complete the 
Concord initiated at Wittenberg, and to share in the 
visitation of the churches of ducal Saxony, now under 
the rule of duke Henry. From this time he was con- 
fined to the vicinity of his home; but continued abun- 
dant in labors, literary and official, until he died, Jan, 1G, 
1545. His widow followed him Dec. 5, 1551. The 31 S. 
remains of Spalatin are preserved at Weimar and Gotha; 
and portions of his works have been published in differ- 
ent, but always faulty and incomplete, editions. A new 
edition, tinder the title Georg Spa la tin's IJistorischer 
Xuchhiss und Briefe , was undertaken by Nendecker and 
Broiler, and the first volume appeared in 1851. The 
style of Spalatin as a writer was simple, but wanting 
in attractive qualities. His works are, however, rich in 
documentary records. In addition to those already in- 
dicated, they include a number of poetic productions, in 
which considerable ability is displayed. See Schlegel, 
Hist nr. Yitie G. Spalat. Theologi, Politici Primique Hi- 
storic i Sax. (Jena, 1G93) ; Wagner, G. Spalatin it. d. Ilc- 
fornt. d. Kirchen it. Schitlen zu A Itenburg (Altcnb. 1830). 
— Herzog, Ileal- Kncyklop. s. v, 

Spalding, Johann Joachim, a rationalizing 
theologian of Germany, was born Nov. 1, 1714, at Trib- 
sees, in Swedish Pomerania, and was educated at Stral- 
sund and Rostock (1731) at the time when the Wolfian 
philosophy and pietism were the subjects of controversy. 
He studied the current philosophy in the writings of 
Wolf, Billinger, and Ganz, and defended its principles 
until association with the professors at Greifswald, 
which he enjoyed in consequence of his having accept- 
ed the position of private tutor in that town, caused him 
to doubt tlieir correctness. In 1745 he went to Halle, 
ami came under the intluenee of J. S. Baumgartcn (q. v.). 
He afterwards became the friend of Sack (q. w) at Ber- 
lin, and of the poets Glcim ami Kleist. In 1748 he pub- 
lished his first work, on the destination of man (Gedan- 
ken Uber d. Bestiwm. des Menschen), which was charac- 
terized by great simplicity of thought and diction, and 
secured an immediate popularity. 11 is aim was the 
popularizing of philosophy after the example of English 
works then appearing; and he succeeded in bringing 
the moral truths to which alone that age was vet acces- 
sible, after its breach with orthodox religion, within the 
reach of the common apprehension. In 1749 lie became 
pastor at Eassan. II is ministry was at first hindered 


SPALDING 


905 


SPANGENBEKG 


by his renunciation of the ordinary pulpit phraseology 
and his adoption of a direct, clear, and simple style; but 
he received, none the less, many encouraging proofs of 
a growing appreciation of his labors and of dawning 
success. He continued his literary labors also, devoting 
himself largely to the study of the Deistic and anti-De- 
istic literature of England, and translated some of the 
current works on either side into German, among them 
Butler’s Analogy of Natural and Revealed Religion. 
From Lassan Spalding was transferred in 1757 to Barth 
(in Pomerania) as provost and chief pastor. The pi- 
etistic tendency, emanating principally from Mecklen- 
burg, induced him to commit to writing his Thoughts 
on the Value of the Feelings in Christianity (Gedanken 
iiber den Werth der Gefiihle ini Christenthum [ 1761 and 
often]). The purpose of this work was to distinguish 
true religious feeling from that which is false and arti- 
ficial; but the execution of that purpose is marred by 
the inability of the author to clearly apprehend the pro- 
found nature of his subject. His conception of religion 
continued to be the one-sided apprehension by which 
morality takes its place. At this time he was visited 
by Lavater, Fiissli, and Felix Hess, and entered into 
friendly relations with the former, which continued un- 
broken despite the difference of views and temperament 
existing between them. In 1764 Spalding was once 
more transferred to a new post. lie became provost 
and chief preacher at the Church of St. Nicolai in Ber- 
lin, and at the same time high-consistorial councillor. 
His sermons proved very acceptable to cultured minds, 
a feature which he declared to be “a doubtful evidence 
of their utility.” lie now published (1772) an anony- 
mous work on the utility of the pastoral office, etc. 
( Ueber die Nutzbarkeit des Predigtumtes u. deren Ref or - 
.derung), which reappeared, bearing his name, in 1773, 
and was sharply criticised by Herder (Aw Prediger : 
fiinfzehn Provinzialblatter'). Spalding had stripped 
the pastoral office of every ideal quality, while Herder 
took his position with the Scriptures, and asserted a 
priestly and prophetical character for the ministry. 
The inception of the work was occasioned by the desire, 
then generally prevalent, to bring Christianity into 
harmony with the culture of the age, and to protect it 
against the attacks of a frivolous infidelity. The inten- 
tion was to give up all unessential matters and preserve 
only what is really essential. This spirit led Spalding 
to compose a further work, Vertraute Briefe die Religion 
betreffend ( Familiar Letters pertaining to Religion ), 
anonymously published in 1784 and 1785, and with the 
author’s name in 1788. The accession of Frederick 
William II, in 1786, was signalized by the publication 
of a rigid decree in favor of orthodoxy, and Spalding 
was thereby induced to resign his position. He preach- 
ed his last sermon Sept. 25, 1788, after he had in vain 
sought to obtain some modification of the obnoxious 
edict. His last work was published by his son, Georg 
Ludwig, in Berlin, 1804. It is entitled Religion , eine 
A ngelegenheit des Menschen ( Religion , a Concern of Man). 
He died May 26, 1804, leaving behind a reputation for 
sincere piety, according to the standards of his time, and 
modified by a constant endeavor to secure for it the 
clearest possible expression. If a rationalist, he was 
certainly one of the noblest and most pious represent- 
atives of that tendency. His pure theism, moreover, 
affords an attractive contrast to all pantheistic con- 
ceptions of the idea of God. — Herzo g, Real-Encyklop. 
s. v. 

Spalding, Josiah, a Congregational minister, was 
born at Plainfield, Conn., Jan. 10, 1751. lie graduated 
at Yale College in 1778; was ordained at Uxbridge, 
Mass., Sept. 11, 1782; dismissed in 1787. After dismis- 
sion he was installed at Washington, Mass., and in 1794 
at Buckland, Mass., where he died, May 8, 1823. “ lie 

was a faithful preacher of evangelical sentiments.” See 
Congregational Quarterly , 1859, p. 44. 

Span (rnt, zereth , according to the rabbins the 


1 little finger, Exod. xxviii, 16; xxxix, 9; 1 Sam. xvii, 
4; Isa. xl, 12; Ezek. xliii, 13; elsewhere some form of 
n£^, taphdch, to spread upon the hands; hence to ex- 
tend a palm’s breadth, Isa. xlviii, 13; or carry in the 
arms, Lam. ii, 20, “a span long”), a Hebrew measure of 
three hand-breadths, or twelve finger-breadths; appar- 
| entiy half a cubit (comp. Exod. xxv, 10 with Josephus, 
Ant. iii, 6, 5). See M ethology. 

Spandrel, the triangular spaces included between 
the arch of a doorway, etc., and a rectangle formed by 
the outer mouldings over it. The term is also applied 



St. Alban's Abbey Church, cir. 1400. 

to other similar spaces included 
between arches, etc., and straight- 
sided figures surrounding them: 
they are usually ornamented with 
tracery, foliage, shields, or other . . 

enrichments. In the Perpendic- ^ 

nlar style the doorways most commonly have the outer 
mouldings arranged in a square over the head so as to 
form spandrels above the arch. In the earlier styles this 
arrangement is very seldom found in the doorways, but 
sprandrels are sometimes used in other parts of build- 
ings, especially in decorated work, in which they are 
frequent, as at Ely. In the west door of the chapel of 



Ely Cathedral. 


Magdalen College, Oxford, the spandrels of the outer 
arch (which stands considerably in front of the actual 
doorway, so as to form a shallow porch) are cut quite 
through and left open. The spandrels of a door were 
sometimes termed the hanse or haunch of a door. — Par- 
ker, Gloss, of Architecture, s. v. 

Spangenberg, Augustus Gottlieb, a bishop 
of the Moravian Brotherhood, was born at Klettenberg, 
Hanover, July 15, 1704. In 1722 be entered the Uni- 
versity of Jena as a student of law. but he soon gave up 
this pursuit to devote himself to the study of theology. 
The famous Buddeus was his professor, and he devoted 
all his energies to his theological studies, to such a de- 
gree that he was allowed to lecture from 1726 to 1732 
on theological topics. In 1727 he made the acquaint- 
ance of count Zinzendorf and the Moravians, and in 
1735 we see Spangenberg at Herrnhut, where he began 
a very useful work as assistant minister. For many 
years he fulfilled the most important duties for the 
Brethren by visiting their churches in North America, 
the West Indies, and in England, confirming them in 
the faith. In 1744 he was ordained Moravian bishop 
at Herrnhut, and in 1762, after Zinzendorfs death, he 
became his successor as bishop of Barhv, where he died, 
Sept. 18, 1792. He was a man of great piety and talent, 
Knapp calls him the “Melancthon of the Brethren.” 


90G 


SPAN IIEIM 


SPAN G EN 1)ERG 

SpangeulH-rg wrote. Idea Fidti Fratrum (Bnrby. 1779): 
—Ltbrn <A.< Grafrit Zinzewlorf (ibid. 1^72 - 75). He 
also contributed to German hyinnology. Thus he wrote 
the beautiful hymn Die Firche Christi,die hr geweihi 
(Kn^. tratisl. in Lyra Germ, ii, *7, 1 lie Church of 

GhrGt that he hath hallow’d here") : — IJeil'ge Einfilt, 
GnwFntr under (Eng. traiisl. in Moravian Hymn-book, 
No. 5o|, •• When simplicity we cherish"). See Zuchold, 
Jiifjf, Tfieol. ii. 1231; Theul. Fnirersul-Lexikon, s. v.; 
Koch. Gtsch. </. (A utschvn Kirchenliedes. v, 337 sq. ; Eed- 
derhose. Das Leben Spangenberg'* (Heidelberg, 1*46); 
Nitzsch, Sjningmberg's Diographie. in l’ipers hr an gel. 
Kntrmh r, 1*55, p. 1 97-20* ; Thilo, C it ham Lutheri 
(Berlin, 1*55). (lb P.) 

Spangenberg, Cyriacus, a German theologian 
in repute during the second half of the lbth century, 
was born .lime 17. 15*2*, at Nordhausen, where his fa- 
ther was then a resident pastor, lie entered the Uni- 
versity of Wittenberg with a thorough preparation as 
respects lhe ancient languages, dialectics, and rhetoric 
at the early age of fourteen, and graduated with honor 
in 1510. ilis father had, in the meantime, removed to 
Kisleben, where lie tilled the positions of pastor and 
general superintendent of the county of Mansfeld, and 
Cyriacus was. through his influence, immediately ap- 
pointed teacher. When but twenty-two years of age 
(in 1550 ) he lieeame the successor in the pastorate of his 
now deceased father, and was soon afterwards chosen 
by the counts of Mansfeld to be the town and court 
preacher as well as general dean of the county. While 
diligently employed in his ministerial work his zeal for 
a pure Lutheran orthodoxy involved him in controver- 
sies which, in the end, wholly destroyed his earthly 
comfort. He took an active part so early as 1556 in 
the discussions of the Synod of Eisenach, at which the 
doctrine of George Major (q. v.) that good works are 
necessary to salvation was debated, violently opposing 
that opinion. Graver consequences for him were in- 
volved in the controversy respecting original sin which 
broke out in 1557 between Victorin Strigel, who taught 
the eo-operatiou of the human will with divine grace 
in the work of conversion in a manner which contra- 
dicted Luther’s doctrine of man’s natural inability, and 
Matthias Flavins, who, as leader of the strict Lutherans, 
taught that the natural man cannot co-operate with 
God. but only resist his saving grace. Spangenberg 
supi>oried the latter view; but, as the Mansfeld clergy 
generally were of like opinion with himself, his position 
was pleasant and his opportunities for successful work 
large and frequent. Repeated publications extended 
his reputation beyond the limits of his native country 
and brought him calls to positions in various important 
cities, which he declined, with the exception of an in- 
vitation to Antwerp, whither he went in October. 15(10, 
to assist in establishing a Lutheran organization among 
its churches. The Flavian controversy, however, de- 
stroyed the organization thus effected, and caused a 
part of the Lutheran community of Antwerp to emi- 
grate. in 15*5, to Frankfort-un-the-Main. Soon alter 
Spangenherg's return (January, 1567) to Mansfeld the 
controversy broke out afresh. The occasion was given 
by the publication of a learned treatise on original sin 
bv Wigimd, professor of theology at Jena, in which he 
opposed the ideas of Flavius. A second work by the 
same author condemned, in its preface, the adherents 
ot Flavins, and Spangenberg in particular, as heretical 
Manivlueans. Spangenberg replied vigorously, assert- 
ing the strivi Lutheranism, rather than Maniciuvaiiisni, 
of the Flavian doctrine, and forbade his subordinate, 
Krttger, who had ventured to preach against his view, 
to iH-vupv the pulpit. A colloquy was held during two 
days in July, 157*2, by order of the counts of Mansfeld, 
"ho desired to reconcile the parties, but without olivet. 
The trouble grew to such dimensions that the ruling 
family was divided by it and the common people were 
torn into factions. The elector of Saxony, as feudal 
lord of the county, finally occupied the town and castle 


of Mansfeld with troops and dealt harshly with the sup- 
porters of Flacius. Spangenberg was compelled to flee 
clothed in the dress of a midwife. He tarried for a 
time in Thuringia, and on Sept. 9, 1577, engaged in a 
colloquy at Sondershaiisen with Jakob Andreii (q. v.), 
the results of which he published; but instead of ef- 
fecting an amelioration of his condition, as he had 
hoped, this measure resulted only in the expulsion of 
count Volmar of Mansfeld, his patron, from his ances- 
tral seat. The two now went to Strasburg, where count 
Volmar died in the following year. Soon afterwards 
Spangenberg became pastor at Schlitzsee, on the Fulda, 
but was again driven out in consequence of the zeal 
with which he defended his views of original sin. The 
landgrave of Hesse afforded him an asylum at Vaclia, 
near Smalkald, where lie devoted himself exclusively 
to literary work and obtained a meagre support; but 
his foes gave him no rest, and he finally retired with 
his wife to Strasburg, where he received a cordial wel- 
come from the canon, count Ernest of Mansfeld. He 
died Feb. 10. 1G04. Spangenberg won for himself, de- 
spite his untoward circumstances, a distinguished place 
among the scholars of his time, particularly with re- 
spect to theology and history. His writings comprise 
numerous works on original sin, sermons on various 
subjects, doctrinal and ethical treatises, and expositions 
of several Pauline epistles. The historical works are 
either wholly confined to the realm of the Church his- 
tory of Germany or serve to elucidate particular points 
in that history. They are very numerous. All his 
works are written in pure and generally appropriate 
language, forceful and direct. See Leuekfeld, Ilistoria 
Spangenbergensis , etc, (Quedlinb, 1712, 4to); Adam 
[Melch.], Yitee Theolog. Germ. (Heidelb. 1620); Kinder- 
vater, A 'onlhusa Illustrisy p. 280 sq. ; Schliisselburg, Ca- 
talog lleeret. Lib. Ill (Francf. 1597-99); Muslins 
[Sim.], Prtef, ad Fine. Chirr. S. S.; Arnoldi, Kirchen- 
historie , iv, 95 sq.; Waleli, De Hist. Doctrine de Peccuto 
Original i, in the Miscell. Sacra , p. 173 sq.; Salig, Gesch. 
d. A ugsb. Confession (Halle, 1730), iii ; Planck, Gesch. d. 
pj'otest. Lehrb. iv; Klippel, Deutsche Lebens- v. Charak - 
tetbilder aus d. drei letzten Jahrhunderten (Bremen, 
1*53), vol. i. — Herzog, Reul-Encyklop. s. v. 

Spangler, Isaac, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, South, was for many years a member of 
lhe Virginia Conference of the Methodist Protestant 
Church. In 1*54 he was transferred to its Alabama 
Conference, and after serving that charge he was en- 
gaged in secular pursuits until 18G9. In that year he 
was received by the Montgomery Conference into the 
Methodist Episcopal Church, South, and appointed 
Sunday-school agent. lie afterwards became pas- 
tor, but in 1*73 became superannuated, and died in 
Tuskegee. Ala., April 23, 1*74. See Minutes of An- 
nual Conferences of the M. E. Churchy South. 1874, 
p. 4 L 

Spanheim, Ezekiel, a diplomatist and philolo- 
gist, rather than clergyman anil theologian, was born 
at Geneva in 1G29. At the age of sixteen he defend- 
ed Theses contra Ludoricum Capellum pro Antiquit ate 
Hebruicarum (Lugd, llat. 1645). A response by Bo- 
cliart called forth bis Diatriba de Lingua et Uteris Ile- 
hrtmrnm (1648). In 1(550 the government of Geneva 
offered him the chair of philosophy, but lie preferred 
that, of elocution, which was accordingly given him in 
1651. lie had probably been consecrated priest at Ley- 
den, where lie was n student; hut his theological pro- 
ductions are only two discourses in Latin and French 
(Geneva. 1655; Berlin, 1695): — a lengthy notice of 
Richard Simon’s Hist. Critique du Yet , Test. (Paris, 1678) 
as an appendix to that work (Rotterdam. 1685): — and 
notes and a chronology to Josephus, I lav cream p’s ed. 
(Amsterdam and Leyden. 1726). Spanlieim’s political 
life began in 1652, when he became a member of the 
Great Council. Soon afterwards be became tutor to 
the sou of the elector-palatine Charles Louis, and cm- 


SPANHEIM 


907 


SPARK 


ployed the leisure afforded him in that station for the 
study of German national law and the history of the 
Roman emperors. He also wrote upon these subjects, 
lie visited Italy and studied numismatics, and became 
acquainted with Christina of Sweden and with Sophia, 
the mother of duke George of Hanover, who afterwards 
became king of England. Sophia brought him back to 
Germany in 1665, and after that date he officiated as 
ambassador for the elector to different courts, etc. lie 
died in 1710 in London, where he was ambassador, 
and was buried in Westminster Abbey. All his works 
alter 1052 were of a political or general historical 
and philosophical character. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop . 
s. v. 

Spanheim, Friedrich (1), theological professor 
at Geneva and Leyden, was born Jan. 1, IGOO, at Am- 
berg, in the Palatinate. After completing his studies 
at Heidelberg and Geneva, he accepted the place of tu- 
tor in the family of the viscount de Vitrolles, in order 
that he might contribute towards the financial relief 
of his lather, then suffering from the misfortunes which 
had come upon the country. He afterwards journeyed 
to England, in 1G25, and on his return to Geneva was 
appointed to the chair of philosophy. The departments 
of logic and physics were assigned to him. In 1G29 
he received the freedom of the city, and in 1631 he be- 
came the successor of the famous theological professor 
Turretiu (q. v. ). During the years 1633-37, he offi- 
ciated as rector of the academy, and in that capacity 
delivered the jubilee oration in connection with the cen- 
tenary of the Genevan Reformation (1635). A call to 
the theological chair in the University of Leyden was 
extended to him in 1641, and the earnest request of 
the States-General, supported by that of the queen of 
Bohemia, induced the Genevan authorities to consent 
to his dismissal. He removed to Leyden in October, 
1642, and in his new position took active part in the 
controversy with Amyraut (q. v.). lie died April 30, 
1648, leaving two sons, Ezekiel and Friedrich (q. v.). 
The works of Spanheim include: against Amyraut, Dis- 
putatio de Gratia Unicersali (Lugd. Bat. 1644): — Exer- 
citat.de Gratia Unicersali (ibid. 1646): — Epist. ad Matt. 
Cottier, de. Gratia Unicersali (ibid. 1648): — \ r in dicue 
Exercitationum , etc. (Amst. 1649) ; see Schweizer, Prof. 
Central- Daymen, ii, 340. His other theological writ- 
ings are, Dubia Ev angelica Biscussa et Vindicata (Gen. 
1634-39), a work of vast learning and great acute- 
ness: — Disput. Anabaptisticce (Lugd. Bat. 1643): — L)i- 
atriba Uist.de Origine , Progressu, et Seeds A nabaptista - 
rum (Franeker, 1645), appended to Joan. Cloppenburgii 
Gangrama Theologies Anabaptist, translated into Eng- 
lish (Loud. 1646) : — Epist. ad Dav. Buchanan super Con- 
trovers. quibusdam quee in Ecclesiis Anglican is agitan- 
tur (Lugd. Bat. 1645), in vol. ii of his son Friedrich’s 
Works: — Disput. Theolog. Syntagma (Geneva, 1652), 
falsely ascribed to his son : — three sermons, Les Trones de 
Grace , de Jugement , et de Gloire. (Leyden, 1644; Geneva, 
1649). See Regist. de la Yenerab. Compagnie eles Pas- 
teurs de Geneve; Grenus, Fragm. Biogr. et Hist. Ex- 
traits des Registres du Conseil d'Etat (Geneva, 1815) ; 
Senebicr, Hist. Litteraire de Geneve (ibid. 1786), ii, 191— 
195; Schweizer, J foses Amyraldus , in Baur u. Zeller’s 
Theol. Jahrbiicher , 1852, Nos. 1 and 2. — Herzog, Real- 
Encyklop. s. v. 

Spanheim, Friedrich (2), the younger brother 
of Ezekiel, was born at Geneva in 1632, and graduated 
doctor of philosophy in 1652 at Leyden. 1 1 is dying 
father, however, induced him to devote himself to the- 
ology. He became the pupil of Fridland, Hcidnn, and 
Cocceius, and preached as a candidate in different 
churches of Zealand and Utrecht. In 1655 lie was call- 
ed to a theological professorship at Heidelberg by the 
elector palatine, Charles Louis, and entered on the du- 
ties of that position after having received the doctorate 
of divinity at Leyden; but in 1670 lie returned to the 
latter town and became professor of theology and sa- 


cred history in its university, lie was a thorough Cal- 
vinist in his views, and defended the teachings of Cal- 
vinism in several writings against Des Cartes and Coc- 
ceius. He was four times rector and held the office 
of chief librarian, and, in addition, was a most pro- 
lific writer, achieving such success in the latter charac- 
ter that he was dismissed from teaching in order that 
he might devote himself exclusively to authorship. 
He died in 1701, after having arranged for the publica- 
tion of t lie first volume of his Complete IForA-vs. Two 
volumes remained, which were given to the public by 
his pupil and colleague John Marek, under the title 
Opera quatenns Complectuntur Geogr. Chronol. et Hist. 
Sacr. atque Ecclesiasticam (Lugd. Bat. 1701-3, 3 vols. 
fol.). The works of Spanheim cover a wide range and 
embrace writings introductory to theology, an introduc- 
tion to the Scriptures, exegesis, Biblical archaeology 
and Church history, dogmatics, polemics, and practical 
theology, and also sermons. See Niceron, M emoires pour 
sercir a V Hist. des Homines Illustres (Paris, 1734), xxix, 
11-26; Chauffepie, Nouveau Dictionnaire Histor.et Cri- 
tique (Amst. et La Have, 1750-56) ; comp, also the dis- 
course preached at Spauheim’s funeral (Jan. 6, 1701) 
and contained in the Complete IFo/As of Jakob Trig- 
land. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Spanish Architecture. In the South few early 
Gothic buildings remain, and those which exist were 
mainly erected in the 15th century; but in the North 
the Obra de Godos (Gothic), the Romanesque, and 
Geometrical Pointed (Tudesco) are represented. The 
German Middle Pointed, as well as French art, clearly 
influenced the designers in Spain. The old system of 
parallel eastern apses gave way to the affection for a 
chevet, with its processional path and circlet of chapels. 
The constructional choirs are usually very short. The 
choir of a Spanish church occupies the eastern half of 
the nave. The westward portion of the latter is called 
the truscoro; the part eastward of the choir is called 
entre los dos coros. Under the cimborio, or lantern, is 
the crncero, or crossing. A passage fenced with screens 
of metal-work affords the clergy a means of access to the 
screen in front of the altar in the sanctuary, or capilla 
mayor. In the centre of the coro are several lecterns 
for the choir-books; and on the west, north, and south 
are stalls, the bishop occupying a central stall facing 
east. Pulpits are erected against the western faces of 
the eastern pillars of the crossing. This curious ar- 
rangement, which has been followed at Westminster 
Abbey, is probably not earlier than the 16th century. 
About the same time, in parish churches, large western 
galleries of stone were erected for the choir, as at Coim- 
bra, Braga, and Braganza, and provided with ambons 
at the angles. The choir was in the centre of the nave 
at the Lateran, St. IS I ary the Great, St. Laurence’s, and 
St. Clement’s, at Rome, by a basilican arrangement. — 
Walcott. Sacred Archwol. s. v. 

Spanish Version. See Romanic Versions. 

Spariantis, in Grecian mythology, was a daugh- 
ter of the Spartan llvaeinthus, who was sacrificed in 
Athens at the grave of the Cyclop Gvriestus (Apollod. 
iii, 15, 8). 

Spark O'-.V'S, kidod, so called from being struck 
off; virTO, vitsots, so called from shining, Isa. i, 31; 

shubib, Jlame, Job xviii, 5; rip n T, zikdth, burn- 
ing arrows, Isa. 1, 11 ; elsewhere p’r'H— ]2, ben-resheph , 
a son of jlame, Job v, 7). 

Spark, Thomas, an English clergyman, was the 
son of Archibald Spark, minister of Northrop, in Flint- 
shire, and was horn in 1655. He was educated at West- 
minster School and Christ Church, Oxford, which he 
entered in 1672. After his ordination he was appointed 
chaplain to Sir George Jeffreys. At his death. Sept. 7, 
1692, he was rector of Ewelnirst, in Surrey, to which he 
had been instituted in 1687 ; of Norton (or llogsuortoii), 


SPARKE 


908 


SPARROW 


in Leicestershire; a prebendary of Lichfield and of Roch- 
ester, and a IU>. lie published a good edition of Lac- 
tantii Eirmiani Opera <juw Extant, ad Fidtm MSS. 
Utcoynita, et Commentariis lllnstrata (Oxon. 1081, 8vc>): 

and Xotw in Libras Sex Xoeat Hislorite Zozimi Comi- 

tis (ibid. 1071', 8vo). They were translated by another 
person into English in 1084. Sec Chahucrs, Biog. Did. 
s. v. 

Sparke, Thomas, a Puritan divine, was born at 
South Somercote, Lincolnshire, England, in 1548. Of 
his early education we have no account until be became 
fellow of Magdalen College, Oxford, in 1570, in which 
year he was admitted bachelor of arts. Soon after he 
was presented by Arthur lord Grey to the parsonage 
of llletchlev. in Buckinghamshire. He was chaplain 
to Cooper, bishop of Lincoln, from whom he received 
in 1575 the archdeaconry of Stowe. In 1581 he took 
his divinity degrees, and in 1582, finding that he could 
not attend to his archdeaconry because of its distance 
from his cure, he resigned it, but in September of the 
same year he was installed prebendary of Sutton-in- 
the-Mar>h in the Church of Lincoln. In 1008 he rep- 
reseuted the Puritans in the conference at Hampton 
Court, having also been one of their champions at Lam- 
beth in 15*4. The issue of the Hampton Court Con- 
ference was that he inclined to conformity. He died 
at llletchlev, Oct. 8, 1G16. Wood says he “was a 
learned man, a solid divine, well read in the fathers, 
and so much esteemed for his profoundness, gravity, 
and exemplary life and conversation that the sages of 
the university thought it lit after his death to have his 
picture painted oil the wall in the School Gallery among 
the English 'divines of note there.” His works are, A 
Broth* rig Persuasion to Unity and Uniformity in Judg- 
ment and Practice , etc. (Loud. 1G07, 4to): — A Comfort- 
able Treatise for a Troubled Conscience (ibid. 1580, 8vo) : 
— Brief Catechism (Oxon. 1588, 4 to) : — Answer to Air. 
John tCA Ibine's Notable Discourse against Heresies (ibid. 
1501. I to) : — The Highway to Heaven (Loud. 1597, 8vo), 
a treatise on John i, 37-89: — Funeral Sermon on the 
earl of Medford and another on lord Grey. See Chal- 
mers, Bioy. Did. s. v. 

Sparks, Giles B., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church. South, was horn in Georgia in 1815, 
and professed religion in his fourteenth year. He was 
educated at Lagrange and Covington, Ga. ; taught a 
classical school at Oak Bowery and Tuskegee, Ala. ; was 
admitted on trial in the Alabama Conference in 1844, and 
appointed to the Franklin Street Church, Mobile, Ala. 
In 1*45 he was called to Columbus. Miss., in 184G to 
Wetnmpkn, and in 1*17-4* to Tuscaloosa, where he 
died Sept . 2G, 1*4*. Mr. Sparks was characterized by 
Hi" gentleness, great pathos, and peculiarly persuasive 
manner, lb; was eminent as a Biblical student, and 
as a pastor hnd few superiors. See Minutes of An- 
nual t ’unfe rences of the M. E. Church, South, 1845-53, 
p. 2<>G. 

Sparks, J. O. A., a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Clmreli, South, was lxirn about 1*42. lie was ad- 
mitted on trial into the Florida Conference in 1*G4, and 
ordained deacon in 1*GG. lie died of yellow fever, May 
1*, 1*G9. See Minutes of Annual Conferences of the 
M. E. Church, South, 1*09, p. 32*. 

Sparrow (“‘CIS, tsippur ; Sept, itpviov, opviPtov, 
rb TTfruvov, nrpnvSiov ; \ipapoc in Neh. v, 18, where 
was probably rend Vulg. arts, rolncris, passer). 

I he above Hebrew word occurs upwards of fnrtv times 
in the t fid Test. In most cases it refers iiidillerentlv to 
nnv kind of bird, as is clear, especially from its use in 
ben. vii, It; Lent. iv. 17. In all passages excepting 
tw.. trippAr is rendered by the A. V. indift'crcutly “ bird” 
°r *' fowl.” In Run. Ixxxiv, 3 and eii. 7 the A. V. ren- 
ders it “sparrow.” Tin* Greek arpovSi ov (A. V. “ spar- 
r"w”) oeenrs twice in tin* New Test. (Matt. x. 29; Luke 
xii, t», 7;, where the Vulg. has passtirs. Tsipptir , from 


a root (f t-*) signifying to chirp or twitter , appears to 
be a phonetic representation of the call note of any pas- 
serine bird (comp, the Arabic \tsfur, “a sparrow”). 
Similarly the modern Arabs nse the term zaush for all 
small birds which chirp, and zerzur not only for the 
starling, but for any other bird with a harsh, shrill 
twitter, both these being evidently phonetic names. 
Tsippur is therefore exactly translated by the Sept. 
arpovSiov, explained by Moschopulus rd piupd tCjv 
opviStov, although it may sometimes have been used in 
a more restricted sense (see Athen. Deipn. ix, 391, where 
two kinds of arpovSta in the more restricted significa- 
tion arc noted), but in general both terms properly des- 
ignate any small bird (Gen. xv, 10; Lev. xiv, 4, 53, 
marg. ; Isa. xxxi,,5; Matt, x, ‘29, 31 ; Luke xii, G, 7). 
The Hebrew name evidently included all the small 
birds denominated “clean,” or those that might be 
eaten without violating the precepts of the law, includ- 
ing many insectivorous and frugivorous species, as all 
the thrushes, the starlings, the larks, the finches, and 
some others (Dent, iv, 17; Job xii, 5; Psa. viii, 8; xi, 
1; civ, 17; Prov. xxvi, 2; xxvii, 8). Accordingly we 
treat in this article somewhat extensively the or- 
nithological features and customs of Palestine. See 
Bird. 

1. Numerous Species. — It was reserved for later natu- 
ralists to discriminate the immense variety of the small- 
er birds of the passerine order. Excepting in the eases 
of the thrushes and the larks, the natural history of 
Aristotle scarcely comprehends a longer catalogue than 
that of Moses. 

Yet in few parts of the world are the kinds of pas- 
serine birds more numerous or more abundant than in 
Palestine. A very cursory survey has supplied a list of 
above one hundred different species of this order (see 
Ibis, i, 26 sq.. and iv, 277 sq.). But although so numer- 
ous, they are not generally noticeable for any peculiar 
brilliancy of plumage beyond the birds of our own cli- 
mate. In fact, with the exception of the denizens of 
the mighty forests and fertile alluvial plains of the trop- 
ics, it is a popular error to suppose that the nearer we 
approach the equator, the more gorgeous necessarily is 
the. coloration of the birds. There are certain tropical 
families with a brilliancy of plumage which is unri- 
valled elsewhere; but any outlying members of these 
groups — as, for instance, the kingfisher of Britain, or the 
bee-eater and roller of Europe — are not surpassed in 
brightness of dress by any ol' their Southern relations. 
Ordinarily in the warmer lemperate regions, especially 
in those which, like Palestine, possess neither dense for- 
ests nor morasses, there is nothing in the brilliancy of 
plumage which especially arrests the attention of the 
unobservant. It is therefore no matter for surprise if, 
in an unscientific age, the smaller birds were generally 
grouped indiscriminately under the term tsippur, bpvi- 
I\ov, or passer. The proportion of bright to obscure 
colored birds is not greater in Palestine than in Eng- 
land; and this is especially true of the southern por- 
tion, Judica, where the wilderness, with its bare hills 
and arid ravines, a fiords a home chiefly to those species 
which rely for safety and concealment on the modesty- 
and inconspicuousness of their plumage. 

Although the common sparrow of England (Passer 
dnmesticus, Linn.) does not occur in the Holy Land, its 
place is abundantly supplied (see Thomson, Land and 
Book , i, 53, 397) by two very closely allied southern 
species (Passer salidcola, Vieill., and Passer cisntpina, 
Tom.). The English tree-sparrow (Passer montamis, 
Linn.) is also very common, and may be seen in num- 
bers on Mount Olivet, and also about the sacred enclos- 
ure of the Mosque of Omar. This is perhaps the exact 
species referred to in Psa. Ixxxiv. 3, “ Yea, the sparrow 
hath found a house.” Though in Britain it seldom 
frequents houses, yet in China, to which country its 
eastward range extends, Mr. Swinhoe, in his Ornithol- 
ogy of Amoy, informs us its habits are precisely those 


SPARROW 


909 


SPARROW 


of our familiar house -sparrow. Its shyness may he 
the result of persecution; but in the East the-Mussul- 
mans hold in respect any bird which resorts to their 
houses, and in reverence such as build in or about the 
mosques, considering them to be under the Divine pro- 
tection. This natural veneration has doubtless been 
inherited from antiquity. We learn from ^Elian (Vur. 
Hist, v, 17) that the Athenians condemned a man to 
death for molesting a sparrow in the Temple of yEscu- 
lapius. The story of Aristodieus of Cyme, who rebuked 
the cowardly advice of the oracle of Branch khe to sur- 
render a suppliant by his symbolical act of driving the 
sparrows out of the temple, illustrates the same senti- 
ment (Herod, i, 159), which was probably shared by Da- 
vid and the Israelites, and is alluded to in the psalm. 
There can be no difficulty in interpreting nnZ7*2, not 
as the altar of sacrifice exclusively, but as the place of 
sacrifice, the sacred enclosure generally, to Ttf.uvo£, 
“ fanum.” The interpretation of some commentators, 
who would explain in this passage of certain sa- 

cred birds, kept and preserved by the priests in the 
Temple like the sacred ibis of the Egyptians, seems to 
be wholly without warrant (see Bochart, iii, 21, 22). 

Most of the commoner small birds are found in Pal- 
estine. The starling, chaffinch, greenfinch, linnet, gold- 
finch, corn-bunting, pipits, blackbird, song-thrush, and 
the various species of wagtail abound. The woodlark 
(Alauda urborea , Linn.), crested lark ( Galerida cristata , 
Boie.), Calandra lark ( Melanocorypha calandra, Bp.), 
short-toed lark ( Calandrella brachydacfykt , Kaup.), Is- 
abel lark {Alauda deserti , Lieht.), and various other des- 
ert species, which are snared in great numbers for the 
markets, are far more numerous on the Southern plains 
than the skylark in England. In the olive-yards, and 
among the brushwood of the hills, the Ortolan bunting 
{Emberiza hortulana , Linn.), and especially Oretzseh- 
maer’s bunting {Ember iza ccesia , Cretz.), take the place 
of the common yellow-hammer, an exclusively Northern 
species. Indeed, the second is seldom out of the trav- 
eller’s sight, hopping before him from bough to bough 
with its simple but not unpleasing note. As most of 
the warblers ( Sylviadie ) are summer migrants, and have 
a wide eastern range, it was to be expected that they 
should occur in Syria; and accordingly upwards of twen- 
ty of those on the British list have been noted there, in- 
cluding the robin, redstart, whitethroat, blackcap, night- 
ingale, willow - wren, Dartford warbler, whinehat, and 
stonechat. Besides these, the Palestine lists contain 
fourteen others, more southern species, of which the 
most interesting are perhaps the little fantail ( Cisticola 
schcenicola , Bp.), the orphean ( Citri'ucci orphan, Boie.), 
and the Sardinian warbler {Sylvia melanocephala , hath.). 

The chats ( Saxicoke ), represented in Britain by the 
wheatear, whinehat, and stonechat, are very numerous 
in the southern parts of the country. At least nine 
species have been observed, ami by their lively motions 
and the striking contrast of black and white in the 
plumage of most of them, they are the most attractive 
and conspicuous bird-inhabitants which catch the eye 
in the hill country of Juda?a, the favorite resort of the 
genus. Yet they are not recognised among the Bed- 
awin inhabitants by any name to distinguish them from 
the larks. 

The rock-sparrow ( Petronia stulta , Strickl.) is a com- 
mon bird in the barer portions of Palestine, eschewing 
woods, and generally to be seen perched alone on the 
top of a rock or on any large stone. From this habit it 
has been conjectured to be the bird alluded to in Psa. 
cii,7,as “ the sparrow that sitteth alone upon the house- 
top;” but as the rock-sparrow, though found among 
ruins, never resorts to inhabited buildings, it seems 
more probable that the bird to which the psalmist al- 
ludes is the blue thrush {Petrocossyphns cyanens, Boie.), 
a bird so conspicuous that it cannot fail to attract atten- 
tion by its dark-blue dress and its plaintive monotonous 
note, and which may frequently be observed perched 



Petrocossyplius cyanens. 


on houses, and especially on outbuildings, in the villages 
of Juda?a. It is a solitary bird, eschewing the society 
of its own species, and rarely more than a pair are seen 
together. Certainly the allusion of the psalmist will 
not apply to the sociable and garrulous house or tree 
sparrows (see Tristram, Xat. Hist, of the Bible, p. 202 ; 
Wood, Bible A nimuls , p. 403). 

Among the most conspicuous of the small birds of 
Palestine are the shrikes {Eanit), of which the red- 
backed shrike {Lanins col/urio, Linn.) is a familiar ex- 
ample in the south of England, but there represented bv 
at least five species, all abundantly and generally dis- 
tributed, viz. Enneoctonus rufvs , Bp.; the woodehat 
shrike, Ennius meridiotndis , Linn.; L. minor , Linn.; L. 
personatus, Tern.; and Telephonus cucullatus, (ir. 

2. Special Biblical Notices. — There are but two allu- 
sions to the singing of birds in the Scriptures, Eecles. 
xii, 4 and Psa. civ, 12,“ By them shall the fowls (ri") 
of the heaven have their habitation which sing among 
the branches.” As the psalmist is here speaking of the 
sides of streams and rivers (“ By them”), he probably 
had in his mind the bulbul of the country, or Palestine 
nightingale ( Ixos xanthopyyius, Ilempr.), a bird not 
very far removed from the thrush tribe, and a eloseh’’ 
allied species of which is the true bulbul of Persia and 
India. This lovely songster, whose notes, for volume and 
variety, surpass those of the nightingale, wanting only 
the final cadence, abounds in all the wooded districts of 
Palestine, and especially by the banks of the Jordan, 
where in the early morning it fills the air with its music. 

In one passage (Ezek. xxxix, 4), tsippur is joined 
with the epithet 12^2* (ravenous), which may very well 
describe the raven and the crow, both passerine birds, 
yet carrion-feeders. Nor is it necessary to stretch the 
interpretation so as to include raptorial birds, which are 
distinguished in Hebrew and Arabic by so many specific 
appellations. 

With the exception of the raven tribe, there is no 
prohibition in the Levitieal law against any passerine 
birds being used for food ; while the wanton destruction 
or extirpation of any species was guarded against by 
the humane provision in Dent, xxii, (5. Small birds 
were therefore probably as ordinary an article of con- 
sumption among thejsraelites as they still are in the 
markets both of the Continent and of the East. The 
inquiry of our Lord, “Are not five sparrows sold for two 
farthings?” (Luke xii, 6), “Are not two sparrows sold 
for a farthing?” (Matt, x, 29), points to their ordinary 
exposure for sale in his time. At the present day the 
markets of Jerusalem and Jaffa are attended by many 
“ fowlers” who offer for sale long strings of little birds of 
various species, chiefly sparrows, wagtails, and larks. 
These are also frequently sold ready plucked, trussed in 


010 


SPARROW 


SPARROW 


row? of alxmt a <lozcn on slender wooden skewers, and 
are cooked and eaten like kabobs. Sec Ilackett, lllus. 
of Script, p. *i‘>. | 

3. Ma<ks of Capture , — It may well excite surprise 
bow such vast numliers can be taken, and how they can 
l>e vended at a price too small to have purchased the 
powder required for shooting them. But the gun is 
never used in their pursuit. The ancient methods of 
fowling to which we find so many allusions in the 
Scriptures are still pursued, and, though simple, are none 
the less effective. The art of fowling is spoken of no 
less than seven times in connection with "lES, e. g. “a 
bird caught in the snare,” “bird hasteth to the snare,” 

“ fall in a snare,” ** escaped out of the snare of the fowl- 
er.” There is also one still more precise allusion, in 
Eecles. xi,30, to the well-known practice of using decoy 
or call birds, 7 ripciS ctjotvri)g tv KapraWty. The ref- 
erence in Jer. v, *27, *“ As a cage is full of birds’^C^EI?), 
is probably to the same mode of snaring birds. 

There are four or rive simple methods of fowling prac- 
ticed at this day in Palestine which are probably iden- 
tical with those alluded to in the Old Test. I he sim- 
plest. but bv no means the least successful, among the I 
dexterous Bedawin, is fowling with the throw -stick. | 
The only weapon used is a short stick, about eighteen 
inches lung and half an inch in diameter, and the chase 
is conducted after the fashion in which, as we read, the 
Australian natives pursue the kangaroo with their boom- 
erang. When the game has been discovered, which is i 
generally the red-legged great partridge (Cuccabis sax- 
atilis. Mev.). the desert partridge (.1 mnwpenlix l/eyi, 
Gr.). or the little bustard (Otix tetrax i Linn.), the stick 
is hurled with a revolving motion so as to strike the legs 
of the bird as it runs, or sometimes at a rather higher 
elevation, so that when the victim, alarmed by the ap- I 
pmach of the weapon, begins to rise, its wings are 
struck and it is slightly disabled. The fleet pursuers 
soon come up, and, using their burnouses as a sort of 
net, catch and at once cut the throat of the game. The 
Mussulmans rigidly observe the Mosaic injunction (Lev. 
xvii, 13) to spill the blood of every slain animal on the 
ground. This primitive mode of fowling is confined to 
those birds which, like the red-legged partridges and 
hu-tard*, rely for safety chiefly on their running powers, 
and are with difficulty induced to take flight. Tris- 
tram once witnessed the capture of the little desert 
partridge (.1 mmopenlix lleyt) by this method in the wil- 
derness near Hebron; an interesting illustration of the ! 
expression in 1 Sam. xxvi, *20, “ as when one doth hunt 
a partridge in the mountains.” 

A more scientific method of fowling is that alluded to 
in ivceliLs. xi, 30, by the use of decoy-birds. The birds 
employed for this purpose are very carefully trained 
ami perfectly tame, that they may utter their natural 
call-note without any alarm from the neighborhood of 
man. Partridges, quails, larks, and plovers are taken ' 
by thi* kind of fowling, especially the two former. The 
decoy-bird, in a cage, is placed in a concealed position, 
while the fowler is secreted in the neighborhood, near 
enough to manage his gins and snares. For game birds 
a com mon method is to construct of brushwood a narrow 
run leading to the cage, sometimes using a sort of bag- 
liot within the brushwood. This has a trap-door at the 
entrance, and when the dupe has entered the run, the 
door is dropped. Hreat numbers of quail are taken in 
this manner in spring. Sometimes, instead of the more 
elaborate decoy of a run, a mere cage with an open door 
is placed in front of the deeoy-hird. of course well con- 
cealed by grass and herbage, and the door is let fall by 
a siring, as in the other method. For larks ami other 
smaller birds the decoy is used in a somewhat different 
innu n r. I'lie cage is placed without concealment on 
the Tom id, ami springes, nets, or horse-hair nooses are 
laid round it to entangle the feet of tho-o which curios- 
ity attract to the stranger; or a net is so contrived as 
to be draw n over them, if the cage be placed in a thick- 


et or among brushwood. Immense numbers can be 
taken by this means in a very short space of time. 
Traps, the door of which overbalances by the weight of 
the bird, exactly like the traps used by the shepherds 
on the Sussex downs to take wheatears and larks, are 
constructed by the Bedawin boys, and also the horse- 
hair springes so familiar to all English schoolboys, 
though these devices are not wholesale enough to repay 
the professional fowler. It is to the noose on the ground 
that reference is made in Psa. cxxiv, 7, “The snare is 
broken, and we are escaped.” In the towns and gardens 
great numbers of birds, starlings and others, are taken 
for the markets at night by means of a large loose net 
on two poles, and a lantern, which startles the birds 
from their perch, when they fall into the net. 

At the season of migration immense numbers of birds, 
and especially quails, are taken by a yet more simple 
method. When notice has been given of the arrival of 
a flight of quails, the whole village turns out. The 
birds, fatigued by their long flight, generally descend to 
rest in some open space a few acres in extent. The 
fowlers, perhaps twenty or thirty in number, spread 
themselves in a circle round them, and, extending their 
large loose burnouses with both arms before them, gen- 
tly advance towards the centre, or to some spot where 
they take care there shall be some low brushw ood. The 
birds, not seeing their pursuers, and only slightly alarm- 
ed by the cloaks spread before them, begin to run to- 
gether without taking flight, until they are hemmed 
into a very small space. At a given signal the whole 
of the pursuers make a din on all sides, and the flock, 
not seeing any mode of escape, rush huddled together 
into the bushes, when the burnouses are thrown over 
them, and the whole are easily captured by hand. 

■ Although we have evidence that dogs were used by 
the ancient Egyptians, Assyrians, and Indians in the 
chase, yet there is no allusion in Scripture to their be- 
ing so employed among the Jews, nor does it appear 
that any of the ancients employed the sagacity of the 
dog, as we do that of the pointer and setter, as an aux- 
iliary in the chase of winged game. At the present 
day the Bedawin of Palestine employ, in the pursuit of 
larger game, a very valuable race of greyhounds, equal- 
ling the Scottish staghound in size and strength; but 
the inhabitants of the towns have a strong prejudice 
against the unclean animal, and never cultivate its in- 
stinct for any further purpose than that of protecting 
their houses and flocks (Job xxx, 1; Isa. Ivi, 10) and 
of removing the offal from their towns and villages. 
No wonder, then, that its use has been neglected for 
purposes which would have entailed the constant, dan- 
ger of defilement from an unclean animal, besides the 
risk of being compelled to reject as food game which 
might he torn by the dogs (comp. Exod, xxii, 31 ; Lev. 
xxii, 8, etc.). 

Whether falconry was ever employed as a mode of 
fowling or not is by no means so clear. Its antiquity 
is certainly much greater than the introduction of dogs 
in the chase of birds; and from the statement of Aris- 
totle (.4 mm. Hist, ix, *24), “In the city of Thrace, for- 
merly called Cedropolis, men hunt birds in the marshes 
with the help of hawks,” and from the allusion to the 
use of falconry in India, according to Photius’s abridg- 
ment of Ctcsias, we may presume that the art was 
known to the neighbors of the ancient Israelites (see also 
-Elian, J)e Nat. Anim. iv, *2l>, and Plinv, x, 8), Falcon- 
ry, however, requires an open and not very rugged coun- 
try for its successful pursuit, and Palestine west of the 
Jordan is in its whole extent ill adapted for this species 
of chase. At the present day falconry is practiced with 
much care and skill by t lie Arab inhabitants of Syria, 
though not in Jud.ea proper. It is, indeed, the favorite 
amusement of all the Bedawin of Asia and Africa, and 
esteemed an exclusively noble sport, only to be indulged 
in by wealthy sheiks. The rarest and most valuable 
species ol'hnnting falcon ( Falco lauarius , Linn.), the lan- 
ner, is a native o! the Lebanon and of the northern hills 


SPARROW 


911 


SPARTA 


of Palestine. It is highly prized by the inhabitants, I 
and the young are taken from the nest and sold for a | 
considerable price to the chieftains of the llauran. 
Forty pounds sterling is no uncommon price for a well- 
trained falcon. A description of falconry as now prac- 
ticed among the Arabs would be out of place here, as 
there is no direct allusion to the subject in the Old or 
New Test. — Smith. See Fowler. 

Sparrow, Anthony, a learned English prelate, 
was born at Depdeu, in Suffolk, and was first a scholar 
and then a fellow of Queen’s College, Cambridge. He, 
with others, was ejected from his fellowship in IG43 for 
loyalty and refusing the covenant. Soon afterwards he 
accepted the rectory of Hawkedon, Suffolk, but, before 
he had held it above five weeks, was ejected for reading 
the Common Prayer. After the Restoration he return- 
ed to his living, was elected one of the preachers at 
Bury St. Edmund's, and was made archdeacon of Sud- 
bury and a prebendary of Ely. About 1664 he was 
elected master of Queen’s College, and resigned Bury St. 
Edmund’s and the Hawkedon rectory. lie was conse- 
crated bishop of Exeter, Nov. 3, 1GG7, and bishop of Nor- 
wich in 1678. lie died in May, 1685. He wrote, Ra- 
tionale of the Book of Common Prayer of the Church 
of England (Loud. 1657, 1 2 mo) : — also a Collection of 
Articles , Injunctions, Canons, Orders, etc. (1671, 4to). 
See Chalmers, Bioy. Diet. s. v. ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, 
and Avter. Authors, s. v. 

Sparrow, Patrick J., D.D., a Presbyterian di- 
vine, was born in Lincoln County, N. C., in 1802. His 
father died while he was quite young, and, owing to 
the poverty of his mother, he was hired out to assist in 
supporting the family. The family in which he worked 
became interested in him, and placed him in the Bethel 
Academy, S. C., then under the care of Rev. Samuel 
Williamson. He remained in that institution about 
eighteen months, and this was all the academical edu- 
cation he ever received, never having enjoyed the ad- 
vantages of a collegiate or theological course. After 
leaving the academy he engaged in teaching and study- 
ing with such assistance as he could obtain, until he was 
licensed by Bethel Presbytery in 1826. His first charge 
was Washington and Long Creek churches in his na- 
tive county, in 1828 he removed to Lincolnton, N. C., 
where he was engaged in preaching and teaching; in 
183L he became pastor of Unity Church in the same 
county; and in 1834 of the Church in Salisbury, N. C. 
It was while in this charge that a joint effort was made 
by Concord and Bethel presbyteries to build up a lit- 
erary institution for the education of young men for 
the ministry. The men selected as suitable agents to 
raise the funds were Rev. P. J. Sparrow and Rev. R. II. 
Morrison. They were so successful in their work that 
the institution was put in operation in March, 1837, re- 
ceiving the name of Davidson College. l)r. Sparrow 
was chosen the first professor of languages in this insti- 
tution, the duties of which position he continued to 
discharge until 1840, when he received a call from the 
College Church in Prince Edward County, Va., and be- 
came its pastor in 1841. He was at that time in the 
prime of his manhood, both intellectually and physical- 
ly, was a most indefatigable student, greatly in love 
with work, and was willing to undertake any labor, 
however arduous or self-denying. While thus preach- 
ing a vacancy occurred in t Vie presidency of Hampden 
Sidney College, and he was invited to occupy that po- 
sition temporarily; he accepted, and immediately wrote 
out a full course of lectures to the senior class on moral 
philosophy, and as a result he was elected permanent 
president, and continued, as long as he remained there, 
to perform the duties of president of the college as 
well as pastor of the Church. In 1847-48 he re- 
moved to Alabama, and became principal of the Pres- 
byterian high -school in Eutaw; in 1840 was stated 
supply to Burton’s Hill Church; in 1850 became a 
teacher in Newborn, and soon after began preaching 


at Marion, also laboring as a missionary in South Ala- 
bama Presbytery. In 1853 he settled in Pensacola, 
Fla., where he remained until 1861-62. When he re- 
moved to Caliaba, Ala., where he died, Nov. 10, 1867. 
See Wilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac, 1868, p. 360; David- 
son, / list, of Presb. Ch. in Ky. p. 40. (J. L. S.) 

Sparsh&na ( the air which enters into and permeates 
the human body), in Hindu mythology, is a surname of 
the wind-god, whose usual name is Panina. 

Sparta, in Grecian mythology, was a daughter of 
Eurotas, and wife of Lacedaemon. The latter gave his 
own name to the kingdom over which he reigned, and 
the name of his wife to its capital city (Pausau. iii, 1, 
3 ; Schol. Eurip. Orest. 615). 

Spar'ta (E7rd(0r?/, 1 Macc. xiv, 16; AaKedaipoviot, 
2 Macc. v, 0 : A. V. “ Lacedaemonians’’). In the history 
of the Maccabees mention is made of a remarkable cor- 
respondence between the Jews and the Spartans, which 
has been the subject of much discussion. The alleged 
facts are briefly these. When Jonathan endeavored to 
strengthen his government by foreign alliances (about 
B.C. L44), he sent to Sparta to renew a friendly inter- 
course which had been begun at an earlier time between 
Arens and Ouias [see Arkus; Oxl\s],ou the ground of 
their common descent from Abraham (1 Macc. xii, 5- 
23). The embassy was favorably received, and after 
the death of Jonathan “the friendship and league” was 
renewed with Simon (1 Macc. xiv, 16-23). No results 
are deduced from this correspondence, which is recorded 
in the narrative without comment; and imperfect cop- 
ies of the official documents are given, as in the case of 
similar negotiations with the Romans. Several ques- 
tions arise out of these statements as to (1) the people 
described under the name Spartans, (2) the relationship 
of the Jews and Spartans, (3) the historic character of 
the events, and (4) the persons referred to under the 
names Ouias and Arens. For the general history of 
Sparta itself, see Smith, Diet, of Geoy. s. v. 

1. The whole context of the passage, as well as the 
independent reference to the connection of the “ Lace- 
daemonians” and Jews in 2 Macc. v, 9, seem to prove 
clearly that the reference is to the Spartans, properly 
so called. Josephus evidently understood the records 
in this sense, and the other interpretations which have 
been advanced are merely conjectures to avoid the sup- 
posed difficulties of the literal interpretation. Thus 
Michaelis conjectured that the words in the original 
text were CHiEO, "PED (Obad. 20, see Gesen. The - 
saur. s. v.), which the translators read erroneously as 
13 "ISO, D n I3“EO, and thus substituted Sparta for Se- 
pharad (q. v.). Frankel, again (Monatsschrift, 1853, 
p. 456), endeavors to show that the name Sjmrtans may 
have been given to the Jewish settlement at Nisibis. the 
chief centre of the Armenian dispersion. But against 
these hypotheses it may be urged conclusively that it 
is incredible that a Jewish colony should have been so 
completely separated from the mother state as to need 
to be reminded of its kindred, and also that the vicissi- 
tudes of the government of this strange city (1 Macc. 
xii, 20 , jSaaiAerg; xiv, 20, dp\ovreg rai i) ttoXic;) should 
have corresponded with those of Sparta itself. 

2. The actual relationship of the Jews and Spartans 
(2 Macc. v, 9, avyy ivtia) is an ethnological error which 
it is difficult to trace to its origin. It is possible that 
the Jews regarded the Spartans as the representatives 
of the Pelasgi, the supposed descendants of Peleg, the 
son of Eber (Stillingtieet, Oriyines Sacne, iii, 4, 15; 
Ewald, Gesch. iv, 277, note), just as in another place 
tiie Pergamenes trace back their friendship with the 
Jews to a connection in the time of Abraham (Josephus, 
Ant. xiv, 10, 22); if this were so, they might easily 
spread their opinion. It is certain, from an indepen- 
dent passage, that a Jewish colony existed at Sparta 
at an early time (1 Macc. xv, 23); and the important 
settlement of the Jews in Cvrene may have contribu- 


912 


SPEAR 


SPARTI 


ted to favor the notion of some intimate connection be- 
tween tiu* t wo races. The belief in this relationship 
appears to have continued to later times (Josephus, 
U\ir. i, 26, 1). and. however mistaken, may be paral- 
leled by other |M>pulnr legends of the Eastern origin of 
tireek states. The various hypotheses proposed to sup- 
port the truth of the statement are examined by Werns- 
dortT {he Fide Lib. Macc. § 9 1), but probably no one now 
would maintain it. 

S. The incorrectness of the opinion on which the in- 
tercourse was h.i*ed is obviously no objection to the fact 
of the intercourse itself; and the very obscurity of Spar- 
ta at the time makes it extremely unlikely that any for- 
ger would invent such an incident. But it is urged 
that the letters said to have been exchanged are evi- 
dently not genuine, since they betray their tietitious or- 
igin negatively by the absence of characteristic forms 
of expression, and positively by actual inaccuracies. To 
this it may be replied that the Spartan letters (1 Macc. 
xii. 20-23; xiv, 20-23) are extremely brief, and exist 
only in a translation of a translation, so that it is unrea- 
sonable to expect that any Doric peculiarities should 
have been preserved. The Hellenistic translator of the 
Hebrew original would naturally render the text before 
him without any regard to what might have been its 
original form (xii, 22-25, eiptjvi], Krijvij ; xiv, 20, aCt\- 
$ot). On the other hand, the absence of the name of 
the second king of Sparta in the first letter (xii. 20) 
and of both kings in the second (xiv, 20) is probably to 
be explained bv t lie political circumstances under which 
the letter? were written. The text of the first letter, as 
given by Josephus (,4«/. xii, 4, 10), contains some vari- 
ations, and a very remarkable additional clause at the 
end. The second letter is apparently only a fragment. 

I. The difficulty of fixing the date of the first corre- 
spondence is increased by the recurrence of the names 
involved. Two kings bore the name Arcus, one of 
whom reigned B.C. 309-205. and the other, his grand- 
son, died B.C. 257, being only eight years old. The 
same name was also borne by an adventurer who occu- 
pied a prominent position at Sparta about B.C. 184 (Po- 
iyb. xxiii, 11, 12). In Jmhea, again, three high-priests 
Imre the name Onias. the first of whom held office B.C. 
330-809 (or 300); the second. B.C. 240-226; and the 
third. about B.C. 198-171. Thus Onias I was for a short 
time contemporary with Arens I, and the correspondence 
ha* been commonly assigned to them (Balmer, l)e Fpist. 
etc. I Dnrmst. IH-J8] ; Grimm, On 1 Macc. xii). But the 
|M»Mtiou of Judiua at that time was not such as to make 
the contraction of foreign alliances a likely occurrence; 
and the special circumstances which are said to have 
directed the attention of the Spartan king to the Jews 
as likely to effect a diversion against Demetrius I’olior- 
cetes when he was engaged in the war with Cassander, 
B.C. 302 (Palmer, <pmted by t irimm, loc. cit.), are not 
completely satisfactory, even if the priesthood of Onias 
can lie extended to the later date. Ewald (Cesch. iv.276, 
277, note) supposes that the letter was addressed to Onias 
H during his minority, B.C. 290-210, in the course of 
the wars with Demetrius. Josephus is probably cor- 
rect in fixing the event in the time of Onias HI (A id. 
xii, I, 10). The last-named Arens may have assumed 
the royal title, if that is not due to an exaggerated 
translation, and the absence of the name of a second 
king is at once explained (Csshcr, .Iran/w, A.C. 183; 
llerzfcld, Fetch, d. V. hr. 1 , 215-218). At the time 
when Jonathan and Simon made negotiations with 
Sparta the succession of kings had ceased. The last 
absolute ruler was Nabis, who was assassinated B.C. 
192. ( Wernmlorff, he Fide Lib. Macc. § 93 112; < irimm, 
c//., Ilerzfehl, Inc. cit. The early literature of the 
foibjeci is given by Wernsdorff.) — Smith. 

Spaiti, in tireciaii mythology, were the warriors 
who sprang from the dragons’ teeth sown by Cadmus at 
the Ixdiest of Minerva. They slew each other until 
only live were left alive, whose names were Eeliioii. 
Cdams, lYlor, Clit lionitis, and Hyperenor. These sur- 


vivors became the builders of Thebes, and from them 
the five tribes of its subsequent population derived their 
names (Apollod. iii, 4, 1 ; Pausan. ix, 5, 1; 10, 1, etc.). 

Sparton, in Grecian mythology, was (1) the son 
of Mvceneus, who was said to be the founder of the 
state of Mvcene (Pausan. ii, 1G, 3); (2) A son of Tisa- 
nieiius (ibid, vii, G, 2). 

Sparver, a richly embroidered cloth used as a can- 
opy over a pulpit, tomb, or bed. See Testek. 

Spatularia, a term found in English inventories 
of ecclesiastical vestments descriptive of the ornamental 
apparel placed round the neck and wrists of the alb. 

Spaulding, Justin, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born at Moretown, Yt„ in 1802, 
ami joined the New England Conference in 1823. He 
served in the capacity of an itinerant preacher, a pre- 
siding elder, and a missionary to South America. lie 
was once a member of the General Conference. He 
sustained a superannuated relation to the New Hamp- 
shire Conference for several years before his death, 
which took place in his native town in 1865. He was 
an aide minister, a good scholar, and gentlemanly in his 
deportment. See Minutes of Annual Conferences, 18GG, 

p. 81. 

Spear John xix, 4; 2 Maec. xv, 11 : yoi- 

trot;, Judith ix, 7 ; Co pit, xi, 2; Ecclus. xxix, 13), the 
next most effective piece of offensive armor to the 
sword, being designed for fighting at a short distance. 
Of this weapon among the Hebrews we meet with sev- 
eral kinds, each of which appears to have its distinctive 
name. See Anns. 

1. The chamth (r^n), a “spear” by eminence, and 

that of the largest kind, as appears from various cir- 
cumstances attending its mention. It was the weapon 
of Goliath— its staff like a weaver’s beam, the iron head 
alone weighing GOO shekels, about twenty-five pounds 
(1 Sam. xvii, 7, 45? 2 Sam. xxi, 19; 1 Citron, xx, 5), 
and also of other giants (2 Sam. xxiii, 21 ; 1 Citron, xi, 
23) and mighty warriors (2 Sam. ii. 23; xxiii, 18; 1 
Cl iron, xi, 11, 20). The chamth was the habitual com- 
panion of king Saul — a tit weapon for one of his gigantic 
stature — planted at the head of his sleeping-place when 
on an expedition (1 Sam. xxv, 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, 22), or 
held in his hand when mustering his forces (xxii, 6); 
and on it the dying king is leaning when we catch our 
last glimpse of his stately figure on the field of Gilboa 
(2 Sain, i, G). 11 is fits of anger or madness become 

even more terrible to us when we find that it was this 
heavy weapon, and not the lighter “javelin” (as the 
A. Y. renders it), that lie cast at David (1 Sam. xviii, 
10, 11 , xix, 9, 10) and at Jonathan (xx, 8). A striking 
idea of the weight and force of this ponderous arm may 
he gained from the fact that a mere back thrust from 
the hand of Abner was enough to drive its butt end 
through the body of Asabel (2 Sam. ii, 23). The cha- 
idth is mentioned also in 1 Snip, xiii, 19, 22; xxi, 8; 2 
Kings xi. 10: 1 Citron, xxiii, 9, ami in numerous pas- 
sages of poetry. 

2. Apparently lighter than the preceding, and in 
more than one passage distinguished from it, was the 
kidnn (V"i n 2). to which the word “javelin” perhaps 
best answers (Ewald, Uurfspiess). It would be the ap- 
propriate weapon lor such mauuuivring as that described 
in Josh, viii, 14-27, and could with case be bold out- 
stretched for a considerable time (vor. 18, 26; A. V. 
“spear”). When not in action the kidnn was carried 
t»n t lie hack of the warrior, between the shoulders (1 
Sam. xvii, 6, “target,” and in the margin “gorget”). 
Both in this passage and in vcr. 45 of the same chapter 
the kidnn is diM monished from the chamth. In Job 
xxxix, 23 (•* spear”) the allusion seems to he to the 
quivering of a javelin when poised before hurling it. 

3. Another kind of spear was the rnmach (n~“^). In 
the historical books it occurs in Numb, xxv, 7 (“jave- 


SPEAR 


913 


SPEARMAN 


lin”) and in 1 Kings xviii, 28 (“lancets;” ed. 1611, 
“lancers”); also frequently in the later books, especially 
in the often -recurring formula for arms, “shield and 
spear:” 1 Chron. xii, 8 (“buckler”), 24 (“spear”); 2 
Chron. xi, 12; xiv, 8; xxv, 5; and Neh. iv, 13, 16-21 ; 
Ezek. xxxix, 9, etc. 

4. A lighter missile, or “ dart,” was probably the she- 
lack (nbd). Its root signifies to project or send out, 
but unfortunately there is nothing beyond the deriva- 
tion to guide us to any knowledge of its nature: see 2 
Chron. xxiii, 10; xxxii, 5 (“darts”); Neh. iv, 17, 23 
(see margin); Job xxxiii, 18; xxxvi, 12; Joel ii, 8. 

5. The word shebet (i:3'j), the ordinary meaning of 
which is a rod or staff, with the derived force of a baton 
or sceptre, is used once only with a military significa- 
tion, for the “darts” with which Joab despatched Absa- 
lom (2 Sam. xviii, 14). — Smith. 

Other Hebrew words occasionally rendered “spear” 
are *pp, Tcdyin , the shaft, or perhaps head, of a lance (2 
Sam. xxi, 16); and tselatsdl, a harpoon (Job xli, 

7 [Heb. xl, 31]). 

In general terms the spear may be described as a 
wooden staff surmounted with a head of metal, double- 
edged and pointed, and carried by the heavy- armed 
infantry. Great care was usually taken in polishing 
the handle; and its entire length was under six feet 
(Jer. xlvi, 4 ; John xix, 34). Warriors of gigantic 
strength seem to have prided themselves on the length 
and weight of their spears. The “staff of Goliath’s 
spear was like a weaver’s beam, and its head weighed 
six hundred shekels of iron” (1 Sam. xvii, 7). The 
butt end of the spear was usually shod with a metal 
point, for the convenience of sticking it in the earth (2 
8am. ii, 22, 23). 

Among the ancient Egyptians the spear, or pike, was 
of wood, between five and six feet in length, with a 
metal head, into which the shaft was inserted and fixed 
with nails. The head was of bronze or iron, often very 
large, and with a double edge; but the spear does not 
appear to have been furnished with a metal point at the 
other extremity, called <javpo)ri]p by Homer (//. xx, 
151), which is still adopted in Turkish, modern Egyp- 
tian, and other spears, in order to plant them upright in 
the ground, as the spear of Saul was fixed near his head 
while he “lay sleeping within the trench” (comp. Virg. 
yEn. xii, 130). Spears of this kind may sometimes 
come under the denomination of javelins, the metal be- 
ing intended as well for a counterpoise in their flight as 
for the purpose above mentioned; but such an addition 
to those of the heavy-armed infantry was neither requi- 
site nor convenient. The javelin, lighter and shorter 
than the spear, was also of wood, and similarly armed 
with a strong two-edged metal head, of an elongated 
diamond or leaf shape, either flat or increasing in thick- 
ness at the centre, and sometimes tapering to a very 
long point; and the upper extremity of its shaft termi- 
nated in a bronze knob, surmounted by a ball with two 
thongs or tassels, intended 
both as an ornament and a 
counterpoise to the weight 
of its point. It w r as used 
like a spear, for thrusting, 
being held with one or with 
two hands; and occasion- 
ally, when the adversary 
was within reach, it was 
darted, and still retained 
in the w-arrior’s grasp, the 
shaft being allowed to pass 
through his hand till stop- 
ped by the blow, or by the 
fingers suddenly closing on 
the band of metal at the 
end; a custom still common 
among the modern Nubians 


I and Ababdeh. They had another javelin, apparently of 
wood, tapering to a sharp point, without the usual metal 
head; and a still lighter kind, armed with a smalt bronze 
point, which was frequently four-sided, three-bladed, or 
, broad and nearly flat; and, from the upper end of the 
1 shaft being destitute of any metal counterpoise, it resem- 
. bled a dart now used by the people of Darfur and other 
African tribes, who, without any scientific knowledge of 
projectiles and of the curve of a parabola, dexterously 
strike their enemy with its falling point. Another in- 
ferior kind of javelin was made of reed, with a metal 
head; but this can scarcely be considered a military weap- 
on, nor would it hold a high 
rank among those employed 
by the Egyptian chasseur, 
most of which were of excel- 
lent workmanship (Wilkin- 
son, Anc. Egypt, i, 355 sq.). 

The Egyptian spearmen were 
regularly drilled and taught to 
march with steps measured by 
sound of trumpet. (See fol- 
lowing page.) The prophet 
Jeremiah (ch. xlvi) intimates 
that the Libyans and Ethiopi- 
, ans formed the strength of the 
Egyptian heavy-armed infan- 
, try; but the spearmen repre- 
1 sented in the accompanying 
I engraving belong to a native 
corps. 

The Assyrian monuments 
j likewise exhibit specimens of 

! heavy -armed soldiers equip- 

, j)ed with shield and spear. Aucient Assyrian Spear- 
I See Spearman. man. 

SPEAR, Holy, a lance with a serpent twined about 
it, carrying a lantern for the new fire on Easter-eve. 

Spear, Elijah, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born at Hartford, V t., in 1795. He 
was converted and commenced preaching in 1814, and 
entered the travelling ministry in 1819. He received 
the ordination of deacon June 24, 1821, and that of elder 
June 15, 1823. In 1827 he was returned as superannu- 
ated, and sustained that relation most of the time until 
his death, in Pomfret, Vt.. Dec. 27, 1863. See Minutes 
of Annual Conferences , 1864, p. 110. 

Spearman is the rendering in the A. V. of one 
Ileb. and one Greek word. 

1. Pl3p, kaneji, a reed (as often rendered) in the phrase 
n:p r?n, chayath kaneh, reed-beast (A. V. improperly 

I “company of the spearmen”'), i. e. the crocodile (q. v.), 
as a symbol of Egypt. 

2. AeZioXafiog, dexiolabos . This is the Greek word 
which, in the plural, is rendered “spearmen” in the A. 
V. of Acts xxiii. 23. As it does not occur in the clas- 
sical writers, and only this once in the Scriptures, it is 




Heads of Small Ancient Egyptiau Javelins. (Aluwick Museum and Thebes.) 


IX.— M M M 


Sl’EARMAX 


914 


SPEARMAX 



uncertain what kind of soldiers is denoted by it. It 
strictly signifies one who covers or guards the right side 
of any one. lienee it lias been conjectured that, in the 
filjove passage, it denotes officers who performed the 
saint* functions in the camp ns lietors did in the city — 
being appointed to apprehend malefactors, and to guard 
criminals when led to execution, and called ce£io\iifiot 
from taking the right hand of the prisoner, who was 
hound to the left hand of the guard. This explanation 
K however, deduced entirely from (lie etymology of the 
word, and is open to tin* objection arising from the im- 
probability that such a number of military lictors would 
he on duty with the forces of the tribune, as that two 
hundred of them at a lime could he ready to depart with 
on*- prisoner. It seems preferable, therefore, to undcr- 
siand i he word as denoting the guard of the tribune. 
Nor i« thin contrary to the. etymology, since guarding 
th» right tide may be taken figuratively to mean guard- 


ing the whole person. Xor is it strange that these 
choice troops should he employed on this duty, since 
the service was important and delicate. The guarding 
of prisoners to he tried before Ciesar was often, at Home, 
committed to the pradorians. — Kitto. Our translators 
followed the lanoeurii of the Vulg., anil it seems proba- 
ble that their rendering approximates most nearly to 
tlie true meaning. The reading of the Cod. Ah x. is 
fo&o/jdXof'C) which is literally followed by the lYshito- 
Syriac where the word is translated “darters with the 
right hand.” Lachmann adopts this reading, which ap- 
pears also to have been that of the Arabic in Walton’s 
Polyglot. Two hundred of these soldiers formed part of 
the escort which accompanied Paul in the night march 
from Jerusalem to Gesarea. They are clearly distin- 
guished both from the arpaniLrai, or heavy-armed le- 
gionaries, who only went as far as Antipatris,and from the 
i TrirtXt;j or cavalry, who continued the journey to Gesarea. 
As nothing is said of the return of these troops to Je- 
rusalem after their arrival at Antipatris, we may infer 
that they accompanied the cavalry to Gesarea, and this 
strengthens the supposition that they were irregular 
light-armed troops; so lightly armed, indeed, as to he 
able to keep pace on the march with mounted soldiers. 
Meyer ( Kommentur , 2d cd. ii. B. 404) conjectures that 
they w'ere a particular kind of light-armed troops (called 
by the Romans I ’elites or Rornrii), probably either jav- 
elin-men or slingers. In a passage quoted by the em- 
peror Gmstantine Porphyrogenitiis {Them, i, 1) from 
John of Philadelphia they are distinguished both from 
the archers and from the ] el lasts, or target eers, and with 
these are described as forming a body of light-armed 
troops, which, in the 10th century, were under the com- 
mand of an officer called a tvrwureh . Grot ins, however, 
was of opinion that at this late period the term had 
merely been adopted from the narrative in the Acts, 
and that the usage in the 10th century is no safe guide 
to its true meaning. Others regard them as body- 
guards of the governor. In Suidas and the Etymolot i- 
eum Magnum, 7 rapatyrXaZ, is given as the equivalent of 
dtZioXaj. Jot;. The word occurs again in one of the IJy- 
zantine historians, Theophylaetus .simoeatta (iv, 1), and 
is used bv him of soldiers w ho were employed on skir- 
mishing duty. — Smith. Inasmuch, however, as they 
were evidently a kind of light-armed Roman troops, 
and hence, of course, bore the spear (hasta, ty^oc;), it 
is proper here to give, by way of supplement to the pri- 
eeding article, some account of this w eapon among clas- 
sical nations of the time. 

The spear is defined by Homer, d'pv \rrXrt;pfc, “a 
pole fitted with bronze.” The bronze, for which iron 
was afterwards substituted, was indispensable to form 
the point (iti'xpip cikioki), Homer; X6y\i) y Xenophon; 
tides, cuspis, spiculum') of the spear. Each of these two 
essential parts is often put for the w hole, so that a spear 
is called and copariov y n/ypq, and X6y\i). Even 
the more especial term ptXia, meaning an ash-tree, is 
used in the same manner, because the pole of the spear 
w r as often the stem of a young ash, stripped of its bark 
and polished. The bottom of the spear was often en- 
| closed in a pointed cap of bronze, called by the Ionic 
; waiters (ravptorifp , and ovpia\oc, ami in Attic or com- 
mon Greek ari'paZ. By forcing tins into the ground 
the spear was fixed erect. Under the general terms 
i hastannd ty\ot;\vi'Te included various kinds of missiles, 
of which the principal were as follows: J.umea {\6y\tJ, 
the lance, a comparatively slender spear commonly ustd 
by the Greeks. J'ihnn {voauq), the javelin, much thick 
cr and stronger than the Grecian lance. Its shaft was 
partly square, and live and a half feet long. The head, 
nine inches long, was of iron. It. was used either to throw 
or to thrust with ; it was peculiar to the Romans, and gave 
the name of pilani to the division of the army by which 
it was adopted. IVrw or rerutum, a spit, used by the light 
infantry of the Roman army. It w-as adopted by tlum 
from the Samnites and the Volsci. Its shaft was throe 
- and a half feet long, its point five inches. Besides the 


SPECIAL CONFESSION 


915 


SPECIES 



Ancient Greek and Iloni an Spears. 

1. With a ball instead of a spike at Ihe butt : 2. With a shaft having a loop 
to assist in mounting ; 3, 4, 5. Frequent forms of the point. 


terras jaculum and spicuhim (aMov, dtcounov), which 
probably denoted darts, we lind the names of various oth- 
er spears which were characteristic of particular nations. 
Thus, the gw sum was the spear peculiar to the Gauls, and 
the sarissa the spear peculiar to the Macedonians. This 
was used both to throw and as a pike. It exceeded in 
length all other missiles. The Thracian romphea , which 
had a very long point, like the blade of a sword, was 
probably not unlike the sarissa. The iron head of the 
German spear, called fnnnea, was short and narrow, but 
very sharp. The Germans used it with great effect, 
eit her as a lance or a pike. They gave to each youth a 
framea and a shield on coining of age. The fdarica 
or phalarica was the spear of the Saguntines, and was 
impelled by the aid of twisted ropes. It was large and 
ponderous, having a head of iron a cubit in length, and 
a ball of lead at its other end. It sometimes carried 
flaming pitch and tow. The matara and tragula were 
chiefly used in Gaul and Spain. The tragula was prob- 
ably barbed, as it required to be cut out of the wound. 
The aclis and cateia were much smaller missiles. A 
spear was erected at auctions, and when tenders were 
received for public offices (lucationes). It served both 
to announce, by a conventional sign conspicuous at a 
distance, that a sale was going on, and to show that it 
was conducted under the authority of the public func- 
tionaries. Hence an auction was called hastu , and an 
auction-room hastarium . It was also the practice to set 
up a spear in the court of the Centumviri (see Smith’s 
Diet . of Class. Antiq. s. v. “ Ilasta”). 

Special Confession, a confession of sin made by 
a particular person to a particular priest, in contradis- 
tinction to the general confession made by a congrega- 
tion repeating a form of public confession after the priest 
or minister. 

Special Intention. 1. The celebration of the 
Christian sacrifice with the object of gaining some par- 
ticular gift or grace. 2. The act of receiving the holy 
communion with the object of obtaining some particu- 
lar grace. 

Special Psalms, an Anglican teim to designate 
the fact that “ proper psalms on certain days” are ap- 
pointed to be used in the Matins and Even-song of the 
Church of England. These days arc Christmas-dav, 
Ash-Wednesdav, Good-Friday, Easter-day, Ascension- 
da)", and Whit -Sunday.— Lee, Gloss, of Liturg. Terms , 
s. v. 


Specierum Collatio, the name of a tax pro- 
vided for in the Theodosian Code. It was so called be- 
cause this tribute was commonly paid in specie — as in 
corn, wine, oil, iron, brass, etc, — for the emperor’s ser- 


vice. Being the ordinary standing tax of the empire, 
it is no less frequently styled indictio canoidca, in oppo- 
sition to the superindicta et extraordinaria , that is, such 
taxes as were levied upon extraordinary occasions. See 
Bingham, Christ . Antiq. bk. v, ch. iii, § 3. 

Species, Okigin ok. The immutability of species 
— that is, the law that no really distinct kind of plant 
or animal is capable, by any process, whether natural or 
artificial, of being transformed into another, beyond the 
non-essential limits of what are technically denominated 
“ varieties” — is no less a doctrine of Scripture (where it 
appears to be contained in the emphatic expression 
*12^3, “after its kind,” constantly appended to the 
statement of each successive creative act in the first 
chapter of Genesis) than a conclusion of sound induc- 
tive science. 

Each animal and plant has an ancestry of its own; 
and relationship by descent is admittedly that which 
constitutes identity of species — that is to say, all the 
animals of the world (and the same may be said of 
plants) which have descended from the same pair of 
ancestors belong to the same species. That there arc 
many apparently different species of animals now in ex- 
istence is obvious. But the question has been mooted 
whether this distinction of species is a reality in nature, 
or whether all animals may not be lineally descended 
from one, or, at all events, a few original stocks. Geol- 
ogy teaches us that no animals of a higher order than 
zoophytes, mollusks, and crustaceans were inhabitants 
of our globe up to the close of the Silurian »ra; that 
the fish then, for the first time, made its appearance, 
and afterwards the reptile, in the Carboniferous aera, and 
then the mammal, at a later period, in the Tertiary. 
Were the different species of zoophytes, mollusks, and 
crustaceans of the Silurian ages and those of the suc- 
ceeding and present aeras all of them the offspring of one 
pair, or of different pairs of ancestors, whose descend- 
ants had become thus varied by the operation of time 
ami the changed conditions of life? Again, were the 
various species of fishes, reptiles, and mammals descend- 
ants from their severally respective pairs of ancestors, 
or were they all of them lineal descendants of the previ- 
ously existing inferior orders of animals of the Silurian 
and its preceding aeras, and all thus related in blood to 
each other? If the various species had each their own 
separate first parents and lineage, then each of those an- 
cestors must have been produced by a separate act of 
creative power, or, as it has been termed, by a separate 
creative fiat, similar to that which kindled the first 
; spark of life in the first living creature that stirred 
within the precincts of our planet; and thus the Crea- 
tor must have been ever present with his work, renew- 
ing it with life in the various species of animals and 
plants with which it has from the beginning been sup- 
plied. On the other hand, philosophers have been found 
to insist that all the animals (and plants also) in the 
world, including man himself, have descended from one 
simple organism, and the operation of the preordained 
laws of nature, without the interference of the Deity. 

In 1774 lord Monboddo, a Scotch jurist, hazarded the 
proposition that man is but a highly developed baboon — 
a proposition which lias since made his name the laugh- 
ing-stock of the literary world. About the close of the 
last century two French philosophers (De Maillet and 
La Marck) endeavored to establish the proposition that 
all the higher orders of animals and plants have been 
derived, by the immutable laws of nature, from the first- 
born and lowest items in the scale of physical life; and 
that life itself is producible, by the agency of caloric and 
electricity, from dead matter. They also held that all 
the qualities and functions of animals have been devel- 
oped by natural instinct and a tendency to progressive 
improvement; and that organization was the result of 
function, and not function of organization. Their the- 
ory of life, therefore, was that the zoophyte, which was 
I developed out of something still more simple, expanded 


910 


SPECIES 


SPECIES 


Itself into a niollusk or crustacean; that the crustacean 
was developed into a tish, fishes into reptiles and birds, 
and tlioc again into quadruped mammals, a ,u l the mam- 
mal into man. 

Phis. theory, so dishonoring to <b>d and degrading to 
man, was at mice rejected as an absurdity by the com- 
mon-sense of mankind. It was, however, revived, with 
a little variation, by the author of The Vestiges of the 
Sutural History of Creation (Loud. 1844), who in that 
work reviewed the whole world of life which has been 
supplied by geology and natural history, and insists that 
**the various organic forms that are to be found upon 
the earth are bound up in one— a fundamental unity 
pervades and embraces all, collecting them from the 
humblest lichen up to the highest mammifer in one 
svstem, the whole creation of which must have depend- 
ed upon one law or decree of the Almighty, though it 
did not all come forth at one time. The idea of a sep- 
arate creation for each must appear totally inadmissi- 
ble;” and he argues that ‘*tbe whole train of animated 
beings, from the simplest and oldest up to the highest 
ami most recent, are thus to be regarded as a series of 
advances of the principle of development, that have de- 
pended upon external physical circumstances to which 
the resulting animals are appropriate.” As to the ori- 
gin of vitality, he suggests that the first step in the cre- 
ation of life upon this planet was a chemico-electric 
o^k ration, by which simple germinal vesicles were pro- 
duced. and that the advance from the simplest form of 
being to the most complicated was through the medi- 
um of the ordinary process of generation. But in a few 
years the experiments of naturalists exploded that the- 
* >ry. 

These spccidations, whimsical and absurd in concep- 
tion. but at the same time most mischievous in tenden- 
cy. have therefore long since been rejected by the most 
enlightened of our philosophers, basing their arguments 
on purely scientific principles and inductive reasoning. 
Prof. Sedgwick, in his preface to the studies of the Uni- 
versity of Cambridge, p. cxxviii, has declared that ge- 
ology, “as a plain succession of monuments and facts, 
offers one firm cumulative argument against the hy- 
pothesis of development.” Agassiz, Cuvier, and Hugh 
Miller have been equally strong in their condemnation 
of the theory of the transition of species. 

The discussion of this question has been recently re- 
vived by the publication of Dr. Darwin’s Origin of Spe- 
cies. In this work an attempt has been made to solve 
the mystery of the erealion nflife by seeking to estab- 
lish the proposition that every species has been pro- 
duced by generation from previously existing species. 
Darwin’s hypothesis (for it is nothing more) is, that, as 
man, acting on the principle of selection, causes different, 
animals and plants to produce varieties, so in nature 
there is a similar power of selection, originated and car- 
ried on bv the struggle of life, which tends to produce 
ami |fcrpetuntc. by the operation of a natural law, vari- 
eties of organisms as distinct ns those which man cre- 
ates among domesticated animals and plants. It must 
Ik* conceded that, by the principle of natural selection, 
we can account fur the origin of many varieties of the 
same species; but t lint is far short of the proposition 
thnt an accumulation of inherited varieties may con- 
stitute a specific difference. No facts have yet been es- 
tablished to warrant the inference that because man 
can produce varieties of species l»v selection among do- 
me*! iented animals, be could produce, or that nature 
has produced, by the application of the same princi- 
ple, essentially distinct species. There has always, in 
the case of domesticated animals and plants, been a lim- 
it to man’s power to produce varieties, in like manner 
as, in the operations of nature, the sterility of hybrids 
has raided a barrier against (he multiplication of spe- 
cies whult cannot be passed. 

Darwin believes that animals have descended from at 
moM only four or live progenitors, and adds that analo- 
gy would lead him one step further, viz. to the belief 


that all animals and plants have descended from one 
prototype, and that “ the probability is that all the or- 
ganic beings that have ever lived upon the earth have 
descended from some one primordial form into which 
life was first breathed.” This admits that life has been 
produced upon our planet by one, if not more, divine 
creative fiat; and such being the case, it is more rea- 
sonable, as well as more natural, to account for the ap- 
pearance of distinct species from time to time by the 
exercise of similar acts of divine power than .by a vain 
endeavor to link together animals in relationship by de- 
scent that are wholly dissimilar in organization, and in 
all the habits, propensities, and instincts of their lives. 

It is admitted that, the position is not confirmed by 
geological evidence, inasmuch as the many intermedi- 
ate links which must necessarily have existed between 
the various species arc not found in the geological for- 
mations. There is no such finely graduated organic 
chain revealed by geology; for the groups of animals, 
as they existed, are as distinct and well defined in those 
ancient records as they are at the present day. To meet 
this admitted difficulty, Darwin is driven to allege “the 
extreme imperfection of the geological record,” arising, 
as he states, “from an extremely incomplete examina- 
tion of existing strata, and the small proportion which 
those existing strata bear to those others which have 
been deposited, and removed or swept away by denu- 
dation.” These are mere gratuitous assumptions, put 
forth without foundation, to prop up a failing theory. 
No well-informed geologist will be found to admit that 
imperfections could exist in the geological record to an 
extent sufficient to account for the absence of so many 
forms of life as must, if Darwin’s theory be true, have 
been in existence at some period of the world’s history. 
Moreover, his suggestion that every past and present or- 
ganism has descended from three or four original forms 
requires us to suppose that life must have existed in the 
planet long before the deposition of the Cambrian and 
Silurian rocks, in which the first groups of life appear, 
and that the rocks in which these remains were depos- 
ited have been either removed or transformed. This 
hypothesis not only receives no countenance from the 
records of geology, but is contradicted by all the evi- 
dence which they supply. So many startling conces- 
sions required to uphold this theory of the production 
of species by natural selection, without the direct inter- 
vention of the creative power of the Almighty, are suf- 
ficient to justify its rejection, even if the more direct 
arguments to which we have referred were wanting. — 
Kit to. See Creation. 

So long as this, which has now come to he generally 
know'll as “the evolution theory” of creation, was ad- 
vocated only by men either hostile or indifferent to 
revelation, the theological world could well afford to 
leave it to purely scientific treatises for a solution or 
refutation. But of late we regret to see it has crept 
insidiously into favor with some professedly religious 
writers, who do not seem to see anything in it incon- 
sistent with the Christian idea of creation. For ex- 
ample, an eminent scientist, in t lie Methodist Quarterly 
lie news for April, 1877, art. v, commits himself substan- 
tially to it, and even defends it, although with the 
qualifying remark that it cannot be said to have been 
“demonstrated.” 1 1 is arguments in its favor are drawn 
from three classes of facts ; first, geology discloses a 
series of gradually variant types, with many gaps, in- 
deed, bet ween, yet on the whole corresponding to such 
a system of evolution from lower to higher forms; sec- 
ondly, links are constantly discovered between genera 
formerly supposed to be widely separated, showing a 
transition from one to the other; thirdly, the embryo 
of every animal actually passes successively through 
the various stages indicated by the evolution theory. 
All this, that writer thinks, renders it “now far safer to 
accept the hypothesis than to reject it.” It may seetn 
presumptuous for theologians, who are usually spoken 
i of contemptuously by the professional scientist, to judge 


SPECIES 


017 


SPECTRE 


in this matter; but as the writer referred to further 
thinks that “ if it is safer for the scientist, it is safer for 
the Christian.” we feel authorized to question both the 
premise and the conclusion of that demand. For, in 
the first place, scientists themselves have not fully ac- 
cepted the theory. Even the learned writer quoted 
only claims for it the authority of a “ hypothesis.” It 
seems to us that it will he ample time for “scientists” to 
make such demands when they shall have proved their 
theories, and that they have no right to urge their 
crude and unsettled hypotheses upon other people. In 
the second place, they should remember that this is not 
purely, a scientific question; it is rather a historical, if 
not a theological one, which science has volunteered to 
determine in its own fashion. The Christian or the 
believer in an inspired account of creation has no diffi- 
culty in explaining to his own satisfaction the origin 
of species: he attributes it to the direct creative act of 
God, continued in the lineal propagation from the ini- 
tial pair or pairs of each kind. If the scientist finds 
any fault with this, let him first resolve his doubts, and 
make out a system harmoniously, fully, and definitely 
determined according to the boasted accuracy and cer- 
tainty of his own method, before he challenges the ad- 
herence of others. In the third place, let him mod- 
estty and gratefully call to mind the many illustrious 
names of Christian theologians who have been, and 
still are, more or less eminent as scientists also, and 
whose opinion might at least be invoked before a final 
verdict is made up and published as binding upon the 
rest of the world. Nay, more, let him consider that in- 
telligent parties standing somewhat outside of the im- 
mediate discussion are generally better prepared, be- 
cause more cool and less committed, and actually occu- 
pying a broader field of view, to come to a just conclu- 
sion on such mooted points when the evidence is con- 
flicting, and chiefly of a moral and cumulative charac- 
ter, than those immediately engaged in the dispute. 
We, therefore, say, emphatically, let the naturalist pur- 
sue his investigations, gather and analyze all the facts, 
even speculate, if he pleases, on their bearings; and 
then present the whole for the candid and general 
judgment of the educated world, exclusive of invidi- 
ous classification. In short, common-sense must deter- 
mine in this, as in every extensive generalization. A 
jury of plain, practical men is most competent to de- 
cide an issue, although the testimony of experts may 
be needed in the evidence. 

Let us now bestow a few words upon the facts ar- 
rayed above as warranting a concurrence in the evolu- 
tion theory. We are ourselves amazed that the acute 
and learned writer who clearly presents them did not 
perceive their utter insufficiency as proof of the posi- 
tion taken. The evidence from geology is little more 
than that from the various orders of animated beings 
now observed upon the face of the earth. The only 
difference, if any, is that they do not seem to have 
been all simultaneous or synchronal : nor are those 
now extant to be found all in one habitat. The first 
and second arguments, therefore, resolve themselves 
substantially into one, and this has the great flaw of 
the supposition — the begging of the main question in 
reality — that the many missing links will yet be found, 
or, if not found, still once existed. The third argument 
is parallel, but still weaker, because in the embryo we 
have the actual stages, again, with many and notable 
gaps, but they are found to be incapable of that arrest 
at any particular point which the theory supposes. 
The germ of each animal in generation must go on im- 
mediately to its complete development , or perish at once 
as an abortion. None can stop short of its peculiar 
type, nor go beyond it. In fine, the fact patent to ev- 
ery observer, and one which, to the common mind, dis- 
poses of this whole speculation, is that each species reg- 
ularly and inevitably propagates substantially its own 
pattern, with no such variations as the three classes of 
phenomena referred to exhibit; or else refuses to repro- 


duce permanent organisms at all. The grand fallacy 
in the evolution argument — even as a presumption (and 
we might truly call it such in more than one sense) — is 
the mistaking of analogy for identity. A similar law 
of progress is seen in all God’s works ; but this does not 
prove, nor even render it probable, that each step was 
historically developed out of the preceding. Wherever 
we have been able to record the process, the succession 
of order has been found to be maintained, but there has 
been a break in the genetic production of the individu- 
als. The same mistake has been committed by those 
who confound the geological cycles with the “days” of 
the demiurgic week. Resemblances in plan have been 
thought to prove historical identity. See Geology. 

Accordingly, a recent writer, Mr. A. I)e Qnatrefages, 
professor of anthropology in the Museum of Natural 
History at Paris, who may be taken as the representa- 
tive of moderate conservatism in the scientific disputes 
about the origin of species, but whose eminent posi- 
tion as an anthropologist has been fully recognised by 
Mr. Huxley, is decidedly opposed to evolutionary ideas; 
he draws out an elaborate argument to prove that, in 
his opinion, “species is a reality.” Many readers, 
therefore, will turn with especial interest to the divis- 
ion of his subject in which he examines in succession 
the theories of Darwin, llackel, Vogt, Wallace, Naudin, 
and others. The antiquity of the human species; how 
the globe was peopled, and races formed; their physi- 
cal, mental, and moral characteristics : such is the pro- 
gramme of the twenty-sixth volume of the “ Interna- 
tional Scientific Series” entitled The Human Species 
(Lond. 1879). See also Biblioth. Sacra , Oct. 1857 ; 
AJeth. Quar. Rev. Oct. 1801. 

Species, a term used in eucharistic theology to de- 
note the outward and visible part in the Lord’s supper. 

Speckled is the rendering in the A. V. of three 
Heb. words, which have very different significations: 
1. naked, spotted , as black goats or sheep with 
white spots, or vice versa (Gen. xxx, 32, 33, 35, 39; 
xxxi, 8, 10, 12); 2. p"YJ, sardk, bay , as reddish horses 
(Zech.i,8); 3. tsabua, striped, as the hyena (Jer. 

xii, 9). See Colou; Hyena. 

Speckter, Erwin, a German painter, w r as born at 
Hamburg in 1800. Encouraged by Von Rumohr, he 
made an artistic tour, in 1823, through Schleswig and 
the neighboring country. In 1825 lie visited Munich 
and placed himself under the direction of Cornelius, re- 
turning to Hamburg in 1829. In September, 1830. he 
started for Italy, where he remained until the summer 
of 1834. His death took place Nov. 23, 1835. His 
paintings on sacred subjects are, Christ and the Woman 
of Samaria; — The Women at the Tomb. See English 
Cyclop, s. v. 

Spectre. A belief in apparitions was universal 
among the ancients, especially in the East; and the Is- 
raelites, even before the Captivity, notwithstanding the 
aversion of their religion to demonology (see Crusius 
[B.], Bibl. Theol. p. 293), had in popular superstition 
their spectral forms with which they peopled desert re- 
gions. See Azazkl. At a later period the spectres 
and evil spirits were confounded together (Tobit viii, 3 ; 
Baruch iv, 35). The canonical books refer (Isa. xxxiv, 
13) to a female night-monster (r*Pb*b) and goatlike 
savages (D^ppb), who danced and called to each other 
(xiii, 21). See Satyr. In the Targum, and by the 
rabbins, this popular belief is more fully unfolded as a 
part of foreign daemonology ; but much of it may have 
come down from earlier times. These ghostly beings 
are classed as night, morning, and mid-day spectres 
(Targum at Cant, iv, 9). The last ( Caipovia 
va, Sept, at Psa. xc, 6 ; Targum at Cant, iv, 6) 

appear at noon, when people unconcernedly resign them- 
selves to repose (the siesta; see Philostr. Her. i, 4) ; and 
they are especially dangerous (Aben-Ezra, On Job Hi, 5). 


SrEE 


018 


SPEGEL 


Morning spectres arc called ’i**‘“"£^ iu the Targnm 
(I’sn. rwi, 6>. Among the night spectres (comp. Alatt. 
xi v, 26 ; similar was the (ircek Empnsa [see the Scho- 
liast on ArUtoph. AW. 293; Volcken ,Diatr. p. 132; Bern- 
hardy on Diouvs. /V/ 1 V 7 . p. 721]) was the Lilith, a beau- 
lithl woman who especially waylaid children and killed 
them (like the Lamias [comp, the Vnlg. at Isa. xxxiv, 
1 1 J and Stripes of the Homans [IWhart, Ilieroz. iii,83I ; 
Mrinekc on Menander, p. 115: comp. Philostr. A pull, iv, 
*25 J, and the ijhouls of the modern Arabians); male in- 
fants to the eighth, and female to the twentieth, day 
after their birth (see Fisenmonger, Entdrckt. .1 talent h. 
ii, 113 sq.. *152 ; Sehlen, De Jtiis *S ’yr. p. 249 sip). An- 
other >pirit inimical to children, particularly to such as 
do not keep clean hands (Misliua, Join a, Ixxvii, 2; Ta- 
vnith. xx. 2). was called XT. 2 'll (but it does not appear 
that the Jews used to threaten their children with 
sprites, as the Romans did with their htrva? [Spanheim 
oil t’allim. J)ian. 69]. like modern vulgar buyaboos). 
See Van Dale, Idol. p. 94 sip; Doughtiui Analect. i, 246, 
—Winer, i, 422. See Si’I’eustition. 

Spee, Fuiedhicii von, a (iernian Jesuit and com- 
poser of religions poems, was born at Kaiserwerth in 
1591 of the noble family Spce von Langenberg, entered 
the Order of Jesuits at the age of nineteen (111 10), and 
was employed in the school at Cologne as teacher of 
grammar, philosophy, ami morals, lie was afterwards 
removed (about 1627) to Wiirzimrg and Bamberg, and 
transferred to the pastorate, a measure which is sup- 
posed to indicate dissatisfaction with his teaching on 
the part of his superiors. lie had acquired both repu- 
tation and popularity with his auditors; but later events 
reveal a degree of liberality in his views such as Jesuit- 
ism does not often tolerate. While acting as a pastor 
Spee was often obliged to minister to the unfortunates 
who were accused of witchcraft, and, after having been 
compelled by torture to make the most improbable con- 
fessions, were condemned to death by lire. More than 
two hundred of these miserable victims came under his 
care in t lie course of a few years. It is related that he 
was asked by John Philip of Sehonborn, subsequently 
the elector of Mayence, why his head was gray at the 
early age of thirty; and that he gave as a reason the 
fact that he had been obliged to accompany so many 
witches to the stake, though every one of them was in- 
nocent. He gave a more emphatic expression to his 
sentiments upon this matter by the (anonymous) publi- 
cation of a (’a ut in i'rimiualis, r. de / Voces’ a contra Sa- 
yas IJ!»r, in w hich he stripped off t he false gloss from 
the principles and the indefensible judicial methods bv 
which sui’h prosecutions were controlled, lie would 
seem to have been suspected of the authorship by bis 
superiors, as he w as soon afterwards sent to Lower Sax- 
ony to attempt the conversion of Protestants to Roman 
t 'aiholieisjn. He actually succeeded in gaining over a 
Protestant community; hut, according to Jesuitical au- 
thorities, came near to suffering a martyr’s death in con- 
Hcijueuec. He was attacked by an assassin, said to have 
been employed by the Protestants of llildesheim. who 
heat him unmercifully; and having lost his enthusiasm 
f<»r missionary work, as the result, he went to Treves. 
1 his place allorded him a w ide Held of pastoral useful- 
ness, especially during the siege and storm of 1035 by 
Imperialists and Spaniards, lie was indefatigable in 
bis lalwirs for the sick, wounded, and dying, ami also for 
t lie nn{Hiveris]ied and the prisoners. While engaged in 
such work lie was taken with fever, and died Aug. 7, 
1 635. Spec’s reputation rests on his religious poems, 
"'hifh are contained in two collections, the Trutz-.Xach - 
tiyall and the (liibh-ues Tnymdbnch . The former w'as 
first issued at Cologne in 1019, and appeared afterwards 
in several editions; hut was then lost from observation 
until Rreuiaiio republished it in a somewhat modernized 
form in 1*17. The latter, which received high com- 
mendation fr<tm Leibnitz (Theodicee, § 90), likewise ap- 
peared for the lir-t time after the author's death, in 1013, 


perhaps not earlier even than 1049. As a poet Spee 
stands alone, holding no relation to any of the schools 
of his century, lie possessed a tine sense of prosody 
ami euphonic forms, and felt profoundly the spirit of his 
compositions, lie was. moreover, entirely rational, a 
lover of nature; and, consequently, in no danger of a 
mystical absorption in God or of a tlicosophie panthe- 
ism. II is poems are not. however, hymns; they were 
composed without the slightest reference to use by a 
Christian congregation. Their subject is always either 
some observation of nature or an expression of the au- 
thor’s intense and glowing love for Christ. Occasional 
stanzas are worthy of comparison with the productions 
of the most eminent lyric poets of his country; but the 
adoption of the pastoral as a medium for expressing the 
poet’s admiration of God will serve to show* how utterly 
unsuited are his works for a place in the worship of the 
congregation, Spee’s writings w*ere published l>v Smets 
( Promote Lieder Spee's [Bonn, 1849]); and earlier by 
Forster, in Midler’s Biblioth. deutscher Dichter des 17/en 
Jahrhunderts (Leips. 1831 , vol. xii), the latter preserving 
the original form more faithfully than the other. The 
(liildenes Tur/endbuch. somewhat changed, was repub- 
lished at Coblentz in 1850 as a Roman Catholic manual 
of devotion. See llauber, Biblioth. Mar/ioa , vol. iii : 
Giirres, Chrisil. J lystik, vol. iv. — Herzog, Reul-Ency- 
klop. s. v. 

Speece, Coxkad. a Presbyterian minister, w*as born 
in the town of New London, Bedford Co., Va., Nov. 7, 
1 776. Being engaged in agricultural pursuits until 
1792, he had little early educational advantages, but 
afterwards studied at a grammar-school near New Lon- 
don and at Washington College. In the contempla- 
tion of some mysterious passages of Scripture he was 
driven, as he says, by my own ignorance and pride,” 
to the brink of infidelity, from which he was rescued 
by means of Jonyns’s Internal Evidence and Beattie’s 
Evidences. He united with the Presbyterian Church 
in April, 1796, at New Monmouth, and in September 
following was received as a candidate by the Presby- 
tery of Lexington. Certain difficulties on the subject 
of infant baptism led to the postponement of bis licen- 
sure, and in the spring of 1799 he became tutor of 
Hampden Sidney College. He w’as immersed by a 
Baptist preacher, April, 1800, and began to preach, but 
Dr. Archibald Alexander shortly after led him to ac- 
cept infant baptism. He withdrew* from the Baptist 
communion, was licensed to preach, April 9, 1801, by 
the llanover Presbytery, and appointed general mis- 
sionary. II is labors spread over a large part of East- 
ern Virginia. In February, 1803, be commenced bis 
connection with a church in Montgomery County, Md., 
called Captain John, of which, at the time of his or- 
dination by the Presbytery of Baltimore, April 2*2, 1804, 
he w*as installed pastor. This connection, because of 
his ill-health, was dissolved in April, 1805. He con- 
tinued to preach in Goochland and Fluvanna counties 
until 1800, and in the counties of Powhatan and Cum- 
berland until 1812. In October, 1813, lie was installed 
pastor of Augusta Church, w*liere he labored until his 
death, Feb. 17, 1836. lie published, The Mountaineer 
(1813 16,3 editions): — a number of single Sermons 
(1810-32) : — and some Poems. See Sprague, Annals of 
the A mer. Pulpit , iv, 284. 

Speed, John, an English historian, was horn at 
Farrington, in Cheshire, about 1555. He was brought 
up to the business of a tailor, hut was taken from his 
shop by Sir Folk Grcville, anil supported by him in the 
study of English history and antiquities. Besides oth- 
er works of history, he wrote, The Cloud of Witnesses, 
or Cenealoyies of Scripture (1593, 8vo). This was pre- 
fixed to the new translation of the Bible in 1611, and 
printed for many years in the subsequent editions. He 
died July 28, 1629. See Chalmers, Bioy. Diet. s. v. ; 
A Hi bone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. A uihors, s. v. 

Spegel, Haqi in, a Swedish prelate, was born at 


SPEKE-HOUSE 


919 


SPENCER 


Ronneby, June 14, 1645, being the son of a pastor. 
Having studied belles-lettres and theology at Lund, 
Copenhagen, and the universities of Holland and Eng- 
land, he at length (about 1672) became preacher to 
the queen, and later (1G75) of the court of Charles XL 
In 1686 he was made bishop of Shara, in 1692 of Lin- 
kiiping, and in 1711 archbishop of Upsala. After a 
learned, amiable, and patriotic career, he died at Up- 
sala, Dec. 14, 1713, leaving several pious and historical 
works, which are enumerated in lloefer, Xouv. Biog. 
Generate, s. v. 

Speke-house, a room in religious houses set apart 
for conversation. 

Spells. Constantine had allowed the heathen, in 
the beginning of his reformation, not only to consult 
their augurs in public, but also to use charms by way 
of remedy for bodily distempers, and to prevent storms. 
Many Christians were much inclined to this practice, 
and made use of charms and amulets. The Church 
was forced to make severe laws against this supersti- 
tion. The Council of Laodieea condemns clergymen 
who made phylacteries. Those were condemned also 
who pretended to work cures by enchantments, di- 
viners, etc., and those who consulted them. See Bing- 
ham, Christ. Antiq. bk. vi, ch. v, § G. 

Spelt. See Rye. 

Spence, James, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, South, was converted while engaged in 
the practice of law at Dawson, Ga., 18G5. He was li- 
censed to preach in I860, and was superannuated by 
the South Georgia Conference in 1874. His health 
continued to decline, and he died of heart-disease, April 
23, 1875. See Minutes of A nnual Conferences of the 
J /. E. Church , South, 1875, p. 175. 

Spence, Joseph, an English divine and scholar, 
was born in 1G98, and educated probably at Winchester 
School, and New College, Oxford, where he took the de- 
gree of A.M. Nov. 2, 1727. He was elected professor 
of poetry July 11, 1728, and about 1731 travelled with 
the duke of Newcastle into Italy. In 1742 his college 
presented him to the rectory" of Great Horwood, in 
Buckinghamshire; and in June of the same year he 
succeeded Dr. Holmes as his majesty’s professor of mod- 
ern history at Oxford. He was installed prebendary of 
the seventh stall at Durham May 24, 1754. His death, 
by drowning in a canal in By fleet, Surrey, occurred Aug. 
20, 17G8. His writings were mostly in the realm of 
polite literature, as, An Essay on Pope's Odyssey (1727) : 
— Poly metis (1747, fob), lie published, Remarks and 
Dissertations on Virgil, by Mr. Iloldsworth, with notes, 
etc. (1768, 4to). lie wrote a pamphlet entitled Plain 
Matter of Fact, or a Short Review of the Reigns of our 
Popish Princes since the Reformation (pt. i, 1748, 12mo). 
See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, 
and A mer. A ut hors, s. v. 

Spence, Robert W., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was born May 11, 1824, in 
South Carolina. He first joined the Presbyterian 
Church, but this being dissolved in his neighborhood, 
he then united with the Methodist. He was licensed 
to preach, and joined the Alabama Conference in 1849. 
After a successful ministry of about six years, his health 
entirely failed, and he retired to his mother’s home in 
Kemper County, Miss., where he died, Sept. 27, 1856. 
See Minutes of Annual Conferences of the M. E. Church, 
South, 1856, p. 707. 

Spencer, Elihu, D.D., a Presbyterian divine, was 
born at East Haddam, Conn., Feb. 12. 1721. He com- 
menced a course of literary study, with a view to the 
Gospel ministry, in March, 1740, and graduated at Yale 
College in September, 1746. After graduation he was 
urged to undertake a mission among the Indians of the 
Six Nations, and, under the sanction of the society in 
Great Britain which had fostered the other missions 
among the Indians, he entered upon the arduous task, 


and in September, 1748, was solemnly ordained to the 
work of the ministry, with a special view to an Indian 
mission. The leadings of Providence, nowever, appear to 
have been such as to direct his labors into another and 
entirely different department of evangelical work, and 
Feb. 7, 1750, he was installed pastor of the Presbyterian 
Church in Elizabethtown, N. J., then vacant in conse- 
quence of the death of president Dickinson. It was 
during his pastorate in Elizabethtown that his charac- 
ter for piety and public spirit prompted the trustees of 
the College of New Jersey to elect him one of the cor- 
porate guardians of that institution, which office he 
held as long as he lived. In 1756 he became pastor 
of the Presbyterian Church at Jamaica, L. I.; in 1758 
be accepted the chaplaincy of the New York troops, 
then about to take their place in the French war still 
raging. When his services as chaplain were closed, he 
connected himself with New Brunswick Presbytery, 
and labored several years in the contiguous congrega- 
tions of Shrewsbury, Middletown Point, Shark River, and 
Amboy. It was about this time that he addressed a 
letter to the Rev. Ezra Stiles, D.D., which was pub- 
lished, and attracted no small share of public attention. 
The subject of it was “The State of t he Dissenting In- 
terest in the Middle Colonies of America.” It was 
originally dated at Jamaica, July 2, 1759, and there 
were some amendments and additions to it at Shrews- 
bury on Nov. 3. This was the only formal work he 
ever committed to the press. In 1764 the Synod of 
New York and Philadelphia, having reason to believe 
that a number of their congregations in the South 
were in an unformed and irregular state, sent the 
Rev. Elihu Spencer, and Alexander McWhorter of New- 
ark, N. J., to prepare them for a more orderly and 
edifying organization. Soon after returning from this 
important service, he became pastor of St. George’s 
Church in Delaware, where lie spent five years. In 
1769 he accepted a call to the city of Trenton, N. J., 
where be remained useful and beloved until be was re- 
moved bv death, Dec. 27, 1784. Dr. Spencer was pos- 
sessed of fine genius, great vivacity, ardent piety, and 
special merits as a preacher and a man. In 1782 the 
University of Pennsylvania conferred upon him the de- 
gree of D.D. See Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit, 
iii, 165. (J. L. S.) 

Spencer, Francis, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was converted in his eighteenth year, 
at Springvilie, Pa., and joined the Presbyterian Church. 
He afterwards united with the Methodist Church, and 
was licensed to preach June 10, 1848. He was received 
on trial in the Wyoming Conference in 1855, and con- 
tinued a member thereof until his death, Sept. 18, 1862. 
See Minutes of A nnual Conferences, 1863, p. 77. 

Spencer, Ichabod Smith, D.D.. an eminent di- 
vine of the Presbyterian Church, was born in Rupert, Vr., 
Feb. 23, 1798. His early educational advantages were 
limited, consisting only of the training of a common 
school. The death of his father, in 1815, marked a de- 
cisive epoch in the history of his life, and the following 
year he left home, and settled in the town of Granville, 
Washington Co., N. Y., where he was converted and 
first felt strongly impressed to devote himself to the 
ministry. He graduated at Union College in 1822, with 
a high reputation for both talents and scholarship; 
studied theology privately under the direction of An- 
drew Yates, D.D., professor of moral philosophy in Un- 
ion College; removed to Canandaigua, N. Y., in 1825, 
and became principal of the academy in that place, 
which he soon succeeded in raising to a commanding 
position among the primary educational institutions of 
the State; was licensed by the presbytery of Geneva in 
November, 1826 ; was ordained as colleague pastor with 
the Rev. Solomon Williams, of the Congregational 
Church in Northampton, Mass., Sept. 11, 1828, where he 
continued laboring with the most remarkable success 
until March 23, 1832, when he was installed pastor of 


920 


SPENCEI 


SPEXCEI* 

the Second 1’reshvterinn Church, Brooklyn, L. L, which 
was his last field of ministerial labor. By his great wis- 
dom and energy, and almost unexampled industry, he 
{Succeeded in raising this clturch into one ol the ntost 
prosperous and eflicient churches in tlie Preshy terian 
denomination. In 1*30 he accepted the professorship 
extraordinary of Biblical history in the Cnion Theolog- 
ical >eminarv in New York city, and retained it for 
about four years. In 1811 lie received the degree of 
I >. 1 >. from Hamilton College, lie died Nov. 23, 1851. 
The high estimate in w hich I>r. spencer was held was 
sutliciently evinced by the elVorts that were made to se- 
cure hi> services in various departments of ministerial 
labor. In 1*30 he was called to the presidency of the 
Cni verity of Alabama; in 1*32, to the presidency of 
Hamilton College. In 1*53 lie was elected to the pro- 
fessorship of pastoral theology in the East Windsor 
Theological .seminary; and many formal calls were put 
into his ban Is from churches in various important cit- 
ies, bur none of these tempted him from his chosen 
field. He published nine single sermons, 1835-50, and 
the following well-known works: 1 Pastors Sketches, 
or t 'onrersations with A furious Inquirers respecting the 

1 Wig of Salration (X. Y. 1850; second series, 1853); 
these sketches have been republished in England, and 
also in French in France: — Sennons, with a Memoir 
of his Life by llev.J. M. Sherwood (X. Y. 1855.2 vols.). 
Also since bis death have been published : Discourses 
on Sacramental Occasions r, with an Introduction by Oar- 
diner Spring. D.D. (1801. 18(32; Loud. 1861): — Evi- 
dences of Divine Ilerelation ( Boston, 18(35). See Sprague, 

. I unals of the Amer. Pulpit , iv, 710; Allibone. Diet, of 
lirit . and .1 mer. .1 of hois, s. v, ; Bill. Pepert. .J ill v, 1861 , 
p. 572. (.!. L. S.) 

Spencer. John, a learned English divine, was a 
native of Boctou-undcr-Blcan, in Kent, where he was 
baptized Oct. 31, 1(330. He was educated at Canter- 
bury. and admitted to Corpus Christi College, Cambridge, 
March 25, 10-15, taking his A. 13. in 1648.A.M. in 1G52, and 
being chosen fellow in 1655. He became a tutor, was np- 
jMiinted a university preacher, and served t lie cures, lirst 
of M. tides and then of St. Benedict, in Cambridge. He 
tisik the degree of B.l). in 1050, and that of D.D. in 
1005: was presented, 16(37, by his college to the rectory 
of Land beach, Cambridgeshire, and Aug. 3 was elected 
master of the college. About a month later he was 
preferred bv the king to the archdeaconry of Sudbury, 
in 1672 to a prebend of Ely, and in B377 to the deanery 
of that church. I le resigned, 1G<*3, the rectory of Land- 
bench in favor of his kinsman, Wm. Spencer. In 1687 
he purchased an estate in Elmington, Northamptonshire, 
ami settled it by deed on the college, lie died May 27, 
1 635. Dr. Spencer published a sermon, 7 'he Bight eons 
Holer ( 1660): — . I Discourse concerning Prodigies (1603) ; 
a second edition was published (Bond. 1665, Svo), to 
w hich was added a Latin Dissertation concerning Vrim 
awl Thnmmim (1060, 1670): — .1 Discourse concerning 
Vulgar Prophtcies (1065, Svo): — De I.egibus Hehrirorum 
Pitualihus < 1 eannn Pationihns Lihri 'Pres (Camb. 1085, 

2 voN. fob); afterwards greatly enlarged by the addi- 
tion of a fourth book, and published by order of the 
university (ibid. 1727,2 vols. fol.). “This is usually 
regarded as the best edition, although that by l’fnlf 
(Tubingen, 1732, 2 vols. fol.) is in some respects more 
desirable, ns il eontains a dissertation by the editor on the 
life of Speneor, the value of bis work, its errors, and the 
authors who have written against it. The work is pre- 
ceded by Podtgomma, in whieh the author shows that 
the Mosaic laws were not given by Hod arbitrarily, but 
were founded on reasons which it is desirable and prof- 
itable to search into, so far ns the obscurity of the sub- 
ject permits. The work itself is divided into three (in 
t be second edition into four) books. The lirst book 
treats of the general reasons of the Mosaic laws, with a 
disse nation on the Tloocracy. The second considers 
those laws to whieh the customs of the Znbenns, or Sn- 
Is-atis, gave occasion, with a dissertation on the apus- 


j tolic decree, Acts xv. The third discusses the laws 
and institutions to which the usages of the Gentiles fur- 
nished the occasion, in eight dissertations: 1. Of the 
rites generally transferred from Gentile customs to the 
law; 2. Of the origin of sacrifice ; 3, Of purifications; 
4. Of new moons; 5. Of the ark and cherubim ; 6. Of 
the Temple; 7. Of the origin of Urim and Thummim; 
8. Of the scape-goat. The fourth book treats of the 
rites and customs which the Jews borrowed from the 
Gentiles, without, so far as appears, any divine warrant ; 
with a dissertation on phylacteries. The great error 
| of this learned and admirable work is its derivation, to 
an undue extent, of the rites and ceremonies of the Jew- 
j ish law from the idolatrous nations around; but the er- 
ror is one of excess, not of principle; for much that was 
incorporated in Judaism had been in existence from the 
j earliest ages.” See Chalmers, Biog. Diet, s. v. ; Hoefer, 
A 'our. Biog. Generate, s. v.; Allibone, Diet, of Brit. and 
A mer. .4 ufhors, s. v, 

Spencer, Robert O., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Columbia, Ohio, Feb. 10, 
1800. He began to preach at the age of seventeen, and 
was admitted on trial into the Ohio Conference in 1824. 
lie labored actively for thirty-four years, sixteen of 
them as presiding elder, w’hen he was obliged, by reason 
of ill-health, to retire. He died shortly after, Aug. 30, 
1858. lie was unaffectedly pious, diligent in study, 
grave and dignified in the pulpit. See Minutes of An- 
nual Conferences, 1858, p. 298. 

Spencer, Thomas, an English Dissenting minis- 
ter, was born in Hertford, Jan. 21, 1791. He went to 
school at a very early age, and his religious impressions 
and exercises were early manifested. The special in- 
clination of his mind w r as so early diselosed that preach- 
ers and preaching seemed to occupy all his thoughts. 
His manners xvere exceedingly amiable and engaging. 
At the age of twelve his convictions became settled 
that to preach was his duty. Difficulties beset him on 
every side; he was obliged to engage in work wholly 
unsnited to his taste, his father not being wealthy. But 
at length Providence opened his way, and a kind friend 
had him placed in an academy for the training of 
young men for the ministry. He w*as fifteen years of 
age when he came under the instruction of Lev. Mr. 
llondle; with other studies, he commenced the study 
of Hebrews He drew' up a statement of his views of 
theological truth in connection with his call to the min- 
istry. In January, 1807. having passed a remarkably 
good examination on all his studies, he went home, and 
while there preached h\s first public sermon. Those 
who heard him were filled with astonishment and ad- 
miration. His fame spread in every direction, and won- 
dering, weeping crowds followed him everywhere, in 
fields, ha rns, school-houses, workshops, in towns and cit- 
ies, as well as in the metropolis, and lady Huntingdon’s 
chapel at Brighton. On Nov. 5 lie was appointed to 
preach at Cambridge in the pulpit previously occupied 
by the llev. Bobert Hall. Mr. Spencer was ordered to 
go to Liverpool, and he entered upon his duties June 
30, 1810. II is preaching allected all hearts, and during 
the live Sabbaths of his stay lie attracted increasing 
multitudes from all parts, and at the close he received 
a unanimous call to the pastorate. This he accepted, 
though he had numerous calls from other places, in- 
cluding London. When he entered upon his pastoral 
labors in Liverpool he was just twenty years of age. 
All t he circumstances were of the most auspicious char- 
acter, and the congregation looked forward to a long 
and prosperous pastorate. On June 27, 1811, he was 
ordained ami installed pastor. The Church at once be- 
gan to increase its membership by conversions, and God 
set his seal upon his ministry; but alas that the fiower 
which hail just begun to open with such bloom and 
beauty should he suddenly blighted ! On Monday morn- 
ing, Aug. 5, 1811, he left his home and started out. to 
take a bath. lie entered the water near the Hercula- 


SPENCER 


921 


SPENEI 


neum Potteries, and was seen soon after by one of the 
workmen to be carried rapidly by the tide around a 
projecting rock beyond the reach of help, and after vain- 
ly struggling he sank to rise no more. 11 is body was 
recovered fifty minutes afterwards. Every effort that 
kind friends and medical skill could exert to resuscitate 
the body proved unavailing. (W. P. S.) 

Spencer, William H., a Presbyterian minister, 
was born in Madison, Conn., Oct. 13, 1813. He was ed- 
ucated in the University of New York; graduated at 
the Theological Seminary of Auburn, N. Y., in 1845 ; 
was licensed by Genesee Presbytery, and ordained bi r 
Utica Presbytery as pastor of the Presbyterian Church in 
Utica, N. Y., the same year. After spending some years 
there, he accepted a call to Milwaukee, Wis. ; subsequent- 
ly became the secretary of the Presbyterian Publication 
Committee in Philadelphia ; then returned to pastoral 
labor in the city of Rock Island, 111. ; and more recently 
in Chicago, where he was pastor of the Westminster 
Church at the time of his death, Feb. 16, 1861. Mr. 
Spencer possessed fine mental powers, was eminently 
public-spirited, and loyal to the Church. See Wilson, 
Presb . Hist. Almanac , 1862, p. 196. 

Spener, Philip Jacob, the father of Pietism (q. v.), 
and one of the most remarkable personages in the 
Church of the 17th century, was born in Alsace, at Rap- 
poltsweiler, in 1635, though he was wont to consider 
himself a Strasburger because the family had originated 
in that city. Reared amid pious surroundings, and pos- 
sessed of a naturally serious and retiring disposition, he 
was easily impressed with religious things; and the in- 
fluence of his godmother, a dowager countess of Rap- 
poltstein, the reading of edifying books like Arnd’s True 
Christianity , and the habit of prayer, early cultivated, 
contributed to a rapid development of his religious 
character while he was yet a child. He was indebted 
for both religious and intellectual training to Joachim 
Stoll (subsequently his brother-in-law, and from 1645 
preacher to the counts of Rappoltstein [sec the. bio- 
graphical sketch of Stoll in Rbhrich, Mittheilungen aas 
it. evang. Kirche des Elsasses (1855), iii, 321 ]), and en- 
tered the University of Strasburg when in his sixteenth 
year. His theological instructors in Strasburg were 
Dorsche (who left in 1653), Dannhauer, J. Schmid, and 
Sebastian Schmid. Dannhauer indoctrinated him in 
the strictest tenets of the Lutheran faith, J. Schmid be- 
came his “father in Christ,” and Seb. Schmid ranked as 
one of the most accomplished exegetes of his time. To 
these must be added Bocler, who excited in the youth 
an abiding love for the study of history. 

Spener tilled the position of tutor to the two sons of 
the count-palatine Christian II from 1654 to 1656, and 
afterwards entered on the then usual peregrinatio aca- 
demica. He went to Basle in 1659, and studied Hebrew 
under the younger Buxtorf, and thence to Geneva, for 
the purpose of studying French. A severe illness de- 
tained him at Geneva a whole year, and the association 
with Reformed clergymen which thus became possible 
to him greatly enlarged his views and sympathies. His 
letters of this period breathe the warmest admiration of 
the Genevan Church. He met Labadie and published 
a German edition of that tierv preacher’s Manuel de 
Priere. On his return from Geneva he visited the 
court of Wiirtemberg in the capacity of companion to 
count Rappoltstein. llis bearing impressed the duke 
favorably, and induced the latter to offer him an ap- 
pointment; but a call to Strasburg, which allowed him 
the privilege of devoting a portion of his time to the 
delivery of historical and philosophical lectures in the 
university, intervened, and was accepted in 1663 by 
Spener, who was in consequence obliged to apply for 
the doctorate of theology. Three years afterwards, in 
1666, Spener became minister and senior at Frankfort- 
on-the-Main. This position gave him authority over 
clergymen older thaii himself, and involved heavy re- 
sponsibilities. A low state of discipline existed in the 


churches, and the constitution of the city rendered im- 
provement difficult, inasmuch as the civil authorities 
were charged with the supervision of the churches, and 
their indifference prevented the application of any thor- 
ough measures of reform. Spener, however, did what 
he could. He infused new energy into catechetical in- 
struction, by giving to it his personal attention, and urg- 
ing a clearer exposition of the subject-matter than had 
been usual in the former practice of the Frankfort 
churches. He also published, as aids to the teachers, 
an Eiifaltige Erklarung der christl. Lehre (1677), and 
the Tabulce Catecheticce in 1683. In preaching he dis- 
cussed a wider range of subjects than a slavish follow- 
ing of the prescribed pericopes would admit of, his in- 
tention being to afford his people opportunity to become 
thoroughly acquainted with the contents of the entire 
Scriptures. His preaching was rather didactic than 
pathetic or emotional, and yet the effect produced was 
often profound and of abiding infinence. His force lay 
in an intimate acquaintance with the Bible and in a 
devout walk, whose agreement with the doctrines he 
advocated in the pulpit was known to all his hearers. 
A sermon preached by him in 1669 on the insufficient 
and false righteousness of the Pharisees caused a di- 
vision among his hearers, which resulted in 1670 in a 
closer union of the more earnest ones for their mutual 
edification. Spener invited them to assemble in his 
study for religious and social intercourse, and, after a 
time, for the study of the gospels. Their number was 
at first small, but it grew in time so that more than a 
hundred persons were habitually present at these gath- 
erings; and after repeated applications had been made, 
the authorities granted, in 1682, the use of a church for 
their assemblies. Such was the origin of the “Frank- 
fort conventicles.” (See Spener, Sendschreiben an einen 
christeifrigen Theolog. etc. ; Becker, Beitr. zur Frank/. 
Kirchengesch. [1853], p. 87. Gbbel, in Rhein.-westphal. 
Kirche , ii, 560, gives a different account, as do a num- 
ber of other writers, but their statements are effectual- 
ly disposed of by Spener, A bfertigung von I). Pfeifer, p. 
108, etc.) 

Spener had in the meantime acquired reputation as a 
zealous promulgator of strict Lutheran teachings; and as 
he was endowed with great prudence and modesty, and 
was always willing to share in the burdens of the min- 
istry, he was able to avoid unpleasant controversy for a 
time, even in that polemical age. The calm was broken, 
however, when he ventured, in 1675, to publish his book 
Pin Desideria, etc., whose burden was a “heart-felt sigh 
for such improvement of the true Evangelical Church 
as shall be pleasing to God.” The work was approved 
by the ministerium of Frankfort, and its statements 
were even 7 where guarded by appeals to the most ap- 
proved authorities. Its complaints, strong and star- 
tling as they might appear, were echoed by numerous 
voices in every part of the land, so that Spener was 
subsequently able to publish more than ninety letters 
of commendation received from leading theologians, 
among whom was Calovius. The remedies proposed for 
the evils existing in the Church were also in harmony 
with the Word of God and the spirit of Christianity, 
but the book was, nevertheless, unfavorably criticised, 
particularly at Strasburg. The hostility so aroused be- 
came more intense when the collegia pietatis, by which 
name Spener’s assemblies of laymen for mutual edifica- 
tion became known, were extended beyond the com- 
munity in which they first originated, and when it was 
observed that their multiplication was attended with a 
growing spirit of exclusiveness, a tendency towards sep- 
aratism, and occasional eccentricities on the part of 
their members. The attack on the Pietists , as they 
were now dubbed by their opponents, was led by a for- 
mer friend of Spener, the court-preacher of Darmstadt, 
Mentzer, and by Dilfeld of Nordhausen, who wrote a 
work entitled Tlieosophia Horbio-Speneriana (1679), in 
which he denied that the new birth is essential to a 
correct theology. Spener replied in Gottesgelahrtheit 


922 


SPEXE1 


SEEN Eli 

alkr glaubigen Christa i, and disarmed his assailants; ) 
and then wrote a work entitled Klagen iiber das rtrdor- 
Une Christenthum , etc. (168-1), in which he successfully 
combated the separatist tendency which had crept in 
among Ins followers without fault of his. He did not 
introduce similar meetings for edification in his subse- 
quent fields of lat*>r, and it has been supposed that they 
no longer commanded his approval; but a letter writ- 
ten in A.l>. 1700 to Franeke, in which he deprecates the 
action of the authorities of Frankfort by which the 
adl'tri'i pietatis were prohibited, affords positive evi- 
dence that his confidence in their utility was undimin- 
ished. 

After a pastorate of twenty years in Frankfort, Spe- 
lter received a call to the court of Saxony as principal 
court-preacher, at that time, it may be said, the most 
prominent ecclesiastical post in Frotestant Germany 
(Ifisfi). Ills call emanated from the elector Joh. Georg 
III himself, and was brought about by his own faithful- 
ness as a minister of the Gospel. The elector at one 
time became sick while at Frankfort, and Spener was 
invited to vi-.it him officially. lie assented, on condi- 
tion that he might minister to the prince as to a simple 
man. and without other reference than the soul’s rela- 
tion to its Maker. This plain-dealing pleased the elec- 
tor. and resulted in the transfer of Spener to the court 
of Dresden. He departed from Frankfort July 10,1GS(). 
It was soon apparent that the influence of the court- 
preacher was largely confined to the power he might 
exercise as the spiritual counsellor of the prince; but 
the warlike elector was rarely in bis capital, and was 
not disposed to yield to t he control of his chaplain. 
The self-esteem of the Saxon clergy had been wounded 
by the appointment of a foreign theologian to the high- 
est ecclesiastical position in the land, and they began a 
course of systematic opposition to the new incumbent. 
Various motives combined to intensify their hostility, 
among them the fact that Spener's unselfish and ear- 
nest piety was a constant reproach to their self-seeking 
and formal dispositions. The source of this opposition 
was the Loipsic University, where Carpzov was nursing 
the disappointment of having failed to secure the ap- 
pointment to the court in Spelter’s stead, and where a 
rebuke administered by the high consistory oil Spener’s 
motion because of the neglect to expound the Scriptures 
which prevailed had excited the ill-will of the faculty. 
A still stronger occasion for trouble was given by Tho- 
rnasius, a relative of Spener's son-in-law, who in 1088 
began to publish a satirical journal, in which the cler- | 
gy, and especially Carpzov and the professors extraor- 
dinary Albert i and Ffeifer, were roughly handled. Spe- 
ner endeavored to restrain the foolhardy editor, but in 
vain, and was held personally accountable for conduct 
of which he disapproved. The faculty had counte- 
nanced the study of the Scriptures in the original 
tongues by certain masters of the university as early as 
16*6 ; but when in 1689 Franeke (q. v.), Anton, and 
Schflde associated themselves with Spener and began 
the holding of colbgiu JiiUica in German for the edifi- 
cation of themselves and others, among them laymen, 
this favor was withdrawn; Carpzov and Alberti began 
to preach against the Fietisls,” I lie collegia Milica and 
even t lie original J'hilufnllivinn were suppressed, and 
Franeke was cited before the bar of a legal tribunal. 
To these troubles was added I be complete loss of the 
favor of his prince, occasioned by the exercise of the 
same quality which had at first recommended him to 
that favor the nntlinehing fidelity and frankness with 
which he fulfilled the duties of the ollice of confessor. 
The alienation of the prince, was of course made more 
complete by the machinations of Spener’s enemies, and 
been me so extreme that lie spoke of having to change 
In* residence unless Spener were removed from his sight. 
I. fibrin were made to induce the obnoxious preacher to 
resign hi* charge, which he refused to do; and then the 
court o| llirliu was inliiienecd to request his transfer 
fr«>m the court of Saxouv to that of Brandenburg. The 


request having been acceded to, Spener removed to Ber- 
lin in April, 1691, and was made consistorial-councillor 
and provost of St. Nicolai Church. 

The house of Brandenburg was at this time commit- 
ted to the policy of toleration in religious matters, and 
none of its members were directly interested in Spener’s 
work. The queen, indeed, became directly hostile to 
him, and the king did not grant him audience. The 
intolerant orthodox party was, however, restrained equal- 
ly with the “ Fietist,” and certain friends in high posi- 
tion at the court were able to render effective aid in the 
promotion of a vital piety in the Church. Spener at 
once inaugurated a thorough course of catechetical in- 
struction, as he had previously done at Frankfort and 
Dresden, lie preached twice a week and gathered a 
circle of candidates about him with whom he entered 
on a thorough study of the Scriptures. His influence 
was even more effective indirectly, as appears from the 
appointment of a large number of persons of like mind 
with himself to responsible positions in the Church. It 
was through such appointments to the faculty that 
Halle became the nursery of the pietist theology, being 
manned by such professors as Ilreithaupt, Franeke, An- 
ton, and their adjuncts Joachim Lange and Freyling- 
hausen. 

A new trouble for Spener was occasioned in Berlin by 
his loved colleague Schade, who was unable to refrain 
from a public denunciation of the practice of private 
confession as it existed in the Lutheran Church. lie 
issued a tractate in 1697 in advocacy of his views, and 
supported them, moreover, in a sermon preached front 
his own pulpit ; and when the next occasion for the ad- 
ministration of the sacrament of the Lord’s supper had 
arrived he broke through the limitations of the rubric, 
and after public prayer and confession pronounced a 
general absolution over the assembled congregation. 
The excitement caused by the^e bold measures was im- 
mense, but Schade was flnallv permitted by his superi- 
ors to exercise his ministry without being required to 
administer private confession ; and a similar exemption 
w'as granted by edict in 1G98 to all who had conscien- 
tious scruples against that practice. Franeke and Frey- 
linghausen were lighting a similar battle at Halle, and 
in other cities irresponsible visionaries appeared who 
were guilty of real excesses. T he responsibility for 
every trouble cf this kind in the Church was at once 
charged upon Spener by his opponents. “Wittenberg 
and Leipsic rivalled each other in abusing him, employ- 
ing personalities and calumniations rather than argu- 
ments and solid proofs to support their asseverations; 

I and as the temper of the times required of him who 
w’ould not be regarded a confessed and convicted male- 
factor a reply to every charge raised by an opponent, 
Spener was compelled to find time for such polemical 
) labors. Among the numerous writings from his pen 
which originated under such circumstances a response 
to the fitlminations of the Wittenberg faculty of 1695, 
entitled A vjrichtige V the ret us timm u ng mit der angsbmg. 
Confession , and a reply to the pamphlet Jleschrribung 
des Cvfugs, written by Carpzov and others, deserve spe- 
cial attention — the latter because it contains Spener’s 
version of the entire progress of the Fietist ic controver- 
sies. The polemical abilities of Spener were at about 
this time employed upon another controversy, not con- 
nected with his own direct work. The Calixtine party 
had, under the guidance of Leibnitz (q. v.), drawn near 
to the Burnish Church, and their influence was making 
itself felt among the tutors of the university. Pfeifer, 
professor extraordinary of theology, had openly com- 
mended Boman Catholicism, and w*as deprived of his 
ollice in 1691. The families of certain officials regular- 
ly attended mass. Krnest. Grabe, another professor ex- 
traordinary, bad placed in the hands of the consistory 
a work in which he alleged that the Fvangclical Church 
had, bv renouncing t lie apostolical succession, removed 
itself from a Christian basis. The elector committed 
the work of answering the various treatises written in 


SPENER 


923 


SPEXGLER 


support of this movement to three theologians, among 
whom was Spener. He produced in 1605 the work Der 
evaruj. Kirche Rettung vor falschen Beschuldigungen , 
which restrained Grabe from going over to Romanism 
as Pfeifer had done, though he removed to England and 
joined the Anglican establishment. Soon afterwards 
the elector Frederic Augustus of Saxony, a former pu- 
pil of Spener, apostatized to Komanisin, A doctrinal 
work on the eternal Godhead of Christ brought Spener’s 
literary labors to a close. He died Feb. 5, 1705. A few 
years later, on the accession of queen Sophia Louisa 
(1708), the tendency represented by him began to pre- 
vail. The court-preacher, Porst, inaugurated prayer- 
meetings at the court, which even the king attended 
from time to time; and associations for religious im- 
provement were multiplied among the clergy and laity 
of Berlin. 

Spener’s family consisted of his wife and eleven chil- 
dren, eight of whom survived his departure. One son, 
John J., occupied the chair of physics and mathematics 
at Halle, and died in 1692. Another, William Louis, 
began the study of theology. Jacob Charles was first 
theologian, then jurist, and eventually became the vic- 
tim of melancholy, which unfitted him for public life. 
The youngest, Ernest Godfrey, also studied theology, 
but fell into vicious habits. After being reclaimed, he 
abandoned theology and entered on the law, in which 
profession he succeeded; so that when he died, in his 
twenty-sixth year, he held the position of chief-auditor. 

Spener was inferior to none of his contemporaries in 
theological culture and acumen. His ability as an ex- 
egete is attested by his sermons and his valuable book 
Gemissbrauchte Bibelspriiche (1693). In systematic the- 
ology he was thorough and eminently clear, though 
hampered by the formalistic methods of his time. It 
appears, however, that his knowledge, or, at any rate, 
his interest, particularly towards the close of his life, did 
not transcend the bounds of theology. He was want- 
ing in imagination, but gifted with a strong and prac- 
tical mind, as well as with a warm heart, the burner of 
which is evidenced by the choice of genealogy and her- 
aldry among historical studies as the subjects of special 
inquiry. All important work in heraldry, entitled /«- 
signium Tkeoria , was published by him as late as 1690, 
He also lacked a good literary and rhetorical style. All 
his writings are intolerably verbose. He had experi- 
mented unsuccessfully with Latin verse, after the man- 
ner of his time; but at least one German hymn from 
his pen deserves mention — So ist's an dein , dass ick mit 
Freuden , etc. His ecclesiastical attitude was that of 
thorough and sincere subordination to the confession of 
his Church; but he endeavored to widen, so far as he 
safely might, the limits within which theologians had 
restricted the confession. The evils in the Lutheran 
Church which he censured had all been repeatedly as- 
sailed by leading writers. lie differed from his prede- 
cessors, however, in according a much larger measure 
of charity to reformers whose excess of zeal might drive 
them into error, and he even asserted that real piety 
may exist in the hearts of persons whose beliefs con- 
cerning even important matters of the faith are found to 
he very erroneous. He conceded, nevertheless, that ev- 
ery departure from a correct belief impairs the religious 
life and constitutes a fault. 1 1 is only heterodoxy was 
chiliasm (q. w), without a rejection of art. 17 of the 
Augsburg Confession (q. v.). The hope of a general in- 
gathering of the .Jews into the Church of Christ, to 
which he held, had been asserted by a number of the 
earlier theologians of his Church. 

In ecclesiastical polity Spener had, almost alone, dis- 
covered a great deficiency in the organization, though 
not in the theory, of his Church. The so-called third 
estate, the laity, held no position of trust or duty in the 
practical administration of the Church, save as it was 
represented bv persons employed as teachers of the 
young or officers of the government. Spener believed 
in the divine institution of the ministry of the Word, 


but he held that the Church could not afford to dispense 
with the services of laymen; and as the Church needed 
their services, so they were entitled to participate in her 
government. 

In his private character Spener was eminently pure. 
His public and private life are open to inspection in the 
writings of himself ami his contemporaries, but it would 
be difficult to raise a single objection against his moral 
character. He was gentle, modest, loving, and yet man- 
ly and energetic. He never laid aside his dignity. “To 
do no sin” was his great concern, and he affords an em- 
inent example of the length to which a determined 
Christian may carry the practices of watchfulness and 
prayer. To these he added occasional voluntary fasts, 
lie himself claims, however, that nature had endowed 
him with an equable and happily constituted temper. 

In his work Spener’s greatness appears in the effect 
he was able to produce upon his own age. Protestant 
theology was at that time turning away from dogma- 
tism and concerning itself more especially with the in- 
terests of subjective piety, and Roman Catholic theol- 
ogy revealed, in France, a tendency to Mysticism and 
Quietism. There is no question, however, that Spe- 
ner was the most influential exponent of the new ten- 
dency, not merely because of the exalted stations he 
was called to fill at Dresden and Berlin, but also through 
the force of his Christian personality and his lofty mod- 
eration as a theologian. He first gained the confidence 
of a number of German princes and influential states- 
men. 11 is relations with the ducal family of Wiirtem- 
berg and with that of the counts of Wetteran have al- 
ready been referred to. Duke Ernest sought his advice 
with reference to the Calixtine troubles as eaily as 1670. 
Gustavus Adolphus of Mecklenburg counselled with him 
in regard to reformations which he intended to inaugu- 
rate. Ulrica Eleonore, consort of Charles XI of Swe- 
den, corresponded with him in relation to the call of a 
chaplain for her court. The Saxon princesses were with 
but few exceptions his supporters, lie was also a rally- 
ing-point for all the Lutheran theologians who were not 
extreme zealots. 11 is correspondence was immense, and 
involved the treatment of grave and serious questions; 
and of the academical peregrinants then so common, 
many came to sit at his feet. To these must be added 
the numerous candidates whom he was accustomed to 
receive into his house and bring under his influence. 
Finally, we must consider the literary productions which 
he was able to send out into the world, though his time 
was frequently occupied with sessions of the consistory 
from 8 A.M. till 7 P.M. Canstein’s list of Spener’s writ- 
ings extends over seven folio pages, and enumerates 63 
vols. in 4to, 7 in 8vo, and 46 in 12mo, aside from numer- 
ous prefaces, etc. To gain time for such labors he was 
accustomed to withdraw himself almost entirely from 
social gatherings. When he died the theological ten- 
dency of the Church was greatly changed from what he 
found it at the beginning of his career. More than 
half the faculties and a majority of the consistories were 
still opposed to his views; but a number of like-minded 
men had attained to high positions in the Church; and 
the universities of Halle and Giessen, and, somewhat 
later, those of Jena and Kbnigsbcrg were training a 
great number of pupils in his spirit and according to his 
views. 

See Walch, Streitigkeifen imerhalb der luth. Kirche ; 
Canstein, Lebensbesch reibnng Opener's (1740); Stcin- 
rnetz, in his ed. of Spener’s minor works (1746 ); Knapp, 
Leben u. Character einiger frommen Manner dea vorigen 
Jahrhunderts (1829); Hossbach, Leben Spener s (2d ed. 
1853); Tliilo, Spener als Katechet (1841). — Herzog, 
Real-Encyklop. s. v, 

Spengler, Lazarus, recorder, syndic, and council- 
lor of Nuremberg from 1502 to 1534, and one of the ear- 
liest of Luther’s friends, was born March 13, 1479, and 
qualified himself for the practice of law at the Univer- 
sity of Leipsic. He wrote in defence of Luther’s teach- 
ing, and his name w’as in consequence included with 


SPE1 


924 


SPERATUS 


that of Pirkheiiner (q. v.) in the bull of excomrouni- ! 
cat ion which Dr. Eck procured for the destruction of 
Luther and his adherents. Kck also wrote to the Coun- 
cil of Nuremberg, urging the execution of the bull ; and 
the two men were obliged to apply to him for absolu- 
tion (see Planck, tieseh. d. protest. Lehrbegriffs [Leips. 
ITIM 1. i,332). Spengler was the representative of Nu- 
rcmlK-rg at the Diet of Worms in 1520. lie endeavor- 
ed to promote the interests of the Reformation in his 
native city by securing the establishment of an evan- 
gelical school; and for this purpose negotiated with i 
Mclatiethoii and visited Wittenberg in person. His 
wish was realized in 15*25. lie also participated in the 
Convention of Spiritual and Secular Councillors called 
by margrave C.eorge of Franconian Brandenburg (June 
1 1, 152 s) at Anspach, for the purpose of fixing regula- 
tions to govern a visitation of the churches. When 
Molancthon seemed to be yielding too much to the op- 
ponents of the Reformation at the Diet of Augsburg, in 
1530. Spongier was commissioned to report t he state of 
affairs to Luther, then sojourning at Coburg, lie also 
drew up an able opinion on the response given by the 
Protestant deputies to the proposals made by their ad- 
versaries on Aug. PL 1530. Spongier was esteemed by 
many princes and lords, particularly by the elector of 
Saxony; and also by many prominent leaders in the 
Church — e. g. Bruck, Jonas, Bugenhagen, Camerarius, 
and others. The letters of Luther and Melancthon 
show how warm and intimate was their friendship for 
him. His health gave way in 15*29; and, after repeated 
attacks of sickness, he died Xov. 7, 1534. He was mar- 
ried in 1501 to Ursula Sulmeister. and became the fa- ! 
ther of nine children. A hymn by his hand is still ex- 
tant, and has been rendered into several languages, be- 
ginning with Burch .1 dam's Fall 1st ganz verderbt. 
Others were composed by him, but are no longer extant. 
See Haundorff, Lebeusbesch reib. fines christl . Politici , 
nehmlich L. Spengler (Nuremb. 1741). A list of his 
published and unpublished works is given in Planck, j 
uf sup. p. 559-565. — Herzog, Real- Encyliop. s. v. 

Sper (Sprit, Spa it), a name applied by old writers 
to pieces of timber of various kinds, such as quarters, 
rafters, wooden bars 
for securing doors, etc. 1 
The term is still used : 
in some districts for 
|j,| rafters. Sper- batten 
is not an unusual name 
with Middle-age an- 
t hors for a rafter. 

I! They also frequently 
speak of sper ring a 
door, meaning the se- 
curing it with a wood- 
en bar, or fastening it 
with a bolt. Another 
sense of t lie word spur 
is for the ornamented 
wooden brackets 
which support the 
summer- beam by the 
sides of doorways at York: this usage is believed to 
l»i* quite local.— Parker, iJloss. of A rchitect. s. v. !Scc 
BltA< KM; HaI NTII. 

Speratus, Papi., a Swabian poet and Reformer, is 
said to have been descended from a noble Swabian fam- 
ily named Sprettrr or Sprett, His name is frequently 
followed in documents bv the addition of a Rutilis , the 
significance of which is not well understood, lie was 
horn Dec. 13, 11*1 (see Meleli. Adami I 'it. Germ. Theol. 
i, *2iMl i. lie is said to have been educated in Paris and 
Italy, hut his name does not appear on the lists of the I 
Sorboime. He lirst appears as a preacher at Dinkcls- 
bllhl, in Franconia, and then, in 1519, as preacher in 
the cathedral at Wurzburg, His sermons presented 
the Word of Hod in its purity, and fearlessly rebuked 



Wnlmgnte, York. 


existing abuses and corruptions in the Church; and as 
Luther’s influence became more powerful in the chap- 
ter, Speratus was accused of fomenting disturbances, and 
was dismissed from his post (see Scliarold, Luther's Ref. 
in Beziehung auf das damulige Bisthum [Wiirzburg, 
KS*24], p. 136 sq.; l)e Wette. Ruth. Briefe, ii,44«). lie 
also labored for a time in the ministry at Salzburg, but 
the exact period is not known. In 15*21 he was at 
Vienna, living in privacy until January. 15*2*2, when he 
took occasion, from a notorious sermon by a monk in 
defence of celibacy, to demonstrate the sanctity of the 
marriage state and to show 7 that the traditional theory 
and practice of vows are in direct contradiction of the 
Gospel and the baptismal covenant. On the 12th of 
that month he preached a sermon to this end from the 
pulpit of St. Stephen’s Church, which u 7 as subsequently 
printed at Konigsberg (1524), and a copy of which he 
sent to Luther. The theological faculty at once brand- 
ed the sermon as heretical, and selected from it eight 
specifications for a charge against him which was laid 
before the bishop, and also published. Being wholly 
unprotected against the rage of his foes, Speratus de- 
parted from Vienna, and, having been thrice summoned 
to appear, he was formally excommunicated under the 
canon law. His word had, however, fallen upon recep- 
tive soil, and the refutation of his arguments w*hich was 
required of all preachers served only to spread his ser- 
mon over a wider area. 

On his flight through Moravia, Speratus was request- 
ed by the abbot of the Dominican convent at Jglau to 
accept the position of preacher to the convent church, 
lie accepted, but. to the great surprise of his patron, at 
once began to preach the Gospel, and with a success 
that won the town-councillors and citizens in a body to 
his support. A public pledge of protection and support 
was given him in the town-hall, while the abbot anil 
his monks were preparing to begin violent measures of 
repression. His activity rapidly extended his influence 
over the whole of Moravia, and gave him intimate as- 
sociation with all the leaders in the Evangelical move- 
ment throughout Bohemia and Moravia. It is notice- 
able that he w*as unable to agree with the Bohemians 
in regard to the Lord’s supper, and that he sought coun- 
sel and instruction from Luther w'ith reference to this 
and other points of doctrine. In the meantime the ab- 
bot of Iglau had laid a complaint against Speratus be- 
fore the bishop of Olmntz, w ho was confessor to the in- 
experienced king Louis and a determined enemy of the 
Reformation. The result was that Speratus was thrown 
into prison without having been allowed a trial, and was 
kept there until the intercession of powerful friends, 
among them margraves Albert and George of Branden- 
burg, supported by the fear of a popular rising, which 
the attempt to burn Speratus at the stake would have 
caused throughout Moravia, induced the king to order 
his liberation, though coupled with a positive prohibi- 
tion of a renewal of his ministry at Iglau. j I is late 
parishioners furnished him with testimonials setting 
forth liis character and usefulness while their pastor, 
and allowed him to depart. lie went to Wittenberg, 
and became the assistant of Luther in literary labors. 
Among the labors performed by him in this period was 
the participation with Luther in the first collection of 
German Evangelical hymns, which appeared in 1524, 
and included three hymns of his own (Es ist das IJeil 
uns konimen her ; If iff Gott, irie ist der Menschen Noth ; 
In Gott glauR ich , dass er hat, etc.). 

In the year 1524 the margrave Albert extended to 
Speratus a call to Konigsberg, which lie accepted after as- 
certaining that no likelihood of his being able to return 
to Iglau existed. lie brought with him Luther’s recom- 
mendation as a “dignns vir et nmlta perpessns,” and at 
once joined Briesmann, the earliest Reformer of Prussia, 
in carrying forward the w 7 ork of Protestantism. He re- 
mained twenty-seven years, during six of which he was 
court-preacher at Konigsberg, after which he became 
bishop of Pomerania. While at Konigsberg he was di- 


SPERATUS 


925 


spiiinx 


rected in March, 1526, to participate in the introduction 
of the new system of Church government devised by 
the clergy and adopted by the legislative body in De- 
cember, 1525. lie also contributed materially towards 
the improvement of the liturgical part of public wor- 
ship by composing hymns for use by the congregation, 
and in some instances accompanying them with orig- 
inal melodies. A collection in the library of Konigs- 
berg contains, under his name, three hymns with melo- 
dies, and two separate collections of hymns without music 
(see Schneider, M. Luther’s Geistliehe Lieder , p. xxvi). 

A vacancy among the bishops occurred in 1529 by 
the death of the bishop of Pomerania, and duke Albert 
gave the post to Speratus. He undertook to adminis- 
ter his office with zeal and energy, but found that he 
had uncommon difficulties to encounter. The diocese 
was almost a moral wilderness, where the thorns and 
thistles of a former heathenism were yet unsubdued. 
Lawlessness prevailed, and Anabaptist and Sacramenta- 
rian sectaries abounded. In view of this state of affairs, 
he endeavored tirst to perfect the constitution and or- 
ganize the life of the Church. Archipresbyterial syn- 
ods in harmony with the visitation of 1529 were estab- 
lished, and soon afterwards provincial synods endowed 
with judicial functions. In 1530 Speratus assisted in 
the preparation of a Church book, designed to afford the 
clergy a guide to the administration of their office, and 
a com pend of Evangelical doctrine. Personal visitation 
of the churches followed, and in 1540 a new Church dis- 
cipline, the plan of which originated with Speratus, was 
promulgated by the government. Circulars and ad- 
dresses to his clergy urged a constant inculcation of the 
leading truths of Christianity and a zealous administra- 
tion of discipline, even to the extent of compelling the 
attendance on divine service of the people, whose igno- 
rance and boorishness in many instances rendered them 
incapable of appreciating any other kind of influence. 
The greatest need of the work was a supply of compe- 
tent preachers of the Word, which he endeavored to 
provide as he was able. In all his activity he showed 
himself more concerned to promote the practical welfare 
of the people than to contend for abstractions in doc- 
trine. When the Augsburg Confession was made au- 
thoritative by duke Albert, he directed the clergy to 
preach in harmony with its teachings, and threatened 
to visit any departure from its tenets with expulsion 
from the Church; which measures were regarded as 
necessarj r because of the low degree of Evangelical 
knowledge attained to by many of the clergy, and be- 
cause of the constantly widening influence of the Ana- 
baptists and Sacramentarians. Martin Cellarius had 
gone to Prussia as early as 1525, and Schwenkfeld (q.v.) 
endeavored to introduce his views from about the same 
period. Speratus became involved in controversies with 
the followers of the latter from the time of his entrance 
on the duties of the episcopacy. In 1531 he held a 
synod by direction from the duke, at which he met the 
leaders 'of the sectarian movement among his clergjq 
and endeavored to turn them from their errors, but in 
vain. A second colloquy ended with like results, and 
the principal sectaries were deposed from the ministry. 
In time the duke himself was infected with their spirit, 
and it required all the energy and influence of Luther, 
Melancthon, and Jonas, combined with the efforts of 
Speratus, to prevent him from turning away from ortho- 
dox truth. The constant immigration of fugitive Hol- 
landers perpetuated the Anabaptist troubles down to and 
beyond the close of Speratus’s life. He wrote his book 
Ad Batavos Yagantes against them in 1534. Through- 
out these conflicts he approved himself a decided adhe- 
rent of Luther. 

It appears that the lot of Speratus was not without 
anxieties growing out of a meagre income, so that he 
complained of poverty, which the duke was not in haste 
to relieve; but after he had determined to resign his 
office and depart to other lands his request for a better 
support was at length gratified in the donation of an 


estate. Before the close of his life he was permitted to 
provide a refuge for his Bohemian friends of earlier 
days, who were now fleeing from the persecutions of 
king Ferdinand I. He also drew up the statute by 
which their relations were governed (comp. Gindely, 
Gesch. d. buhm. Brtider, ii, 340 sq.). It does not appear 
that Speratus took any prominent part in the Osian- 
drian disputes. His health gave way, and his last years 
were a constant struggle against illness, from which he 
was relieved by death Aug. 12, 1551. Sec the docu- 
mentary sources in the secret archives at Kbnigsberg, 
and Rhesa, Vita Pouli Sperati (Progr. 1823); also Co- 
sack, Paul. Speratus Leben u. Lieder (Brunsw. 1861). — 
Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Sperchius was a Thessalian river-god in Grecian 
mythology, son of Oceanus and the Earth. He be- 
came the lather of Menesthius by Polydora, the daugh- 
ter of Peleus (Homer, Iliad, xvi, 174;*xxiii, 142; Apol- 
lod. i ii, 14, 4 ; Pausan. i. 37, 2; Herod, vii, 198). 

Spere, the screen across the lower end of the mo- 
nastic hall in the Middle Ages; a North-country word. 

Sperl, Joseph, a Roman Catholic divine of Ger- 
many, was born June 1, 1761, at Lauchheim, in Bava- 
ria. In 1800 he was appointed to the pastorate at 
Zoschingen, and afterwards to that of Schneidheim, 
having at the same time the superintendence of the 
schools. He died in 1834. In 1800 he published a 
hymn-book especially for the use of Roman Catholics, 
where some fine specimens of his own poetry can be 
found, as JJm die Erd ’ vnd Hire Kinder (Engl, transl. 
“ Round this earth and round her children,” in Hymns 
from the Land of Luther , p. 155). See Koch, Gesch. 
des deutschen Kirchenliedes , vi, 547 ; Knapp, Evangel. 
IAederschaiz , p. 1345. (B. P.) 

Spei ver, the tester, canopy, or covering of an altar 
or shrine. 

Spes, the personified Hope of the Romans, was orig- 
inally conceived of as the Hope of yearly harvests, for 
which reason she was represented with a wreath of 
flowers in her hair and ears of grain or a cornucopia in 
her hands. Subsequently she became the goddess of 
the marriage-bed, and only at a later day Hope in an ab- 
stract sense. She was worshipped at Rome, where sev- 
eral temples were dedicated to her, the most ancient of 
which had been built by the consul Atilius Calatinus, 
B.C. 354 (Livy, ii, 51, etc.; Tacit. Ann. ii, 49). The 
Greeks, too, worshipped Elpis. the personification of 
hope. When the different evils escaped from the Pan- 
dora-box, Elpis alone remained behind for the consola- 
tion of mankind. See Hesiod, Op. et D. 96 ; Theognis , 
570 sq. 

Sphaltes, the feller, was a surname of Bacchus in 
Grecian mythology, conferred because he brought down 
Telephus in battle by causing him to stumble over a 
vine (Pindar, Isihm. viii, 109, etc.). 

Sphingius, in Grecian mythology, was a son of 
Athamas by Themisto; probably identical with Schce- 
neus. 

Sphinx, a Greek word signifying the Squeezer, or 
Strangler, applied to certain symbolical forms of Egyp- 
tian origin, having the body of a lion, a human or an 
animal head, and two wings attached to the sides. Va- 
rious other combinations of animal forms have been 
called by this name, although they arc rather griffins 
or chinueras. Human-headed sphinxes have been call- 
ed androsphinxes; one with the head of a ram, a crio- 
sphinx; with a hawk’s head, a hieracosphinx. Xlie 
form, when complete, had wings added at the sides; 
but these are of a later period, and seem to have orig- 
inated with the Babylonians or Assyrians. In the 
Egyptian hieroglyphs the sphinx bears the name of 
Neb, or Lord, and Akar, or Intelligence, corresponding 
to the account of Clemens that these emblematic fig- 
ures depicted intellect and force. The idea that they 
allegorized the overflow of the Nile when the sun was 


92G 


SPICE 


spiiinx 


iii the constellations Leo and Virgo appears quite un- 
founded. In Egypt the sphinx also appears as the 
symbolical form of the monarch considered as a con- 
queror. the head of the reigning king being placed upon 
a lion’s body, the face bearded, and the usual dress-dra- 
pery being suspended before it. '1 hus used, the sphinx 
was generally male; but in the case of female rulers 
the figure has n female head and the body ol a lioness. 

The most remarkable sphinx is the (ireat Sphinx at 
Gizeh, a colossal form hewn out of the natural rock, 
and lying three hundred teet east of the second pyra- 
mid. It is sculptured out of a spur of the rock itself, 



to which masonry has been added in certain places to 
complete the form, and measures one hundred and sev- 
tv-two feet six inches long by fifty-six feet high. Im- 
mediately in front of the breast, Caviglia found, in 1816, 
a small nans, or chapel, formeil of three hieroglyphical 
tablet^ dedicated by the monarchs Thotmcs III and 
Lameses 11 to the sphinx, which they adore under the 
name of llnremakhii, or llarmachts, as the Greek in- 
scriptions found at the same place call it— i. e. the Sun 
on the Horizon. These tablets formed three walls of 
the chapel; the fourth, in front, had a door in the cen- 
tre ami two coiichant lions placed upon it. A small 
lion was found on the pavement, and an altar between 
its fore-paws, apparently for sacrifices offered to it in 
the time of the Homans, lie fore the altar was a paved 
esplanade, or dromos, leading to a staircase of thirty 
steps placed between two walls, and repaired in the 
reigns of M. Aurelius and L. Yorus, on May 1 0, A.I). 
100. In the reign of Severus and liis sons, A.I). 199- 
another dromos, in the same line, as the first, and 
a diverging staircase were made, while some additions 
were found to have been made to the parts between the 
two staircases in the reign of Nero. Votive inscrip- 
tions of the Homan period, some as late ns the 3d cen- 
tury, were discovered in the walls and constructions. 
On the second digit of the left claw of the sphinx an 
inscription in pentameter Greek verses hy Arrian, prob- 
ably of the time of Severus, was discovered. Another 
metrical and prosaic inscription was also found. In ad- 
dition to these, walls of mibiirucd brick, galleries and 
shafts, were found in the rear of the sphinx extending 
northward. The excavations, however, of M. Marietta 
in lx.Vj have thrown further light oil the sphinx, dis- 
covering the perilsilos, or outer wall that encircled it; 
that the head only was sculptured; and that the sand 
which had accumulated round it was brought l>v tin* 
bauds of man, and not an encroachment of the desert ; 
aUo that the nin«mry of the belly was supported by a 
kind of abutment. To the south of the sphinx Mari- 


ette found a dromos which led to a temple built, at the 
time of the 4th dynasty, of huge blocks of alabaster 
and red granite. In the midst of the great chamber of 
this temple were found seven statues, five mutilated 
and two entire, of the monarch Shaf-ra, or Chephren, 
made of a porphyritic granite. They are tine examples 
of ancient Egyptian art. While the beauty and grand- 
eur of the Great Sphinx have often attracted t lie ad- 
miration of travellers, its age has always remained a 
subject of doubt; but these later discoveries prove it 
to have been a monument of the age of the 4th dynas- 
ty, or contemporary with the pyramids. 

Besides the Great Sphinx, avenues of sphinxes have 
been discovered at Sakkarah forming a dromos to the 
Serapeium of Memphis, and another dromos of the same 
at the Wady Essebua. A sphinx of the age of the 
Shepherd dynasty has been found at Tanis, and anoth- 
er of the same age is in the Louvre; and a granite 
sphinx, found behind the vocal Mcmnon and inscribed 
with the name of Amenophis III, is at St. Petersburg. 
An avenue of criosphinxes has been found at Karnak. 
These are each about seventeen feet long and of the 
age of Homs, one of the last monarchs of the 18th dy- 
nasty. Various small sphinxes are in the different col- 
lections of Europe, but none of any very great antiquity. 

The Theban sphinx, whose myth first appears in 
Ilesiod, is described as having a lion’s body, female 
head, bird’s wings, and serpent’s tail, ideas probably de- 
rived from Phoenician sources, which had adopted this 
symbolical form into the mythology from Egypt. She 
was said to be the issue of Orthos, the two-headed dog 
of Geryon, by Chimaera, or of Tvphon and Echidna, and 
was sent into the vicinity of Thebes by Juno to punish 
the transgression of Laius, or, according to other ac- 
counts, by Bacchus, Mars, or Pluto. This she did by 
propounding a riddle to every one that passed by and 
killing those who were unable to solve it. CEdipus final- 
ly gave the solution, and the sphinx thereupon threw 
herself from the rock on which she had settled. The 
sphinx was a favorite subject of ancient art, and ap- 
pears in bas-reliefs, on medals of Chios and other towns, 
and often as the decorations of arms and furniture. In 
Assyria and Babylonia representations of sphinxes have 
been found, and the same are not uncommon on Phoeni- 
cian works of art. 

See Birch, Mus. of Class. Antiq. ii, 27; Quar. Her. 
xix, 412; Vyse, Pyramids, iii. 107 ; Young, Hievoylyph- 
ics, pi. 80; Letronne, I user. Grecg. ii, 400; Jiev. Arch. 
1853, p. 71 5 ; 1800, p. 20 ; iSchol. Enripid. i, 1 , 1 134 ; Hes- 
iod, Thooy. p. 326; Creuzer, Symbolik , i, 405; Millin, 
Gal. Myth. p. 502, 505; Murray, Handbook for Eyypt, 
p. 193 sq.; Biideker, Lower Eyypt , p. 105,348. — Cham- 
bers's Encyclop. s. v. See Egypt. 

Sphragis C2<ppayig, seal,) a name given in the an- 
cient Church to baptism. Being rather uncommon as 
applied to baptism, it has occasioned some error among 
learned men, who often mistake it either for the sign of 
the cross, or the consignation, and the unction that was 
used in confirmation. The imposition of hands in ordi- 
nation was called a(f>payig (consignation) and oravpoe i- 
Ci)<j (T<j)payi(j (co ns iy nation in form of a cross'), because 
the sign of the cross was made on the head of him that 
was ordained. See Bingham, Christ. Antiq. bk. iv, eh. 
vi, § 12; bk. xii, eh. i, § 4. 

SphragitYd&s, in Greek mythology, were a class 
of prophetic nymphs on Mount Citluvron, in Bocotia, 
where the}- had an oracle in a grotto. 

Sphyrus, in Grecian mythology, was a grandson 
of .Eseulapius and son of Machaoii by Anlielea, the 
daughter of king Diodes of Phene. 

Spice is the rendering in the A. V. of the following 
Hebrew and Greek words. See Ano.M.vnrs. 

1. Hasum, besom, or bosom (D’vL‘2, Cw2, or D1L‘21; 
Sept, ifoapara, Sopiupara; Vulg. aroumta). The 
, first-named form of the Hebrew term, which occurs 


SPICE 


927 


SPICE 


only in Cant, v, 1, “I have gathered mv myrrh with 
my spice,” points apparently to some definite substance. 
In the other places, with the exception perhaps of Cant, 
i, 13; vi, 2, the words refer more generally to sweet 
aromatic odors, the principal of which was that of the 
balsam, or balm of Gilead. The tree which yields this 
substance is now generally admitted to be the Amyris 
(. Jhilsa modemlr on ) opobalsamum ; though it is probable 
that other species of Amyridacece are included under 
the terms. The identity of the Hebrew name with the 
Arabic basham or balasan leaves no reason to doubt 
that the substances are identical. The Amyris opobal - 
su mum was observed by Forskal near Mecca; it was 
called by the Arabs abusham, i. e. “ very odorous.” 
Yet whether this was the same plant that was culti- 
vated in the plains of Jericho and celebrated through- 
out the world (Pliny, Hist. Nat. xii, 25 ; Theophrastus, 
JJist. Plant, ix, 6; Josephus, Jnt. xv, 4, 2; Strabo, xvi, 
3G7, etc.), it is difficult to determine; but being a trop- 
ical plant, it cannot be supposed to have grown except 
in the warm valleys of the south of Palestine. The 
shrub mentioned by Burckhardt (Trav. p.323) as grow- 
ing in gardens near Tiberias, and which he was in- 
formed was the balsam, cannot have been the tree in 
question. The A. V. never renders basdm by “ balm ;” 
it gives this word as the representative of the Hebrew 
tzeri, or tzori. See Balm. The form besem or bosem , 
which is of frequent occurrence in the Old Test., may 
well be represented by the general term “spices,” or 
“sweet odors,” in accordance with the renderings of 
the Sept, and Vulg. The balm-of-Gilead tree grows in 
some parts of Arabia and Africa, and is seldom more 
than fifteen feet high, with straggling branches and 
scanty foliage. The balsam is chiefly obtained from 
incisions in the bark, but the substance is procured also 
from the green and ripe berries. The balsam orchards 
near Jericho appear to have existed at the time of Ti- 
tus, bv whose legions they were taken formal posses- 
sion of, but no remains of this celebrated plant are now 
to be seen in Palestine (Lady Callcott, Scripture Herbal , 
p. 33). — Smith. See Tristram, Nat. JJist. of the Bible , 
p. 33G. See Gilead, Balm of. 

2. Xekoth (rfci-3) occurs twice in the book of Gen- 
esis, and no doubt indicates a product of Syria, for in 
one case we find it carried into Egypt as an article of 
commerce, and in another sent as a present into the 
same country. Thus, in Gen. xxxvii, 25 we read, “ Be- 
hold, a company of Ishmaelites came from Gilead with 
their camels, bearing spicery (nekoth), and balm (tzeri), 
and myrrh (lot), going to carry it down to Egypt.” To 
these men Joseph was sold by his brethren, when they 
were feeding their flocks at Dothan, ascertained to be a 
few miles to the north of Sebaste, or Samaria. It is 
curious that Jacob, when desiring a present to be taken 
to the ruler of Egypt, enumerates nearly the same arti- 
cles (Gen. xliii, 11), “Carry down the man a present, a 
little balm (tzeri), and a little honey (debush), spices , 
( nekoth ) and myrrh (lot)." (See the several words.) 
Bochart (IJieroz. II, iv, 12) enters into a learned ex- 
position of the meaning of nekoth, of which I)r. Har- 
ris has given an abridged view in his article on spices. 
Bochart shows that the true import of nekoth has al- 
ways been considered uncertain, for it is rendered wax 
by the paraphrast Jonathan, in the Arabic version of 
Erpenius, and in Bereshith Rabba (§ 91, near the end). 
Otiiers interpret it very differently. The Sept, renders it 
Sv pta pa, perfume ; Aquila, storax ; the Syrian version, 
resin ; the Samaritan, balsam ; one Arabic version, khur- 
nitb or carob; another, sumuyha (or gum); Kimchi, a 
desirable thiny ; rabbi Selomo, a collection of several 
aromatics. Bochart himself considers it to mean sto- 
rax, and gives six reasons in support of his opinion, 
but none of them appears of much weight. Storax, no 
doubt, was a natural product of Syria, and an indige- 
nous product seems to be implied; and Jerome (Gen. 
xliii, 1 1) follows Aquila in rendering it styrax. Bosen- 


miiller, in his Bibl. Bot. p. 1G5, Engl, transl., adopts trag- 
acanth as the meaning of nekoth, without expressing 
any doubt on the subject; stating that “the Arabic 
word neka or nekat, which is analogous to the Hebrew, 
denotes that gum which is obtained from the traga- 
canth, or, as it is commonly called, by way of contrac- 
tion, traganth shrub, which grows on Mount Lebanon, 
in the isle of Candia, and also in Southern Europe.” 
I)r. Boyle was not able to find any word similar to 
nekoth indicating the tragacanth, which in his own 
MS. Materia Medica is given under the Arabic name 
of kitad , sometimes pronounced kithad ; and, indeed, it 
may be found under the same name in Avicenna and 
other Arabic authors. In Bichardson’s Arabic JHction- 
ary we find nakat, translated as meaning the best part 
of corn (or dates) when sifted or cleaned; also nukayet, 
the choicest part of anything cleaned, but sometimes 
also the refuse. Tragacanth is an exudation from sev- 
eral species of the genus Astragalus and subdivision 
Trayacantha, which is produced in Crete, but chiefly in 
Northern Persia and in Kurdistan. In the latter prov- 
ince Dr. Dickson, of Tripoli, saw large quantities of it 
collected from plants, of which he preserved specimens 
and gave them to Mr. Brandt, British consul at Erzc- 
ronm, by whom they were sent to Dr. Lindley. One 
of these, yielding the best tragacanth, proved to be 
A. yummifer of Labillardiere. It was found by him 
on Mount Lebanon, where he ascertained that trag- 
acanth was collected by the shepherds. It might 
therefore have been conveyed by Ishmaelites from Gil- 
ead to Egypt. It has in its favor that it is a produce 
of the remote parts of Syria, is described by ancient 
authors, as Theophrastus, Dioscorides, etc., and has al- 
ways been highly esteemed as a gum in Eastern coun- 
tries. It was therefore very likely to be an article of 
commerce to Egypt in ancient times. — Kitto. It is de- 
scribed by Dioscorides as a low shrub, with strong and 
wide-spreading branches almost lying on the ground, 
and covered with many small thin leaves, among which 
there are concealed white, erect, and strong thorns. 
Three or four species of the genus are enumerated as 
occurring in Palestine (see Strand, Flora J'ulcestina, 
No. 413-416). The gum is a natural exudation from 
the trunk and branches of the plant, which, on being 
“exposed to the air, grows hard, and is formed either 
into lumps or slender pieces curled and winding like 
worms, more or less long according as matter offers” 
(Tournefort, Voyage [Loud. ed. 1741], i, 50). The gum 
having no smell, and being of a quite sweetish taste, 



928 


SriDEIl 


SPICE 


was not used for fumigations, hut, mixed with honey, | 
was extensively used ns a medicine. It is now chiefly 
employed for its mucilaginous property as a paste, es- i 
peri a l iv by druggists. t*ee Tristram, Xut. J/ist. of the 
Jiibh. p.693. , 

it is uncertain whether the word rzz, nekuth, in 2 
Kings xx. 13; La. xxxix. 2. denotes spice of any kind. 
The A. V. reads in the text “the house of his precious 
things." the margin gives "spicery,” which has the sup- 
port of the Vulg., A<].,and Symm. It is clear from the 
passages referred to that llezekiah possessed a house or 
treasury of precious and useful vegetable productions, 
and that mkoth may in these places denote, though per- 
haps not exclusively, tragacauth gum. Keil ( Com - 
merit. loc. eit.) derives the word from an unused root 
(T*S. “implevit loeulum"), and renders it by “treas- 
ure.” — Smith. 

3. *S 'atnniim Sept. rjCvirpa, r/(W/* oc, dpiopa, 

cvfiiapa ; Vulg. snare fnigntns. boni odoris , grafissi- 
mns. uromata ; A. V. “sweet” in connection with “spice” 
or incense”) is a general term to denote those aromatic 
substances which were used in the preparation of the 
anointing oil. the incense offerings, etc. (Kxod. xxv, 6: 
xxx, 7, 34; xxxi, 11 ; xxxv. 8, 15. 28; xxxvii, 24; 
xxxix, 38; xl, 27 ; Lev. iv, 7 ; xvi, 12; Numb, iv, Id; 
2 Citron, ii, 4; xiii, 11). The root of the word, accord- 
ing to (Jescnitis, is to he referred to the Arabic sumni , 
“olfecit.” whence samurn, “an odoriferous substance.” 
See I st’KNSK, Sammim, therefore, may be supposed to 
mean drugs and aromatics in general. When these are 
separately noticed, especially when several are enumer- 
ated, their names may lead us to their identification. 
Dr. Vincent has observed that “in Kxod. xxx we find 
an enumeration of cinnamon, cassia, mvrrh. frankin- 
cense, stacte. onycha, and galbainim, all of which are 
the produce either of India or Arabia.” More correctly, 
cinnamon, cassia, frankincense, and onycha were prob- 
ably obtained from India; mvrrh, stacte, and some 
frankincense from the east coast of Africa; and gal- 
bamin* from l’ersia. Nine hundred years later, or about 
15.4 *. 5*8, in Ezok. xxvii, the chief spices are referred to, 
with the addition, however, of calamus. They are prob- 
ably the same as those just enumerated. Dr. Vincent 
refers chiefly to the /’eriplus, ascribed to Arrian, writ- 
ten in the 2d century, as furnishing a proof that many 
Indian substances were at. that time well known to 
commerce, as ah»e or agila wood, gum - bdellium, the 
gfigal of India, cassia and cinnamon,* nard, costus, in- 
cense— that is, olihanmn — ginger, pepper, and spices. If 
we examine the work of Dioseorides, we shall find all 
these, and several other Indian products, not only men- 
t ioned, hut described, ns schcenaui hits, Calamus aromati- 
cus cy perns, malabalhrum, turmeric. Among others, 
Lwiurn Indicuni is mentioned. Thin is the extract of 
barberry root, and is prepared in t lie Himalayan Moun- 
tains (iCoyle, On the Lye him of Dioseorides, in the Lin- 
reran Trans,). It is not unworthy of notice that we 
find iio mention of several very remarkable products of 
the Kant, such as camphor, cloves, nutmeg, betel-leaf, 
ridx bs, gamboge, all of which are so peculiar in their 
nature that we could m»r have failed t o recognise them 
if tlu*y had been described at all, like those we have 
enumerated, as the produce of India. These omissions 
are significant of the countries to which commerce and 
navigation had not extended at the time when the 
otlo-r articles were well known ( Hindoo A/edinne, p. 93), 
If we trace these up to still earlier authors, we shall 
find many of them mentioned by Theophrastus, ami 
even by I lippoerntes; am! if we trace them downward 
t<» the time of the Arabs [see SriKKNARD*], and from 
that to modern times, we find many of them described 
under (lo ir present names in works current throughout 
the ha-n,aml in which their ancient names are given as 
synonyms. \\ e have therefore as much assurance as 
is |*eedblc ill such cases that the majority of the suh- 
btanees mentioned hv the ancients have been identified, 


and that among the spices of early times were included 
many of those which now form articles of commerce 
from India to Europe. — Kitto. For more particular 
information on the various aromatic substances men- 
tioned in the Bible, the reader is referred to the articles 
which treat of the different kinds— Cinnamon ; Frank- 
incense; Galbanum; Myrrh; Spikenard, etc. 

4. In one passage (Ezek. xxiv, 10), rakach , to 

perfume , hence to flavor ffesh, is rendered “spice” (else- 
where “prepare,” “compound,” etc.). See Apothecary. 

5. The spices ( dpiopa , a general term) mentioned as 
being used by Nicodemus for the preparation of our 
Lord’s body (John xix, 30, 40) are “myrrh and aloes.” 
by which latter word must he understood, not the aloes 
of medicine (.4 loe), but the highly scented wood of t he 
Aquilaria agalloehum. See Aloe. The enormous 
quantity of one hundred pounds’ weight of which John 
speaks has excited the incredulity of some authors. 
Josephus, however, tells us that there were five hun- 
dred spice-bearers at Herod’s funeral {Ant. xvii, 8, 3), 
and in the Talmud it is said that eighty pounds of 
opobalsamum were employed at the funeral of a certain 
rabbi. Still, there is no reason to conclude that one hun- 
dred pounds’ weight of pure mvrrh and aloes was con- 
sumed. The words of the evangelist imply a prepara- 
tion (piypa) in which perhaps the myrrh and aloes 
were the principal or most costly aromatic ingredients. 
Again, it must he remembered that Nicodemus was a 
rich man, and perhaps was the owner of large stores of 
precious substances; as a constant though timid dis- 
ciple of our Lord, he probably did not scruple at any 
sacrifice so that he could show his respect for him. A 
lavish use of spices at the obsequies of the illustrious 
dead was also made hv the later Homans; but, instead^ 
of being deposited with the body, they were cast into 
the flames of the funeral pile. The ease of Nero’s wife, 
Poppa?a, was somewhat exceptional, perhaps on account 
of her Jewish habits. Pliny tells us {/list. Nut. xii, 18) 
that more than a year’s supply of spices was burned to 
do her honor; hut Tacitus more accurately says that 
“the body was not dissipated in the flame, alter the 
Roman fashion; but, according to the custom of foreign 
kings, was filled with antiseptic perfumes and deposited 
in the tomb of the Julii” (.1 nn. xvi, 6). See Burial. 

Spicer, Tobias, a distinguished minister of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church, was born at Kinderhook, 
N. Y., Nov. 7. 1788. His conversion took place in Octo- 
ber, 1803, and soon after he united with the Church. 
He was admitted into the New York Conference at 
Pittsfield, Mass., May 20, 1810. He received the ordi- 
nation of deacon in 1814, and that of elder in 1816. Upon 
the division of the conference he became a member of 
the Troy Conference. He was supernumerary in 1837, 
effective in 1839; again supernumerary in 1843, effective 
in 1814, and supernumerary in 1845. In 1846 he was 
t lie delegate from the Troy Conference to the Evangeli- 
cal Alliance, London. From that time he held either a 
supernumerary or a superannuated relation. But he 
was often engaged in regular work, either as pastor or 
presiding elder. lie died Nov. 13, 1862. Mr. Spicer 
was a deep thinker and a hard student. He was very 
industrious, having preached during his ministry 8550 
sermons; and during his seventy - second year he 
preached 211 times. See Minutes of Annual Confer'- 
enves , 1863, p. 96. 

Spicery. See SriCK 2. 

Spider is the rendering in the A. V. of two Heb. 
words: 

1. ’.I kkabxsh (w^XXX* ; Sept. apd\vi ) ; Vulg. araneif) 
ocenrs in Job viii, 14; Isa. lix, 5. In the first of these 
passages the reference seems clear to the spider’s web, 
or, literally, house (t"PX), whose fragility is alluded to 
as a lit representation of the hope of a profane , ungodly, 
or profligate person; for so the word ClSH really means, 
and not “ hypocrite,” as in our version. The object of 


SriDEI 


929 


SPIDE1 


such a person’s trust or confidence, who is always really 
in imminent danger of ruin, may be compared for its 
uncertainty to the spider’s web. “Me shall lean upon 
his house (i.e. to keep it steady when it is shaken) ; he 
shall hold it fast (i.e. when it is about to be destroyed) ; 
nevertheless, it shall not endure” (Job viii, 15). In t he 
second passage (Isa. lix, 5) it is said, “The wicked weave 
the spider’s web” ("Hip, literally “ thin threads”) ; but 
it is added “their thin threads shall not become gar- 
ments, neither shall they cover themselves with their 
works;” that is, their artifices shall neither succeed, nor 
conceal themselves, as does the spider’s web. This al- 
lusion intimates no antipathy to the spider itself, or to 
its habits when directed towards its own purposes; but 
simply to the adoption of those habits by man towards 
his fellow-creatures. No expression of an abstract an- 
tipathy towards any creature whatever is to be found 
in Scripture. Though certain species, indeed, which 
for good and wise reasons were prohibited as food, are 
so far called “an abomination,” yet revelation through- 
out recognises every living creature as the work of God 
and deserving the pious attention of mankind. — Kit to. 

In the passage from Job the special allusion is thus 
seen to be not to the use of the web as a snare to inter- 
cept flies, but as a structure for the concealment and 
protection of the artificer; and is intended to express 
that, notwithstanding all the ingenuity displayed in the 
construction of the web, and the spider’s trust in it and 
efforts to fasten it, the material is so frail that a slight, 
violence suffices to destroy it; so shall the artifices 
which the hypocrite so craftily devises, and on which 
he depends for concealment, fail before the judgment of 
God. We may suppose that the writer had his eye 
upon one of those species which weave an elaborate 
nest in the form of a wide sheet, centring in a close 
and clothlike tube, in which the animal lives, such as 
that of Ayelena lubyrinthica, which is so common with 
us in the latter part of summer. “Our readers,” says 
Mr. Rennie, “must often have seen this nest spread out 
like a broad sheet in hedges, furze, and other low bushes, 
and sometimes on the ground. The middle of this 
sheet, which is of a close texture, is swung, like a sailor’s 
hammock, by silken ropes extended all around, to the 
higher branches; but the whole curves upward and 
backward, sloping down to a long funnel-shaped gallery 
which is nearly horizontal at the entrance, but soon 
winds obliquely till it becomes quite perpendicular. 
This curved gallery is about a quarter of an inch in 
diameter, is much more closely woven than the sheet 
part of the web, and sometimes descends into a hole in 
tiie ground, though oftener into a group of crowded 
twigs or a tuft of grass. Here the spider dwells secure, 
frequently resting with her legs extended from the en- 
trance of the gallery, ready to spring out upon whatever 
insect may fall into her sheet-net” ( Insect A rchit. p. 357). 

The prophet Isaiah appears to glance at the poison- 
ous nature of the spider, and the object for which the 
web is woven. It is for the entrapping of unwary in- 
sects, which are then seized by the treacherous lier-in- 
wait, and pierced by its venomous fangs. It is true, 
moral feelings cannot with metaphysical propriety be 
attributed to an invertebrate animal, but popular preju- 
dice in all ages and countries has sanctioned the poet’s 
unfavorable verdict, when he says of the spider — 

“ Cimning and fierce, mixture abhorred.” 

The craft and apparent treachery of its actions; -its 
ferocity even to its own kind; the dark, sombre colors; 
the hairiness; and in many species the swollen, bloated 
form of the abdomen; the repulsive aspect of the head 
and mouth ; and, in particular, the fatality of the venom 
injected by those formidable fangs — sufficiently warrant 
the general dislike in which the Arachnida are held, 
even though we readily grant that they are but fulfill- 
ing the instinct which an all-wise God has implanted 
in them, and concede their utility even to man in di- 
minishing the swarms of annoying insects. The organs 
IX.— N n 


of destruction in a 
spider form an inter- 
esting study, and can 
be examined to great 
advantage in the 
slough, or cast skin, 
which we so often find 
in the haunts of these 
creatures. There are 
in the front of the 
head — in Clubiona 
atrox, for example, a 
common species Common Spider (Clubiona atrox). 

two stout brown organs, which are the representatives of 
the antennae in insects, though very much modified both 
in form and function. They are here the ellcctive weap- 
ons of attack. Each consists of two joints — the basal 
one, which forms the most conspicuous portion of the 
organ, and the terminal one, which is the fang. The 
former is a thick hollow case, somewhat cylindrical, 
but flattened sidewise, formed of stiff chitine, covered 
with minute transverse ridges on its whole surface, like 
the marks left on the sand by the rippling wavelets, 
and studded with stout coarse black hair. Its extremi- 
ty is cut off obliquely, and forms a furrow, the edges of 
which are beset with polished conical points resembling 
teeth. To the upper end of this furrowed case is fixed 
by a hinge-joint the fang, which is a curved claw-like 
organ, formed of hard chitine, and consisting of two 
parts — a swollen oval base, which is highly polished, 
and a more slender tip, the surface of which has a silky 
lustre, from being covered with very fine and close-set 
longitudinal grooves. This whole organ falls into the 
furrow of the basal joint when not in use, exactly as 
the blade of a clasp-knife shuts into the haft ; but when 
the animal is excited, either to defend itself or to attack 
its prey, the fang becomes stiffly erected. By turning 
the object on its axis under the microscope, and examin- 
ing the extreme tip of the fang, we may sec that it is 
not brought to a fine point, but that it has the appear- 
ance of having been cut off slant-wise just at the tip; 
and that it is tubular. Now this is a provision for the 
speedy infliction of death upon the victim; for both 
the fang and the thick basal joint are permeated by a 
slender membranous tube, which is the poison duct, 
and which terminates at the open extremity of the 
former, while at the other end it communicates with a 
lengthened oval sac where the venom is secreted. This, 
of course, we should not see in the slough, for it is not 
cast with the exuviae, but retained in the interior of the 
body; but in life it is a sac extending into the cephalo- 
thorax — as that part of the body which carries the legs 
is called — and covered with spiral folds produced bv 
the arrangement of the fibres of its contractile tissue. 
When the spider attacks a fly, it plunges into its vic- 
tim the two fangs, the action of which is downward, 
and not right and left, like that of the jaws of insects. 
At the same instant a drop of poison is secreted in each 
gland, which, oozing through the duct, escapes from the 
perforated end of the fang into the wound, and rapidly 
produces death. The fangs are then clasped down, car- 
rying the prey, which they powerfully press against the 
toothed edges of the stout basal piece, by which menus 
the nutritive fluids of the prey are pressed out and taken 
into the mouth; after which the dried and empty skiu 
is rejected. The poison is of an acid nature, as experi- 
ments performed with irritated spiders prove, litmus 
paper pierced by them becoming red as far around the 
perforation as the emitted fluid spreads. — Fairbairn. 

There are very many species of spider in Palestine: 
some which spin webs like the common garden spider; 
some which dig subterranean cells, and make doors in 
them, like the well-known trap-door spider of Southern 
Europe; and some which have no web, but chase their 
prey upon the ground, like the hunting and wolf spiders 
(Wood, Bible A nimals, p. G44). Notice is taken in the 
Bible, however, only of those that spin webs, but the 



030 


SPIES 


SPIEKER 


part icul.ir species is not indicated. A venomous spider 
is noticed by several travellers (Kitto , Rhys. Mist, of 
l\il* st. p/4 18). 

2. .s# oh unit h Sept. *rnXn/3<6r;/c; Chald. 

NT. -JTN : Vul translated by the A. V. "spider” 
in Prow xxx, 28, the only passage where the word is 
found ) has reference, according to most interpreters, to 
some kind of lizard (Bocliart, Bieroz. ii. 510). It is 
mentioned hv Solomon as one of the lour things that 
are exceeding clever, though they be little upon earth. 
•• 1‘he semamith taketli hold with her hands, and is in 
kingV palaces.” This term exists in the modern Greek 
language under the form <r«/uu/;nr3 , oc. "<>uem Gneci 
h«», lie oafiuipiv-zor vocant, antiqme Grteciae est ikjkh- 
\a,l'orrir, id est stelliu— tjiue vox pura llebraiea est et 
reperil nr in Prow xxx. r m '2'2~ ” (Salmasii PI in. 
Ex* rcif. p. SI 7, b. < 1.). — Smith. 1 f a lizard be indicated, 
it must evidently be some speeies of gecko, a notice of 
which genus of animals is given under the article 
Lizard. Thus the Sept, rendering designates a cling- 
ing lizard, able to hold on against gravity, and most 
modern commentators incline to follow this interpreta- 
tion. However, as the gecko could never be other than 
a casual intruder into a palace, ami as the selection of a 
dwelling, implying sagacity, seems indicated by the 
tnoraliM. some are rather disposed to accept the render- 
ing of our English Version, and to understand t lie house- 
spider (.4 mut'd d*nnesfica), which mounts by means of 
her "hand*” to secure corners, even in royal palaces, 
and there makes her home. 

Spieker, Christian Wilitklm, a Protestant di- 
vine of Germany, was born April 7, 1780, at Branden- 
burg. He studied at Halle, where in 1804 he was also 
inalructor at the pivdagoginm. In IMUi) he was made 
professor of theology and deacon at Prank fort-on- the- 
Odcr, in 1 8 1 8 superintendent and first pastor, and died 
there May 10, 1858. Spieker was a voluminous writer. 
Of his writings we mention, .■ I usgeu-dhlte Schriften JTtr 
chrisflichr Erfmmnig (Loips. 1855,4 vols.) : — .1 ndachts- 
burh jTtr gebildete Christen (ibid. 18(10, Pth ed.) : — i)es 
I/errn A bend nm hi (ibid. 1808. 8th ed.) : — !)as augsbur- 
gisrhe tilonbenslxkenntniss utnl die Apofogie desselben I 
(Berlin, 183n, 2 vols.): — Kirchrn- a. Rejbrmqtions- 
giAchiehte der Murk Brandenburg (ibid. 1839 s<j. ). 
N*e Xuchnld, Bib!. Thealng. ii, 1245 sq. ; Theolng. I r in- 
ternal • Lesikon, s. v. ; Wilier, //midburh der theofogi - 
srhrn Lit* rat ur, iii, 18 1, 977 ; Regensburger Conversa- 
tions- Ltsikon, s. v. ; F first, Biblioth. Juduica , iii, 358. 
(B.1‘.) 

Spiera, Fran< i:sro. an Italian in the days of the 
Information who abjured the Evangelical faith, which 
he had for a time professed, and then became the prev 
of remorseful despair until he died. The history of his ! 
lapse mid sufferings excited immense interest, and ac- 
quaintance with the circumstances of tin* case caused 
at h ast one conversion, that of Paul Vergerius (q. w). 
Various observers recorded the facts, among them Ver- 
gerius, Hr, M. Gribakins, pro lessor of civil law at Padua. 
Hr. Ilenrims Scot us, ami Hr. SigUmmid Gclous, pro- 
fessor of philosophy at Padua, whose reports are vet 
cxi nut, and form the basis of older ami more recent 
German revisions of the story. The latest arc Kolb, 

/ . S/d* r*Ts L*b*nsmde (Nuremberg, 1829); mid Si.xt, 
in Cetru* Banins Vergerius (Brunswick, 1855), p. 125- 
HJo. 

Spiera was a jurist and attorney in the little town of 
t il olelln, near Padua, excessively avaricious and capa- 
ble o I employing the most disreputable measures to se- 
e re his ends, and none the less possessed of talent and 
« loquenee. He acquired a considerable fortune, ami 
rose to prominent position among bis neighbors, lie 
w as also happily married, and the father of eleven chil- 
dnn. In about 15 12, when about forty-four years of age, 
In was awakened, and began to repent of* his world li- 
ltcss. At this precise juncture the Reformation began 


to assert itself with vigor in Italy, aud Spiera heard the 
message of salvation through the death of Christ. It 
tilled him with transcendent joy, and under its impulse 
he felt constrained to declare to others the riches of sal- 
vation, that they might partake of similar felicities. 
He had faith, and also feeling, the highest enjoyment 
of faith; he was accordingly in danger of confounding 
faith with the subjective feelings, and of neglecting a 
moral appropriation to himself of the atonement as act- 
ualized bv faith. In point of fact, he seems to have 
been more concerned to proclaim the good news to oth- 
ers than to regulate his life by the knowledge he had 
obtained. To qualify himself to preach, he gave him- 
self to an incessant study of the Scriptures, assisted by 
ancient and modern theological books; and soon after- 
wards he proclaimed the new doctrine in every part of 
the little town. It is remarkable that he preached, on 
t lie one hand, the doctrine of justification by faith in the 
merits of Christ without meritorious works, and, on the 
other, protested against the errors and abuses of the 
Romish Church, but that he did not emphasize the doc- 
trine of repentance. He seems never to have clearly 
apprehended the need or repentance, and while rejoic- 
ing in )iis spiritual ecstasies and intent on the conver- 
sion of others, he continued for himself the old sinful 
practices without much change from his earlier habits. 
His course produced much excitement and gained him 
many followers, so that the influence of the village 
priests was greatly impaired, and they were induced, 
about six months after Spiera’s entrance on his new ca- 
reer. to lay charges against him before the legate Della 
Casa at Venice. The latter at once proceeded in the 
case by the hearing of a number of witnesses, and as- 
sured himself of the co-operation of the counsel for the 
Slate, and Spiera at once lost heart. He had never ex- 
perienced a real conflict with his old self, and was not 
qualified to enter on this conflict unto death. He hast- 
ened to present himself before the legate, even before 
lie was summoned, and when required signed a revoca- 
tion of everything he had taught in opposition to the 
Church, together with a plea for forgiveness, lie was 
then compcdled to return to his home and read in the 
Church a prescribed formula of abjuration, which he <liH 
on Sunday, in the presence of more than two thousand 
people, and was fined thirty ducats, of which five were 
given to the priest. 

Immediately on Spiera’s return to his house the ter- 
rors of the judgment and eternal perdition came upon 
his soul, even to the prostrating of his physical strength. 
1 le could not leave his bed, and lost his appetite for food, 
though a raging thirst tormented him. After six months 
he was taken to Padua, where three leading physicians 
took him in charge, and a number of learned and pious 
men ministered to his soul. Every endeavor was in 
vain, and as the ease was exciting too much interest in 
Padua, he was taken back to his home, where he con- 
tinued to reject food except as physical force compelled 
him to receive it, and often sought to lay violent hands 
on himself. The ingenuity he had cultivated in the 
perversion of his legal practice now returned to plague 
him. and prevented him from deriving comfort from the 
promises of i lie Gospel. He believed himself to have 
committed the sin against the Holy Ghost, and declared 
that God had reprobated him, so that none of the prom- 
ises were for him. 'Die intolerable sense of his sin at 
times caused him to roar like a beast; but it is appar- 
ent that he found it easier to give way to despair than 
to repent — a possible indication that he found a certain 
satisfaction in his sufferings. The Romish religionists 
who sought to give rest to his mind, and the supersti- 
tious practitioners who thought that exorcisms and dead 
saints might heal his malady, probably intensified the 
mischief, as Mclanethon already observed ; at any rate, 
Spiera experienced no relief, and died in convulsions of 
despair in the autumn of 1548. — llerzog, Real-Emykh>p. 
s. v. 

Spies (Numb, xxi, 1\ See Atuakim. 




931 


SPIKENARD 


Spiess, Heinrich, a German painter, was born in 
Munich, May 10, 1832. lie completed his studies un- 
der Kaulbach, assisting him in his cartoon of The Cru- 
saders . In 1855 he was employed by Kaulbach in deco- 
rating the Wartburg, and was one of the school of artists 
known as “Young Munich,” led by Faltz. lie died at 
Munich, Aug. 8, 1875. Spiess painted Jacob Wrest liny 
with the Anyel (1875). 

Spifame, Jacques Paul, Sieur de Passy , was de- 
scended from an Italian family of rank originally from 
Lucca, and was horn in Paris in 1502. lie studied law, 
and obtained a good position, in which he distinguished 
himself by talent and business tact, especially in the 
management of finances, and soon became councillor in 
Parliament, then president aux enquetes , maitre des re - 
quotes, and finally councillor to the State. Suddenly, for 
reasons not now known, he entered the clerical ranks, 
and began a new and not less brilliant career. He was 
made canon at Paris, chancellor of the university, etc., 
and vicar-general to cardinal Lorraine, whom he had 
previously known, and whom he accompanied to the 
Council of Trent. In October, 1548, he became bishop 
of Nevers, which dignity he, however, resigned after 
eleven years, in favor of a nephew, I^gide Spifame, who 
died at Paris in 1578. He then went to Geneva and 
became a Protestant. The reasons which governed 
him are not well known, but his relations to Catherine 
de Gaspcrne were certainly among them. This person 
was the wife of a royal procurator in Paris, whom he 
seduced, and who bore him a son, Andrew, before her 
husband died, in 1539. Afterwards she lived with Spi- 
fame, and gave birth to a second child, a daughter, 
Anna, lie endeavored to legitimate these children and 
make them his heirs, and therefore revealed his rela- 
tions with Catherine to the Genevan Council and Con- 
sistory, declaring that, as a clergyman, he was not al- 
lowed to marry, and that he had tied through fear of 
persecution. 1 1 is marriage was accordingly solemnized 
June 27, 1559. He lived in luxurious style, but was 
very charitable, and his broad culture and great skill 
were in constant demand by the French Protestants. 
In October he became a citizen of Geneva. Soon after- 
wards he requested to be ordained a Protestant clergy- 
man ; and, as neither Calvin nor Beza objected, his wish 
was granted, and he became pastor at Issoudun in 1560. 
Other communities demanded his services also, among 
them his former congregation at Nevers; and he labored 
in Bonrges and Paris. When the first religious war 
broke out, a more important range of duty was opened 
to him. Conde delegated him to the diet of princes 
held at Frankfort (April to November, 1562), in order 
to secure the non-intervention of Germany. lie sub- 
mitted to the emperor Ferdinand a confession of faith 
as held by the evangelicals of France; laid before him 
four letters from Catherine de’ Medici to Conde, in 
which she encouraged him in his opposition to the 
Guises; and, finally, he asked that recruiting against 
his coreligionists might he stopped. On his return to 
France, he undertook the civil administration of Lyons, 
after that city fell into the hands of Soubise: and after 
the conclusion of the treaty of Amboise (March 19, 
1563) returned to Geneva, where he had in the mean- 
time been elected into the Council of the Sixty (Feb. 9), 
at almost the moment when the Parliament of Paris, 
which had previously summoned him, had condemned 
him, in contumaciam , to be hanged (Feb. 13). In Jan- 
uary, 1564, lie went to Pau to settle the affairs of queen 
Joanna d’Albret of Navarre, but was not successful, and, 
moreover, incurred her enmity by rashly charging that 
she had lived in adultery with Merlin, a clergyman, and 
that Henry IV was the fruit of that connection. Soon 
after his return to Geneva, it was rumored that he was 
negotiating with France to obtain the bishopric of Told 
or the intendency of finance. Ilis nephew, who knew 
all about the connection with Catherine de Gaspcrne, 
had brought suit to disprove the legitimacy of her chil- 
dren, and prevent their entering on Spilame’s property. 


1 In addition, Servin, the attorney of queen Joanna, ac- 
cused him of defaming the royal house of Navarre, and, 
according to the Genevan custom, both were placed in 
prison, INI arch 11, 1566. At the same time rumors of 
Spilame’s adultery and connected forgeries began to cir- 
culate, and an examination was ordered, which resulted 
in the finding of a forged contract for a marriage of 
conscience with Catherine, dated Aug. 2, 1539, but 
which she acknowledged to have signed only two years 
before the discovery, and containing the forged consent 
of Catherine’s father and uncle to her relations with 
him after her widowhood began. He confessed the for- 
gery, but pleaded the lapse of time and his subsequent 
marriage and blameless life. The charge that he had 
written against the house of Navarre was indignantly 
denied; that he had desired the bishopric of Toni was 
conceded, but he denied any intention of reuniting with 
the Romish Church. II is intention was to become a 
true and evangelical bishop. The Council of Geneva 
condemned him to die because of the proven forgery, 
and the intercession of the Bernese and of Coligni (the 
latter too late), as well as the memory of the services 
rendered by him to the republic and the cause of Prot- 
estantism, was of no avail to avert his fate. He was 
beheaded March 23, 1566, and suffered with great forti- 
tude. See Me moires de Conde , vol. iv; Beza, Hist. Ec- 
clesiastique, vol. ii ; also Haag, France Protestant e , vol. 
ix; Senebier, Hist. Litteraire, i, 384 sq.; Spoil, Hist, de 
Geneve (ed. Gautier), vol. ii ; Sponde, Annalium Ba- 
ronii Continuatio (1639), xviii.— Herzog, Real-EncyMoj). 
s. v. 

Spikenard 0*7.3, nerd; i>dpf)og), a far-famed per- 
fume of the East that has often engaged the attention 
of critics, but the plant which yields it has only been 
ascertained in very recent times. That the nard of 
Scripture was a perfume is evident from the passages in 
which it occurs. Cant, i, 12, “While the king sitteth 
at his table, my spikenard (nard) sendeth forth the 
smell thereof.” So in iv, 14, “Spikenard and saffron, 
calamus and cinnamon, with all trees of frankincense, 
myrrh and aloes, with all the chief spices.” Here we 
find it mentioned along with many of the most valued 
aromatics which were known to the ancients, and all of 
which, with the exception perhaps of saffron, must have 
been obtained by foreign commerce from distant coun- 
tries. as Persia, the east coast of Africa, Ceylon, the 
north-west and the south-east of India, and in the pres- 
ent instance even from the remote Himalayan Moun- 
tains. Such substances must necessarily have been 
costly when the means of communication were defec- 
tive and the gains of the successful merchant propor- 
tionally great. That the nard, or nardus, was of great 
value we learn from the New Test. (Mark xiv, 3). 
When our Saviour sat at meat in Bethany, “there 
came a woman having an alabaster box of ointment 
of spikenard (vdpdov), very precious; and she brake the 
box, and poured it on his head.” So in John xii, 3, 
“Then took Mary a pound of ointment of spikenard 
(pvpov vdpfiov), very costly, and anointed the feet of 
Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair: and the house 
was filled with the odor of the*ointment.” On this Ju- 
das, who afterwards betrayed our Saviour, said (ver. 5), 
“Why was not this ointment sold for three hundred 
pence, and given to the poor?” 

Before proceeding to identify the plant yielding nard, 
we may refer to the knowledge which the ancients had 
of this ointment. Horace, at a period nearly contem- 
porary, “promises to Virgil a whole cadus (about thirty- 
six quarts) of wine for a small onyx-box full of spike- 
nard” (Iiosenm idler, p. 168), 

“Nardo vina merehere. 

Nardi parvus onyx eliciet cadum.” 

The composition of this ointment is given by Diosco- 
rides in i, 77, 1 1 ipl rapEivov pvpov, where it is de- 
scribed as being made with nut-oil, and having as in- 
gredients malabathrum, schoenus, costus, amomum, nar- 


SPIKENARD 


032 


SPIKENARD 


dns, myrrh a. and baLaroum — that D, almost all the 
most valued perfumes of antii|nity. It was also a 
valuable article in ancient pharmacy (sec Strabo, xv, 
iVX>\ riinv. xii, 23; xiv, 10. 5: xvi, oi>; Arrian, Bxped. 
AUx. vi, 22,*; 1 i irt ius. Util. l/isp. xxxiii.o; Athcn.xv, 
r,sp ; Kraut pi. In funt. A nth, eh. v; 1 licoph. I 'hint. 
ix, 7; Galen, Simpl. Med, viii, 13; Celsii Ilierobot. ii, 

1 sq.). 

The nard (viipCoc') was known in very early times, 
and is noticed by Theophrastus and by Hippocrates. 
Dioscorides, indeed, describes three kinds of nard. Of 
the first, called y,wCog (nardos) simply, there were two 
varieties— the one Syrian, the other Indian. The former 
is so called, not because it is produced in Syria, but be- 
cause the mountains in which it is produced extend on 
one *ide towards Syria and on the other towards India. 
This may refer to the Hindi! Kliftsh and to the exten- 
sive signification of the name Syria in ancient times, or 
to so many Indian products finding their way in those 
ages into Europe across Syria. These were brought 
there either bv the caravan route from north-west In- 
dia or up the Persian Gulf and Euphrates. It is evi- 
dent, from the passages quoted, that nard could not 
have been a produce of Syria, or its value would not 
have been so great either among the Romans or the 
.lews. The other variety is called yanyitis, from the 
Ganges, being found on a mountain round which it 
flows. It is described as having many spikes from one 
root. Hence it, no doubt, came to be called vapCooTa- 
\i’£, and, from the word stachys being rendered by the 
word spike, it has been translated spikenard. The sec- 
ond kind is by Dioscoridcs called Celtic nard (vapCog 
KtXriKi)), and the third kind mountain nard (vapCog 
oohvi’i). If we consult the authors subsequent to Di- 
oscoridcs. as Galen, IMiny, Oribasius, Aetius, and Panins 
.Egiueta. we shall easily be able to trace these different 
kinds to the time oftlie Arabs. On consulting Avicen- 
na, we are referred from nanlen to sunbnl (pronounced 
snmbnl), ami in the Latin translation from nardum to 
spirit, under which t lie Roman, the mountain, the In- 
dian, and Syrian kinds are mentioned. So in Persian 
works on materia mcdica, chictly translations from the 
Arabic, wo have the different kinds of sunbnl mentioned, 
as ( 1 ) Sunbnl Hindi ; ('2 ) Sunbnl runii , called also Sunbnl 
nklt-ti and Xarden nkleti , evidently the above Celtic 
nard, said also to lie called Sunbnl italion. that is, the 
nard which grows in Italy; (3) Sunbnl jibn/li, or moun- 
tain nard. The first, however, is the only one with 
which we arc at present concerned. The synonyms 
given to it in these Persian works are — Arabic, Sunbnl 
iil-tih, or fragrant nard; Greek, Harden; Latin, ««r- 
duiii; and llimlee, balchnr and jatanmnsi. 

Sir William dunes (Asiut, lies, ii, 410, Hvo) was the 
first to ascertain that the above llimlee and Sanscrit 
M'lionyms referred to the true spikenard, and that t he 
Aral** described it as being like the tail of an ermine. 
Tin* next step was. of course, to attempt to get the plant 
which produced the drug. This he was not successful 
in doing, because he had not access to the Himalayan 
Mountains, ami a wrong plant was sent him, which is 
dial figured ami described by Dr. Roxburgh (A siaf. lies. 
iv, H7. 13*). Dr. I.'oyle, when in charge of the Last In- 
dia Company’* botanic garden at Seliarunpore, in 30° 
N. lat., alxuit thirty miles from the foot of the Hima- 
layan .Mountains, being favorably situated for the pur- 
ine, made inquiries on the .subject, lie there learned j 
that jatanmnsi, better known in India by the name bul- 
r/inr. was yearly brought doun in considerable quanti- 
le*** as an article of commerce to the plains of India 
tr<«m such mountains asSbalma. Kcdar Kama, and oth- 
• r-«, at the foot of which tlow the Ganges and Jumna 
rivers. Having obtained some of the fresh-hrought- 
down roots, he planted them boih in the botanic gar- 
den at lnrunpore ami in a nursery at Mn**firi, in the 
lliunlnyns, attached to the garden. The plant pr«»- 
duc< ! i> figured in his lUnst. Ulmal. Butam/. t. 5t, 
ami was found to belong to the natural family of \ r alt- 



rianeee. which has been named Xardostachys jatnmcmsi 
by De Candolle, and formerly Patrinia jatanmnsi by Mr. 
Dow, from plants sent home by Dr. Wallieh from Gos- 
samtham, a mountain of Nepal ( Penny Cyclop, art. 
“Spikenard;” Hoyle, I Hast. I/imal. Botany , p. 24*2). 
Hence there can be no doubt that the jatanmnsi of the 
Hindus is the Sunbnl Hindi of the Arabs, which they 
compare to the tail of an ermine. This would almost 
be sufficient to identify the drug: the appearance to 
which it refers may be seen even in the accompany- 
ing wood-cut. This is produced in consequence of the 
woody fibres of the leaf and its footstalk not being de- 
composed in the cold and comparatively dry climate 
where they are produced, but remain and form a protec- 
tion to the plant from the severity of the cold. There 
can be as little doubt that the Arabs refer to the de- 
scriptions of Dioscoridcs, and both they ami the Chris- 
tian physicians who assisted them in making transla- 
tions had ample opportunities, from their profession and 
their local situation, of becoming well acquainted with 
things as well as words. There is as little reason to 
doubt that the vdpcog of Dioscorides is that of the oth- 
er Greek authors, and this will carry us into ancient 
times. As many Indian products found their way into 
Egypt and 1’alestine. and are mentioned in Scripture — 
indeed, in the very passage with nard we have cala- 
mus, cinnamon, and aloes (a/mlini) — there is no reason 
why spikenard from the Himalayas could not as easily 
have been procured. The only difficulty appears to 
arise from the term vdpdoc having occasionally been 
used in a general sense, and therefore there is some- 
times confusion between the nard and the sweet cane, 
another Indian product. Some difference of opinion 
exists respecting the fragrance of the jatanmnsi. It 
may bo sufficient to state that it continues to be highly 
esteemed in Eastern countries in the present day, where 
fragrant essences arc still procured from it, as the Cn- 
yuentnm uardinum was of old. — Kitto. Dioscorides re- 
fers especially to its having many shaggy (7roXi»*;<y/ one) 
spikes growing from one root. It is very interesting to 
note that Dioscorides gives the same locality for the 
plant as is mentioned by Rovle: enro rtvag TroTcipon 
7 TtipapptovTog rov upovg, P«yyov KaXovpevov 7 Tap 
tjj tfivtrai. Though he is here speaking of lowland 
specimens, he also mentions plants obtained from the 
mountains (see the monographs l)e Xardo Pistica by 


SPILMAN 


933 


SPINDLE 


Otto [Lips. 1G73], Eckhard [Viteb. 1 08 1 ] , Ilermansson 
[Upsal. 1734], and Sotnmel [Lund. 1776J). See Oint- 
ment . 

Spilman, Benjamin F.. a Presbyterian minister, 
was born in Garrard County, Kv.. Aug. 17, 1796. He 1 
graduated at Jefferson College, Pa., in 1822, studied I 
theology privately, was licensed by Chillicotlie Presby- 
tery in 1823, and ordained and installed by Mulden- 
burgh Presbytery as pastor of Sharon Church, III., in i 
1824. Here he labored until 182G, when he became an 
itinerant missionary in Middle and Southern Illinois, 
and organized the Church at Shawneetown, where he 
built a neat house of worship in 1842. Having labored for 
seventeen years as a missionary, the people of Shawnee- 
town prevailed upon him to settle, and he became their 
pastor in April, 1842. In 1844 he accepted the pastorate 
of Chester Church, which he retained until 1851, when 
his old congregation at Shawneetown called him back, 
and he remained with them till his death, May 3, 1859, 
Mr. Spilman was a hard-working missionary, and for 
over thirty years he labored faithfully, never idle and 
seldom sick. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac, 18G0, 
P- 78. (J.L.S.) 

Spill (!TO. The notices of spinning in the 

Bible are confined to Exod. xxxv, 25, 26 ; Matt, vi, 28 ; 
and Prov. xxxi, 19. The latter passage implies (ac- 
cording to the A. V.) the use of the same instruments 
which have been in vogue for hand-spinning down to 
the present day, viz. the distaff and spindle. The dis- 
taff, however, appears to have been dispensed with, and 
the term (Tp?S) so rendered means the spindle (q. v.) 
itself, while that rendered “ spindle” (*iw“'2) represents 
the whirl ( certicillus , Pliny, xxxvii, 11) of the spindle, 
a button or circular rim which was affixed to it, and 
gave steadiness to its circular motion. The “whirl” of 
the Syrian women was made of amber in the time of 
Pliny ( loc . cit.). The spindle was held perpendicularly 
in the one hand, while the other was employed in draw- 
ing out the thread. The process is exhibited in the 
Egyptian paintings (Wilkinson, Ancient Egypt . ii, 85). 

Spinning was the 
business of women, 
both among the 
Jews ( Exod. loc 
cit.) and for the 
most part among 
the Egyptians 
( Wilkinson, ibid. 
ii, 84). — Smith. 
Similar customs 
have prevailed in 
most modern na- 1 
tions ; hence the | 
word “spinster” for 
an unmarried fe- 
male. See Weave. 

Spina, Ai.ruoxso de, a Christian apologist, lived 
in Spain in the loth century. lie was of Jewish ex- 
traction, but was converted and received into the Order 
of Franciscan monks, after which he became rector of 
the high -school at Salamanca, and ultimately bishop 
of Orense, in Galicia. He wrote an apologetical work 
entitled Fortalitium Fidei contra Judieos, Saracenos 
A liosque Christiana* Fidei Jninneos , which was published 
in 1484, and repeatedly afterwards, and which was fa- 
mous in its time. It consists of four books, each of 
which includes several consider at tones. Book i proves 
from the fulfilment of prophecy that Jesus is the true 
Messiah. Book ii deals with heretics and the punish- 
ments they incur. Book iii is devoted to the Jews and 
to the refutation of their arguments in opposition to 
Christianity. Book iv is directed against the Moham- 
medans, and contains a detailed criticism of their relig- 
ious system, followed by a not uninteresting description 


of the conflicts the Christians were obliged to sustain 
against the Saracens. The work was first published 
anonymously, and was in time attributed, but errone- 
ously, to the Dominican Bartholomew Spina (died 1546; 
see Zedler, Universal - Lex ikon) and others. For a 
thorough characterization of the work, see B. Simon, 
Billiot h. Critique , par INI. de Saingre, iii, 31G-322; 
and comp. Bavle, Bictionnaire ; Zedler, Unirersal-Lex- 
ikon; Schrockh, Kirchengesch. xxx, 573 sq. ; xxxiv, 
3G1 sq. — Ilerzog, Real- Encgkiop. s. v. 

Spinckes, Nathaniel, a Nonjurist divine, was 
born at Castor, Northamptonshire, England, in 1653 (or 
1654). He received his first classical instruction from 
Rev. Mr. Morton, rector of II addon, and was admit- 
ted to Trinity College, Cambridge, March 22, 1670. In- 
duced by the prospect of a Rustat scholarship, he entered 
Jesus College, Oct. 12, 1672. became A.B. in 1674, was 
ordained deacon May 21, 1676, was A.M. in 1677, and 
admitted into priest’s orders Dec. 22, 1678. For some 
time he was chaplain to Sir Richard Edgecomb in Dev- 
onshire, and then removed to Petersham, where, in 1681, 
he was associated with Dr. Hickes as chaplain to the 
duke of Lauderdale. He was curate and lecturer of 
St. Stephen’s. Walbrook, London, for two years (1683- 
85), and in the latter year received from the dean and 
chapter of Peterborough the rectory of Peakirk or Pea- 
king -cum -Glvnton. On July 21. 1687, he was made 
prebendary of Salisbury, Northamptonshire ; in the same 
year (Sept. 24) instituted to the rectory of St. Mary’s in 
that town ; and three days after was licensed to preach 
at Stratford-nnder-Castrnm. or Miden Castle, in Wilts, 
for which he had an annual stipend of £80. He was 
deprived of all his preferments for refusing to take the 
oaths to William and Mary. After this he was sup- 
ported by the gifts of the more wealthy Nonjnrors, and 
was consecrated one of their bishops June 3. 1713. He 
died July 28, 1727. He assisted in the publication of 
Grabe’s Septnagint , Neweourt’s Repertorium , Howell's 
Canons , Potter’s Clemens Alexandrians , and Walker’s 
Sufferings of the Clergy. His own works were, Aw A n- 
swer to the Essay towards a Proposal for Catholic 
Communion, etc. (1705) : — The New Pretenders to Proph- 
ecy Re-examined, etc. (1710): — two pamphlets against 
Hoadly's Measures of Submission (1711, 1712): — two 
pamphlets on The Case between the Church of Rome and 
the Church of England (1714,1718): — two pamphlets 
against Restoring the Prayers and Directions of Edward 
VPs Liturgy (1718). His most popular work was The 
Sick Man Visited (1712). See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. 
s. v. 

Spindle kishor , literally director, i. e. of 

the spindle), the twirl or lower part of the instrument 
used in giving motion to the whole (Prov. xxxi, 19). 
See Distaff. In Egypt spinning was a staple manu- 
facture, large quantities of yarn being exported to other 
countries, as, for instance, to Palestine in the time of 
Solomon. The spindles were generally of wood, ami 
they increased their force in turning by having the cir- 
cular head made of gypsum or some species of compo- 
sition. In some instances the spindles appear to have 
been of a light plaited work, made of rushes or palm- 
leaves, stained of various colors, and furnished with a 
loop of the same materials for securing the yarn after it 
was wound. In Homer’s pictures of domestic life, we 
find the lady of the mansion superintending the labor 
of her servants, and sometimes using the distaff herself. 
Her spindle, made of some precious material, richly or- 
namented, her beautiful work-basket, or rather vase, 
and the wool dyed of some bright hue to render it wor- 
thy of being touched by aristocratic fingers, are ordina- 
ry accompaniments of a lady of rank, both in the Egyp- 
tian paintings and Grecian poems. This shows how 
appropriate was the present which the Egyptian queen 
Alcandra gave to the Spartan Helen, who was not le>s 
famous for her beauty than for her skill in embroidery. 



J5PIXIEXSIS 


934 


SPINOZA 



Ancient Egyptian Spindles. 

Fit:. 1 i* * w'rl of cane »plit hi the lop to tfive it n ^lobulnr shape ; 2 has the 
h«-n«l of irv|»*uni : 3, entirely of wood ; 4, of plaited or basket work ; 5, 
the loop to pul ov*r the twine ; 6, a ring of wood for securing the twine. 

After Polybius bad given bis presents to Menelaus, who 
slopped at Egypt on bis return from Troy, 

“Alcamlrn, consort of his high comniaud, 

A golden distaff gave to Helen's hand ; 

And that rich vase, with living sculpture wrought, 

W hich heaped with wool the beauteous Philo brought, 
The silken fleece empurpled for the loom, 

Rivalled the hyacinth in vernal bloom” {Odyssey, IV). 

In the East the spindle is held in the hand, often per- 
pendicularly, and is twirled with one hand, while the 
other draws out the thread (see Thomson, Land and 
Book. ii, 572; Van Lennep, Bible Lands , p. 5G5). Sec 
Wkav k. 

Spiniensis (heus), a Roman divinity of the fields, 
was invoked to prevent the excessive spread of thorns. 

Spinks. .1 am ks, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was horn in Penn. Pa., about 1 822. When 
a youth he joined the Church, and about 1*45 went to 
Warsaw, lud.. and engaged in teaching school. In 1851 
he was licensed to preach, and was also admitted into 
the travelling connection. In 18IJ3 fil h e was superan- 
nuated, in 18iJ5 e fleet ive, in 18GG-G8 again superannu- 
ated, in l*G9 72 effective, and, finally, iii 1873 superannu- 
ated. He died at ( irecncastle, I ml., .June 3U, 1874. See 
Minutes of Annual Conferences, 1874, p. 94, 

Spinola, CniusToriiKi: Rn.i.vs in-:, a Roman Cath- 
olic unionist of the 17th century, was general of the 
Order of Franciscans in Madrid, then confessor of the 
empress Theresa (wife of Leopold 1) of Austria, and 
finally bishop of Wiener- Nenstadt. He died .March 
12, I Mi.!, lie was a skilful diplomatist rather than a 
great theologian, and as such devoted years of zealous 
* ff'irt to tin- i ask of winning hack the Protestants, more 
particularly the Protestants of Hungary and Germany, 
re the Romitdi Church. The period seemed favorable 
for Hindi an undertaking, because many of the courts of 
Protestant Gt-rmany were swayed by ii spirit of indiffer- 
ence to religion, while among the people many of the 
more intelligent were weary of the incessant polemical 
encounters of theological zealots in every department 
of the < Imreh. Spinola believed that peaceful negoti- 
aiion might accomplish what violent measures had 
laih-d to ( fleet ; and in Hi" I, after conference with the I 


papal nuncio and authorization by the emperor, he ap- 
proached different, princes and rulers with his plans, 
which were received with some consideration by reason 
of the emperor’s endorsement, but also with much dis- 
trust. lie found a most favorable reception in Hano- 
ver, whose rulers were Roman Catholics, and whose 
lending theologian, Molanus (q. v.), and leading philos- 
opher, Leibnitz (q. v.), were both inclined to favor the 
proposed union. In 1083 Spinola personally ottered the 
following concessions, which, however, were not in writ- 
ing: the communion under both kinds; marriage for 
priests, and non-alienation of spiritual properties which 
had been secularized ; suspension of the decrees of 
'[’rent, and consent that the “ Xeo- Cat holies” should 
not he obliged to make formal retraction, and that they 
should be admitted to participation in a general council, 
for which provision was to be made. In return, the 
Protestants were to acknowledge the supremacy of the 
pope. Molanus thereupon convened a conference of 
theologians, which drew up a memorial in response to 
Spinola ( (Euct'es de Bossuet [ed. Versailles], xxv, 205, 
Regube circa Christ ianorum Omnium Ecclesiasticam Re- 
nnioneni), and which put forth a further tractate, in the 
main acceding to Spinola’s proposition (Methodns 7?e- 
dncendie Unionis Kecks, inter Romanos et Profestantes). 
Fortunately no considerable interest in the business was 
taken by either Church. Bossuet, for example, politely 
received the papers which were transmitted to him, and 
then ignored their existence; and when subsequently 
Leibnitz and Molanus corresponded with him in refer- 
ence to the subject, he plainly rejected Spinola’s terms, 
and demanded unconditional submission to the pope and 
the Tridentine Council. The landgrave Ernest of 
Hesse-Rheinfels, on the other hand, asserted that the 
sole purpose of the movement was to compromise cer- 
tain princes and theologians with their own party. Ne- 
gotiations were nevertheless carried on until 1G94, and 
Spinola was made commissioner -general in charge of 
the union movement throughout the empire. He re- 
tained his hopes of success to the last, but died without 
having achieved any success whatever. Ilis successor, 
bishop Graf of Buchhcim, renewed the inquiry at the 
court of Ilanover with respect to a possible unification 
of the churches, and Leibnitz repeated his endeavor to 
achieve a satisfactory result through the co-operation 
of Bossuet (Hi99-1701), but in vain. See Gieseler, 
Kirchengeseh. iv, 177-181; Hering, Gesch, d. kirchl . 
Unionsrersuche (1838) ; Zedlitz, Universal- Lexikon , s.v.; 
the art. Leibnitz u. d. Kirchenvereinigung in the Grenz - 
boten, 18G0, Nos. 44 and 45. — Herzog, Real- Encyklop. s. v. 

Spinoza, Bi:nki>ict i>k (Baruch), the most ingen- 
ious, acute, and remarkable of the metaphysicians of the 
17th century; equally notable for the simplicity, disin- 
terestedness, and purity of his life, and for the rigor- 
ous form and unhesitating audacity of his speculations, 
“ Everything in Spinoza appears extraordinary,” says 
Saisset— himself, his style, and his philosophy.” There 
is, perhaps, no other instance of a philosopher who so 
completely developed and systematized his scheme as 
to leave scarcely the possibility of addition or change. 
Others have been more original in their principles; 
scarcely any have been more self-inspired in their de- 
ductions and in the organization of their systems. None 
have been more sincere, more earnest, and more assured 
in their procedure. None have more confidently as- 
sumed their premises; none have more rigidly pursued 
the consequences of their data to their extremes! results. 
Spinoza left no disciples. He has had few followers, 
ami hardly a single imitator. Yet lie was a power in 
the realm of abstract thought, and remains a landmark 
in the history of philosophy, lie pressed the tenden- 
cies of his predecessors far beyond their ventures, lie 
was a terror and a torment to the next generation, lie 
exercised a potent influence on metaphysical progress, 
not by making discoveries, but by provoking eager, 
and too often virulent, antagonism. Fora century the 
name as well as the dogmas of Spinoza were regarded 


SPINOZA 


935 


SPINOZA 


with unmitigated abhorrence. lie was denounced from 
the pulpit on every possible occasion. He was present- 
ed as an object of bitter contempt in pamphlet and es- 
say and ponderous volume. Bayle held him up to the 
scorn of his readers as “a systematical atheist.” Leib- 
nitz, gentle to all others, had little gentleness for him, 
and constructed his own philosophy to refute his errors 
and to correct the tendencies of his scheme. Berkeley 
endeavored to rectify and Christianize his theory of 
mind and of matter; and Hume imitated his assump- 
tions and endeavored to imitate his deductions. For 
coherence of logical evolution, for unshrinking and nu- 
de viating misapplication of mathematical demonstra- 
tion to speculative topics, for impassive and colorless 
reasoning in abstract formulas, for fearlessness in the 
acceptance of conclusions, no other ontologist can be 
compared to Spinoza. The peril threatened bv his doc- 
trines justified the fervor of resistance with which they 
were encountered. It did not excuse the bitterness and 
intemperance with which they and their author were 
assailed. A milder and juster criticism has in later 
years been manifested. There is, indeed, some danger 
that the vicious tendencies of his system may be insuffi- 
ciently apprehended in the kindlier consideration -of the 
man whose life was innocent and free from blame, and 
who was fearfully misled in his ardent prosecution of 
truth by devious and mistaken paths. The approach 
and the recent occurrence of the anniversary of Spino- 
za’s death, after the lapse of two centuries, revived in- 
terest in the man and in his labors. Treatises on his 
life and doctrine were multiplied. His works were re- 
published with diligent care. New and unedited frag- 
ments were discovered and given to the world. At the 
bicentenary celebration at the Hague he was com- 
memorated, in a striking address, by Ernest Kenan, in 
some respects his counterpart in the 19th century. The 
praise of one who. living, and long after death, had been 
contemned of nearly all men went abroad into every 
land, and found sympathizing echoes wherever it went. 
These alternate tits of chill and fever are frequent in the 
history of opinion. In the ease of suoh a philosopher as 
Spinoza, unmeasured praise is even more alarming than 
unmitigated censure. What is required is a cool and 
just estimate, which shall explain the origin and char- 
acter of his philosophy — shall expose its invalidity and 
its mischievous tendency, and shall yet deal tenderly 
with the great thinker, and acknowledge the serene 
virtues of the man. It would be a fearful judgment for 
the soberest and soundest of reasoners if they were held 
responsible for all their thoughts and for all the possible 
tendencies of their thoughts. Something of the mercy 
which all men may require ^hould be shown in the esti- 
mation of our fellow-men when their speculations — hon- 
est, and free from malice or intention to misguide — wan- 
der most widely and most hazardously from the truths 
that we revere and the dogmas that we regard as ortho- 
dox. 

1. Life . — Baruch van Spinoza was born at Amster- 
dam, then the great commercial city of Holland, on 
Nov. 24, 1632. It was a strange nativity for a philos- 
opher. He was a queer product in the land of dikes 
and canals, polders and docks, and in a community of 
money-making Dutch traders. The time, too, was a 
strange one for the appearance of a contemplative re- 
cluse. The Continent was involved in wars of religion, 
wars of succession, and wars of ambition. Germany 
was convulsed and desolated by the Thirty Years’ War, 
which had not run out half its dreadful course. Gusta- 
vus Adolphus had fallen a week or two before. Dis- 
cords, uproars, contentions, were abroad throughout Eu- 
rope. Spinoza was born of a pnre-blooded Jewish fam- 
ily which had left Portugal and sought in the Nether- 
lands a refuge from religions persecution. Ilia father 
was in comfortable circumstances, and dwelt in a good 
house near the Portuguese synagogue, where dealers in 
old clothes and junk now congregate; but the locality 
was then a respectable and segregated part of the city. 


It was on the outskirts of the town, between the Amstel 
and the present network of docks about the Eastern 
Basin. The young Israelite, “in whom there was no 
guile,” early gave evidence of the quickness and perspi- 
cacity of his genius; but he was fragile in health and in 
frame. As he exhibited great avidity for an acquaint- 
ance with the Latin language, he was initiated into its 
mysteries, and was favored with the instructions of 
Francis van den Ende, subsequently a political refugee in 
France, and ultimately executed in that country on the 
charge of treasonable practices. Van den Ende had a 
daughter without grace of form or feature, but cultivated, 
sprightly, and intellectual, who is represented as having 
secured the devotions of her father’s pupil. The story 
has been rejected as a legend, on the ground of the girl's 
juvenility. It is rendered more doubtful by the boy’s; 
but malitia supplet (efafem. Whether true or not, there 
was no repetition of Abelard and Eloise. This remains 
the solitary charge of amatory inclinations brought 
against Spinoza. From such suspicions he is even 
freer than Gibbon. After having acquired a compe- 
tent knowledge of Latin, he devoted himself to the 
study of theology and of Hebrew, and won the approval 
of the rabbi Morteira. The fruits of these studies were 
revealed afterwards in the Tractatns Theolor/ico-pol i fi- 
cus. A predisposition to scepticism is supposed to have 
been implanted in his mind by his teacher, Van den 
Ende. His theological inquiries were certainly not 
prosecuted in a submissive or credulous spirit, lie had 
an absorbing and undivided love of truth, or what he 
deemed to be truth. He pursued his speculations and 
deductions with entire fearlessness and sincerity; he 
accepted their results with perfect conviction. He ac- 
quired a thorough knowledge of the Kabbinical litera- 
ture and of the Hebrew philosophers of the Middle Age, 
and seems to have conceived a special attachment for 
Maimonides. He was thus led to a thoroughly ration- 
alistic interpretation of the Scriptures and of the dog- 
mas of his hereditary creed. He accordingly contracted a 
repugnance to the doctrinal authority of the synagogue, 
and a distaste for theological investigation within the 
lines of Mosaism. lie turned aside from this severe 
mistress to the easier yoke of philosophy, which al- 
lowed ampler range for the divagations of his restless 
mind. While still undecided, he fell in with the works 
of Des Cartes, from which he afterwards declared him- 
self to have derived all his knowledge of philosophy. 
It was a memorable contact and a notable admission. 
He was particularly struck with the position of Des 
Cartes that nothing should be accepted as true without 
sufficient reasons. This, of course, precluded any child- 
like and uncritical reception of the traditions of the 
Targum and the Cabala, and any unquestioning sub- 
mission to the precepts of religion, which “walks by 
faith, and not by sight.” lie became meditative, re- 
served, retiring, self-contained. Such he was, probably, 
by natural temperament. The mind that broods over 
recondite speculations, whose “ thoughts wander through 
eternity,” and whose habitual associations are with the 
abstract, the impalpable, and the divine, narrows its 
communion with men, and finds few companions to 
share or to welcome its abstruse deductions or imagina- 
tions. lie withdrew himself more and more from the 
Jewish doctors; he rarely attended the services of the 
synagogue ; he became 

“ Parens deorum cnltor et infrequens, 
Insauientis dnm sapieutiaj 
Consultus.” 

The suspicions and the anger of his despised coreligion- 
ists were aroused. Their fanaticism was inflamed by 
the apprehended loss of a brilliant votary. Nor was in- 
dignation diminished by the fear that he purposed giv- 
ing his adhesion to Christianity. This he never did. 
He always spoke reverently and dispassionately of the 
New Covenant; but Christianity, as an authoritative 
creed, was inconsistent with the scheme of philosophy 
which he elaborated for himself. Spinoza belonged to 


93G 


SPINOZA 


SPINOZA 


ij,at cl:i*s of eminent thinkers — like Grotius, Locke, 
Leibnitz, Kant — who were profoundly religions in spir- 
it. hut not con tinetl within formal theological bounila- 
rie*. The .lews were so anxious to retain him in their 
.sect— so desirous of avoiding the scandal of his renun- 
t iaiion of their religion— that they offered him a pen- 
sion of a thousand florins to remain with them, and to 
aiiend the synagogue occasionally. The bribe was re- 
fitted. It was addressed to a spirit never mercenary, 
and more likely to be repelled than attracted by pectin- 
larv temptations. As he could not be seduced by 
gain, an attempt was made to remove him permanent- 
lv out of the way. As he came from the theatre or 
from the old Portuguese synagogue — for the accounts 
ditler — an attempt was made to assassinate him. lie 
preserved the vestments wjiieli had been pierced by the 
murderer’s dagger. 

•* See what a rent the envious Casca made !” 

Corruption and violence having equally failed to pre- 
vent Spinoza’s desertion of the synagogue, he was sol- 
emnly cut off from the chosen people. The excommu- 
nication seems to have severed him from the members 
of his own family, and he was reduced entirely to his 
own resources. The Jewish law has always required 
the acquisition of some handicraft as an assured means 
of support in case of necessity. Spinoza, accordingly, 
learned the art of grinding optical glasses, and depend- 
ed upon this for his future maintenance, lie applied 
himself also to drawing, lie withdrew from Amster- 
dam. where all his surroundings were embarrassing, and 
found a lodging with a friend in the country, llow 
long lie remained in the neighborhood of his native 
city is uncertain. In IGGl he removed to Hhinshnrg, a 
small place between Leyden and the mouth of the llhine, 
which is there a mean and sluggish stream, muddying 
lhrough the fat and hollow land. lie remained at 
liliiiisburg through the winter, and then changed his 
abode to Voorburg, a small town three miles from the 
1 la^ue. Some three years thereafter lie was induced to 
transfer his residence to the Hague itself, where he 
spent the short remainder of his life. From the time 
of his departure from Amsterdam his existence passed 
in secluded industry, mechanical and philosophical. P»v 
grinding lenses for optica! instruments— an occupation 
much increased by the recent discovery of telescopes 
and microscopes — he secured a very modest but inde- 
pendent support, flic rest of his time was assiduously 
employed in meditating his metaphysical scheme, or 
in pleasant conversation with the few friends who en- 
joyed liis intimacy, or with admiring visitors. 

The only incidents in this monotonous life which de- 
serve mention are his visit to Ftrecht to meet the great 
' <*iide, and his refusal of a professorship at Heidelberg. 
1'le* first occurrence was due to an invitation from Stonpe, 
a Swi.ss colonel, commandant in Utrecht during Louis 
XlV's Hutch war. Stoupe sent Spinoza a passport 
through the French lines, accompanied with (he decla- 
ration of the prince de t ’unde’s solicitude to make his 
acquaintance, (.’unde was in Utrecht in 1(572, but he 
was suffering from a severe wound in the wrist, received 
at the parage of the liliine. lie was in no condition 
to meet the Hebrew philosopher, and he set off for his 
seat at < 'limit illy as soon ns he was aide to travel. Spi- 
noza, however, after some delay, accepted Stoupe’s in- 
vitation, perhaps with the hope of a secure refuge in 
1 ranee in ease of his being driven out of Holland on ac- 
eoimi of his opinions. He did not see (’oiide, who had 
h ft I ’tree hi before his arrival. When he got hack to 
the Hague, lie found much fermentation among the 
people, \\ ho regarded his visit to the French quarters 
as the vDit of a spy, and ns a proof of treasonable nego- 
tiations. Van dcr Spyck, with whom he lodged at the 
time, was alarmed bv tin* popular commotion, and bv 
tie menace of danger to bis bouse and to his lodger. 
>l'i' ,/n reassured him, stating that he could satisfacto- 
rily explain his journey to Utrecht; hut that if the 


rabble approached the door, he would go straight to 
them, even if they should tear him to pieces, as they 
had torn the De Witts. The massacre of the L)e Wilts 
occurred on Ang. *2*2, JG72. Comic was wounded on 
June 1*2 in that year. Thus the proximate date of Spi- 
noza's visit to Utrecht may be determined. 

The second incident was the offer, in 1G73, of a pro- 
fessorship by the elector-palatine. The invitation was 
conveyed in the most gratifying and flattering manner. 
The chair of philosophy was offered. Entire freedom 
of speculation was accorded, on the understanding that 
there should be no offence to the recognised religion. 
It was a strange proposal, with a strange condition. 
It displayed the toleration of rationalistic tendencies 
which is so characteristic of Germany in our day. 'i et 
it is not easy to discern how Spinozism could be taught 
without grave infringement of any form of Christianity. 
The invitation was declined in a graceful and piquant 
manner, because Spinoza had no disposition to teach 
instead of studying philosophy, could not determine the 
limits of the freedom conceded, and preferred the quiet 
of his private and solitary life to distinctions and emol- 
uments. 

This retired and equable existence was his delight. 
It was never broken at the Hague, except by intem- 
perate denunciations of his supposed opinions, which 
amused more than they disquieted him. though they 
prevented him from giving his Ethics and other lucu- 
brations to the public. The clamor which had been 
raised in Holland and throughout Europe by the publi- 
cation of his Tract atus Theoloyico-puliticus , ami the 
apprehension of louder clamor and more vehement op- 
position, induced him to withhold his Ethics from the 
world, when already preparing to give it to t he press. 

The later years of Spinoza were rendered easy and 
comfortable by a modest annuity bequeathed to him by 
a friend. He had declined the chair at Heidelberg 
without regard to its revenues. He refused to dedicate 
a treatise to Louis XIV, even with the prospect of a roy- 
al pension. Simple, upright, independent, incorrupti- 
ble, self-sustained, of few and humble wants, he declined 
all favors which might in any way compromise his per- 
fect moral and intellectual freedom. Yet in his later 
years he was provided for without the necessity of his 
own labor, and was remitted to the enjoyment of his 
tranquil speculative activity. Simon De Vries, of Am- 
sterdam, presented him with two thousand florins, to 
enable him to live more at his ease. He rejected the 
gift, saying that he had no need of it, and that the pos- 
session of so large a sum would certainly interfere with 
his studies. When Simon approached his end, be de- 
termined to bequeath all his worldly goods to Spinoza, 
being himself without wife or child. Spinoza remon- 
strated with his friend, maintaining that the estate 
ought to be left to the decedent’s brother at Schiedam. 
This was accordingly done, on the condition that the 
brother should bestow a pension for life on Spinoza. 
Five hundred florins a year was the amount proposed 
l»v the heir. Spinoza pronounced the sum excessive, 
and insisted on its reduction to three hundred florins. 
So small a sum sufficed for his maintenance, and for the 
satisfaction of his truly philosophic wants. 

Spinoza was small in frame, lean, sickly, and for twen- 
ty years threatened with consumption. His habits were 
always singularly abstemious, but care and watchful- 
ness in regard to his diet were required in his later life. 
Death eame to him gently and unexpected. One Sun- 
day, in February, 1G77, when his hosts returned home 
from the afternoon services, they found him dead, and 
the physician, in whose presence he had died, departed, 
lie had come down stairs at noon, and had conversed 
freely with them in regard to the morning sermon which 
they had heard. Unseemly litigation sprang up over 
his remains, ami after his remains were committed to 
the ground. Hetty accounts for shaving, for furnish- 
ing drugs, for drawing up the inventory of his beggarly 
chattels, were hastily and urgently presented, llis sis- 


SPINOZA 


937 


SPINOZA 


ter Rebecca, who seems to have utterly slighted him 
while alive, claimed the inheritance of his effects, but 
refused to pay his small debts without being assured 
that a surplus would be left after this were done. All 
claims were paid by De Vries, of Schiedam, who seems 
also to have defrayed the funeral expenses, llis prop- 
erty was sold by public vendue, and brought only three 
hundred and ninety florins and fourteen sous, after de- 
ducting some ten florins for the expenses of sale. It 
consisted of a meagre supply of plain clothing, two 
silver buckles, a few books and stamps, some polished 
glasses and implements for polishing them. He 
left behind what was more than worldly wealth — the 
memory of a pure, simple, unambitious, modest, and 
innocent life, industriously employed in high and ear- 
nest speculation, void of offence towards Hod or man, 
except for that most dangerous of all offences — sincere 
but pernicious error in regard to the highest principles 
and to the highest objects of human interest, Wliat 
finite mind shall undertake to weigh in the balance hon- 
esty of motive and sincerity of conduct against intel- 
lectual delusions? Spinoza was buried with decent 
respect. at the Hague, Feb. 25, 1677. 

11, lT T r>r*a. — There is inevitable perplexity and con- 
fusion in any attempt to enumerate the works of Spino- 
za with any design of exhibiting their chronological suc- 
cession or the development of his philosophical views. 
His most important productions were not given to the 
world till after his death, and some have been discov- 
ered and edited only in recent years. But one work of 
any note was published by himself. Yet, before its pub- 
lication. his most characteristic tenets were already en- 
tertained by him, and were gradually moulding them- 
selves into shape, and receiving further development 
and increased precision till the very moment of his 
death. Taking his collected works as they are now 
presented to us, it is usually impossible to fix the dates 
at which his conclusions w T ere reached, or to indicate 
the relation in time which they bear to the general body 
of bis doctrine. This uncertainty, however, is rendered 
less annoying by the remarkable consonance or consist- 
ency, or, rather, by the inflexible rigidity and dry pre- 
cision, of his system from its first conception to its final 
exposition. Ilis Ethics constitutes his philosophy prop- 
er. They had been commenced before bis first published 
work, though they were not published till after he had 
passed away. About the same time with their con- 
ception was printed his first work, a summary of the 
Cartesian philosophy. In this the geometrical proced- 
ure, so characteristic of his mode of reasoning and so 
rigorously but provokinglv employed in his Ethics , is 
already used. Before either of these works was com- 
posed, he had probably written his short tractate On 
God, Man, and Happiness , which was edited for the first 
tjme in very late years. In this recently recovered pro- 
duction are already discernible the cardinal principles 
more fully, and in some respects diversely, elaborated 
in his later treatises. It would appear that Spinoza’s 
philosophy revealed itself to him, in its first manifesta- 
tion. virtually such as it was in its ultimate realization. 
It is so simple in essence, though so elaborate in detail, 
that this may well have been so. There was no elas- 
ticity, no mutability, in the essential thought, and there- 
fore growth or serious alteration was foreign to its nat- 
ure. The geometrical procedure was in intimate har- 
mony with this changeless character of principle and 
reasoning, and its adoption may have as readily prede- 
termined the philosophy as have been induced by it. 
Of course, under these circumstances, the chronological 
order of the production of the several works of Spinoza, 
or even of their rudimentary contemplation, ceases to be 
of any marked philosophical import, and his chief works 
may he noted simply in the order of their appearance. 
In 1603. when Spinoza was thirty-one years of age, was 
issued from the press 1 iennti Des Cartes Principiorum 
Philosophic Pars I et II More Geometrico Demonstrate. 
lie had already exchanged his Hebrew name of Baruch 


for the Latin name of Benedict. This treatise was mere- 
ly a synopsis and logical presentation of the Cartesian 
philosophy, originally drawn up for a friend. It is no 
part of his own philosophy. Nevertheless, it is worthy 
of note that Spinoza’s metaphysical career began with 
a systematization of Cartesianism, and that the geomet- 
rical method is employed in his earliest publication. 
The dawn of his peculiar dogmas may also be detected 
in it. In 1070 appeared his Tractafus Theologicn-pv- 
liticus, which aroused a storm of violent denunciation, 
and was the chief cause of his being regarded by his 
contemporaries as the prince of atheists. To this trea- 
tise attention was necessarily confined in bis own day, 
as it was the only exhibition of bis views offered to the 
public; but there was no reason for its engrossing so 
exclusively the consideration of the ensuing century. 
It is not surprising that polemics should have attached 
themselves chiefly to this work, for it is much more lev- 
el to the general apprehension than either the Ethics or 
the Deformation of the Understanding, as it deals not 
with the rarefied abstractions of ontology, but with the 
received notions in regard to prophecy, the inspiration 
and interpretation of the Scriptures, and kindred topics 
which lie at the foundation of revealed religion. The 
Tractafus Theologico-politicns was pure and bold ra- 
tionalism. It was to the 17th century what Strauss’s 
Life of Jesus has been to the 19th ; and the latter may 
be considered as only the development of the former. 
It is true that genuine Spinozism is implied in this work ; 
but this is not its prominent characteristic. The most 
obvious points, which at once provoked antagonism, are 
briefly indicated by Henry Oldenburg in a letter dated 
Nov. 15, 1675. He specifies the confusion of God with 
nature, the rejection of the authority and worth of mir- 
acles, the concealment of his views of the incarnation, 
of the satisfaction, and of the nature of Christ. These 
important subjects are, however, not what is most prom- 
inent in the treatise, wdiose special purpose is expressed 
in its full title: A Theologico-political Treatise, contain- 
ing Be vend Dissertations, in which it is Shown that the 
Freedom of Philosophy is not only Compatible with the 
Maintenance of Piety and with Public Tranquillity, but 
that it cannot be Violated without Violating at the same 
time both Piety and Public Tranquillity . The work w as 
a revelation of the general movement of the century. 
In 1044 John Milton asserted the freedom of the press 
in his Areopagitica ; in 1047 Jeremy Taylor produced 
his Liberty of Prophesying, advocating freedom of relig- 
ious ministrations; in 1070 appeared Spinoza’s Tracta - 
tus Theologico-politicns , urging unrestricted freedom of 
philosophy, and especially in regard to the interpreta- 
tion of the Scriptures. In 1089 Locke published the 
first of his Letters on Toleration, urging entire religious 
freedom. The closing years of the century were pre- 
eminently the age of the freethinkers. Spinoza's trea- 
tise may therefore be considered as a manifestation of 
the spirit of the time, not as an abnormal phenomenon. 
Spinoza was only one of a throng: 

“ he above the re«t. 

In shape and gesture proudly eminent. 

. . . by merit raised 

To that bad eminence.” 

We cannot enter into the details of this treatise, signifi- 
cant as they are. They are not Spinoza’s philosophy, 
though they are concomitants of his philosophy. The 
treatise, though first in order of publication, was a con- 
sequence rather than a cause of his philosophy, which 
was not fairly exhibited during his lifetime. The Eth- 
ica, which is his philosophy, was apparently constructed 
between 1602 and 1005, but not published till 1 077, among 
his Opera Post hu nut , which contained, besides his Truc- 
tatus Politicos, his Tractafus de Intellectus Ememlatione, 
Ejristolte Doctor um 17ror»»t,and his Compendium Gram- 
malice Lingucc Hebnticc. Ilis Information of the Un- 
derstanding and his Ethics will he noticed under the head 
of his Philosophy; so will the Letters, as far as may be 
found expedient, fur they are chiefly comments upon 


93S 


SPINOZA 


SPINOZA 


his doctrine. The Tractates PcUticus was perhaps 
suggested by Tin Ltriathan of Hobbes, but differs great- 
ly" from it in spirit and conclusion, though largely ac- 
cordant with it in general procedure. Hobbes favored 
des|M»tic authority. Spinoza upheld regulated and ra- 
tional freedom under every form of government. Arbi- 
trary restraints were foreign to his mental and moral 
habits, and had been rendered repugnant to him bv the 
bitter experiences of himself and of his teacher. Van den 
Knde. The //threw Grammar requires no further com- 
memoration. Several other works have been ascribed, 
correctly or incorrectly, to Spinoza. Some of them have 
l*een lo-d. A number of marginal notes have been pre- 
served and published. A little treatise of much interest 
was discovered and printed several years ago. This 
is the Korte I ’erhande/iny ran God, de Mtnsck en desze/J's 
WrUtmul. It is preserved in the Dutch version, not in 
the original text. The chief value of the essay is that 
it contains clear indications of the peculiar doctrines of 
Spinoza, and gives the earliest view of them. It was 
probald v composed before lfilll ; possibly as early as 
ii»54-5. In the latter case, Spinoza would have been 
only twenty-two or twenty-three at the time. It thus 
reveals the precocity of his scheme and the singular 
consistency of his intellectual development. The chron- 
ological order of Spinoza's works thus appears to have 
been almost exactly the reverse of their order of publi- 
cation. There is a somewhat analogous indication in 
the development of his philosophy. II is conclusions 
seem to have been first settled, then principles discov- 
ered for them, then ilefinitionsand axioms invented, and 
then demonstrations devised. This will explain the er- 
ror of the dogmas, the arbitrariness and invalidity of the 
premises, ami their singularly logical evolution into the 
anticipated results. 

III. I’hi/osophy. — With an author so systematic as 
Spinoza, so curious in the establishment of all details, so 
methodically scrupulous in their demonstration and con- 
catenation, it is impossible to deal, in a work of this 
kind, otherwise than by a summary treatment of his 
most distinctive principles. A full and formal exam- 
ination would demand as close and as minute a criticism 
as was bestowed bv Leibnitz upon Locke’s Essay on the 
Jfuman Understanding. Hook by book, paragraph by 
paragraph, would have to be tested. For such a pro- 
ceeding there is no room here. A bird’s-eye view must 
suthee. The details of any philosophy arc, however, of 
secondary importance. If correctly established, they 
tlow of necessity from the principles; if incorrectly de- 
duced, they may discredit the philosopher, but they are 
no fair exhibition of the philosophy, and may be disre- 
garded in a brief estimate of its character and value. 
The method is the chief concern. The principles come 
next, and they are usually determined, in large meas- 
ure, l»v the method. All. t lien, that can be attempted 
at present will be to point out the characteristic pro- 
cedure of Spinoza, and his fundamental principles. 
These determine and distinguish the philosophy, in its 
essence, its type, and its worth, l'or the purpose con- 
templated two of Spinoza's works will suffice — the lief- 
or mat inn of the Unde islanding, which presents a frag- 
mentary view of his method, and the Ethics, which con- 
tain his philosophy. The Letters are chiefly elucida- 
tions of the doctrine. 

1 he treatise on the /l» formation of the Understanding 
was a posthumous work, and was left a fragment. Its 
composition, in its first draft, probably dates back to the 
period following the commencement of the Ethics , to 
which work it may serve as an introduction. Lhilitt- 
i died as it is, it may explain the philosophical tenden- 
cies, the philosophieul relations, and the philosophical 
procedure of its author. Spinoza had been inducted 
into speculative pursuits by the study of the works of 
Den Cartes, llis lir-t publication was an abstract of 
t 'nrtesinnisui. lie was < 'artesian by descent, ( 'artesian 
bv i’ltcllcctual habit, and remained Cartesian to the 
end. lie was, indeed, hyper-Cartesian, as Leibnitz rec- 


ognised. He only pushed the Cartesian method and 
the Cartesian doctrine to their furthest consequences. 
There are two leading dogmas of Des Cartes — one con- 
cerned with his method, the other with his doctrine. 
The former is that a clear idea is a true one, since the 
mind contains within itself the germs of truth, in the 
form of innate ideas. The latter is that mind and mat- 
ter constitute the universe, as thought and extension; 
that they are entirely diverse, and cannot act upon each 
other. See Des Cautes. These two dogmas consti- 
tute the starting-points of Spinozism, in procedure and 
in system. “ To have a certain knowledge of the 
truth,” says Spinoza, “it is sufficient to have a clear 
idea” (comp. Ethics , pt. ii, prop, xliii). “ Ideas which 
are clear and distinct can never be false.” What is 
clear, then, is certain; what is certain, is true; and 
the mind is both the source and the judge of true knowl- 
edge. This is Cartesianism. Spinoza recognised four 
different kinds of knowledge, according to their origin 
and according to their adequacy. Intuition, the high- 
est grade, is alone wholly satisfactory (comp. Ethics, pt. 
ii, prop. xl). The influence of Platonism upon both 
Des Cartes and Sprwqza is here manifest. Nothing is 
true which is not presented as a clear and adequate 
idea. A clear and adequate idea is necessarily true. 
The invalidity of these assumptions need not be insist- 
ed upon. They are the foundation of Spinoza’s method. 

The object of life is to attain a knowledge of the 
truth — of the truth of being, of absolute truth. All oth- 
er aims are relatively unimportant. Everything but 
this is merely secondary. Worldly temptations, world- 
ly enjoyments, wealth, power, honors, indulgences, dis- 
tract the mind, and unfit it for such high contempla- 
tions, and for their earnest prosecution. They should 
be renounced, in order to secure the serene tempera- 
ment and t he unclouded vision and the unselfish devo- 
tion which the genuine pursuit of truth demands. Thus 
only can the attainment of clear, and therefore of true, 
ideas be expected. But, besides the knowledge of prin- 
ciples, which are the data of reasoning, the knowledge 
of the consequences of these principles, and of the re- 
ciprocal relations of such consequences, must be ac- 
quired. First principles, or disconnected ideas, are the 
beginning of knowledge, not its body. All possible con- 
sequences are evolved from them, blit they must be 
traced in their relations and their interdependences. 
This must be done by the strictest reasoning, without 
suffering the interference of any obscure, vague, or im- 
perfect notions. Such reasoning must be distinct and 
conclusive in all its stages, coercive of assent, and rig- 
idly demonstrative. The strictest form of demonstra- 
tion is geometrical, hence geometrical reasoning alone 
can suffice for the requirements of a true exposition of 
true doctrine. It will be noted that Spinoza does not 
pursue the course of investigation, but trie course of de- 
velopment. He always proceeds a priori, llis prin- 
ciples, whether admissible or not, are data, are assump- 
tions. The sufficient proof of their truth with him is 
their lucidity. Thence every position is reached sim- 
ply by deduction. Pascal, one of the greatest of math- 
ematicians, had luminously shown the inapplicability 
of mathematical reasoning to unmathematical topics. 
But the Cartesian dogma of clear ideas being necessa- 
rily true engrossed the mind of Spinoza, and determined 
bis whole method. Cartesianism was dominant through- 
out. Europe. The brightest minds were occupied in 
questioning Cartesianism, in refuting objections, re- 
moving discords, supplying deficiencies, and assuring its 
coherence and completeness. In one fundamental re- 
spect Cartesianism was unsatisfactory and inexplicable. 
Then* was a serious flaw in a cardinal doctrine which 
exacted redress. The universe consisted of thought 
aud extension, mind and matter. Everything fell un- 
der one or the other category, or was composed of both. 
But mind and matter were asserted to be wholly dis- 
tinct and incommunicable. Neither was capable of act- 
ing on the other. How were the functions of life, the 


SPINOZA 


930 


SPINOZA 


actions of rational beings, the conduct of creatures ca- 
pable of spontaneous movement, to be accounted for? 
Here was the knot which Cartesiauism could not untie, 
which must be untied before Cartesiauism could be 
completely valid. The same knot, in a disguised form, 
is still perplexing speculation. Various solutions of the 
difficulty were proposed ; all have proved extravagant 
anti inadequate. See Leibnitz; Maledraxcue. Spi- 
noza accepted the postulates of Des Cartes, and appre- 
ciated the difficulty which rent Cartesiauism from crown 
to sole. If he could only obtain clear ideas of mind 
and matter, their relations to each other would be dis- 
cerned and the problem would be solved. Mind and 
matter constitute the universe; they are variously con- 
joined; they suffer concurrent modifications; they act 
continually in harmony, yet they cannot act upon each 
other. 'Hie only conclusion consonant with these posi- 
tions is that mind and matter are essentially one and 
the same ; that they are diverse aspects of a single ex- 
istence, and that they are distinguished by merely ap- 
parent and accidental differences. If the same, they 
must be, and must have been, the same at all times and 
throughout all eternity, through all their changes and 
in all their forms. There is no longer any need of ex- 
plaining their reciprocal interaction, for there is no inter- 
action. There is no necessity for any divine pre-ordi- 
nation or divine co-operation to bring about material 
changes coincidently with mental determinations, be- 
cause, as the universe is reduced to absolute unity, the 
Divinity is itself embraced in that unity — Up indeed, that 
unity. There is inconclusiveness in the reasoning, no 
doubt; if there were no inconclusiveness, Spinozism 
would be true. It is not meant to be asserted that Spi- 
noza consciously pursued the course of reasoning here 
presumed, or has anywhere formally developed it. The 
foundations of his philosophy are intuitive, according 
to his own principles. But from his essay on the Ref- 
ormation of the Understanding , from the constitution of 
his Ethics , from the whole complexion of his scheme, 
from the Cartesiauism which furnished his point of de- 
parture, and the correction of Cartesianisra which he 
submitted as his system, it is certain that he must have 
instinctively pursued this or a like line of reasoning. 

Everything is thus swallowed up in the Divinity. 
God is all, and all is God — not interchangeably, for that 
would be materialistic theism, which is practical athe- 
ism; but with the precedence and exclusiveness of the 
divine, and that is idealistic pantheism. Things are 
not preordained, $r predetermined, or prearranged, but 
preinvolved. Whatever phenomena arise, whatever 
changes occur, they are the transitory manifestations 
of some modification of the divine activity. There is 
mutation of accidents, there is no mutation of essence. 
The waves swell and roar upon the ocean, the bubbles 
burst upon the waves, but the ocean remains identical- 
ly the same — 

“Such as creation’s dawn beheld.” 

But there is no creation, there is only transfiguration 
through the incessant evolution and revolution of one 
eternal being. All possibilities are contained in this 
being, and all possibilities come into act, not eoinci- 
dently or contemporaneously, but in diverse order and 
position. There is but one existence, one substance, 
but infinite forms. “There cannot be, and we cannot 
conceive, any other substance than God.” “ Whatever 
is, is in God ; and nothing can be, nor can be conceived, 
without God” ( Ethics , pt. i, prop, xiv, xv). These are 
foregone conclusions. They are involved in the third 
and sixth definitions of the first part. The definitions 
are assumptions, and arbitrary assumptions. All Spi- 
nozism is latent in Spinoza’s definition of substance, as 
all possibilities and eventualities are enclosed in the 
Spinozistic Divinity. But Spinoza’s definition of sub- 
stance is altogether alien from the definitions and con- 
ceptions of the Greek and other philosophers. With 
the latter, substance is shadowy and almost inappre- 


hensible, the final residuum after everything conceiva- 
ble has been separated from the aggregate of accidents, 
properties, and other constituents. With Spinoza, it is 
the cause and body of those accidents and properties, 
and of what else there may be. In both eases, it is 
true, it is the foundation, the underlying nliqnid neces- 
sarinm — ro inroKtipei'ov. With Spinoza it is every- 
thing, with the rest it is nothing that can be conceived. 
From the unity of substance and the concomitant uni- 
versality of the Divinity, all Spinozism follows of neces- 
sity, and its pantheistic character is also a necessary 
consequence, with or without geometrical deduction. 
We have exhibited only the roots of the doctrine; the 
trunk, the branches, the leaves, the blossoms, and the 
fruit all spring from them. We have not the space to 
pursue Spinoza through all the intricacies of his sys- 
tem. It is only necessary to add to the explanations 
already given that the Ethics of Spinoza include ontol- 
ogy, psychology, anti deontology. The treatise is dis- 
tributed into five parts: I. On God ; II. On the Nature 
and Origin of the Soul; III. On the Nature and Origin 
of the Passions; IV. On the Slavery of Man, or the 
Strength of the Passions; V. On the Power of the Un- 
derstanding, or the Liberty of Man. This freedom is 
very delusive. Man has no freedom of volition or of 
action. The only freedom accorded by Spinoza is free- 
dom from other constraint than the necessities of his 
nature ( Ethics , pt. ii, prop, xlviii ; pt. iii, def. ii, prop, ii, 
etc.). 

In the rigorous demonstrations of Spinoza, though 
the validity of the demonstration may be sometimes 
contested, there are many acute and profound observa- 
tions. Nothing can be more surprising or more inspir- 
iting than his deduction and enforcement of every duty 
and of every virtue in the fifth part. There is a nice 
distinction between Xatura vatnrans and Xatura va- 
turata which has become so celebrated and is often so 
convenient that it should not be left without notice 
( Ethics , pt. i, prop, xxix, Schol.). With Spinoza, Xa- 
tura naturam is the divine substance considered as op- 
erating cause; Xatura naturata the divine substance 
considered as effect or modification. With philosophers 
of dissimilar tenets, Xatura miturans signifies nature in 
her silent operation producing the appropriate results; 
and Xatura naturata the results of such operation. 

There is ample temptation for further comment and 
for abundant reflection, but these must be reluctantly 
renounced. From the brief survey of the essential char- 
acter of Spinozism, it will be evident that the doctrine 
is the purest and eompletest pantheism — the purest in 
every sense. It is pantheism, and has consequently af- 
finities and correspondences with all fashions of panthe- 
ism. It is inevitably opposed to all revealed religion, 
yet it is steeped through and through in the Divinity; 
but in an endless, formless, indiscriminate, impersonal, 
and mistaken Divinity. It is the reductio ad absurdum 
of Cartesiauism. It therefore instituted no sect and 
invited no acolytes. The philosophy became a target 
and a butt, and when new forms of error menaced re- 
ligion it passed away, and has been too little remem- 
bered. The memory of the clear spirit, the noble nat- 
ure, and the unspotted life of Spinoza should not be al- 
lowed to sink into oblivion. 

IV. Literature. — J3.de Spinoza Opera G/wwqed. Pau- 
las (Jena, 1802-3); id. ed. Gfrbrer (Stuttg. 1830); id. 
ed. Brutler (Lips. 1843-4G); Saisset, CEvrres de Spinoza 
(Par. 1842); Prat, (Enures Completes de Spinoza (ibid. 
18GG); Van Vloten, A d B. de Spinoza Opera quee Su- 
persunt Omnia Suppl. (Amst. 18G9); Schaarsmidt, J3. 
de Spinoza , Korte Yerhandeling van God , de Mensch en 
deszelfs Welstand (ibid. 18G9) : Sigwart, />. de Spinoza's 
Knrzer Tract at von Gott,dem Menschen nnd dessen Gliick- 
seliykeit (Tub. 1870); Spinoza, Tractutus Theoloyico-po- 
liticus (Loud. 1877) ; Janet, Spinoza. Dieu , V Homme, et la 
Beatitude (Par. 1878) ; Bayle, Diet. Hist. Grit. s. v. “ Spi- 
noza;” Dietz ,Be?}.ron Spinoza, nnch Leben und Lehren 
(Leips. 1783) ; Jacobi, Ueber die Lehre des Spinoza (ibid. 


040 


SPIRE 


SPINSTER 


17*5); Philipson, Ltben B. von Spinoza (Mannh. 1700); 
Heine, Rtc. tbs ihux Monties, Nov, 1834; Martin, /Piss, 
tie Phil. B. tie Spinoza (l'ar. 183G); Auerbach, Spinoza, 
ein hist. /Ionian (Stuttg. 1837) ; u\. Spinoza y t in Denier- 
/Abeii ^Mannli. 1*55); Thomas, Spinoza ills Metaphysi- 
l . r (K<mig>b. 1*40); Saint es. Hist, tie la \’ie et ties tKu- 
vrts tie Spinoza (Par. 1*43); Saissct, Hist, ilu Spino- 
zisme ; llebler. Spinoza's I. ehre , etc. (Herne, 1*50) ; \ oil 
Orelli. Spinoza's Leben und A ehre (Aarau, 1850); Van 
Vluteii, haruch d Espinoza (Amst. 18G2); Saisset, Mai- 
ntain U et Spinoza , in the Her. ties J)eux Monties, 18G2; 
Van <ler Linde, Spinoza, sein Leben, etc. (Gotting. 18G2); 
Lehmann. Spinoza, sein Lebeiisbild , etc. (V iirzb. 1864); 
Fincher. Ji. Spinoza's Leben und Charakter (Mannh. 
InJO); Nourrisson, Spinoza et le Xaturufisme Contem- 
p, train (Par. 1866); .Janet, Spinoza et le Spinozisme, in 
the Ilex', tbs Deux Mowles, 1JSG7 ; Arnold, A lion/ 
Mart abttut Spinoza, ill Macmillan's Map. 1868; llann, 
Die Kthik Spinoza's und die Philosophic Des Cartes 
(Innshr. 1*76); Camerer. Die Lehre Spinoza's (ibid. 
1*77): Rothschild [liabbi J, Sfnnoza (ibid. 1877); Gins- 
burg. Lein n Spinoza's (Leips. 1876); Willis, B. de Spi- 
imza, his fit hies, Life, and Correspondence (Lond. 1870); 
Penan, Address at the Opening of Spinoza's Monument 
at the Hague. Feb. 21, 1877. See the Contemporary Rev. 
March, 1*77; Loud. Quur. Rev. 1877 ; Frohschammer, 
Die Beden t ung tier KinbildungskruJ't in der Philosophic 
Kant's und Spinoza's (1879) ; Filrst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 358 
S 'F V'.V.U.) 

Spinster, a term applied to an unmarried woman 
in legal documents, and in banns or proclamations of 
marriage. Spinster, with the old termination, is the 
female of spinner, as songster is of singer, seamster or 
sentster of seamer. King Alfred, in his will, calls the 
male side of his house the spear side, and the female 
the spindle side. The term is derived from the old oc- 
cupation of women. 



Spire (spira), an acutely pointed termination given 
to towers and turrets, forming the roof, and usually car- 
ried up to a great height. It is doubtful whether any 
very decided approach towards a spire was made till a 
considerable time after the introduction of the Xormun 
style: at this period spires were sometimes adopted 
both on turrets and towers, and were generally made to 
correspond with them in their plan. Thus the circular 
turrets at the east end of the Church of St. Peter, at 
Oxford, terminate in small 
3. circular spires; an octago- 
nal turret at the west end 
of Pochestcr Cathedral has 
an octagonal spire; and the 
square towers of the 
churches of Than and St. 
Contct, and several others 
igrrT— near Caen, in Normandy, 

are surmounted with pyr- 
amids or square spires. 
They were at first of very 
low proportions compared 
with later structures, and 
in truth were little more 
than pyramidal roofs. The 
whole of (he existing spec- 
imens of this date arc of 
stone, and rise from the 
outer surface of the walls, 
so as to have no parapet 
or gutter round the base. 
These pyramids become 
gradually more elongated 
as they are later in date, 
and clearly led the way to 
the spire. 

As i lie Parly L'ngl ish style arose, considerable great- 
er i b vnt ion uns given to spires, although they were 
still v* r\ frequently less acute than they afterwards be- 



j;i .Ki 

1. Turret, *i. IVier’s Church, 

Oxford, cir. A D. tll»n. 

2. Turret, Koi-heuer Cathe- 

dral, clr. A. I > lltifl. 

3. P.ni.wh*, UMeipV Hoove 

< hurrti, Gloucestershire, 
clr. A l» 1 1 so, 

4. Than *'tninh, near Caen, 

Normandy, elr.A.D. lost). 



5. Almondsbnry Church, Gloucestershire, cir. A.D. 1250. 

6. Salisbury Cathedral, cir. A.I). 1350. 

7. St. Mary's Church, Cheltenham, cir. A.D. 1300. 



came, as at Ryhall, Rutland ; Barnacle and Ringstead, 
Northamptonshire; and Christ Church Cathedral, Ox- 
ford. With the exception of a few rare examples, spires 
at this period were always octagonal; and when placed 
on square towers, the angles of the tower not covered 
by the base of the spire were occupied by pinnacles or 
by masses okmasonry made to slope back against the 
spire. At the bot- 
tom of each of the 
four cardinal sides 
w r as usually a large 
opening with the 
jambs built perpen- 
dicularly, so that 
the head stood out 
from the spire and 
xvas usually finish- 
ed with a steep 
pediment. Above 
these, at some con- 
siderable distance, 
smaller openings 
of a similar kind 
were generally in- 
troduced on the al- 
ternate sides; these 
openings are called 
spire-lights. The 
top of the spire ter- 
minated with a fin- 
ial and a cross or 
vane. Spires w r ere 
still usually made 
to rise from the ex- 
terior of the tower 
Avails without a par- 
apet, a mode of con- 
st ruction which is Ringstead, cir. 1300. 

distinguished in 

sonic districts bv the term broach, the name of spire 
being confined to such structures as have gutters and 
parapets round their bases. Fine examples of spires of 
this date exist in Normandy, and at Hampton and Wit- 
ney, Oxfordshire, and various other places. 

During the prevalence of the Decorated style spires 
wen* almost always very acute; they generally had par- 
apets and gutters round them, though the broach spires 
are by no means uncommon at this date, as at Stamford 
and (.’rick, Northamptonshire. Decorated spires did not 
dill'cr materially from Karlv English spires, except in 
the character of the details and the amount of enrich- 
ments, which now began to be introduced in profusion. 
Crockets were often carved on the angles, as at Cav- 
thorpe, and small bands of panelling or other ornaments 


SPIRE 


941 


SPIRES 



formed round them 
at different heights; 
the openings also 
were more enrich- 
ed, and t lie pinna- 
cles on the angles 
of the tower were 
enlarged, and were 
not un frequently 
connected with the 
spire by small Hy- 
ing buttresses. 
Fine examples of 
this style are the 
spires of Salisbury 
Cathedral and of 
St. Mary’s, Oxford. 

In the Perpendic- 
ular style the same 
general arrange- 
ment was contin- 
ued, although the 
character of the 
details and enrich- 
ments was altered 
in common with 
those of the other 
features of Gothic 
architecture. At 
this period broach 
spires appear to 

c have been aban- 

Sinre, Caythorpe, cir. 1320. , , . 

1 ’ J * ’ doned — at least, no 

example of one of this date can be referred to. The 
foregoing observations refer to spires of stone, but they 
were often also made of timber and covered either with 
lead or shingles, the greater part of these were broach- 
es, but they were sometimes surrounded by a parapet 
at the base. Many specimens of timber spires covered 
with shingles are to be met with in the counties of Sur- 
rey, Sussex, Kent, and Essex, and in some other places. 

Small spires of open work, of timber, are sometimes 
placed at the cast end of the naves of large foreign 
churches. In some of these the Lady-bell (or Sanctus- 
bell) is placed. The conjunction of a tower and spire 
forms a steeple. The following is the measurement of 
celebrated steeples above the ground : Old St. Paul’s, 
527 ft., Salisbury, 404 ft.; St. Michael’s, Coventry, 320 
ft.; Norwich, 309 ft.; Louth, 294 ft.; Chichester, 271 ft.; 
Strasburg, 500 ft.; Vienna, 441 ft.; Antwerp, 406 ft.; 
Freiberg, 385 ft,; Chartres, 353 ft,; St. Patrick’s, Dub- 
lin, 223 ft., Glasgow, 225 ft. The spire of Amiens, 
called the golden steeple, from its gilded crockets, is 
422 ft.; of Cologne, 510 ft.; the highest pinnacle of 
Milan, 355 ft.; the dome of St. Peter’s, 434 ft. ; Flor- 
ence, 387 ft. ; and Segovia, 330 ft.— Parker, Gloss . of 
Architecture, s. v. See Lee, Gloss, of Liturg. Terms ; 
Walcott, Sacred A rckeeol. s. v. 

Spire, or Exupere, St., first bishop of Bayenx, 
was born, according to some, in Pome, and came to 
Gaul about A.D. 68, with Denis, Satnrnin, and other 
bishops, whom they pretend to have been scut by pope 
Clement. This opinion, followed in the diocese of Ba- 
yeux,isin contradiction with the chronology of its bish- 
ops; and it is also necessary, in accordance with the 
majority of writers, to fix the epoch of his arrival to- 
wards the end of the fourth century. He died about 
405, and was buried at t lie end of Mt. Phaunus, where 
he had begun to preach the Christian faith. 1 1 is re- 
mains, transferred in the 16tli century to Corbeil, 
where a church was erected in his memory, were 
burned, Feb. 8, 179, in presence of the municipality. 
II is festival is on Aug. 1. — iloefer, Nouv. Biog. Gene- 
rale, s. v. 

Spire Cross. In mediaeval times every church 
spire was crowned and surmounted by an ornamental 



cross. Its form was 
very varied, and fre- 
quently the repre- 
sentation of a cock 
was placed at the 
top, while at the foot 
of the cross was a 
globe, signifying the 
intiueuce and power 
of the cross over the 
world. The richest 
examples of spire 
crosses are found in 
France and Ger- 
many. That from 
the pencil of Mr. Pu- 
gin, in the accompa- 
nying cut, is not un- 
like the cross sur- 
mounting the spire 
of Amiens Cathe- 
dral. 

Spires, Diets 
of. Spires, or Spire 
(Germ. Speger; anc. 

Noviomagus , after- 
wards Nemetes ), is a 
city of Bavaria, at 
the continence of the 
Speyerbach with the 
Khine, once the resi- 
dence of the German 
emperors, but now greatly reduced, fiaving been nearly 
destroyed by the French in 1689. It is noted in eccle- 
siastical history for the meetings held there by the Ile- 
formers. 

I. The first diet had been ordered to convene Feb. 
I, 1526, at Esslingen, but was afterwards directed to 
meet at Spires on May I. It did not begin its delib- 
erations, however, until June 26. The situation at the 
time was favorable to the evangelical cause, inasmuch 
as the peace of Madrid, concluded between the emperor 
Charles V and Francis I, the king of France (January, 
1526), had been broken by Francis, with the consent of 
the pope. All Western Europe was leagued together to 
destroy the preponderating power of the imperial house. 
The Turks threatened to invade Germany, and the Tor- 
gau alliance had compacted the Protestant states into a 
formidable power. The Protestant princes accordingly 
assumed a bold attitude, and from the time of their ar- 
rival caused 'their preachers to hold daily services, at 
w r hich thousands of people were present. The religions 
question was prominent from the beginning of the diet. 
The imperial commissioners announced that the em- 
peror had determined to maintain the existing order in 
religious matters until a council should arrange a differ- 
ent order, and demanded that new innovations agreea- 
ble to the teaching of Luther and contrary to the Edict 
of Worms should not be undertaken, besides calling at- 
tention to ordinary matters pertaining to the general 
conduct of the empire and to its needs. Debates imme- 
diately ensued, in which the lay estates directed atten- 
tion towards the many and notorious abuses existing in 
the Church, and the imperial cities demanded the ab- 
rogation of erroneous and dangerous customs. They 
asserted that it was impossible to tell when, if ever, a 
general Christian council might be convened. These ar- 
guments prevailed. The complaints so presented were 
given to a committee, which reported that baptism and 
the Lord’s supper should alone be regarded as sacra- 
ments; that the laity should partake of the cup; and 
that the vernacular should be employed in the admin- 
istration of the sacraments. A second committee re- 
ported, advising the exercise of liberty in the points 
named by the former committee, and, in addition, rec- 
ommending the abrogation of celibacy and an intelli- 
gent preaching of the Word of God. At this point the 


942 


SPIRES 


SPIRES 


commissioners introduced instructions, dated March 20, 
which prohibited them from accept ini; any action on 
the part of the diet that did not harmonize with t lie 
traditional doctrines and usages, and required them to 
promote the execution of the Edict of Worms. The 
elector of Saxony and the landgrave of Hesse took im- 
mediate measures to depart from Spires; and the difli- 
culties which surrounded the emperor, joi tied with the 
counsels of his advisers, now led him to employ more, 
conciliatory language, lie wrote to his brother Ferdi- 
nand that he was determined to win over the Evangel- 
icals with kindness, and to submit their doctrines to a 
council i and the recess of the diet, dated August 27. de- 
creed that a universal — or at least a national — council 
should he called within a year, and that in matters 
treated of in the Edict of Worms each state should, 
during the interval, behave so as to be able to rentier 
account to God and the emperor. The Evangelical 
cause was thus accorded a season of quiet, during which 
its adherents drew more tirmly together, anil consoli- 
dated the ( 'hureh. See the Acta of the diet in Luther’s 
IIV/vU* (Walch's ed.), xvi, 213 sq. ; Voesenmayer, Die 
Yerhamllnnyen a nfdem Reichstaye zn Speyer ini Jahre 
152b, etc., in Vater's Archiv, 1S25, i, 22 sq.; Iiauke, 
Deutsche Resell. ii,354 sq. ; id. Ftirsfen n. Yolkercon Stid- 
turopa. ii. 100 >q. ; Xeudecker. Merkir. A ktenstucke alts 
dnn Z* it alter d. Reformation , i, 10 sq. 

II. TJie second Diet of Spires was occasioned by the 
more favorable conditions which the political relations 
of the emperor assumed, in consequence of which he felt 
himself able to enforce what was always his real desire, 
the repression of the Evangelical movement in Germa- 
ny. When Francis I of France sued for peace, and the 
pope was induced to renew amicable relations, the coun- 
cil promised in the recess of the first diet was no longer 
thought of hv the emperor, lie declared that he would 
no longer tolerate such disobedience to his commands as 
wa< manifest in the disregard of the Edict of Worms, 
and assorted that the existing differences in matters 
pertaining to the faith were the occasion from which 
sprang the troubles of the empire, lie appointed com- 
missaries. at the head of whom was his brother Ferdi- 
nand, ami ordered the convening of a diet at Spires, to 
open Feh. 1, 1529, The date was afterwards changed 
to the lilst of that month ; hut the opening was delayed 
until March 15. The Ilomish party was strongly in 
the majority, and had been embittered by the fraud of 
Pack Cm* v*), until its members were thoroughly deter- 
mined to execute the emperor’s instructions designed to 
overthrow the Evangelical teachings and Church order. 
1 In* Evangelicals, as at the first Diet of Spires, were de- 
nied the line of a church, and were compelled to wor- 
ship in their lodgings. Attendance on their services 
wa« prohibited; hut congregations of over 81)00 persons 
were, nevertheless, present at the preaching of the 
Word. The imperial commissaries were busily em- 
ployed in sowing seeds of dissension among the Evan- 
gelicals; and lading in this purpose, they secured the 
exclusion of the delegates from Strashurg ami Mem- 
niiugen, where i lie mass had been prohibited. 

'1 he diet was opened by the commissaries in the spirit 
of tie* emperor’s instructions. They abrogated the re- 
cos'* of the previous diet, on the alleged ground that it 
bad been arbitrarily explained. The address of the 
commissaries was referred to a committee, in which the 
Evangelicals were greatly in the minority, and was of 
course approved. The report recommended the hold- 
ing of a council in some German city, that the mass 
should be everywhere retained, and dial it should he 
restored where it had been set aside; that a rigid cen- 
sorship over books should he exercised; and, finally, 
that every form of teaching which did not recognise 
the real body and blood of Christ in the sacrament 
should lie prohibited. The final item was designed to 
prevent the union of Lutherans and Reformed into a 
single and powerful party, as the landgrave of Hesse 
proved, l-erdinund exerted himself to promote the 


adoption of this report, and Eck and Faber (q. v.) were 
restlessly at work to divide the minority. The land- 
grave, assisted by Melancthon. was, however, success- 
ful in uniting the Evangelicals in support of a declara- 
tion directly opposed to the report of the committee in 
all its parts. This declaration was submitted to the 
diet April 12. and was of course immediately rejected 
by the Ilomish majority; and Ferdinand, in the session 
of April 19, even exalted the report of the committee 
into a recess of the diet, and commanded the Evangel- 
icals to submit to its provisions, as having been fixed 
by a majority. As the minority were not prepared to 
yield immediately, he anti his associate commissaries 
ieft the diet. The Evangelical princes at once drew up 
a protest against the action of Ferdinand anti in harmo- 
ny with their previous declaration, and caused it to he 
read immediately and publicly, after which they de- 
manded its incorporation into the recess. On the fol- 
lowing day (April 20) they transmitted a more extend- 
ed copy of their protest to the imperial commissaries, 
which was returned to them by Ferdinand. This inci- 
dent conferred on them the title of Protestants. The 
protest set forth that the Evangelical princes and es- 
tates could not sanction the revocation bv a party vote 
of the recess passed unanimously at the last diet; that 
their opponents had conceded the correctness of Evan- 
gelical teaching in many points, anil could not there- 
fore require its rejection by those who now received it; 
that the papal legate had acknowledged, at the diet in 
Nuremberg, that the Church suffered from many evils 
in both head and members, and that consequently the 
occasion for existing differences must be found in Home; 
as was also evident from the fact that the complaints 
of the German nation had not yet been satisfied, fit 
the event that the recess of the former diet should, nev- 
ertheless, be recalled by the partisan majority, the sign- 
ers protested before God that, for themselves and their 
people, they would “neither consent nor adhere in any 
manner whatsoever to the proposed decree in anything 
that is contrary to God, his holy Word, our right con- 
science and the salvation of our souls, and the last decree 
of Spires.” They asked that the matter be reported to 
the emperor, anti declared that they would in the mean- 
time so govern their actions that they might be able to 
render account thereof to God and the emperor. 

The recess of the diet was issued April 22 in the 
form already described; and three days later the Prot- 
estant princes and delegates assembled in the house of 
Peter Muderstatt, deacon of St.John’s, to draw up — in 
behalf of themselves, their subjects, and all who should 
thereafter receive the Word of Gotl — an appeal addressed 
to his imperial majesty and to a free and universal coun- 
cil of holy Christendom. They incorporated in it a re- 
view of the action taken by the diet, accompanied with 
the principal documents belonging to the case, and de- 
manded immunity from all past, present, and future vex- 
atious measures. They next resolved to send an embas- 
sy to the emperor, in order that the reasons from which 
they acted might be truthfully reported to him, and 
that he might be conciliated; and then they quitted 
Spires. 

The envoys were selected at a convention held in 
Nuremberg May, 1529, and reached the emperor Sept. 7. 
They were, Alexis Frauentraut, secretary to the mar- 
grave of Ilrandenburg; Michael von Kailen, syndic of 
Nuremberg; and John Ehinger, the burgomaster of 
Memmiugen. The emperor had in Ihe meantime con- 
cluded a treaty with the pope at llarcelona. June 29, 
and had concluded peace with Francis 1 at Camhray, 
Aug. 5, in each instance binding himself to put down 
the I le formation in Germany. The envoys immediate- 
ly presented the protest, but were obliged to wait until 
Get. 12 for the emperor’s reply, insisting on the sub- 
mission of the Protestants to the decree of the diet ; on 
receiving which they at once read the appeal of Spires, 
and caused it to he taken to the emperor, who thereupon 
placed them under arrest. In Germany, the landgrave 


SPIRES 


1)43 


SPIRIT 


of Hesse had given the protest of Spires to the world in 
print, May 5, 15*29, and the elector of Saxonv May 12. 
See Muller, Hist. von d. evang. Stand e Protest it. Ap- 
pellution . . . dann der darauf erfolgten Legation in 
Spanien an k. Afajest. Karl P, etc. (Jena, 1705) ; Jung, 
Gestch . des Reichstags zu Speyer , 1529 (Strasb. and Leips. 
1830). 

Iir. The third Diet of Spires was convened to take 
action with reference to the necessities of the empire 
as against the Turks. It was opened Feb. 9, 1542. by 
king Ferdinand, who urged the importance of providing 
aid against the threatening enemy, but was met by the 
Evangelical estates with a declaration that they would 
vote no assistance save under the condition that the 
peace of Patisbon (1541) should be confirmed. They 
asserted that many riders did not act conformably to 
that agreement, and also that in suits at law before the 
chamlier Evangelical contestants could not expect jus- 
tice because of the composition of that tribunal, and 
they demanded that unobjectionable men should be ap- 
pointed to its bench. Ferdinand could not receive such 
sentiments with favor, but was obliged to yield to the 
demands of the Protestant party through fear of the 
Turks. 

The pope had sent cardinal Moroni to the diet to ad- 
vocate the inauguration of a reform which should re- 
store the Church to its ancient condition, and to pro- 
pose, in furtherance of that purpose, the holding of a 
council in some Italian city. The estates rejected the 
latter proposition; and the Evangelical party went so 
far as to declare that they would never recognise a coun- 
cil convened and opened by the pope, though the latter 
had offered to substitute Trent or Cambray as the place 
of meeting, and the estates had decided in favor of 
Trent. The Evangelicals also demanded that their 
protest against the proposed council should be admitted 
into the recess of the diet. A compromise was finally 
adopted, and published as a recess on April II, 1542, by 
which the Evangelical claims were recognised, and an 
armistice for five years after the war was accorded them 
in return for the vote of liberal aid for the prosecution 
of the Turkish campaign. The recess, however, pro- 
vided no new guarantee that the unwilling Pomanists 
would respect its provisions any better than those of the 
liatisbon Interim (q. v.). See Sleidani De Statu Reli- 
gionis et Reipnbl. Comment, a Chr. Car. etc. (Frcf. ad M. 
178G), p. 248 sq. ; Seckendorf, J list aria Lutheranism i, 
bk. iii, § 25, p. 382 sq. ; Waleh, Luther's sdmmtliche 
Schriften (Halle, 1745), xvii, 1002 sq. ; Schmidt, Ge- 
schichte der I)eut sc hen (Ulm, 1783), v, 43(1 sq. 

IV. The aid voted at the third Diet of Spires did not 
enable the imperial armies to retard the progress of the 
Turkish conquest in Hungary; in Germany various 
complications had arisen through the introduction of 
the Protestant faith into new territories, and the oppo- 
sition of the Homan Catholic estates to the execution 
of the liatisbon declaration; and, finally, the war with 
France had become very burdensome. The emperor 
accordingly convened a fourth diet at Spires, on Feb, 
20, 1544, and displayed unusual anxiety to secure the 
personal attendance of the elector of Saxony and the 
landgrave of Hesse — the object being to ally Germany 
with himself in the war against France if possible, and 
thus to destroy the hope of assistance from Francis I 
upon which the Germans counted in the event of re- 
ligious and political complications. The elector was, 
however, required to confine the Evangelical preaching 
to his lodgings, and not to use a church for that purpose. 
Against this demand the Protestant princes raised an 
emphatic protest. 

The diet was opened by the emperor in person, with 
an address reciting the needs of the empire with refer- 
ence to its foreign foes, and promising that every means 
should be employed to elevate the chamber into a sup- 
port of public order. The Protestants refused to permit 
their grievances to be put oft’ without redress any longer, 
and insisted that the settling of a permanent peace and 


j of equal rights before the tribunals of justice within the 
empire should precede the discussion of the Turkish ami 
French wars; but they were finally induced to discuss 
the two projects side by side. The result was not, how- 
ever, satisfactory. The principal point at issue was, the 
status of persons who had gone over to the Peformation 
after the Augsburg Confession had been submitted. 
The emperor had decided that they should be excluded 
from the peace, and the Pomish party insisted on this 
rule, while the Evangelicals desired its abrogation. Ul- 
timately the elector and the landgrave returned to their 
homes. May 28 the emperor proposed to the estates 
that the composition of the recess should be intrusted 
to him, and the Evangelicals consented, after they had 
been informed with regard to the paragraphs which 
were to be devoted to peace and justice, and after they 
had published a declaration designed to guard t he pro- 
visions of the declaration of Patisbon of the year 1541. 
The recess was agreed on June 10, and provided for the 
maintenance of an army, besides asking for a diet to be 
held at Worms within the year. It established peace, 
and enforced toleration in religions matters. The cham- 
ber was not to prosecute pending actions against the es- 
tates which adhered to the Augsburg Confession. 

Neither party was satisfied with the recess. The 
Evangelicals drew up a protest deprecating the conven- 
ing of a council by the pope, asserting that the judges 
of the chamber were not blameless, characterizing the 
oath in the Golden Hull as inadmissible, and insisting 
on the imperial Declaration o I liatisbon in 1541. The 
pope violently denounced the recess in a brief dated 
August 24, and Luther wrote against it the work Yon 
dem Papstthum zn Rom vom Teufel gest if tet. See Seck- 
endorf, Hist. Lutheranismi , bk. iii, § 28-30, p. 473-495; 
Sleidani De Statu Refig. etc. (Frcf. ad M. I78G), pt. 
ii, bk. xv, p. 328-350; Waleh, Luther's sdmmtliche 
Schriften (Flalle, 1745), xvii, 1198 sq, ; Schmidt, £e- 
schichte der, Dentschen (Ulm, 1783), v, 4G9 sq. ; l’lanck, 
Gesch. d. prot. Lehrbegriffs , pt. iii, 238 sq. ; Von Pom- 
mel, Philipp der Grossmiifhige (Giessen, 1830), i, 47G. — 
Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Spirit (nsp, ruach [twice 1TC 'I'D, nishmdh , breath, 
Job xx vi, 4; Prov. xx, 27], irvevpa [twice (jidvraapa, 
a phantasm, Matt, xiv, 2G ; Mark vi, 49], both literally 
meaning icind), is one of the most generic terms in ei- 
ther the English, Hebrew, or Greek language. We 
therefore discuss here its lexical as well as psycholog- 
ical relations somewhat extensively. See Psycholo- 
gy. 

I. Scriptural Usage of the Word. — Its leading signi- 
fications may be classed under the following heads: 

1. The primary sense of the term is wind. “lie 
that formeth the mountains and createth the wind” 
(nr, Amos iv, 13; Isa. xxvii, 8). “The wind (Trrto- 
pa) bloweth where it listeth” (John iii, 8). This is 
the ground idea of the term “spirit” — air, ether, air re- 
fined, sublimated, or vitalized ; hence it denotes — 

2. Breath, as of the mouth. k, At the blast of the 

breath of his nostrils (^EX nr) are they consumed” 
(Job iv, 9). “ The Lord shall consume that wicked 

one with the breath of his mouth” ( rp 7 mupan too 
(TT oparoc, 2 Thcss. ii. 8). 

3. The vital principle which resides in and animates 
the body. In the Hebrew, TIJSD is the main specific 
term for this. In the Greek it is xpvx’li and * n Gie 
Latin anima. “No man hath power over the spirit 

j (nn) to retain the spirit” (Eecles. viii, 8; Gen. vi, 

| 17 ; vii, 15). “Jesus yielded up t lie ghost” 5 to 

7 rrevpa, Matt, xxvii, 50). “And her spirit (7 rveopa 
avrijt ,*) came again.” etc. (Luke viii, 55). In close con- 
■ nection with this use of the word is another, 

4. In which it has the sense of apparition , spectre. 
“They supposed that they had seen a spirit,” i. e. spec- 
tre (Luke xxiv, 37). “A spirit hath not flesh and 

! bones, as ye see me have” (ver. 39 ; Matt, xiv, 2G). 


SPIRIT 


044 


SPIRIT 


5. The soul— the rational, immortal principle by 
which man is distinguished from the brute creation. 

It is the jmf'/ifi.in distinction from the With 

the Latins it is the animus. In litis cla>s may be 
included that use of the word spirit in which the vari- 
ous emotions and dispositions of the soul are spoken 
„f. “Into thy hands I commend my spirit” (to amw- 
p \ fttw. Luke xxiii, 4G; Acts vii, 59; 1 Cor. v. 5; yi, 
o ( | . vii. :> | ; licit, xii, 9). *• Mv spirit hath rejoiced in 

tiod mv saviour” (Luke i. 17). •• Poor in spirit’' (rno- 
yin Tty irvti'pan) denotes humility (Matt, v, 3). “ Ye 

know not what manner of spirit ve are of’ (Luke ix, 
55), where 7 rvtrpa denotes disposition or temper. “ lie 
that hath no rule over his own spirit" (inn, Prov. xxv, 
o.s ; xvi, 32; Kccles. vii, 9). The moral affections arc 
denominated “the spirit of meekness" (Cal. vi, 1), “of 
bondage" (Bom. viii, 15), “of jealousy’’ (Numb, v, 14), 
“of fear” (2 Tim. i,7), “of slumber” (Horn. xi,8). In 
the same way also the intellectual qualities of the soul ! 
are denominated “ the spirit of counsel” (Isa. xi, 2) ; | 
“the spirit of knowledge” (ibid.); “the spirit of wis- 
dom” (Lph. i, 17); “the spirit of truth and of error” (1 
John iv. 0). 

G. The race of superhuman created intelligences. 
Such beings are denominated spiritual beings because 
they have no bodies like ours. To both the holy and 
the sinning angels the term is applied. In their orig- 
inal constitution their natures were alike pure spirit. 
The apostasy occasioned no change in the nature of 
the fallen angels as spiritual beings. In the New-Test. 
da*m«>nology catptov, Catpovio v, Ttvtopa d#td3^apro)', 
rrmvfu i 7 roi'i/odi\ are the distinctive epithets for a 
fallen spirit. Christ gave to his disciples power over 
unclean spirits (TTVtvpdrtov iiKaSapriov, Matt, x, I; 
Mark i, 23; Luke iv, 30; Acts v, IG). The holy angels 
are termed spirits: “Are they not all ministering spir- 
its?” (Xfiroupyncu Trvtvpara. Ileb. i, 14). “And from 
the seven spirits (tVrd TzvivptiTmx ') which are before 
bis throne” (Uev. i, *1). 

7. The term is applied to the Deity, as the sole, ab- 
solute. and uncreated Spirit. “ God is a Spirit ” (irwii- 
pa o Om>c). This, as a predicate, belongs to the divine 
nature, irrespective of the distinction of persons in that 
nature. But its characteristic application is to the third 
person in the Divinity, who is called the Holy Spirit 
(Hrfr/io liytov) because of his essential holiness, and 
because in the Christian scheme it is his peculiar work 
to sanctify the people of God. He is denominated the 
Spirit bv way of eminence, as the immediate author of 
spiritual life in the hearts of Christians. The New- 
Te»t. writers are full and explicit in referring the prin- 
ciple of the higher life to the Spirit. In the Old Test, 
the reference is more general. The Spirit is an all-per- 
vading. animating principle of life in the world of nat- 
ure. In the work of creation the Spirit of God moved 
upon, or brooded over, the face of the waters (Gen. i, 2; 
Job xxvi, 13), This relation of the Spirit to the natu- 
ral world the ancients expressed as Ens extra-, Ens sn - 
]*r-, Ens infru-mundatatni. The doctrine of the Spirit, 
ns the omnipresent life and energy in nature, differs 
from I’nuiheistn, mi the one hand, ami from the Platonic 
soul of the world, on the other. It makes the Spirit 
tlm immanent divine causality, working in and through 
natural laws, which work is called nature ; as in the 
Christian life He is the indwelling divine causality, 
operating upon the smd, and through divine ordinances; 
and thi" is termed peace. The Spirit in the world mav 
U 1 considered «h the divine omnipresence, and be classed 
among the doctrines which are more peculiarly theo- 
logical. But t lie indwelling and operation of the Spirit 
in i lit* heart olT lie believer are an essential doctrine of 
t hri-o iaiut v. The one province of the Spirit is nature, 
the oil , »t grace. I'pmi the dillercnre between the two, 
i i r.spmt to t lie .Spirit’s work, re^ts the (Miristinn eou- 
s mum. -v I he general presenee*and work of the Spirit 
in ii.it ure are not a matter o! consciousness. The special 


presence and work of the Spirit in the heart of the be- 
liever, by the effects which are produced, are a matter 
of which, from consciousness, there may be the most 
consoling and delightful assurance. — Kitto. Sec Spir- 
it iwl. 

II. Doctrinal Distinctions and Queries . — The lexical 
usage thus pointed out gives rise to questions concerning 
the constitution of the nature of man. Does it consi>t 
of two or three elements? Must we accept a dichotomy 
or a trichotomy? The dichotomy is unquestionably es- 
tablished if it can be shown that soul and spirit designate 
only different aspects of the same subject. The passage 
of Scripture which is fundamental in this inquiry (Gen. 
ii, 7) seems, however, to distinguish three constituents 
in human nature— the clap (“E?), the breath of life 
(S^n and the living being (njn 1TE3). Some 

understand in the first of these elements the material 
substance, flesh or body pt'3), out of earth ; by the 
second, the spirit (L ; E2), out of God, and by the third, 
the soul (nn), as resulting from a combination of the 
other elements. The soul would accordingly be the per- 
sonality, as constituted of spirit and body, and is both 
soul and body united into one being. God forms the 
body, breathes into it the spirit, and the soul results 
from them both. But the careful reader will note that 
in the foregoing analysis the proper soul (n*n) has not 
been brought into view at all. It is only the introduc- 
tion of the vitalizing element (iTSTL'a) into the material 
organism ("'S3-* — -i\T3) that constitutes the composite 
being or animal (1TE3) — a term which is frequently ap- 
plied likewise to the low orders of creatures (Gen. l, 20, 
etc.). Yet, as in Scripture universally this last distin- 
guishing element is manifestly attributed to man, it still 
follows, under either view of the above passage, that 
Scripture teaches a trichotomy, and several passages 
explicitly sustain the same doctrine — e. g. Luke i, 4G, 
47; 1 Cor. xv, 45 sq.; 1 Thess. v, 23; Heb. iv, 12. To 
sum up the conclusion reached, the spirit is not soul 
simply, nor yet identical with the body , but a third 
somewhat which originates in the body that was formed 
and the soul that was inbreathed, but which itself is 
neither formed nor made, but simply becomes (n*n). If 
this be true, then the spirit itself becomes a powerful 
argument in behalf of a future resurrection of the body. 
See Kesukueotiox. 

A second inquiry which arises has to do with the 
manner in which the race is derived from the first pair 
whom God created. All agree that it is by propagation 
under the terms of the original endowment (Gen. i, 28), 
and with the steady co-operation of God. But in the 
original creation of man, God formed the body out of 
matter previously created, and then added a new quan- 
tity in the inbreathing of the spirit, and the question 
turns upon the point whether a like distinction between 
body and spirit is made at the beginning of the exist- 
ence of every human being. 7'raducianism (q. v.) teach- 
es, under its various modifications, that the original com- 
bination of body and spirit into a single soul was made 
for all time and for the race, and that no direct inter- 
ference with the natural processes of procreation on the 
part of God can be assumed. The living soul is trans- 
mitted from generation to generation without the inter- 
vention of any new creative act. The various schemes 
of creationism (q. v.) assume that the Creator infuses the 
spirit into every new human personality by a direct act. 
Hie doctrine pre-existence assumes that a soul for each 
individual was potentially created at the beginning, and 
that it attains to actuality when united with its own 
special body or dust. Inasmuch as the only warrant for 
the doctrine of pre-existence is the desire to avoid the 
erroneous idea of new creations, which creationism is 
said to allirm, there is no occasion to discuss its assump- 
tion of embryonic souls. Traducianism must likewise 
be rejected in so far as its doctrine of the propagation 


SPIRIT 


945 


of both body and spirit by purely natural processes in- 1 
volvcs a disregard of the original distinction between 
the forming of the one and the inbreathing of the other. 
In creationism the truth is limited to the origin of the 
spirit, the soul being the product of both the traduced 
and the infused factors. It is apparent that the theory 
of tradu danism leads logically to the dichotomy, while 
that of creationism leads to the trichotomy. In every 
form of creationism the birth of a human being involves 
a sacramental wonder, since God is himself directly en- 
gaged in imparting to the individual his peculiar spirit. 
This theory, derived from Aristotle ( ])e A vim. Mot. 9) 
and transmitted through the Church fathers, was culti- 
vated in the Middle Ages, and generally adopted bv 
Roman Catholic writers, though not as a confessional 
locus. It was also largely admitted among theologians 
of the Reformed Church, though by no means universal- 
ly. Traducianism was more generally accepted in the 
Lutheran Church, though here also standard and lead- 
ing authorities leave the question undecided. The Pscu- 
do-Gnostical and Semi-Pelagian heresies, which taught 
that the spirit of man is either not at all or but little 
affected by sin, grew out of a combination of creationism 
and the trichotomy theory; but they were the result 
simply of misconception. The same is true of the Apol- 
linarian theory, which confines the human nature of 
Christ to body and soul (ammo regetabilis). and holds 
that in him the Logos supplied the place of the spirit 
(Trvtvga'). See Son., Origin of. 

A third question follows, which is concerned with 
particulars connected with the forming of the body and 
the imparting of the spirit, and with the results that 
follow. The forming of the body extends to the entire 
organism with reference to all the members of the body, 
and to the senses, since in these consists the germ of the 
body. The inspiration of the spirit extends, with re- 
gard to all its far-reaching consequences, over the whole 
of the spirit, in all its powers and abilities. Body and 
spirit, however, contain only germs which attain to or- 
ganic development and form in the soul, the body espe- 
cially becoming the firm (/uop0/;) of the soul. Psychol- 
ogy, the philosophy of the soul, has consequently to 
inquire into the bodily life of the organism, particularly 
with reference to the senses, the emotions, the intellect, 
the will, and likewise into the roue, \oyo£, 7rrc vpa, etc. 
In our days, psychology may even embrace in its inves- 
tigations the science of language, since it has become 
important to demonstrate, in opposition to rationalism, 
pantheism, and materialism, that the germs of language, 
no less than of thought, inhere in the spirit; and that 
language, in which thought attains to expression, secures 
its development in the soul in harmony with the diver- 
sities of nationality, which is equivalent here to individ- 
uality. See Mind. 

A fourth question asks, whither does the soul tend? 
or, more exactly, what becomes of it when separated 
from the body? The scriptural answer is brief and con- 
fident: the spirit returns to God, but not as it came from 
God; it retains the nature obtained by its union with 
the body; and it is accordingly as a soul, i. e. affected 
by the body, although the latter has become dust, that 
the spirit returns to God. The Scriptures teach that 
the soul neither sleeps nor dies, but retains its spiritual 
character. We shall accordingly not he found utterly 
naked even after death, but rather clothed with con- 
scious activity (ivdi’crdptvoi, ou yvpvoi, 2 Cor. v, 3 — a 
passage, however, which legitimately refers only to the 
finally glorified state; see Alford, adloc.), and thus await 
the reunion of soul and bod}' in the resurrection. See 
Intermediate State. 

The soul accordingly attains its consummation in the 
body, which was also the beginning and basis of the 
personality. Corporeity is thus the end of the ways of 
God, as it was the beginning in the clay from which man 
was formed. The three Catholic creeds close with the 
words “the resurrection of the body and the life ever- 
lasting;” and Paul writes, “There is a natural body, and 
IX.— 0 o o 


SPII.IT, HOLY 

there is a spiritual body . . . that was . . . first which is 
natural, and afterward that which is spiritual” (1 Cor. 
xv, 44 sq.). The body is thus the first ami the last ; 
“the spirit quiekeneth” by the energy of the soul, and 
is the bond which unites the soul and body, the agent 
which combines them into a single substance, so that 
even death is unable to effect more than a partial and 
temporary separation. Sec Death. 

See Molitor, Philosophic der Geschichte , etc. ii, 90: iii, 
129, etc.; RndlolT, Lehre vom Menschen nach Geist. Seele 
it. Leib (1858); Von Meyer, in Blatter fur holier e Wahr- 
heit (1823), iv, 271 sq. The above furnish information 
with reference to the teachings of the Cabala. Accord- 
ing to Von Mover, the Cabala distinguishes five souls 
(Nephesh, Ruach, Neshama, Chaja, Jechida). See also 
Dante, Divina Com. Purg. xxv, etc.; Heinroth, Psy- 
chologie (1827); Schubert, Gesch . d. Seele (1833); Von 
Meyer, Inbegriffl d. christl. Glaubenslehre (1832), p. 134, 
etc.; Lange, Land d. Uerrlichkeit , etc. (1838); id. Posi- 
tive Dogmatik (1852); Martensen, Dogmatik (1851); 
De Valenti, Christl . Dogmatik (1847); Ebrard, Christl. 
Dogmatik (1851); Delitzsch, Bill. Psychologie (1855); 
Fichte, Anthropologic (2d cd. 18G0); id. Zur Seelen- 
frage, etc. (1859); Wichart, Metaphys. A nthropnlngie 
(Munster, 1844); Polack, Cnsteiblich keif sf rage (Amst. 
1857); Richers, Schopfungs -, Paradies- v. Siindfuth-Ge- 
schichte [Gen. i-ix] (1854), § 13, p. 210 sq. ; id. Xafur 
u. Geist (1850 sq.) ; Hahn [Aug.], Lehrb. d. christl. 
Glaubens, 2 ed. § 74; Hahn [G. E.], Theologie d. Xeiten 
Testaments , § 149 sq. ; also Lotze, Mikrokosmos . . . An- 
thropologic; Deinhardt, Begriff d. Seele mit Riicksicht 
auf A ristoteles (llamb. 1840) ; Schmidt, De Loco A ristot. 
tuv vovv SvpdStv £7T6tsi£Pot in A ristot. IDpi uoojv 
yeviatioe (Erfurt, 1847). Of Roman Catholic writings 
we mention Ilaltzer, De Modo Pi'opagaf. Anbnarvm 
(1833), also Goschcl, Beiceise fur d. Unsterbl. d. Seele 
(1835) [per contra Becker, Ueber Goschel's Vers, dues 
Beweises d. personL Unsterblichkeit (Hamb. 1836)] ; id. 
Die siebenfdltige Ost erf rage, etc. (183G); id. Beitr. zur 
spekulativen Philosophic von Gott v. d. Menschen, etc. 
(1838); id. Zur Lehre v. d. letzten D ingen (Berl. 1850); 
id. Der Mensch nach Leib, Seele u. Geist , etc. (Leips. 
1856); Richter, Die neue Unsterblichkeitslehre , in Jahrb. 
f. wissenschaftl. Kritik , 1834. — Herzog, Real- Ency klop. 
s. See So l t l. 

Spirit (or “Ghost”), Holy, the title of the third 
person in the Godhead. 

I. Desifpiation . — In the Old Test, he is generally call- 
ed DVl'SK mi, or rnrr mi, the Spirit of God, the 
Spirit of .iehovah; sometimes the Holy Spirit of Jeho- 
vah, as in Psa. li, 11 ; Isa. Ixiii, 10, 11 ; or the Good 
Spirit of Jehovah, as in Psa. cxliii, 10; Neh. ix, 20. In 
the New Test, he is generally to Uvtvpa to uyiov, or 
simply to llrevpa. the Holy Spirit, the Spirit; some- 
times the Spirit of God, of the Lord, of Jesus Christ, as 
in Matt, iii, 16 ; Acts v, 9 ; Phil, i, 19, etc. — Smith. 

Besides this personal use of the term, the words Spir- 
it and Holy Spirit frequently occur in the New Test, 
by metonymy, for the influence or effects of his agency. 

a. As a procreative power — “the power of the High- 
est” (Luke i, 35). 

b. As an influence with which Jesus was endued 
(Luke iv, 4). 

c. As a divine inspiration or afflatus , by which the 
prophets and holy men wrote and spoke (iv TvdpaTi. 
did irveupaTOQ , vizb ■KvtvpaTO^'). “ Holy men of God 
spake as they were moved by the IIolv Ghost” (2 Pet. 
i,21; Numb, xi, 26; Neh. ix, 30; Ezek. iii, 12, 14). John 
in Patmos was rapt in prophetic vision — was iv Tnav- 
pari (Rev. i, 10; iv, 2: xvii, 3). 

d. As miraculous gifts and powers with which the 
apostles were endowed to qualify them for the work to 
which they were called. “ Jesus breathed on them, and 
said unto them, Receive* yc the Holy Ghost” (A afart 
Uvdpa uyiov, John xx, 22). “And they were filled 
with the Holy Ghost,” etc. (Acts ii, 4). “ They were bap- 


SPIRIT, IIOLY 


94G 


SPIRIT, IIOLY 


tized with the Holy Ghost" (tv llrcr/ian uyi<y, ^ cts *» 

oomp. Joel ii, 28 with Acts ii, 1 G— IH, where the Pin 
of the prophet is translated irvtvfta by the apostle). — 
Kitto. 

11. Historical Development of the Functions of the Holy 
Spirit. — In accordance with what seems to be the gen- 
eral rule of divine revelation, that the knowledge of 
heavenly things is given more abundantly and more 
clearly in later ages, the person, attributes, and opera- 
tions of the Holy Ghost are made known to us chiefly 
in the Xew Tost. In the light of such later revelation, 
words which, when heard bv patriarchs and prophets, 
were probably understood imperfectly by them, become 
full of meaning to Christians. 

1. In the earliest period of Jewish history the Holy 
Spirit was revealed as co-operating in the creation of 
the world ((»en. i, 2), as the Source, Giver, and Sustain- 
er oflife (Job xxvii, 3; xxxiii,4; Gc».ii,7); as resist- 
ing (if the common interpretation he correct) the evil 
inclinations of men (vi, 3); as the Source of intellect- 
ual excellence (xli, 38 ; Dent, xxxiv, 9), of skill in 
handicraft (Exnd. xxviii, 3; xxxi, 3; xxxv, 31), of 
supernatural knowledge and prophetic gifts (Numb, 
xxiv. *2), of valor and those qualities of mind or body 
which give one man acknowledged superiority over 
others (Judg. iii, 10 ; vi, 34: xi, 29; xiii, 25). 

2. In that period which began with Samuel the effect 
*»f the Spirit coining on a man is described in the re- 
markable case of Saul as change of heart (1 Sam. x, 6, 
9). shown outwardly by prophesying (x, 10; comp. 
Numb, xi, 25, and 1 Sam. xix, 20). He departs from a 
man whom he has once changed (1 Sam. xvi, 14). Ills 
departure is the departure of God (ver. 14; xviii, 12; 
xxviii, 15); liis presence is the presence of God (xvi, 
13 ; xviii, 12). In the period of the kingdom the oper- 
ation of the Spirit was recognised chiefly in the inspira- 
tion of the prophets (see Witsius, Miscellanea Sacra, 
lib. i; Smith [J.], Select Discourses, 0. Of Prophecy ; 
Knobel, Prophet ismus tier Hebriier ). Separated more or 
le.-s from the common occupations of men to a life of 
special religious exercise (Bull [lip.], Sermons, x, 187, 
ed. 1810), they were sometimes workers of miracles, al- 
ways foretellers of future events, and guides and ad- 
visers of the social and political life of the people who 
were contemporary with them (2 Kings ii, 9; 2 Chron. 
xxiv, 20; E/.ek. ii, 23; Xeh. ix, 3U, ete.). in their 
writings arc found abundant predictions of the ordinary 
operations of the Spirit, that were to be most frequent 
in later times, by which holiness, justice, peace, and con- 
solation were to be spread throughout the world (Isa. 
xi, 2; xlii, 1 ; l.xi, l,ctc.). 

3. Even after the closing of the canon of the Old 
Test, the presence of the Holy Spirit in the world con- 
tinued to be acknowledged by Jewish writers (Wisd. i, 
7 ; ix, 17 ; Philo, De Gigant. 5; and see Kidley, Moyer 
lectures, serin, ii, p. 81, etc.). 

4. In the Xew Test., both in the teaching of onrLord 
and in the narratives of the events which preceded his 
ministry and occurred in its course, the existence and 
agency of the Holy Spirit are frequently revealed, and 
are mentioned in such a manner as shows that these 
facts were part of the common belief of the Jewish peo- 
ple at that time. Theirs was, in truth, the ancient 
faith, hot more generally entertained, which looked upon 
prophets ns inspired teachers, accredited by the power 
of working signs and wonders (see Xit/sch, Christl. 
l.rit re, £ K] ). I l was made plain to the understanding of 
the Jews of that age that the same Spirit who wrought 
ol old among the people of I iod was still at work. The 
dove forsook the ark of Moses and fixed its dwelling in 
the Church of t ’lirist” ( Hull, On Justification, diss. ii, 
eh. xi, $ 7 ). The gifts of miracles, prediction, and teach- 
ing, which had casta titful lustre on the times of the 
great Jewish prophets, were manifested with remarka- 
ble vigor in the lirst century after the birth of Christ. 
\\ hether in the course ol eighteen hundred years mir- 


acles and predictions have altogether ceased, and, if so, 
at what definite time they ceased, are questions still 
debated among Christians. On this subject reference 
may lie made to Dr. Conyers Middleton's Free Inquiry 
into the Miraculous Powers of the Christian Church ; 
Dr. Brooke's Examination of Middleton's Free Inquiry ; 
\V. Dodwell’s Letter to Middleton ; Bp. Douglas’s Crite- 
rion; J. H. Newman’s Essay on Miracles, etc. With 
respect to the gifts of teaching bestowed both in early 
and later ages, comp. Xeander, Planting of Christianity , 
bk. iii, ch. v, with llorsley, Sermons , xiv; Potter, On 
Church Government, ch, v; and Hooker, Eccles. Polity , 
v, 72, 5-8. See Mikaclk. 

The relation of the Holy Spirit to the incarnate Son 
of God (see Oxford translation of Treatises of Athana- 
sius, p, 190, note J) is a subject for reverent contempla- 
tion rather than precise definition. By the Spirit the 
redemption of mankind was made known, though im- 
perfectly, to the prophets of old (2 Pet. i, 21), and 
through them to the people of God. When the time 
for the incarnation had arrived, the miraculous concep- 
tion of the Kcdeemer (Matt, i, 18) was the work of the 
Spirit ; by the Spirit he was anointed in the womb or 
at baptism (Acts x, 38 ; comp. Pearson, On the Creed , 

art. ii, p. 126, ed. Oxon. 1843) ; and the gradual growth 
of his perfect human nature was in the Spirit (Luke ii, 
40, 52). A visible sign from heaven showed the Spirit 
descending on and abiding with Christ, whom he thence- 
forth tilled and led (Luke iv, 1), co-operating with Christ 
in his miracles (Matt, xii, 18). The multitude of disci- 
ples are taught to pray for and expect the Spirit as the 
best and greatest boon they can seek (Luke xi, 13), He 
inspires with miraculous powers the first teachers whom 
Christ sends forth, and he is repeatedly promised and 
given by Christ to the apostles (Matt, x, 20; xii, 28; 
John xiv, 16 ; xx, 22 ; Acts i, 8). See Suikit, Baptism 
of. 

Perhaps it was in order to correct the grossly defec- 
tive conceptions of the Holy Spirit which prevailed com- 
monly among the people, and to teach them that this 
is the most awful possession of the heirs of the kingdom 
of heaven, that onr Lord himself pronounced the strong 
condemnation of blasphemers of the Holy Ghost (Matt, 
xii, 31). This has roused in every age the susceptibil- 
ity of tender consciences, and has caused much inquiry 
to be made as to the specific character of the sin so de- 
nounced, and of the human actions which fall under so 
terrible a ban. On the one hand, it is argued that no 
one now occupies the exact position of the Pharisees 
whom our Lord condemned, for they had not entered 
into covenant with t he Holy Spirit by baptism; they 
did not merely disobey the Spirit, but blasphemously 
attributed his works to the devil; they resisted not 
merely an inward motion, but an outward call, support- 
ed by the evidence of miracles wrought before their 
eyes. On the other hand, a morbid conscience is prone 
to apprehend the unpardonable sin in every, even unin- 
tentional, resistance of an inward motion which may 
proceed from the Spirit. This subject is referred to in 
Article XVI of the Church of England, and is discussed 
by Burnet, Beveridge, and Harold Browne, in their Ex- 
positions of the Articles. It occupies the greater part 
of Athanasius’s Fourth Epistle to Serajnun, ch. viii-xxii 
(sometimes printed separately as a treatise on Matt, xii, 
31). See also Augustine, Ep. ad Rom. Expositio Incho- 

ata, § 14 23, tom. iii, pt. 2, p. 933. Also Odo Camc- 
rncensis (A.I). 1 1 13), l)e Jilasphemia in Sp. Sanctum, in 
Migue’s Putrologia Lat. vol. clxiii ; Denison (A.D. 
161 1), The Sin against the Holy Ghost ; Watcrland, Ser- 
mons, xxvii, in 1 1 r orks, v, 706; Jackson, On the Creed, 
bk. viii, ch. iii, p. 770), See Unfakdonaiu.k Sin. 

But the ascension of onr Lord is marked (Eph. iv, 8; 
John vii, 39, etc.) as the commencement of a new pe- 
riod in the history of the inspiration of men by the 
Holy Ghost. The interval between that event and the 
end of the world is often described as the dispensation 
of the Spirit. It was not merely (as Didymus Alex. De 


047 


SPIRIT, IIOLY 

Tnnitate, iii, 34, 431, and others have suggested) that 
the knowledge of the Spirit’s operations became more 
general among mankind. It cannot be allowed, though 
Bp. Heber (Led it res, viii, 514, and vii, 488) and Warbur- 
ton have maintained it, that the Holy Spirit has suffi- 
ciently redeemed his gracious promise to every suc- 
ceeding age of Christians only by presenting us with 
the New Test. Something more was promised, and 
continues to be given. Under the old dispensation the 
gifts of the Holy Spirit were uucovenanted, not univer- 
sal, intermittent, chiefly external. All this was changed. 
Our Lord, by ordaining (Matt, xxviii, 19) that every 
Christian should be baptized in the name of the Holy 
Ghost, indicated at once the absolute necessity from 
that time forth of a personal connection of every be- 
liever with the Spirit; and (in John xvi, 7-15) he de- 
clares the internal character of the Spirit’s work, and 
(in xiv, 16, 17, etc.) his permanent stay. Subsequent- 
ly the Spirit’s operations under the new dispensation 
are authoritatively announced as universal and inter- 
nal in two remarkable passages (Acts ii, 16-21; Heb. 
viii, 8-12). The different relations of the Spirit to be- 
lievers severally under the old and the new dispensation 
are described bv Paul under the images of a master 
to a servant, and a father to a son (Rom. viii, 15); so 
much deeper and more intimate is the union, so much 
higher the position (Matt, xi, 11), of a believer, in the 
later stage than in the earlier (see Walchius, Miscel- 
lanea Sacra , p.763: De Spiritu Adoptionis; and the 
opinions collected in note H in Hare’s Mission of the 
Comforter , ii, 433). The rite of imposition of hands, 
not only on teachers, but also on ordinary Christians, 
which has been used in the apostolic (Acts vi,6; xiii, 
3; xix, 6, etc.) and in all subsequent ages, is a testi- 
mony borne by those who come under the new dispen- 
sation to their belief of the reality, permanence, and 
universality of the gift of the Spirit. 

Under the Christian dispensation it appears to be the 
office of the Holy Ghost, to enter into and dwell within 
every believer (Rom. viii, 9, 1 1 ; l John iii, 24). By him 
the work of redemption is (so to speak) appropriated 
and carried out to its completion in the case of every 
one of the elect people of God. To believe, to profess 
sincerely the Christian faith, and to walk as a Chris- 
tian, are his gifts (1 Cor. xii, 3; 2 Cor. iv, 13; Gal. v. 
18) to each person severally: not only does he bestow 
the power and faculty of acting, but he concurs (1 Cor. 
iii, 9; Phil, ii, 13) in every particular action so far as it 
is good (see South, Sermons, xxxv, vol. ii, p. 292). His 
inspiration brings the true knowledge of all things (1 
John ii, 27). He unites the whole multitude of believ- 
ers into one regularly organized body (l Cor. xii, and 
Eph. iv, 4-16). He is not only the source of life to us 
on earth (2 Cor. iii, 6 ; Rom. viii, 2), but also the power 
by whom God raises us from the dead (ver. 11). All 
Scripture, by which men in every successive gener- 
ation are instructed and made wise unto salvation, is 
inspired by him (Eph. iii, 5: 2Tim.iii,lG; 2 Pet. i, 21); 
he co-operates with suppliants in the utterance of every 
effectual prayer that ascends on high (Eph. ii, 18; vi, 
18; Rom. viii, 26); lie strengthens (Eph. iii, 16), sancti- 
fies (2Thess. ii, 13), and seals the souls of men unto the 
day of completed redemption (Eph. i, 13; iv, 30). 

That this work of the Spirit is a real work, and not 
a mere imagination of enthusiasts, may be shown (1) 
from the words of Scripture to which reference has been 
made, which are too definite and clear to be explained 
away by any such hypothesis; (2) by the experience 
of intelligent Christians in every age, who arc ready to 
specify the marks and tokens of his operation in them- 
selves", and even to describe the manner in which they 
believe he works (on this see Barrow, Sermons, lxxvii 
and lxxviii, towards the end ; Waterland, AVr»io«s, xxvi, 
vol. v, p. 686) ; (3) by the superiority of Christian na- 
tions over heathen nations, in the possession of those 
characteristic qualities which are gifts of the Spirit, in 
the establishment of such customs, habits, and laws as 


SPIRIT, HOLY 

are agreeable thereto, and in the exercise of an enlight- 
ening and purifying influence in the world. Christian- 
ity and civilization arc never far asunder. Those nations 
which are now eminent in power and knowledge are all 
to be found within the pale of Christendom — not, indeed, 
free from national vices, yet, on the whole, manifestly 
superior both to contemporary unbelievers and to pa- 
ganism in its ancient palmy days. See Hare, Mission 
of the Comforter , serm. 6, i, 202 ; Porteus, On the bene- 
ficial Effects of Christianity on the Temporal Concerns 
of Mankind, in ITorta, vi, 375-460. 

It has been inferred from various passages of Script- 
ure that the operations of the Holy Spirit are not limit- 
ed to those persons who, either by circumcision or by 
baptism, have entered into covenant with God. Abim- 
elech (Gen. xx, 3), Melchizedek (xiv, 18), Jethro (Exod. 
xviii, 12), Balaam (Numb. xxii,9), and Job, in the Old 
Test., and the Magi (Matt, ii, 12), and the case of Cor- 
nelius, with the declaration of Peter (Acts x, 35) there- 
on, are instances showing that the Holy Spirit bestow- 
ed his gifts of knowledge and holiness in some degree 
even among heathen nations; and if we may go beyond 
the attestation of Scripture, it might be argued from 
the virtuous actions of some heathens, from their as- 
cription of whatever good w r as in them to the influence 
of a present deity (see the references in Heber’s Lect- 
ures, vi, 446), and from their tenacious preservation of 
the rite of animal sacrifice, that the Spirit whose name 
they knew not must have girded them, and still girds 
such as they were, with secret blessedness. 

III. Doctrinal Theories. — Thus far it has been at- 
tempted to sketch briefly the w T ork of the Holy Spirit 
among men in all ages as it is revealed to us in the Bi- 
ble. But after the closing of the canon of the New 
Test, the religious subtlety of Oriental Christians led 
them to scrutinize, with the most intense accuracy, the 
wmrds in which God has, incidentally as it were, re- 
vealed to us something of the mystery of the being of 
the Holy Ghost. It w'ould be vain now to condemn the 
superfluous and irreverent curiosity with which these 
researches w r ere sometimes prosecuted, and the scanda- 
lous contentions which they caused. The result of them 
v r as the formation as well as the general acceptance of 
certain statements as inferences from Holy Scripture 
which took their place in the established creeds and in 
the teaching of the fathers of the Church, and which the 
great body of Christians throughout the world continue 
to adhere to, and to guard with more or less vigilance. 

1. The Sadducees are sometimes mentioned as pre- 
ceding any professed Christians in denying the personal 
existence of the Holy Ghost. Such was the inference 
of Epiphanins flares, xii), Gregory Nazianzen (0 ratio 
xxxi, § 5, p. 558, ed. Ben.), and others from the testi- 
mony of Luke (Acts xxxiii, 8). But it may be doubted 
w r hether the error of the Sadducees did not rather con- 
sist in asserting a corporeal Deity. Passing over this, 
in the first youthful age of the Church, when, as Xean- 
der observes ( Ch . Hist , ii. 327, Bohn’s ed.), the power of 
the Holy Spirit was so mightily felt as a new creative, 
transforming principle of life, the knowledge of this 
Spirit, as identical with the Essence of God, w as not so 
thoroughly and distinctly impressed on the understand- 
ing of Christians. Simon Magus, the Montanists, and 
the Maniclneans are said to have imagined that the 
promised Comforter was personified in certain human 
beings. The language of some of the primitive fathers, 
though its deficiencies have been greatly exaggerated, 
occasionally comes short of a full and complete acknowl- 
edgment of the divinity of the Spirit. Their opinions 
are given in their own words, with much valuable crit- 
icism, in I)r. Burton’s Testimonies of the A nte-Xicene Fa- 
thers to the Doctrine of the Trinity and the Divinity of 
the Holy Ghost (1831). Valentinus believed that the 
Holy Spirit w f as an angel. The Sabellians denied that 
he w r as a distinct persmi'from the Father and the Son. 
Eimomius, with the Anomajans and the Arians, regard- 
ed him as a created being. Macedonius, with his fol- 


SPIRIT, HOLY 948 SPIRIT, HOLY 


lowers the Pneiimatomachi. also denied his divinity, and 
regarded him as a created being attending on the Son. 
Ilis procession from the Son as well as from the Father 
was the great point of controversy in the Middle Ages. 
In modern times the Soeiniatis and Spinosa have alto- 
gether denied the personality, and have regarded him 
as an influence or power of the Deity. It must stifHee 
in this article to give the principal texts of Scripture 
in which these erroneous opinions are contradicted, and 
to refer to the principal works in which they are dis- 
cussed at length. The documents in which various ex- 
isting communities of Christians have stated their be- 
lief are specified by Winer, Comparative Darstelluny des 
Lehrbry riffs. etc. p. 41, *0. 

2. The divinity of the llolv Ghost is proved by the 
fact that he is called find. (Comp. I Sam. xvi, 13 with 
xviii, 12 ; Acts v, 3 with v, 4 ; 2 Cor. iii, 17 with Exod. 
xxxiw 31: Acts xxviii, 2.) with Isa. vi,8; Matt. xii,23 
with Luke xi, 20; I Cor. iii, l(» with vi, 19.) The attri- 
butes of God are ascribed to him. lie creates, works 
miracles, inspires prophets, is the Source of holiness (see 
fll>ove), is everlasting (11 eh. ix, 14), omnipresent, and 
omniscient (Psa. cxxxix, 7; and 1 Cor. ii, 10). 

3. The personality of the Holy Ghost is shown by 
the actions ascribed to him. He hears and speaks (John 
xvi, 13; Acts x. 19; xiii, 2, etc.). He wills and acts on 
his decision (1 Cor. xii, 11). lie chooses and directs a 
certain course of action (Acts xv. 28). lie knows (1 
Cor. ii, m. lie teaches (John xiv, 20). He intercedes 
(Horn, vi ii. 20). The texts 1 Tlicss. iii, 12, 13, and 2 
Thess. iii. 5, are quoted against those who confound the 
three persons of the Godhead. 

4. The procession of the Holy Ghost from the Father 
is shown from John xiv, 20; xv, 20, etc. The tenet of 
t he Western Church that he proceeds from the Son is 
grounded on John xv, 20; xvi, 7 ; Bom. vi ii, 9 , Gal. iv, 
0: Phil. i. 19; l Pet. i. 11 ; and on the action of our Lord 
recorded by John xx. 22. The history of the long and 
important controversy on this point has been written by 
PfalT: by Walcliius, //is ton a Contrnrersue de Proces- 
sion? ( 17.31) ; and by Neale, Hist, o f the Eastern Church , 
ii, |093.— Smith. See Holy Ghost. 

Sl'IKI I' (11 olv\ Baktism ok. The bestowment of 
the Divine Spirit upon faithful men — which is simply 
God’s spiritual access to and abiding with his believing 
ami obedient ones — is a promise for all times and dis- 
pensations of the Church, of the fullilment of which 
promise the Divine Word is the perpetual record. It 
was the consolation ami guide of the patriarchs; the 
inspiration of the prophets, and the light and life of 
the Old-Test. Church. That which is now given to 
believers and to the aggregate Church differs from the 
former in degree and in some of its modes of manifes- 
tation rather than in its substance or kind. Indeed, 
as the Church has been, and is, essentially the same un- 
der all its dispensations, having the same precious faith, 
witlt the one atoning Sacrifice as its object and end, so 
the animating Spirit that guided and sustained the faith- 
ful ones of t he earlier ( ’lmrelt is the same with that which 
we recognise and worship, and in which we rejoice in 
this our day of the fulness of Gospel grace. It is evi- 
dent, however, that, for obviously good reasons, a spe- 
cial mid peculiar manifestation of t lie Spirit was given 
to the apostles — first on the day, of Pentecost, and after- 
wards continuously, though evidently with steadily de- 
creasing outward manifestations, till it finally entirely 
ceasod with the apostolic age. Put though its “signs” 
failed trorn the Church, us did the power of working 
miracles, its substance and reality, with all its blessed 
results, continued as Christ’s perpetual legacy to his 
di-ciplcs all down through the ages, and will do so till 
the great consummation of his kingdom. 

I. The term “baptism,” used in the New Test, to 
designate tin* iHstowment of the Holy Ghost, is proba- 
bly simply an accommodation of the idea of John’s bap- 
tism, mid is n-cd to indicate the substance of which that 
Ceremony was but the shadow and type; and, therefore, 


it should not be made to signify anything in respect to 
the method of the impartation of its grace, nor con- 
versely anything as to the mode and form of the initial 
Christian ordinance. It is enough that we are assured 
that the Holy Ghost shall be given. The gift of the 
Holy Spirit was promised by Christ to his disciples un- 
der circumstances calculated to impress them with a 
deep sense of its value and importance. In his last and 
singularly tender interview' with them (John xvi), he 
represented the promised Comforter as more than equiv- 
alent to his own personal presence; and after his resur- 
rection, because of its importance atul necessity for them, 
he charged them not to enter upon their great commis- 
sion until they should receive this promised endowment 
(Luke xxiv, 40). Its original bestowment on the day 
of Pentecost is recorded with unusual detail (Acts ii), 
and its possession is frequently referred to in both the 
earlier and later Scriptures in such emphatic terms as 
to leave no doubt of its cardinal character in the Chris- 
tian scheme. Nevertheless, it would seem to have been 
strangely overlooked in many ages and sections of Chris- 
tendom, and its distinctive features have not seldom been 
imperfectly apprehended even by those who have cor- 
dially embraced it as a doctrine and personally experi- 
enced its power. A careful looking into the subject 
may therefore not be without its practical utility. 

The great importance of this matter to the Christian 
ministry is all along, and with great emphasis, set forth 
in the New 'I’est. The same truth plainly appears from 
the altered complexion of the apostles’ language and 
conduct after their reception of this gift. Peter, the 
self-confident and yet timid disciple, was immediately 
transformed into the bold but dignified champion of his 
Lord. The whole eleven, who had before been such 
weak believers and such dull scholars, at once rose to a 
just comprehension of the evangelical scheme. The 
resistless power with which Stephen spoke before his 
murderers (Acts ii, 10) was but a sample of that with 
which all were endued. 

But we greatly err if we suppose that this gift was 
limited to the apostles or to preachers. In the account 
of the first effusion it is explicitly stated that all pres- 
ent partook of it (Acts ii, 4); namely, the entire num- 
ber of the one hundred and twenty disciples, includ- 
ing men and women (i, 14, 15). The universality of 
the gift appears in the case of the Samaritans con- 
verted under Philip’s preaching (oh. viii), and likewise 
in the family of Cornelius (x, 44). The four unmar- 
ried daughters of Philip, “which did prophesy” (xxi, 
9), were doubtless enabled to do so through this gilt. 
Indeed, none of the prophecies of this endowment, 
whether in the Old Test, or the New*, limit it to a par- 
ticular class. Peter, on the day of Pentecost, quoted 
the prediction of Joel as applying to “all flesh.” ser- 
vants and handmaids alike (ii, 17, 18); and Jesus him- 
self had already referred John the Baptist’s declara- 
tion of the higher baptism to the same event (i, 5). 
This gift, then, is the universal privilege of Chris- 
tians. The “all power” (Matt, xxviii, 18) abides iit 
the aggregate Church and in each individual believer. 

2. It is necessary, however, to distinguish between 
the ordinary and the extraordinary features of this di- 
vine gift as exhibited in the apostolic days. There 
were certain peculiarities then present, such as the pow*- 
er to work miracles, to speak with languages that had 
not been learned, which history shows have not been 
permanent in the Church. These special gifts or mi- 
raculous endowments seem to have been symbolized by 
the “cloven tongues like as of lire” that sat upon each 
of the primitive recipients. They were, in the first in- 
stance, directly conferred hv God himself— namely, on 
the day of Pentecost, as was obviously proper, and, wc 
may say, necessary; hut after that event they were in- 
variably, so far as we know, imparted through the in- 
strumentality of the apostles. The only exception to 
this is in the case of Cornelius, where a special lesson 
was to he taught concerning the admission of Gentiles 


949 


SPIRIT, HOLY 


SPIRIT, IIOLY 


into the Church by God himself; and even here an 1 
apostle’s presence seems to hai%e been requisite. In all 
other examples recorded the imposition of apostolic 
hands seems to have been an essential condition to the 
conferment (see Acts viii, 17, 18; xix,(J; Rom. i, ll). 
The miraculous power once imparted seems to have been 
permanent with each individual; but none except the 
apostles had the right or ability of communicating the 
llolv Ghost to another person. Hence alter the death 
of the apostles the power itself became extinct. This 
was no doubt a principal one of their peculiar func- 
tions. We commend this fact to the consideration of 
those who claim to be their lineal successors. The or- 
dinary and exclusively spiritual endowment, which is 
the perpetual heritage of the Christian Church and the 
privilege of all true believers, we understand to be still 
conferred, as it always was, directly by God in answer 
to prayer, without any intermediation or human instru- 
mentality being necessary, though such may be of use 
by way of preparing the subjects to expect and appre- 
ciate the sacred gift. In point of fact, the gift of the 
Spirit, in its ordinary function, is found to attend per- 
sonal intercourse with individuals of deep Christian ex- 
perience. 

Many questions, curious rather than profitable, are 
sometimes raised respecting these supernatural endow- 
ments; but we must here pass them by as a thing of 
history and speculation, and of very little personal in- 
terest. The manifestations of the Spirit evidently dif- 
fered widely in individual cases, and wore altogether of 
an arbitrary and abnormal character. The principal in- 
formation concerning them is contained in l Cor. xii-xiv, 
respecting the proper meaning of which Scripture com- 
mentators and exegetes are by no means agreed among 
themselves. See Spiritual Gifts. 

One example, however, of the experience of this be- 
stowment, recorded in llolv Writ, is of so marked and 
instructive a character that we must note it somewhat 
at length. It occurs in Acts xix, 1-7. During Paul’s 
third missionary tour he visited Ephesus, where Apol- 
los had previously labored. The apostle there found 
twelve men who had become converts to John’s bap- 
tism, possibly under the preaching of Apollos, prior to 
the superior enlightenment of the latter bv the more 
spiritual instructions of Aquila and Priscilla. These 
men had not, therefore, received the gift of the llolv 
Spirit. Indeed, when questioned on the subject, they 
averred that they “had not so much as heard whether 
there be any [a] Holy Ghost.” By this they could not 
have meant an utter ignorance of such a divine being, 
nor of his office- work upon human hearts; for not only 
is the Old Test., with which they must have been fa- 
miliar, full of allusions to the Holy Spirit, but John had 
expressly taught his disciples to look for the long-pre- 
dicted baptism. We cannot suppose that the Hebrew 
saints had been destitute of that heavenly influence 
without which no genuine religious fruit can possibly 
grow in the human heart; for the very heathen owed 
all their real piety to the unconsciously anticipated vir- 
tue of the incarnate Redeemer. The same Spirit which 
brooded over the primeval deep (Gen. i, 2). was the 
Spirit of Christ (John i,3), without which none are his 
(Rom. viii, 9). It was he, as the Jehovah, Logos, who 
wrought all the wonders of the Mosaic dispensation (1 
Cor. x, 3). The inspiration, whether personal or official, 
of all the Old-Test, characters proceeded, hv their own 
acknowledgment, from this source. The seventy elders 
(Exod. xxiv, 10) stood on the same spiritual platform 
with the beloved disciple in Patinos (Rev. iv). Abra- 
ham, entering into God’s covenant, symbolized by the 
lamp and the smoking furnace (Gen. x\\ 17), rejoiced 
to behold Christ (John viii, 5G). Jacob's ladder (Gen. 
xxviii, 12) was a lively type of Christ (John i, 51), the 
sole medium of intercourse with heaven. David and 
the prophets abound with recognitions of the Holy Spir- 
it’s presence and power in religions experience. Most 
of the above instances seem to indicate, in respect to 


their subjects, unusual frames of mind and special inspi- 
rations, but some of them speak the ordinary language 
of private devotion. The Ephesian con verts, therefore, 
must obviously have meant that they did not expect for 
themselves what they were entirely familiar with in past 
history as the privilege of a few favored individuals, or, 
at most, that they did not look for an immediate fulfil- 
ment of the Baptist’s announcement concerning the Spir- 
it, of which probably they had as yet only very inade- 
quate appreciation. Their experience then and after 
this was, of course, similar to that of their fellow-Chris- 
tians. 

3. We come, therefore, to the difficult task of discrim- 
inating the perpetual from the transient manifestations 
of this precious gift of Christ to bis Church in its bear- 
ing upon ordinary religious experience. We must clear 
the way for the discussion by a few preliminary consid- 
erations, which we will treat with as little metaphysical 
abstraction as possible. 

All the functions of the Holy Spirit are in one sense 
preternatural — that is, they are outside of, and superior 
to, our natural faculties; and the spiritual capabilities 
with which they invest us are in that sense supernat- 
ural. But a miracle is more than this. It is not only 
beyond and above nature, but still within the realm of 
nature. The gift or gifts of the Holv Spirit to which 
we now allude are not opposed to our essential nature, 
but they come from beyond its sphere, yet often become 
supplemental, auxiliary, or recuperative to it. This is 
in accord with another important truth which we are 
apt to overlook. Our Lord, in his discourse to Nico- 
demus, declared that as “the wind bloweth where it 
listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst 
not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth : so is 
every one that is born of the Spirit” (John iii, 8). The 
operations of the Spirit are inscrutable, even to the sub- 
ject of them, as to their mode of action; consciousness 
reveals to us only the fact , not the manner iu>r the ori- 
gin, of our religious experiences. These last we must 
learn from some other criterion or source. The apostle, 
therefore, very properly exhorts us to “try the spirits 
[both in ourselves and in others, by means of the written 
Word and their fruits] whether they are of God” (1 
John iv, 1). If we had, like the apostles, the inspired 
gift of “discerning spirits,” perhaps we might, to some 
extent, dispense with those accessory tests. Now the 
reason why we are unable to distinguish by any infal- 
lible internal mark or quality the author or tendency 
of our cognitions, impulses, or emotions, even when they 
are really due to the influence of the llolv Spirit, is be- 
cause these divine influences, however genuine or pow- 
erful, all lie in the plane of our own proper mental facul- 
ties, appearing to the consciousness as of subjective ori- 
gin. They, in fact, use these faculties as their channel 
or vehicle, just as the electric current runs along the tel- 
egraphic wire precisely the same whether the thunder- 
storm or the magnetic machine give the impulse, and 
whether the telegram be from friend or foe, a truth or 
a He. It is a great and dangerous error, alike unscript- 
ural and unphilosophieal, to assume for any one that 
he is directly conscious of any divine influence as such. 
Whether it. is God himself or Satan that is operating 
the wires in his soul, he can only tell for a certainty by 
a comparison of the character and hearing of the mes- 
sage with some external rule or standard. 

It follows from this law that, aside from the miracu- 
lously inspired experience of prophets strictly so called 
— which no sound Christian now claims, and of which 
we could only speak theoretically — we are to expect no 
ecstatic, frenzied, or extravagant demonstration as the 
essence, concomitant, or mark of the spiritual endow- 
ment which we are considering. We sav this not from 
any sympathy with such a Quietism as Upham has 
learned from Madame Guynn, which teaches that no 
influence of the Holy Spirit tends to flutter, disturb, or 
agitate the soul. Unquestionably some terribly dis- 
quieting convictions often reach the bosom of the peui- 


050 


SPIRIT, IIOLY 

tent, and many distressing emotions sometimes invade 
the peace even of the believer; and we are far from 
dissociating God’s Spirit from these. We only mean 
that fantasy, rhapsody, and spiritual transcendentalism 
are no more signs of the religious endowment which we 
are considering than is catalepsy, vociferation, or glee. 
All these may thrill the nerves: and so may music or 
poetry or a landscape. It is only when God plays upon 
the kcy-Uwird that the divine harmony is wakened, and 
only when he speaks that the sacred whispers of soul 
respond. It is said that some of Mr. Wesley’s most im- 
pressive sermons were delivered with wonderful calm- 
ness. There was more, power because more pathos in 
the “ still, small voice" which spoke to the despondent 
prophet at Iloreb than in all the “thunders and light- 
nings and a thick cloud'’ at Sinai, Both in physical 
extravagancies and mental transports heathen devotees 
have often excelled, and .Mohammedan dervishes are 
adepts in these unprofitable bodily exercises. 

4. lint we must give a positive, and not merely a neg- 
ative, statement of the baptism of the Holy Spirit. This 
involves a somewhat close analysis of religious states and 
processes, in the formulation of which Christian denom- 
inations are not fully at one, though the agreement may 
be more nearly complete than it sometimes seems. 

The acts on God's part in conversion are essentially 
two, justification, or the pardon of sin. which takes place 
in the divine mind; and regeneration, which is also 
an initial sanctification, and takes place ill the human 
soul. These two co-ordinate elements are inseparable 
from the very beginning of any true religious life in 
the Bible sense, and they arc, therefore, characteristic 
of every genuine believer, whether in the Old or the 
New Economy. Thus Saul, the first Hebrew king, was 
“turned into another man" when he met the company 
of the prophets (1 Sam. x, (>), although he afterwards 
fell from grace; and Saul, the first chief persecutor of 
the infant Church, received the same change on the 
way to Damascus, and continued steadfast in it to his 
life’s end. Jacob experienced a similar spiritual trans- 
formation as he wrestled with the angel — for be it care- 
fully noted that his vision of the ladder resulted only in 
a conditional promise of future consecration to God (Gen. 
xxviii, 20, 21) ; but the apostles were no doubt con- 
verted men long before the day of Pentecost, for Judas 
could not otherwise have been an apostate (John xvii, 
12). B<>th these acts — forgiveness and the new birth 
— are necessarily instantaneous and complete at once, 
because they are acts, and divine ones. They are not 
processes, but each is a fact, which must be perfected 
whenever their conditions are met, matured, or perfect- 
ed. Sanctification, on the other hand, is the outcome 
of a progressive work, begun at conversion and com- 
pleted, whether gradually or instantaneously, at a sub- 
sequent stage. Possibly it might have Iteen completed 
at conversion, had the subject possessed adequate intel- 
ligence ami faith, and it might be perfectly attained at 
any other point of the Christian’s career on the concur- 
rence of the same requisites; hut this all-conquering 
faith is itself a divine endowment. In point of fact, it 
is usually deferred till fatal sickness or litter decrepi- 
tude has weaned the heart from earth, or it is even 
post|Miued in the hour of dissolution, if, indeed, it he 
granted— ns is generally assumed, we think rightly — 
that the saved soul entering Paradise must he, in the 
fullest sense, “ cleansed of all sin.” At whatever mo- 
ment this great change may he fully achieved, it is, 
of course, en i i rely the work of God— that is, of the iu- 
tlueiire of (he Holy Spirit. 

Now there are two other and more special offices of 
tie* Holy Spirit which it is the privilege of Christians 
to experience, accessory to, hut not necessarily implied 
in, any n| the three nets or operations already specified. 
It is tlicne that are the distinctive features of Christian- 
ity as n personal religion. They were not known, at 
lonst not in this precise form, io the Old-Test, saints. 
I liev arc very nearly allied to each uthcr, and have 


SPIRIT, IIOLY 

strong affinities, especially to regeneration; but they 
have some peculiar features in both these aspects. 
They are the witness of the Spirit and the baptism of 
the Spirit . The former is the seal of adoption, and the 
latter the earnest of the inheritance. They are both 
very clearly set forth in Paul’s writings, especially in 
the Epistle to the Homans. They are not identical. 
The “ witness” is objective and conclusive ; it looks to our 
relation as children of God, and is incapable of growth, 
although it mav occasionally be somewhat obscured. 
The “ baptism” is subjective aiul cumulative; it drinks in 
the luxury of the divine communion, and expands by 
successive impartations. The one is a recognition of 
our relation to God, the other our enjoyment of him. 
The apostle seems to have expressed their mutual 
correlation in an admirable figure — “We all, with open 
face beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, are 
changed into the same image from glory to glory, even 
as by the Spirit of the Lord" (2 Cor. iii, 18). 

We have said that these two great blessings proper- 
ly attend the conversion of the soul. We think they 
would always accompany it simultaneously if the sub- 
ject were duly instructed to expect them. But in 
point of fact there often is an interval, sometimes a 
considerable one, between that event and these. We 
are not sure that the “witness” and the “baptism" may 
not themselves be occasionally separated by a longer 
or shorter interval of time. Certainly many believers 
do not immediately enter into the assurance of adop- 
tion, and it is quite as certain that very many know 
little, if anything, for a long time or for all their lives, 
of the true baptism of the Spirit. 

5. It is proper that we should, if possible, discriminate 
a little more closely still. In describing, as well as we 
may, in a last analysis, this “baptism,” we premise, of 
eourse, that only by actual experience can it be truly 
apprehended. Spiritual things are spiritually discerned 
(1 Cor. ii, 14), and only they who are taught of God by 
the Holy Ghost can understand the deep things of the 
Spirit. In the gracious economy of the Gospel this gift 
is the common privilege of believers, giving fervor to 
the heart, earnestness to the life, and unction to the 
words in divine things. By virtue of this endowment, 
prayer is changed from a cold and formal routine to a 
living and spontaneous intercourse; heaven becomes a 
present reality, instead of a dim prospect; Christ dwells 
in the heart, and not merely reigns over it. There is a 
glow, a joy, a freedom, in all the feelings, looks, and acts 
of the possessor of this gift that shows he has found 
peace, rest, and satisfaction. The emotions may not al- 
ways rise to rapture; they may at times be even de- 
pressed to grief; but there will be a sweetness in sor- 
row itself, and a gladness in the very humiliation, for 
the company of Jesus will still he realized. In one 
word, it is the sunshine of the elder brother's presence 
in the soul that makes all the difference between the 
spiritually unbaptized servant of God and the baptized 
son. This baptism is especially evident in season of 
revival, to which, indeed, it often holds the double rela- 
tion of cause and effect, not only enabling believers to 
enjoy such “refreshing from the presence of the Lord,” 
hub especially qualifying them for useful labors at such 
times. A word uttered under the inspiration of such a 
baptism is often more effectual in reaching the heart 
both of believers and unbelievers than a sermon with- 
out it. Indeed, the success of all human efforts in this 
line depends almost wholly upon the presence and ex- 
tent of this power. 

(1. It will not he inferred, as has already been in- 
timated, that such baptisms arc limited to any special 
times or places or occasions. They may come in the 
solitary and silent meditation of the closet; but we be- 
lieve that they are more frequently experienced in the 
social exercises of “the communion of saints.” They 
are various in both form and degree, and may often he 
repeated, until the soul at length becomes “full of glory 
and of Gud,” 


SPIRIT, IIOLY 9; 

This baptism is neither the same with entire sancti- 
fication, nor is the latter the invariable result of the 
experience of the former. Some may have, perhaps 
unwittingly, but not therefore harmlessly, confounded 
the two under the vague name of “the second bless- 
ing.” This is rather the doorway, the roadway, to that 
exalted attainment. Multitudes, it must be believed, 
are walking in its light and peace and joy who are, 
nevertheless, conscious of numerous spiritual failings, 
who may even, though not of necessity, be overcome 
by temptation and fall into momentary — never into de- 
liberate — sin. But if they abide in the Spirit, they are 
enabled by divine grace immediately to take hold upon 
the Great Restorer, and to taste anew the “ mystic joys 
of penitence,” and to rejoice anew in the power of sav- 
ing grace. ‘ All those who thus faithfulh- hold on to 
Christ by the Spirit will at length prove completely 
victorious, and will be enabled to shout on earth as well 
as in heaven their triumph over every inward and out- 
ward foe. See Spiritual Gifts. 

SPIRIT, Grieving or Quenching tiie, is a phrase 
that occasionally occurs in Scripture, and is often re- 
peated in Christian literature. 

1. To “quench the Spirit” (I Thess. v, 19) is a meta- 
phorical expression easily understood. The Spirit may 
be quenched (1) by forcing, as it were, that divine agent 
to withdraw from us, by sin, irregularity of manners, van- 
ity, avarice, negligence, or other crimes contrary to char- 
ity, truth, peace, and his other gifts and qualifications. 
(2.) The Spirit might have been quenched by such ac- 
tions as caused God to take away his supernatural gifts 
and favors, such as prophecy, the gift of tongues, the 
gift of healing, etc. For though these gifts were of 
mere grace, and God might communicate them some- 
times to doubtful characters, yet he has often granted 
them to the prayers of the faithful, and has taken them 
away, to punish their misuse or contempt of them. 

2. To “grieve the Spirit” (Eph. iv, 30) mav also be 
taken to refer either to an internal grace, habitual or 
actual, or to the miraculous gifts with which God fa- 
vored the primitive Christians. We grieve the Spirit 
of God by withstanding his holy inspirations, the mo- 
tions of his grace; or by living in a lukewarm and in- 
cautious manner; by despising his gifts, or neglecting 
them * by abusing his favors, either out of vanity, curi- 
osity, or indifference. In a contrary sense (2 Tim. i, 6), 
we stir up the Spirit of God which is in us by the prac- 
tice of virtue, by our compliance with his inspirations, 
by fervor m his service, by renewing our gratitude, etc. 
— Cal met. 

SPIRIT, Praying and Preaching by. In the early 
Church it was customary for the people to pray audibly, 
and that they might pray in concert the words were 
dictated to them by the deacon. St. Chrysostom, in 
his homily (7th, p. G8) on Romans , explaining the words 
“the Spirit maketh intercession with groanings,” etc., 
says that the gift of prayer was then distinguished 
by the name of the Spirit, and he that had this gift 
prayed for the whole congregation. But in his own 
time, he says, the deacons prayed by ordinary forms, 
without any such immediate inspiration. As to preach- 
ing, all that the fathers pretended to from the assistance 
of the Spirit was only that ordinary assistance which 
men may expect from the concurrence of the Spirit with 
their honest endeavors, as a blessing upon their studies 
and labors. See Bingham, Christ A ntiq. bk. xiii, cli. vi, 

§ 9; bk. xiv, ch. iv. § 12. 

SPIRIT, Procession of. See Procession of the 
Holy Ghost. 

SPIRIT (Holy'), Sect of the, a name for the repre- 
sentatives of a pantheistic movement of the 12 th century 
in France. The party originated with Amalric (q. v.) of 
Bena, a teacher at Paris. The first germs of this pan- 
theistic mysticism were probably derived from the writ- 
ings of the pseudo-Dionysius and of Erigena. Amalric 
taught that none could be saved who believed not that 


.1 .SPIRITS IN PRISON 

he was a member of the body of Christ. Similar views 
were entertained by David of Dinanto (q. v.) and Si- 
mon (q. v.) of Tonrnay. These opinions finding their 
way among the laity, a goldsmith proclaimed the ad- 
vent of the age of the Holy Spirit, when all positive re- 
ligion and every outward form of worship should cease 
and God be all in all. As formerly in Christ, so now in 
every believer, did God become incarnate ; and on this 
ground the Christian was God in the same sense in 
which Christ had been. These views were condemned 
by a synod held at Paris in 1209, the writings of Erige- 
na were reprobated, and several members of the sect con- 
signed to the stake. See Kurtz, Church Jlist. i, § 108, 2. 

SPIRIT (Holy), Testimony of. See Witness of 
the Holy Ghost. 

SPIRIT (Holy'), Work of. See Spirit, Holy'. 

Spirit-rappings. See Spiritualism. 

Spirits, Discerning of. See Discerning of 
Spirits. 

Spirits in Prison (1 Pet. iii, 18-20). This topic 
is introduced by the apostle in connection with the suf- 
ferings of Christians through persecution, as both the 
context preceding and that following indicate. Under 
these sufferings they are encouraged by the example of 
Christ; for although his passion was vicarious, as theirs 
is not, still the two are parallel in one point — namely, 
that death in either case is their extreme limit (ver. 18, 
“once suffered;” iv, 1, “he that hath suffered in the 
flesh hath ceased from sin”). Connected with this anal- 
ogy the apostle presents another which is a favorite 
one with Paul also (Rom. viii, 10-13) — namely, that the 
death of carnality is the revival of spirituality, and 
Christians are consoled in their physical sufferings by 
t his thought, which was the ground-idea of the Re- 
deemer’s passion (“suffered for sins, to bring us to 
God”). This central antithesis is pithily expressed in 
the last clause of 1 Pet. iii, 18, “being put to death in 
the flesh, but quickened by the Spirit.” Some commen- 
tators insist that this should be rendered “put to death 
in the flesh, but quickened in the spirit” (^auartucfit; 
fiiv vapid , ^ojo7rou]^sig di [r<p] 7ri'eQ tar< )? alleging 
that the strict correspondence of the clauses requires 
exact parallelism of construction. This, however, ap- 
pears to us to be far from necessary. The meaning of 
the first clause is, of course, unequivocal. Christ died 
physically. But we are at a loss to conceive what in- 
telligible idea is conveyed by the expression, if parallel, 
Christ revived spiritually. All the labored interpreta- 
tions collected by Van Oosterzee, in Lange’s Commenta- 
ry , seem to us either sheer nonsense or pure transcen- 
dentalism. Nobody imagines that any human being, 
much less Jesus, could cease to exist in spirit at physi- 
cal death, or coidd therefore return to life spiritually. 
This latter clause is evidently tantamount to the state- 
ment elsew'here explicitly made, that the body of Jesus 
was reanimated by the power of the Holy Spirit (Rom. 
viii, 11). As the preposition necessary in English to 
indicate this relation (“in” or “by”) is not expressed in 
the Greek (the simple dative being used), we are at lib- 
erty to employ either indifferently; nor to one thinking 
after the Greek idiom is it necessary to distinguish con- 
sciously between the two. Christ’s death, like ours, is 
stated as the result of a physical affinity; his resurrec- 
tion was, as ours is also to be, the effect of spiritual re- 
lationships. The former ensued from his connection 
with mortal flesh, the latter was accomplished by virtue 
of his unity with the Holy Spirit. We therefore obtain 
a consistent sense by translating, “being put to death 
by reason of [his] flesh, but quickened by reason of [his] 
Spirit.” His physical constitution rendered him capable 
of death, but his divinity was sure to reanimate him. 
Both clauses ean only have reference to the palpable 
facts on which the Gospel is founded — the bodily death 
and resurrection of Christ. 

In the next clause this relation between Christ’s hu- 


SPIRITS IX PRISON 


052 


SPIRITUAL COURTS 


maniiy ami divinity is more explicitly expressed in tlic 
Greek" by the same ease with a prepoMtion («V Tip), and 
we therefore render in like manner, “by virtue of which 
[Spirit J he went,” etc. Here all interpreters recognise 
i he idea of a spiritual presence of Christ, but many ex- 
plain it as that of his disembodied spirit. This, again, 
i> in ns simply unintelligible, and the added statement 
of “going” (-opti'C(nj), upon which some lay special 
stress as continuing the belief in an actual visit to the 
place of departed spirits, appears to us to flatly contra- 
dict it. What sort of a journey a disembodied spirit 
could make we cannot imagine. T he only real mean- 
ing is, ami must be. that Christ was, in some imaginary, 
figurative, or representative sense, present at the place 
in <| nest ion. t Irani that this was true by reason of his 
divine ubiquity, ami by virtue of his special authority 
on the given occasion, and ail becomes clear, consistent, 
and intelligible, llut to suppose or insist that the pres- 
ence in question was merely that of a ghost is to rele- 
gate the whole transaction to the sphere of the unknown, 
if not unknowable. 

Hut the main question is, who were “the spirits in 
prison” to whom he ** preached?” That they were the 
antediluvians doomed to destruction by the flood seems 
exeget ically certain from the context, ami is generally 
conceded, 'flic disputed point is, at what time are they 
spoken of here; while yet living, or after their death? 
If the transaction were a real one, and not a mere phan- 
tasm, it seems to us, and it has seemed also to the good 
sense of the Church at large, that the former only can 
possibly be meant. Here is a well-known historical fact, 
and tiie context evidently refers to it as such — namely, 
that Noah preached to the antediluvians “ while the ark 
was a-preparing.” We see no mystery or difficulty here 
whatever. Hut to understand “prison” to be Hades, 
Sheol, or the place of departed spirits, is wholly unwar- 
ranted by the context, and is repugnant to all that we 
know of that abode of the lost. It is in vain to appeal 
io the particles “sometime” (7rort) am! “also”(e«i) in 
support of this purgatorial notion; they require no such 
allu-ion. but simply indicate that the event in question 
was anterior to the present time, ami in some respects a 
parallel case. The analogy is substantially that above 
indicated as underlying this whole paragraph, and It is 
immediately brought out as consisting in the fact of a 
deliverance by means and in the midst of a seeming 
overthrow. The Hood was the death of the Old World, 
ami the ark was its renaissance. The same thought is 
in tin* next verse expressly termed a “figure,” and is 
applied to baptism as an emblem of Christian redemp- 
tion; ami this is there explicitly referred to Christ's 
resurrection from the dead as its potential means. As 
if to prevent all possible misunderstanding, the Saviour 
is there represented as having passed (iropenSuc, again, 
a bodily transferral in space) into the heavens. There 
is not a word about bis descent ad inferos. 

To sum up, then, it appears to us clear — and we are 
not to be befogged by transcendental speculations about 
the assumed capabilities of the invisible world — that 
the preaching of Christ through Noah to his contempo- 
raries during the respite before the Hood, by virtue of 
the Holv Spirit, is eminently appropriate to the course 
of the apostle's argument. In illustrating the paradox 
of deliverance through destruction, he says that the 
same principle of mercy through Christ has prevailed 
in all dispensations, just as the Old World had the prof- 
fer of rescue by menus of the ark, and as Koine actually 
embraced it; so the tiospel both now and dually saves 
1*“ by a reconstruction through the seeming overthrow 
of its author. To introduce nil allusion to some pre- 
sumed tcftic in the other world enacted in the short in- 
terim of Chris’s burial, ami from which nothing seems 
to have resulted, is wholly gratuitous and irrelevant, not 
to sav nugatory and puerile. Nobody uninfected with 
Uomish huperstition, we apprehend, would have orig- 
inated so haM and yet so bold an interpretation. See 
Di.s< i.m tx to. See (besides the various cotu- 


1 mcntarics, and the monographs cited by Danz, Worterb. 
p. 753), Jonrn. of Sac. Lit. Jan. 1853; Oct. 1860; Ch. 
Review, duly, 1857 ; Biblioth. Sac. Jan. 1862; New- Eng - 
lander, Oct. 1872; Princeton Rev. April, 1875; Brit, and 
For. Ec. Rev. Jan. 1876. 

Spirits, Unclean (nvebpara afcdSapra), a fre- 
quent term in Scripture for unholy angels (Matt, x, 1, 
etc.). Sec the Christian Remembrancer, July, 1862. See 
I Lemon. 

Spiritual (Tn’tvpnrucoQ, which in classical Greek 
is opposed to bodily , Plutarch, I)e Sanct. 389) denotes 
in New-Test, usage, (a) belonging to the Holy Spirit 
(Horn, i, 1 1 ; xv, 27 ; 1 Cor. ii, 13 ; ix, 1 1 ; xii, 1,7; xiv, 
1, 37; Eph. i, 3); or (b) determined or influenced by 
the Ilolv Spirit (l Cor. iii, 1 ; xiv, 37 ; Gal. vi, 1), such 
as “spiritual songs” (Eph. v, 19; Col. iii, 16), i. e. in- 
spired; a “spiritual house” (Col. i, 9), not angelic, nor 
unmanufactured, but composed of stones vivified by the 
Spirit (comp. Eph. ii, 22), like “spiritual sacrifices” (L 
Pet. ii, 5); “spiritual food and drink” (1 Cor. x, 3), i. e. 
nourishment afforded by the Spirit (the “spiritual 
Hock,” Dent, viii, 15; xxxii, 4), and not in an ordinary 
way (comp. Exod. xvii, 6). See Cremer, Lexicon of the 
X.-T. Greek, s. v. See Spiritual-mini >ei>ness. 

The expression “spiritual body” (a mpa TcvivpariKov, 
pneumatic body ), used in 1 Cor. xv, 44 to describe the 
resurrection state, appears at first sight a palpable con- 
tradiction of terms; but it is interpreted by the antith- 
esis there made with the “natural body” (ampa ipvxt- 
kov, psychic body). The apostle uses these terms in the 
same epistle (ii, 14, 15) to distinguish the nnregenerate 
man from tiie Christian, as being changed from his 
fleshly condition to a heavenly one by the Divine 
Spirit. In the resurrection body, accordingly, these 
words denote the contrast between the earthly, decay- 
ing, and sin-stained costume of the soul here and its ce- 
lestial, immortal, and purified state hereafter. This is 
plain likewise from the kindred antithesis of the con- 
text (“corruption . . . incorruption,” “dishonor . . . 
glory,” “weakness . . . power,” “earthy . . . heaven- 
ly”). We are not taught, therefore, to look for an ethe- 
real, aerial, or sublimated body in the other life, but 
one of bona-fide matter, substantial as at present, al- 
though transfigured by a divine and heavenly glory. 
Sec Insurrection. 

Spiritual Communion is the mental act of 
holding communion with our blessed Saviour and iiis 
saints, either in the sacrament of the eucharist, or in 
any other religious service. See Communion. 

Spiritual Corporation is one the members of 
which are entirely spiritual persons, as bishops, arch- 
deacons, parsons, and vicars, who are sole corporations; 
also deans and chapters, as formerly abbots and con- 
vents, are bodies aggregate. — Lee, Gloss. of Liturg. Terms , 
s. v. 

Spiritual (or Ecclesiastical) Courts are those 
having jurisdiction in spiritual or ecclesiastical matters. 
Hesides the courts of Aim mioeacon (q. v.) and Arches 
( q.v.), they are the following: 

1. The Court of Augmentation was created in 27 
Henry VIII for determining suits and controversies re- 
lating to monasteries and abbey lands. The court was 
dissolved by Parliament, 1 queen Mary. The Aug- 
mentation Office, however, still exists, in which there 
are a variety of valuable records connected with lands 
formerly belonging to monasteries and abbeys. 

2. The Jitshop's or Consistory Court is held in the 
cathedral of each diocese for the irial of ecclesiastical 
causes within that diocese, 

3. The Court of Conscience or Requests (Curia Con - 
sclent it e) was erected in 9 Henry VIII in London, and 
an act of common council then appointed commission- 
ers to sit iu the court twice a week to determine all 
matters between citizens and freemen of London iu 

j which the debt or damage was under forty shillings,. 


SPIRITUAL GIFTS 


053 


SPIRITUAL GIFTS 


This act of common council was confirmed by 1 James 

I. By this the court issues its summons, the commis- 
sioners examine on oath, and decide by summary proc- 
ess, making such orders touching debts “as they should 
find to stand to equity and good conscience.” The 
commissioners may commit to prison for disobedience 
of their summons. Various subsequent acts have regu- 
lated and extended these powers. 

4. The Court of High Commission originated in the 
Act of Supremacy, passed in 1559, which empowered 
queen Elizabeth to choose commissioners who might 
exercise supreme jurisdiction in spiritual or ecclesiasti- 
cal matters. The court so formed claimed a pre-emi- 
nence over the ordinary courts of the bishops. The 
rack and other means of torture were weapons confided 
to them. They were bound by no rules or precedents 
in receiving evidence or in imposing penalties, but acted 
as they pleased, and soon became odious as a terrific 
and lawless inquisition. In 1610 a court of this nature 
was erected by James VI in Scotland, and re-erected in 
1664, the last consisting of nine prelates and thirty-five 
laymen. It was armed with highest authority, and 
had a military force at its command. It had also an 
organized espionage, with agents everywhere. It ruined 
many financially by the heavy fines imposed, banished 
others to unhealthy districts, and even sold some as 
slaves. 

5. 'Phe Court of Faculties belongs to the archbishop 
of Canterbury. Its power is to grant dispensations for 
the marriage of persons without the publication of 
banns, to ordain a deacon under the canonical age, to 
enable a son to succeed his father in a benefice, or one 
person to hold two or more benefices' incompatible with 
each other. 

6. The Court of Prerogative is held at Doctors’ Com- 
mons, in London, in which all wills and testaments are 
proved, and administrations granted on the estates of 
persons dying intestate, etc. 

7. 'Phe Court of Teinds is that portion of the judges 
of the Court of Session that administer the law as to 
the revenues of the Scottish Established Church. 

Meetings of Session, Presbytery, Synod, and General 
Assembly are usually termed Courts. 

Spiritual Gifts (rd irrer/ianicd suppl. yapur/io- 
ra), a phrase used to denote those endowments which 
were conferred on persons in the primitive Church, and 
which were manifested in acts and utterances of a su- 
pernatural kind. The phrase is taken from 1 Cor. xii, 
1. where the words 7Tfjoi rwr 7rutvpaTiKiov are rendered 
in the A. V. “concerning spiritual gifts.” 'Phe accu- 
racy of this rendering is generally admitted ; for, though 
some would take Trveo ftariKiov as masculine, and under- 
stand it, as in xiv, 37, of persons spiritually endowed, 
the tenor of the entire passage shows that it is of the 
gifts themselves, and not of the parties endowed with 
them, that the apostle speaks in this chapter (comp, 
xiv, 1). It is from the apostle’s statements in this chap- 
ter that our information concerning the spiritual gifts 
of the primitive Church is chiefly drawn. 

1. The first thing to be noted is what may be called 
the fundamental condition and test of these gifts. This 
is the acknowledgment of Jesus Christ as Lord. “ I 
give you to understand,.” says the apostle, “ that no man 
speaking by the Spirit of God calleth Jesus accursed : and 
that no man can say that Jesus is the Lord but by the 
llolv Ghost” (1 Cor. xii, 3). The denunciation of Jesus 
as an impostor, whether that came forth in the shape 
of an imprecation (torio dvdxtpct) or in the shape of 
an assertion (torn' di'd$tpa), having reference to his 
having died as one accursed (comp. Gal. iii, 13), proved 
sufficiently that the party uttering it was not under the 
influence of the Spirit; while, on the other hand, the 
recognition of Jesus as the Lord — i. e. the admission of 
his Messianic claims and the submission to his supreme 
authority — formed the antithesis to this, and was a 
proof that, the party was under the power of the Holy 
Ghost. The primary condition, then, of the possession 


of spiritual gifts was sincere adherence to Jesus as the 
Messiah. Apart from this there might be ihe arts of 
the magician or soothsayer, but no effects produced by 
the Spirit of God. 

2. The source of these spiritual gifts was God’s grace, 
and the agent by whom they were produced was the 
Holy Ghost. They were ^ apiagara , or grace-gifts ; 
and the apostle expressly says that amid diversity of 
gifts it is one and the same Spirit by whom they are 
bestowed, and amid diversity of services it is one and 
the same Lord by whom they are appointed, and amid 
diversity of operations it is one God who energizes all 
in all (1 Cor. xii, 4-6). 

3. When the apostle speaks here of xapiofiara , ha- 
Koriai, and irtpyigiara, the inquiry is suggested how 
these three expressions are to be taken. Are they in- 
tended to mark off three distinct classes of spiritual 
gifts? or do they describe the same objects under dif- 
ferent aspects? or is the first the generic class under 
which the other two are subsumed as species? Each 
of these views has found advocates. The Greek fathers 
generally regard them as simply different names for the 
same object (comp. Chrysostom, ad loc.), hut most re- 
cent writers regard them as relating to distinct classes. 
(For different classifications on this principle, see Aqui- 
nas, Suvinia Theol. ii, 2, qu. 171 ; Estius, On 1 Cor. xii; 
Olshausen on do., etc.) The objection to all the ar- 
rangements on this principle is that they are all more 
or less arbitrary, so that what is placed by one under 
one head is with equal plausibility placed by another 
under another. The opinion that Charisma is the ge- 
nus of which Diukoniai and Eneryemuta are species is 
open to the objection that to make diakoniai a kind of 
charisma is somewhat forced ; and, besides, it does not ac- 
cord with the parallelized structure of the apostle’s state- 
ment, which plainly makes these three objects collateral 
with each other. The opinion which has most in its 
favor is that we have here only one object presented 
under different aspects. On this principle the three 
classes may be arranged thus: These endowments of 
the primitive Church are, (1) Gifts of divine gruce , as 
the principle of the new life which, with its manifold 
capabilities, is communicated by the indwelling Spirit 
of God; (2) Ministries, as means by which one member 
serves for the benefit of others; and (3) Operations , ef- 
fects , by which the charismata manifest their active 
power. This seems a highly probable explanation of 
the apostle’s words; nor do we see the harshness in it 
of which Kling, from whom we have taken it, com- 
plains. 

4. Side by side with this .parallel arrangement of the 
gifts, the apostle places in another series of parallels the 
agency by which each of these is produced and sus- 
tained. The two series may be tabulated thus: 

Charismata (given by) the Spirit. 

Ministries (diiecled by) ihe Lord. 

Effects produced by t lie Father. 

In the first two of these parallel propositions there is an 
ellipsis of the verb , but this the mind naturally supplies 
from the analogy of the last in which the verb is enun- 
ciated (see Henderson, On Inspiration, p. 131). 

5. It has appeared to some that there is a correspond- 
ence between the gifts enumerated in 1 Cor. xii, 8-10 ami 
the Church offices enumerated in vcr. 28 (Horsley, Ser- 
mons, xiv, Appendix). The number of both is the same; 
there are nine gifts and nine offices. But beyond this 
the correspondence only very partially exists, ami in 
order to give it even a semblance of existing through- 
out, not only must very fanciful analogies be traced, but 
some palpable errors in interpretation committed (Hen- 
derson, On Inspiration, p. 183). 

6. The suggestion of Beza that the enumeration of 
gifts in 1 Cor. xii, 8-10 is divided into co-ordinate groups, 
distinguished by the pronouns tg ptr, ver.8; irtpiy H, 
ver. 9; ire fay id, vcr. 10, has been very generally fol- 
lowed by interpreters. Hence Meyer arranges them ill 
the following scheme: 


SPIRITUAL GIFTS 


934 


SPIRITUAL GIFTS 


I. Oharisms which relate to intellectual power. 1, \o- 
7 Of OlHfHilf ; ‘2, \«> 7 OV 7 >t*»<TtWC. 

II. (.‘Imrisuis which lire conditioned by heroic faith 

(Gin uhc indteroismus). 1. Tlic mo r<c itself; 2. The operu- 
t i • >n of this in act — a. bi^ar«»; b. ; 3. The operation 

of tills in 1 rant, irptnptnua ; 4. The critical operation of 

ttli-*. AdllhfMOK ITKVHUTUH . 

III. (‘harisms relating to the ^\wooat. 1. Speakiug with 
tongues; 2. Interpreting of tongues. 

Henderson adopts substantially the same arrange- 
ment (Inspiration, p. 185 sq.), like Meyer, laying stress 
on the use of the pronoun trtpiy in place ofuAAip by tlie 
apo-tk* in his enumeration hfp<y is selected because a 
distinct class follows; only thus can we account for the 
apostle’s not proceeding with rJMip” — Meyer; comp. 

I it i maun. Synonyms, ii, ‘28). To all such attempts at 
classification He Wctte objects: (1.) That <y ptv, hipty 
ct. irio<y ft, do not stand in relation to each other, but 
iriixy ft is always opposed to the nearest preceding 
d\\ut pf, so that neither can the one denote the genus 
nor the other the species. (2.) If anything could mark a 
division, it would be the repeated kutu to uvtq irvtvpa, 
m< rty a drty 7ri\, with the concluding Trdura ck to era 
of 1 Cor. xii, 1 1 ; but even thus we should gain nothing, 
for in ver. HI heterogeneous objects are united. (3.) There 
i» no reason to expect a classification, for the enumeration 
i> not complete (see ver. 28). (4.) The classification pro- 
j H»>c*d (i»v .Meyer) is in itself unsatisfactory ; plainly the 
speaking with tongues is more closely akin to prophesy- 
ing than to gifts of healing; and, as Kling observes, the 
cuttcpiattg 7rvEvpdruji> and the ippijvtia yXowaibv re- 
late to the understanding, and not to heroic faith. In 
these reasons there is much force; and though the 
apostle’s arrangement has the aspect of a classified 
scheme, we feel constrained to conclude with Kling 
that we must leave it undecided whether and how they 
can be classified. Xeander, followed by Billroth and 
Olfdiausen substantially, without insisting on the apos- 
tle’s words, contents himself with the obvious division 
of these charisma into two great classes — the one of 
which embraces such gifts as manifest themselves by 
word, and the other such as manifest themselves bv 
deed ; and each of these presents two subordinate classes, 
determined by the relation of the man’s own mental cult- 
ure and capacity to the working on him of the Spirit, 
so that in a man of high culture ami intellectual power 
the Adyor yvdxrtmg would be manifested, while to one 
(if less culture the Holy Spirit would come with a pow- 
er which overwhelms his self-consciousness and makes 
him the almost mechanical utterer of what does not pass 
through the medium of his own intelligence (A postal. 
Zeitidt. i. 174 s<|. [ Eng. transl. j, 132]). 

7. Taking in order as they stand in the text the gifts 
enumerated, we have — 

(I.) 1 lie Word of Wisdom (Adyo q ootyiag') and the 

II o rd of K note let lye (Any or,* yvournog'). Adyot,* is used 

here, as frequently elsewhere in the New 'lest., as ~ser- 
mo, discourse , utterance. To crofpia and yvmauj various 
meanings have lieen attached. A common explanation 
is that (uupia is the practical and yvuxng the theoretical 
or h|mjci dative presentation of truth; hut this, though 
adopted by Xeander, ( Hdiausen, and others, as well as 
the antithetical opinion advanced by llougel, Storr, Ko- 
seumhller, etc., that is the theoretical and yvioaig 

tin* practical, is sullicientlv refuted by the consideration 
that the practical and the* theoretical apprehension and 
ex|M*siii»iii ,,f the truth, merely as such, cannot he prop- 
erly regarded as coming among the miraculous gilts of 
tin- Spirit; such attainments are not Kurd tt vtrpa in 
the seiine in which Paul uses that phrase here. Meyer 
mak«'H ntujna the higher Christ inn wisdom as such ; yi> ( o- I 
ito. the speculative, deeper, more penetrating knowledge 
of it ; while IXtius reverses this, making Adyoc no <f>iuc 
“graiiam de iis qua* ad dnelrimim religionis ac pietatis 
apeetaut di-va rendi ex cansis Mipremis,” and Adyo<; yeui- 
ano< ‘‘gratia dissereudi do rebus (’liristianm religionis 
ex iis <|Ute sunt Inunaiiie sricntiic ant experientia*,” i. e. 
of bringing principles of human philosophy or facts of 


human experience to bear on the illustration of divine 
truth. Henderson takes oo<pia to be comprehensive of 
“the sublime truths of the Gospel directly revealed to 
the apostles, of which the Adyot; was the supernatural 
ability rightly to communicate them to others;” and by 
yvioaig the possession by divine communication of “an 
exact and competent knowledge of the truths which God 
had already revealed through the instrumentality of the 
prophets and apostles, in consequence of which those 
who possessed it became qualified, independently of 
the use of all ordinary means, forthwith to teach the 
Church” (p. 188 sq.). Osiander makes oocpia the ap- 
prehension of divine truth in its totality, of the ends 
and purposes of God, of the plan and work of redemp- 
tion, of the revelation of salvation through Christ in its 
connection, its divine system and organism ; and yvuxng 
the penetrating knowledge of particulars given by God, 
with their inward appropriation and experience (John 
vi, 69; xvii, 3; Phil, iii, 8). This last seems to he, on 
the whole, the least arbitrary and most probable inter- 
pretation, it being of course kept in view that the ap- 
prehension and experience of divine truth, whether as 
a whole or in its parts, as well as the power of giving 
this forth in discourse, is not such as mere human in- 
telligence and study could attain, but such as was Kara 
TTVEVpa. 

(2.) Faith (nlanc ;). — All are agreed that this cannot 
he understood of that faith which saves — justifying 
faith; and most regard it as a jides miraculosa , such 
as our Lord speaks of (Matt, xvii, 20; xxi, 21), and to 
which Paul refers (1 Cor. xiii, 2) — a firm persuasion 
that on fitting occasions the divine power would be put 
forth to work miracles. Meyer thinks this too narrow, 
because under 7 riartg are ranked not only idpara and 
h'vdpsic, but also Trpo<bi}THa and Siatcpiaaig 7 rvtvpd- 
rio}\ He would therefore understand by Triang here 
“a high degree of faith in Christ — a faith -heroism 
whose operation in some was in healings, etc.” As, 
however, such faith in Christ must mean faith in him 
as the risen Lord, the source of miraculous power, 
whether exercised in healing diseases or in utterances 
of knowledge, this opinion seems to resolve itself into 
a substantial identity with the other. 

(3.) Gifts of Ileal inys (yap. iapdriov ). — This all are 
agreed in understanding as the power of healing dis- 
ease directly without the aid of therapeutic applications. 
The plural is used to indicate the variety of diseases, and 
the various gifts of healing them possessed in the Church. 

(4.) Workings of Powers {, tvtpyyp . dt/rdptio v ). — This 
is generally referred to the working of miracles of a 
higher kind than the healing of disease — miracles which 
consist not in the performing without means what means 
may effect, but in the performance of what no means 
can effect, such as the raising of the dead, the exorcism 
of diemons, the infliction, by a word, of death as a pun- 
ishment, etc. 

(5.) Prophecy (7rpo0i;rc/a). — This refers not to or- 
dinary religious discourses for the edification of the 
Church, but to such a forth-speaking of the mind of 
God in relation to truth, duty, or coining events as the 
inward action of the Holy Spirit on the mind may pro- 
duce (Chrysost. 6 TTfHxfnjTEioJv 7 rdrrri 077*0 tov Ttvtv- 
parog <p$iyytrat). 'That the gift of predicting future 
events was possessed in t lie early Church, we see from 
such instances as Acts ii, 27, 28; xxi, 11, etc.; Imt the 
7rpo(f>j]Ttia of the Xew 'Test, does not generally relate to 
this: it usually has reference to the utterance of doc- 
trine given by revelation from God (comp. 1 Cor. xi, 3; 
xiv, 26-33, etc.). 

(6.) I iiscerninys of Spirits (ctatcpiung 7n avparutv). 
— Prom I Cor. xiv, 29 (comp. 1 Thess. v, 21; 1 John iv, 
1) wo learn that professed prophetic utterances were to 
lie subjected to trial, that nothing unchristian or uuedi- 
fying might pass under that name; and it is to this that 
the gilt now before us relates. Even apostles would 
seem to have submitted their doctrine to the judgment 
of these gifted critics (1 Cor. xiv, 37), 


SPIRITUAL GIFTS 


955 


SPIRITUAL GIFTS 


(7.) Kinds of Tongues (ysvrj yXwffvwv'). — That this 
refers to the Xa\ tiv yX&aoy or yXuxynaig which ex- 
isted in the Corinthian Church, and indicates that of 
tiiese yXioooai there were various kinds, is undoubted; 
but in what this gift consisted is a question involved 
in great difficulty, and to which very different answers 
have been given. We may at once dismiss some of 
these as not deserving serious consideration — viz., 1, 
that of Bardili and Eiehhorn, who take yXioooa in the 
literal sense of tongue , and suppose that the XaXtiv was 
a sort of inarticulate babble, an ecstatic utterance of 
mere sounds made by the tongue — an opinion which is 
irreconcilable with the idea of this being a gift of the 
Holy Ghost, with the possibility of an interpretation of 
the sounds uttered, with what Caul says (1 Cor. xiv, 18), 
and with the use of the plural in the phrase yXCoavaig 
XaXstv; 2, that of Bleek, who takes yXiuirtra in the 
sense of gloss — i. e. archaic, poetical, or provincial word 
or idiom — a meaning which belongs to the technicali- 
ties of the grammarians, and is quite foreign to the lan- 
guage of the New Test. ; and 3, that of Billroth, who 
supposes yXiootja to mean a composite language formed 
of the elements of various tongues, and in its composi- 
tion affording a symbol of the uniting power and uni- 
versality of Christianity — which is at the best only a 
pleasing fancy. The only two opinions worth consider- 
ing are the old view that these yXwcroai were actual 
foreign tongues which the gifted persons spoke without 
having learned them, and the opinion, subject to va- 
rious modifications, that they were new and divinely 
inspired utterances of a kind transcending the ordinary 
capacity and intelligence of men.— Kitto. 

Before entering on the consideration of these views, 
it may be well to state accurately the various peculiari- 
ties of this gift. These may be gathered from the state- 
ments of the apostle. From these we learn that it was 
a gift of the Spirit (1 Cor. xii, 11, 28, 30); that it be- 
longed only to some in the Church (ver. 11, 30); that 
it stood in some relation to the gift of prophesying — 
was inferior to it in point of utility, but afforded greater 
scope for display (xiv, 5, 6, 18, 19); that it was exer- 
cised in acts of prayer and praise (ver. 2, 14, 15, 16, 17) ; 
that it was not exercised through the medium of the 
intelligence (voPt;), anil so was unintelligible without 
an interpretation, which the party exercising it might 
not be capable of supplying, as it was the result of a 
distinct gift, which might or might not accompany the 
other (ver. 5, 6, 13, 16, 23) ; that it might appear to one 
unaccustomed to it a frenzy (ver. 23) ; that it had the 
effect of an instrument giving an uncertain sound, or 
was no better than the speaking of a barbarian or the 
clang of a cymbal when not interpreted (ver. 7-9; xiii, 
1); and that its use was to serve as a sign (or evi- 
dence of God’s presence) to those who did not believe 
(xiv, 22). 

Let us now turn to the former of the two opinions 
above noticed: those who hold this to be yXoxroa in 
the sense of language support their opinion by an ap- 
peal to our Lord’s promise to his disciples that, as a 
sign of his presence with them, they should speak 
with new tongues ( tca’ivaig yXwooaic, Mark xvi, 17), 
and to the occurrences of the day of Pentecost when 
the apostles spake with other tongues ( ertpaig yX. t 
Acts ii, 4 sq.). It seems altogether probable that the 
event of the day of Pentecost was a fulfilment of the 
promise of Christ to his disciples, and if we assume (as 
the narrative seems to intimate) that on that occasion 
the apostles did receive the faculty of speaking foreign 
tongues through the ageney of the Spirit, there is great 
plausibility in the conclusion that the gift of tongues 
bestowed on the primitive Church consisted in the pos- 
session of this faculty, it is frivolous to object to this, 
as De AVette and Meyer do, that the speaking of a lan- 
guage one has never learned is psychologically impossi- 
ble, for, if divine interposition be admitted, it is idle to 
set limits to its operation. “With God all things arc 
possible,” and he who caused “ the dumb ass to speak 


with man’s voiee” could surely employ the organs of a 
man to utter a foreign tongue of which he was ignorant. 
In the way of the conclusion, however, above stated, 
that the gift of which the apostle treats in writing to the 
Corinthians is the same as that promised by our Lord, 
and received by the apostles on the day of Pentecost, 
there are some serious difficulties. If the apostles pos- 
sessed the power of speaking foreign tongues miraculous- 
ly, they appear to have made very little use of it for the 
purposes of their mission, for, with the exception of the 
instance of the day of Pentecost, we do not read of their 
ever using this gift for the purpose of addressing for- 
eigners. There seems to be an a priori improbability 
that such a faculty would be miraculously conferred 
when it w r as one for which no special need existed, the 
Greek tongue being so widely diffused that the first 
preachers of Christianity were not likely to go where it 
was not known. But it is probable, although not re- 
corded, that they eventually used this faculty in preach- 
ing to heathens. As to the day of Pentecost, though 
the gift of tongues came upon the disciples when they 
were alone, yet it was immediately available to foreign- 
ers. It is an unwarranted assumption that these per- 
sons all understood a common language, or that to all 
of them at once Peter spoke on the same day without 
an interpreter. The most serious objections, however, to 
the opinion that the Glossolalia of the Corinthians was a 
speaking in foreign tongues are derived from what the 
apostle says about it in writing to them. (1.) The 
phrase yXeocoij XaXtlv does not necessarily mean “to 
speak a foreign language;” but it is evidently tanta- 
mount (comp. Acts x,46; xix, 6 with Acts ii, 4). The 
statements in Acts ii are conclusive that these tongues 
I in that case were vernacular with the polyglot audience. 
(2.) The Glossolalia was unintelligible to every one till in- 
terpreted (1 Cor. xiv, 2). But this may only refer to the 
absence of any one with whom it was vernacular. (3.) 
It is thought that this gift was used in individual 
prayer to God, and Paul, who possessed this gift above 
others, used it chiefly in secret: can we understand 
this of a speaking to God in foreign tongues? But 
of this assumption there is little evidence. (4.) The 
apostle places the Glossolalia in opposition, not to 
speaking in the vernacular tongue, but to speaking in- 
telligibly, or tv cnrovaXvxptt J) it' yvwott, ij tv 7 rpotpij- 
Ttty, ij tv (xiv, 6). lie likewise compares the 

glossai with foreign tongues, which assumes that they 
were not the same (ver. 10 sq.). But foreign lan- 
guages surely* are unintelligible, and in ver. 10 the 
wider term (fnorai is used. (5.) Hail the apostle had 
the speaking of foreign tongues in view, he would 
have made the exercise of them dependent on the pres- 
ence of those by whom they were understood, not on 
their bearing on the edification of the Church. But 
the latter could only have been effected through the 
former. The other objections raised by Dr. Poor in the 
American edition of Lange’s Commentary (ad loc.) are as 
little to the point. (6.) So far as these phenomena bore 
on unbelievers, they were a sign of reprobation (ver. 1 1). 
But that was true only when no one was present to in- 
terpret. (7.) Its special use was for the possessor’s own 
benefit in prayer and praise. Such, certainly, was not 
the case on the day of Pentecost. (8.) Any foreigner 
present who understood the language could have acted 
as interpreter without a special gift ; but he would hard- 
ly have been accepted as an authoritative exponent in 
the Christian sense. (9.) Corinth, being the resort of 
foreigners, had need of this gift less than other locali- 
ties. On the contrary, this was the very reason why 
a polyglot was required. (10.) Paul desired that all 
might have this gift. This he might naturally wish, 
whatever were its nature. (11.) The phrase “o tongue” 
seems to imply some individual peculiarity rather than 
an external demand. Bather it shows that the tongues 
were varied in different eases. (12.) It is nugatory to 
ask such questions as, How was this speaking in different 
foreign tongues conducted? Did the gifted persons all 


SPIRITUALISM 


05 G 


SPIRITUAL GIFTS 

speak at once? or did they speak one after the other? 
ll the former, would not the confusion of sounds be 
such as to render their speaking a mere Mabel? if the 
latter, would not a longer time have been requisite for 
the whole to speak than the conditions of the narra- 
tive allow us to suppose? (13.) In tine, supposing the 
disciples to have spoken intelligibly to these people in 
their respective languages, why should they have ap- 
peared to any of the bystanders as rnen tilled with new 
wine? Does not this imply an excited utterance and 
gesticulation altogether foreign to the case of men who 
had simply to tell their fellow -men such truths as 
those which these disciples had to publish? r I hese 
dirticultics have been so magnified bv some as to lead 
them to impugn the authenticity of the passage; while 
others have been induced by thorn to accept the hy- 
pothesis that the disciples spoke in (I reek or Aramaic, 
I Kit were miraculously understood hv the hearers each 
in his own language. lint they are mostly answered 
bv the facts in the case, which certainly show that the 
speaking of foreign languages did sometimes attend the 
gift of tongues, if this was not its invariable and dis- 
tinctive peculiarity. 

We now turn to the consideration of the opinion 
that the tongues were new languages in t lie sense of 
being ecstatic utterances, inspired and dictated by t lie 
Holy Spirit, and of a kind above what the ordinary 
faculties of the individual could reach. We may pass 
by the opinion of UossteuScher ami Thiersch that these 
tongues were angel-tongues, and that the gift consisted 
in the privilege of communing with Hod as the angels 
do; for this is a mere conjecture without any founda- 
tion in the statements of the apostle, the allusion in 1 
for. xiii, 1 to the “tongues of angels” being merely a 
rhetorical device to heighten the contrast the apostle is 
instituting. Schulz re*tricts the tongues to ecstatic 
utterance-* of praise to God; but this is too narrow a 
view, as is evident from xiv, 13-17.- Neandcr thus 
describes the state of the speaker with tongues: “The 
soul was immersed in devotion and adoration. Hence 
prayer, singing Hod's praise, testifying of the great 
doings of t iod, were suited to this state. Such a one 
prayed in the Spirit ; the higher spiritual and emotion- 
al life predominated in him, hut a development of the 
understanding was wanting. The consequence was that 
since out of his peculiar feelings and views he formed a 
peculiar language for himself, he wanted the faculty of 
so expressing himself as to he understood by the mass” 
(.1 jwsfnl. /fit alt, i, 170). Olshnusen adopts substan- 
tially the same view, but he differs from Neander in 
sup|Mi-.ing that the speaking of foreign languages was 
includ'd in the speaking with tongues, Meyer under- 
stands by “the XoXhi* such devotional utter- 

ances in petition, praise, and thanksgiving as were so 
ecstatic that the action of the person’s own understand- 
ing was suspended, while the tongue, ceasing to be the 
organ of the individual retlection, aeted independently 
of this, ns it was moved by the Holy (i host.” Hence lie 
thinks the term yXu matt came* to be applied to this gift, 
the tongue acting, as it were, independently of t tic un- 
derstanding and |br itself, lienee, also, be accounts lor 
the use of the plural yXowjvTnrr \a\tTv ami the yin) 
yXunradtc, as in stn-h a ease there would doubtless be 
varieties of utterance*, arising from difference* of de- 
gree, direction, ami impulse in t lie ecstasy. The Her- 
man interpreter* in general regard it as being an ec- 
static |M»wcr of speech, the result of the man's being 
Idled nut of himself and made to give utterance in 
broken, fragmentary, excited outburst* of thought* and 
feelings, espiM'iallv of rapturous devotion, beyond the 
ordinary range of humanity. Some think that there 
is ail allusion t«> smdi eiMatic devotions in the <Trf- 
vayfinlr dV-i.Vf/roir of Horn. viii, 2i>. We cannot hut 
tlnuk such a view abhorrent to the spirit of intelligent 
Christianity, s».<* Thvmlh, Oikt ok. 

( K * * / nt* i pr* (at inn of Tmujurg (ift/npuia yXwffrruii*). 
— As the transcended the rare, it could be 


made to convey edification to the hearers only as 
it was explained (by translation or otherwise); and 
Ibr this purpose the Holy Spirit gave some persons 
the faculty of comprehending it, and thereby of giv- 
ing its meaning to others. This gift sometimes was 
bestowed on the same person that had the gift of 
tongues. 

8. Such were the gifts of the Spirit enjoyed by the 
primitive Church. They were different ami variously 
distributed according to the sovereign will of the giver. 
Hut amid all this diversity the Church remained one — 
the indivisible body of Christ pervaded and intiuenced 
by the one Spirit of all grace, lienee all these gilts 
were to be subordinated to the end of edifying the 
Church, ami, more than all of them, charity was to be 
sought (1 Cor. xii, 11-31). 

0. Literature . — The commentaries on 1 Corinthians 
of Meyer, Olshausen, Hillroth, ( )siander, and Kling; De 
Wette’s Excursus on Acts ii ; Neamler. A postal. Zeitalt. 
vol. i; Henderson, Lectures on inspiration; Illcek, in 
the Studien u. Kritiken for 1820, 1830 ; Wieseler, in the 
Studien u. Kritiken for 1838; Schulz, in the Studien u. 
Kritiken for 1830; Thiersch, Kirche ini apostol. Zeitalt .; 
Kossteuseher, Cube d. Spruchen ini apostol. Zeitalt. 1850. 
See Gifts, Spiritual. 

Spiritual Relationship is one effected through 
some religious or spiritual act — such, for example, as 
that between godparents and godchildren. 

Spirituals (or Spirituals) is the name given 
to the stricter party of the Franciscans. Elijah of Cor- 
tona attempted, especially after the death of St. Fran- 
cis, to soften t lie rigid discipline of the order. Violent 
discussions arose, and Elijah was twice deposed, but 
finally reconciled to the Church (1253). The fanati- 
cism of the rigid party increased in proportion as their 
more lax opponents grew in number. At length the 
disputants separated, and the stricter party (called 
Spirituals, Zelu tores, Fratricelli) gradually became 
avowed opponents of the Church and of its rulers who 
had disowned them, and even denounced the pope as 
antichrist. They were, consequently, given over to the 
Inquisition. See Fisher, 7 list, of the lief. p. 57 ; Kurtz, 
Church Hist, i, 108, 4. 

Spiritualia is a term opposed to temporals, or tern- 
poralia (q. \\). 

Spiritualism is a word now generally used to des- 
ignate the belief of those who regard certain mental and 
physical phenomena as the result of the action of spir- 
its through sensitive organizations known as mediums. 
Spiritualists claim that Spiritualism is but another term 
lor the belief in the supernatural; that it lias pervaded 
all ages and nations; ami that American Spiritualism is 
but the last blossom of a very ancient tree. They as- 
sert that phenomena differing but slightly from the 
manifestations of modern Spiritualism appear in many 
of the Scripture incidents, e. g. the vision of Elisha’s 
servant (2 Kings vi, 15-17), the spiritual handwriting 
at the feast of Belshazzar (Dan. v, 5). in the Delphic 
oracles, in the experiences of Luther, the occurrences 
related by Hlanvil (1001), in the Cn mi sard marvels in 
France (1080 1707), in the occurrences in the Wesley 
family (1710), and in the communications of Sweden- 
borg with t lie spirit-world. For about a hundred years 
before the American phase of Spiritualism appeared, 
Germany and Switzerland had their Spiritualists, de- 
veloping or believing in phenomena almost identical. 
They had spirit - vision, spirit- writing, knowledge of 
coming events from the spirit-world, and daily direct 
intercourse with its inhabitants. Fre-ominent among 
these Spiritualists were .Jung-Stilling. Kerncr, Lavater, 
Eschenmeyer, Zschokke, Schubert, Werner, Kant, etc. 
(’lairvoyaiice and mesmerism were intimately associated 
with the introduction of modern Spiritualism, making 
the same claims to open intercourse with the spiritual 
world, and in some eases predicting that this comminu- 
tion would ere long assume “ the form of a living dem- 


SPIRITUALISM 


957 


SPIRITUALISM 


onstration” (Davis, The Principles of Nature , her Di- 
vine Revelations , etc.). 

Spiritualism assumed a novel shape in the United 
States — that of moving physical objects — and lias intro- 
duced spirits speaking through means of an alphabet, 
rapping, drawing, and writing, either by the hand of 
mediums or independently of them. The “spirit-rap- 
ping” phenomenon began in the home of J. D. Fox, 
llydeville. Wayne Co., N. Y., and is thus described by 
Mr. Dale Owen: “In the month of .January, 1848, the. 
noises assumed the character of distinct knuekings at 
night in the bedrooms, sounding sometimes as from 
the cellar below, and resembling the hammering of a 
shoemaker. These knocks produced a tremulous mo- j 
tion in the furniture and even in the Hour. The chil- 
dren (Margaret, aged 12 years, and Kate, aged 9 years) 
felt something heavy, as of a dog, lie on their feet when 
in bed: and Kate felt, as it were, a cold hand passed 
over her face. Sometimes the bedclothes Mere pulled 
off. Chairs and the dining-table Mere moved from their 
places. Daps M'ere made on doors as they stood close to 
them, but on suddenly opening them no one was visi- 
ble. On the night of March 13 (or 31), 1848, the block- 
ings M’ere unusually loud,” whereupon “Mr. Fox tried 
the sashes, to see if they Mere shaken by the wind. 
Kate observed that the blockings in the room exactly 
answered the rattle made by her father M'itli the sash. 
Thereupon she snapped her fingers and exclaimed, 
‘Mere, old Splitfoot, do as I do.’ The rap followed. 
This at once arrested the mother’s attention. ‘Count 
ten,’ she said. Ten strokes M’ere distinctly given. ‘ How 
old is my daughter Margaret?’ Twelve strokes. ‘ And 
Kate?’ Nine.” Other questions w’ere answered, wdien 
“she asked if it was a man? No answer. Was it a 
spirit? It rapped. Numbers of questions ivere put to 
tlie spirit, which replied by knocks that it was that of 
a travelling tradesman, who had been murdered by the 
then tenant, John C. Bell, for his property. The ped- 
dler had never been seen afterwards; and on the floor 
being dug up, the remains of a human body M’ere found.” 
After a time the raps occurred only in the presence of 
the Fox sisters, accompanying them upon their removal 
to Rochester, and developing new phenomena. In No- 
vember, 1849, the Fox girls appeared in a public hall, 
and their phenomena M’ere subjected to several tests, 
M’ithout being able to trace them to any mundane agen- 
cy. They arrived in New York in May, 1850. and be- 
came the subject of extensive newspaper and conversa- 
tional discussion. Meanwhile blockings M’ere reported 
to have occurred in the house of Mr. Granger, of Roch- 
ester, and in that of a Dr. Thelps, at Stratford, Conn. 
Individuals M’ere discovered to be mediums, or persons 
through whose atmosphere the spirits M’ere enabled to 
show their power, until, in 1853, their number is given 
at 30,000. The follou-ing are some of the numerous phe- 
nomena characteristic of Spiritualism in this country: 
Dials M’itli movable hands pointing out letters and an- 
SM’ering questions M’ithout human aid; the hands of 
mediums acting involuntarily, and writing communica- 
tions from departed spirits, sometimes the writing be- 
ing upside down, or reversed so as to be read through 
the paper or in a mirror. Some mediums represented 
faithfully, so it M’as said, the actions, voice, and appear- 
ance of deceased persons, or, blindfolded, drew correct 
portraits of them. Sometimes the names of deceased 
persons and short messages from them appeared in 
raised red lines upon the skin of the medium. Medi- 
ums M'ere said to have been raised into the air and 
floated above the heads of the spectators. Persons 
claimed to be touched by invisible and sometimes by 
visible hands; and voices M’ere heard purporting to be 
those of spirits. In 1850 I). D. Home became known as 
a medium, and maintained for five years a wide-spread 
reputation, giving sittings before Napoleon III in Paris, 
and Alexander II in St. Petersburg. Other prominent 
mediums were the “Davenport brothers,” Koonsof Ohio, 
Florence Cook, and the Holmeses. In the London Quar- 


terly Journal of Science,,! an. 1874, some of the phenom- 
ena exhibited in repeated experiments M’ith the medi- 
ums I). D. Home and Kate Fox are thus classified: 1. 
The movement of heavy bodies M’ith contact, but M’ith- 
out mechanical exertion; 2. The phenomena of percus- 
sive and other allied sounds; 3. The alteration of weight 
of bodies : 4. Movements of heavy bodies when at a dis- 
tance from the medium ; 5. The rising of chairs and ta- 
bles olY the ground M’ithout contact M’ith any person; G. 
The levitation of human beings; 7. Movement of various 
small articles without contact with any person; 8. Lu- 
minous appearances; 9. The appearance of hands, either 
self-luminous or visible by ordinary light; 10. Direct 
writing; 11. Phantom forms and faces; 12. Special in- 
stances which seem to point to the agency of an exte- 
rior intelligence; 13. Miscellaneous occurrences of a com- 
plex character. Later phenomena are those of the cab- 
inet, in M'hich the medium is, ostensibly, tied and un- 
tied by spirit-hands: and other forms of materializa- 
tion. One of the most recent of these last is “spirit- 
photographs.” It is asserted that on clean and previ- 
ously unused plates, marked by the sitter, and even 
when the sitter has used his oM'ii plates and camera, 
there has appeared M’ith the sitter a second figure, which 
in many instances has been recognised as the portrait of 
a deceased relative or friend. 

While many persons distinguished in the M-alks of 
science, philosophy, literature, and statesmanship have 
become avowed converts to Spiritualism, or have ad- 
mitted the phenomena so far as to believe in a new force 
not recognised by science, or, at least, have M’itnessed 
that its phenomena are not explainable on the ground 
of imposture or coincidence, others boldly assert that 
they are all attributable to physical agencies (see Gas- 
parin, Science vs. Spiritualism , transl. by Robert, N. Y. 
1857, 2 vols.). Spiritual photographs, it is alleged, are 
secured by first tampering with the negative; and all 
the effects shown by Spiritualists are claimed for the 
simple processes of photography. The cabinet -trick 
has frequently been reproduced by ordinary performers, 
and professional prestigiators have publicly offered to 
imitate all the so-called marvels of Spiritualism with- 
out the slightest pretence of spiritual intervention. We 
have before us a letter from one who has made the whole 
subject a careful study, and he declares his ability to re- 
produce by sleight of hand any phenomenon of Spiritu- 
alism after seeing it once or twice. 

It is impossible to make an approximate estimate of 
the number of Spiritualists, oM’ing to the fact that their 
organized bodies contain but a small proportion of those 
M’lio wholly or partially accept these phenomena. A 
very large proportion of the converts are from the ranks 
of those M'ho previously doubted or disbelieved the im- 
mortality of the sold, and M’ho affirm that they carry 
their sceptical tendencies into the investigation of this 
subject. 

The Spiritual Magazine (the oldest journal of Spir- 
itualism in England, and one that contains a record of 
the movement from its establishment, in 18(50) has the 
following as its motto: “Spiritualism is based on the 
cardinal fact of spirit communion and influx; it is the 
effort to discover all truth relating to man’s spiritual 
nature, capacities, relations, duties, m- el fare, and destiny, 
and its application to a regenerate life. It recognises a 
continuous divine inspiration in man. It aims, through 
a careful, reverent study of facts, at a knowdedge of the 
laws and principles which govern the occult forces of the 
universe; of the relations of spirit to matter, and of man 
to God and the spiritual M’orld. It is thus catholic and 
progressive, leading to true religion as at one with the 
highest, philosophy.” The “British National Associa- 
tion of Spiritualists” M*ns organized in Liverpool, Novem- 
ber, 1873, and has for its object the union of “ Spiritual- 
ists of every variety of opinion, the aiding of students in 
their researches, and the making known of the positive 
results arrived at by careful research.” ( )f periodicals, the 
number in Europe, America, and Australia is at least one 


95S 


SPITTA 


SPIRITUALISTS 


hundred. The books relating to Spiritualism may be 
reckoned by the hundred. of which the lollowing are 
some of the more important: Ballou, Spiritual 
/rstations ; Crookes, Ptsearches in the Phenomena of 
'spiritualism (Loml. 1*71); Crowe. Spiritualism and the 
Ay ire Lire in (ibid. 1*59) ; De Morgan, From Matter 
tn Spirit (ibid. 1*U3); Edmonds and Dexter, Spiritu- 
alism (X. V. l*o 1-5. 2 vols.); Hardinge, Modern .Inter- I 
icon Spiritualism (ibid. l*7it): Home, Incidents in mt / \ 
Life (lvond., 1'aris, and N. V. 1*02, 1*72, 1*75); llowitt, | 
History of the Supernatural in All Ayes and A at ions 
( L>ud. 1*33)* nlcott. People from the Other World 
(Hartford, 1*75); Owen, Footfalls on the Houmlary of 
Auotfur World (Phila. ] NHO), and The Debatable Land 
btfii'een This World atul the Sext (X. 5 . 1*»2); Sargent, 
Planchette , or the Despair of Science (Boston, 1*00); 
Wallace, (tn Miracles and Modern Spiritualism, three 
essays (Loud. 1*75). 

Spiritualists. l. = Libertines (q.v.). 2. The name 
assumed by persons who profess to hold communica- 
tion with the spirits of the departed. See SiuniTi'AL- 
ls.M. 

Spiritualities, Giwrdian ok the. The arch- 
bisliop is the guardian of the spiritualities during the 
vacancy of a bishopric; and when the archbishopric is 
vacant, the dean and chapter of the diocese arc guardi- 
ans of the spiritualities, who exercise all ecclesiastical 
jurisdiction during the vacancy. — Leo, Gloss, of Lit ary. 
Terms, s. v. 

Spirituality, in the ecclesiastical affairs and lan- 
guage of the Church of Lnglaud, is a term for the whole 
Duly of the clergy, derived from the spiritual nature of 
the olliee which they hold. 

Spirituality of Goi> is his immateriality, or be- 
ing without body. It expresses an idea made up of a 
negative part and of a positive part. The negative 
part consists in the exclusion of some of the known 
properties of nature, especially of solidity, of the vis in- 
ertia*, and of gravitation. The positive part comprises 
perception, thought, will, power, action, by which last 
term is meant the origination of motion (Pnlev, Xat. 
TheoL p. -1*1), .See Lncokuoueauty of Con. 

Spiritualize is to interpret, and apply historical 
or other parts of the Bible in what is called a spiritual 
manner. The sense thus brought out is termed the 
spiritual sense ; and those preachers or expositors who 
are tno*t ready and extravagant in eliciting it are the 
most highly esteemed by the unlearned and persons of 
an uncultivated taste. It is impossible adequately to 
describe the excesses and absurdities which have been 
committed by such teachers. From the time of Origen, 
who spiritualized the account of the creation of the 
world, the creation and fall of man, and numerous oth- 
er simple facts related in the Bible, down to the Jesuit 
who made the greater light to mean the pope, and the 
leaser light and the stars to mean the subjection of 
kings and princes to the pope, there have been multi- 
tudes in and out of the Catholic Church who have pur- 
sued the same path. A noted preacher in the metrop- 
olis, when expounding the history of Joseph, made out 
Pharaoh to mean thid the Father, and Joseph the Son. 
As Joseph interpreted Pharaoh’s dreams, so Christ in- 
terpreted the will of the Father. Potiphar’s wife sig- 
nified the sinful humanity which, according to the 
preacher, our l/»rd assumed. The prison signified the 
prison of hell, to which Christ went after his death. 
The chief butler, who was restored, typified a number 
of damned spirits whom Christ then liberated; and the 
chief linker was a type of the rest who were left— cal' 
of from tlutr head , Christ, Such n mode of interpre- 
tation may astound persons of weak minds, hut it is 
most irreverent and dangerous. It is one thing to ex- 
plain a passage literally and then deduce from it spirit- 
ual and practical reflections, and another to represent 
it ns directly and positively teaching certain spiritual 


truths, or apply it to subjects with which it has no 
manner of connection whatever. Jacob Boehm, Mi- 
guel de Molincs, Madame Guvon, and Madame de Bou- 
riguon are representatives of the somewhat numerous 
class of religionists, particularly of the 17th century, to 
whose teaching and practice the appellation of spiritu- 
alism has been applied. — Buck, TheoL Diet . s. v. See 

INTERPRETATION. 

Spiritual -mindedness is that disposition im- 
planted in the mind by the Holy Spirit, by which it is 
inclined to love, delight in. and attend to spiritual things. 
The spiritual-minded highly appreciate spiritual bless- 
ings, arc engaged in spiritual exorcises, pursue spiritu- 
al objects, are intiueiiced by spiritual motives, and ex- 
perience spiritual joys. To be spiritually-minded, says 
Paul, is life and peace (Bom. viii, 6). Sec Owen’s 
excellent Treatise on this subject. — Buck, TheoL Diet. 
s. v. 

Spirituals, a sect which arose in Flanders in the 
lGth century, and is known also as Libertines (q. v.). 

Spirituals. Sec Spirituales. 

Spital, a hospital, usually a place of refuge for lep- 
ers. 

Spital Sermons, a title of two sermons annually 
preached on Easter Monday and Tuesday before the lord 
mayor and sheriffs at Christ Church. Newgate Street, 
London. The sermon on the former of the two days is 
preached by a bishop; that on the latter by the chap- 
lain to the lord mayor, or some other clergyman w hom 
he appoints. The Spital Sermons were originally 
preached at a pulpit-cross, erected in the churchyard of 
“The Spittle,” or Hospital of St. Mary, in the parish of 
St. Botolph, Bishopsgate. See Stow’s London (Strype’s 
cd.), ii, 98. — Eden, TheoL Diet . s. v. 

Spitta, Karl Johann Philipp, a German theolo- 
gian and poet, was born Ang. 1, 1801, at Hanover, lie 
was of Huguenot stock, which had emigrated during 
the persecutions under Louis XIV. His early years 
held out no promise of future eminence for him, as he 
seemed dull, and was, moreover, afflicted with scrofu- 
lous disease, which interrupted the progress of his stud- 
ies. On his recovery, he was deemed so little qualified 
to undertake the theological career which he preferred 
that he was apprenticed to a watchmaker. While thus 
employed, he developed a love for the study of lan- 
guages and of science, and spent his leisure time in the 
private study of Greek and Latin, and also of geography 
and history. He w r as subsequently admitted to the ly- 
ceuni of his native town, and in 1821 entered the Uni- 
versity of Gottingen. This institution was at the time 
pervaded by the rationalistic miasma, and Spitta lost 
lbs love for theology, though he neglected the study of 
philosophy, in which the current rationalism sought its 
support. A period of questioning ensued, which was 
Happily ended by bis return to a simple scriptural faith 
through the influence of the writings of De Wettc and 
Tholuck. After graduating, he became a private tutor, 
anti remained in that position until 1828, though he 
was during the interval associated with pastor Deich- 
mann at, Llineburg in an abortive attempt to publish a 
journal for Christian families of every rank in society. 
At the age of twenty-six he was associated with the 
aged Cloves in the pastorate, but in November, 1*30, 
became temporary preacher to the garrison at Hamclti 
and also spiritual guide to about 250 convicts in the 
penitentiary. Thence lie was transferred, after being 
married to Marin Ilotzcii, to the parish of Weclilmlt, 
where lie remained during ten happy years. The num- 
ber of bis hearers increased, and with it his influence 
over the community. His reputation extended even 
beyond his native country, and secured for hi in calls to 
Bremen, Barmen, and Elberfcld, He eventually be- 
came superintendent and pastor at Wittongon, in Lhnc- 
burg, and then pastor of the more responsible post at 
l’eiuc (1853). In 1855 lie received the doctor’s degree 


SPITTING 


950 


SPITTLE P 


from his alma mater, together with an honorary testi- 
monial in recognition of his signal fidelity to the Church. 
In 1859 he was once more transferred to a new field of 
labor, but was attacked with gastric fever soon after his 
removal, and died of heart-disease Sept. 28. As a 
clergyman, Spitta was pious, thoroughly evangelical, 
and deeply in earnest, llis temperament was genial 
and sociable, and he was a capable performer on the 
harp. Hut his principal claim to notice grows out of 
his spiritual hymns, through which his fame extended 
over Germany, and of which a number have been ren- 
dered into English. He had attempted poetry in his 
childhood days, and proved his powers in every species 
of poetry, but in time came to devote his abilities whol- 
ly to religious composition. In 1833 he published a 
collection of hymns under the title Psalter und Ihufe 
(24th ed. 1861), which was received with general satis- 
faction, and was followed by a second collection in 1843 
(13th ed. 1861). A third (posthumous) collection was 
published by his friend, Prof. Adolph Peters, in 1861 
(2d ed. 1862). These hymns are pervaded with un- 
usual fervor ami simplicity, and are chaste and neat in 
style. They arc specially suited for use in household 
and private devotions, the second collection being per- 
haps inferior to the others in an artistic point of view. 
Peters’s collection is accompanied with a portrait of the 
author. Of English renderings of Spit fa’s hymns, we 
mention “1 know no life divided, O Lord of life, from 
thee,” bv Massie, and the funeral hymn, “The precious 
seed of weeping to-day we sow once more,” by Miss 
C. Wink worth. See Miinkel, K. J. Ph. Spitta (Lcips. 
1861) ; Mcssner, two articles in Xene Evangel. Kirchen- 
zeitung , I860 (No. 5), 1861 (No. 25); also the preface 
in Peters’s collection of Spitta’s hymns. — I lerzog, lleal- 
Encyklop. s. v. 

Spitting was a ceremony introduced into baptism 
in the early Church. The candidate was required not 
only to renounce the devil in word, but also by act and 
gesture. The catechumen was brought into the bap- 
tistery and placed with his face to the west: a form of 
words was used by which he renounced the devil; he 
then stretched out his hands and spat, as if in defiance 
of him. This was thrice repeated. He then turned to 
the east and entered into covenant with Christ. See 
Hingham, Christ. Antiq. bk. xi, eh. vii, § 5. See Spit- 
tle. 

Spittle (P"H, 7r riHjfia'), although, like all the other 
natural secretions, a ceremonial impurity (Lev. xv, 18), 
was employed by our Lord as a curative means for blind- 
ness (John ix, 6). The rabbins cite it as a remedy in like 

cases (see Light, foot, 
ad loc.), especially 
the spittle of fasting 
persons ( saliva jej/t- 
nia). which was an- 
ciently held to be 
a remedy likewise 
against poisonous 
bites (Pliny, v, 2; 
xxviii, 7 ; Galen, 
Simpl. Med. Fac. x, 
16; Actius, ii, 107; 
see Gotze, Observat. 
Sacr. Med. II, i, 144 
sq.; Schurig, Sialo- 
logia [ Drcsd. 1723] ). 
Hut it was not re- 
garded as a specific 
in true blindness 
(but see Johren, J)e 
Christo Medico, p. 
41), although an- 
eient writers cite 
an act of Vespasian 
having that aspect 
(Dion Cass. Ixvi, 8; 


Tacit. Hist, iv, 81 ; Sueton. Vesp. vii). On Luke xvi, 21 
we may remark that the dog’s tongue has a peculiar- 
ly cleansing and soothing effect upon sores. See Medi- 
cine. 

On the other hand, the act of spitting upon a person, 
especially in the face (Numb, xii, 14; Isa. 1, 6; Matt. 
xxvi,67 ; xx vii, 32; Bar-IIebr. p. 169), was regarded as 
the grossest insult (see llarmer, Ob$. iii, 376), and it was 
even held an indignity to spit towards any one (Job 
xxx, 10); so that an Oriental never allows himself to 
spit at all in the presence of one whom he respects (lie- 
rod. i, 99; sec Arvicux, iii, 167 ; Niebuhr, Fed. p. 26, 29). 
This does not proceed (as Jahn thinks. Arch. I, ii, 335) 
from regard merely to cleanliness, but from politeness 
(Josephus, War, ii, 8, 9), and hence was enforced within 
the precincts of the Temple (Mishna, Berach. ix, 5). 
Hence the ignominy in the case of the recusant goel 
(Dent, xxv, 9). — Winer, ii, 487. 

SPITTLE ix Baptism, in the Roman Catholic Church, 
is that part of the ceremony of baptism which follows 
the “ sign of the cross.” The priest recites an exorcism, 
touching with a little spittle the ears and nostrils of the 
person to be baptized, and saying, “Ephphatha; that is, 
Be thou opened into an odor of sweetness; but be thou 
put to flight, O devil, for the judgment of God will be 
at hand.” This ceremony is taken from the exam- 
ple of Jesus when he cured the deaf-and-dumb man 
(Mark vii, 33). See Elliot, Delineation of Romanism , 
p. 125. 

Spittler, Louis Timotiieus vox, an eminent ec- 
clesiastical historian of Germany, was born in Novem- 
ber, 1752, at Stuttgart, where his father was a clergy- 
man. His early training was obtained at the gymna- 
sium of his native town, where the rector, Volz, inspired 
him with fondness for historical studies and trained him 
to critical research, lie entered at Tubingen as a stu- 
dent of theology, and became particularly interested in 
philosophy, everywhere applying his early habits of 
careful collocation of authorities and comparison of state- 
ments. II is earliest literary productions dealt with dif- 
ficult questions in historical theology, which only the 
most painstaking and critical labors might hope to solve. 
His themes were, for example, the 60th canon of Lao- 
dicca, the decrees of Sardica, and the Capitula Angil - 
ramni (1777), history of the canon law to the time of 
the Pseudo- Isidore. In 1779 Spittler became professor 
in ordinary of philosophy at Gottingen, and was asso- 
ciated with Walcli in teaching Chureh history, and with 
Putter in German history, besides co-operating with 
Schldzer and Gattcrer, two other eminent historians, in 
their work. Down to WalclTs death, in 1784, he con- 
fined himself chiefly to ecclesiastical history, but after- 
wards entirely to political history. His Grnndriss der 
Geschichte der christlichen Kirche was accordingly pub- 
lished in the former period (1782), when he was thirty 
years of age, and constitutes almost his last contribu- 
tion to that branch of literature. Spittler’s Church 
history was highly valued by his contemporaries, and 
among moderns Schclling writes of him (preface to 
Steffen’s Nachlass , p. xxi) as a man who “has not been 
excelled in political penetration by any historical schol- 
ar of Germany, and in breadth of view in both secular 
and ecclesiastical history,” while Heercn and Woltmann 
speak of the Church history as the “ true bloom of the 
author’s mind.” On the other hand, the opponents of 
18th-century enlightenment, no less than the sceptical 
Batir {Epochal d. kirchl. G esch ichtsschreib. p. 162-178), 
have little to commend in that book. The truth is that 
Spittler had little regard for the history of the develop- 
ment of dogma, his interest being more particularly 
centred on the government and constitution of the 
Church. 1 1 is rare powers of research and perfect mas- 
tery of the resultant material, joined to an unusual fa- 
cility in grasping the salient features of an mra and 
a marvellously graceful and vivid presentation of the 
story, were devoted to a narration of the experiences 



Ancient Assyrian Smiting and Spit 
ting upon an Enemy (who is Hnu 
kled and wears about his neck th 
head of a slaiu companion). 


SPITZXE1 


OGO 


SPOIL 


ami actions of those who aspired to rule the Church ami 
of the consequences which resulted to the mass of the 
governed, lie did not assume to determine what con- 
stitutes t 'liri>tianii\\ and he traced hack events to a 
sourer in the purposes of individuals: hut his peculiar 
attitude s;rew out of the opinion that Christianity is not 
an cud. hut a remedial agency, as a means to secure the 
salvation of mankind, the etlieienev of which is im- 
paired by whatever decree of ignorance ami immorality 
mav he eoiiueeted with its operation, lie did not, how- 
ever. discover any positive improvement in history, 
and. more particularly, in the history of the Church; 
nor yet. upon the whole, auv degeneration, hut simply 
a manifoldly uniform ami constantly repeated world- 
course. A posthumously published series of Spittler’s 
lectures, copied from students’ notes, which deal with 
the papacy, monastieism, the Jesuits, etc., is scarcely wor- 
thy of the author and of the subjects presented because 
of the prevalent humor, often travestied until it becomes 
ribaldry. It is. however, to he remembered that they 
were the product of his earlier years, delivered while his 
character was not fully formed, and while he had his 
position to conquer by the side of able and famous pro- 
fessors. In 1797 lie was recalled to Stuttgart and made 
privy-councillor. In that position the very breadth of 
view which he had cultivated, and which gave him so 
perfect an understanding of a llairs, deprived him of the 
ability to make himself powerfully felt in the adminis- 
tration of the State. A further disqualification grew out 
of the accession in the same year of a prince who soon 
after allied himself with Napoleon, and who was not 
concerned to guard t lie ‘‘good and ancient privileges” 
of Wilrtemberg. Nobility, titles, and medals could not 
replace what Spittlcr had lost in giving up his post at 
Gottingen. lie died March 14, IN 10. Characterizations 
of Spittlcr have been furnished by Planck in the pref- 
ace to the full ed. of Spittler’s Kirdtengesch . (1812); 
lingo, in Cirilistisches Magaz . iii. 482-508; Heeren, 
UVr/e, vi. 515-534; Woltmann, II 'nke, xii, 31*2-352; 
Daw Strauss, in llaym’s Preuss. Juhrbiicher, 1800, i, 
124-150. See also Piiiter-Snalfeld. Gelehrtengesch. v. 
Gottingen, ii, 179-181 ; iii. 1 10-122. Spittler’s complete 
works have vet been published only in part (1827-37, 
15 voU.). — Herzog, Real- Eucyvlop. s. v. 

Spitzner, Adam P.enedk r, a Protestant clergy- 
man oft lermany, was horn Jan. 22. 1717. and died at Lan- 
gftireinsdorl. near Zwickau, t >et.4, 1793. lie is the au- 
thor of, Idea Ana/yfine Sacne. Text us //t braid Yet . Test, 
ex Arceutibus (Lipsi:e, 1709) Disquisitio Criticu in 
Lora ( \nlids S. l/ebrtd, atl ] llustratiouem Itlete Anal. 
Sttrr. uuper Edihr (ibid. 1770) i—Commentafio Philolagi- 
ca de I'arenthesi Uhr'is St teris Yet.et A on' Test. A ream- 
mtitiafa (ibid. 17/3): — I nstitutiones atl A nalgticam Sa- 
man 7 ext ns I It braid Vet. Test a men! i ex Accent ibus. etc. 
(Halle. 17*0) : — 1 'i/nliritr Origin is el .1 net or it at is Piri - 
me Punt-torn m Yiralinm et . I event ninu in l.ibris Sticris 
I eteris 7 estauu nti, uhi 1 tnprimis ea iJilunnfnr qme post 
L/itint I.eritam J.ntJta-icns Capelins in Ammo Puncta- 
t ion is tjusrjne I ’intlidis Oppmnit (Lipsia*. 1791). See 
Wimr. Utnnlhuvh tier thenl. Litrnitur, i. 111, 118, lift, 
ii. 185; ItirM, liibl. Jud. iii, 375. (Ik P.) 

Spizelius, TitKormus, a Lutheran divine of Ger- 
mnny. was horn Sept. 11, 103ft, began his academical 
studies at Leipsic in 1051, and took his A. M. in 10.58. 

I le afterwards, as was customary, visited other eminent 
institutions at Wittenberg, Leyden, ( ’ologne, Mentz, and 
liasle. I'.efore completing his intended round of visita- 
tion, lie was reealled in 1001 to Augsburg to he deacon 
of the t liurrli of St. James. This nlljec he tilled till 
10*2. when lu- was made its pastor, and in lOftft was ap- 
pointed elder, lie died .Ian, 7, HUM. He wrote, l)e 
Pa- lift rat ttt Sinensiutn Connnenttirius (Leyden, 1000, 
12tn<i)s- Sacra Dihlit, them rum If/ustrinni Arcana Re- 
ttrta. sire M ss. Thetdtnjirorum in Prod puis Euro fur 
fiiblinth* ris i.xtantium Designatin, etc. (Augsburg, 1008, 
8vo ) 7 ttnplnui Honoris lit st ratum, in quo (piinqua- 


! gin/ a Illustrium hujus JEvi Orthodoxorum Theologorum , 
etc. (ibid. 1073. 4to) : — Felix Lilterutus (ibid. 1070): — 
infelix Litteratus (ibid. 1680) : — and Litteratus Felicis - 
simns. See Chalmers, Piog. Did. s. v. 

Splay (old Kr. display er'). the expansion given to 
doorways, windows, and other openings in walls, etc., 
by slanting the sides. I’ll is , 
mode of construction prevails | v 

in Gothic architecture, espe- 
cially on the insides of win- 
dows, but is very rarely, if 
ever, used in classical archi- 
tecture. The term is also ap- 
plied toother slanted or sloped 




Splay. 


surfaces, such as cants, bevels , etc. — Parker, Gloss, of Ar- 
chitect. s. v. 


Spodius, in Grecian mythology, was a surname of 
Apollo at Thebes. 

Spohn, Gottlieb Lebuecut, a Protestant divine 
of Germany, was born nt Lisleben, May 15, 1750. From 
1788 to 1794 he was professor and proreetor of the Dort- 
mund Gymnasium, ami died June 2, 1794, having been 
designated as ordinary professor of theology and provost 
at Wittenberg. lie wrote, Der Prediger Salomo , ausdem 
I/ebrdischen auf's i\V ne iibersetzt , mid mit kritisvhen An - 
' merkungen begleitet, ere. (Leips, 1784) : — Collatio I T ersio- 
nis Syrian?, quam Peschito Vacant, cum Fragmenfis in 
Commentariis Kphraemi Syri Obriis: Spec . /, quod Prio- 
ra txH Capita Esait ? Conti net (ibid. 1785; Spec. II, ibid. 
1791): — Dissert. Philol. de Patione Textus Biblici in 
Kphraemi Syri Commentariis Obrii, ejusque Csu Critico 
(ibid. 178ft): — Curoli Godefredi Woidi Motif ia Codicis 
Alexandria!, cum Cadis ejus Lectionibus Omnibus , etc. 
(ibid. 1789): — Jeremias Vales, e Versione Judteorinn 
Alexandrinorum ac Re/iquonnn Jnterpretum Grcecorvm 
Emewluins Xotisqne Critids Jllnstrafus ( vol. i, ibid. 
1794: ii, post obitum patris ed. F. A. W. Spohn, ibid. 
1824). See Winer, flandb. der tkeol. Lit. i, 49, 50, 100, 
128, 212; ii, 780; Fiirst, Bill. Jud. iii, 375 sq. (Ik P.) 

Spoil (represented hy many 11 eh, and several Gr. 
words in our version). See Akkotiiixion ; Hooty. The 
modern Arab nomads, or Iledawin, live in great part on 
the plunder of caravans or single travellers, and do not 
regard the trade of robbers as dishonorable (Arvieux, 
Descr. iii, 220 sq. ; Niebuhr, lied. p. 382 sq. ; Mnyenx, 
Les Bedouins, ou Arabes tin Desert [Par. 1816]. xii, 3). 
This was the case with their ancestors the Ishmaelites, 
as well as the neighboring Chaldees (Gen. xvi, 12; Job 
i, 17). The same is related of Israeli! ish hordes in the 
times of the Judges (Judg. ix, 25; xi, 3 ; eomp. 1 Chron. 
vii, 21), and many invasions by the Philistines, Amal- 
ekites, etc., were but attacks from bands of robbers (comp. 
1 Sam. xxiii, 1 ; xxvii, 8 sq. ; Jiulg. ii, 14, 10), such as 
are still frequent in the villages of Palestine. In the or- 
ganized Jewish state open plundering was rare (yet see 
1 1 <>s. vi, 9; Micah ii, 8), and the figures of speech refer- 
ring to it (Prov. xxiii, 28) may he referred chiefly to 
neighboring countries. Hut after the Captivity, espe- 
cially under the oppressive rule of the Homans, and in 
consequence of almost unceasing wars of which Nearer 
Asia was the scene, the bands of robbers, aided hy the 
multitude of hiding-places which the cavernous nature 
of the country a Horded (see Josephus, Ant. xiv, 15,5: I le- 
liod. . Eth. \, 28 sq.), gained the upper-hand in Palestine 
andinTrnehoiiitison its north-east border (Josephus, .4 nt. 
xv, 1ft, 1 ; xvi, 9, 1), so that Herod (ibid, xiv, 9, 2 ; 15,5; 
IPor, i, 10, 4) and t he procurators were compelled to 
sond military force against them from time to time 
(.1 m/.xxJ’i. 1 ), unless they preferred to tolerate them for 
tribute (ibid, xx, 11, 1). Sometimes these ollicers even 
increased the number of the robbers hy accepting bribes 
to release prisoners (ibid, xx, 9, 5) or dismissing them for 
other reasons (ibid, xx, 9, 3). The wilderness between 
Jerusalem and Jericho through which the highway led, 
and which, in great part, is a deep valley traversed by 
i clefts and shut in with walls of cavernous sandstone 


SPOKE 


961 


SPONSORS 


(Berggren, Reis, iii, 100 sq.), was especially infested 
(Luke x, 30 sq. ; Jerome, in Jer. iii, 2; comp, liobinson, 
Bibl. Res . ii, 509). During the investment of Jerusalem 
by the Romans the robbers played a prominent part in 
the doomed city. See Theudas. 

Some would find a reference to sea-robbery or piracy 
in Job xxiv, 18 (Kbster, Erlaut. d. heil. Echr . p. 208 sq.), 
but without ground. — Winer. See Ron. 

Spoke is an incorrect rendering in the A. Y. at 1 
Kings vii,33 for “Til'll, chishshur ( gathered ; Sept. 7rpay- 
/uareia; Vulg. canthus), which rather denotes the hub, 
or nave, where the spokes unite, while ptl*n, chishshuk 
(fastened; Sept, blends with the preceding; Vulg. me- 
diolus ), rendered “felloe” in the same verse, really des- 
ignates the spoke9 themselves. See Wheel. 

Spondanus (or De Sponde), Henry, a French 
prelate, was born at Maule’on, Jan. 6, 15G8, and was ed- 
ucated at the College of the Reformers in Orthez. lie 
studied civil and canon law, and afterwards went to 
Tours, whither the Parliament of Paris was transferred. 
Here his learning and eloquence brought him to the 
notice of Henry IV, then prince of Bearn, by whom he 
was made master of requests at Navarre. Reading the 
controversial works of Bellarmine and Perron, he was 
led to embrace the popish religion at Paris in 1595. He 
went to Rome in 1G00, and in 1G0G took priests orders 
and returned to Paris, but some time after went again 
to Rome and entered the service of the pope. In 1G2G 
he was recalled to France and became bishop of Pa- 
nders. When Panders was taken by the Protestants, 
Sponde escaped, but returned when the town was re- 
taken by Conde. He quitted Pamiers in 1G42 and went 
to Toulouse, where he died, May 1G, 1G43. He pub- 
lished, Les Cimetieres Sacres (Bordeaux, 159G, 12mo): 
— Annates Ecclesiastici Baronii in Epitomen Redacti 
(Par. 1G12, fol.): — Annates Sacri , a Alundi Great ione 
usque ad ejusdem Redemptionem (ibid. 1G37, fob), and 
other lesser works. See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. ; 
Hoefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate , s. v. 

Sponde, in Grecian mythology, was one of the 
Hone. 

Sponge (<T7rdyyoc) is mentioned only in the New 
Test, in those passages which relate the incident of “a 
sponge filled with vinegar and put on a reed” (Matt, 
xxvii, 48; Mark xv,3G), or “ on hyssop” (John xix, 29), 
being ottered to our Lord on the cross. The commercial 
value of the sponge was known from very early times; 
and although there appears to be no notice of it in the 
Old Test., yet it is probable that it was used by the an- 
cient Hebrews, who could readily have obtained it good 
from the Mediterranean. Aristotle mentions several 
kinds, and carefully notices those which were useful for 
economic purposes (llist. Anim. v, 14). His specula- 
tions on the nature of the sponge are very interesting. 
— Smith. Sponge was used in Homer’s day for wash- 
ing the person, and for cleansing tables after meals, and 
Martial records the latter use among the Romans. Ac- 
cording to Pliny it was used by painters, probably to 
wash out lights, correct errors, etc. 

Sponge (Spongia officinalis') consists, in the state in 




% 


Sponge. 

IX.— P p p 


which we are familiar with it, of an irregular network 
of minute fibres of a clear horny substance, branching 
and anastomosing at minute intervals, and in every di- 
rection, so as to form a highly porous and elastic mass, 
the general form of which is that of a cup with thick 
walls, but not unfrequcntly rounded or ovate without 
any cavity. These fibres were during life clothed with 
a glair which possessed vitality, and were furnished 
with cilia, by whose movements currents were produced 
in the water which everywhere occupied the cavities 
of the mass, thus insuring oyxgen for respiration and 
nutritive matter for increase. This particular species 
grows on rocks in deep water in the Levant, and espe- 
cially in the seas that wash the Grecian isles, where, 
from remote antiquity to the present time, there has 
existed an active fishery for it. The inhabitants of 
many of the isles are dependent for a living on sponge- 
diving. — Fairbairn. 

SPONGE, Holy, is a sponge used in the Greek 
Church to gather the various “portions” in the disk 
under the holy bread, and to cleanse the chalice in the 
sacrifice of the holy eucharist. It was used in memo- 
ry of the Crucifixion, and was carefully wrapped in a 
linen cloth. 

Sponsa Christi (bride of Christ) are the first 
words of a hymn for All-saints’-day, an English version 
of which is as follows: 

“Spouse of Christ in arms contending 
O’er each clime beneath the snn, 

Mix with prayers for help descending, 

Notes of praise for triumphs won. 

As the Church to-day rejoices 
All her saints in one to join, 

So from earth let all our voices 
Rise in melody divine.” 

— Lee, Gloss, of Liturg. Terms , s. v. 

Sponsage, Token of, is that which is given and 
received by the witnesses or contracting parties in the 
case of espousals, as a token of such act or witnessing to 
such act. See Ring. 

Sponsalia was the general name in the early 
Church for espousals or betrothing, consisting of a mu- 
tual contract between the parties concerning the future 
marriage. When the contract was made, it was cus- 
tomary for the man to bestow certain gifts upon the 
woman as earnests or pledges. The contract was usual- 
ly confirmed also b} r a ring, a kiss, a dowry, a writing or 
instrument of dowry, and a sufficient number of witness- 
es to attest it. See Bingham, Christ. Antiq. bk. xxii, 
ch, iii, § 1 sq. 

Sponsalitiae Donationes (espousal gifts) were 
given as earnests or pledges of future marriage. They 
were also called urine et. pignora , earnests and pledges 
of future marriage, because the giving and receiving of 
them was a confirmation of the contract, and an obliga- 
tion on the parties to take each other for man and wife 
unless some reason gave them liberty to do otherwise. 
See Bingham, Christ. Antiq. bk. xxii, ch. iii, § 3. See 
Betrothal. 

Sponsel, Johann Ulrich, superintendent at Burg- 
bernheim, in Baireuth, was born Dec. 13, 1721, at Mug- 
gendorf,and died Jan. 5, 1788. lie wrote, Parerga Then - 
logico - exegetica (Coburg, 1752, pt. i; 1753, pt. ii): — 
Philologisch - exegetischc Abhandlung iiber verschiedenc 
Stellen der heiligen Schrift (Anspach, 17G1, pt. i) : — Ex- 
ercitutiones Philologico-exegeticee in Dirersos Scriptures 
Locos (ibid. 17G4): — Yon der Gottlieb hit der Bucher 
der Chronik und Esra (Schwabach, 1775): — Ether die 
Verwirrung der Sprachen bei dein babylonischen Thurm- 
bau (ibid. 177G): — Abhandlung liber den Propheten Je- 
saias (Nuremberg, 1779-80,2 pts.). See Winer, Hand - 
bitch der theol. Literatur, ii, 78G ; F first, Bibl. Jud. iii, 
37G. (B. I’.) 

Sponsors, At an early period of the Church, cer- 
tain persons were required to be present at the baptism 
of its members, to serve as witnesses of the due perform- 


SPONSORS 


9G2 


SPONSORS 


ance of the rite, ami to become sureties for the fulfilment 
of the engagements and promises then made. There is 
no mention of sponsors in the New Test., though there 
is mention of the questioning” {iireimrwa). The 
mention of them tirM occurs in Tertullian— for infants 
in the be Jiaptismo (c. HS) ; for adults, ns is supposed, 
in the be Corona Militis (c. 3 : ‘‘ Inde suscepti lactis 
et mellis concordiatn pnegustamus .” See Suicer, s. v. 
dyuci\opni). In the Jewish baptism of proselytes, two 
or three sponsors or witnesses were required to be pres- 
« nl (>ee Light foot, On Matt. Hi. (>). It is so improbable 
that the .lews should have borrowed such a custom from 
the Christians that the coincidence can hardly have 
arisen but from the Christians continuing the usages of 
t he .lews. 

I. Their Appellations,- — These persons were called at 
first sponsons, sponsors, especially when they responded 
for an infant. They were called also fdejussores, sure- 
ties (Augustine, >Senn. 1 IG, be Temp.'), The title is bor- 
rowed from the Homan law. The Crock term Gj'mCo- 
\o< corresponds to the Latin offe rentes and susceptores, 
and refers to the assistance rendered to the baptized 
immediately before and after the ceremony. The ap- 
pellation pdf) 7 vpt<j, testes, witnesses, which became a 
favorite in later times, was unknown to the ancient 
Church. The more modern terms compatres, etc., god- 
fathers ami godmothers, are derived from the practice 
of early times, in which the parents, or in their absence 
the nearest relatives, took the child out of the baptis- 
mal water. 

II. Origin of the Ojfice. — This has been traced by some 
writers to the institutions of Judaism, and by others to 
those of the Homan civil law. Neither the Old nor the 
New Test, contains any allusion to the presence of wit- 
nesses at cirqumeision, nor is there any trace of sponsors 
or witnesses to be found in any of the narratives of bap- 
tism recorded in the New 'Pest. It is, however, easy to 
account for the presence of sponsors at baptism, if we 
refer to the customs of t he Homan law. Baptism was 
early regarded in the light of a stipulation, covenant, or 
contract, and on all such matters the Homan jurispru- 
dence was very exact and careful in its institutions. 
The leaders of the early Church, many of whom were 
conversant with Homan law, would doubtless endeavor 
to give solemnity and security to the sacred covenant 
in a way corresponding to that which they had been 
accustomed to observe in civil transactions. Perhaps 
the custom arose naturally from the practice of infant 
baptism, in order that the interrogatories of the Church 
might not he without some answer. Tradition says that 
the ofiice was appointed by 11 yginns, or Iginus, a Homan 
bislmp, about the year 154. It was. however, in full op- 
eration in the fourth and fifth centuries. 

III. / tuties of Sponsor. — According to Bingham, there 
were three sorts of sponsors made use of in the primitive 
Church: (1.) For children who could not renounce or 
profess or answer for themselves. (2.) Kor such adult 
persons as, by reason of sickness or infirmity, were in 
the same condition with children — incapacitated to an- 
swer for themselves. (3.) For all adult persons in gen- 
eral. In times of persecution it was proper to have wit- 
nesses of th<* fact, in order to prevent apostasy. 

L • "'•» things were anciently required of sponsors as 
their proper duty in the case of children: first, to an- 
swer, in the names of their charge, to all interrogatories 
of baptism; secondly, to be guardians of their spiritual 
lib* f" r the future, mid to take care, by good admonition 
mid instruction. I lint they performed their part of the 
eovenai i in which they were engaged (Augustine, 
iS'/ia. 1 1*',, be 'bmp.). Bingham thinks that they were 
not obliged (o give them their maintenance, this de- 
volving, naturally, upon the parents; and if orphans, or 
destitute, upon I lie Church. 

.Sponsors are required in the baptismal service of the 
t hureli of huglaiid. They promise, on behalf and in 
the name of l hone baptized (to quote the words of the 
C at* ( his m ,1. To renounce the devil and all his works, 


the pomps and vanities of this wicked world, and all the 
sinful lusts of the flesh; 2, To believe all the articles of 
the Christian faith; 3. To keep God’s holy will and 
commandments all the days of their life.” 

2. Another sort of sponsors were those that were ap- 
pointed to make answers for such persons as, by reason 
of some infirmity, could not answer for themselves; e. g. 
such adult persons as were suddenly struck speechless, 
or seized with frenzy by the violence of a distemper. 
If the party happened to recover after such a baptism, 
it was t lie sponsor’s duty not only to acquaint him as a 
witness with what was done for him, but also, as a guar- 
dian of his behavior, to induce him to make good the 
promises which he, in his name, had made for him. 

3. The third sort of sponsors were for such adult per- 
sons as were able to answer for themselves; for these 
also had their sponsors, and no person anciently was bap- 
tized without them. Their duty was not to answer in 
the names of the baptized, but only to admonish and 
instruct them before and after baptism. 

IV. Qualification , Number , Marriage , and Restriction . 
— 1. It was a general rule that every sponsor must be 
himself a baptized person and in full communion with 
the Church. This excluded all heathen, all mere cate- 
chumens, reputed heretics, excommunicated persons, 
and penitents. 

2. Every sponsor was required to be of full age. No 
minors were admitted to this office, even though they 
had been baptized and confirmed. 

3. Every sponsor was supposed to be acquainted with 
the fundamental truths of Christianity, and to know the 
Creed, the Lord’s Prayer, the Ten Commandments, and 
the leading outlines of Christian doctrine and morality. 

4. Monks and nuns were in early times eligible as 
sponsors, and were frequently chosen to act in that ca- 
pacity; but in the Gth century this practice was pro- 
hibited. 

5. At first there was no law respecting the number of 
sponsors at baptism, although one sponsor was consid- 
ered sufficient. In later times it became customary to 
have two sponsors — one male and one female. 

G. By the Council of Trent it was ordered that not 
only the names of the baptized, but also the names of 
the sponsors, should be registered in the books of the 
Church. The object was that men might know what 
persons were forbidden to marry by this spiritual rela- 
tion. But anciently it had a much better use : that the 
Church might know who were sponsors, and that they 
might be put in mind of their duty by being entered 
upon record, which was a standing memorial of their 
obligations. 

7. A law of Justinian (Cod. lib. v, tit. 4, be Nvptiis , 
leg. xx vi) forbids any man to marry a woman, whether 
she be slave or free, for whom he had been godfather in 
baptism when she was a child. The Council of Trullu 
(can. 53) forbids the godfather not only to marry the 
infant, but the mother of the infant, for whom he an- 
swers; and orders them that have done so first to be 
separated, then to do the penance of fornicators. This 
prohibition was extended to more degrees in the follow- 
ing ages, and grew so extravagant that the Council of 
Trent thought it a matter worthy of their reformation. 
By their rules, however, this spiritual relation was ex- 
tended to more degrees, forbidding marriage not only 
between the sponsors and their children, but also be- 
tween the sponsors themselves; nor may the baptizer 
marry the baptized, nor the father or mot her of the bap- 
tized, because of the spiritual relation that is contracted 
between them. 

The twenty-ninth canon of the Anglican Church 
makes it necessary for every child to have a godfather 
and godmother; and, in order to secure this benefit to 
all tiie infantine members of the Church, it prohibits 
the parents assuming tins office. The canon appears to 
argue in this way : No father or mother is a real god- 
fat her or godmother; it is quite true that they may 
stand at the font and take upon themselves the nominal 


SPOON 


9G3 


SPORT 


office, but the real godfather and the real godmother 
are the creations of time, custom, and natural feeling 
working within the precincts of the Church. They are, 
essentially, persons outside of the home circle, whose in- 
terest is engaged in the rising young Christian by as- 
suming this relation to him. The parents themselves 
are already sponsors by the simple fact of being parents; 
so that, if you give the child only his parents for his 
sponsors, you give him nothing at all, because he has 
them already. The reason of having a godfather and 
godmother is that they are persons from without, who 
add friendly interest and attention to the parental 
one. According to Gilpin, “the Church demands the 
security of sponsors, who are intended, if the infant 
should be left an orphan or neglceted by its parents, to 
see it properly instructed in the advantages promised 
and the conditions required” (Serin, xxiii, vol. iii, p. 
259). 

See Bingham, Christ . Antiq. bk. xi, ch. ix; Biddle, 
Christ, Antiq, ; and the monographs cited by Volbeding, 
Index Program, p. 142. See Baptism. 

Spoon (rj3, kaph, a hand, as elsewhere), a hollow 
dish or pan used as a censer for the Tabernacle and 
Temple (Exod. xxv, 29; Numb, iv, 7; vii, 14 sq. ; 1 
Kings vii, 50; 2 Kings xxv, 14; 2 Chron. xxiv, 14; 
Jer. Iii, 18, 19). The Orientals generally eat with the 
lingers, and so have no occasion for knives, forks, etc. 
See Eating. Among the ancient Egyptians spoons 
were introduced when required for soup or other liq- 
uids; and perhaps even a knife was employed on some 
occasions, to facilitate the carving of a large joint, which 
is sometimes done in the East at the present day. The 
Egyptian spoons were of various forms and sizes. They 
were principally of ivory, bone, wood, or bronze, and 
other metals; and in some the handle terminated in a 
hook, by which, if required, they were suspended to a 
nail. Many were ornamented with the lotus flower; 
the handles of others were made to represent an animal 
or a human rigute; some were of very arbitrary shape; 
and a smaller kind, of round form, probably intended for 
taking ointment out of a vase and transferring it to a 
shell or cup for immediate use, are occasionally discov- 
ered in the tombs (Wilkinson, Anc. Egypt, i, 183 sq.). 
See Dish. 



Ancient Egyptian Spoons. 

1 , Ivory spoon, about four inches tons, in the Berlin Museum. 2. Bronze spoon in Wilkinson's posses- 
sion, eifAt inches in length. 3, 4. Bronze spoons, found by Mr. Burton al Thebes. 5. Of wood, in Mr. 
Salt’s collection. 


SI’OON. a vessel used both in preparing the chal- 
ice for the eucharist and for distributing the sacra- 
ment to t lie faithful generally, to the intirm, and the 
sick. Tn the first case the bowl is perforated, in order 
that any impurities in the altar wine may be easily and 
simply removed; in t lie other the bowl is solid, and the 
handle usually made in the form of a cross. Many an- 
cient examples exist. The spoon is likewise used in 
the ceremonies of a coronation. — Lee, Gloss, of Liturg. 
Terms , s. v. 

Spooner, Erastus Carter, a Presbyterian minis- 
ter, was born at Brandon, Vt., July 18, 1815. He grad- 
uated at Middlebnry College in 1839, after which he en- 
tered the Union Theological Seminary, where he re- 
mained over two years, and engaged in teaching in 
Brandon; and before be could prepare for the ministry, 
which was his design, he was called away to a higher 
field of labor, lie died in Brandon, Dee. 11, 1841. 
(W. P. S.) 

Sport (some form of pn^ or pHW, to laugh ; but 
in Isa. Ivii, 4 JSS’pri, to mock; ivrpvipatd, 2 Pet. ii, 13). 
The various events incident to domestic life afforded the 
Jews occasions for festivity and recreation. Thus, Abra- 
ham made a great feast on the day Isaac was weaned 
(Gen. xxi, 8). Weddings were always seasons of re- 
joicing; so, also, were the seasons of sheep -shearing 
(1 Sam. xxv, 36; 2 Sam. xiii, 23) and harvest home. 
To these may be added the birthdays of sovereigns 
(Gen. xl, 28 ; Mark vi, 21). Of most of these festivities 
music and dancing were the accompaniments (Lam. v, 
14). Children were anciently accustomed to play (see 
Plato, Leg. vii, 797) in the streets and squares (Zeeh. viii, 
5; Matt, xi, 16; comp. Niebuhr, True, i, 171) ; bur, with 
few exceptions (see Mishna, Chelim , xvii, 15; Edayoth , 
ii, 7), juvenile games are comparatively rare in the East 
(Orig. Cels, v, 42 ; Ctesias, Pers. 58). 

Military sports and exercises appear to have been 
common in the earlier periods of the Jewish history 
(2 Sam. ii, 14). By these the Jewish youth were taught 
the use of the bow (1 Sam. xx, 30-35), or the hurling of 
stones from a sling with an unerring aim (Judg. xx, 16 ; 
1 Chron. xii, 2). Jerome informs us that in his days 
(the 4th century) it was a common exercise throughout 
Judiea for the young men who 
were ambitious to give proof of 
their strength to lift up round 
stones of enormous weight, some 
as high as their knees, others to 
their waist, shoulders, or head; 
while others placed them at the 
top of their heads with their hands 
erect and joined together, lie fur- 
ther states that he saw at Athens 
an extremely heavy brazen sphere, 
or globe, which he vainly endeav- 
ored to lift; and that, on inquiring 
into its use, he was informed that 
no one was permitted to contend in 
the games until, by his lifting of 
this weight, it was ascertained who 
could match with him. From this 
exercise Jerome elucidates (ad 
lac.) a difficult passage in Zech. 
xii, 3, in which the prophet com- 
pares Jerusalem to a stone of great 
weight, which, being too heavy for 
those who attempted to lift it, falls 
back upon them and crushes them 
to pieces. 

Among the great changes which 
were effected in the manners and 
customs of the Jews subsequently 
to the time of Alexander the Great 
may be reckoned the introduction 
of gymnastic sports and games, in 
imitation of those celebrated by 



sroirrjs 


9G4 


SPOT 


the Greeks, who, it is well known, were passionately 
fond of those exorcises. These amusements they car- 
ried, with their victorious arms, into the various coun- 
tries of the Hast; the inhabitants of which, in imita- 
tion of their ina>tors, addicted themselves to the same 
diverrions, and endeavored to distinguish themselves 
in the same exercises. The predicate high -priest 
Jason, in the reign of Antiochns Epiphanes, first intro- 
duced public games at Jerusalem, where he erected a 
gvmnn-dmn, a "place for exercise, and for the training- 
up of youth in the fashions of t he heathen” (2 Macc. iv, 
9 ». The avowed purpose of these athletic exercises was 
the strengthening of the body; but the real design went 
to the gradual exchange of Judaism for heathenism, the 
games themselves being closely connected with idola- 
try, for they were generally celebrated in honor of some 
pagan god. The innovations of Jason were therefore 
extremely odious to the more pious part of the nation, 
and even his own adherents did not fully enter into all 
hi* views; yet the games proved a source of attraction 
and demoralization to many. Even the very priests, 
neglecting the duties of their sacred office, hastened to 
be partakers of these unlawful sports, and were ambi- 
tions of obtaining the prizes awarded to the victors. 
The restoration of divine worship, and of the observance 
of the Mosaic laws and institutions under the Macca- 
ba»an princes, put an end to the spectacles. They were, 
however, revived by Herod, who. in order to ingratiate 
himself with the emperor Augustus (B.C. 7), built a the- 
atre at Jerusalem, ami also a capacious amphitheatre, 
without the city, in the plain; and who also erected 
similar edifices at Gesarea, and appointed games to be 
solemnized every fifth year, with great splendor, and 
amid a vast concourse of spectators who were invited 
by proclamation from the neighboring countries. Jo- 
sephus’s narrative of these circumstances is not suf- 
ficiently minute to enable us to determine with accu- 
racy all the exhibitions which took place on these occa- 
sions; but we may collect that they included wrestling, 
chariot-racing, music, and combats of wild beasts, which 
either fought with one another or with men who were 
under sentence of death (A nt. xv, 8, 1 ; xvi, 5, 1; xix, 
7, 5 ; 8, 2 ; H«r, i. 2 1 , 8 ; see Eichhorn, De Re Scenica Ju- 
daor. in his Comment. [Gbtt. vol. i]). The Talmud oc- 
casionally alludes to these spectacles ( Sanhedr . iii, 3; 
Shabb. xxiii, 2; see < Olio, Lex. It abb. p. 398, 703; Wa- 
gcnseil, ])e Lndis Hebnror. [Xorib. 1G97J). 

Some of the scriptural allusions to games and recrea- 
tions wc have already noticed (sec Hofmann, He Ludis 
Jsthmir. in .V. T. Commemoratis [Yiteb. 17G0]). See 
Game; Pkizk, etc. We may here mention two others. 
From the amusement of children sitting in the market- 
place ami imitating the usages common at wedding 
feasts and at funerals, our Lord takes occasion to com- 
pare the Pharisees to the sullen children who will be 
pleased with nothing which their companions can do, 
whether they play at weddings or funerals, since they 
could not be prevailed upon to attend either to the se- 
vere precepts and life of John the Baptist, or to the 
milder precepts ami habits of Christ (Matt, xi, 1G, 17). 
The infamous practice of gamesters who play with load- 
ed dice has furnished Paul with a strong metaphor, in 
which lie cautions the Christians at Ephesus against 
the cheating sleight of men (Eph. iv, 14), whether un- 
believing Jews, heathen philosophers, or false teachers 
in the Church itself, who corrupted the doctrines of the 
Gosjud for worldly purposes, while they assumed the 
appearance of great disinterestedness ami piety. Sec 
Play. 

Sportae, Spoitellee, Sportiilae (Lat. sport ula, 
a ba-ket), are fees paid to the clergy for service ren- 
dered. The allusion is probably to bringing the first- 
fruits in n basket (spuria) (Unit, xxvi, 1-12); or per- 
haps this mode of paying the clergy may be traced to 
a Homan practice, hi tin* clays of Roman freedom, 
clients wen* in the habit of paying respect to their 
putron by thronging his atrium ut an early hour, and I 


escorting him to places of public resort when he went 
abroad. As an acknowledgment of these courtesies, 
some of the number were usually invited to partake of 
the evening meal. After the extinction of liberty, the 
presence of such guests, who had now lost all political 
importance, was soon regarded as an irksome restraint; 
while, at the same time, many of the noble and wealthy 
were unwilling to sacrifice the display of a numerous 
body of retainers. Hence the practice was introduced, 
under the empire, of bestowing on each client, when he 
presented himself for his morning visit, a portion of 
food, as a substitute and compensation for an invitation 
to supper; and this dole, being carried off in a basket 
provided for the occasion, received the name of sportula. 
For the sake of convenience, it soon became common 
to give an equivalent in money. In the time of the 
younger Pliny, the word was commonly employed to 
signify a gratuity, emolument, or gift of any kind. In 
Cyprian, the term frutres sportulwites occurs. — Farrar, 
Eccles. Diet. s. v. 

Sports, Book of, was a book or declaration drawn 
up by bishop Morton, in the reign of king James I, to 
encourage recreations and sports on the Lord’s day. It 
was to this effect: 

“That for his good people’s recreation, his majesty’s 
pleasure was, that, after the end of divine service, they 
should not be disturbed, letted, or discouraged from any 
lawful recreations; snch as dancing , either of men or 
women ; archery for men ; leaping , vaulting , or any such 
harmless recreations ; nor having of May-games, Whitson - 
ales , or morrice-dances ; or setting np of May-poles, or oth- 
er sports therewith used, so as the same may be had in 
due and convenient time, without impediment or let of 
divine service ; and that women should have leave to 
carry rushes to the Church for the decoring of it, accord- 
ing to their old customs; withal prohibiting all unlawful 
games to be used on Sundays only; as bear-baiting, bull- 
baiting, interludes, and at all times (in the meaner sort of 
people prohibited) bowling 

Two or three restraints were annexed to the declara- 
tion, which deserve the reader’s notice: 

(1) “No recusant (i. e. papist) was to have the benefit 
of this declaration; (2) nor such as were not present at 
the whole of divine service; nor (3) such as did not keep 
to their own parish churches— that is, Puritans.” 

This declaration was ordered to be read in all the par- 
ish churches of Lancashire, which abounded with pa- 
pists; and Wilson adds that it was to have been read 
in all the churches of England, but that archbishop 
Abbot, being at Croydon, flatly forbade its being read 
there. In the reign of king Charles I, archbishop Land 
put the king upon republishing this declaration, which 
was accordingly done. The court had their balls, mas- 
querades, and plays on the Sunday evenings; while the 
youth of the country were at their morrice-dances, May- 
games, church and clerk ales, and all such kind of rev- 
elling. The severe pressing of this declaration made 
sad havoc among the Puritans, as it was to he read in 
the churches. Many poor clergymen strained their 
consciences in submission to their superiors. Some, 
after publishing it, immediately read the fourth com- 
mandment to the people, “ Remember the Sabbath-day 
to keep it holy;” adding, “This is the law of God, the 
other the injunction of man.” Some put it upon their 
curates, while great numbers absolutely refused to com- 
ply; the consequence of which was that several clergy- 
men were actually suspended for not reading it. See 
Eatlie, Eccles. Cyclop, s. v. 

Sportulantes ( Entires ) was a term applied to 
the clergy because of their sharing equally in the 
monthly oblations. 

Spot is the rendering in the A. V. of W2, mum , a 
blemish (as usually rendered), either physical (Lev. xxi, 
17 sq. : xxii, 20; xxiv, 19, 20, etc.; 2 Sam. xiv, 25; 
Cant, iv, 7) or moral (l)cut. xxxii, 5; Job xi, 15; xxxi, 
7 ; Prov. ix, 7); so airiAdc ; , literally a breaker or rock 
in the sea (metaphor. Jude 12) or <T 7 ri/\o£ (morally 
Eph. v, 27; 2 Pet. ii, 13); chabarburdh , the 

variegated spots of the panther, or rather the stripes of 


SPOTSWOOD 


9G5 


SPRAGUE 


the tiger (Jer. xiii, 23) ; P^vJSl, bakereth , brightness , the 
whitish “ bright spot” of incipient leprosy (Lev. xiii, 2- 
39; xiv, 5G); bohuk, scurf, \ the scaly “freckled 

spot” of pronounced leprosy (xiii, 39); WZV, talii, 
patched (as “ spotted” sheep or goats, Gen. xxx, 32 sq. ; 
or “ divers - colored” garments, Ezek. xvi, 16). See 
Color. 

Spotswood (or Spottiswood), John, a Scot- 
tish prelate, was born in the parish of Mid-Cahler, Ed- 
inburgh Co., in 1565, and was graduated, from the Glas- 
gow University in his sixteenth year. When eighteen 
years old he succeeded his father as minister of Calder; 
and in 1601 attended Lodowick, duke of Lenox, as chap- 
lain in his embassy to the court of France. In 1603 
James I selected him to be one of the clergy to attend 
him to England, and the same year he was appointed 
titular archbishop of Glasgow and privy-councillor for 
Scotland. In 1610 he presided in the assembly at 
Glasgow ; and the same year, upon the king’s com- 
mand, repaired to London upon ecclesiastical affairs. 
While there he, with Lamb and Hamilton, was conse- 
crated bishop, in the chapel of London House, Oct. 21. 
Upon their return they conveyed the episcopal powers 
to their former titular brethren, and the Episcopal 
Church was once more settled in Scotland. Spotswood 
was in 1615 translated to St. Andrew’s, and became pri- 
mate of all Scotland. He continued in high esteem 
with James I during his whole reign; nor was he less 
regarded by Charles I, whom he crowned, 1633, in the 
abbey church of Ilolvrood House. In 1635 he was 
made chancellor of Scotland, which post he had not 
held for four years when the popular confusions obliged 
him to retire into England. He consented at the king’s 
request to resign the office of chancellor, and received 
<£2500 for the sacrifice he made. He went first to New- 
castle, where he remained until he gained sufficient 
strength to travel to London, where he no sooner ar- 
rived than he had a relapse and died, Nov. 29, 1639. 
He was interred in Westminster Abbey. “A more 
generous, learned, and munificent prelate has seldom 
been called to rule in the Church; and his advice was 
at all times given for moderate measures, and for the 
sacrifice of anything but principle for peace.” Spots- 
wood was the author of a History of the Church of Scot- 
land, from A .1). 203 to the End of the Reign of James VI 
(Loud. 1655, fol.). He also wrote a tract in defence of 
the ecclesiastical establishment in Scotland, entitled 
Refutatio Libelli de Regimme Ecclesice Scoticame. See 
Allibone, Did . of Brit, and Amer. Authors, s. v. ; Chal- 
mers, Biog. Did . s. v. ; Hook, Eccles. Biog. s. v. ; Hoefer, 
Nouv. Biog . Generate, s. v, 

Spoudaei {^ttovSoaoi, zealous), was a name given 
by Eusebius {Eccles. Hist, vi, 11) and Epiphanius {Ex- 
jws. Fid. n. 22) to ascetics, in reference to their dili- 
gence in fasting and prayer, and almsdeeds, etc. 

Spouse (J"&3, kalluh, crowned with the bridal chap- 
let, Cant, iv, 8, 9, 10, 11,12; v, 1 ; llos. iv, 13, 14; “bride,” 
Isa. xlix, 18; Ixi, 10; lxii, 5; Jer. ii, 32; vii, 34, etc.; 
Joel ii, 16, elsewhere “daughter-in-law”). See Mar- 
riage. 

Spout. The usual contrivance for throwing off 



Leaden Spont, Woodford Church, Northamptonshire. 


the lvater from the roofs of medireval buildings was by 
means of a carved stone spout called a gargoyle or gur- 
goyle. It is quite possible some were of lead, but none 
are found remaining of an earlier date than the 16th 
century. — Parker, Gloss, of Architect, s. v. 

Sprague, Benjamin F., a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, was a native of Spencer, 
Mass., and was converted when seventeen years of 
age. In 1832 he united on trial with the Maine Con- 
ference, but was discontinued at the close of the year 
on account of ill-health. He spent several years in 
study, and acting as supply until 1839, when he was 
readmitted to conference and ordained elder. His la- 
bors were brought to a close by death, Aug. 18, 1860. 
Mr. Sprague was a man of positive character, cautious 
in his positions, firm and unyielding in their support. 
See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1861, p. 122. 

Sprague, William Buel, D.D., LL.D., an emi- 
nent Presbyterian minister, was born in Andover, Tol- 
land Co., Conn., Oct. 16, 1795. He went to Yale Col- 
lege in 1811 and graduated in 1815. The year follow- 
ing he entered Princeton Seminary, and, after studying 
theology for more than two years, was licensed to preach 
bv an association of ministers in the county of Tolland, 
convened at Andover, Aug. 29, 1818, and the next year 
as sole pastor. He was ordained and installed assistant 
pastor of the Congregational Church, West Springfield, 
Mass., Aug. 25, 1819. Here he labored with great assi- 
duity and success for ten years, but was released from his 
charge July 1, 1829, having accepted a call to the Second 
Presbyterian Church in Albany, N. Y., where he was in- 
stalled Aug. 26, 1829. At Albany he had a pastorate of 
forty years’ duration, remarkable for the extraordinary 
steadfastness and warmth of attachment existing through 
all that protracted period between himself and his large 
and intelligent congregation; and even more remark- 
able for the vast and varied labors performed by him. 
He has been well and truly described as an “illustrious 
man; a cultivated, elegant, voluminous, useful, and pop- 
ular preacher; an indefatigable and successful pastor; 
an unselfish and devoted friend ; loving, genial, pure, 
and noble; an Israelite, indeed, in whom there was no 
guile; one of the most childlike, unsophisticated, and 
charitable of men.” While he never relaxed his pul- 
pit and pastoral duties, his added literary labors were 
prodigious, and their fruits exceedingly great. He 
preached nearly two hundred sermons on special occa- 
sions, the most of which were published. He also pro- 
duced a large number of biographies and other volumes 
on practical religions subjects. Hut the great literary 
work of his life was his Annals of the American Pulpit, 
undertaken when he was fifty-seven, and finished in 
seventeen years. It was a herculean task, but it was 
nobly accomplished, and by it he has placed all denom- 
inations represented in it under great obligations for 
the faithful manner in which it is executed. (See be- 
low.) To this comprehensive work we have been large- 
ly indebted in the compilation of this Cyclopedia. Dr. 
Sprague’s extensive travels in Europe brought him into 
delightful association with many of the dignitaries of 
the Old World, and many eminent persons in religious 
and literary circles. He was on terms of intimacy and 
correspondence with a vast number of distinguished 
men, both in the Church and in the State, in our own 
land. At the age of seventy-four, on Dec. 20, 1869, he 
was released by the Presbytery of Albany, at his own 
request, from the pastoral charge of the Second Church 
in Albany, and retired to Flushing, L. I., where he pass- 
ed his later years, which were a beautiful and serene 
evening to his industrious, laborious, and useful life. 
Here he enjoyed the sunshine of the divine favor, and 
looked on death’s approaches with a strong and placid 
faith. No sore disease or fierce pains oppressed him, 
but gently and peacefully he passed away, May 7, 1876. 
Dr. Sprague’s writings are as follows; Betters on Prac- 
tical Subjects to a Daughter (1822, 12mo; 11th ed. 


SPllAT 


9G6 


SPRING 


lOmo; republished ill Great Britain; late American 
editions bear the title of the Daughter's Own Book): 
—l Attn* from Europe (1 * Lectures to Yohwj Peo- 
ple (I Soil, 1*2 n to, several edition a):— Lectures on Reri- 
eal* (1832, 12mo, several editions; republished in Lon- 
don): Hint* / designed to Pegu late the intercourse of 
t'hristians (l Sill, 12mo) Lectures Illustrating the Con- 
trast In t trmi True Christianity and Various Other Sys- 
( t ms (Loud. 1837, l2mo):— Life of Her. Edward Dorr 
tlrijjin (1838): — /After* to Young Men, Pounded on the 
Life of Just ph (2d ed. IS If), 12mo; 8th ed. 1851 ; repub- 
lished in London, 18 IB, lSnin; 1851,2 vols. in one, 12mo) : 

. 1 ic/.-f to Parly Religion (184»,32mo): — 11 ords to a 

Young Mans Conscience (1848) : — I 'isits to European 
CeltbritUs (1855, 12mo): — Annuls of the American Pul- 
pit, or t'ommemi irate Xotices of Distinguished American 
Clergymen of Various Denominations, from the Parly 
8 etikmtnt of the Country to the Close of the Year 1855, 
with Historical Introduction (X. Y. 8v6: vols. i and ii, 
Trinitarian Congregationalist, 1850; iii and iv, Presby- 
terian, 1 s 5s ; v, Episcopalian, 1859; vi, Baptist, 1800; 
vii, Methodist. 1801 ; viii, Unitarian, 1805; ix, Luther- 
an. Bcformed Dutch, Associate, Associate Reformed, and 
Befortned Presbyterian, 1809). In addition to t lie vol- 
umes thus enumerated, Dr. Sprague published about 1 16 
pamphlets, single sermons, addresses, discourses, and ora-r 
lions, lie is also author of a Life of President Timo- 
thy Dwight in Sparks’s A mericun Biography (2d sermon, 
1845, vol. iv); of an Essay prefixed to Richards’s Ser- 
mons; of a Memoir prefixed to Rev. (). Bronson’s Ser- 
mons (1802. 8 vo); of an Introduction to the Excellent 
Woman (1803, 12mo); and of Introductions to ten oth- 
er works, lie was also the editor of Women of the Old 
and X> ic Testaments (1850, 8vo); The Smitten House- 
hold (1850-57, 12mo). Besi<les writing papers in various 
religious and literary periodicals sufiicient to till three 
or four octavo volumes, he published Memoirs of Rev, 
John McDowell , D.D. (1804, !2mo). lie had been a 
gatherer as well as a dispenser of knowledge, and 
among the attractions of his library was a famous col- 
lection of autographs of eminent men of all ages and 
countries. See Samuel Ireimis Prime, The Man of 
Business (1857, 24 mo); Appletons' Xew Amer. Cyclop . 
s. v.; Alliboite, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Authors, s. v. 
(NY. B. S.) 

Sprat, Thomas, a learned English prelate, was 
horn at Tnliaton (Tallerton), Devonshire, in 1030, and 
from a school in his native place became a commoner 
of NVadliara College, Oxford, in 1051, taking his degree 
in 1057. He obtained a fellowship, and after the Res- 
toration took orders, becoming chaplain to the duke of 
Buckingham, and also to the king. In 1008 he became 
a prebendary of Westminster, and bad afterwards the 
Church of St. Margaret. He was in 1080 made canon 
of Windsor, in 1083 dean of Westminster, and in 1084 
bishop of Rochester, in 1085, being clerk of the closet 
to the king, lie was made dean of the Chapel Royal, and 
the next year was appointed one of the commissioners 
for ecclesiastical n Hairs. When the Declaration distin- 
guished tin* acknowledged sons of (lie Church of Eng- 
land, he stood neutral, and permitted it to he read at 
Westminster, hut pressed none to violate bis conscience. 
When Janies i | v\ as frightened away, and a new govern- 
ment was to Im* settled. Sprat was one of the council lo 
consider whether the crown was vacant, and manfully 
spoke in favor of his old master. He complied, how- 
ever, with the new establishment, and was left unmo- 
lested; but in 1092 all atrocious attempt was made by 
t wo unprincipled informers to involve him in trouble by 
atlixing his coiniti rfeited signature to a seditious paper, 
'1 he bishop was arrested May 7, 1092, but succeeded in 
a little time in establishing his innocence. He died 
May 2<*, 1713. The works of Sprat, besides a few po- 
ems, are. 1 True Account and Declaration of the Hor- 
rid Conspiracy against the lot* Ping, being a history 
of the live- house Blot (10*5):— The History of the 
Royal Snci+ty , etc. (1007, and other editions to 1701, 


4to) :—The Life of Cowley (1GG8, 1078, 8vo) '.—The An- 
swer to Sobiere (1709, 8vo) : — The Relation of his Own 
Examination (1093, 4to; 1722, 8vo): — and three vol- 
umes of Sermons (Loud. 1077, 4to: 1078-1705, 1710, 
8vo; republished in 1722, 8vo), See Allibone, Diet, of 
Brit, and A mer . A uthors, s. v. ; Chalmers, Biog. Diet. 
s. v. ; Ilook, Eccles. Biog . s. v. 

Spreng, Jacques, a Flemish theologian, was born 
at Ypres about 1485 of parents in ordinary circum- 
stances, who early devoted him to a religious life, and 
he accordingly set out as an Augustin monk on a pil- 
grimage, which at length led him to Erfurt, and he 
there embraced Luther’s views. He afterwards returned 
to his native country, and beeame provost of a convent 
in Antwerp (hence his surname Prcepositus). He was 
imprisoned for his faith, first at Brussels, and afterwards 
at Bruges (1522); but was rescued by a fellow-Francis- 
ean, and escaped into Germany. On the recommenda- 
tion of Henry of Zutphen, he was appointed pastor of 
Notre Dame at Bremen in 1554, and filled that position 
till his death, Jan. 30, 1502. In 1535 he assisted at a 
Freemasons’ congress held in Cologne. — Hoefer, Xouu. 
Biog. Generate, s. v. 

Sprenger, Jacob, a Dominican monk of Cologne, 
provincial of his order (A.D. 1495), and one of the two 
inquisitors-general appointed by Innocent VIII (1484) 
for the destruction of witches, which he declared were 
overrunning Germany. From confessions extorted on 
the rack a perfect dogmatic and historical system was 
framed, in which the various compacts made with the 
devil, or the improper alliances contracted with him, 
obtained their due place. On the basis of this new lore 
Sprenger elaborated a code of criminal procedure against 
witches, entitled Malleus Malefcarum. See Kurtz, 
Church Hist. vol. i, § 115, 2. 

Sprig (mks, peordh, Ezek. xvii, G, a branch, as 
elsewhere rendered; bib}, zalzdl , a shoot of a vine, Isa. 
xviii, 5). 

Spriggs, Joseph, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, South, was born in Lancaster County, Va., 
July G, 1804, and united with the Church in 1824. He 
was licensed to preach in January, 1828. and was ad- 
mitted into the Baltimore Conference in March of the 
same year. He was ordained deacon in 1830, and elder 
in 1832. When the Methodist Episcopal Church di- 
vided in 1844, he adhered to the Southern branch, and 
was admitted into the Virginia Conference. In 1800 
he took a supernumerary relation; in 1805 he became 
effective; in 1809 superannuated, lie died of typhoid 
fever, Jan. 17, 1869. See Minutes of Annual Confer- 
ences of the M. E. Church, South, 1870, p. 402. 

Spring. See Fountain; Season. 

Spring, Gardner, I).D., a noted Presbyterian 
minister, son of Dr. Samuel Spring, Sen., was born at 
Newburyport, Mass., Feb. 24, 1785. At the age of 
twelve lie entered the Berwick Academy, and com- 
menced the study of Latin and Greek under the tutor- 
ship of Dr. Gillct, then a young man studying divinity 
with his father. After tins lie returned to Newbury- 
port, his paternal home, where he remained prosecuting 
his studies until he was prepared to enter Yale College, 
which lie did in 1799. lie was a severe student, ami 
withal, as he himself expressed it, “ambitions as Ju- 
lius Ca?sar.” Religiously as lie was educated, be was 
worldly in his pursuits, until, on one occasion, he heard 
an earnest sermon preached by his father. About the 
same time lie made a short excursion to Maine, and 
stopped in an out-of-the-way sort of a place, where he 
and his friend walked eight miles one Sabbath to find 
a church. After a short vacation he resumed his stud- 
ies at Leicester Academy under Dr. Nehemiah Adams; 
and, as lie expressed it in his Autobiography, “in ail 
ambitious, self-righteous spirit led the devotions in the 
academy,” seeking more the praise of men than th<j ap- 


SPRING 


9G7 


SPRINGER 


probation of God. lie heard the recitations of the up- 
per classes in Latin and Greek. Too severe application 
to study affected his health, and he was obliged to de- 
sist for a time. When his health was restored lie re- 
entered Yale College and continued the course, gradu- 
ating in 1805. In the summer of 1803 a revival had 
occurred in the college, and many of the students were 
the subjects of renewing grace. He was not brought 
under its influence to any great extent, and was so far 
from entertaining thoughts of the ministry that he de- 
termined on entering the legal profession, lie accord- 
ingly commenced a course of study at New Haven, 
reading Coke, Littleton, and Blaekstone. Being re- 
duced in finances to four dollars, he wrote to Mr. Moses 
Brown, a gentleman of great wealth in Ncwburyport, 
and one of the founders of Andover Seminary, who sent 
him a blank check to be filled at his discretion. Thus 
furnished, he went to Bermuda as teacher of the classics 
and mathematics. While there, in reply to a serious 
letter from his father, he wrote an analysis of his relig- 
ious experience, stating that he was “vibrating be- 
tween heaven and hell.” Disgusted with the island, he 
returned home, and not long afterwards married, and 
returned to New Haven; but, finding no opening for 
his support, he again returned to Bermuda, and re- 
mained there more than a year at the head of a flour- 
ishing school. He was induced to leave from appre- 
hensions of war between England and the United States. 
He had saved $1500, and was in somewhat easy circum- 
stances. Continuing the study of the law, he passed a 
satisfactory examination, and was admitted to the bar 
at New Haven in December, 1808, and on April 24 suc- 
ceeding he united with the Church under the pastorate 
of the Rev. Moses Stuart. At the Yale commencement 
he took his degree of A.M., and delivered an oration on 
“The Christian Patriot.” On that day the Rev. John 
M. Mason preached his great sermon from the text “To 
the poor the Gospel is preached,” under which 31 r. 
Spring was so deeply impressed that he formed the pur- 
pose of preaching that Gospel. Through the kindness 
of a lady who furnished the means, he was enabled to 
enter Andover Theological Seminary. Before leaving 
that institution, he received a call from the South Par- 
ish, and another from Park Street, Boston. On visiting 
New York, he preached for Dr. Komeyn in Cedar Street. 
He was then on his way to the General Assembly, 
which met in Philadelphia, and on his return he re- 
ceived a unanimous call from the Brick Church, New 
York, which he accepted, entering at once upon his 
duties as pastor. He was ordained Aug. 8, 1810, and 
continued pastor of a united and powerful Church until 
old age and feebleness obliged him to retire from its 
active duties, but he was retained as pastor emeritus 
until the day of his death, Aug. 18, 1873. The sphere 
of Dr. Spring’s labors covered a wide space both in the 
pulpit and the press, and few men in any profession 
have made a more enduring mark upon the age. Ilis 
reading, especially in the department of theology, was 
extensive. He was a Calvinist of the strongest type. 
He was decidedly opposed to what he called “spurious 
revivals,” and to all sensational devices of vagrant evan- 
gelists. He was early identified with the cause of mis- 
sions, and was connected with the organization of the 
American Bible Society through his father, lie en- 
tered heartily into the discussion of the managers with 
the Baptists, and also into the discussions in regard to 
opening the meetings of the board with pray’er. He 
was identified with the Sabbath-reform movement, and 
at the breaking-out of the Rebellion showed his loyalty 
and patriotism in his prayers and sermons and public 
addresses. Dr. Spring was the author of several works, 
among whieh are, The Bible Not of Man : — Obliga- 
tions of the World to the Bible; and others, for which 
see Allibone, Did. of Brit, and Amer. Authors, s. v. 
(W. P. S.) 

Spring, Samuel, Sen., D.D., a Congregational 
minister, was born at Northbridge, Mass., Feb. 27, 174(1. 


He graduated at the College of New Jersey in 1771 ; 
was licensed to preach in 1774, and in the following 
year joined the army as chaplain, and marched under 
Col. Arnold in the disastrous expedition to Canada. In 
1770 he left the army, and in 1777 was ordained over 
the Church in Newburyport, Mass., and remained pas- 
tor until his death, March 4, 1819. Dr. Spring was a 
primary agent in establishing Andover Theological 
Seminary. “ Ilis personal appearance,” says Dr. Woods, 
“was marked with nobleness; his countenance was in- 
dicative of lofty intelligence, and ardent, benevolent 
feeling; his intellect was clear, active, and penetrating.” 
lie had a very modest estimate withal of his spiritual 
and mental attainments. As a preacher, Dr. Spring 
was able and frequently’ eloquent. He published two 
Sei'mons in the American Preacher , vol. iv (1793 ): — A 
Letter addressed to the Rev. Solomon A iken on the Sub- 
ject of Tiro Fast-day Sermons (1809) ; and a number of 
occasional Sermons. See Sprague, Annals of the Amer. 
Pulpit , ii, 85. 

Spring, Samuel, Jnn.,D.D., a Congregational min- 
ister, son of the preceding, was born at Newburyport, 
Mass., March 9, 1792. He received his preparatory ed- 
ucation at Exeter Academy, entered Yale College, and 
was graduated therefrom in 1811. After his graduation 
lie engaged in the trade and shipping business, and con- 
tinued therein until 1819, when, feeling it his duty to 
prepare for the ministry, he entered Andover Theologi- 
cal Seminary, and took the full course. He was or- 
dained and installed pastor of the Chureh at Abington, 
Mass., Jan. 2, 1822, and remained until December, 1826, 
when he resigned. He was next installed over the 
North Church, Hartford, Conn., where he remained six 
years, and was then installed over the Chureh at East 
Hartford, where he remained twenty-eight years. He 
finally became chaplain of the Insane Asylum, Hart- 
ford, and continued at that post seven years. He was 
director of the Connecticut Bible Society, and trustee 
of the Theological Institute of Connecticut. He died 
at Hartford, Dec. 13, 1877. (W. T. S.) 

Springer. Elihu, a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was born in Bond County, 111., July 21, 1811. He was 
the subject of religious impressions at a very’ early age ; 
united with the Methodist Episcopal Church in 1824; 
entered the Rock Spring Seminary, St. Clair Co., 111., 
in 1827 ; was licensed as an exhorter May 29, 1832, re- 
ceived by the Illinois Conference on trial in September, 
1833, and appointed to Carlinvijle Circuit, Sangamon dis- 
trict. The following were his subsequent appointments : 
in 1834, Iroquois Mission; 1835, Oplain Circuit; 1836-37, 
located, owing to feeble health ; 1 838, Somonauk Circuit ; 
1839, Bristol Circuit; 1840, ordained elder and reappoint- 
ed to Bristol; 1841, Lockport ; 1842, Joliet ; 1843-44, 
St. Charles; 1845, Mineral Point; 1846, Hazle Green 
Circuit; 1847-50, presiding elder of Milwaukee district, 
Wisconsin Conference, where he died, Aug. 22, 1850. 
Mr. Springer was a man of strong intellectual develop- 
ment, well versed in theological subjects, and an able 
expounder of the truth. See Minutes of Annual Con- 
ferences, iv, 611. (J. L. S.) 

Springer, John M., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born at Petersburg, 111., Jan. 13, 
1837. He was converted at the age of sixteen, but, 
fearful of the toils and sacrifices of the ministry, fell 
back, and eventually became an actor. In 1857 he 
yielded to the influences of the Holy Spirit, and joined 
the Church Sept. 6. He was licensed to preach April 17, 
1858, and admitted into the West Wisconsin Conference 
on the 29th of the same month. Being drafted into the 
army, he was appointed chaplain of the Third Regiment 
of Wisconsin Veteran Volunteers, Feb. 3, 1864. He was 
wounded in the battle of Resaca, Ga., May 15 of that 
year, and died on the 28th. See Minutes of Annual 
Conferences. 1864, p. 186. 

Springer, Moses, a minister of the Methodist 


SPRINGERS 


9GS 


Episcopal Church, was converted in his eighteenth year, 
and in 1*10 was admitted into full connection in t he 
Maine Conference, lie immediately located to take 
charge of the Maine Wesleyan Journal , which he con- 
tinued to edit until it was united with the Zion's Herald. 
In 1859 he was admitted into the Minnesota Conference, 
and placed in a superannuated relation, which he sus- 
tained until his death, at Winchendon, Mass., Dec. 21, 
1*65. Mr. Springer was a man not only of faith, but 
also of superior intellect, and devoted to scientific stud- 
ies, the last years of his life being spent in the National 
Observatory, Washington, I). C. See Minutes of An- 
nual Conferences, 1*66, p. 212. 

Springers, the jumping sect among the Ingrians (a 
tribe belonging to the Tchudic branch of the Finns), 
which traces its origin to 1*13. Proceeding from a 
religious excitement independent of the Church, they 
came to the conviction that every individual retpiired 
the direct illumination of the Holy Spirit in order to his 
salvation. They also soon believed that they enjoyed 
this illumination, and ecstatic praying, singing, and cry- 
ing. connected with clapping of hands and jumping at 
i heir meetings, gave evidence of being possessed by the 
Holy Spirit. This special illumination required as cor- 
relative also a special holiness, and this was sought not 
only in despising marriage, but also in abstaining from 
meat, beer, brandy, and tobacco. He who applied for 
admission into the sect was required to prove, nudus 
super nudum, before the eyes of the meeting that the old 
Adam with his sexual susceptibility was dead in him. 
The “ holy love” which they placed in the stead of mar- 
riage also led here, as ever, to lleshlv errors, and this 
was the reason why many of them, after the example 
of the Skoi*zi (q. v.). with whom they were probably 
connected, chose the much more certain means of cas- 
tration. Authors and chiefs of the sect were named, 
and were said to have been present at meetings, but 
the civil authorities were not able to get hold of them. 
The sect is now near its end. See Kurtz, Church His- 
tory, ii, 406. 

Springing, or Springer, the impost or point at 
which an arch unites with its support. The bottom 
stone of an arch, which lies immediately upon the im- 
is sometimes called a springer or spring! ng-stone. 
Also the bottom stone of the coping of a gable. — Par- 
ker, Gloss, of . I rehit act. s. v. See Skew' ; Youssoik. 

Sprinkler. See Aspkugillpm. 

Sprinkling, as a ftrm of baptism, took the place 
of immersion after a few centuries in the early Church, 
not from any established rule, but bv common consent, 
ami it lias since been very generally practiced in all but 
the Creek and Baptist churches, which insist upon im- 
incrdiiu. In its defence the following considerations 
are o lie red : (1.) The primary signilication of the word 
“ baptize” (/hi7rr< *<«>) cannot be of great importance, in- 
asmuch as the rite itself is typical, and therefore derives 
its moment not from the literal import of the term, hut 
fr<»m the significance and design of t lie ordinance. (2.) 
Although no instance of sprinkling is expressly mention- 
ed in the New Test., yet there are several cases in which 
immersion was hardly possible (Acts ii, 41 ; x, 47, 4*; 
xvi, 33). (3.) In cases of emergency, baptism by asper- 

sion was allowed at a period of high antiquity, especially 
in the case of sick persons. See Clink? Baptism. This 
f»rm was also admitted when the baptismal font was too 
small for immersion, and generally, whenever considcra- 
ti"iis of convenience, health, or climate required (Wala- 
trid Strabo, he Helms P. cries. c. 26 ; tlerbard, Lor. 7 'heed. 
ix, 146). Aspersion did not become common in the West- 
ern or Latin Church until the 13th century, although it 
ap] >car» to have been introdueed much earlier (Aquinas. 
Snnnnu , qua*t. 66, art. 7 ). See Coleman, Christ. A ntiq. 
p. 276 sq. See Baptism. 

Sproat, James, D.D., a Presbyterian divine, was 
bom at Scituate, Mass., April 11, 1722. lie graduated 


SQUARCIOXE 

at Yale College in 1741 ; was converted while in college; 
and having gone through the requisite course of prepa- 
ration for the ministry, was licensed to preach, and or- 
dained pastor of the Fourth Congregational Church in 
Guilford, Conn., Aug. 23, 1743. Here he labored with 
great zeal and success for about twenty-five years, when, 
in October, 1768, he became pastor of the church in Phila- 
delphia of which Kev. Gilbert Tennent had been pastor, 
lie continued sole pastor till 1787, when he was relieved 
from a portion of his labors by the settlement of Mr. 
(afterwards Dr.) Ashbel Green. In 1780 the College 
of New Jersey conferred upon him the degree of D.D. 
The year 1793 was signalized by the prevalence of yel- 
low fever in Philadelphia to an appalling extent. The 
family of Dr. Sproat was almost annihilated by it; his 
own death took place Oct. 18, 1793. lie was a master 
of the learned languages, and had made deep researches 
into systematic, casuistic, and polemic divinity. In his 
personal religion he was truly eminent — his faith was 
built on the sure foundations of the Gospel, and it sup- 
ported him in the most trying hour. In his last mo- 
ments he said, “All my expectations for eternity rest on 
the infinite grace of God, abounding through the finished 
righteousness of the Lord Jesus Christ.” His only pub- 
lication was a Sermon , preached on the death of White- 
field in October, 1 770. See Sprague, A nnals of the A mer. 
Pulpit, iii, 125; Allen, Biot/. Diet. s. v.; Mass. Hist. Coll. 
x ; Assembly Miss. May. i. (J. L. S.) 

Spry, William, a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was born in Queen Ann County, Md., Feb. 23, 180G; 
converted in 1822; admitted on trial in the Philadelphia 
Conference in 1832. and appointed to Cecil Circuit ; 1833, 
Salisbury Circuit; 1834, Elkton; 1835, on account of ill- 
health, supernumerary ; 1 83G, Caroline Circuit ; 1837-38, 
Dorchester Circuit ; 1839-40, Lewistown; 1841, Easton, 
Talbot Co., Md.; and subsequently travelled Cambridge, 
Seaford, Georgetown, and Accomac circuits, on the last 
of which he died, Nov. 29, 1847. Mr. Spry was an ex- 
cellent preacher and a model pastor. He was one of the 
sweetest singers in Israel. See Minutes of Annual Con- 
ferences, iv, 204; Manship, Thirteen Years in the Itiner- 
ancy, p. 14-1G. 

Spunge. See Sponge. 

Spunkie, among the early Scots and Piets, was the 
name of a class of teasing spirits who appeared in the 
form of ic/nes fatui, and led wanderers astray into swamps 
and morasses. 

Spur-money, a name for a fine levied by custom, 
on behalf of the choristers of certain old foundations 
(St. Paul’s, Westminster, Lichfield, and Windsor), on 
persons entering the Church. 

Spurstowe, William, a Nonconformist divine, was 
educated at St. Katharine Hall, Cambridge, of which he 
became a fellow. lie was minister at Hampden, in Buck- 
inghamshire, when the Kebellion broke out. He joined 
the rebel army as chaplain, and in 1G43 became a mem- 
ber of the so-called Assembly of Divines, becoming at 
the same time pastor of Hackney. He was made master 
of St. Katharine Hall, but was turned out for refusing the 
engagement, lie was obliged to give place to an ortho- 
dox clergyman at Hackney in 1GG2, and died in 1GG6. 
lie was the author of a Treatise on the Promises: — The 
Spiritual Chymist: — The Wiles of Satan: — a Discourse: 
— and Sermons. lie was also engaged in the attack on 
episcopacy under the name of Smectymnus. See Alli- 
bonc, hint, of licit, and Amcr. Authors , s. v.; Hook, 
Eccles. Jiioej. s. v. 

Spy-Wednesday, an old name for the Wednes- 
day in Holy Week, so called because of the work which 
Judas Iscariot carried on upon that day when he went 
forth to make preparation for the betrayal of his Mas- 
ter. — Lee, Gloss, of Lit urg. Terms, s. v. 

Squarcione, Francesco, an Italian painter, was 
born at Padua in 1394, and, after performing many 


SQUARE 

tours in Greece and Italy, lived in the latter country in 
great affluence and distinction until his death, in 1474. 
From his very numerous school (he had one hundred 
and thirty-seven scholars), he was called the father and 
primo maestro of painters. The celebrated illustrated 
Book of Anthems in the Church of the Miscricordia, 
which used to be commonly ascribed to Mantegna, is 
now by competent judges considered one of the com- 
missions of Squarcione executed by his scholars. See 
the English Cyclop . s. v. 

Square reba, a fourth part, as often render- 

ed), a side (as elsewhere), especially of a rectangle (Ezek. 
xliii, 16, 17). See Sculpture. 

Square Cap, a cap worn in England by Church 
clerks, the use of which began in the 15th century. 

Squassation, one of the three kinds of torture 
commonly used by the Inquisition to extort confession. 
It consisted in tying back the arms of the victim by a 
cord, fastening weights to his feet, and drawing him up 
to the full height of the place by means of a pulley. He 
was then suddenly let down to within a short distance 
of the floor, and by the repeated shocks all his joints 
were dislocated. This torture was continued for an 
hour or longer, according to the pleasure of the inquis- 
itors present and to what the strength of the sufferer 
seemed capable of enduring. See Barnum, Romanism 
as It Is, p. 383. 

Squier, Miles Powell, D.D., an eminent Presby- 
terian divine and educator, was born in Cornwall, Vt., 
May 4, 1792. The family was of English origin, set- 
tling in Connecticut in the days of the Pilgrim fathers. 
He was trained with assiduous care, and at fourteen en- 
tered the academy at Middlcburv, Vt., where he pur- 
sued his academical studies; graduated with honor at 
Middleburv College in 1811, and at the Andover Theo- 
logical Seminary, Mass., in 1814; was licensed to preach 
the same year, and immediately began his labors as a 
supply to the Congregational Church, Oxford, Mass.; 
thence he removed to Vcrgennes. Vt., where he remained 
till the spring of 1815, when he accepted an appointment 
of missionary to the western part of New York State. 
He was ordained May 3, 1816, by the Geneva Presbytery 
as pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Buffalo, 
N. Y., which relation existed till 1824. In 1817 he was 
a commissioner to the General Assembly of the Pres- 
byterian Church which met in Philadelphia; in 1825, 
after closing his pastorate in Buffalo, he spent a short 
time in agricultural pursuits for the benefit of his 
health; in 1826 he accepted the secretaryship of the 
Western agency of the American Home Missionary So- 
ciety at Geneva, N. Y., in which work he spent eight 
years; in 1833 he was occupied in superintending the 
affairs of the Geneva Lyceum, which he had founded, 
at the same time supplying the churches at Junius, 
Newark, Castleton, and West Fayette, N. Y., and in the 
winter of 1839-40 the Southwark Presbyterian Church 
in Philadelphia. In 1845 he was induced to visit Be- 
loit, Wis., where it was proposed to establish a college, 
and he resolved to identify himself with it. In 1846 
the charter was obtained, in 1847 the corner-stone was 
laid, and in 1849 he was elected professor of intellectu- 
al and moral philosophy, entering upon his duties in 
1851. The subjects of his lectures at Beloit College 
were as follows: The Truth of Religion: — The Method 
and the Acquisition of Knowledge : — 1 lentnl and Moral 
Habits: — The Value of a Philosophical Mind: — The 
Value of Moral Sciences: — The Generic Properties of 
Mind: — Philosophy and its Uses: — and Elements of 
Moral Science. In August, 1861, he went to Europe 
to attend the Evangelical Alliance in Switzerland, and 
while abroad be received the attention due his high 
position as an eminent educator. He lectured in the 
college for the last time in 1863, and by reason of de- 
clining health he made arrangements for a successor, 
he retaining a place in the catalogue as emeritus pro- 


SQUINCII 

fessor. For several months before his death he mani- 
fested an uncommon degree of interest in the promotion 
of the Redeemer’s kingdom. The interviews with his 
friends relative to his departure were most gratifying 
and instructive. He longed to depart and be with 
Christ ; and after charging each member of the house- 
hold to minister in every way to the health and hap- 
piness of his wife, he passed gently away, June 22, 1866. 
Dr. Squier was a man of note and eminence, fully up to 
the times in which he lived. He frequently represent- 
ed his presbyter}’ in the General Assembly, and at the 
time of the disruption of the Presbyterian Church was 
one of the leaders of the opposition to the Old-school 
party. Frederick E. Cannon of Geneva, N. Y., writes 
of him: “Intellectually, he belonged to the small class 
of original, independent, self-reliant thinkers, metaphys- 
ical in the cast of his mind, receiving no dogmas or 
conclusions without careful investigation, and fearless 
in announcing and maintaining the positions which he 
had taken. Having great faith in intellectual culture, 
he devoted his life and fortune mainly to the great in- 
terests of popular education, and schools, colleges, and 
seminaries are the monuments upon which his name 
is most distinctly inscribed. Religiously, he was evan- 
gelical, earnest, and progressive. His practical relig- 
ion was based on broad and comprehensive views of 
providence and grace. He was always and everywhere 
prompt to urge the claims of Christ upon all the un- 
believing, especially upon young men, and to press the 
Church of God to a higher and bolder standard of spir- 
itual life and work.” Socially, he was genial, kind, and 
cordial. His home was always open to the ministry, 
and at no man’s board were they more cheerfully wel- 
comed or more generously entertained. He was fre- 
quently a contributor to the periodical press, and was 
the author of, The Problem Solved, or Sin not of God 
(N. Y. 1855): — Reason and the Bible , or the Truth of 
Revelation (1860): — Miscellaneous Writings, with an 
Autobiograjdiy, edited and supplemented by Rev. James 
R. Boyd (Geneva, N. Y. 1867) and The Being of 
God, Moi'al Government and Theses in Theology . 
Upon these subjects Dr. Squier bestowed his maturest 
thoughts. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac, 1867, 
p. 318; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amen Authors , s. v. 
(J. L. S.) 

Squillery, an old English term for scullery, e. g. 
for the scullery of a monastic house or episcopal pal- 
ace. 

Squinch, or Sconce, a small arch or projecting 
course of stone formed across the angle of a tower, etc., 
in Gothic architecture, to support the alternate sides of 
octagonal spires, lanterns, etc., above. Sometimes the 
overhanging side of the spire or octagon is supported by 
a series of projecting courses of stone (as at Tong, Salop), 
which answer the same purpose as the arches, but are 
more substantial because they have no tendency to ex- 
pand the walls, which is always to be feared when the 
arched squinch is used. The straight squinch is often 
employed externally, as at St. Cross, where it is used to 
carry the alure , or parapet walk, across the angle at the 
junction of the choir and transept with the tower. The 
construction of the arched squinch, or trompe , was a fa- 



Sqninch, Canon’s Ashby, Northamptonshire. 


969 


970 


SR AUDIT A 


SQUINT 



vorite exercise with the 
French professors of the 
art of stoiie-cnttin^.— Par- 
ker, Gloss. of Architect. s. v. 

Squint, an opening 
through the wall of a 
church in an oblique direc- 
tion for the purpose of en- 
abling persons in the tran- 
septs or aisle to see the ele- 
vation of the host at the 
high-altar. The usual sit- 
uation of these openings is 
oil one or both sides of the 
chancel-arch, and there is 
frequently a projection, like 
a low buttress, on the out- 
side aeross the angle to cov- 
er this opening. These pro- 
jections are more common in some districts than in 
other> ; they are particularly abundant in the neigh- 
borhood of Teubv, in South Wales. lhit the open- 
ings themselves are to be found everywhere, though 


Squiuch, Tong Church, 
Salop. 



Squints, Ilaseley, Oxfordshire. 

they have commonly been plastered over, or sometimes 
boarded at the two ends, in other eases tilled up with 
bricks. In some instances they are small narrow arches 
bv the side of the chancel -arch, extending from the 
ground to the height of ten or twelve feet, as at Minster- 



Squlnt, Crawley, Hampshire. 


Lovel, Oxfordshire. Usually they are not above a yard 
high and about two feet wide, often wider at the west end 
than at the cast. They are commonly plain, but some- 
times ornamented like niches, and sometimes have 
light open panelling aeross them: this is particularly 
the case in Somersetshire ami Devonshire. There are 
many instances of these openings in other situations be- 
sides the usual one, but always in the direction of the 
high-altar, or at least of an altar. Sometimes the open- 
ing is from a chapel by the side of the chancel, as at 
Chipping-Norton, Oxfordshire. In Bridgewater Church, 
Somerset, there is a se- 
ries of these openings 
through three successive 
walls, following the same 
oblique line, to enable a 
person standing in the 
porch to see the high- 
altar. In this and some 
other instances it seems 
to have been for the use 
of the attendant who had 
to ring the sanctus-bell 
at the time of the eleva- 
tion of the host. There 
are numerous instances of 
this bell being placed in a 
cot on the parapet of the 
porch ; and as frequent- 
ly there are windows or 
openings from the room 
over the porch into the church, probably for the purpose 
of enabling the person stationed in this room to see the 
elevation. There seems to be no good or ancient au- 
thority for the name of Squint applied to these openings, 
but it has been long in use. The name of hagioscope 
has lately been applied to them, but it does not seem 
desirable to give new Greek names to the parts of Eng- 
lish buildings. — Parker, Gloss, of Architect, s. v. 



Squint, Mayor’s Chapel, 
Bristol. 


Squire, Samuel, an English divine, was born at 
Warminster, Wiltshire, in 1714, and was educated at 
St. John’s College, Cambridge, of which he became a 
fellow, and took his degree of A.B. in 1733 and A.M. in 
1737. Soon after, Dr. Wynn, bishop of Bath and Wells, 
appointed him his chaplain, and in 1739 gave him the 
chancellorship and a eanonry of Wells, and afterwards 
collated him to the archdeaconry of Bath. In 1748 he 
was presented to the rectory of Topslield, Essex, and 
in 1749 took the degree of D.D. lie was presented in 
1750 by archbishop Herring to the rectory of St. Anne, 
Westminster, and soon, by the king, to the vicarage of 
Greenwich, Kent. On the establishment of the house- 
hold of the prince of Wales (afterwards George IH) 
he was appointed his clerk of the closet. In 1700 he 
was presented to the deanery of Bristol, and in 1701 
he was advanced to the bishopric of St. David’s. lie 
died May 6, 1700. lie was a fellow of the I {oval and 
Antiquary societies. Among his theological works are 
the following: The Ancient History of the Hebrews 1 ’in- 
dicated (Camb. 1741, 8 vo): — I ndife renee to Religion In- 
excusable (1758, 8vo; new ed. 12mo and 8vo) : — Princi- 
ples of Religion, in a catechism (1703, 8 vo) : — Sermons 
(1715-05, all 4 to). See Chalmers, JJiog. Diet. s. v. ; Al- 
ii bone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Authors, s. v. ; Ilook, 
Eccles. Riog. s. v. 


Sraddha (Sanscrit, belief'), is the name of the fu- 
neral ceremony of tlu* llindfis, in which balls of food 
and water are ottered to the deceased ancestors of the 
saerilicer, or to the Pitris, or manes, collectively. It is 
specially performed for a paren; recently deceased, or 
for three paternal ancestors, and is supposed necessary 
to secure the ascent and residence of the soul of the de- 
ceased in a world appropriated to the manes. It is also 
a ceremony of rejoicing as well as mourning, and there 
are various Sraddhas to be enumerated, viz. : 1. Con- 
stant, or the daily offerings to the manes in general, 


SR AM AN AS 


971 


STABAT MATER 


and those offered on certain days of every month. 2. 
Occasional , as those for a recently deceased relative, or 
on various domestic occasions, as the birth of a son, etc. 
3. Voluntary, performed for a special object, such as the 
hope of religious merit, etc. The proper seasons for 
the worship of the manes collectively are the dark fort- 
night (or period of the moon’s wane), the day of the 
new moon, the summer and winter solstices, eclipses, 
etc. The presentation of the ball of food to the de- 
ceased and to his progenitors in both lines is the office 
of the nearest male relative, and is the test and title 
of liis claim to the inheritance. — Chambers's Encyclop. 
s. v. 

Sramanas (Singhalese srama, performance of as- 
ceticism), a name given to the priests of Buddha, who 
are monks as to their mode of living, but priests as to 
the world without. Their vows are in no case irrevo- 
cable. They seek their food by carrying the alms-bowl 
from door to door, and their chief employment is teach- 
ing the novices, or writing books upon the leaf of the 
talipot. — Gardner, Faiths of the World , s. v. See Hardy, 
Eastern Monuchism. 

Sravaka or Srawaka (Sanscrit sru, to hear), a 
name of the disciples of Buddha, who, through the hear- 
ing of his doctrine and by practicing the four great 
Buddhistic truths, attain to the qualification of an Ar- 
hat, or Buddhist saint. From among these disciples 
eighty are called the Mahsararakas, or the great Sra- 
vakas. The Sravakas are entitled to the predicate 
Avnshmat, or “ one possessed of long life.” This name 
is also given among the Nepaulese to one of the four 
orders into which their priests are divided. — Chambers's 
Encyclop. s. v. See Hardy, Eastern Monuchism. 

Sreiansa, in Hindu mythology, is the lord of the 
rhinoceros , which is his symbol; one of the twenty- 
four Buddhas recognised by the dains. He was a son 
of Vishnu and Yishna (the name given by them to 
Lakshmi, Vishnu’s consort). 

Sri-pada, the name given to the worship of the 
impressions of Gotama’s foot. The legend is that on 
the third visit of the sage to Ceylon, in t he eighth year 
after he obtained the Buddhaship, he left an impres- 
sion of his foot on the summit of the mountain usually 
known by the name of Adam’s Peak, 7420 feet above 
the sea, intended as a seal to declare that Lanka would 
be the inheritance of Buddha. In the same journey he 
left other impressions of a similar kind in different 
parts of India. The footstep is said to be a superficial 
hollow five feet three and three-fourths inches long and 
between two feet seven inches and two feet five inches 
wide. The summit of the peak is annually visited by 
great numbers. See Hardy, Eastern Monachism, p. 227. 

Srudasanen, Sruddaggirti, and Srudavar- 
men, in Hindu mythology, are three of the five sons 
born of Drovadei, the wife of the five Pandns, to her 
husbands. The others were named Pridyvandayen and 
Sandaniyen. 

Ssafarino Kagami, in Japanese mythology, is 
the mirror of knowledge which is placed before the 
prince of hell, and which serves to reveal to him in 
their true character all the sins of the persons who 
come into his presence. 

Ssangjai is the name of Buddha in Thibet, where 
the highest veneration is accorded him as the ruler of 
the present world-period. Three other Buddhas have 
preceded Ssangjai, and nine hundred and ninety- six 
are yet to follow. See Buddhism; Lamaism , Thibkt. 

Ssodadani, in Hindi! mythology, is a king of Ma- 
gadha, the middle kingdom of India and the principal 
scene of all its myths. Ssodadani was married to 
Maha-mava, the virgin wife who was chosen by Sak- 
yamuni, that, after he had entered her womb as a five- 
colored ray, he might be born of her, and who accord- 
ingly gave birth to the Buddha in the grove of Lomba 
through her right armpit. See Buddha. 


Stabat Mater, or, better, the Mater Dolorosa, to 
distinguish it from the Mater JSpeciosa (q. v.), is the cel- 
ebrated Passion hymn of Jacopone de Benedictis. Its 
proper name is Planet us BeaUe Viryinis, or Sequentia de 
Septem Doloribus B. 1 ’ iryinis , or De Compassions Beatce 
1 ’ iryinis . This hymn has been regarded by universal con- 
sent as the most pathetic and touching of Latin Church 
lyrics, and inferior only to the Dies Inv (q. v.), which 
stands alone in its glory and overpowering effect. It was 
spread all over Europe by the Flagellants, or Brethren of 
the Cross (Crucifratres), and Cross-bearers (Cruciferi), 
“penitents who, in the 13th, 14th, and loth centuries, 
went about in procession day and night, travelling ev- 
erywhere, naked to the waist, with heads covered with a 
white cap or hood (whence they received, likewise, the 
appellation of Dealbatores), singing penitential psalms, 
and whipping themselves until the blood flowed. By 
their means it was that the knowledge of this hymn was 
first carried to almost every country in Europe.” Once 
sung in penitential processions, it gradually found a place 
in almost every breviary or missal. For “ it breathes the 
spirit of profound repentance and glowing love, sneb as 
can be kindled only by long and intense contemplation 
of the mystery of the cross— the most amazing and af- 
fecting spectacle ever presented to the gaze of heaven 
and earth. The agony of Marv at the cross, and the 
sword which then pierced through her soul, according 
to the prophecy of Simon (Luke ii, 35), never found a 
more perfect expression. It surpasses in effect the 
Matei'-Dolorosas of the greatest painters.” The key- 
note of the hymn is contained in the first two lines, and 
is suggested bv the brief but pregnant sentence of .John 
as found in the Latin version, “Stabat juxta crucem 
mater ejus” (xix, 25), which has given rise to some of 
the most magnificent works of art. 

I. Text. — In its received form it reads as follows: 

Stabat mater dolorosa 
Juxta crucem lncmuosn, 

Dntn* peudebat Filin?*; 

Cujus animam gementem, 

Contristn taint :ic dolentem, 

Pertrausivit glad ins. 

0 qnam tristis et afflicta 
Fuit ilia beuedicta 
Mater Unigeniti ! 

Quae mcerebat et dolebat 
Et treniebat, enmt videbat 
Nati pueiias iuclyti ! 

Quis est homo qui non fleret 
Matrem ChristiS si videret 
In tan to snpplicio ? 

Quis non posset comristari, 

Piam matrem contemplari 
Doleutem cum Filio? 

Pro peccatis suae gentis 
Vid.it Jesum in tonneutis 
Et tiagellis snbditnm ; 

Vidit sunm dnlrem Nntnm 
Morientem 1 !l desolation, 

Dum emisit spiritum. 

Pia^T mater, foils anions! 

Me sentire vim doloris 
Fac, lit lecum lttgeam. 

Fac ut ardent cor nieum 
In ninando Christum Dentil, 

Ut sibi complaceam. 

Sancfa mater, istnd agas, 

Crucifixi tige plngns 
Cordi tiieo valide.** 

Tni Nati vulnerati, 

Tam digtiati pro me pati 
Fomas nieciim divide. 

Fac me vere tecumtt flere, 

Crucifixo coitdolet e, 

Donee ego vixero. 

Juxta crucem tecum stare, 

Meque libi sociarett 
Iu plauctu desidero. 

Various readings: * qua; t contristantcm ; tdinn; $ Chris- 
ti matrem; I \viortenflo ; *i eju ; **viviite; ft tecum vere., te- 
cum pie; ttet me tibi sociare, or te l i ben ter, or tibi me con - 
sjciare. 


STABAT MATER 


STABAT MATER 972 


Virgo virgin n ns pneclnra, 

Mi iii tarn* non ms amnia, 

Fnc me tecum plangcre: 

Fnc lit portent Christ! mortem, 
l*n>sionls fac consurtem, 

Ft plagast recolere.t 

Fac me plngis vnltiernri, 

Cruce hac ineltriarij 
Ob amoreml Filii. 

I ntlammatus est acceusns.U 
Per te, Virgo, sim defeusus, 

In die judicii. 

Fac me cruce enstodiri 
Morte Chrisli praeniuuirl, 

Confoveri gratia. 

Ouando corpus morietur, 

Fac nt nniime dnnetnr 
Paradisi gloria.** 

II. .1 uthorship.— In the case of this hymn, as in that 
of the Dies Irtr . it has been a matter of dispute who was 
t he writer. The Stabat Muter has been variously as- 
cribed to pope Innocent 111 , but without any proof; for al- 
though Ebert (in the J Uyemtinen bibliograph Lichen Lexi- 
con, i, *7-1) mentions this fact, yet he rejects the opinion 
as to the authorship of Innocent. The Florentine histo- 
rian Antonius tells us that, according to some, one of the 
Gregories was the author o! the hymn: but we are not 
told whether it was Gregory IX, X, or XI. The Geno- 
ese chancellor and historian Georgius Stella ascribes 
the hymn to pope John XXII ( 1310 - 1334 ), an opinion 
adopted by the famous historians Johann and Johann 
Georg Midler. Others have referred its paternity, 
contrary to all probability, to St. Bernard. Dismiss- 
ing all these as conjectures unsupported by proof, it 
is now generally conceded, on the authority of Luke 
Wadding, the Irish historian of the Franciscan Order, 
and himself one of the number, that the author of this 
hymn is Giacomo da Todi. better known as Giacopone, 
or Jacopone. 1 1 is proper name was Jacobus de Ilene- 
dictis, or Giacomo de’ Benedetti, lie being a descendant 
of the noble family of the Benedetti of Todi ( Tinier , Tu- 
ib-rtum ; hence he is also called Jacopomis Tudertinus), 
in Umbria, Italy. lie successfully studied and prac- 
ticed law ; but was converted ill consequence of the sud- 
den death of his wife in a theatre, sold his goods for the 
benefit of the poor, and united himself to the Order of 
the Franciscans. This Order, founded by St. Francis 
of Assisi, was then in the fervor of its first love, ami 
carried away many of the noblest and most enthusiastic 
youths. “ Its ruling idea and aim was the literal imita- 
tion of the poor ami humble life of Christ. St. Francis 
died of the wounds of Christ, which are said to have im- 
pressed themselves on his hands and side through the 
plastic jKiwer of an imagination drunk with the contem- 
plation ami love of the crucified L’edeemer.” Animated 
by the same spirit, Giacopone went to fanatical extremes 
in bis zeal for ascetic holiness and spiritual martyrdom, 
lie endeavored to atone, by self-sought tortures, for bis 
own sins, and “to (ill up that which is behind in the af- 
flictions of Christ,” for the good of others, lie was sub- 
ject. ns Wadding expressly states, to fits of insanity, 
leading him at one time to enter the public market- 
place naked, with a saddle on his back and a bridle in 
bis mold h, walking on all fours like a horse; and at an- 
other, after ainiiuiiiig himself with oil and rolling him- 
self in feathers of various colors, to make his appearance 
suddenly, in this unseemly and hideous guise, in the 
midst of a gay assembly gathered together at the house 
of bis brother on the occasion of his daughter’s mar- 
riage; and this, too, in disregard of previous precaution- 
ary entreaties of friends who, apprehensive, it seems, at 
the time they invited him, that he might lie guilty of 
some cra/.v manifestation or other, had begged him not 
to do anything to disturb the wedding festivities, but 
to behave as an ordinary citizen, “lie was called Gia- 
cojM.iie, or the t ireat .1 itcoh, at first in derision, perhaps, 

' iri'itts rendbiirs: m jinn ; f prrnnm ; tjtlnnis te t'eeotere ; 
\rrnrr f„r »,r hnr hrnri ; | rt cmorc; % jlammis nrar ne 
(nc ttiurj vuoeewiwi; ” ijratia. 


also, to distinguish him from the many Jacobs among 
the Franciscans. For the syllabic suffix one in Italian 
indicates greatness or elevation; as ulberone, great tree, 
from albero ; cappellone, from cappello, hat ; port one, from 
porta , door; salone , from sala , saloon” (Schaff). For 
ten years he carried on these ascetic excesses ; and when 
at the end of this time he desired to be received by the 
Minorites, and they hesitated on account of his reputed 
insanity, their scruples were overcome by reading his 
work On Contempt of the World , conceiving that it was 
impossible that an insane man could write so excellent 
a book. 

As a Minorite he was not willing to become a priest, 
but only a lay-brother. “Very severe against himself 
he was,” says Wadding, “always full of desire to imitate 
Christ and suffer for him. In an ecstasy he imagined, 
at times, that he saw him with his bodily eyes. Very 
often he was seen sighing, sometimes weeping, some- 
times singing, sometimes embracing trees, and exclaim- 
ing, ‘O sweet Jesus! O gracious Jesus! O beloved Je- 
sus!’ Often he conversed with his Saviour, who call- 
ed him dearest Jacob. Once when weeping loudly, on 
being asked the cause, he answered, ‘ Because Love is 
not loved.’” That Jacopone was in deep earnest with 
Ills ascetic life is beyond all doubt. For determining the 
genuineness of love he gives these searching tests : “ Al- 
though I cannot know positively that I love, vet I have 
some good marks of it. Among others it is a sign of 
love to God when I ask the Lord for something, and he 
does it not, and I love him, notwithstanding, more than 
before. If be does contrary to that which I seek for in 
my prayer, and I love him twofold more than before, it 
is a sign of right love. Of love to mv neighbor I have 
this sign, namely, that when he injures me I love him 
not less than before. Did I love him less, it would prove 
that I had loved not him previously, Imt myself.” On 
the subjugation of the senses he allegorizes in this wise : 
“A very beautiful virgin had live brothers, and all were 
very poor; and the virgin had a precious jewel of great 
worth. One of her brethren was a guitar-player, the 
second a painter, the third a cook, the fourth a spice- 
dealer, the fifth a pimp; each desired the jewel. The 
first was willing to play, and so on ; but she said, What 
shall I do when the music has ceased? In short, she 
remained firm and kept the jewel. At last a great king 
came, who was willing to make her his bride and give 
her eternal life if she would give up to him the jewel. 
She replied: How can I, O my beloved, to such grace 
refuse the stone? and so she gave it to him.” It is plain 
that by the five brethren are meant the five senses; by 
the virgin, the soul; and by the precious jewel, the will. 
With such severe principles and severer ascetic life, Ja- 
copone could not fail to earnestly denounce the corrup- 
tions of his time in general, and especially the licentious 
manners, wickedness, and debaucheries of the priesthood, 
and the deeply sunken condition of the Church. lie 
was especially severe on pope Boniface VIII, who pun- 
ished him by excommunication and hard imprisonment. 
Boniface, one day passing the. cell where Jacopone was, 
asked mockingly, “ When will yon come out?” He an- 
swered, “ When yon come in.” After the death of this 
bad pope, in 1303, Jacopone was set free, and closed his 
earthly pilgrimage at an advanced age, Dec. 25, 130G, 
and was buried at Todi. “He died,” says Wadding, 
“like a swan, having composed several hymns just be- 
fore his death.” The inscription on his grave tells the 
story of his life : 

“Ossa B. Jacoponi de Benedicts 
Tudertini, Fr. Ordinis Minorutn 
Qui stultiis propter Christum 
Nova Mnndum arte delusit, 

Et. Coffum rapult. 

Obdormivit in Domino 
Die xxv Deccmbris, Anno MCCLXXXXVI.” 

The year 1200 is not correct; hence Wadding calls this 
date a crassus error. 

The Mater Dolorosa has furnished the text to some 
of the noblest musical compositions by Palestrina, l’ergo- 


STABAT MATER 


STABAT MATER SPECIOSA 


973 


lesi, Astorga, Haydn, Bellini, Rossini, Neukorara. That 
of Palestrina is still annually performed in the Sistine 
Chapel during the Passion week ; that of Pergolesi, the 
last and most celebrated of his works, has never been 
surpassed, if equalled, in the estimation of critics of 
Pergolesi’s compositions. Tieck, in his Phantasus (ed. 
1812, ii, 384 sq.), expresses himself in the following man- 
ner: “The loveliness of sorrow in the depth of pain, 
this smiling in pain, this childlikeness which touches 
the highest heaven, had to me never before risen so 
bright in the soul; I had to turn away to conceal my 
tears, especially at the place ‘Yidit suum dulcem Na- 
tum.’ How significant that the Amen, after all is con- 
cluded, still sounds and plays in itself, and, in tender 
emotion, can find no end, as if it were afraid to dry up 
the tears and would still fill itself with sobbings! The 
hvmn itself is touching and profoundly penetrating. 
Surely the poet sang these rhymes, ‘ Qu:e mcerebat et 
dolebat cum videbat,' with a moved mind.” It is a tra- 
dition that the great impression which the Stubat J/a- 
ter of the young artist (Pergolesi) made on its first per- 
formance infiamed another musician with such furious 
envy that he stabbed the young man as he left the 
church. This tradition was long ago disproved ; but as 
Pergolesi died at an early age, it may, as some one re- 
marks, be permitted to the poet to refer to this story, 
and allow him to fall as a victim of his art and inspira- 
tion. 

HI. Translations . — Like the Dies Ires this hymn has 
challenged and defied the skill of the best translators 
and imitators. Thus Lisco mentions about eighty 
German translations and four Dutch. The earliest 
German translation is that by Herman of Salzburg 
{Maria stueml in swinclen smet'czen). Of other transla- 
tors we mention L. Tieck, De la Motte Fouque, A. L. 
Follen, Wessenberg, Daniel, Lisco, Konigsfeld, A, Knapp, 
etc. Of English translations we mention that of E. Cas- 
wall, in Hymns and Poems , “At the cross her station 
keeping;” that of lord Lindsay, in The Seven Great 
Hymns of the Mediceval Church (N. Y. I860), p. 98 : 

“ By the cross sad vigil keeping, 

Stood the mournful mother weeping, 

While on it the Saviour hung.” 

By Mant, in Ancient Ilymns , p. 96 : 

“By the cross sad vigil keeping, 

Stood the mother, doleful, weeping, 

Where her Son extended hung.” 

By Benedict, in Ilymns of Ilildebert , p. 65 : 

“Weeping stood his mother, sighing 
By the cross where Jesus, dying, 

Hung aloft on Calvary.” 

But the best translation is undoubtedly that of Dr. Coles, 
of Newark, N. J., which runs thus : 

“Stood th’ afflicted mother weeping, 

Near the cross her station keeping, 

Whereon hung her Son and Lord; 

Through whose spirit sympathizing, 

Sorrowing and agonizing, 

Also passed the cruel sword. 

“ Oh ! how mournful aud distressed 
Was that favored and most blessed 
Mother of the Only Son ! 

Trembling, grieving, bosom heaving, 

While perceiving, scarce believing, 

Paius of that Illustrious One. 

“ Who the man who, called a brother, 

Would not weep saw he Christ’s mother 
In such deep distress aud wild ? 

Who could not sad tribute render 
Witnessing that mother tender 
Agonizing with her Child? 

“ For his people’s sins atoning, 

Him she saw iu torments groaning, 

Given to the scourger’s rod ; 

Saw her darling offspring dyiug, 

Desolate, forsaken, crying, 

Yield his spirit up to God. 


“ Make me feel thy sorrow’s power, 

That with thee I tears may shower, 

Teuder mother, fount of love ! 

Make my heart with love unceasing 
Bnru towards Christ the Lord, that pleasing 
I may be to him above. 

“ Holy mother, this be granted, 

That the slain One’s wounds be planted 
Firmly in my heart to bide. 

Of him wounded, all astounded — 

Depths unbounded for me souuded, 

All the pangs with me divide. 

“ Make me weep with thee in union ; 

With the Crucified communion 
In his grief and suffering give. 

Near the cross with tears unfailing 
I would joiu thee in thy wailing 
Here as long as I shall live. 

“ Maid of maidens, all excelling! 

Be not bitter, me repelling, 

Make thou me a mourner too; 

Make me bear about Christ’s dying, 

Share his passion, shame defying, 

All his wounds iu me reuew. 

“ Wound for wound be there created; 

With the cross iutoxicated 
For thy Sou’s dear sake, I pray 
May I, fired with pure affection, 

Virgin, have through thee protection 
In the solemu judgment-day. 

“ Let me by the cross be warded, 

By the death of Christ be guarded, 

Nourished by diviue supplies. 

When the body death hath riven, 

Grant that to the soul be giveu 
Glories bright of Paradise.” 

IV. Criticism. — As to the character of this hymn. Dr. 
Coles says: “No admiration of the lyric excellence of 
the Slabat Mater should be allowed to blind the reader 
to those objectionable features which must always suf- 
fice, as they have hitherto done, to exclude it from ev- 
ery hymnarium of Protestant Christendom. For not 
only is Mary made the object of religious worship, but 
the incommunicable attributes of the Deity are freely 
ascribed to her. Her agency is invoked as if she were 
the third person of the Trinity, or had powers co-ordi- 
dinate and equal. Plainly it is the province of the 
Holy Ghost, and not of any creature, to ‘work in us to 
will and to do;’ to effect spiritual changes; to ‘take of 
the things of Christ and show them unto us;’ and yet 
these are the very things which she herself is asked to 
accomplish for the suppliant.” True as this is, yet the 
remark of Dr. Schaff is worthy of consideration : “ But 
we should make allowance for the irresistible influence 
of the spirit of the times, and not overlook the truth 
which underlies almost every error of the Roman 
Church, and gives it such power over the pious feelings 
of her members.” 

Y. Literature . — On the author’s life, see Wad- 
ding, A nn<des Minoru m seu Trium Ordinum a S. Fran- 
cisco Institutorum (2d ed. Rome, 1 731 sq. [21 vols, in all] ), 
iv, 407 sq. ; v, 606 sq. ; vi, 76 sq. The best monograph 
is still Lisco’s Stabat M a ter (Berlin, 1843), to which 
may be added Dr. Coles’s Latin Hymns (N. Y. 1868), 
mainly based on Lisco’s work. Dr, Schaff published an 
article on the two Stabat Maters in the Hours at Home 
for May, 1867, p. 50-58. There is also a collection of 
Dutch translations of this hymn, published in the Bel- 
gisch Museum voor de nederduitsche Tael - en Letterkunde 
en de Geschiedenis des Yader lands, uitgegeven door J. F. 
Willems. Te Gent, bij Gvseliuck (1839), p. 443-472, 
See also Herzog, Real- Encyklop. xiv, 718-720; Theolog . 
Universal-Lcxikon, s. v.; Daniel, Thesaurus Hymnol . ii, 
114; Ozanam, Les Poetes Franciscains en Italie au Trei- 
zieme Siecle , avec un Choix des Petites Fleurs de St. 
Frangois, traduits de Vltalien (Paris, 1852; Germ, transl. 
by N. 11. Julius, Minister, 1853). See Mater Dolo- 
rosa. (B. P.) 

STABAT MATER SPECIOSA must be distinguished 
from the Stabat Mater Dolorosa (q. v.). While the 
former sets forth the sorrows of the Yirgin Mother at 


STABAT MATER SPECIOSA OU STABAT MATER SrECIOSA 


the cross, the J later Speciosa speaks of the joys of the 
Virgin at the manger. For five centuries the Muter 
Sjxciosa was forgotten, until A. F. Ozanam, in his /*<>- 
tfts Franciscains, rescued it from oblivion and gave 
it once more to the world. Cardinal Diepenbrock, 
bi>hop of Breslau, made an admirable German transla- 
tion of this Nativity hymn, and the late I>r. John Ma- 
son Neale published the original Latin, with the first 
English translation, in August, 18GG, a few days before 
hi.- death. 

I. Text . — The hymn itself runs thus: 

Stahat mater spcciosa 
Jnxta fauui m gmidiosn, 

Bum jacebat pawn I ns; 

Cnjns animain guudeniem 
Lac tab m id a m ac fcrreutcin 
lVrtransivit jubilus. 

O qnam la?tn et beuta 
Fnit ilia iinmaculata 
Mater Uuigeniti ! 

Qua* gamlebat et ridebat, 

Exultabnt, enm videbat 
Nati part uni iuclyti. 

Qnis jam cst qni non gauderet 
Clirisli matrem si videret 
In tanto solatio ? 

Qnis non posset col tola ri, 

Christ i matrem conteniplari 
Lud elite m cum Filio ? 

Pro peccatis sme gent is 
Christum vidit cum jumeutis 
El algori subditum ; 

Vidit suuiii dulceni Natmn 
Vngienteiii, adorntum, 

Vili diversorio. 

Nnto Christo in preesepe 
Cteli cives cannni hete 
Cum immense gaudio ; 

Stahat senex cum puella 
Non cum verbo nec loquela 
Stupescemes cordibus. 

Eja mater, fons amoris, 

Me sentire vim ardoris, 

Fac nt tecum sentiara I 
Fac ut ardent cor meum 
In nmatum Christum Deum, 

Ut sibi complaceam. 

Sancta mater, istnd agas, 

Prone iuiroducas plagas 
Cordi tixas valide. 

Tui Nati ccelo lapsi, 

Jam dignati fteno uasci 
Pumas inecnm divide. 

Fac me vere congandere, 

JeMi lino cohietere 
Donee ego vixero. 

In me sistai ardor tni ; 

Puerino fac me frui 
Bum sum in exilio. 

II nnc ardorem fac coinmnnem, 

Ne me facias immuncin 
Ab hoc desiderio. 

Virgo virginnm pneclara, 

Mihi jam non sis nnuira ; 

Fac me parvuin rapere ; 

Fac ut pub-brum fantem portem, 

Qni nnscemlo vicit mortem, 

Voleus vita in traderc. 

Fac me tecum satiari, 

Nnto me iuebfiari, 

Stans inter tripudio. 

Intlainmat iih et aeeensua 
Obsiupeseit onmis hensus 
T’ali ile commercio. 

C>iujm*-s stiibuhim miiantcs, 

Et pastures vigilantes 
I’ernoetaiiles socinnt. 

Per virtutein Nati tui 
Ora nt elect! sui 
Ad pntriam veiilanU 

Fac me Nato custodirl, 

Verbo Bel pneinunirl, 

('onset vini gratia; 
tynmdo corpus morietur, 
hac nt iinimie donetur 
Tui Nati vislo. 

II. Authorship .— to the source of this hymn, both 
Ozanam and l)r. Neale ascribe it to Jacopone da Todi, 


the author of the Stahat Mater Dolorosa ; while Drs. 
Schatf au<l Coles regard the Mater Speciosa as the work 
of some admiring imitator. Against the latter opinion 
it may be observed that the second edition of the Italian 
poems of Jacopone (Laude di Fra Jacopone da Todi), 
which appeared at Brescia in 1495, contains an appendix 
of several Latin poems, among which is one De Con - 
temptu Mtnidi, the Stahat Mater Dolorosa , and, accord- 
ing to Brunei, also the Stahat Mater Speciosa. On this 
ground, as well as on account of the general agreement 
of the hymn with what we know' of Jacopone and with 
the spirit of the early Franciscan poetry, Luke Wadding 
ascribed the Stahat Mater Dolorosa to Jacopone, who 
has ever since been commonly regarded as the author. 

In the absence of authentic or contemporary evi- 
dence, this opinion is no more than a probable conject- 
ure; but it is preferable to other conjectures. From 
the want of finish and the number of imperfect rhymes, 
I)r. Neale infers that the Mater Speciosa was composed 
first; but Dr. Schatf, and with him Dr. Coles, takes an 
opposite opinion. Says Dr. Schatf: “The Mater Do- 
lorosa was evidently suggested by the Scripture scene 
as briefly stated by St. John in the first words of the 
poem (in the Vulgate version); and this, again, sug- 
gested the cradle-hymn as a counterpart. It is a par- 
allelism of contrast which runs from beginning to end. 
The Mater Speciosa is a Christmas hymn, and sings 
the overflowing joy of Mary at the cradle of the new- 
born Saviour. The Mater Dolorosa is a Good-Friday 
hymn, and sings the piercing agony of Mary at the 
cross of her divine -human Son. They breathe the 
same love to Christ, and the burning desire to become 
identified with Mary by sympathy in the intensity of 
her joy as in the intensity of her grief. They are the 
same in structure, and excel alike in the singularly 
touching music of language and the soft cadence that 
echoes the sentiment. Both consist of two parts, the 
first of which describes the objective situation; the sec- 
ond identifies the author with the situation, and ad- 
dresses the Virgin as an object of worship. Both bear 
the impress of their age and of the monastic order which 
probably gave them birth. They are Roman Catholic 
in that they fix the pious contemplation upon the mother 
first, and only through her upon the Son ; while the 
Protestant looks first upon the Son, and worships him 
only. For this feature of Mariolatry they are, as a 
whole, unsuitable for an evangelical hymn-book, unless 
they be so changed as to place Christ in the foreground, 
and to address the prayer to him.” 

III. Translations . — We subjoin to this text of Dr. 
Neale his English translation : 

“ Full of beauty stood the mother 
By the manger, blest o’er other, 

Where her little one she lays: 

For her inmost soul’s elation, 

In its fervid jubilation, 

Thrills with ecstasy of praise. 

“ Oh ! what glad, what rapturous feeling 
Filled that blessed mother, kueeliug 
By the Sole-begotten One ! 

How, her heart with laughter bounding, 

She beheld the work astounding, 

Saw his birth, the glorious Son ! 

“ Who is he that sight who heareth 
Nor Christ’s mother’s solace shareth 
In her bosom as lie lay? 

Who is he that would not render 
Teml’rest love for hive so tender — 

Love, with that dear Babe at play? 

“ For the tiespass of her nation 
She with oxen saw his station 
Subjected to cold and woe: 

Saw her sweetest oftVpringV wailing, 

Wise men him with worship hailing, 

In the stable, mean and low. 

“ Jesus lying in the manger, 

Heavenly armies sang the stranger, 

In the great joy hearing part; 

Stood the old man with the maiden, 

No words speaking, only laden 
With this wonder in their heart. 


STACTE 


975 


STABAT MATER SPECIOSA 

“ Mother, fount of love still flowing, 

Let me, with thy rapture glowing, 

Learn to sympathize with thee: 

Let me raise my heart’s devotiou 
Up to Christ with pure emotion, 

That accepted I may be. 

“ Mother, let me win this blessing, 

Let his sorrow’s deep impressing 
In my heart engraved remaiu : 

Since thy Son, from heaven descending, 
Deigned to bear the manger’s teudiug, 

Oh ! divide with me his pain. 

“ Keep my heart its gladness bringing, 

To my Jesus ever clinging 

Long as this my life shall last ; 

Love like that thine own love, give it, 

On thy little child to rivet, 

Till this exile shall be past. 

Let me share thine nwu affliction ; 

Let me suffer no rejection 
Of my purpose tixed and fast. 

“ Virgin, peerless of condition, 

Be not wroth with my petition, 

Let me clasp thy little Son : 

Let me bear that child so glorious, 

Him whose birth, o’er death victorious, 

Willed that life for man was won. 

“ Let me, satiate with my pleasure, 

Feel the rapture of thy treasure 
Leaping for that joy intense: 

That, iuflamed by such communion, 

Through the marvel of that union 
I may thrill in every seuse. 

“ All that love this stable truly, 

And the shepherds watching duly, 

Tarry there the livelong night : 

Pray that, by thy Son’s dear merit, 

His elected may inherit 
Their own country’s endless light.” 

Besides I)r. Neale’s translation, we have one by E. C. 
Benedict, in Hymns of Hildebert, p. 21, commencing, 

** Beautiful, bis mother, standiug 
Near the stall — her son) expanding — 

Saw her New-born lyiug there.” 

And by Dr. Coles : 

“ Stood the glad and beauteous mother 
By the hay, where, like no other, 

Lay her little infant Boy.” 

This hymn has been translated into German by cardinal 
Diepenbrock : 

“ An der Krippe stand die hohe 
Mutter, die so selig t’rohe, 

Wo das Kiudleiu lag auf Streu.” 

And by Konigsfeld : 

“ Au der Krippe stand die hohe 
Gottesmutter, seeleufrohe, 

Wo er lag, der kleine Sohn.” 

IV. Character. — This hymn, like the Mater Dolo- 
rosa. is unfortunately disfigured by j\Iariola try, but, 
says Dr. Sehaff, “ The mysterious charm and power of 
the two hymns are due to the subject, and to the inten- 
sity of feeling with which the author seized it. Mary 
at the manger and Mary at the cross open a vista to 
an abyss of joy and of grief such as the world never saw 
before. Mary stood there not only as the mother, but 
as the representative of the whole Christian Church, 
for which the eternal Son of God was born an infant in 
the manger, and for which lie suffered the most igno- 
minious death on the cross. The author had the rare 
poetic faculty to bring out, as from immediate vision 
and heartfelt sympathy, the deep meaning of those 
scenes in stanzas of classic beauty and melody that 
melt the heart and start the tear of joy at the manger, 
and of penitential grief at the cross of Christ, and of 
burning gratitude to him for that unutterable love 
which caused his birth and his death for a lost and sin- 
ful world. Such lyrics as these can never die, nor lose 
their charm. ‘A thing of beauty is a joy forever.’” 

V. Literature. — Sehaff. a new Stabat Mater, in the 
Hours at Home , May, 1867 ; Neale, Stabat Mater Spe- 
ciosa, “Full of beauty stood the mother” (Lond. 1867); 


Coles, Latin Hymns (N. Y. 1868); Benedict, Hymns of 
Hildebert (ibid. 1867); Ozanam, LesJ’oetes Eranciscaius 
en Ita lie au Treizieme Siecle (Paris, 1852 : Germ, transl. 
by N. H. Julius). See Hymnology. (B. P.) 

Stabell, Theodor, a German monk, was born in 
1806 at Lack, in Carniola. At a very early age ho joined 
the Order of the Benedictines, and labored from 1835 to 
1837 as professor at the St. Stephen’s Gymnasium of 
Augsburg, and from 1839 to 1851 at Salzburg. He died 
in the chapter of St. Peter at Salzburg, Nov. 6, 1866, 
after having completed his Biographies of the Saints. 
See Literarischer 1 1 andiveiser , 1866, p. 81. (B. 1*.) 

Stable is once ( Ezek. xxv, 5) the rendering of 
1Y13, navehy a dwell ivy or habitation (as usually ren- 
dered); hence a pasture or resting-place for flocks or 
other animals. See Stall. 

Sta'chys (Srayn c, an ear of corn; occurs as a 
proper name in Gruter’s Inscript. 689 a), a Christian 
at Home, saluted by Paul in the Epistle to the Homans 
(xvi, 9). A.D. 55. According to a tradition recorded 
by Nicephorus Callistus (II. E. viii, 6), he was appoint- 
ed bishop of Byzantium by St. Andrew, held the office 
for sixteen years, and was succeeded by Onesimus. He 
is also said by Hippolytus and Dorotheus to have been 
one of the seventy disciples. 

Stack or ■ns, yadish , a heap [once a “tomb,” Job 
xxi, 32], as of grain, Exod. xxii, 6 ; elsewhere “ shock”). 

Stackhouse, Thomas, an English divine, was 
born in 1680. He was for some time minister of the 
English Church at Amsterdam, and afterwards succes- 
sively curate at Richmond, Ealing, and Finchley. In 
1733 he was presented to the vicarage of Benham-Val- 
ence, alias Beenham, in Berkshire, where he died, Oct. 
11, 1752. lie wrote, The Miseries and Great Hardships 
of the Inferior Cleryy in and about London (1722, 8 vo) : 
— Memoirs of Bishop Atterbury (1723, 8 vo): — A Com- 
plete Body of Divinity (1729, fol.): — A Fair State of 
the Controversy between Mr. Woolston and his A d versa - 
ries, etc. (1730, 8vo) : — A Defence of the Christian Re- 
ligionfrom the Several Objections of Antiscript mdsts, etc. 
(1731, 8vo) : — Reflections on the Nature and Property of 
Languages (1731, 8vo) : — The Book-binder , Book-printer , 
and Book-seller Confuted , etc. (1732, 8vo): — New I/is- 
tory of the Bible, from the Beginning of the World to the 
Establishment of Christianity (1732, 2 vols. fol.) : — New 
and Practical Exposition of the Creed (1747, fob): — 
Vana Doctrince Emolument a (1752, 4to) : — Sermons, etc. 
See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v.* Hook, Eccles. Bioy. s. v, 

Stac'te (7jZ23. natdph ; Sept, ora/cri ] ; Yulg. stacte), 
the name of one of the sweet spices which composed the 
holy incense (see Exod. xxx, 34): “And the Lord said 
unto Moses, Take unto thee sweet spices, stacte {natuph), 
and onveha, and galbanum ? these sweet spices with 
pure frankincense. Thou shalt make it a perfume after 
the art of the apothecary” (ver. 35). The Heb. word 
occurs once again (dob xxxvi, 27), where it is used to 
denote simply “a drop” of water. Natdph has been va- 
riously translated — balsam , liquid styrax, benzoin, costus, 
mastich , bdellium. Celsius is of opinion that it means 
the purest kind of myrrh, called stacte by the Greeks. 
See Mor. He adduces Pliny (xii, 35) as saving of the 
myrrh-trees, “Sudant sponte staeten dietam,” and re- 
marks, “ Ebneis nutlwf est stillare” — adding, as an 
argument, that if you do not translate it myrrh in this 
place, you will exclude myrrh altogether from the sa- 
cred perfume (Hitrob. i, 529). But Rosenmuller says, 
“This, however, would not be suited for the preparation 
of the perfume, and it also has another Hebrew name, 
for it is called mor dtror. But the Greeks also called 
stakte a species of storax gum, which Dioscorides.de- 
scribes as transparent like a tear and resembling myrrh 
(see Pliny, xiii, 2; Athen. xv, 688; Dioseor. i, 73, 77). 
This agrees well with the Hebrew name” (Bibl. Bot. 
p. 164). The Septj oraKTi) (from ora^oj, “to drop”) is 


STACY 


STAFF 


97G 


the exact translation of the Hebrew word. Now Di- 
oscorides describes two kinds of otuktii — one is the fresh 
gum of the myrrh-tree (Balsamodeudron myrrha) mix- 
ed with water and squeezed out through a press (i, 74) ; 
the other kind, which he calls, from the manner in 
which it is prepared, (jKioXpKiri}^ arc pat. denotes the 
resin of the storax adulterated with wax and fat (i,79). 
The true stacte of the Greek writers points to the dis- 
tillation from the myrrh-tree, of which, according to 
Theophrastus (/•>. iv, 29. cd. Schneider), both a nat- 
ural and an artificial kind were known. Perhaps the 
natiiph denotes t he storax gum, but all that is positively 
known is that it signifies an odorous distillation from 
some plant. The Arabs apply the term mdaf to a 
sweetmeat composed of sugar, Hour, and butter, in 
equal parts, with the addition of aromatics (see Bodtei 
a Stapel Comment, ad Theoph . p. 984; Hartmann, He - 
hr Serin , i, 307; vi, 110 sq. ; (iescnius, Thesunr. p.879; 
Tristram. Sat. Hist, of the Bible , p. 395). See Anoint- 
ing Oil; Si’K'K. 

The storax {Sty rax officinale) is a native of Syria. 
With its leaves like the poplar, downy underneath, and 



with sweet-scented snow-white flowers clustered on the 
extremities of the branches, it grows to a height of fif- 
teen or twenty feet. The reddish- yellow gum -resin 
which exudes from the hark, and which is highly fra- 
grant. contains benzoic and cinnamic acids. From the 
kindred plant. Styrax benzoin, a native of Borneo and 
Java, is obtained the benzoin or benjamin which the 
llindAs burn in their temple* — a circumstance strongly 
in favor of the hypothesis that the stacte of Exodus is 
a storax. Sec 1Nhm.au. 

Stacy, Aaron G , a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal i Torch, South, was born near Morgantown, 
Burke Co., N. t\, Nov. 1 5, 1X22. lie joined the Church 
Jan. 1, 1 x.%, and professed conversion July 29, 1X39. 
lie was educated at t'okeslniry. S. ( was licensed to 
pren< li S-ptoinber, 1X-I1, and in lx 17 entered the South 
Carolina Conference, He continued in the pastoral 
work until 1*1*3. when he was elected president of the 
PavenjH.rt Female College. N. ( ’. In 1x73 he was 
transferred to the Texas Conference, and became presi- 
dent of the Austin Female College, where he died April 


8, 1875. See Minutes of A miual Conferences of the M. 
K. Church, South, 1875, p. 200. 

Stacy, James, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, South, was born in Lincolnton, N. C., Nov. 
18, 1807, where he was converted September, 1822, li- 
censed to preach July, 1829, and admitted into the 
South Carolina Conference in 1830. He gave the 
| Church thirty-eight years of laborious and unremit- 
ting labor, one year of which he was the agent for 
Cokesbtirv School and Randolph Macon College. He 
was several times a member of the General Conference, 
llis death took place May 28, 1868. See Minutes of 
Annual Confer, of the M. E . Church, South, 1868, p. 21*3. 

Stade (<rr«<*<or), the proper designation of a term 
used in two senses in the Bible. 

1. A “furlong,” a Greek measure of distance univer- 
sally current in the East from the time of Alexander 
the Great, and hence occasionally occurring in the 
Apocrypha (2 Mace, x, 16, 29; xi, 5; xii, 9, 17) and 
the New Test. (Luke xxiv, 13; John vi, 19; xi, 18; 
Rev. xiv, 20; xxi, 16), but regularly in Josephus for 
the determination of the location of places. One 
(Olympic) stadium, as a measure, contained, accord- 
ing to Herodotus (ii, 149), 600 Greek feet, i. e., accord- 
ing to Pliny (ii. 21 ; comp. Censorinus, p. 13), 125 Ro- 
man paces or 625 feet, so that eight stadia made up a 
Homan mile (comp. Strabo, vii, 322; Pliny, iii, 39, 
8). According to late researches (see Ukert, Geoyr. d. 
Griecken, 1, ii, 73 sq. ; Forbiger, I/andb . i, 551 sq.), 600 
Greek feet = 570 feet 3 inches 4 lines, Paris measure, or 
606f feet English. It appears, likewise, from the above 
passages of Luke, that 60 stadia were reckoned as 1| 
mile, and John (xi, 18) reckons 15 stadia as § of a mile. 
In the Talmud the stadium is called D"*) or of 
which 74 went to the Homan mile (Keland, Palcest. 
p. 408). See Metrology. 

2. A “ race”-course in the public games (1 Cor. ix, 

24; comp. Heb. xii, 1 ; in the Talmud, Aboda 

Sura, i, 7). where the lists (dpnpoc), whether armed or 
unarmed, was located, and which was generally (not al- 
ways; see Forbiger, tit sup. p. 551 sq.) 125 paces or 600 
Greek feet long (see Potter, Gr. A ntiq. i, 962 sq.). Who- 
ever first reached the goal {<tko 7toc) received from the 
arbiter (d£\o£en/c, fipafitvt;, or f3 pafievTi'ic, Sueton. 
Sei’o, 53) the prize (fipafiGov, 1 Cor. loc. cit.; Phil, 
iii, 14), namely, a crown (artepavot;, 1 Cor. ix, 25) of 
living twigs or leaves. Every important city of 
Greece and the Greek colonies of Asia Minor (also the 
Palestinian cities that contained many Greek inhabi- 
tants; Josephus, Life, § 17, 64) had its stadium, either 
separate or in connection with the gymnasia (Wachs- 
nmth, ilellen . Alterth. ii, 678). See Lvdii Ayonistica 
Sacra (Hotterd. 1657). — Winer. See Game. 

Stadings. See Stedtngehs. 

Stadler, Johann Evangelist, a Roman Catholic 
divine, was born Dec. 24, 1804, at Parkstetten, in the Up- 
i per Palatinate, lie studied theology and Oriental lnn- 
j guages at Landshut and Munich, and from 1823 until his 
I deatli (Dec. 30, 1868) he occupied some of the highest 
1 positions in his Church. He wrote, Lexicon Manuale 
Hebraico-Latinum et Chulduico-biblicnm (Munich, 1831): 
— he I dent it ate Sapient he P. T.et Yerbi S. T. (ibid. 1829). 
lie also published correct editions of the Roman missal 
and breviary; but bis main work is bis Vollstdndiges 
Ueilif/enlexikon (Augsburg, 1858-68, vol. i-iii. contin- 
ued bv J. N. Ginal). See Hcyensburyer Conversations- 
Lexikon, s. v. ; Literarischer Handweiser , 1869, p. 129; 
Fitrst, Bill. dud. iii, 377 ; Steiusclmeider, Biblioyr. 
Handhuch, p. 135. (B. P.) 

Staff (usually Hi: "2, bj? *9, or pdfiSoQ’, all 

designating a stick). The use of rods and staffs was as 
various with the ancient Israelites as with us. Men and 
animals were goaded with them (Exod. xxi, 20 [comp. 
Sir. xxxiii, 27]; Numb, xxii, 27; 1 Sam. xvii, 43; 2 
Sam. vii, 14 ; Prov. x, 13 ; xiii, 24 ; Isa. ix, 3) [see 13 as- 




STAFF 


977 


STAFF 


tinado]; fruit was beaten with them from the trees 
(Judg. vi, 11; Ruth ii, 17; Isa. xxviii. 27), especially 
olives (q. v.). Old and infirm people carried them as 
supports or for defence (Exod. xxi, 19; Zech. viii, 4 
[see the monograph of Canz, De Pech Servatoris^uh. 
1750]), also travellers (Gen. xxxii, 10; Exod. xii, 11; 
2 Kings iv, 29; Matt, x, 10; Mark vi, 8). See Walk. 
A baton, like a ring, was often a sign of rank (Gen. 
xxxviii, 18, 25; cornp. Herod, i, 19; Bonomi, Nineveh , 
p. 197) ; sometimes inscribed with the owner’s name 
(Wilkinson, Anc. Egypt* ii, 347); and especially a badge 
of office (Exod. iv, 2 sq.; vii, 9 sq.; Numb, xx, 8; xxi, 
18; Jndg. v, 14; 1 Sam. xiv, 27 ; Psa. cx, 2; Mic. vii, 
14). See Sceptre. The shepherd carried a staff, 
which he used not only as a support in climbing hills, 
but for the purpose of beating bushes and low brush- 
wood in which the flocks strayed, and where snakes 
and other reptiles abounded. It may also have been 
used for correcting the shepherd-dogs and keeping them 
in subjection (Van Lennep, Bible Lands, p. 188). See 
Shepherd. 

In Ileb. xi, 21 it is cited as an example of faith that 
the dying Jacob “worshipped [leaning] upon the top 
of his staff” ( irpoGetcvviiatv iiri to dicpov rgg pd(38ov 
avrou'), a statement which Romanists have sometimes 
appealed to as sanctioning the worship of images, on 
the pretence that the patriarch’s staff bore a carved 
head (after the Vulg. adoravit fastigium bacilli sni'). 
These words are simply quoted from the Sept, at Gen. 
xlvii, 31, where the Greek translator has mistaken 
bed, for 11 "3 *2, staff, as is obvious from the paral- 
lel passage (xlix, 33). The phrase merely indicates a 
revereutial posture such as David assumed (1 Kings i, 
47). See Zeibich, De Jacobo ad Caput Scipionis Ado- 
rante (Ger. 1783). See Jacob. 

STAFF, Pastoral, a symbol of episcopal author- 
ity, resembling a shepherd’s crook, and pointed at the 
end as an emblem both of encouragement and correction. 
It was originally a simple walking-stick with a plain 
head or a cross-piece at the top. The Russian bishops 
use one with two curved heads. It was eventually 
wrought into very elaborate forms; but was, at length, 
generally discarded, except by the patriarch (q. v.) who 



Egbert, Bishop of Treves, with Pastoral Staff. (From a 
MS. of the 10th ceutury.) 

IN.-Q Q Q 


retained it in its primitive form. The pope gave up 
the use of the staff in the middle of the 12th century, 
and cardinal-bishops no longer carry it. The early 
staffs were mostly made of cypress-wood, and after- 
wards of ivory, copper-gilt, crystal, and precious metals 
richly carved, jewelled, or enamelled. Between 1150 
and 1280 the crook was often formed of a serpent (the 
old dragon), or contained St. Michael or the lion of 
Judah, and at a later period the prelate praying be- 
fore his patron saint. Beautiful crocheted work was 
also added on the exterior of the crook. The French 
abbot’s staff has its crook turned inward, to show that 
his jurisdiction extended only over his house, while the 
bishop’s crook turned outward, to denote his external 
jurisdiction over his diocese. In the Penitential of 
Theodore and the Ordo Romanus the bishop gave the 
abbot his staff and sandals. The banner on the staff 
was originally a handkerchief. Fine spec- 
imens of staffs are preserved — those of 
Wykeham, of silver -gilt, enamelled, at 
New College ; of Fox, at Corpus Christi 
College; of Laud, at St. John's College, 

Oxford; of Smith, of the 17th century, at 
York ; of Mews and Trelawney, at Win- 
chester. Others are to be seen in the 
British Museum, the Museum Clugny, at 
Chichester, and Hildesheim. See Pasto- 
ral Staff. 

It was ordered by the first book of Ed- 
ward VI that “whensoever the bishop 
shall celebrate the holy communion in the 
church, or execute any other ministration, 
he shall have his pastoral staff in his hand, 
or else borne or lioklen by his chaplain.” 

When, however, Dr. Matthew Parker was 
consecrated archbishop of Canterbury, in 
December, 1559, no pastoral staff was de- 
livered to him. Its delivery was pre- 
scribed in the Ordinal of 1550, but not by 
that of 1552. From that time the staff 
has been generally disused, although the 
bishops of Oxford, Chichester, Rochester, 

Salisbury, Honolulu, Capetown, and some 
other colonial prelates, have resumed its 
use. — Walcott, Bacred A rchceol. s. v. See 
Crosier. 

STAFF, Precentor’s. A staff or baton 
of office made of wood or precious metal, 
used by a precentor (u) to designate his 
rank and office, and also (b) to enable him 
to beat time and keep time in sight of 
the whole choir. Of the precentor’s staff 
there are three kinds — (1) ornamented 
with a pommel of gold, like one preserved 
at Limburg -on- the -Lahn, and within 
memory at Rheims; (2) having a carving, 
like those of St. Gereon’s and the Dom at 
Cologne — the latter has a staff of the 12th 
century, with the Adoration of the Magi 
added in the 14th century; (3) terminat- 
ing in a Tan-shaped head,, usually of box- 
wood, like St. Servais’, of the 12th century, 
at Maestricht. Sometimes the staff was 
made of ivory, adorned with bands of sil- 
ver, gilt-edged, with gems, and ending in 
a crystal ball. It was sometimes called 
serpentella, from a figure of the Virgin 
treading on a serpent, as at Paris. The 
slightly curved top of the “cross of St. 

Julienne” at Montreuil-sur-Mer, of the 
11th century, marks the transition from 
the staff to that borne by a bishop. The 
chanter’s baton of St. Denis, now in the 
Louvre, was carried by Napoleon I, and 
the French kings before him, at their coro- , 

nation, as “the golden sceptre of Charle- staff^lStlf 
magne,”from a seated figure of the mon- century). 



978 


STAIILSCID1IDT 


ST A FFELSTE I X ER 

arch on the top: it is dated 1384. At Amiens the 
choristers carried little silver crosses, and the priest- 
ehaitter and chanter had stalls with figures in a dome- 
like niche, hut formerly used batons of silver of the 
Tau-shape. which at length descended to the hands of 
chanters and choristers on certain days. The precentor 
on great festivals used the stall' at Paris, Rouen, Angers, 
Lyons Catania, Xeti, Messina, and Syracuse. — Walcott, 
tittered . 1 rchipol. s. v. See Precentor. 

Staffelsteiner, Paul (originally Xathan Ahrori), 
a convert from .Indaism, was professor of Hebrew at 
Heidelberg in the Kith century. The programme in 
which the rector of the university invited the students 
to attend his lectures is still preserved, and from the 
following passage wc may judge as to the lectures Staf- 
felsteiuer was to deliver: “Idem hie auspicabitur eras 
nb enarrationc Celebris dicti quod dc mundi dnratione 
in donio Heine sotmisse traditur. Granimatica deinceps 
traetabit compendia ac pnecepta e seripuira petitis ex- 
cinplis illuslrabit idiiuc curabit sedulo, ut ad phrasin, 
qua* multos a philolffgicis lectiouibns arcet, adsuetieri 
auditor possit vetustis#imamque illam paulatim amare 
theologiam.” Stnffelsteiner published, Tract at vom 
Messius (Heidelberg. 1530) : — Adhortatio mi Judte os ad 
O pinion? m de .1 Jtssia Curundi hiss. (ibid. 1500): — 
iutio Corruption is Ps. xxii, Judieis Factie (ibid. 1500): 
— Portray iiber die Wahrheit des Christenthums, being an 
introduction to his lectures (ibid. 1551). See Kalkar, 
Israel u/ul die Kirche , p. 88; Fiirst, Bill. Jud . iii, 377 ; 
Geiger, has Studium der htbr. tip ruche in Beutschland, 
p. 00. (B. P.) 

Staffort Book, The, a book written to justify the 
exchange of the Lutheran for the Reformed faith by t he 
margrave Ernest Frederick of Baden (died 1004), and i 
printed in 1590 at the Castle of Station, a few miles to 
the north of Carlsruhe, it begins with a preface ad- 
dressed to margrave George Frederick, and then pro- ; 
ceeds to collate the Auyustana as embodied in the 
Jiook of Concord with the original manuscript copy | 
signed bv the princes assembled in diet at Xanmburg, ! 
Feb. 1, 1501. Next follows a careful comparison of the \ 
Lutheran catechism contained in the Book of Concord j 
with the Wittenberg edition of 1570. The object of j 
t his review was to demonstrate that intentional altera- I 
lions and falsitications had been made. A detailed crit- 
icism of the teachings of the Formula of Concord is 
given, with reference especially to Cliristologv and the 
doctrine of the ubiquity of Christ’s body in the sacra- 
ment, followed by an examination of the citations from 
ancient ecclesiastical writings contained in the appen- 
dix to the Book of Concord* and designed to show the 
general correspondence of doctrine between these dill’er- 
ent authorities. Every variation from the original, so 
discovered, is at once cltarged to wilful dishonesty. 
The hook concludes wit h the margrave’s own confession 
of faith with reference to the doctrines de /Hero orbit rio , 
de providmtiu l triple pru’dextinationeple persona Christ i , 
of the sacraments generally, and of baptism and the 
Lord's supper particularly. 

A response to t he Maffort book was issued by the 
Wllrtemberg theologians in the following year (1000); 
and a w eoud work appeared in 1001 in defence of the j 
Book of Conroni. The Saxons also entered the li*ts | 
against the “ margrave’s Calviuislie hook.” Two replies i 
to the Witrtcmhcrgcrs were issued by t lie margrave in ! 
1002. The controversy was, however, transferred to 
other hands hy the margrave’s death in 1G0L — llerzog, ! 
}h ill- Bury kb if). v. 

Stag. See Di i.it. 

Stage, a step, lloor, or story. The term is particu- 
larly applied to | lie spares or divisions between the set- 1 
offs of butire.Hsrs in Gothic architect lire, and to the hori- I 
zoiual divisions of windows which are intersected by 
transoms. 1 'a rker, Clogs. of. In hitert. s. v. 

Stage-playing. In the early Church, actors and 


stage- players were regarded as ineligible to member- 
ship. The canons forbade all such to be baptized except 
on condition that they first bade adieu to their arts. 
Should they return to them, they w'ere excommunicat- 
ed, and were not reconciled or received again to favor 
but upon their conversion (Cone. Eliberis, can. 02; Cone. 
Cart hag. 3, can. 35). They were forbidden communion 
as long as they continued to act. Genuadius cautions 
against ordaining any who had been actors or stage- 
players. In the lime of Cyprian not only public actors, 
but private teachers and masters of this art, were debarred 
the communion of the Church. The same regulations 
prevailed against chariot-drivers, gladiators, and all who 
had any concern in the exercise or management of such 
sports, and all frequenters of them. The reason assigned 
for such exclusion was that “it was agreeable neither to 
the majesty of God nor the discipline of the Gospel 
that the modesty and honor of the Church should be 
defiled with so base and infamous a contagion,” This 
indictment was none too severe, for wc may add that 
“this kind of life was scandalous even among the wise 
and sobef part of the heathen.” Tertulliau observes 
(iJe /Spectac. c. 22) that they who professed these arts 
were noted with infamy, degraded, and denied many 
privileges, driven from court, from pleading, from t lie 
senate, from the order of knighthood, and all other hon- 
ors in the Roman city and commonwealth. See Bing- 
ham, Christ. Antiq. bk. xi, ch. v, § 7 ; bk. xvi, ch. iv, § 10, 
See Theatre. 

Stalielin, Joiiann Jacob, a Protestant divine, was 
born May G, 1797, at Basle; studied theology at Tubing- 
en from 1817 to 1821, and commenced lecturing as a 
privat elocent at Basle in 1823. In 1828 he was made 
extraordinary professor of theology, in 1835 ordinary 
professor, and in 1842 he was honored with the doctorate 
of divinity. He lectured on the Old Test, until his 
death. Aug. 27, 1875. He wrote, Kritische Untersuckun- 
(jen iiber die Genesis (Basle, 1830): — A nimadver stones 
quondam in Jacobi Vaticinium (ibid. 1827): — Kritische 
Untersuchunyen iiber den Pentateuch , die Bucher Josua , 
Richter , /Samuel mid der Koiriye (Berlin, 1843) : — ]Jie 
messianischen Weissvyimyen des olten Testaments in ihrer 
Entstehvny , etc. (ibid. 1847) : — Specielle Kinleituny in die 
kanonischen Bucher des alien Testaments ( Elberfeld, 
1862). He also wrote different essays for the Studini 
und Kritiken and Zeitschrift der dentschen morgenl. 
Gesellschaft. See Fiirst, Bib/. Jud. iii, 377 ; Zuchold, 
Bibl. Theol. ii, 1252 sq. ; Theoloy . Universal- Leaikon, 
s. v. (B. P.) 

Stahls chmidt, John Christian, a minister of the 
German Reformed Church, was born not far from Cologne, 
in the principality of Xassau-Siegen, March 3, 1740. In 
his nineteenth year lie was brought to sympathize con- 
siderably with Pietistic separatists, which so displeased 
his father that he whipped him, extorting from him a 
promise that he would no more associate with them or 
read their hooks while under his care. He decided to 
leave home, and went to Amsterdam, in which city he 
had learned that the books of the Pietists were published. 
Disappointed at not finding his hopes realized in that 
city, lie sailed for the East Indies, arriving at Batavia 
dune 3, 1700, and from thence proceeded to China. 
Returning to Europe, he went to Altona, near Hamburg, 
hoping to find congenial friends and employment there. 
Disappointed, he again went to sea, and came hack to 
Amsterdam June 1, 17G5. Led by the reading of 
Tersteegen’s writings, Stahlscbmidt visited him in 
August, 1766, and again in 1767, receiving much in- 
struction and encouragement from him. lie entered 
into business with an uncle, in which he continued till 
the autumn of 1769. lie again (March, 1770) started 
out in search of employment, visiting Rotterdam, Ilel- 
voetsluis, Harwich, and London, arriving in Philadel- 
phia, Pa., in August, 1 770. Here he began to study 
under Dr. Wcyberg, and after some time became assist- 
ant to Dr. lleitdcl, of Tulpchocken. In 1777 he was 


STAINED GLASS 


979 


STAIRS 


licensed and ordained, and entered the pastorate in 
York, Pa. In August, 1779, he sailed for Amsterdam, 
his parents’ home, which he reached in June, 1780. Re- 
solved to return to America as soon as the war should 
close, he went to live with his uncle, and became so 
engaged in business and other pursuits that he remained 
in Europe. The last notice of him that we have is in 
the album of Rev. J. Reilv, under date of Oct. 25, 1825. 
lie wrote Die Pilger zu 1 Passer und zu Lund (Nurem- 
berg, 1799). See Harbaugh, Fathers of the Reformed 
Churchy ii, 252. 

Stained (or Painted) Glass. Though often 
used as if they were synonymous, there is a broad dis- 
tinction between these terms. Stained glass is glass the 
substance of which has been stained or colored in the 
process of manufacture; while painted glass is that 
which, whether previously stained or colorless, has had 
a design painted upon it in colors, usually metallic ox- 
ides, combined with a vitreous vehicle or flux. The art 
of making colored glass was known to the Egyptians 
and Assyrians, and" from them passed to the Greeks and 
Romans. The earliest reference to the use of stained- 
glass windows in Europe appears to be in a passage of 
Prudentius, about the middle of the 5th century; but a 
more distinct mention is made in the following century. 
Painted -glass windows are not spoken of for two or 
three centuries later. The earliest examples, discovered 
by Lasteyrie, are in the abbey of Tegernsee, Bavaria, 
presented to the abbey by count Arnold in A.D. 999. 
Five other windows in the same abbey, painted bv the 
monk Wernher, date between 1068 and 1091, At llildes- 
heim there are also some which are attributed to one 
Bruno, and to the years 1029-39. The earliest exam- 
ples in France belong to the 12th century, the oldest 
being a representation of the funeral of the Virgin, in 
Angers Cathedral, of the first half of the century; the 
others are some medallion windows of a very remarka- 
ble character, placed in St. Denis by the abbe' Suger in 
the latter half of the century. There is, however, a 
small portion believed to be of the 11th century at Le 
Mans. The earliest known examples in Great Britain 
are of the end of the 12th century, as in the clear-story 
of Canterbury. It was in the latter part of the 12th 
and the 13th century that the art made its greatest ad- 
vance; and, as decorative works, the windows of the 
13th century are superior to those of any other period. 
The oldest English examples are in Canterbury and 
Salisbury cathedrals; but the finest are the magnificent 
five sister lancets (fifty feet high) of York Minster, and 
the great rose window of Lincoln Cathedral, in which 
the central Majesty (or Christ in Glory) is surrounded 
by sixteen compartments containing the typical events 
of the life of Christ. The chief French examples— many 
of them of extraordinary grandeur and beauty — are in 
the cathedrals of Chartres, Bourges, Paris, Amiens, Sois- 
sons, Rouen, and Sens, and the Sainte Cbapelle, Paris. 

The painted glass of the 14th century was more vivid 
in color, broader in style, and the painting better exe- 
cuted ; but it was less pure in conception, and less strictly 
subordinated to the general architectural effect. One of 
the best examples of English work of this period is the 
east window of Bristol Cathedral. Other characteristic 
examples occur at York Minster; Exeter Cathedral; the 
chapel of Merton College, Oxford; Tewkesbury Abbey 
Church; Norbury Church, Derbyshire; Lowick Church, 
Northamptonshire, etc. 

In the 15th century a great change took place in 
glass-painting. The windows became still more indi- 
vidualized, and less dependent on the architecture. The 
subjects occupied a larger space, and were treated more 
as pictures. The details are put in with much care, and 
very 1, skilful manipulation is exhibited throughout. But 
the color is poor, white glass is chiefly employed, and the 
general effect is cold and comparatively feeble. Some 
of the examples — the earlier ones especially — are, how- 
ever, very elaborate and impressive. Of this class is 
the magnificent east window of the choir of York Min- 


ster, which consists of no fewer than one hundred and 
sixteen compartments, each having a separate subject. 

By the end of the 15th century Gothic architecture 
was everywhere dead or dying. The aim of glass-paint- 
ers was to rival the effects of oil-paintings; and windows 
were mere imitations of oil-pictures, the glass being 
treated as if it were a canvas or panel. Examples 
are to be seen in the splendid series of twenty-seven 
large windows of King’s College Chapel, Cambridge, 
1527 and succeeding years; the great east window of 
St. Margaret’s, Westminster; Fairford Church. In 
France there are numerous fine examples of lOth-een- 
tury windows in the cathedrals of Bourges, Auxerre, 
Aueh, Beauvais, Sens, Eheims, etc. 

From this time glass-painting fell more and more into 
disrepute, though windows continued to be painted, and 
some glass painters, especially in France, acquired a cer- 
tain celebrity. The renovation of the art was coincident 
with the revival of Gothic architecture. It has since 
been studied earnestly by archaeologists, and pursued 
zealously by a numerous body of practitioners. 1 lither- 
to, however, little original power has been exhibited in 
the designs; the object aimed at being mainly to pro- 
duce faithful imitations of mediaeval glass, the style 
being of the 13th, 14th, or 15th century, according to 
the taste of the patron. There is a kind of ornamental 
window-glass called matted work, in which the glass is 
covered with a very fusible composition, either white or 
tinted, reduced to a powder. This powder is then re- 
moved from certain parts of the glass, according to the 
required pattern, and, after firing, produces on the glass 
a dull ground with a bright pattern. Another method 
of ornamenting glass, rather inappropriately called em- 
bossing, consists of a bright figure on a dull ground. 
This is etched with hydrofluoric acid. 

The following are works to consult as to the history 
of the art: Gessert , Gesckichte der Glasmalerei in Deutsch- 
land und Niederlanden, Frankreich, England, etc. (Stutt- 
gart, 1839, 8vo) ; Lasteyrie, Ilistoire de la Peinture sur 
) "erre d'apres des Monumens en France (Paris, [838-56. 
2 vols. fob); Warrington, History of Stained Glass from 
the Eai'liest Period of the Art to the Present Time (1848, 
1 vol. fob); Weale, Divers IPorA’s of Early asters in 
Christian Decoration (1846-47, 2 vols. fob). For author- 
ities on the theory and practice of the art, consult the 
English Cyclopaedia, A rts and Sciences , art. “ Glass,” to 
which article we are indebted for most of the above in- 
formation. 

Stair (usually or Jib 2 ’3, an ascent; once 

nrn^'a, Cant, ii, 14, a precipice, “steep place,” Ezek. 
xxxviii, 20; Vlb, a “winding stair” or staircase, 1 
Kings vi, 8). The expression translated “on the top 
of the stairs” (2 Kings ix, 13) is one the clue to which 
is lost. The word rendered “ top” is gerem, i. e. a 
bone, and the meaning appears to be that they placed 
Jehu on the substance, i. e. the very stairs themselves, 
if be stairs, without any seat or chair below 

him. The stairs doubtless ran round the inside of the 
quadrangle of the house, as they do still, for instance, 
in the ruin called the house of Zacehams at Jericho, 
and Jehu sat where they joined the flat platform which 
formed the top or roof of the house. Thus he was con- 
spicuous against the sky, while the captains were below 
him in the open quadrangle. The old versions throw 
little or no light on the passage; the Sept, simply re- 
peats the Hebrew word, t7ri to yaptp riov di'afiaSfuov. 
Josephus avoids the difficulty by general terras (J nt. ix, 
6, 2). See Joum. Sac. Lit. *1852, p. 424. 

Stairs. Respecting church-stairs a few facts may 
be noticed. At Tam worth, where the church was colle- 
giate and parochial, there are double stairs to the tower 
for the use of the several ringers before the respective 
services. Two sets of stairs also lead to the upper chap- 
el at Christchurch, Hants, probably for the accommoda- 
tion of persons visiting the relics, one being for access 


9S0 


STALLS 


STATUS 


arid the other for egress. At Barrack there is an oc- 
tagonal early English staircase within the Prenorman 
tower, and at Whitchurch a similar wooden staircase of 
the 14th century. At Wolverhampton the pulpit stair 
winds round a pillar. There were usually three stairs to 
an altar. At Salisbury, on Palm-Sunday, the benedic- 
tion of palms was made on the third step; flowers and 
palms were presented on the altar for the clergy, and for 
others on the stairs only. — Walcott, Sac. A rchteol. s.v. 

STAIRS, Tin-: Holy. See Soai.a Sancta. 

Stake pr?. yathed, a peg or nail [as often ren- 
dered], especially a tent-pin, Isa. xxxiii, 20; liv, 2). 
See Test. 

Stalens, Jean. a Belgian theologian, was bom in 
Calcar (duchy of Cleves) in 151)5, and after having re- 
ceived licensure became curate at Rees in 1626; but being 
obliged to leave on account of zeal against the Reformed 
party, he entered the Congregation ofthe Oratory in 1657, 
and passed the rest of his life in the convent of Kevelaer 
(Oneldre), where he died, Feb. 8. 1681. According to 
Paquot (Memoires. vol. vii), be possessed a great mem- 
ory, and much judgment as well as knowledge. He 
wrote several historical and ecclesiastical essays, some 
of which are mentioned in lloefer, Xoui\ Biog . Gene- 
ral*, s. v. 

Stalin, CiimsTOrn Friei>kicii von, a Herman wait- 
er. was born Aug. 4, 1*05, at Calo, in Wiirtemberg, and 
studied theology, philology, and philosophy at Tubing- 
cii and Heidelberg. In 1825 he was appointed assist- 
ant to the Royal Library at Stuttgart, in 1826 snb-li- 
brarian, in 182* librarian, in 1846 director of the library, 
and died Aug. 12, 1*73. Stalin was one of the most 
learned and meritorious historians of Germany. lie 
never occupied a professorial chair, but for a number of 
years bad been a member of the Society for Early Ger- 
man History, originally superintending the editorship 
of the Monument a Germania; llistorica , and was also 
a very useful member of the Munich Historical Com- 
mi.vdon. llis Wirtembergische Geschichte (which was 
begun in 1841, but of which the first instalment of vol. 
iv, containing the turbulent reign of duke Ulrich, the 
period of the Peasants’ Rebellion, and the Reformation 
of the Church, was published in the year 1870) is uni- 
versally acknowledged to be a perfect model of a pro- 
vincial history (Landesgesehivhte) in regard both of 
completeness ami of methodical precision. The second 
portion of vol. iv has been left ready for press, but 
whether it has yet been published we do not know. 
See the Itegensburyer Conversations-Lexikon, s. v. (B. P.) 

Stalk Q'2, ets , a tree or wood [as often]; hence 
the woody or fibrous part of the tiax-stem, Josh, ii, 6; 


n:p, kaneh, a reed [as often]; hence the strawy stem 
of grain, Gen. xli, 5, 22; rVEJ3, kamdh, the halm of the 
same, llos. viii, 7). See Plant. 

Stall (pS^ 1 ?, marbek, a stable for cattle, Amos vi, 
4; Mai. iv, 2; “fat,” 1 Sam. xxviii, 24; “fatted,” Jer. 
xlvi, 21 ; *Tnx, urvah, or rPHJK, uryah, a crib, 2 Chron. 
xxxii, 38, or a span, 1 Kings iv, 26; 2 Chron. ix, 25; 
rr, repheth, a rack for fodder, Heb. in, 17; <pdrvTj, 
Luke ii, 13, a manger, as elsewhere rendered; stalled is 
crammed, Prov. xv, 17; “fatted,” 1 Kings iv, 
23). Among the ancient Egyptians the stables for 
horses were in the centre of the villa; but the farm- 
yard, where the cattle were kept, stood at some distance 
from the house, like the Roman imstica. It consisted of 
two parts — the sheds for housing the cattle, w r hich stood 
at the upper end, and the yard, where rows of rings 
were fixed in order to tie them while feeding in the 
daytime (Wilkinson, Ancient Egypt, i, 30). See Horse. 

Stalls w ere ranges of seats placed in the choirs of 
churches or chapter-houses for the use of the clergy, for 
the religious in a monastery, or for canons. In the 
most ancient churches of the West, in the cathedrals 
and great minsters, the abbot or bishop sat at the head 
of the choir, behind the altar. Around him, on semi- 
circular benches of w r ood or stone, w r ere ranged the ca- 
pitulars. After the 13th century the seats of the clergy 
were placed in front of the sanctuary, on either side of 
what is now called the choir. In cathedrals and other 
large buildings they were enclosed at the back with 
panelling, and w’ere surmounted by overhanging can- 
opies of open tabernacle-work, w hich were often carried 
up to a great height, and enriched with numerous pin- 
nacles, crockets, pierced tracery, and other ornaments. 
Examples of stalls of this kind remain in most of the 
English cathedrals and in many other churches. In 
some cases tw r o row’s w r ere used, the outer one only be- 
ing surmounted bv canopies. It w f as also raised a step 
or two higher than the other, as in Henry YII’s Chap- 
el, Westminster. In ordinary parish churches the stalls 
were without canopies, and frequently had no panelling 
at the back above the level of the elbow’s; but in many 
instances the walls over them were lined with wooden 
panels having a cornice above, corresponding with the 
screen under the rood-loft, of which a very good spec- 
imen remains at Etohingham, Sussex. When the chan- 
eel had aisles behind the stalls, the backs were formed by 
the side screens, which were sometimes close and some- 
times of open-w ork. The chief seat on the dais in a do- 
mestic hall w’as sometimes a stall, as in (the ruins of) the 
palace of the archbishop of Canterbury at Mayfield, Sus- 
sex, where it is of stone. — Parker, Gloss, qf A rckitect. s.v. 



Ancient Egyptian Stalls for Cattle. 


STAN CARISTS 


STAMMER 



Stalls iu Oxford Cathedral, cir. 1450. 


The stall consists of (1) misericord , patience, or sub- 
sellium, a folding-seat turning on hinges or pivots; (2) 
book-desk , prie-dieu, podium; (3) parclose , sponda, the 
lateral pillar or partition, the upper carved part forming 
the museau; (4) croche, or aceoudoir (aeeotoir), the el- 
bow-rest; (5) dorsal, the wainscot-baek ; (6) dais, bal- 
daquin, the canopy or taberuaele-work. In the east of 
Franee and Germany there is usually only one range 
of stalls. Gangways with stairs [entrees) are openings 
permitting access to the upper stalls, which are raised 
on a platform. The lower stalls stand on the ground, 
or upon an elevation of one step. The upper or hind- 
most range of stalls [hautes stalles) were restricted to 
the capitulars or senior monks from the time of Urban 
II, sitting in order of installation or profession. In 
cathedrals the four dignitaries occupy the four corners 
to overlook the choir — the dean on the south-west, 
the precentor on the north-west, the chancellor on the 
south-east, and the treasurer on the north-east. Next 
to them sat archdeacons, and in some plaees the sub- 
dean and subchantor of canons occupied the nearest 
stalls to them westward, as the priest-vicars did on the 
eastern side. In the middle ranges ( basses stalles) were 
canons, deacons, or subdeaeons, and their vicars, annuel- 
lars, and chaplains. In the lowermost range were clerks 
and choristers, occupying forms or benches without arms 
or backs. At Pisa the canons’ stalls were distinguished 
by coverings *ot green cloth, and in Italy generally by 
cushions. The hebdomadary, principal cantor, and mas- 
ter of the choir sat at the head of the second row. The 
cantors had their folding-chairs in England and France, 
and the celebrant was provided in many plaees with an 
elbow or arm chair. The name of his prebend and the 
antiphon of the psalm whieh each canon was bound to 
recite daily for his benefactors and departed canons were 
written up over his stall, as at St. Paul’s, Lincoln, Chich- 
ester, Wells, to whieh was added afterwards a notice of 
his preaehing turn at Hereford. Citations to residence 
were affixed by the prebendary’s vicar upon his stall. 
At Lichfield every canon was provided with his own 
light and book in the choir. 

The word stall is also used to signify any benefice 
whieh gives the person holding it a scat or stall with 
the chapter, in a cathedral or collegiate church. — Wal- 
cott, Sac. A rchceol. s. v. 

Stammer (3^2?, illeg, a stutterer, Isa. xxxii, 4; yjb, 


981 

laag [transposed from the foregoing], properly to speak 
unintelligibly, Isa. xxxii, 4; hence to mock or deride 
[‘•laughter,” etc.], Isa. xxviii, 11 ; xxxiii, 19). 

Stamper, Jonathan, D.D., a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, was born in Madison County, 
Ky., April 27, 1791, and was converted at the age of 
nineteen. In 1811 he was employed on the Flemings- 
burgh Circuit as junior preaeher, and in 1812 was ad- 
mitted on trial into the Western Conference. In 1841 
he was transferred to the Illinois Conference, returning 
to Kentucky in 1844, where he was agent for the Tran- 
sylvania University. In 1848 he was transferred to the 
St. Louis Conference, and again returned to Kentucky 
in 1849. lie was superannuated in 1850, and made De- 
catur, 111., his home; but in 1858 he joined the Illinois 
Conference, and was stationed in his own town. In 
1862 he was again superannuated, and continued in that 
relation until his death, Feb. 26, 1864. lie was a great 
preaeher, and one of the finest pulpit orators of his day. 
See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1864, p. 191. 

Stanbury, Daniel, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Baltimore, Md., in May, 
1808. lie was converted in early life, and licensed to 
preach when about twenty years of age. He entered 
the Wisconsin Conference in 1849, and continued to 
preach until disabled by paralysis in July, 1860. He 
lingered on until October of the same year, when he 
died in peace. . See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1861, 
p. 178. 

Stancari (in Latin Stancarns), Francesco, a noted 
Italian theologian, was born in Mantua in 1501. After 
taking orders, he applied himself to the study of Hebrew 
with the most learned teaeliers of his time, and began 
to teach it at the Academy of Undina ; but his leanings 
towards the Reformation becoming apparent, he was 
obliged to flee to Cracow, and there began teaching the 
same language. Persecution followed him, however, 
and he was imprisoned as a heretic. Having gained 
his liberty through the intervention of certain noblemen, 
he took refuge in Poland with Nicholas Olesnicki, and 
in 1550 a church was built for him in Pinezow. After 
marrying, he spent a year in Koiiigsberg as professor of 
Hebrew, but, becoming engaged in a violent dispute with 
Osiander (q. v.), was obliged to return to Poland, where 
he died, at Stobnica, Nov. 12, 1574. lie was not only 
a theologian, but also a doetor of medicine. Besides sev- 
eral Biblical works, Stancari left a Grammaire Uebra - 
ique (Basle, 1546) : — a treatise l)e Trinitate , etc. (ibid. 
1547, 8vo): — Opus Novum de Reformatione , etc. (ibid. 
1547, 8vo). See Hoefer, Noitv. Biog. Generate , s. v. See 
Stancarists. 

Stancarists, the followers of Francesco Stancari 
(q. v.), who was brought into note by his controver- 
sies with Osiander, Bullinger, Melancthon, and others 
of the Lutheran and Calvin istic reformers. Osiander 
and his followers had maintained peculiar views re- 
specting the atonement of our Lord, alleging that it 
was as God alone he offered it, for that as man Christ 
was under obligation to keep the divine law on his own 
account ; and, therefore, that he eould not, by obeying 
the law, procure righteousness for others. The Stan- 
earists went to the opposite extreme, and attributed the 
atonement to our Lord’s human nature alone, excluding 
from it altogether his divine nature. Further, they 
maintained that the divine nature in its propriety had 
no existence in Christ, and that he was only called God 
the Word metaphorically. They also held a theory that 
he had two natures — the one as mediator, the other as 
the author of mediation, and was, therefore, in one sense 
“sent,” and in the other “one who sent.” Another 
notion they held was that the holy eueharist is not the 
medium of any present gift of grace, but only the pledge, 
or appafiuiv, of one to come. The heresy of the Stan- 
carists was eventually absorbed by that of the Socin- 
ians. — Blunt, Diet, of Sects, s. v. 


STANCHION 


9S2 


STANDARD 



Stanchion (old Fr. estan^nn). t he upright iron bar 
between the mullions of a win- 
dow, screen, etc. ; they were fre- 
quently ornamented at the top 
with fleurs-de-lis, leaves, etc. 
The upright bars or railings 
around tombs may be called stan- 
chions. and these were often 
very elaborately ornamented at 
the top. The name is also 
sometimes applied to the quar- 
ters or studs of wooden parti- 
tions, and is used in the North 
of England for the stone mul- 
Warborouirh, Oxford- lions also. — Parker, Gloss, of 
shire. .4 rchitect. s. v. 

Standard r%e/, prop, the banner; while 03, 
rusy was prop, the staff; but the terms are used some- 
what indiscriminately). Standards and ensigns are to 
be regarded as efficient instruments for maintaining the 
ranks and tiles of bodies of troops; and in Numb, ii, 2 
they arc particularly noticed, the Israelites being not 
only enjoined to encamp “each bv the standard of his 
tribe and the ensign of his father's house,” but, as the 
sense evidently implies, in orders or lines. It is clear, 
when this verse is considered in connection with the 
religious, military, and battle pictures on Egyptian 
monuments, that the Hebrews had ensigns of at least 
three kinds, namely, (1) the great standards of the 
tribes (r*X of a single tribe, Sin of three tribes togeth- 
er), serving as rallying -signals for 
marching, forming in battle array, 
and for emcamping; (2) the divi- 
sional standards (r*r!ElL, , *C, mishpa - 
cho(h) of clans; and (3) those of 
houses or families (r*3X r*2, beth 
abitth ), which after the occupation 
of the Promised Land may gradu- 
ally have been applied more imme- 
diately to corps and companies, when 
the tribes, as such, no longer regu- 
larly took the field. That there were 
several standards may be inferred 
from the uniform practice of the East 
to this day; from their being useful 
in mamcMivres, as already explained, 
and as shown in t lie Egyptian paint- 
ings; and from being absolutely nec- 
essary; for bad there been only one 
to each tribe, it would not have been 
sufficiently visible to crowds of 
people of all ages and both sexes, 
amounting in most cases to more 
iban Hmi.immi, exclusive of the t*u- 
cmnbr.ince of their baggage. Whole 
bodies, therefore, each under the 
guidance of the particular clan en- 
sign, knew how to follow the tribal 
standard; and the families offered 
tin* same convenience to the small- 
er divi-ii»ns. It may be doubted 
whether these three were enough 
for the purpose; lor if they were 
carried in the* ranks of the armed 
Indies, it must have been difficult 
for the households to keep near 
them; and if they were with the 
crowd, the ranks must have had 
others to enable them to keep order, 
as we find that even in the Roman 
legions, thoroughly trained as they 
were, n no roiis vexilla were still 
held to be necessary. That there 
were others might lie inferred (Isa. 
xiii, 2; Jer. li, 27 j from the circum- 


stance of their being planted on the summit of some high 
place, to mark the point where troops were to assem- 
ble; these last, therefore, were not ensigns of particular 
bodies, but signals for an understood purpose, such as 
both the Greeks and Romans employed when the gen- 
eral gave notice of his intention to engage, by hoisting 
alx>ve his tent a red tunic, or when Agamemnon recalled 
his troops in order to rally them, by the signal of a pur- 
ple veil. — Kitto. 

The invention of standards is attributed by ancient 
authors to the Egyptians, and this with great proba- 
bility, as they had the earliest organized military force 
of which we have any knowledge. We may therefore 
feel tolerably certain that the Hebrews hail the idea of 
at least the use of ensigns from the Egyptians, for it is 
not at all likely that the small body of men which orig- 
inally went down into Egypt had any such articles, or 
any occasion for them. Diodorus informs us that the 
Egyptian standards consisted of the figure of an animal 
at the end of a spear. Among the Egyptian sculptures 
and paintings there also appear other standards, exam- 
ples of which are given in our engraving. These latter 
are attributed to the Graeco-Egyptians; but we are un- 
able to find any satisfactory data to show that they 
were other than varieties of most ancient Egyptian 
standards. 

Among the ancient Assyrians standards were in reg- 
ular use, chiefly of two kinds — one a pole with a ball 
and a flag at the top; the other having the figure of a 
person, probably a divinity, standing over one or two 
bulls ami drawing a bow. The former kind are more 


I L = = 

m 

■ 




Ancient Egyptian Standards. 


STANDARD 


9S3 


STANDARD 



Assyrian Standards or Banners. 

Fig. 1. From sculptures in the Crilish Museum ; 2 and 3. From Botta. 


likely to have been connected with religious than with 
military purposes, as they are found standing in front 
of an altar. The military banner appears to have been 
usually fixed on a long staff, and supported by a rest in 
front of the chariot, to which it was attached by a long 
rod or rope (Lavard, Nineveh , ii, ‘267). 

The early Greeks employed for a standard a piece of 
armor at the end of a spear; but Homer makes Aga- 
memnon use a purple veil with which to rally his men. 
The Athenians afterwards, in the natural progress which 
we observe in the history of ensigns, adopted the olive 
and the owl; and the other Greek nations also display- 
ed the effigies of their tutelary gods, or their particular 
symbols, at the end of a spear. Some of them had sim- 
ply the initial letter of their national name. The an- 
cient Persian standard is variously described. It seems 
properly to have been a golden eagle at the end of a 
spear fixed upon a carriage. They also employed the 
figure of the sun, at least on great occasions, when the 
king was present with his forces. Quintus Curtins men- 
tions the figure of the sun, enclosed in crystal, which 
made a most splendid appearance above the royal tent. 
We therefore presume it was the grand standard, par- 
ticularly as even at this day, when Mohammedanism 
has eradicated most of the more peculiar usages of the 
Persians, the sun continues to partake with the lion the 
honor of appearing on the royal standard. Among the 
very ancient sculptures in Persia we discover specimens 
of other standards, as exhibited in our engraving. One 
sort consists of a staff terminating in a divided ring, and 
having below a transverse bar from which two enor- 
mous tassels are suspended. The other consists of five 
globular forms on a cross-bar. They were doubtless of 



Ancient Persian Standards. 


metal, and probably had some reference to the heavenly 
bodies, which were the ancient objects of worship in 
Persia. The proper royal standard of that country, 
however, for many centuries, until the Mohammedan 
conquest, was a blacksmith’s leathern apron, around 
which the Persians had at one time been rallied to a 
successful opposition against the odious tyranny of Zo- 
bauk. Many national standards have ariseti from sim- 
ilar emergencies, when any article which happened to 
be next at hand, being seized and lifted up as a rally- 
ing-point for the people, was afterwards, out of a sort of 
superstitious gratitude, adopted either as the common 
ensign or the sacred banner. Thus also originated the 
horse-tails of the modern Turks, and the bundles of hay j 


at the top of a pole which formed the most ancient Ro- 
man standard, as mentioned in the following extract 
from the Introduction (p. liv) of Dr. Mevrick’s splendid 
work on Ancient Armor: “Each century, or at least 
each maniple, of troops had its proper standard and 
standard-bearer. This was originally merely a bundle 
of hay on the top of a pole; afterwards a spear, with a 
cross-piece of wood at the top, sometimes with the fig- 
ure of a hand above, probably in allusion to the word 
mampulns , and below a small round or oval shield, gen- 
erally of silver or of gold. On this metal plate were usu- 
ally represented the warlike deities, Mars or Minerva; 
but after the extinction of the commonwealth the etli- 
gies of the emperors and their favorites: it was on this 
account that the standards were called nurnina leyionum , 
and held in religious veneration. The standards of dif- 
ferent divisions had certain letters inscribed on them to 
distinguish the one from the other. The standard of a 
legion, according to Dio, was a silver eagle with ex- 
panded wings on the top of a spear, sometimes holding 
a thunderbolt in its claws: hence the word ayuila was 
used to signify a legion. The place for this standard 
v T as near the general, almost in the centre. Before the 
time of Marius figures of other animals were used. The 
vexillum, or flag of the cavalry, was, according to Livy, 
a square piece of cloth fixed to a cross-bar at the end of 
a spear.” These flags had sometimes fringes and rib- 
bons, and were used less restrictedly than Dr. Meyriek 
seems to state. The divisions of a legion had also their 
particular ensigns, sometimes simply attached to the end 
of a spear, but sometimes fixed below the images. An 
infantry flag was red, a cavalry one blue, and that of a 
consul white. As the Roman standard is in the New 
Test, mentioned distinctly as “ the abomination of des- 
olation,” we have here noticed it particularly under the 
general subject. As to the hand on the Roman stand- 
ard, we may observe that at this day the flag-staff of 
the Persians terminates in a silver hand, as that of the 
Turks does in a crescent. After Trajan’s conquest of 
the Dacians, the Romans adopted as a trophy the 
dragon, which was a general ensign among barbarians. 
The dragons were embroidered in cotton, silk, or purple. 
Mention is also made of pimne , which seem to have 
been aigrettes of feathers of different colors, intended 
for signals or rallying-points. Animals also, fixed upon 
plinths, with holes through them, are often found, and 



Aucient Roman Standards. 


984 


STANDARD 


STANDARD 

were ensigns intended to be placed upon the ends of 
spears. In the East the use of standards fixed upon 
cars seems to have been long continued. We have ob- 
served that this was a usage ill ancient Persia, and at a 
period long subsequent we tind it existing among the 
Saracens. Turpin, in his History of Charlemagne , men- 
tions it as belonging to them, lie says, “ In the midst 
of them was a wagon drawn by eight horses, upon 
which was raised their red banner. Such was its influ- 
ence that while the banner remained erect no one would 
ever fly from the Held” pi ey rick, Ancient Armor, i, 50). 
This custom was afterwards introduced into Europe, and 
found its way to England in the reign of king Stephen; 
after which the. main standard was borne, sometimes at 
least, on a carriage with four wheels. The main stand- 
ard of Henry V at the battle of Agincourt was borne 
thus upon a car, being too heavy to be carried other- 
wise. 

After this rapid glance at ancient standards, it re- 
mains to ask to which of all these classes of ensigns that 
of the Hebrews approached the nearest. We readily 
confess that wc do not know; but the rabbins, who pro- 
fess to know everything, are very particular in their in- 
formation on the subject. . They leave out of view the 
ensigns which distinguished the subdivisions of a tribe, 
and confine their attention to the tribe-standards, and 
in this it will be well to follow their example. They 
by no means agree among themselves; but the view 
which they most generally entertain is illustrated by 
the distinction given above, and is in accordance with 
the prevailing notion among the Jewish interpreters. 
They suppose that the standards were flags bearing 
figures derived from the comparisons used by Jacob in 
liis final prophetic blessing on his sons. Thus they 
have Judah represented by a lion, Dan by a serpent, 
Benjamin bv a wolf, etc. But, as long since observed 
by Sir Thomas Brown (Vulgar Errors , bk. v, eh. x), 
the escutcheons of the tribes, as determined by these 
ingenious triflers, do not in every instance correspond 
with any possible interpretation of Jacob's prophecy, 
nor with the analogous prophecy of Moses when about 
to die. The latter Jews wore of opinion that, with re- 
spect to the four grand divisions, the standard of the 
camp of Judah represented a lion, that of Keuben a 
man, that of Joseph an ox, and that of Dan an eagle; 
but this was under the conception that the appearances 
in the cherubic vision of Ezekiel alluded to this division. 
ThcTargumists, however, believe that the banners were 
distinguished by their colors, the color for each tribe 
being analogous to that of the precious stone for that 
tribe in the breastplate of the high-priest, and that the 
great standard of each of the four camps combined the 
three colors of the tribes which composed it. They add 
that the names of the tribes appeared on the standards, 
together with a particular sentence from the law, and, 
moreover, accompanied with appropriate representa- 
tions, as of the lion for Judah, etc. Aben-Ezra and 
other rabbins agree with the Targumists in other re- 
spects, but they insert other representations than the lat- 
ter assign. Lastly, the Cabalists have an opinion that 
the Unrings of the twelve standards corresponded with 
the months of the year and the signs of the zodiac — 
tla* supposed characters of the latter being represented 
thereon; and that the distinction of the great standards 
was that they bore the cardinal signs of Aries, Cancer, 
Libra, and Capricorn, and were also charged each with 
one letter of the tetrngrammaton, or qnadriliteral name 
oftiod. Thus much for Rabbinical interpretation. Most 
modern expositors seem to incline to the opinion that 
the ensigns were flags, distinguished by their colors or 
by the name of the tribe to which each belonged. This 
is certainly as probable in itself as anything that can be 
ofl< red, unless the instances we have given from the 
earh* practice of other nations lead to the conclu- 
sion that flags were not the earliest, but the ultimate, 
form which standards assumed. Wo have in most in- 
stances seen them preceded by any object that would 



serve as a distinguishing mark, such as leathern aprons, 
wisps of hay, pieces of armor, and horse-tails; then by 
metallic symbols and images, combined sometimes with 
feathers, tassels, and fringes; and then plain or figured 
flags of linen or silk. Besides, the interpretation we 
have cited is founded on the hypothesis that all sculpt- 
ure, painting, and other arts of design were forbidden 
to the Hebrews; aud as we are not quite prepared to 
admit the existence of such a prohibition, we do not 
feel absolutely bound, unless on its intrinsic probability, 
to receive an explanation which takes it for granted 
(Kitto, Piet. Bible , note at Numb, ii, 2). 

From the kind of service which each class of en- 
sign was to render, we may assume that the tribal 
standard degel ), at all times required to be dis- 

tinguishable “afar off,” would be elevated on high poles 
with conspicuously marked distinctions, and that there- 
fore, although the mottoes ascribed to the twelve tribes, 
and the symbolical effigies applied to them, may or 
may not have been adopted, something like the lofty 
flabelliforra signa of Egypt most likely constituted their 
particular distinction; and this is the more probable, as 
no fans or umbrellas were borne about the ark, and, be- 
ing royal, no chief, not even Moses himself, could as- 
sume them ; but a priest or Levite may have carried 
that of each tribe in the form of a fan, as the distinc- 
tion of highest dignity, and of service rendered to the 
Lord. They may have had beneath them vittce , or 
shawls, of the particular color of the stone in the breast- 
plate of the high-priest (although it must be observed 
that that ornament is of later date than the standards) ; 
and they may have been embellished with inscriptions, 
or with figures which (at a time when every Hebrew 
knew that the animal forms and other objects constitut- 
ed parts of written hieroglyphic inscriptions, and even 
stood for sounds) could not be mistaken for idols — the 
great lawgiver himself adopting effigies when he shaped 
his cherubim for the ark and hulls for the brazen sea. In 
after-ages we find typical figures admitted in the ships 
carved on the monuments of the Maccabees, being the 
symbol of the tribe of Zebnlon, and not even then pro- 
hibited, because ships were inanimate objects. As for 
the “ abomination of desolation,” if by that term the 
Roman eagle was really meant, it was with the Jews 
more an expression of excited political feeling under 
the form of religions zeal than of pure devotion, and 
one of the many signs which preceded their national 
doom. 

There is reason to believe that the mishpachoth , or 


STANDARD 


985 


STANDARD-BEARER 



Various Forms of Ancient Standards. 

1. Bactrian eagle ; 2. Persian vexillum ; 3. Standard of Sesostris; 4. 
Egyptian ensign set in a frame, signal of castrametation and of direc- 
tion ; 5. Telegraphic ensign, varying with each Pbaraoh ; 6. Subor- 
dinate Egyptian ensigns ; 7. Tribal tablet ; 8. Plume ensign used in 
temples. 

clan ensigns, and the oth, or tribal ensign, were, at least 
in the earlier ages, symbolical figures; and that the 
shekels ascribed to David, bearing an olive or citron 
branch, to Nehemiah with three lilies, to Herod Agrippa 
with three ears of corn, and to Trvpho with a helmet 
and star, were so many types of families, which may all 
have been borne as sculptured figures, or, when the 
purism of later times demanded it, may have been 
painted upon tablets, like the supposed family or clan 
motto on the ensign of the Maccabees (^ria). The 
practice was equally common among the heathen 
Egyptians, Persians, and Greeks; and perhaps the 
figures of those actually used in Jerusalem are repre- 
sented in the sculptured triumphal procession on the 
Arch of Titus, where the golden candlestick and other 
spoils of vanquished Judah are portrayed. A circum- 
stance which confirms the meaning of the objects rep- 
resented upon the Jewish shekels is that on the reverse 
of those of Herod Agrippa is seen another sovereign en- 
sign of Asia — name- 
ly, the umbrella 
(chattah, chutah , of 
India) — always at- 
tending monarchs, 
and sculptured at 
Chehel Miuar, and 
at Nakshi - Bustan, 
where it marks the 
presence of the king. 

It is still the royal to- 
ken through all the 
East and Islam Afri- 
ca; and it appears 
that in the Macedoni- 
an sera it was adopted 
by the Graeco-Egyp- 
tian princes; for An- 
tony is reproached 


with joining the Roman eagles to the state umbrella of 
Cleopatra — 

“Interqne eigtia (turpe!) militaria 
Sol aspicit couopeuin” (Horace, Epod . ix). 

The ensign of the family or clan of the royal house 
then reigning, of the judge of Israel, or of the captain 
of the host was, no doubt, carried before the chief in 
power, although it does not appear that the Hebrew 
kings had, like the Pharaohs, four of them to mark 
their dignity; yet from analogy they may have had 
that number, since the practice was also known to the 
Parthian kings subsequently to the Byzantine emper- 
ors, and even to the Welsh princes. — Kitto. See Ban- 
ner; Ensign; Flag. 

In Daniel the symbols on several standards are per- 
haps referred to, as the Medo- Persian “ram with two 
horns;” the he-goat with one horn for Alexander; the 
goat with four horns for Alexander’s successors; and the 
goat with the little horn for Antiochus Epiphanes (Dan. 
viii, 3-25; comp, vii, 3-27.) See Standard-bearer. 

STANDARD. This name seems to have been applied 
formerly to (1) various articles of furniture which were 
too ponderous to be easily removed, as to large chests, or 
the massive candlesticks placed before altars in church- 
es, etc.; (2) also the vertical poles of a scaffold, and 
the vertical iron bars in a window, or stanchions; (3) 
it was also ap- 
plied to the ends 
of the oak bench- 
es iu churches, 
and that is the 
common use of 
the term now. 

They were often 
very handsome- 
ly carved, some- 
times having 
poppy-heads and 
sometimes with- 
out. A good il- 
lustration is tak- 
en from Dorches- 
ter; (4) large 
standard candle- 
sticks placed be- 
fore altars, e. g. 

“Two great 
standards of lat- 
en to stande be- 
fore the high al- 
tar of Jesu” (Lv- 
sons, Magna Bri- 
tannia, i, 716). — 

Parker, Gloss, of 
Architect, s. v. 

Standard-bearer (DW, noses, one pining away , 
Isa. x, 18; but “lifted up as an ensign,” Zech. 



Dorchester, Oxfordshire. 



Ancient Assyrian Standard-bearers in Battle. 



STAXIIOPE 


STANDEES 980 


ix. ICY As the Hebrews had banners of various kinds 
[sec Standard], they mist of course have had persons 
specially denned to carry them, although particular 
mention of such does not occur in the Bible. Among the 
ancient Egyptians the post of standard-bearer was at all 
times one of the greatest importance, lie was an officer, 
and a man of approved valor, and in the Egyptian army 
he was sometimes distinguished by a peculiar badge 
suspended from his neck, which consisted of two lions, 
the emblems of courage, and other devices (\\ ilkinson, 
A nc. Egypt. i, 3T2). Among the ancient Assyrians 
stain lard-bearers enjoyed a like distinguished rank, as 
is evident from their prominence on the sculptures 
(Bonomi, Xineveh, p, 221 sip). Sec Armor-bearer. 

Standers (Lat. consistentcs, co-standcrs^), an order 
of penitents in the primitive Church, so called from 
their having liberty (after the other penitents, ener- 
gumens, and catechumens were dismissed) to stand 
with the faithful at the altar and join in the common 
pravors and see the oblation offered; but yet they 
might neither make their own oblations nor partake 
of the eucharist with the others. This the Council of 
Nice (can. 11) calls communicating with the people in 
prayers only, without the oblation ; which, for the crime 
of idolatry, was to last for two years, after they had been 
three years hearers and seven years prostrators before. 
The Council of Ancvra (can. 4) often uses the same 
phrase of communicating in prayers only, and communi- 
cating without the oblation: and in one canon (25) ex- 
pressly styles this order of penitents avriorapt rot, co- 
standers; by which name they are also distinguished 
in the canons of Gregory Thatimaturgus (can. 1 1), and 
frequently in the canons of St. Basil. See Bingham, 
Christ. Antiq. bk. xviii, ch. i, § 5. 

Standing, as a posture of worship, was the general 
observance of the whole Church on the Lord’s day, 
and the fifty days between Easter and Pentecost, in 
memory of our Saviour’s resurrection. Justin Martyr 
(Quast. et Ilespons. ad Orthodox, (pi. 1 15) says, *• Foras- 
much as we ought to remember both our fall by sin, 
and tbe grace of Christ, by which we rise again from 
onr fall, therefore we pray kneeling six days, as a sym- 
bol of our fall by sin; but our not kneeling on the 
Ivord’s day is a symbol of the resurrection, whereby 
through the grace of Christ we are delivered from our 
sins, ami from death, which is mortified thereby.” Psal- 
mody, being (•''teemed a considerable part of devotion, 
was usually, if not always, performed standing. An ex- 
ception was made in the monasteries of Egypt, the 
monks, bv reason of fasting, being unable to stand all 
the time while twelve psalms were read. Each one 
stood while reading, and at the last psalm they all 
stood up and repeated it alternately, adding the Gloria 
Patri at the end. At the reading of the Gospel it was 
ordered by pope Anastasias that all the people should 
stand up; and some of the Middle-age ritualists take no- 
tice of their saying, “Glory be to thee, O Lord,” at the 
naming of it. Formerly those who had staves laid them 
down as a sign of submission to the Gospel; and the 
military orders, after the example of the Polish king 
Mb-ridas (90*), drew their swords. It was usual for 
the people also to listen to the preaching in this post- 
ure, although this was not universal. The eucharist 
was generally received standing, sometimes kneeling, 
but never Kilting, — Bingham, Christ* Antiq* (sec Index). 
See Ar i rmnc. 

Standing cup, a cup with a howl, stem, and foot, 
in contradistinction to a cup shaped like a modern 
tumbler. Many ancient examples of such exist in the 
plate belonging to the colleges of great universities. 
Standing-light. See Standard. 

Standish, a mediieval term for the inkstand found 
in tbe Hcriptorium of a monastery, and in tbe vestry or 
sacristy of n cluirch. 

Stanford, David, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was born in Pike County, O., 


Dec. 14, 1817. lie united with the Methodist Episco- 
pal Church in 1825; was licensed to preach July 10, 
1841, and served lor fourteen years as a local preacher. 
In 1805 he entered the regular ministry of the Chris- 
tian Union Church, afterwards in connection with the 
Methodist Episcopal Church, South. He died at his 
residence near Clay City, Clay Co., HI., April 3, 1868. 
See Min. of Conf. of the M. K. Ch South, 38G8, p. 293. 

Stanford, John, a Baptist minister, was born at 
Wandsworth, Surrey, England, Oct. 20, 1754. Early 
confirmed in the Church of England, he nevertheless 
came under the influence of the venerable Romaine, 
which led his uncle to cut him off in his will. Left 
with the care of three orphan sisters, he went to Ham- 
mersmith to take charge of a boarding-school. Later 
he became a Baptist and united with the Church of 
which Benjamin Wallin was pastor. Through the in- 
strumentality of Mr. Stanford, a Baptist Church was es- 
tablished at Hammersmith, to which he was called. 
He was ordained and installed in 1781. He left Eng- 
land Jan. 7, 1786, and arrived at Norfolk, Ya., April 16, 
but removed to New York in the following month and 
opened an academy there. In 1787 he accepted a call 
from the Church in Providence, R. I., and was shortly 
after elected a trustee of Brown University, lie re- 
turned to New York in November, 1789, and resumed 
teaching. In 1794 he erected in Fair (now Fulton) 
Street a building to be used as an academy and lecture- 
room, and held services on each Sunday. A Church 
organization was the result, and he became its pastor; 
but. his congregation becoming scattered, the organiza- 
tion was discontinued in August, 1803. In 1807 he act- 
ed as supply for the Bethel Church in Broome Street. 
In March, 1808. he preached for the first time in the 
Almshouse, and in June, 1813, became its chaplain. His 
life until its close was devoted to degraded, fallen hu- 
manity. lie labored in the State-prison Bridewell, the 
Magdalen House, the Orphan Asylum, Debtors’ Prison, 
Penitentiary, Lunatic Asylum, and other charitable in- 
stitutions. He was honored with the degree of D.D. 
from Union College. His death took place Jan. 14, 
1834. Dr. Stanford published, An Address on the Burn- 
ing of the Orphan House , Philadelphia (1822) : — On the 
Laying of a Corner-stone of the Orphan House , Green- 
wich (1823): — Discourses (1824, 1826), and The Aged 
Christian's Companion (1829, 8 vo). See Sprague, An- 
nals of the A mer . Pulpit, vi, 244. 

Stange, Tiieodor Friedrich, a German doctor 
and professor of theology, was born Nov. 1, 1742, at Os- 
ternienburg. He was called to Halle in 1828, where 
he died, Oct. 6, 1831. He wrote, A n tier idea in Locos 
quondam Psalmorum a Criticis Sollicitutos (Halle, 1719, 
1794): — Theol. Symmikta (ibid. 1802,3 pts.): — Beitrdge 
zur hehr. Grammatik (ibid. 1820). See Fiirst, Bill. dud. 
iii, 377 ; Winer, Ilandbuch der theol . Literature i, 29, 1 17, 
210; ii, 787. (13. P.) 

Stanhope, George, an English prelate, was born 
at llertisliom (Hertishoon), Derbyshire, March 5, 1060, 
and received bis rudimentary education at Upping- 
ham, Rutland, lie removed to Leicester, then to Eton, 
from which lie went to King’s College, lie took the 
degree of A.B. in 1681, and that of A.M. in 1685. He 
officiated first at the Church of Qnoi, near Cambridge, 
and in 1 t»KH was vice-proctor of the university. Tbe 
same year lie was preferred to the rectory of Tewing, 
Herts, and in 1689 to the vicarage of Lewisham, Kent, 
by lord Dartmouth, to whom he had been chaplain, 
lie was soon after appointed chaplain in ordinary to 
king William and queen Mary, and filled the same post 
under queen Anne. In July, 1097, he took the degree 
of I ).!>., and iu 1701 preached the Boyle Lectures, which 
be published, lie was presented in 1703 to the vicar- 
age of Deptford, Kent, relinquishing tbe rectory of 
Tewing and holding Lewisham and Deptford by dis- 
pensation. In this year he was promoted to the dean- 
ery of Canterbury, iu which he was installed March 23, 


STANHOPE 


987 


STANLEY 


1704. lie was also Tuesday lecturer at the Church of 
St. Lawrence, Jewry. At the convocation of the clergy 
in February, 1714, he was elected prolocutor, to which 
position he was twice re-elected. He died at Bath, 
March 18, 1728. In his will he left two hundred and 
fifty pounds to found an exhibition for a king’s scholar 
of Canterbury school. lie published a translation of 
Thomas a Kempis’s De Dnitatione Christi (1(596, 8vo): 
— a translation of Charron’s Treatise on Wisdom (1697, 
3 vols. 8vo): — Meditations of the Emperor M. Aurelius 
Antoninus ( 1699, 4to): — Truth and Excellence of the 
Christian Religion Asserted, etc. (Boyle Lectures, 1706, 
4to): — a fourth edition of Parsons’s Christian Directory 
(1716, 8vo): — a free version of St. Augustine’s Medita- 
tions (1720, 8vo) : — Grounds and Principles of the Chris- 
tian Religion: — Sermons, etc. See Chalmers, Hiog, Diet . 
s. v. ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. A uthors, s. v. 

Stanhope, Lady Hester, whose remarkable life 
in Mount Lebanon may be numbered among the most 
interesting romances of history, was born March 12, 1766. 
Her father was the celebrated lord Stanhope, and her 
mother a daughter of the great earl of Chatham ; conse- 
quently she was niece to William Pitt, in whose house 
she resided, acting as his private secretary and sharing 
in all his confidences. Biographers are silent on the 
causes which influenced her fate after the death of her 
uncle, but they were principally two: First, the disgust 
of her high nature for European society, created by her 
knowledge of the secrets of diplomacy and the hollow, 
deceitful life of all around her; and, secondly, the mys- 
tic influence which prevailed for about ten years at 
that period, and of which history takes little note. It 
is certain, however, that from 1794 to the death of Pitt 
startling announcements were continually made by pri- 
vate letters to the minister, and prophecies were actual- 
ly fulfilled both in England and France. It is probable 
that these circumstances, exaggerated by her unre- 
strained imagination and her longing for the free sim- 
plicity of nature, finally determined lady Stanhope to 
leave England. William Pitt having recommended his 
niece to the care of the nation, she received a pension 
of twelve hundred pounds per annum, with which, after 
his death, she commenced a life of great state in the 
East, and acquired immense influence over the Arabian 
population. Her manner of life and romantic style are 
well known; w r e will only add, therefore, that it is un- 
fair to judge her character from the reports of English 
travellers, for she was one of those high-souled women 
who not only refused allegiance, to the empty manner- 
isms she had cast off, but was well able to answer every 
fool who forced his way into her presence according to 
his folly. She never married, but adopted the habit 
of an Arabian cavalier, and under those bright skies 
rode and dwelt where she pleased, virtually queen of 
the deserts and mistress of the ancient palaces of Zeno- 
bia. Her religion, which seems to have been sincere 
and profound, was compounded in about equal propor- 


tions out of the Koran and the Bible. She was regard- 
ed by the Arabs with superstitious reverence as a sort 
of prophetess. Her permanent abode was in Mount 
Lebanon, about eight miles from Sidon, where she died 
in June, 1839. Her Memoirs (1845,3 vols.) and Seven 
Years' Travels (1846, 3 vols.) were published by her 
physician, Dr. Mery on. See Thomson, Land and Book, 
i, 111. 

Stanislas, St., a Polish prelate, was born July 26, 
1030, at Szczepanow in the diocese of Cracow, of rich 
and noble parents, who sent him to continue his studies 
at Gnesne, and afterwards at Paris, where he applied 
himself to canon law and theology. Through modesty 
he refused the honor of doctor, and on his return to Po- 
land (1059) he distributed his patrimony to the poor. 
Lambert Zula, bishop of Cracow, conferred on him the 
priesthood and named him as canon of his cathedral 
(1062), On the death of Lambert, Nov. 25, 1074, pope 
Alexander II, at the instance of the clergy and of Bo- 
leslas II, king of Poland, appointed him to the office. 
Stanislas thereupon redoubled his zeal, vigilance, and 
austerity. His remonstrances with Boleslas on account 
of the tyranny of the latter being resented, he excom- 
municated the king, who, in revenge, assassinated him 
in the chapel of St. Michael, May 8, 1079. He was can- 
onized in 1253 by Innocent IV, and the Order of St. 
Stanislas was instituted in his honor, May 7, 1765. See 
Stanislui Vita (Ignol. 1611 ; Col. 1616); Ropell, Gesch . 
Bolens (llamb. 1840), i, 199. 

Stanislas, Kostka, St., was born in 1550 at the 
castle of Rostkom of a senatorial family, and distin- 
guished himself by his early piety. After studying in 
the college of the Jesuits at Vienna, he desired to enter 
their order; but, being prevented by his father and 
brother, he went to Dillingen, where the provincial Ca- 
nisius appointed him to the personal care of the pen- 
sioners of his college. He was afterwards sent to Rome, 
where he assumed the monastic habit, Oct. 28, 1567, 
and died Aug. 15, 1568. He was beatified by Clement 
VIII in 1604, and canonized by Clement XI, his festival 
being fixed on Nov. 13. 1 1 is life has been written in 

Latin by Sacchini (Colon. 1617) and Zatti (Ingols. 1727), 
and in French by D’Orleans (Paris, 1672). 

Stanley, Charles T., a Methodist Episcopal min- 
ister, was born at Cazcnovia, N. V., May 22, 1810. In 
early youth he was blessed with pious parental training, 
was converted in his twentieth year, received on trial by 
the Oneida Conference in 1835, and after travelling four 
years, in which he was appointed successively to the 
Cayuga, Bridgewater, Brooklyn, and Canaan circuits, 
where he labored with marked success, his health failed, 
and he died Jan. 17, 1841. As a Christian, he exempli- 
fied the principles of the Gospel; as a scholar, he culti- 
vated a thirst for knowledge; as a minister, he was 
faithful to every duty. See Minutes of Annual Con- 
ferences, iii, 238, 

Stanley, Edward, D.D., an 
English prolate, was born in London, 
Jan. 1, 1779. He was sent to St. 
John’s College, Cambridge, in 1798, 
where he graduated in 1802, and was 
sixteenth wrangler of his year. He 
took the degree of A.M. in 1805. In 
that year — having meanwhile travel- 
led on the Continent, and having had 
for some time the curacy of Wcndles- 
ham,iu Surrey — lie was presented by 
his father to the family living of Al- 
derley, of which he continued rector 
for thirty-two years. lie turned his 
attention during this period to the 
study of natural history, especially 
ornithology, and in 1836 was vice- 
president of the British Association, 
lie was also a fellow of the Royal 
Society, and president of the Lin- 



Lady Stanhope’s Grave. 


OSS 


STAFF 


STANLEY 

mvan Society. In 1837 he accepted the bishopric of 
Norwich, to which was conjoined the appointment of 
clerk of the closet of the Chapel Koval. He died at 
Brahan Castle, in Koss-shire, Scotland, Sept. 6, 1840. 
He wrote, A Senes of Questions on the Bible (Lond. 
1815, 12 mo) : — .1 Few Words in Favor of our Roman 
Catholic Brethren (18*20, 8vo) : — A FamiHar History 
of Birds: their Future, Habits , and Instincts (1835, ‘2 
vols. 18mo; 8ih ed. 1865, fcp. 8vo) A Few Notes on 
lit ligion and Fducation in Ireland (1835, 8vo) : — C harge 
to the Clergy (1815, 8vo; 1*58. 8vo) : — Sermons. After 
his death appeared, Addresses and C ha ryes, with a M e- 
vu>ir by his son, Arthur 1‘euryhn Stanley, A.M. (1851, 
8vo; *id ed. 185*2). See AHibone, Diet, of Brit, and 
A mtr. A ulhors, s. v. ; English Cyclop, s. v. 

Stanley, Julius A , a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was born in Lagrange, Ga., 
in 1831. He received license to preach in Camden, 
Ark., in 1858, and was admitted into the travelling 
ministry, lie was a superannuate in the Little Lock 
Conference from 1807 until his death, Xov. 9, 1868. See 
Minutes of Annual Conferences of the M. E. Church, 
South , 18(19, p. 372. 

Stanley, Thomas, an accomplished English schol- 
ar, son of Sir Thomas Stanley, of Lavtonstone, Essex, was 
born in 10*25. 1 le graduated from Pembroke Hall, Cam- 
bridge. Having spent some time in foreign travel, he 
took up his residence in the Middle Temple. He died 
at his lodgings, Suffolk Street, parish of St. Martin’s-in- 
the-Fields, April 12, 1678. Mr. Stanley owed his repu- 
tation as a scholar principally to his History of Philos- 
ophy , containing the Lives , etc., of the Philosophers of 
Every Sect (1655, in parts; 1660, 1687, 1743, 4to). It 
was also translated into Latin (Leipsic, 1711). Among 
his manuscripts was A Critical Essay on the First-fruits 
and Tenths of the Spoil . See Chalmers, Bioy. Diet. s. v. 

Stanley, William, an English divine, was born 
at Hinckley, Leicestershire, in 1647, and was educated 
at St. John’s College, Cambridge. In 1689 he was 
made a canon residentiary of St. Paul’s. In 1692 he 
was made archdeacon of London, and in 1706 dean of 
St. Asaph, lie died in 1731. He published, The De- 
votions of the Church of Rome Compared ivith those of 
the Church of England (Loud. 1685, 4to): — The Faith 
and Practice of a Chnrch-of- England Man (1688, 8vo) : 
— Essay on Theology (8vo) : — Sermons (1692, 1708): — 
and two tracts. See 1 look, Eccles. Biog. s. v.; AHibone, 
Diet, of Bi it. and A mer. A uthors , s. v. 

Stanly, Frank, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal ( 'luireh, South, was born at Xewbern, X. C., March 
31, 1*07. lie was licensed (1828) by the Supreme Court 
of his sta(e to practice law, but, meeting with a change 
of heart, he felt it his duty to preach, and in 1831 was 
admitted into the Virginia Conference. Within its 
bounds he labored until October, 1861, when he died of 
apoplexy. See Minutes of Annual Conferences of the 
M. E. Church , South, 1862, p. 387. 

Stansbury, John T., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Baltimore, IS1 d., July 15. 
182*, and joined the Church when about ten years of 
age. Not long after he removed to Dubuque, In.; but 
returned, and was admitted into the Baltimore Confer- 
ence in 1850. In 1858 lie became supernumerary, and 
held this relation and that of a superannuate until his 
death, at Baltimore, Md., Jan. 26, 1873. See Minutes of 
A tmual ( ’onf ienns, 1873, p. 32. 

Stantes Lalci, a name given, in the early Church, 
to the laitv who remained faithful to their vows. They 
heljied to form the councils held to treat of the case of 
those who had lapsed into idolatry (Cyprian, Epist. 31). 
See Coleman, Ancient Christianity, p. 481. 

Stanton, Hkx.ja.mix Franklin, a Presbyterian 
minister, was born at Stouingtou, Conn., l’cb. 12, 1789. 
1 b* graduated at Union College in 1811; studied the- 
ology for some months under the distinguished Hebrew 


scholar the Rev. Dr. Banks, and afterwards graduated 
in Princeton Theological Seminary, 1815 ; was licensed 
by the Presbytery of New Brunswick in April, 1815; or- 
dained and installed pastor of the Presbyterian Church 
in Hudson, N. Y., Nov. 12 of the same year; resigned on 
account of ill-health, April 20, 1824 ; in 1825 became pas- 
tor of the Congregational Church in Bethlehem, Conn. 
In 1829, owing to continued and increasing ill-health, 
he again resigned his pastoral charge, removed to Vir- 
ginia, and preached to the Hanover Church until 1842. 
After the death of Rev. John 11. Rice, D.D., professor in 
the Union Theological Seminary, he delivered a course 
of lectures on theology to the students; and afterwards, 
during a vacancy in the presidency of Hampden Sidney 
College, he delivered lectures to the senior class. He 
died Nov. 18, 1843. Mr. Stanton was a close thinker, an 
impressive preacher, and a vigorous writer. He pub- 
lished, The Apostolic Commission (1827, 8vo), a sermon : 
— A Sermon on the National Fast (1841), occasioned by 
the death of general Harrison: — Selections from his 
Manuscript Sennons, with Preface by the Rev. P. D. 
Oakley (1848). See Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pul- 
pit, iv, 524 ; AHibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Authors, 
s.v. (J.L.S.) 

Stanyhurst, Richard, a learned Irish divine, was 
born in Dublin, about 1545 or 1546 ; and, having received 
a preparatory education in his native city, entered Uni- 
versity College, Oxford, in 1563. After taking his de- 
gree of A.B. lie studied law, but returned eventually to 
Ireland, where he married, and became a Roman Cath- 
olic. Losing his wife, he entered into orders, and was 
made chaplain to Albert, archduke of Austria, at Brus- 
sels. At this place he died in 1618. In addition to 
other works, he wrote, De Vita S. Patrici Ilybetmice 
A postoli, Lib. II (Antwerp, 1 587, sm. Svo) ; — Uebdomada 
Mariana (1609, 8vo) : — Uebdomada Eucharistica (Du- 
aci, 1614, 8vo) ; — The Principles of Catholic Religion , 
See AUiboue, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. Authors, s. v. 

Stanzioni, Massimo, an Italian painter, was born 
at Naples in 1585. He was the pupil of Caracciolo, but 
afterwards became the imitator of the great Bolognese 
painters, especially Guido Reni. He was an excellent 
portrait-painter, and was also distinguished for his fres- 
cos. There are several excellent works of his in the 
Church of Certosa at Naples, especially the picture of St. 
Bntno Presenting the Rules of his Order to his Monks. 
In the same church is a picture of a dead Christ and the 
Maries, which, as it had somewhat darkened, Spagno- 
letto, through jealousy, persuaded the Carthusians to 
wash with a corrosive water, which completely spoiled 
it. Stanzioni would not restore it, preferring to leave 
it as a monument of Spagnoletto’s meanness. Stanzio- 
ni died at Naples in 1656. See English Cyclop, s. v. 

Stapf, the name of two Roman Catholic theologians, 
viz. : 

1. Franz, born May 2, 1766, at Bamberg, where he 
also studied theology. He died in his native city, while 
professor at the clerical seminary, in the year 1826. He 
wrote, K utechismus dor christkatholischen Religion (Bam- 
berg, 1812) : — Jlandbuch dazu (ibid. 1815; 2d ed. 1818): 
— A usfuhrliche Predigtentwurfe (ibid. 1816; 2d ed. 1817) : 
— M aterialien zu papula ren Predigten (ibid. 1827 ; 3d ed. 
1837). See Ilegensburger Real- Emy Mop. s.v.; Winer, 
Handbuch der theol. Literatur , ii, 51, 129, 787. 

2. JosKi'ii Amuror, professor of theology and canon 
of Brixen, was horn Aug. 15, 1785, at FI i ess, and died 
Jan. 10, 1844. He was one of the more prominent mor- 
alists in the Roman Catholic Church, and wrote, Theo- 
logia M oralis in Compendium Redacta (Innspruck, 1827, 
4 vols.; 7th ed. 1855-57) : — Erziehungslehre (ibid. 1832) : 
— Biblische, Ceschichte (ibid. 1840): — Epitome M oralis 
(ibid. 1843; 3d ed. bv Ilofmann [J. V.], who edited the 
tirst part, and by Aiehner [1865], who edited the second 
part). In 18 11 Stapf published a German edition of his 
Theoloyia M oralis, under the characteristic title Die 
christliche Moral als A ntwort auf die Erage: I Fa** mils- 


STAPFER 


989 


STAPLES 


sen wir thun , urn in das Reich Gottes zu gelangen (2d ed. 
ibid. 1848-50, 3 vols., edited by Hofmann). Stapf be- 
longed to the most sober-minded Catholic moralists of 
his time, who regarded the excrescences of the Catholic 
exercises of virtue as admiranda magis quam sequenda . 
See Regensburger Conversations- Lexikon. s. v.; Theolog. 
Universal- Lexikon, s. v. ; Winer, Uandbuch der theol. Li- 
terature i, 318 ; ii, 787. (B. P.) 

Stapfer, Johann, a Swiss Protestant theologian, 
was born in 1719, and became preacher at Berne, where 
his sermons were marked with great simplicity, elo- 
quence. and practical piety, resulting in the conversion 
of numbers to evangelical truth, lie was also professor 
of theology in the school of that city, and published a 
Theologia Analytica (1763, 4to), as well as a metrical 
version of the Psalms, which has been largely used in 
the Swiss churches. He died in 1801. Ilis Sermons 
were collected (Berne, 1761-81, 45 vols. 8vo; with a 
supplementary vol. in 1805). See Herzog, Real-Ency- 
klop. s. v. 

Stapfer, Johann Friedrich, brother of the 
preceding, was born in 1718 at Brugg, in the canton of 
Aargau. After studying theology and philosophy in 
Holland and Germany, he returned to Switzerland and 
became pastor of the important parish of Diesbach, 
where his vast knowledge rendered him very useful to 
a wide community. He died in 1775. The following 
are his works, which are largely tinged with the the- 
ories of Leibnitz and Wolff: De Conformitate Opevum 
Divinorum in Mundo Physico et Mystico (Zur. 1741) : — 
Institutiones Theologico-polemicce (ibid. 1752) : — Grand - 
lagen der wakren Religion (ibid. 1746-54, 13 vols.) : — 
Die christliche Moral (ibid. 1756-66,6 vols.). See Her- 
zog, Real-Encyklop . s. v. 

Stapfer, Philipp Albert, a nephew of both the 
foregoing, was born at Berne, Sept. 23, 1766. After 
studying at Gottingen, he was appointed professor of 
belles-lettres in the high-scliool of his native city in 
1792, and during the stormy times that followed the 
French invasion (1798) he was a bulwark against the 
unhappy influences resulting in civil and religious life. 
He retired to privacy in 1804, and died after a long ill- 
ness, March 27, 1840. Besides contributions to journal- 
istic literature, he wrote a number of works on religion, 
philosophy, and morals, and some of a historical and 
geographical character, which are all enumerated in 
Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Staphylus, in Grecian mythology, was — 1. A son 
of Bacchus and Ariadne, an Argonaut. 2. A shepherd 
of king CEneus, to whom the latter taught the art of 
preparing wine, after he had himself discovered the 
grape. 3. A son of Bacchus and Erigone. The former 
assumed the form of a grape, which Erigone ate. She 
immediately realized that she was with child, and, in 
time, gave birth to a son, whom she named Staphylus 
(a grape). 

Staphylus, Friedrich, a noted theologian of the 
middle of the 16th century, bom at Osnabriick, in 
Westphalia, Aug. 17, 1512 (O. S.), and educated at Wit- 
tenberg under Luther and Melancthon, became known 
chiefly as an ambitious and equivocal character, and an 
active participant in the theological disputes of his time. 
He was, on the recommendation of Melancthon, made 
professor of theology in 1546 at the newly founded Uni- 
versity of Konigsberg, and acquired some reputation as 
a lecturer; but he signalized himself more especially by 
his quarrels with Gnapheus (q. v.) and Osiamler (q. v.). 
The former, who was the poorly paid rector of the Kb- 
nigsberg Gymnasium, had ventured to express the opin- 
ion that the theological professors might lecture more 
diligently in view of the generous remuneration they 
received, and was in consequence made to suffer petty 
persecutions from the combined influence of the faculty, 
composed of Staphylus, Herzog, and Osiamler. until they 
succeeded in having him formally deposed from his of- 
fice, as a teacher of false doctrine, and publicly excom- 


municated, June 9, 1549. The last, though a foreigner 
and neither a master nor doctor of divinity, w r as called 
by duke Albert of Brandenburg to the first theological 
chair in the university; and the older professors, con- 
ceiving that their own claims were thus ignored, en- 
deavored to bring about his dismissal. Osiandcr was, 
however, able to defeat their project, and Staphylus in 
consequence travelled to Germany. Finding Osiander 
still in favor on his return, he demanded his own dis- 
missal, which, somewhat to his surprise, was immedi- 
ately granted; and thereupon be went over to the Ro- 
man Catholic Church, giving as his only reasons the 
disagreements of Lutheran theologians and the dangers 
impending over Protestants. lie became councillor to 
the bishop of Breslau, and aided in a reform of the cler- 
gy, afterwards rendering valuable services in other di- 
rections. lie established a good school at Neisse, in 
Silesia. In 1554 he was made imperial councillor, in 
which capacity he participated in several religious con- 
ferences, and contributed much towards the advance- 
ment of the Roman Catholic Church of Austria. While 
retaining that dignity he was called to Bavaria and 
made curator of the University of Ingolstadt, whose 
faculty he improved by the appointing of a number of 
capable professors. His multifarious labors heightened 
his reputation to such a degree that he was regarded as 
the superior of Eck in scholarship and devotion to the 
Church, and he was rewarded by promotion to the doc- 
torate of divinity, though he was a layman and married, 
and by a donation of a hundred gold crowns in money, 
accompanied with a polite letter of approval from pope 
Pius l\ r himself, to which the emperor Ferdinand added 
a patent of nobility and duke Albert of Bavaria an es- 
tate. He died of consumption, March 5, 1564, and was 
buried in the Franciscan church at Ingolstadt. The 
writings of Staphylus were collected by his son Freder- 
ick, and published in Latin in 1613 at Ingolstadt. A 
list of them is given in Kobolt’s Gelehrten-Lex . They 
include works of a polemical character, a Biography of 
Charles V: — an edition of Diodorus Siculus in Latin, 
etc. See Nachricht von dem Leben und Schriftcn Sta- 
phyli , in Strobel’s Miscellen (Nurcmb. 1778), i, 3 sq.; 
Hartknoeh, Preussische Kirch en-l list. (Francf. ad M. and 
Leips. 1686, 4to) ; Arnold [Gottfried], Kirchen- u.Ketzer- 
Hist. (Francf. ad M.), pt. ii, vol. xvi, ch. viii, xxxviii 
sq.) ; Salig, Gesch. d. Augsb. Confession bis 1555 (Halle, 
1730, 4to); Planck, Gesch . d. Enlstehung,Verdnderung u. 
Bildung unseres protest. Lehrbegi'iffs bis zur Concordien- 
Formel (Leips. 1796, 8vo), IV, ii, 249 sq. — Herzog, Real- 
Encyklop. s. v. 

Stapledon, Walter, an English prelate, was born 
(according to Prince) at Annerv, in the parish of Monk- 
legh, near Great Torrington, Devonshire. Our knowl- 
edge of his history begins with his advancement to the 
bishopric in 1307, his installation to which was accom- 
panied by ceremonies of magnificent solemnity. He 
was chosen one of the privy council to Edward II, ap- 
pointed lord-treasurer, and employed in embassies and 
other weighty affairs of State. In 1325 he accompanied 
the queen to France, in order to negotiate a peace, but 
her intention to depose her husband did not meet his 
approval, and he fell an early sacrifice to popular fury, 
lie was appointed, in 1326, guardian of the city of Lon- 
don during the king’s absence in the West; and while 
he was taking measures to preserve the loyalty of the 
metropolis the populace attacked him, Oct. 15, and be- 
headed him, together with his brother Sir Richard Sta- 
plcdon, near the north door of St. Paul’s. By the order 
of the queen the body was afterwards removed, and in- 
terred in Exeter Cathedral. Exeter House was founded 
by him as a town residence for the bishops of the dio- 
cese. He also founded, in 1315, Exeter College, which 
was called by his name until 1404, when it was called 
Exeter llall. Sec Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Staples, Allen, a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was born at Cheshire, Mass., July 15, 1810. lie was li- 


STAPLES 


990 


STAR 


censed to exhort in 1835, admitted on trial in the Mich- 
igan Conference in 1836, and was appointed to the Sa- 
line Circuit : 1837, Bean Creek mission; 1838, Marshall 
Circuit; 1*39, ordained deacon and appointed to Grand 
Rapids mission; 18 in. Lyons mission; 1841, superannu- 
ated; 1812, Albion Circuit ; IN 13, superannuated ; 1844, 
ordained elder and appointed to Plymouth Circuit; 
1815, Farmington Circuit; 18 10, superannuated. lie 
died Oct. 21, 1847. lie was modest and unassuming; ' 
as a Christian, eminent ; in his piety, more than in any- 
thing else, lay the secret of his usefulness, llis zeal for 
the salvation of men was proverbial. See Minutes of 
A ntmal Conj't reacts, iv, 279. 

Staples, John, a Congregational minister, was 
born at Taunton, Mass., in 1743. lie graduated at the 
College of New Jersey in 1705, was ordained over the 
church in Westminster, Conn., in 1772, and continued 
pastor until his death, of putrid fever, Feb. 10, 1804. lie 
was of moderate Calvinixtic views, although disliking 
the views of Hopkins. See Cong. Quarterly , 1800, 

p. 20. 

Stapleton, Thomas, a lloman Catholic clergyman, 
was born at llenfield, Sussex, England, in 1535. He was 
educated at Canterbury and Winchester, and then re- 
moved to New College. Oxford, where he obtained a 
perpetual fellowship in 1554. In the same reign, that 
of Mary, he was made prebendary of Chichester ; but, 
on the accession of Elizabeth, left the kingdom, and 
settled at Louvain, where he distinguished himself by 
liis controversial writings against Jewel, Horne, Whit- 
aker, and other eminent divines of the English Church. 
He also visited Paris and Home; but returned to Lou- 
vain, where he translated llede’s Church History into 
English. He was made regius professor of divinity at 
Douay, and canon in the Church of St. Amoure. He 
became a Jesuit, but relinquished the order; and was i 
appointed regius professor of divinity at Louvain, canon ! 
of St. Peter’s, and dean of llillerbeek, lie died in 1598. 1 
His chief works are, Tres Thornes: sen lies Gestce S. 
Thonup . I post., S. Thonur A rchiep. Cant.,et Thomce Mori: 
— Orafiones Funebres (Antwerp, 1577): — Orationes Cate- 
cheticfp (ibid. 1598): — Orationes Academical Miscellanea? 
(ibid. 1002). His works were published collectively at 
Paris in 1020 (4 vols. fol.), to which is prefixed his life 
bv Ilolleudnm. See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Star (ZZ'2, kokdb; aarijp or derrpov ; but “seven 
stars” in Amos v, 8 is kimdh , the “Pleiades,” as 

rendered in Job ix, 9; xxxviii, 31 ; and “day-star” in 2 
Pet. i, J9 is 0<t><r0opo( Y< mns in the morning). The 
ancient Israelites knew very little of the starry heavens, 
if we may judge from the indications of the Bible, which 
contains no trace of scientific astronomy. We lind there 
only the ordinary observations of landsmen (Amos v. 
8), especially shepherds (Psa. viii,3), for instance, such 
ns nomads would observe on open plains (see Von Ham- 
mer in the Fnndgrulnn, i, 1 sq. ; ii, 235 sq.). The patri- 
archs observed the stars (Gen. xxxvii,9); and metaphors 
drawn from the stellar world, either with reference to 
the countless number of the stars (xxii, 17; Exod. 
xxxii. 13; Nah. iii, 10, etc.), or to their brightness 
(Numb, x x i v, 17 ; Isa. xiv, 12; Hev. xxii, 10), were ear- 
ly in frequent use (see Lengerke, Daniil, p. 377 sip). 
4 he sun and moon, of course, were readily distinguished 
from the other celestial luminaries (Gen. i. It); Psa. 
cxxxvi, 7; Jer. xxxi, 35) on account of their superior 
size and brilliancy; and from the name as well as pe- 
riod of the latter (H"”) the earliest form of monthly 
designation of time was taken. Sec Month. The 
I’lm-nieians, Babylonians (< ’liald.rans), and Egyptians, 
whose levul country ns well as agricultural or naval in- 
ten Ms, and especially the intense brilliancy of their sky 
hv night (llnckctt, llhist. of Script, p. 30), inclined 
t In-in lo an observation of the heavens, far surpassed 
the Hebrews in astronomical knowledge (see Diod. Sic. 
i, on, 09, N| ; ii, 31 ; Strabo, xvii, 8, 10; Macrob. Sat. i, 


19); and the Egyptians were the first to ascertain the 
true length of the solar year (1 lerod. ii, 4). See Year. 

Under the name of stars the Hebrews comprehend- 
ed all constellations, planets, and heavenly bodies, with 
the exception of the sun and moon. No part of the 
visible creation exhibits the glory of the Creator more 
illustriously than the starry heavens (Psa. viii, 3; xix, 
1). The Psalmist, to exalt the power and omniscience 
of Jehovah, represents him as taking a survey of the 
stars as a king taking a review of his army, and know- 
ing the name of every one of his soldiers (cxlvii, 4). 
Among the Hebrew's stars were frequently employed as 
symbols of persons in eminent stations. Thus “the 
star out of Jacob” designates king David, the founder 
of the Hebrew dynasty, according to others the Messi- 
ah (Numb, xxiv, 17 ; see Georgi, De Stella ex Jacob 
[Hegiom. 1701]; Cotta, ibid. [Tub. 1750]); the eleven 
patriarchs are called “stars” (Gen. xxxvii, 9) ; so also 
“stars” denote the princes, rulers, and nobles of the earth 
(Dan. viii, 10; Rev, vi, 13; viii. 10, 11; ix, 1; xii, 4). 
Christ is ealled the “Morning Star,” as he introduced 
the light of the Gospel day, and made a fuller manifes- 
tation of the truths of God than the ancient prophets, 
whose predictions were now accomplished (xxii, 16), 
In allusion to the above prophecy in Numbers, the in- 
famous Jewish impostor Bar-cocab, or, as the Homans 
called him, Bar-cocheba (q. v.), who appeared in the 
reign of Hadrian, assumed the pompous title of “Son of 
a star,” as the name implies, as if he were the star out 
of Jacob; but this false Messiah was destroyed by the 
emperor’s general, Julius Severn*, with an almost in- 
credible number of his deluded followers. Stars were 
likewise the symbols of a deity — “The star of your god 
Chinn” (Amos v, 26). Probably the figure of a star was 
fixed on the head of the image of a false god. See 
Cm i n. 

The study of the stars very early in the East (as 
eventually in the West likewise, Cicsar, Bell. Gall, vi, 
21) led to star-worship (Wisd. xiii, 2); in fact, the re- 
ligion of the Egyptians, Chaldea ns, Assyrians, and an- 
cient Arabians w T as nothing else than astrolatry (Mish- ( 
na, Aboda Sara, iv, 7), although at first this relation is 
not so apparent (see Wernsdorf, De Cultu Astrorum 
[Gedan, 1746]). Hence the Mosaic law sternly warn- 
ed the Israelites against this idolatry (Deut. iv, 19; 
xvii, 3); yet they at length (in the Assyrian period) 
fell into it (l Kings xxiii, 5, 12; Jer. xiv, 13; Ezek. 
viii, 1G; Zeph. i, 5), The account given of it by Mai- 
monides is both curious and instructive. “In the days 
of Enos, the son of Seth, the sons of Adam erred with 
great error, and their error was this; and the counsel 
of the wise men became brutish, and Enos himself was 
of them that erred. They said, ‘ Forasmuch as God 
hath created these stars and spheres to govern the 
world, and hath set them on high, and imparted honor 
unto them, and they are ministers that minister before 
him, it is meet that men should land and magnify and 
give them honor.’ ... So, in process of time, the glorious 
and fearful Name was forgotten out of the mouth of 
all living, and out of their knowledge, and they ac- 
knowledged him not. . . . And the priests, and such 
like, thought there was no God, save the stars and 
spheres, for whose sake, and in whose likeness, they 
made their images; but as for the Hock Everlasting, 
there was no man that did acknowledge him or know 
him, save a few persons in the world, as Enoch, Methu- 
selah, Noah, Shorn, and llebcr; and in this way did the 
world walk and converse till that pillar of the world, 
Abraham our father, was born.” See Star-gazer. 

A brief allusion to a few modern discoveries respect- 
ing the astral bodies may not he uninteresting here, 
especially their inconceivable extent. Astronomers tell 
tis that the nearest of the fixed stars is distant from us 
twenty millions of millions of miles; and to give us 
some idea of that mighty interval they tell us that a 
cannon-ball Hying at the rate of five hundred miles an 
hour would not reach that star in less than four mill- 


STA1 


991 


STAR 


ion five hundred and ninety thousand years ; and that 
if the earth, which moves with the velocity of more 
than a million and a half miles a day, were to be hurled 
from its orbit, and to take the same rapid flight over 
that immense tract, it would not have arrived at the 
termination of its journey after taking all the time 
which has elapsed since the creation of the world. The 
velocity of light is one hundred and ninety-two thou- 
sand miles in a second of time; so that in coming from 
a fixed star of the first magnitude it would take from 
three to twelve years, but in coming from one of the 
twelfth magnitude it would be four thousand years be- 
fore the light reached the earth. They tell us, further, 
what the reason of every man must dispose him to ad- 
mit, that every star is probably a sun irradiating its 
own system of worlds; that the distance between one 
star and another may be presumed to be as great as the 
distance between the nearest of them and our earth ; and 
that their instruments enable them to compute not less 
than one hundred millions of those radiant orbs. But 
that number may form but an insignificant fraction of 
the whole; and thus our earth and the system to which 
it belongs may bear no more proportion to the universe 
at large than a drop of water or a particle of sand to 
the whole terraqueous globe. (See Nichols, Architect, 
of the Heavens.') See Astronomy. 

STALL in the East (dtjrijp tv ry ttvaroXy, Matt, ii, 
1). The evangelist in the passage cited (ii, 1-12) re- 
lates that at the time of the birth of our Lord there 
came wise men (magi) from the East to Jerusalem to 
inquire after the newly born King of the Jews in order 
that they might offer him presents and worship him. 
A star which they had seen in the East guided them 
to the house where the infant Messiah was. Having 
come into his presence, they presented unto him gifts 
— gold and frankincense and myrrh. See Messiah. 

1. Until the last few years the interpretation of this 
phenomenon by theologians in general coincided in the 
main with that which would be given to it by any per- 
son of ordinary intelligence who read the account with 
due attention. Some supernatural light resembling a 
star (perhaps a comet, Origen, Cels, i, 58; see llevn, 
Sendschreib. etc. [Brandenb. 1742] ; opposed by Sender, 
Beschreib. etc. [llalle, 1743]; replied to by Hevn, Bro- 
schiire «, etc. [Berk 1743]) had appeared in some country 
(possibly Persia) far to the east of Jerusalem to men 
who were versed in the study of celestial phenomena, 
conveying to their minds a supernatural impulse to re- 
pair to Jerusalem, where they would find a new-born 
king. It supposed them to be followers, and possibly 
priests, of the Zend religion, whereby they were led to 
expect a Redeemer in the person of the Jewish infant. 
At all events, these wise men were Chaldsean magi. 
During many centuries, the magi had been given to 
the study of astronomy and had corrupted and disfig- 
ured their scientific knowledge bv astrological specula- 
tions and dreams. A conviction had long been spread 
throughout the East that about the commencement of 
our aira a great anti victorious prince, or the Messiah, 
was to be born (Lucan, i, 529; Sueton. Ctvs. 88 ; Seneca, 
Nat. (latest, i, 1; Josephus, I Tor, vi, 5, 3; Serving, Ad 
Virtj. Eel. ix, 47 ; Justin, xxxvii, 2 ; Lamprid. A lex. Ser. 
12). 1 1 is birth was, in consequence of worths of Sacred 

Scripture (Numb, xxiv, 17), connected with the appear- 
ance of a star. Calculations seem to have led the as- 
trological astronomers of Mesopotamia to fix the time 
for the advent of this king in the latter days of Herod, 
and the place in the land of Judiua (see Tacit. / fist.v , 
13; Sueton. Ye&p. iv). On arriving at Jerusalem, after 
diligent inquiry and consultation with the priests and 
learned men who could naturally best inform them, 
they were directed to proceed to Bethlehem. The star 
which they had seen in the East reappeared to them ( 
and preceded them (Trpoiyytu aurov <;), until it took up 
its station over the place where the young child was 
(7a>C L’VS’wj' tcrraSt) hrctvto ov )}v to iraiftiov). The 
whole matter, that is, was supernatural; forming a por- 


tion of that divine pre-arrangement whereby, in his 
deep humiliation among men, the child Jesus was hon- 
ored and acknowledged by the Father as his beloved 
Son in whom he was well pleased. Thus the lowly 
shepherds who kept their nightly watch on the plains 
near Bethlehem, together with all that remained of 
the highest and best philosophy of the East, are alike 
the partakers and the witnesses of the glory of him who 
was “born in the city of David, a Saviour which is 
Christ the Lord.” Such is substantially the account 
which, until the earlier part of the present century, 
would have been given by orthodox divines of the star 
of the magi. The solid learning and free conjecture of 
Christian divines have combined with the unfriendly 
daring of infidelity to cast difficulties on the particulars 
involved in this passage of Holy Writ. Much lias been 
written by friends and enemies on the subject. The 
extreme rationalistic view is given by Strauss ( Leben 
Jesu , i, 249). See Jesus Christ. 

2. Latterly, however, a very different opinion has 
gradually become prevalent upon the subject. The 
star has been displaced from the category of the super- 
natural, and has been referred to the ordinary astro- 
nomical phenomenon of a conjunction of the planets 
Jupiter and Saturn. The idea originated with Kepler, 
who, among many other brilliant but untenable fancies, 
supposed that if he could identify a conjunction of the 
above-named planets with the Star of Bethlehem he 
would thereby be able to determine, on the basis of cer- 
tainty, the very difficult and obscure point of the An- 
nus Domini. Kepler’s suggestion was worked out by 
Dr. Ideler of Berlin, and the results of his calculations 
certainly do, on the first impression, seem to show a 
very specious accordance with the phenomena of the 
star in question. We purpose, then, in the first place, 
to state what celestial phenomena did occur with refer- 
ence to the planets Jupiter and Saturn at a date as- 
suredly not very distant from the time of our Saviour’s 
birth, and then to examine how far they fulfil, or fail 
to fulfil, the conditions required by the narrative in 
Matthew. (In this discussion we freely use the mate- 
rials afforded in Smith’s Diet . of the Bible, wifh addi- 
tions from other sources.) 

In the month of May, B.C. 7, a conjunction of the 
planets Jupiter and Saturn occurred not far from the 
first point of Aries, the planets rising in Chaldica about 
three and a half hours before the sun. Kepler made 
his calculations and found that Jupiter and Saturn were 
in conjunction in the constellation Pisces (a fish is the 
astrological symbol of Jud;ea) in the latter half of the 
year of Rome 747, and were joined by Mars in 748. It 
appears that Jupiter and Saturn came together for the 
first time on May 20 in the twentieth degree of the 
constellation of the Fishes. Jupiter then passed by 
Saturn towards the north. About the middle of Sep- 
tember they were, near midnight, both in opposition to 
the sun — Saturn in the thirteenth, Jupiter in the fif- 
teenth degree — being distant from each other about a 
degree and a half. They then drew nearer. On Oct. 27 
there was a second conjunction in the sixteenth degree, 
and on Nov. 12 there took place a third conjunction in 
the fifteenth degree of the same constellation. In the 
two last conjunctions the interval between the planets 
amounted to no more than a degree, so that to the un- 
assisted eye the rays of the one planet were absorbed 
in those of the other, ami the two bodies would appear 
as one. The two planets went past each other three 
times, came very near together, and showed themselves 
all night long for months in conjunction with each oth- 
er, as if they would never separate again. 

It is said that on astrological grounds such a con- 
junction could not fail to excite the attention of men 
like the magi, and that in consequence partly of their 
knowledge of Balaam’s prophecy, and partly from the 
uneasy persuasion then said to be prevalent that some 
great one was to be born in the East, these magi com- 
menced their journey to Jerusalem. Supposing them 


STAR 


902 


STAR 


to have set out at the end of May, B.C. 7, upon a jour- 
nev for which the circumstances will be seen to require 
at' least seven months, the planets were observed to 
separate slowly until the end of July, when, their mo- 
tions becoming retrograde, they again came into con- 
junction by the end of September. At that time there 
can Ik* no doubt Jupiter would present to astronomers, 
especially in so clear an atmosphere, a magnificent spec- 
tacle. It was then at its most brilliant apparition, for 
it was at its nearest approach both to the sun and to 
the earth. Not far from it would be seen its duller and 
much less conspicuous companion, Saturn. This glori- 
ous spectacle continued almost unaltered for several 
days, when the planets again slowly separated, then 
came to a halt, when, by reassuming a direct motion, 
Jupiter again approached to a conjunction for the third 
time with Saturn just as the magi may be supposed to 
have entered the holy eitv. To complete the fascina- 
tion of the tale, about an hour and a half after sunset 
the two planets might be seen from Jerusalem, hanging, 
as it were, in the meridian, and suspended over Bethle- 
hem in the distance. These celestial phenomena thus 
described are, it will be seen, beyond the reach of ques- 
tion, and at the first impression they assuredly appear 
to fulfil the conditions of the star of the magi. 

The first circumstance which created a suspicion to 
the contrary arose from an exaggeration, unaccounta- 
ble for any roan having a claim to be ranked among as- 
tronomers, on the part of Dr. Ideler himself, w r ho de- 
scribed the two planets as wearing the appearance of 
one bright but diffused light to persons having weak 
eyes (ii, 407). Not only is this imperfect eyesight in- 
dicted upon the magi, but it is quite certain that had 
they possessed any remains of eyesight at all they 
could not have failed to see, not a single star, but two 
planets at the very considerable distance of double the 
moon's apparent diameter. Ilad they been even twen- 
ty times closer, the duplicity of the two stars must 
have been apparent ; Saturn, moreover, rather confusing 
than adding to the brilliance of his companion. This 
forced blending of the two lights into one by Dr. Ideler 
was st in further improved by dean Alford in the first 
edition of his very valuable and suggestive Greek Tes- 
tament, who, indeed, restores ordinary sight to the magi, 
but represents the planets as forming a single star of 
surpassing brightness, although they were certainly at 
more than double the distance of the sun’s apparent 
diameter. Exaggerations of this description induced 
the Rev. Charles Pritchard, honorable secretary of the 
Royal Astronomical Society (in the Memoirs of the Roy- 
al Astronomical Society, vol. xxv), to undertake the 
very formidable labor of calculating afresh an ephemeris 
of the planets Jupiter and Saturn and of the sun from 
May to December, B.C. 7. The result was to confirm 
the fact of there being three conjunctions during the 
above period, though somewhat to modify the dates as- 
signed to them bv Dr. Ideler. Similar results, also, have 
been obtained by ICncke, and a December conjunction 
has been confirmed by the astronomer royal. No celes- 
tial phenomena, therefore, of ancient date are so cer- 
tainly asce rtained as the conjunctions in question. 

We w ill now proceed to examine to what extent, or, 
as it will be seen, to how slight an extent, the De- 
cember conjunction fulfils the conditions of the narra- 
tive of Matthew'. We can hardly avoid a feeling of 
regret at the dissipation of so fascinating an illusion; 
hut we are in quest of the truth rather than of a pict- 
ure, however beautiful. 

("•) We arc profoundly ignorant of any system of 
astrology as held by the magi in question; but sup- 
posing that some system did exist, it nevertheless is 
inconceivable that solely <*u the ground of astrological 
reasons men would be induced to undertake a seven 
months’ journey. As to the widely spread and preva- 
lent ex pectin ion of some powerful personage about to 
show him*. If in the Kant, the fact of its existence de- 
pends on the testimony of lucitus, Suetonius, and Jo- 


sephus. But it ought to be very carefully observed 
that all these writers speak of this expectation as apply- 
ing to Vespasian, in A.D. GO, w’hich date was seventy- 
live years, or two generations, after the conjunctions in 
question ! The well-known and often-quoted words of 
Tacitus are, “eo ipso tempore;” of Suetonius, “eo tem- 
pore;” of Josephus, “ Kara rov Katpov tKtlvov all 
pointing to A.D. GO, and not to B.C. 7. Seeing, then, 
that these writers refer to no general uneasy expecta- 
tion as prevailing in B.C. 7, it can have formed no rea- 
son for the departure of the magi. Furthermore, it is 
quite certain that in the February of B.C. GG (Pritchard, 
in Transactions of the Royal Astronomical Society, vol. 
xxv), a conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn occurred in 
the constellation of Fisces, closer than the one on Dec. 
4, B.C. 7. If, therefore, astrological reasons alone im- 
pelled the magi to journey to Jerusalem in the latter 
instance, similar considerations w'ouhl have impelled 
their fathers to take the same journey fifty-nine years 
before. 

(6.) But even supposing the magi did undertake the 
journey at the time in question, it seems impossible 
that the conjunction of December, B.C. 7, can on any 
reasonable grounds be considered as fulfilling the con- 
ditions in Matt, ii, 9. The circumstances are as follows : 
On Dec. 4 the sun set at Jerusalem at 5 P. M. Suppos- 
ing the magi to have then commenced their journey to 
Bethlehem, they would first see Jupiter and his dull 
and somew'hat distant companion one and a half hour 
distant from the meridian in a south-east direction, and 
decidedly to the east of Bethlehem. By the time they 
came to Rachel’s tomb (see Robinson. Bibl. Res. ii, 5G8) 
the planets would be due south of them on the merid- 
ian, and no longer over the hill of Bethlehem (see the 
maps of Van de Velde and of Tobler), for that village 
(see Robinson, as above) bears from Rachel’s tomb S. 
5° E. + 8° declension = S. 13° E. The road then takes 
a turn to the east, and ascends the hill near to its west- 
ern extremity; the planets, therefore, would now' be on 
their right hands, and a little behind them : the “ star,” 
therefore, ceased altogether to go “before them” as a 
guide. Arrived on the hill and in the village, it be- 
came physically impossible for the star to stand over 
any house whatever close to them, seeing that it was 
now visible far aw ay beyond the hill to the w'est, and 
far off in the heavens at an altitude of 57°, As they ad- 
vanced, the star would of necessity recede, and under no 
circumstances could it be said to stand “over” (tarri- 
vwi) any house, unless at the distance of miles from 
the place w r here they w r ere. Thus the two heavenly 
bodies altogether fail to fulfil either of the conditions 
implied in the w'ords —pogyu’ avrovg or iara^rj ind- 
vui. A star, if vertical, would appear to stand over any 
house or object to which a spectator might chance to 
be near; but a star at an altitude of 57° could appear to 
stand over no house or object in the immediate neigh- 
borhood of the observer. It is scarcely necessary to add 
that if the magi had left the Jaffa Gate before sunset, 
they would not have seen the planets at the outset; 
and if they had left Jerusalem later, the “star” would 
have been a more useless guide than before. Thus the 
beautiful phantasm of Kepler and Ideler which has fas- 
cinated so many writers vanishes before the more per- 
fect daylight of investigation, so far as it is proposed for 
an explanation of the guidance to Bethlehem. The as- 
tronomical phenomena, however, may have incited them 
in part to their visit to Judaea. 

Kepler’s ideas may be found in the essay De Jesu 
Christ i Servatoris Xostri Vero Anno Natalitio , and 
more fully in l)e Yero A nno quo sEternus Dei Films 
llnmammi Xaturam Assumpsit (Frankf. IG14). Ilis 
view' was taken up and presented with approbation to 
the literary world by a learned prelate of the Lutheran 
Church, bishop MUnter(Der Stern der Weisen [Copenh. 
1827]). It also gained approval from the celebrated as- 
tronomer Schubert, of Petersburg ( Yennischte Schrif- 
ten [Stut tg. 1823]). The learned and accurate Ideler 


STAR 


993 


STARK 


( TTandb . der Chronologie, ii, 399 sq.) reviewed the en- 
tire subject ami signified his agreement. Hase ami De 
Wette, however, have stated objections. A recent writ- 
er of considerable merit, Wieseler ( Chronolog . Synop. der 
4 Evangelien [Ilamb. 1843]), has applied this theory of 
Kepler’s in conjunction with a discovery that he has 
made from some Chinese astronomical tables, which 
show that in the year of Home 750 a comet appeared in 
the heavens and was visible for seventy days. Wicse- 
Ier’s opinion is that the conjunction of the planets ex- 
cited and fixed the attention of the magi, but that their 
guiding-star was the comet. A modern writer of great 
ability (Dr. Wordsworth) has suggested the antithesis 
to Kepler's speculation regarding the star of the magi, 
viz. that the star was visible to the magi alone. It is 
difiicnlt to see what is gained or explained by the hy- 
pothesis. The song of the multitude of the heavenly 
host was published abroad in Bethlehem, the journey 
of the magi thither was no secret whispered in a corner. 
Why, then, should the heavenly light, standing as a 
beacon of glory over the place where the young child 
was, be concealed from all eyes but theirs, and form no 
part in that series of wonders which the Virgin Mother 
kept and pondered in her heart? A writer in the Journ. 
of Sac. Lit. April, 1857, argues that the magi found the 
infant Christ at Nazareth, not at Bethlehem; but this 
is opposed to the indications of the narrative. See 
Bethlehem. 

The works which have been written on the subject 
are referred to by Walch, Biblioth. Theol. ii, 422 sq. ; 
Thiess, Krit. Comment, ii, 350 so.; Volbcding, Index 
Programmatum, p. 14; Eisner, in the Symb. Liter. Brem. 
I, ii, 42 sq. Additional monographs to those there or 
above cited are the following: Reecard, De Stella qiue 
M ( ig is Apparu.it (Regiom. 176G); Kepler, Die )Veinen 
aus d. Orient , in the Rintelsch. A uzeig. 1770, p. 4; Sommel, 
De Stella N’ati Reyis Judceor. (Loud. 1771) ; Velthusen, 
Der Stern cl. Weisen (Ilamb. 1783); Thiess, Die Magier 
mid ihr Stern (ibid. 1790) ; Anger, Der Stern d. Weisen 
(Leips. 1847); Trench, Star of the Wise Men (Loud. 
1850). See Magi. 

STAR, Golden, in the Greek Chureh. is an instru- 
ment used bv the Greeks in the liturgy, and is a star of 
precious metal surmounted by a cross, which is placed 
on the paten to cover the host and support a veil from 
contact with the eucharist. It recalls the mystic star 
of the magi, and is called the Asteriseus. In the Latin 
Church it is a vessel for the exhibition of the host at 
the communion of the pope on Easter-day. One with 
twelve rays is used to cover the paten when carried by 
the cardinal -deacon to communicate the eucharist to 
the pope. — Walcott, Sac. Archceol. s, v. 

Starck, Johann August, a German Crvptocath- 
olic, was born in 1741, at Schwerin, where his father 
was preacher, and studied theology at Gottingen, at the 
same time entering zealously the order of Freemasons 
there. After a visit of several years at St. Petersburg, 
he travelled, in 1765, over England, and finally went to 
Paris, but returned in 17G8 to St. Petersburg. In 17G9 
he was appointed professor of Oriental languages at 
Konigsberg, and for several years served as court- 
preacher, becoming professor and doctor of theology in 
177G. He afterwards fell into disrepute as unorthodox, 
in consequence of several publications (for which see 
Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v.), and after becoming suc- 
cessively professor of philosophy at Mi tan (1777) and 
court-preacher at Darmstadt (1781), he finally adopted 
Roman Catholic associations, and died in 1816, with the 
apparatus for t he celebration of the mass in his house. 

Starck, Johann Friedrich, a German theologi- 
an, was born Oct. 10, 1G80, at Hildesheim, studied theol- 
ogy at Giessen, was appointed in 17 15 as pastor of Frank- 
fort-on-the-Main, and died July 17, 1756. He is widely 
known through His Tdgliches Handbnch in guten und bosen 
Tagen (Frankf. 1727; 48th ed. 1870) and Morgen- und 
A bendandachten frommer Christen aufalle Tage im Jahre 
IX.— II 11 R 


(9th ed. 18G2). lie also published other devotional books, 
and CommentuHus in Prophet am Ezechielem (Frankf. 
1731). Sec Theol. Universal- Lex ikon, s. v. ; Zuchold, 
Bibl. Theol. ii, 1256 sq.; F first, Bibl.Jnd. iii, 378; Winer, 
Handbnch der theol. Literatnr , i, 220; ii, 390, 393, 788; 
Koch, Cesch. d. deutsch. Kirchenliedes, i v, 5-13 sq. (B. P.) 

Star-gazer (D-OZ’iSD nth, lsa.xlvii, 13), an astro- 
nomical observer, for which the Chaldicans were famous. 
See Astronomy. In Dan. ii, 27 ; iv, 7 ; v, 7. 11 , the pro- 
fessed astrologers or calculators of nativities ( Gazerin 
Chald. 7 T a, “ soothsayers”) are named. (The term 

there rendered “astrologers,” CUEISTS, ashshaphim' , 
means conjecturers only.) Diodorus Siculus (ii, 30, 31) 
says of the Chaldieans, “ They assert that t He greatest 
attention is given to the five stars called planets, which 
they name interpreters; so called because, while the 
other stars have a fixed path, they alone, by forming 
their own course, show what things will come to pass, 
thus interpreting to men the will of the gods; for to 
those who study them carefully they foretell events, 
partly by their rising, partly by their setting, and also 
by their color. Sometimes they show heavy winds, at 
others rains, at others excess of heat. The appearance 
of comets, eclipses of the sun, earthquakes, and, in gen- 
eral, anything extraordinary, has, in their opinion, an 
injurious or beneficial elVect, not only on nations and 
countries, but kings and even common individuals; and 
they consider that those stars contribute very much of 
good or of ill in relation to the births of men ; and in 
consequence of the nature of these things, and of the 
study of the stars, they think they know accurately the 
events that befall mortals.” Comets were, for the most 
part, considered heralds of evil tidings (Josephus, IFor, 
vi, 5, 3). The Orientals of the present day hold astrology 
in honor (Niebuhr. Bed. p. 120), and stipendiary astrol- 
ogers form a part of their court (Kiimpfer, .1 man. p. 57, 
82). See Astrology. 

Stark, Andrew, LL.D., a Presbyterian divine, was 
born in the parish of Slamannan, Count}’ of Stirling, Scot- 
land, Aug. 3, 1791, of pious parents in easy circumstances. 
At a very early age Andrew manifested a love of study . 
he received his first instructions- in Latin in his own 
parish school, but was soon transferred to the grammar- 
school at Falkirk, and afterwards to a school at Denny 
Loanhead. In the beginning of 1805 he entered the Uni- 
versity of Glasgow, which he attended for six successive 
winters, graduating in April, 1811, with the degree of 
A.M. After leaving the university he taught a public 
school near Falkirk with great success for upwards of 
two years, lie pursued his theological studies at the 
seminary in Edinburgh, then under the superintendence 
of the Rev. l’rof. Paxton. Upon leaving the seminary 
he went to London (Chelsea), where he engaged as a 
classical teacher in a boarding-school, under the Rev. 
Weeden Butler, a clergyman of the Church of England. 
Capt. Frederick Marryat, the distinguished novelist, was 
one of his pupils. Providential circumstances and care- 
ful reflection directed him to the ministry, and he was 
soon licensed by the Associate Presbytery of Edinburgh. 
His first sermon was preached Oct. 2G, 1817, in the pul- 
pit of his cousin, Rev. Dr. Stark, of Dennv Loanhead; 
and it was a singular coincidence that he preached for 
the last time in his life in the same pulpit, 1 1 is first 
settlement as pastor was over the congregation of South 
Shields, Sept. 16, 1818; but after a few months he re- 
signed, ami the Presbytery reluctantly dissolved the 
pastoral relation, June 14, 1819. For a year he was em- 
ployed as a private tutor in the family of Sir Frederick 
Vane. In June, 1820, he proceeded once more to London, 
and near the end of August embarked for New York, 
where he arrived Oct. 6. lie came to this country 
without any fixed purpose as to employment, willing to 
teach or preach as Providence might seem to direct. 
For a vear he preached occasionally, and superintended 
the studies of two or three boys, the sons of wealthy 


094 


STARK 

gentlemen in the city of New York. Dr. Mason, who I 
was then president of Dickinson College, proposed to ' 
hurt to become a professor in ihat institution, and he 
was not disinclined to listen to this proposal; but just at 
this time circumstances occurred which led him to de- 
vote his life wholly to the ministry. The Associate 
Presbyterian Church (then in Nassau Street, afterwards 
in (i rand Street, and now in Thirty-fourth Street) in the 
citv of New York, which had lately lost its pastor, the 
Kcv. Thomas Hamilton, invited Mr. Stark at tirst to be- 
come their stated supply, and soon to become their pas- 
tor, and he was installed in the early part of May, 1822. 
Cndcr his care the Church grew, l>y gradual and health- 
fid accessions, and became distinguished for its stability. 
He was honored with the degree of LL.I). by the Uni- 
versity of Guidon about the year 1844 or 1845. Dr. Stark 
labored incessantly for the moral and spiritual welfare 
of his people; many sought his counsel and advice in 
their worldly affairs, and some who became wealthy at- 
tributed their success to his judicious advice and assist- 
ance. lie secured both the respect and love of his peo- 
ple, who on many occasions manifested their high regard 
for him by the most delicate and kindly acts. I )r. Stark 
had naturally a good constitution, but it had been greatly 
impaired by a violent fever in London before he came to 
the United States. At length he became so enfeebled 
that his physician urged him to make a visit to his na- 
tive country, and accordingly he embarked for England 
July 3. 1840. Soon after his arrival in Scotland his symp- 
toms became much more unfavorable, and he died Sept. 

] 8. 1840, at Denny Loanhead, in the house of his cousin, 
the Lev. Dr. Stark, llis remains were brought to New 
York, and interred in Greenwood Cemetery. In person 
Dr. Stark was of medium height, and of symmetrical and 
graceful proportion ; his high forehead and dark piercing 
eyes indicated a mind of more than ordinary power. In 
manner he was dignilied and courteous, vet pleasing and 
affable. To a stranger he might seem distant and re- 
served, but those who knew him well and had his con- 
fidence found him frank and cordial, lie never professed 
what he did not feel, and abhorred hypocrisy and shams 
in all their forms. As a scholar he had few superiors. 
In the classics, in history, theology, philosophy, and in 
general literature, he was competent to till the chair of 
a professor. .Such was his familiarity with Ilomer’s 
Iliad that he was heard to say that if the last copy of 
it were lost from the world, he thought he could repro- 
duce it without much difficulty. As a preacher he was 
not an orator, in the popular sense, yet he had the power 
of securing the attention of his hearers. He made most, 
careful preparation; in early life he wrote out his ser- 
mons in full, and committed them to memory; but later 
he usually wrote very full outlines of his sermons, study- 
ing his subject with great care, rendering it both instruc- 
tive and interesting. In expository preaching he had 
few equals. llis correct learning and superior culture, 
his extensive and varied knowledge of literature, both 
ancient and modern, enabled him to illustrate and en- 
force the truths which he proclaimed with peculiar apt- 
ness, beauty, and power. II is preaching was calculated 
to awaken sinners to thoughtfulness, and make enlight- 
ened and stable Christians: his manner in the pulpit 
was solemn and impressive; his fervor and unction con- 
vinced every hearer that he magnified his office and felt 
what lie uttered. As a pastor he was conscientiously 
faithful, and watched with tender care the dock over 
which i lod had placed him as overseer, lie was prompt 
in all his engagements, and never failed to lull'd an ap- 
1 M»im ini-iit. lie was more frequently seen in the homes 
of the poor than in the mansions of the rich ; he formed 
his estimate of men not by their wealth or rank, but by 
l heir worth, and especially by their piety. The worthy 
poor and the distressed found in him a tender sympathy 
and n firm friend, lie was generous, but unostentatious 
in bis charities, keeping his benefactions a profound se- 
cret. llis whole life, public and private, was in keeping 
with his high calling; he was a living epistle known 


STARKODDER 

J and read of all men, a noble Christian gentleman, and a 
faithful ambassador for Christ. Dr. Stark was married 

1 May 8, 1823, to Ellen, daughter of John and Mary 
McKie, of New’ York. They had live children — three 
daughters and tw-o sons. The eldest son, John M., was 
graduated at Union College in 1849, and subsequently 
at the New York College of Physicians and Surgeons, 
and had the position of surgeon under the government 
in the late w’ar of the Bebellion; the eldest daughter is 
married to the Lev. Andrew Shiland. Dr. Stark w as 
an ornate and instructive writer, and, when he chose, 
both sharp anil racy. Some of his productions may be 
mentioned: Charitable Exertions an Evidence of a Gra- 
cious State, a sermon : — A Metrical Version of the Psalms 
of David Defended : — A Biography of Rev. James White, 
prefixed to the Pennons of the latter: — A Lecture on 
Marriage: — Remarks on a Pamphlet by the Associate 
Presbytery of Albany, in a Letter to the Associate Con- 
gregation of Grand Street : — A History of the Secession , 
published in the Associate Presbyterian Magazine, to 
w hich publication he contributed largely. (W. P. S.) 

Stark, Heinrich Benedict, professor of Oriental 
languages at Leipsic, w r as bom in 1672, and died July 18, 
1727. He wrote, p^p 1 ? “ON, Lux Grammatical IJebrai- 
cee ex Clariss. hujus Linguae Luminibus, etc. (2d ed. Lips. 
1705, and often; last ed, by Bosseck, 1764): — Lux Ac - 
centuationis Hebruicae (ibid. 1707) : — IJebraismi Etymolo- 
gici (ibid. 1709) : — Notee Selectee in Loca Dvina ac Dijficil. 
Pent., Jos., etc. (ibid. 1714), See Fiirst, L’ibl. Jud. iii, 
378; Winer, llanclbuch der theol . Literatur , i, 115, 195, 
240, 268; ii, 788; Steinschneider, Bibliogr. IJandbuch , 
p. 135. (B.P.) 

Stark, Jedediah Lathrop, a Dutch Eeformed 
minister, was born at New London, Conn., March 6, 1793. 
He w'as a graduate of Brown University in the class of 
1818. He spent tw’o years in theological stud}’, and 
in the autumn of 1820 was ordained pastor of the West 
Parish Church (Congregational) in Brattle 'borough, Vt., 
w’liere he preached for fourteen years (1820-34), and 
then removed to Bnel, N. Y., and was pastor of a Church 
in that place eight years (1834-42). In 1842 he accept- 
ed an invitation to become the minister of the Dutch 
Reformed Church in Mohawk, N. Y., where he remained 
sixteen years (1842-58). The last four years of his life 
he was unable to perform much ministerial service on 
account of ill-health. He died at Mohawk, N. Y., Oct. 
18,1862. (J. C. S.) 

Stark, Mark Y., a Presbyterian minister, was bom 
at Dunfermline, Scotland, Nov. 9, 1799. He was edu- 
cated at Essex, England, graduated at Glasgow Univer- 
sity in 1821, studied theology at the same university, 
was licensed by Glasgow Presbytery of the National 
Church of Scotland, and afterwards travelled on the 
Continent and extended his studies, attending lectures 
at the University of France as well as at Berlin. In 
1833 he emigrated to Canada, and was soon after in- 
stalled as pastor of the congregations at Aneaster and 
Duudas. lie occupied the moderator’s chair of the last 
synod held before the division of the Church in Canada, 
and of the first Free Church Synod in Kingston in 1844. 
In 1861, when the “ union” of the churches of Canada 
was consummated, it met with his hearty approval. In 
1862, on account of infirm health, he resigned his charge, 
and died Jan. 24, 18G6. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. A hnanac , 
1867, p. 183. 

Starke, Christoph, a German divine, was bom 
March 21, 1684, at Freienwalde, and died Dee. 12, 1744, 
as pastor primarius at Driesen, in the Nenmark. He is 
best known as the editor of Synopsis Bibliotheete Exe- 
gvticae in V.et N. Testumcntum (1733-41, 9 vols. ; repub- 
lished at Berlin 1865-68). See Theol. Universal-]. ex. 
s. v. ; Fhrst, Jiibl. .Iud. iii, 378 ; Winer, Handb. der theol. 
Literatur, i, 186; ii, 788. (B. P.) 

Starkodder, in Norse mythology, was a monstrous 
giant of Danish race who is said to have had eight 


STAROBRADTZI 


995 


STATE B 


hands. He became celebrated throughout the world 
on account of his Titanic deeds, and lived to the age of 
250 years. 

Starobradtzi is the official name of a numerous 
class of Kussian dissenters who called themselves Sturo- 
vertzi. See Russian Sects, § i, 4. 

Starr, Charles, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was recommended and admitted into the 
Oneida Conference, September, 1-S34. He continued in 
the active ministry until his superannuation, about 
1860. lie was killed by the cars being thrown from 
the track of the New York Central Railroad, March 23, 
1865. He served once as delegate to rhe General Con- 
ference. Mr. Starr was a preacher of more than ordi- 
nary gifts, and very successful in winning souls to 
Christ. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1865. p. 69. 

Starr, Frederick, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Rochester, N. Y., Jan. 23, 1826. lie was con- 
verted when ten years of age; graduated at Yale Col- 
lege in 1846, and at the Theological Seminary at Au- 
burn, N. Y., in 1849. Early in 1850 he turned his steps 
westward, and, under Dr. Bullard, began his labors as a 
city missionary in St. Louis; was ordained and installed 
by Lexington Presbytery as pastor of the Church in 
Weston, Mo., Nov. 17, 1850. While in Weston the 
question of the repeal of the Missouri Compromise be- 
gan to be agitated. On a visit to Auburn he took oc- 
casion to lay the facts in his possession, on this question, 
before the lion. Wm. H. Seward and afterwards before 
Horace Greeley, but these gentlemen regarded them 
“as idle tales.” INI r. Greeley, however, admitted into the 
columns of his paper (the Tribune') two articles which 
Mr. Starr wrote on this subject. In 1853 Starr wrote 
a pamphlet styled Letters for the People on the Present 
Crisis , which his father had privately printed, and 
mailed from New York to all the foremost men and 
newspapers of the country. The aspect of the political 
heavens was becoming day by day more and more 
threatening. The Missouri Compromise was repealed 
May 25, 1854. The Platte County Self- defensive As- 
sociation, composed chietiy of planters, was formed for 
the purpose of banishing from Weston and the whole 
surrounding country all the open and suspected friends 
of freedom. Another association was soon formed and 
called the Blue Lodge, the sole reliance of which was 
upon deeds of violence. The elders of his Church now 
advised him to leave the city, and he and his family 
left for Rochester, N. Y., where he arrived in the spring 
of 1855. lie now took charge of the interests of the 
Western Educational Society, and to him the Auburn 
Theological Seminary is indebted for a very large share 
of its endowments and popularity. In June, 1862, he 
resigned this agency and was installed as pastor of the 
Church of Penn Yan, N. Y. ; in April, 1865, he became 
pastor of the North Presbyterian Church, St. Louis, 
Mo. lie died Jan. 8, 1867. Mr. Starr ,vas characterized 
by his strong conviction of principle and duty. lie 
was thorough, fearless, untiring, and large-hearted. 
See Plum ley, Presb . Church , etc. p. 400; Wilson, Presb. 
Hist. A Itnanac, 1868, p. 227. (J. L. S.) 

Starr, John Walcott, a Congregational minister, 
was born at Guilford, Conn., March 9, 1848. He grad- 
uated at Yale College in 1871, and at the New Haven 
Theological Seminary in 1873. Soon after graduation 
he engaged in missionary labor in the town of Stratton, 
and in the following year he went to the town of 
Sleepy Eye, Minn. He accepted an invitation from the 
Home Missionary Society of New Hampshire to preach 
in West Stewartstown. lie was ordained to this work 
June 18, 1875. His labors were of a short period, and 
he was early called to his reward. Young, and his life 
full of promise of great usefulness to the Church, he 
was called to labor in a higher sphere. He died in 
1875. (W. P. S.) 

Starr, John Wesley (1), a minister of the Meth- 


odist Episcopal Church, South, was born in Wilkes 
County, Ga., Aug. 7, 1806, and associated himself with 
t he Church when fourteen years of age. He was li- 
censed to preach Sept. 17, 1830, and in 1833 was admitted 
into the Georgia Conference. In 1839 he was trans- 
ferred to the Alabama Conference; superannuated in 
1848; agent for the Oak Bowery Female Institute in 
1849; in 1866 again superannuated, and so remained 
until his death, in Bibb County, Feb. 24, 1870. See 
Minutes of Annual Conferences of the M. E. Churchy 
South, 1870, p. 438. 

Starr, John Wesley (2), a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, South, was born in llenrv 
County, Ga., Oct. 23, 1830, and was converted in 1 84 i. 
lie was educated at Oxford, Ga. ; was admitted on 
trial into the Georgia Conference in 1852, and sent to 
Mobile, where he died within a year. See Minutes of 
Annual Conferences of the M. E. Church, South, 1853, 
p. 479. 

Starr, William H., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was born in Edentown, N. C., 
May 7, 1793. He was converted when twenty-two, 
and was admitted into the Virginia Conference, Janua- 
ry, 1816. In 1843-44 lie was a supernumerary; active 
in 1845; chaplain of the Seaman’s Bethel from 1846 to 
1848; and in 1850 became again a supernumerary. 
After serving as colporteur two mouths, lie acted for 
three years as agent of the American Colonization So- 
ciety, and then of the Virginia Colonization Society till 
the close of 1858. He was supernumerary with appoint- 
ment from 1862 to 1864, when he became superannuated, 
and held that relation until his death, near Murfrees- 
borough, N. C., Feb. 14, 1867. See Minutes of Annual 
Conferences of the M. E. Church, South, 1867, p. 102. 

Stars, Seven, the Great Bear , which never sets, and 
is the emblem of the everlasting state of the Catholic 
Church (Rev. i, 20). 

Stata Mater, a Roman divinity to whom an 
image was dedicated in the forum, and whose rites con- 
sisted in the lighting of fires nightly before her image. 
She was regarded as a protectress against damage by 
fire, and was supposed to be either a wife of Vulcan or 
identical with the goddess Vesta. 

State and Church. See Ciiukcti and State. 

Stater (orarZ/p; Vulg. stater; A. V. “a piece of 
money;” margin, “stater”), a coin of frequent occurrence 
in the Graeco-Roman period. See Money. 

1. The term stater , from to stand, is held to 

signify a coin of a certain weight, but perhaps means a 
standard coin. It is not restricted by the Greeks to a 
single denomination, but is applied to standard coins of 
gold, electrum, and silver. The gold staters were di- 
drachms of the later Phoenician and the Attic talents, 
which, in this denomination, differ only about four grains 
troy. Of the former talent were the Daric staters, or 
Darics (ararfipeg Aapcucoi, Aaptacot), the famous Per- 
sian gold pieces [see Dahic], and those of Croesus 
(Kpo<<TE7oi) ; of the latter, the stater of Athens. The 
electrum staters were coined by the Greek towns on 
the west coast of Asia Minor; the most famous were 
those of Cyzicus ( araTt'iptg KuZucquof, KvZuctjvoi), 
which weigh about 248 grains. They are of gold and 
silver, mixed in the proportion, according to ancient au- 
thority — for we believe these rare coins have not been 
analyzed — of three parts of gold to one of silver (Pliny, 
Hist. Nat. xxxiii, 4, 23). The gold was alone reckoned 
in the value, for it is said (Demosth. in Pkorm. p. 914) 
that one of these coins was equal to 28 Athenian silver 
drachms; while the Athenian gold stater, weighing 
about 132 grains, was equal (Xenoph. A nab. i, 7, 8) to 
20 (20 : 132 : : 28 : 184 + , or £ of a Cvziccne stater). This 
stater was thus of 184+ grains, and equivalent to a di- 
drachm of the ^Eginctan talent. The staters of Croe- 
sus, which were the oldest gold coins that came to 
Greece (Herod, i, 54), have about the same weight as 


99G STATES OF TIIE CHURCH 


STATER 


tlie daries, i. e. 128 grains troy. Other staters are men- 
tioned a* being in circulation in Greece; those of Lamp- 
oons which in all specimens hitherto seen have ex- 
actly the weight of a darie ; of Rhocsea (Tlmcyd. iv, 
62 ;* Ocmosili. in Jioot. p. 1 «> I i>) ; of Corinth (Pollux, 
iv. 174; jx, mi); and those of Philip of Macedon and 
Alexander the Great, who issued them of the weight 
of Attic didraehms. Thus far the stater is always a di- 
draclnn. In silver, however, the term was in later 
times applied to the tetrndraehm of Athens (Phot.s.v. 
LYuri/p: Hesych. s. v. iWaf’K'fc Aorpuurucai), and at- 
tempts have been made to prove that even in the time 
of Thucydides the tetradraehm bore the name of stater 
(Thucyd. iii, 7t), Dr. Arnold’s note). The term stater 
was ai-o applied to the gold tetradrachms (commonly 
called octodrachms) of the Ptolemies (.losephus, A nt. iii, 
N, 2). There can therefore he no doubt that the name 
stater was applied to the standard denomination of 
both metals, and does not positively imply either a di- 
drachm ora tetradraehm. Sec Didkaciim. 

2. In the New lest, the stater is once mentioned, in 
the narrative of the miracle of the sacred tribute-money. 
At Capernaum the receivers of the didraehms (oi rd 
c i ?pa\pa Xo/i^Jdi'otTfc) awheel Peter whether his mas- 
ter paid the didraehms. The didrachm refers to the 
yearly tribute paid by every Hebrew' into the treasury 
of the Temple. It has been supposed bv some ancient 
and modern commentators that t lie civil tribute is here 
referred to; but by this explanation tbc force of our 
Lord’s reason for freedom from the payment seems to 
be completely missed. The sum was half a shekel, 
called by the Sept, to ijfunv rov CiCpd\pov, The plain 
inference would therefore be that the receivers of sacred 
tribute took their name from the ordinary coin or weight 
of metal, the shekel, of which each person paid half. 
8ee Siiekku Put it has been supposed that as the 
coined equivalent of this didrachm at the period of the 
evangelist was a tetradraehm, and the payment of 
each person was therefore a current didrachm [of ac- 
count], the term here applies to single payments of di- 
draehms. This opinion would appear to receive some 
support from the statement of Josephus, that Vespasian 
fixed a yearly tax of two drachms on the Jew's instead 
of that they had formerly paid into the treasury of the 
Temple ( ll'c/r, vii, 0, 6). Hut this passage loses its 
force when we remember that the common current sil- 
ver coin in Palestine at the time of Vespasian, and that 
in which the civil tribute was paid, was the denarius, 
th? tribute-money. then equivalent to the debased Attic 
drachm. It seems also most unlikely that the use of 
the term didrachm should have so remarkably changed 
in the interval between the date oftlie Sept, translation 
of the Pentateuch and that of the writing of Matthew’s 
Gospel. To return to the narrative. Peter was com- 
manded to take up a lish which should he found to con- 
tain a stater, which lie was to pay to the collectors of 
tribute for our Lord and himself (Matt, xvii, 24-27). 
The stater must here mean a silver tetradraehm; and 
the only tetradrachms then current in Palestine were 
of the same weight as the Hebrew shekel. It is ol>- 
servalde, in confirmation of the minute accuracy of the 
evangelist, that at this period the silver currency in 
Palestine consisted of Greek imperial tetradrachms, or 
staters, and Roman denarii of a quarter their value, di- 
draehms having fallen into disuse. Had two didraehms 
Wen found by Peter, the receivers of tribute would 
scarcely have taken them; and, no doubt, the ordinary 
coin paid was that miraculously supplied, ‘fife tetrn- 
drnchms of Syria and Plueuicia during the 1st centurv 
were always of pure silver, but afterwards the coinage 
became greatly debased, t bough Antioch continued to 
strike tetradrachms to the lid century, but they grad- 
ually depreciated. It was required (Poole, Hist, of ,/eir, 
Lnnuit/e, p. 210) that the tribute should he paid in full 
weight, and therefore the date of the gospel must he of 
a time when staters of pure silver were current. — 
.Ninth ; Kitio. Sec Silvkk, Piixk ok. 


States of the Church, called also The Papal 
States, was the name given to the dominions formerly 
belonging to the see of Pome. These states occupied the 
central part of Italy, stretching across the peninsula in 
an oblique direction from the Mediterranean to the 
Adriatic, bounded south by Naples, and north by 
Tuscany, Modena, and the Austrian possessions. The 
territory included twenty provinces, six of which, called 
Legations, wore governed by a cardinal legate, and four- 
teen, called Delegations, were administered by dignita- 
ries of lower degree. The number of square miles w\as 
15,381 ; population, 3,124,088, including about 10,000 
regular clergy or monks, 8000 nuns, and about 32,000 
secular clergy. 

The central government w T as an elective monarchy. 
The pope for the time being was the absolute sovereign 
of the States; he w T as assisted by a council of ministers 
and a council of state, over each of which the cardinal 
secretary of state presided. The congregation or board 
called “Sacra Consulta,” consisting of cardinals ami 
prelates, superintended the administration of the prov- 
inces, and w’as also a court of appeals for criminal mat- 
ters. The temporal power of the pope, exerted over 
these states, derived its origin from his spiritual pow-cr, 
and the following is, in brief, its history. After the fall 
of the Western Empire, Rome retained its municipal 
government, and the bishop of Rome, styled Prsesul, was 
elected by the joint votes of t he clergy, the senate, and the 
people, but w as not consecrated until the choice was con- 
firmed by the Eastern emperor. In 726 pope Gregory 
declared himself independent of the Byzantine crown, 
which act was the first step towards the establishment 
of temporal sovereignty. Rome now governed itself 
as an independent commonwealth, forming alliances 
with the dukes of Benevento and Spoleto and with the 
Longobards; the pope generally being the mediator of 
these transactions. Repin, having defeated Astolphus, 
king of the Longobards, obliged him not only to respect 
the duchy of Rome, but to give lip the exarchate of 
Ravenna ami the Rentapolis “to the Holy Church of 
God and the Roman republic.” Repin’s son, Charle- 
magne, confirmed and enlarged the donation. The 
temporal power of the popes in these times was very 
little, being restrained on one side by the republican 
spirit of the people, and on the other by the imperial 



duchy of Benevento by aid of the Normans, and the 
fiefs of Matilda of Tuscany, in Parma, Modena, Mantua, 
and Tuscany, by her will dated 1 102, Severe struggles 
as to authority over the Rapal States ensued between 
Gregory VII and Henry IV, between Innocent III, 
Henry VI, and Otho IV; and it was not until 1278 that 
pope Nicholas 111 induced Rudolph I of Hapsburg to 
acknowledge him a free sovereign, thereby establishing 
the Rapal States as an independent empire. The ter- 
ritory of the States was increased under Julius II by 
l’esaro, Rimini, Faenza, and Reggio; in 1508 by Ferrara, 
Comaccbio, and the Romagna; in 1623 by U rhino; and 
in 1650 by Romiglionc and the duchy of Castro. It 
underwent some change during the w r ars of Napoleon, 
being at one time entirely incorporated with France. 
In 1814 the pope was restored to his dominions. Soon 
after his accession, pope Eius IX. after a series of liberal 
concessions to his subjects, appointed a ministry, at the 
head of which was count Rossi, and granted a constitu- 
tional parliament, consisting of ninety-nine members 
popularly elected. But the democratic element w'as 
unsatisfied, ami count Rossi was assassinated, Nov. 15, 
1818. The pope fled to Gaeta (Nov. 25) and placed him- 
self under the protection of the king of Naples. A pro- 
visional junta was instituted in Rome, and a constituent 
assembly called, which proclaimed a republican form of 
government, and declared the pope divested of all tem- 
poral power (Feb. 8, 1849). The pope protested and 
the great Catholic powers interfered in his behalf. 
France, Spain, ami Naples sent troops to support his 


STATINUS 


997 


STAUDENMAIER 


rights, and the French army besieged Home, June ‘23, 
1849, w'hieh surrendered unconditionally. July 3. The 
French took possession, and soon alter proclaimed the 
authority of the pope; who, however, did not return till 
April 12, 1850. The people were dissatisfied, and one 
province after another emancipated itself from the papal 
sceptre, and united with the kingdom of Italy. The 
French soldiers left Home Aug. *21, 1870, and king 
Victor Emmanuel took possession of the city, declaring 
it the capital of Italy, and thereby abolishing the tem- 
poral power of the pope. See Temporal Power. 

Statinus, or Statilinus, a Homan divinity whose 
office it was to watch over children before they could 
walk and to give them the ability to stand. Sacrifices 
were offered to him when a child began to stand or run 
alone (Augustine, De Civ. Dei, iv, 21 ; Tertull. I)e A nimu , 
39; Varro, Ap. Xon . p. 5*28). See Smith, Diet, of 
Biog. and Mg (hot. s. v. ; Yol liner, Worterb. d. Mythol. 
S. V. 

Statio, a word employed in ecclesiastical language 
to denote, 1. A certain fixed post or place, anti especial- 
ly an appointed place, in which prayer might be made, 
either publicly or privately ( locus sneer, oratorium). 
2. A standing posture at prayer. See Standing. 3. 
Statio is also frequently employed by early writers as 
nearly equivalent to jejuuium. See Stations. 

Stationalis, Crux, a cross or crucifix carried in 
religious processions, and serving as a kind of chief 
standard, or to denote a place of rendezvous or head- 
quarters. 

Stationariae, Indulgentiae. Indulgences pub- 
lished at certain stations, and especially in the ecclesiie 
stationales. 

Stationarii, one of the three classes of subdeacons, 
whose duties related chiefly to processions. 

Stationarius Calix, the cup or chnliee which is 
taken from one station to another where mass is to be 
celebrated or a sortitio sacra to be performed. 

Stations of the Holy Cross, or the Holy Way 
of the Cross, consist, among Homan Catholics, of 
fourteen representations of the successive stages of our 
Lord’s passion, or of his journey from the hall of Pilate 
to Calvary. See Via Dolorosa. These are set up in 
regular order round the nave of a church or elsewhere, 
and visited successively, with meditation and prayer, at 
each station; the devotion being a substitute for an act- 
ual pilgrimage to Palestine and a visit to the holy places 
themselves. The fourteen stations of the cross repre- 
sent — l. Jesus is condemned to death; 2. Jesus is made 
to bear his cross; 3. Jesus falls the first, time under his 
cross; 4. Jesus meets his afflicted mother; 5. The 
Cyrenian helps Jesus to carry his cross; 6. Veronica 
wipes the face of Jesus; 7. Jesus falls the seeond time; 
8. Jesus speaks to the women of Jerusalem ; 9. Jesus 
falls the third time; 10. Jesus is stripped of his gar- 
ments; 11. Jesus is nailed to the cross; 12. Jesus dies 
on the cross; 13. Jesus is taken down from the cross; 
14. Jesus is placed in the sepulchre. See Barnum, 
Romanism as It Is , p.479. 

Stator, a Homan surname of Jupiter, given because 
he stayed the Homans in their flight before the Sabines. 
Bomuius vowed to erect a temple in his honor, but con- 
tented himself with indicating the spot w here it should 
stand. M. Attilius repeated that vow at a later day, and 
the senate thereupon caused the temple to be built in 
the tenth region (Livy, i, 12). See Anthon, Classical 
Diet. s. v. ; Yollmer, Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Stattler, Benedict, a German Jesuit, was born 
Jan. 30, 1728, at Kotzing, in Lower Bavaria, studied at 
Niederaltaich and Munich, and entered in 1745 the Order 
of the Jesuits at Laiulsberg. In 1759 he received holy 
orders, lectured at Soleure and lunspruck on philoso- 
phy and theology, was appointed pastor at Ingolstadt in 
1776, and in 1782 at Kemnath. Having resigned his 
pastorate, he retired to Munich, where he died Aug. 21, 


1797. Stattler has the merit of having shown the nn- 
tenabilitv of modern philosophy, especially that of Kant. 
He wrote, 1 Vahre and a lie in hinreichende Reformat ionsurt 
des katholischen Priesterst nudes (Ulm, 1791): — Demon- 
stratio Catholica (placed on the Index'): — Plan zu tier 
idle in moylichen Yereiniyuny im Glaubeti der Protestanten 
mit der kathol. Kirche unit den Grenzen dieser Muylich- 
keit (Augsburg ami Munich, 1791) : — Tractatio Cosuwlo- 
yica de Viribus et Xatnra Corporum (Munich, 1763) : — 
Philosophia Methodo Ecientiis Propria Ex plana t a (ibid. 
1769-72) : — Demomtratio Ecanyelica adrersns Theistas , 
etc. (ibid. 1770) ; — Ethica Christiana Universalis (Ingol- 
stadt, 1772): — Compendium Phihisophivum (ibid. 1773) : 
— De Locis Theoloyivis (Weisseuburg, 1775): — Theoloyitc 
Theoretics Tract at us VI (Munich, 1776): — Theoloy. 
Christ. Theoretica (ibid. 1781, etc.): — 1 To /ires Yerhiiit- 
niss der kantisrhen Philosophic zur christl. Religion und 
Moral (ibid. 1794) : — Meine noch immer feste Ueberzeu- 
yuny von dem I'ollen Unyrnnde der kantischen Philosophic 
and von dem aus Hirer A ufnahme in christliche Schulen 
unfehlbar entstehenden dussersten Schaden fur Moral und 
Religion, geyen zieei neue Vertheidiyer (Landshut, 1794). 
See Reyensburyer Conversations- Lexikon, s. v. ; Theoloy. 
Universal- Lexikon, s. v, ; Werner, Geschichte der katho- 
lischen Theoloy ie (Munich, 1866); Fiirst, Bibl.Jud. iii, 
379; Winer, Ilandbuch der theol. Literatur , i, 305,316, 
357, 384, 487; ii, 323, 788. (B. P.) 

Statues. The ancient Christians did not approve 
of statues of wood or metal or stone to be used in 
ehurches. This is proved from the testimonies of Her- 
manns, bishop of Constantinople (Ep. ad Thom, etc.), 
and Stephanas Bostrenensis, both cited in the Acts of 
the Second Council of Nice, which show that massy 
images or statues were thought to look too much like 
idols even by that worst of councils. Petavius answers 
the reference to the authority of Gregory Nazianzen (Ep. 
49), that he speaks not of statues in temples, hut of pro- 
fane statues in other places. It is most certain, from the 
writings of Augustine (in Psa.cxiii) and Optatus (lib. ii), 
that there w T cre no statues in that age in their churches 
or upon their altars, because they reckon both those to 
be mere heathenish customs. Cassander notes (Consult, 
de /may in. p. 165) that till the time of the Sixth Gen- 
eral Council the images of Christ were not usually in 
the figure of a man, but only symbolically represented 
under the type of a lamb; and so the Holy Ghost w r as 
represented under the type or symbol of a dove. That 
council forbade ( Cone . 'Trull, c. 83) the picturing of 
Christ any more in the symbol of a lamb, and ordered 
that the Son of God should he draw n only in the like- 
ness of man. The worship of images began, probably, 
in A.D. 692. It was then thought indecent to pay de- 
votions to the picture of a land), and it was therefore 
no longer seen in the Church. Statues are now among 
the prominent ornaments of Homan Catholic ehurches 
and chapels.— Bingham, Christ. Antiq. bk. viii, ch. viii, 
§ 11. See Image-worship; Sculpture, Christian. 

Status Duplex, the old dogmatic mode of speak- 
ing of the tirofohl state in which the Lord accomplished 
his redeeming w'ork. See Van Oosterzee, Christ. Dog- 
matics. ii, 540. 

Statute, Bloody, an act passed during that period 
of reaction against the Helbrmation in the mind of l lenry 
VIII which lasted from 1538 to 1584. See Articles, 
Six. 

Staudenmaier, Franz Anton, an eminent theo- 
logian of the Homan Catholic Church, was born Sept. 
II, 1800, at Donzdorf, in Wurtembcrg. He was conse- 
crated to the priesthood in 1827, and entered on his voca- 
tion as a teacher in the following year, when lie became 
tutor in the theological seminary at Tubingen. In 1828 
he was appointed to the chair of theology at Giessen, in 
consequence of the publication of a work bv him on the 
History of Bishops' Elections (Tub. 1830), which had al- 
ready been awarded a prize offered by the Tubingen 
University in 1825. lie developed an uncommonly 


STAUDLIX 


99S 


STAUPITZ 


fruitful activity as a professor while at Giessen, and 
was no loss busy as a writer. In 1834 he founded, in 
conjunction with several of his colleagues, a journal 
bearing the nam c Jahrbiicher Jur Theoloyie u. christl. 
Phd*>s< ipfiit. lie was transferred in 1837 to the Uni- 
vrr>ity of Freiburg, and in 1830 aided in founding an- 
other ’theological journal. Honors now began to pour 
in upon him ; he became canon of the cathedral of the 
archdiocese of Freiburg, a spiritual and then privy coun- 
cillor to the grand-duke of Baden, and obtained a seat 
in the legislative chambers, lie was also made an 
honorary member of the University of Prague. Se- 
vere application had, however, destroyed his health and 
exhausted the strength of his mind. In 1855 he was I 
obliged to apply for dismissal from his professorship, 
and on Jan. ID, 1850, he found his death in the canal at 1 
Freiburg. Staudenmaicr ranks among the most emi- 
nent scholars of his Church, and may in some respects 
be brought into comparison even with Mbhler (q. w). , 
Ilis culture was universal, because he was convinced 
that theology has relations towards all sciences, being 
as it were their sun, from which they derive light, life, 
and beauty (comp, his essay Ueber das 1 1 'esen der Uni- 
remit iit [ Freib. 1830]). lie lived in a world of ideas. 
Through protracted and zealous study of the old and 
new philosophies, of the fathers, the schoolmen, etc., he 
entered more fully into the realm of ideas which he re- 
garded as the originals and the ground-forms of all ex- 
istences. Several unfinished works show r how profound 
were his inquiries in this field (comp. J. Scot. Eriyena n. 
d. Wiss* nschaf seiner Zeit [Frankf. 1834] : — Die Philo - 
sophie d. Ch rist ent hums, etc. [Giessen, 1840] : — and Dur- 
st Din ny u. Kritik d. heyel. Systems [Mayeuce, 1844]). It 
is evident, however, that Staudenmaicr could in no case 
have solved the problem he had set himself, because he 
had no apprehension of the relation of the doctrine of 
the divine ideas to the world of nature. He did not 
even observe what Erigena has to say upon this sub- 
ject, ami thoroughly misapprehended the principle upon 
w hich the system of Jacob Iliehme (q. v.) rests. The 
broad comprehensiveness of his studies of doctrine w*as 
already apparent in his Encykl. d. theol. Wissenschuften , 
etc. (Mayeuce, 1831) : — Pragmatism. d. deist esyuben, etc. 
(Ttlb. 1835): — and deist d. gottl. Offenburuny. Upon 
these work? followed his Christl. Doymatik (1844-48). 
We have also to mention in this connection the popular 
works Ji ildercykl us fit r hit h olbtch e Christen, in nine pam- 
phlet^ (Uarlsrnhe, 1*43-44) : — and deist d. Christenthums , 
duryestellt in d. he'd. Zeiten , Ifandhtnyen n. Kunst (May- 
ence, 1*34, 2 vols. ; 5th ed. 1*52). Staudenmaier’s mis- 
cellaneous writings form an extensive group. They 
generally discuss questions of the time, and are per- 
vaded bv a liberal tone, though the author is utterly 
unable to appreciate Protestantism or its results. — Her- 
zog. Ileal- Encyklop. s. v. 

Staudlin, Karl Fhikhrioii, theological professor 
at Gottingen, was horn July 25, 1701, at Stuttgart. Ilis 
father was councillor of state, lie was educated in the 
Stuttgart gymnasium ami the theological institution 
at Tubingen. In 17*0 he became tutor to a number 
of pupils, whom he accompanied in journeys through 
France, England, and Switzerland, ami in 171)0 lie was 
called to Gottingen. lie was not specially brilliant as 
a professor, ami his lectures, particularly in his later 
years, were not attractive. Hut he was a prolific writer 
ami an indefatigable compiler. Ilis doctrinal position 
is described by himself ( desch.des Rationalism ns u.Su- 
jimm/urn/ismii* [1*20), p. 4)1*) as involving a concep- 
tion of Christianity in which it appears as a combined 
rationalism and snpernaturalism. In dogmatics, which 
In- clalmrati-il nt threo several times— in 1*01, 1*00, and 
1*22 — lie did not regard the principles of the critical 
philosophy as adequate to the establishing of religion; 
and in ethics lie also came to concede the superiority 
<*l the Christian religion as a guide. Striudliii probably 
furnished a larger number of works to the history of 
ethics than any other writer: Gesch. d. SittenUhrc Jisu 


(1700 -1822, 4 vols. incomplete) : — Gesch. d. christl. Moral 
seit d. 1 Viederaufeben d. Wissenschuften (1808): — Gesch. 
d. philosophy hebrdisch. it. ch risfl. Moral (Hanover, 
1800): — and Gesch. d. Morulphilosophie (ibid. 1822). 
He wrote seven monographs on the theatre, on suicide, 
on oaths, on prayer, on conscience, on marriage, and on 
friendship (Gbtt. 1823-20), and his earliest large work, 
Gesch. u. Geist d. Skeptidsmus, etc., and the Gesch. d. 
Rationulismus, etc., already mentioned, belonged to the 
list of his doctrinal and ethical works. Church history 
repeatedly engaged his attention (comp, his Text-book 
[Hanover, 1825,4th ed.] ; Kirchenyesch. i\ Grossbritamii - 
en [Gott. 1*00, 2 vols.] ; Kirchl. Geoyr.v. Stutistik [ibid. 
1804, 2 vols.J; and numerous Latin and German articles 
contributed to the periodical press or published as mon- 
ographs). In a Theoloyical Emyclopiediu and Methodol- 
oyy published by him (Hanover, 1821) the survey of the 
history of the different theological sciences is the most 
important feature. After his death a Gesch. it. Literatur 
d. Kirchenyesch ich te, by his hand, w as published (ibid. 
1827). He gave no considerable attention to arrange- 
ment and style of presentation in his numerous writings, 
which are chiefly remarkable for the wide range of read- 
ing and impartiality in judgment they evince. He 
toiled incessantly down to the time of his decease, de- 
livering a lecture July 1, 1826, writing the final pagts 
of a treatise on Hebrew’ poetry July 4, and dying July 5. 
His autobiography was published by J. T. Ilemsen, with 
additions and Kuperti’s sermon preached at the funeral 
of Staudlin, and also a nearly complete list of the latter’s 
writings (Gbtt. 1826). — Herzog, Real- Encyklop. s.v. 

Staughton, William, D.D., a Baptist minister, 
was born at Coventry, Warwickshire, England, Jan. 4, 
1770. lie studied in the Baptist theological institu- 
tion at Bristol, and emigrated to the United States in 
1793, where he soon became pastor of the Baptist 
Church in Georgetown, S. C. Here he acquired great 
popularity, but the climate not agreeing with his health, 
he removed to New r York in 1795. In 1797 he became 
principal of an academy at Bordentow n, N. J., but at 
the close of the next year removed to Burlington, where 
he kept a large and flourishing school for several years. 
He was made D.D. by the College of New’ Jersey in 
1801. In 1805 he became pastor of the First Baptist 
Church in Philadelphia, and afterwards of the Samson 
Street Church in that city. In 1822 he became presi- 
dent of the new ly organized Columbian College, D. C., 
and in con set jue nee removed to Washington in the fall 
of 1823. During a journey South, undertaken for the 
purpose of raising funds for that institution, he was led 
to resign its presidency, and, returning to Philadelphia, 
he preached for a while to the New’ Market Street con- 
gregation, when he was chosen tirst president of the 
Baptist Literary and Theological Institution at George- 
town, Ky., which he accepted, hut, during his journey 
there, he fell sick, and died Dec. 12, 1829. Dr. Staugh- 
ton published a number of Discourses, A ddresses, ami 
Sermons. See Sprague, A nmils of the A mer. Pulpit, vi, 
334 ; Allibone, Diet, of JJrit. and A mer. A nthors, s. v. 

Staupitz, Joiiann von, the genial patron and friend 
of Luther, was descended from an ancient noble family 
of Misnia, though the names of his parents and the date 
and place of his birth are not known. He became an 
Augustine monk, and studied theology at Tubingen, 
w'here he was also prior of his convent and was made 
theological doctor. He was not attracted by scholasti- 
cism, hut gave himself rather to the study of the Script- 
ures. The elector of Saxony, Frederick the Wise, called 
him to participate in the founding of the university at 
Wittenberg, and in the prosecution of that w ork he jour- 
neyed to Borne to secure for the institution the papal 
privileges. In 1502 lie became the dean of its theolog- 
ical faculty, and in 1503 be w’as made viear-general of 
the Angustincs for the province of Germany. In this 
character he introduced the reading aloud of the Holy 
Scriptures instead of Augustine’s works at meal-time iu 


STAUROANASTASIMA 990 


the monasteries under his supervision, and earnestly 
sought to promote their general prosperity. The duties 
of the latter office seriously impaired his efficiency as an 
academical instructor; but it is related that he was nev- 
ertheless venerated by the students. Staupitz discov- 
ered Luther during an inspection of the Convent of Er- 
furt, which the latter had entered in 1505, and not only 
obtained his release from the menial position to which 
he had been assigned, but gave him kindly spiritual 
counsel that guided his feet into the way of truth and 
delivered his mind from slavish and superstitious fears. 
See Lutiier. It was also through Staupitz that Lu- 
ther was called, in 1508, to fill the chair of dialectics and 
ethics in the Wittenberg University, and that he was 
induced to ascend the pulpit, and afterwards in 1512 to 
accept the doctor’s degree in theology. How great was 
the confidence placed by Staupitz in his young friend 
appears from his appointing the latter his substitute in 
the inspection of forty convents, while himself absent in 
the Netherlands, in 1516, to collect relics for the new 
Church of All-Saints at Wittenberg. The sympathies 
of Staupitz were necessarily with Luther when the lat- 
ter began his reformatory work. He expressed his sen- 
timents repeatedly, and did not hesitate to expose him- 
self to the ill-will of Cajetau by coming to the Reformer’s 
support when the latter appeared before the cardinal in 
October, 1518, at Augsburg. He was not, however, fit- 
ted to be himself a reformer. His disposition was quiet, 
tender, and contemplative rather than bold and heroic. 
He consequently drew back from Luther and his cause 
in time, but did not, like Erasmus and many humanists, 
consent to be used against the Reformation. He spent 
the closing years of his life, beginning with 1519, at 
Salzburg, whither he had been attracted by the cun- 
ning of cardinal Matthew Lang. He became preacher 
to the cardinal in 1519, and soon afterwards passed from 
the Augustine into the Benedictine order of monks. In 
1522 he became abbot of the convent at Salzburg, taking 
the name of John IV, and subsequently was made vicar 
and suffragan to the cardinal -archbishop Lang. He 
still, however, kept up his connection with Luther, and 
as late as 1519 invited the latter to take refuge with him, 

“ ut simul vivamus moriamurque.” The Reformer, nev- 
ertheless, complained of neglect at the hands of Staupitz, 
and was mortified that the latter should have declared 
his willingness to submit to the pope when charged with 
being Luther’s patron, and that he should have consent- 
ed to become an abbot. Staupitz retained his evangel- 
ical spirit to the end, and felt dissatisfied and oppressed 
in his new relations, and he exercised a reformatory in- j 
fluence by permitting his monks to read the works of 
Luther, brought with him on his first arrival. One of 
his successors caused the suspicious writings contained 
in the library of Staupitz to be burned. Staupitz died 
Dec. 28, 1524, and was buried at Salzburg. The literary 
remains of Staupitz consist of ten Letters, collected by 
Grimm and published in Illgen’s Zeitschrift fur hist. 
Tkeol. 1837, ii, 65 sq., and a number of minor ascetieal 
and miscellaneous works. His theology was August in- 
iau, scriptural, and mystical ; his tendency practical, 
though not profound; his entire personality noble, en- 
gaging, and dignified. His highest claim to notice 
must ever be that he stimulated and encouraged his 
great disciple, until the latter had developed into fit- 
ness for the mighty work to which he was called of 
God. See Adam, Vita Staupitii, in Vitce Theologorum, 
1st ed. p. 20; Grimm, vt sup.; Ullmann, Reformatoren 
vor der Reformation , vol. ii ; D’Aubigne, Reformation, 
vol. i, bk. ii, ch. iv sq. ; De Wette, i, 25 ; Luther’s Werlce, 
Waleh’s ed. vol. xxii, passim. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. 
S. V. 

Stauroanastaslma ('Sravpoavaordmpa), a 
Greek term for hymns commemorative of the cross and 
of the resurrection. 

Staurogath&na (IravpoyaS’ara), a Greek term 
for the crosses made of red and white ribbons which 


STEAD 

arc attached for eight days to the dress of the newly 
baptized. 

Stauronein ('Sravpwveiv), a Greek word signify- 
ing either to crucify or to make the sign of the cross. 

Stauropegion ( ^.ravpairpyiov ), a name some- 
times given to a bishop’s diocese, meaning the district 
wherein he had power to fix the cross within his own 
bounds for the building of churches. It may mean — 1. 
The rite of fixing a cross in token of direct patriarchal 
jurisdiction. 2. A church or convent where a cross 
has been so fixed and exempt from ordinary diocesan 
jurisdiction. — Lee, Gloss, of Liturg. Terms , s. v. 

Staurophoroi (fTavpotybpoC), a Greek term for 
the six great dignitaries of the Oriental Church who 
wear a cross on their caps. 

Stauroph^lax (Srai/po0u\«£), the keeper of the 
sacred cross on the Church of the Resurrection at Je- 
rusalem. 

Staurotheotokion (~ravpo$eoTOKiov), a Greek 
term for a hymn commemorating the Blessed Virgin 
at the cross, corresponding to the Latin Stabat Mater 
(q. v.). 

Staves is properly the plural of staff, but it is used 
in the A. V. distinctively as the rendering of the plural 
of 12, bad (literally paid, and so occasionally rendered 
“branch,” etc.), spoken of the bars or poles for carrying 
the sacred ark (Exod. xxv, 13-28, etc.; Numb, iv, 6-14 ; 
1 Kings viii, 7, 8; 2 Chron. v, 8, 9); and of illj'va, mo- 
tdh , a staff or pole for bearing on the shoulder (1 Chron. 
xv, 15), especially the ox-bow of a yoke (“band,” Lev. 
xxvi, 13), and hence the “yoke” itself (q. v.). See 
Staff. 

Stay. This word is found in its antiquated sense in 
the Burial Service, but in no other part of the I’raver- 
book. It occurs in a passage quoted from Job xiv, 1, 
2, concluding with “and never continueth in one stay.” 
The word “stay” may be changed for “place” or “con- 
dition” without affecting the sense. See Stanton, Diet, 
of the Church, s. v. 

Stay-bar, or Iron. See Stanchion. 

Stayned Cloths, an old name for altar-cloths of 
linen painted with Scripture or other appropriate sub- 
jects, commonly in use in the ancient Church of Eng- 
land. 

St. Clair, Alanson, a Congregational minister, 
was born at Greene, Me., 1804. lie was for twenty- 
| five years active in the antislavery cause, and estab- 
lished and edited two papers devoted to it. lie was 
ordained in June, 1844, and became acting pastor at 
Muskeegon, Mich., for ten years. From 1864 to 1868 
at Newago; from 1868 to 1870 at Whitehall; from 1870 
to 1873 at Shelby, and remained there without charge 
until called to his reward. He died Sept. 21, 1877. 
(W. P. S.) 

St. Clair, John H., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was born in Virginia about 
1837, and was a member of the St. Louis Conference, 
of which he became a superannuate in 1874. 1 1 is last 

charge was Choteau Avenue, St. Louis, Mo. lie died 
near St. Louis, Oct. 29, 1874. See Minutes of Annual 
Conferences of the M. E. Church, South, 1875, p. 233. 

Stead, Benjamin F., D.D., a Presbyterian di- 
vine, was born in Pittsburgh, Pa., Feb. 22, 1815. In 
early life his parents removed with him and five other 
children to Michigan, where he was left an orphan; 
but, by a remarkable series of providences, he was led 
to Brown University, R. I., and then to the New York 
University, where he graduated in 1841. lie became 
a member of I)r. Skinner’s Church ami had his atten- 
tion directed to the ministry. lie taught in private 
families and schools for a period and pursued the study 
of theology. lie was ordained and installed pastor of 
the Bridesburg Church, Pa., Feb. 22, 1842, and remained 


STEAD 


1000 


STEARNS 


in that charge for ten years. In Jnlv, 185*2, he was 
called to the pastorate of the Presbyterian Church of 
Astoria in the vicinity of New York, where he contin- 
ued to lal>or with great fidelity and acceptability for 
twenty -six years, when death closed his service on 
earth. His iast hours were spent in unceasing prayer, 
and the ruling passion exhibited its strength. At times 
he was doing pastoral work — visiting his people, coun- 
selling and comforting, explaining passages of Script- 
ure, and even preaching with unction and power, llis 
death, which occurred Feb. 15, 1871), was exceedingly 
peaceful and happy. (W. P. S.) 

Stead, Henry, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was horn in England, April 10. 1774, and 
came to the United States dune 10, 1802. In 1804 he 
joined the New York Conference, ami continued a 
member thereof until its division in 1832, when his lot 
fell in the Troy Conference. In 1834 he is found on 
the supernumerary list, where he remained till June 5, 
1830, when he took an effective relation. He contin- 
ued to preach regularly for three years, but in 1842 he 
was returned as supernumerary, passing to superannu- 
ated, and remaining such until his death, at Greenwich, 
Washington Co., X. Y., Oct. 18, 1854. See Minutes of 
Annual Conferences , 1855, p. 539. 

Stead, William D., a Methodist Episcopal min- 
ister. was born in the parish of Bray ton, Yorkshire, 
England, in 1799. He emigrated to the United States 
when three years old. was converted in his nineteenth 
year, admitted on trial in the New York Conference in 
1832, and appointed to Johnstown Circuit. He subse- 
quently tilled the following appointments: Lansing- 
burg and Waterford. Sand Lake, Pittstown, New Leb- 
anon, Chatham, and Chester. lie died Jan. (3, 1844. 
He was characterized by great fidelity and sobriety; 
was a good preacher, remarkable for simplicity and 
ardor, and a most excellent pastor. See Minutes of 
Annual Conferences , iii, 582. 

Steagall, Joy F., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was born in Jasper County, 
Ga., Dec. 4, 1807, and united with the Church when 
twelve years of age. lie was admitted on trial into 
the Georgia Conference in 1834, and continued in the 
active ministry till within two years of his death, April 
9. 1 x I x. See Minutes of Annual Conferences of the M. 
K. Churchy South, 1849, p. 202. 

Steal (“15, The Mosaic law on the sub- 

ject of stealing is contained in Exod. xxii, ami consists 
of the following enactments: 

1. He who stole and killed an ox or a sheep was to 
restore five oxen for the ox, and four sheep for the 
sheep. 

2. If the stolen animal was found alive, the thief was 
to restore double. 

3. If a man was found stealing in a dwelling-house 
at night and was killed in the act, the homicide was 
not held guilty of murder. 

4. If the act was committed during daylight, the 
thief might not he killed, but was bound to make full 
restitution or be sold into slavery. 

5. If money or goods deposited in a man’s house 
were stolen therefrom, the thief, when detected, was to 
pay double; but 

6. If the thief could not he found, the master of the 
house was to he examined before the judges. 

7. If an animal given in charge to a man to keep 
was stolen from him, i. e. through his negligence, he 
was (4i make restitution to the owner. See Oatii. 

There seems to be no reason to suppose (bat the law 
underwent any alteration in Solomon's timo,asMiehaelis 
supposes; the expression in I’rov. vi, 30, 31 is that a 
thief detected in stealing should restore sevenfold, i. e. 
to the full amount, and for this purpose even give all 
the substance of bis house, and thus in ease of failure 
be liable to servitude (Michaelis, Laws of Moses, § 281). 


On the other hand, see Bertheau on Prow vi; and Keil, 
Arch. Ilebr. § 154. Man-stealing was punishable ivith 
death (Exod. xxi, 16; Deut. xxiv, 7). Invasion of 
right in land was strictly forbidden (xxvii, 17; Isa. v, 
8; Mic. ii, 2).— Smith. See Theft. 

Stearne. See Sterne. 

Stearns, Charles, a Unitarian minister, ivas born 
at Leominster, Mass., July 19, 1753; entered Harvard 
University in 1769, and graduated in 1773. Immedi- 
ately upon graduation he commenced to teach, and dur- 
ing 1780 and 1781 he was tutor at Cambridge. He 
was first employed to preach at Lincoln in October, 
1780, over which Church he was installed Nov. 7, 1781. 
In 1792 he became principal of a high-school in Lin- 
coln, which continued ten years. In 1810 he received 
the degree of D.l). from Harvard University. He died 
July 26, 1826. He published, The Ladies' Philosophy 
of Love (1797), a poem: — Dramatic Dialogues for the 
Use of Schools (1798) : — Principles of Religion and Mo- 
rali/g (1798; 2d ed. 1807) Sermons (1792, 1806, 1815, 
etc.). See Sprague, Annals of the Amer . Pulpit , viii, 
147. 

Stearns, Josiah, a Congregational minister, was 
born at Billerica, Mass., Jan. 20, 1732, and graduated 
from Harvard University in 1751. He. was ordained 
pastor of the Church in Epping, N. 1L, March 8, 1758. 
He adopted and earnestly advocated the principles of 
the devolution, sending his elder sons into the army, 
and sacrificing most of his worldly interest in support 
of the American cause. Mr. Stearns was a close and 
thorough student, and, although his slender means 
would not alhnv him to possess much of a library, he 
w r as favored with the use of books by friends. He died 
at Epping, July 25, 1788. Five of his occasional ser- 
mons were published. See Sprague, Annals of the 
Amer . Pulpit , i, 575. 

Stearns, Samuel, a Congregational minister, son 
of the preceding, was born at Epping. N. 1L, April 8, 
1770. lie fitted for college at Exeter Academy, enter- 
ed Dartmouth in 1790, whence he removed in his junior 
year to Cambridge, and graduated at Harvard in 1 794-. 
lie studied theology under Rev. Jonathan French, of 
Andover, and was ordained minister of the town of 
Bedford April 27, 1795. On Nov. 14, 1831, a vote was 
passed in town meeting to occupy the pulpit for a cer- 
tain number of Sundays during the ensuing winter 
with Unitarian preachers. A new r society was conse- 
quently formed under the name of the Trinitarian Con- 
gregational Society, June 5, 1833 ; and Mr. Stearns be- 
came its minister, which connection he held till his 
death, Dec. 26, 1834. lie published six occasional Ser- 
mons and Discourses (1807-22), and an A ddress (1815), 
See Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit, i, 579. 

Stearns, Samuel Horatio, a Congregational 
minister, son of the preceding, was born at Bedford, 
Mass., Sept. 12, 1801. In 1816 he entered I’hillips 
Academy, Andover, where he underwent a change of 
heart, and made a public profession of religion in June, 
1817. lie entered Harvard College in 1819, from which 
he graduated in 1823. After leaving college, he be- 
came a teacher in Phillips Academy, w here he remained 
until 1825, when lie entered the 'Theological Seminary 
at Andover, leaving it in 1828. llis health was in such 
a feeble condition that he would not consider himself 
a candidate for settlement until 1834, in which year, on 
April 16, he w r as ordained pastor of the Old South 
Church, Boston. After preaching for three Sabbaths, 
he was compelled to cease, and returned to Bedford. 
In June, 1835, he commenced to travel in pursuit of 
health, and so far recovered as to anticipate a resump- 
! lion of labors among his people. But this was found 
to be too dangerous an experiment, ami he sought a 
dismissal, which was granted him in February, 1836. 
lie went abroad in the following June and died in Par- 
is, July 15, 1837. His Life and Select Discourses were 


STEARNS 


1001 


STEERING 


published by his brother, William A. Stearns (Boston. 
1838, l2mo). See Sprague, Annals of the A tner. Pulpit , 
ii, 718. 

Stearns, Silas, a Baptist minister, was born at 
Waltham, Mass., July 23, 178 1. Although born of Uni- 
tarian parents, he was led to Christ by the preaching 
of Dr. Stillman, a Baptist preacher, by whom he was 
baptized in 1804. He pursued his studies under Rev. 
Dr. Baldwin, of Boston, and was licensed to preach Sept. 
11, 1806. Soon after he gave up his trade, that of up- 
holsterer, and applied himself wholly to preparation 
for the ministry, lie was ordained an evangelist Oct. 
22, 1807, and soon after began to labor in Bath, Me. A 
Church was the result, and was recognised Oct. 30, 
1810, Mr. Stearns being installed the same day as its 
pastor, which relation he sustained until his death, 
July 18, 1840. lie was a man of warm affections, ear- 
nest in purpose, and diligent in labor, lie published a 
Discourse (Dec. 31, 1816). See Sprague, .1 finals of the 
Amer. Pulpit , vi, 524. 

Stearns, Timothy, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born at Billeriea, Mass., Jan. 23, 1810. He was edu- 
cated at Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass., graduated 
at Amherst College, Mass., in 1833, spent a year as 
teacher in the Female Seminary at Chillieothe, O., 
graduated at the Andover Theological Seminary, Mass., 
in 1837, was licensed by the Andover Congregational 
Association, removed to Athens, O., and was ordained 
and installed pastor of the Church at Worthington, O., 
where he labored nearly four years successfully. In 
1842 he accepted a call to Mount Pleasant Church, 
Kingston, O., where his talents as a minister were 
fully displayed, and his zeal and energy blessed in 
the ingathering of many to the Church. In 1848 he 
induced his Church to erect in Kingston a Presby- 
terian academy as “an Ebenezer to God’s goodness to 
them” in the fifty years of their existence as a Church. 
In 1855, owing to impaired health, he removed to Iowa 
and took charge of the Church at Mount Pleasant, Iowa 
Presbytery. The Church was weak, but God blessed 
his labors, and in 1857 the congregation dedicated one 
of the most complete and commodious houses of worship 
in that State, lie died July 19, 1861. Mr. Stearns was 
an excellent preacher and an eminently faithful pastor, 
lie was the author of a work on The Promises, and of 
several magazine articles. See Wilson, Presb . Hist, Al- 
manac, 1862, p. 119. (J. L. S.) 

Stearns, William Augustus, D.D., LL.D., an 
eminent Congregational minister and educator, was 
born at Bedford, Mass., March 17, 1805. In his father’s 
house industry and economy, study and piety, culture 
and kindness, went hand in hand. At the age of six 
he recited the Assembly’s Shorter Catechism entire at 
one standing in the Church. At fourteen he committed 
to memory the entire Gospel of Luke in one week, 
working in the hay-field with the men during the day. 
In the necessary economy of the family, one Latin 
grammar had to suffice for all the older sons. One 
afternoon when his brother was not using the book, 
William learned his first Latin lesson, and astonished 
his father at the recitation; but so great were his ex- 
citement and the strain on his nerves iti accomplishing 
it that as soon as it was ended he fainted away. His 
father hesitated about sending him to college for want 
of pecuniary means. At length he was sent to Phillips 
Academy, where he remained three years and distin- 
guished himself as a scholar. During a revival in 1823, 
which occurred in his senior year, he was converted. 
This was the year in which the day of prayer for col- 
leges was first observed. Instead of joining Ids father's 
Church, he united with that in the seminary chapel. 
One of the sons had graduated at Harvard, and, not- 
withstanding the change which had come over its the- 
ological status, and as the college was only twelve miles 
from home, it was determined he should go there; be- 
sides, his father and grandfather were graduated there. 


He entered Harvard in 1823 and was graduated in the 
class of 1827. He taught school every winter. So 
scanty were his means that at one time he was on the 
point of leaving the college, but the good president, 
Kirkland, relieved him from embarrassment. As to Ids 
standing in college, Edmund Quincy, one of his class- 
mates, writes, “ His recitations were always perfect, and 
in Latin and Greek the most elegant as well as correct 
of any.” After his graduation he occupied his time in 
teaching as principal of the Academy in Duxburv, Mass. 
He had no question about his profession. The ministry 
being hereditary in the family, it seemed to be a mat- 
ter of course that it should be his profession, and he 
accordingly entered Andover Theological Seminary in 
1827. He was ordained Dec. 14, 1831. II is first dis- 
course was preached at Canibridgeport. lie accepted 
a unanimous call to the First Evangelical Congrega- 
tional Church in Canibridgeport, and was installed Dec. 
14, 1831. He entered upon his work with heartiness, 
and his labors were blessed, his Church was enlarged 
and its numbers increased, and in time one of the most 
beautiful of churches was erected. The number ad- 
mitted to the Church during his ministry was little 
less than five hundred. He took a deep interest in 
Harvard as one of its trustees. He was elected presi- 
dent of Amherst College, and was inaugurated Nov. 22, 
1854. As the resnlts of his administration, the outward 
growth and prosperity of the college gave ample evi- 
dence in bequests and donations amounting to £800,000, 
a doubling of the number of college edifices, ail of the 
most costly and elegant construction. When president 
Stearns was inaugurated there were eleven professors 
and two hundred and one students, and at his death 
there were twenty -one professors and three hundred 
and thirty-eight students. Of upwards of two thou- 
sand alumni, more than half of them had graduated 
under his presidency. He was appointed a member of 
the Massachusetts Board of Education, which office he 
held for eight years. He was president of the Massa- 
chusetts Missionary Society for seventeen years, and in 
a great measure guided the councils of the American 
Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions. Dr. 
Stearns died suddenly, June 8, 1876. As a preacher he 
usually wrote his sermons, which were at once doctrinal 
and practical, instructive, eloquent, and impressive. He 
was so distinct and clear in his articulation that not a 
word was lost. His strength lay not in his written, but 
in his spoken discourse, and particularly in his ex- 
ecutive capacity. He managed his business with rare 
discretion, and might have been rich had he not aimed 
at something higher. His great secret of success 
and usefulness did not lie in one faculty, but in the 
perfect balance of all his powers and faculties. His 
faith was unbounded in God, himself, and his lellow- 
men. He was not a book-maker, nor in the technical 
sense an author. The Life and Discourses of his eldest 
brother, Rev. S. II. Stearns, pastor of the Old South 
Church, Boston, was the largest volume he ever gave 
to the public. 1 1 is writings consist of Essays on Infant 
Baptism and Infant Church Membership; — ami Sermons 
on the death of president Taylor; on the position and 
mission of the Congregational Church ; commemorative 
of Daniel Webster; on slavery; on educated manhood; 
on national fast; election sermon ; a plea for the nation; 
with numerous others on different subjects. (W. 1*. S.) 

Stebbing, Henry ( 1 ), an English divine, was 
successively rector of Rickinghall, Suffolk ; preacher 
of Gray's Inn, London; and chancellor of the diocese of 
Salisbury, lie was noted as a controversialist, being 
opposed to 1 loudly in the Ilangorian Controversy, and 
to Warbur ton’s Divine Legation of Moses. He died in 
1763. Among his published works are, Polemical Tracts 
(Camb. 1727, fob) : — Defence of Dr. Clark's Evidences 
(Loud. 1731, 8vo) : — Discourse on the Gospel Revelation 
(ibid. 1731, 8vo) : — Brief Account of Draper, The fiord's 
Supper, etc. (ibid. 1739, 8vo): — Christianity Justified 
upon Scripture Foundation (ibid. 1750, 8vo): — Sermons 


STEERING 


1002 


STEDINGERS 


on Practical Christianity (1750-00,2 vols. 8vo). See 
AUibone, Piet, of tint, and A mer, A tit hors, s. v. 

Stebbing, Henry (2), D.D., son of the preceding, 
was born at Rickinghnll, Suffolk, in 1710; entered Cath- 
arine Hall, Cambridge, 17.14; succeeded bis father as 
preacher of Gray’s Inn, 1750; and shortly after as chap- 
lain in ordinary to the king. He received his degree 
of 1>.I>. in 1751*, and died at Gray’s Inn in 178/. lie 
was a truly learned and good man. and an indefatigable 
preacher. lie wrote Sermons on Practical Subjects , 
published with an account of the author by his son 
(bond. 3 vols. 8 vo ; vol. i and ii, 1788; vol. iii, 1790). 
See Darling, Cyclop. Biblioy. s. v. ; AUibone, Piet, of 
Brit, and . I mer. A nthors , s. v. 

Stebbins, Dixon, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was a native of Wilbraham, Mass. 
Of his early life and conversion we are without infor- 
mation. He was received into the Providence Confer- 
ence in 1842, and preached, with intervals of ill-health, 
nut il 1853, when he received a superannuated relation, 
lie died at Hanson, Sept. 27, 1853. See Minutes of An- 
nual Conferences , 1854, p. 340. 

Stebbins, Lorenzo D. t a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, was born Sept. 2, 1817. lie 
was educated at Cazenovia Seminary, and graduated 
from the Wesleyan University. Middletown, Conn., in 
1842. In 1844 he joined the Black River Conference; 
in 1853 became professor of mathematics to the New 
York Conference Seminary; in 1854 was appointed 
principal of Fairfield Seminary. At the close of the 
year he was transferred to the Troy Conference, and in 
infill to the New England Conference. In the spring 
of 18G7 he removed to Central New York, where he re- 
mained until his death, Nov. 1. 1839. See Minutes of 
Annual Conferences , 1870, p. 88. 

Stebbins, Stephen J., a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, was born at South Salem, West- 
chester Co., N. Y., in 1808. He professed conversion 
May 10, 1828, and soon after joined the Church. He 
was licensed to preach in 1830, and in 1839 was re- 
ceived into the New York Conference. After several 
years he was transferred to the New York East Con- 
ference, in which he continued to preach until 1807, 
when he ended his regular labors. He then removed 
to Bet hid, Conn., where he died. Feb. 3, 1870. See Min- 
utes of Annual Conferences , 1870, p. 02. 

Steck, John Michael, a Lutheran clergyman, 
was horn at Germantown, Pa., Oct. 5, 1705. lie stud- 
ied theology under Dr. Helmut h, and was afterwards 
admitted a memlier of the Lutheran Synod of Penn- 
sylvania. In 1781 he took charge at Chatnbersburg, 
in 17811 became pastor to the congregations in Bed- 
ford and Somerset counties, and in 1792 accepted a call 
from the congregations in Westmoreland County, mak- 
ing Greenshurg his residence, where he died, .Inly 14, 
1830. He was an earnest, faithful, and successful min- 
ister. See Sprague, Annuls of the A mer. Pulpit, ix, 148, 

Steck, Michael John, a Lutheran clergyman, 
son of the preceding, was horn at Greensbnrgj Pa., May 
1, 1793, and studied at. the Greenshurg Academy. Soon 
after leaving the academy he began to study theology 
under his father, emit inning it with Rev. .lacoh Sell nee, 
of Pittsburgh. He was licensed to preach by the Synod 
of Pennsylvania in 18 It}, and began his labors as tem- 
porary assistant to his father. He received a call from 
Umca-ter, ( b.niid entered upon his duties Dee. 15, 1810. 
Here lu* labored with great acceptance in his own ami 
other churches, besides making, by appointment, of the 
synod, extensive missionary tours, in 1829 Mr. Steck 
removed to Greenshurg ns bis fathers assistant; and 
on the dentil of his lather, in 1831), succeeded to the 
solo pastorate, where he labored until his death, Sept. 
1, 1 M 18. An idea may be formed of the amount of his 
Inlsirs from the fact that lie ministered regularly to 
eleven churches, besides preaching at three or four sta- 


tions, some of which were distant thirty miles from his 
residence. See Sprague, A nnals of the A mer. Pulpit, 
ix, 148. 

Stedingers, a community of Frisians who were 
settled in the vicinity of Bremen and Oldenburg at the 
beginning of the 13th century, and who were deprived 
of liberty ami independence because they refused to ren- 
der tithes to the Church. A certain priest became dis- 
satistied with the amount of the fee paid at confession 
by the wife of a prominent man, and when administer- 
ing the sacrament he placed her money instead of the 
host in her mouth. Convinced that her sins prevented 
her from swallowing the supposed host, she carried it 
in her mouth to her home, where she discovered its 
nature. Her husband was indignant at the insult of- 
fered his wife, and reported the case to the superiors of 
the priest, but obtained only unworthy reproaches in 
reply. He therefore considered himself warranted in 
punishing the offender, and took his life. The clergy- 
now assumed the attitude of an injured party, and com- 
plained to archbishop llertwig 11 of Bremen, who de- 
manded the rendition of the murderer and the payment 
of an immoderate fine, and accompanied his demand 
with violent threats of punishment in ease of refusal. As 
the action of the criminal had been already approved hv 
the Stedingers, they refused obedience; and when the 
archbishop imposed increasingly heavy burdens, and 
even pronounced the ban over the country, they re- 
nounced the authority of himself and his chapter, re- 
fused further tithes, and declared that they would 
thenceforward recognise no authority over them save 
that of the civil government (1204 sq.). The arch- 
bishop, having already in 1197 obtained the promise of 
pope Innocent 111 that a crusade should be inaugurated 
against the Stedingers if required for their subjection, 
now collected an army (1207) and marched against the 
rebels, but was appeased with money and promises, 
lie died in the following year, and his successors re- 
newed the war, prosecuting it with varying success 
during forty years. A large army raised by archbishop 
Gerhard II was utterly defeated and its base of opera- 
tions, the Castle of Sclduter ( Castrvm Sluttei'e ), stormed 
in 1230. Enraged by the disaster, the bishop and his 
associates now called upon the world to combine for the 
destruction of the contumacious heretics, and did not 
hesitate to spread abroad t he most contemptibly sillv 
and impossible stories, which could only find credence 
in a superstitious and spiritually enslaved age. The 
pope was nevertheless induced by such calumnies to 
pronounce the general ban of the Church over the un- 
happy community, and to cause a crusade against it to 
be preached. Forty thousand soldiers assembled at 
Bremen to avenge the injury sustained by the Church, 
and the most powerful ally of her enemies, duke Otto 
of LUncburg, was detached from their cause through 
papal influence and the fear of the imperial interdict. 
The Stedingers nevertheless prepared for resistance; 
and when the attack was made and irresistible numbers 
prevailed against them, four hundred of them laid down 
their lives in the conllict. before the field was lost; and 
in another place a wing of the great army was actually 
defeated, and its purpose of destroying the dikes of the 
river Wcser and drowning out the population prevented. 
The prisoners taken by the crusaders were, however, 
numerous, and all miserably perished at the stake. The 
country was devastated with fire and sword, and rapine 
and licentiousness were the governing motives of t lie 
army of the Church. A final battle took place on May 
27 (?), 1231, near Alteneseh. Eleven thousand Sted- 
ingers drove the mighty host of their adversaries before 
them, but, having lost their formation in the pursuit, 
were themselves taken in flank and rear by flic cavalry 
under count Clove. Half of them fell on the field, or 
were drowned in the stream. Of t ho remainder, some 
tied to the free Frisians and became fully identified 
with them, and others submitted to the authority of 
the Church. Their country was divided between the 


STEDMAN 


1003 


STEELE 


arclibishop of Bremen and counts Otto II and Christian 
III of Oldenburg. The archiepiscopal Church in Brem- 
en celebrated t lie bloody triumph with a procession, 
and ordained an annual day of commemoration, fixing 
on the fifth Sunday after Easter for that purpose, be- 
sides causing a chapel to be erected near the scene of 
the victory. The abbot Hermann of Corvev exhibited 
his joy. by the erection of two other chapels in the same 
neighborhood. All the writers prior to the Reforma- 
tion who mention this war condemn the Stedingers as 
heretics, and it was reserved for the days of Protestant- 
ism to vindicate the fame of these champions ol liberty. 
On May 27, 1834, a simple but durable monument was 
dedicated to their memory on the site where once stood 
one of the abbot of Corvey’s chapels. See Monachi 
Chron. in A. Matth. A mdect. ii, 501; Chron. Iiastad. 
ap. Langeb. Scriptt. Rer. Dame. vol. iii ; Stadens, Chron. 
ad A. 1197 ; Wolter, Chron. Brern. ap. Meibom, vol. ii ; 
Godefr. Monach. S. Pantol. ad A. 1234, ap. Freher- 
Struve, i, 399; Ep. Gregor. IX, in Ravnald, anno 1233, 
No. 42, complete in Ripoll, Bulhirium Ord. Pnedicut. 
i, 52, and Ep. Gregor. IX ad Ifennci Friderici Imp. 
Filium, in Martene, Thesaur. i, 950; Mansi, xxiii, 323; 
Bisbeek, Die Nieder-Weser u. Osterade (llanov. 1789) ; 
Kohl, IJandb. d. Iierzogth. Oldenburg (Bremen, 1825): 
Muhle, Geschichte d. Stedingerlandes im Mittelalter , in 
Straekerjan, Beitr. znr Gesch. d. Grossherzogth. Olden- 
burg (Bremen, 1837), vol. i; Crantz, Metropolis , lib. vii 
and viii; Sehminek, Expedit. Cruc. in Stedingos (Marb. 
1722) ; Ritter, Diss, de Pago Sfeding et Stedingis Scec. 
XIII Ilcereticis (Viteb. 1725); Lappetiberg, Kreuzzug 
gegen d. Stedinger (Stade, 1755); llamelmann, Oldenb. 
Chronik; Yon Halem, Gesch. d. Iierzogth. Oldenb. vol. i ; 
Seharling, De Stedingis Comment. (Hafn. 1828). See 
also general histories of the region and the Church , 
e. g. Schrockh, pt. xxix ; Gieseler, Lehrbuch , vol. ii, pt. ii, 
p. 599 sq. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Stedman, Rowland, a Nonconformist minister, 
was born at Corston, Shropshire, in 1030. lie was ad- 
mitted commoner of Ilaliol College, Oxford, in 1047, 
and removed to University College in 1048, taking his 
degree of A.M. in 1055. lie soon after became minister 
of Hanwell, Middlesex, and vicar of Ockingham, Berk- 
shire, in 1600. In 1662 he was ejected for nonconform- 
ity, and afterwards became chaplain to Philip, lord 
Wharton. He died in 1073. Stedman wrote, The 
Mystical Union of Believers with Christ (Loud. 1608, 
8vo) : — Sober Singularity (ibid. 1668, 8vo). 

Steel. In all cases where the word “steel” occurs 
in the A.Y. the true rendering of the Hebrew is “cop- 
per.” nijJinjI, nechushdh , except in 2 Sam. xxii, 35; 
Job xx, 24; Psa. xviii, 34 [35], is always translated 
“brass;” as is the case with the cognate word r'd np, 
ncchfisheth, with the two exceptions of Jer. xv, 12 (A.Y. 
“steel”) and Ezra viii, 27 (A.Y. “copper”). Whether 
the ancient Hebrews were acquainted with steel is not 
perfectly certain. It has been inferred from a passage in 
Jeremiah (xv, 12) that the “iron from the north” there 
spoken of denoted a superior kind of metal, hardened in 
an unusual manner, like the steel obtained from the 
Chalvbes of the Pont us, the ironsmiths of the ancient 
world. The hardening of iron for cutting-instruments 
was practiced in Pontus, Lydia, and Laconia (Eustath. 
II. ii, 294, 6r, quoted in Muller, Hand. d. Arch. u. d. 
Kunsf, § 307, n. 4). Justin (xliv, 3, 8) mentions two 
rivers in Spain, the Bilbilis (the Salo, or Xalon, a trib- 
utary of the Ebro) and the Chalvbs, the water of which 
was used for hardening iron (eomp. Pliny, xxxiv, 41). 
The same practice is alluded to both by Homer (Od. ix, 
393) and Sophocles (A j. 650). The Celtiberians, ac- 
cording to Diodorus Siculus (v, 33), had a singular cus- 
tom. They buried sheets of iron in the earth till the 
weak part, as Diodorus calls it, was consumed by rust, 
and what was hardest remained. This firmer portion 
was then converted into weapons of different kinds. 


The same practice is said by Beckmann (Hist, of Inv. 
ii, 328, ed. Bohn) to prevail in Japan. The last-men- 
tioned writer is of opinion that of the two methods of 
making steel, by fusion either from iron-stone or raw 
iron, and by cementation, the ancients were acquainted 
only with the former. See Corrkr. 

There is, however, a word in Hebrew, J"nbQ, pal- 
ddh , which occurs only in Nah. ii, 3 [4], and is there 
rendered “ torches,” but which most probably denotes 
steel or hardened iron, and refers to the dashing scythes 
of the Assyrian chariots. In Syriac and Arabic the 
cognate words (poldo,jaludh,fu/adh) signify a kind of 
iron of excellent quality, and especially steel. See M ktal. 

Steel appears to have been known to the Egyptians. 
The steel weapons in the tomb of Ramoses III, says 
Wilkinson, are painted blue, the bronze red (Anc. Eg. 
ii, 154). — Smith. See Ikon. 

Steel, Robkrt, D.I)., a Presbyterian divine, was 
born in the vicinity of Londonderry, Ireland, Jan. 9, 
1793. In early boyhood he came to the United States, 
pursued his preparatory studies in the Academy of 
Philadelphia, graduated at the College of New Jersey, 
at Princeton, N. J., and at the Associate Reformed The- 
ological Seminary, Neiv York; was licensed by Phila- 
delphia Presbytery, commenced his labors as a city 
missionary in that city and vicinity, and (Nov. 9, 1819) 
was ordained and installed pastor of the Presbyterian 
Church at Abington, Pa. This was his only charge, 
and here he performed faithfully and successfully his 
life-work. He died Sept. 2, 1862. Dr. Steel was a 
good man, and a pre-eminently effective preacher. The 
Church was to him “all in all;” the cause of missions 
seemed to absorb all his interest; and the Sabbath- 
school cause, apparently, possessed his whole heart. See 
Wilson, Presb. Hist. A hnanac, 1863, p. 207. (J. L. S.) 

Steele, Allen, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born at Salisbury, N. Y., May 24, 
1808. lie was converted at the age of thirteen years, 
and studied for a while at Wilbraham, Mass., and then 
began to teach school in Western New York. In 1831 
he w'as admitted into the Genesee Conference. He re- 
ceived appointments, among others, in Buffalo, Roches- 
ter, Troy, Albany, and New York. After nearly forty 
years of ministerial labor, he retired as a superannuate 
to West Barre, N. Y., where he died, Jan. 14. 1873. At 
the time of his death he was a member of the Western 
New York Conference. He was a critical scholar, a 
sound theologian, and an eloquent and powerful preach- 
er, See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1873, p. 110. 

Steele, Anne, a hymn-writer, usually called Mrs. 
Steele , although she really was never married, was born 
at Broughton, Hampshire, England, in 1716. Her fa- 
ther, the Rev. William Steele, was a Baptist minister in 
the place of her nativity. She developed early in life 
poetical talent, which showed itself in the composition 
of devotional hymns, many of which have been intro- 
duced into our collections of hymns. She united with 
her father’s Church when she was fourteen years of age. 
A few years after this she became engaged to a young 
man named Elscourt. The day for the wedding was 
fixed, and her friends were assembled to witness the 
ceremony, when the sad intelligence was brought to the 
house that the expected bridegroom, having gone into 
the river to bathe, ventured beyond his depth, and was 
drowned. In 1750 two volumes of her poetry were 
published under the name of Theodosia. She died in 
1778. Her collected Poems and Hymns , published in 
1780, were edited bv I)r. Caleb Evans. They were 
published also in Boston in 1808, and a new edition, ed- 
ited by John Sheppard, was published in 1863. See 
Christopher, Hymn-writers and thnr Hymns, p. 225; 
Bnttcrworth, Story of the Hymns , p. 58-60; Belcher, 
Historical Sketches of Hymns, p. 237-239. (J. C. S.) 

Steele, David, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born about 1791. When about eigh- 


STEELE 


1004 


STEGER 


teen vears of age he joined the Church, and in 1820 
was admitted on trial into the Baltimore Conference. 
From that time he labored with great acceptance and 
success until 1847, when he took a supernumerary rela- 
tion. This relation was changed to superannuated in 
1849, and was continued until his death, at Washing- 
ton, l>. C., May 4, 1852. See Minutes of Annual Con- 
ferenct s, 1853, p. 313. 

Steele, Joel, a Methodist Episcopal minister, was 
born at Tolland, Conn.. Aug. 14, 178*2. Converted when 
twenty-two years of ago, he entered the itinerancy in 
1 800. and was stationed successively as follows: Lunen- 
burg Circuit: Bristol. Me.: Vershire, Vt . ; Tolland, Conn.; 
Ashhumham, Mass.; New London, East Greenwich, 
Conn.; Barrc, Mass. ; Barnard, Vershire, Vt.; Wethers- 
iield, Conn.; L'nity, Me.; Welllleet, East ham, Sandwich, 
Saugus, Edgartown, Barnstable, Chatham, Truro, Wey- 
mouth, Easton, Walpole, and Gloucester, Mass. In 1845 
he took a superannuated relation, and died Aug. 23, 
1 — a father in Israel — having been forty years in 

the ministry. Mr. Steele possessed an amiable and 
humble spirit, a clear understanding, and his preaching 
was plain, manly, and deeply in earnest. See Minutes 
of Annual Conferences, iv, 11(3. 

Steele, John (H, a minister of the Associate Re- 
formed Church, was horn in York County, Pa., Dee. 17, 
177*2. and received his collegiate education at Dickinson 
College, where he graduated in 1702. He studied the- 
ology under the Rev. John Voting, of Greencastle, Pa., 
and was licensed by the First Associate Reformed Pres- 
bytery of Pennsylvania May 25, 1707, and ordained in 
August, 1700. He then went to Kentucky, where he 
had charge of four congregations till 1803, when he was 
relieved of two. In 1817 he removed to Xenia, 0., 
where he remained until October, 1830. lie had just 
moved to Oxford, and had made some arrangements for 
his family, when he died suddenly, Jan. 11, 1837. He 
was an able, clear-headed theologian, well read in 
Church history, and versed in ecclesiastical a Hairs; and 
served long and ably as clerk both of bis presbytery 
and svuod. See Sprague, Annuls of the Amer . Pulpit , 
i.\, 102. 

Steele, John (2\ a Presbyterian minister, was 
born at Bellefonte, Centre Co., Pa., Dec, 11, 181*2. He 
received a careful parental training, joined the Church 
at the age of twenty-two, pursued his academical stud- 
ies at Milan Academy, Huron Co., O. ; graduated at 
Jcffer^m College. Pa., in 184*2. and at the Theological 
Seminary at Allegheny City in 1845; was licensed to 
preach by the Presbvterv of Blairsville, 1ml., April 16, 
J 840 ; ordained by Lake Presbytery April 8. 1840; and 
in 18,50 was installed pastor of the Church of Laportc 
County, 1ml. In 1855 lie labored at Macomb, MacDon- 
ough Co., 111.; in I85G lie returned to Indiana, and ta- 
ilored at South Bend, in Lake Presbytery; in 1859 at 
Newton, la.; in 18G0 as a missionary to Pike’s Peak, in 
company with several members of bis Church; was 
ap|H>inted chaplain of the 13th Regiment Iowa Vulun- 
tn rs Nov. 5. 1«G1, and died in that service Sept. 10, 
180*2. Mr. Stede was an able expounder of the doc- 
trines of the Bible, faithful ami self-sacri Going as an 
army chaplain, ami mild, amiable, ami social as a man. 
8ce Wilson, !*resb. /list. A hnanac, 180 1, p. 190. (J. L. S.) 

Steele, Richard, a Nonconformist preacher, grad- 
uated nt St. John's College, Cambridge. lie became 
vicar of i I itu mere, North Wales, and was ejected 
O r nonconformity in 100*2, He died in 1139*2. 11 is 

works, which are commended by Philip Henry, are, 
Antidote at fa iust hilt ructions (Loud. 1(307, 8vo; 3d ed. 
1 073 ; 1801, 1 *2mo) x—hisconrse if till Aye : — hiscaurse 
Vfum / " nrii/hti-nuswss ( 1071), Hvo) ( ' hristian Unshaud- 
mnu s ('a Hint/ ( 10/ 1) ): — Tradesman's t 1 a Hint/ (1081, 8\*o) : 
— Sermons. See Darling, Cyclop, l iil/lio* /. s. v. ; Alli- 
bonc, Piet, of It, it. m,tl A mer. A nthors , h. v. 

Steele, Robert A., a minister of the Methodist 


Episcopal Church, South, was born about 1804. He was 
converted in early life, and practiced medicine for several 
years. In 1833 he was admitted on trial in the Georgia 
Conference, and appointed as junior preacher to Alcovia 
Circuit. For eleven years he continued his itinerant 
career, serving the Church as a preacher, and for sev- 
eral years as presiding elder. He died in February, 
1814. He was a man of great worth to the Church, of 
strong faith and good preaching talents, and perhaps 
few men ever possessed more true missionary zeal than 
he did. See Minutes of Annual Conferences of the J/. 
K. Church , South, iii, 592, 

Steen, Corneus van den (in Lat. Cornelius a 
Laptde), a Belgian theologian, was horn about 1500, at 
Bockholt, of peasant parentage, lie took his degrees 
at Cologne, entered the Society of Jesns in 159*2, and 
was professor of Hebrew* and Scripture in the College 
of Louvain for more than twenty years. About 1012 he 
was sent to Rome, and there Glled a similar position un- 
til his death, March 12, 1037. His various Comment a rii 
on the Bible, numbering eighteen, w ere published at in- 
tervals from 1014 to 1045, and collectively at Antwerp 
(1681, 10 vols. fol.\ ami again at Venice (1708, 16 vols. 
lb!.). They contain much that is valuable, with a large 
amount of useless matter. 

Steeple ( stepnll ), the tower of a church, etc., in- 
cluding any superstructure, such as a spire or lantern, 
standing upon it. In some districts small churches have 
the steeples not unfrequent ly formed of massive wooden 
framing, standing on the floor, and carried up some lit- 
tle distance above the roof; these are usually at the 
west end, parted off from the nave by a wooden parti- 
tion, as at Ipsden and Tetsworth, Oxfordshire. — Parker, 
Gloss . of A rchitect. s. v. See Belfry ; Tower. 

Stefani, Tom m a so de\ an Italian painter, was born 
at Naples about 1230. He painted the chapel of the 
Minutoli in the Duonio, mentioned by Boccaccio, with 
a scries of frescos representing the passion of our 
Saviour. In the Society of St. Angelo at Nilo are 
the paintings of St, Michael ami St. Andrew that are 
attributed to him. He died probably about 1310. lie 
maybe regarded as the earliest of the Neapolitan school. 
See Hoefer, Xouv. Bing. Generate, s. v. 

Steffani, Aoostino, an Italian composer, was born 
at Castel-franco, government of Venice, about 1055. In 
bis youth he was entered as a chorister at Sr. Mark’s, 
Venice, where a German nobleman, pleased with him, 
obtained his discharge, took him into Bavaria, gave him 
a liberal education, and when he arrived at the proper 
age. got him ordained. He then took the title of Abate, 
bv which he is now commonly known. His ecclesiasti- 
cal compositions soon became numerous, and attracted 
the notice of Ernest, duke of Brunswick, who invited him 
to Hanover, and made him director of his chamber mu- 
sic. Steffani was also a statesman, and had a consider- 
able share in concerting with the courts of Vienna and 
Katisbon the scheme for erecting the duchy of Bruns- 
wick-Lilnebiirg into an electorate, for which service the 
elector assigned him a handsome pension, and pope In- 
nocent. XI gave him the bishopric of Spiga. He died 
at Frankfort in 1730. See English Cyclop, s. v. 

Stegall, Benjamin C., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was a native of Jasper Coun- 
ty. (3a. lie joined the Mississippi Conference about 
1837, located after six or seven years’ travel, and was 
readmitted into the Louisiana Conference in 1855. He 
died June 10, 18)>0. See Minutes of Annual Confer- 
encts of the M. E. Church , South , 18)30, p. 235. - 

Steger, Benedict Stephan, a Lutheran minister, 
was horn at Nuremberg, April 9, 1807. He studied at 
Erlangen ami Berlin. Ilis lirst ministerial duties he 
performed in his native place, in 1835 he was ap- 
pointed second preacher at Hof, and in 1843 he was call- 
ed to his native place as third preacher of St. vEtridius’s, 
as which lie labored for thirty-three years, lie died 


STEGMAX 


1005 


STEINHOFER 


Feb. 9, 1876. Besides sermons and a catechetical man- 
ual, he published Die protestant iscken Missionen mid 
deren geseynetes Wirken (Hof, 181-1-50,3 pts.), giving 
a history of the Protestant Missions till the tirst. half of 
this century. See Zuchold, Bibl. Theoloy. ii, 1*260 : l)e- 
litzsch, Saat avf Hoffnuny (1876), xiii, 130 sq. (B. 1\) 

Stegman, Josua, a Lutheran divine, was born in 
1588 at Sulzfeld, in Franconia. For ten years he at- 
tended the lectures at the Leipsic University, and on 
account of his great learning he was honored in 1617 
with the degree of D.L). by the Wittenberg faculty. In 
16*21 he went to Kintelu as professor of the newly 
founded university there; but on account of the war he 
had to relinquish his position until 1625, when he return- 
ed and discharged his pastoral as well as academical 
duties until 1630. About this time the Benedictine 
monks returned to Kintelu, and Stegman’s position be- 
came very unpleasant. He was persecuted in every 
way, and the excitement which he had to undergo 
caused his death, Aug. 3, 1632. He is the author of the 
famous German hymn, .4 ch, bleib' mit deiner Gmide (Eng- 
lish transl. in Lyra Germ, ii, 120, “ Abide among us with 
thy grace, Lord Jesus, evermore”). Besides this and 
other hymns, he also wrote Photianismus , h. e. Sue - 
cincta Refutatio Err or um Photiamrum , 56 Disputation- 
ibus Ji reciter Comprehensa (Kintelu, 1623; Frankfort, 
1643). See Theoloy. Universal- Lexicon, s. w; Koch, 
Gesch. des deutschen Kirchenliedes , iii, 1*28 sq. ; viii, 148; 
Winer, llandb. der theoloy. Literatur , i, 354; ii, 788. 
(B. P.) 

Steiger, Carl Friedrich, a Reformed minister of 
Germany, was born in 1806 at Flawed, in Switzerland. 
In 1832 lie was called to the pastorate at Brnnnadern, 
in 1838 to Balgach, and in 1841 to Wattwyl, in Tog- 
genburg, where he died, May 11,1850. He published, 
Kleine Wovhenprediyten iiber des Christen Stimmuny 
vnd der Wetton (5th ed. St. Gall, 1862): — Maria von 
Bethanien. Ein Andaehtsbuch fiir christ l. Junyf raven 
(ibid. 1843) : — Das Gebetbuch der Bibel (ibid. 1847-53): 
— Religiose Gedichte (ibid. 1851). See Koch, Gesch. 
des deutschen Kirchenliedes, vii, 382 sq. ; Reyensburyer 
Conversations- Lexikon, s. v. ; Zuchold, Bibl. Theoloy. ii, 
1261 sq. (B. P.) 

Steiger, Wilhelm, a minister of the Reformed 
Church in Switzerland, was born in Aargau, Feb. 9, 1809, 
and matriculated at Tubingen in 1826. Steudlin and 
Bengel were at that time in the faculty, though the lat- 
ter died only a year afterwards. Steiger then removed 
to Halle, and came under the controlling influence of 
Tholuck, through which his natural aversion to the 
prevalent rationalism was intensified. In 1828 he was 
ordained at. Aargau to the ministry, and devoted himself 
to earnest labors within his own denomination, being 
urged by the conviction that a lack of faithful preach- 
ing and pastoral care was largely responsible for the 
separation of many believing souls from the Church. 
In connection with Dr. Iiahn, of Wiirtemberg, he con- 
d icted social meetings for spiritual edification, tutored 
students, and wrote for the periodical press, among oth- 
er things an interesting history of the Motniers ofVaud 
for the Evangel* Kirchenzeituny at Berlin. He became 
associate editor of that journal in 1829, and devoted 
himself wholly to study and literary work. From this 
period date the pamphlet Die Uallische Streitsaehe, etc., 
and the book Kritik des Rationalismns in Weysch eider's 
Doymatik (Berlin, 1830). In 1832 he issued a valuable 
commentary on l Peter, dedicating the work to the 
theological committee of the Evangelical Association 
of Geneva, which had just called him to the exegetical 
chair of its theological institution. He entered on his 
new station at Easter, 1832. It is said that he was un- 
commonly successful in giving adequate expression to 
German ideas in the French language. After his death, 
one of his students published, from notes taken in the 
lecture-room, an Introd. Gene rale avx Litres du A r . T. 
(Geneva, Lausanne, and Paris, 1837). Two volumes 


(1833-34) of a journal started by him and Ilavernick 
(q. v.) were issued, entitled Melanges de Theoloyie Re- 
former, and in 1835 appeared his commentary on Colos- 
sians. In this work he included in the introduction 
only such information as was derived from sources oth- 
er than the exposition of the epistle itself, and appended 
to the work a review of the exposition, in which he 
compared its results with the introduction. The work 
is built upon solid historical and philological founda- 
tions, and devotes especial attention to criticism of the 
text, despite its studied brevity. A hymn in honor of 
; the Son of God, with which t he preface concludes, af- 
fords evidence of the poetic endowment of the author, 
who left, in addition, a number of imprinted poems, lie 
died Jan. 9, 1836. leaving a widow and an infant son. 
See Herzog, Real- Encykbp. s. v. 

Steinhofer, Maximilian Friedrich Christoph, 
an eminent minister in the Church of Wiirtemberg, was 
born Jan. 16, 1706, at Owen, and graduated in theology 
at Tubingen in 1729. He supplemented his studies 
with a journey of observation among the churches ol 
North Germany, and visited llerrnhut, the seat of the 
Moravian Brotherhood. Mutual esteem resulted, and 
measures were proposed for obtaining Steinhofer as pas- 
tor to the community of llerrnhut, but before any de- 
cision was reached he returned to Wiirtemberg. Zin- 
zendorf subsequently secured the release of Steinhofer 
from his own Church for llerrnhut; but the Saxon gov- 
ernment interposed difficulties, and he accepted a call 
to Ebersdorf instead, where lie tilled the post of chap- 
lain to the counts. The latter had previously organ- 
ized the religious portion of their household into an 
ecclesiola after the pattern of Spener, and to guide this 
organization and oversee the associated orphanage was 
to be his task. The society ultimately (August, 1745) 
effected an organization and adopted a constitution 
modelled after those of llerrnhut, but was distinguished 
from the latter in doctrine and modes of expression, be- 
ing more cautious, critical, and unqualifiedly scriptural. 
Steinhofers relations with llerrnhut, however, were 
strongly influential, and in 1746 the Ebersdorf congre- 
gation united with the Moravian Brotherhood, while 
Steinhofer himself was ordained “coepiscopns for the 
Lutheran tropus.” II is service here was, however, 
brief, though varied. He married in 1747, and became 
inspector of a training-school for a short time, after 
which he travelled in the execution of his office through 
various districts. The unsettled life to which he was 
condemned and the increasing fanaticism of the Broth- 
erhood alienated him gradually from what had never 
been a thoroughly congenial home, and a brief visit to 
Wiirtemberg threw him in the way of influences which 
excited all his long suppressed aversion to the sensuous 
teachings and modes of expression in current use at 
Herrnhut. lie thereupon quietly retired from his func- 
tions, and in time, after correspondence with Zinzen- 
dorf, laid down his offices, March 14, 1749, and returned 
to the Church of Wiirtemberg. Four years were now 
spent in the sub-pastorate at Dettingen, whose fruit ap- 
peared in a collection of sermons, published in 1753. In 
tins year he obtained the parish of Zavelstein, in 1756 
that of Ehniugen, and in 1759 he was made dean and 
preacher at Weinsberg, where he died in peace, Feb. 11, 
1761. Steinhofer was characterized by mildness of dis- 
position, joined with heroic devotion to the truth. He 
studied the Bible to obtain a correct apprehension of its 
meaning and for the enriching and developing of the 
Christian character, lie differed from Bengel in not 
preferring apocalyptic studies, and from Oetinger in 
avoiding a theosophic tendency, lie preferred the 
solid ground of Scripture to the position of any specu- 
lation whatever, lie is said by his contemporaries 
to have been endowed with an inexpressible some- 
thing in his character— with a peculiar sanctity which 
cannot be described. It was impossible to trifle in his 
presence, and yet impossible not to find pleasure there. 
He was an anointed one, who carried about with him 


STEIN KOPII 100G STENNETT 


supernatural radiance too impressive to be forgotten by 
tho>e who knew him. His ministry was accordingly 
successful in the winning of souls. Steinhufcr’s writ- 
ings have been in part republished, and may be recom- 
mended to all who regard being imbued with the 
Scriptures as requisite lor a right apprehension of 
the truth. They are, Tdylicke X tilt rung d. (Jlunhem 
n. d. Ep. an d. i/tbrder (latest ed. 1859, with autobi- 
ography) : — Xach d. h'p. an d. Colosser (1853): — Xach 
d. l a l* n Jtsu (1764), eighty-three sermons: — Evangel. 
Glanbensyrund (1753-51): — A 'vangel. Glaubensgrund aus 
d. Ltidrn Jtsu (1754): — Haushaltung d. dreieinigen Ge- 
lt* rs ( 1 7 59 ) : — Erkliirung d. ersten 1 iriefes Johannis (last 
eil. lloriihurg, 1850) : — Homer (Till). 1851): — Christolo - 
yie (Xurcmb. 1737 ; Tilb. 1804), etc. See Knapp’s sketch 
of Steinhofer’s life in collection of Sermons (27) pub- 
lished by the Evangelical brotherhood at Stuttgart; 
the autobiography mentioned above; an article in the 
Christmbote. 1832, and another in the Briiderbote, 1805- 
00; MS. sources in the archives of the Brotherhood, 
etc. — Herzog, Rtal-Encyklop. s. v. 

Steinkopf. Cahi. Friedrich Adoi.ph, a German 
doctor of theology, was horn at Ludwigsburg, Sept. 7, 
1773, and studied theology at Tubingen. In 1801 he 
went to London as pastor of the Savoy Church, and 
placed himself in personal communication with the lie- 
iigions Tract Society, of which he afterwards became 
one of the secretaries. When the British and Foreign 
Bible Society was founded. March 7, 1804, Dr. Steinkopf 
took a prominent and important part, and was unani- 
mously appointed one of its secretaries, with special 
reference to the foreign department; but be also took 
his fidl share in its domestic deliberations and proceed- 
ings. lie sustained this office till the year 1820, when 
he retired, because he would not take the position of 
the society regarding the Apocryphal books of the Old 
Test, lie died May 29, 1859. Steinkopf also published 
a series of sermons on different topics, which are enu- 
merated by Zuchold in his JJibl. Theol. ii, 1 205. See 
al>o Theol. Cnirersal-Lexikon, s. v. ; Xeue evangel. Kir- 
chenzeitung , 1859, Xo. 32; but more especially the Me- 
morial published in the Fifty-sixth Report ( 18150) of the 
British and Foreign Bible Society, p. 180 sq. (B. P.) 

Steinmetz, Johann Adam, member of consistory, 
abbot of Bergen, and general superintendent of the 
duchy of Magdeburg, was born in 11189, and died June 
1<», 1703. He wrote, A 'suite (di Trani) Commentarius in 
Josnam, etc,, in I ‘ersione cum X of is 1 llustratnm (Leips. 
1 • 12): — has /inch der Weisheit, nach don Grand text in 
grurhischer .S prache mit philologischen nnd moralischen 
A nmerknngen ( Magdeburg and Leips. 1747). See Fiirst, 
Uxbl.Jud. iii.383 ; Winer, Ilandbuch der theol. Lite rat ur , 
ii, 325, 330, 789. (B. P.) 

Steins, Frederick, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Germany Xov. 18, 1805. lie was educated at 
Mors, in Prussia, studied theology in the University 
of Bonn, nnd was licensed and ordained in the min- 
Werinm of Cologne in 1835, and for some years had 
the pastoral charge of a church near the L’liine. He 
afterwards emigrated to America, and entered (he Dutch 
In formed Church in Xcw York, but soon made a very 
pleasant acquaintance with some Presbyterian ministers 
of tin- Old School, ami sought admission into their 
( hureh with the prospect, as lie supposed, of greater 
iisi-fiihiesH, His field was a mission in the eastern part, 
of Xew } ork city. He had a vast population of poor 
Germans among whom to work, and he labored fait li- 
fnllv, going from house to house through the streets 
win r* 1 the [mor dwell, seeking the acquaintance of all, 
and distributing tracts, uttering words of comfort to the 
distressed and counsel to the indolent and ungodlv. 
While thus employed in bis Master’s service be died, 
Aug. 30, 1807. Mr. Steins was thoroughly trained in 
theology, a laborious man, and a kind and affectionate 
p/iMnr. Sec W ilson, Presb. /list. Almanac. 1808, p, 1 18, 
(J.L.S.) 


Steitz, Georg Eduard, a German Protestant di- 
vine and doctor of divinity, was born July 25, 1810, at 
Frankfort-on-the-Main. In 1840 lie passed his theo- 
logical examination; and from 1842 until his death, 
which occurred at his native place, Jan. ], 1879, he 
occupied high positions in the Church. Besides his 
contributions to tbe first edition of Herzog’s Ileal- En- 
cyklopddie , the Studien u. Kritiken , and Jahrbucher fiir 
deutsche Thcologie , lie published, Die Privatbeichte u. 
Privatabsolution der luth. Kirche aus den Quelltn des 
1 0/rM Jahrhunderts , hauptsiichlich aus Luthers Schriften , 
etc. (Frankf.-oii-thc-Main, 1854): — J)as rbmische Buss- 
sacrament, nach seinetn bibl. Grande nnd seiner geschicht- 
lichen Entwickeluny , etc. (ibid. 1854) : — Die Melancthons- 
u. Luthersherbergen zit Frankfurt a. M. (ibid. 1862). See 
Zuchold, Bibl. Theol. ii, 1267 ; Xeue evangel. Kirchen- 
zeitung , 1879, No. 19; but more especially Zur Erinne- 
rung an i/errn Senior Dr. Theol. G. E. Steitz , Zicei Reden 
rou Dr. Jung und Dr. Dechent (Frankf.-on-the-Main, 
1879). (B.P.) 

Stele, a mediaeval term to describe a stem, stalk, or 
handle. 

Stella, James, a French painter, was born at Lyons 
in 1596. At the age of twenty, being at Florence, he 
was assigned lodgings and a pension by duke Cosmo tie’ 
Medici. After remaining here several years, he went 
to Home, Milan, and finally to Paris, where Iviehelieu 
presented him to the king, who honored him with the 
Order of St. Michael and ordered several large paint- 
ings. He died in 1647. W T hile at Paris he spent his 
winter evenings designing the Histories of the Holy 
Scriptures . He also painted the Holy Family, id which 
a line engraving was made. See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. 
s. v. 

Stellio, in Grecian mythology, was a youth whom 
Ceres changed into a lizard (Ovid, J Detain, v, 461). 

Stellionatus (from stellio , a tarantula), a name 
applied in the time of the early Church to all imposture 
and fraud which has no special title in law — such as 
mortgaging property already engaged; changing wares 
which have been sold, or corrupting them ; substituting 
baser metal for gold. The chief of these crimes were 
forgery, calumny, flattery, deceit fulness in trust, and de- 
ceit fulness in traffic. See Bingham, Christ. Antiq. bk. 
xvi, ch. xii, § 14. 

Stem (5’TS., geza , the stump of a tree as cut down, 
“stock,” Job xiv, 8; hence the trunk of a tree, whether 
old [Isa. xi, 1 ] or just planted, “stock” [xl, 24]). 

Stennett, Joseph, Sen., an English Baptist minis- 
ter, was born at Abingdon in the year 1663. He show- 
ed remarkable intellectual ability in his youth, and made 
himself proficient in French, Italian, and Hebrew and 
other Oriental languages by the time he was not far from 
twentv-onc years of age. He was ordained March 4, 
1690, and became pastor of a small church in London, 
with which he was connected till his death. Such was 
(he position he occupied in his denomination that the 
Baptists selected him to draw up the address which they 
presented to king William on his deliverance from a 
plot to assassinate him. lie was also one of the com- 
mittee of the Dissenters who drafted an address to the 
queen in 1706. It i9 a proof of t he esteem in which he 
was hold by the religions public that an eminent prel- 
ate said of him, if Mr. Stennett could he reconciled to the 
Church, he believed that few preferments in it would 
be thought above his merit. Sir. Stennett died in July, 
1713. His published works consist of a volume of poe- 
try, three volumes of sermons, and some controversial 
writings, which were somewhat widely circulated in 
their day. (J. C. S.) 

Stennett, Joseph, Jun., D.D., a Baptist minister 
in England, son of the preceding, wa 9 born in London 
Xov. 6, 1692. For some time he was minister of a Bap- 
tist Church in Abergavenny, Wales. In 1719 he be- 
came pastor of a Church in Exeter, where he remained 


STENNETT 


1007 


STEPHAN 


eighteen years. He then went to London, and was pas- 
tor of the Church in Wild Street, Lincoln’s Inn Fields, 
from 1737 to the close of his life. Dr. Stennctt seems 
to have won the regard not only of his own Church, 
but of some of the cabinet ministers of George II, par- 
ticularly of Arthur Onslow, Speaker of the House of 
Commons. He died at Watlbrd in 1758, He published 
individual Sermons (Loud. 1738-53). See Jones, Christ. 
Biog. s. v.; Darling, Cyclop. Bibliog. s. v. 

Stennett, Samuel, D.D., an English Baptist min- 
ister, son of the preceding, was born at Exeter in 1727. 
Like his grandfather and father, he early exhibited rare 
intellectual abilities, making great proficiency in the 
classic aud Oriental languages. Having entered the 
Christian ministry, he assisted his father for ten years, 
and at his death was chosen his successor, and was 
pastor of the Wild Street Church in London thirty- 
seven years. Dr. Guild, in his J fanning and Brown 
University , says, u I>r. Stennett was regarded as one of 
the most eminent ministers of his own denomination. 
His connections, too, with Protestant Dissenters gener- 
ally, and with members of the Established Church, were 
large and respectable. One of his constant hearers was 
John Howard, whom Burke has so highly eulogized. 
George III, it is said, was on terms of intimacy with 
him, frequently calling at his house on Muswell Dili.” 
As a scholar and an author Dr. Stennett has no small 
repute. His works, edited by Lev. William Jones, were 
published in 1824 in three octavo volumes. (J. C. S.) 

Stentor, a Grecian warrior in the army against 
Troy, whose voice was louder than the combined voices 
of fifty other men. His name has accordingly furnish- 
ed an adjective which, in common use, describes a voice 
of unusual volume. It is said that Juno assumed the 
form of Stentor in order to encourage the disheartened 
Greeks (Iliad, v, 785 sq. ; Juven. Sat. xiii, 1 12). 

Step or Stair. It may be convenient in this place 
to give the nomenclature of the different parts of a stair. 
The vertical surface is called the riser (or raiser ), the 
horizontal surface the tread. If the edge have a mould- 
ing, it is called the nosing : this never appears in medi- 
aeval steps. When the tread is wider at one end than 
the other it is called a winder , but if of equal breadth a 
Jlyer. When the tread is so broad as to require more 
than one step of the passenger, it is called a landing or 
landing-place, sometimes a resting-place or foot-place. A 
number of successive steps uninterrupted hv landings is 
a flight, or simply stairs ,• the part of the building which 
contains them is the staircase. A flight of winders of 
which the narrow ends of the steps terminate in one 
solid column was called a vyse, screw stairs, sometimes 
a turngrese, now often termed corkscrew stairs ; the 
central column is the newel. Sometimes the newel is 
omitted, and in its place we have a well-hole. Stairs 
that have the lowermost step supported by the floor, 
and everj 1, succeeding step supported jointly by the step 
below it and the wall of the staircase at one end only, 
are termed geometrical stairs. Stairs constructed in the 
form nearly of an inclined plane, of which the treads are 
inclined and broad and the risers small, so that horses 
may ascend and descend them, are called marches ram- 
pantes , or g irons rampantes (as at the mausoleum of Ha- 
drian in Rome, St. Mark’s in Venice, and in Italy com- 
monly). Large external stairs are called pennons . — Par- 
ker, Gloss, of Architect, s. v. 

STEP of Pardon, Penance, or Satisfaction, that 
step in a church choir on which a penitent publicly 
knelt for absolution. 

Stephan, Martin, founder of the Stcphanists, a 
community of separatists in the Lutheran Church of 
Saxony towards the end of the last century and in the 
early decades of the present. Stephan was born at 
Stramberg, Moravia, Aug. 13, 1777. His parents were 
poor but pious persons, who had originally belonged to 
the Roman Catholic communion, but had been converted 


through the reading of the Bible, and who diligently 
trained their children in the nurture -and admonition 
of the Lord. They died, however, while Martin was 
yet young, and the consequence was that his mental 
culture was irreparably neglected, though he resisted 
all the persuasive influence of the Austrian “Edicts of 
Toleration,” and remained true to the faith in which 
he had been reared. Indeed, an inflexible will distin- 
guished him during the whole of his life, and contrib- 
uted not a little towards the troubles in which he was 
from time to time involved. After having learned the 
business of a weaver, he went to Breslau in his twenty- 
first year to escape from Romish persecutions, and in 
that city he connected himself with a company of pie- 
tists, whose religious meetings afforded opportunity for 
developing his natural aptitudes for the pulpit. In 
1802 he entered the gymnasium at Breslau, and, after 
having acquired a bare modicum of Latin and Greek, 
he matriculated at Halle in 1801, where he remained 
until 1806, and in 1809 lie entered at Leipsic. As a 
student he manifested an exceedingly narrow spirit, re- 
jecting learned studies as “carnal,” and scenting unbe- 
lief or heresy in all forms of doctrine which had not 
been transmitted from “ancient times.” His very nar- 
rowness, however, rendered him more completely mas- 
ter of such material as he was able to accumulate, and 
contributed not a little towards his later effectiveness 
as a pulpit speaker. He was first called to minister to 
a Church at Haber, in Bohemia, and then, in 1810, to 
preside over the congregation of Bohemian exiles in 
Dresden. In this post he was especially successful in 
gathering about him a large German congregation. 
His sermons were highly applauded, being character- 
ized by great clearness, simplicity, and power, and like- 
wise by great fidelity to the Scriptures and the Lutheran 
Confession. He was also conspicuously efficient as an 
organizer. The result was that numerous awakenings 
and conversions followed, and that the pastor’s zeal was 
blessed to the good of an extended community. His 
authority gradually assumed larger proportions, and his 
teachings came to rank as of symbolical importance 
with many of his followers. This is especially true of a 
volume of sermons of the year 1824. The very suc- 
cesses he achieved, however, became instrumental in 
bringing about his downfall. He had already excited 
opposition on the part of the clergy of Dresden by min- 
istering to a German congregation while called only to 
take charge of the Bohemian Church; and the hostility 
against him became more general as prosperity devel- 
oped his naturally self-reliant and arbitrary disposition. 
Every time he denounced those as heretics and unbe- 
lievers who were not prepared to subscribe to all his 
views he added to the number of his enemies; and he 
finally placed himself in their power by persisting in 
an unfortunate custom which he had developed in his 
youth. He was in the habit of strolling about in the 
evening until a late hour, and the habit caused much 
unfavorable criticism; but it became ruinous to him 
when he persisted in visiting a workingman’s social 
club, originated bv himself and composed of his own 
people, after ten o’clock at night. The occasions of his 
visits were seasons of high festivity, in which the wives 
and daughters of the members participated, and they 
were invariably protracted until after midnight. Some- 
times summer-parties were connected with these meet- 
ings. Eventually the police were compelled to take 
notice of the offence thus given, but at first without dis- 
covering anything to warrant interference. On Nov. 8, 
1837, however, they discovered Stephan, accompanied by 
a woman and a number of his followers, assembled long 
after midnight, and under circumstances which warrant- 
ed their apprehension. They denied that their gathering 
was of the nature of a “conventicle;” but Stephan was 
nevertheless directed to report himself at Dresden by 
nine o’clock on the following morning, aud immediately 
afterwards was suspended from the ministry, lie had 
iu the meantime secured a large number of followers 


STEPIIAX 


1008 


STEPHANI 


throughout Saxony, insomuch that he had “stations” 
in every part, aiul held regular visitations among them. 
He also held correspondence and friendly relations with 
the dissenters of Witrtcmberg and linden, hut severed j 
his relations with the Moravian Brotherhood, whose 
members had been among the tirst t strengthen his 
hands in Dresden, and also renounced the friendship of 
the regular Lutheran clergy. A numerous band of 
youthful clergymen whom he had trained was blindly 
devoted to him, and his inthience was Celt in many par- 
ishes where the minister was not in harmony with his 
views. Disputes, and even open violence, broke out in 
many churches, and the government was ultimately in- 
duced to interfere. The Bohemian Church over which 
he had been installed now entered a complaint against 
him. dated April 17, 1*38, and supplemented duly 5, 
1*3*. in which the pastor was charged, Jirst, with im- 
modest and unchaste conduct (the specifications being 
too definite for rehearsal here); second, with dishonest 
administration of the tiuances of his Church ; and, third , 
with frequent neglect of his official duties, especially 
with regard to Church, school, and the sick and dying; 
and these charges gave a more serious character to an 
investigation which had promised to result in his favor. 
Stephan now gave the word to his followers to prepare 
for emigration; but while getting ready he resumed his 
former nocturnal practices, and again came under police 
surveillance. At midnight of Oet. 27-28 he secretly, 
and without bidding adieu to his family, left the city 
and repaired to Bremen, where a body of his adherents 
had assembled to the number of 700 souls, including 
six clergymen, ten candidates, and four teachers. He 
sailed for America on Nov. 1*. During the passage he 
was noticeably luxurious, idle, and arbitrary, though 
faint-hearted in moments of danger. Five days before 
the arrival at New Orleans lie caused himself .to be 
elected bishop, and before arriving at St. Louis he 
had a document prepared by which the whole body 
pledged themselves to be subject to him “in eccle- 
siastical. and also in communal, matters,” only one per- 
son refusing to subscribe to its terms. His power 
had been established by the fact that he had obtained 
control of the emigration fund, amounting in the ag- 
gregate to about 125,000 thalers. lie allowed more 
than two months to pass unimproved at St. Louis, to 
the great financial injury of the colony, while procuring 
the insignia of a bishop’s ofiicc and leading a life of 
pleasure. In April, 1*30, however, a portion of the 
colony, including the bishop, removed to Wittenberg, 
Ferry Co., Mo., where a tract of land had been pur- 
chased. On May 5 and afterwards a number of young 
girls revealed to pastor Liiber that Stephan had made 
improper advances to them while at sea and after the 
arrival, using as a cloak his sacred position and office. 
These statements were established by affidavits. Ste- 
phan was consequently deprived of his rank, and was 
excommunicated and expelled the community. lie 
went to Illinois, followed by bis faithful concubine, and 
died in Ihmdolpli County, of that state, in February, 
1*16. His deceived followers experienced grave ditli- 
cuhies because of unfavorable outward circumstances, 
and also because of internal dissensions. Their pastors 
were not able at mice to lay aside that tendency to hie- 
rarchieal pretensions which they had imbibed from 
Stephan's example; but eventual prosperity came to 
them under the guidance of the Ucv. O. 11. Walthcr, 
pastor of i lie St. Louis congregation. 

Stephan was evidently a chosen instrument of Clod, 
endowed with extraordinary charisms, which he em- 
ployed for the blessing and abused to the misery of 
souls. He was of imposing physical stature, over six 
feet in height, mid possessed of rugged earnestness ami 
intense determination. He was as shrewd as he was 
bold, Hi* early ministerial life was that of a hero. 
Extraordinary snores* and the unbounded adoration of 
his people excited hi* vanity, and opened the way to 
pin and immorality. In his later days he was, no doubt, 


an abandoned hypocrite, who used his high position 
for the gratification of his fleshly lusts. See Stephan, 
J* red if/ten, two sermons delivered in the Church of St. 
John, in Dresden, on the day of commemorating the 
Beformation, and on the first Sunday in Advent, 1*23 
(Durr, Dresden and Leipsic) ; id. Der chrisil. Glaube , 
sermons of the year 1*24 (Dresden, 1825, 2 pts.); Po- 
schel, Glaubeusbeke until. d. Gemeindv zu St. Joh. in Dres- 
den , etc. (1833); Stephan, Gaben fur Unsere Zeit (2d 
cd. Nuremb. 1834) ; Von Uckermann, Sendschr. an 
Prof. Krug, etc. (Somlershausen. 1837) ; Delitzseh, IFzs- 
senschaft , Knnst, Jndenthuni (Grimma, 1838); Lilt ke- 
miiller, Lehren n. Umtriebe d. Stephanisten (Altenburg, 
183*), violent ; Exulanten-Lieder (Bremen, 1838), five 
hymns composed by the emigrating colony of Stephan- 
ists, in which exaggerated adulation of the pastor, Ste- 
phan, is intermixed with devotional sentiment ; Franckc, 
Two Sermons on Eph.iii , 14-zY, 6 , delivered in t lie royal 
chapel at Dresden, 1838; Steincrt, Three Sermons on 
the Stephunists (Dresden, 1838); Siebenhaar, Discourses 
relating to the Stephunist Movement (Penig, 1839); Wil- 
denhain, A Sermon (ibid. 1839); ] Meissner, Die kirchl. 
Fanutiker ini Muldenthule (Altenburg, 1839), rational- 
istic ; Warner, Die neuest. sarhs. A uswanderer nuch 
Amerika (Leipsic, 1839), shallow, and not important; 
Schicksale u. Abenteuer d. . . . Stephanianer { Dresden, 
1839), based on reports from Gunther, a returned emi- 
grant Stephanist; Fischer, Das false he M arty rert hum , 
etc. (Leipsic, 1839), the most complete presentation of 
the subject; Von Polenz, D. offend. Mrinuvg v. d. 
Pastor Stephan (Dresden and Leipsic, 1840), t lie most 
important treatise for reaching a true estimate of Ste- 
phan; Vehse, D. Stephan'sehe Ausw. v. Amerika , etc. 
(Dresden, 1840), held by returned members of the Ste- 
phanist colony to be the most, accurate statement of the 
facts as they occurred; Wall her, Sermon delivered be- 
fore the Lutheran Congregation in St. Louis, Nov. 22, 
1840 (ibid. 1841). Comp, also the acts of the Saxon 
Diet in regard to the case of Stephan, etc.; and see 
Guericke, JIandb. d. Kirchengesch. 3d ed. ii, 995, 1096 
sq., 1100, and numerous articles in the periodicals of the 
time. — Herzog, Real- Encyklop. s. v. 

Steph'anas (Nrf0ai'«c, a contraction for the collo- 
quial Lat. Stephanatus, “crowned”), a disciple at Cor- 
inth whose household Paul baptized (1 Cor. i, 16), be- 
ing the first converted to Christianity in Achaia (xvi, 
15). From the last of these texts it would appear that 
Stephanas and his family, in the most exemplary man- 
ner, “ addicted themselves to the ministry of the saints,” 
which some interpret of their having taken upon them 
the office and duty of deacons; but which seems to ad- 
mit of a larger sense (without excluding this), namely, 
that all the members of this excellent family ministered 
to the wants and promoted the comfort of their fellow- 
( Miristians, whether strangers or countrymen. As “the 
household of Stephanas” is mentioned in both texts, it 
has been supposed that Stephanas himself was dead 
when Paul wrote; but. in ver. 17 it is said “1 am glad 
of tbc coming of Stephanas.” — Kitto. lie was present 
with the apostle at Ephesus when he wrote his First 
Epistle to the Corinthians (A.I). 54), having gone thith- 
er either to consult him about matters of discipline con- 
nected with the Corinthian Church (Chrvsost. Horn. 44), 
or on some charitable mission. — Smith. 

Stephani, Heinrich, a Protestant divine of Ger- 
many, was born at Giniind, April 1, 1761. He studied 
at Erlangen, and was made in 1791 member of consistory 
at Castel. In 1808 lie was appointed superintendent 
of the Church and school at Augsburg; in 1818 dean 
and pastor at Gitnzenbausen, was suspended in 1836, 
ami died in 1850 at Gorkau, in Silesia. He wrote, 6Y- 
danken iiber Entstehung vnd A usbildung eines Messias 
(Nuremberg, 1787): — Grundriss der Staatserziehnngs- 
wissmsehaft (Weisscnfels, 1797): — Lehrbuch der Religion 
(4 tli ed. Nuremberg, 1819) : — Das allgemeine kanovisvhe 
Recht der protestuntischen Kirche in Deutschland (Til- 


STEPHANISTS 


1009 


STEPHEN 


bingen, 1825): — Die Ojfenbavung Gottes durch die Yer- 
rant ft als die einzig gewisse mid vollig geniigende (ibid. 
1835): — Moses mid Christ us (Leips. 1833): — Die Ilaupt- 
lehren des Rationulismus mid A/ysticismus, etc. (ibid. 
1837). See Regensburger Conversations- Lex ikon, s. v. ; 
Zuchold, BibL TheoL ii, 1208 sq. ; Filrst, DibL Jud. iii, 
385; Winer, f/andbuch der theol. Literutur, i, 23, 453, 581 ; 
ii, 12, 20, 73, 75. 197, 201, 233, 254, 320, 335, 354, 790. 

(H. I’*) 

Stephanists. See Steimian. 

Stephanos (Srl^ayoj;), a Greek terra for the nup- 
tial crown. 

Stephanus. See Stephens. 

Ste'phen a croicn ), one of the first 

seven deaeons, and the protomartyr, of the Christian 
Church. A.D. 29. (In the following account we chief- 
ly follow those found in the Dictionaries of Lvitto and 
Smith.) 

St. Stephen’s importance is stamped on the narrative 
by a reiteration of emphatic, almost superlative, phrases 
— “full of faith and of the Holy Ghost” (Acts vi, 5); 
“full of grace and power” (ver. 8); irresistible “spirit 
and wisdom” (ver. 10); “full of the lloly Ghost” (vii, 
55). Of his ministrations among the poor we hear 
nothing. But he seems to have been an instance, such 
as is not uncommon in history, of a new energy derived 
from a new sphere. He shot far ahead of his six com- 
panions, and far above his particular office. First, he 
arrests attention by the “great wonders and miracles 
that he did.” Then begins a series of disputations with 
the Hellenistic Jews of North Africa, Alexandria, and 
Asia Minor, his companions in race and birthplace. 
The subject of these disputations is not expressly men- 
tioned; but, from what follows, it is evident that he 
struck into a new vein of teaching, which eventually 
caused his martyrdom. 

1. History . — 1. Early Notices. — It appears from Ste- 
phen’s name that he was a Hellenist, as it was not com- 
mon for the Jews of Palestine to adopt names for their 
children except from the Hebrew or Syriac; though of 
what country he was is unknown. His Hebrew (or 
rather Syriac) name is traditionally (Basil of Seleueia, 
Orat.de S. Stephano. See Gesenius in voce ^22) said 
to have been Chelil , or Cheliel (a crown). He is repre- 
sented by Epiplianius (xl, 50) as one of the seventy 
disciples chosen by Christ ; but this statement is with- 
out authority from Scripture, and is, in fact, inconsist- 
ent with what is there mentioned concerning him. He 
is spoken of by others as one of the first converts of 
Peter on the day of Pentecost; but this also is merely 
conjectural. Jerome (On Jsa . xlvi, 12) anti others of 
the fathers praise him as a man of great learning and 
eloquence. 

2. His Official Position. — The first authentic notice 
we find of him is in Acts vi, 5. In the distribution of 
the common fund that was intrusted to the apostles 
(Acts vi, 35-37) for the support of the poorer brethren 
(see Mosheim, De Rebus Christ, ante Const, p. 118, and 
Dissert, ad Hist. Eccles. Pertin.' ), the Hellenistic Jews 
complained that a partiality was shown to the natives 
of Palestine, and that the poor and sick among their 
widows were neglected. Whether we conceive with 
Mosheim {De Rebus, etc. p. 118) that the distribution 
was made by individuals set apart for that office, though 
not yet possessing the name of deacons ; or, with the 
writer in the Encyclopedia J fetropolitana (art. “ Eccle- 
siastical History;” see also archbishop Whatelv’s King- 
dom of Christ) , we conclude that with the olliee they 
had also the name, but were limited to Hebrews; or 
whether we follow the more common view as set forth 
by Bohmer ( Diss. vii; Juris Eccles. A ntiq.), does not 
materially affect the present subject. The complaint 
of the Hellenists having reached the ears of the apos- 
tles, immediate directions were given by them with a 
view to removing the cause of it. Unwilling themselves 

IX.— S s s 


to be called away from their proper employment of ex- 
tending the bounds of the Christian community, they 
told the assembled multitude of believers to select sev- 
en men of their own number, in whose faith and integ- 
rity they might repose entire confidence, for the super- 
intendence of everything connected with the relief of 
the poor. The proposal of the apostles met with the ap- 
probation of the brethren, who proceeded at once with 
the choice of the prescribed number of individuals, 
among whom Stephen is first mentioned; hence the 
title of first deacon, or first of the deacons, is given to 
him by lremeus (Iren, i, 12). lie is distinguished in 
Scripture as a man “full of faith and of the lloly 
Ghost” (Acts vi, 5). The newly elected individuals / 
were brought to the apostles, who ordained them to 
their office, and they entered upon their duties with ex- 
traordinary zeal and success. The number of the dis- 
ciples was greatly increased, and many priests were 
among the converts. In this work Stephen greatly 
distinguished himself by the miracles he performed be- 
fore the people and by the arguments he advanced in 
support of the Christian cause. From his foreign de- 
scent and education, he was naturally led to address 
himself to the Hellenists; and in his disputations with 
Jews of the Synagogue of the Libertines and Cyreni- 
ans, etc. [see Synagogue; Libektine], he brought for- 
ward views of the Christian scheme that could not be 
relished by the bigots of the ancient faith. 

3. The Accusation. — Down to this time the apostles 
and the early Christian community had clung in their 
worship, not merely to the Holy Land and the Holy City, 
but to the holy place of the Temple. This local worship, 
with the Jewish customs belonging to it, Stephen now 
seems to have denounced. The actual words of the 
charge brought against him may have been false, as 
the sinister and malignant intention which they as- 
cribed to him was undoubtedly false. “ Blasphemous” 
(/3\d(7^»;/z«)? that is, calumnious, “words against Mo- 
ses and against God” (Acts vi, 11) he is not likely to 
have used. But the overthrow of the Temple, the ces- 
sation of the Mosaic ritual, is no more than Faul preach- 
ed openly, or than is implied in Stephen’s own speech, 

1 “against this holy place and the law” — “that Jesus of 
Nazareth shall destroy this place, and shall change the 
customs that Moses delivered us” (ver. 13, 14). 

Benson (History of the First Planting of the Christian 
Religion) and others have considered the testimony of 
the witnesses against Stephen as in every respect false, 
and that we are not even to suppose that he had stated 
that Christ would change the customs which Moses de- 
livered (Acts vi, 14), upon the ground of the improbabil- 
ity of more being revealed to Stephen than to the apos- 
tles, as to the abolition of the Levitical ceremonies. 
From the strain of the martyr’s speech, however, a dif- 
ferent conclusion may be drawn, llis words imply, in 
various passages, that external rites were not essential, 
and that true religion was not confined to the Temple 
service (vii, 8, 38, 44, etc.). There seems much plausi- 
bility in the conjecture of Neander (Planting and Train- 
ing of the Christian Church, translated by Hyland, i, 5G 
sq.) that Stephen and the other deacons, from their birth 
and education, were less under the inlluencc of Jewish 
prejudices than the natives of Palestine, and may thus 
have been prepared to precede the apostles themselves 
in apprehending the liberty which the Gospel was to 
introduce. The statements of Stephen correspond in 
more than one particular with what was afterwards 
taught by Haul. 

4. The Trial. — For such sayings he was arrested at 
the instigation of the Hellenistic Jews and brought be- 
fore the Sanhedrim, where, as it would seem, the Phari- 
saic party had, just before t his time (Acts v, 34; vii, 
51), gained an ascendency. As they were unable to 
withstand his powers of reasoning, their malice was ex- 
cited; they suborned false witnesses against him as a 
blasphemer. The charge brought against him was, as 
we have seen, that he had spokeu against the law and 


STEPHEN 1010 STEPHEN 



<lrim against him (comp.xxii,22); ami upon receiving it 
the predetermined purpose of the council was not to be 
mistaken. Stephen saw that he was to be the victim 
of the blind and malignant spirit which had been ex- 
hibited by the Jews in every period of their history, 
lint his serenity was unruffled; his confidence in the 
goodness of his cause and in the promised support of 
his heavenly Master imparted a divine tranquillity to 
his mind; and when the judges fixed their regards 
upon him, the light that was within beamed forth upon 
his countenance, and “they saw his face as if it hail 
been the face of nil angel” (vi, 15). 

For a moment, the account seems to imply, the judges 
of the Sanhedrim were awed at his presence. Then the 
high-priest that presided appealed to him (as Caiaphas 
had, in like manner, appealed in the great trial in the 
Gospel history) to know his own sentiments on the ac- 
cusations brought against him. To this Stephen re- 
plied in a speech which has every appearance of being 
faithfully reported. The peculiarities of the style, the 
variations from the Old-Test, history, the abruptness 
which, by breaking off the argument, prevents us from 
easily doing it justice, are all indications of its being 
handed down to us substantially in its original form. 

5. Stephens Defence,— 1 1 is speech is well deserving 
of the most diligent study, and the more it is under- 
stood the higher idea will it convey of the degree in 
which lit* possessed the qualities ascribed to him in the 
sixth chapter. Very different views have been taken 
of it by commentators. Upon the whole, we are in- 
clined to follow that which is given by Neander in the 
work referred to. Even as a composition, it is curious 
and interesting from the connection which may be dis- 
covered between the various parts, and from the unity 
given to the whole by the honesty and earnestness of 
i he speaker. Without any formal statement of his ob- 
ject, Stephen obviously gives a confession of his faith, 
sets forth a true view of the import of his preaching in 
opposition to the false gloss that had been put upon it, 
maintains the justness of bis cause, and shows how well 
founded were his denunciations against the impenitent 
Jews. 

The framework in which his defence is cast is a sum- 
mary of the history of the Jewish Church. In this re- 
spect it has only one parallel in the New Test., the elev- 
enth chapter of the Epistle to the Hebrews — a likeness 
that is the more noticeable, as, in all probability, the im- 
mediate writer of that epistle was, like Stephen, a Hel- 
lenist. 

In the faets which he selects from this history he is 
guided by two principles— at first more or less latent, 
but gradually becoming more and more apparent as he 
proceeds. The first is the endeavor to prove that, even 
in i lie previous Jewish history, the presence and favor 
of Hod had not been confined to the Holy Land or the 
Temple of Jerusalem. This he illustrates with a copi- 
ousness of detail which makes his speech a summary 
almost as much of sacred geography as of sacred histo- 
ry — the appearance, of Hod to Abraham “in Mesopota- 
mia before he dwelt in Huron ” (Acts vii, 2) ; his succes- 
sive migration* to Horan and to Canaan (ver. 4); bis 
want of even a resting-place for his foot in Canaan (ver. 
5); the dwelling of his seed in a strange loud (ver.fi); 
the details of the stay in Efrygt (ver. K 13); the educa- 
tion of Moses in Egypt (ver. *20-22); hi* exile in Milli- 
on (ver. 29); the appearance in Xinoi, with the declara- 
tion that the dtstrf ground was holy earth (yij ay in) 
(ver. 30-33) ; the forty year* in the wilderness (ver. 3fi, 
44); the long delay before the preparation for the Tab- 
ernacle of Huvid (ver. 15); the proclamation of spirit- 
ual worship even after the building of the Temple (ver. 
47 50). 

'I be second principle of selection is based oil the at- 
tempt to show that there was a tendency from the ear- 
liest times toward* the same ungrateful and narrow 


spirit that had appeared in this last stage of their po- 
litical existence. And this rigid, suspicious disposi- 
tion he contrasts with the freedom of the divine grace 
and of the human will, which were manifested in the 
exaltation of Abraham (Acts vii, 4), Joseph (ver. 10), 
and Moses (ver. 20), and in the jealousy and rebellion 
of the nation against these their greatest benefactors, 
as chiefly seen in the bitterness against Joseph (ver. 9) 
and Moses (ver. 27), and in the long neglect of true re- 
ligious worship in the wilderness (ver. 39-43). 

Both of these selections are worked out on what may 
almost be called critical principles. There is no alle- 
gorizing of the text, nor any forced constructions. Ev- 
ery passage quoted yields fairly the sense assigned to 
it. 

Besides the direct illustration of a freedom from local 
restraints involved in the general argument, there is 
also an indirect illustration of the same doctrine, from 
his mode of treating t lie subject in detail. Many of 
his references to the Mosaic history differ from it ei- 
ther by variation or addition, apparently from tradi- 
tionary sources of information, e. g.: 

1. The call of Abraham before the migration to Horan 
(Acts vii, 2), not, as according to Gen. xii, 1, in Haran. 

2. The death of his father after the call (Acts vii, 4), 
not, as according to Gen. xi, 32, before it. 

3. The seventy-five souls of Jacob’s migration (Acts vii, 
14), not, as according to Gen. xlvi, 27, seventy. 

4. The supreme loveliness {uareioc tw ecw, a Hebraistic 
superlative) of Moses (Acts vii, 20), not simply, as accord- 
ing to Exod. ii, 2, the statement that “he was a goodly 
child.” 

5. His Egyptian education (Acts vii, 22) as contrasted 
with the silence on this point in Exod. iv, 10. 

6. The same contrast with regard to his secular great- 
ness, “mighty in words and deeds” (Acts vii, 22; comp. 
Exod. ii, 10). 

7. The distinct mention of the three periods of forty 
years (Acts vii, 28, 30, 3(5), of which only the last is speci- 
fied in the Pentateuch. 

S. The terror of Moses at the bush (Acts vii, 32), uot 
mentioned in Exod. iii, 3. 

9. The supplementing of the Mosaic narrative by the 
allusions in Amos to their neglect of the true worship in 
the desert (Acts vii, 42, 43). 

10. The intervention of the angels in the giving of the 
Law (Acts vii, 53), not mentioned in Exod. xix, 1(5. 

11. The burial of the twelve patriarchs at Shechem (Acts 
vii, 16), not mentioned in Exod. i. 6. The burial of Joseph’s 
bones alone is recorded (Josh. xxiv, 32). 

12. The purchase of the tomb at Shechem by Abraham 
from the sons of Emraor (Acts vii, 16), not, as according to 
Gen. xxiii, 15, the purchase of the cave atMachpelah from 
Ephron the Hittite. 

13. The introduction ofRemphan from the Sept, of Amos 
v, 26, not found in the Hebrew. 

The explanation and source of these variations must 
be sought under the different names to which they re- 
fer; but the general fact of their adoption by Stephen 
is significant as showing the freedom with which he 
handled the sacred history, and the comparative dis- 
regard of verbal accuracy by him and by the sacred 
historian who records his speech. “ He had regard,” 
as Jerome says, “ to the meaning, not to the words.” 
(See their reconcilement in Wordsworth’s New Test, 
[18(101, p. G5-fi9.) 

fi. His Condemnation and Martyrdom, — It would seem 
that, just at the close of hi* argument, Stephen saw a 
change in the aspect of his judges, as if for the first 
time they had caught the drift of his meaning, lie 
broke off from his calm address, and turned suddenly 
upon them in an impassioned attack which shows that 
be saw what was in store for him. Those heads thrown 
back on their unbending necks, those ears closed against 
any penetration of truth, were too much for his patience: 
“Ye stiff-necked and uneiren incised in heart and ears! 
ye do always resist the lloly Ghost: as your fathers 
Hiil, so do ye. Which of the prophets did not your fa- 
thers persecute? . . .the Just One: of whom ye are the 
betrayers and murderers.” As he spoke they' showed 
by their faces that their hearts (to use the strong lan- 
guage of the narrative) “were being sawn asunder,” 
and tliev kept gnashing their set teeth against him; 
but still, though with ililliculty, restraining themselves. 


STEPHEN 


1011 STEPHEN 


He, in this last crisis of his fate, turned his face up- 
wards to the open sky, and as he gazed the vault of 
heaven seemed to him to part asunder (fu)vcnyfih>og), 
and the divine glory appeared through the rending of 
the earthly veil — the Divine Presence, seated on a 
throne, and on the right hand the human form of “Je- 
sus,” not, as in the usual representations, sitting in re- 
pose, but standing erect, as if to assist his suffering ser- 
vant. Stephen spoke as if to himself, describing the 
glorious vision ; and, in so doing, alone of all the speak- 
ers and writers in the New Test., except only Christ 
himself, uses the expressive phrase, “ the Son of man.” 
As his judges heard the words, expressive of the divine 
exaltation of him whom they had sought so lately to 
destroy, they could forbear no longer. They broke into 
a loud yell; they clapped their hands to their ears, as 
if to prevent the entrance of any more blasphemous 
words; they flew as with one impulse upon him, and 
dragged him out of the city to the place of execution. 

It has been questioned by what right the Sanhedrim 
proceeded to this act without the concurrence of the 
Koman government; but it is enough to reply that 
the whole transaction is one of violent excitement. 
On one occasion, even in our Lord’s life, the Jews had 
nearly stoned him even within the precincts of the Tem- 
ple (John viii, 50). “Their vengeance in other cases 
was confined to those subordinate punishments which 
were left under their own jurisdiction : imprisonment, 
public scourging in the synagogue, and excommunica- 
tion” (Milman, Hist, of Latin Christianity , i,400). See 
Conybeare and Howson, Life of St. Paul, i, 74. On this 
occasion, however, they determined for once to carry out 
the full penalties enjoined by the severe code of the 
Mosaic ritual. See Stoning. Any violator of the law 
was to be taken outside the gates, and there, as if for 
the sake of giving to each individual member of the 
community a sense of his responsibility in the transac- 
tion, he was to be crushed by stones, thrown at him by 
all the people.' Those, however, were to take the lead 
in this wild and terrible act who had taken upon them- 
selves the responsibility of denouncing him (Dent, xvii, 
7 ; comp. John viii, 7). These were, in this instance, 
the witnesses who had reported or misreported the words 
of Stephen. They, according to the custom, for the sake 
of facility in their dreadful task, 
stripped themselves, as is the East- 
ern practice on commencing any 
violent exertion; and one of the 
prominent leaders in the transac- 
tion was deputed by custom to sig- 
nify his assent (Acts xxii, 20) to 
the act ,by taking the clothes into 
his custody, and standing over 
them while the bloody work went 
on. The person who officiated on 
this occasion was a young man from 
Tarsus — one, probably, of the Cili- 
eian Hellenists who had disputed 
with Stephen. His name, as the 
narrative significant!) 7, adds, was 
Saul. Everything was now ready 
for the execution. It was outside 
the gates of Jerusalem. The earli- 
er tradition fixed it at what is now 
called the Damascus gate. The 
later, which is the present tradition, 
fixed it at what is hence called St. 

Stephen’s gate, opening on the de- 
scent to the Mount of Olives; and 
in the red streaks of the white 
limestone rocks of the sloping hill 
used to be shown the marks of his 
blood, and on the first rise of Olivet, 
opposite, the eminence on which the 
Virgin stood to support him with 
her prayers. The sacred narrative 
fixes its attention only on two fig- 


ures — that of Saul of Tarsus, already noticed, and that 
of Stephen himself. 

As the first volley of stones burst upon him, he called 
upon the Master whose human form he had just seen 
in the heavens, and repeated almost the words with 
which he himself had given up his life on the cross, 
“ O Lord Jesus, receive my spirit.” 

Another crash of stones brought him on his knees. 
One loud piercing cry (jtKyah ptya\y <piovp) — answer- 
ing to the loud shriek or yell with which his enemies 
had flown upon him — escaped his dying lips. Again 
clinging to the spirit of his Master’s words, lie cried, 
“ Lord, lav not this sin to their charge,” and instantly 
sank upon the ground; and, in the touching language 
of the narrator, who then uses for the first time the. 
word afterwards applied to the departure of all Chris- 
tians, but here the more remarkable from the bloody 
scenes in the midst of which the death took place — 
tKOifiiftt), “ fell asleep.” 

7. II is Remains. — Stephen’s mangled body was bur- 
ied by the class of Hellenists and proselytes to which 
he belonged (oi tvosfitlg), with an amount of funeral 
state and lamentation expressed iu two words used here 
only in the New Test. (avviKopwav and Kontrog'). 

This simple expression is enlarged by writers of the 
5th century into an elaborate legend. The high-priest, 
it is said, had intended to leave the corpse to be de- 
voured by beasts of prey. It was rescued by Gamaliel, 
carried off in his own chariot by night, and buried in a 
new tomb on his property at Caphar Gamala (village 
of the Camel), eight leagues from Jerusalem. The fu- 
neral lamentations lasted for forty days. All the apos- 
tles attended. Gamaliel undertook the expense, and, 
on his death, was interred in an adjacent cave. This 
story was probably first drawn up on the occasion of 
the remarkable event which occurred in A.D. 415, under 
the name of the Invention and Translation of the Relics 
of St. Stephen. Successive visions of Gamaliel to Lu- 
cian, the parish priest of Caphar Gamala, on Dec. 3 and 
18 in that year, revealed the spot where the martyr’s 
remains would be found. They were identified by a 
tablet bearing his name, Cheliel, and were carried in 
state to Jerusalem, amid various portents, and buried 
in the church on Mount Zion, the scene of so many 



Traditionary Spot where St. Stephen was Stoned. (From a photograph. The 
view is N. W. up the Valley of Jehoshaphat.) 


1012 


STEPHEN 


STEPHEN 


earlv Christian traditions. The event of the Transla- 
tion* is celebrated in the Latin Church on Aug. 3, prob- 
ably from t lie tradition of that day being the anniver- 
sary of the dedication of a chapel of St. Stephen at An- 
cona. The story itself is encompassed with legend, 
but the event is mentioned in all the chief writers of 
the time. Parts of his remains were afterwards trans- 
lated to different parts of the coast of the West — Mi- 
norca, Portugal, North Africa, Ancona, Constantinople 
— and in 460 what were still left at Jerusalem were 
translated by the empress Ludoeia to a splendid church 
called by his name on the supposed scene of his mar- 
tyrdom (Tillemont, St.- Etienne, art. 5-9, where all the 
authorities are quoted). Evodins, bishop of Mvala, 
wrote a small treatise concerning the miracles performed 
bv them ; and Sevcriis, a bishop of the island of Minor- 
ca. wrote a circular letter of the conversion of the Jews 
in that island and of the miracles wrought in that place 
by the relics which Orosius left there. These writings 
are contained in the works of Augustine, who gives the 
sanction of his authority to the incredible follies they 
record (7>e Cir. liei, xxii,8). 

The exact date of Stephen’s death is not given in the 
Scriptural history. Put ecclesiastical tradition rtxes 
it in the same year as the crucifixion, on Dec. 20, the 
day after Christ mas-day. It is beautifully said by Au- 
gustine (in allusion to t lie juxtaposition of the two fes- 
tivals) that men would not have bad the courage to die 
f*>r Hod, if Cod had not become man to die for them 
(Tillemont, St.-Etienne , art. 4). 

II. St. Stephen $ Typical Character.— The importance 
of his career may be briefly summed up under three 
heads : — 

1. lie was the first great Christian ecclesiastic. The 
appointment of the Seven,” commonly (though not in 
the Bible) called deacons, formed the lirst direct insti- 
tution of the nature of an organized Christian ministry, 
and of these Stephen was the head — “the archdeacon,” 
as he is called in the Eastern Church — and in this ca- 
pacity represented as the companion or precursor of Lau- 
rence, archdeacon of Pome in t he Western Church. In 
this sense allusion is made to him in the Anglican Or- 
dination of Deacons. 

2. He is the first martyr — the protomartvr. To him 
the name •• martyr” is lirst applied (Acts xxii, 20). He, 
first of the Christian Church, bore witness to the truth 
of his convictions by a violent and dreadful death. The 
veneration which has accrued to his name in conse- 
quence is a testimony of the Bible to the sacredness of 
truth, to the nobleness of sincerity, to the wickedness 
and the folly of persecution. It also contains the tirst 
germs of the reverence for the character and for the rel- 
ics of martyrs, which afterwards grew to a height now 
regarded by all Christians as excessive. A beautiful 
hymn, by Reginald lleber, commemorates this side of 
Stephen's character. 

3. lie is the forerunner of Paul. So he was already 
regarded in ancient times. IWAou o CicdanaXai; is 
the expression used for him by Basil of Seleucia. But 
it is an aspect that has been much more forcibly drawn 
out in modern times. Not only was his martyrdom 
(in all probability) the lirst means of converting Paul — 
bis prayer for hi^ murderers not only was fulfilled in 
the conversion of Paul — the blood of the lirst mar- 
tyr, the seed of the greatest apostle — the pangs of re- 
morse l<»r bis death, among the stings of conscience 
against which t 1 m* apostle vainly writhed (Acts ix, 5) ; 
not only thus, hut in his doctrine also, he was the 'an- 
ticipator, as, had he lived, he would have been the 
propagator, o| the new phase of Christianity of which 
Paul became the main support. 1 1 is denunciations of 
local worship, the stress which he lays on the spiritual 
side of the Jewish history, his freedom in treating that 
history, the very turns of expression that he uses, are 
all Pauline. 

HI. /.iff rnfure . — Kitsch. Hist. Erc/ts. ii, ]; Tille- 
mont, Mrmoins, ii, 1 21; Nennder, /hunting and Train- 


| ing; Conybeare and Howson. St. Paul, cli. ii ; Augusti, 
Archiiol. Denhriirdiyk. i, 145; Ilecs, De Lapidutiane 
Stephani (Jen. 1729); Ziegelbaur, A eta Stephani (Vien. 
173t>); Walcb, De Funere Steph. (Jen. 1756); Schwarz, 
Martyrimn Stephani (Yiteb. 1756); Btuir, De Oratione 
Steph. (Tiib. 1829); Schmid, Discours de St.-Eiienne 
(St rash. 1839); Bohn, Life of St. Stephen (Lend. 1844); 
and other monographs cited by Volbeding, hidex Pro- 
grammatnm, p. 74; and by Danz, Worterb. s. v. “Apos- 
telgesch.” Nos. 56, 57. 

Stephen I, pope from A.D. 253 to 257, was a na- 
tive Roman, and is noteworthy because of his connec- 
tion with the controversy respecting the administration 
of baptism by heretics. In Africa and the East such 
baptism was generally rejected, while at Rome re- 
claimed heretics who had been baptized were received 
simply with laving-on of hands. The Eastern Church, 
and especially Cyprian of Carthage (q. v.), decided em- 
phatically against the practice of Rome, and asserted 
that baptism, as a valid rite, cannot exist beyond the 
pale of the Church; to which Stephen replied that ev- 
ery baptism performed in the name of Jesus carries w ith 
it regenerating and sanctifying influence. The synods 
of Carthage, in 255 and 256, sanctioned the Eastern 
opinion, and forwarded notice of their decision to Rome. 
A dispute between Stephen and Cyprian was thereby 
inaugurated, which ended with Stephen’s renouncing all 
connection w T ith the African Church. Stephen found 
earnest opponents, also, in bishops Dionysius of Alex- 
andria and Firmilian of Ctesarea, the latter of whom 
emphatically resisted the claim Of the Romish see to 
supremacy, which Stephen steadily advanced during 
the quarrel. The division between the churches con- 
tinued down to Stephen’s death, in 257. Tradition re- 
lates that he died a martyr under Valerian, condemned 
because he refused to sacrifice to idols. He is commem- 
orated Aug. 2. — Herzog, Reul-Encyhlop. s. v, 

Stephen II, said to have been elected pope March 
27, 752, and to have died three or four days afterwards, 
is not usually included in lists of the popes. 

Stephen III (II), whose pontificate lasted from 
752 to 757, is generally recorded as Stephen II. This 
pope was threatened by Astolph, king of the Lombards, 
who took the exarchate of Ravenna. Stephen there- 
upon appealed to Pepin the Short, king of the Franks, 
for help, and offered in return an eternal reward and all 
the joys of Paradise, but threatened him with forfeiture 
of his salvation if he should delay to undertake the re- 
quired deliverance. Pepin besieged Astolph in Pavia 

(754) , and compelled him to promise the renunciation 
of all his conquests. The latter, however, invaded the 
Roman territories once more, instead of fulfilling his 
agreement, and Pepin was obliged to return to Italy 

(755) . He defeated the Lombard, and wrested from 
him the territories he had conquered, and then raised 
the pope to the patriarchate, and made him possessor 
of the exarchate. This act first made the pope the sec- 
ular head of a country and a people. Stephen, in re- 
turn, anointed Pepin king. He died in 757, leaving a 
number of letters and canonical constitutions. — Herzog, 
Real- Encyklop. s. v. 

Stephen IV (HI), pope from 768 to 772, was a Ben- 
edictine monk, and had been made cardinal-priest by 
pope Zachary, lie condemned his rival, pope Con- 
stantine, who had been a layman, as a usurper of the 
episcopal chair, and in 769 held a synod in the Lateran, 
which decreed that only a deacon or a priest could at- 
tain to the papal dignity. The same synod sanctioned 
afresh the worship of images, relies, and saints, which 
had been rejected by a synod at Constantinople and by 
the emperor Constantine Copronymns. This pope, also, 
was troubled by the Lombards, and sought relief at the 
hands *»f Charles and Carloman, the Frankish kings. 
I The persistent, enmity of the Lombards suggested the 
advisability of preventing any alliance between them 
i and the Franks, and Stephen was accordingly concerned 


STEPHEN 


1013 


STEPHENS 


to prevent the consummation of a proposed marriage of 
Charles with Desideria, daughter of the Lombard king. 
He did not, however, accomplish his purpose ; but 
Charles separated from his wife when they had been 
married one year. Stephen died in 772. — Herzog, Real- 
Eneykiop. s. v. 

Stephen V (IV), a Roman, created cardinal-deacon 
by pope Leo III, who was raised to the papal throne in 
A.D. 81G, but reigned only a few months, lie caused 
the discontented Koman population to swear allegiance 
to Louis the Lions as well as to himself, in order to bring 
them more completely into his power; and he crowned 
that monarch emperor. He died in 817. — Herzog, Real - 
Eneykiop. s. v. 

Stephen VI (Y) ascended the papal chair in 885. 
He negotiated with the emperor Basil of Constantino- 
ple and his son Leo for a restoration of the peace be- 
tween the Greek and Koman churches which bad been 
disturbed by Photius (q. \\). Stephen demanded that 
all clergymen consecrated by Photius should be de- 
posed, and that those whom the latter had banished or 
excommunicated should be restored; and Leo conformed 
to the requirement. The pope was also able to main- 
tain his position against Charles the Fat, who sought 
to depose him because he had not obtained secular con- 
firmation, He crowned the duke Guido of Spoleto as 
emperor, and died in 891. — Herzog, Real- Eneykiop. s. v. 

Stephen VII (VI), pope during a few months, 
in 896-897. On his attaining to the papal dignity he 
caused the body of his predecessor and personal ene- 
my, Formosus (q. v.), to be exhumed and mutilated, 
after which it was thrown into the Tiber. It is alleged 
that Formosus had, on some former occasion, prevented 
Stephen from becoming pope. The same partisan fury 
which enabled Stephen to vent his auger upon a de- 
ceased enemy brought about his own destruction. lie 
was strangled to death in prison, and his action towards 
Formosus was condemned by a synod under John IX 
(898). — Ilerzog, Real- Eneykiop. s. v. 

Stephen VIII (VII), pope from 929 to 931, belongs 
to the number of pontiffs who were governed by the no- 
torious Theodora and Marozia. He is remarkable in no 
other respect. 

Stephen IX (VIII), a German, and related to the 
emperor Otto the Great, was elevated to the papacy by 
the action of clergy and people in 939, and reigned un- 
til 942. He was wholly unable to restrain the shame- 
less rule of abandoned women in the Church, and, like 
the other popes of that period, was simply the creature 
and plaything of a party. 

Stephen X (IX), a creature of Hildebrand [see 
Gregory VII], was the son of duke Gotelon of Nether- 
Lorraine. His name was Frederick. Pope Leo IX ap- 
pointed him cardinal-deacon and chancellor to the apos- 
tolical chair. In that capacity he accompanied cardi- 
nal Humbert as legate to Constantinople, and aided in 
preventing any reconciliation between the two churches 
(comp. Brevis Commemor. eorum quee Gesserunt A poeris. 
Sanctce Rom. Sedis in Regia Urbe , etc., in Annul, Eccles. 
auct. Cjcs. Baronio [Col. Agripp. 1609], IX, xix, 222; 
also Annul. Eccles. ex xii Tomis C. Baron. Redact i, 
opera Henr. Spondani [Mogunt. 1618], p. 824). On 
his return he became a monk in the Convent of Monte- 
Casino, and was promoted to be abbot ; and when 
Victor II died he ascended the papal chair, A.D. 1057, 
under the name of Stephen. Guided by Hildebrand, be 
opposed the immorality of the clergy, especially with 
respect to simony and concubinage. He appointed the 
famous Peter Damiani (q. v.) to be bishop of Ostia, and 
entered into negotiations with Agnes, mother of the 
emperor Henry IV, with a view to secure the expulsion 
of the Normans from Italy, and also to insure the elec- 
tion of bishop Gerard of Florence as his successor (who 
actually did follow in the pontificate as Nicholas II); 


and, finally, be ordered that the election of a pope should 
be postponed until the return of Hildebrand from Ger- 
many, whither he had gone as a legate. He died in 
1058. — Ilerzog, Real- Eneykiop. s. v. 

Stephen re Beia.avilre, or de Borbone , was a 
Dominican monk at Lyons, and died in 1261. 1 1 is 

great work, I)e Septem Bonis Spirit ns Saneti. is yet un- 
published, though a portion referring to the Cathari and 
the Waldenses had been issued in D’Argentre, Col- 
lectio Judieiorum de Xoeis Erroribus , i, 85 sq., and 
more fully in Qu6tif and Pochard, Scriptores Ordinis 
Pnedieatorum, i, 190 sq. It is found in manuscript in 
France, England, and Spain. Stephen bad preached in 
his youth, at Valence, against the Cathari, and was af- 
terwards made an inquisitor ; he therefore possessed fre- 
quent opportunity to learn what were the teachings and 
customs of the sects found in Southern France. His 
report of such sects is among the most trustworthy 
sources of the history of heresies, though sometimes 
overdrawn, llis statements respecting the Lyone.se 
Vaudois are particularly noteworthy, as they seem to 
indicate that these people had adopted some of the 
views held by the Brethren of the Free Spirit (q. v.). 
— Herzog, Real- Eneykiop. s. v. 

Stephen of Tournay, born in 1135 at Orleans, 
France, abbot of the convent of St. Everte at Orleans, 
and afterwards of St. Genevieve at Paris, was subse- 
quently made bishop of Tournay, and died in 1203. 
He was very learned in canon law, but rather nar- 
row in both theological and philosophical studies. 
While he complained of the confusion existing with re- 
spect to science, of the ambition of scholars and their 
fondness for disputing on matters pertaining to the faith, 
he was yet unable to discover any remedy for the evils 
he deplored save the intervention of the papal author- 
ity. He hoped that in this way greater uniformity of 
theological instruction might be secured, and that bounds 
might thus be set to the independence of the teachers. 
IHs principal work appears to have been a Summa de 
Decretis , only the preface of which is known. Two dis- 
courses and several letters from his pen are extant, 
which possess some importance as sources for the histo- 
ry of his time. The best edition is that of Molinet 
(Paris, 1679, 8vo). — Herzog, Real- Eneykiop. s. v. 

Stephens, more correctly Stephen (Etienne'), the 
family name of an illustrious succession of learned print- 
ers, of \vhom, however, wc have here to notice spe- 
cially only Kobert. He was the son of Henri Etienne 
(Henricus Stephanus), the printer of the Qnincuplex 
Psalterium of Le Fevre d’Etaples (Paris, 1509-13), 
who died in 1520. Kobert was born at Paris in 1503. 
Having received a learned education and become skilled 
in the classical languages and Hebrew, he devoted 
himself to the editing and issuing of carefully printed 
editions of learned works. In 1515 he issued, under 
the simple title of Biblia, an edition of the Vnlgate. 
with a new Latin translation of the Bible, printed in 
parallel columns, and in a type of exquisite beauty. Ex- 
planatory notes were added in the margin; and as some 
of these gave offence to the doctors of the Sorbonne as 
savoring of the Keformed doctrines, Stephens thought it 
prudent, on the deat Ii of his father, to remove to Geneva. 
Before leaving Paris, however, he had issued his edition 
of the Greek New Test.., first in a small form, known as 
the O mirijicam edition, from the first words of the pref- 
ace (Paris, 1546-49), and afterwards in fol. with vari- 
ous readings from MSS. collated by his sou Henry. At 
Geneva he printed an edition of the Greek text with the 
Vulg. rendering, and that of Erasmus, 1551, This edi- 
tion presented the text for the first time divided into 
verses. Two editions of the Hebrew Bible were also 
printed by him— one with the Commentary of Kimchi 
on the minor prophets, in 13 vols. 4to (Paris, 1539-43), 
another in 10 vols. 16mo (ibid. 1514-46). It is to him 
we owe the Thesaurus Lvngmn Latina: (4 vols. fol.), as to 
his son Henry the Thesaurus Ling. Grceae is due — two 


1014 


STERCORANISTS 


STEPHENS 


monuments of vast learning anti unwearied diligence. 
Hubert Stephens died at Geneva Sept. 0, 1550. — Kitto. 

Stephens, Abednego, an Episcopal clergyman, 
was burn at Centroville, Queen Anne Co., Md., July 21, 
IS 12. When three years of age his parents moved to 
Havre de Grace in that state, and from thence, in 1S19, 
to Staunton, Va. In 1829 his father left him in charge 
of a male academy, which he managed until the close 
of the session ; wound up his fathers business, and con- 
ducted the family to Columbia, Tenn. lie was elected 
to the presidency of a male academy in that place, resign- 
ing to enter the University of Nashville in May, 1832, 
from which he graduated in October, 1833. On July 3, 
1831, lie was confirmed by bishop Meade. After gradu- 
ation he accepted the tutorship of ancient languages in 
his alma mater, and was soon after made professor in the 
same department, lie attended the General Theological 
Seminary in New York from October, 183G, to October, 
1837, and upon bis return was ordained deacon by bishop 
Otev, Oct. 15, 1837, entering priest's orders soon after, j 
lie continued in his college professorship until in 1839 
lie accepted a call to the presidency of Jefferson College, 
at Washington, Miss. II is health failing, he spent the 
winter in Cuba: hut, receiving no permanent relief, re- 
turned and settled at Nashville, where he died, Feb. 27, 
1841. “lie stood in the front rank of scholars ami ora- 
tors; his sermons were characterized by depth and com- 
prehension of thought, and by profound research and 
impassioned eloquence.” bee Sprague, Annals of the 
Amer, Pulpit , v, 746, 

Stephens, Daniel, D.D., an Episcopal clergyman, 
was born at Licking Creek, Bedford Co., Pa., in April, 
1778. At the age of nineteen he joined the Baptist 
Church, and declared iiis intention of devoting himself 
to the ministry. Entering Jefferson College, Cauons- 
luirg, Pa., at the age of twenty-five, he was, after the first 
year, appointed tutor of ancient languages, and was so in- 
dustrious as to be able to study divinity during one ses- 
sion of his senior year and to graduate in 1805. He en- 
tered upon the vocation of teaching, studying divinity 
under Mr. (afterwards bishop) Kent. Deciding to enter 
the Episcopal Church, he was ordained deacon by bishop 
t Maggett in February, 1809. For this choice lie was dis- 
inherited by his fat her. Upon his ordination he removed 
to Ciiestertown, and taught in Washington College, and 
preached acceptably. He was ordained priest by bishop 
Claggott in Baltimore in 1810, and removed to Centre- 
ville. Queen Anne Co., where he had charge of an acad- 
emy and two parishes, lie remained here four years, 
and removed to Havre de Grace, where he preached four 
years, when he accepted a call to Staunton, Va., and con- 
tinued there till 1828. After a short residence in Fincas- 
tle, Va., he accepted a call to St. Peter’s Church, Colum- 
bia, Tenn., in 1829. Removing to Bolivar, Tenn., in 1833, 
lie organized the parish of St. James. Ilis wife died in 
1817, and he consented to retire to the home of his son- 
in-law, Pitser Miller, of Bolivar. He resigned his charge 
in 18 19, and died Nov. 21, 1850. See Sprague, A muds 
t»f the A mer. Pulpit , v, 519. 

Stephens, Jeremy, an English divine, was horn 
at Bishop’s (’astle, Shropshire, in 1592, and entered 
Braseuosc College, Oxford, in 1(509, Taking his degrees 
in art in hi 15, lie was ordained deacon, and appointed 
chaplain of All-Souls' College. In May, MUG, he was 
admitted to prioHt’s orders, and in 1(521 was presented 
to the rectory of Quinton, Northamptonshire, and in 
I (52*5 to that of Wot ton, both by Charles I. lie was 
made prebendary of Biggleswade, Lincoln, in 1(511, but 
was deprived in KM 1 o| all his preferments, and impris- 
oned by the usurping powers. At the Kestoration he 
"us replaced in all his former livings, and had also a 
prH.end in Salisbury Church. He died at Wotton Jan. 
•*« B'O.i. lie published, Xnhr in D. Cg/irian, de Unit ate 
LcrleAnr (Ixnidon, 1032, 8vo) : — A o tie in I). ( 'gpriun, de 
/tono Pntinitur (ibid. 1*533, Xvo ) : — A pohugg for the A n- 
tiint Right and Power if the Bishops to Sit and Vote in 


Parliaments (ibid. 1GG0) : — B. Gregorii Magni Episcopi 
llomani de Cura Pastoruli Liber vere A ureus, etc., MSS, 
cum Romuna edit tone collatis (ibid. 1629, 8 vo). He was 
also editor of Spelman, On Tithes , and his apology for the 
treatise De non Temerandis Ecclesiis. See Chalmers, 
Biog. Diet. s. v.; Allibone, Diet . of Brit . and Amer. A u- 
thors , s. v. 

Stephens, William, an English clergyman, was 
a native of Devonshire, and graduated from Exeter Col- 
lege, Cambridge, in 1715. He was first vicar of Bramp- 
ton, and afterwards rector of St. Andrew’s, in Plymouth. 
Me died, much lamented, in 173G. He published four 
single Sermons (1717, 1719, 1722, 1724, each 8vo) ; and 
after his death appeared (thirty-five) Sermons (Oxford, 
1 737, 2 vols. 8vo). See Allibone, Diet, of Bi'it . and A mer . 
Authors , s. v. 

Stephens, William H., a Methodist Episcopal 
minister, was born in New York Dec. 18, 1804, converted 
in 1828, under the preaching of Rev. Charles Pitman; 
travelled Burlington ami Bargaintown circuits, under 
the presiding elder, in 1829-30; was admitted on trial in 
1831, and appointed to Cumberland and Cape May Cir- 
cuit ; in 1832, to Salem Circuit; and in 1833 was admit- 
ted into full connection, and appointed to Swedesborongh 
Circuit, where he died the same year. He was a man 
of studious habits, good preaching abilities, ardent piety, 
and extensive usefulness. See Minutes of Annual Con- 
ferences , ii, 282, 

Stephen’s (St.) Day, a festival observed on Dec. 
26 in honor of the protomartyr Stephen. 

Stephenson, James White, D.D., a Presbyterian 
divine, was born in Augusta County, Va., in 175G. lie 
was educated at Alt. Zion College, Winnsborough, S. C. : 
principal, for three years, of a classical school near the 
old Waxhaw Church, in Lancaster District. S.C.; studied 
theology privately; was licensed by the Presbytery of 
South Carolina in 1789; ordained and installed pastor 
of the Bethel and Indiantown churches, in Williamsburg 
District, in 1790. March 3, 1808, with about twenty fam- 
ilies, he migrated to Maury County, Tenn., jointly pur- 
chased a tract of land, and organized what was after- 
wards known as the “ Frierson Settlement” — a Christian 
colony which long maintained an enviable reputation, 
particularly for its faithful private and public instruction 
of the blacks. He died Jan. G, 1832. Dr. Stephenson 
published two or three sermons. As a preacher he was 
solid and instructive. In 1815, South Carolina College 
conferred upon him the degree of D.D. See Sprague, 
Annals of the Amer . Pulpit, iii, 550; Allibone, Diet, of 
Brit, and Amer . A uthors , s. v. (J. L. S.) 

Stercoranists (from stercoi'o, to void as excre- 
ment). The grossly sensual conception of the presence 
of the Lord’s body in the sacrament, according to which 
that body is eaten, digested, and evacuated like ordina- 
ry food, is of ancient standing, though not found in Or- 
igen, as some writers have assumed (e. g.Tournely,Cwrsws 
Theologicus , iii, 345), nor, perhaps, in Jlhabanus Maurus, 
who, like the former, was charged with holding such 
views because of an ambiguous explanation of Matt, xv, 
17 (e. g. by Herbert, De Corp.et Sang. Domini, in Pez, 
Thesaur. Anecdot . Noviss. I, i, 144), It certainly orig- 
inated with a class of false teachers contemporary with 
or earlier than Khabanus Maurus, whom Paschasius Rad- 
bert condemns, De Carp, et Sang. Domini, c. 20, where 
he remarks, with reference to certain apocryphal writ- 
ings, “Frivolum est ergo in hoc mystevio cogitare de 
stercorc, ne eoinmiseeatur in digestionc altering cibi.” 
lie does not, however, apply the term Stercoranists to 
his opponents. Cardinal Humbert is the first to so em- 
ploy the word in his work directed against the monk 
Nicetas Pectoral us (1054), to advocate azymitism [see 
Azvmitks j and the other characteristic doctrines of the 
Latin Church (see Can is Lect/.Autt. HI, i, 319, ed. Bas- 
nage); and from that time the word was frequently 
employed to designate the supporters of the grossly 


STEItCULlUS 


1015 


STERN 


realistic theory of the Lord’s supper. It oecurs now and 
then in the writings of the opponents of the Lutheran 
doctrine, particularly the realistic doctrine of Brentius 
and other VVurtembergers in the time of the Reforma- 
tion. On the subjeet., see Pfaft', De Stereo ranistis Medii 
yEvi, etc. (Tub. 1750, 4to), and Schrbekh, Kirchenyesch . 
xxiii, 429-499. — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Sterculius, Stercutius, or Sterquilinus, a 
Roman divinity invoked by husbandmen. The name 
is derived from stercus, manure, and is applied by some 
to Saturn, because he taught the use of manure in agri- 
cultural processes. Others give it to Pieumnus, the son 
of Faunus, who is likewise credited with introducing 
improvements in agriculture (Maerob. Sat. i, 7 ; Serv. 
A d yEn. ix, 4; x, 76; Lactant. i, 20; Pliny, 7/. X. xvii, 
9; August. De Civ. Dei, xviii, 15). 

Sterling, John, a minister of the Methodist Episco- 
pal Chureh,was born in Ireland in 1810, and emigrated 
to this country in early life. At the age of seventeen he 
united with the Church, and in 1844 was licensed to 
preach. lie was received into the North Ohio Confer- 
ence in 1847, and travelled six or seven years, when, be- 
cause of ill-health, he located. He was afterwards ad- 
mitted into the Central Ohio Conference, where he la- 
bored several years. His death occurred April 2, 1863. 
See Minutes of Annual Conferences, 1863, p. 168. 

Stem ( 7 rpvfiva), the hinder part of a ship (as the 
w’ord is rendered in Mark iv, 38; Acts xxvii, 41), out 
of which the anchors were anciently fastened (ver. 29). 
See Ship. 

Stern, Hermann, a Jewish missionary, was born 
of Israelitish parentage in 1794, at Teunstadt, in Bava- 
ria. He visited the high-school in Bamberg to study 
as teacher. In his twenty-first year he received his 
first place as teacher in I loch berg. Endeavoring to 
conform in his religious instruction to the letter and 
spirit of the Holy Seriptures, he could not avoid allud- 
ing to the defectiveness and emptiness of the synagogue 
ceremonials as taught in the Talmud and in the Jewish 
code Shulchan Aruch. Complaint was made to the 
chief rabbi of the district, and for his own security 
Stern requested the government that the rabbi be re- 
quired to superintend the religious instruction of his 
school. Mr. Bing, the chief rabbi, begged to be ex- 
cused from doing so, stating that Stern’s religious in- 
struction did not please him. The government then 
demanded of the rabbi either to propose one of the ex- 
isting compendiums as a text-book for schools, or else 
write one himself. The rabbi offered to do the latter. 
In the meantime Stern w r as sent by the government to 
the town of Heidingsfeld, near Wiirzburg. Having 
spent two years at the latter place, he received from 
the government the new text-book of the Mosaic re- 
ligion, which rabbi Alexander Behr, under the direction 
of the chief rabbi, had prepared. The one hundred and 
sixty pages of this book were entirely filled with cere- 
monial laws, and contained not a word, much less an 
exposition, of morality, of conscience, of virtue, of holi- 
ness, of the condition and destiny of man. Stern called 
the attention of the government to these deficiencies 
of the hook, and promised to publish a better one. In 
1829 he published his Die Confirmation der Israeliten, 
oder das Judenthinn in seiner Grundlaye , which was fol- 
lowed in 1835 by his larger work, Der Lehenshaum. 
Both these books continued to be standards in many 
schools, even after Stern had embraced Christianity. 
The preparation of those works led Stern to study the 
Bible and the Talmud more thoroughly, which brought 
him to the conviction that the expected Messiah had 
already come. His sentiments he made known to the 
Jews, who persecuted him as much as possible, as they 
could not agree with him. But Stern often said, 
“They ought to know it, and it is my duty that I tell 
them the truth quite decidedly; the Lord demands it 
from me.” Sooner than he expected, the hour had 
come. In the year 1836 many theologians were as- 


sembled together, who were ordered by the king of 
Bavaria to speak of different things about religion. 
They met in Wiirzburg; Stern also was invited to be 
present at the meeting; and now the question w f as put 
whether the Trinity consists with the Jewish religion 
or not. They all said no, excepting Stern, who could 
not agree, lie put the question before them all — what 
shall 011 c do if he cannot say yes to it? because he was 
convinced that the Trinity is spoken of in the Jew- 
ish religion. They were greatly astonished at him, 
and advised him to write a book in which he should 
put his question before them. This he did in his Das 
Jsraelitenthum in seiner Wiirde und Diirde. but instead 
of convincing him that he was in error, they censured 
him and threatened that they would take away his 
place from him; but he w r as not shaken. Stern had to 
undergo many severe trials, and he finally resolved to 
settle at Frankfort as a private tutor. Here he pub- 
lished in 1844 a periodical, Die A uferstehuny, in which 
he proved, without at all exhausting the subject, that 
the doctrine of the Trinity is not new in Judaism, how- 
ever positively this is denied. Two years later (in 1846) 
he openly professed his Christian belief, and in the same 
year he published his Glavhensyrunde fur meinen Ueber - 
tritt zum Christ ent hum. He was soon engaged as mis- 
sionary among the Jews by the British Soeiety, and 
labored among his brethren until his death, which took 
place in the year 1861. See the (London) Jewish Jler- 
ald, April, 1861; Herschell, Jewish Witnesses that Jesus 
is the Christ (1858), p. 138 sq. ; Missionsblatt des Ver- 
einsfur Israel, Dee. 1872; Delitzsch, So at avf Ilojfmny 
(1872). ix, 68 sq. ; x, 188; Fiirst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 385 sq. ; 
Zuchold, JHbl. Theol. ii, 1269. (B. 1\) 

Stern, Maximilian, D.D., a minister of the Ger- 
man Reformed Church, was born of Jewish parentage, 
Nov. 18, 1815, at Altcnkunstadt, in Bavaria. He pre- 
pared himself for the study of medicine, and w hen six- 
teen years of age he was examined for admission to the 
surgical college in Bamberg, but was not admitted on 
the plea of his youth, as eighteen years was the mini- 
mum for matriculation. He remained at Bamberg, pri- 
vately studying under the direction of a physician, and 
w'hen, after two years, the time for examination again 
arrived, all his hopes and aspirations were dashed by a 
royal mandate from Munich ordering the sehool to be 
abolished. lie w r ent to Niederwern, and here he w'as 
surlily told by the chief-justice that he must choose 
a trade, or the government would take charge of him. 
Having no alternative, Stern chose the first trade that 
he came in contact with. For a number of years he 
occupied himself in this way, and finally resolved to go 
to the United States. Before leaving his country, he 
went to see his uncle Hermann Stern (q. v.), who in the 
meantime had beeome a Christian. Stern, who was at 
that time a sort of a rationalist, rebuked his uncle for 
sacrificing his worldly interests for the sake of religion; 
but, before he left, his unele had implanted the first 
germs of an earnest seeking after his soul’s salvation in 
the heart of the worldly-minded youth. At Bremcr- 
hafen, w'here he was delayed, the Lord prosecuted his 
gracious work by bringing him in contact with a mis- 
sionary (Rev. John Neander, a Presbyterian minister 
of Williamsburgh, N. V.), who presented Christ to his 
consideration. In 1839 he landed at New' York, where 
the Rev. John Rudy, of the Houston Street German 
Church, was the means of bringing him more fully 
to the knowledge of Christ, and by whom he was also 
baptized. For three years he lived in New- York, and 
earned a livelihood by hard manual labor. In 1842 he 
went to Mereersburg, Pa., to study theology, and was li- 
censed in 1845. From that time on he was one of the 
most active men in the German Reformed Church, lie 
built many churches and organized many congregations, 
lie successfully labored in Gabon, ()., for nine years; 
from thence he went, in 1862. to Louisville, Ky., w’here 
he also labored for nine years, when bodily infirmities 
obliged him to resign, in *1870. He was then appointed 


1016 


STERNE 


STERN 

bv his Church as missionary superintendent, but after I 
one year's work he had again to resign. In 1871 he 
once* more accepted a call to Gallon, ami when a year 
was over he gave up ins charge, never to resume it. 
lie went to Louisville, and after four years of inactiv- 
ity, illness, grief, and longing for release, he died, July 
0. 1876. Besides educating a number of ministers in 
hi> own house. Stern took an active part in the contro- 
versies which in former years agitated the Reformed 
Church, and was a very active contributor to the peri- | 
odiculs of his denomination. See the obituary of .'Mr. 
Stern in the R formed Church Monthly, Sept. 1*70, 
w ritten hv his son. the Lev. II. J. Stern, of Louisville, 
Ky. (II.’ I*.) 

Stern, Mendel Emanuel, a Jewish writer, was 
born at Pre-burg, in Hungary, in 1811, where the cele- 
brated Talmudist rabbi Moses Sophcr exercised an en- 
during intluenee upon the pious disposition of the youth. 
At the age of twelve he was obliged to assist his father, 
then stricken with all the misfortunes of increasing 
blindness, in the duties of tuition at the Loyal Jewish 
Normal School of his native place; and when fourteen 
vearsold he replaced his blind father in the arduous post 
of teacher. In 1 833 he was employed as reader in the fa- 
mous Oriental printing establishment of A. von Schmidt. 
He then tried his fortune as teacher in some country 
places, and in 1*3* settled at Vienna, where henceforth 
he occupied himself exclusively with literary pursuits, 
and where he died, March 0, 1**3. Ol his numer- 
ous works we mention the following: "jVi"!? 

“ir. a Hebrew grammar (Vienna and Presburg, 1*20, 
and often since); — A metrical Herman translation of the 
| H .ok of Proverbs (Prcsbnrg. 1832); — A German trans- 
lation of the same book, with a Hebrew commentary 
(ibid. 1*33):— The Ethics of the Fathers, ri-S ^2 
(Vienna, 1*10), in German metrical and rhymed lines; 
— Liturgical Hymns on the Dirine Unity , "I-irPH ^ 

( ibid. 1*10), also in German metrical and rhymed lines: 
— The Prophet Ezekiel , with a German translation and 
a Hebrew commentary (ibid. 1*12): — The Ethical Med- 
itations of Bedarshi, -317 ri m r.Z Z, with a German 
T , " . * : v , . 

translation (ibid. 1*47) :— I — J5“7l, or history 
of t he Jews since their return from the Babylonian cap- 
tivity to the destruction of Jerusalem by the Romans 
(ibid. 1*13), Hebrew’ and German: — A German trans- 
lation of the Iniok Jesus Siraeh, or Keelesiasticus (ibid. 
I*M) :-rTi*;7, or penitential hymns, with a German 
translation (ibid. 1*12); — or festival prayers, 
with a German translation (ibid. 1*44, 5 vols.). In 1*45 
he started a Hebrew periodical entitled pH!*? *ZZ m Z, 
The Star of Isaac, full of interesting matter, of which 
twenty-six parts were published ( ibid, 1*45-01 ) : — 
7*227" r'ZTi, The Unties of the Heart of Mcchai, 
with a German translation (ibid. 1*50, 2d cd.): — 
’i“"*^rk a Tiilmiidieal lexicon (ibid. 1*03). See Filrst, 
Hihl.Jud. iii, 3*0-3**; Steinsclineidor, Bibliographisches 
Hamlbuch, p. 137. (15. P.) 

Stern, Siegmund, doctor of philosophy and 
preacher of the Jewish Reformed Synagogue at Mer- 
lin, and lately director of the philanthropin at Frank- 
tnrt-ou-the-Mniii (where he died. May 0, 1*07), was the 
author of Has Judnithuin and tier .Hole im christ lichen * 
St note ( Merlin, 1*15): — l tie A ufgahe des Judcuthnms 
Untl d*r Judin in (hr Gi gt mrart ( ibid. 1*15 ): — Hie Re- 
ligion ihs ./mb of hit ms (ibid. 1*10; 2d ed. 1*1 *): — Hie 
ijiyi iorarfif/t Itnccgnug im J u den /hum (ibid. 1*15): — 
and t It schiehte ib s J mb nth urns von Mendelssohn bis auf 
die t,t i/i nirart, tn-bst Uiln vsicht tier fi/teni Pefii/ions- vml 
K u/tu ri/t sch irhtc ( Frankfort -oii-thc-Muiu, 1*57). See 
I* nr*t, Hittl, Jud. iii, 3**; Just, fiesch. d. Judenth. u. s, 
St run, iii, 3*0 sip; Griitz, Gesch . d. Judcn, xi, 508 so. 

(M. P.) 


Stern, Wilhelm, a German professor, was born 
April 22, 1792, at Mosbach, and died March 31, 1873, at 
Carlsruhc, having for forty years been teacher and di- 
rector of the evangelical seminary there. He wrote, 
Frfahnmgen, Gntndsutze vnd Grumlziige fur bib/isch - 
christ/ichen Religionsunterricht ( Carlsruhe, 1833): — 
Gesch icht/iches Spruchbuch znr Wiederholung der bi- 
blischen Geschichten fur christl. Schulen (ibid. 1844) : — 
Lehrbiichltin des christl. Gluubens nuch <hr heiliyen 
Schrift, etc. (ibid. 1853 ) : — Fiinfzehn messumische Psal- 
men (Barmen, 1870; new ed. 1872 ) : — Frklarung der vier 
FcangeHen (Carlsruhc, 1807-09,2 vols.). See Zuchold, 
Bib/. Theol. ii, 1209; Delitzseh, Sant avf Hojfuung , x, 
132 sq., 184 sq. ; llauck, Theolog. Jahresbericht , 1870, 
vi, 573 ; 1872, viii, 073. (B. P.) 

Sterne (or Stearne), John (1), a physician and 
ecclesiastical writer, was born at Ardbraecan, County of 
Meath, Ireland, in 1622. He was educated in the Col- 
lege of Dublin, became a fellow, was ejected because of 
his lovaltv, but reinstated at t lie Restoration. He died 
in 1609. His writings are, Aphorism i de Felicitate 
(Dublin, 1654, 8vo ; twice reprinted): — De Movie Dis- 
sertatio (ibid. 1656, 1659, 8vo) : — Animce Medela , seu de 
Beatitudine et Miser ia (ibid. 1658, 4to) : — Adriuni Jlecr- 
boordii Disputationum de Concursu Frame n (ibid. 1658, 
4 to) : — De Elect tone et Reprobatione (ibid. 1662, 4to) : — to 
this is added M annductio ad Yitam Probum : — De Obsti- 
natione. opus post /annum , pietum Christiana - Stoicam 
scholastico more suadens, published in 1672 by Mr. Dod- 
well. See Clialmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Sterne, John (2), an Irish prelate, son of the pre- 
ceding, was educated in Trinity College, Dublin, and 
became successively vicar of Trim, chancellor and dean 
of St. Patrick’s, bishop of Dromore in 1713, of Clogher in 
1717, anil vice-chancellor of the University of Dublin, 
lie laid out immense sums on his episcopal palaces and 
on the College of Dublin, where he built the printing- 
house and founded exhibitions. At his death (June, 
1745) he bequeathed <£30.000 to public institutions. His 
only publications were, Tract ut its de Visitatime Infr - 
tnormn (Dublin, 1697, l2mo): — and Concio ad Clerum . 
See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Sterne, Laurence, an Anglican clergyman, was 
bom at Clonmell, in the South of Ireland, Nov. 24, 1713. 
After moving from place to place with his family, he 
was entered at a school near Halifax, Yorkshire, where 
he remained till 1731. In the following year he w r as 
admitted to Jesus College, Cambridge, where he took 
the degree of A.M. in January, 1736, and that of A.M. in 
1740. During this time he was ordained, and through 
his uncle, J ames Sterne, prebendary of Durham, obtained 
the living of Sutton, and afterwards a prebend of York. 
Through his wife he secured the living of Stillington. 
He resided for twenty years principally at Sutton. In 
1762 he went to France, and in 1764 to Italy. Return- 
ing to England, he died at his lodgings in London 
March 18, 1768. He wrote, Sermons (Loud. 1760, 2 
vols. ; of which there are many subsequent editions) ; 
— The Fife and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gent . 
(York, 1759,2 vols. 12mo): — A Sentimental Journey 
through France and Italy (Loud. 1768, 2 vols. 12mo) : — 
Letters (ibid. 1775,3 vols. 12mo). For information as 
to editions of these several works, many of which are 
strongly tinged with immoral sentiments, sec AUibonc, 
Diet, of Brit, and .1 mer. Authors, s. v. 

Sterne, Richard, an English prelate, was born 
at Mansfield, Nottinghamshire, in 1596. lie was ad- 
mitted to Trinity College, Cambridge, in 1611, taking 
1 1 is degree of A.M. in 1614, and that of A.M. in 1618. 
In 1620 he removed to Menet College, and was elected 
fellow July 10,1623. He proceeded M.I). the following 
year, and was incorporated in the same degree at Ox- 
ford, 1627. Appointed one of the university preachers in 
1020, Ik- was selected as one of Dr. Move’s opponents in 
the philosophical act, kept for the entertainment, of the 
Spanish and Austrian ambassadors. In 1632 he was 


STERN HOLD 


1017 


STEUDEL 


made president of the eollege, and in March, 1633, mas- ! 
ter of Jesus College. He took the degree of l).l). in 
1635. He was presented by his college to the rectory 
of Hareton, Cambridgeshire, in 1641, but did not get 
possession till the summer following, lie had, how- 
ever, been presented in 1634 to the living of Yeovilton, 
Somerset County, through the favor of Laud, who chose 
him to attend him on the scaffold, lie was seized by 
Cromwell, and ejected from all his preferments ; but 
after some years was released, and permitted to retire to 
Stevanage, Hertfordshire, where he supported himself 
till the Restoration by keeping a private school. Soon 
after, he was appointed bishop of Carlisle, and was con- 
cerned in the Savoy Conference and in the revisal of the 
Rook of Common Prayer. On the decease of Dr. F rewen. I 
he was made archbishop of York, which position he held 
till the time of his death, Jan. 18, 1683. Resides some 
Latin verses, he published, Comment on Psa. ciii (Lond. 
1649, 8vo) : — Summa Logicce (1686, 8vo), published after 
his death : — and was one of the assistants in the publi- 
cation of the Polyglot. See Chalmers, Blog. Diet. s. v. ; 
IToefer, Xouv. Blog. Generale, s. v. ; Hook, Eccles. Blog. 
s. v. 

Sternhold, Thomas, an English poet and psalmo- 
dist, was born (according to Wood) in Hampshire, or 
as Ilolinshed says, at Southampton; but Atkins ( /list, 
of Gloucestershire ) affirms that he was born at Awre, 
twelve miles from Gloucester. He studied at Oxford, 
but not long enough to take any degree. The office of 
groom of the robes to Henry VIII was secured to him, 
and he was continued in the same office by Edward 
VI. lie died in 1549. He versitied tifty-one of the 
Psalms, which were first printed bv Edward Whitchurch, 
1519, with the title All such Psalms as Thomas Sterne- 
hold , late Groom of the Kinges Majestyes Rohes , did in 
his Lyfetyme Drawe into English Metre, lie was suc- 
ceeded in the translation by John Hopkins (fifty-eight 
psalms), William Whittingham (five psalms), Thomas 
Norton (twenty-seven psalms), Robert Wisdome (Psa. 
xxv), and others. The complete version was entitled 
The Whole Book of Psalms, Collected into English Metre 
by T. Sternhold, J. Hopkins , and others . etc. (printed in 
1562, by John Day). Certain Chapters of the Proverbs , 
etc., is ascribed to him, but the authenticity is doubt- 
ed. For further particulars as to editions, etc., see Chal- 
mers, Biog. Did. s. v. ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and Amer. 
Authors, s. v. See Psalmody. 

Sterope, in Grecian mythology, was — 1. A Pleiad, 
the wife or mother of (Enomaus (Apollod. iii, 10, 1) and 
daughter of Atlas (Pans, v, 10, 5). 

2. Daughter of Pleuron and Xantippe, and sister of 
Agenor and Leophontes (Apollod. i, 7, 7). 

3. Daughter of Cephetis of Tegca. Her father de- 
clined to join Hercules in the war against the Hippo- 
coontides, because he feared an invasion of the Argives 
during his absence. Hercules thereupon gave to Stcr- 
ope a brazen lock of Medusa’s hair, which he had him- 
self obtained from Minerva. This, displayed in the face 
of an advancing foe, would transform every warrior into 
stone. Cephcus was thus induced to join in a war in 
which he and his twenty sons lost their lives (Apollod. 
ii,7,3). 

4. A daughter of Acastus, whose career is interwoven 
with the history of Peleus (Apollod. iii, 13.3). 

5. A daughter of Porthaon, and mother of the Sirens 
(Apollod. i, 7, 10). 

Sterry, John, a Raptist minister, was horn in 
Providence, R. I., in 1766, and studied in Rrown Uni- 
versity, but did not take the full collegiate course. 
About 1790 he removed to Norwich, Gum., where he 
established himself as printer, author, and publisher. 
Mr, Sterry was converted soon after his removal to Nor- 
wich, and joined the Raptist Church there, and on Dee. 
25, 1800, he was ordained its minister. The Church he 
served was very poor, in no year paying him a salary 
exceeding $100, so that he continued his mechanical 


and literary pursuits, lie died in Norwich Nov. 5, 
1823. He published, with his brother Consider, The 
American Youth (1790, 8 vo): — Arithmetic for the Use 
of Schools (1795): — in conjunction with the Iicv.Wm. 
Northrop, Divine Songs: — and in conjunction with 
Epaphras Porter he edited and published The True Re- 
publican. a newspaper (June, 1804). See Sprague, d«- 
nals of the A mer . Pulpit, vi, 407. 

Stenco (in Latin Steuchus and Engnbinns) , A hosti- 
n’ o, a learned Italian, was born in 1496 at Gubbio (in 
Umbria), and admitted in 1513 into the congregation 
of the Canons of St. Saviour, where he left off his sur- 
name Guido. For a long time he gained a scanty live- 
lihood by teaching the Oriental languages, theology, 
and antiquities; but in 1525 he was sent to Venice and 
put in charge of a rich library formed in the convent 
of St. Anthony of Castello. He afterwards became 
prior of his order at Gubbio, and in 1538 was made bish- 
op of Chisamo, in Candia; but soon returned to Rome, 
where in 1542 he succeeded the celebrated Alessandro 
as prefect of the Vatican library. He there wrote 
many works on sacred antiquities and exegesis (for 
which see Iloefer, Xouv. Biog. Generale, s.v.), and final- 
ly died at Venice in 1549. 

Steudel, Johann Christian Friedrich, doctor 
and professor of theology at Tubingen, was born Oct. 
25, 1779, at Esslingen, in WUrtemberg. He was re- 
ceived into the gymnasium at Stuttgart when in his 
sixteenth year, and while there began the study of He- 
brew and laid the foundation for the Old-Test, studies 
of his later days. In 1797 he was admitted to the the- 
ological institution at Tubingen, where Storr’s tenden- 
cy was then represented by Flatt, Sitsskind, and others. 
He afterwards served two years as vicar at Obcressling- 
en, and then returned to Tubingen as tutor. Schnnr- 
rer’s lectures on the Arabic language now stimulated 
Steudel to prepare himself to teach Oriental languages, 
and he availed himself, in 1808, of the aid of the gov- 
ernment and of viscount Von Palm to undertake the 
study of Arabic and Persian at Paris under the direction 
of De Sacv, Langles, Chezv,etc. On his return in 1810 
he was, however, at first employed in the pulpit, being 
made deacon at Canstatt and Tubingen ; but an aca- 
demical career was opened for him by the opportunity 
of giving private tuition to backward students. In 
1815 he became a member of the theological faculty, 
though he retained his position in the ministry. In 
1822 he added the charge of the early service in the 
town church and an inspectorship in the seminary to 
his engagements, and in 1826 he became senior of the 
faculty and first inspector. 1 1 is lectures at first were 
confined to the books of the Rible, particularly of the 
Old Test.; after a time he included the Oriental lan- 
guages in his course; and from 1826 he delivered reg- 
ular lectures on dogmatics and apologetics, lie was 
likewise a diligent and fruitful writer, though not in the 
field of Old-Test, literature where, he was most at home. 
He preferred to write on systematic theology. A few 
academical essays, of which that of 1830, entitled Yete- 
risne Testam. IAbris Insit Xotin Manifesti ah Occnlfo Dis- 
tingnendi Xunnnis, is the most important, and several 
reviews and articles in RengeFs Archir, and in the 777- 
binger Zeitschr. fur 'Rheologic (founded by him in 1828), 
constitute all that he published in his own special line 
of work. His lectures on Old-Test, theology were pub- 
lished after his death by Oehler, in 1840 (Rcrlin). His 
interest in systematic theology probably grew out of 
the importance he attached to questions relating to the- 
ological principles. In 1814 he wrote Ueber die Halt - 
barkeit d. Glaubens an geschichtUche, hohere Offenhurung 
Gottes. It was a matter of conscience with him not to 
ignore any important theological scheme, but rather to 
test it by the rule of unalterable truth; and lie conse- 
quently fought his way from the beginning to the end 
of his career as a theologian. lie broke a lance with 
nearly every prominent theologian of his time in the 


1018 


STEVENS 


STEUDEL 


belief that controversy reveals the truth ; but he was 
nevertheless essentially a man of peace. He was till- 
able to mlvanee as rapidly as more recent thinkers, be- 
cause he believed that the new theology was not doing 
justice to many features of the older supranaturalism; 
but he fought* every new departure fairly and in its 
principles, so that lie secured the respect of (he better 
class among his opponents, c. g. Schleiermacher, in re- 
sponse to whom lie wrote one of his best treatises 
(Fiber dits lei allciniger A ne t kennung dts hist or. Chris- 
tos sich Jlir d. Cildnng d. Clou he ns ergebende Yerfahren 
[ 7775. Zeitschr. 1830]). He is generally regarded as 
the latest prominent representative of the older Tu- 
bingen school of which Storr was the head; but it is 
evident from bis writings that he occupied an inde- 
pendent relation to that school from the beginning, and 
tliat he hv no means ignored the progress of theologi- 
cal science. lie retained the one-sided idea of that 
school concerning religion and revelation which defines 
religion as an aggregation of “opinions,” etc., but he 
departed from the Storr method of demonstration, inas- 
much as he taught that what the Bible reveals is sim- 
ply a confirmation, completion, and rectification of man’s 
natural consciousness of the truth (comp, for Storr’s view, 
Storr’s Dogmatik , § 15, note f). Steudel was certainly 
intluenced to depart from the older supranatnralist view 
by both K. 11. Jacobi and Schleiermaclier. (On the whole 
subject, see his Glaubenslehre [1834]). In exegesis 
Steudel displayed the deficiencies of the Storr school; 
but it is certain that his hermeneutical theory was bet- 
ter than his exegctical practice. His works contain 
many sound arguments in support of the historico-gram- 
matieal method of interpretation as against Kanne, Ols- 
hausen, and Ilengstenberg (see Behandlung d. Sprache 
d. heil. S thrift ah tine Sprache d. Geistes [1822, etc.]). 
He clearly recognised a historical progression in reve- 
lation, and consequently different stages, and must be 
accorded the praise of having furnished valuable contri- 
butions towards the development of Biblical theology. 
(On this subject, comp, especially his articles entitled 
Cliche in d. alt testa merit l. Offenbarung, in the 7775. Zeit - 
schr. 1835, Nos. 1 and 2). Steudel also wrote on matters 
]>crtaining to the practical interests of the Church, e.g. 
ecclesiastical union, on which he published, in 181 \,Ueber 
Cel itponsrerein igung, in opposition to a proposed amal- 
gamation of the Protestant and Romish churches; in 
1X10, Beit rag zvr Kenntniss d. Geistes gercisser Vennitt- 
ler d. Friedens ; in 1822 he wrote against a proposed 
union of the Reformed and Lutheran churches of Wilr- 
t cm berg ( l T (ber d. I We in igung beider evangel. Kirch en ; 
comp, also Ceber Riicktritt zum Lntherthum, in the Tub. 
Zeit schr. 1831, iii, 125 sq.). lie had no confidence in 
the value of experiments within the field of the Church, 
and hence opposed their application (comp. Ueber Jieil- 
Viittrf fur d. evangel. Kirehe, in the 7' fib. Zeit schr. 1832, 
No. 1). His other writings were designed to promote in- 
terest for the educational institutions of his country, etc., 
and need not be mentioned here. So forceful a charac- 
ter as Steudel was not always favorably regarded by 
his superiors, and he was frequently made aware of the 
fact. But his principal troubles grew out of the hostil- 
ity of the new tendency, which was becoming all-pow- 
erful at Tubingen during his later days. The new 
school “could not pardon his inability to keep wholly 
separate the scientific and the edifying” (Baur, in Klfip- 
fol's Cesch.d. 77/5. I T uiversitiit , p. 1 17); and when he vent- 
ured, a few weeks after the appearance of the first vol- 
ume of Strauss’s {.then Jestt, to issue a brief rejoinder, 
in which be opposed to the confidence with which 
Strauss had pronounced sentence of death upon suprn- 
naturalism an equally confident testimony, “drawn from 
the roiiMeiousiiess of a believer,” to the vitality of su- 
prnnnturalLin, he was smitten with t lie full force of the 
anger of the enraged critic in the well-known tractate 
Herr hr. Sfendt f, ruler d. Selbsttii nsch u ugen d.verstiindi- 
ijm Supranaturalismus u riser er Tage, a masterpiece of 
depreciatory polemics. Steudel responded quietly in 


the Tiih. Zeitschr. 1837, ii, 1 10 sq., and with this effort 
closed his public career. lie was obliged by physical 
ailments to submit to repeated and painful surgical op- 
erations, and died Oet. 24, 1837. With regard to his 
life and character, see the memorial discourse by Hor- 
ner and the biographical sketch bv Hettinger, both pub- 
lished in the 7775. Zeitschr. for 1838, No. 1. The latter 
article^ontains also a list ol'Steudel’s writings. — Herzog, 
Real- Erie gkloj). s. v. 

Stevens, Benjamin, H.H., a Congregational 
minister, was born at Andover in 1720, graduated at 
Harvard College in 1740, and was ordained May 1, 1751. 
He was pastor iii Kitten', Me., where he labored until 
his death, May 18, 1701. He published a few occasion- 
al Sermons. See Sprague, Annals of the A mev. Pulpit, 
i, 484. 

Stevens, Dillon, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born at Hancock, Mass., April (i, 
1794. lie was converted in his twenty-fifth year, and 
in 1822 united with the New York Conference. When 
the Troy Conference was set apart he became one of its 
members, and continued to labor until 1846, when he 
became supernumerary. He settled in Gloversville, 
N. Y., where he continued to reside until his death. 
Jan. 10, 1861. He was a man of sound judgment and 
intellectual strength, well suited to educate the Church 
both in the doctrines of the Gospel and in the practical 
duties of Christian life. See Minutes of Annual Con- 
ferences, 1861, p. 91. 

Stevens, Isaac Collins, a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, was born in Fulton County, 
Ba., Feb. 15, 1833, and was educated at Cassville Sem- 
inary. He was converted in his eighteenth year; was 
licensed to preach Aug. 6, 1855, and in 1857 was received 
on trial in the Baltimore Conference. He remained 
with this conference until its division, when he became 
a member of the East Baltimore Conference, and so re- 
mained until the formation of the Central Pennsylva- 
nia Conference. He died Nov. 29, 1869. See Minutes 
of Annual Conferences , 1870, p. 54. 

Stevens, Jacob, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born at Epping, N. IL, in 1809. 
and was converted in early life. He joined the New 
Hampshire Conference in 1835, and labored actively 
until (in 1848) he took a superannuated relation. This 
relation was changed in 1868 to effective, and he was 
stationed at Fremont, retaining his home in Epping, 
where he died in 1869. See Minutes of Annual Con- 
ferences, 1869, p. 104. 

Stevens, Jedediah Dwight, a Congregational 
minister, was born at Hamilton, N. Y., March 25, 1798. 
His early life was spent on the farm. After receiving 
a preparatory education, he commenced the study of 
theology with the Rev. Samuel J. Mills. He was mis- 
sionary of the American Board of Commissioners for 
Foreign Missions to the Stockbridge Indians from 1829 
to 1835, and also to the Dakota Indians from 1835 to 
1839. He was ordained an evangelist at Cortlandville, 
N. Y., Oct. 5, 1837. From 1841 to 1844 he was acting 
pastor of the Church at Prairie du Chien, Wis. In 
June, 1844, he was installed pastor of the Plattevillc 
Church, Wis. He resigned this charge, and in 1846 
was an evangelist in Grant County, and in Lafayette 
County from 1847 to 1850; Greene County from 1850 to 
1851 ; was acting pastor at Elk horn one year; Lafay- 
ette from 1855 to 1859; Waterford from 1859 to 1862: 
Caldwell’s Prairie from 1862 to 1864; Owen, 111., from 
1861 to 1866; Wausau, Wis., in 1867, his last field of 
labor. He died at Beloit. March 29, 1877. (W. P. S.) 

Stevens, Joseph B., a Presbyterian minister, 
was born at Brookfield, Conn., Aug. 3, 1801. lie was 
educated at Bowdoin College, studied theology in Ban- 
gor, Me., was licensed by the Congregational Associa- 
tion of Maine, and labored as a home missionary for two 
years in the state at large, when he was ordained over 


STEVENS 


1019 


the Second Congregational Church, Falmouth. Me., in 
1826. In 1834 he removed to the South, to improve 
his health, and subsequently taught and preached at 
Brunswick, (la., for two years and a half ; at Darien 
two years; pastor of the Smyrna and Bethany churches, 
Newton County; supplied a church near Griffin one 
year, and Paehitta Church five years. He died May 9, 

1860. Mr. Stevens was a good scholar and an earnest, 
practical preacher. See Wilson, Presb. Hist, A Imanac, 

1861. p. 107. 

Stevens, Solomon, a Presbyterian minister, was 
horn at Cavendish, Vt., Sept. 5, 1795. He graduated at 
Middlebury College, Vt., in 1821 ; studied theology at 
Auburn, N. Y. ; was licensed and ordained by the Cayu- 
ga Presbytery about the year 1824. He labored for 
fifteen years in different places in Tompkins and Gen- 
esee counties, N. Y., where his labors were blessed with 
several revivals of religion. In 1840 he went to Ohio, 
spent some time in Cuyahoga and Huron counties, and 
was installed at Newton Falls, Trumbull Co., in 1843; 
in 1850 he removed to Michigan, labored in several 
places in that state, and was installed pastor of the 
Church in Somerset, Hillsdale Co.; in 1859 he returned 
to Ohio, and preached for his former charge at Newton 
Falls until his death, June 7, 1861. See Wilson, Presb. 
Hist . Almanac , 1862, p. 197. 

Stevens, Thomas, a Congregational minister, 
was born at Plainfield, Conn., in 1723. He was ordained 
over the Plainfield (Separate) Chureh in 1746. In 1755 
he went as chaplain to the army, contracted a disease, 
and returned to die at his father’s house, Nov. 15, 1755. 
He is reported to have been a clear and powerful preach- 
er. Little is recorded of his life. See Cong. Quarterly. 
1860, p. 376. 

Stevens, William (1), a lay theologian, was bom 
in the parish of St. Saviour, Sout hwark, England, March 
2, 1732. He was engaged in the hosiery business, but de- 
voted much of his time to study, obtaining an intimate 
knowledge of the French language, and also a consid- 
erable acquaintance with the Latin, Greek, and Hebrew. 
He was well versed in the writings of the Chureh fathers, 
and quite familiar with all the orthodox writers of mod- 
ern times. Such was the esteem in which he was held 
as a theologian that Dr. Douglass, bishop of Salisbury, 
said of him, “ Here is a man who, though not a bishop, 
yet would have been thought worthy of that character 
in the first and purest ages of the Christian Church.” 
lie died in London, Feb. 6, 1807. He wrote, An Essay 
on the Nature and Constitution of the Christian Church , 
wherein are set forth the Form of its Government , the 
Extent of its Powers , and the Limits of our Obedience 
(anonymous, 1773) : — Cursory Observations on an Ad- 
dress to the Clergy, etc., by Mr. Wollaston ; — Discourse 
on the English Constitution (1776) : — Strictures on a 
Sermon entitled The Principles of the Revolution Vindi- 
cated. by R. Watson (1776) : — The Revolution Vindicated, 
etc., an answer to the Rev. R. Watson’s accession sermon 
(1776): — A New and Faithful Translation of Letters 

from M. V A bbe de A Review of the Review of 

a New Preface to the Second Edition of M r. Jones's Life 
of Bishop Home. He edited the Works of Mr. Jones, 
with his life (12 vols. 8vo). The Memoirs of William 
Stevens, Esq., were printed for private distribution in 
1812 (8vo), and in 1815 for sale. See Chalmers, Biog. 
Diet. s. v. 

Stevens, William (2), a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, was born in Plymouth County, 
Mass., March 24, 1778. He was converted in bis twen- 
ty-second year, and in 1804 he was received on trial and 
appointed to Landaff Circuit in New Hampshire. In 
1806 he was received into fidl connection in the New 
England Conference. lie located in 1813, but in 1821 
he was readmitted by the Ohio Conference. In 1845 
he sustained a supernumerary relation, and became su- 
perannuated in 1846. lie died in Bridgewater, Beaver 


STEWARD 

Co., Pa., March 1, 1858. See Minutes of Annual Confer- 
ences, 1858, p. 1 14. 

Stevenson, Edward, D.D., a minister of the 
Methodist Episcopal Chureh, South, was born in Mason 
County, Ky., about 1797. He entered the Kentucky 
Conference in 1820, and remained in it till its division 
in 1846, when he connected himself with the Louisville 
Conference. He was a member of the celebrated Gen- 
eral Conference of 1814, and also a member of the con- 
vention which met in Louisville in 1845, and organized 
the Methodist Episcopal Church, South. In 1846 he 
was elected missionary secretary and assistant book- 
agent; to which latter office he was re-eleeted in 1850. 
In 1854 he was elected chief book-agent, and in 1858 
accepted the presidency of the Russelville Female Col- 
legiate Institute, which position he filled until the time 
of his death, July 6, 1864. See Minutes of A nnual Con- 
ferences of the M. E. Ch., South, 1864, p. 482. 

Stevenson, Joseph, a Presbyterian minister, 
was born near Harper’s Ferry, Mil., March 25, 1779. 
He graduated at Jefferson College, Canonsburg, Pa. ; 
studied theology privately ; was licensed by Washing- 
ton Presbytery Oet. 15, 1808; ordained by the same 
presbytery in June, 1809; and installed pastor of the 
Two Ridges and Forks of Wheeling churches in West 
Alexander, Pa., where he continued to preach for sev- 
enteen years, during which time his earnest missionary 
spirit led him to make several excursions into the des- 
titute West. In 1825 he asked for a dissolution of the 
pastoral relation, so that he might give his whole time 
to his new and more destitute field of labor. He fixed 
his home in Bellefontaine, Logan Co., (). In this and 
the adjoining counties he continued to labor for forty 
years, traversing for many years a missionary eircuit of 
many miles, with thirteen preaching stations, at several 
of which he subsequently formed churches. lie con- 
tinued pastor of the Church in Bellefontaine until in- 
creasing infirmities led him to retire from active duties, 
years before his death, which occurred at his home, Feb. 
24, 1865. Mr. Stevenson was a holy man. “Zeal char- 
acterized him, proved by mueh missionary work for the 
destitute of our own race and for the Indians, and by his 
active labor for Christ to the age of eightv-six.” See 
Wilson, Presb. llist. A Imanac , 1866, p. 171. (J. L. S.) 

Stevenson, Thomas, a Presbyterian minister, 
was born in Ireland in 1818, He was converted in his 
eighteenth year; studied in the high-school of the Rev. 
C. Allen, of Strabane, Ireland, in 1837-39; then emi- 
grated to Ameriea; graduated at Franklin College in 
September, 1842, and at the Western Theological Sem- 
inary, Allegheny, Pa., in 1845 ; was licensed by the Ohio 
Presbytery June 11, 1845; and was ordained as pastor 
of the Church in Montour, Pa., June 17, 1846. There he 
labored with great sueeess until January, 1854, when he 
became pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church, Spruce 
Creek Valley, Pa., where he continued to preach the pure 
Gospel until he became chaplain of the 6th Regiment or 
Pennsylvania Volunteers, lie continued in military 
life in the country’s cause, enduring many hardships 
and privations, till his death, Feb. 10, 1867. See Wil- 
son, Presb. Hist. . 1 Imanac, 1868, p. 148. (J. L. S.) 

Stevenson, William, a minister of the Method- 
ist Episcopal Chureh, South, was born in South Caro- 
lina, near a station called Ninety-six (on the then fron- 
tier), Oct. 4, 17r>8. He united with the Church June 1, 
1800, and joined the itinerant ministry in 1811, going 
to South Arkansas in 1813, and soon after to Louisiana. 
The last regular work he did was in Caddo Parish, 
holding at that time a supernumerary relation. At the 
close of that year he became superannuated, and held 
that relation until his death. March 5, 1857. See Min- 
utes of A nnual Conferences of the M. E. Church, South. 
j 1858.*p. 808. 

Steward p ; J, sar, usually rendered “ prince ;” hri- 
rpo7Tor, otKovupoc ), one who manages the affairs or 


STEWARD 


1020 


STEWART 


superintends the household of another, as Eliezer of 
Damascus did that of Abraham ((Jen. xv, 2). Great 
confidence was reposed in those who held such an office, 
and hence Paul describes Christian ministers as the 
steward* of God over his Church and family (Titus i, 7). 
Believer* also are described as stewards of God’s gilts 
and graces, to dispense the benefits of them to the world 
(I Pet. iv, 10). Our Lord frequently uses the respon- 
sibilities belonging to the office of a steward for the 
purjKi'e of illustrating bis reasoning. In the parable 
of the unjust steward, who defrauds his master bv col- 
lusion with the debtors (Luke xvi), the illustration is 
contined to the policy of the conduct pursued, and no 
inference can be drawn respecting its moral propriety. 
(t)n the proverbial dishonesty of modern Oriental wak- 
kils or agents of this kind, sec Thomson. Land and 
Jinok . i. 517 sq.) The exhortation which follows is 
merely advice to manage worldly goods with such lib- 
erality and generosity as will promote the cause of true 
piety. Christian charity, and enlightened benevolence, 
and not to exercise the rights of property too harshly. 
Sec the monographs on this passage cited by Danz, 
Worterb. s. v. " Lueas,” Nos. 76-93, 

STEWARD. one who manages the domestic concerns 
of a family, religious house, or episcopal estate. Called 
also Skxksciial (q. v.). 

STEWARD, a Church officer among the Methodists. 

1. Methodist Episcopal.— The number of stewards on 
each charge varies from three to nine. They are nom- 
inated by the preacher in charge, but the Quarterly 
Conference has the right of affirmation or rejection. 
They hold office for one year, subject to reappointment, 
and by virtue of their office are members of the Quar- 
terly Conference. They should be “ men of solid piety, 
who both know and love the Methodist doctrine anil 
discipline, and of good natural and acquired abilities to 
transact the temporal business.” Their duties are thus 
defined: ‘*To take an exact account of all the money 
or other provision collected for t lie support of preachers 
. . . and apply the same as the Discipline directs; to 
make an accurate return of every expenditure of money, 
whether to the preachers, the sick, or the poor; to seek 
the needy and distressed in order to relieve and comfort 
them; to inform the preachers of any sick or disorderly 
persons; to tell the preachers what they think wrong 
in them; to attend the quarterly meetings, and the 
leaders’ and stewards’ meetings; to give advice, if asked, 
in planning the circuit; to attend committees for the 
application of money to churches; to give counsel in 
matters of arbitration; to provide elements for the 
Lord’s supper; to write circular letters to the societies 
in the circuit to he more liberal, if need be; as also to 
let them know, when occasion requires, the state of the 
temporal concerns at the last quarterly meeting.” One 
of them is the district steward, who represents his indi- 
vidual (’hurcli in the district stewards’ meeting; an- 
other the recording steward, who makes and preserves 
the records of the Church. The stewards arc amenable 
to the Quarterly Conference, which has power to dismiss 
or change them. In the division of the labor between 
steward* and trustees, the former attend to all the cur- 
rent expenses of the Church for ministerial and benev- 
olent purposes; the hitter to all the financial interests con- 
nected with the Church property. They have no right 
to incur any debt which is binding on the property of the 
(’hurch ; and hence it is their duty to complete their 
collections, and to meet their obligations annually. 

*2. Eny/ish I Vishyan. In this connection tile office 
of steward embraces four departments, viz. circuit, svei - 
ity, pttnr , rind chapel stewards. They are usually ap- 
pointi d at the 1 lecember quarterly meeting ; the society 
and poor stewards at the first leaders’ meeting in Janu- 
ary. 1 heir term of office ceases at the end of the year; 
bin i hey arc eligible for re-election for three years suc- 
ce*nvi Iv. 

(I.) The duties of the circuit stewards arc : 1. To ex- 


amine at each quarterly meeting the books of the so- 
ciety stewards, and receive moneys raised for support 
of the ministry. 2. To pay each circuit preacher the 
allowance due him. 3. To meet all demands for house- 
rent, taxes, etc., and provide suitable furnished homes 
for the preachers. 4. To keep the accounts of the cir- 
cuit; to transmit each quarter to the district treasurer 
of the Children’s Fund whatever moneys may be due 
from the circuit to that fund, or to receive from him 
what the circuit is entitled to. 5. To attend, during 
the transaction of monetary business, the sittings of 
both the annual and financial district meetings. G. To 
act as the official channel through which the communi- 
cations from the circuit are transmitted to the Confer- 
ence. 7. To audit, in conjunction with the superin- 
tendent minister, the accounts of all trust -estates in the 
circuit that are settled on the provisions of the Model 
Deed. 8. To take the initiative in the invitation of 
ministers for the ensuing year. 

(2.) Unties of the Society Steward . — 1. With the min- 
isters and leaders, to promote the spiritual and tempo- 
ral interests of the societies. 2. To attend the leaders’ 
and quarterly meetings, and receive and pay over mon- 
eys for support of ministers. 3. To provide for the 
taking of collections. 4. To attend to the supply of 
the pulpit, and prepare or sign notices intended lor an- 
nouncement from the pulpit; to prepare for the sacra- 
ment of baptism, and, in ease there is no poor-steward, 
the Lord’s supper and love-feasts. 5. To provide, when 
necessary, a suitable home for the preacher who offici- 
ates. 

(3.) Duties of the Poor-Stewards. — 1. To attend the 
leaders’ meetings, and pay out, as sanctioned by them, 
the poor-moneys. 2. To furnish the minister with the 
names of sick and poor members. 3. To provide for the 
Lord’s supper aud for love-feasts. 4. To keep an accu- 
rate account of all receipts and disbursements in refer- 
ence to the fund. 

(4.) Chapel Stewards are appointed by the trustees, 
in conjunction with the superintendent of the circuit, 
and on them devolves the general oversight of the 
chapel and furniture, its cleaning, warming, lighting, 
etc.; to direct the movements of the sexton and pay 
his salary, and attend meetings of the trustees. See 
Discipline of the M. E. Church ; Simpson, Cyclop, of 
Methodism , s. v. 

Stewart, Alexander, a minister of the Method- 
ist Episcopal Church, South, was born in Norfolk Coun- 
ty, Ya., in April, 1810. At the age of sixteen he joined 
the Church, and was licensed to preach in 1836. He 
was admitted into the Virginia Conference in 1839; 
was ordained deacon in January, 1841, and elder in No- 
vember, 1842. lie travelled from 1839 to 1854, when 
lie became supernumerary, living in Prince George 
County, Va., till January, 1866, when he became stew- 
ard of the Wesleyan Female College, Mitrfreeshorough, 
X. C, In 18G7 lie was superannuated, but continued to 
hold the above position until his death, March 4, 1872. 
See Minutes of Annual Conferences of the M. E. Church , 
South, 1872, p. 654. 

Stewart, Archibald Sinclair, a Presbyterian 
minister, was horn at Palatine, N. Y., May 3, 1823. At 
the age of fifteen he united with the Church at Johns- 
town, N. V, In the fall of 18J0 he removed with his 
parents to Wisconsin, and received his preparation for 
college at the Waukesha Academy. 11c entered Prince- 
ton College, from which he graduated in 1852. After 
graduation, he taught school at Nvaek, on the Hudson, 
about, a year aud a half, and then entered Princeton 
Theological Seminary, and graduated therefrom in 185G. 
On Oct. 11 of the same year he was licensed to preach 
by tlie Presbytery of Milwaukee, and in the succeeding 
October was ordained an evangelist. Receiving a com- 
mission from the Board of Domestic Missions, he com- 
menced his labors at Port Washington, where he was 
successful in gathering and organizing a Church, and 


STEWART 


1021 


STEWART 


others at Ulva and Grafton, in the bounds of the Pres- 
bytery of Milwaukee, lie closed bis labors in that field 
in 1861, returned to Nvack, joined the New York Pres- 
bytery, and was installed pastor of the Church at Wald- 
burg. After a service of ten years he resigned, and 
removed to Pennsylvania. In 1872 he was installed 
pastor of the Langeliff Church by the Presbytery of 
Lackawanna. Here he spent the last four years of his 
life among a people devotedly attached to him. His 
last sermon — which he finished writing late on Satur- 
day night, but which he was not permitted to preach — 
was from the words of the Lord, “It is finished.” He 
died Jan. 1, 1876, in great peace and triumph. lie was 
a man of great humility and earnest piety, and all who 
knew him loved him. (W. P. S.) 

Stewart, Dugald, an eminent philosopher and 
writer, was born in Edinburgh in 1753, and was the son 
of the professor of mathematics, lie was educated at 
the high-school and university of his native city, and 
attended the lectures of Dr. Reid, of Glasgow. From 
Glasgow he was recalled, in his nineteenth year, to as- 
sist his father; on whose decease, in 1785, he succeeded 
to the professorship. He, however, exchanged it for 
the chair of moral philosophy, which he had tilled in 
1778, during the absence of Dr. Ferguson in America. 
In 1780 he began to receive pupils into his house, and 
many young noblemen and gentlemen who afterwards 
became celebrated imbibed tbeir knowledge under his 
roof. It was not till 1792 that he came forward as an 
author. He then published the first volume of the Phi- 
losophy of the Human Mind. He died June 11, 1828, 
after having long enjoyed the reputation of being one 
of the most amiable of men, and one of the ablest of 
modern philosophical writers. As a writer of the Eng- 
lish langnage; as a public speaker; as an original, a 
profound, and a cautious thinker; as an expounder of 
truth; as an instructor of youth; as an elegant scholar; 
as an accomplished gentleman; in the exemplary dis- 
charge of the social duties; in uncompromising consist- 
ency and rectitude of principle; in unbending indepen- 
dence; in the warmth and tenderness of his domestic 
affections; in sincere and unostentatious piety; in the 
purity and innocence of his life — few have excelled 
him; and, take him for all in all, it will be difficult to 
find a man who, to so many of the perfections, has added 
so few of the imperfections, of human nature. Stewart’s 
publications are as follows: Elements of the Philosophy 
of the Human Mind (vol. i, 1792; vol. ii, 1814, Edinb. 
and Loud. 4to) : — Outlines of Moral Philosophy (Edinb. 
1793, 8vo) : — Life and Writings of 1 Vm. Robertson , D.l). 
(1801, 8vo) : — Life and Writwys of Thomas Reid, D.l). 
(ibid. 1803, 8vo): — Philosophical Essays (1810, 4to) : — 
Philosophy of the Active and Moral Powers of Man 
(ibid. 1828, 2 vols. 8vo). Most of his works have been 
translated into other languages, and passed through 
several editions. For a fuller account of them, see Al- 
libone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. A uthors , s. v. 

Stewart, Ephraim C., a minister of the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church, was born in Tuscarora Valley, 
Juniata Co., Pa., Jan. 17, 1833. He studied law and 
was admitted to practice, but in 1870 he commenced 
teaching in the Soldiers’ Orphan School, Cassville, Pa. 
In 1871 he united with the Church, and was soon after 
licensed to preach. lie was admitted into the Central 
PennsvlvaniaConference in 1872, but after a few months 
was attacked bv consumption, and died at his parents’ 
home, March 8, 1873. See Minutes of A nnual Confer- 
ences , 1874, p. 89. 

Stewart, Franklin, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was born in Wayne County, 
Ga., Oct. 19, 1824. II is conversion took place June 19, 
1844, and he was licensed to preach Oct. 25, 1815. In 
1846 he was received on trial into the Florida Conference, 
and in 1853 was appointed presiding elder in St. Mary’s 
District. He died July 8, 1855. See Minutes of A nnual 
Conferences of the M. E. Church , South , 1856, p. 637. 


Stewart, George, an Associate Reformed minis- 
ter, was born at Greeneastle, Pa., in 1782, and graduated 
from Dickinson College in 1805. In November of that 
year he became a member of the first class that entered 
the Associate Reformed 'rheological Seminary in New 
York, under the care of Dr. John M. Mason. In June, 
1809, he was licensed to preach by the Presbytery of 
New York, and in April, 1810, was settled as pastor in 
Illoomingburgh, Sullivan Co., in that state. lie re- 
tained this relation till the close of his life, Sept. 20, 
1818. For several years he was t lie principal teacher 
of an academy in Illoomingburgh. Mr. Stewart had 
an excellent reputation as a preacher, his discourses be- 
ing of a deeply evangelical tone, thoroughly logical in 
their construction, simple and chaste in style, and every 
way fitted to render intelligible and impressive the 
mind of the Spirit. Sec Sprague, Annals of the A mer. 
Pulpit , ix, 135. 

Stewart, Henry Greene, a llaptist minister, 
was born at Clarendon, Vt., April 12, 1812, and was a 
graduate of Brown University in the class of 1839. He 
spent two years in theological study at the Newton In- 
stitution, and then was ordained pastor of the Baptist 
Church at Cumberland Hill, R. I., where he remained 
nine years (1841-50). After having been pastor of the 
Baptist Church in Seekouk, Mass., two years, he entered 
the service of the American and Foreign Bible Society, 
and was one of its agents for eight years (1852-60). lie 
was pastor of the Warwick, R. I., Church two years, 
and then, for two years, was an agent of the Freedinen’s 
Bureau; for three years, the missionary of the Rhode 
Island State Convention ; and for one year Indian agent 
in the employ of the United States government, lie 
died in Nevada, July 27, 1871. (J. C. S.) 

Stewart, Isaac Ingersoll, a minister of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church, was born near Absecom, 
N. J., Aug. 4, 1806. When twelve years of age he re- 
moved to Illinois, and three years later joined the 
Church. lie was licensed to preach in 1836, and in the 
same year entered the Illinois Conference. In 1857 he 
took a supernumerary relation; in 1858 he became ef- 
fective; in 1862 supernumerary. In 1863 he was ap- 
pointed chaplain to the United States Hospital, Keo- 
kuk, la., where he died, Aug. 15, 1864. See Minutes of 
Annual Conferences , 1864, p. 178. 

Stewart, John (1), the apostle to the Wyandot*, 
was a mulatto, with a mixture of Indian blood, and was 
born of free parents in Virginia. While yet a youth he 
removed to Ohio, where he was converted, and joined 
the Methodist Church. In 1814 he felt it to be his 
duty to preach, and to journey towards the North-west 
with that object in view. Acting upon this impression, 
he travelled until lie came to the Wyandot Reservation 
at Upper Sandusky. Here he labored with considera- 
ble success, and in February, 1817, the revival broke out 
afresh. Stewart continued to work among them until 
the Wyandot nation became Christianized. In 1819 
the Ohio Conference took charge of the mission, and 
Stewart labored with the white preachers till his death, 
in 1860. See Zion's Herald, Jan. 16, 1861. 

Stewart, John (2), a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Sussex County, N. J., in 
1795, went to Ohio in 1803, and joined the Church in 
1815. He was received on trial in the Ohio Conference 
in 1817, ami worked effectively within its hounds for 
forty years. lie retired in 1858, and spent (he remain- 
der of his life in Illinois among his children. He died 
March 10, 1876. Sec Minutes of Annual Conferences, 
1876, p. 132. 

Stewart, Kenian Spencer, a minister of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church, South, was born in Craven 
County, N. C., June 9, 1848, and joined the Church in 
1866. ’ He received his license to preach in 1873, and 
was the same year admitted to the Memphis Conference, 
but was immediately transferred to the St. Louis Con- 


STEWAliT 


1022 


STICK 


ferenco, II is health was, however, permanently im- 
paired, and he died at the residence of his father, 
liulherford Station, Gibson Co., Tenn., Alii'. 3, 1875. 
See Minutes of Annual Conferences of the M. E. Church, 
South, 1875, p. 232. 

Stewart, Thomas G., a Methodist Episcopal 
minister, was horn in New Jersey in 1790, received on 
trial in the Philadelphia Conference in 1830, and Idled 
the following appointments: in 1830, Pemberton Cir- 
cnit ; in 1831, Her gen Neck Mission; in 1832-33, Free- 
hold Circuit; in 1834-35, Tnckerton; in 1830, Cross- 
wicks; in 1837-38, New Egypt; in 1830-40, Cumber- 
land: in 1841-42, Salem: in 1843-44, Sweedsborough ; 
in 1845-40, Moorestown. lie died Jan. 24, J848. In 
bis ministerial work be was persevering, bold, and firm, 
and distinguished for a noble ambition of winning souls. 
See Minutes of Annual Conferences, iv, 217. 

Sthenelaiis, a I >ardan warrior in the siege of Troy, 
lie was the son of Itluemenes, and was slain by Patro- 
clus (Homer, II. xvi, 580). 

Stlien&l£, the name of two persons in Grecian 
mythology — (1) a daughter of Danaus (Apollod. ii, 1, 
5) ; (2) a daughter of Acastus, who became the wife of 
Memvtius, and by him (he mother of the heroic Patro- 
clus (ibid, iii, 12. 8). 

Sthen&lus, a name which occurs repeatedly in 
Grecian mythology. 1. A son of Capaneus and Evadne, 
one of the Epigoni, and a famous hero. He partici- 
pated in the Trojan war (Apollod. iii, 7, 2; Homer, II. 
ii, 504). 2. The father of Cometes and lover of vEgia- 

lia, the beautiful wife of Diomede, lie overcame the 
chastity of the otherwise virtuous woman by the aid of 
Venus herself, anil eventually expelled the hero from 
his kingdom (Apollod. i.80; Ovid. Ibis, 350; Homer, II. 
v. 412 sq.). 3. A son of Perseus and Andromeda, who 

became the father of Eiirvstheiis, the deadly foe of Her- 
cules. He was slain by 1 Ivlins, the son of Hercules 
(llomer, II. xix, 1IG; Apollod. i i, 4, 5, etc.; Hvgin. Fab. 
214). 4. A son of Actor and companion of Hercules in 

his expedition against the Amazons (Apollon. Pliod. ii, 
01 1). 5. A son of Androgeos and grandson of Minos, 

who with his brother A 1 cams was taken away from 
Paros by Hercules, in punishment for the hostile sur- 
prise in which his followers suffered harm at the hands 
of the sons of Minos (Apollod. ii, 5, 0, etc.). 

Sthenias, a surname of the Grecian Minerva at 
Trivzene. 

Sthenius, a surname of Zeus, under which he had 
an altar in a rock near Ilermione, and under which 
.Egons concealed the sword by which be intended to 
recognise his son Theseus (Pansan. ii, 32, 7 ; 34, G). 

Stheno, one of the Phoreides or Gorgons in Grecian 
mythology, a sister to Medusa. 

Sthenoboea, also called Axtka, a personage in 
Grecian mythology represented as the wife of the Ar- 
give king Prietos, and the daughter of the Lycian king 
lobales. She fell in love with Ucllerophon, who re- 
jected her advances, upon which she accused him to 
her husband of having made attempts upon her virtue, 
and caused him to be sent to lobates, where be achieved 
the celebrated victories in which t lie legend associates 
him with the wingeil-hnrse Pegasus. Hearing of his 
success, Sllieuolxea hanged herself ( Apollod. iii, 3, 1 sq. ; 
Pindar, Isfhm. vii, fid sq. ; Homer, II. vi, 1 I I sq., etc.). 
See Ant lion, ('lass. Dirt. H. V. “Sihenohiea” and “ Helle- 
rophoti \ ollmer, Worterb. d. Mi/thol. s. v, 

Sticharlon (Sri^d/Mor), a Greek term denoting a 
anrpliee or while garment used in divine service, which 
corresponds to the tunica alba (or alba simply) of the 
Western Church. Sec At.it. 

Stichius, a lender of the Athenians in the war 
against Troy, who was slain hv Hector (Homer, II. xiii, 
5! I ; xv, 32'J). 


Stichologein (Nn\'oXoyf7r), a Greek term sig- 
nifying “to chant the psalms verse by verse.” See 
Chant. 

Stichometry (measurement by orixoi, or lines), a 
practice early resorted to in MSS. of the New Test, in 
order to remedy the inconvenience of the continuous 
method of writing then employed in the absence of in- 
terpnnetion. About the year 4t>2, Enthalius, a deaeon at 
Alexandria, divided the text of the Pauline epistles into 
stichoi containing as many words as were to he read un- 
in terruptedlv. We know that the Gospels, too, were so 
separated, but we are unable to discover whether Eutha- 
lius himself arranged them in that manner. This mode 
of writing has survived in several MSS., such as the 
Codices Cantabrigiensis, Claromontanns, etc. This 
mode of division, however, was not a regular, universal 
system, but was adopted in some MSS., perhaps the ma- 
jority. in different places. The following is a specimen 
from the Codex Coislinianus (H) at Titus ii, 3: 

II PEZB VTA I N 1 1 <t> A A I OY2EI.N A t 
ZEMNOY2 
ZQ4PONAI 

YriAliNONTAITHntSTEI 

THATAHH 

nPESBYTIAASnSAYTOS 
ENKATASTHMATt lEPOrtPEttEIZ 
MHAlABOAOVZ 

MHOINQnOAAnAEAOYAOMENAZ 
K AAOAlAAZK AAOYZ. 

The entire number of stichoi is usually given at the end 
of each book; hut it iloes not necessarily follow that 
every MS. having an enumeration of stichoi at the end 
was actually divided in that manner when first written. 
They were sometimes very short, as in the Codex Lau- 
densis (E), where each line generally contains but one 
word. The pi)para, which are also enumerated at the 
end of MSS. or books, may be the same as the orixoi. 
Hug states ( Einleitung . i, 219, 4th ed.) that, so far as 
known, the pij par a are found only in TNI SS. containing 
the Gospels. If, therefore, a different person from Eutha- 
li us divided the Gospels, he may readily have given the 
divisions a different name from that applied to the Acts 
and Epistles. In order to save the space necessarily 
lost in stichometry, a point was afterwards put for the 
end of each stichos , ami the text was written continu- 
ously as at first. This is observable in Codex Cvprius 
(K), according to Hug, yet the points in this MS. may 
be its interpunction-marks without any reference to the 
stichoi , especially as thej r are similar to the interpunc- 
tion of the Codex Hoernerianns (Hnpfeld, in the Stud . 
u. Frit. 1837, p. 859); or a large letter was placed at 
the beginning of a stichos, as in the Codex Hoernerianus, 
where, however, there is also a corrupt and absurd in- 
terpunction. — Davidson, I lib. Crit. ii, 14 sq. See Man- 
uscripts. 

Stichthron (Sri'x^/oop), a Greek term for a short 
hymn or verse. 

Stick Q*?, vts, a piece of wood, for fuel, Numb, xv, 
32; 1 Kings xvii, 10; 2 Kings vi, G; Lam. iv,8; <ppvya - 
pop, a tu'iff, Acts xxviii, 3). 'Flic use of billets or staves 
of wood for writing upon, as illustrated in Ezek. xxxvii, 
1G-20, is a frequent practice with primitive nations. 
This, indeed, is not the first instance of the practice in 
Scripture; for, so early as the time of Moses, we find a 
parallel example of writing upon rods (Numb, xvii, 6). 
'flie custom existed among the early Greeks; as we are 
informed that the laws of Solon, preserved at Athens, 
were inscribed on billets of wood called armies. The 
custom has also existed in various applications in Eng- 
land and other Northern countries. The ancient Eritons 
used to cut their alphabet with a knife upon a stick, 
which, thus inscribed, was called Coelbren y JJeirdd, 
“the billet of signs of the hards,” or the Harilic alpha- 
bet. And not only were the alphabets such, but com- 
positions and memorials were registered in the same 
manner. These slicks were commonly squared, but 
sometimes were three-sided, and consequently a single 


STIEFEL 


1023 


STIEFEL 


stick would contain either three or four lines. The ! 
squares were used lor general subjects and for stanzas 
of four lines in poetry; the trilateral ones being adapt- 
ed to triads and to a peculiar kind of ancient metre 
called Triban , or triplet, and Englyn - Mihcyr, or the 
warrior’s verse. Several sticks with writing upon 
them were united together in a kind of frame or ta- 
ble, in the manner of a book. This was called Peithy- 
nen , or Elucidatory and was so constructed that each 
stick might be turned for the facility of reading, the 
end of eaeh running out alternately on both sides. A 
continuation, or different application, of the same prac- 
tice was offered by the Runic cloy (a corruption of log') 


i 

m 

ANNH'O 0x1*1 NV NVNN 1 

H> >Jt>AIU ANfN) 

<rnkixjvi> a haximom 

> Ivj X 1 > PYVA H‘4l>y'10A>AF[n 

__ xUi VA V </ n/xj IKIA> Ol MOK. 1 


^OlAx) H AVxlKYM iC't'HIX i 

M rp 0 W 1 Y 'N t> 1 0 <, A M ' I 1 

NAV'H' <AM/NVI m>x/4+ t 

■■ ^lj 


Early British Stick-book. 

almanacs, the use of which has been preserved to a com- 
paratively reeent period, being described by Dr. Plot in 
his History of Staffordshire (1686) as still in common 
use in that county; some, of large size, being usually 
hung up at one side of the mantel-tree of the chimney, 
while others were smaller and carried in the pocket. 
Other examples of the use of notched or marked sticks 
for the purpose of records are the Peine Pole , still or 
lately used in the island of Portland for collecting the 
yearly rent paid to the sovereign as lord of the manse, 
and the Exchequer Tally , whieh still gives name to the 
offiee of certain functionaries in England known as the 
" tellers” ( talliers ) of the exchequer. — Kitto, Piet. Bible , 
note ad loc. See Rod; Staff; Walk. 

Stiefel (or Stieffel), Esaias, the head of a mys- 
tical sect which engaged much attention at the begin- 
ning of the 17th century, has already been partly treat- 
ed of in this Cyclopaedia in the art. Metii, Ezeciiiel 
(q. v.). He was a merchant of Langensalza, in Thurin- 
gia, who was led away, through self-conceit and a fond- 
ness for curious speculations, into a fanatical mysticism 
which, in connection with Meth, his nephew, he endeav- 
ored to propagate. His followers soon became numer- 
ous among his own kindred and towns-people, and then 
in wider eireles. lie was repeatedly cited before tribu- 
nals, and remonstrated with in the hope of a peaceful 
settlement of the troubles he occasioned; and he fre- 
quently renounced his errors, but as constantly return- 
ed to them again. He eventually died in the faith, 
however, at Erfurt, Aug. 12, 1627. About a century later 
his memory was revived by Christian Thomasius, in the 
third part of his Hist, der Weidieit u. Thorheit (1694), 
and by Gottfried Arnold, in his Kirchen- n. Ketzer- Histo- 
ric (1700), iv, 1-49. The over-tolerant spirit in which 
these authors had discussed Stic lei’s heterodoxy occa- 
sioned a critique of Arnold’s book by pastor Uthe, of Lan- 
gensalza (. Anmerkung iiber A mold's Erzahluny [1714]). 
Stiefel has, however, been almost entirely dropped out 
of sight by the literature of to-day. The mysticism of 
Stiefel was carried beyond all proper limits by his fond- 
ness for paradox; and his worst errors of statement 
grew out of his perversions of ordinary language, lie 
called himself Christ, and declared himself to be Christ 
revealed anew, without intending to positively identify 
himself with Christ. He also laid claim to the posses- 
sion of divine attributes, for whieh he was rebuked by 
no less a personage than Jaeob Bblime (sec Wullen. 
Blii then aus J. Bohmc's Mystik [Stuttg. and Tub. 1838], 
p. 31, 89 ; also Kernhafter J uszug aus alien Schriften ./. 
Baht tie's [Amst. 1718, 4to], p. 923 sq.) ; though upon 


other matters Bblime sympathized with Stiefel and 
excused his enthusiastic rantings (see Apolog. Stieff.). 
Comp., in addition to works already referred to, the ac- 
cusation against Stiefel entitled Abyssus-Satano Styffe- 
liantt. and Herzog, Peal- Ency Hop. s. v. 

Stiefel (also Stifkl, Stieffel, and Styfel), Mi- 
chael, an arithmetician, Milleiiarian, and coadjutor of 
Luther, was born April 19, 1486, at Esslingen, and be- 
came a monk in the Augustine convent of that town. 
In 1520 he went to Wittenberg, and was promoted to 
the degree of master and made preacher to count Mans- 
feld. While there lie composed a hymn whieh reveals 
his intimate sympathy with the Reformatory spirit 
(Waekernagel, Das deutsche Kirchenlied , p. 676 sq.). In 
June, 1525, Luther recommended him to George of Tol- 
leth, in Upper Austria, as a “pious, learned, well-be- 
haved, and industrious person” (De Wette, Briefe , ii, 
677). A fine treatment of 1‘salm x by him excited a 
persecution against the evangelicals; and Stiefel was 
obliged to leave Austria in 1526 or 1527 and return to 
Wittenberg. Luther thereupon procured for him the 
parish of Loehau (October, 1528), and married him to 
the widow of the late pastor (De Wette, at sup. p. 394, 
405). Soon afterwards (in 1532) Stiefel published a 
treatise on the numbers in Daniel, entitled Ein Pechen- 
biichlein vom End Christ i, in whieh he fixed the last day 
and hour to be Oct. 19, 1533, at 8 o’clock in the morn- 
ing (see De Wette, iv, 462), with the result that the 
peasants negleeted their labors and lost their harvests, 
but sued for damages when the prediction was not ful- 
filled. Stiefel was accordingly compelled to abandon 
his post; but received assistance in money, etc., from 
the eleetor, who also induced Luther to receive the mis- 
guided man, with his family, under his own roof for the 
purpose of imparting to him further instruction. In 
1535 Stiefel was again a pastor, probably at Iloltzendorff, 
near Wittenberg; and while there he published his 
A rithmetica Integra, with preface by Melanethon ( Corp . 
Ref. v, 6). In 1545 he issued an arithmetic in German ; 
in 1546, the Rechenbuch von der welschen it. deutschen 
Practik. The battle of MUhlbach involved the de- 
struction of his village; and after a sojourn at Frank- 
fort-on-the-Oder he settled in the pastorate at Haber- 
stro, near lvbnigsberg, Prussia, in 1552. In 1553 he 
published the Cours (algebra) Christoph Rudolph's . He 
was also steadily engaged on the computation of the 
numbers in Daniel and the Apocalypse, and became the 
zealous opponent of Andreas Osiamler. Soon afterwards 
he was pastor at Briick, and in that character attended 
the convention of Coswig in 1557 (Salig, Gesch.d. A ttgsb. 
Coif, iii, 242); and in 1558 he was received into the 
philosophical faculty at Jena as teacher of arithmetic, a 
position he had temporarily filled ten years earlier. 
Here he was assailed by the Flaciamsts, but prevailed 
against them. lie died, after having been made deacon 
of the town Church, April 19, 1567. The scanty infor- 
mation to be obtained respecting this remarkable, and ill 
many respects peculiar, theologian shows him to have 
been possessed of a lively fancy and of extraordinary 
ability in mathematics. It was because of these qualifi- 
cations that lie went astray on the chiliastic question, 
lie apprehended t he Bible poetically, and believed that 
his mathematical acquirements afforded the means for an 
exact computation of its numbers. It is to be observed, 
moreover, that he was no pessimist. He regarded the 
Reformation as being simply the beautiful dawning of 
the day of the Lord, the breaking of a day of salvation, 
and Luther as the angel of revelation with the everlast- 
ing Gospel (Rev. xiv) ; and he wrote against “ Dr. Mur- 
ner’s false and invented hymn respecting the destruc- 
tion of the Christian faith.” Competent judges regard 
Stiefel as one of the greatest arithmeticians of his time. 
Unlike most scholars of that class, he regarded arithme- 
tic as being not simply the art of reckoning, but also 
the science of numbers. His ingenious comparison of 
arithmetical and geometrical progressions might easily 
have led to the discovery of the logarithm. As an al- 


ST IK! I 


] 02-1 


STIER 


gebrnisl be on the shoulders of Christoph Rudolph, 

< 111(1 rendered meritorious service in extending t lie area 
of (he study of algebra in Germany.— Herzog, lital-Kn- 
cyklop. s. v. 

Stier, Krnot.F F\v.\u>, an eminent German com- 
mentator, was born at Fraustadt, .March 17, 1800. He 
received a very inadequate preparatory training at the 
gymnasium of Neustettin, in Pomerania. In his six- 
teenth year he matriculated at Berlin with the inten- 
tion of studying law. lie soon, however, tired of that 
pursuit, mid. after overcoming the reluctance of his fa- 
ther, an inspector of taxes at Fraustadt, he had himself 
enrolled among the students of theology in the winter 
term of 1Mb. The principal inspiration of his being, 
nevertheless, was not theology, but poetry and an en- 
thusiasm for liberty, lie exulted when permitted for 
the first time to enjoy the privileges of Berlin, and 
he spent entire days in roaming through fields and for- 
ests. alleging in defence of his conduct that to spend 
such days behind the study table evinced ingratitude 
towards the Giver of the breath of spring and the sun 
of summer. He also entered into correspondence with 
Jean Paul, and made that romantic author his model. 
Ks*ays and pamphlets flowed from his pen. all giving 
evidence of a bold and sprightly, hut also of an expect- 
ant and yearning spirit, llis Krokodileier , Trdume 
und March?!*) and numerous attempts at poetry, belong 
to this period. In 1818 he removed to Halle, and at 
once entered into the 1-iurscheMehaj't, becoming its head 
on Oct. ’27 : but the IJurschenschaJ't being dissolved in 
February, 1819, lie left Halle, and, after a brief sojourn 
at home, returned to Berlin. During the interval, he 
bad experienced a thorough conversion, and Christ had 
come to be the all-absorbing object of his life. His 
iniud had been profoundly agitated by the death of a 
vonng girl belonging to the family, whom he fervently 
loved, and the event turned all the ardor of his passion- 
ate nature from (esthetics and nationality into the chan- 
nel of religion. Having returned to Berlin, Stier came 
under the influence of an ascetical coterie, which de- 
cided him to break with all his earlier literary career 
and to commit not only his plans for further labors, but 
even his copies of the German classics, to the fire. He 
gave himself wholly to the study of theology, but in a 
spirit which permitted him to depreciate his professors, 
e. g. Xoamlcr and Lficke, as not sufficiently devoted, and 
as exalting themselves above the apostles whom they 
expounded. A copy of Von Meyer’s exposition of the 
Bible, given him by Tholnck for the purpose of encour- 
aging a persistent study of the Scriptures, caused a de- 
cided change in his views, however, and delivered him 
from his supercilious tendencies. April 2, 1821. Stier 
entered the I’ Teachers’ Seminary at Wittenberg, where 
Xitzsch, Schlenssiicr and Heubner were in the facility, 
and Krummarlier, Tholnck, and Hot hi* among the stu- 
dents. Heubner, especially, contributed greatly towards 
tin* clarifying of Stier’s theology and to the settling of 
his faith, lie became indefatigable in Bible study, 
noting iu a quarto Bible of several volumes everything 
that could iu any way assist in the exposition, especial- 
ly a list of selected parallel passages: and when the 
quarto proved inadequate, he substituted for it a folio 
which became a perfect treasure-house of Biblical learn- 
ing. Alter having completed hi.s studies, he taught 
n year in the Teachers’ Seminary at Karalene, and then 
followed a call iu 1*21 to the .Mission Institute at Basle. 
Kxn«*Mve application exhausted his strength and com- 
pelled him, after lour years, to retire. He went to Wit- 
tenberg, which had become a second home to him in 
consequence of his marriage with a sister of Karl Im- 
manuel Xitzsch, and lived in comparative seclusion un- 
til called in 1*29 to he pastor at Franklehen, near .Merse- 
burg, where he spent ten years of fruitful study and of- 
ficial labor, llis sermons attracted hearers from bc- 
yoml ilic bounds of his own parish, and his pastoral 
care was blessed to many individual souls and to the 
prosperity of the entire parish. The impression made 


by liirn is illustrated by an anecdote which relates that 
he was once declared to be a mystic by one of a com- 
pany gathered at an inn, and that on the question be- 
ing asked what kind of persons mystics were, the speak- 
er responded that they were preachers who lived as 
they preached. From these labors Stier was transfer- 
red in 1838 to Wichlinghausen, in the Wupperthal. llis 
physical strength proved unequal to the task of man- 
aging so large a parish (3500 souls), and his spirit 
chafed under the rigid presbvterial control exercised in 
the Rhenish churches. He also desired to devote him- 
self to literary labor ; and, in addition, his wife, who had 
been a constant solace and help, died. He accordingly 
resigned his post in 184G. and retired once more to Wit- 
tenberg, where he spent three years in literary seclusion. 
Before his return the University of Bonn had conferred 
on him the honorary degree of doctor of divinity. His 
next position was the superintendency of Schkeuditz, 
where he exercised a beneficial supervision over his 
diocesans, but was not popular as a preacher. Fre- 
quently only fifteen to twenty persons attended the ser- 
vices, even on festival days. His sermons were said to 
be dry and bis personal bearing brusque and unsocia- 
ble. A similar experience awaited him at Eisleben, 
whither he was transferred to the same office in 1859. 
His “ Bible hours,” however, were highly esteemed by 
a limited circle of earnest Christians in either place. 
Stier was afflicted all his life with many and severe cor- 
poreal ailments, a chronic affection of the throat being 
the last ; but his death was wholly unexpected when he 
fell the victim of apoplexy, on Dec. 1G, 1802. 

Stier was an intense and resolute character, and not 
naturally sympathetic. An unyielding and stern con- 
troversialist, his bearing intensified the opposition al- 
ready excited against him in the ecclesiastical world 
by his earnest advocacy of the union of the Lutheran 
and Reformed churches and by his suspected leanings 
towards Pietism. As a theologian, he suffered from the 
lack of adequate preparation in early life. He threw 
himself into the study of the Scriptures while deficient 
in philosophical and theological, and even philological 
training, and accordingly developed a prudish Biblicism 
which fails to recognise the necessity for a development 
of Church doctrine beyond the formal limits of the 
Word. He was primarily a Biblical theologian, and his 
principal works are exegetical. His theory of the in- 
spiration of the Scriptures is peculiar. He believed the 
Bible to convey the thoughts of the Holy Spirit, not 
those of the different writers; but the inspiration docs 
not apply to words, but rather to the Word. “We pos- 
sess what He spoke. Not indeed in the letter of the 
verba ipsissima , but as mediated through the testi- 
mony of the evangelists and elevated into the Spirit.” 
He accordingly denied any inaccuracies whatever in 
the general tenor of Scripture, and yet conceded the oc- 
currence of inaccuracies in minor particulars. Matthew* 
did not combine into a single discourse what the Lord 
uttered at different times, because the Holy Ghost could 
not guide and instruct him to record any untruth what- 
soever for the Church; on the other hand he writes: 
“Once only did Luke mistake by introducing a saving 
from another place (v, 45).” Thoroughly convinced 
that the Holy Ghost is mi dor primarius of the Script- 
ures, he was not greatly concerned about the canonici- 
t v of its human authors, lie could not, however, ig- 
nore history altogether. He was a mystic, but of t lie 
rational class which believes in harmonizing the inter- 
nal testimony of the Spirit with t lie external witness 
of history. Following the older interpretation, lie re- 
ceived the authenticity of the whole of Isaiah and of 
2 Peter on internal grounds alone and without being 
disturbed by philological or other scientific reasonings. 
In this instance the critical faculty was compelled to 
give place to his dependence on ecclesiastical tradition 
and the felt religious necessity of regarding the whole 
of t lie Bible as the regularly attested word of God. 
Other defects to be noticed in his exegetical works are 


STIGAND 


1025 


STIGMATIZATION 


a lack of doctrinal consistency and of comprehensibili- 
ty, the reason being, very generally, that the argument 
moves in figures and images, while the underlying 
thought is not always brought into view. But, with 
all his defects, “ Stier is known as an interpreter wher- 
ever the evangelical Church extends.” 11 is chief work 
in this department is the Reden Jesu , which has been 
widely circulated in Germany, England, and America. 
In practical theology he likewise rendered important 
services, notably in the publishing of his Rihlische Ke- 
ryktik and in his contributions to the literature of cate- 
chetics. Hvmnology and liturgies also engaged his 
attention, and his interest in them is attested by the 
issue of several volumes in these departments. He 
committed to writing all his thoughts, beliefs, and dis- 
coveries. In early life he had already planned a large 
number of works to be written in the course of his life, 
and most of them were, in time, actually written. Af- 
ter his death, a card containing a list of eleven books 
vet to be written was found, among them an Old-Test. 
Christology in Germ and in Brief ; Doctrine of the New 
Test, in the New Test, itself; Surenhusius Redivivus ; 
Exposition of all New-Test. Quotations from the Old 
Test., etc. Stier’s published works are : in exegetical 
science, Lehrgebande der hebrdischen Sprache (1833): 
— A ndeutungen fiir glaubiges Schriftrerstandniss (1824- 
29): — 70 Ausyewahlte Psabnen (1834, 2 pts. ): — com- 
mentaries on the Epistle to the Hebrews, the Epistle 
of Janies, the Epistle to the Ephesians, and the Epistle 
of Jude; on the prophet Isaiah, and on the Reden 
Jesu. All these form a mine of wealth}’ ideas for 
preachers, and have been very widely circulated. The 
last named was his principal work and was repub- 
lished in extract in 1857, to which were added in 
1859 Reden des Ilerrn vom Ilimmel her , and in 1800 
Reilen der Engel. These have been published com- 
plete in an English dress (N. Y. 1864, 3 vols. 8vo). 
Mention may also be made here of his co-operation in 
the preparation of the last edition of You Meyer's Bi- 
ble (184*2), and of the subsequent edition of 185G (Biele- 
feld), prepared wholly by himself, together with the 
well-known Polyglot Bible , edited by himself and Thiele. 
Further, of the essays in behalf of a revision of Luther’s 
Bible, entitled A Ites und Neues in Deutsche r Bibel (Basle, 
1828) : — Darf Luther's Bibel unberichtigt bleiben? (Halle, 
183G): — and Der Deutschen Bibel Berichtigung , etc. 
(18GI). In practical theology, homiletics, hymnologv, 
etc., Biblische Keryktik (1830; 2d ed. 1844): — Evange- 
lien-Predigten (2d ed. 1862) : — Epistel-Predigten (2d ed. 
1855): — Privut-Agende (5th ed. 18G3) : — Luther's Kate- 
chismus als Gnuidlage des Confrmandenunterrichts (Gth 
ed. 1855): — Hiilfsbuchlein zum Katechismus (1837, etc.) : 
— A volume of hymns and poems in 1825, and a second 
in 1845: — Gesangbuchsnoth (1838), a critique of modern 
liymn-books. In support of the Union, to which he 
was thoroughly devoted, he wrote. Bekenntniss aus der 
unirten Kirche (1848) : — Unlntherische Thesen (1855). 
See a sketch of Stier’s life by his son in Neue evange- 
lische Kirch enzeit ung, 1863, No. 11 (March 14); a char- 
acterization of the author by Nitzsch, attached to the 
3d edition of the Reden Jesu. — Herzog, Real- Encyklop. 
s. v. See Lacroix, Life of Rudolf Stier (N. Y. 1874). 

Stigand, an English prelate, was chaplain to king 
Edward the Confessor, and preferred by him first to the 
bishopric of the East Saxons, at Helmhau, in 1043, and 
afterwards to Winchester, in 1047. Seeing the king dis- 
pleased with Robert, the archbishop, he thrust himself 
into his room, and kept both Winchester and Canterbury 
until a little time before his death, when he was forced 
to forego them both. After William the Conqueror had 
slain Harold in the field, all England yielded to him ex- 
cept the Kentishmen, who, under the lead of Stigand 
and Egelsin. demanded their ancient liberties, which 
William granted. But he conceived a dislike for Sti- 
gand, and would not allow himself to be crowned by 
him, but chose Aldred, archbishop of York. He took 
Stigand to Normandv with him, fearing to leave him to 
' IX.— T r t 


plot against him. Shortly after their return, the pope 
sent cardinals to England to redress certain enormities 
and abuses of the English clergy. Stigand, believing 
himself to be the special mark aimed at, hid himself in 
Scotland with Alexander, bishop of Lincoln, and after- 
wards in the isle of Ely. Learning that a convocation 
had been called at Winchester, he went thither and be- 
sought the king to save him from the impending calam- 
ity. The king replied in gentle tones, but assured Sti- 
gand that what was to be done would be by the pope’s 
authority, which he could not countermand. The causes 
alleged against him were these: first, that he had held 
Canterbury and Winchester both together (which was 
no strange thing, for St. Oswald hail long before held 
Worcester with York, and St. Dunstan Worcester with 
London) ; secondly, that he had invaded the sec of Can- 
terbury, Robert, the archbishop, being yet alive and un- 
deprived ; and, thirdly, that he presumed to use the 
pall of his predecessor Robert, left at Canterbury, and 
had never received any pall but of pope Benedict, at 
the time he stood excommunicate for simony and other 
like crimes. Stigand was put in prison in the Castle 
of Winchester, and treated with great severity. This 
was done to force him to confess where his treasure was 
bidden ; but he protested that he had no money at all. 
He was deprived in 1069, and died in the same year, 
'!’he bones of the archbishop lie entombed upon the top 
of the north wall of the presbytery of the Church of 
Winchester in a cofifin of lead. After his death a little 
key was found about his neck, in the lock of which was 
a note with directions where to find his treasures hid- 
den in various places underground. See Hook, Eccles. 
Biog. s. v. 

Stigel, Johann, a friend of Melancfhon and Luther, 
and one of the founders of the University of Jena, was 
born at or near Gotha, May 13, 1515. He studied the 
humanities, first at Leipsic and then at Wittenberg, and 
came to rank among the first composers of Latin poetry. 
In 1542 he became master of liberal arts, and from that 
time lectured on the Greek and Latin classics, and occa- 
sionally, also, on theology. In the same year, during 
the diet at Katisbon, the emperor made him poet-laure- 
ate. After the catastrophe at Mtihlberg (q. v.) he re- 
moved to Weimar, and remained in that town until the 
founding of the new gymnasium at Jena, when he be- 
came one of its professors. In conjunction with Strigel 
(q. v.) and Schnepf (q. v.) he so raised the character of 
the institution that it could with justice be transformed 
into a university. It began its new career Feb. 2, 1558, 
on which occasion Stigel delivered the inaugural ad- 
dress. Though cultivating friendly relations with the 
Wittenberg theologians, and avoiding, so far as he was 
able, all participation in the disputes of theologians gen- 
erally, he yet occasioned the overthrow of the Flacian- 
ists by bringing against them the public accusation 
that they stirred up strife and hatred. He died Feb. 11, 
1562. Stigel’s Latin poems, which include paraphrases 
of Psalms and the New-Test, pericopes, were published 
(Jena, 16G0 sq.) in four small volumes. For other poet- 
ical compositions, see Miltzell, Geistl. Lieder d. evangel. 
Kirche aus d. 1 6/en Jahrhnndert, i,392. One of his hymns 
was occasioned bv the death of Luther (154G). Two of 
his discourses appear among Melancthon’s declamations 
( Corp . Ref xi, 721, 734). See Adam [M.], 1 ’itw Philos. ; 
Gottliug, VituJ. Stigel. (Jena, 1858), etc.— Herzog, Real- 
Encyklop. s, v. 

Stigmatization (Gr. <jTiypa,a mark), is an eccle- 
siastical term for the formation of wounds resembling 
those received by our Lord during his passion. The 
subject involves the consideration of three questions: 
1. Were such alleged wounds actual or mythical? 2. 
How did they originate? 3. How much worth or dig- 
nity is to be conceded to them? 

Stigmatization was not mentioned prior to the 13th 
century, and has rarely been heard of in connection with 
persons beyond the pale of the Roman Catholic Church. 


1 02G 


STILL 


STIGMATIZATION - 

The earliest instance was the ease of Francis of Assisi 
(q. y.), who, in 1221, had a vision of a seraph with six 
wings, between which appeared tlie image of a crucified 
one; and on recovering consciousness found himself 
marked with the wounds of crucifixion in his hands, 
feet, and right side. The case was Attested by Thomas 
a (Vlano and Ilona ventura, ami, though discredited by 
the Dominicans generally ami denounced by the bishop 
ofOlmUtz, was honored w ith an attempted authentica- 
tion by the pope* of that period— Gregory IX and Alex- 
ander IV, the latter claiming to have himself seen the 
marks of the wounds. Other instances, to the number 
of eighty, occur in the traditions of the Komish Church, 
though the stigmatization in some of them is but par- 
tial ; showing, e. g.,oulv the marks of the crowm of thorns, 
or of the spear- thrust. The Capuchin nun Veronica 
Giuliani, who died in 1727 at Cit til tli Gastello, w as can- 
onized as the last person who bore these marks, in 1831. 
ltut instances have occurred within our own time, which 
are attested by thousands of witnesses who speak from di- 
rect observation, among them persons deserving of belief. 
Anna Catharine Emmerich, a mm of Dolmen, experi- 
enced full stigmatization in her body, after long previ- 
ous illness, in 1811. Her wounds became very painful 
in consequence of repeated examinations by t he authori- 
ties; and she prayed that they might be closed, wdiich 
accordingly came to pass in 1819, though the wounds 
were always red and emitted blood on Friday. The 
case of Maria von Mori, at Kaltern, in Southern Tyrol, 
was similar. In 1833, when in her twenty-second year, 
and after previous illness, the stigmata appeared on her 
hands, feet, and side, and always bled on Thursday night 
and Friday. More than forty thousand visitors were 
attracted to Kaltern by the fame of this case. Maria 
eventually retired into the Franciscan convent at Kal- 
tern. Still other instances were those of Crescent ia 
Steinklutsch, at Tscherms, and of Maria Domenica Laz- 
zari, of Capriani. The latter bore the marks of Christ’s 
passion on her forehead, hands, feet, and side from 1834 
until 1*50. and endured from them the most terrible 
physical pain. A Protestant girl in Saxony, said to 
have been magnetized, is reported to have borne similar 
marks, though only for a time and during the progress 
of a severe sickness, in the course of which she appar- 
ently died on Good-Fridav, 1820, and revived again on 
the following Easter-day. 

Although many of the cases of stigmatization are not 
well attested, it is yet certain that cases have actually 
occurred ; and it becomes important to account for them. 
The popes attributed the case of St. Francis directly to 
“the special and wonderful favor vouchsafed to him in 
Christ." A better explanation unquestionably is ob- 
tained when we rellcet how r many and strong are the 
formative powers of the soul which the imagination may 
control, and how remarkable are the results sometimes 
caused by the action of the imagination upon the body. 
( ‘ertain Homan Catholic writers, e.g. Jacobus dc Voragine 
(13th century), Petrarch, Cornelius Agrippa, etc., as- 
cribed the stigmatization of St. Francis to his glowing 
fancy; and the fact of an excited imagination usually 
connected with an enfeebled body — the effect of sickness 
or of religious mortifications — may be demonstrated in 
every instance of tin* phenomenon in question which 
has been properly authenticated. The question of the 
iuqKirtnnee to he attached to such phenomena conse- 
quently becomes easy of solution. Stigmatization seems 
only to have occurred when* the subject had earnestly 
and decisively turned away from the world and its pleas- 
ures, and had embraced the Saviour in the fervor of a 
glowing love ; but it was, nevertheless, not an endowment 
conferred by God. As a phenomenon, permitted rather 
than caused by him, it must he regarded rather as a 
negative than a positive i-lTeet *»f his divine working. 

See Malan, /list. de S. / V. t/\\ ssise (Paris, 1811; in 
Gorman, Munich, 1*11); I /it teres Leiden mt seres Herrn 
Jtsn t'hristi uarh dm Hetrarht. der .1. Kyth. Em merich 
(Hth ed. Munich, 1*32); Etniemoscr, Der Maynetismus 


im Verhaltn. z. Xatur u. Religion (2d ed. Stuttg. ami 
Till). 1833). § 92-95, 131-142. Gbrres, Christ l. Mystik, 
ii, 410-45l>, 494-510. The two works last named afford 
important aid in explaining the phenomenon of stigma- 
tization. See also H engstenberg, Evany. Kirckenzeiiuno , 
1835, p. 180-201, 345-390, and an instructive essay by 
Tholnck, in Vermisclite Schriften , i, 97-133. On the 
importance and meaning of stigmatization, see Von 
Meyer, Blatter fir ) where 1 1 \ihrkeit f vii, 211-227. — 
llerzog, Rtul-Encyklop. s. v. 

Stikeman, Wii.liam, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born at Port Kichmond, Staten 
Island, N. Y., Aug. 9, 1845. lie w’as converted in his 
sixteenth year, and was licensed to preach Jan. 31, 1802. 
He was received on trial by the Newark Conference in 
1806, and ordained deacon in 1868. He was attacked by 
a pulmonary trouble and obliged to give up his charge 
in November of the same year, and died Feb. 10, 1809. 
See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1809, p. 57. 

Stilbe, in Grecian mythology, w f as a daughter of 
Peneus and Crensa, who was beloved of Apollo, and is 
said to have become by him the mother of Lapithus and 
Cen taunts (Diod. Sic. iv, 69, etc.). 

Stiles, Abel, a Congregational minister, uncle of 
the following, w'as horn at Windsor, Conn., March 5, 
1708, graduated at Yale College in 1733, was tutor for 
a year, and ordained at Woodstock in 1737, where he 
w'as pastor until his death, July 25, 1783. In 1760 a 
breach took place in the Church, Stiles and his adhe- 
rents setting up worship in the northern part of the 
town. This bitter contention was healed in 1760 by 
mutual reconciliation. See Cony. Quar. 1861. p. 350. 

Stiles, Ezra, I).D., an eminent Congregational 
minister, was born at North Haven, Conn., Dec. 10, 
1727. He graduated at Yale College in 1747, and was 
appointed tutor in 1749, licensed to preach in the same 
year, but in 1753 he was admitted to the bar in New 
Haven, and practiced law for two years. Having re- 
ceived a call from Newport, Ik I., he was ordained pas- 
tor Oct. 22, 1755, w'here he continued a persevering stu- 
dent and faithful pastor until 1777, when he was elected 
president of Yale College and professor of ecclesiastical 
history, upon the duties of which positions he entered 
in June, 1778, and remained until his death, May 12, 
1795. He published, A Funeral Oration on Governor 
Law (1751), in Latin: — a Latin Oration on his in- 
duction to his office as President (1778 ): — Account of 
the /Settlement of Bristol (1785) : — History of the Three 
Judges of Charles 1 (1795), See Sprague, Annals of 
the Amer. Pulpit , i, 470. 

Still, Abraham, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born in Euncombe County, N. C., 
Aug. 25, 1796. He united w ith the Church at the age 
of seventeen, and was licensed to preach in 1817. lie 
was ordained deacon in November, 1821, and elder in 
October. 1825. He travelled in Virginia and Tennessee 
until 1838, when he was transferred to Missouri. At 
the division of the Church in 1844 lie adhered to the 
Church North, and travelled for six years over the Han- 
nibal and Platte districts. In 1850 the Missouri Con- 
ference sent him as missionary to the Shawnee Indians, 
among whom he labored until the mission was discon- 
tinued. The first, appointments to Kansas were made 
(1855) hv the Missouri Conference, and Mr. Still was 
made presiding elder, which office he continued to hold 
after the Kansas and Nebraska Conference was organ- 
ized in May, 1856. In 1860 he was made a superannu- 
ate, but became effective in 18(53, and again took a su- 
perannuated relation, lie died Dec. 31, 1867. Sec 
Minutes of Annual Conferences, 1868, p. 72. 

Still, Elijah, a minister of the Methodist Episcopal 
Church, was horn in White County, Tenn., Sept. 4, 1805. 
lie was admitted on trial in the llolston Conference in 
1*32, hut. in 1*38 was granted a location, and settled in 
Pradley County. When the present llolston Confer- 


STILL 


1027 


STILLING 


enee was formed, in 1865, he was readmitted, and labored 
very successfully. He died at his home in llradley, April 
12, 1 875. See Minutes of A nnual Conferences , 1875, p. 1 30. 

Still, John, an English prelate, was born in 1543, 
and was the son of William Still, of Grantham, Lincoln- 
shire. He was admitted to Christ’s College, Cambridge, 
where he took his degrees. In 1570 he was Margaret 
professor at Cambridge, in 1571 he became rector at 
Iladleigh, County of Suffolk, and archdeacon of Sud- 
bury, and in 1573 was collated to the vicarage of East 
Marhara, in Yorkshire. He was elected master of St. 
John’s in 1574, and of Trinity College in 1577. In 1588 
he was chosen prolocutor of the convocation, and two 
years after was appointed to the see of Bath and Wells, 
in which he continued until his death, Feb. 26, 1607. 
See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Still, John Kline, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born at New Windsor, Orange 
Co., N. Y., April 16, 1813, and united with the Church 
at the age of fourteen. In 1840 he was admitted on 
trial in the New York Conference, superannuated in 
1855, supernumerary in 1856, and in 1861 finally super- 
annuated. He died at Middletown, N. Y., Feb. 3, 1876. 
He was a diligent, studious, faithful, and useful minis- 
ter. See Minutes of Annual Conferences, 1877, p. 44. 

Stilling, Jung, whose real name was Johann Hein- 
rich Jung , was prominent as a writer of popular books 
for edification, and as a theosophico-mvstical apocalvp- 
tist. He was born at Grund, in Nassau-Siegen, Sept. 
12, 1740. His early years were spent in poverty. A 
common village school afforded the earliest instruction 
he received, and his subsequent progress was constantly 
interrupted by the necessity of practicing his father’s 
trade of tailoring. Down to his twenty-first year he 
studied, taught, and sewed, but never ceased to aspire. 
He became proficient in geography, mathematics, gno- 
monics, Greek, and Hebrew; and when he obtained the 
position of tutor and general manager in the household 
of the merchant Spanier, at Hade, he added to his ac- 
quirements a knowledge of economics, agriculture, and 
commercial science. At this time a Roman Catholic 
clergyman of the neighborhood made known to Stil- 
ling a secret cure for diseases of the eye, thereby con- 
ferring on him a favor by which he profited to the end 
of his life. A successful cure opened Stilling’s way into 
the household of a wealthy patient, Ileydcr of Rondorf, 
whose daughter plighted her troth to him, and whose 
aid enabled him to obtain in Strasburg the diploma of 
doctor of medicine in 1771. At Strasburg .he first met 
Goethe and Herder, and also Saltzmann, his life-long 
correspondent; and their influence undoubtedly did 
much to enlarge his mental horizon and broaden his 
sympathies; but it is certain that he never ceased to 
respect the Pietists, whose influence had guided his 
early experiences, and that he never wholly separated 
from them. The earliest pages of his autobiography, 
which were written at Elberleld soon after his marriage, 
and published by Goethe, afforded evidence of increas- 
ing independence of thought, and served to decide his 
position as a literary man. They did not, however, re- 
lieve him from debts which he had incurred, nor free 
him from numerous enemies whom his too lively im- 
agination and morbid sensitiveness had raised up, and 
he accordingly accepted the position of professor of 
finance and political economy in the newly established 
academy of Kaiserslautern, though the salary was only 
600 florins. The transfer of the school to Heidelberg 
doubled his salary, his practice as an oculist became 
steadily more profitable, and the expenses of his house- 
hold were more carefully managed after he married his 
second wife, Selma von Saint-Florentin (1782), than be- 
fore. It was not, however, until his transfer to Mar- 
burg that the pressure of financial troubles began to 
lighten. His circle of friends and influence now rapid- 
ly* widened, and his books and medical practice en- 
grossed his time; as a consequence, his academical du- 


ties were but indifferently performed, and his lectures 
were but poorly attended by hearers. In 1805 the 
elector of Baden made him a privv-councillor, with a 
salary of 1200 thalers, and left him free to write and 
practice medicine. Rooms were assigned him in the 
palace at Carlsruhe, where he lived with his family, 
and where he employed his powers to the utmost in the 
work to which he was called. II is correspondence was 
immense: his journeys frequent. He operated, general- 
ly with success, upon nearly two thousand patients for 
diseases of the eye; and, in addition to this, he was in- 
defatigably engaged upon what he regarded as his life- 
mission — the preparation of religious, quite evangelical, 
but still more Apocalyptical books. He was concerned 
about not only the ordinary questions of eschatology, 
but also the problems of the future life, the spirit-world, 
our connection with that world, and the apparition of 
its representatives among men. He endeavored to 
present such themes in a fresh, attractive, and helpful 
way, to arouse the sleepers as far as possible, and to 
gather and unite into a holy family all those who are 
awake, that they might be ready to meet the Master 
at his coming. The spirit which possessed him con- 
ferred upon him a dignified, cpiiet, peaceful bearing. 
His home became a sort of sanctuary, where nothing 
common or coarse was permitted to enter. Visitors of 
eminence were constantly arriving, and letters from all 
quarters kept pouring in. Thousands of his contempo- 
raries expended on him in equal measure their venera- 
tion and their love. But his excessive labors exhausted 
him at length. The death of his third wife, Eliza 
Coing, of Marburg, preceded his own by only a few 
weeks. He fell asleep quietly on April 2, 1817. 

Stilling was not a profound thinker, nor yet a thorough 
student. Education had not lifted him out of himself. 
He was simply the frankest, most natural, and most at- 
tractive of Christian romanticists. Even in his favorite 
field of theosophic mysticism he displayed none of the 
creative power of Oetinger, nor was he a visionary like 
J. Bohme; he was simply well-read, and possessed the 
power of vivid description to perfection. His principal 
v r orks are the Siegesgeschichte, i.e. an exposition and 
elaboration of the Apocalypse on the basis of Bengel’s 
chronology, and the Theone der Geisterkunde (Theory 
of Spirit-law ), which is largely based on Swedenborg, 
lie often asserted in his correspondence that he was 
constrained by the will of God, clearly revealed, to write 
these books. The most interesting of Stilling’s writ- 
ings are his always mystical stories. Their titles were 
captivating — e. g. Das Ileimweh ; Scenen aus dem Geis- 
terreiche — but they were valuable rather on account of 
their solid contents; the scenes, often well-nigh majes- 
tic, which they presented ; the apparently artless, and 
yet richly illustrative, adorned, and blooming style in 
w hich they v’ere written ; the warmth of Christian feel- 
ing by which they were pervaded; and the grandeur of 
the problems they attempted to solve. Comp, the ro- 
mances, Geseh. d. Iferm von Morgenthau : — Theodor ron 
d. 1 Auden: — Floreutin von Fahlendorn: — Theobald, oder 
d. Sclav firmer : — also If. Stifling's Jugend -, JiingKngs- 
jahre , Wanderschafts- und Lehrjahre: — and the Graue 
Mann. His dogmatical views do not need discussion 
in this place. His was no philosophical mind, and his 
dogmatics w'ere simply Christian ascetics in philosoph- 
ical guise. Stilling is not yet, perhaps, Well understood. 
The letters to Saltzmann reveal him most clearly. In 
them we observe his sensitive nature, his rich fancy, his 
power of delicate description, and an all-pervading im- 
pression that he is engaged in the service of the Lord. 
The letters breathe the most humane ideas and the most 
tender regard for the truth. On his life see Heinroth, 
Gesch. d. M ysticismus (Leips. 1830), p. 513 sq. ; Kudel- 
bach, Christl. Biograph, vol. i ; Winkel, Bonn, evangel. 
Mount sschrifl, 1814, ii, 233 -262; Kurze, Geseh. d. Inspira- 
tious-Gemeinden,besonders in d. Grafschaft Wittgenstein ; 
Gobel, Geseh. (/. wahren Inspirations-Gemeinden. in Nied- 
ner’s Zeitschrift fur hist. Theologie , 1854, ii, 270; Frot. 


STILLINGFLEET 


ICR'S 


STILWELLITES 


Mona tsbliit ter, July, 1857; Jan. I860; Bodemann, Ziige 
aus dem Leb*n dts .1. ll.Jwu /, etc. (Bielefeld, 1814); .1 vs 
d. Papieren t in, r T odder Stilling's ( Karmen, I860) ; Xess- 
ler, Etude Theolog. $ur J. Stilling (Strnsb. I860) ; Fvcy- 
clop, dts Crus du Monde, s. v. ‘•Jung,” etc. — Herzog, 
Real- F.vcyklop. s. v. 

Stillingfleet, Edward, a learned English prelate, 
was born at Crauborue, Dorsetshire, April 17, 1635, 
and educated at a grammar-school in that place, and 
at Riugwood, in Hampshire. Having secured one of 
Lynne’s exhibitions, he entered St. John’s College, Cam- 
bridge, in Michaelmas, 1618, lie took his degree of 
A. 11. in 1652, and was admitted to a fellowship March 
31, 1053. In 1054 he accepted the invitation of Sir 
linger Kurgovne to reside at his seat at Wroxhall. War- 
wickshire. and in 1055 was appointed tutor to the lion. 
Francis Pierropont, brother of the marquis of Dorches- 
ter. lie obtained the degree of A. M. in 1656, and in 
I lie following year was presented to the living of Sutton, 
Bedfordshire. His first advance to London was in con- 
sequence of his being appointed preacher to the Bolls 
Chapel by Sir 1 1 arbor t le Grimstou; and in January, 
1665, he was presented by Thomas, earl of Southamp- 
ton, to the living of St. Andrew's. Holborn. lie retained 
the prcachendiip at the Bolls, and was at the same time 
afternoon lecturer at the Temple Church. In February, 
1667, he was collated by bishop Henchman to the preb- 
» nd of Islington. Church of St. Paul’s. He was also 
king's chaplain, and in 1670 Charles 11 bestowed on him 
the place of canon residentiary of St. Paul’s. In Octo- 
ber, 1672, he exchanged his prebend of Islington for 
that of Newington, in the same church. These prefer- 
ments were followed in 1677 by the archdeaconry of 
London, and in January, 1678, by the deanery of St. 
Paul's. Dr. Stillingfleet was canon of the twelfth stall 
in the Church of Canterbury, and prolocutor of the low- 
er house of convocation for many years. At the Revo- 
lution he was advanced to the bishopric of Worcester, 
and consecrated Oct. 13, 1689, Soon after his promo- 
tion to the see of Worcester, he was appointed one of 
the commissioners for reviewing the liturgy. He died 
at his house in Park Street, Westminster, March ‘27, 
1699. The principal works of Dr. Stillingfleet are, Ire- 
nicum, a Weapon S air e for the Church's 1 1 'minds (1659, 
4 to): — Ori; fines Sacra, or a Rational Account of the 
Christian Faith as to the Truth and Dirine Authority 
of the Scriptures (166*2, 4 to): — .4 Rational Account of 
the Grounds of the Protestant Religion (1664, fob): — 
Tracts in Reply to Strictures on the 1 'indication, etc. : — 
Sri Sermons (1669, fob): — A Discourse concerning the 
True Reason of the Sufferings of Christ (1669, fol.): — 
followed by a second part, A Discourse concerning the. 
Idolatry Practised in the Church of Rome, etc. (1671, 
8vo): — Answer to Several 1 'reatises, occasioned by that 
work (1673, Hvo ) : Conferences between a Romish Priest, 
a Fanatic Chaplain, and a Dirine of the Church of Eng- 
land, conct ruing Idolatry (1679, 8\*o) : — A nsirers to Some 
Papers Lately Printed concerning the Authority of the 
t ’atholic Church in Matters of Faith, etc. (1686, 4to) : — 
1 he Doctrine of the Trinity and Transnhstautiatiou Com- 
pared (1686, lto): -The Council of Trent Examined 
awl Disproved by ('atholic. ’Tradition (1688, 4to): — l’n- 
reasonabbness of Separation ( 1 68 1 , lto): — Concerning 
th» lit shojts Right to 1 ote m Parliament in Cases t'api - 
tal ( 168(1, 8yo): — th igmes liritannicie, or the A ntiguities 
of the lintish Churches (1685, fob) : — Discourse concern- 
ing the Illegality of the Ecclesiastical Commission, etc. 
(16*9): biscoursts in Vindication of the Trinity, etc. 
(1696;: beside* Sermons, Tracts, etc. See Chalmers, 
I Hog, Dirt. h. v. ; Hook, F cries. Ring. s. v, 

Stillman, Samuel, D.D., a Baptist minister, was 
born in Philadelphia, I’a., Feb. ‘27, 1737. lie preached 
1 is first sermon Feb. 17, 1758, and was ordained at 
Charleston, S. (’., ns an evangelist, Fcl>. ‘26, 1759. He 
subsequently settled in James Island, near Charleston. 
Some eighteen monlhs afterwards he removed to Bordeu- 


town,N. J., where he remained two years in charge of two 
different congregations, and then became pastor of the 
First Baptist Church of Boston, Mass., in January, 1765. 
He was made A.M. in 1761 by Harvard University, hav- 
ing also received this degree from the Philadelphia Col- 
i lege some time previous. In 1704 his name appears in 
the first list of trustees of Brown University, of which 
he was elected fellow* the following year. lie was al- 
ways w illing to co-operate in all public efforts made for 
the good of his country or his race, and was at one time 
(in 1788) member of the Federal Convention for Boston, 
lie labored unceasingly until bis death, March 1*2, 1807. 
Dr. Stillman published a large number of Sermons, and 
some Discourses, A report of some of the former w as 
published after his death (1808, 8vo). See Sprague, 
A finals of the A mer. Pulpit, vi, 71. 

Stillman, Stephen L., a minister of the Method- 
ist Episcopal Church, w r as born April 15, 1795, at Bur- 
lington, Conn. lie made a profession of religion at 
the age of twelve, but did not openly profess Christ 
until six years after, when he joined the Baptist Church. 
He united with the Methodist Episcopal Church in 
1817, and w*as licensed as a local preacher, Feb. 5, 18*2*2, 
He was received on trial into the New York Conference 
in 18*23, ordained deacon in 1826, and elder in 18*28. In 
1841 he was transferred to the Troy Conference, and till- 
ed important stations until 1854, when he was left, at 
his own request, because of failing health, without an 
appointment. He settled in Bethlehem, near Albany, 
and in the following year was appointed chaplain of the 
Albany Bethel for Sailors and Boatmen. In 1856 lie 
again took an effective relation, and continued to re- 
ceive appointments until, in 1865, he became supernu- 
merary, and in 1866 superannuated, but with an ap- 
pointment to Washington Avenue (afterwards Trinity), 
which he held at the time of his death, April 2, 1869. 
His best monument is the unwritten labor of his life. 
See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1869, p. 116. 

Still-tyde. See Holy Week. 

Still Week, a term used in Northumberland to 
designate Holy Week, probably because both bells and 
organs were anciently silent during that sacred season. 

Stilted-arch, a name proposed by Prof. Willis for 
an arch which has the capital or impost mouldings of 
the jambs below the level of the spring- 
ing of the curve, the mouldings of the ar- 
' chivolt being continued vertically down 
to the impost mouldings. This mode of 
construction was frequently employed at 
the latter end of the Norman style, es- 
pecially as a means of maintaining a uniform height, 
when arches of different widths were used in the same 
range. — Parker, Gloss, of Architect, s. v. 

Stilwellites, a name given to the adherents of 
Mr. Stihvell, who seceded from the Methodist Episcopal 
Church in New York city. They established congre- 
gations called for a time Independent Methodists. 51 r. 
Stilwell had for several years been dissatisfied with the 
Church economy, and had evidently been preparing for 
a change, and expected to take with him the proper- 
ty of the Church. In 1820 the New* York Conference 
passed resolutions looking to the better security of church 
property and asking for suitable legislation. Mr. JStil- 
W'oll used this measure to excite a prejudice in the minds 
of people, and, under the plea that the ministers were 
endeavoring to control the Church property, succeeded 
in inducing about three hundred members to secede. 
After a few years, his congregation became strictly Con- 
gregational. A few w’lio seceded joined the Reform 
movement when it arose, and afterwards identified them- 
selves witli the Methodist Protestant Church. He suc- 
ceeded in inducing a colored Church, with a congrega- 
tion of about, one thousand, to withdraw from the Meth- 
odist Episcopal Church. This congregation afterwards 
lortncd the African Zion Methodist Episcopal Church. 



Stilted Arch. 


STIMSON 


1020 


STOCK 


The churches of Mr. Stilwell gradually declined, and all 
traces of such an associated movement have long since 
passed away. See Simpson, Cyclop, of Methodism, s. v. 

Stimson, David, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born at Ilopkinton, Mass., Oct. 17, 
1777. In 1803 he joined the New England Conference, 
was ordained deacon at Lynn in 1805, and elder in 1807. 
lie was located from 1813 to 1825; but rendered effective 
service from then till 1830, when he became superan- 
nuated. He died at Charleston, Me., Aug. 4, 1859. See 
Minutes of Annual Conferences , I860, p. 101. 

Stimula, the name of Semele, according to the pro- 
nunciation of the Romans (Livy, xxxi.x, 12; Augustine, 
be Civ. Dei, iv, 10 ; Ovid, Fast, vi, 503). Others take 
the name to designate a goddess who excites men to 
undertake all manner of bold enterprises (Augustine, 
I)e Civ. bei, iv, 1 1). 

Stineley, Constantine, a minister of the Method- 
ist Episcopal Church, was born in Wiirtemberg, Ger- 
many, May 20, 1829. He was educated in the Roman 
Catholic Church, and was thoroughly acquainted with 
its institutions. lie came to America, June 15, 1849, 
and in September, 1850, settled in Liberty, Mo. Here, 
in November, 1850, he united with the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, and in 1855 entered the itinerant minis- 
try, in which he continued until his death, Jan. 4, 18G9. 
See Minutes of A nnital Conferences, 18G9, p. 261. 

Stinson, Edward, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, South, was born in Fayette County, Tenn., 
July 18, 1837. He united with the Church in 1845, 
was licensed to preach in 1852, and the same year join- 
ed the Memphis Conference. He died at his father’s 
residence in Tippah County, Miss., Sept. 18, 1855. See 
Minutes of Annual Conferences of the M. E. Church, 
South, 1855, p. GOO. 

Stipend ( stipendium ) is settled pay for services, 
whether daily, monthly, or annual. Salary (q. v.), as 
the name implies, was originally money given for salt, 
and then money for general purposes. Stipend was the 
pay given to the Roman soldier, while emolument, as 
the word denotes, was the tithe of grist paid to him who 
owned the mola, or mill. In a state church, the stipend 
is secured by law; in non-established churches it de- 
pends on the equity and generosity of the Christian 
people. See Tithes; Teind. 

Stipendiary, one who performs services for a set- 
tled compensation, whether by the day, month, or year. 

Stipendiary Priest is (1) a priest who officiates 
for a determined compensation, whether in a church, 
chapel, or chantry ; (2) a priest who is appointed in 
certain foreign cathedrals to make arrangements for the 
saying of masses for deceased persons. 

Stiphelus was the name of a Centaur who was 
slain at the wedding of I'irithous by the handsome Ca> 
neus (Ovid, Metam. xii, 459). 

Stiritis, in Greek mythology, was a surname of 
Ceres , derived from the town of Sriris, in Phocis. 

Stirm, Carl H., a German doctor of theology and 
member of consistory, was born Sept. 22, 1799, at Sehorn- 
dorf. His first ministerial duties he discharged at Un- 
terensingen, but from 183G he was court chaplain and 
member of consistory at Stuttgart, where he died, April 
21, 1873. Stirm is best known as the author of Apo- 
logie des Chri stent hums in BrieJ’en fur yebildete Leser 
(Stuttgart, 2d ed. 185G), which has been widely circu- 
lated. lie also published Sermons and Essays, contained 
in the Studien der evangelischen Geistlichkeit Wiirtem- 
bergs. See Winer, Ifandbuc.h der theol. JAteratur , ii, 103, 
319 ; Zuehold, Bibl. Theolog. ii, 1278. (13. P.) 

Stjernhjelm, Jorge, a Swedish scholar and poet, 
was born in April, 1598. In his youth he assumed tire 
name of Goran Lilje, and after studying in Upsala, he 
visited Germany, Italy, France, Holland, and England. 
In 1G25 he was appointed instructor in the gymnasium 


of Westerns, from which he went to Stockholm, and 
occupied a similar position. Here lie remained till 
IG30, when he became assessor of the Superior Court of 
Dorpat. The next year he was elevated to the nobility, 
taking the name of Stjernhjelm. In 1 G 42 he was re- 
called to Stockholm as a member of the commission to 
revise the laws of Sweden, and in 1G48 became vice- 
president of the Superior Court of Dorpat. The inva- 
sion of Livonia by the Russians in 1G5G caused him to 
tlv, and cost him the loss of his estates. In 1GG7 he was 
appointed first director of the College of Antiquities, 
which office he retained until his death, April 22, 1G72. 
Stjernhjelm was a very prolific writer, producing from 
fifty to sixty distinct works in poetry, philology, philos- 
ophy, etc. In the freshness and independence of his 
religious thinking he was in advance of his age, and 
was therefore persecuted by his contemporaries. See 
Meth. Quar. Review, 1875, p. 5G3-579. 

stoa (!Yoa), a Greek term for a portico or cloister 
around the court (atrium) of an ancient church. 

Stoc, a brazen tube, formed like a cow’s horn, used 
in the Middle Ages as a speaking-trumpet on the tops 
of church-towers to assemble the faithful to worship, 
and to proclaim new moons, quarters, and ecclesiastical 
festivals. The marquis of Drogheda possesses a re- 
markable Irish specimen of the stoc. — Lee, Gloss . of 
Litury. Terms, s. v. 

Stock (in the sing.) is the rendering, in the A.V., 
of the following’ Ileb. and Gr. words : 1. bul, lit. 
produce (“food,” Job xl, 20); hence the trunk of a 
tree (“stock,” Isa. xliv, 19); 2. "T3, yeza, the stump 
(“ stock,” Job xiv, 8) or trunk (“stem,” Isa. xi, 1; 
“ stock,” xl, 24) of a tree ; 3. yv, cts (Jer. ii, 27 ; x, 8), 
a tree,oT piece of wood, as elsewhere rendered ; 4. 
eke?-, a plant rooted up and then transplanted in a foreign 
soil (Lev. xxv, 47); 5. yevog (Acts xiii, 2G ; Phil, iii, 
5), race, or kindred (as elsewhere rendered). A gazing- 
stock (Nah. iii, G) is ’’SO, roi, a sight (variously render- 
ed elsewhere). 

STOCK, in ecclesiastical technology, is (1) a vessel 
containing a store or supply; (2) a vessel containing 
oils blessed for use in the Christian sacraments. See 
Oil-stock. 

Stock, Christian, a celebrated scholar and Orien- 
talist, was born at Hamburg, Germany, in 1G72, became 
a professor at Jena in 1717, and died in 1733, with a very 
high reputation, especially for Oriental literature. The 
chief of his works are, Dispntationes de Pants llebne- 
ortnn Capitalibus : — Claris Lingua Sanctte Veter is Tes- 
tament i: — Clai-is Lingua Sanctte Xori Test ament i. The 
last two, which are a Hebrew and a Greek lexicon, have 
been much approved, have gone through several edi- 
tions, and have received improvements and additions. 
See Chalmers, Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Stock, Richard, an eminent Puritan divine, was 
born in the city of York, and was educated in St.John’s 
College, Cambridge, lie took bis first degree in arts 
there, and in 1595 was passed A.M. at Oxford. Leav- 
ing the university, he became domestic chaplain, first 
to Sir Anthony Cope, of Ashby, Northampton, and then 
to Lady Lane, of llourton -on -the -Water, Gloucester- 
shire. Soon afterwards he went to London and officiated 
as assistant to the vicar of All-Hallows, lireadsiroet, for 
sixteen years, and succeeded him in that living, lie 
died April 20, 1G2G. His works are, Doctrine and Use 
of Repentance (Loud. KUO, 8vo): — Sermon at the Funer- 
al of John, Lord Harrington, etc. (1G14, 8vo) : — Stock of 
Divine Knowledge (Lond. lG41,4to): — Truth's Cham- 
pion, e\G. m . — Commenting on the Prophecy of Malachi 
(edited by Tor&hell, IG41, 4to). See Chalmers, Biog . 
Diet. s. v. 

Stock, Simon, an English monk, who became gen- 
eral of the Carmelites, and is known as an ascetic writer. 


1030 


STOCKS 


STOCKDALE 


Me died in 1205. He is said to have founded the Broth- 
erhood of the Scapulary in honor of the Virgin Mary. 

Stockdale, PKnm\\i..an English clergyman and 
writer, was born at Branxton, Oct. 20, 1730. lie jvas 
educated lit Alnwick and Berwick, and afterwards (1754) 
entered the University of St. Andrew’s, which he left to 
accept a Mihlieutenancy in the army. Deciding to en- 
ter the ministry, he was ordained deacon at Michaelmas 
in 1759, and became one of Dr. Sharp’s assistants in the 
curacy of 1 hike's Place, Aldgate. After this he fell into 
a rambling life, and in 1707 went to Italy and resided 
tor two years in the town of Villafranca, where, he says, 
he read and wrote assiduously. In 1775 he obtained 
the office of chaplain on the ship Resolution, which 
he retained three years, lie became curate of 1 line- 
worth, Hertfordshire, in 1780; and also took priest’s or- 
ders. In 1783 lord-chancellor Thnrlow presented him 
with the living of Lesbury, Northumberland, to which 
the duke of Northumberland added that of Long Hough- 
ton in the same county, lie accepted in 1787 an invi- 
tation to spend some time at Tangier, and in 1790 re- 
turned from the Mediterranean. He died at his vicar- 
age, Sept. 11. 1811. The works of Mr. Stockdale were 
chietlv poetical; but be also wrote. Treatise on Educa- 
tion (1782, 8vo): — Sennons (1784, 1791, 8vo). See Al- 
libone, Piet of Brit, and A mer. A uthors, s. v. ; Chalmers, 
Biog. Diet. s. v. 

Stockfeld, Joiiaxn, a missionary among the Jews, 
was born Dec. 14, 179(3, at Merbeck, near Mors, in Rhen- 
ish Prussia. Having been duly prepared by his broth- 
er, he entered, in 1824, the Hebrew College at London, 
to tit himself the better for the work among the Jews. 
In the following year he was appointed missionary by 
the London Society, and labored most successfully in 
1 Iolland, Rhenish Prussia. Westphalia, Bavaria, and oth- 
er places. In 183(3 he was ordained, and settled first at 
Brussels, then at Cologne, and lastly at Kreuznach, where 
lor twenty-eight years he was enabled to prosecute his 
chosen work among God’s ancient people. Here he 
also established an auxiliary society in connection with 
that at Cologne, or the Rhenish Jewish Missionary So- 
ciety; and, in order to keep up a lively interest in be- 
half of Israel, he had a monthly meeting in his own 
house, where pious Christians, both clergy and laymen, 
attended in numbers. Stockfeld died Dec. 17, 18G9, af- 
ler having most diligently labored as a missionary for 
more than forty-three years. See (London) Jewish In - 
t diligence, Feb. 1869 ; M issionshlatt des rheinisch-westpha- 
lischen I 'ere ins fur Israel , Jan. and Feb. 1870. (B. P.) 

Stockflett, Nikls J. Cur., the apostle of the Lap- 
landers, was born Jan. 11, 1787, at Frederickstad. He 
studied law at Copenhagen in 1803, entered the mil- 
itary, was appointed lieutenant in 1809, and after the 
battle of Sebestadt lie was made captain. In 1823 he 
resigned his military position and betook himself to 
the study of theology at the universities of Upsal and 
Christiania. In 1825 he was ordained, and then com- 
menced studying the language of the Laplanders, thus 
laying the foundation for a popular Lappish literature, 
lu 1839 he resigned his ministerial position, and travel- 
led through Norway, Sweden, and Finland. He died at 
Standefjord, April 26, 1866. Besides a Primer , a Gram- 
mar , a Bible 11 Litory, ami Contributions to the Knowledge 
of the LaplundLih Language, he translated the New Test, 
for the Lapps, and thus immortalized his 
name. Sec the Ilegensburger Cunversutinm- 
Issikou, s. v. ; Yalil, Lapperne op den lappske 
Mission (Copenhagen, 1866); Piper, Evangel. 

KaUnder , 18(37, p. 213 sq. See Quanian 
Vkhmun. (B. P.) 

Stocking, a covering for the leg or foot. 

Bishops and prelates wear official stockings 
of doth of gold or purple, which practice has 
!>een approved by local councils both in Italy 
and Liighiud. 


Stocking, Davis, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born at Iladdam, Conn., Sept. 10, 1810. 
lie received license to preach in April, 1830, and in May 
following was received on trial into the New York Con- 
ference, and continued to be a member of it until his 
death. In April, 1857, he was attacked by pleurisy, 
which so shattered his constitution that he was unable 
longer to preach or attend to public duties. He re- 
moved to Sing Sing, where he was attacked by an ag- 
gravated form of neuralgia, from which death alone re- 
lieved him, Dec. 1 1, 1858. See Minutes of Annual Con- 
ferences. 1859, p. 149. 

Stocks (in the plur.) is the rendering in the A. V. 
of the following Heb. and Gr. words: 1. The 
mahpeketh (Jer. xx, 2; xxix, 26; 2 Chron. xvi, 10), is 
■supposed by some to have been rather a sort of pillory 
in which t he head and hands were fastened than an in- 
strument for fastening by the feet; yet, as the word is 
derived from qSH, to tivist, it may properly represent 
the rack for wrenching apart the joints of the entire 
person (see Scheid, in the Biss. Lugd. p. 986; Bochart, 
Ilieroz. i, 694). It may perhaps be compared with the 
Greek Kvtpmv, as described in the Scholia ad Aristoph. 
Plut. 476; the latter with the Roman iiervus (Plaut. 
A sin. iii, 2, 5 ; Copt, v, 3, 40), which admitted, however, 
of being converted into a species of torture, as the legs 
could be drawn asunder at the will of the jailer (Biscoe, 
On Acts , p. 229). The prophet Jeremiah was confined in 
an instrument of this sort (Jer. xx, 2), which appears to 
have been a common mode of punishment in his day 
(xxix, 26; A. V. “prison”), as the prisons contained a 
chamber for the special purpose, termed “ the house of 
the pillory” (2 Chron. xvi, 10; A. V. “prison-house”). 
2. HO, sad (Job xiii, 27 ; xxxiii, 11), which is expressly 
described as a fetter for the feet, and therefore perhaps 
answered to our stocks. 3. 032, ekes (Prov. vii, 22), was 
probably a fetter fastened round the ankle. The same 
word is used for an anklet (Isa. iii. 18; A. V. “tinkling 
ornament”). 4. plP2J, tsindk (Jer. xxix, 26), is, according 
to the Sept, and Vulg., merely a prison, but is rather the 
stocks proper, or some other confinement of the limbs ; 
so Symmachus and the Hebrew interpreters generally 
(comp, the Arab zandk, a fetter, and the root p22J, which 
seems to signify to be stniiteneil). 5. The %v\ov, liter- 
ally wood , to which Paul and Silas were made fast 
(Acts xvi, 24) may have been “stocks” (as in Lucan, 
Tox, 29; Plato, Be Gen. Socratis, 32), but was possibly 
simply a bar of wood to which they were chained by 
the feet. See Prison. 

What kind of stocks were used by the Jews, especially 
in the case of .leremiah (as above), it is difficult to con- 
jecture; whether they were encumbering clogs or fetters 
that did not absolutely prevent, hut only embarrassed mo- 
tion, or were fixed frames that kept the prisoner station- 
ary. Both kinds were in use very anciently. The fixed 
kinds, properly called stocks, were of different sorts, be- 
ing frames of wood with holes either for the feet only, 
or for the feet, the hands, and the neck at once. At 
Pompeii stocks have been so contrived that ten prison- 
ers might be chained by the leg, each leg separately, by 
the sliding of a bar. Some of these forms of confine- 
ment — particularly that which combined, in some sort, 
the pillory with the stocks — were very painful, and are 



Modern Stocks in India. 


STOCKTON 


1031 


STODDARD 


mentioned in the accounts of the sufferings of the early 
Christian martyrs (see Newman, Callista, p. 363 sq., 
where, however, the lignum of the Vulg. is confounded 
with the robur, or interior cell). See Punishment. 

Stockton, Benjamin Brearley, a Presbyterian 
minister, was born at Haekettstown, N. J., Jan. 3f, 1790. 
After a complete academical course, he graduated at 
Middlebury College, Vt., in 1809; studied theology in 
the Andover Theological Seminary, Mass.; and was li- 
censed and ordained bv Utica Presbytery in 1812. lie 
labored in the following churches: Skeneateles. Palmyra, 
Pompey, Camillas, Le Kay, Montgomery, Broekport, 
Genesee, and Phelps, all in Western New York. He 
was a member of Rochester City Presbytery from its 
organization until 1858, when be removed to Jersey 
City, N. J., and subsequently to Williamsburg, L. I., 
ami became a member of Nassau Presbytery. Here bo- 
died, Jan. 10, 1861. Mr. Stockton “was a mail of excel- 
lent understanding, careful culture, and full of faith and 
the Holv Ghost.” Sec Wilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac, 

1862, p. 120. 

Stockton, Joseph, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born near Chambersburg, Pa., Feb. 25, 1779; pursued 
bis classical course at Canon sburg, where lie was subse- 
quently a teacher; studied theology privately; was li- 
censed by the Presbytery of Ohio in June, 1799; and 
ordained and installed pastor of the churches of Mead- 
ville and Sugar Creek, June 24, 1801, where he contin- 
ued till 1810, when lie resigned. On leaving Meadville 
he became principal of the Pittsburgh Academy, which 
was afterwards merged in the “ Western University of 
Pennsylvania.” Here be preached as well as taught, 
and, among other important services which he rendered, 
founded the Presbyterian Church in Allegheny. From 
1820 to 1829 bis labors were equally divided between 
the churches of Pine Creek and Allegheny; but from 
1829 till his death, Oct. 29, 1832, lie preached the whole 
time at Pine Creek. Mr. Stockton was the author of 
the Western Spelling-book and the Western Calculator. 
See Sprague, A nnals of the A mer . Pulpit , iv, 243, note. 
(J. L. S.) 

Stockton, Thomas Hewlings, D.I)., an emi- 
nent minister of the Methodist Protestant Church, was 
born at Mount Holly, N. J., June 4, 1808. When about 
eighteen years of age he was converted, and joined the 
Methodist Episcopal Church in Philadelphia. Soon 
after the Methodist Protestant Church was formed lie 
united with it, and was placed on a circuit in 1829 by 
Kev. Nicholas Snetlien. The following year he was sta- 
tioned in Baltimore, and in 1833 in Georgetown ; and 
was also elected chaplain to Congress, which position 
he held for three successive sessions. He resided in 
Philadelphia from 1838 to 1847, and built the church 
edifice at the corner of Eleventh and Wood Streets. 
From 1847 to 1850 he lived in Cincinnati. While re- 
siding in that city he was elected president of Miami 
University, blit declined. He resided in Baltimore from 
1850 to 1856, and was pastor of St. John’s Methodist 
Protestant Church. From 1856 to 1868 he was pastor 
of the Independent Church, Philadelphia, hut retained 
liis personal connection with the Methodist Protestant 
Church. He was again chaplain to Congress in 1862, 
and died Oct. 9, 1868. Dr. Stockton was a man of great 
purity of life, of intellectual power, and was remarkable 
for his wonderful eloquence. He published, Sermons 
for the People (Pittsb. 1854, 12mo) . — Stand up for Je- 
sus, a Christian Ballad (Phila. 1858, P2mo) : — The Chris- 
tian World, Book and Journal , and Bible Times, period- 
icals, etc. See Simpson, Cyclop, of Methodism, s. v. 

Stoddard, David Tappan, a Congregational 
minister and missionary, was horn at Northampton, 
Mass., Dec. 2, 1818. At the age of ten he had made 
considerable progress in Latin and GreiTi. He was sent 
to the Round Hill Academy, Mass. lie was early the 
subject of converting grace, and joined the Church, on 
the profession of his faith, after he had entered college. 


lie first commenced the college course at Williams, and 
completed it at Yale, and took high rank as a scholar, 
especially in the physical sciences. He declined an in- 
vitation to go on an exploring expedition under com- 
mand of Wilkes, because he considered himself conse- 
crated to the work of the ministry. lie graduated with 
honor in 1838, ami entered immediately on the office of 
tutor in Marshall College, Pa. While there he was of- 
fered a professorship in Marietta College, (). ; hut lie de- 
clined it, ami entered the Theological Seminary at An- 
dover. Before he had completed liis course lie was ap- 
pointed tutor in Yale College, and lie returned to his 
alma mater. In 1841 a revival occurred in the college, 
in which he took a lively interest and an active part. 
He was licensed to preach by the Congregational Asso- 
ciation of 3Iassachusetts, and commenced preaching; 
but was soon impressed with the conviction that it was 
liis duty to enter upon a missionary life, and on appli- 
cation to the Prudential Committee of the American 
Board he was accepted and appointed to the Ncstorian 
mission, Dec. 15, 1842. In 1843 Mr. and Mrs. Stoddard 
embarked for Smyrna, where they arrived in due time. 
Before taking the overland journey to Urumiyah, he 
visited several missionary stations in Turkey. Having 
obtained a considerable knowledge of the Turkish lan- 
guage, when he arrived at his destination he commenced 
with vigor the study of the Syriac, not only that he 
might preach, but also that he might assist Dr. Perkins 
in his translation of the Scriptures into modern Syriac. 
He made such remarkable progress that in five months’ 
time lie was able to instruct a class of Ncstorian youths, 
and the male seminary was reorganized and committed 
to his care; it was opened with high promise in 1844, 
At that time, the death of Dr. Grant among the moun- 
tain Nestorians was a great affliction, and fell with griev- 
ous weight upon the mission. In addition to this, the 
opposition of the patriarch, combined with that of the 
Jesuits, circumscribed their labors. A revival occurred 
in 1846, of which Mr. Stoddard gives an interesting ac- 
count to the Board. In 1847 the cholera raged fearfully 
in Urumiyah, and many fell victims to t he dreadful 
scourge. Mr. Stoddard’s health being undermined, it 
was thought advisable, though contrary to liis inclina- 
tion, that he should go to Erzerum. The journey failed 
to restore his health, and he returned an invalid. The 
tidings of the death of Prof. Solomon Stoddard had a 
depressing effect ; and this was followed, not long after, 
by the death of his beloved wife at Trebizond, in 1848. 
With the consent of the Board, he brought his orphan 
children to America, intending to return as soon as they 
were provided for. He devoted his time to travelling 
through the country and presenting the claims of the 
great mission work, liis labors were almost as incessant 
as they were arduous, frequently including addresses of 
two hours each at the missionary meetings. At length 
the time arrived for his departure, and he sailed from 
Boston in March, 1851. Ilis return to Urumiyah was 
hailed with a universal welcome. Soon after liis return, 
lie began to instruct his older pupils in theology, in or- 
der to prepare them for preaching to their countrymen. 
In addition to his other work, he prepared a Grammar of 
Modem Syriac, which was published in the Journal of 
the American Oriental Society in 1855. Having taken 
his telescope with him, he pursued the study of astron- 
omy, and furnished sir John Herschel his observations 
of the zodiacal light, which was courteously acknowl- 
edged. He also prepared an extended notice of the 
meteorology of Urumiyah, which was published in Silli- 
man’s Journal. His theological lectures, embracing a 
full course of doctrinal theology, were delivered in Syri- 
ac. After his return from a journey to Tabriz, in be- 
half of the mission, Dec. 22, 1857, lie was attacked with 
typhus fever, and died Jan. 22, 1857. (W. P. S.) 

Stoddard, Ira Childs, a Baptist minister, was 
horn at Brattlehorougli, Vt., Jail. 25, 1792. In 1817 he 
was licensed to preach by the Baptist Church of Guild- 
ford. He was not ordained until 1827, when, on Sept. 


STODDARD 


1032 


stoic philosophy 


23 of that vear, he became the pastor of the Church in 
Eden, Erie CV, N. Y., where he remained eleven years, 
his ministry being greatly blessed. In 183(3 he removed 
to Ihisti, Chautauqua Co., X. Y„ where he was a pastor 
four years, and then removed to (Ireeutield. For some 
time he labored for the American ami Foreign Bible 
Society, and had brief pastorates in several places in 
the State of New York. Me died in Ihisti. Jan. 12, 
1878. Sec AY w 1'vrk Ejtu miner and Chronicle. (J. C. S.) 

Stoddard, John E., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born at Brookfield, Worcester Co., 
Mass,, March 10. ISO I. lie removed, when live years of 
age, to Pinckney, X. Y., was converted in 1829, and re- 
ceived license to preach Jan. 9, 1832. lie was employed 
by the presiding elder from August of that year until 
1830, when he was received on trial into the Black River 
Conference. In 1813 he was, because of ill-health, made 
supernumerary, ami held that relation until his death, 
at Morristown, St. Lawrence Co., X. Y., Feb. 12, 1801. 
See Minutes of Annual Conferences, 1801, p. 102. 

Stoddard, Solomon, a Congregational minister, 
was born in Boston. Mass., in 1043, and was graduated 
at Harvard College in 1002. lie was afterwards ap- 
pointed a fellow. Ilis health being impaired, he went 
to Barbadoes as chaplain to governor Serle, and preached 
to the Dissenters on that island near two years. After 
his return, he began to preach at Northampton in 1009, 
received a call to become their minister March 4, 1070, 
and was constituted such Sept. 1 1, 1072. lie continued 
in that place till his death, Feb. 1 1, 1729. His colleague, 
Mr. Edwards, succeeded him. Mr, Stoddard was a learned 
man, well versed in religious controversies, and himself 
an acute disputant. He engaged in a controversy with 
Increase Mather respecting the Lord’s supper, unfortu- 
nately maintaining that the sacrament was a converting 
ordinance, and that all baptized persons not scandalous 
in life may lawfully approach the table, though they 
know themselves to be unconverted or destitute of true 
religion. As a preacher his discourses were plain, ex- 
perimental, searching, and argumentative. He was 
blessed with great success, lie used to say that he had 
live harvests; and in these revivals there was a general 
erv, “ What must l do to be saved?” He was so diligent 
in his studies that he left a considerable number of writ- 
ten sermons which he had never preached. From 1G(>7 
to 1(374 be held the ollicc of librarian to Cambridge (be- 
ing the lirst who ever held it), lie published, besides 
several sermons, The Itoctriue of Instituted Churches 
(London, 17()0, 4to) : — /I Guide to Christ, or the Way 
of Directing Stalls in the Way to Conversion (1714), com- 
piled b»r young ministers; — .4 Treatise concerning Con - 
version: — 7 he Way to Know Sincerity and l/ypocrisy 
(1719): — .4 nswerto ( \ises of Conscience ( 1 722) ; — Whether 
God is not Angry with the Country for Doing so Little 
towards the Conversion of the Indians (1723) : — Safety of 
Appearing at the Judgment in the Righteousness of Christ. 
This la*i work was republished at Edinburgh (1792, Hvo). 
See DihUnfh . Sacra , July, 187,3; Meth, Qnar. ller. Jan. 
187,9; A <w- Englander, Xov. 1858; North A mer. Her. 
Jan. 187,9. 

Stoic Philosophy, (he body of doctrine held and 
taught by the Stoics, or followers of Zeno. It was an 
otT-dmot from tin* school of Socrates, but the plant was 
very unlike the other shoots from the same root. It 
was thoroughly syueretistie; and its separate doctrines, 
«*fieu mncli disguised and strangely distorted, may be 
readily traced («» earlier systems. The philosophy was 
like f % iriiil liinn brass, the result of the fusion of many 
dissimilar materials, and unlike any that entered into 
iis composition. The chiefs mid advocates of the creed 
Insisted ol its marvellous symmetry ami perfect organi- 
/fihou. They lauded the “ admirabilis compositio disci- 
plime ineredibilisipio rcruni nrdn. Qua 1 , per deos im- 
uwrtales! Domic miraris? Quid enim am in unturn, 
ipm nihil est aplius, nihil descriptius, aut in operihus 
maim fact is tain compoMimn tamipie compact uni el 


] coagmentatum inveniri potest? Quid posterius priori 
non convenit? Quid sequitur quod non respondeat 
superiori? Quid non sic aliud ex alio ncctitur, ut non, 
si imam litternm moveris. labent omnia? Nec tamen 
quidquam est, quod moveri possit” (Cicero, De Fin. iii, 
22, 74). There is some apparent justification for this 
confident glorification. The “lucidus ordo” is manifest 
in the Stoic system, but it is superficial and factitious. 
There is an artificial symmetry and an ingenious coap- 
tation of parts which were never meant for each other. 
The smooth ami winning exterior is deceptive. Like 
the “whited sepulchre,” it is “filled with dead men’s 
bones.” The Stoic philosophy was full of extrava- 
gances, incoherences, and contradictions, which were 
softened down or reconciled only by violent interpreta- 
tions, and the constant exercise of dialectical legerde- 
main. Its opponents exposed its innumerable petit and 
grand larcenies. More dispassionate judges, like Plu- 
tarch, wrote treatises to exhibit its internal discrepances. 
It was with good reason charged with gross absurdities, 
and was censured as a notable justification of the sneer, 
Qiiciv ton Ttov KciXovptviov (piXoaoiptov «0iAo<7o0wr€- 
pov (Athen. Deipn. xiii, 93). Nevertheless, the philoso- 
phy of the Stoics is sufficiently distinct and character- 
istic to merit the eminent and enduring ascendency 
which it enjoyed as one of the great Hellenic schools, 
and to invite definite appreciation as a philosophic creed. 
Philosophy, according to the Stoics, was the art and 
practice of virtue (“ Philosophia studium virtutis est, 
sed per ipsam virtutem” [Seneca. Epist. xiv, 1,8]). It 
was studied that it might be practiced ; it was practiced 
that it might be learned; it was the theory and rule of 
a wise and virtuous life. The essentially ethical char- 
acter and the practical tendency of the philosophy were 
manifested from the outset. Aristo of Chios regarded 
nothing but morals as belonging to the domain of phi- 
losophy, and ethics always constituted its main and de- 
terminant part. Morality was its aim, its “ratio essen- 
di;” all the rest was its “ampla” or “curta supellex,” 
its garniture or its scaffolding. For this everything 
was devised; to this everything converged; and to this 
all other things were fitted. Incongruities were blink- 
ed, were disregarded, were masked, or were welcomed 
if they aided, or did not obstruct, the attainment of the 
main object. Extravagances and paradoxes were cor- 
dially entertained if they conduced to the main purpose. 
Some of the Stoic chiefs narrowed the range of specula- 
tion to this single, object ; others, and notably Zeno him- 
self, Chrysippus, and Posidonius, embraced in their teach- 
ings l he whole domain of knowledge; but always in 
subordination to the pursuit, of virtue and the wisdom 
“wliereunto all other things shall he added.” Philoso- 
phy, according to the Stoics, should be — 1. Practical; 2. 
In conformity with reason; 3. In conformity with nat- 
ure. The “jus et norma untune” ran through all the 
ramifications of Stoic doctrine. To he practical, philos- 
ophy must be rational ; to he rational, it must be in per- 
fect consonance with the constitution of man and with 
the process of the universe. The act of virtue must 
therefore rest on the knowledge of reason and of nature. 
This was as strenuously insisted upon by Zeno and all 
his disciples as by Oarlvle, though in far other guise. 

In agreement with those views, and also with those 
of previous philosophers, philosophy was divided bv the 
Stoics into three parts: Physics, Ethics, and Logic; or, 
by (’leant lies, into six: Logie, Rhetoric; Ethics, Poli- 
tics; 1 'hysics and Theology. The latter scheme is only a 
binary subdivision of the original tripartite distribution. 
The order of the parts was variously determined by dif- 
ferent Stoic teachers. Logic came first with some, 
physics with others; hut logic and physics were alike 
constituted mainly, if not solely, lor the sake of ethics, 
in order to determine the character and the duties of 
the virtuous man. One order or another will he pre- 
ferred, according to the point of view from which the 
j whole system is regarded. If it is desirable lo trace the 
i genesis and the organic relations of the doctrine, ethics 


STOIC PHILOSOPHY 


1033 


STOIC PHILOSOPHY 


should take precedence, as in the third book of Cicero’s 
tractate De Finibus Honor uni et Malorum, where ethics 
occupy nearly the whole book, only two chapters out of 
the twenty-two being conceded to dialectics and phys- 
ics. This order of exposition would be tedious and in- 
convenient on the present occasion, as the other parts of 
the speculation would have to be broken up and dis- 
membered, in order to show their connection with the 
moral tenets. If it is proposed to establish the authori- 
ty and obligation of the Stoic rule on the basis of per- 
vading law, physics, as including the constitution of the 
universe, and theology should come first. This sequence 
is unfavorable to a condensed presentation of the philos- 
ophy, and throws logic out of connection with the other 
parts. Hence the most convenient order is to treat first 
of logic, next of physics, and lastly of ethics. The 
means of ascertaining and securing truth are thus first 
considered: then the order and constitution of universal 
nature, by which the duties of man are determined and 
his actions controlled; and, finally, the obligations im- 
posed upon man by the laws of reason and the laws of 
existence. 

I. Logic. — The Stoic logic consisted of three divi- 
sions : Rhetoric, or continuous exposition ; Dialectics, or 
discontinuous speech, specially argumentation, "inter 
respondentem et interrogantem discissa" (Seneca, Fpist. 
xiv, 1, 17); and, thirdly, the Criterion, or test of truth. 
The Criterion was not one of the original divisions. 

1. Our information in regard to the Stoic rhetoric is 
limited, broken, and unsatisfactory. Rhetoric, in the 
Stoic plan, included topics which would now be consid- 
ered foreign to the art, and would be relegated to gram- 
mar. It excluded others which would seem to be es- 
sential members of this branch of discipline. To this 
head, apparently, belonged the fantastic etymologies 
which were so diligently and erroneously cultivated by 
the school. 

2. Dialectics embraced expression and the means of 
expression — thoughts and words. It therefore appro- 
priated much which should be conceded to rhetoric; it 
gave great attention to the nature and contents of sen- 
tences, and thus advanced grammatical inquiry and 
grammatical precision. So far as reasoning was con- 
cerned, it borrowed the logic of Aristotle and amplified 
it, without, adding anything to it of substantial value. 
Like Sir William IIamilton,it introduced needless refine- 
ments and interminable subtleties. The Stoics gave 
their approval exclusively to the hypothetical syllo- 
gism; habitually practiced ratiocination by captious 
questions and evasive answers; elaborated the doctrine 
of fallacies, and were frequently entangled in their own 
toils; invented manifold and bewildering distinctions, 
according to the fashion of the schoolmen; and, like 
them, exercised themselves in continual disputation. 
Hence they were reproached with wire-drawn and bri- 
erv argumentation : “subtile vel spinosum potius dissc- 
rendi genus” (Cicero, De Fin . iii, 1,8). They thus mer- 
ited the denunciation and the ridicule both of enemies 
and friends. 

3. The Stoic doctrine on the Criterion is a notable part 
of the general theory, and is closely associated with the 
whole system. It is the basis on which the theory 
rests, and by which its validity is upheld. It cannot 
be examined here in its development and details. The 
Stoic philosophers were harassed, as other philosophers 
have been, with t lie fundamental necessity of establish- 
ing some ground of assurance for truth— a i too cttCo for 
reason to work on. They approximated to Locke in 
regarding all knowledge as deducihle from perceptions 
and conceptions, which are analogous to, but not identi- 
cal with, the sensation and reflection of the English phi- 
losopher. They agreed with Dcs Cartes in mistaking 
positiveness of conviction for certitude of truth. They 
attached much weight to common notions — irnii'ai *V- 
roiat — which are not innate ideas, but impressions and 
judgments in which all men intuitively agree. The 
reception of impressions and the formation of concep- 


tions were purely material and mechanical processes. 
The former were at tirst represented as produced by the 
actual imposition of a stamp, or die, upon the sensorium. 
Chrysippus recognised that this view was untenable, as 
each successive impression would thus blur or blot out 
its precursors, and memory would be rendered inconceiv- 
able. lie substituted the rational alteration of the per- 
cipient substance for mere press-work — «\A noutriy for 
ToTTiootz — with less lucidity than Herbert Spencer and 
other cerebrologists have done. No reality was attach- 
ed to thought as an intellectual force, nor to thought as 
an intellectual product ; it was but the shadow, or pho- 
tograph, or physical result of the phenomena of nature. 
The Stoics were Nominalists after the order of the Cyn- 
ics; being here, as in so many other respects, piene Cy- 
nici (Cicero, De Off. iii, 8). A perception was simply a 
fantasy, an appearance, a mental alteration. Rut a 
fantasy was distinguished from a phantasm , or appari- 
tion, which was a mental delusion. A true perception 
was apprehended by the apprehension of the apprehen- 
sive faculty — <pa\’Ta<ua v«ra\//7TTiv// : “opium facit 
dormice, quia virtus est dormitiva.” This position is a 
partial or qualified anticipation of l)es Cartes. The in- 
validity and the fallibility of the KaTa\i]TTTiKt) (pen’raoia 
are pleasantly illustrated by an anecdote told of Splur- 
rus at the court of Ptolcmv, in Alexandria (Athenaais, 
Deipn. viii, 4). A joke, it is true, is not an argument. 
It followed from the doctrine of perception that common 
notions and assured convictions were necessarily true: 
“All that exists takes value from opinion.” Much of 
the ethical paradox of the Stoics proceeds from this false 
point of departure. It was a very rude and unsafe cri- 
terion of knowledge, and sanctioned the acceptance of 
whatever might be confidently believed and audacious- 
ly asserted. A justification of it from the Stoic point 
of view may be found in the Stoic physics. If the in- 
dividual reason is only an effluence front the universal 
reason; if all things, and therefore all impressions, are 
necessarily determined by unerring law, the fantasy 
which is obscured by no doubt or indistinctness must 
be in accord with the universal reason, and must, conse- 
quently, he true. This is Spinozism, or strangely re- 
sembles it. To aid in the analysis of perceptions and 
thought, the Stoics devised a system of Categories, di- 
verse in principle as in designation from the Categories 
of Aristotle, but consonant with their physics and meta- 
physics, which were, indeed, the same. Their highest 
conception was Being, for which was afterwards substi- 
tuted Something or Anything. Coder this, in regular 
gradation, were arranged — 1. Substance; 2. Property; 
3. Variety; 4. Variety of Relation. The deviation from 
Aristotle proceeded from the necessities of the Stoic 
physics, which, like Spinoza, recognised only one sub- 
stance, only one real being or entity; but, unlike Spi- 
noza, made that one substance matter. We arc thus in- 
troduced to the Stoic physics. 

11. Physics. — Like other ancient philosophers, but 
with greater propriety, the Stoics included theology in 
the philosophy of nature. They usually divided this 
branch of speculation into three heads: Concerning the 
Universe; Concerning Elements; Concerning Causes. 
They assumed two principles, as Plato had done: ap\a t; 
rA/jv Kui Herb', wc HAdrtui' (Aristocles. ap. Euseb. Pr. 
Fc. xv, 14) ; hut in a very different sense. With Plato 
these principles had been distinct in character and es- 
sence, ami inherently antagonistic; with Zeno they 
were confounded, coalescent, anti virtually identical. 
Thus rigid materialism supplanted Platonic idealism, 
ami the universe was filled with animated material en- 
tities, and with their constant transformations. The 
tendency of modern science seems to be in the direction 
of similar delusive hypotheses. Prom Heraclitus, from 
whom Zeno borrowed so largely, be borrowed also the 
dogma of the eternity and imperishability of matter; 
and also the four elements generated by the separation 
and differentiation of unqualified substance («7roto£ v\rj), 
and admitting indefinite combinations and trausmuta- 


1034 


STOIC PHILOSOPHY 


STOIC PHILOSOPHY 

tions. The elements themselves ami all resulting prod- 
ucts were enveloped and interpenetrated by a subtile, 
elastic current of tiery ether, which blended with them 
throughout all their changes and determined their char- 
acter "and actions. This ether was the determining 
cau-e, the ellicient force, in everything. All things were 
moulded, guided, governed, by its impregnating and sus- 
taining Maine ; everything was informed and animated 
|,v it. Stars, planets, sun, moon, earth, comets — as all 
other things — were vitalized by it; and through all 
things moved the animu mundi, the soul of the universe. 

“Namrpie cnnam tacita nntnram meute pollentem; 
Inftnumqne ileum codo, terrisqne, fretoqne, 

Inceiitcm lequah moderantem fcedere molem, 

Et ratiouis agi inotu ; cum spirit us nuns 
I’er cunctas liabitet partes, atqne irriget orbem, 
Omnia pervolitaus, corpusque animale flgnret” 

(Mauil. .-1 etron. ii, C0-05). 

The Stoics differed among themselves in regard to the 
location of this all-pervading tire (7 rvp Te\viK6u). Some 
placed it in the centre of the earth, Clennthes in the 
sun, but most assigned it to the highest atmosphere, or 
‘•extra tlammantia inceuia mundi.” Dr. Carpenter, as 
president of the British Association, at. the Brighton 
meeting, declared unphilosophical the representation of 
the forces of nature as self-sustaining and self-operative. 
The inconsistency was unfelt or disregarded bv the Sto- 
ics, as it has been by recent materialists. Their whole 
universe and all its members were framed out of undi- 
gested and indiscriminate matter by the motion of the 
ethereal tire which was distributed through all things. 
The light and life of the stars were supposed to be fed 
from the vapors and exhalations rising from the earth. 
These must be consumed in the long lapse of countless 
years The universe would in turn become desiccated, 
and be consumed by the lierv currents within it and 
around it. A general contlagration will therefore wind 
up the varied drama of creation, when “the heavens 
shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements 
shall melt with fervent heat; the earth, also, and the 
works that are therein shall be burned up.” This total 
combustion shall be followed by the gradual renewal of 
all things. The process of evolution will recommence; 
there shall be “a new heavens and a new earth.” A 
compu te anacatastasis shall occur, to be succeeded by 
another total incandescence. This destruction of the 
world by fire was derived from Heraclitus. Other Sto- 
ics added to it, or substituted for it, destruction by Hood. 
There were Xeptunians and Vulcanians in the sect. 
Some of the fraternity rejected the hypothesis altogeth- 
er. It will be observed in what a remarkable manner 
the Stoics preceded Helmholtz and his acolytes in the 
theory of the spontaneous consumption of the worlds by 
tire, and their reproduction by cooling, coalescence, divi- 
sion, and recomposition of parts. 

Although a nominal distinction is always made by 
Zeno and his followers between matter and God, and 
in specially insisted 011 by Boetlms, who does not admit 
the world to l»e a huge animal, yet, as God is material 
— only “a liner air”— as he is the creative and lierv 
ether which fashions, regulates, and dwells in all, it is 
im(M»vdhle to establish any real division between the 
Divinity and the material universe. It is not merely, 
as Antotiinc says, that “all things are from Jove, in 
Jove, and converge to Jove,” but all things are Jove, 
and Jove is nil tilings. The Stoic ideniilication of God 
with the universe was manifest to the ancients: 

“Ac mill! tain prie-ens ratio non ulla vidotur 
patent mumbim divino iinmiue veni 
Atqne IpMiin esse Demn” (Mauil. Antron. i, 400-492). 

The lierv ether constituted the Divinity of Heraclitus 
before being adopted oh the God ami soul of t tie nui- 
v. r-e by Zeno. Throughout the whole range of being, 
in iis highest and in its lowest spheres, there is an in- 

foueeivable mixture of the divine and the material 

KiHifUij iY «Awi» but the divine itself is only matter 
sublimated. This supreme God is 110 independent or 
autonomous ruler, lie is all-wise not of his own wis- 


dom ; almighty from no power of his own. He acts, 
like Spinoza’s God, not of his own will, but from the 
necessity of his nature; and is obedient to the law 
which he seems to impose, for that law is only the proc- 
ess of his inevitable developments (Seneca, Dial, i, 5, 8). 
This Divinity is more shadowy than the Nouveau 
Grand Ktre Supreme of Comte, though infinitely more 
expansive, lie is simply the chain of unalterable se- 
quences in the procession of phenomena: “ irrevoeabilis 
lmmana pariter ac diviua cursus vehit” (Seneca, ibid.). 
A 11 absolute fatalism evidently results from this con- 
ception of the Divinity — a fatalism not of actions pre- 
determined, but of eventualities necessitated. It is fa- 
talism a posteriori, or an inverted fatality. As all pos- 
sibilities are involved in the being of God, as they occur 
in necessary order, and are simultaneously contained in 
the totality of his essence, their complexion and mani- 
festation are foreknown to the Divinity, which, under 
this aspect, is named Providence. The Stoic doctrine 
here marches closely by the side of Spinozism. It is 
somewhat strange that we should owe the term “Prov- 
idence” to Stoic invention. From the conceptions just 
explained proceeds the Stoic fate — t) Gpappkvi) — which 
envelops ail issues in its toils, and determines the end 
from the beginning. It follows, as with Heraclitus, 
that law is universal and all-controlling, and that noth- 
ing can elude it or bend it. Resistance and submission 
are alike ineffectual to break, to change, to retard, or to 
advance it. 

“The Author of the world’s great plan 
The same result will draw 
From human life, however mau 
May keep or break his law.” 

The Divinity is dispersed, rather than divided, among 
many secondary gods — “ignobilis deorum turba” — but 
still retains the totality of its own essence. It is the 
same God always under many names : 'Lev g ttoXvioi'o- 
poi ;, in the Hymn of Cleanthes; “Jehovah, Jove, or 
Lord,” in the tinkling superficiality of Pope. This is 
regarded as due to accommodation to the contempora- 
neous polytheism. Yet it is assuredly a natural devel- 
opment of the general scheme. The Divinity is in all 
things, and everything is divine; but it dwells with 
greater fulness and evidence in some of its incorpora- 
tions than in others. Where its presence is amplest 
its manifestation may be most fitly recognised. The 
stars have their indwelling and presiding deities, as 
with Plato and others of the older philosophers. As 
everything is necessitated, “ the stars in their courses” 
are subject to law. And as all the concomitants of 
change are concurrently under the law, and are linked 
to each other by the bonds of the law, astrology (“con- 
scia fati sidera”) and all forms of divination are worthy 
of credit. Such indications as they afford are compre- 
hended and interpreted either by natural intuition, 
through a larger participation in the universal reason 
and a dim sympathy with its pulsations, or by observa- 
tion of coincidences and acquired skill. It is almost 
the declaration of Nostradamus in respect to his own 
pretensions. The descent of the divine is not, how- 
ever, restricted to secondary gods and to their starry 
thrones. It attends the life of the whole in all its mem- 
bers and in all its motions, and it accompanies the prog- 
ress of the universal reason throughout all its infinite 
wanderings. Man is himself divine. II is soul is a 
“vital spark of heavenly flame” — “ part icula coelestis 
anrai.” It is a spherical Maine proceeding from the 
lierv ethereal sphere. In every one dwells a genius, 
angel, or d:i»mon ; in every good man, a god. “ Bonus 
vir sine deo nemo est” (Seneca, Kp. xli, *2). With all 
these gradations, the unity of the Deity and the unity 
of the universe remain unimpaired. There is only one 
existence, the “causa causa rum, eausa universalis, ani- 
tna mnndi, mundus” — heat, which was not merely “a 
mode of motion,” hut the cause, the spring, the sub- 
stance, of all motion and of all change (Cicero, De Nat. 
Dtor. ii, 9, *21). The soul and the life of man, two po- 


stoic philosophy 


1035 


stoic philosophy 


tencies united in one force, are themselves material. 
It is a “ fiery particle 

“Ignens est ollis vigor et ccelcstis origo.” 

It is an efflux of the divine ether, as its reason is the 
procedure of the universal reason. It goes through its 
career, accompanying and animating the other matter 
with which it is conjoined. When its native ardor is 
chilled by time or consumed by action or subdued by 
circumstances, its corporeal alloy becomes decomposed, 
and it is exhaled into the circumambient air. Its sub- 
sequent fortune was variously conceived by different 
teachers of the school. Some maintained its immor- 
tality; others denied it (Cicero, Tusc, Disp. i, 31, 77). 
Some held that its absorption into the general body of 
the Divinity was immediate and universal. Others be- 
lieved that such immediate return to its source was 
limited to the souls of the perfect, and that other souls 
passed through an elevated purgatory and were “ puri- 
fied so as by fire.” Others, again, held that the spirits 
of the blessed dwelt in the stars, and surveyed from 
those lofty seats the scenes of their terrestrial experi- 
ences, awaiting the grand conflagration, when they, with 
all the worlds around them, should be reunited to the 
universal tire. Some asserted that only the souls of 
Stoic sages were swallowed up in the ocean of Divin- 
ity; and that the rest rotted with their “tenements of 
clay” in “cold obstruction’s apathy.” Every possible 
variety of opinion was entertained. Seneca’s views, as 
on most of the tenets of the creed, are largely eclectic 
and vacillating. They are modifications of the Stoic 
doctrine and are impregnated with Platonism. They 
are always rhetorical, and usually careless of philosoph- 
ical consistency. 

Of course, under the reign of fate and of absolute 
law, the freedom of the will must be denied. A delu- 
sive freedom of the will was, however, imagined; and 
the will was supposed capable of self-determination by 
voluntary acquiescence in the necessity to which it was 
subjected. Freedom was entire submission to the law 
of nature and the compulsion of fate. Such, too, w r as 
the freedom of the Divinity: “semper paret, semel jus- 
sit.” It was the same sort of freedom which is con- 
ceded to the will by Spinoza; but it sufficed as an ap- 
parent and precarious basis for the Stoic resolution. 
If there is no freedom of will or of action, and if every- 
thing proceeds from intrinsic necessity and is controlled 
by fate, evil can have no positive or real existence. 
Physical evil is, with Zeno, the incompleteness or im- 
perfection of parts, which is requisite to the perfection of 
the whole. Moral evil was admitted as a counterpart of 
good, and as a consequence of the inharmonious admixt- 
ure of constituents in humanity. But it was maintain- 
ed that there was no evil for the virtuous; that “all 
things work together for good to them that love Cod,” 
and that the good and wise man is wholly impeccable. 

III. Ethics. — From' the nature of man and the nature 
of evil, the transition is immediate to the domain of 
morals, which is occupied with the proprieties (ra kci- 
$i]KQVTCt) of human conduct. This part of the doctrine 
constitutes the essence of the Stoic scheme. It was 
prosecuted by the sect, in theory and practice, with 
even greater earnestness than by their Cyrcnaic prede- 
cessors, of whom it was said: 

Trjv 3’ apCTfji' irapa. ^pafip-a dttvKov tc? naTf-Tptfiov. 

For this branch all the rest of the elaborate Stoic sys- 
tem was devised. Nevertheless, it was treated with 
much diversity by different leaders of the school. The 
divisions of the subject were numerous and varying, 
often painfully minute, and frequently irreconcilable 
with each other. There was looseness of distribution, 
as elsewhere in the Stoic system, and needless refine- 
ment in the intricate distinctions and subdivisions. 
We are expressly told, as might easily have been con- 
jectured, that the subject was more simply treated by 
Zeno than by Chrysippus and the followers and imi- 
tators of Chrysippus. The leading topics, and these 


alone can claim our attention here, are essentially the 
same. They are the “summnm bonum,” or highest 
good; the ultimate aim of life (finis ) ; the regulation 
of the passions; and the ordering of life. The highest 
good, with which the ultimate aim of life connects it- 
self, is true happiness and its prosecution. 1 1 erillus 
made this scope or end knowledge, deviating in this re- 
gard from the general opinion of his sect (Cicero, lie 
Fin. v, 25). Happiness can be attained solely by con- 
formity to the order of nature, and requires* willing obe- 
dience to the operations of universal law. Obedience 
is inevitable; but the wise and good man yields it with 
full consent; the fool and the knave vainly resist it 
(“Melius est ire quam ferri”). Law is equivalent to 
good, and good to law. The good, the useful, and the 
proper are strictly identical. All things arc good that 
tend to the attainment of the supreme good; all things 
are evil that oppose or obstruct its attainment. There 
arc only two contrasts, “bonum et turpe;” all good things 
are equally good. There is no distinction of things evil; 
all arc equally bad. “ lie who violates one tittle of the 
law violates the whole law.” The only opposition is be- 
tween the good and the bad. But this unyielding uni- 
formity, this hard antagonism, could not be maintained 
in the practical experiences of life. A system of accom- 
modations was demanded. An intermediate term was ac- 
cordingly introduced. A large class of accidents and ac- 
tions — health, wealth, strength, honor, station, influence, 
etc. — was ranged under the wide head of things indiftWr- 
ent (adicnpopa). This relaxation appears to have been 
introduced by Zeno’s immediate pupil, Aristo of Chios. 
Things indifferent might become either good or evil, 
according to the use which might be made of them, or 
the service which they might be apt at any time to 
render. Whenever they were instrumentalities for the 
attainment of the “summnm bonum,” they wore good; 
when they prevented or impeded its attainment, they 
were bad. When they did neither, they remained col- 
orless and neutral. Lrhcrc were many distinctions, sub- 
distinctions, and quasi-distinctions in regard to indif- 
ferences which must be passed over. There was mani- 
fold, but not very important, diversity of opinion in re- 
gard to things indifferent. Ingenious efforts were con- 
tinually made to 

“divide 

A hair ’twixt south and south-west side.” 

The Stoic subtlety and ea vitiation, the Stoic legerde- 
main with words and principles, and the infinitesimal 
divei'sificutions of the sect were nowhere more conspic- 
uous than in the department of ethics. The Stoic 
school furnishes a singular anticipation of theological 
casuistry. Its acute but misapplied distinctions and 
contradistinctions find a counterpart in the controver- 
sies between the Franciscans and the Fratricclli about 
the interpretation of the Mendicant vow of absolute 
poverty. Happiness, the great aim of life, can be hope- 
full v pursued only by the constant observance of the 
laws of nature: “eonvenienter natune vivere” (Cicero, 
J)e Fin. iii, 7, 2t>). This is virtue, conformity to law- — 
the law 7 of human nature and the law' of the universe. 
It is also the law of (Jod, who is himself under the law. 

It is from this conception of the universality and 
universal obligation of law that is derived the Stoic 
idea of a “state of nature” and of the natural equal- 
ity of all men. The latter dogma w as, indeed, pressed 
upon the acceptance of Zeno and of the later Stoics by 
the cosmopolitan tendencies of the times, and by the 
predominant estimation and consideration of the moral 
character of men. It was pressed to an extreme which 
was singularly at variance with the prejudices ol an- 
tiquity. The language of Paul on the subject of t lie 
claims of slaves is scarcely as strong as that of Seneca : 
“ ’ Scrvi sunt.’ Imino homines. ‘Servi sunt.’ lmmo 
eontabernales. ‘Servi sunt.’ Immo bundles amici. 
‘Servi sunt.’ Immo conservi; si cogitaveris tantum- 
dem in ntrosque licerc fortume” (Kpist. v, 47, l, et vide 
§ 10 , 11 , 15 ). 


STOIC PHILOSOPHY 103G stoicism 


The accordance with law, the observance of those I 
proprieties which are consonant with nature, cannot be 
expected without complete exemption from all pertur- 
bations and without habitual self-restraint. We are 
misled by inconsiderate and unregulated impulses which 
generate* passions that blind us to our duties, and 

“ Now melt into sorrow, uow madden to crime." 

No one is free from such impulses. The vice comes from 
voiding to them. They are checked and suppressed 
when reason acts coolly and with assured judgment, and 
when disciplined habits of thought and feeling have 
been firmly established. Impulses are rational or irra- 
tional according as they are consonant with the dic- 
tates of nature or at variance with them. The irration- 
al impulses produce four classes of emotion, springing 
from defects of imagination and disordered fantasies. 
These emotions are pleasure, desire, care, fear. Such 
emotions are mischievous in their tendencies and in- 
jurious in themselves. Hence, serene feelings, ti’nt- 
$h«i, were placed in opposition to mtSt], or passions. 
The undisturbed rtmv of passive and impassive senti- 
ment was termed tvpout, and was indispensable to hap- 
piness. 

It must be manifest that the Stoic fatalism, the abso- 
lute and unintermit tent reign of physical and moral law, 
the negation of all freedom of the will, render the pur- 
suit of virtue and of happiness an illusion. Thoughts, 
passions, actions, consequences, are all necessitated. 
The wise man has only to submit. Such inconsisten- 
cies and absurdities are characteristic of the Stoic doc- 
trine. lint the doctrine must be received as it has 
been delivered; for it is alone true in the estimation 
of the sect, and out of the sect there is no assurance 
of happiness. Moreover, man is a reasoning, yet by 
no means a reasonable, animal. It would be a bad 
thing for the world if man were influenced to pursue 
the right course by no arguments except those that are 
valid. The imperfections of the £toic creed did not 
prevent its exercising a very potent and a very whole- 
some influence upon the morality of the world. 

The man who upholds and practices the Stoic doc- 
trine. who suppresses all earnest feeling and acts in ac- 
cordance with reason, with nature, and with law, is vir- 
tuous, wise, ami happy. To him “no evil thing can 
come." The requirements, it was recognised, transcend 
the measure of human capacities; for the universal de- 
pravity of man is a Stoic tenet, and one which is neces- 
sitated by the Stoic philosophy. In the experience of 
life it is necessary to divide the Stoic community, theo- 
retical and act mil, into two classes — the proficient and 
the progressive, the saints and the seekers. In like 
manner actions are divided into perfect, KfiTopSuiyara, 
and meet, Mici/Korra — a division proposed probably by 
Zeno himself (Ding. Laert. vii, 25). The wise man is 
admitted by tbe Stoics to be, like the “summus orator" 
of Cicero, n dream — an ideal : 

“A faultless monster which the world ne’er saw." 

To this ideal the genuine Stoic will approximate more 
or h-s closely. So far ns he approaches it, he will be 
wi*e, prudent, virtuous, happy ; superior to the accidents 
of fortune; regardless of the advantages or calamities 
of life, lie tuny be crushed, but he will not be cast 
down; frustrated, but not overcome; dishonored, yet 
without shame; tortured, vet suffering no evil; man- 
gled, but whole in spirit ; in every chance and change, 
Self-centred, self-poised, serene, the same. He will al- 
ways present a steady and mieonqucrcd front — 

“ hivletn devletiim meutc Oiitouem” 

( Seneca, /aow'w, v. Index; Cicero, ho Pin. iii, 7, 20 ; Plti- 
tarcli, Ctnnjhwl. /.ib. /hjnnl. etc.; Hnieker, Hist. Crit. 
/itil. i,9.»9). When troubles increase beyond remedy; 
when reasonable hope is extinct; when life oilers no 
l»ro-|iert of hcuMil to himself, his country, or his friends; 
even when weary of existence, the Stoic bolds in his 
own hands the immediate means of redress and escape. 


A voluntary death, a dignified suicide, a prompt return 
to the all-receiving bosom of the universe, puts an end 
to vain struggles, to insurmountable difficulties, or to 
the faintness of tbe tiesh (Cicero, De Fin . iii, 18, GO, 
Gl). 

Long as this notice has been, there has not been space 
to enter into the interminable details and developments 
of the Stoic doctrine. Its aptitude as a creed; its pre- 
tensions as a religion, especially in the practical aspects 
of theology or morality; its quaint agreement with 
much of the language and some of the dogmas of Chris- 
tianity, can scarcely be overlooked, and merit most seri- 
ous consideration. They have attracted the regards of 
many inquirers. The total diversity of a materialistic 
Divinity, an unspiritual humanity, and a fatalistic uni- 
verse separates Stoicism completely from all revealed re- 
ligion, and brings it, on several sides, into communion 
with Spinozism ; on others, with the material evolution 
of much recent science. With all its syncretism, its 
verbal trickeries, its discords, and its excesses, it was 
certainly a very significant product of Greek specula- 
tion and aspiration. While renouncing human sympa- 
thies, it enlarged the narrow sentiment of civic national- 
ity into a sense of universal humanity. It made the 
whole world one (Cicero, 7)c Fin. iii, 14, 62, 63), and con- 
verted friendship from an indulgence into a duty. It 
extended the conception of law and of moral obligation, 
and rendered them imperative upon societies ami indi- 
viduals. It checked, reproved, and turned back the 
growing demoralization of the ancient communities; 
and it was, probably, an efficacious agency in preparing 
the pagan world for the gradual but rapid acceptance 
of Christianity. 

IV. Literature. — It is unnecessary to refer to the clas- 
sic authorities and the historians of philosophy. It will 
suffice to specify, Lipsius, M unuductio ad Stoic. Phil. 
(Antw. 1604) ; Gataker, De DiscipUna Stoica (Cantab. 
1653); Menagii Obss. ap. Diog. Laert. (Amst. 1692), vol. 
ii ; Tiedemann, Syst. der stoisch. Phil. (Leips. 1776, 3 
vols.) ; Ravaisson, Essai sur le Stoicisme (Paris, 1856); 
id. De la Morale des Stoiques (ibid. 1857); Donrtif, 
Du Stoicisme et du Christiunisme (ibid. 1863); Moulie, 
Le Stoicisme a Rome (ibid. 1865); Zeller, The Stoics , 
Epicureans, and Sceptics (Lond. 1870); Wegschneider, 
Ethices Stoicce Recent . Fund. (Hamb. 1797) ; Scioppius, 
Elementa Stoic. Phil. Mor. (Mayence, 1608); Lilii De 
Stoica Phil. Mor. (Altona, 1800); Meyer, Stoic, Doctr. 
Eth. cum Chr. Comparata (Getting. 1823); Munding, 
Die Gnnidsatze der stoisch. Mor. (Ilotterd. 1846) ; Heintze, 
Stoic . de Affectibus Doctrina (Wittenb. 1861); id. Stoi- 
corurn Ethica (Naumb. 1862) ; Tlanse, Stoicorum de Fato 
Doctrina (Ntiremb. 1859); Thomasius, T)e Stoicor. Mun- 
di Exustione (Leips. 1672) ; Sonntag, De Pulingenesia 
Stoica (Jena, 1700); Zimmermann, Qme Ratio Phil. Sto- 
ic. sit cum Rel. Rom. (Erlangen, 1858) ; Laferriere, Mem. 
cone. VDiJlnence du Stoicisme sur la Doctrine des Juris - 
consultes Rom. (Paris, 1860) ; Winter, Stoicorum Panthe- 
ism us (Wittenb. 1863); The Ancient Stoics, in Oxford 
Essays (1865); Toullotte, // ist.de la Phil, des Emp , de- 
pots Cesar (Paris, 1822). See Stoics. (G. F. II.) 

Stoicism and Cukistiaxity. The Stoics and 
Epicureans, who are mentioned together in Acts xvii, 
18, represent the two opposite schools of practical phi- 
losophy which survived t he fall of higher speculation 
in Greece. See Philosophy, Ghkkk. 

1. Biblical Connection. — The principles of these sects 
require notice under this head only in so far as they are 
related to the teaching of the apostle, who, we are told, 
was regarded as “a setter-forth of strange gods, because 
lie preached to them Jesus and t he resurrection.” The 
doctrine of the resurrection of the body, or even of the 
immortality of the soul, would indeed be fundamentally 
at variance both with the materialism of the Epicureans 
and with the pantheism of the Stoics. 

The former, considering the soul to he, like other sub- 
stances, a body composed of atoms, naturally concluded 
that it was resolved by death into its constituent ele- 


STOICISM 


1037 


STOICS 


ments; and even more rapidly than the body, as consist- 
ing ol’ finer and more volatile particles (Lucret. iii, 178 
sq., 426 sq. ; Diog. Laert. x, 63-67), The doctrine of the 
dissolution of the soul was even valued by these philos- 
ophers on account of its consolatory character, as ena- 
bling men to despise the terrors of the invisible world, 
and to look forward without fear to a release from the 
evils of life in the annihilation of their personal exist- 
ence (Lucret. iii, 842, 850-854; comp, iii, 37; Diog. 
Laert. x, 124, 125). See Epicurean Philosophy. 

The Stoics, on the other hand, from very opposite 
premises, arrived at a similar conclusion. With them 
the soul of man was regarded as a portion and fragment 
of the divine principle of the universe (Epictet. hiss, i, 
14, 6 : at t/zuyai . . . ovvafatg r<jj titty art avrov popia 
ovcrai teat a7ro(Tiraaf.iaTa ; M. Antonin. De Rebus suis , 
ix, 8: eig rd XoytKa pia I'ospd \pv\p ptpepinTat ; ibid. 
xii, 30: pia votpd kuv SiatcttcptoSat tWy), sub- 

ject to that necessity by which the universe is governed, 
having no independent existence or action of its own, 
and destined, not indeed to perish with the body, but, 
when a certain cycle of duration was accomplished, to 
be absorbed back again into the source from which it 
came (Seneca, Consol . ad ftJarciam, c. 26 : “ Nos quoque, 
felices animre et a?terna sortita?, quum Deo visum erit 
iterum ista moliri, labentibus cunctis, et ipsai parva 
mime ingentis accessio, in antiqua elementa vertemur” 
[see Zeller, Philos, der Griechen , iii, 105]). It was a 
maxim of the Stoical philosophy that whatever has a 
beginning must also have an end (Cicero, Tusc. I)isp. i, 
32: Vult enim [Pametius] quod nemo negat, quidquid 
natum sit, interire; nasci autem animos). They ac- 
knowledged but one real existence, which, regarded from 
different points of view, was both matter and God ; on 
its passive side an original substance, on its active side 
an original reason ; an unformed material substance, the 
basis and substructure of all definite phenomena, and a 
pervading active power by which that substance was 
supposed to develop itself into every variety of individ- 
ual form (see Zeller, Philos, der Griechen , iii, 69 sq.). 
In this doctrine “ the one remains, the many change 
and pass;” the Deity, or active power of the universe, 
produces all things from himself, and again, after a cer- 
tain period of time, draws them back into himself, and 
then produces a new world in another cycle, and so on 
forever (Laert. vii, 137 : Aiyovoi tzdopov . . . tuv 
Seem . . . og Ci) dtySaprog ton tcai ciytrmjrog, fitjptovp- 
ybg ton rijg diaKoopi]<jttog, Kara \po vwv 7roi< l fC Tttpio- 
Covg dvaXiotctov tig iavrbv rrjv i'araoav ovoiav tcai 
TrciXtu iavroit ytvvihv). The result of this theory, 
as regards the immortality of the human soul, may be 
given in the words of Cicero: “Stoici autem usuram no- 
bis larginntur, tanquam eoruieibus; diu mansuros aiimt 
animos; semper negant” (Tusc. I)isp. 5,31). The utmost 
duration that could be allotted to any individual soul was 
till the termination of the current world-cycle; and it 
was a disputed point among the philosophers of this sect 
whether this extent of existence was conceded to the 
souls of all men or only to those of the wise (Diog. Laert. 
vii, 157). See Stoics. 

Thus the same conclusion which the Epicureans de- 
duced from the assumption of the multiplicity of matter 
was deduced by tlie Stoics from that of its unity: both 
alike recognised no real distinction between matter and 
spirit, and both alike inferred the impossibility of an 
immortal existence for any dependent being. 

2. Scriptural Analogies . — The ethical system of the 
Stoics, nevertheless, has commonly been supposed to 
have a close connection with Christian morality (Gata- 
ker, Antoninus Pro 1 /.; Meyer, Stoic. Pth. c. Christ. Corn- 
par. [ 1823]) : and the outward similarity of isolated pre- 
cepts is very close and worthy of notice, as may be seen 
from a few examples which we here give: 

Seneca, I)e Clem. § 5: “ Peccavimus omnes . . . nec de- 
liquinius lantnm eed nd extremum sevi delinquemus.” 
Rom. iii, 23: “ Peccavenint omnes” . . . 

Kp. i: “Qnem mihi diibis . . . qui intelligat ee qtioiidie 
niori r Rom. xv, 31 : “ Qnotidie inorior.” . 


De Vit. P,eata , 512: “ Laudant enim [Epleurei] ea quibns 
ernbescebant et vitio glorinniur.” Phil, iii, lit : “ Quorum 
. . . gloria in confusione eorum.” 

I hid. § 15: “In regno mul sumu9: Deo parere libertas 
est.” 

Lpict. Diss. ii, 17, 22: u7r\a>r uWo beXe tj a 6 be of 

biXet. 

Anton, vii, 74: ovv k«/u » e u>tpc\ovfxevot h to totpeXe 7r. 

lhit the morality of Stoicism is essentially based on 
pride, that of Christianity on humility ; the one upholds 
individual independence, t lie other absolute faith in an- 
other; the one looks for consolation in the issue of fate, 
the other in Providence; the one is limited bv periods 
of cosniical ruin, the other is consummated in a personal 
resurrection (Acts xvii, 18). Hut in spite of the funda- 
mental error of Stoicism, which lies in a supreme egotism 
(Seneca, De 17/. Deata,§ 8: Incorrupt us vir sit extends 
et insuperabilis miraturque tantum sui , fidens ailirno at- 
que in ntruinque paratus artifex vitro”), the teaching of 
this school gave a wide currency to the noble doctrines 
of t he Fatherhood of God (Cleanthes, Hymn. 31-38; 
comp. Acts xvii, 28), the common bonds of mankind 
(Anton, iv, 4), the sovereignty of the soul. Nor is it to 
be forgotten that the earlier Stoics were very closely 
connected with the East, from which much of the form, 
if not of the essence, of their doctrines serins to have 
been derived. Zeno himself was a native of Citium, 
one of the oldest Phoenician settlements. See Ciiittlm. 
His successor, Chrysippus, oatne from Soli or Tarsus; 
and Tarsus is mentioned as the birthplace of a second 
Zeno and Antipater. Diogenes came from Seleucin in 
Babylonia, Posidonius from Apamea in Syria, and Epic- 
tetus from the Phrygian Ilierapolis (comp. Sir A. Grant, 
The Ancient Stoics , ill Oxford Essays [1858], p. 82). 

3. Literature. — The chief ancient authorities for the 
opinions of the Stoics are. Diog. Laert. vii ; Cicero, De 
Pin. ; Plutarch, De Stoic. Repugn.; De Plac. Philos, ode. 
Stoic.; Sextus Empiricus; and the remains of Seneca, 
Epictetus, and Marcus Aurelius. Gataker, in his edi- 
tion of the Meditations of M. Aurelius, has traced out 
with the greatest care the parallels which they offer to 
Christian doctrine. See also Walch, De Stoiconnn cum 
Paulo Disputatione (Jena, 1759); Zeller, The Stoics f 
Epicureans, and Sceptics (transl. from t lie German by 
Reichel, Loud. 1870). See Stoic Philosophy. 

Sto'ics (SrwiTcoi, Acts xvii, 18), a notable and 
well-known sect of Greek philosophers, one of the most 
important and influential of the schools after Socrates, 
entitled to claim descent from Socrates. The con- 
tentions of the Stoics with the other Socratie schools, 
and especially with the Epicureans, who deviated most 
widely from Socratie teachings, filled a large space in 
the intellectual history of Greece after the loss of Greek 
independence. The antagonism was continued under 
the declining Roman Republic and under the earlier 
Empire. During the reign of the Ctvsars, Stoicism be- 
came more prominent than it had been before, and as- 
sumed the complexion of a political opposition and of 
republican aspirations or regrets. It at length ascended 
the imperial throne in the person of Marcus Aurelius, 
and thenceforward gradually faded away into neglect 
and insignificance, being completely eclipsed hv the Neo- 
platonic school when not supplanted by Christianity. 
Simplicius, writing in the reign of Justinian, remarks 
that the systematic instruction, or school tradition, and 
nearly all the writings of the Stoics had vanished. Vet 
if the catena Stoicorum he considered to terminate with 
the emperor Marcus Aurelius, the Stoic doctrine bail 
maintained a vigorous existence, and had exercised a 
wide dominion over the minds of men, for nearly half a 
millennium. It had been distinguished during its long 
duration, not only by numerous names eminent in the 
chronicle of speculation, hut by moulding the character 
of many persons prominent in public life, such as Blos- 
sius, Cato, Brutus, Seneca, and Marcus Aurelius. The 
better part of Roman society, in both the republican and 
the imperial age, was profoundly impressed with Stoic 
doctrine and Stoic discipline. It attained that evidence 


STOICS 


103S 


STOICS 


of general reverence ami regard, the fervid professions 
of hypocrites and canters: 

“<^ni Curios simulant et Bacchanalia vivnnt.” 

Stoicism produced its Woman poets in Manilius, in Lucan, 
ami in IVrsius. It promoted the morals of the Woman 
world through the OjJives or Cicero, the writings of 
Seneca, the ( 'oni>rsati*ms of Epictetus, and the M editu- 

of i he younger Aniouinc. It, suggested to Woman 
jurists the conception of general and systematic law. 
h furnished principles, axioms, theories, and tendencies 
to the renovated Woman law, and largely affected its 
scientific development. Through the agency of the Wo- 
man law it has permeated all modern jurisprudence. To 
i his day, when "the state of nature” is proclaimed, or 
the dogma is alleged that “all men are born free and 
equal,” Stoic Junta ties arc revived, without their ori- 
gin, their import, their application, or their restrictions 
Wing suspected. The philosophy of the Stoics, eo no- 
mine, disappeared with the growth and ascendency of 
Christianity; but the influences of Stoicism survived, in 
changed gui.se; its spirit and its terms reappear in Chris- 
tian theology, and continue to operate on the minds of 
men even in the present times. There has never been 
an age, since the Antonincs, when Stoic doctrines and 
Stoic sentiments and Stoic austerities have not claimed, 
with altered face, but with the ancient arrogance, the 
admiration and adhesion of the world. It is not a little 
singular, too. that, in this closing I Dili century, even the 
m«»?>i extravagant dogmas of the risionaries of the Porch 
tind a counterpart in the scientific fantasies of Huxley, 
and in the cosmical reveries of Helmholtz and his fra- 
ternity. The sudden favor, the long predominance, the 
enduring iiitiuciice, the recent though partial revival, 
of Stoicism can be accounted for only by recognising its 
peculiar consonance with the characteristics of the times 
when it appeared; its adaptation to the needs or appe- 
tencies of subsequent generations; its agreement with 
the healthy tendencies or the morbid aspirations of the 
human heart; and the recurrence, in our day, of social 
and intellectual conditions analogous to those which en- 
gendered or favored the speculations of Zeno and his 
followers. 

I. Origin and Development . — 1, The sect of the Stoics 
was founded at Athens by Zeno of Citium, in Cyprus, a 
town which was, in part at least, of Phoenician origin. 
Zeno himself has been, at times, suspected of having 
had Asiatic blood in bis veins. The institution of the 
new heresy must be assigned to the close of the 4th 
century before Christ, or to the beginning of the 3d. 
There is such a total absence of contemporary informa- 
tion, such a dearth of authentic testimony, and so many 
discrepances in later writers in regard to all details that 
dates, events, and incidents cannot be reported with ex- 
actness or with confidence. According to certain tradi- 
tion*, the father of Zeno was a merchant engaged in a 
regular and lucrative course of trade with Athens, who 
was in the habit of bringing back from that city the 
writings of eminent Athenians and other Creeks for the 
instruction and edification of his sou, whose studious 
indium ions had been early manifested. The sou was, 
in the course of time, sent to Athens in charge of a cargo 
of merchandise. Having arrived in that still brilliant 
city, either after a prosperous voyage or after a ship- 
wreck, he fell in with a copy of Xenophon’s Memorabilia , 
and was fascinated with t lie delineation of Socrates and 
of the Socratic disputatious. |] ( . determined to devote 
hmis« If exi'hiMvcly to the pursuit of philosophy; and 
<»( t ilium, of I 'yprii*, and of his father nothing more is 
heard. disposing of what property remained in his 
linmN, whether much or nothing, and either distributing 
the proceed* or investing t bent in banking operations — 

lor the traditiona vary and are altogether inconsistent 

he attached himself at first to the Theban Crates, the 
chid of the I'yiiie school at that time. He was re- 
pelled, however, by the coarseness, vulgarity, filthy hab- 
its, and arrogant ignorance of the Cynic tribe; and for 


many years he wandered from teacher to teacher and 
from heresy to heresy. He was for some time a follower 
of Stilpo the Megarian, and also of Diodorus t lie dia- 
lectician. lie attended through a whole decennium, it 
is said, the instructions of Xenocrates, then the schol- 
arcli of the Academy, and afterwards those of his succes- 
sor, Polemo. It is difficult to tind time in Zeno’s life for 
this protracted education; but it is needless to investi- 
gate the amount of truth contained in such reports. 
The variety of instructors assigned to Zeno, and his os- 
cillations between different schools, may be only a con- 
jectural and retrospective interpretation of the composite 
character and frequent inconsistencies of his doctrine. 
A pretty .anecdote is told in connection with his exten- 
sive and diversified range of knowledge. Having asked 
the oracle how lie should secure the best mode of life, 
he was told to become of the same color with the dead. 
Hereupon he devoted himself to the perusal of the older 
authors. The wide range of sources whence he borrowed 
his scheme of philosophy may be implied in this tale. 
His doctrine was compounded from materials derived 
from many schools. “ Stoici fures” was a jesting re- 
proach in antiquity that acquired the currency of a 
proverb (Cicero, De Fin.), The sect was certainly an 
offshoot from the Socratic school. It took much from 
previous systems. It always retained a close affinity 
with the Cynics, and at times, or in particular persons, 
was almost identified with them. Its logic it received 
from the Peripatetics, extending it into many bewilder- 
ing refinements. Its captions and incessant disputation, 
its dry argumentation, its nugatory hair-splitting, its 
“ ratiuncuhe” and “ineplite,” and “verborum conserva- 
tiones,” with all its briery subtleties (“subtile vel spino- 
sum potius disserendi genus” [Cicero, De Fin, iii, 1.8]), 
it borrowed from the Megarians. From them, and partic- 
ularly from Stilpo, it received its exclusive consideration 
and estimation of virtue. Its physical principles it took 
partly from Pythagoras and largely from Heraclitus, 
who communicated to it the belief in the ultimate con- 
flagration of the world and other characteristic tenets. 
This diversity of obligation, and the strange syncretism 
which proceeded from it. direct attention to the general 
character of the Stoic innovation, and to its peculiar re- 
lations to the political, social, and intellectual condition 
of the age in which it transpired. 

In the full tide of modern progress and of vigorous 
civilization, it is difficult to form an accurate and ade- 
quate conception of the dismay, despondency, and hope- 
lessness which overwhelm with gloom the minds of 
eager, active, and intelligent men when the course of 
political development is suddenly arrested and crushed 
beneath the rude coercion of military power and alien 
rule. In such a condition were the Greeks left after 
the amazing victories of Alexander the Great and the 
establishment of Macedonian domination or Macedonian 
influence. The memory of political independence and 
of free political action became a vain regret. The hope 
of renovated liberty was a tormenting dream, and must 
have rapidly ebbed away with the constant repetition 
of disheartening experiences. Political dejection, polit- 
ical indifference, or political servility was substituted for 
the violent but. earnest and inspiriting conflict of parties 
in a free state. At the same time, the vast extension 
of Hellenic domination over new lands, strange people, 
and ancient civilizations aroused curiosity, introduced 
the knowledge of foreign habits of thought, and brought 
Asiatic tradition and Asiatic speculation within the 
sphere of Greek intelligence, Coincidentlv with these 
potent agencies of intellectual change the splendid sys- 
tems of the great chiefs of the Socratic school reached 
a sudden check. Socrates had contemplated the refor- 
mation of political life and public morals by investigating 
the foundations of truth, discovering a basis for knowl- 
edge, and thus securing the rectification of principles. 
The restoration of political and social health to his city 
and to his fellow-citizens was his chief aim. The same 
purpose may be discerned throughout the writings of 


STOICS 


1039 


STOICS 


his brilliant disciple, Plato, as the Republic and the Taucs 
inav sufficiently attest. See Plato; Sockatks. A like 
design, but with broader views and with less regard to 
particular applications, may be ascribed to Aristotle; 
though his alien nativity, his restless pursuit of all 
knowledge, his marvellous comprehension and system- 
atization, majr disguise the tendency, and may have 
disguised it even to himself. Still, the moral bearing 
and the political direction of the inquiries of Socrates, 
Plato, and Aristotle can hardly be misapprehended. It 
is a curious confirmation of this prevailing direction of 
thought that Zeno’s first work, composed before his sep- 
aration from the Cynics, was a treatise on the Stale, 
This was, perhaps, the last marked manifestation of t lie 
spirit of an age that had passed away. It should be 
noted, too, that ethics, as such, had constituted a large 
part of the meditations of Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle, 
and had been prominent in secondary schools. The 
reformation of morals had been the immediate design 
of Socrates, and the impnlse communicated by him had 
not ceased to operate. Indeed, the necessity for moral 
reform had greatly increased since Socrates urged the 
Athenians to a just and pure life. The crimes, the 
treacheries, the frauds, the greed, the selfishness, the 
rapacity, and the sensuality of the Greeks had been 
multiplied and aggravated in the days since Alcibiades 
and Critias; they had assumed larger proportions and 
greater disregard of restraint. The plundering triumphs 
of Alexander ; the sack, spoliation, or oppression of cit- 
ies; the acquisition of thrones, principalities, domina- 
tions, powers, and fortunes by the companions and fol- 
lowers of Alexander, raised the hopes of the enterprising 
and lowered their principles. If, in the days of Socrates, 
the reformation of knowledge was requisite for the re- 
form of the State, after the Macedonian supremacy there 
was scarcely any State to be reformed. The reforma- 
tion must, therefore, be restricted to private morals and 
to private life in order to redeem society or to insure 
individual contentment and respectability. Even this 
tendency had been already exhibited. The spirit of 
the approaching age is always anticipated, for “coming 
events cast their shadows before.” Aristippus, the pupil 
of Socrates, preceded Epicurus in presenting pleasure as 
the object of life; the Mcgarians gave nearly all their 
solicitude to ethical precepts and practices; and Antis- 
thenes, the founder of the Cynics, was before Zeno in 
proclaiming indifference to worldly honors, worldly cares, 
and every indulgence to be the essence and substance 
of wisdom. In the confusion or cessation of political 
life, in the crash of the brilliant organizations of the 
past, in the ruin of social health, the independence or 
ease or dignity of individual existence naturally en- 
gaged the attention of innocent natures and of original 
and inquiring minds. Earlier speculations might be 
continued — expanded rather than advanced ; but the 
yearning anxiety of the time, and the “regmim futuri,” 
centred in the individual, and sought escape both from 
political domination and social corruption. The need 
of moral satisfaction and of spiritual solace was, of course, 
augmented by the decay of effectual belief in the creed 
of polytheism. 

Such was the condition of the Hellenic world when 
Zeno and Epicurus almost simultaneously appeared with 
antagonistic schemes, as with diverse temperaments, to 
institute new systems of philosophy, which long rivalled 
the Academics and Peripatetics, and divided the mass 
of intelligent and dissatisfied men between their con- 
tending schools. 

It would be very instructive to investigate the man- 
ner in which new schools of philosophy established them- 
selves among the Greeks. The materials for such an 
inquiry are widely scattered, and they arc neither abun- 
dant nor distinct. The process seems to have been both 
irregular and fortuitous. It bore much resemblance to 
the institution of new religious orders in the Middle 
Ages; to the gathering of vast congregations of disci- 
ples by illustrious schoolmen ; and to the generation of 


new r sects and separatist churches in our time. An 
ardent or ambitious student, earnest in the pursuit of 
truth, or consumed with the desire of notoriety, full of 
selt-conlidence, and stubborn in bis convictions, finds 
himself at variance, on some points of greater or lesser 
importance, with the teachers whom lu* has long attend- 
ed; or is dissatisfied, like Lucian’s curious seeker, with 
all. lie ventilates his doubts; lie discusses his differ- 
ences; he argues, lie extends, be corroborates, be sys- 
tematizes his opposition; he draws around him others 
who have experienced the like dnbitations, or who catch 
the same infection from his own vehemence ; and, as 
the numbers of such acolytes increase, the desire and 
the demand for fuller and more orderly exposition, for a 
more pronounced assertion of differences, and for the con- 
solidation of the dissentients become active forces, and 
provoke the establishment of a new congregation. A 
place of meeting and of formal instruction is sought out, 
and the groves of Academus, the shady walks near 
Athens, an open colonnade, a pleasant and retired gar- 
den, a retreat in the mountains, forests, or meadows, or a 
new meeting-house, give “local habitation and a name” 
to a school of philosophy, a monastic order, or a modern 
sect. That Zeno, during his long peregrination through 
the existing heresies, was speedily led to contemplate 
the institution of another, is indicated by the keen cen- 
sure attributed to Polcmo: “It docs not escape my notice, 
Zeno, that you, in vour Pluenician garb, arc gliding 
through the gates of others’ gardens and stealing their 
doctrines” (Diog. Laert. vii, ‘25). 

By whatever motives induced, or by whatever cir- 
cumstances favored, Zeno established a new school at 
Athens. At what time this occurred cannot be defi- 
nitely ascertained. According to some accounts, he was 
thirty years of age when he reached Athens, and attend- 
ed philosophers of high repute for twenty years. But 
the chronology of his life is uncertain and confused. 
The beginning of the 3d century before Christ may be 
conveniently accepted as tbe proximate date of the 
foundation of his school. This school maintained itself 
successfully against older and later competitors. It min- 
istered to a latent and growing want. The character 
and bearing of the teacher gave weight to his doctrine 
and secured respect. He devoted himself and his in- 
structions, with earnest assiduity, to the inculcation of 
individual morality and personal purity. Betaining the 
Cynic aim and the Cynic abstemiousness and self-suf- 
ficiency, he divested Cynicism of its coarser, more igno- 
rant, and more offensive characteristics. He taught his 
hearers to seek contentment and satisfaction in conscious 
rectitude of thought, feeling, and conduct; to recognise, 
and to discharge faithfully every duty ; to contemn in- 
dulgences; to resist temptations; to endure with serene 
disregard the accidents of life : and to maintain the same 
unswerving equanimity in adverse and in prosperous 
fortune. Whatever opinion may he entertained in re- 
gard to the invalidity of his theories or the hypocrisy 
of members of his sect in later days, he rendered an im- 
portant service to his own and to subsequent generations 
by winning men from the abounding infamies of the 
time, and guiding them to the pursuit of honesty, in- 
tegrity, justice, unselfishness, and personal propriety of 
sentiment and action. During his extended career as a 
teacher lie earned the cordial regard of his follow-citi- 
zens (or rather of his follow-inhabitants of the same city, 
for he refused Athenian citizenship) and of his contem- 
poraries. Antigonus Gonatas, king of Maecdon, attend- 
ed his lectures, and invited him to his court ; Zeno ex- 
cused himself on account of his age, but sent two of his 
disciples to represent him. Another pupil, Splwrus. 
illustrated his doctrine at the court of the Ptolemies. 
The Athenians honored him with a panegyric, a golden 
crown, a statue, and a public tomb: “because lie had 
exercised bis vocation in Athens as a philosopher for 
many years, demeaning himself as a truly good man in 
all the offices of life; because he had trained to virtue 
and sobriety the youth who had resorted to him for in- 


STOICS 


1040 


STOICS 


st ruction ; and because be had exhibited in his own 
course of life an exemplar for all, consonant with his 
professions and doctrine” (Ding. Laert. vii, 10). After 
a long life of uninterrupted but not robust health, and 
the guidance of his school for nearly sixty years, as was 
alleged, the frail, thin, dark-skinned philosopher ended 
hU career by a voluntary death, in consequence of a 
trivial accident. As he was coming out of his school 
he fell, and broke or crushed his linger, lie exclaimed, 
•• Why call me, death? I come;” and himself terminated 
his existence by suffocation, lie left many writings, on 
a great diversity of subjects, which have been enumer- 
ated by Diogenes Laertius. They have all been lost. 
Thev, like his living instructions, justified the eulogy 
of Antipater of Sidon, that he had shown “the path to 
heaven by the way of virtue:” 

'Till 1TOT atTTpa 

' .\Tpamro v /iooac tvpe auxppocri’iai. 

2. The disciples of Zeno were at first called Zenomans , 
after the master. They received the name of Stoics 
from the painted porch (ffrod 7ronei\/j) at the north- 
western angle of the Agora, in which they were accus- 
tomed to alembic for instruction. 

The numerous changes in the Stoic doctrine, and, still 
more, the variations and oscitancy in the exposition of 
that doctrine, readily explain the disappearance of the 
works of Zeno and of the other chiefs of the school. 
These changes were themselves due to t he imperfections 
and inconsistencies in the philosophy which resulted 
from its syncretistic complexion, and naturally provoked 
and excused partial dissent, frequent rectifications, and 
repeated attempts at systematization. Its very defects, 
however, rendered it pliant, and easy of adaptation to 
the changing sentiments and the altering needs of suc- 
cessive generations, and thus maintained its vitality and 
increased its adaptability to dissimilar ages and circum- 
stances. Aristo of Chios, one of the pupils of Zeno, 
manifested Cynic proclivities. He did not accord with 
the wider range of his master’s expositions, and deviated 
widely from his teachings, llerillus of Carthage, an- 
other pupil, approximated more closely to Plato and to 
the Peripatetics, and subordinated the acquisition of 
virtue to the attainment of knowledge which should 
lead to virtue. Cloanthes, another disciple, and the im- 
mediate successor of Zeno in the direction of the Stoic 
school, di fibred from the founder in many important re- 
si >ccts. The pupil and successor of Clean thes, Chrv sip- 
pus of Soli, modified, harmonized, enlarged, and reor- 
ganized the doctrine of the Porch to such an extent 
that the saying became proverbial, 

ti pi] yop my Xptxrtnnotf ovk av »ji/ arnd 

(unless Chrysippns bad lived, there would have been 
no Stoic school), lie treated all the departments of 
philosophy, and treated them with fulness, ingenuity, 
and minuteness. To Stoic dialectics, however, he ren- 
dered such signal services ns to suggest the eulogistic 
remark, m 7rood ct oitj i/p i) (JmAtjemv/, upk up f/p d\\i/ 
t) i/ \ou<T(7r7rMoc (if the gods had any art of dialectics, 
it could he no other than that of Chrysippns). In eon- 
seipienct* of the complete redintegration of Stoicism by 
t'hrvsippus the phrase Chrynipjri yyjmnn is employed 
by .Juvenal to designate the Stoic system. Aristo of 
Chios had confined philosophy to ethics, and Pmuclius 
of Khodes, near the close of the 2d century 11, C., gave his 
chief attention to this branch, and furnished the sub- 
stance of the celebrated treatise of Cicero lie Ojjia’is. 
Posidonius, the pupil of Paiueiius, and his successor in 
the lihodian school, was distinguished for the variety 
of his knowledge and for tin* extent of his information. 
The citations of Athcn;eim manifest (he wide range of 
Ins intelligent curiosity. 1 1 is collections and researches 
in natural history and other departments of natural sci- 
ence supplied Seneca with the materials for his A ’atnral 
Quesfittn*, one of tin* most curious of the surviving treas- 
ures of antiquity. Posidonius numbered many eminent. 


Romans among his hearers, and was induced, by his in- 
fiuential pupils of the dominant race, to migrate to Rome 
himself towards the close of his long life. lie left the 
school at Rhodes under the charge of his grandson. 

, Jason, the eighth ami last of the regular succession of 
Stoic heresiarchs. The Stoic doctrine had, however, 
been very widely disseminated before this time. It had 
become coextensive with civilization. The philosophi- 
cal treatises of Cicero show how profoundly it had inter- 
ested the best intelligences under the expiring republic 
of Rome. The interest was not diminished by the es- 
tablishment of the empire, when a wider field and a new 
role for the Stoic doctrine were presented both in public 
and private life. Indeed, Stoicism seems never to have 
been more widely diffused, more favorably accepted, or 
more dominant than during the first two centuries of 
our jera. Athenodorus of Tarsus was the instructor, the 
friend, and the adviser of Augustus. But independent 
of any personal relations, the establishment of the em- 
pire was conducive to the spread of the doctrine. The 
marked cosmopolitan tendency of Stoicism ; t he obliter- 
ation by the Stoics of all distinctions of state, race, 
climate, or fortune; their disregard of “race, color, or 
previous condition of servitude,” were congenial to a 
universal empire, and became more pronounced under 
an imperial system which embraced under its rule and 
under one political organization Romans, Greeks, Egyp- 
tians; Spaniards, Gauls, Germans; “ Parthians and 
Modes and Elamites, and the dwellers in Mesopotamia 
and in Judea and Cappadocia, in Pontus and Asia,” etc. 
Hence, the Roman jurisprudence readily accepted from 
it dogmas which have become the foundation of natural, 
international, and often of constitutional law — the state 
of nature, the natural equality of man, etc. The influ- 
ence which the philosophy of the Porch exercised on 
the reorganization and scientific constitution of the Ro- 
l man law cannot be doubted; though the mode and the 
j degree of its operation may still be open to debate. The 
most striking manifestation of the potency of Stoicism 
was, however, displayed in its ready coalescence with 
I republican hopes and republican pretences. It became 
the characteristic and, too often, the shibboleth of a party 
which fretted and pouted and palavered under imperial 
rule, and hoped, or pretended to hope, for the restoration 
of t lie republic; which sometimes conspired against the 
emperors, in a small way, and, more frequently, eher- 
1 ished its sense of heroism by affecting conspiracy. This 
party found its expression alike in the philosophic os- 
tentation of Seneca, in the conduct of Helviditis Prisons 
and Partus Thraseas, in the crabbed satires of Persius, 
and in the declamatory and epigrammatic turgescence 
of Lucan. It seemed to ascend the imperial throne with 
Marcus Aurelius when the imperial station accepted the 
same moral and intellectual level with the slave Epicte- 
tus. The Stoic meditations of the emperor are, how- 
ever, an evidence of the natural goodness of the man, 
of the purification of morals under the Antonines, of the 
experienced need of a new heart in society, and of the 
pervading influence of Christianity. 

The Stoic tenets naturally underwent considerable 
alteration in passing from the speculative ingenuity of 
the Hellenic schools to the hard, practical earnestness 
of Roman life. They were in much closer harmony 
with the spirit of the self-poised, arrogant Roman peo- 
ple than they had been, or could be, with the versatile 
and vivacious genius of t lie Greeks. This greater har- 
mony, with the intrinsic flexibility of Stoic opinion, 
facilitated the adaptation of the doctrine to the diverse 
idiosyncrasy of the new race of disciples. Stoicism had 
been syncretistic and variable from the first, as already 
stated. It had been variously accepted by the imme- 
diate disciples of Zeno; it hail been modified, and, in 
several respects, transmuted by his successors. It as- 
sumed a still more unsettled and elastic character in the 
writings and opinions of the Roman Stoics — sometimes 
coquetting with Platonism, sometimes assimilating itself 
to Peripateticism ; more commonly blending itself with 


STOICS 


1041 


STOLDEIiG 


Cynicism. Yet, with all its fluctuations, it became more 
influential than ever in regulating moral conduct, or, 
at least, moral professions, and in determining moral 
sentiments. With the progress of time and the enlarge- 
ment of social relations and conditions, it became more 
of a religion than of a philosophical theory. Its teach- 
ers became preachers; its instructions resembled homi- 
lies; its assemblies were like congregations of religious 
worshippers. Throughout its whole duration, unity of 
spirit and consistency of moral tone were more regarded 
than uniformity of doctrine. Such unity and consist- 
ency it maintained. Hence, while the philosophic doc- 
trine became laxer in details, it became more rigorous 
in its professed discipline. It was thus able to offer it- 
self as a pagan competitor to the rising Christianity. 
With the growth of the new religion it gradually waned. 
Its discrepances, discords, and intestine controversies 
destroyed its authority by dividing its followers. Its 
extravagances and absurdities, and its want of any ten- 
able philosophic basis, rendered it impotent in conflict 
with the new revelation. In its later period it borrow- 
ed much, undoubtedly, from Christian teachings; but it 
borrowed in vain. It was “impar congressits Achilli.” 
The very consonance of its teachings with Christian 
precepts weakened it in the combat, and only promoted 
the victory of its rival. Yet whatever changes it un- 
derwent in its successive developments, it retained 
throughout its well-marked character as an authorita- 
tive scheme of ethics. The Stoics may, accordingly, be 
regarded as the precursors of the Christian faith in the 
department of practical morals, and as having prepared 
the path and made smooth the way for the progress and 
reception of its heavenly successor. 

II. Later Teachers. — The regular “catena Stoieorum” 
extended only from Zeno to Jason, a period of two cen- 
turies and a half. Zeno was said to have guided his 
school for fifty-eight years. Among the numerous pu- 
pils of those long years are specified Cleanthes of Assos, 
in the Troad; Aristo of Chios; Ilerillns of Carthage; 
Persons of Citium, a slave of Zeno ; Aratus of Soli ; Di- 
onysius of Heraeleia, in Pontus; and Spluerus of Bos- 
porus. 

1. Cleanthes was the immediate successor of the found- 
er, and retained many of his fellow-disciples in the school. 
A very beautiful and most characteristic hymn, address- 
ed by him to Jove “of many names,” has been preserved, 
and is our most valuable relic of early Stoicism. 

2. Chrysippus of Soli (B.C. 280-206), the reformer 
and renovator of the Stoic creed, succeeded Cleanthes. 
He was singularly perspicacious and of indefatigable 
industry. The works which he composed are said to 
have numbered seven hundred and fifty. Among his 
more noted disciples w r ere his nephew Aristoereon, Teles, 
Eratosthenes, and Boethus. 

3. Zeno of Tai'sus. 

4. Diogenes of Seleucia . 

5. A ntipater of Tarsus, among whose pupils was Blos- 
sius of Cumte, the teacher and friend of Tiberius Grac- 
chus. 

6. Paneetius of Rhodes succeeded him, and died before 
A.C. 111. He had several noble Ilomans among bis 
hearers, including 'Seipio Afrieauus, according to the 
declaration of Cicero. 

7. Posidonius of Apamea (T5.C. 135-51) succeeded his 
preceptor Painetius, and was the last illustration of the 
formal Stoic school. He taught at Rhodes, where his 
lectures were attended by Pompey and many other em- 
inent Romans of that day. By their persuasions he 
was induced to remove to Rome at a very advanced age. 
He left his school at Rhodes in charge of 

8. Jason, his grandson, the last of the Stoic succes- 
sion, with whom the history of the school, as such, 
closes; and with whom, likewise, Zeller’s account of the 
Stoics proper terminates. 

III. For the doctrine of the Stoics, see Stoic Philos- 
ophy. 

IV. Literature. — To the works mentioned under this 

IX.— U u u 


head in the notice of the Stoic Philosophy (q. v.) may 
be added : 1 lUcliner, A risto ron Chios (Leips. 1725) ; Moh- 
nike, Cleanthes der Stuiker ; Baquet, l)e Chrysippi Vita, 
Doctr. et Relig. (Lovan. 1822); Van Lynden, Disp. de 
Palladia Rhodio (Lugd. 1802) ; Bake, Position. Rhod. Rt - 
lig. Doctrina (ibid. 1810); Seheppig, De Position. Apam. 
(Berol. 1870); Rifault, Hist. Phil. Lift, de t Eniperevr 
Marc Aurele (Paris, 1830); Suekau, Etude sur Marc 
Aurele (ibid. 1858); Groseli, Die Sitteulehre des Epik - 
tet. (Wcrnigerode, 1867). See Stoicism and Cnuis- 
tianity. (G. F. 11.) 

Stokes, Jambs M., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was born in Livingstone Par- 
ish, La., Dec. 22, 1832. Ilis conversion took place in 
December, 1858, and be studied theology under the di- 
rection of the Rev. G. G. N. MacDonncll, of Lumpkin, 
Ga. Here he was licensed to preach, Dec. 19, 1859, 
At the commencement of the war he entered the Con- 
federate army, and, after serving fourteen months, was 
appointed chaplain, lie resigned the chaplaincy in 
July, 1864, and in November, 1865, was admitted into 
the Georgia Conference. In 1868, a change of climate 
being necessary for his health, he was transferred to the 
Missouri Conference. For the same reason he was, in 
1871, transferred to the Florida Conference. lie died 
at Live Oak, Fla., April 19, 1875. See Minutes of An- 
niuil Conferences of the M. E. Church, South , 1875, p. 
178. 

Stola. See Stole. 

Stolberg, Fkikdrich Leopold vox, Count, a poet 
and statesman in North Germany at the close of the 
18th and the beginning of the 19th century, is entitled 
to a place here because of the notoriety he acquired 
through his perversion to Romanism. lie was horn at 
Bramstcdt, in Holstein, Nov. 7, 1750, of parents belong- 
ing to very ancient families. A sense of his high birth 
clung to him while he lived; and if to this trait we 
add a very tender, emotional, and impressible disposi- 
tion, and, during a portion of his life at least, an enthu- 
siastic ardor for liberty, we shall have stated the qual- 
ities by which his career was determined. At Gbtt ing- 
en, whither he went in 1772 after a period spent at 
Halle, he became a member of an association of stu- 
dents whose bond was the new spirit of liberty — with 
its ideas and hopes at that time taking possession of 
men’s minds — and whose aim was the cultivation of 
poetry. In this circle he read an ode on liberty which 
astonished his hearers hv its enthusiasm. In 1775 he 
travelled to Switzerland, meeting with and accompanied 
by Goethe on the way, and at Zurich associating with 
Lavater. In 1777 he became ambassador to Copenha- 
gen for the prince-bishop of Lubeck, and established 
himself at the castle of Kutin, in Holstein, where Voss, 
the friend of his student days at Gottingen, had been 
settled as rector. lie published a version of the lliatl 
in the metre of the original (1778), portions of vEscliv- 
lus, a number of dramas with choruses, and some satir- 
ical “iambics.’’ In 1782 he married Agnes von Witzle- 
ben, and in 1786 accepted a transfer to Neuenburg, in 
the duchy of Oldenburg, as magistrate. We next find 
him, after the death of his wife in 1788, at Berlin in 
the capacity of ambassador for Denmark. He contin- 
ued to employ his attention with the study of the an- 
cient classics, hut religious questions began at this time 
to occupy a prominent place in his thoughts. Ilis 
views were thoroughly orthodox according to the stand- 
ard of the Lutheran Church, and his poetic tempera- 
ment inclined him towards mysticism; his heart yearn- 
ed for communion with God; and he was pained to find 
persons who ventured to believe that they could pros- 
per without God. He protested against a reconstruc- 
tion of the hymnology of the German Church in the 
interests of the then current rationalistic “enlighten- 
ment,” and prayed that the minds employed upon such 
work might fare as did king Saul, “who came to dis- 
turb the prophets and ended with prophesying himself.” 


STOLBERG 


1042 


STOMACHER 


In 1790 he consummated a second marriage (with So- 
phia, countess von Kcdern), and soon afterwards under- 
took a trip to Italy, which led him to Munster and ex- 
posed him to the intluences that determined him to go 
over to the Church of Home. He found at Milnstcr 
a type of Catholicism in which the Christian element 
was prominent and the Komish element not unpleasant- 
ly noticeable. Princess Gallitzin was its leading rep- 
resentative, and became the principal agent in persuad- 
ing him to make the desired transfer. The journey 
was continued to Pome, where he was profoundly stirred 
while witnessing the celebration of the mass by pope 
Pius VI, and tilled with admiration for the pontiff on 
being admitted to an audience. He met the brothers 
Droste, who had been recommended to him by the 
princess (lallitzin, and who advanced his progress to- 
wards the Komish Church very materially, though the 
public avowal of his renunciation of Protestantism was 
delayed some years, lie returned to Putin, and enter- 
ed on the performance of his duties as president of the 
government in the spring of 1793. The Milnster cote- 
rie were from this period in regular communication with 
him, while his Protestant friends of former days were 
gradually alienated. In 1798 he notified the gov- 
ernment that he intended to resign his offices, and in 
the same year he visited the Moravian community, to 
find, if he could, among them the peace and rest for 
which his soul longed; but he at the same time sub- 
mitted the doubts which agitated his mind to Asseline, 
the exiled bishop of Boulogne, and received a reply in 
consonance with his desires. The transition to the 
Church of Pome was made on June 1, 1800, in the pri- 
vate chapel of princess Gallitzin. The reasons which 
determined Stolberg’s action may be reduced to three : 
1. A bald, cold, unsatisfying rationalism was in control 
of the evangelical churches. The formal principle of 
Protestantism, submission to the llible, was loudly pro- 
claimed, but the demands of reason allowed very few 
scriptural truths to stand. So emotional a nature as 
Stolberg’s could never rest content with such a state of 
affairs. 2. Stolberg lacked the keen intellect and res- 
olute will which might have fitted him to find and ap- 
ply the remedy for the evils winch he saw, as his high 
station would have enabled him to do. lie was simply 
a man of feeling, and, in addition, a weakling who could 
endure no controversy, though it might assume no 
greater proportions than an adverse discussion of his 
accepted ideas. 3. He saw Bomanism under a most 
captivating disguise. The MUnster Catholics drew 
their inspiration from the Bible and the Christian mys- 
tics, and made the person of Christ the centre of their 
religions life. On Sept. 28, 1800, Stolberg, having re- 
signed his official position, removed from Butin to Miin- 
ster and renewed his literary activity, giving some at- 
tention to the classics, Out devoting himself more es- 
pecially to religious work. In 1803 he published Au- 
gustine’s he Vera Rdigione and he Moribus heel, Ca- 
thnltcip in German, and also composed the inscription 
which was placed on the stone over the grave of K lop- 
stock (ip v.), who had been tbc friend of his youth. 
Stimulated bv C. A. Droste (q. v.), be began a Gesckick- 
te <hr Religion ,/esu Ckristi, of which fourteen volumes 
appeared between 1800 and 1818. Ilia patriotism in 
these later days was as evident as it had been in his 
youth. The freedom of his expressions led to his be- 
ing placed under surveillance by tbc French invaders 
in 1*12; and when the German rising took place in 
lHi;t he gave four sons to the army, and composed a 
number of patriotic hymns. But his day was almost 
over. 1 he labor required for his history was exhaust- 
ing him. Il<> t urned his attention wholly upon the 
Scripture*, and wrote two edifying volumes entitled lie- 
trarktungen u. Bek, rzigungen (hr heil, Sckrift, a life of 
\ ineent do I’anl, and a work styled It Vickie in der l Ache, 
with which he closed his life, lie died Dee.f), 18 19, call- 
ing with his dying breath on the “ Mother of God,” and 
placing confidence in the intercession of saints, but, af- 


ter all, drinking in comfort and strength from the solid 
promises of the Scriptures. This, indeed, was the pe- 
culiarity of Stolberg’s Catholicism, that it was in the 
main, not Komish, but scriptural. Ilis last words were, 
“ Blessed be Jesus Christ.” See Nicolov, F. L. Graf zu 
Stolberg (Mavence, 1846); Von Bippen, Eu finer Slizzen, 
etc. (Weimar, 1859); Goethe, Wahrheit und Dichtung , 
xviii ; Voss, in Pa ulus’s Sophronizen, Wie ward Fr. 
Stolberg ein Unfreier? (Frankf.-on-the-Main, 1819); 
Stolberg, Kurze .1 bfertigung, etc. ( Hamb. 1 820 ) ; Kater- 
kamp, Leben der Fiirstin Amalie v. Gallitzin (2d ed. 
51 blister, 1839) ; Schott, Toss u. Stolberg, etc. (Stuttgart, 
1850) ; Gesummelte Werke der Briider Stolberg (Ilamb. 
1825 sq., 20 vols.). — Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Stole (oroXtj), a Greek term for (1) a vesture or 
garment; (2) a vestment reaching to the feet, and 
worn by bishops and priests. This garment was orig- 
inally of white linen, but so early as the beginning of 
the 7th century some of the younger clergy of Spain 
had taken to “colored oraria” decked with gold, and 
were not even content with one only. See Marriott, 
Vestiarium Christiannm , p. 215. 

In more recent times the stole is a narrow band of 
silk or stuff, fringed at the ends, adorned with embroid- 
ery, and even jewels, worn on the left shoulder of dea- 
cons, when it is called orarium (q. v.), and round the 
neck of bishops and priests. It was, probably, like the 
maniple, at first a handkerchief or towel. It denotes 
the yoke of Jesus, or, as Tyndale states, the rope with 
which our Lord was bound to the pillar of scourging. 
That it is of ancient origin may be seen by the fact 
that the Council of Laodicea, A.D. 364, forbade its use 
to snbdeaeons. The fourth Council of Toledo says that 
it is worn by a deacon on the left shoulder “ because he 
preaches,” and by a priest on the right shoulder that 
he may be ready for his ministrations. Anciently the 
stole w r as long, reaching nearly down to the feet. In 
the Western Church it is the custom for a priest, when 
ministering at the altar, to cross the stole on his breast 
and put the ends through the girdle of the alb. This 
has become general since about the 13th century. A 
bishop, as he w r ore a pectoral cross, w r ore his stole 
straight. The deacon, at mass, wears his stole over the 
left shoulder, fastened under the right arm. The stole 
is a symbol of jurisdiction, in which sense it is con- 
stantly worn by the pope, even when not officiating; 
and there is a custom in Italy, illustrative of the same 
principle as to jurisdiction, of the parish priest, after he 
has administered extreme unction, leaving the stole 
upon the foot of the bed, not to be removed until the 
death or recovery of the patient. 

The stole of the Eastern priests, called orarion, or 
epitrachelion, is merely a long strip of silk or stuff more 
than double the width of a Western stole, and with a 
hole in the middle of the upper part, through which 
the eelebrant puts his head. It has an embroidered 
seam down the middle. 

In the Bcfortned Church the stole is still used under 
the slightly changed form of the scarf (q. v.). Until 
within the lust few years the use of the stole or scarf 
was confined in the Beformed Church of England to 
bishops, chaplains of the nobility, members of chapters, 
and graduates in divinity : of late, however, it has been 
generally worn by the London clergy, though with what 
authority is not clear. See Ornaments, Ecclesias- 
tical. 

Stolizein (<Tro\i£m')> a Greek term signifying “to 
put the chrism robe on a person.” 

Stomacher (b^ns, pethigil), some article of 
female attire (Isa. iii, 24), the character of which is a 
mere matter of conjecture. The Sept, describes it as a 
variegated tunic (\'iroji' /i«T07r6p<pv/)oc) ; the Vulg. as 
a species of girdle ( fascia pect oralis). The word is 
evidently a compound, but its elements are uncertain. 
Gesenius ( Thesaur . p. 1137) derives it from 


STOMION 


1043 


STONE 


with very much the same sense as in the Sept; Saal- 
schtitz (A rchaol. i, 30) from ‘'PB, with the sense 
of “undisguised lust,” as applied to some particular 
kind of dress. The latest explanation (approved by 
Fiirst and Muhlau) is that of Dietrich (Sent. Wbrterb. 
p. 290) from the Chald. 3P B,fne linen (X5PD, overgar- 
ment), with the noun-ending il (as in See 

Attire. 

Stomion polon adaon (^roptov ireoXtov ddawr) 
is the beginning of a hymn attributed to Clement of 
Alexandria, and is found at the close of his Pedagogue. 
It is the oldest Christian hymn extant, and is a sublime 
but somewhat turgid song of praise to the Logos, as 
the divine educator and leader of the “human race.” 
The title ofthe hymn is"Y/«/o£ rov XioTgpog Xptarov, 
i. e. “ Hymn of the Saviour Christ,” and it addresses 
Christ as the leader of the youth, that he himself may 
gather them to praise him (ver. 1-8); then as the shep- 
herd and king of the saints, that he may guide his 
sheep and rule over them (ver. 9-22) ; and, finally, as 
the Eternal Word, whose footsteps lead to heaven (ver. 
23-53). The first part runs thus in the original Greek : 

I.TO/JLIOV ttwXoiv adaujv, 

IlTCpov apvi$<ov c!i7rAcm«>v, 

Oia? vr\wv uTpentp, 

Horn ijv upvwv fiacriXinuiv’ 

Toef cro i'f u</>eAeI? 7rai5a? ayetpov, 

AlvcTv ajieof, vpveiv udoAoo? 

’AkJkoic aropaatv 
na«<3a)v hytjTOpa XpicrTov. 

There are three English translations of this hymn : one 
by W. Wilson, in the A nte-Xicene Christian Library , 
vol. iv ; Clement of Alexandria , i, 343 sq. : 

“ Bridle of colts untamed. 

Over our wills presiding, 

Wing of un wandering birds, 

Our flight securely guiding. 

Rudder of youth unbending. 

Firm against adverse shock ; 

Shepherd with wisdom tending 
Lambs of the royal flock 

a second by Mrs. Charles, in the Christian Life in Song , 
p. 44 sq. : 

“ Month of babes who cannot speak, 

Wing of nestlings who canuot fly,” etc. ; 

and a third by Saville, found in the Lyra Sacra (Lond. 
1865), p. 5, and adopted by Schaff in Christ in Song, p. 
675: 

“ Shepherd of tender youth, 

Guiding in love and truth,” etc. 

For the German translations, as well as for the litera- 
ture on this hymn, see the very learned article on the 
contents and structure of this hymn hv Prof. Piper, in 
his Evangel. Kalender for 1868, p. 17-39. (B. P.) 

Stone (usually ‘]5^, eben ; but occasionally pbo, 
sela, or "SiS, tear, both of which are rather a rock ; X&og, 
sometimes 7 rirpoQ or xf/ijtpog). In such rocky countries 
as Mount Sinai and Syria, stones were naturally of very 
frequent reference in Biblical language. See Rock. 

The kinds of ordinary stone mentioned by ancient 
and modern writers as "found in Palestine (q. v.) are 
chiefly limestone (Isa. xxvii, 9) [especially marble 
(q. v.)] and sandstone; occasionally basalt (Josephus, 
Ant. viii, 7, 4), flint, and firestone (2 Macc. x, 3). (Sec 
Wagner, De Lapidibus Judaicis [Hal. 1724]). Sec 
Mineral. 

The uses to which stones were applied in ancient 
Palestine were very various. 

1. They were used for the ordinary purposes of build- 
ing, and in this respect the most noticeable point is the 
very large size to which they occasionally run (Mark 
xiii, 1). Robinson gives the dimensions of one as 21 
feet long by 6 feet broad and 3 feet high (lies, i, 233 ; 
see also p. 284, note). See Q carry. For most pub- 
lic edifices hewn stones were used. An exception was 
made in regard to altars, which were to be built of 
unhewn stone (Exod. xx, 25; Dcut, xxvii, 5; Josh, viii, 


31), probably as being in a more natural state. The 
Phoenicians were particularly famous for their skill in 
hewing stone (2 Sam. v, 11; 1 Kings v, 18). Stones 
were selected of certain colors in order to form orna- 
mental string-courses. In 1 Chron. xxix, 2 we find 
enumerated “onyx stones and stones to he set, glister- 
ing stones (lit. stones of eye-paint ), and of divers colors 
(i. e. streaked with veins), and all manner of precious 
stones, and marble stones ” (comp. 2 Chron. iii, 6). They 
were also employed for pavements (2 Kings xvi, 17 ; 
comp. Esth. i, 6). 

2. Large stones were used for closing the entrances 
of caves (Josh, x, 18 ; Dan. vi, 17), sepulchres (Matt, 
xxvii, 60; John xi,38 ; xx, 1), and springs (Gen. xxix, 
2 ). 

3. Flint-stones (“^li or occasionally served the 
purpose of a knife, particularly for circumcision and sim- 
ilar objects (Exod. iv, 25 ; Josh, v, 2, 3 ; comp. Herod, ii, 
86; Plutarch, Nicias, 13; Catull. Carm. lxii, 5). See 
Knife. 

4. Stones were further used as a munition of war for 
slings (1 Sam. xvii, 40, 49), catapults (2 Chron. xxvi, 
14), and bows (Wisd. v, 22 ; comp. 1 Macc. vi, 51). Also 
as boundary marks (Dent, xix, 14; xxvii, 17 ; Job xxiv, 
2; Prow xxii, 28; xxiii, 10) : such were probably the 
stone of Bohan (Josh, xv, 6 ; xviii, 17), the stone of Abel 
(l Sam. vi, 15, 18), the stone Ezel (xx, 19), the great 
stone by Gibeon (2 Sam. xx, 8), and the stone Zoheleth 
(1 Kings i, 9). Finally as weights for scales (Deut. 
xxv, 13; Prov. xvi, 11) ; and for mills (2 Sam. xi, 21). 

5. Large stones were set up to commemorate any re- 
markable events, as by Jacob at Bethel after his inter- 
view with Jehovah (Gen. xxviii, 18; xxxv, 14), and 
again when he made the covenant with Laban (xxxi, 
45) : by Joshua after the passage of the Jordan (Josh, 
iv, 9) ; and by Samuel in token of his victory over the 
Philistines (1 Sam. vii, 12). See Pillar. Similarly 
the Egj’ptian monarchs erected their stelce at the far- 
thest point they reached (Herod, ii, 106). Such stones 
were occasionally consecrated by anointing, as instanced 
in the stone erected at Bethel (Gen. xxviii. 18). A sim- 
ilar practice existed in heathen countries, both in Asia 
and in Europe (see De Saulcv, Dead Sea , ii, 51, 52; 
Hackett, lllustra.of Script, p. 102; More, Pillar Stones 
of Scotland [Edinb. 1865]). See Altar. By a singu- 
lar coincidence these stones were described in Phoenicia 
by a name very similar to Bethel, viz. batylia (/3am'- 
Xi a), whence it has been surmised that the heathen 
name was derived from the scriptural one, or vice versa 
(Kalisch, Comm, in Gen. loc. cit.). But neither are the 
names actually identical, nor are the associations of a 
kindred nature; the bcetylia were meteoric stones, and 
derived their sanctity from the belief that they had 
fallen from heaven, whereas the stone at Bethel was 
simply commemorative. See Bethel. The only point 
of resemblance between the two consists in the custom 
of anointing — the anointed stones (Ai3oi Xnrapoi , Clem. 



STONE 


1044 


STONE 



combined, the white 
conveying the notion 
of acquittal, the stone 
that of election (Ben- 
gel, Gnom . ) ; to the 
stones in the high- 
priest’s breastplate 
(Ziillig) ; to the tick- 
ets presented to the 
victors at the public 
games, securing them 
maintenance at the 
] uiblie expense ( 1 1 am- 
mond) ; or, lastly, to 
the custom of writing 
on stones (Alford, ad 
loc.). (See the mono- 
graphs on this sub- 
ject, in Latin, by Ma- 
jus [Giss. 170G] and 
Dresig [Lips. 1731].) 

9. The use of stones 
for tablets is alluded 
to in Exod. xxiv, 12 
and Josh, viii, 32; and 
to this we may add 
the guide -stones to 
the cities of refuge 

Alex. Strom, vii, 302), which are frequently mentioned \ (see Schottgen, De Lctpidihus Yialibus [Lips. 171 G ]), 
by ancient writers as objects of divine honor (Arnob. ; and the mile-stones of the Ilomau period (comp. Otho, 
Adr. Gent . i, 39 ; Enseb. Prop. Evany. i, 10, 18 ; Pliny, | Lex. Rahb. p. 362). See City. 

xxxvii, 51 ; Theophr. Char. 17 ; Pausan. x, 24, 5; see j 10. Stones for striking tire are mentioned in 2 Mace. 
Bellermann, Steine zu salben [Erf. 1793]), being prob- x,3. 


Cromlech at Plus Newydd. 


ably aerolites 

6. That the worship of stones prevailed among the 


11. Stones were prejudicial to the operations of hus- 
bandry; hence the custom of spoiling an enemy’s held 


heathen nations surrounding Palestine (see Biedermann, by throwing quantities of stones upon it (2 Kings iii, 
De Lapidum Cultu [Frib. 1749]; 1 lolling, De Bcetyl- 19, 25), and, again, the necessity of gathering stones 
lis Yett. [Gron. 1715]; Faleeonet, in the Me moires de previous to cultivation (Isa. v, 2). Allusion is made to 
r A cad. des hiscr. vi, 513 sq. [see Stone-worship]), and both these practices in Eccles. iii, 5 (“a time to cast 
was borrowed from them bv apostate Israelites, appears away stones, and a time to gather stones”). 

12. The notice in Zech. xii, 3 of the “burdensome 
stone ” is referred by Jerome to the custom of lifting 
mils of another sense— “ in the smooth (clear of wood) stones as an exercise of strength, which he describes as 
places of the vallev”— and no reliance can be placed on bein S P ractice d in Judtca in his day (comp. Ecclus. vi, 
a peculiar term introduced partlv Ibr the sake of alliter- 21 ); it may equally well be explained of a large 
ation. The eben via skit h (r^rz -,ZX), noticed in corner-stone as a symbol of strength (Isa. xxviii 16). 

T . , , . , T . • s • i stones are used metaphorically to denote hardness or 

TV?'. 1 ’ , d r e , ) ,a3 aga “’ b , C . C " insensibility (1 Sam. xxv, 37 ; Kek.xi.19i xxxvi,2G), 

.'"' w " lth tl,c ***"’ tlle ,l0,lb,fl ' 1 term m " skM las well as firmness or strength, as in Gen. xlix, 24, where 


from Isa. 1 vii, 6, according to the ordinary rendering of J 
the passage; but the original (Tj^.n ad- 

in the smooth (clear of wood) 


(comp. Numb, xxxiii, 52, “picture Ezek. viii, 12 
agery”) being supposed to refer to devices engraven on 
the stone. See Idol. The statue ( matstsebdh , nz-lz) 
of Baal is said to have been of stone and of a conical 
slia]>e (Movers, Phon. i, 673), but this is hardly recon- 
cilable with the statement of its being burned in 2 Kings 
x,20 (the correct reading of which would be matstsebdh , 
and not matsfsibuth). See Stonehenge. 

7. Heaps of stones were piled up on various occasions : 
as in token of a treaty (Gen. xxxi, 46), in which case a 
certain amount of sanctity probably attached to them 
(Homer, t)d. xvi, 171); or over the grave of some no- 
torious offender (Josh, vii, 26 ; viii, 29; 2 Sam. xviii, 
17 ; sec I'ropert. iv, 5, 75, for a similar custom among 


the stone of Israel” is equivalent to “ the rock of Is- 
rael” (2 Sam. xxiii, 3; Isa. xxx, 29). The members 
of the Church are called “ living stones,” as contributing 
to rear that living temple in which Christ, himself “ a 
living stone," is the chief or head of the corner (Eph. 
ii, 20-22 ; 1 Pet. ii, 4-8). See Co unek- stone. 

STONE of Dedication. An original stone, in- 
scribed with the date of dedication, 1 192, remains at 
Clee Church, Lincolnshire. — Walcott, Sac. Arch. s. v. 
Stone, Cornelius, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born at Jay, Me., and after a 
thorough collegiate and theological education, joined 

^ ^ tIie ^ a * ne Conference in 1841. In 1858 his declining 

tlu* liumansj. See Calked. The size of some of these ! ,caIth eom P ell ed him to abandon the work of the min- 
luaps Incomes very great from the custom prevalent istr * v antl rctire t0 his paternal homestead. He twice 
among i In Arabs 'that each passer-by adds a stone. ri> presented his district in the State Legislature, lie 


Burekhnnlt mentions one near Damascus 20 feet long. 

2 feet high, and 3 feet broad {Syria, p. 46). A refer- 
ene«- to this practice in supposed by Gcsonius to be con- 
tained in l’rov. xxvi,8, which he renders “as a bag of j 
gcins in n heap of stones” (Thrs. p. 1263). The Vul- | 
gale has a curious version or this passage: “ Sicut qui 
min it lapidem in ncervum Mcrcnrii.” 

1 he “white stone” (q. v.) noticed in I lev. ii, 17 
hn-» Imcii variously regarded as referring to the pebble 
of arqui t tal u seil i u t he ( I reek con rts (O vid, Met. x v, 4 1 ) ; 
to the lot cast in elections in Greece; to both these 


lied at Jay, April 5, 1866. Mr. Stone was highly 
teemed as a faithful minister and an able\gnd discreet 
legislator. See Minutes of Annual Conferences, 1866, 

p. 106. 

Stone, Frank, an English artist, was born at Man- 
chester in 1800. lie settled in London, and in 1851 was 
elected an associate of the Iloyal Academy. Among 
his religious paintings, Christ and the of Beth- 

any is much admired. See Thomas, Bioy. Diet. s. v. 

Stone, Isaac, a Methodist Episcopal minister, was 
born at lloosick, llcnsselaer Co., N. Y., March 28, 1797. 


STONE 


1045 


STONEHENGE 


He was converted in 1816, admitted on trial as a travel- 
ling preacher in 1 822, and tilled successively the fol- 
lowing circuits and stations: Herkimer, Westmoreland, 
Canajoharie, Otsego, Black River, Stoekbridge, West- 
moreland, Borne, Verona, and Lowvillc, N. Y. In 1836 he 
was made presiding elder of Oswego District ; in 1840-47 
he supplied Fulton, Wecdsport, Potsdam, and Watertown 
stations; in 1847 he was made presiding elder of Adams 
District; in 1848 superannuated, after which he was sel- 
dom able to preach. lie died Sept. 10, 1850. He was 
distinguished for the depth and genuineness of his hu- 
mility ; he was also a man of great kindness, which was 
manifest in all his public ministrations and private in- 
tercourse with his fellow-men. See Minutes of Annual 
Conferences , iv, 616. (J. L. S.) 

Stone, John S., a Presbyterian minister, was born 
at Madrid, St. Lawrence Co., N. Y., in November, 1823. 
He enjoyed the training and counsel of earnest, devoted 
Christian parents, spent the most of the early part of his 
life in teaching, studied theology privately, was duly 
licensed by the St. Lawrence Association in 1852, com- 
menced his labors at Bedford, N. Y., and was ordained 
by a Congregational Council in 1854. In June, I860, he 
became pastor of the Church at An Sable Forks, N. Y., 
which post he filled with marked fidelity, until lie was 
constrained to enter the service of the United States, 
and received a captain’s commission in 1862. He was 
killed in his first battle, May 16, 1864. See Wilson, 
Presb . Hist, A Imanac , 1866, p. 225. 

Stone, Joseph, a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was born in England about the year 1742. He emi- 
grated to America early in life, was admitted into the 
itinerancy in 1796, and appointed to Montgomery Circuit, 
in 1797-98 to Federal, in 1799 to Fairfax, in 1*800-1 to 
Frederick, in 1802 to Huntington, in 1803 to Carlisle, 
in 1804 to Alleghany, in 1805 to Frederick, in 1806 to 
Winchester, in 1807-8 to Fairfax, in 1809 to Berkley, 
in 1810 to Loudon, Ya. ; and in 1811 the Conference 
granted him a superannuated relation, in which he was 
retained till death, Oct. 7, 1818. He was a plain, zeal- 
ous, and useful minister of the Gospel. See Minutes of 
Annual Conferences , i, 324; Stevens, Hist, of the M. 
E. Church, iv, 244; Bangs, Hist, of the M. E. Church, 
iii, 98. 

Stone, R. W., a minister of the Methodist Episco- 
pal Church, South, was born in White County, Tenn., 
1846. He first united with the Baptist Church in 1869, 
but joined the Methodists the same year. He was soon 
after licensed to preach, and was admitted to the Louis- 
ville Conference in 1869, but died in Allen County, Ky., 
Feb. 24, 1873. See Minutes of A nnual Conferences of the 
M. E. Ck.y South , 1873, p. 866. 

Stone, Samuel, a Congregational minister, was 
born at Hertford, England, and was educated at Eman- 
uel College, Cambridge, lie then studied divinity under 
the instruction of Rev. Richard Blackcrby. Being a Non- 
conformist, he resolved to seek the more congenial at- 
mosphere of New England, and arrived in America Sept. 
4, 1633. On Oct. 1 1 following a Church was organized 
at Newtown, Conn., of which he was ordained teacher, 
Mr. Hooker being ordained pastor. In June, 1636, near- 
ly the whole Church, including pastor and teacher, re- 
moved to Hartford, where Mr. Stone labored with Mr. 
Hooker for fourteen years, and then became sole pastor. 
This position he retained until his death, July 26, 1663. 
The latter part of his ministry was embittered by a vi- 
olent controversy in the Church, originating in a dis- 
pute on some ecclesiastical topie between himself and a 
Mr. Goodwin, a ruling elder. The origin of the misun- 
derstanding is unknown. Mr. Stone published a Dis- 
course on the Logical Notion <>/ a Congregational Church 
(Loud. 1652) ; and left in IMS. a work against Antiuomi- 
auism, and a body of divinity. See Sprague, A nnals 
of the Amer. Pulpit, i, 37. 

Stone, Timothy, a Congregational minister, was 


born July 23 (O. S.), 1742, and entered Yale College in 
1/59, from which he graduated in due course. After 
his graduation he taught school in North Branford, 
studied theology under Rev. Mr. Brinsmadc, of Judea 
(now Washington), Conn., and was licensed to preach 
by the New Haven Association, Sept. 24, 1765. He 
preached for some time in Hanover, and was then set- 
tled at Goshen, Conn., Sept. 30, 1767 ; and while there dis- 
continued the use of the “ Half-way Covenant,” i. e. of 
admitting to baptism the children of parents who pro- 
fessed a belief in Christianity, and were not immoral in 
their lives, though they did not partake of the ordi- 
nance of the supper. About the year 1790 he preached 
the Concio ml Clerum at Yale, lie died May 12, 1797. 
The following is a list of Mr. Stone’s publications: A 
Sermon on Selfishness (1778): — Sermon on the Death 
of Madam Faith Trumbull (1780): — Election Sermon 
(1792) : — and Ordination Sermon (1794). See Sprague, 
A nnals of the Amer. Pulpit , i, 631. 

Stone, William Murray, D.D., an Episcopal 
clergyman, was born in Somerset County, Md., June 1, 
1779, and graduated from Washington College, Kent 
Co., Md. He studied divinity under Rev. George Da- 
shiell, Baltimore; was ordained deacon by bishop Clag- 
gett, May 17, 1802; and priest, by the same prelate, 
Dec. 27, 1803. Soon after his ordination as deacon he 
was called to the rectorship of Stepney Parish, where he 
remained until, in 1829, he removed to Chester Parish. 
He was chosen bishop of Maryland June 1, 1830, and 
consecrated Oet. 21. He died Feb. 26, 1837. The hon- 
orary degree of D.D. was conferred upon him by Colum- 
bia College in 1830. lie published, A Charge (1831) : 
— Pastoral Letter (1835) : — and A Sermon (1*835). See 
Sprague, A nnals of the A mer. Pulpit, v, 484. 

Stone, William Rodman, a minister of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church, was born in Portsmouth, 
N. H., July 25, 1798, but removed in childhood, with his 
parents, to Boston. In his twenty-second year lie united 
with the Church; and in June, 1825, joined the New 
England Conference on probation. He served in the 
regular pastorate until 1854, when he was appointed 
city missionary in Cambridge, and two years after the 
chaplaincy of the Middlesex County House of Correc- 
tion was added to his labors. In these fields of labor he 
continued until the infirmities of age confined him to 
his home. He died at Cambridge, June 27, 1875. See 
Minutes of A nnual Conferences, 1876, p. 69. 

Stonehenge (Sax. Stanhengist, hanging stones), a 
very remarkable structure, composed of large artificial- 
ly raised monoliths, situated on Salisbury Plain, two 
miles from Ameslmry, in Wiltshire. Its neighborhood 
abounds in sepulchral tumuli, in many of which an- 
cient, British remains have been found. The fabric of 
Stonehenge was comparatively entire in the early part 
of this century, but it is now very much defaced. When 
entire, it consisted of two concentric circles, enclosing 
two ellipses, the whole surrounded bv a double mound 
and ditch circular in form. Outside of the boundary 
was a single upright stone, and the approach was by an 
avenue from the north-east, bounded on each side by a 
mound or ditch. The outer circle consisted of thirty 
blocks of sandstone, fixed upright at intervals of three 
and a half feet, and connected at the top by a continu- 



1046 


STONES 


STONEIIOUSE 


ous series of imposts, sixteen feet from the ground. The 
blocks were all square and rough-hewn, dovetailed to 
each other, and tilled, by mortise-holes in their under- 
sides, 10 knobs in the uprights. About nine feet within 
this peristyle was the inner eircle. composed of thirty 
unhewn granite pillars, from live to six feet in height. 
The grandest part of Stonehenge was the ellipse inside 
the circle, formed of ten or twelve blocks of sandstone, 
from sixteen to twentv-two feet in height, arranged in 
pairs, each pair separate, and furnished with an impost, 
so as to form live or six trilithons. Within these tril- 
i thorns was the inner ellipse, composed of nineteen up- 
rights of granite, similar in size to those of the inner 
circle: and in tike cell thus formed was the so-called al- 
tar. a large slab of blue marble. There has been mueh 
speculation regarding the origin and purpose of Stone- 
henge, which are still involved in much obscurity. In 
modern times the most prevalent opinion has been that, 
in common with other similar structures elsewhere, it 
was a temple for Druidical worship; but this belief has 
been somewhat shaken by the discovery of the sepul- 
chral character of many other monuments which had 
been also presumed to be Druidical. The circular form 
has also suggested the idea of a connection with the 
worship of the sun : and Stonehenge may possibly have 
been used for the religious rites of various successive 
races and creeds; and also as a court of justice or bat- 
tie-ring for judicial combats. — Chambers's Encyclop. s. v. 

Stonehouse, .Tames, Sir, an English baronet and 
clergyman, was born near Abingdon, Berkshire, July 20, 
1710. lie succeeded to the title of baronet late in life, 
bv the death of his relative, Sir James Stonehouse. Ed- 
ucated at Winchester School, he entered St.John’s Col- 
lege. Oxford, where he took his master’s degree in 1739, 
and his degrees in medicine 1742 ami 1745. After sev- 
eral more years devoted to the study of medicine at 
home and abroad, he settled in Northampton, where he 
had a very extensive practice. After practicing for 
twenty years, he left his profession, with the purpose of 
enteringthe ministry. lie wasonlained deacon and priest 
in two successive weeks, by special favor of the bishop 
of Hereford; ami in 1761 was presented to the living of 
Little Cheverell, and in 1779 to that of Great Cheverell. 
lie died at Bristol- Wells, Dee. 8, 1795. Having im- 
bibed infidel notions from Dr. Nichols, one of his instruct- 
ors, he wrote a keen pamphlet against revealed religion, 
the third edition of which, however, he burned. Great- 
ly regretting his former acts of opposition, he devoted 
himself to his work as minister, and also wrote several 
tracts: Considerations on Some Particular Sins, and on 
the Means of Doing Good Modify and Spiritually : — St. 
Paul's Exhortation and Motive to Support the Weak or 
Sick Poor: — .1 Short Explanation of the Sacrament of 
the Lord s Supper, etc. '.— Hints to a Curate for the Man- 
agement of a Parish : — .1 Serious .1 ddress to the Parish- 
ioners tf Great Cheverell. See Chalmers, Ming. Mid. s. v. 

Stones, Crr, Hewn, or Squaued. See Mason. 

STONES, BitEoors. The reader is referred to the 
separate articles, such as Acate, Caiiukncle, Sakuo- 
nyx, etc., lor sneli information as it has been possible 
to obtain on the various gems mentioned in the Bible. 
'The identification of many of the Hebrew names of 
previous stones is a task of considerable dillieultv. 
Sometimes we have no further clue to aid ns in the de- 
termination of a name than the mere derivation of the 
word, which derivation is always too vague to be of 
any service, as ii merely expresses some quality often 
common to tnnnv precious stones. As far, however, as 
regards lint stones of the high-priest’s breastplate, it 
must be remembered that the authority of Josephus, 
*vho had frequent opportunities of seeing it worn, is 
prcfertihle to any other. The Vulg. agrees with his 
nomenclature, and in Jerome’s time the breastplate 
was still to be inspected in the Temple of Coneord ; 
hence this agreement of (he two is of great weight. 

1 he Sept., Vulg., and Josephus are all agreed as to the I 


names of the stones; there is, however, some little dif- 
ference as to their relative positions in the breastplate; 
thus the iuGiriQ, which, according to Josephus, occu- 
pies the second place in the third row, is by the Sept, 
and Vulg. put in the third plaee. A similar transpo- 
sition occurs with respect to the apiSwros and the 
u^drijQ in the third row. The modern Arabic names 
of the more usual gems, which have probably remained 
fixed the last two thousand years, afford us also some 
approximations to the Hebrew nomenclature; still, 
as intimated above, there is mueh that can only be 
regarded as conjecture in attempts at identification. 
Precious stones are frequently alluded to in the Holy 
Scriptures; they were known and very highly valued 
in the earliest times. The onyx stone, fine specimens 
of which are still of great value, is expressly mentioned 
by Moses as being found in the land of Havilah. The 
sard and sardonyx, the amethyst or rose-quartz, with 
many agates and other varieties of quartz, were doubt- 
less the best known and most readily procured. “Onyx 
stones, and stones to be set, glistering stones and of di- 
vers colors, and all manner of precious stones,” were 
among the articles collected by David for the Temple 
(1 Chron. xxix, 2). The Tyrians traded in precious 
stones supplied by Syria (Ezek. xxvii, 10), and the 
robes of their king were covered with the most brilliant 
gems. The merchants of Sheba and Raamah in South 
Arabia, and doubtless India and Ceylon, supplied the 
markets of Tyre with various precious stones. 

The art of engraving on precious stones was known 
from the very earliest times. Sir G. Wilkinson says 
Egypt. [Loud. 1854], ii, 67), “The Israelites learned 
the art of cutting and engraving stones from the Egyp- 
tians.” There can be no doubt that they did learn 
mueh of the art from this skilful nation, but it is prob- 
able that it was known to them long before their so- 
journ in Egypt; for we read in Gen. xxxviii, 18, that 
when Tamar desired a pledge Judah gave her his sig- 
net, which we may safely conclude was engraved with 
some device. The twelve stones of the breastplate 
were engraved each one with the name of one of the 
tribes (Exod. xxviii, 17-21). The two onyx (or sar- 
donyx) stones which formed the high-priest’s shoulder- 
pieces were engraved with the names of the twelve 
tribes — six on one stone and six on the other — “with 
the work of an engraver in stone like the engravings of 
a signet See also Exod. xxviii, 36, “ like the engravings 
of a signet.” It is an undecided question whether the 
diamond was known to the early nations of antiquity. 
The A. V. gives it as the rendering of the Ileb. Yaha- 
lom, (D'Prn), but it is probable that the jasper is in- 
tended. Sir G. Wilkinson is of opinion that the an- 
cient Egyptians were acquainted with the diamond, 
and used it for engraving (ii, 67). Beckmann, on the 
other hand, maintains that the use of the diamond was 
unknown even to the Greeks and Romans: “I must 
confess that I have found no proofs that the ancients 
cut glass with a diamond” {Hist, of Inventions, ii, 87, 
Bohn’s cd.). The substance used for polishing precious 
stones by the ancient Hebrews and Egyptians was em- 
ery powder or the emery stone (corundum), a mineral 
inferior only to the diamond in hardness. See Ada- 
mant. There is no proof that the diamond was known 
to the ancient Orientals, and it certainly must be ban- 
ished from t he list of engraved stones which made the 
sacerdotal breastplate; for the diamond can he cut 
only by abrasion with its own powder, or by friction 
with another diamond ; and this, even in the hands of 
a well-practiced artist, is a work of most patient labor 
and of considerable difficulty; and it is not likely that 
the Hebrews, or any other Oriental people, were able 
to engrave a name upon a diamond as upon a signet 
ring. Again. Josephus tells us (.4 nt. iii, 7, 5) that the 
twelve stones of the breastplate were of great size and 
extraordinary beauty. We have no means of ascer- 
taining their size; probably they were nearly an inch 


1047 


STONING 


STONE-SQUAIIER 

square; at any rate, a diamond only half that size, with 
the five letters of *}blDT (Zebulun) engraved on it — 
for, as he was the sixth son of Jacob (Gen. xxx, 20), 
his name would occupy the third place in the second 
row — is quite out of the question, and cannot possibly 
be the Yahaldm of the breastplate. 

Perhaps the stone called “lignre” by the A. V. has 
been the subject of more discussion than nuy other of 
the precious stones mentioned in the Ilible. In our ar- 
ticle on that subject we were of opinion that the stone 
denoted was probably tourmaline . We objected to the 
“ hyacinth stone” representing the lyncuHuin of the an- 
cients, because of its not possessing attractive powers in 
any marked degree, as we supposed and had been in- 
formed by a well-known jeweller. It appears, how- 
ever, from a communication recently made by Mr. 
King, that the hyacinth ( zircon ) is highly electric 
when rubbed. He states lie is practically convinced 
of this fact, although he allows that highly electric 
powers are not usually attributed to it by mineralo- 
gists. Mr. King asserts that our hyacinth (jacinth, 
zircoti) was greatly used for engraving on by Greeks, 
Romans, and Persians, and that numerous intaglios in 
it exist of the age of Theophrastus. The ancient hya- 
cinthus was our sapphire, as Solinus shows. 

Precious stones are used in Scripture in a figurative 
sense to signify value, beauty, durability, etc., in those 
objects with which they are compared (see Cant, v, 14; 
Isa. liv, 11, 12 ; Lam.iv,7; Rcv.iv,3; xxi, 10-21). As 
to the precious stones in the breastplate of the high- 
priest, sec Josephus, Ant. iii, 7, 5; Epiphanius, lUpi 
rwv ij3' \(5wv ru)v ovnov iv r. oroA. r. ’Aapiov, in 
Epiphanii Opusc. ed. Petavius (Cologne, 1682), ii, 225- 
232 : this treatise has been edited separately by Gcs- 
ner [Conr.], De Omni Rei'um Fossil. Genere , etc. (Tiguri, 
1565), and by Hiller, the author of the JJierophyticon, 
in his Syntagmata Hermeneutica (Tubing. 1711), p. 83; 
Braun, De Yestitu Sacerdotum H ebrieorum (Amstcl. 
1680; 2d ed. 1698), lib. ii, c. 7 and 8; Bellermann, Die 
Urim und Thummim die dltesten Gemmen (Berlin, 1824) ; 
Rosenmiiller, The Mineralogy of the Bible, in Biblical 
Cabinet , vol. xxvii. — Smith. See Gem. 

Stone-squarer. See Giblitk. 

Stone-worship. One of the earliest modes of 
commemorating any remarkable event was to erect a 
pillar of stone or to set up heaps of stone. These in 
course of time came to be looked upon as sacred, and 
even to be worshipped. The stone which Jacob anoint- 
ed and set up at Bethel is the first instance on record 
of a consecrated pillar, and Vossius alleges that, at an 
after-period, it became an object of worship, and was 
conveyed by the Jews to Jerusalem, where it remained 
even after the city was destroyed by the Romans. Ac- 
cording to Bochart, the Phoenicians worshipped Jacob’s 
pillar; but whether this was the case or not, we know, 
on the authority of Sanchoniathon, that they had their 
own beetylia, or anointed stones, to which they paid di- 



Druidical Ilocking-stone. 


vine honors. These, in all probability, were aerolites, 
or meteoric stones, as indeed appears to be indicated in 
the fact that Sanchoniathon traces their origin to Ura- 
nus, or the heavens. Eusebius goes so far as to allege 
that these stones were believed to have souls, and, ac- 
cordingly, they were consulted in cases of emergency as 
being tit exponents of the will of Deity. Herodian re- 
fers to a stone of tins kind as being consecrated to the 
sun under the name of Ileliogabalus, and preserved in 
a temple sacred to him in Syria, “ where,” lie says, 
there stands not any image made with hands, as 
among the Greeks and Romans, to represent the god, 
but there is a very large stone, round at the bottom, 
and terminating in a point, of a conical form, and of a 
black color, which they say fell down from Jupiter.” 
Sacred stones have frequently been worshipped by 
heathen nations, the Druids, etc., and traces of the 
practice are even yet to be found. — Gardner, Faiths of 
the Worlds s. v. bee Stone. 

Stoning (^j7D, CJH [Talmudic, n^po] ; Xi3d£<o, 
XiSofioXtio), as a mode of capital punishment, was or- 
dained by the Mosaic law (see the Mishna, Sanhedr. 
vii, viii) for the following classes of criminals: 1. All 
who trenched upon the honor of Jehovah, i.e. idolaters 
(Lev. xx, 2; Dent, xvii, 2 sq.) and cnticcrs to idolatry 
(xiii, 6 sq.); all blasphemers (Lev. xxiv, 10 sq. ; comp. 
1 Kings xxi, 10 sq. ; Acts vi, 13; vii, 56 sq.), Sabbath- 
breakers (Numb, xv, 32 sq.), fortune-tellers and sooth- 
sayers (Lev. xx, 27); also false prophets (Deut. xiii, 6; 
comp. ver. 11; Mishna, Sanhedr. xi, 1); in fine, those 
who had shared in any accursed thing (Josh, vii, 25). 
See Accursed. 2. Notoriously and incorrigibly dis- 
obedient sons (Dent, xxi, 18 sq.). 3. Brides whose 

tokens of virginity were wanting (xxii, 20 sq.); and so 
an affianced woman who had complied with a seducer, 
together with the seducer himself (ver. 23 sq.). Ac- 
cording to Jewish criminal procedure (Mishna, Sanhedr. 
vii, 4), the same penalty was incurred by those who 
cursed their parents, or had sexual connection with 
their mother (or step-mother), or daughter-in-law, or 
with a beast. In the Mosaic statute these last crimes 
arc classed together (Lev. xx, 9 sq.), but no special 
mode of execution is prescribed; the connection, how- 
ever, seems to point to stoning (comp. Ezek. xvi, 40; 
xxiii, 47; John viii, 5). Finally, Moses enacted this 
punishment in one case for an animal, namely, one that 
had been the means of destroying a human life (Exod. 
xxi, 28 sq. ; the same is presumable in Lev. xx, 15 sq.). 
See Law. 

The process of stoning is nowhere described in the 
Bible; it only appears that the place of execution was 
outside the city (Lev. xxiv, 14 ; Numb, xv, 36 ; 1 Kings 
xxi, 10, 13; Acts vii, 56; comp. Mishna, Satthedr. vi, 
1 sq.), and that the witnesses threw the tirst stone upon 
the culprit (Deut. vii, 7 ; Acts vii, 57 sq.), in order to do 
which they divested themselves of their outer garments 
so as to have the freer use of their hands ( loc . cit.). The 
Talmudists give greater details as to the execution 
(Mishna, Sanhedr. vi, 3, 4; comp. Winer, Chrestom . 
Talm. p. 1 sq.; Ollio, Lex. Babb. p. 361 sq.). Accord- 
ing to them, the offender, if of the male sex, was w hol- 
ly divested of clothing down to the private parts, and 
if of the female sex, both before and behind; and then, 
after being raised upon a scaffold twice as high as a 
man, was thrown down backwards by one of the wit- 
nesses. If he was thereby killed, the penalty thus ful- 
filled upon him was called impulsio ; but if 

he survived this shock, it became the duty of t lie other 
witness to cast a large stone (see Light foot, llor. lltb. 
p. 420) upon the criminal’s heart; and if this were not 
fatal, the bystanders were to fall to stoning. According 
to some rabbins (as Maimonides), the condemned man 
was treated to a bitter draught (wine mingled with 
myrrh or gall), in order to stupefy him. See Cruci- 
fixion. IIow much of these details is of ancient or- 
igin it is impossible to determine. The precipitation 


104S 


STORCH 


STOOL 

of the culprit may have arisen from a false interpreta- 
tion of Exod. xix. 13 (see B. Michaelis, in Bolt’s Syl- 
lot/e, [v, 1 s<t> ; Imt this is improbable, and the allegations 
again>i this Talmudical mode oflapidation (lleinii Dis- 
sert. p. 1 15 sq. : Carpzov, Appar. Crit. p. 584) are with- 
out weight. Moreover, stoning was a frequent resort 
of a mob (a very old practice, Exod. viii, 26; xvii, 4), 
in order to avenge itself on the spot upon such as had 
excited popular ill-will (1 Sam. xxx, G; *2 Cliron. xxiv, 
•21 ; ‘2 Mace, i, 1G; Matt. xxi. 35; Luke xx, G; John x, 
31 s<|. : xi, 8; Acts v, ’2G; ‘2 Cor. xi, *25; Josephus, Ant. 
xiv, *2, 1; xv i, 10.5; I Tor, ii, 1,3; 10,5; Life. 13, 58), 
even among the Jewish [and heathen] populace in for- 
eign cities (Acts xiv, 5, 10). It was likewise resorted 
to by the Creek rabble (Herod, ix, 5; Thucyd. v, GO; 
Bausau. viii. 5, 8; J’Jian. lor. HIM. v, 10; Curtins, vii, 
*2. 1; see Wachsmuth, J/ellen. Alterth. ii, 790 sq.), al- 
though the legitimate practice of stoning occurs among 
the Creeks, i. e. Macedonians (Curtius, vi, 1 1,38; Schol. 
ml En rip. Orest. p. 432); so among the Spaniards 
(Strabo, iii, 155) and Bersians (Ctesias, Fragm. c. 45, 
50); even the provincial officers used this punishment 
(against the Jews) (Bhilo, Opp. ii, 54*2). 11. Michaelis 

adduces an example among the Hermans in the Middle 
Ages {I>e Jmliciis Pirnisque Cap it. § 6). See, generally, 
Carpzov. Appur. Crit. p. 583 sq.; Selden, Jus A at, et 
dent. p. 53 1 sq. ; King, he Lapidatione f/ebrieor . (Frcf. 
171 (»). — Winer, ii, 521 sq. See Bumsiimext. 

Stool, in an ecclesiastical sense, is a seat for aco- 
lytes, servers, and attendant clerks in the services of the 
Church. 

STOOL ok Repentance, an elevated seat in a Scot- 
tish Church, on which persons were formerly compelled 
to sit as a punishment for having committed certain of 
the deadly sins. 

Stoole, an old form of Stool (q. v.). 

Stools. The word thus rendered in the A. V. at 
Exod. i, IG obndyim) is the dual of "ink, oben, 

usually thought to he equivalent to “I1N, eben, a stojie, 
and in this form only occurs there and in Jer. xviii, 3. 
In the latter passage it undeniably means a potters 
wheel [see Rotter]; but what it denotes in the former, 
<»r how to reconcile with the use of the word in the lat- 
ter text any interpretation which can he assigned to it 
in the former, is a question which (sec Hoscnrahller, ad 
b>c.) has mightily exercised the ingenuity and patience 
of critics and philologers. 'flic meaning appears to 
have been doubtful even of old, and the ancient ver- 
sions are much at variance. The Sept, evades the diffi- 
culty by the general expression orav wen w pl)Q rip 
tik’thv, “wImmi they are about to be delivered,” and is 
followed by tin* Vulg., “ Et partus tempus advenerit;” 
but our version is more definite, and has “and see them 
upon the stools." This goes upon the notion that the 
" « » r < I denotes a particular kind of open stool or chair 
eon*! meted Ibr the purpose of delivering pregnant wom- 
en. I lie usages of the East do not, however, acquaint 
us with any such utensil, the employment of which, in- 
deed, is not in accordance with the simple manners of 
ancient times. Others, therefore, suppose the word to 
denote stone or other bathing-troughs, in which it was 
ii'iial to lave new-born infants. This conjecture is so 
tar probable that the midwife, if inclined to obey the 
royal mandate, could then destroy the child without 
check or observation. Accordingly, this interpretation 
is prcfi rred by Geseiiitis {Thesnnr. s. v. “|-S<), quoting 
in illustration l’lievenot (///«. ii, 98), who states “that 
ihe kings o| Ber-ia are so afraid of being deprived of 
that power which they abuse, and are so apprehensive* 
of being dethroned, that they cause the male children 
of their female relations to be destroyed in the stone 
bathing- troughs in which newly horn children are 
laved.” The question, however, is not as to the exist- 
ence of ihe custom. Imt iis application to the case in 
vo w. Brof. Lee treats the preceding opinions with lit- 


| tie ceremony, and decides nearly in accordance with the 
Sept, and other ancient versions, none of which, as he 
remarks, say anything about wash-pots, stools, or the 
like, lie then gives reasons for understanding the 
command of Bharaoh thus: “ Observe, look carefully on 
the two occasions (i.e. in which either a male or female 
child is born). If it be a son, then,” etc. — Kitto. Still 
others (as Knohel, MUhlau, etc.) prefer the explanation 
of Ibn-Gaanach, Jos. Kimchi, and Barchon, that the 
word signifies the utei-us (from H23) or the female jm- 
denda (from the resemblance of the parts to the genera- 
tive power of the potter’s wheel), i.e. “when ye observe 
the obnayim of the Hebrew women,” at the moment of 
parturition. But this interpretation seems even more 
strained than the preceding ones. As the sex could 
only be discovered by inspecting the child itself, the 
word probably refers to this directly, either in the sense 
of testiculi , or from the radical import of which is 
to separate, i. e. distinguish (see Meier, in the Stud. n. 
Krit. 1842, p. 1050). See the Magaz. fur bibl. Lit. i, 
28; Stud. u. Krit. 1834, i, 81, 626; Kraft, De Pietate 
Obstetricum (Jen. 1744). See Midwife. 

Stope, or Stoppe. See Stoup. 

Stopford, William K., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Dublin, Ireland, July 9, 
1809. At the age of ten years he gave evidence of con- 
version. He came to the United States about 1827, ami 
in 1833 was received on trial into the New York East 
Conference. lie occupied very many important ap- 
pointments, and labored in them faithfully and with 
success. He died June 25, 1852. See Minutes of An- 
nual Conferences, 1853, p. 211. 

Storax occurs only in Ecclus. xxiv, 15, as a ren- 
dering of araicT)), stacte: “1 gave a sweet smell like 
cinnamon and aspalathus, and I yielded a pleasant 
odor like the best myrrh, as galbanum, and onyx, and 
sweet st or ax, and as the fume of frankincense in the tab- 
ernacle.” In Gen. xxx vii, 25, Aquila renders 
“ spicerv,” by (rrvpaZ., as also in xliii, 11, where he is 
followed by the Vulg. Sweet storax is mentioned by 
various Greek writers, from the time of Hippocrates to 
that of Dioscorides. Several kinds of it were known, 
varying chiefly in the form in which it was obtained or 
the degree of adulteration to which it had been subject- 
ed. Most of the kinds are still known in commerce. It 
is obtained by incisions made in the bark of the tree 
called styrax officinale by botanists. This tree is a na- 
tive of Greece, Asia Minor, Syria, and Palestine, and is 
about twenty feet high, with leaves like those of the 
quince, and flowers somewhat resembling those of the 
orange. Storax was and is still much esteemed, both 
as an incense and for its medical properties. It consists 
chiefly of resin, a volatile oil, and some benzoic acid. 
It has a grateful balsamic odor, which no doubt made it 
valued in ancient times. — Kitto. See Spice. 

Storch, Nicholas, founder of the religious doctrines 
of the Anabaptists (q.v.), was born at Stolberg, Saxony, 
about 1490, and was therefore a young man when Luther 
commenced preaching the doctrines of the Reformation, 
lie went much further than Luther in proscribing an- 
cient authorities, for he denounced all external docu- 
ments and traditions whatsoever, and, accepting no book 
but the Bible, lie taught his disciples to renounce the 
study of literature and theology, and trust to the spirit 
of God to enlighten their understandings. He insisted, 
also, on the necessity of rebaptism when that ceremony 
had been performed in infancy, on the principle that it 
was an act of faith and could not otherwise be valid. 
Neither Calvin nor Luther could tolerate these doctrines, 
and they became still more hateful to the princes of Ger- 
many when political ends and the doctrine of the com- 
munity of goods were associated with them. For years 
previous the poor half-starved and half-naked serfs of 
i formally had been accustomed to assemble in great num- 
bers, and, with “Bread and Cheese” inscribed on their 


STORCIIEXAU 


1049 


STORK 


banners, bad threatened the complete overthrow of the 
existing state of society. Storch gained many proselytes 
in Suabia, Thuringia, etc., which fact led to much blood- 
shed ; and at length the elector of Saxony, at the press- 
ing instance of Luther, banished their spiritual guide, 
in addition to executing their political, in the person of 
Miinzer, in 1525. Storeh was a man of the most ami- 
able disposition; but the Baptists of the present day 
deny all connection with his party, to avoid the odium 
belonging to these scenes of turbulence. lie died in his 
retreat at Munich in 1530. 

Storchenau, Sigismund, a German Jesuit, was 
born in 1731 at Hollenburg. In 1747 he joined the So- 
ciety of Jesus, lectured at the University of Vienna on 
philosophy, and suffered himself to be sometimes influ- 
enced by the principles of modern philosophy. When 
his order was abolished he retired to Klagenfurt, where 
he died in 1797. He wrote, Institutiones Logicte et Meta- 
physics (Vienna, 17 09- 71): — Philosophy of Religion 
(Augsb. 1773-81,7 vols.). See Regensburger Conversa- 
tions- Lexikon, s. v. (B. P.) 

Store. See Deposit. 

Store-city (riSZO'E ir miskendtk , city of 

magazines , 1 Kings ix, 19; 2 Chron. viii, 4, 6; xvi, 4; 
xvii, 12; “ treasure -city,” Exod. i, 11; 11 store -house,” 
2 Chron. xxxii, 28), a place of deposit, or entrepot, for 
merchandise. See Store-house. 

Store-house otsdr , 1 Chron. xxvii, 25; 

Psa. xxxiii, 7 ; Mai. iii, 10, a treasury, as elsewhere usu- 
ally rendered; CCX, asdm, a receptacle for provisions, 
Dent, xxvii i, 8 ; “ barn,” Prov. iii, 10; the modern mat- 
murdt, usually underground in the East; maa- 

bits, Jer. 1, 26, a granary; fi3SM, miskendh , a maga- 
zine, Exod. i, 11 ; 2 Kings xxxii, 28; elsewhere “store- 
city;” raptiov, Luke xii, 24, Ecclus. xxix, 12, elsewhere 
“closet”). According to Gen. xli, 48, 49, Joseph built 
store-houses in Egypt., in which he laid up the super- 
abundance of corn against the years of dearth. From 
the monuments we learn that such store-houses were 
common. The form of one of those ancient granaries 
is exhibited in a painting of the tomb of Botei at Beni- 
11 assail. It consists of a double range of structures re- 


sembling ovens, built of brick, with an opening at the 
top and a shutter in the side. A flight of stairs gives 
access to the top of these receptacles, into which the 
grain, measured and noted, is poured till they are full. 
The mode of emptying them was to open the shutter in 
the side. See Granary. 

stork (PPPOn, eh a si <ldh ; translated indifferently 
by the Sept, do id a, i 7roxp, iptodiog, 7rt\tic(h> ; \ ulg. he- 
rodio, herodius , milvns ; A.V. “stork,” except in Job 
xxxix, 13, where it is translated “wing” [“stork” in 
the marg.]; but there is some question as to the cor- 
rect reading in this passage). See Ostrich. (In the 
following account we chiefly follow the articles found 
in the dictionaries of Kitto and Smith). 


I. Identification of the Scriptural Allusions. — The 
Sept, does not seem to have recognised the siork under 
the Hebrew term HV'Cn, otherwise it could scarcely 
have missed the obvious rendering of TnXapydc, or have 
adopted in two instances the phonetic representation of 
the original doida (whence, no duubt, Ilesveh. cioig, el- 
dog opidov). It is singular that a bird so conspicuous 
and familiar as the stork must have been both in Egypt 
and Palestine should have escaped notice by the Sept., 
but there can be no doubt of the correctness of the ren- 
dering of the A.V. The Hebrew term is derived from 
the root “JCn, whence "OH, “kindness,” from the ma- 
ternal and filial atlcction of which this bird has been in 
all ages the type. 

There are two kinds of stork, the Cironia alba and 
the C. nigra. In Egypt the two species collectively 
are called anaseh, the white, more particularly, belari ; 
in Arabic zakid, zadig (V), abuhist, heklek , hegleg, and 
haji luglttg, the three last mentioned expressing the pe- 
culiar clatter which storks make with their bills, and 
haji, or pilgrim, denoting tbeir migratory habits. This 
quality several of the Western names likewise indicate, 
while our word stork, albeit the Greek oropyi) implies 
natural affection, is an appellation which extends to the 
Icelandic, Danish, Swedish, German, Hungarian, Lettish, 
and Wallachian languages, and is presumed originally 
to have been stor eger, i. e. migrating heron, with which 
the Greek agrees in sound but lias no affinity of mean- 
ing, though it corroborates the interpretation of chasi- 
dah in the Hebrew, similarly implying affection, piety, 
mercy, and gratitude. This name results from a belief, 
general through all ancient Asia, in the attachment of 
these birds to each other; of the young towards the old, 
and of the parents towards their young. But the latter 
part of this opinion is alone verified by the moderns, in 
cases where the mother bird lias perished while endeav- 
oring to save her progeny. This occurred in the great 
fire at Delft, and more recently at the battle of Fried- 
land, where, a fir-tree with a stork’s nest in it being set 
on fire by a howitzer-shell, the female made repeated 
efforts to extricate her voting, and, at length, as in the 
other case, was seen to sink in the flames. Without, 
therefore, admitting the exaggerated reports or the pop- 
ular opinions of the East respecting the stork, enough 
is shown to justify the identi- 
fication of chasidah with that 
bird, notwithstanding that 
some learned commentators 
have referred the word to her- 
on, ami to several other birds, 
though none upon investiga- 
tion are found to unite in the 
same degree the qualities which 
are ascribed to the species in 
Lev. xi. 19; Dent, xiv, 18 ; Job 
13 ; Psa. civ, 17 ; Jer. 
Zecb. v, 9. 

Agyst, the Bus>ian (?) name 
of the stork according to Mer- 
rick, does not appear to be re- 
lated to the Hebrew, unless it 
could be shown that the Esthoiiian aigr, or aigro, ap- 
plied to the same bird, and the old Teutonic uigel, Da- 
nish hegre, Italian and Provencal arione, uigron, de- 
nominations of the common heron, are from the same 
source, and not primitive appellatives in the great North- 
ern family of languages, which, it must he confessed, are 
not solitary examples in vocabularies so remote from 
each other. Of the smaller-sized, more solitary, black 
stork, no mention need be made in this place, because 
it is evidently not the bird referred to in the sacred 
writers. 

11. Description and Habits. — 1. Generally. — Storks 
are about a foot less in height than the crane, measur- 
ing only three feet six inches from the tip of the bill to 
the end of the toes, and nearly the same to the end of 



STORK 1050 STORK 


the tail. They have a stout, pointed, and rather long 
bill, which, together with their long legs, is of a bright 
scarlet color; the toes arc partially webbed, the nails at 
the extremities flat, and but little pointed beyond the 
tips of the joints. The orbits are blackish, but the 
whole bird is white, with the exception of a few scapu- 
lars, the greater wing-eovers, and all the quills, which 
are deep black; these arc doubly scalloped out, with 
those nearest the body almost as long as the very fore- 
most in the wing. This is a provision of nature en- 
abling the bird more effectually to sustain its after- 
weight in the air — a faculty exceedingly important to 
its mode of flight, with its long neck and longer legs 
equally stretched out, and very necessary to a migrat- 
ing species believed to tlv without alighting from the 
Lower Rhine, or even from the vicinity of Strasburg, to 
Africa, and to the Delta of the Nile. The passage is 
performed in October, and, like that of cranes, in single 
or in double columns, uniting in a point to cleave the 
air; but their departure is seldom seen, because they 
generally start iu the night; they always rise with 
clapping wings, ascending with surprising rapidity out 
of human sight, and arriving at their southern destina- 
tion as if by enchantment. Here they reside until the 
last days of March, when they again depart for the 
north, but more leisurely and less congregated. A feel- 
ing of attachment, not without superstition, procures 
them an unmolested life in all Moslem countries, and a 
notion of their utility still protects them in Switzer- 
land, Western Germany, and particularly in Holland, 
where they may be seen (at Middclburg) walking with 
perfect composure in a crowded vegetable - market. 
Storks build their nests in pine, fir, cedar, and other 
coniferous trees, but seem to prefer lofty old buildings, 
towers, and ruins: there are always several located on 
the tops of the isolated pillars at Persepolis; and they 
often obstruct the muezzins by nestling in their way 
about the summits of the minarets which these servants 
of the mosques must ascend to call the congregation to 
prayer. Several modern writers still assert the filial 
alfcction of young storks, which they describe as assist- j 
iug their aged parents when they cannot any longer fly 
with vigor, and as bringing them food when unable to 
provide for themselves. Without entirely rejecting the 
fact of affectionate relations among these birds, it may 
be remarked that storks live to a good old age; and as 
they have a brood (sometimes two) every year, the 
question is, which of these takes charge of the decrepit 
parents? It cannot be the youngest, not as yet of suffi- 
cient strength, nor those of preceding years, which are 
no longer in their company. Resides, the weaker birds 
remain and breed in the south. May it not be conject- 
ured that much of this belief is derived from a fact 
which travellers have had an opportunity of witness- 
ing, though they could not distinguish whether the 
flight was composed of cranes or storks? On an exceed- 
ingly stormy day, when their southward course has 
been suddenly opposed by a contrary gale, may be seen 
a column of birds still persisting in their toil, but at a 
lower elevation, ami changing their worn-out leader; 
and the bird, on taking his station in the rear, is clear- 
ly attended for a moment by three or four others of the 
last, who quit their stations as if to help him to reach 
the wake of the line. With regard to the snake-eat- 
ing habits of the species, the marabou, or adjutant-bird 
of India, often classed with storks, is undoubtedly a 
great devourer of serpents, hut not so much so as the 
common peacock, and that domestic fowls arc active 
ties! rovers of the young of reptiles may be observed 
even in England, where they carry of]' and devour small 
vipers. I lie chief resort, however, of storks, for above 
li df the year, is in climates where serpents do not 
abound ; and they seem at all times to prefer cels, frogs, 
toads, m-wts, and lizards, which sufficiently accounts 
f t their being regarded as unclean (perhaps no bird 
snered iu Egypt was held clean by the Hebrew law). 
.Storks feed also on field-mice; but they do not appear 


to relish rats, though they break their bones by repeat- 
ed blows of their bills. 

2. Distinctively . — The white stork ( Ciconia alba , L.) 
is one of the largest and most conspicuous of land birds, 
standing nearly four feet high, the jet black of its wings 
and its bright-red beak and legs contrasting finely with 
the pure white of its plumage (Zecli. v, 9, “They had 
wings like the wings of a stork”). It is placed by nat- 



White Stork ( Ciconia alba). 


nralists near the heron tribe, with which it has some 
affinity, forming a connecting-link between it and the 
spoonbill and ibis, like all of which, the stork feeds on 
fish and reptiles, especially on the latter. In the neigh- 
borhood of man it readily devours all kinds of offal and 
garbage. For this reason, doubtless, it is placed in the 
list of unclean birds by the Mosaic law (Lev. xi, 19; 
Dent, xiv, 18). The range of the white stork extends 
over the whole of Europe, except the British isles, 
where it is now only a rare visitant, and over Northern 
Africa and Asia, as far at least as Birmah. 

The black stork ( Ciconia nigra , L.), though less 
abundant in places, is scarcely less widely distributed, 
but has a more easterly range than its congener. Both 
species are very numerous in Palestine — the tfhite stork 
being universally distributed, generally in pairs, over 
the whole country; the black stork living in large flocks, 
after the fashion of herons, in the more secluded and 
marshy districts. Tristram met with a flock of up- 
wards of fifty black storks feeding near the west shore 
of the Dead Sea. They are still more abundant by the 
Sea of Galilee, where also the white stork is so numer- 
ous as to be gregarious, and in the swamps round the 
waters of Mcrom. 

3. Social Character and Traditional References . — 
While the black stork is never found about buildings, 
but prefers marshy places in forests, and breeds on the 
tops of the loftiest trees, where it heaps up its ample 
nest far from the haunts of man, the white stork at- 
taches itself to him, and for the service which it ren- 
ders in the destruction of reptiles and the removal of 
offal has been repaid from the earliest times by protec- 
tion and reverence. This is especially the case in the 
countries where it breeds. In the streets of towns in 
Holland, in the villages of Denmark, and in the bazaars 
of Syria and Tunis it may be seen stalking gravely 
among the crowd, and woe betide the stranger either in 
Holland or in Palestine who should dare to molest it. 
The claim of the stork to protection seems to have been 
equally recognised by the ancients. Sempr. Rufus, who 
first ventured to bring young storks to table, gained the 


STORK 1051 STORK 


following epigram, on the failure of his candidature for 
the prietorship : 

“Quanquam est dnobiis elegantior Plnncis 

Suffragioruin puncta non tulit septeni. 

Cicouiarum popiilus ultus est mortem.” 

Horace contemptuously alludes to the same sacrilege 
in the lines 

“Tutoque ciconia nido, 

Donee vos auctor docnit piaetorius” (Sat. ii,2,49). 
Pliny (Hist. Nat. x, 21) tells ns that in Thessaly it was 
a capital crime to kill a stork, and that they were 
thus valued equally with human life in consequence of 
their warfare against serpents. They were not less 
honored in Egypt. It is said that at Fez, in Morocco, 
there is an endowed hospital for the purpose of assist- 
ing and nursing sick cranes and storks, and of burying 
them when dead. The Maroeains hold that storks are 
human beings in that form from some distant islands 
(see note to Brown’s Pseud. Epul. iii, 27, 3). The 
Turks in Syria point to the stork as a true follower of 
Islam, from the preference he always shows for the 
Turkish and Arab over the Christian quarters. For 
this undoubted fact, however, there may be two other 
reasons — the greater amount of offal to be found about 
the Moslem houses, and the persecutions suffered from 
the sceptical Greeks, who rob the nests, and show none 
of the gentle consideration towards the lower animals 
which often redeems the Turkish character. Strick- 
land (Mem. and Papers, ii, 227) states that it is said to 
have quite deserted Greece since the expulsion of its 
Mohammedan protectors. The. observations of travel- 
lers corroborate this remark. Similarly the rooks were 
said to be so attached to the old regime that most of 
them left France at the Revolution — a true statement, 
and accounted for by the clearing of most of the fine 
old timber which used to surround the chateaux of the 
noblesse. ^ 

As already noted, the derivation of points to 

the parental and filial attachment of which the stork 
seems to have been a type among the Hebrews no less 
than the Greeks and Romans. It was believed that 
the young repaid the care of their parents by attaching 
themselves to them for life, and tending them in old 
age. Hence it was commonly called among the Latins 
“avis pia.” (See Laburnus, in Petronius Arbiter; Aris- 
totle, Hist. Anim. ix, 14 ; and Pliny, Hist. Nat. x, 32.) 

Pliny also notices their habit of always returning to 
the same nest. Probably there is no foundation for the 
notion that the stork so far differs from other birds as 
to recognise its parents after it has become mature; 
but of the fact of these birds returning year after year 
to the same spot there is no question. Unless when 
molested by man, storks’ nests all over the world are 
rebuilt, or rather repaired, for generations on the same 
site, and in Holland the same individuals have been 
recognized for many years. That the parental attach- 
ment of the stork is* very strong has been proved on 
many occasions. The above-mentioned tale of the 
stork at the burning of the town of Delft has often been 
repeated, and seems corroborated b} r unquestionable evi- 
dence. The name of the bird itself, as we have seen, is 
expressive of the same fact. Its watchfulness over its 
voung is unremitting, and often shown in a somewhat 
droll manner. Tristram was once in camp near an old 
ruined tower in the plain of Zana, south of the Atlas, 
where a pair of storks had their nest. The four young 
might often be seen from a little distance, surveying 
the prospect from their lonely height; but whenever 
any of the human party happened to stroll near the 
tower, one of the old storks, invisible before, would in- 
stantly appear, and, lighting on the nest, put its foot 
gently on the necks of all the young, so as to hold 
them* down out of sight till the stranger had passed, 
snapping its bill meanwhile, and assuming a grotesque 
air of indifference and unconsciousness of there being 
anything under its charge. 


Few migratory birds are more punctual to the time 
of their reappearance than the white stork, or, at least, 
from its familiarity and conspicuousness, its migrations 
have been more accurately noted. “ The stork in the 
heaven knoweth her appointed times” (see Virgil, 
Georg, ii, 310, and Petron. Sat.), Pliny states that it 
is rarely seen in Asia Minor after the middle of August. 
This is probably a slight error, as the ordinary date of 
its arrival in Holland is the second week in April, and 
it remains until October. In Denmark Judge Boie 
noted its arrival from 1820 to 1847. *Thc earliest date 
was March 26, and the latest April 12 (Kjaerbolling, 
Panmurks Fugle , p. 262). In Palestine it has been ob- 
served to arrive on March 22. Immense Hocks of storks 
may be seen on the banks of the Upper Nile during 
winter, and some few farther west, in the Sahara ; but 
it does not appear to migrate very far south, unless, 
indeed, the birds that arc seen at the Cape of Good 
Hope in December be the same which visit Europe. 

The stork has no note, and the only sound it emits 
is that caused by the sudden snapping of its long man- 
dibles, well expressed by the epithet “ crotalistria” in 
Pctron. (quasi KporaXiZw, to rattle the castanets). From 
the absence of voice probably arose the error alluded to 
by Pliny, “ Sunt qui ciconiis non inesse lingnas eonfir- 
ment.” 

Some unnecessary difficulty lias been raised respect- 
ing the expression in Psa. civ, 17, “As for the stork, the 
fir-trees are her house.” In the West of Europe the 
home of the. stork is connected with the dwellings of 
man; and in the East, as the eagle is mentally asso- 
ciated with the most sublime scenes in nature, so, to the 
traveller at least, is the stork with the ruins of man’s 
noblest works. Amid t lie desolation of his fallen cities 
throughout Eastern Europe and the classic portions of 
Asia and Africa, we are sure to meet with them surmount- 
ing his temples, his theatres, or baths. It is the same in 
Palestine. A pair of storks have possession of the only 
tall piece of ruin in the plain of Jericho; they are the 
only tenants of the noble tower of Richard (Vur-de-Lion 
at Lvdda; and they gaze on the plain of Sharon from 
the lofty tower of Ranileh (the ancient Arimathea). So 
they have a pillar at Tiberias, and a corner of a ruin 
at Nebi Mousseh. And no doubt in ancient times the 
sentry shared the watch-tower of Samaria or of Jezreel 
with the cherished storks. But the instinct of the stork 
seems to be to select the loftiest and most conspicuous 
spot he can find where his huge nest may be supported ; 
and whenever he can combine this taste with his in- 
stinct for the society of mail, he naturally selects a 
tower or a roof. In lands of ruins, which from their 



Stork's Nest. 


STORK 


1052 


STORRS 


neglect ami want ofdraina.ee supply him with abun- 
dance of food, he rinds a column or a solitary arch the 
most secure position for his nest ; but where neither 
towers m»r ruins abound he does not hesitate to select 
a tall tree, ns both storks, swallows, and many other 
birds most have done before they were tempted by the 
artificial conveniences of man’s buildings to desert their 
natural places of nidifieation. 'Thus the golden eagle 
builds, according to circumstances, in cliffs, on trees, or 
even on the ground ; and the common heron, which gen- 
erally associates *>11 the tops of the tallest trees, builds 
in Westmoreland and in Galway on bushes. It is there- 
fore needless to interpret the text of the stork merely 
perch in*/ on trees. It probably was no less numerous 
in Palestine when David wrote than now; but the 
number of suitable towers must have been far fewer, 
and it would therefore resort to trees. Though it does 
not frequent trees in South Judsea, yet it still builds on 
trees by the Sea of Galilee, according to several trav- 
ellers; and Tristram remarks that, while he lias nev- 
er seen the nest except on towers or pillars in that 
land of ruins, Tunis, the only nest he ever saw in Mo- 
rocco was ou a tree. Yarro (Re Rustica , iii, 5) observes, 
“ Advensc volucrcs pullos faciunt, in ayro cicotme, in 
tecto hirundines.” All modern authorities give in- 
stances of the white stork building on trees. Degland 
mentions several pairs which still breed in a marsh 
near CliAlons-sur-Marne (Orn. Enrop. ii, 153). Kjaer- 
bolling makes a similar statement with respect to Den- 
mark, and Nillson also as to Sweden. Biideker observes 
“ that in Germany the white stork builds in the gables, 
etc., and in trees, chiefly the tops of poplars and the 
strong upper branches of the oak, binding the branches 
together with twigs, turf, and earth, and covering the 
Hat surface with straw', moss, and feathers” (Kiev Eur. 
pi. xxxvi). 

The black stork, no less common in Palestine, has 
never relinquished its natural habit of building upon 
trees. This species, in the north-eastern portion of the 
laud, is the most abundant of the tw'o (llarmer’s Obs. 
iii. 323). Of either, however, the expression may be 
taken literally that “ the tir-trees are a dwelling for 
the stork.” 

III. L itcrature . — The classical descriptions mav be 
found in Aristot. Anini. ix, 13 [14 cd. Schncid.] ; Solin. 
53 ; ..Elian. .1 nim. iii, 23 ; Pliny, II. X. x, 10, 28. Modern 
authorities are, Uochart, f/ieroz. iii, 85 sq.; Oedmann, 
Snmml. v, 58 sq. ; Kit to, Rid. Rible , note on Lev. xi, l D 
J'hys. Hist, of Ruled, p. 4<>5 sq. ; Tristram, Nat. Hint, of 
the liihle , p. 242 sq. ; Wood, Bible Animals, p. 478 sq. , 
Thomson, Land and Bool:, i, 503 sq. ; and most books 
of Oriental travel. See Hint). 

Stork, Charles Aucjisits G., a Lutheran clergy- 
man, was born near llclmstiidt, Duchy of Brunswick, 
•I line 10, 1704, and was confirmed at the age of fifteen, 
lie entered the P Diversity of llclmstiidt in 1782, where 
he remained for three years, and in 1785 became tutor 
to the children of a nobleman in I ladenburg. After a 
year he became teacher in a family near Bremen, where 
he stayed for two years, when he was called to a field of 
labor in America. His ordination soon took place, and 
he sailed for this country, arriving June 27, 1788. On 
his arrival in North Carolina he was elected pastor of 
three congregations— Salisbury (where he took up his 
abode), the Organ, and Pine churches, lie also estab- 
lished other congregations in Kuwait, Lincoln, and Ca- 
bfirras comities, and paid visits to churches in South 
< aroliua, Tennessee, and Virginia, which were without 
ministers. II is death occurred March 20, 1831. Mr. 
Stork was a highly educated man, and had the reputa- 
tion of being an eloquent and effective preacher in the 
t»« rman language. 11 is library was bequeathed in part 
to the Theological Seminary at Gettysburg, and the re- 
mainder to the < ollogiatc’ Institute, Mount Pleasant, 
***•• 1 • lb' was a I way**, when present, chosen president 
Ot the synod. .See Sprague, Annals of the A mer. l'ul- 
pity ix, 


Storks, Levi, a minister of the Methodist Episco- 
pal Church, was born at Milford, Dcd., Dec. 11, 1706, but 
was brought up in Salisbury, Md. He -was received on 
trial in the Philadelphia Conference in 1824. He be- 
came supern itinerary in 1850, but in 1851 resumed his 
labors, continuing in them until within a few days of his 
death, Oct. 1, 1853. The private life of Mr. Storks, his 
social intercourse, his public ministry, were all calculated 
to impress the conviction that he had exalted concep- 
tions of Christian dignity and ministerial responsibility. 
See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1854, p. 341. 

Storr, Gottlob Christian, doctor of theology, 
professor of divinity at Tubingen, eonsistorial counsel- 
lor, and first minister to the court at Stuttgart, was born 
at Stuttgart in 1746, and died at the same place in 1805. 
The labors of Storr contributed more, perhaps, than 
those of almost any other man to stem the tide of ne- 
ology, which at one time threatened to deluge Ger- 
many. Vexed v f ith the wild and baseless speculations 
of the Rationalists, he early determined to build his 
faith on the pure Word of God; and in his early youth 
devoted himself for a long time to its exclusive study. 
Thus he became mighty in the Scriptures, as the Ele- 
mental Course of Biblical Theology , by him and Flatt, 
translated into English by Prof. Schmucker, abundant- 
ly shows. Other works of Storr, of great value, and 
eminently subsidiary to his great purpose of recalling 
the educated mind of Germany to the proper study 
and just estimate of -revelation, are, Commentary on 
the Epistle to the Hebrews: — Treatise on the True Ob- 
ject of Christ's Death: — On the Object of the Evangel- 
ical History , and the Epistles of John: — New Defence 
of the Revelation of John : — and Opuscula A cade mica , 
several of which have been translated into English, 
and published in the Biblical Repository , the Princeton 
Repertory , etc. He also helped to advance Hebrew 
learning by bis Observations pertaining to Hebrew A nal- 
ogy and Syntax . 

Storr Junkare, in Lapp mythology, is the god of 
hunting and fishing, who was highly venerated because 
those pursuits afforded the principal means of livelihood 
to the peoples of the frozen North. Storr was probably 
the only divinity whose worship was in any degree 
general; that of other gods being restricted, in each 
case, to a single family or elan, as a rule. Rough stones 
were brought into something of artistic shape, and were 
erected to serve as images of this God. When sacri- 
fices were offered to him. it was customary to smear the 
image with the blood. — Vollmer, Wortcrb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Storrs, Charles Backus, an eminent Presby- 
terian minister, was born at Longmeadow, Mass.. May 
15, 1794. He pursued bis preparatory studies private- 
ly, and at Munson Academy; was a member of Prince- 
ton College, but did not graduate, owing to ill-health; 
was licensed to preach by the Long Island Presbytery 
in 1813; graduated at Andover Theological Seminary 
in 1820, and proceeded immediately to South Carolina, 
where be was ordained as an evangelist by the Charles- 
ton Congregational Association, Feb. 2, 1821 ; was occu- 
pied as a missionary iti the states of South Carolina 
and Georgia for a year and a half, when ill-health again 
compelled him to rest; was stationed from 1822 to 1828 
as a missionary at Ravenna, the county seat of Portage, 
where he gathered and built up a large church; ac- 
cepted the professorship of theology in the Western 
Reserve College in 1828, and the presidency in 1831. 
lie died Sept. 15, 1833. The onh r production of Mr. 
Slorrs’s pen was his Address on the Occasion of his In- 
duction to the Presidency of the I Poster/* Reserve College 
(1831). lie was possessed of rich mental endowments, 
which eminently qualified him for the president’s chair 
and the pulpit. Sec Sprague, /Dmu7s of the Amer. Pul- 
pity iv, 487 ; Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer. Authot's t 
s. v. ; A mer. Qnar. Reg. vi, 84. (J. L. S.) 

Storrs, John, a Congregational minister, was bom 
at Mansfield, Conn., in 1735. He graduated at Yale 


STORKS 1053 STOW 


College in 1756, and was tutor in 1761-62; was in- 
stalled at Southold, L. 1., in 1763; was absent from his 
parish from 1776 to 1782 on account of the war, being 
chaplain to the Revolutionary army lor a part of the 
time. lie was dismissed in 1787, and settled on the 
paternal estate at Mansfield, at the same time acting as 
pastor of the Church in North Windham, Conn. He 
died Oct. 9, 1799. His grandson is Rev. U. S. Storrs, 
D.D., of Braintree, Mass., and his great-grandson is the 
elocpient divine of the same name in Brooklyn, N. Y. 
See Cong. Quarterly , 1861, p. 265. 

Storrs, Richard Salter, a Congregational min- 
ister, was born at Mansfield, Conn., Aug. 30, 1763, and 
at the age of thirteen went to live with Rev. Dr. Salter, 
who took charge of his education. He entered Yale 
College in 1779 and graduated in 1783. After studying 
theology two years under I)r. Salter, he was licensed to 
preach, and on Dec. 7, 1785, was ordained pastor of the 
Church in Lon gmeadow, Conn. Here he continued his 
pastorate until his death, Oct. 3, 1819. He was the fa- 
ther of Revs. Richard and Charles Backus Storrs. He 
published a Sermon at the Installation of Rev. Stephen 
Williams (1800). See Sprague, Annals of the Amer . 
Pulpit , ii, 257. 

Story appears in the A. V. at 2 Chron. xiii, 22; 
xxiv, 27, as a rendering of midrash (q. v.), a 

commentai-y, or historical statement (comp. “Cassar’s 
commentaries Sec History; Tale. In Amos ix, 6 
it is the translation of maalah, a step, as often 

rendered. See Degree; Stair. In Gen. vi, 16; Ezek. 
xli, 16 ; xlii, 3, the word has been supplied by the trans- 
lators in the sense of the successive foors of a building. 
See Ark; Temple. 

STORY (or Storey), one of the divisions of a build- 
ing in the vertical direction ; the space between two con- 
tiguous floors, or between two contiguous entablatures 
or other architectural dividing-lines that indicate floors 
or separations of the building. In English mediaeval 
documents it is often Latinized into historia . In do- 
mestic and palatial architecture the stories are thus enu- 
merated from the lowest upwards: basement, or under- 
ground story; ground-story, or ground-floor, at about the 
level of the ground; first story, usually the principal 
floor or story. Then follow second, third, and so on, 
the upper being the garrets. Entresols, or mezzanini, 
are considered as intermediate stories not interfering 
with the enumeration of the principal ones. The word 
is applied also to a window where the lights appear one 
above the other, as a “storied window.” — Parker, Gloss, 
of Architect, s. v. 

Story, Cyrus, a minister of the Methodist Episco- 
pal Church, was born at Ipswich, Mass., Nov. 4, 1773, 
and removed to New Hampshire, and subsequently to 
Middlebury, Wyoming Co., N. Y. In 1818 he was re- 
ceived into the Genesee Conference, but located about 
1835. He settled at Liberty, Steuben Co., N. Y., and 
after a residence of seventeen years he removed to 
Thurston in the same count)’, where he lived until his 
death, Dec. 15, 1864. Mr. Story was an able preacher, 
and a man of great integrity and uniform devotion. See 
Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1865, p. 240. 

Stossel, Johann, a German theologian who was 
largely implicated in the disputes of the second half 
of the 16th century, was horn June 23, 1524, at Kitzing- 
cn, in Franconia, educated in philosophy and theology 
at Wittenberg, and became master in 1549. During 
the ensuing intcrimistic disputes, and in other connect- 
ed controversies, he came to hold views in opposition to 
those of Wittenberg, and was, on that account, called 
to be court preacher at Weimar. In that capacity he 
assisted in the reformation of Durlach in 1556, and 
made himself conspicuous as the advocate of an ex- 
treme orthodoxy, and in the following year he attended 
the colloquy at Worm*, where lie came into antagonism 
with Melaucthon. Somewhat later he was made su- 


perintendent at Ileldburg, and in 1558 lie took part in 
the preparation of the noted Confutation, defending it 
against the objections of Strigel (q. v.) in a manner 
which characterizes an unqualified adherent of Flacian- 
ism. In 1560 he accompanied his prince to the Heidel- 
berg disputation. II is next dispute was with the Fla- 
cianists of Jena, his former friends, who began to sus- 
pect him when, in 1561, the consistory of Weimar was 
erected and Stossel became one of its assessors; and 
when he soon afterwards was made superintendent at 
Jena and professor of theology, and when, acting in 
obedience to superior authority, he closed the pulpits 
against the Flacianists and peaceably consorted with 
their opponents, the rupture became complete. The 
quarrel ended in a victory for Stossel and in the utter 
overthrow of his antagonists. In 1562 he received the 
difficult appointment of mediator between the Fkcian 
clergy and Strigel, and in that capacity issued a Super- 
declaratio in response to Strigels Declaratio. The re- 
sult was not favorable, however; numerous depositions 
followed and Strigel resigned from the university, leav- 
ing Stossel alone in the theological faculty until Sel- 
neeker and others came to reinforce him. An interval 
of peace now followed, during which he was made a 
doctor of divinity, being the first theologian of Jena to 
receive that degree (July 13, 1564). In 1567, however, 
a new sovereign recalled the Flacianists, and the latter 
at once issued a confutation of Stossel’s Superdecla ra- 
tio; all ministers who had subscribed to the latter were 
compelled to resign their pulpits. Stossel was called 
by Charles Augustus, the elector of Saxony, to be su- 
perintendent at Lima, and ultimately became the con- 
fessor of that prince. He used his influence in that 
position to win the elector to the. support of the Crypto- 
Calvinists, with whom lie had established friendly rela- 
tions, but became involved in their misfortnnes, and was 
imprisoned at Scnftenberg, where he died on Bominis- 
cere Sunday, 1576. 1 1 is wife died at the same time, 

and a single grave received the remains of both. See 
Lbscher, Hist. Mot. iii, 167 sq. ; Planck, Gesch. d. prof. 
Lehrbe griffs, v, 613 sq. ; Salig, Gesch, d. A ugsb. Conf 
iii, 14 sq.; Acta Disputat. Yimar. 1561, p. 251 sq.; llos- 
pinian, Hist. Sacrum, ii, 266 sq. ; Midler, Staats-Cabinet, 
i, 153 sq. ; Schweizcr, Central- Dogmen, i, 467 sip — Her- 
zog, Reul-Kncyklop. s. v. 

Stoup. See Holy-water Stock or Stoup. 

Stout, Edward, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was converted when about twenty-one 
years of age. In 1813 he was employed to travel on 
New Mills Circuit, N. J.; and in 1814 he was received 
on trial into the Philadelphia Conference. After the 
New Jersey Conference was constituted he became one 
of its members. In 1846 he was made supernumerary, 
ami settled in Haddonfield, N. J., where he died, Nov. 3, 
1859. See Minutes of Annual Conferences, I860, p. 38. 

Stover, Ensign, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born at Pittstown, N. Y., May 15, 
1815, and professed conversion Nov. 16, 1831, In 1837 
he went to Ohio and engaged in business, but in 1838 
became a local preacher. lie joined the '1Toy Confer- 
ence in 1839, and labored in it without intermission for 
over thirty years. II is appointments were, Dalton, 
Mass. ; Bennington, Vt. ; Brunswick, Pctersburgh, Ar- 
gyle, Plattsburgh, Union Village, Cohoes, Waterford, 
N. Y.; Cambridge twice; two churches in Albany, two 
in Troy, and two in West Troy. In almost every ap- 
pointment Mr. Stover labored the full constitutional term. 
Successful revivals constituted the rule wherever he 
was stationed, and in a majority of the above-named 
appointments converts were counted hv the hundred. 
In 1871 he was superannuated, and settled in Sara- 
toga; but he died soon after of typhoid pneumonia. 
Mr. Stover was a very able and successful minister. 
See Minutes of Annual Conferences, 1872, p. 42. 

Stow, Baron, D.D.. a distinguished minister of the 
Baptist denomination, was born at Croydon, N.ll., June 


1054 


STRABO 


STOWE 


1C, 1801. 1 1 is early life was spent in struggles with 

straitened circumstances, in consequence of the death 
of his father, hut he would not abandon his cherished 
hope of obtaining a liberal education. Providence 
opened the way for him to prosecute his studies, and 
after due preparation lie became a member of Colum- 
bian College, Washington, D. C., and graduated with 
the highest honors of his class in 1825. Having had 
the ministry in view during both his academic and 
collegiate courses of study, he had directed his atten- 
tion to the investigation of theological subjects, and 
therefore did not seek for special preparation for his 
life-work by connecting himself with any theological 
institution. He remained for a time in Washington 
after his graduation, and then accepted a call to become 
the pastor of the Baptist Church in Portsmouth, N. II., 
his ordination taking place Oct. 24, 1827. llis ministry 
of a little more than rive years in Portsmouth was em- 
inently successful, and added so much to his reputation 
that he was called to the pastorate of the Second Bap- 
tist, known as the Baldwin Place, Church, in Boston, 
where he was installed as pastor, Nov. 15, 1832, At 
once he took his place among the most eloquent and 
successful clergymen in a city which has always had a 
ministry than which none perhaps in the country has 
stood higher in rank and influence. The pastorate 
of Dr. Stow at the Baldwin Place Church covered a 
period of nearly sixteen years. The record of his work 
during this time, of course omitting innumerable de- 
tails, lie has thus given, “I have preached fifteen hun- 
dred and sixtv-six sermons, made thirteen thousand 
four hundred and thirty-four pastoral visits, baptized 
six hundred and fifty-five, attended seven hundred and 
fifteen funerals, and solemnized five hundred and sev- 
enty-eight marriages. During this period I have trav- 
elled over twenty-five thousand miles.” In these trav- 
els was included an extended tour in Europe, com- 
menced by his departure from Boston, Dec. 1, 1840, and 
ended by his return June 10 following. Soon after his 
resignation of the pastorate of the Baldwin Place 
Church, Dr. Stow received invitations from several im- 
portant churches of his denomination to become their 
minister. lie decided to accept the call of the Rowe 
Street Church in Boston, and entered upon his duties 
Oct, 19, 1848. The same success followed him in his 
new field of labor which had been granted to him at 
Baldwin Place. His second pastorate in Boston covered 
a period of not far from nineteen years. Nearly thirty- 
five years of almost ceaseless pastoral and ministerial 
work were thus devoted to the two churches which he so 
faithfully served in Boston. It is not easy to estimate 
the good accomplished by a ministry so long continued, 
or make a correct inventory of the long train of ’holy 
influences set in motion by years of consecration to the 
work of benefiting the souls of men, such as Dr. Stow’s 
as a minister of Jesus Christ. Dr. Stow did not con- 
fine his labors simply to his strict professional call- 
ing. lie touched life on many sides. In all good 
cnu*os he took a positive and most lively interest. The 
in>titminns of learning in his own denomination, the 
dilh reut societies formed for missionary purposes, both 
at home and abroad, various benevolent organizations 
formed in tin* city of Boston, these and kindred enter- 
prises found in him an over-faith ful friend and sup- 
erior. lie was known also as an author, having puh- 
linhod several works of a practical religions character 
which were well received at the time of their publica- 
tion. lie died Dec. 27, I8f,9. (J. C. S.) 

Stowe, .foils' M t'lti >ock, a Congregational minister, 
was horn at I luhlmriUtou, Mass,, Sept. 7, 1824. He re- 
ceived his preparatory education in the common schools 
of his native town, ile was a delicate youth, hut a dili- 
gent and faithful student, and subsequently a successful 
teacher in these schools, lie served as one of the com- 
missioners of the Board of Education for several years, 
lie was led to consider the question of preparation for 
the ministry, and shaped his studies accordingly. He 


entered the Bangor Seminary in 1854, and, after having 
completed the course, was ordained and installed pas- 
tor of the Walpole (N. H.) Congregational Church, Jan. 
31, 1855. After serving this Church faithfully and suc- 
cessfully for nine years, his health failed, and he deemed 
it necessary to seek a new field, llis relation as pastor 
was dissolved in 18G5. lie served the Church at Sul- 
livan, N. II., as a stated supply for a period of seven 
years. In 1870 he was called to the pastorate of the 
Church in his native town, and was duly installed. In 
1877 lie was thrown from a wagon and received inter- 
nal injuries from which he never recovered. When 
death came, May 9, 1877, it was sudden, but it found 
him prepared for his change. He was a man of solid, 
substantial qualities, of deep and unaffected piety. His 
sermons were wrought out carefully and of Biblical 
conception, and hence mostly of a topical character. 
He was loved and honored by his ministerial brethren 
and the Church at large ; a man of the people, a faithful 
and successful pastor, and thoroughly devoted to his 
work. (W. P. S.) 

Strabo (or Stkabus, i. e. the squinter) is the home- 
ly appellative under which a not unimportant theolo- 
gian belonging to the former half of the 9th century 
is usually mentioned in history. His real name was 
Wala fried (Walafridus). He was born probably at the 
close of the reign of Charlemagne, and in the Upper 
Rhine country (though some writers call him an Anglo- 
Saxon); and was educated, according to some authori- 
ties, at St. Gall, under Grimwald, and, according to oth- 
ers, at Reichenau, under Tato, but, at all events, in the 
end of his course at F ulda, under Rhabanus Maurus. Af- 
terwards he became dean of the convent at. St. Gall, and in 
842 abbot of the Benedictine convent at Reichenau, on an 
island in Lake Constance, where he is reported to have 
previously been a teacher. Trittenheini (q. v.) makes 
him to have been also president of the school in the 
Convent of Hirschfcld. Strabo died while engaged in 
a diplomatic mission to the court of Charles the Bald, 
July 17, 849. For a view of the uncertainties in which 
our knowledge of this monk is involved, see the larger 
bibliographical collections, e. g. those of Oudin, D. Ceil- 
lier, the IJistoire Litteraire de France (tom. v), and 
Fabricii Bill. Latina Mediie sEtatis. Older sources are 
given in those works. 

Walafried’s writings usually offer nothing of histori- 
cal interest to the student. We note, first, his Latin 
poems relating generally to Church festivals, i. e. to 
apostles and martyrs. One, entitled Hortulus , describes 
the author’s garden. These poems have been collected 
in Canisii Lectiones A ntiquee, vi (or ii, 2, new ed.). The 
historical poems are also found in the Bollandists 
and in patristical collections. A prose life of St. Gall 
by Strabo is printed in Goklasti Script . Rerum A lie - 
inann. tom. i, and Mabillon, Acta Ord. S. Ben. Sa>e. 
II (comp. Ermcnrich of Reichenau, in Oudin, ii, 76). 
G renter importance attaches to a little compendium of 
Christian archaeology, entitled Be Erordiis et Jncremen- 
tis Rerum Ecclesiastarum (in Hittorp, Script, de Ojficiis 
Divinis [Cologne, 1568], and elsewhere). It treats of 
ecclesiastical usages, buildings, altars, prayers, bells, 
images, sacraments, in thirty -one chapters, and in a 
scholarly and judicious manner. In the matter of 
image -worship, a position midway between supersti- 
tious iconolatry and fanatical iconoclasm is assumed; 
and on the Lord’s supper the statement is made that 
bread and wine afforded the most adequate symbols to 
indicate the union between the head and members, thus 
departing from the transubstantiation doctrine of the 
co 1 1 1 e m po r a rv Rad be r t . 

The fame of Walafricd rests principally, however, on 
the great exegetical compilation (of which he was 
mainly, if not exclusively, the author ), which consti- 
tuted the principal source of Biblical learning for the 
Western Church during nearly five hundred years. It 
bore the title of Glossa Ordinaria , and rapidly became 
authoritative in matters of interpretation. Numerous 


STRADA 


1055 


STRAIX AT 



editions were published down to the 17th century, all 
of which are mentioned in the art. “ Walafrid” in the 
Hist. Lit . de France , and in Busse’s Gnmdriss d. christ l. 
Literatur , § 583. The work was generally printed in 
connection with Nicholas de Lyra (q. v.), and has brief 
scholia interpolated between the lines of the text by 
the hand of Anselm of Laon in the 12th century. 
Walafried’s Notes contain the kernel of the older papis- 
tical exegesis in considerable perfection. In the 10th 
century the report was current that Charlemagne had 
caused the Bible to be rendered into German, and Fla- 
cius,in the preface to his edition ofOtfried, speaks of three 
doctors who performed the work — Rhabanus, Hay mo 
of Ilalberstadt, and Walafried ; but the story is without 
support of any kind. See Herzog, Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Strada, Famiano, a learned Jesuit, was born in 
Rome in 1572, and entered the Society of Jesus in 
1591. Ilis ordinary residence was in the Roman Col- 
lege, where he taught rhetoric, and where he died in 
1649. He was the author of Prolusiones A cademicee 
(Cologne, 1617, 8vo; reprinted at Oxford in 1631), by 
far his best work: — De Bello Belgico (Rome, 1640-47, 
2 vols. fob). See Chalmers, Biog. Diet . s. v. 

Strafmichgott-Bibel is the name of a German 
Bible translation prepared by Johann Piscator (lierborn, 
1602-4, 4 vols.). This translation, the first which was 
made by a member of the Reformed Church into the 
German language, though complete, is very deficient, 
and bears its name (Strafmichgott-Bibel) from its trans- 
lation of Mark viii, 12: “Wann diesem Geschlechte ein 
Zeichen wirdt gegeben werden, so strafe mich Gott.” 
The translation closely follows the Latin version of Ju- 
nius and Tremellius, and the German teems with Latin- 
isms. For a time this version was used in Berne and 
other places. See TheoL Universal- Lexikon, s. v. (B. P.) 

Strahl, Philipp, doctor and professor of philosophy 
at Bonn, who died May 6, 1840, is the author of Bei- 
trdge zur 1 'ussischen Kirchengeschichte (Halle, 1827): — 
Geschichte der Griindung und Ausbreitung der christlichen 
Lehre unter den Volkern des ganzen ritssischen Reiches 
(ibid. 1828) : — Geschichte der ritssischen Kirche (vol. i, 
ibid. 1830). See Zuchold, Bill. TheoL ii, 1281 ; Winer, 
Handbuch der theolog . Literatur , i, 835; ii, 793. (B. P.) 

Straight Street (popt] d’Seia), one of the an- 


cient thoroughfares of Damascus, on which was situ- 
ated the house of Judas, where Paul was visited by 
Ananias (Acts ix, 11). it still subsists as a narrow lane, 
which runs away westward trom the Bab es-Shnrky, or 
East Gate, as far as the eye can follow it among the con- 
fused labyrinth of buildings. It retains the same name 
in an Arabic form, Derb <1- Must a kirn. It is not quite 
straight now, nor is its architecture peculiarly imposing, 
yet there cannot be a doubt of its identity. In the Ro- 
man age, and down to the time of the Mohammedan 
conquest, a noble street extended in a straight line from 
this gate westward through the city. It was divided 
by Corinthian colonnades into three avenues, opposite 
and corresponding to the three portals. The visitor 
may still trace the remains of these colonnades. Wher- 
ever excavations are made in the line, bases of columns 
are found in situ , and fragments of shafts lying under 
accumulated rubbish. This street was like those still 
seen in Palmyra anti Jerash. Its length was an Eng- 
lish mile, and its breadth about 100 feet. See Porter, 
Hamlb.for l\destine, p. 451 ; Biideker, Palestine, p. 480. 
See Damascus. 

Strain at. The A. Y. of 1611 renders Matt, xxiii, 
24, “Ye blind guides! which strain at a gnat, and 
swallow a camel.” There can be little doubt, as dean 
Trench has supposed, that this obscure phrase is due to 
a printer’s error, and that the true reading is “strain 


Ancient Egyptian Strainer and Ladle for Wiue (see p. 105G). 


out.” Such is the sense of the Greek dwXi&tv, as used 
by Plutarch (Op. Mor. p. 692 D; Bymp. Probl. vi, 7, 
§ 1) and Dioscorides (ii, 86), viz. to clarify by passing 
through a strainer ( vXuTrijp ). 
“Strain out” is the reading of Tyn- 
d ale’s (1539), Cranmer’s (1539), the 
Bishops’ (1568), and the Geneva 
(1557) Bible, and “strain at” which 
is neither correct nor intelligible, 
could only have crept into our A.V., 
and been allowed to remain there, by 
an oversight. Dean Trench gives 
an interesting illustration ofthe pas- 
sage from a private le tter written to 
him by a recent traveller in North 
Africa, who says: “In a ride from 
Tangier to Tctnan. 1 observed that 
a Moorish soldier who accompanied 
me, when he drank, always unfolded 
the end of his turban ami placed it 
over the mouth of his bota. drinking 
through the muslin, to strain out the 
gnats , whose larva? swarm in the 
water of that country” (On the 
A nth. l>r.«. of the N. T. p. 172, 173). 
If one might conjecture the cause 
which led, even erroneously, to the 
substitution of at for out, it is per- 
haps to be found in the marginal 
note of the Geneva Version, which 
explains the verse thus: “Ye stay 
at that which is nothing, and let 
pass that which is of greater impor- 
tance.” — Smith. There is a mono- 

Tlie “ btreet called straight’’ iu Damascus. tFroin a photograph.) graph on the passage itself by Ru- 


STRAIN 


105G 


STRANGER 


dorf, De Gravioribus in Lege a Pharisee is Pratentis 
(Lips. 174*). See Gnat. 

Among the ancient Egyptians wine was kept in open 
vessels, a* appears from the ladles used for serving it 
out ; and hence small colanders were needed for freeing 
it from the in»ects which it attracted. Such strainers 
of bronze have been found at Thebes, about live inches 
in diameter (Wilkinson, Anc. Egypt, i, 185). 

Strain, John, a Presbyterian minister, was gradu- 
ated from the College of New Jersey (Princeton) in 
17o7. It is not known under whom he studied theol- 
ogy. lie was licensed to preach by the Presbytery of 
Newcastle. Pa., May 29, 1750, and ordained sine titulo by 
the same presbytery in 1701. lie settled as pastor of 
the churches of Chauceford and Slate Iiidge, York Co., 
l’a.. where lie remained until his death, May 21, 1774. 
“ lie was a preacher of uncommon power and success,” 
See Sprague, Annals of the .Inter. Pulpit , iii, 215. 

Strange, John, a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was bom in Virginia Nov. 15, 1780, embraced religion 
when quite young, and was admitted on trial in the 
Ohio Conference in 1811, where he labored thirteen 
years with great fidelity, acceptance, and usefulness. 
The rest of his life was spent in Indiana. He died 
Dec. 2, 18J2. Traditions of his eloquence and useful- 
ness are rife through all Ohio. “ He was,” says a fel- 
low-laborer, “one of the brightest lights of the Ameri- 
can pulpit in the valley of the Mississippi in the early 
part of the present century. lie was formed by nature 
to be eloquent. . . . There were times when his au- 
diences were held spellbound by his eloquence, and 
sometimes they were raised en masse from their seats.” 
See Minutes of Annual Conferences, ii, 27G; Stevens, 
Hist, of the .1/. E. Church, iv, 383-385; Sprague, Annuls 
of the .4 mer. Pulpit , vii, 505-511. (J. L. S.) 

Strange, John R., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was born in Washington 
County, Kv., Jan. 14, 1838. He united with the Church 
iu 1*53, was licensed to preach in 1858, and in the fall 
of the same year was received into the Louisville Con- 
ference. He was made a supernumerary in 1803, and 
was located at his own request in 1805. lie engaged 
in the practice of law until 1871, when he was readmit- 
ted into the Louisville Conference. He was again made 
superannuate in 1*74, and died at Garnettsville, Kv., 
Jan. 2«, 1*75. “Mr. Strange was a man of more than 
ordinary intellectual power, and his conception of doc- 
trinal truth was comprehensive and accurate.” See 
Minutes of Annual Conferences of the M. E. Ch., South, 
1875, p. 22S. 

Strange, Robert, Sir, an English engraver, was 
born at Pomona, in tin* Orkneys, July 14, 1721, of an 
ancient family, ami, after many travels and advent- 
ures in Europe, established himself as a historian and 
artist iu London, where he died, July 5, 1792. Besides 
many secular and classical subjects, he engraved several 
of i lie saints, remarkable for their sweetness, but lack- 
ing vigor, lie left a list of them (Catalogue, etc. [Loud. 
1709 J). See Hoofer, A ’our. Jiiog. Gene rale, s. v. 

Stranger (prop. "»S, ger, or 2’l : n, toshdib). These 
two 1 1 eh. terms appear to describe, not two different 
claws of strangers, but the stranger under two di tie rent 
aspects ger rather implying his foreign origin, or the 
tact of his having turned aside to abide with another peo- 
ple, tnshith implying his permanent residence in the land 
of his adopt ion. \\ iner (Ileahcb. s. v. “ITeinde”) regards 
the latter as equivalent to hireling, .lahii (Arehool. i, 
1 1, $ 1*1) explains toshdb of one who, whether Hebrew 
or foreigner, was destitute of a home. We see no evi- 
dence for either of these opinions. Iu the Sept, these 
terms are most frequently rendered by i rdgutKoc, the 
Alexandrian Kiibstii utc for t lu* classical ptroiKoc. Some- 
limen iroonifXvrot: is used, and in two passages (Exod. 
xti. 19; Da. xiv, l) y«n5prrf, as representing the Chaldee 
form of the word ger. A “stranger," iu the technical 


Hebrew sense of the term, may be defined to be a person 
of foreign, i.e. non-Israelitish, extraction, resident within 
the limits of the promised land. He was distinct from 
the proper “foreigner” (“ 1 122. nob'i), inasmuch as the 
latter still belonged to another country, and would only 
visit Palestine as a traveller; he was still more distinct 
from the “nations” (uy>%, goyim, usually rendered “hea- 
then”), or non- Israel itish peoples, who held no relation- 
ship with the chosen people of God. The term answers 
most nearly to the Greek perotKog, and may be compared 
with onr expression “ naturalized foreigner,” in so far as 
this implies a certain political status in the country 
where the foreigner resides; it is opposed to one “ born in 
the land” (niTX, ezrdch), or, as the term more properly 
means, “ not transplanted,” in the same way that a natu- 
ralized foreigner is opposed to a native. The terms ap- 
plied to the “stranger” have special reference to the fact 
of his residing (1*13, in the land. See Foreigner. 
The existence of such a class of persons among the Israel- 
ites is easily accounted for: the “mixed multitude” that 
accompanied them out of Egypt (Exod. xii, 38) formed 
one element; the Canaanitish population, which was 
never wholly extirpated from their native soil, formed 
another and a still more important one; captives taken 
in war formed a third; fugitives, hired servants, mer- 
chants, etc., formed a fourth. The number from these 
various sources must have been at all times very con- 
siderable ; the census of them in Solomon’s time gave a 
return of 153,600 males (2 Chron. ii, 17), which was equal 
to about a tenth of the whole population. The enact- 
ments of the Mosaic law, which regulated the political 
and social position of resident strangers, were conceived 
in a spirit of great liberality. With the exception of 
the Moabites and Ammonites (Dent, xxiii, 3), all nations 
were admissible to the rights of citizenship under cer- 
tain conditions. It would appear, indeed, to be a con- 
sequence of the prohibition of intermarriage with the 
Canaanites (vii, 3), that these would be excluded from 
the rights of citizenship ; but the Kabbinical view that 
this exclusion was superseded in the ease of proselytes 
seems highly probable, as we find Doeg the Edomite 
(1 Sam. xxi,7; xxii, 9), Uriah the Hittite (2 Sam. xi. 6), 
and Araunah the Jebusite (xxiv, 18) enjoying, to all 
appearance, the full rights of citizenship. Whether a 
stranger could ever become legally a land-owner is a 
question about which there may be doubt. Theoreti- 
cally the whole of the soil was portioned out among the 
twelve tribes; and Ezekiel notices it as a peculiarity of 
the division which he witnessed in vision that the 
strangers were to share the inheritance with the Israel- 
ites, and should thus become as those “born in the coun- 
try” (Ezek. xlvii, 22). Indeed, the term “stranger” is 
more than once applied in a pointed manner to signify 
one who was not a land-owner (Gen. xxiii, 4; Lev. xxv, 
23); while, on the other hand, ezrdch (A. V. “born in the 
land”) may have reference to the possession of the soil, 
as it is borrowed from the image of a tree not transplanted , 
ami so occupying its native soil. The Israelites, how- 
ever, never succeeded in obtaining possession of the 
whole, and it is possible that the Canaanitish occupants 
may in course of time have been recognised as “stran- 
gers,” and bail the right of retaining their laud conceded 
t<» them. There was of course nothing to prevent a Ca- 
nuanite from becoming the mortgagee in possession of a 
plot, hut this would not constitute him a proper land- 
owner, inasmuch as he would lose all interest iu the 
property when the year of jubilee came round. That 
they possessed land in one of these two capacities is 
dear from the case of Araunah above cited. The stran- 
ger appears to have been eligible to all civil offices, that 
of king excepted (Dent, xvii, 15). In regard to religion, 
it was absolutely necessary that the stranger should not 
infringe any of the fundamental laws of the Israelitish 
State: he was forbidden to blaspheme the name olMeho- 
vah (Lev. xxiv, 10), to work on the Sabbath (Exod. xx, 


STRANGER 


1057 


STRATFORD 


10), to eat leavened bread at the time of the Passover 
(xii, 19), to commit any breach of the marriage laws 
(Lev. xviii, 2G), to worship Moleeh (xx, 2), or to eat 
blood or the tlesh of any animal that had died other- 
wise than by the hand of man (xvii, 10, 15). lie was 
required to release a Hebrew servant in the year of 
jubilee (xxv, 47-54), to observe the Day of Atonement 
(xvi, 29), to perform the rites of purification when neces- 
sary (xvii, 15; Numb, xix, 10), and to offer sin-offerings 
after sins of ignorance (xv, 29). If the stranger was a 
bondman, he was obliged to submit to circumcision 
(Exod. xii, 44) ; if he was independent, it was optional 
with him; but if he remained uneircumeised, he was 
prohibited from partaking of the Passover (vcr.48), and 
could not be regarded as a full citizen. Liberty was also 
given in regard to the use of prohibited food to an un- 
circumcised stranger; for on this ground alone can wc 
harmonize the statements in Dent, xiv, 21 and Lev. xvii, 
10, 15. Assuming, however, that the stranger was cir- 
cumcised, no distinction existed in regard to legal rights 
between the stranger and the Israelite. “One law” for 
both classes is a principle affirmed in respect to religious 
observances (Exod. xii, 49; Numb, xv, 16) and to legal 
proceedings (Lev. xxiv, 22), and the judges are strictly 
warned against any partiality in their decisions (Deut. 
i, 16; xxiv, 17, 18). The IsraeliTe is also enjoined to 
treat him as a brother (Lev. xix, 34 ; Dent, x, 19), and 
the precept is enforced in each case by a reference to his 
own state in the land of Egypt. Such precepts were 
needed in order to counteract the natural tendency to 
treat persons in the position of strangers with rigor. 
For, though there was the possibility of a stranger ac- 
quiring wealth and becoming the owner of Hebrew slaves 
(Lev. xxv, 47), yet his normal state was one of poverty, 
as implied in the numerous passages where he is coupled 
with the fatherless and the widow (e.g. Exod. xxii, 21- 
23; Deut. x, 18; xxiv, 17), and in the special directions 
respecting his having a share in the feasts that accom- 
panied certain religious festivals (xvi, 11, 14; xxvi, 11), 
in the leasing of the corn-field, the vineyard, and the 
olive-yard (Lev. xix, 10; xxiii, 22; Dent, xxiv, 20), in 
the produce of the triennial tithe (xiv, 28, 29), in the 
forgotten sheaf (xxiv, 19), and in the spontaneous pro- 
duction of the soil in the sabbatical year (Lev. xxv, G). 
It also appears that the “stranger” formed the class 
whence the hirelings were drawn — the terms being 
coupled together in Exod. xii, 45; Lev. xxii, 10; xxv, 
G, 40. Such laborers were engaged either by the day 
(xix, 13 ; Dent, xxiv, 15) or by the year (Lev. xxv, 53), 
and appear to have been considerately treated, for the 
condition of the Hebrew slave is favorably compared 
with that of the hired servant and the sojourner in con- 
tradistinction to the bondman (ver. 39, 40). A less 
fortunate class of strangers, probably captives in war or 
for debt, were reduced to slavery, and were subject to be 
bought and sold (ver. 45), as well as to be put to task- 
work, as was the case with the Gibconites (Josh, ix, 21) 
and with those whom Solomon employed in the building 
of the Temple (2 Chron. ii, 18). The liberal spirit of 
the Mosaic regulations respecting strangers presents a 
strong contrast to the rigid exclusiveness of the Jews at 
the commencement of the Christian ara. The growth 
of this spirit dates from the time of the Babylonian cap- 
tivity, and originated partly in the outrages which t be 
Jews suffered at the hands of foreigners, and partly 
through a fear lest their nationality should be swamped 
by constant admixture with foreigners: the latter motive 
appears to have dictated the stringent measures adopted 
by Nehemiah (Neh. ix, 2 ; xiii, 3). Our Lord condemns 
this exclusive spirit in the parable of the good Samari- 
tan, where he defines the term “ neighbor” in a sense 
new r to his hearers (Luke x, 3G). It should be observed, 
however, that the proselyte ( Trpoai'jXvrog in the Scpt.= 
in Exod. xii, 19; xx, 10; xxii, 21 ; xxiii, 9) of the 
New Test, is the true representative of the stranger of 
the Old Test., and towards this class a cordial feeling 
IX.— X x x 


was manifested. Sec Proselyte. The term “stran- 
ger” (£ii'oc) is generally used in the New 'lest, in the 
general sense of foreigner, and occasionally in its more 
technical sense as opposed to a citizen (Kph. ii, 19). — 
Smith. See Hosimtality. For the PPiT, ztxruh , or 
“strange woman,” sec Harlot. 

Strangers, Communion of (Lat. enmmunio 
peregrina ), a punishment to which contumacious cler- 
gy w'ere subjected in the early Church. Ii is men- 
tioned in the Annals of the Council of Biez (A. I). 439), 
of Agde (A.D. 506), and of Lerida (A.l). 539). There 
has been much discussion as to the nature of the pun- 
ishment. 1. Some confound it altogether with lay com - 
tnunion, as Him us, in his Notes upon the Council of Le- 
rida, and llospinian and the old Glossary upon Gratian 
(Cans. 13, quant. 2, c. 11). This can hardly be true, for 
it is not. probable that the ancient Church would use 
two such different names for the same thing when lay 
communion was a term so common. Again, they were 
evidently different from each other, for clergymen re- 
duced to lay communion were totally and perpetually 
degraded from their orders, and could not ordinarily be 
restored to their office again, while those clergymen 
who had been reduced to the communion of strangers 
w'ere capable of restoration (Council of Agde, can. 2). 
2. Bellarmine ( De Euehar. lib. iv, e. 24) and others take 
this punishment for lay communion, but assert that lay 
communion w r as communion only in one kind. But all 
public communion in the ancient Church was in both 
kinds. 3. The author of the Glossary upon Gratian 
fancies that it signifies communion at the hour of death, 
taking death to be a pilgrimage into the next life. 4. 
Cardinal Bona mentions the fanciful opinion of one Ga- 
briel llenao that the communion of strangers was that 
which was given to such clergymen as were enjoined 
to go on pilgrimage, either temporary or perpetual, by 
way of penance. Cassander and Vossius think the com- 
munion of strangers means the oblation of the eucharist 
made after some peculiar rite and on some particular 
days for the use of strangers, and that it v’as put upon 
delinquent clergymen as a punishment to communicate 
with these. This interpretation is not consistent, how'- 
ever, with the custom of the Church ; for strangers, un- 
less they had communicatory letters to testify in their 
behalf, w'ere regarded as under suspicion, and were re- 
fused communion, and only allowed common charity. 
According to these measures, clergymen who w'ere de- 
linquents were for some time treated much after the 
same manner, and thereupon said to be reduced to t lie 
community of strangers; that is, they might neither 
officiate as clergymen in celebrating the eucharist nor 
any other part of their ofiice, nor in some cases partici- 
pate of the eucharist for some time, till they had made 
satisfaction, but only be allowed a charitable subsist- 
ence out of the revenues of the Church, without any 
legal claim to a full proportion, till by a just penance 
they could regain t heir former office and station. Bes- 
toration was secured by private penance, for the order 
of the Church prohibited admittance to any clerical de- 
gree, or return to it after correction, after public pen- 
ance. See Bingham, Christ. A ntiq. bk. xvii, eh. iii, § 1 sq. 

Strangers, Ordination of. The laws of the 
early Church forbade the ordination of strangers in any 
Church to which they did not belong, for the reason 
that it w r as the custom generally to ordain such only as 
were known to all the people, and of whose life and 
character they were satisfied. 

Strangle (P.?n, irviyu), to choke). Animals put to 
death by strangulation, not having the blood properly 
separated from the fiesh, could not therefore be eaten 
without a violation of the Nonchic precept (Gen. ix, 
4). The primitive Christians abstained from them, 
principally to avoid giving offence, to the Jewish con- 
verts (Acts xv, 20). See Alisgkma; Blood. 

Stratford, John, archbishop of Canterbury, and 


STRATFORD 


1058 


STRAUGHAN 


earlier bishop of Winchester, was born at Stratford, ' 
Warwickshire, Kurland. He was raised to the arch- 
bishopric in 1333, and died in 1318. lie was arraigned 
on a charge of high-treason in the malversation of sub- 
sidies levied for the French war. The archbishop tied 
from Lambeth, and at Canterbury excommunicated his 
accusers, the king’s councillors. He returned to Lon- 
don. shrouding himself under the privileges of Parlia- 
ment, was foreed to submit to an investigation before a 
jury of his peers, and the quarrel was settled by an ami- 
cable intervention. Stratford was a very charitable man 
and a lenient governor. See Collier, Levies, Hist, iii, 
03-107. 

Stratford, Nicholas, a learned* English prelate, 
was born at liemel-llempstead, in Hertfordshire, in 
1 033, and admitted into Trinity College, Oxford, in 
June, 105*2, where in 1050 lie became fellow and master 
of arts. After taking orders, he was made warden of 
Manchester College, Lancashire. 11c was in 1070 made 
prebendary of Leicester St. Margaret, Church of Lincoln; 
in 1073 dean of St. Asaph, at which time he took his 
degree of 1 >.!)., and was appointed chaplain in ordinary 
to the king. In 1083 he was presented to the rectory 
of St. Mary’s, Aldennanbury, London, and in the follow- 
ing year resigned his wardenship. He was consecrated 
bishop of Chester in 1080, holding that office until his 
death, Feb. 12. 1707. Besides some occasional Sermons, 
he published, .1 Discourse concerning the Xecessity of 
Reformation with respect to the Errors , etc., of the 
Church of Rome (Loud. 1085, pt. i, 4to; the 2d pt. fol- 
lowed) Discourse on the Rope's Supremacy (ibid. 1G88, 

4 to) : — The People's Right to Read the Holy Scriptures 
Asserted (ibid. 1088, 4to): — The Lay Christian's Obliga- 
tion to Read the Holy Scriptures (ibid. 1088-80, 4to) : — 
Examination of Bella nnine's Fourteenth Xote concerning 
the Unhappy End of the Church's Enemies. See Chal- 
mers, liiog. Diet. s. v. 

Stratius, in Grecian mythology, was a son of Clym- 
enus. The latter having been slain hv a Theban, Ergi- 
nus, bis successor, imposed on the Thebans an annual 
tribute of a hundred bullocks in punishment. After 
twenty years, the messengers who were despatched to 
demand the tribute were sent back by Hercules empty, 
and with the loss of their hands and noses. Among 
them was Stratius, who died of his wounds (Pausan. ix, 
37,1). 

Stratobat&s, in Grecian mythology, was one of 
the sons of Elect ryon, all of whom fell in a contest 
fought with the Ptcrelaids about their father’s herds 
(Apollod. ii, 4, 5). 

Stratomcd was the name of several persons in 
Grecian mythology. 1. A daughter of Pleuron and 
Xanthippe, and sister to Sterope (q. v.) and Lcophontcs 
(Apollod. i, 7, 7). 2. A daughter of king Thespius, and 

bv Hercules the mother of Atromus (ibid. ii,7, 3). 

Stratten, John Ii., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was horn at Stratford, Conn., in 1785. 
He was admitted on trial into the New York Conference 
in 1811. At the formation of the Troy Conference in 
1832, he became one of its members, but the next year 
was transferred to the New York Conference, in 1843 to 
the Troy Conference, in 1815 to the New York Confer- 
ence, and in 1857 to the Troy Conference. In 1801 he 
took a superannuated relation, and made his home in 
Jonesville, N. Y., where he died June 20, 1803. See 
Minutes of Annual (’inferences of the M. E. Church, 

1801, p. t»*.l. 

Stratton, Daniel, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born at Bridgeton, N. J., Sept. 28, 1811. He made a 
profession of religion in early life, received his academ- 
ical training in the Lawreneeville High-school, N. J., 
and graduated at Princeton College in 1833. He stud- 
ied theology three years in Princeton Theological Sem- 
inary, and completed his course in Cnion Theological 
Seminary, Prince Edward Co., Va., in 1837. On April 13, 


1837, he was licensed by the West Hanover Presbytery, 
and soon alter his licensure started to a Southern field 
of labor, bis steps being directed to Newbern, N. C., 
where be was ordained and installed by the Orange 
Presbytery, and where for fifteen years he faithfully 
preached the Gospel, while with a holy example he 
illustrated its power. In 1852 he accepted a call to the 
Church in Salem, N. J., and for a space of fourteen years 
he continued to labor among this people. He died Aug. 
24, 1806. Mr. Stratton’s power as a preacher consisted 
in appealing to the affections of his hearers. His min- 
istry was pre-eminently a ministry of love. Again and 
again were strangers heard to say, “That man tills my 
ideal of St. John.’’ Though greatly successful as a 
preacher, his greatest influence for good was exerted as 
a pastor and in social life. In the siek-chamber or the 
house of mourning he had no superiors, and but few 
equals. Sec Wilson, Presb. Ilist. Almanac, 1867, p. 200. 
(J. L. S.) 

Stratton, Isaiah, a Baptist minister, was born at 
Salem, N. J., Oct. 25, 1782. He became a member of 
the Second Baptist Church in Philadelphia, Aug. 14, 
1808, and was licensed by that Church to preach Feb. 
12, 1812. He spent some time in preaching in Phila- 
delphia and its vicinity. His ordination took place 
Feb. 20, 1814, when he became pastor of the Church at 
New Mills, N. J., now known as the Pemberton Church. 
He did not long survive his ordination, his death oc- 
curring June 7, 1810. He was a young minister of 
much promise. See The Missionary Jubilee , p. 110. 
(J. C. S.) 

Strauch, yEgidhts, a Lutheran divine of Germany, 
was born Feb. 21, 1632, at Wittenberg. When fourteen 
years of age he attended the lectures at the uni- 
versity of his native place. From 1049 to 1G5I he at- 
tended the lectures at Leipsic, and after his return to 
his place of birth he was made magistcr, and in 1G53 he 
was appointed adjunct to the philosophical faculty, lie 
soon advanced, and in 1662 he was honored with the 
degree of D.I)., and in 1004 he was appointed to the 
chair of Church history. In 1009 he was called to Dant- 
zie, but, on account of his controversies with the Cal- 
vinists and Papists, he accepted in 1075 a call to Ham- 
burg. On his way thither he was made a prisoner and 
brought to Colberg. After bis release, he started again 
for Hamburg, but was again imprisoned at the order of 
Frederick William of Brandenburg, because of bis vehe- 
ment preaching against the Calvinists, and was brought 
to Kilstrin, where he remained three years. In 1078 he 
was released through the mediation of the people of 
Dantzic, and died Dec. 13, 1682. He wrote, Dissertatio 
tie Anno Ebrwornni Ecclesiastico (Wittenberg, 1GG1): — 
Dissertatio de Computo Talmudico - Rabbi nico (ibid. 
1061): — Dissertatio de Computo Julio - Constantineano 
(ibid. 1002): — De Pcenitentia Xinevitarum (ibid. 1604): 
— and especially Rreviariuni Chronologicum, translated 
into English by Bichard Sault (last ed. 1745). See 
Koch, (Jesch. des deutschen Kirchenliedes, iii, 407 sq. ; 
Jochcr, Allgem. Gelehrten - Lcxikon, s. v. ; Fiirst, Bibl. 
Jud. iii, 392 sq. (B. P.) 

Strauglian, Samuel L., a Baptist minister, was 
born in Northumberland County, Va., July 30, 1783, 
and at the age of about twelve years became a clerk in 
his uncle’s store, where he continued until his nineteenth 
year, lie was baptized April 7, 1803, received ordina- 
tion March 20, 180(5, and on the same day took charge 
of the Wicomico Church, soon taking rank among the 
first Baptist preachers of Virginia. In 1807 he took 
charge of the Murat tico Church, which he held until 
his death. In 1814 he was appointed by the Mission- 
ary Society of Bichmoud to travel in Maryland, and 
continued to make visits into that state for a number 
of years. He died June 9, 1821. Mr. Strauglian pub- 
lished nothing except three Circular Letters ( 1812, 
1817, 1819). See Sprague, Annals of the A mer. Pulpit, 
vi, 511. 


STRAUND 1059 STRAUSS 


Straund, in Norse mvthologv, was one of the rivers 
of hell. 

Strauniks. See Russian Sects. 

Strauss, David Friedrich, a notorious German 
theologian, was born at Ludwigsburg. in Witrtemberg, 
Jan. 27, 1808. lie was educated at Blaubcurcn and Tu- 
bingen ; in 1830 was appointed curate, and in 1831 pro- 
fessor’s assistant in the seminary at Maulbronn; after 
which he proceeded to Berlin to study the Hegelian 
philosophy and to hear iSehleiermacher. In 1832 he 
became under-teacher in the Theological Institute at 
Tubingen, and delivered lectnres on philosophy in the 
university. While acting in this capacity, he wrote 
his great work, Das Lebeu Jesu, which occasioned his 
dismissal from his situation, lie accepted the position 
of teacher in the Lyceum at Ludwigsburg, which he re- 
signed in 1830 to become private tutor at .Stuttgart. 
While there he prepared a reply to his opponents in 
his Streitschriften (1847), and in his Zicei friedliche 
Blatter he sought to place his case in the most favorable 
point of view. He was appointed, by the Council of 
Education of Zurich, professor of divinity and of Church 
history in the university, February, 1839, but the ap- 
pointment gave such dissatisfaction that Strauss was 
dismissed from office, with a pension, however, of a 
thousand francs. In 1848 he was an unsuccessful can- 
didate for the Frankfort Parliament, but was elected to 
the Diet at Stuttgart, from which he withdrew in De- 
cember on account of the unpopularity of his political 
conservatism. After a long residence in Darmstadt, he 
returned in 1872 to his native town, where he died of 
cancer, Feb. 9, 1874, and was buried, by his own direc- 
tion, without any Church service. Strauss was unhap- 
py in his domestic life. In 1841 he married a formerly 
beautiful and celebrated actress, Agnes Schebert, who 
admired his talents ; but after five years of incompatible 
living together, the fruit of which was a daughter, they 
separated by mutual consent. Besides the above pro- 
ductions, Strauss published an attempt to resolve the- 
ology as a whole into philosophy ( Christl.GlaubensUhre 
[Tiib. 1840,2 vols.]), and later devoted himself to roman- 
tic, political, and general literature, with occasional ar- 
ticles on theology, for which see Zuchold, Bill. Theol . 
s. v. 

The early training of Strauss, in the light of which 
the genesis of his principal work must be explained, is 
described by the author himself in the art. “Justimis 
Kern er” in the Hall. Jahrb. 1838, No. 1, and more fully 
by Vischer in the same journal, 1838, p. 1081-1 120. On 
the relation of Strauss to the philosophy of Hegel, com- 
pare No. 3 of his Streitschriften and the biography en- 
titled Christ. Marklin, etc. (1851). He manifested at 
the beginning of his studies a fondness for the fogs of 
transcendental romanticism, hut also for the nature-phi- 
losophy of Schelling and the theosophy of Bolimc. The 
influence of Schleiermacher aroused in him the dialecti- 
cal spirit, the exercise of which resulted in urging him 
beyond the limits of the accepted faith. Under the teach- 
ing of Baur, sporadic doubts had risen in the mind of 
Strauss with respect to the credibility of the Gospel, 
even before bis student-years bad come to a close, and 
they were confirmed by the reading of Hegel's writings, 
of whose influence over him he remarks that they “had 
freed him from certain religious and philosophical preju- 
dices.” He now felt himself called to undertake a philo- 
sophical task which neither Hegel himself nor any of 
his followers had attempted to perform, namely, to cam- 
forward with logical consistency, and to its ultimate con- 
sequences, the application of the Hegelian philosophy to 
the Gospel histories. The adherents of that philosophy 
were, as a general thing, disposed to claim for their sys- 
tem a triumph in relation to Christianity as the religion 
of the Spirit, which had never been achieved with re- 
gard to any other religion — an alleged harmonizing, 
namely, of its form and substance, of the expression and 
the idea, so that Luther’s catechism, for example, and 


the Hegelian logic and metaphysics should he related 
to each other as the form is to the contents. This claim 
Strauss overthrew ns being wholly unfounded (Streit- 
schr. No. 3; Glaubenslehre, Introd. § 2). From the po- 
sition to which he had now attained, Strauss was obliged 
to condemn the dogmatic method of the old Hegelians, 
as illustrated in Marheineke’s Dor/matik. lie demand- 
ed, as the tirst step in a scientific method, that the con- 
ception underlying a scriptural statement, as it existed 
in t he mind of the writer, should he ascertained; that 
this should then be followed through the various hereti- 
cal perversions until it becomes crystallized into a Church 
doctrine; and that the doctrine should be passed through 
the crucible ofdcistic and rationalistic polemics in order 
to its purification and ultimate restoration to the form 
of the original idea. In the light of this new concep- 
tion of the relation between the idea and its apprehen- 
sion, he enmc to regard a study of the life of Jesus as 
the most important work to which lie could devote his 
powers. His celebrated hook accordingly grew- up on 
Hegelian ground, and not, as lias been frequently as- 
sumed, on the ground of Schleiermacher. The book pro- 
duced a universal sensation. It was discussed, printed 
in numerous editions, popularized, and translated into 
French and English. Its significance, in a scientific 
point of view, lies in the fact that it closes the epoch of 
undecided criticism in the field of Gospel history, and 
begins the epoch of radical philosophical rationalism. 
The effect produced by the book is primarily to be ex- 
plained by the fact that this rationalism pronounced 
clearly and confidently the final words of negation 
which its predecessors had timidly withheld; to some 
extent also bv the skill ami acumen displayed in its 
pages; and lastly by the utterance of a confident ex- 
pression of victory on the part of criticism at the very 
time when the Church was awaking to new life and 
was no less confident of victory than her antagonist. 
The “ enlightenment” of the period had brought down 
the supernatural elements of the Scripture narratives to 
the level of ordinary occurrences. It had discovered a 
relationship between the myths of classical antiquity 
and the histories of the Old Test., ami it held that 
the myths originated prior to the composition of the 
Old -Test, hooks. All the wonders of the Old Test, 
were incontinently classed as myths, and so many 
of the New as had not been directly witnessed by the 
apostles. This was the position upon which Strauss 
found the vulgar rationalism intrenched. He saw that 
its weakness lay in the admission of Christ’s resurrec- 
tion, and he refused to he content with what seemed to 
him a half-light, making the surrounding darkness more 
intense. lie entered the way opened hv the anony- 
mous author of OJhtbarum/ und MythvUnjie (1799), ami 
sought to bring the entire life of Jesus under the mythi- 
cal theory. As the most important objection to bis 
views, lie regards the composition of two gospels by 
eye-witnesses of the incidents they record, and the im- 
probability of the intrusion of unbistorical elements 
into writings of so undeniably early a date as the two 
remaining gospels. This lie endeavors to refute, though 
in a manner totally inadequate when contrasted with 
the consequences to which its removal would lead ; and 
after this preliminary he conceives himself warranted 
to subject the narrators to an examination of character 
ns furnishing the test by which to determine the his- 
torical claims of the gospels, with the result that he 
finds in the latter no testimony derived directly from 
eye-witnesses, hut only < ffusions from the impure source 
of oral tradition. The predispositions with which a 
writer approaches a work of such profound and far- 
reaching consequence for religion and the Church are 
of vital importance, and Strauss brought predispositions 
to hear upon the criticism in which he engaged. 11c 
did not, as some reviewers have asserted, claim “entire 
freedom from predisposition," lint “only that philosophi- 
cal study had delivered him from certain religions and 
dogmatical assumptions,’* and he stated (3d cd. p. 97 


STRAUSS 


1000 


STRAWBRIDGE 


[Germ. ed.]) the assumptions by which his critique 
would be quilled. These were an invariable sameness 
of nature in all that comes to pass, ami a consequent im- 
possibility that supernatural facts should occur in the 
course of history. In the progress of his inquiry, he 
shows from Spinoza that the laws of nature are simply 
the will of God in the course of constant actualization, 
and that a miracle therefore involves a contradiction in 
the Deity. He asserts, against Nitzseh, that the dis- 
tinction between a higher and a lower nature is without 
meaning, “since the higher nature is still nature.” The 
miraculous history of the Kcdeemer is reduced to a nar- 
ration of natural events. Jesus, a pious Jew, was at- 
tracted by the preaching of the Baptist, made the usual 
confession of sin, and was baptized into Him who was to 
come. Subsequently he attained to the consciousness 
that he was himself the promised Messiah, and through 
the energetic assertion of that consciousness, his high 
moral principles, and his bearing, he impressed many 
people favorably, especially among the lower classes, 
and gathered about him a number of enthusiastic ad- 
herents; hut having incurred the hatred of the Phari- 
sees, he fell before their hostility, and ended his life on 
the cross. The miracles with which this simple history 
was embellished in the Church had their origin in the 
fancy of his devoted disciples, and came in time to be 
received as facts. A conclusion was appended to the 
book, in which the author endeavored to replace the 
historical with an ideal Jesus. lie advanced the idea 
that the God-man finds his actualization, not in the in- 
dividual, but in the human race as a whole. Later pub- 
lications showed that under the force of adverse criti- 
cisms the author had moditied his views so far as to re- 
gard the life of Jesus as extraordinary and Jesus him- 
self as a religious genius, endowed with power to con- 
trol the minds of men, and perhaps with powers of phys- 
ical healing; ami the concessions were carried so far (in 
pt. ii of Vergauglickes und Bleibendes) as to compel the 
recognition in Jesus of the highest “ that can be known 
or thought in religious things,” and the acknowledg- 
ment that without him present in the mind no complete 
piety is possible, “ so that the substance of Christianity 
is in him preserved to us.” The earlier position was, 
however, eventually reassumed by Strauss. In the pref- 
ace to Studien und Ckarakteristiken, written in August, 
1839, he recalls the opinion he had expressed in favor 
of the authenticity of the Gospel of St. John, and in 
the I tli edition of the Leben Jtsu he expresses regret at 
having nicked his sword, and returns to the negations 
of the 1st edition, Strauss had been charged with 
having given too little attention to the authenticity of 
the gospels iu grounding his work, lie made no reply, 
but when 1 four's tendency-theory was published, he pro- 
fessed entire assent to its principles. It would seem 
that in this utterance he had not only hacked, but 
broken into pieces, bis sword ; for the tendency-criticism 
lias no place for the mythical theory; the “primitive 
idea of Christianity in historical garb” cannot be har- 
monized with “legend invented without purpose.” This, 
however, did not hinder him, when celebrating the twen- 
ty-fifth anniversary of the issue of his ljeben Jesn, from 
expressing tlicjipiniou that the teachings of the l»ook 
bad been absorbed into tbe culture of the day and into 
the veins of science, lie asserts, moreover, that during 
those years not a single line has been written on tbe 
topics of which it treats in which its iiitliieuce may not 
be seen. Such an illusion respecting the slate of the 
( linreh and of theological science can be explained only 
in vi<-w of the “isolated life” to which he was, as he 
complained, condemned. The speculations of the hook 
have passed awnv from Germany ami left no trace be- 
hind; and in but narrow circles in other lands can their 
intliience lie observed, < )f responses to Strauss we notice 
Ulmaiin, / tutor utrh <>d< r Myt hitch t (1838); id. Xoch ( in 
II net til* r d. I'n-Hon f'hristi, etc., in Mud. u. Krit. 1 838 ; 
'Undock, (Jlunhu iirdiykiit , l . evangel. Grsrhirhte (2d ed. 

; ling, (iutarhft n itb* r d. Leben Jvsu von St muss 


(1844); Wurm, Leben Luther's (Tiib. 1830); and Nean- 
der, Leben Jesu , 1837 (English, N. Y. 1848). — Herzog, 
Real- Encyklop. s. v. See Mythical Theory. 

Strauss, Gerhard Friedrich Abraham, a 
German writer, was bom Sept. 24, 1780, at Iserlohn. 
lie studied at Ilallc and Heidelberg, and after having 
served as pastor in different places, he was called in 
1822, as court preacher, to the cathedral in Berlin, where 
he died Jtdy 10, 1863. Strauss distinguished himself 
as pastor, preacher, and author. Of his many writings, 
w’c mention, Glockentone, oder Erinnerungen aus dem 
Leben eines jungen Geistlichen (7th ed. Leips. 1840, 3 
vols.) : — Die Taufe im Jordan (Elberfeld, 1822) : — He- 
lms Wallfuhrt nach Jerusalem (ibid. 1820-23, 4 vols. ; 
Engl, transl. Phila. 1860) : — Das evangelische Kirchen- 
jahr in seinem Zusammenhange (Berlin, 1850) : — Abend- 
glockentone, Erinnerungen eines alten Geistlichen aus 
seinem Leben (ibid. 1868). Besides these works, there 
are a large number of published sermons, preached on 
different occasions and subjects. See Theolog. Univer- 
sal- Lexikon, s. v.; Regensburger Conversations- Lexikon, 
s. v.; Zuchold, Bibl. Theolog . ii, 1283-87 ; Winer, Hand- 
buck der theol. Literatur (see Index). (B. P.) 

Straw (*]nri, teben [once “stubble,” Job xxi, 18; 
once “chaff,” <Jer. xxiii, 28]; once the cognate 
mithben , Isa. xxv, 10; Sept. d\vpov’, Vulg, palea). 
Both wheat and barley straw were used by the ancient 
Hebrew's chiefly as fodder for their horses, cattle, and 
camels (Gen, xxiv, 25; 1 Kings iv, 28; Isa. xi, 7 ; Ixv, 
25). The straw was probably often chopped and mixed 
with barley, beans, etc., for provender (see Harrner, Obs. 
[ Lond. 1707 ], i, 423, 424; Wilkinson, Ancient Egypt. 
[ibid. 1854], ii, 48). There is no intimation that straw 
w r as used for litter ; Harmer thinks it w r as not so em- 
ployed, The litter the people now use in those coun- 
tries is tbe animal’s dung, dried in the sun and bruised 
between their hands, which they heap up again in the 
morning, sprinkling it in the summer with fresh water to 
keep it from corrupting (Harmer, Obs. p. 424). Straw 
was employed by the Egypt inns for making bricks (Exod. 
v, 7, 16) ; it was chopped up and mixed with the clay to 
make them more compact and to prevent their cracking 
(Wilkinson, A ncient Egypt, ii, 194). See Brick. The 
ancient Egyptians reaped their corn close to the ear, and 
afterwards cut the straw close to the ground (ibid. p. 48) 
and laid it by. This was the straw that Pharaoh re- 
fused to give to the Israelites, who w’ere therefore com- 
pelled to gather “stubble” (di?, hash) instead, a matter 
of considerable difficulty, seeing that the straw itself 
had been cut off near to the ground. The stubble (q. v.) 
frequently alluded to in the Scriptures may denote ei- 
ther the short standing straw mentioned above, which 
was commonly set on tire (hence the allusions in Isa. v, 
24; Joel ii, 5), or the small fragments that would be left 
behind after the reapings (hence the expression “as 
the hash before the wind” [Psa. lxxxiii, 13; Isa. xli, 2; 
Jer. xiii, 24]). — Smith. Sec Agriculture. 

Straw Day, a term used in many parts of England 
to designate St. Stephen's Day, because on that day straw 
was anciently blessed. 

Strawbridge, Koijeut, an early local preacher of 
the Methodist Episcopal Church, was born at Drummer’s 
Nave, near Carrick-on-Shannon, Comity of Leitrim, Ire- 
land, and came to the United States some time between 
1760 and 1765, settling on Sam’s Creek, Frederick Co., 
Md. He began to preach in his own house, and in 1769 
was joined in his labors by Kobert Williams, and in the 
year following by John King. In 1773 his name ap- 
pears on the Minutes as one of the preachers assisting 
Mr. Asbury, but there is no evidence that he continued 
iu t he work. In 1775 his name again appears as second 
preacher on Frederick Circuit, but he does not seem to 
have hail much regard for Church order, and claimed 
the right to administer the ordinances of baptism and 
the Lord’s supper. Iu 1776 he moved his family to the 


STREAM 


10G1 


STREET 


farm of captain Ridgelv, who presented to him the use ' 
of it during life, lie took charge of the society at 
Sam’s Creek, and at Bush Forest, Hartford Co./and 
continued to be their preacher for five years, lie died 
in the summer of 1781. See Sprague, A muds of the 
A mer . Pulpit , vii, 3 ; Simpson, Cyclop . of Methodism, 
s. v. 

Stream is the rendering in the A. V. of the fol- 
lowing words in the original. See Topoguai*I!1Cal 
Terms. 

1. p^SX, aphik (Job vi, 15; Psa. cxxvi, 4; “brook,” 
xlii, 1 [2] ; “channel,” 2 Sam. xxii, 16; Psa. xviii, 15 
[16]; Isa. viii, 7; elsewhere “river”), properly de- 
notes a violent torrent, sweeping through a mountain 
gorge, like a pipe. It occurs only in the poetical books, 
and is derived from a root aphdk , signifying “ to be 
strong.” Sec Channel. 

2. TiIJX, eshed (Numb, xxi, 15), literally on outpour- 
ing , is a place where the torrents from the mountains 
flow down into the valleys and plains, i. e. a ravine. 
See Valley. 

3. *1**150, yeor (Isa. xxxiii, 21 ; “brook,” xix, 6, 7, 8; 
xxiii, 3, 10 ; “ flood,” Jer. xlvi, 78 ; Amos viii, 8, 9 ; else- 
where “ river”), is an Egyptian word, generally applied 
to the Nile, or to the canals by which Egypt was wa- 
tered. The only exceptions to this usage are found in 
Dan. xii, 5, 6, 7. See Nile. 

4. yabal (Isa. xxx, 25; “course,” xliv, 4), de- 
notes strictly a deluging rain; hence an overflowing riv- 
er. See Flood. 

5. Vp, nozel (Psa. lxxviii. 16; Cant, iv, 15; “flood,” 
Exod. xv, 8; Psa. lxxviii, 44; Isa. xliv, 3; elsewhere 
“running” or “flowing” water), signifies a trickling rill, 
and is hardly a denominative at all. 

6. "bnp, ndchal (Psa. lxxviii, 20; Isa. xi, 15; xxvii, 
12 ; xxx, 28, 33 ; xxxiv, 9; xxxv, 6 ; xxxvii, 6 ; Ixvi, 12 ; 
Amos v, 24; elsewhere “river,” “brook,” or “valley,” 
occasionally “flood”), is a term applied both to the dry 
torrent-bed (Numb, xxi, 12; Judg. xvi, 4) and to the 
torrent itself (1 Kings xvii, 3). It corresponds with 
the Arabic wady, the Greek ^tiydppovc, the Italian^ii- 
mara, and the Indian nullah. Sec Valley. 

7. Jlbn3, nachldh (only found in Psa. cxxiv, 4), is 
merely the fern, of the preceding. See Brook. 

8. :&2, peleg (Psa. xlvi, 4 [5]; elsewhere “river”), 
denotes an artificial rivulet or channel for watering 
land. See Irrigation. 

9. Chald. nna, nehdr (Dan. vii, 10; elsewhere “riv- 
er”), corresponds to the Ilcb. nahdr , which desig- 

nates a perennial current of water, and is the most reg- 
ular terra. Sec Biver. 

10. 11 ora yog (Luke vi, 48, 49; elsewhere usually 
“river,” sometimes “flood” or “water”) is the proper 
Greek word for a river of any kind. Sec Water. 

STREAM OF EGYPT (C^S? bn 2, Ndchal Mils - 
rdyim; Sept. 'PiroKopoupa [pi.]; Vulg. torrens uEgyp- 
ti ) occurs once in the A. V. instead of “the river of 
Egypt,” apparently to avoid tautology (Isa. xxvii, 12). 
It is the best translation of this doubtful name, for it 
expresses the sense of the Hebrew while retaining the 
vagueness it has, so long as we cannot decide whether 
it is applied to the Pelusian branch of the Nile or the 
stream of the Wady el-’Arish. See Nile; River of 
Egypt. 

Streaneshalch, Synod of. See Whitby, Coun- 
cil of. 

Streater, Robert, an English painter, was bom in 
1624. Upon the restoration of Charles II lie was made 
the king’s sergeant-painter, and was greatly prized by 
him. lie died in 1680. 1 1 is principal works arc in the 
Theatre of Oxford and the Chapel at All-Souls’ College : 
The Battle of the Giants with the Gods is at Sir Robert 


Clayton’s, and Moses and A aron in St. Michael’s Church, 
Cornhill. See Chalmers, Jiiog. l>ict. s. v. 

Street (”“n, chiits, properly out of doors ; 2*n~, 
rechdh , properly a wide place; shirk, properly an 

alley ; tt XaTtia, a broad place ; pryrj, a passage). The 
streets of a modern Oriental town present a great con- 
trast to those with which we are familiar, being gen- 
erally narrow, tortuous, and gloomy, even in the best 
towns, such as Cairo (Lane, i, 25), Damascus (Porter, i, 
30), and Aleppo (Russell, i, 14). Their character is 
mainly fixed by the climate and the style of architect- 
ure, the narrowness being due to the extreme heat, and 
the gloominess to the circumstance of the windows look- 
ing, for the most part, into the inner court. As these 
same influences existed in ancient times, we should be 
inclined to think that the streets were much of the same 
character as at present. The opposite opinion has, in- 
deed, been maintained on account of the Hebrew term 
rechdh , frequently applied to streets, and properly mean- 
ing a wide place. The specific signification of this term, 
however, is rather a court-yard or square. It is applied 
in this sense to the broad open space adjacent to the 
gate of a town, where public business was transacted 
(l)cut, xiii, 16), and, again, to the court before the Tem- 
ple (Ezra x, 9) or before a palace (Estli. iv, 6). Its 
application to the street may point to the compar- 
ative width of the main street, or it may perhaps con- 
vey the idea of publicity rather than of width, a sense well 
adapted to- the passages in which it occurs (e.g. Gen. xix, 
2; Judg. xix, 15; 2 Sam. xxi, 12). The street called 
“Straight” (q. v.) in Damascus (Acts ix, 11) was an ex- 
ception to the rule of narrowness; it was a noble thor- 
oughfare, one hundred Icet wide, divided in the Roman 
age by colonnades into three avenues — the central one 
for foot passengers, the side passages for vehicles and 
horsemen going in different directions (l'orter, i, 47). 
The shops and warehouses were probably collected to- 
gether into bazaars in ancient as in modern times. We 
read of the baker’s bazaar (Jer. xxxvii, 21), and of the 
wool, brazier, and clothes bazaars (fiyapd) in Jerusalem 
(Josephus, War, v, 8, 1) ; and perhaps the agreement be- 
tween Bcnhadad and Ahah that the latter should “make 
streets in Damascus” (1 Kings xx. 34) was in reference 
rather to bazaars (the term chiits here used being the 
same as in Jer. xxxvii, 21), and thus amounted to the 
establishment of a jus conanercii. A lively description 
of the bazaars at Damascus is furnished us l»y Porter (i, 
58-60). The broad and narrow streets arc distinguished 
under the terms rechdb and chiits in the following pas- 
sages, though the point is frequently lost in the A. V. 
by rendering the latter term “abroad” or “without,” 
Prow v, 16; vii, 12; xxii, 13; Jer. v, 1 ; ix, 21 ; Amos 
v, 16; Nahum, i i, 4. The same distinction is apparent- 
ly expressed by the terms rechdb and shuk in Gant. iii. 
2, and by —Xartia and pry)} in Luke xiv, 21 : but the 
etymological sense of shir k points rather to a place of 
concourse, such as a market-place, while yvyi\ is applied 
to the “Straight" street of Damascus (Acts ix. 1 1), and 
is also used in reference to the Pharisees (Matt, vi, 2) as 
a place of the greatest publicity; it is therefore doubt- 
ful whether the contrast can be sustained. Josephus 
describes the alleys iff Jerusalem under the term artvw- 
7ro i (l Pur, v, 8, 1). The term shirk occurs elsewhere 
only in Prow vii, 8; Eceles. xii, 4, 5. The term chiits , 
already noticed, applies generally to that which is out- 
side the residence (as in Prov. vii. 12, A. V. “she is with- 
i out”), and hence to other places than streets, as to a 
pasture-ground (Job xiii, 17, where I he A. V. requires 
| emendation). That streets occasionally had names ap- 
pears from Jer. xxxvii. 21 ; Acts ix, 11. That they 
were generally unpaved may he inferred from the no- 
tices of the pavement laid by Herod the Great at Anti- 
och (Josephus, Ant. xvi, 5, 3) and by Herod Agrippa II 
at Jerusalem (ibid, xx, 9, 7). lienee pavement forms 
one of the peculiar features of the ideal Jerusalem (Tol>. 
xiii, 17; Rev. xxi, 21). Each street and bazaar in a 


STREET 


10C2 


STRIGEL 



modem town is locked up at night 
(Lane, i, “Jo ; 1 hissell, i. 2 1 ). and hence a 
l>crson cannot pass without being ob- 
served by the watchman. The same 
custom appears to have prevailed in 
ancient times fCant. iii, 3). — Smith. 
See Thomson, La ml awl Hook, i, 38 ; 
Van Lennep, Bible La mis, p. 454; 
llackctt. Must, of Scripture, p. til. 
See Koai>. 


Street. Thomas, P.P.,a Presby- 
terian minister, was born in 1X23. Al- 
ter passing through the usual course 
of stud v. literary and theological, lie 
was ndmiltcd to the ministry. In 
1X,>-1 he accepted a call to the pas- 
torate of the Presbyterian Church 
of tircen Hill. Philadelphia, where 
be remained six years, preaching 
with great acceptance and success. 
In ] Si>< I lie accepted a call to the pas- 
torate of the Presbyterian Church at 
York, Pa., where he continued four 
years, and resigned to accept a call 
from t lie North Presbyterian Church 
of New York city, lie remained 
in this position until 1X73. when he 
was called to the pastorate of the 
Church in Cortland, N. Y., and con- 
tinued until released by death, sud- 
denly. in the cars, on his way from 
Cortland to Svraeuac, Uct. 10, 1X78. 
(W. P.S.) 


Streit, Christian, a Lutheran 
minister, was horn in New Jersey 
June 7, 17411, and graduated at the 
College of Pennsylvania in 1708. 
lie pursued his theological course 
under Hr. II. M. Muhlenberg, and 
was licensed to preach by the Synod 
of Pennsylvania in 17G9, in the same 
year taking charge of the Church in Easton, Pa., where 
he continued for ten years. lie served as chaplain of 
the 3d Virginia Regiment in t lie Revolutionary war, 
and was subsequently settled over a Church in Charles- 
ton, S. C. In July, 17X2, he took charge of New Han- 
over, Pa., but in July, 17X5, assumed tbe pastorate of a 
Church in Winchester, Va., his field of operations ex- 
tending for more than fifty miles. He died March 10, 
1X12, honored and reverenced by the whole community. 
See Sprague, Annals of the .1 mer. Pulpit, ix, 48. 

Streit, Lawrence, a Presbyterian minister, was 
born in Washington County, Pa., in 1820. lie received 
careful parental and religious training; graduated at 
Jelhr>mi College, Pa., in 1X34; studied theology pri- 
vately under the Rev. Nathaniel West, D.l). ; was Ii- 
cens«*d by the Presbytery of Erie June 28, 183X, and 
ordained by the same presbytery in June. 1X30, as pas- 
tor of Wnttsburgh Church, Pa. lie .subsequently be- 
came pastor of Snnville and Fairfield churches, and died 
Aug. 5, |n.X. Mr. Streit was a faithful and devoted 
servant of Christ. See Wilson, Presb. Hist, Almanac , 
l*Gu, p. 122. (J. L. S.) 

Strickland, Isaac L. Gr , a Methodist Episcopal 
minister, was horn in lxiiO, admitted on trial into the 
1 mill ■■'M'c Conference in 1831. and into full connection 
in I*.»G. lie was transferred to the Texas Mission, 
Mi'-i'-ippi Conference, in October, 1838, and appointed 
to Montgomery Circuit ; and in March, 1X30, to Brazo- 
ria Circuit, where he died, July 2, 1X30. lie was an 
excellent preacher, animated by a spirit of unwavering 
and Hidf-anrritieing devotion to the cause of the Re- 
deemer. See MatuUs of Annual Conferences, iii, 5X. 

Strickland, John, a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was admitted into the (Jeor- 


A Street in Palestine. 

gia Conference Jan. 10, 1850. In the civil war he was 
chaplain to the 40tli Georgia Regiment, and on his way 
home contracted the illness of which he died. See Min- 
utes of Annual Conferences of the M. E. Church , South, 
1803, p. 453. 

Strife. In the early Church it was considered a 
privilege to make oblations to the Church, and a sort of 
lesser excommunication to be debarred from doing so. 
The officers would not receive the offerings of persons 
that were at enmity or variance with their brethren, 
neither at the altar nor into the treasury. This cus- 
tom was grounded upon the rule of our Lord (Matt, v, 
23). Further, all open enmity and quarrelling, strife, 
envy, and contention, were punished with excommuni- 
cation, as tendencies towards, and lower degrees of, mur- 
der. See Bingham, Christ. A ntiq. bk. xvi, ch. x, § 17. 

Strigel, VicroutN, a Melancthonian Lutheran and 
professor at Jena, was born Dec. 20, 1514. He studied 
philosophy and theology at Freiburg and Wittenberg, 
and in 1514 began to lecture in those departments. 
The Smalcald war interrupted his career at Wittenberg, 
and he drifted about in consequence to Magdeburg, to 
Kbnigsberg, and to Erfurt, where he renewed his pro- 
i fessorial labors, though not regularly appointed to a 
chair. A settlement for him was obtained when the 
Ernestine gymnasium at Jena was founded and Melanc- 
thon refused to connect himself with its. faculty, upon 
which Strigel was invited to take the vacant position. 
He arrived at Jena March 9, 1548, with twenty stu- 
dents, and gave himself earnestly to the work of pro- 
moting i lie growth and prosperity of the institution, 
whose first rector he became. In this work lie was aid- 
ed by Stigel, Schnepf, Justus Jonas (q. v.), and others, 
with whom he labored in entire harmony; but when 


STRIGEL 


10G3 


STRING 


Flaeius (q. v.) arrived in 1557, a period of disturbance 
was introduced. The Flacianists urged duke John 
Frederic II to promulgate a confession of faith which 
should at the same time be a confutation of all errors, 
and the duke committed the preparation of the docu- 
ment to Strigel, Schnepf, and superintendent Uiigel, all 
of whom protested against its promulgation as unnec- 
essary and dangerous. Strigel offered to resign from 
the faculty rather than engage in the work asked at 
his hands, and finally declared openly that he adhered 
to the teaching of Mclancthon’s Loci of 1544. When 
the Flacian Confutation of 1559 was issued ami was 
given almost symbolical authority in the churches of 
Ernestine Saxony, Strigel remonstrated and declared 
that he could not accept the confutation as of binding 
authority. The duke thereupon caused both him and 
lliigel to be seized by armed men on the night of March 
25, and imprisoned until August, when, after endeavors 
to force him to a change of views by means of disputa- 
tions with Flaeius and of threatenings, he was liberated 
in deference to the intercession of the university, the 
most prominent evangelical princes, and even the em- 
peror; but he was ordered to remain quiet and not de- 
part from Jena until he should have made satisfactory 
reply to the questions on which his views were re- 
quired, a sentence which became the more easy to ful- 
fil as he fell into fever and melancholia soon alter his 
release from prison. The brutal treatment he had un- 
dergone excited general indignation, and the duke was 
forced to yield so lar as to appoint a colloquy between 
Strigel and Flaeius, which began Aug. 2, 1560, at Wei- 
mar. Five points of doctrine were to be discussed, but 
only the first, concerning the relation of the human will 
to divine grace in the work of conversion, was taken 
up. Strigel advocated, as always, the synergistic view, 
and pressed his arguments with such force and skill 
that Flaeius allowed himself to be drawn into the as- 
sertion that original sin is the very substance of man 
in his natural state. After this colloquy the temper of 
the court began to change; and when tiie Flacianists 
persisted in pressing for a condemnation of Strigel de- 
spite an intimation that the duke desired peace, the ex- 
treme measure was taken of depriving Flaeius of his 
professorship and expelling him with his followers from 
the university. Strigel, on the other hand, was reha- 
bilitated in bis chair; a declaration was issued and a 
visitation of the churches was ordered to pacify and 
unite their members. The plan encountered strong op- 
position, however, and Strigel, to avoid further contro- 
versy, undertook a journey to Leipsic in the autumn of 
1562, and then refused to return, though urged to come 
back by a deputation from Jena. The elector permit- 
ted him to choose between Leipsic and Wittenberg as 
the field of his future labors. lie chose Leipsic. In 
March, 1563, he began to lecture on philosophy and 
theology, and in connection with his general duties he 
prepared a commentary on the Psalms, in which his 
synergistic view’s were clearly expressed. The odium 
theologicum pursued him into this refuge also, and in 
February, 1567, the rector closed his lecture-room and 
forbade the further exercise of his professorship. Ap- 
peal to the elector produced no result, and he once more 
sought a place where he might rest in peace. lie went 
first to Am berg and then to Heidelberg, where lie be- 
came professor of ethics, and engaged in teaching with 
his usual success and acceptability; but he soon after- 
wards died, on June 26, 1569. lie ranks among the 
most gifted of Melancthon’s pupils, and among the in- 
fluential men of his time with respect both to his aca- 
demical and ecclesiastical position and to his literary 
activity. Strigel’s works include philological studies 
( Euripides), Aristotelian philosophy {Ethos and Dialec- 
tics), &n<\ theologv. We mention, Hgpomntnmtu. in Om- 
nes IAbros X. T., etc. (Lips. 2 pts. 8vo) .—Loci Theolo - 
gici, etc. (Neustadf, 4 pts. with appendix, edited by l’c- 
zel, 1 58 1 -84) : — Ilj/pamu. in Epitom . Philosophic M oralis 
P. Mela net hon. (also bv Pezcl, ibid. 1582). Strigel in- 


cluded much compilation in his works, though himself 
a clear and strong thinker, lie possessed an extraordi- 
nary memory, and followed the principle of a common 
ownership in literary property; but he made no secret 
of his method, and desired others to draw from liitn in 
a similar way. In other respects he was a worthy char- 
acter, if a passionate and ambitious nature be left out of 
the account. Sec Adam, Vito Thud. p. 117 sq.; Hoyle, 
Diet. s. v.; Erdmann, De Etrigelianisnio (Jena, 1658; 
I lan. 1675, 4to) ; Merz, Hist. 1 'it tv < t Coni rovers. V. 
Strifjelii ('Hlb. 1732); Otto, De E trig. Liberioris Mentis 
in Keel. Luth. Yindicc (Jena, 1813). — Herzog, lleal- 
Encyklop. s. v. 

Strigolniks. See Russian Sects. 

Strigonia (or Gran, in Hungary), tiie Council 
or, was held in 1114 by Lawrence, the archbishop. 
Sixty-five canons were published. 

2. Orders that the epistle and gospel be explained every 
Sunday to the people in large churches; in small parishes 
the Creed and the Lord's Prayer. 

3. Orders that iu all large churches there shall be clerks 
of every degree. 

4. Orders that the people shall come to the sacraments 
of penance and the holy encharist at Easter and Christ- 
mas; the clerks at all the great festivals. 

6. Orders that ignorant priests shall be deposed. 

10. Enacts a peualty for not calling in the priest in time 
of dangerous sickness; in case of death, the penalty to 
be enforced against the wife or relations of the deceased ; 
or, if he have none, against his agent and two of the old 
persons of the place iii which he lived. 

11. Forbids to raise to the episcopate a married man, 
unless with the wife’s consent. 

15. Forbids bishops and priests to keep slaves. 

17. Forbids to consecrate a church w hich is not endowed. 
IS. Forbids to ordain a clerk without a title. 

27. Directs that the bishop shall regulate the nourish- 
ment and manner of life to be observed by cauons, ac- 
cording to their rule. 

2S. Declares that the children of persons who have vol- 
untarily embraced a canonical life may not lay claim to 
their property without their consent. 

32. Forbids deacons and priests to marry after ordination. 

37. Directs that abbots shall be seldom absent from their 
houses, and then only for a short time, and after notice 
given to the bishop. 

38. Forbids abbots to use the episcopal ornaments, and 
denies to them the power of preaching, hearing confes- 
sions, and baptizing. 

39. Forbids to confer holy orders upon monks. 

4f>. Directs that nothing be said or sung in church but 
what has hceti ordered in synod. 

47 and 48. Relate to drunkenness among ecclesiastics. 

49. Relates to the same vice among the laity. 

50. Directs that in every city the bishop shall have two 
houses for the incarceration of penitents. 

53. Directs that n woman thrice deserting her husband 
shall, if noble, be put to penance, without any hope of 
ever being restored to him ; if a woman of low degree, be 
sold as a slave. Also orders that a husband slandering 
his wife, by accusing her of adultery, shall suffer the same 

unislimeut. Orders the same penalties against a hns- 
and deserting his wife from motives of hatred and aver- 
sion, and gives liberty to the wife in such case to marry 
another. 

54. Deposes any clerk marrying a second time, or mar- 
rying a widow’ or divorced woman. 

*55. Appears to allow of priests who have married twice 
exercising their ofllce, if their wives consent to separate 
from them. 

59. Forbids clerks to keep taverns, or to practice usury ; 
deposes those who drink at taverns without sufficient 
cause. 

Gl. Forbids Jews to keep any Christian servants. 

See Mansi, Snpp. vol. ii, Coll. 283, etc. — London, Man - 
uul of Councils, s. v. 

Stiing (or String-course), a projecting horizon- 



STRONG 


STRINGED INSTRUMENT 1004 


lal band or line of mouldings in a building. Hound the 
exterior of a building the string is carried round the 
buttresses, and sometimes over the windows, forming 
the drip-stone.— Parker, (Hots. of A rchitect. s. v. 

Stringed Instrument is the rendering, in the 
A. V., of two Kleb. words: I. negindh (I lab. iii, 

19), which likewise denotes the music of such an in- 
strument (and so rendered in Lam. v, 14), or a “ song" 
adapted to such ail accompaniment (and so rendered in 
the titles of many psalms), or in derision (Job xxx, 9; 
Lam. iii, 14). See Xeginaii. 2. n :*2, minni (only 
found in the plur., Psa. cl, 4; “whereby,” xlv, 8 [9]), 


which is of uncertain derivation and signification, but 
probably denotes the chord of some musical instrument. 
The Hebrews had various stringed instruments, chiefly 
or exclusively of the harp or guitar form ; and similar 
ones have always prevailed in the East, if we may judge 
from the specimens exhibited on the Egyptian and As- 
syrian monuments. See Musical Instruments. 

Stringfield, James King, a minister of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church, South, was born in Nash- 
ville, Teiin., March 27, 1839. After receiving a liberal 
education, he was licensed to preach in June, 1858, and 
admitted on trial into the Ilolston Conference in Octo- 
ber, 1858. In 18G2 he became chaplain in the Confed- 
erate army, and in 1809 was appointed professor at 
Aiheville, N. C. 1 1 is labors there were very brief, as 
he died suddenly of inflammation of the brain, June 2, 
1870. See Minutes of A nnuul Conferences of the M. E. 
Church , South , 1870, p. 410. 

Stringfield, Thomas, a minister of the Method- 
ist Episcopal Church, South, was born in Kentucky in 
1<9G. lie embraced religion when only eight years of 
age, and in his twelfth year removed to Alabama. In 
the War of 1812 he became a soldier under Gen. Jack- 
son, and maintained his Christian character through- 
out. lie joined the Tennessee Conference Nov. 10, 
1810, ami when the Ilolston Conference was set off lie 
became a member of it. In 1825-20 the Gallagher con- 
troversy w n m at its zenith, mid Mr. Stringfield felt called 
ujHin to defend Methodism against the caricatures and 
slanders of its enemies, which he did at the expense of 
greni lnlxtr and of thousands of dollars. In 1828 he ob- 
tained leave to be without an appointment, owing to 
feeble health. From 1829 to 1832 he was agent for the 
Ilolston Conference Seminary, and in 1830 was elected 


editor of the South -westeim Cknstian Advocate , and 
filled that office until 1841. He was agent of the Amer- 
ican llible Society from 1844 to 1849. In 1852 he was 
agent for the Strawberry Plains College. He was made 
supernumerary in 1853, effective in 1854, superannuated 
again in 1850, and thus continued until his death, July 
12, 1858. See Minutes of A nnual Conferences of the M. 
E. Church, South, 1858, p. 25. 

Stripe (usually some form of !"C3, nakdh , to smite; 
but occasionally 3-*32, nega, contact ; TX m \?\'ZT),chabburdh, 
or chaburdh,a bruise ; Jl tnahalwnmuh, 

a stroke ; /uoAwy, a wale; 7r\?)yt), a wound), a blow 
inflicted as a judicial pun- 
ishment, usually with a rod. 
See Bastinado. Among the 
Hebrews, to be beaten with 
stripes was a theocratic form 
of punishment for offences of 
the less heinous kind. It was 
left to the judges when to 
inflict them, and how many 
to give — limiting them, how- 
ever, to forty as the greatest 
number that could be inflicted 
for a single offence (Deut. xxv, 
1-3). To be sure that the pun- 
ishment was kept within the 
bounds of the law, the custom 
was to give forty save one (2 
Cor. xi, 24). The offender, 
when receiving them, was laid 
prostrate on the ground, and 
the whip was applied to his 
back uncovered. Many allu- 
sions are made to this form of 
chastisement, as a symbol of 
primitive dealing or disci- 
plinary correction generally 
( Prov. xvii, 20 ; xx, 30 ; Psa. 
Ixxxix, 32). See Punish- 
ment. 

Stromata (2 rpiopara, miscellanies') is the most 
important work of Clement (q. v.) of Alexandria, of 
which the .full title is Gnostic Dissertations concerning 
the True Philosophy, This work is designed to show, 
in opposition to the Gnostics, that Christians had their 
secret and deep mysteries, and were, in fact, the only 
people who deserve the name of Gnostics, as being alone 
truly learned on these subjects. For a full analysis of 
the work, see Iiiddle, Christ. Antiq. p. 97-107. 

Strong, Cyprian, D.D., a Congregational minis- 
ter, was born at Farmington, Conn., May 20, 1744 (O.S.). 
He graduated at Yale College, 1703, entered the minis- 
try Oct. 7, 1700, and was ordained, Aug. 19, 1707, pastor 
in Portland, Conn., where he remained until his death, 
in 1811. lie published,^ Discourse on Acts ii, 42, in 
which the Practice of Owning the Covenant is Particu- 
larly Examined (1780): — Animadversions on the Sub- 
stance of Two Sermons Preached at Stepney by John 
Lewis, A.M . , entitled “ Christian Forbearance to Weak 
Consciences a Duty of the Gospel” (1789) : — An Inquiry 
wherein the End and Design of Baptism, etc., are Partic- 
ularly Considered ami Illustrated (1793): — A Second 
Inquiry into the Nature and Design of Christian Bap- 
tism (179G); and several occasional Sermons. See 
Sprague, Annals of the Amer. Pulpit, i, 051. 

Strong, John D., a Presbyterian minister, was 
born at Kockawav, N. J., Jan. 20, 1821. lie prepared 
for college at Millville Academy, N. Y., graduated at 
Williams College, Mass., in 1848, and at Auburn Theo- 
logical Seminary, N. Y., in 1851 ; was licensed by Cayu- 
ga Presbytery in 1850, and soon after leaving the sem- 
inary he went out West and preached at Fort Madison, 
la. lie afterwards became pastor successively of the 
Stone Church, Iowa City, Springfield, la.; Fairplay, 



STRONG 


10G5 


Jamestown, Lowville, and Leeds, Wis. He died May 
14, 1859. During his ministry two churches were or- 
ganized under his care, and many revival seasons were 
granted in answer to his*pravcrs and labors. See Wil- 
son, Fresh. Hist. Almanac , 1800, p. 1*22. (J. L. S.) 

Strong, Jonathan, D.D., a Congregational min- 
ister, was born at Bolton, Conn., Sept. 4, 1704. I le grad- 
uated at Dartmouth College in 178G, and was ordained, 
Jan. 28, 1789, colleague pastor in Randolph, Mass., where 
he remained until his death, Nov. 9, 1814. lie pub- 
lished, An Oration on the Fourth of July (1810): 

several occasional Sermons: — besides articles in the 
Panoplist and other magazines. Sec Sprague, Annals 
of the A mer. Pulpit , ii, 275. 

Strong, Nathan, D.D., a Congregational minister, > 
was born at Coventry, Conn., Oct. 16, 1748. He gradu- 
ated at Yale College in 1709, was appointed tutor in 1772, 
and was ordained, Jan. 5, 1773, pastor of the First Church, 
Hartford, where he remained until the close of life, Dec. 
25, 1810. He published. The Doctrine of Eternal Mis- 
ery Consistent with the Injinite Benevolence of God (1790) : 
— two volumes of Sermons (1798, 1800). In 1799 he 
was the principal compiler of the Hartford Selection of 
Hymns, a number of them written by himself; and in 
1800 he was the originator of the Connecticut Evangel- 
ical Magazine. A number of occasional Sermons were 
also published by him. See Sprague, Annals of the 
Amer. Pulpit , ii, 34. 

Strong, Paschal Nelson, a minister of the 
(Dutch) Deformed Church, was born at Setauket. L. I., 
in 1793. He was a lineal descendant of John Strong, 
the first ruling ejder in the Church of Northampton, 
Mass., who came to this country in 1030. At thirteen 
years of age he entered Columbia College, and graduated 
with the highest honors in 1810. lie studied theology 
with Dr. J. M. Mason, and was licensed in 1815 by the 
Presbytery of New York. He and his classmate, Dev. 
John Knox, were immediately called as colleague pas- 
tors of the Church in New York, with Drs. Kuyper and 
Milledoler, and were ordained and installed together by 
the Classis of New York, July 14, 1810. His ministry I 
was brief, but brilliant, popular, and powerful. He was 
an eloquent preacher, a tine classical and exegetical 
scholar, evangelical in sentiment, and characterized by 
deep personal piety and faithful pastoral service. A 
pulmonary disease, for which an ocean voyage and a 
visit to the West Indies brought no relief, ended his 
days, April 7, 1825, in the island of St. Croix, where his 
grave and monument still are. 1 1 is death was peaceful 
and happy. His only publication was a sermon, which 
attracted much attention at the time, preached Nov. 
17, 1822, after the yellow fever of that year in New 
York, and entitled The Pestilence a Punishment for 
Public Sins. He possessed fine executive talents, and 
it was chicfiv through him that the Board of Domestic 
Missions of the Deformed Church was organized. See 
Life of Dr. Livingston , p. 399, 400 ; Sprague, Annuls of 
the Amer. Pulpit, IX, ii, 191 ; Corwin, Manual of the 
Ref. Ch. p. 224. (W. J. Ii. T.) 

Strong, Thomas M„ D.D., a (Dutch) Deformed 
minister, and brother of Dev. Paschal N. Strong, was 
born at Coopcrstown, N. Y., in 1797, graduated at Co- 
lumbia College in 1816, received his theological educa- 
tion under Dr. J. M. Mason and at Princeton Seminary, 
and settled in 1819 in the Presbyterian Church in Nor- 
folk, Va. Thence he removed to the Associate De- 
formed churches of Chambersburgh and Shippeiis- 
burgh, Pa., 1821-22. In 1822 he accepted the call of 
the Reformed Church of Flatbusli, L. I., where he re- 
mained until his death in 1801. Seldom does God give 
to the Church a more finely rounded and exalted char- 
acter. “ Resolute, without arrogance; modest, without 
timidity; positive in his convictions, without pride of 
will; persevering, without pretension; diligent, without i 
ostentation of intentions; firm, without obstinacy; tena- 
cious of his moral and personal preferences, without big- I 


STROXGDSAN 

otry or hypocrisy; quick in his estimate of duties, with- 
out wayward impulses; devoted to duty, without thirst 
for personal exaltation; methodical, without mechan- 
ical servility to circumstances; learned, without pedan- 
try ; and godly, without affectation of sanctity — lie 
seemed, indeed, to illustrate how natural qualities may 
be toned and softened into well-nigh untarnished beauty 
by the power of Christ working upon them all.” He 
was a diligent student, a prolific preacher, always ear- 
nest, sedate, and pleasant, solitl and instructive, wide- 
awake, and devoted to his work. For thirty-four years 
lie was the stated clerk of the General Synod of the 
Deformed Church. He was the balance-wheel of that 
ecclesiastical body, yet so modest and so genial, cour- 
teous and considerate, tliat be never appeared in the 
least ollicious, and was always deferred to with unques- 
tioning respect. There was no appeal from his state- 
ments of facts and of the law of the house in that assem- 
bly. He presided over its sessions in 1830. His name 
and services are identified with almost every important 
measure of the Church during the long period of his 
official connection with it. His ministry was blessed 
with a powerful revival which gave new life to him 
and to his Church. II is influence on Long Island was 
wide-spread. He published a Hist, of Flatbush, in King's 
County , L. I. (N. Y. 1812, 12mo), which is a memorial 
of his industrious historical research. See Corwin, 
Manual of the Ref. Ch. p. 222-220; Wilson, Presb. Hist. 
A Imunac , 1802, p. 297 ; Allibone, Diet, of Jirit. and .4 mer. 
A it t hors, s. v. (W. J. D. T.) 

Strong, Titus, a Protestant Episcopal clergyman, 
was born at Brighton, Mass., Jan. 20, 1787, and removed 
with his parents to Boston in 1788. Ilis father being 
drowned the next year, young Strong was taken to his 
grandfather’s in Northampton, and in 1801 began to 
learn the trade of printer. In July, 1805, he undertook 
the study of law, then had serious thoughts of fitting 
himself for the stage; but in 1807 be commenced the 
study of theology, under the direction of Mr. Whitman, 
of Goshen. The same year he entered the law office 
of II. Townsend, of Dedham, came under the influence 
of Episcopalianism, and was admitted a candidate for 
holy orders Oct. 1, 1812. He was ordained deacon 
March 24, 1814, at Dedham, by bishop Griswold, and 
priest March 20, 1815, and at flic same time was insti- 
tuted rector of St. James's parish, Greenfield, Mass. He 
retained this rectorship until the close of his life, in 
June, 1855. lie published (1812-51) educational and 
theological treatises, etc. : — Sermons : — Poems : — and 
contributed to the Gospel Advocate and other period- 
icals. Sec Sprague, .4 until s of the .1 mer. Pulpit, v, 575. 

Strong, William L., a Presbyterian minister, 
was born at Salisbury, Conn., Oct. 18, 1782. 11c re- 

ceived a good preparatory education, graduated from 
Y'ale College, Conn., in 1813, studied theology privately, 
was licensed by the New Ilavcn Association, anil ordained 
pastor at Somers, Conn., by the Tolland County Associ- 
ation in 1814. Here he labored earnestly for twenty- 
five years, then removed to Redding, Fairfield Co., 
Conn., where he preached for five years; then accepted 
a call from Vicuna Presbyterian Church in Ontario 
County, N. Y., where he was pastor for ten years, when, 
owing to infirmities, he retired, and removed to Fay- 
etteville, N. Y., where he died, Aug. 31, 1859. A num- 
ber of his sermons have been published, and a tract, 
The Sinner Condemned Already. Mr. Sirong was nil 
ardent evangelical preacher, thoroughly conversant with 
the history and politv of the Church. See Wilson, 
I'resb. Hist. Almanac , 1801, p. 104. (J. L. S.) 

Strong Drink. See Duink, Stiioncj. 

Strongdsan Gamiio, in Mongol and Thibetan my- 
thology, is a primeval and celebrated king of 'fhibet who 
had two wives Darn Aekkae and KniUiugtii Bruit u — 
both of whom wore incarnations of good genii. They 
had rendered especially meritorious service to the race of 
mankind, inasmuch as they had aided the wise Chutuk- 


STROPIEEUS 


1006 


STRYKER 


tn in removing its sin and delivering its members; and 
they were consequently accorded divine honors. — Yoll- 
mer, Worterb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Strophcens, an epithet applied in Greek mytholo- 
gy to Mercury in the character of porter (Aristoph. Fla- 
tus, 1153). 

Strophius, the name of several persons in Grecian 
mythology. 1. The father of Scamander (Homer, II. v, 
41*). 2. A son of Crisus, king of I’hocis and father of 

Pylades (Pindar, I'yth. 1 1, 53 ; Eurip. Orest. 33 ; Pan sail. 
ii,29, 4). 3. A son of Pvlades and Electra (Pausan. ii, 
1G, 7). 

Stroth, Friedrich Andreas, a German scholar, 
was born at Triebsces, in Pomerania, March 5, 1750. 
For some time he was director of the gymnasium at Co- 
burg, and died dune 20, 1785, at Lauchstiidt. lie wrote, 
Dissertatio tie Cadice Alexandrine) (Halle, 1771): — I Vo- 
< jramnm , quad Lect tones uonnullas Codicis Greed V. T. 
Exhibit, qui I 'enetiis in Bibliotheca S. Marci Asservatur 
(ibid. 1775): — Symbolic Cnfictr ad Illustrandam et 
Emendamlaui Alexandrinorum Jnterpretum Versionem 
ex Just inn Marty re aliisqne Patnbus Ecclesiasticis Col- 
lects. reprinted in Hich horn's Repertorium der morgen- 
Idndischen urul bibl. Literal ur , iii, 313; vi, 124, 103; xiii, 
15*. 168 (Leips. 1 778-83) : — Index Criticas Omnium Co- 
dicu m Vtrsionis Alexandrine? M anusedptorum (ibid.), v, 
02. 131; viii. 177, 205; xi. 45. 72. See Wilier, llond- 
bnch tier theol. Literatur, ii, 794 ; Fiirst, Bibl. Jud. iii, 394. 
(II. P.) 

Stroud, Asa B., a Methodist Episcopal minister, 
was born April 11, 1807. He was converted in 1823, 
admitted on trial by the Ohio Conference in 1830, and 
ap|Htiiited to Kanawha Circuit. The following appoint- 
ments were tilled by him : Letart Falls Circuit, Charleston 
Circuit, Parkersburg and Athens circuits, New Haven, 
Eaton, Franklin, Monroe, Urbana, South Charleston, 
Reply, Cincinnati Mission, and Milford Circuit, where 
be died, Sept. 23, 1849. lie was a faithful preacher and 
a most self-saerilieing pastor. See Minutes of Annual 
Conferences, iv, 386. 

Stroud, Thomas D., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South, was received on trial in the 
Memphis Conference in 1840. In 1841 he was trans- 
iVrred to the Arkansas Conference, and continued to la- 
bor until a few days previous to his death, November, 
1* H. See Minutes of A nnual Conferences of the M. E. 
Church, South , 1815, p. 23. 

Strout, George D., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born at Cape Elizabeth, Me., 
Jan. 2-1, 1802, and united with the Church April 23, 
1*20. He was licensed as a local preacher in Septem- 
ber, 1827, and was admitted into the Maine Conference 
in 1830. He was ordained deacon in 1832, and elder in 
1831. 11 is ministry was spent in the Maine and East 

Maine conferences, and lasted until closed by death, at 
I *i t tst on, ( )ct. 22. 181 ) 8 , See Minutes of A nnual Confer- 
ences , I8t)0 } p. 1 15. 

Strout, Joseph C„ a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born at Cornish, Me., in 1833. 
In 18 H) he was converted, and united with the Church. 
He was educated in the East Maine Conference Semi- 
nary, at llneksport, and entered the Maine Conference 
in 1857. His ministry was very successful, but brief, 
as he died Jan. 25, 1802. See Minutes of Annual Con- 
fprmres, 1802, p. 110. 

Stiout, Oran, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal ( bureli, was born at North Poland, Me., Oct. I if, 
1801, and united with the Church when nineteen, lie 
was admitted to the East Maine < \uilerenco in 1853, and 
superannuated in 1802. lie died at Konrsmont, Feb. 23, 
1872. See .1/ iuufrs tf A nnnol Conferences , 1872, p. 07. 

Strozzi, Bernardo, called Capuccino , an Italian 
painter, was Urn at Genoa in I58|, and studied under 
Pietro Sorri, but at the age of seventeen lie entered 


the Capuchin Order, and finally became a secular priest, 
lie died at Venice in 1044, leaving many sacred pieces, 
which are enumerated in lloefer, Xouv. Biog. Gen. s. v. 

Strozzi, Lorenza, an Italian nun, was born at 
Capalia, near Florence, March 6, 1514, and brought up 
in the monastery of St. Nicholas del Prato, where she 
took the Dominican habit and devoted herself to relig- 
ious duties, teaching, and music. She composed hymns 
and Latin odes on all the festivals (Flor. 1588, 8vo), 
which were long used in all the services, and were 
translated into French by Pavilion and set to music by 
Maudit. She died Sept. 10, 1591. 

Struensee, Adam, a German theologian, was born 
Sept. 8, 1708, at Neurippin,in Brandenburg, of a wealthy 
family, and early began the study of theology with a 
circle of vonng companions, who styled their meetings 
colloquia biblica. Although warmly attached to the 
Moravian count Zinzendorf, he refused to join that 
community. In 1730 he ivas made chaplain of the 
conntess Sayn-Wiltgensteiu, who resided at Berleburg, 
and after 1732 was pastor of several churches in Halle, 
and also occupied a chair of theology there. lu 1757 
he became provost of the Church of Altona; and in 
1761 ecclesiastical superintendent of the duchies of 
Sleswig and Holstein. He died at Rendsburg, June 20, 
1791. During all his life, Struensee was characterized 
by an enlightened piety and a most exemplary and 
amiable deportment. He wrote, Beti'uchtunyen iib. Sonn - 
und Festtogs Evangelia (Halle, 1747^18, 1758,4 vols.) : 
— Sammlung erbaulicher Schriften . etc. (ibid. 1755-56,3 
vols.): — Gedacktnissreden (ibid. 1756): — Predigten (Al- 
tona, 1758-60,3 vols.) : — Theoloyische J/ora/(Flensburg, 
1765): — Theoloyische Abhandlung (Altona, 1765): — Bi- 
blischer Unterricht (Halle, 1768). 

Strut (or Strutting-piece). In carpentry, any 
piece that keeps two others from approaching, and is, 
therefore, itself in a state of compression ; in contradis- 
tinction to a tie, which keeps the two points of the frame 
to which its extremities are attached from receding, and 
is, therefore, in a state of tension, — Parker, Gloss . of Ar- 
chitect. s. v. 

Struthers, Gavin, D.D., a Presbyterian divine, 
was born in 1790. He was educated at the University 
of Glasgow, Scotland, and after studying divinity was 
called to the Anderstun Relief Church, Glasgow, and 
was ordained in 1817. lie was mainly instrumental in 
bringing about the union between the United Secession 
and the Relief Church, and was the author of the ad- 
dress read from all the pulpits of both denominations at 
its consummation; also author of Memoirs of Ameri- 
can Missionaries (18mo): — a History of the Relief 
Church: — and an Essay on Christian Union. Dr. 
Struthers was an earnest thinker, and died July 11, 
1858. See Wilson, Eresb. Ilist. Almanac, 1860, p. 272; 
Allibone, Diet, of Brit, and A mer . A ufhors , s. v. (J. L. S.) 

Stryker, Isaac P., a missionary of the (Dutch) 
Reformed Church to Borneo, was born at Harlingen. 
N. J., Nov. 27, 1811, and was brought up to mechanical 
labor, until God turned him aside to prepare for the 
Gospel ministry, lie began bis studies late in life, 
graduated at Rutgers College in 1837, and from the 
Theological Seminary at New Brunswick in 1840. In 
November of that year,, having been ordained as an 
evangelist to the heathen by the Classis of New Bruns- 
wick, he sailed for Borneo with bis classmate Rev. 
William T. Van Doren ami wife, lie died of a swift 
fever at Singapore in 1842. after spending a year in 
Java, as required by the law of the Dutch government, 
and almost before the real beginning of bis missionary 
work, lie was a man of fervid piety, zealously earnest 
in the Christian life, and thoroughly devoted to the 
cause of Christ among the pagans. The mission to 
which he belonged, after years of patient struggles, was 
abandoned in 1819. Mr. Strvker was unmarried. See ' 
Corwin, Manual of the Ref. Church, p. 473. (W. J. R. T.) 


STRYKER 


1007 


Stryker, Peter, a (Dutch) Reformed minister, I 
was born in New York city in 17G4, studied theology 
under Dr. Livingston, was licensed by the General Syn- 
od of the Reformed Church in 1788 r , and fur over for- 
ty years actively engaged as minister of the following ' 
churches of that order: Northampton and Southampton, 
Pa., 1788-90; Staten Island, 1790-94; Belleville, N. J., 
1794-1809; Stone House Plains, 1810-12; Berne, N. Y., 
1828-29, when, on account of feeble health, lie resigned 
all pastoral service. For many years he w’as the oldest 
living clergyman of that Church. In his best days 
he is said to have been “a powerful preacher, plain, 
practical, and pungent— a real orator.” 11 is piety w’as 
eminent. He said that not a doubt of his personal ac- 
ceptance with God beclouded his soul for several years 
before his departure, which occurred in 1847. His end 
was peace, and he is remembered among the patriarchs 
of the Church, lie preached with equal case in Dutch 
and in English. See Corwin, Manual of the Ref Church , 
p. 474. (W. J. R. T.) 

Strymo, in Grecian mythology, was the daughter 
of the river-god Scamander, and w’ife of Laomedon, the 
king of Troy. Laomedon’s queen is, hovever, some- 
times named Placia instead. 

Strymon, a proper name applied in Greek mythol- 
ogy to various persons: 1. A son of Mars and Helicc, 
whose daughter Terina w’as also beloved by Mars and 
bore him Thrassa. 2. A son of Occanus and Tetliys, 
or of Pon tits and Thalassa. The navigable river over 
which Strymon ruled was rendered unnavigablc by 
Hercules, who drove through it the herds of Geryon. 

Strype, John, an ecclesiastical writer, was born at 
Stepney, England, Nov. I, 1G43. After being educated 
at St. Paul’s School for six years, he entered Jesus Col- 
lege, Cambridge, July 5, 1GG2, w’honce he removed to 
Catharine Hall, where he took his degree of A.B. in 
16G5, and that of A.M. in 1GG9. He received the per- 
petual curacy of Theydon-Boys, County of Essex, July 
14, 1GG9, but left it a few months after on being ap- 
pointed minister of Low-Levton. Although lie enjoy- 
ed this preferment for over sixty - eight years, and 
administered the sacrament on Christmas - day for 
sixty -six years successively, yet he was never insti- 
tuted nor inducted. Soon after he went to Low- Ley- 
ton, he obtained access to the valuable manuscripts of 
sir Michael Flickcs, and began from them some of 
those collections which he afterwards published. To- 
wards his latter days he held the sinecure of Terri ng, 
Sussex, and was lecturer of Hackney till 1724, when he 
resigned that position. He died at Hackney, Dec. 11, 
1737. His publications wore, Liyhtfoot's 1 1 "orb (Loud. 
1G84. 2 vols. fol.): — Memorials of Archbishop Cranmer 
(1G94, fol.) : — Life of Sir Thomas Smith (1G98, 8vo) : — 
Life and A ctions of John Aylmer , Dishop of London (1701, 
8vo) : — Life of Sir J. Choke , etc. (1705, Xvo): — Annals 
of the Reformation , etc., in Enyland (1709-31, 4 vols.): 
— History of the Life and Actions of Edmund Grindal, 
Archbishop of Canterbury (1710, fob): — Life and A cts 
of Matthew Parker, Archbishop of Canterbury (1711, 
fob): — Life and Acts of John Whityift. Archbishop of 
Canterbury (1718, fob) : — Ecclesiastical Memorials (1721, 

3 vols. fob) : — Sermons, etc. Sec Chalmers. Jiioy. Diet. 
s. v. ; Alii bone, Diet, of Dr it. and A mer. A uthors, s. v. 

Stuart, Cohen M., D.D.. a distinguished Presby- 
terian divine of Rotterdam, w'as a native of Holland and 
educated for the ministry in the Reformed Church. He 
was sent as a delegate to represent the churches of Hol- 
land in the World’s Evangelical Alliance, which con- 
vened in the city of New York in October, 1873. lie 
took an active part in all the proceedings of that au- 
gust assembly, and delivered the answer to the Rev. 
Dr. William Adams’s address of welcome to the Alli- 
ance. He also read a paper on the state of the evan- 
gelical Protestant Church of Holland and the Nether- 
lands, which was published among the proceedings of 
that body. lie was a member of the Evangelical Cun- 


STUART 

I ference of the Protestant Church of the Netherlands; a 
very popular and successful preacher, and bis death was 
a great loss-to the general Church. Dr. Stuart was so 
well pleased with the American Church and people that 
he expressed a desire while here to remove to this 
country and settle among us, but providential circum- 
stances prevented him from carrying out bis wishes in 
that respect, lie died at Utrecht in January, 1879. 
(W. P. S.) 

Stuart, Henry B. M. C., duke of York and car- 
dinal, grandson of James II of England, was born in 
Rome, March G, 1725, and after the battle of Culloden, 
which was lost by his elder brother, April 27, 1740, lie 
entered the ecclesiastical ranks. Benedict XIV gave 
him the purple, July 3, 1747, and afterwards the arch- 
bishopric of the Latcran and several other dignities. 
To these Clement Xlll added other ofliccs which yield- 
ed him rich revenues. But the French Revolution 
stripped him of all these, and lie even sold his family 
jewels in aid of pope Pius VI. George 111 of England 
gave him a pension of four thousand pounds, which he 
retained till his death, at Frascati, July 13, 1807. To 
him arc attributed Constitutiones Synodales Ecclesue 
Tusculatm (Rome. 17G4) and Appendix ad Tusculanam 
Synod urn (ibid. 17G1), which, however, are really the 
works of the Jesuit Stefanueci. With this prince- 
prelate the royal house of Stuart became extinct. 

Stuart, Moses, a learned Congregational divine, 
was born at. Wilton, Conn., March 2G, 1780. lie early 
began to develop a taste for books, reading Edwards On 
the Will when he was only twelve years of age. At 
the age of fifteen he was sent to an academy in Nor- 
walk, Conn., and entered the sophomore class of Yale 
College in May, 1797, graduating with the highest hon- 
ors of his class in 1799. The year after he spent teach- 
ing in an academy at North Fairfield, Conn., and dur- 
ing a part of the year following he was principal of a 
high-school in Danbury, lie was admitted to the bar 
in 1802 at Danbury, but the week previous had been 
chosen tutor in Yale, which position he accepted. Dur- 
ing his tutorship, desirous of procuring an appropriate 
work on the Sabbath, Air. Stuart borrowed of the pres- 
ident Macknight’s work On the Epistles, the perusal of 
which awakened him to spiritual things and resulted in 
his conversion. In the early part of 1803 lie connected 
himself with the Church in Yale College, began to study 
theology under president Dwight, and was soon after 
licensed to preach by the New’ llavcn Association. lie 
was ordained pastor of the Church in New Haven for- 
merly served bv l)r. Dana, March 5, 180G. On Feb. 28, 
1810, be w'as inaugurated professor of sacred literature 
at Andover, ami continued in the active discharge of 
his duties until 1818, when he resigned in consequence 
of advancing age. After this, how’ever, his mind re- 
tained its wonted activity, and he published two or 
three works requiring minute and profound Biblical 
investigation. Taking bis daily walk, lie fell, fractur- 
ing the bone of his w’rist. He afterwards took a severe 
cold, which passed into a typhoid fever and issued in 
death, Jan. 1, 1852. Mr. (for he refused the title of 
Dr.) Stuart’s life was one of incessant labor, devoted 
ch idly to Biblical literature. In this he led the way 
in his own country with most happy results. His own 
contributions to sacred learning arc very valuable; but 
perhaps lie did even more by the impulse he gave to 
Biblical study, and the sound principles of Biblical ex- 
egesis which he instilled into the minds of his younger 
brethren, especially in America, than hv the works which 
he himself published. His chief writings are, a Gram- 
mar of the Hebrew Lanyuaye (1813; of which a 5th ed. 
appeared at Oxford in 1H3X): — a Hebrew Chrestomathy 
( 1 k:>*2) : — Course of Hebrew Study (1830): — a Grammar 
of the Xew Test. Dialect (2d cd. 1811): — Commeutoi'y on 
the Epistle to the Hebrews (1827,2 vols.; reprinted, Lond. 
1828): — On the Epistle to the Romans (1832; Loudon^ 
1833) : — On the Apocalypse (1815; Edinb. 1817): — On 


STUBBLE 


10GS 


STUDITES 


Daniel (1851): — Ecclesiastes (1851): — Proverbs (185*2): 
Critical History awl Jh fence of the Old - Test. Canon 
(1845): — .1 Scriptural View of the B7ne Question (1848) : 
— Sermons (1810-46). lie was also a large contributor to 
the Biblical Repository ami the Bibliotheca Sacra. A 
monument has been erected to his memory at Andover, 
on which he is styled “ the father of Biblical science 
in his native country/’ See Sprague, Annals of the 
Amer. Pulpit , ii, 475; Park, Funeral Discourse (1852); 
Meth. Quar. I Re. April, 1852; Christian Review , April, 
1852 ; Journ. of Sue. Lit. Jan. 1853. 

Stubble is the rendering in the A. V. of two Heb. 
and one Gr. word : 1. Usually U2J3, kash (which is inva- 
riably so rendered), so called from its dn/ness, which de- 
notes the dry halm of grain, partly as left standing in 
the tields (Exod. v, 12), and then sometimes burned 
over (xv, 7; Isa. v, 24; xlvii, 14; Joel ii, 5; Nah. i, 
10; Obad. 18), and partly as broken up into chaff by 
treading out the grain, and so separated by ventila- 
tion (Job xiii, 25; xli. 20 [28]; Psa. lxxxiii, 24; Isa. 
xl, 24; xli, 2; Jer. xiii, 24). See Chaff. 2. Once 
■jzri, teben (Job. xxi, 18), properly straw , as used for 
provender. See Straw. 3. Once KaXapi) (1 Cor. iii, 
12), which denotes in general the stalk of grain after 
the ears are removed (Xenoph. Ver. v, 18; Sept, for 
■Jp, Exod. xv, 7 ; Joel ii. 5). In Egypt the reapers 
only cut off the ears of the corn with the sickle, leaving 
the straw, which they deemed worthless, to rot on the 
ground. Hence when the cruel Pharaoh commanded 
the Hebrew briekmakers to gather straw for themselves 
(Exod. v, 12), though guilty of excessive tyranny, he 
did not, as some have supposed, ordain a physical im- 
possibility. See Brick. 

Stubbs, Aaron J., a minister of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, was born in Butler County, O., 
March 13, 1830, and was converted and joined the 
Church in 1840. He was admitted on trial into the 
Central Ohio Conference in September, 1857. In April, 
1861, he was elected chaplain of the 32d Regiment 
of Ohio Volunteers, lie lost his health while in the 
army, was superannuated at the Conference of 1864, 
and settled at Patterson, Hardin Co., O., whore he died, 
June 14, 1865. His labors were very acceptable and use- 
ful. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , 1865, p. 142. 

Studdiford, Peter, a (Dutch) Reformed minister, 
was horn in New York city in 1763, graduated from Co- 
lumbia College in 178G, and studied theology with Dr. 
John II. Livingston, lie was licensed by the Synod 
of the Reformed Dutch Church in 1787, and settled that 
year at Readington, N. J., having Bcdininster as an as- 
sociate Church until 1800, and then ministered at Read- 
ington alone until his death, Nov. 30, 1826. In 1812 he 
was appointed professor of Hebrew by the General Synod. 
1 1 is record is that of a man of large views, much learn- 
ing, and intense devotion to his ministerial work. He 
had a great reputation as an extemporaneous preacher, 
sometimes transcending himself when called upon in an 
emergency, and always oil these occasions speaking with 
claltoratc lini>h and great force. He was noted as a pa- 
triotic citizen, a faithful pastor, and a Christian of deep 
personal piety and of catholic sentiments. Sec Corwin, 
Manual of the Rt f. Church , p. 229. (\V. J. R. T.) 

Studdiford, Peter O., I ).D., a Presbyterian divine, 
son of the preceding, was horn at Readington, N. J., 
Jan. II, 1799. lie early made a profession of religion, 
pursued his preparatory si tidies at l he Academy at Bask- 
ingridge, N. J., and suhMMpiently at Somerville. In 1816 
he graduated with the highest honor at Rutgers Col- 
h’ge, New Brunswick, was occupied three years in teach- 
ing, and graduated at the Theological Seminary at 
Princeton in 1821. lie was licensed by the New Bruns- 
wick Presbytery April 27, 1819, ordained as an evangel- 
ist by the same presbytery Nov. 28, 1821, and on Dec. 
2, 1821, commenced his labors at Lambert ville, N. J., 


alternating for one year with the Soleburv Church in 
Pennsylvania. In June, 1825, he was installed pastor 
of the Lambcrtville and Solebury churches, which re- 
lation existed most happily for a period of forty -five 
years. He died June 5, 1866. Dr. Studdiford was a 
sound and able theologian, a judicious and most instruc- 
tive preacher, and admirably fitted and successful as 
an educator. See Wilson, Presb. Hist. Almanac , 1867, 
p. 204. (J. L. S.) 

Studenz, in Slavic mythology, is the lake in the 
gloopiy recesses of the mighty beech-wood on the island 
of Riigen, whose waters were used to wash the wheels 
of the wagon in which the goddess Nerthus had passed 
through the island. The slaves who performed that 
labor were immediately drowned. The lake swarmed 
with fishes, but none were allowed to be taken from it 
because they belonged to the goddess. Even to ap- 
proach the lake was a capital offence. — Vollmer, )Vdr- 
terb. d. Mythol. s. v. 

Studies of the Cleroy. In the early Church, 
the clergy were obliged to lead studious lives, and no 
pleas were allowed as just apologies for the contrary. 
Their chief studies were to be the Holy Scriptures, to 
which special attention was demanded, and the ap- 
proved writers and canons of the Church. Other books 
were to be sparingly and cautiously used. Heretical 
works were to be read only upon necessity to confute 
them or caution others against them. Beyond this, 
there was no obligation on them to read human learn- 
ing, nor vras there an absolute prohibition of it. Where 
such study could be made to minister to divinity, it w'as 
not only allowed, but encouraged, and the study of such 
learning rightly applied did very great service to relig- 
ion in the primitive ages of the Church. See Bing- 
ham, Christ. Antiq. bk. vi, eh. iii, § 1 sq. 

Studitae, a name given to a branch of the Acceme- 
TvE (q. v. ). One Studius, a nobleman of Rome, re- 
nounced the world, and became one of their order, 
erecting a large monastery for himself, which was called 
Studium , and the monks Stud lice. In a short time they 
lost their credit by joining the Nestorians. 

Studites, Simeon, is said to have been a monk 
in the famous monastery of Studium in Constantinople 
(see Mt'iller, Stud. Ccenob. Constant, ex Monum. Byzani. 
Jllusiratum Diss. [Lips. 1721]), and is credited with the 
composition of a series of hymns of praise (see Allatius, 
De Sym. Scriptis JRatriba [Par. 1664], p. 23). 

Another Simeon Studites is mentioned in Allatius, 
loc. cif. p. 152, as a theologian, homilist, and hymnog- 
raphor. See Fabricii Biblioth. Grceca , curante Gotti. 
Christoph. Harles. (Ilamb. 1808), xi, 302-319. — Herzog, 
Real-Encyklop. s. v. 

Studites, Theodore, a violent opponent of the 
iconoclasts in the early Church, was born in Constanti- 
nople, A.D. 759, entered the Convent of Studium in 781, 
and w r as made its abbot, or archimandrite, in 794. He 
soon came into conflict with the emperor Constantine 
Copronymns — a violent iconoclast, who had separated 
from his consort and was about to marry Theodora — and 
denounced the ban against him, besides severing his re- 
lations with the patriarch Tarasius, because the latter 
would not proceed energetically against the emperor. 
Constantine thereupon banished him to Thessalonica. 
When image-worship w\as restored, Theodore was recall- 
ed and received into favor; but he became involved in 
fresh troubles, this time w'ith the emperor Nicephorns, 
who caused him to he imprisoned and transported to 
an island near Constantinople, where he remained until 
reinstated in his office by Michael Rhangave. When 
Let) the Armenian rcneived the attack on imagc-w’or- 
sliip (813), Studites at once rose against him with his 
accustomed zeal; the emperor caused him to be warn- 
ed, but without result, anti then called a synod at Con- 
stantinople which prohibited ieonolatry (815), after 
which he took energetic measures for its repression. 


STUFFO 


10G9 


ST URGE 


Studites was confined at Mesope, and afterwards (819) 
at Smyrna, Balbus gave him his liberty in 821 and 
permitted the adoration of images in private; but the 
zeal of Studites soon compelled his renewed banishment 
from Constantinople. lie took up his abode on the isl- 
and of Chalcis, and died there, Nov. 11,820. lie com- 
posed a number of letters, poerns, and other writings 
against the iconoclasts, for which see Bcllarmine, be 
Scriptoribus Eceles. [Colon. 1081], p. 151. Part V of 
Jacques Sirraond’s Opera Yaria (Veuet. 1728) is almost 
exclusively devoted to Theodore Studites and his writ- 
ings. Comp, also the literary references in Gieselcr, 

Kirehengeseh. (Bonn, 1840), II, i, 10 sq Ilerzog, Iteal- 

Encgklop. s. v. 

Stuffo, an unknown divinity worshipped among the 
ancient Saxons, supposed to have presided over their 
drinking customs and to have been the patron of revel- 
lers. — Vollmer, \Yorterb. d. M gthol. s. v. 

Stuffs used in tiie Middle Ages. The names 
Damask , Sarcenet ( Saracenorum opus'), Supers (cloth 
of Cyprus), and Levantine brocades, of silver and gold, 
made in the Lebanon ; Orphreys , “ the gold of Phrygia 
A Italic robes, splendid cloths of Asia Minor; and the 
embroidery, veils, silks, and cloths of Alexandria, be- 
speak the place of manufacture. Byzantium was also 
a considerable producer. The earlier patterns are By- 
zantine, with flowing and geometrical designs, animals, 
and birds. In the 13th century arms of donors were 
introduced, and in the 14th century splendid borders, 
representing saints, angels, and evangelists, were added 
to vestments. In England, embroidery of Alexandria, 
Indian samit, color de Painaz, Turkey-work, cloth of 
Antioch, Tripolis, Tartaryn, Tiretaine, cloth of Tvrc (so 
called from its bright tint), Tarsus, India, Tarse dc Nak, 
Tuly, Inde di Gangi, and Moire de Tarse are mentioned 
as used in vestments, all being of Eastern importation. 
— Walcott, Sue. A rchceol. s. v. 

Stuhr, Peter Feddeusen, a German scholar, was 
born at Flensburg, May 28, 1787, studied law at Kiel, 
and in 180G philosophy at Heidelberg and Ilalle. In 
1821 he commenced lecturing at the Berlin University, 
was promoted in 182G as professor of philosophy, and 
died March 13, 1851. He wrote, Die Staaten des Alter - 
thums und der christl. Zeit (Heidelberg, 1811): — Ueber 
den Enter gang der Katurstaaten (Berlin, 1812): — Ab- 
handlungen iiber nordische Alterthibner (ibid. 1817):— 
Die chinesische Reiehsreligion und die Sgsteme der in- 
dischen Philosophie in ihrem Yerhdltnisse zur Offen- 
barungslehre (ibid. 1835): — Allgemeine Geschic/ite der 
Religions formen der heidnischen 1 "biker (ibid. 183G-38, 2 
vols.) : — Das Yerhdltniss der christliehen Theologie zur 
Philosophie und Mythologie (ibid. 1812) : — Yom Staats- 
leben nach platonischen , aristotelischen und christliehen 
Grundsatzen (ibid. 1850). See Regensburger Conver- 
sations- Lexikon, s. v. ; Theolog. Universal- Lexikon, s. v. ; 
Znchold, Bibl. Theolog. ii, 1290. (B. P.) 

Stukeley, William, an English divine and an- 
tiquarian, was born at Ilolbeach, in Lincolnshire, Nov. 
7, 1G87. He was admitted into Rcne’t College, Cam- 
bridge, Nov. 7, 1703, and took the degree of 31. B. in 
1709. He first began to practice at Boston, in his na- 
tive county, but removed to London in 1717, where he 
was soon after elected F.K.S. The degree of M.l). he 
took at Cambridge in 1719, and was admitted a fellow 
of the College of Physicians in the year following. 
Later his thoughts were turned to the Church, and he 
was ordained at Croydon, July 20, 1720. In October 
following he was presented to the living of All-Souls’, 
Stamford. lie became chaplain to the duke of Ancas- 
ter, and also received from him the living of Somerby, 
near Grantham, in 1739. In 1741 he preached the 30th 
of January sermon before the House of Commons, and in 
that year became one of the founders of the Egyptian 
Society. In 1747 he vacated his preferments in the 
country, and received the rectory of St. George’s, Queen 
Square. He died March 3, 17G5. In addition to other 


works on antiquities, he wrote, Palwographia Sacra, or 
Discourses on the Monuments of A utitpii/y that Relate to 
Sacred JJistory (173G, 4 to): — Stonehenge, a Temple Re- 
stored to the British Druids (1740, fol.) : — A bury, a Tem- 
ple of the British Druids Described (1713, fol.): — Ser- 
mons (1712, 4 to; 1750, 4to; 1750, 8vo). See Chalmers, 
Biog. Diet. s. v. ; Alii bone, Diet, of Brit, and A trier. 
.1 uthors , s. v. 

Stumbling-block (bvi ; Z'2, mikshul, npooKoppa, 
which literally denote any object over which a person 
may trip the foot, and hence, figuratively, a cause of 
ruin or disgust; but PtVri'C, makshe/dh, is only used 
of a physical “ruin” [Isa. iii, G],or an idol [“stumbling- 
block,” i. e. incitement to apostasy, Zeph. i, G]; and 
<TK«i'£a\oi' [1 Cor. i, 23; I John ii, 10; Rev. ii, 14; 
elsewhere “ offence”] is properly the trap-stick to which 
the bail is fastened in a snare). The roads in Eastern 
countries are, for the most part, nothing more than ac- 
customed tracks, worn to something like a level by the 
passing of travellers and caravans. See Road. When 
rocks and stones are placed in these tracks, riders are 
exposed to great danger from the stumbling of the 
horses; and hence Isaiah (lxiii, 13), describing God’s 
glorious deliverance of the Israelites from Egypt, says, 
“He led them through the deep, as a horse in the wil- 
derness, that they should not stumble.” Robbers and 
plundering hordes frequently placed huge stones and 
branches of trees across the roads, as stumbling-blocks 
to check and perplex caravans, in order that they might 
attack them during the confusion which such impedi- 
ments would necessarily create. Thus (Jcr. vi, 21), 
“Therefore thus saith the Lord, Behold, I will lay 
stumbling-blocks before this people, and the father and 
the sons together shall fall upon them; the neighbor 
and his friend shall perish” (see Hackett, Illust.ofScrijit. 
p. 19, 22). See Offence. 

Stunz, S. S., a minister of the Methodist Episcopal 
Church, was born at Albion, Erie Co., Pa., 31 arch 2G, 
1828, and united with the Church in his thirteenth 
year. lie was licensed to preach in 1850, and grad- 
uated from the Allegheny College, June, 1854. In July 
of the same year he united with the Erie Conference; 
and while filling his last appointment, acted as princi- 
pal of Carrier Seminary. In 18G9 he received a super- 
numerary relation and took up his residence in James- 
town, N. V., where he died, Oct. 30, 1870. See Minutes 
of Annual Conferences, 1871, p. 178. 

Sturge, Joseph, an eminent member of the Society 
of Friends in England, was born at Elborton, in the 
Comity of Gloucester. Aug. 2, 1793. Early in life he 
entered upon mercantile pursuits, in which he achieved 
great success. As corn - factors, the firm of ,1. «Sr C. 
Sturge secured a distinction not surpassed by any other 
firm in Great Britain, lie was a prime mover in many 
reform and philanthropic movements, and was associ- 
ated with some of the most distinguished philanthro- 
pists of his day. In the House of Commons he repre- 
sented Birmingham, Nottingham, and Leeds, and was 
always found on the side of truth and righteousness. 
He was an earnest advocate for the entire abrogation 
of capital punishment. lie labored for an improve- 
ment in the discipline of prisons. He was a warm 
friend of the temperance cause, going so far as to refuse 
to sell his barley for malting purposes. He was also 
the promoter of the Sabbath-school movement in the 
Society of Friends. But the two great objects which, 
for thirty years of his life, secured the linthigging inter- 
est of Joseph Sturge were the abolition of slavery and 
the promotion of permanent and universal peace. The 
result of the long-continued labors of the friends of free- 
dom in England was the proclamation of unconditional 
liberty to every slave in all her colonial possessions, 
the same to take effect Aug. I, 1838. His advocacy 
of peace on Christian principles gave him a reputation 
throughout the civilized world. His efforts in the di- 


1070 


STURM 


STURGES 

roction of a submission of national difficulties to arbi- 1 
tration rather than to the sword arc well known, lie 
promoted and arranged, in conjunction with like spirits 
with himself, the peace congresses which were held an- 
nually from 1H IS to 1852 at Brussels, Paris, Frankfort, 
London, and Edinburgh. The iutluencc of these pub- 
lic gatherings of the friends of peace was widely ex- 
tended and of the most beneficial character. In labors 
like these Joseph St urge devoted the busy years of a 
life reaching on to nearly threescore years and ten. 
He died in Birmingham, England, May 14, 1859. Sec 
Memoir, bv Tract Association of Friends (Philadelphia). 
(J. C. S.) ' 

Sturges, Alfiiko Gallatin, a Methodist Episcopal 
minister, was born at Uniontown, Pa., March II, 1813. 
lie experienced religion in 1829. was licensed to exhort 
and subsequently to preach in 1832, admitted on trial in 
the Pittsburg Conference in 1833, and appointed to Gus- 
tavus Circuit, Warren District. In 1834 he was appoint- 
ed to Salem Circuit ; in 1835 was admitted into full con- 
nection, and appointed to Erie station; in 1836, to Hud- 
son Circuit; in 1837, to Painsville Circuit; in 1838-9, 
to Kavelina Circuit; in 1810-41, to Warren; in 1842, 
to Poland Circuit; in 1843. to Youngstown; in 1844, to 
Mcadvillc, where, on account of ill-health, he was com- 
pelled to desist from labor, lie died Nov. 4, 1845. Mr. 
Sturges possessed talents of a superior order as a min- 
ister. The high estimate in which he was held may 
be seen from the fact that for six years in succession he 
was elected to the responsible office of conference sec- 
ret arv. See Minutes of Annual Conferences , iv, 53. 
(J. L. S.) 

Sturm, Christoph Christian, was born at Augs- 
burg, Jan. 25, 1740, and studied at Jena and Halle. From 
Halle, where lie preached first, he was called to Magde- 
burg, where he finally became the pastor primarius of 
St. Peter’s. He died at Hamburg, Aug. 26, 1786. Sturm 
is the author of a number of devotional books and hymns. 
Otic of his hymns, A uferstanden, anferstanden , has been 
translated into English by N. L. F., in the Monthly Re- 
lations Magazine, 1865, xxxiii, 202: “Christ is risen, 
Christ is risen.” One of his works has been translated 
into most of the European languages, and is known in 
English under the title of Reflections on the 1 Porta' of God 
(often printed). For others, see Herzog, Real-Kncyklop . 
s. v. lloefer, A 'our. I Hog, Generate , s. v. See also Wi- 
ner, llundbnch der theolog. tAteratur (index) ; Zuchold, 
Jiibl, Thetd, ii, 1292; Theolog. Unii'ersal-Lexikon , s. v. ; 
Koch, Gesch. d. deutsrhen Kirrhenliedes , vi, 357 sq. ; Re- 
gensbnrger Conversations- Terikon, s. v. ; Federsen, Sturm's 
Leben und Charuktvr (Hamburg, 1786), (B. P.) 

Sturm of Fmu, a disciple of Boniface, and first 
abbot of Fulda, belonged to a noble family living in the 
province of Nauricum (Bavaria), and was born A.I). 710. 
lli.s parents, intluenced by Boniface, devoted their son 
to the Church, and placed him under the care of that 
missionary. lie now travelled with his preceptor for a 
time, mid then retired into the Monastery of Fritzlar, to 
engage in scientific study of the Holy Scriptures and 
the doctrines of tin* Christian faith under Wigbert. In 
733 lie was consecrated to the priesthood, and at once 
liegan to engage in missionary labors among the sur- 
rounding heathen communities. 1 1 is leading purpose 
was the dissemination of Gospel truth and the introduc- 
tion of the ( hristian worship; but he was also earnest in 
the cultivation of a higher morality among his hearers. 
After three years of successful labors, however, he felt 
, himself const rained to enter upon a life of greater au- 
sterity. Ilonifncc approved of his design, and directed 
him, for its realization, as well as for (he accomplish- 
ment of an intention of his own to found a largo mon- 
astery beyond the reach of danger through incursions 
of the Saxons, to explore the country for a suita- 
ble site on which to erect, a religious establishment. 
Accompanied by two associates, Sturm entered the un- 
known wilderness, and in three days found a place which 


seemed to offer every requisite except the assurance of 
quiet, as it was situated too near the territories of the 
hostile Saxons to justify the hope that it would remain 
undisturbed. At a later day archbishop Lullus, the suc- 
cessor of Boniface, founded there t lie Monastery of llers- 
IV Id (768); but, by the advice of Boniface, a safer place 
was to be sought. Sturm now ventured into the forest 
alone, braving its wild beasts and its hordes of heathen, 
until he reached the spot where Fulda now stands, and 
there he found the situation of which he was in search, 
lie returned to Hersfeld, and formed a plan for the erec- 
tion of the convent ; and Boniface repaired to the em- 
peror Carloman to procure a donation of the land. At the 
beginning of 744, Sturm, accompanied by nine monks, 
took solemn possession of the locality, and rapidly pushed 
forward the building and arrangement of the proposed 
establishment. When completed, it assumed the name 
of the stream on which it stood, and received Sturm as 
its abbot. TJie number of monks rapidly increased, and 
it became necessary to arrange the plan of their govern- 
ment and of their ordinary life according to some strict 
system ; and to this end a commission, to which Sturm 
belonged, was sent to Italy to study the methods in vogue 
among the Benedictines of that land. The Convent of 
Monte-Casino seemed to them to afford lessons in ad- 
ministration of especial value. They returned after 
having been absent a year, Sturm being detained on 
the journey byasevere illness at Kitzingeiqon the Main; 
and after their arrival the discipline of Monte-Casino 
was introduced in all its strictness. Some of the broth- 
ers prayed, studied, or taught, while others were em- 
ployed in the fields and gardens. The results of their 
industry, joined with the donations of wealthy patrons, 
greatly enriched the convent, extended its fame, and 
heightened the reputation of its abbot. Wlien Lullus 
succeeded Boniface as archbishop, this peaceful state was 
rudely disturbed. Sturm demanded that the body of 
Boniface should be interred at Fulda, as Boniface him- 
self had desired; but the clergy of Mavcnce, headed by 
Lullus, refused consent, and procured an order from king 
Pepin for the interment of the remains at Mayen ce. 
Lullus finally yielded. Another cause of trouble lay 
in the archbishop's assumption of the rights of owner- 
ship over the monastery, and of consequent supervision 
of its temporalities, which Sturm regarded as an inva- 
sion of his privileges. At the same time, three monks, 
who were dissatisfied with the strictness of Sturm's 
rule, charged him with treason against the king, and 
secured his citation before the court; and when Sturm, 
iu the consciousness of his innocence, refused to defend 
himself, the anger of Pepin caused his banishment to 
the Monastery of Jumcdica (now Jumieges), near Rou- 
en. Lullus now endeavored to establish himself in the 
possession of Fulda; but as tbc monks drove away a 
priest whom he had appointed abbot, he gave way, and 
allowed them to choose for themselves. They selected 
Prezzold, a devoted adherent of Sturm, who at once be- 
gan to labor for tbc pardon of bis former superior; and, 
as other monasteries used their influence in the same 
direction, the end was attained. Sturm was recalled to 
court and reconciled to the king; and when Prezzold 
and his brothers of Fulda petitioned for Sturm’s resto- 
ration to the monastery, the king consented, and, in ad- 
dition, removed the monastery from under the jurisdic- 
tion of Lullus (762), A quiet ivra now began in the 
life of Sturm, which continued until his death. He 
grew in the royal favor constantly, and by his practical 
genius accomplished many results which increased the 
material welfare of his neighborhood. In the beginning 
of Charlemagne’s reign lie was employed to preserve 
peace between the king and the powerful duke Thas- 
silo of Bavaria, and was completely successful. A wider 
sphere opened before him when Charlemagne made war 
on the Saxons, in 772, and ordered a host of priests and 
other clergy to accompany the army in order to convert 
the conquered heathen. Sturm was especially promi- 
nent in this work, and achieved some real successes, aa 


STURM 


1071 


STURT 


appears from the fact that a number of noble Saxons 
followed him to Fulda for instruction in the Christian 
faith. In acknowledgment of his services, Charlemagne 
donated to the Convent of Fulda an important royal do- 
main situated in Ilamiiielburg, on the Saale (Jan. 7, 
777). When the campaign against the Saxons was re- 
peated, in order to punish them for their revolt, Sturm 
was again ordered to attend the expedition; but his age 
forbade so great a demand on his strength, and he was 
loft behind. He returned to Fulda, and died Dec. 17, 
7<9. lie was buried in the church at Fulda, and a 
simple monument was placed over his remains. At the 
Lateran Council of 1133 pope Innocent II canonized the 
worthy abbot, and in 1 139 bishop John of WUrzburg 
ordered a diocesan festival in his honor. Sec Eigel 
(abbot of Fulda 818-822), 17/// fitn /*//»/, in Malii lion, „■ I ct. 
SS. Ord. S. Jieneil . Sevc. Yli 1, ii, 242-250, and in Pertz, 
Momtm. Script . ii, 365-377 ; also Stimulus IJrun, Le- 
bensgesch . d, heil. Sturmius , etc. (1770, 8vo); Hist. I At. 
de la France , iv, l('»l ; Fabricius, HibL Lat. Med . et Jnjim. 
Mil afis, iv, 214; Dettbcrg, Kirchengesch. Deutseldamls 
(Giitt. 184G), vol. i; Schwartz, Leben d. htil . Stunnius 
(Fulda, 1858). — Herzog, Ileal- Encykiop. s. v. 

Sturm, Jacob, administrator of the government 
of Strasburg, a statesman and influential promoter of 
the cause of the Deformation, was born in 1480. 1 1 is 

education was largely guided by Wimpfeling, who was 
an intimate friend of the family, and who preserved him 
from falling into the toils of monkish preceptors, and 
brought him under the inlluenee of the classics instead. 
In 1505 he was a master of arts, and in 150G a member 
of the theological faculty of Freiburg. Denouncing the 
purpose of becoming a priest, he travelled in different 
lands, and in 1514 joined the literary association of Stras- 
burg, to cultivate the study of the classics. In 1522 he 
recommended, for the reformation of the University 
of Heidelberg, that thorough grammatical instruction 
should precede the study of the classics; that Agricola’s 
method of logic should be adopted ; that more attention 
should he given to mathematics; and that in theology 
scholasticism should he replaced by the study of the 
Holy Scriptures under the guidance of the Church fa- 
thers. He became a member of the City Council, and 
in 1526 chief magistrate, in every position displaying so 
much ability anil character as to occasion the coining 
of a medal in his honor. He advocated liberty of con- 
science in religious matters, and recognised neither em- 
peror nor pope as his spiritual head; but he desired, 
also, that all believers in the Gospel should unite their 
energies for the common work. As a statesman, he ad- 
vocated an alliance of the Germans and Swiss, in order 
that a stronger front might he presented to the Domish 
powers. At Spires, in 1523, he defended the action of 
Strasburg in having caused the cessation of the mass 
in the previous year, and joined the evangelical princes 
in their protest, besides uniting with Philip of Hesse to 
prevent the condemnation of the Swiss, lie attended 
the Marburg Colloquy, and in 1530 united with other 
delegates in presenting tlie Confess io Tetrapolitami at 
Augsburg, ilis endeavors to unite the Saxons and 
the South Germans were indefatigable, though unsuc- 
cessful. He participated in the deliberations which re- 
sulted in the Wittenberg Concord of 153G. At this time, 
too. he was enabled to accomplish the work of establish- 
ing a gymnasium at Strasburg, having, in 1528, become 
a member of the board of scholarchs to whom was com- 
mitted the direction of public instruction. During the 
period of the Interim he not only preserved the peace 
in Strasburg, but also the dignity and freedom of the 
citv. He was venerated by all parties, and prominently 
employed in all the great events of his time and eonn- 
trv, having been Straslmrg’s representative at political 
and religious convocations no less than ninety-one times 
between 1525 and 1552. Ilis rich acquaintance with 
men and events enabled him to afford valuable a^ist- 
ance to bis friend Sleidan (q. v.) in the preparation of 
the latter's great historical woik. He died Oct. 30, 


1553, leaving behind the reputation of a model Chris- 
tian patriot. His library was donated to the Strasburg 
School. — Herzog, Ileal- Encykiop, s. v. 

Sturm, Johann, a famous Protestant schoolman, 
was born at Sleida in 1507, and graduated at Louvain, 
where lie also managed a printing-otlice in connection 
with Prof. Dudiger Doscius, and published several Greek 
works. To sell his books, be went to Paris, and while 
there was invited to deliver public lectures, which he 
did. taking dialectics for his subject, and following the 
method of D. Agricola. At this time, too, he adopted 
the principles of the Deformation. In 1534 he was com- 
missioned by the king and the bishop of Paris to par- 
ticipate in the efforts then being made to reunite the 
Protestant and the lioniish Church. In 1537 he ac- 
cepted a call to the Gymnasium of Strasburg. In his 
new position be advocated a union of classical culture 
and evangelical piety, the exaltation of the Latin lan- 
guage at the expense of the vernacular, the utter rejec- 
tion of scholastic methods and quibbles, t lie simplifying 
of dialectics, etc. Oil the opening of t lie gymnasium in 
1538, he was appointed rector for life. Though a Prot- 
estant, he retained his friendship for many Donum Cath- 
olic scholars, and hoped that the differences between the 
two communions might be removed — an idea frequently 
expressed by him, e. g. in a criticism of the popish Con- 
silium de Emcndanda Ecclesia , 1538. lie possessed rare 
oratorical and diplomatic abilities, and was accordingly 
often employed in negotiations and missions by the 
Strasburg and other Protestant governments, and even 
by the French king. In 1540 he attended the colloquies 
of Hagciiau and Worms, and in 1541 that of Djjtisbon. 
In 1545 he co-operated with other agents of Germany 
in settling a peace between England and France: and 
afterwards, on the breaking- out of the Sinaloa Id war, 
was engaged in an unsuccessful mission to the court of 
Francis I to secure help. Sturm, influenced, perhaps, 
by his personal intimacy with many French Protestants 
and also with Calvin, inclined to the Deformed rather 
than to the Lutheran view of the sacrament, while the 
clergy of Strasburg were decidedly opposed to the De- 
formed theology. Frequent disputes were the natural 
consequence, whose bitterness was increased by bis per- 
sistent care for the fugitive Huguenots that were settled 
in the city. He also induced the scholarchs to appoint 
Deformed professors, defended Znuchi, who was charged 
with being a Calvinist, and by such means excited the 
persistent hostility of his clerical opponents. He was 
charged by duke Wolfgang of Zweibrticken with the 
reorganization of t lie Gymnasium of Lnnenbnrg in 15G4, 
amt two years afterwards obtained for the city of Stras- 
burg the imperial authorization for an academy in ac- 
cordance with his plans. After this period no cheering 
incidents marked h is life. The theological contlict de- 
veloped increased fury. Apparently settled by tlie de- 
cision of arbitrators in 1575, it became more virulent 
than before when Sturm opposed the reception of the 
Form of Concord. His opponents finally, in 1581, in- 
duced the magistracy to deprive him of the reel orate 
which he had held during forty years. Exasperated hv 
the indignity, he appealed to the Chamber at Spires, 
but died in 1583, before tbe case was decided. His plan 
of instruction became tbe model Ibr many schools of 
Germany, and his name has come down to our time 
among the nio.st honored of his time, no less on account 
of his noble character than of Ids learning and far-reach- 
ing labors fur Protestant education and freedom. Sec 
Sclnnidt. La Vie et Ls Trnraux de Jean Sturm (Strasb. 
1855). — Herzog, Heal- Encykiop. s. v. 

Sturt, John, an Engli-h engraver, was born in Lon- 
don in 1058, and at the age of seventeen became tbe 
pupil of Dobert White. His chi* f excellence lay in 
the engraving of letters, and the minuteness with which 
they were executed. He died in 1730. Ilis iiest work 
is the Hook of Common Prayer , which he engraved on 
silver plates. The top of every page is ornamented 


STURZ 


1072 


STYLITES 


with a small historical vignette (Loud. 1717, 8vo). lie 
also engraved the lord's Prayer within a circle of the 
dimensions of a silver penny. See Chalmers, Biog. 
Diet. s. v. 

Sturz, F hied rich Wilhelm, a German scholar, 
was born May 14, 17G2, at Erbisdorf, near Freiburg. 
He studied theology and philosophy at Leipsic, and 
was appointed in 1 7 88 pro lessor of elocution at Gera; 
in 1803 he was called to (irimma as rector of the acad- 
emy, retired from his office in 1823, and died May 20, 
1832. He wrote, De Dialecto Alexandria Ratione si - 
niul J l iibit a Version. Libr. Pet. Test, Grac. (Lips. 178G) : 
— De Dialecto Macedonia et A lexandrina (ibid. 1808) : — 
De Dialecto A lexandrina (Gera, 1788-04, diss. i-iv) : 
— Circumcisio a Barbaris Gentibus ad Judieos Trunslata 
(ibid. 1701): and edited Zonaree Glossal Sacrie X. T. 
(Grimma, 1818). See Winer, Ifandbuch der theolog. 
Literatur, i, 12G, 128, 885; ii, 705; Regensburger Conver- 
sations- Lexikon, s. v. ; Fiirst, BibT. Jud. iii, 305. (B. 1\) 

Stutson, Nelson, a minister of the Methodist Epis- 
copal Church, was born at Monson, Mass., Sept. 20, 1820, 
and was converted when about nineteen. He was edu- 
cated at Wilbraham, graduated from college in 1858, 
and joined the New England Conference in 1850. In 
18G9 he spent three months in Europe to recruit his 
health, but it continued to decline until he died, April 
1G. 1871, at Springfield, Mass. Mr. Stutson was a man 
of many rare and valuable qualities. See Minutes of 
Annual Conferences, 1872, p. 48. 

Stuttgart, Synod of, held in the year 1559. It 
was convened by duke Christopher of Wiirtemberg, 
with the purpose of bestowing a formal sanction on the 
Lutheran doctrine of the Lord’s supper, which had been 
previously recognised, but was threatened by divisions 
in the churches of the duchy itself, and by the over- 
throw of the Lutheran confession in the adjoining pa- 
latinate. It was composed of the four general superin- 
tendents and the spiritual and lay members of the con- 
sistory, together with the reetor, dean, and professors 
of the theological faculty of Tubingen. On Dec. 19 it 
adopted the formulary issued in the following year, un- 
der the title Confessio et Doctrina Theologorum et Mi- 
nistrornm Verbi Divini in Ducat u Wirtemb.de Vera Prce- 
sentia Cojyoris et /Sanguinis Jesu Christi in Cana Do- 
minica. It begins with an exhortation based on Eph. 
iv, 14, and proceeds to declare, on the alleged basis of 
the Scriptures and the Augsburg Confession — 1. That in 
the sacrament the real body and blood of Christ are given 
and received with the bread and wine, by virtue of the 
word or institution of Christ; 2. That the substance of 
the bread and wine is not changed ; nor do they simply 
serve as types, but the actual substance of Christ’s body 
and blood is given with the unchanged substance of 
bread mid wine; 3. That the union of these substances 
is sacramental, so that no sacrament exists when the 
bread and wine arc not used ; 4. The objection against 
the ubiquity of Christ’s body based on his ascension to 
heaven is removed by the doctrine of Paul, that the 
D>rd •‘ascended up far above all heavens, that he might 
till all things” (Eph. iv, 10) , 5. Not only the faithful 
and worihy, but also the unworthy, partake of the Lord’s 
body and blood in the sacrament; the latter, however, 
to their destruction, etc. The Confession of Stuttgart 
lias been regarded by Planck ami Gieseler as the lirst 
formulating of i lie doctrine of the ubiquity of the body 
of Christ; but the fundamental principle of the whole 
doctrine of Luther respecting the Lord’s supper was the 
ubiquity; and Brcntius, t lie leading spirit in the Stutt- 
gart Synod, had expressed the opinion that Christ’s hu- 
man nature participates in all respects in the glory of 
the Wither, in his larger ('atechisni of the year 1551. 
( nlvin complains of the “ l liiquists” of Wiirtemberg in 
a letter to .J. Andrea', dated 155G. It remains to be add- 
ed that Lutherans received the decisions of i his synod 
with much hesitation, because of objectionable expres- 
sions involved in them, e. g. that the blessing of the sac- 


rament differs specifically from other gracious gifts of the 
llolv Spirit ; that the blessing of the sacrament is not de- 
pendent on the will of the communicant ; that the bless- 
ing of the sacrament is conditioned solely on the work- 
ing of the exalted God-man, etc. In the event, a reac- 
tion took place in the Wiirtemberg churches which 
opened the way for a more rational, Melanethonian 
view. See Pfaff, Acta et Script a Publ. Keel. Wirtemb. 
(1720); Plank, Gesch. d. protest. Lehrbegrifes, vol. v; 
Hoppe, Gesch. d. deutsch. Prot. vol. i. — Herzog, Real- 
Encyklop. s. v. See Mklanctiion; Ubiquity. 

Stygius, in Grecian mythology, a surname of Pluto. 

Style, Old and New. See Calendar. 

Stylites ((TTvXtrat, Kiovlrai) or pillar saints, a class 
of anchorets who took up their abode on lofty pillars, 
where the limited space forbade their sitting or lying 
down, and obliged them to stand continually (hence sta- 
tionarii), protected only by a lattice-work or board rail- 
ing, or by a wall, from falling, and exposed to the open 
sky by day and night, in both summer and winter. See 
Pillar Saints. 

The founder of this class of Christian fakirs was Sim- 
eon, called the Syrian, or the older , who lived in the 5th 
century, under the reigns of Theodosius II (408-450) 
and his successors. He was a native of Sisan, or Sesan, 
in Northern Syria, on Mount Amantis, and was of Chris- 
tian parentage. lie was bom in 390 or 391, and in 
childhood watched his father’s floeks in the solitude of 
his native mountain region. At the age of thirteen he 
entered a Christian church for the first time, and re- 
ceived impressions which led to his adoption of a mo- 
nastic life. He spent two years in a convent near his 
home, and ten more in St. Eusebonas’s convent, near Te- 
leda, and in the latter place especially excelled all his as- 
sociates in the rigorous harshness of his ascetical prac- 
tices. After a time he removed to Tel-Nescin, or Tela- 
nessa (TfXai'uroc, Theod.), near Antioch, and took up. 
his abode in a hut on the side of a mountain. While 
there he fasted forty days, absolutely without partaking 
of food, in imitation of Moses and Elijah ; and not only 
did this practice beeome his regular custom during the 
fasts of Lent, but he added to it the notion of spending 
the entire period standing on his feet, for which purpose 
he caused himself to be bound to an upright stake. Af- 
ter spending three years in this hut, he caused himself 
to be surrounded with a wall (yav&pa, clan strum) and 
had himself fastened to a rock by a chain twenty cubits 
long. By this time the fame of his extraordinary pie- 
ty had spread abroad, and multitudes came to look upon 
him, and quarrelled to touch his clothing, which in- 
duced him to erect a pillar within his liiandra, which he 
mounted, and upon which he supported himself by be- 
ing bound to an upright post (about 420). Soon that 
support became unnecessary, and he was able to obtain 
what rest he required by holding fast to the lattice with 
which he was surrounded. The first pillar was only six 
or seven cubits high ; but he caused its height to be re- 
peatedly increased, so that it was at last thirty-six cu- 
bits high ; and at this altitude he spent the last thir- 
ty years of his life, from 429. The monks of the ad- 
joining desert sought to test him by ordering him to 
descend from his pillar; hut as he declared his immediate 
readiness to obey, they desisted, and acknowledged a 
divine call to the course of life he had adopted in his 
case. From sunset until the ninth hour of ihe next 
day he was engaged in devotional exercises; after that 
time he was accessible to all except women. Not even 
his own mother was permitted to enter his mandra. He 
dispensed counsel, preached, prophesied, wrought mira- 
cles by the power of his prayers, and interfered in the 
affairs of the Church generally: e. g. when Theodosius II 
decreed ihe restoration of synagogues which the Chris- 

I tians had taken from the Jews of Antioch, Simeon wrote 
a threatening letter, which induced the recall of the 
edict already issued. In 457 Leo I sought the ad- 
vice of Simeon with respect to the Monophysite troubles 


STYLITES 


1073 


STYX 


which had broken out in Alexandria, and elicited two 
letters from the anchoret. Kventualh a running sore 
broke out in his left foot, which obliged him to stand on 
the right foot only, and in this position he died in 459. 
His remains were removed with religious , and military 
pomp to Antioch, and a magniticent church was erected 
in his honor on the spot where his mandrn and pillar 
stood, three hundred stadia from Antioch. The day of 
his commemoration is Jan. 5. See Simkon, St. 

After Simeon’s decease the number of Stvlites in- 
creased, until they became a distinct order. It became 
customary for wealthy people to build splendid pillars 
for venerated men, and to attach stairways to them by 
which they could be mounted. The pillar of the Sty- 
lit e Daniel bore an inscription in his honor, and peculiar 
privileges were accorded to his class by law. On the 
other hand, the teachers of the Church sometimes ail- 
dressed admonitions and censures to particular St vlites. 
Numerous Stylites are mentioned, some as late as the 
12th century. The immediate successor of Simeon ap- 
pears to have been the Daniel already mentioned, of 
whom it is recorded that he temporarily abandoned 
his pillar in order to defend Chalcedonian orthodoxy 
against the emperor llasiliscus in 470. II is day is Dec. 
II. A Stylite named Alvpius spent seventy years on a 
pillar near Adrianople: commemorated Nov. 20. Two 
additional Simeons occur among the Stylites: one of 
w hom died in 505, after having been standing on a pil- 
lar as early as 527, and left a letter addressed to the sec- 
ond Council of Nice and MSS. preserved in the Vatican 
Library ; the other lived under Michael Comnenns (1 1 43— 
80),surnamed the Presbyter or .1 reft i/mt ml rite ; also Ful- 
minatus, because he was killed by lightning: also loft 
some MSS. lie was probably one of the last of- Stylites. 
They found no acceptance in the West. Gregory of 
Tours mentions one, indeed, in the district of Treves; 
but records, at the same time, that the Gallic bishops 
caused his pillar to be dcstroved. 

IX.— V v v 


See Tlioodoret, Hist . /.'<////, c, 2d; Antonins, in .4 ct. 
■S' N. Jan. i, 2b l sip ; (\»sma>, in Av-cmamii .1c/, Mart, i, 
2t».s sip; .Muselii, ibhl. iii, 24b s«p; Kvagrius, Hist. Kr- 
ebs. i, 13; Simeon Melaphrastes ; Xiccph. Call. Hist. 
Keel, xiv, 51; xv, xviii sip; llospinian, I)e Oriy. *1 
Proyr. Muunchatus. etc., lib. ii, c. 5, tig. 15*S, fob 22 
sip; Allatius, he Siuuonnm Seri/itis (l’aris, Ibb l); Lau- 
tiusack, he Si me one Sfy/ita (Vitcb. 17110) ; Siebor, he 
Sanctis Columnar. (Lips. 1711); Zedler, l 'nicer sal- 1. exi- 
bnt ; Neandor, Kirehenyesch. ii ; I’hlemann, Symeon, etc., 
in lllgen’s Zcitsvhr. J'ur hist. Theoloyie, IS 15, Nos. iii and 
iv. — Herzog, Ileal- Knryklop. s. v. 

Stymplialia, in Grecian mythology, a surname of 
.1 rtem is, or Itiaua, derived from the town of Stympha- 
lus, in Arcadia, where a temple was erected to this god- 
dess. It contained her image in wood, heavily gilded, 
and also one of the Stymphalides whom Hercules slew 
(Patisan. viii, 22, 5 ; Apollod. ii, o, 2, etc.). 

Stymphcllus, a mythical king of Arcadia, from 
whom the marsh and city Stvmphalis derived their 
name, lie was the son of Klatus and Laodice, and was 
murdered by Pelops, in consequence of which crime a 
pestilence, or, as others say, a famine, broke out in Greece, 
which was finally averted bv the prayers of JCaeus. 

Styx, in Grecian mythology, the dark river of the 
nether world in whose name the gods uttered their ir- 
revocable vows. Styx is described as a daughter of 
Oeeamis and Tethvs, and as married to the Titan Dal- 
las, by whom she became the mother of Zelus, Nice, 
Crams, Ilia, and others. With her children she dwelt 
in a magniticent palace in Tartarus, which rested on sil- 
ver columns and had its roof of stone raised up until it 
almost touched the heavens. liy Zens she became the 
mother of Persephone (Apollod. i, 3, 1), and by l'eiras 
of Kchidna (Pausan. viii, lb, 1). Although a goddess, 
Styx appears to have been excluded from the society 
of the gods. 







LIST OF ARTICLES L\ VOL IX 


Rhnbanus Page 

Khabdos ek tea rbi- 

ZCS 

Khanatosan hemin 

anotheu 

Rhea 

Khees, Morgan John 

(0 

Rhees, Morgan .John 

(2) ‘ 

Rliegium 

Rhemish Testament 

Khenferd 

Khesa 

Khesa, L. Jedemin. 

Khetoriuns 

Kim, Giacomo 

Kho, Giovanni 

Khoda 

Rhodes 

Rhodes, Alexandre 

de 

Rhodes, Georges dc 

Khodocus 

Bluet ns 

Rhopalns 

Khyrhia 

Riario — 

Kib (in architecture) 

Rib . 

Kihadeneira 

Kibai 

Kibalta 

Hi has* 

Ribera, Francisco.. 

Ribera, Jose 

Kiblah, 1 

Kiblnh. 2 

Kiccaltouu 

Kiccardi 

Kicchini 

Kicci, Antonio 

Ricci, Bartolomeo(l) 
Kicci, Bartolomeo (2) 

Kicci, Lorenzo 

Kicci, Matteo 

Ricci, Michael An- 
gelo 

Kicci, Paul 

Kicci, Scipionc 

Kicci, Sebnstiano. . . 

Kicciarelli 

Kiccio, Domenico.. 

Kiccio, Felice 

Kiccioli 

Rice, Aaron 

Kice, David 

I tice, Edward 

Kice, Henry Lefller. 
Kice, John II. 0) .. 
Kice, John 11.(2).., 
Kice, John Holt.. . . 

Kice, John Jay 

Kice, Luther 

Kice, Nathan 

Kice, Nathan Lewis 

Kice, Phineus 

Kice, William II 

Rich, Claudius 

James 

Kich, Edmund... . 

Rich, John 

Kich, Obadiah 

Richard of Armagh 
Richard of Bury... 
Richard of Ciren- 
cester 

Richard of Devizes. 
Richard of Hexham 
Richard of St. Victor 

Richard I 

Richard, Charles- 

Louis 

Richard, Jean-Pierre 
Richardot, Francois 
Kichardot, Jean. . . . 


VRichards, Elias 

Jones Page 

1 Richards, George.. 

Richards, James (1) 
1 Richards, James (2) 
1 Richards, John J. .. 
Richards, John \V. . 

1 Richards, Jonas Dc 

Forest 

2 Richards, Lewis 

2 Richards, Robert R. 
2 Richards, Thomas 

2 T. tS 

2 Richards, William 
2 (1) 

2 Richards, William 

3 (2) 

3 Richards, William I. 
3 Richards, William 

3 K 

Richards, William 

4 Lvmnn 

5 Richardson, Chann- 

5 cey 

5 Richardson, James. 
5 Richardson, James 
5 J 

5 Richardson, James 

ft Monroe 

G Richardson, J. Clark 
G Richardson, John . . 
G Richardson, John P. 
G Richardson, Lyman 

6 Richardson, M:\noah 

7 Richardson, Marvin 

7 Richardson, Robert 
7 Hugh 

7 Richardson, Will- 

8 i a m 

8 Richelieu, Alphonse- 
s' Louis du Plessis 

S' de 

S Richelieu, Armand- 
S Jean du Plessis de 
S Richer 

9 Riches 

Richey 

9 Richmond, Francis 

9 M 

9 Richmond, Legh. . . 
in Richmond, Paul C’. 
10 Richter, A emit ills 

10 Ludwig 

10 Richter, Christian 

10 Friedrich 

10 Richter, Henry 

In Richter, Johann 

10 Heinrich 

10 Richthofen 

11 Rickards 

11 Rickman 

II Kicnlphus 

11 Kiddha 

12 Riddle 

12 Riddle, John 

12 Riddle, Joseph Es- 

12 monel 

13 Kiddoch 

Rideout 

13 Rider 

13 Rider, John 

13 Ridge 

13 Ridglcy 

13 Riding Committees 
13 Ridley, Gloucester. 
13 Ridley, Nicholas... 
13 Kidolplms 

13 Riegger, Joseph An- 

14 ton Stephan von. 

14 Riegger, Paul Jo- 
14 seph von 

Kietizo 

1ft Ricti 

lft Kieischel 

1ft Rietter 

1G Rigaud 


Rigby Page 

1G lliggen 

1G Riggs, Adam S 

1G Riggs, Joseph L. . . 

10 Kighiel Lam bo 

1G Right 

1 G Righteousness 

Kighter 

17 Rigorists 

17 Kigr 

17 Rig- Veda 

Riley, Henry Au- 

171 gnstus 

Riley, Isaac 

17 Ritumon, 1 

Rimmon, 2 

17 Rim moil, 3 

17 1 Rimmon, 4 

Rimmon, ft 

17 Rimmon Meihoar.. 
Rimmon Parez 

17 Kin 

Rinaldi 

18 Rinda 

IS Ring 

Ring (in attire) 

IS Ring (in espousals) 
Ring (in investi- 

18 tures) 

is Ring (in matri- 
mony) 

18 Ring, The Decade. . 
Is Ring, Fisherman’s. 

19 Ring, Melchior 

19 Kinggli 

Ringoraldt 

19 King-streaked 

Rin kart 

19 Kinnah 

(Riper Years 

Riphiens 

Riphatli 

Ri pi diu m 

Ripley, Ezra 

Ripley, Henry Jones 
Kijdey, llezekiah. . . 
Ripley, John Bing- 
ham 

Ripley, Lincoln 

Ripley, Samuel 

Ripley, Thomas B. . 

Rippon 

Kipnndshaya 

Risabha 

Risen 

Kishis 

Kishtou 

Rising in the Air.. . 

22j Risler 

22 Risley 

22 Rissah 

22 Ristubgrad 

22 Kisns 

22 Rite 

23 Kites, Congregation 

l of 

23 Kith mall 

24 Kitschl 

24 Rittangelins 

24 Ritter, Erasmus.. .. 
21 Ritter, Joseph Ig- 

24 naz 

2t Ritter, Karl 

24 Rim 

24 Ritual 

2ft Ritual Choir 

2G Kit mile Komnmun 

Ritualism 

2G Kil/emu 

River 

2G River of Egypt 

2G River Brethren 

27 Rivet, Andre 

27 Rivet, Antoine .... 
27 Rivet, Guillaume.. . 
27 Rixa 


42 Robinson, William 

42 (1) Page ftft 

4-4 Robinson, William 

44 (2) ftG 

44 Robinson, William 

44 s ftG 

Kobonm .Ml 

44 Rocaberti ftG 

44 Kocca ftil 

4ft Rocli ftG 

Kochechouart ftG 

4ft Kochemore ftG 

4ft Rochet ftG 

Kochus f>7 

4ft Rock ft 7 

4ft Rock, Daniel ft7 

4ft Roekwood ftT 

4ft Rococo ft7 

4ft Rod 67 

4ft Rodgers, Ebenezer. fts 

4G Rodgers, James fts 

4G Rodgers, John fts 

4G Rodgers, Ruvnnd 

4G Kearney f>9 

4G Kodigast 69 

Robert, Christopher Kmliger so 

K 40 Rodriguez 69 


27 Ri/.pah Page 

28 Road 

28 Rosin 

28 Roast 

28 Rob 

28 Robber of Churches 
28 Robbia, Andrea del- 

28 la 

28 Robbia, Luca della. 

2s Bobbin 

2S Robbins, Ammi Un- 

hamali 

28 Robbins, Chandler. 

29 Robbins, Onesipho- 

29 rus 

29 Robbins, Philemon 
29, Robbins, Royal.... 

29 Robbins, Thomas.. 

3d Kobe 

3(i Robert, Abbe 

30 Robert, St 

30 Robert of Geneva.. 
30 KobertofGloucester 
30 Robert of Melon.. . 

30 Robert le Poule 

31 
82 


Robert, Claude 47 Roe ft9 

32 Robert! 47 Roe, A /.el G1 

Kobcrtiues 47 Roe, Charles A GI 

32 Roberts, Charles Roebuck Gl 

32 Dillard 47 Koell Gl 

32 Roberts, David 47 Roeska Gl 

32 Roberts, Francis... 47 Rogatiani Gl 

33 Roberts, Jolm L... 47 Rogation Days Gl 

33 Roberts, John Rogation Sunday.. 02 

33 Wright 47 Rogation Week,... 02 

33 Roberts, Joseph 47 Kogda G2 

33|Roberts, Palmer... 4s Rogelim G2 

33 Roberts, Peter 48 Roger of Iloveden. 02 

33 Roberts, Robert 48 Roger of Wendover G2 

33)Kobcrts, Robert Roger, Abraham. . . 02 

34 Kichford 48 Rogereens 02 

34 Roberts, Thomas W. 4s Rogers, Daniel 02 

34 Roberts, William Rogers, Elymas P. . 02 
34 Hayward 48 Rogers, Ezekiel 02 

Robertson, Frcder- Rogers, George ... . G3 
34 ick William 48 Rogers, George W. 


T 03 

Rogers, Hester Ann 03 


34 Robertson, James.. 4>| 

34 Robertson, John 

34 Jay 49 Rogers, Isaiah P... 03 

35 Robertson, Joseph. 49 Rogers, John (1)... 03 
3ft Robertson, Wesley. 49 Rogers, John (2)... 03 
8.V Robertson, William 49 Rogers, John (3)... 03 

3ft Robes 50 Rogers, John (4)... 03 

3ft Robigns fto Rogers, John (ft)... 03 

3ft Robing-rooin ftO Rogers, John ^6) . . . 63 

3ft Robins fto Rogers, Joseph ... . 04 

35 Robinson, Benja- Rogers, Lorenzo. .. 04 

3ft iniu 50 Rogers. Nathaniel.. 64 

3ft Robinson, Charles Rogers. Nehemiah . 04 

3ft G 60 Rogers, Thomas (1) 04 

3ft Robinson, David... ftn Rogers, Thomas (2) 64 

35 Robinson, Edward. 50 Rogers, Timothy (1) 04 
iRobiuson, George Rogers, Timothy (2) 04 

36j C 53 Rogers, William .. . G4 

36 Robinson, George Rogers, William 

36 Marshall 53 Matticks 64 

3(5 Robinson, Hastings 53 Uoh 04 

30 Robinson, Hugh... 53 Rohan, Armaiid de 6ft 

IRobiuson, Isaac 53 Roliati, Armunil- 

3C' Robinson, John (1). 53 Gaston - Mnximi- 

BOiRoiiiiison, John (2). 54 lieu de Gft 

3G Robinson, John (3). 54 Rohan, Armand- 
30 Robinson, John (4). 54 Jules de Oft 

37 Robinson, John (5) . 64 Rohan, Ferdinand- 
37 Robinson, Jonathan Maximilien-Meri 


37 

38 

N 

Rohiii>on, Moses.. . 

54 Rohan, Louis-Reue- 

Gft 

3s 

Robinson, Ralph. . . 

ftft Edouard 


4<» 

Robinson, Richard. 

ftft Kohgah 

ftft Rnhini 

or* 

4 t 

Robinson, Robert. . 

Gft 

41 

41 

41 

Robinson, Thomas 

Rohr 

Gft 

GO 

00 

[Robinson, Thomas 

1 Koimus 

42 

1 00 




1 0 TG 

Roland. . . . . ..Page 
Roldan, Luisa... . . 
Rolduu, I’edro ... 

Rolf. 

Rolin 

Roll. 

Roll-moulding 

Rolle 

Roller 

Rollin 

Rolling-tiling. ... 

Rolloek..... 

Roma 

Romaic Version. . . 

Romuine 

Romanui-e/.er — 

Roman 

Roman Art 

Roman Catholic 

Church 

Roman Catholic 
Church in the 
United States... 
Roman Catholic 
Em anci patio n 

Acts 

Roman Empire.... 
Roman Empire, 

The Holy 

Roman .Manner... 

Romanelli 

Romanes . . ; 

Romanese Version 
Komnut-qne Art . . 
Romanic Versions 

Romanism 

Romann 

Romano, Giovanui 

Battista 

Romano, Jolindnh 

Leone 

Romans, Epistle to 

the 

Eonmuticists 

Kmminis, 1 

Ronmnus, 2 

Romanies 3 

Romantis, 4 

Romanns, 5 

Romantis, 6 

Romanns, * 

Romanns, s 

Romanns, 9 

Romanns, Pope. .. 

Romhotits 

Rome 

Rome, Councils of 
Rome, Jews in . ... 
Rome, Benjamin . . 

Rome Land 

Rome Scot 

Komevn 


LIST Ob' ARTICLES IN VOL. IX. 


66 Roof (in architect- 

06 tire) Page 

00 Room 

OGRnos, Joint nil 

07 Friedrich 

07 Rons, M a i'll ns 

07 Friedrich. 

07 Roosevelt 

07 Root 

0s Root (in church fnr- 

os nitnre) 

Os Root, Henry 

t»s Ropes 

0s |{o(|iie 

09 Roqiiclaiil'e 

09 Roques 

09 Roqnette 

69 Rosa of Lima 

Rosa of Viterbo. . . 

71 Rosa. Salvator 

Rosalia, St 

Rosario 

79 Rosary 

Rosary, Brothers 

of the 

S5 Rosary, Ceremony 

65 of the 

Rosbrngh 

92 Roscelin 

90 Roseholchika 

90 Roscoe 

90 Rose 

90 Rose. Architectural 
97 Rose, The Golden. 

9n Rose of Jericho. . . 

101 Rose, Alexander., 
lul Rose, Guillaume.. 

Ro*c, Henry John 
101 Rose, Hugh James 
Rose, John Baptist 

101 Rose, Stephen 

Rose-window 

101 Roselii, Cosimo. . . 

ins Roselii, Matteo 

109 Rosellini 

109 Rosemary 

109 Rosen 

1U9 Rosen hach 

1091 Rosen feld, Ilans.. 

109 Rosenfeld, Samson 

109 Wolf 133 

109 Rosen feldt 133 

109 Rosenkrans, Cyrus 

109 1 E 133 

109 Rosenkrans, Jo- 
seph 133 

Rosen in filler, Ernst 
Friedrich Karl . . 133 
Rosen m tiller, Jo- 
hann Georg 134 

115| Rosenthal 134 

lift Rosette 134 

115 Rosewell, Thomas 
' (I) 


Ronieyn, James... 

Rom evil, James 

Van ('tnnpeii 110 Rosewell, Thomas 

Rotneyn, Jeremiah 110 (2) 

Ro in evil, John Rosh. 1 

Brodliead 117 Rosh, 2 

Homey n, Tlteo- Rosicrucians 

dore 117 Rosin 

Roiuevn, Thomas, Rosini 

Sr..'. 116 Rosier 

Romeyn, Thomas, Ross, Alexander. . 

Jr 1 is Russ, Edward 

Rommel 119 Frederick 

Komovva 119 Ross, Hugh 

Romulus 119 Russ, John (1).... 

Romns 1 19 Ross, John (2).... 

Ronde 119 Ross, John (3).... 

Roney 119 Ross, William 

Kongalu 119 Ross, William 

Ronsdorf Sect.... 120 Charles 

Rood liju Ross, William Z.. 

Rood-altar 120 Rosshirt 

Rood-arch 120 Rossi, A/.ariah (le. 

Hood-heam 120 Rosb'i, Bernardo 

Rood-howl I20 Maria do 


Rood-chains.... 

. . 120 Rossi, (i ova n n i 

Rood-r|.,tli 

.. 120 Bernardo cle.... 

Rood-doors 

.. 120 Ros*|, Pasqnale.. . 

Rood-gap 

. . I2u Rnssigiioi. 

Rood-light 

. . l*jo Rossignoli 

Rood-mii««* 

.. 120 Rii»*!er 

Rood-HII lit* 

1211 Rn*S!) 

R lod-ern-ii .... 

.. 120 Roslngno 

Rood»tidr 

. .. 120 R.'sweyde 

Kood—tccple. . . . 

. .. 120 Ro.* wit ha 

Rood-t-tcps 

. .. 120 Roe /.el, Stephen 

Rood, Anson. . . . 

. .. 120 Asbury 

Roof 

.. 121 Roszel, Stephen U. 


Roszfeld Page 

122 Rota (Norse) 

123 Rota (Lapp) 

Rota Romann 

123 Rote 

Rotger 

123 Rotger 

124 Roth 

124 Rothaan 

Rotlic 

124 Rotheram 

124 Rothwell 

124 Rotumau Version. 

124 Roucl Liglit 

125 Rougemout 

125 Rouille 

125 Roumanian Version 
125 Round Churches.. 
125 Round Towers. . . . 

125 Rounds 

125 Rottsa 

125 Rouse 

125 Rousseau 

Roussel 

127 Roustau 

I Kouth 

127 Roux-Laverguc . . . 

127 Row Heresy 

127 Row, Johu (l) 

12s Row, John (2) 

1 2-6 Row, John (3) 

12s Rowan, Arthur 
1 30 j Blemierhassett.. 
130 j Rowan, Slepheu.. 

130, Rowhotham 

Rowe, Elizabeth.. 

Rowe, John 

Rowe, Samuel 

Rowe, Wesley 

'{o wires 

Rowland, Daniel . . 
Rowland, Henry 

Augustus 

Rowland, Thomas. 

Rowrawa 

Roy 

Royaards 

Rovce 

Rove 

Royko 

Ruar 

Rubble 

Rubens 

Riihezahl 

Rubino 

Rubrics 

Ruby 

Rnchat 

Ruclmtth 

Riickersfeider 

Rndbeck 

Rndborue 

Rudd, John Church- 
ill 

Rudd, Sayer 

Rudder 

Ruddy 

Rndeihach 

Rndenturc 

R tides. 

Rudinger 

Rudolph of Fulda. 
Rudolph II of Ger- 
many 

Rndra 

Rudy 

Rue 

Rue, Charles de la 

Kuechat 

Hurt 

Ruff 

Ru fliter 

Ruffo, Diouigi Fa- 

hri/.io 

Ruffo, Luigi 

Rutlnu, .St 

Rufinus Tyrannitts 

Rufus 

136 Rngen 

136) Rugger 

13s Rnggles, Henry Ed- 

139' win 

139 Rugglpo, William. 

139 ! Rug! wit 

139 Ruhamah 

139j Riilnmini 

139 Ruin 

Kninart 

139 Rniswick 

139 Ruiz 


136 


140 Rukmini Page 

140 Rnland 

140 Rule the Choir. . . . 

140 Rule, Gilbert 

140 Ruling Elders 

140 Rttmah 

140 Kiimelin 

140 Rmnilia 

141 Kmnious, 

141 Rnmoldtis, St 

141 Rump of the Sac- 

141 ri rices 

141 Runcnrii 

141 Runciim 

141 Run dell 

141 Rurnli 

141 Ru tulle 

142 Runner 

142 Rupert of Bavaria. 
142 Rupert of Deutz. . . 

142 Rupcrti 

142 Rupitse 

142 Rnpstein 

145 Rural Dean 

145 Rural Deanery..., 
145 Rnridecanal Chap- 

145! ter 

145, Rush 

145 Rush, Benjamin... 
145 Rusk, James 

145 Rusk, John Y 

Ru-ling, Joseph.. 

140 Rusling, Sedgwick 

140 Rusor 

140, Russnlki 

140 Russel, James 

146j Russel, John 

140 Russel, Michael . . . 

146 Russell, Alexander 
140 Russell, Moses.... 

146 Russell, Robert I). 
Russell, Robert 

140 Young 

146i Russia 

140 Russia, Versions of 

140, Russian Sects 

140 Russian Version... 

147 Rnssninks 

147 ]{ u s s o - G re e k 

147 Church 

147 Rust 

147 Rust, George 

147 j Rust, Isaac 

146 Rustic-work 

148 Rnter, Calvin W.. 

146 Rnter, Martin 

146 Rutgers 

14K|Rmh 

Ruth, Book of. 

Rnthenian Version 

Rutherford 

RutheiTorth 

Rutherglen Decla- 
ration 

149 Rnthranff, John F. 
149i Rnthrauff, Jonti- 

149 than 

149' Ruthven 

149 Rutledge 

149 Riittenstock 

149 Rtiysbroeck 

150 Ruysbroek 

Kuze, 

Rybaut . 

15(b Ryder, Henry 
1 50 Ryder, James 

150 Ryder, William . . . 

151 Rye 

151 Rve, Peter K 

151 , Rvkajoth 

151 R Viand 

151 Ryors 

Kysdyck 

152 

18*2 1 Sn 

152|Saadhs 

152 Sand in (s) 

152 Saul sell fit'/ 

152 Saha, 1 

152 Saha, 2 

| Saba, 3 

152 Saba, 4 

153 Saba, 5 

153 Saba, Monastery of 

153 Sahachthani 

153 Sabsean 

153 Saha n us 

154 Sahaoth 

154 Sahat, 1 

154 Sabat, 2 


154 Sabat neas Page 

154 Sabnlniki 

154 Sabat ns 

154 Sabazius 

154 Sabbiens 

154 Sabbau 

154 Sabbas 

155 Sabbatarians 

155 Sabbatati 

155 Sabbath, Jewish.. 

Sabbath, Christian 
155 Sabbath, Court of 

155 the 

155 Sabbath, Morrow 

1 55 after the 

155 Sabbaflueus 

1 55 1 Sabbat h ni Zebi... 

155 S a bba t li - day’s 

150 1 Journey 

156 Sabbatians 

157|Sahbatic River.... 

157 Sabbatical Year... 

157 Sabbaiier 

157 Sabbatini, Andrea. 
157 Sabbatini, Lorenzo 

Sabbatini, Luigi 

157 Antonio 

157 j Sabbat ism 

159:Sabbatum Mag- 

159; mini 

159 Sabcllins 

159 Sabi 

159 Sabinns 

159 Sabin 

159 Sabina, Popptea... 

100 Sabina, St 

100 Siibiniauus 

100 Sabot iers 

H»o Sabta 

100 Sabtecha 

100 Sabureans 

Sac:ea 

100 Sa car, 1 

100 Sacar, 2 

171 Sacclii 

172iSacchini 

177 Snccophoi i 

ITS Saccos 

Sacel la inis, The 

17S| Grand 

179 Sacel lins .. 

179 Sacellum 

179 Sneer 

179 Sacerdos 

ISOjSacerdotal Cilies. . 

160 Sacerdotal Couse- 


190 

190 

190 

190 

190 

190 

190 

190 

190 

190 

193 

197 

197 

19S 

193 

193 

199 

199 

199 
202 
202 
202 

202 

202 

202 

202 

203 

203 

204 
204 
204 
204 

204 

205 
205 
205 
205 
205 
205 
205 
205 

205 

200 

206 
2u6 
200 
206 
206 
206 


14 > 

149 

149 

149 

149 


cration among 
the Israelites.. .. 
Sacerdotal Order.. 

Sacheverell 

Sachs, Hans 

Sachs, Marcus 

Sachs, Michael 

Sachse 

Sack, Brethren of 

the 

Sack, August 
Friedrich Wil- 
helm 

Sack, Carl Hein- 
rich 

Sack, Friedrich Fer- 
dinand Adolph. . 
Sack, Friedrich 
Samuel Gottfried 

Sack but 

Sackcloth 

Saco nay 

185 1 Sacra 

185 Sacra, Circa 

185 Sacrament 

1S5 Sacramcnlnl Seal. 

1S5 Sacra mentals 

(Sacramentariaiis.. 

ISO Sacrameutary 

166 Sacra rin m 

160 Sacred Heart, 
187) Brothers of t lie . 
167 .Sacred Henri, Feast 
187 1 of the 

187 Sacred Heart, La- 

167) dies of the 

188 Sacred Heart, Or- 

188 tier of the 

188 Sacred Hearts, Con- 
169) gregation of the. 

189 Sncritieati 

189 Sacrifice 

1S9 Sacrifice, Unman.. 
190, Sacrificial Festival 


206 

206 

209 

209 

209 

209 

210 


210 

210 

210 

210 
211 
21 1 
211 
212 
212 
212 
218 
218 
218 
213 
218 

218 

218 

218 

219 

219 

219 

219 

227 

227 


LIST OF ARTICLES IN VOL. IX. 


Sacrificial Instru- 
ment in the ls- 
ruetitisk Sanctu- 
ary Page 

Sacrificial Offering 

Sacrilege 

Sacrilege, Christian 

View Of 

Sacrilegittm 

Saering-bell 

Sacris so lent u i is 
jimcta ftint gnu- 

Sacri-tnn 

Sacristy 

Sacrobosco, Chris- 
topher 

Saerobosco, John 

fie 

Sacv, Antoine Isaac 
Si 1 vest re fie... . 
Sacy, Louis Isaac 
le MaUtrede.... 

Sadatnias 

Sudan ami 

Safias 

Safi fiieus 

Saddle 

Safi due 

Safidticee 

Sade.Jeiin Baptiste 

Sade, Pons deO 
Sade, Richard dc.. 

Sade.fi 

Sadhyas 

Sad it* Jug 

Safileir.. 

Sadler, Anthony.. 

Sadler, John 

Sadler, Michael 

Thomas 

Sadoc, 1 

Sadoc, 2 

Sadoleto, Jacopo. . 
Safioleto, Paolo . . . 

Sadr 

Saewulf 

Saffron 

S -'S* 

Sagan 

S.igaren 

Sagaris 

Saga ri l is 

Saira'raka waxen.. 

Sage 

Sagittarius 

Sagni 

Saint guet 

Sail 

Sailer 

Saint- Amour 

Saint-Oeorge 

Sai nt John, Knights 
Hospitallers of. . 
Saint -John, Paw- 

Saint -.John, The- 

ophilns 

Saint -Jure 

Saint-Paid 

Saint-Pierre 

Saint - Simu n, 

Claude 

Saint -Simon, 
Claude Henri... 
Saiiitc-Anlaire .... 

Sainte-Beuve 

Sainte-Marthc 

Saintc-Valier 

Sait is 

Saitons 

Saivns 

Saivo < liui^k 

Sajotkatta 

Sakar 

Saktii Bhavits 

Sakhtar 

Sakia 

Sakin 

Sakkuto 

Saktas 

Sakti 

Sakti Sodhaiia — 

Ntknnlula 

Sakvamuni 

Sala 

Salacia 


Saladin rage 

Saiagratnmn 

Snlalt 

22S Sahti 

228 Salamander 

231 Sahimiiiins 

Salamis (nvmpk) . . 
231 Salamis (city) 

231 Salary 

232 Salasadai 

Salat It iel 

Sal call 

232 Sale 

232 Salem 

233 Salem n 

Salesiatts 

233 Salgaiieus 

Salian 

233 Salic r 

s «‘lig 

233 Sal ii 

Salim 

233 Salim beni, Arcan- 

233 gelo 

233 Salimbctti, Simon- 

233 (lio 

233 Salitnbeni, Ventura 

233 Salisbury 

234 Sal ins 

234 Salkeld 

Sallni, 1 

241 Sallai, 2 

241 Salln, 1 

241 Sal 111, 2 

242 Nallinnus 

242 salma, l 

2 12 Salma, 2 

242 Salmaeis 

242 Salmanazar 

242 Salmanticani 

Salmasius 

242 Salmeggia 

242 Salmcron 

242 Salmon, 1 

242 Salmon, 2 

243 Salmon, Nathaniel 

243 Salmone 

243 Salmoncus 

243 Saloin 

244 Salome, 1 

244 Salome, 2 

244 Salome, 3 

244 Salome, 4 

244 Salome, 5 

244 Salomon, Gotthold 

244 Salomon, John 

244 Salmons, St 

244 Salpinx 

244 Salt 

245 Salt, Ecclesiastical 

245 Use of 

245 Salt. City of 


Salt Sea. . 


Salt, Valley of 

Salter, Richard. . . . 
Salter, Samuel.... 

24G' Salt marsh 

Sultzmnnu 

247 Sal u 

Sal uni 

247’Salus 

247 Saint... 

247 Salutation 

247 Salutation, Ritual. 

( Saliit a tori um 

247 Salvador 

Salvation 

247 Salve, caput ernen- 

24s tnintn 

24s Salve, festn dies, 
24s loin vcnerabilis 

24s nwo 

249 Salve Jc-u, Himmc 

249 bonus 

249 Salve Regina 

249 Salvctc, tlores mar- 

249 iv rum 

249 Salvi inuiidi salu- 

249 tare 

249 Salvi, Giovanni 

219 Battista 

249 Salvi, Nieeolo 

219 Salvinnns 

249 Salvlatl, Alamamm 
25u Salvlatl, Antonio 

250 Maria 

250 Sal vim I, Bernardo. 
250 Salviati, Francesco 

250 Rossi de* 

250 Salviati, Giovanni. 


250 Sal vini Page 

251 Salzburgers, The.. 

251 Sam 

251 Samuel 

251 Samaias 

251 Snmamcnns 

251 Sattmuera 

251 Samaria, City of.. 

252 Samaria, Region of 

252 Samaritan 

252 Samaritan Lan- 

252 gua«:e 

253 Samaritan Litcra- 

253 litre 

254 Samaritan Liturgy 
254 Samaritan Pc til a- 

254 tench 

254 Samaritan Sects. . . 
254 Samar it nn Ver- 

254 s i o ti s 

255 Samaritans, Mod- 

255 ern 

Sautattis 

256 Snmnvnrli 

Samba 

250 Sain bat i oil 

250 Sam-beid 

250 Samber 

250 Sam till nra 

250 Sain till n vn 

250 Sambiasi 

256 Satnecli 

250 Sa meins 

250 Samerius 

250 Samgar-nebo 

250 Sami, 1 

256 Sami, 2 

250 Sarnia 

250 Samis 

250 Sam ins 

250 Samlah 

257 Sammacl 

257 Sa in m us 

257 Samoan Islands... 
257 Samoan Version.. 
257 S a m o g i t i a n Ve r- 

257 sion 

25b Samoiede Mythol- 

25s ogy 

25 s Samokriscblchina. 

25 b Samonas 

25b Samos 

25S Samosatcncs 

25S Samostri golschl- 

259 sc hi n a 

259 Samolhrncia 

259 Sampsames 

259 Sampson, Ezra 

259 Sampson, Francis 

S 

200 Sampson, Henry.. 

260 Sampson, Richard. 
260 Sampson, Thomas. 

209 Samson 

270 Samson, Bcrnhar- 

270 din 

270 Samuel 

270 Samuel, First and 

271 Second Bonks of 
271 Samuel the Little. 
271 b; im nc! Yeretz — 

271 bruins 

271 Sanabassar 

273 Sanmlon 

273 Sanagen . 

273 Siuiakndi Sahipra- 

273 dayis 

ISniiarkuinareti 

274 Sanusib 

Sanat 

Sanballat 

274 ban Benito 

Sanborn, E. C 

275 Sanborn, Jacob. . . 

275 Sunbitki Codex 

Sanchez. < la-pur. . . 
275 Sanchez, Pedro An- 
tonin 

275 Sanchez, Thomas. 

Sanchez de Arevn- 
275 In, Roderigo.... 

275 Sam-honiiilho 

275 Sancroft 

275 Sancle-bell 

Sancti, Sunct issinii 
275 Sa net ifica thm .... 
275 Sanctification, En- 
tire 

270 Sancti mntilales 

270. Sanctuary 


276 Sanctuary (Chris- 

276 thin) Page 

277 Sanctuary (Kcclesi- 

277 ustical)’. 

277 Sunct us 

277 Sancus 

277 Saiicv 

277 Sand' 

2 b l Sami, Christoph... 
2-2 Sa mine us 

Sandal 

2-8 Sandals 

S.imlal-tree 

2-9 Saiiilanain 

290 Saiifianen 

Samlanigen 

292 Samleninii 

299 Samlenianiniis .... 

Sander, Antony. . . 
299 Sander, Immanuel 
Fried rich Emil.. 

Bui Sandereock 

Bus Sanders, Billington 

Bos McCarter 

Bos Sanders, Daniel 

Bus Clarke 

Bos Sanders, Edward . . 
30b Sanders, Nicholas. 

Bus Sanderson 

30b Sandcs 

3i>b Sand ford, Daniel . . 
30s Sand ford, David. . . 
30s Sand ford, Peter P. 

30s Sandiadevi 

30s Sandini 

30S Snndoniir Agree- 

308 m c n t 

30s Sandoval 

30b Sands 

30s Sandusky 

308 Sandwich Islands. 

309 Sandy s, Edwin 

309 (bishop) 

309 Sand y s, Edwin 
309 (Sir) 

Sandvs, George... 

309 San Krdeni 

Sanford. David 

309 Sanford, Hiram... 

310 Sanford, Joseph... 

Bin Sang a 

310 San'gari us 

311 Sanger 

Sangha 

311 San-Giniignauo . . . 

311 San-Giorgio 

311 Sangra 

311 Sangrid 

Sanhedrim 

311 Sau-Jasiis 

312 Sankara 

312 Snukhar 

312 Sank hv a 

312 Sankrandanna 

Smiks 

310'Sankuman 

310.Sumiget.il 

San mi wadi 

322 Sanquhar Declara- 

32- tiou 

32s Sansannah 

32s Salisbury 

32s S.iuscarn 

32- Sanscrit Versions.. 

32s Sanson 

Sansovino 

32- Santa Croce 

328 San tali Version... 

32b Saiitarelli 

32- San ter 

329 Sant I 

329 Santos 

329 San nt o 

329 Snnvasi 

33H Saon 

330 Sanies 

Snpnudoniad 

330 Sapli 

330 Sapliat 

Snpliir 

330 Sapp 

330 Sapphirn 

330 Sapphire 

331 Sara, 1 

331 Sara, 2 

331 Sa rabid t os 

Sarnblas 

331 Saracens 

33 1 Sarah, 1 

3:44 Sarah, 2 


1077 

'Sarai Page 353 

334 Sam ins 353 

Saramel 353 

335 Sarati 353 

335 Sara atari 353 

335 Suruph 353 

335 Sara .-a 353 

335 Sara swat i 354 

335 Sara via 354 

335 Sau cer tus, Kras- 

335 tmi> 354 

336 Sarconus, Wilhelm 354 

336 SarchedoiuiS 354 

337 Sardiens 354 

337 Sardosius 354 

337 Sard ion 8 54 

337 S ardine 354 

337 Sardi- 354 

337 Sunlit e 356 

Sardius 356 

337 Sai do 357 

337 Sardonyx 857 

Sard ns 357 

337 Sarea 357 

Sarepta 357 

33- Sare>eok 357 

33- Sargon 357 

33- Sand 358 

33- Sarigani 35b 

33- Sarnie nt it ii 358 

33- Salon (a place).... 37.8 

33s Saron (a man) 35b 

33- Saron is 358 

33- Sa rot hie 358 

338 Sarpedon 35S 

Sarpedonia 359 

339 Sarpedonins 359 

340 Sarritor 359 

340 Sarsechim 359 

340 Sartabu 359 

340 Sarto 359 

Sartori ns 359 

341 Saru ch 359 

Saruk 359 

341 Sarum.rseof 300 

341 Sarvngmt 30.0 

341 SarvHstivadas 300 

341 Sasnetl 300 

341 Sasportas 300 

341 Sassauidie 300 

341 Sa— i 300 

341 Satan 36n 

341 Satan, Depths of.. 308 

342 Satan, Synagogue 

342 of 80S 

342 Sa tunnel 368 

342 Sat a iiamis 368 

342 Sat an in ns 36s 

342 Satanniani 308 

347 Satnnow 36- 

347 Satervis 368 

347 Sathrabuzanes .... 368 

347 Satisfaction 30$ 

34- Satisfaction, Rom- 

34b ish 309 

34b Sat n ills 369 

34- Satrap 309 

34- Sat rapes 369 

Satslii 369 

348 Satterlee 369 

34- Saiterpai 309 

34- Sattiawodi 309 

34- Saturday.. 309 

349 Saturn (the god).. 370 
349 Saturn (the star).. 370 

349 Saturnalia 371 

349 Saturnia and Sa- 

349 Hindus 371 

350 Sat uriiiiiians 371 

350 .Satnniiiin-(heretic) 371 
350 Sftinrnimis(inm tyr) 371 

35o Satvr 371 

5150 Satyrs 372 

350 Sauce- 372 

350 Sankwimir 372 

350 San mu r 372 

350 Saul, 1 372 

350 Saul, 2 372 

350 Saul, 3 378 

350 Saunders 37b 

351 Sampia Behkr 37- 

351 Sail ran 37b 

351 Satire 37b 

351 Sanrin, £lie 37b 

352 Sain In, Jacques... 37b 

852 Sa unis 379 

352 Sailssiiv 379 

352 Santrunlika 379 

352 Savngariid 379 

353 Savage, lleory 379 


1078 


LIST OF ARTICLES IX VOL. IX. 


Savage, Isaac Ayls- 

worth 1'age 

Savage, John 

Savage, John A... 
Savage, Sani’l Mor- 
ton 

Savage, Thomas. . . 

Sava ran 

S a vary 

Savasiano 

Savias 

Savigni, Order of.. 

saviour 

Saviour, St 

Savonarola 

Savor 

Savory Meat 

Savoy, Confession 

of.'. 

Saw 

s-iwn 

Sawaku 

Sawatnangala 

Sawyer, Cyrus 

Sawyer, 1-uac 

Sawyer, James \V . 

Sawyer, John 

Sawyer, Seymour 

It 

Saxe 

Sax not 

Saxon Architecture 

s-iy 

Sayhrook Platform 

Savei 

S.iyer 

Ssiyinjg 

Sayings Tradition- 
al, of Christ 

Snyurshiain 

S.r/oma 

Seat) 

Scabbard 

Scams 

Scaffold 

seala Santa 

Scale. 

Scaliger 

Scail 

Scalp 

Seumander 

Scamandrodice. ... 

Scamilli 

Scandinavia 

Scandinavian Ar- 
chitecture 

Scandinavian Ver- 
sions? 

Scape-gout 

Scapular 

Scarf. 

Scarlatti 

Scarlet 

scattergood 

Scanrns 

Scenophylaciuin .. 

Scephrus 

scepticism 

Sceptre 


ev.i . 

Sehaaf 

Sclmnta 

Sehade, ( Jenrg 

Sell nle, Johann C. 

s-*h id*nv 

S.-hall 

schalllng 

SehartanaiiH 

Seheditl- 

ScheeUtratc 

Scheffer. 

Sclietller 

Sehcid 

Sehein 

NHiell 

Schell i Mg. Fried- 
rich Wilhelm Jo. 
»**'l »h von 

Schilling, Joseph 

S ’henck ! . ’ 

Schenk. Hart maim 
Schenk. Il«-i>irl< h 

Thcuhald 

Schertnerhorn. J. 

F ..... 

Schermerhorn. It, 

K 

S' heneh/.er 

schlun 


'Schiavone Page 

3T1» Schickard 

3<n Seliincke 

380 Schindler 

Schinineyer 

3 Sf» Srhinner 

>11 Sell inner 

3S0 SchiMii Mill 

380 Schism Overture.. 

3s0 Schisms 

3sn Schlatter 

3mi Schlegel, Johann 

3<0 Adolph 

385 Schlegel, Karl Wil- 
3S r > helm Fried’h von 
3<7 Schleiermacher ... 

387 Schlensner 

Schlurick 

387 Schmalkald, League 

3^8 of 

3S> Schmaltz 

389 Schmal/.gniber 

3sy Schmeidler. 

389 Schmid, Christian 

389 Friedrich 

3s'J Schmid, Konrad. .. 
3s9 Sell m id, Sebas- 
tian 

389 Schmidt, Erasmus. 

389 Schmidt, Johann 

390 Eusebius 

390 Schmolek 

392 Sell mucker 

392 Schmippinger 

392 Sclineckenburger . 
392 Schneider, Benja- 
392 min 

Schneider, Johann 

392 Jacob 

394 Schnepf 

394 Schmirrer 

394 Sc hock 

394 Scholastic Theolo- 

394 gy 

394 Scholasticism 

394 Scholetield 

394 Scholia. 

395 Scholiasts 

395 Sell i'memanu 

395 Sch imer 

395 Sehiinganer 

395 Schiinherr 

395 School 

395 School Brothers 

! and Sixers 

395 Schoolmaster 

Schools, Christian. 
395 Schools, Hebrew.. 
397 Schools, Singing.. 
39s Schoonmaker, 11.. 
39s Schoonmaker, Ja- 

39s cob 

39s Schoonmaker, M . . 

399 Soli iip f 

4n0 Scliotanu* 

40U]Scliott, Christian 

40 0 Heinrich 

400 Schott, Heinrich 

401 i August 

401 Schott, Leopold... 
401 Schottin 

401 Schrader, Clemens 

402 Schrader, Johann 
402 Heinrich Ludolf. 
402 Schramm, Johann 

402 Conrad 

402 Schramm, Johann 

402 Heinrich 

403 Sell reek 

403 Sell re i her 

403 Sch nick h 

403 Schroder, Fried- 
401 rich Wilhelm J 11 - 

101 bus 

lot Schmder, Johann 

Heinrich 

Srh (aider, Nicolaus 

404 Wilhelm 

Schnhart 

40 s Schubert 

40s Schlideroff 

409 .sell Md t 

‘schuliens, Albert,. 
4 ott.Sidnilien-, Heinrich 

Albert 

409 SchtiltetiH, Johann 

I Jacob 

409 SchtlllllCHH 

409 Schnltiug 

409 Schulz, David 


409 Schulz, Jolmnn C. 

409 Fr Page 

410 Schulze, Benjamin 
410 Wilhelm Dan... 
410|Schul/.e, Ernst Au- 

410 gust 

410 Schulze, Johann 


411 


410 


Ludwig 

Schumann, Chris- 
tian Heinrich. . . 
Schumann, Gn>tav 

Adolph 

Schtimmau 

Schupp 

41ljSchtireman 

41 1 Schfirinatm 

415 Schnt 

415jSchutz 

415 Schwabe 

415 Schwartz, Chris- 
4151 tian Friedrich... 
415 Schwartz, Peter... 

Schwartze 

415 Schwarz, Charles. . 
415 Schwarz, J. C. E... 

Schwarz, Josef 

Schwarz, William. 
Schwarzburg-Ru- 
doDtadt, /Emilia 

Juliana 

410].Sch wa rzhurg-Ru- 
410! dolstadt, Luda- 
410! inilia Elisabeth. 
410 Schwa t zenherg . . . 
Schwebel, Johann 

(1) 

Schwebei, Johann 

( 2 ) 

417 Schwedler 

417jSchweglcr 

417 Schweinitz, Hans 
j Christoph von. . . 

418 Schweinitz, Lewis 

422 1 David von 

420 Schwenkfeld 

420 Schwenkfeldinns. . 

420 Schwestt ioues 

420 Schyn 

420 Sciaditis 

420 Sciallius 

420 Sciamancy 

42S Sciajtodes 

Scots 

42S l Sciettce 

429 Science and Reve- 
429; lation 

429 Scillus 

435 Scioppitis 

435 Sciras 

Sciron 

430 Scl a vina 

436 1 Scofield 

430 S colitas 

436 Scopus 

Scnresby 

430 Scorpion 

(Scorpios 

430 Scot 

436 Scotch Baptists 

430 Scotia 

437 Seotists 

Scotitas 

437 Scotland 

Scotland, Episco- 
437 pal Church of. . . 

Scot laud, Presbyle- 
437 rian Churches of 
437 Scotland, Relief 

437 Church of 

437 Scotopites 

iScott, Andrew J.. . 
Scott, Archibald. . . 
43S Scott, ( diaries W . . 

IScott, Daniel 

43S Kcolt, David 

Scott, Elisha J 

43S Sc<d t, Jacob. 

43S Scott, James (1). . . 
43s Scott, James (2). . . 
43s Scott, John (1). . .. 

43s Scott, John (2) 

439 Scott, Milo 

Scott, Orange... . 

439 Scott, Robert 

Scott, Thomas. . . 
439 Scott, William C. . 

439 Scott, William D.. 
44u Scott, William M . . 

440 Scottish Philosophy 


IScottts .Page 

440 Scon gal 

Scourge 

440 Scourging 

Screech-owl 

440, Screen 

Scribe 

441 Scribes, Jewish... 

Scrip 

441 Scriptoria 

Scriptorium 

441 Scriptiiralists 

441 Scripture 

441 Scripture, Apocry- 

441 1 phal 

442 .Script tire, Jewish 

442 Interpretation of 
442 Scriptures, Holy... 
442 1 Seri pin res, l' se of, in 
442 j the Early Church 

442 Scrobicttli 

442 Scroll (writing)... 

442 ( Scroll (architect- 
442 1 lire) 

443 Scrutiny 

443 Scrutiny (papal).. 
443|Scudder, Catharine 

i Hastings 

|Scudder, John 

443 Scinlder, John B. .. 
Sculpture, Hebrew 
Sculpture, Chris- 

443 tian 

443jScnltet(us) 

I Sen in . 


444 Scnophylacium 

Sen rvv 

445 Scutcheon 

445 Scutum Fidei 

445 Scylia ;... 

Scyllis 

446 Scyllins 

Scythes 

446 Scythian 

440 Soy thou 

440 Scythopolis 

447 Sea 

447 Seabury 

447 Seager, Micah 

447 Seager, Schuyler.. 

447 Seah 

447 Seal (signet in 

447 Scripture) 

447 Seal, A b bat ini 

Seal, Consecration 

441 of an Episcopal. 

44S Seal, Decanal 

44S,Seal (Ecclesiastical 

449 Use of) 

449 Seal, Episcopal 

449 Seal of Baptism . . . 
449 Seal of Confes- 

449j sion 

449 Sealed Books 


Seam 

Seaman 

Sea-monster 

Sear 

Searle, Jeremiah.. 
Searle, Moses C. . . 

Sea ties 

Sears, Allen 

Sears, Clinton W.. 

Season 

Seat 

Sebn 

Sebald, St 

Se-Baptists 

Sebastian, St 

Seba t. 

Sebbun 

Sebirin 

Sebonde 

Sc.brassc 

Scbuans 

Seen call 

Secchi 

Sechenias 

Serb 11 

Serhnaua Version. 

Sock end orf. 

Seeker 

Second Marriage.. 

456 1 Secondary 

450 Second - first Sab- 

4561 bath 

450: Secret Discipline. . 
457 1 Secret of the Mass. 
457 Secretie 


459 Sccrelaria.. ..Page 

462 Secret ariu in 

462 Secret a rius. 

462 Sect (Biblical) 

402 Sect (ecclesiastical) 

403 Sectarianism 

464 Sectaries 

405 Section 

475 Sects, Christian. .. 
470 Sects, Jewish (An- 

470 dent) 

470 Sects, Jewish(Mod- 
470 ern) 

Secular Clergy 

477 Secular Court, De- 
| liverimr up to the 
47S Secular Sermons.. 

4S1 Secularism 

j Secularists 

4S3 Seen 1 a ri za ti o n 

453 Seculars 

454 Secundians 

4S4 Secun din 11 s, 1 

Secundinus, 2 

4S4 Seen ndus 

4S4 Securitas 

4S4 Sedecias 

Seder 01 am 

484 Sedes 

454 Sedes Impedita... 

485 Sedes Vacaus 

455 Sedgwick 

Sedile 

4$6 Sedition 

4SS Sedlnitzky 

4SS Sednlius,CainsCoe- 

4SS 1 litis 

4S9 Sedulius, Scotus. . . 
4S9 See (to behold) .... 

489 Sec (a diocese) 

4S0 See, Apostolical . . . 
4S9 See, Andrew J.... 

489 Seed 

489 Seed, The One 

489 needed 

490 Seekers 

490 Seelen 

491 Seel-stone 

492! Seely 

492 Seelvc 

492 Seemillcr 

492 Seeney 

Seer 

492 Seething Pot 

493 Segelia 

, Segneri, P 110 I 0 (1). 

493 Segneri, Paolo (2). 

493 Segnh, 1 

Segtib, 2 

493 Segur 

493 Seguy 

493 Seho Dagung 

Seid 

493 Seidel, Caspar Ti- 

493 mot hens 

493 Seidel, Gotthold E. 

493 Friedrich 

493 Seidel, Heinrich A. 
493 Seiler, Georg F 

493 Seir, 1 

494 Seir, 2 

494 Seir, 3 

494 Seirath 

494 Seile 

494 Seitonji 

494 Seja (Roman nty- 

495 ihology) 

490 Seja ( Hindu my- 

490 ihologv) 

490 Sela * 

490 S e 1 a - h a m m a h le - 

497 kotli 

497 Selah 

497 Selden 

497 SclectionsofPsalms 

497 Selcd 

497 Sclent ia 

497 Selemias 

497 Selemnns 

497 Selene 

497 Selencia 

498 Seleueia (in Chal- 

498 data), Council of. 
498 Selencia (in Syria), 
49S Council of 

Selencians 

498 Seleucidic yEra 

49S Seleucus 

499 Sclczncvtshini 

499, Self-deception 


499 

499 

499 

499 

499 

499 

499 

499 

499 


500 
5i '1 

501 
501 

501 

502 
502 
502 
502 
502 
502 
502 
502 
502 

502 

503 
503 
503 
503 

503 

504 
504 

504 

505 
5 05 
505 
505 
505 

505 

506 
500 
54 6 
500 
500 

506 
500 

507 
507 
507 
510 
510 
510 
510 
510 
510 
510 
510 
510 
510 

510 


510 

510 

510 

511 
511 

511 

512 
512 
512 


512 

512 

512 

512 

514 

514 

515 
515 
515 
515 
515 
515 


516 

516 

516 

517 
517 
517 
517 


LIST OF ARTICLES IN VOL. IX. 


1079 


Self-dedication 

Se I f- cl et'e 1 1 ce . . Page 

Self-denial 

Self-ex animation.. 
Self-government . . 

Selfishness 

Self-knowledge... 

Self-love 

Selig 

Selingstad, Council 

of 

Selinnntius 

Selimis 

Selleck 

Selli 

Sell man 

Selnecccr 

Selotire 

Selvedge 

Selyns 

Sem 

Semncliiah 

Semantru 

Semurgia 

Seni.'ixii 

Sembut 

Sembiani 

Semei 

Semele 

Semellius 

Semen lira Ferine. . 

Semi-Arum* 

Semi-cope 

Semidolites 

Semi-double 

Semi-Crater. 

Semi-jejnnin 

Semi-Judaizer* . .. 

Semikin 

Seminarist 

Seminary-priest. .. 

Semiophorns 

Semi-Pelagiunism. 

Semis 

Semi-separatisfs .. 
Semi-Uuiversali>ts 

Sender 

Semite 

Scmnion 

Semninm 

Semuos 

Sempecta 

Semphyerates 

Sempiternitas 

Semple 

Sena Pan this 

Sen a ah 

Senasren 

Seuate 

Senatoriuni 

Seuanlt 

Sendel 

Seuderliug 

Seneca 

Senectti* 

Seneli 

Senes 

Senoelial 

Sengler 

Sengumara 

Seng-Wau-Muu 

Senior. 

Senior Bishop 

Sen ir 

Senlis, Councils of. 

Senuabris 

Sennacherib 

Sennert — . 

Sens, Councils of. . 

Sensation .. 

Sentence, Ecclesi- 
astical 

Sentences 

Sentences, Oft'ert*)- 

vy ... 

Sententiarii 

Seiner, Anthony.. 
Sen ter, M. Alver- 



Sentiti 

Sentinus 

Seorim 

Separates 

Separati-m 

Separatists 

Separatists at Zoar 

Sephar 

Sepharad 

Sephardim 

Seplmfvaim 


517'Scpharvile . . .Page 

517 Seplier Zernbbubel 

518 Sephirotli 

51 S Scjiphori* 

518 Sept foil 

518 Septimami in Albis 

51 s Se|>timontiitm 

51 s Septungesinm 

518 Sejituagint 

septnagint, Lin- 

5 lit! guiatie Character 

511» of the 

51 It Septnagint, Tal- 
5 IP nindic Notices of 

511) Septum 

511) Sepulchre 

519 Sepulchre of Christ 

Mit Sepulchre, The 
519 Easter 

519 Sepulchre, Ecclesi- 

520 j astical 

5*20. Sepulchre, Regular 

5*20 Canons of 

5*20, Sepulveda 

5*20 Sequence 

520 Sequences 

5*20 Seqnentiale 

5*2o Sequestration. . . . 
5*20 Sequestration, Eng- 

520 lisli 

520 Scrub 

520 Seraiah, 1 

521 Sera in h, 2 

521 Serai ah, 3 

521 Seraiali, 4 

521 Scraiah, 5 

521 Serai ah, f» 

521 Seraiah, 7 

5*21 Seraiah, 8 

521 Seraphic Hymn. . . 

521 Seraphim 

521 Serapliina 

521 Serapion 

522 Serapis 

522 Sera rius 

522 i SerecI 

5*22 Seresttis 

5*24 Serge 

524 Sergeant 

524 Sergeant, John .... 

524 Serges tits 

524 Sergiots 

524 Sergius, Panins... 
524 Sergius (St.), 1.... 
5*24 Sergius (St.), 2.... 
524 Sergius (St.), 3,... 

524 Sergius I. 

5*24 Sergius II. . 

5 4 Sergius III 

524 Sergius IV 

524 Senpaudi 

524 Serjeants 

524 Sermon 

525 Sermon on the 

52s Mount 

5*2 s Sermonizing 

529 Se roil 

529 Serosh 

529 Serpent 

529 Serpent, Christian 
529 Symbolism of .. 
529 Serpent of Brass.. 
529 Serpent-charming. 
529 Serpent- worship .. 
529 Serrad 


53 T Sesis Page 

537 Session of Christ.. 
*,'17 Si>Kl1l<d 

63SiSesuio (or Sisutaj 

538 Version 

53s Seth 

53s Seth, Traditions 

53s I concerning 

538 Set hiaus 

I Set hn r 

Set-off (or Offset).. 
549 Se ton aphthiton.. 

Seton 

552 Settlements, Vio- 

554 lent 

554 1 Seven 

503 Seven Chief Vir- 
tues, The 

Seven Days After. 
Seven Deadly Sins, 

The 

Seven Dolors, Feast 

of 

Seven Sacraments. 
500 Seven Sleepers.... 
507 Seven Spirits 


507 


532 

532 Sernmner 

533 Servant 

Servant of Jelio- 

533 vuh 

533 Servator 

Server 

533 Scrvetns 

533 Servin 

533 Service 

St? r v i c.e of the 

533 <li inch 

533 Service-book 


in 

533 Serving Tables. . 

533 Servile- 

534 Servitor 

534 Servitude 

535 Servus Servorn i 

530 Dei 

r.37 Se«cuplum 

537 Se.-ha 


Orders of the 

Clergy 

Sevenfold Gifts.. . . 

Seventy 

507 Seventy Disciples. 

507 Seventy Weeks of 

50s Daniel 

568 Seventy Years 

508 Severally 

50s Severans 

508 Severinus 

508 Soverianns 

508 Severinus, St 

508 Severinus (pope).. 

508 Severn* 

508 Severn*, Snlpicins, 

508 St 

509 Severy 

509 Seville, Councils of 

509 Sewatioll 

509 Sewall, Joseph. . . . 
509 Sewall, Joibam. . . 
509 Sewall, Samuel.... 
509 Sewall, Thomas .. 
509 Sewell, William (1) 
509 Sewell, William (2) 
509 Sewell, William I). 

570 Sexagesima 

570 Sexe.-, Separation 
570 of, in Churches. 

570 Sex t 

570 Sexton 

570 Sextus 

570 Seymour 

570 Sevs 

571 Shaiilabbin 

571 Slmalbim 

Shualboilile 

571 Shaaph, 1 

573 Shaiiph, ‘2 

575 Shaaraim 

575 Slmn-lignz 

575 Slmbbethai 

Shnchin 

583'Shudanana 

583 Shuddui 

580 Shade 

587 Shadford 

5*7 Shadow 

58S Shadrach 

588 Shadv-trees 

58s Sh after 

588 Shaft (arrow, etc.). 
58-* Shaft (architect n re) 

Shaftesbury 

58s s lingo 

589 Shaharaim 

5*9 Slmhazimnh 

58«.i Shakers 

592 Sltakll 

594 Slink rn 

Shaktus 

59 1 Shalom 

594 Shnlim 

594 Shnlishn 

591 Shallechcth 

594 Shallnm, 1 

595 Shallnm, 2 

595 Shallnm, 3 

595 Shallnm, 4 

Shall inn, 5 

590 Shallnm, 0 

590 Shallnm, 7 

590 Shallnm, 8 


590 Shallnm, 9... Page 

590 Shallnm, It) 

590 Shall um, 11 

Slmllum, 1*2 

590 Shall nn 

590 Minimal 

Shalmati 

597 Shalinauescr 

597 Shama 

597 Shamann 

597 Shamanism 

597 Shamans 

598 Shambles 

Shame 

598 Shamed 

598 Slmmel 

Simmer, 1 

599 Simmer, 2 

599 Shamgar 

Shainhnsni 

599 Shamhuth 

Shamir, 1 

599 Shamir, 2 

599 Shamir, 3 

599 Shamir in Jewish 

Tradition 

Shannon 

000 Slmminah, 1 

Ouo Slmminah, 2 

GOO Sham malt, 3 

000 Slmminah, 4 

Slmminah, 5 

000 Shummai, 1 

003 Slmmmai. 2 

0i>3 Slmmmai, 3 

003 Shummai of Sham- 
003 mat 

003 Slmmmar 

Gi>3 Slmmmntta 

004 Shammoth 

004 Shammua, 1 

Slmmmua, 2 

004 Shammua, 3 

004 Shanunna, 4 

004 Slmmslierai 

004 Sliamyl,orSchaniyi 

004 1 Shane, Johu Dab- 
G04 ii ey — 

005 Shane, Joseph.... 

005 Shang-te 

005 Shank 

005 Slmnks 

005 Slmplmm 

005 Slmplmn 

jslmphnt, 1 

005 Shaplmt, 2 

005 Slmjilmt, 3 

0o5 Shajihat, 4 

005 Slmjilmt, 5 

0o5 Slutpher 

Sh a pi r a Manu- 
script 

Slmra Malachni.. . 

Slmrai 

Slmrnr 

OoOiSharasaudlia. . .. 

GO*** Share 

Slmrezer, 1 

Slmrezer, 2 

Slmrlver 

Sharon, 1 

0n0 Slmron, 2 

007 Sharon, 3 

aronlte 


007 Sh a 

0o7 Sharp, Daniel 

00s Sharji, David 

Otis Sharp, Elias C. ... 
0ns sharp, Granville. . 
Oos Sharp, Janie*. . .. 

0ns Sharji, John 

OnW sharp, J. M'Clure. 

GopiSluirp, Lionel 

009 sharp, Samuel M. . 
Gn9 Sharp, Solomon.. 
009 Sharp, Thonm*.. . 

011 Sharpe 

011 Sharpnessof Death 
Oil Sharrock 

011 Shariilien 

012 Slmslmhigna 

012 Slmshai 

012 Slmshak 

012 Slmslamtiii) 

012 Shastavn 

012 Mmstras 

012 Shat rani 

012 Shanl, 1 

012 Shanl, 2 

012 Shanl, 3 

012 Slmolite 


013 Shnveh Page 

613 Shaveh-kiriathaim 

013 Shaving 

01 3,. Shaving (in the ear- 

013 ly Church) 

013 Shaving-man 

013 Slmvslm 

613 shaw, Addinon C.. 

013 Shaw, Jacob 

013 Slmw, John (l) 

013 Shaw, John (2). . . . 

014 Shaw, John (3) ... 

014 Shaw, John B 

014 Shaw, John I) 

014 Slmw, John Knox. 

014 Shaw, Joseph 

014 Shaw, Levi 

014 Shaw, Samuel 

014 Shaw, Samuel P.. 
014 Shaw, Thonm* 

014 Slmw, William C.. 

015 Shawm 

015 Sheaf. 

015 Slieal 

.Shealtiel 

615 Shenriah 

015 Shearing-hoime . . . 

015 Shenr-jasdiub 

015 Sheath 

610 Sheba, 1 

CIO Sheba, 2 

010 1 Sheba, 3 

' Sheba, 4 

Sheba, 5 

Sheba, 0 

Shebah 

G10 Sliebam 

010 Shebnninh, 1 

017 Shebauiah, 2 

017 Shebnninh, 3 

017 Shebauiah, 4 

617 Sliebarim 

017 Shebcr 

017 Shebna 

017 Shebuel, 1 

017 Shebuel, 2 

Shecauiab 

017 Shechaniah, 1 

017 Shecbaniab, 2 

017 Shecbaniab, 3. . . . 

018 Shechaniah, 4 

018 Shechaniah, 5 

018 Shechaniah, 0 

CIS Shechaniah, 7 

018 shechaniah, S. . .. 

61S Shechaniah, 9 

Gls Shechem, 1. . . . . . 

018 Shechem, 2 

018 Shechem, 3 

618 Shechem. 4 

Shecheinile 

018 she« hinah 

018 Sliedd 

019 Shed dan 

019 Shedetn* 

019 Sheep 

019 Sheej)cnte 

019 Siieej)gale 

019 Sheep-market 

619 Slieejj-umtoer 

019 Sheejithank* 

020 Shee p-Mi oarer 

620 Sheer-Tliui>day... 


020 Shegog 

020 Shehariah 

020 Sheik 

020 Sheik al-Gelml . . . . 

021 Sheik el-lsluiii. - . . 

621 Sheiri 

021 Shekel 

021 Shekia 

021 She-king 

021 Shelali 

021 Shelanite 

021 Sheldeu 

022 Sheldon 

022 Shelemiah, 1 

022 shelemiah, 2 

022 Shelemiah, 3 

022 Shelemiah, 4 

022 Shelemiah, 5 

022 Shelemiah, 0 

022 Shelemiah, 7 

022 Shelemiah, s 

022 Shelemiah, 9 

022 sheleph 

022 Shele.-h 

022' She tom) 

022 i Shelomith, I 


022 

G23 

023 

0*?3 

023 

023 

6*.’3 

023 

G'/.'t 

023 

024 
024 
024 
024 
0*j 4 
024 
024 
024 
G24 
6i4 


026 
020 
020 
6,8 
028 
028 
02 S 
6*. s 
62s 
628 
028 
0 2s 
628 
029 
Cz9 
0,9 
029 
0^9 
029 


029 

029 

029 

029 

029 

029 

629 

029 

030 

630 
030 
037 
037 


043 

643 

043 

643 


043 

643 

6-13 

043 

643 


047 

047 

647 

017 

017 

047 

047 

047 

047 

047 

047 

017 

047 

047 


10S0 


LIST OF ARTICLES IX VOL. IX. 


Shclomith, 2. Tage G48’Sliepherd-kin£rs. . . < 
Shelomilh, 3 64^ Shephi Page < 


Shelomilh, 4.... 

Shelomith, 5 

Shelomilh. 6 

Shelomith, 7 

Shelomoth 

Shelper 

Shelton 

Shelumiel 

Shem 

Shema, l 


04'" shejdiuplu 

C.4S Sherah 

G 4 s Sherebiah 

04' sheresh 

04' Sheridan, Andrew 

C4s J 

64' Sheridan, Thomas. 
048 Sheridan, William. 

04' Sheri f 

050 Sheri ff 

Shema, 2 (150 Sheringham 

Shema, 3 650 Sherlock, Martiu . . 

Shema, 4 G5n Sherlock, Hichard. 

Shema, 5 050 Sherlock, Thomas. 

Shema 650 Sherlock, William. 

Shemaah 65] Sherman, Charles. 

Shemaiah, l 651 Sherman, John (l). 

Shenmiah, 2 6M Sherman, John (2). 

Shemaiah, 3 651 Sherrill 

Shemaiah, 4 051 Sherwood 

Shemaiah, 5 651 Sheslmch 

Shemaiah. 6 051 Sheshai 

Shemaiah, 7 0*51 Sheshnn 

Shemaiah, 8 651 Sheshbazzar 

Shemaiah, 9 651 Sheshnnogtinde. . . 

Shemaiah, 10 051 Sheth, 1 

Shemaiah, 11 651 Sheth, 2 

Shemaiah, 12 6*51 Shethar 

Shemaiah, 13 651 Shethar-boznai — 

Shemaiah, 14 652 sheva, 1 

Shemaiah, 15 652 Sheva, 2 

Shemaiah, 16 652 Shibboleth 

Shemaiah, 17 652 <hicron 

shemaiah, is 652 shidders 

Shemaiah, 19 652 Shield 

Shemaiah, 20 652 Shields, Alexander 

shemaiah, 2t 652 Shields, Hugh K.. 

Shenmiah, 22 652 Shields, James.... 

Shemaiah, 23 652 Shie-tsih 

Shemaiah, 24 652 Shiggaiou 

Shemaiah, 25 652 Shigmti 

Shemaiah, 26 652 Shihon 

Shemaiah, 27 652 Shihor 

Shemariah, 1 652 Shihor-libnath .... 

Shetnariali, 2 652 Shiites 

Shemariah, 3 652 Shi I hi 

Shemariah, 4 652 Shilhim 

Shemeher 652 Shillem 

Shemer 652 Shillemite 

Shem hamtnepho- Shiloh, 1 

rash 652 Shiloh, 2 

Shemida 653 Shilonite, 1 

Kheniidnile 653 Shilonite, 2 

sheminith 653 Shilshah 

Shemiramoth, 1... 654 Shi men, 1 

Shemirnnnith, 2... 054 Shimea, 2 

She mi tic Lan- Shimea, 3 

images 654 Shimea, 4 

Shemoneh Esreh . . 60n Shimeah, 1 

Shem-Toh, l OOt Shimeah, 2 

Shem-Tob, 2 661 Shimeam.... 

Shem-Toh, 3 661 Shimeath 

Shemnel, 1 661 shiincathite 

Shemuel, 2 661 Shiinei, 1 

Shemnel, 3 661 shiinei, 2 

shell 661 Shirnei, 3 

s lenazar 061 Shirnei, 4 

Shenir 66t Shiinei, 5 

sheol. 662 Shiinei, 6 ....- 

Shepard. Davkl A.. 663 Shiinei, 7 

Shepard, Iliram. .. 063 Shiinei, s 

Shepard, I.e\vis M . 663 Shirnei, 9 

Shepard. Muse 663 sjiimei, 10 

Shepard, Samuel (1) 063 Shimei, 11 

Shepard, Samuel (2) 664 Shirnei, 12 

Shepard, Thomas. 664 Shimei, 13 

Sheplmm 664 Shimei, 14 

Shephard 664 Shimei, 15 

Shephaliah, 1 664 Shimei, 16 

Sliephiltiali, 2 664 Sliimite 

Sheplnitiah, 3 664 Shimon 

shejdiaiiah, 4 0**4 Shimrath 

Sliephiltiali, 5 664 Shimrl, 1 

Shephaliah, 6 664 Sliimri, 2 

sheplmtiah, 7 66t Shimrl, 3 

Sheplnitiah, S 604 Shimrl, 4 

Sheplniiiiih, 9 664 sitlmrilli 

shephelah, The... 661 shlmron, 1 

Shepherd 605 Shimron, 2 

Shepherd of Her- Shiinronite 

m is 667 Shimron-nicron. .. 

Shepherd, Order of Shlmslial 

I he I iriod 067 Shin 

Shepherd, Jacob U. 667 Siilmib 

Shepherd, James.. 667 Shinar 

Shepherd, J'*hn. . . 667 Shingle 

Shepherd, Mose«.. 667 Shin-men 

She] ihetd, Vincent. 667 Shln-muo 


Shinn, Ana... Page 

Shinn, John 

Shiushiu 

Shinto 

Ship (naval) 

>9 Jship(ecclesiastical) 


609 Shi phi 

G70 Shiphmite 

070|Shiphrnh. , 


67n 

670 

670 

670 

670 

670 

671) 

67o 

670 

671 
671 
071 
671 
671 
G71 
671 
C71 

671 
071 
G72 
G72 

672 


Shiphtnn 

Shipley 

Shipwreck 

Shire-mote 

Shirer 

Shirley, Walter — 
Shirley, Walter Au- 
gustus 

Shtsha 

Shishak 

Shitrai 

Shittah (tree) 

Shiitah (series, etc.) 

Shittim, 1 

Shit t im, 2 

Shivararti 

Shiza 

Shoa 

Shoaff 

Shobab, 1 

Shobab, 2 

Shobach 

672lShobai 

672 Shobal, 1 

673 ! Shobal, 2 

G73jSbobek 

673 Shnber 

674 Shobi 

674 Shock of Corn 

G74 Shockley 

675 Shodeleth 

675 Shoe 

675 Shoes, Putting-off 

675 of 

675,Shoham 

676 Shomer, 1 

676 Shomer, 2 

676 Shook 

676 Shoo-king 

677 Shopliach 

677 Shophau 

077 Shore 

6S1 Shoshannim 

6s3 Shoshannim-eduth 

683 Shoshiskeslia 

6^3 Shotts, Kirk of 

683 Shoulder 

683 Shoulder-blade.. . . 

Osa Shoulder-picce. . . . 
GS3 1 Shovel 

6 53 Showalter 

6s3 Showbread 

GS3 Shower (rain) 

0S4 Shower, John 

684 Sh reeve 

684 Shrift 

654 Shril’t-fat her 

f*s4 Shrift-hand 

684 Shrift-sign 

G'4 Shrine (temple). . . 
684 Shrine (repository) 
C*S4 Shrine- clerk, or 

684 Shrine-keeper... 

GS4 Shrine-cloth 

6^5 Shrine-man 

6s5 Shrive 

685 Sh river, or Shriv- 

685 iug-clerk 

685 Shriving-lnmd 

685iShriving Mark or 

685| Sign. 

685 Shriving-pew 

685. Shroud (forest),. . . 
685 jSli rou d, Feast of 
685 the .Most Holy.. 

685 1 Shrouds, The 

085 1 Shrove, to 

0s5 Shrovetide 

6s5 Shrove-Tuesday . . . 

CS5 Shroving 

G'5 shrub 

0s5 Shry ving-cloth 

6s5 Slum, 1 

685 Shim, 2 

6S« Sliunli, 1 

6s5 Sluiah, 2 

6sr, Sluiah, 3 

686 Slitllil, 1 

686 Slum I, 2 

GS 6 1 Shu Intel 


686 Shuck Page 714 Siggaulr Page 734 

686 Khuckford 714 Siggones 734 

6S6 Slinham 714 Sigi 734 

687 Shuimmite 714 Sigill 734 

G91 Slnihite 714 Sigillaria 734 

699 SI ink ra 714 Sigillo 734 

699 Shuhunite 714 Sigillnm Altaris... 734 

G99 Shnitz 714 Sigismund, St 734 

699 Shunmthite 714 Sigismund, Johann 734 

G99 Shiinanunitc 714 Sigmariugeu 735 

699 Sliunem. 714 S i g m u n d Wol- 

699 Slmni 715 sungssohn 735 

699 Shunite 715 Sign (token, etc.).. 735 

702 Shnnk 715 Sign (explanatory) 735 

702 Shnpham 715 Signe 735 


715 Signet 735 

715 Signiticat 737 

715 Signorelli 737 

715 Signs 737 

716 Sigmim Crncis 737 

716 Signy 737 

716 Sigrhoeffundr 737 

716 Sigrlin(orSigurlin) 737 
737 

737 


702 Shnphamite 

Shuppim, 1 

702 Shuppim, 2 

702 Sluir 

702 Shuriasawarncn., 

705 Shurtleff 

705 Shurtliff. 

70GShushan 

706 Shnshan-eduth 720 Sigrnn . 

706 Shushan Gate of Signnmnr.. 

706 the Temple 720 Sigthror 737 

706 Shute, Daniel 720 Sigtilar 737 

706 Shute, Josias 720 Sigtopir 737 

707 Shuthalhite 720 Sigtun 737 

707 Shuthelah, 1 720 Sigtyr 737 

707 Shuthelah,2 720 Sigurlami 737 

707 Shuttleworth 720 Sigyn 737 

707 Si a 720 Si lion 737 

707 Siaha 720'Sikes 737 

707 Siam 720 Sikhs 738 

Silanus 738 

Silas 73S 

Silent Prayer 73S 

Silentiarii 739 

Silentium Indicere 739 

Silenus 739 

Siltintopr 739 

Silicernium 739 

Siliniez 739 

Silk 739 

Sill, Cill, or Sole. .. 740 

Sill, George G 740 

Silla (town) 740 

Silla (mvthol.) — 741 

Siliagik Sartok.... 741 


707 Siamese Vcrsiou.. 721 

707 Sins 721 

707 Sibbecai, or Sibbe- 

707 . chai 721 

707 Sibboleth 722 

70S Sibbs (or Sibbes).. 722 

70S Sibel ' 722 

Sibien 722 

709 Sibnmh 722 

709 Si bom* 728 

709 Si br aim 723 

709 Sibyl 723 

709 Sibylline Oracles.. 723 

709 Sibvllists 726 

709 Sicanus 726 

709 Sicard 726 Sillery . 


709 Sicarii 726 

709 Sichaeus 726 Silnoy-Bog 

709 Sichem, 1 726 Siioah, Siloam, 


741 

Sillick 741 

Silnoy-Bog 741 


or 


710 Sichem, 2 726 

710 Sicilian Vespers... 727 
710; Sicily, Council of.. 727 

710:Sicinus 727 

710 Sick, Care of 727 

710iSick, Communion 

710 of the 727 

710 Sick, Visitation of. 727 

712 Sickels 727 Silverling 747 

7l2,Sickingen 727 Silvestro de’ Goz- 

712 Sickle 728 zolini 747 

712! Sickles 728!sim 747 

7l2l8iekness 72S Simalcue 747 

712 Sicksa 729 Siinau 747 

712 Sicyon 729 ; Simeon, 1 747 

712 Sicyon (a city) 729 Simeon, 2 750 


Shiloah 741 

Silva 745 

Silvanus (a sylvan 

god) 746 

Silvanus (compan- 
ion of Paul) 740 

Silver 746 

Sil verms, St 740 


712 


Sicyoma. 

Sida 

712 Kidd i m 

712 Side 

712 Sidcromaucy... . 

712 Sidesmen 

Sidgrani 

712 Si dim 

712 Sid hurt a 

Sidhoetc 

71 3 1 Sidney 

713 Sidon 

713jSidonian 

I Sidon ins, Cains Sol- 

713! lius 

713 Sidonius, Michael. 732 

713 Sieludis 732 

713 Sio-re 732 

713 Sienna, Council of. 732 

713 Sieva 732 

713 Sieve 732 

713 Sievckiilg 732 

7t3 Nif . . 

713 Sign 

713 Sigalon 733 

713 Sigarsholmr 738 

713 Sigarsvoellur 733 

713 Sigebert of Gcm- 


713 bloux . ... 733 Simois 


729 Simeon, 3 750 

730 Simeon, 4 750 

730 Simeon, 5 750 

730 Simeon, 6 750 

731 Simeon, 7 750 

731 Simeon of Durham 750 

Simeon of Polotzk 750 

Simeon, St 750 

Simeon (archbish- 
op of Thessalo- 

mca) 751 

Simeon, Charles.. . 751 
Simeon, Metaphras- 
es 751 

Simconite 751 

Similitude 751 

Simlai 752 

Simler, Johann Ja- 
kob 752 

Simler, Josias 752 

Simmons, George 

Frederick 753 

Simmons, John. . . 753 
Simmons, John C. 753 
Simmons, Perry A. 753 
Simmons, William 753 
Simmons, William 
S 753 


731 

731 

731 

731 

731 

731 

731 

731 


714 Sigfaudur 734 


Simon (pirate) — 


753 

753 


LIST OF ARTICLES IN VOL. IX. 


1081 


Simon, 1 . . . . .Page 

bunon, 2 

Simon, 3 

Simon, 4 

Simon, 5 

Simon, 6 

Simon, 7 

Simon, s 

Simon, l) 

Simon, 10 

Simon, 11 

Simon, 12 

Simon, 13 

Simon, 14 

Simon, 15 

Simon, 10 

Simon, 17 

Simon, 14 

Simon, 19 

Simon, 20 

Simon (rabbins), 1. 

Simon, 2 

Simon, 3 

Simon, 4 

Simon, 5 

Simon, 0 

Simon, 7 

Simon, 4 

Simon of Sudbury. 
Simon of Tournay. 
Simon (St.) and 
Jude’s (St.) Day. 
Simon, Honore K.. 
Simon, Richard.. . 

Simouettn,G 

Simonetta, L 

Siinonians 

Simonis 

Simonton 

Simony 

Simpkins 

Simple Feasts 

Simp] ices 

Simplicimius 

Simplicius (pope).. 
Simplicius (philos- 
opher) 

Simpson, Benja- 
min Franklin... 
Simpson, David. . . 
Simpson, Edward . 
Simpson, Geo. \V\. 
Simpson, Robert. . 
Simpson, or Syinp- 
son, Sydracli ... 
Simpson, William. 

Sims 

Simsterla 

Simnltaneum 

Sin, 1 

Sin, 2 

Sin (wickedness). . 

Sin, Actual 

Sin of Commission 
Sin of Inilrmity., . 
Sin of Omission. . . 

Sin, Original 

Sin, Philosophical. 
Sin, Presumptuous 
Sin, Puuishmeiitof 

Sin, Secret 

Sin, Unpardonable 

Sin, Venial 

Si mi 

Sinai 

Sinni Codex 

Sinai tic Inscrip- 
tions 

Sinai tic Manu- 
script 

Sincerity 

Sinclair 

Sind 

Sind bee Version . . 

Sindhfi 

Sirnlon 

Sindri 

Sindur 

Sinecure 

Sinecnrist 

Siner 

Sinew 

Siutloetli 

Simrer 

Singers, in Chris- 
tian Wor-liip 

Singhalese Version 

Singing 

Singing-cakes. .... 
Singing-schools. . . 


753 Single Combat 

753 1 Page 

753 Single Eye 

7.54 Singliu 

754 Singular 

754 Sinim 

754 Sinir 

754 Sinis, 1 

754 Sinis, 2 

754 Sin i to 

754 Sim ie 

754 Sin-offering 

754 Sinold 

754 Si non 

755 Sinope 

750 Smriod 

75(5 Si u sart 

750 Sinteuis, 1 

750 Sinteuis, 2 

750 Sinteuis, 3 

750 Sinteuis, 4 

750 Siofu,or Siofna.... 

750 Sion, Mount, 1 

757 Sion, .Mount, 2 ... . 

757 Sion, Nuns of 

757 Sionites 

75> Siphmotli 

75> Siphori 

754 Siphra 

755 Sippai 

'Siproetes 

754 sip yl ns 

75* Si quis 

754 Sir 

759 Sira (Ben-), Alpha- 

759 bet of 

759 Siracli 

759 Si rah 

700 Si rani 

700 Sirarh 

701 Sireda 

761 Siren 

761 Siret 

761 Siri 

761 Siricius 

iSiriou 

761 Sirius 

Sirleto 

761 Sinni urn, Councils 

761 of. 

761 Sinnond, Antoine. 
761 .Sinnond, Jacques. 

761 Sirona 

Sisamai 

762 Siscidenses 

762 Sisera, 1 

762 Sisera, 2 

762 Sisi lines 

762 Sisinnins 

763 Sissou 

764 Sifter 

764 Sisterhoods (Ro- 

765 man Catholic).. . 
765 Sisterhoods (Prot- 


765 


estant). 
Sistrum.. . 

Sisty 

Sisyphus. . 

Situ 

>i 


760 
700 

707 She of Churches. . 

707 Si-Temio 

707 Siteresia 

7G7 iSith 

707 Sithuides 

772 iSi tln>n 

Sithsekur 

773 Simah 

Si to 

774 Sitrnngaden 

774 Sitsi Siki 

775 Sitting (Oriental 


775 

775 

775 

775 


posture) 

Sitiing (Christian 

posture) 

Siva 

775 Sivabramnals 

775 Si van 

775 Sivpasadana 

775 Si xt 

775 Sixtus Senensis. . . 

775 Sixtus 1 (Si.) 

775 Sixtus II (SI.) 

775 Sixtus III (St.).... 

Sixtus IV 

775 Sixtus V 

775 Sjobu-no-“it 

770 Sjngo-nitsd Adsugl 
770j Kaju Kurahi.... 

776 Sjn-go-zin 


Shade Page 

770 Skalds, or Scalds. . 

776 Skanda 

776 Sknpicliir 

776 Skainlnndr 

777 Skaugul 

777 Skeggoeld 

777 Skeulbriiner 

777 Skelton 

777 Skevi-Kare 

777 Skew, A**kewtuble. 

777 Skialgr 

779 Skidbladner 

779 Skid more 

779 Skierstuves 

779 Skiltingr 

779 Skin 

779 Skin-bottle 

779, Skin faxi 

779 Skinner, Ezekiel.. 
779,Skiiincr, James . . . 
779 Skinner, Thomas 
779 E 

779 Skinner, Thomas 

779' Harvey 

7st> Skiold 

740 Skirner 

7 so Skirt 

780 Skjoeldr 

7so Skoll (or Skoell). . 
7So Skuld 

740 Skull 

780 Skv 

780 Skyndir 

Slack, Comfort l , . 

780 Slack, Elijah 

781 Slade 

781 SI after 

741 Slaglidr (or Fiutir) 

781 Slander 

7sl Slater (or Slatyer). 

741 Slaughter 

782 SI a very, Biblical... 

742 slavery, Modern... 
782 Slavery, Relation 
782 of, to Cliristian- 

7S>| ity 

782 Slaves in the. Early 

ChrisiianCliurcIi 

782 Slavic Mythology. 

7S2 Slavonian^ 

752 Slavonic Versions. 

783 4 Slcep 

783 Sleeper 

783 Sleidan 

783 Sleipner 

783 Sleipnisfraendi 

753 Slicer 

783 siidnigtaiini 

783 SI id nr 

784 Slime 

Sling 

754 Slith 

sloane Codex 

786 Slows 

786 Slovenian Version. 

786 Sluice. 

747 Shiyter 

787 Smalhrokc 

T^7f Small, Arthur M. . . 
747 Small, Samuel M. . 

Smalley, Elam 

Smalley, Henry.. . . 

Smalley, John 

Sin a 1 ridge 

Snialtz 

747 (Sinara 

747 Smaragdns, 1 

787 Smnrngdns 2 

7s7 Smaragiln-, 3 

787 Smart, James P. .. 

Smart, John G 

787' Smec tv in mills 

Smell*. 

747 Smernitzn 

7*> Smet, Hans von der 

74S Kettni. 

7ss Smet, Peter John 

748, do 

Smeton 

7>s Mniglecins 

7'''’ Smik 

7sn Sim i lax 

7*9 Sminthciis 

749 Smile 

7*9 Smith (workman). 

789 Smith, Albert 

Smith, A. B 

7-89 Smith, Alexander 
789| J 


789,'Smitli, Alexander 

789 L Page 

7*9 Smith, Amos 

790|Smiih, Aumui C. .. 

790 Smith, Archer B. .. 
790 Sin ilh, Archibald G. 

790 Smith, Asa 

79o Smith, Asa 1) 

790 Smith, Azariab.. . . 

790 Smith, Bela 

790 Smith, Benjamin A. 
790 Smith, Benjamin 

790 1 Coleman 

790 Smith, Benjamin F. 

790 Smith, Caleb 

79o Smith, Carlos 

79ii Smith, Charles A.. 

790 Smith, Charles 

791 M onzon 

791 Smith, Clark A.... 
791. Smith, Cotton Mn- 

j lher 

791 Smith, Daniel (1).. 

Smith, Daniel (2).. 
791 Smith, 1 lat itts. . . . 

791 Smith, David 

791 Smith, Eben 

791 Smith, Edward. . . . 
791 S 111 i t h, Ed wa r d 

791 Parmelee 

792 Smith, Eli 

792 Smith, Eli Bnrn- 

792 ham 

792 Smith, Elijah 

792 Smith, Ethan 

792 Smith, Fieldon M. 

792 Smith, Francis — 
792( Smith, Friend W.. 

793 Smith, Gad 

793 Smith, Gad N 

793 Smith, George (1) . 
793 Smith, George (2). 
793 Smith, GenrgeRAV. 
799 Smith, George \V. . 

Smith, Giles Chap- 
! man 

801 Smith, Griffin 

Smith, Harvey S.. . 

802 Smith, Henry (1). . 

803 Smith, lleury (2). . 

803 Smith, Henry Buyn- 
803 1 ton 

507 Smith, Henry F. . . 
807 Smith, Henry 11.. . 
8t)7 Smith, lleury Ryan 

508 Smith, llervev.*.... 
80 s Smith, llezekiah. . 

80S Smith, Hugh 

80 s Smith, Isaac (1). . . 
Sos Smith, Isaac (2). . . 
80S Smith, Israel Bry- 
809; ant 

809 Smith, James (1). . 

810 Smith, James 
810 Smith, James 
Siojsmitli, James 

810 Smith, James 

sio Smith, James Brnd- 
S11 ford 

811 Smith, James C. . . 
SI 1 Smith, James M.. . 

1 1 Smith, Jcreuiinh.. . 
Smith, John (1) ... 
Smith, .John (2) . . . 


5).. 


811 
811 
St 1 
811 
812 
812 
SI 2 
.812 
812 

st2 Smith. John Blake- 


Smith, John 
Smith, John (4) . . 
Smith, John 
Smith, 

Smith, 

Smith, .John (S) ... 
Smith, John Blair. 


S13 


h, John (5) . . . 
h, John (6) ... 
h, .John (7) . .. 


812 ly 
St 2 Smith, John Cro*s. 

812 Smith, John Faris. 

Smith, John G 

Smith, John M — 
Smith, John I’ve. . 
Smith, Joseph (I).. 
Smith, Joseph (2).. 
Smith, Joseph (3).. 

.813 Smith, Joseph (4). . 

813 Smith,. Ioseph (5). . 

M3 Smith, Josiah 

813 Smith, Josiah D... 

813 Smith, Leonard . . . 

M4 smith, Matthew... 
s 1 4 Smith. M iles 

Smith, Moses 

814 Smith, Noah 


(Smith, Pc v ton 
S14 Pierce..... Page 825 
814 Smith, Philander.. 825 

814 Smith, Reuben 8.6 

414 Smith, Richard (1) 826 

414 Smith, Richard (2) 826 
SI4 Smith, Robert (1).. 826 
si4 Smith, Robert (2).. 826 

815 Smith, Robert (3).. 827 

415 Smith, Robert A... 827 

815 Smith, Robert D... 827 

Smith, Samuel 827 

816 Sm it It, Samuel 

SI 6 Stanhope 827 

sir, Smith, Sam. W. (1) 8 * 2 S 
si6 Smith, Sam. W. (2) 828 

816 Smith, Seth S2S 

'Smith, Socrates. .. 828 

S1G Smith, Steplic 828 

816 Smith, Sydney ... . 828 
Smith, Thomas (1) 829 

816 Smith, Thomas (2) 829 
si 7 Smith, Thomas (3) 829 

817 Smith, Thomas (4) 429 
817 Smith, Thomas C. 829 
817 Smith, Thonin- G. S29 
S17 Smith, Turner H.. 829 
817, Smith (or Snivth), 

William (I).:.... 830 

817 Smith, William (2) 830 

51 7 Smith, William (3) 830 
Smith, William (4) s3ii 

51 8 Smith, William (5) 830 

818 Smith, William (6) 830 
81 Smith, William (7) 830 
Sis Smith, William (*) 431 
Sis Smith, William (9) 831 
sis Smith, William An- 

Ms drew S31 

8]4 Smith, William 1L. 831 
Sis Smith, Worthing- 

818 ton 831 

sio Sm it hers 83 1 

819 Smoke 831 

Suiotliermnn *31 

819 Smyrna s3i 

819 Smyrna (city) s i 

si y Smyth 831 

819 Smytoiiite Contro- 

519 versv S34 

Snail, 1 S35 

819 Snail, 2 835 

S2U Snake 835 

S2ti Snupe 836 

826 Snare 836 

820 Sneatli 836 

520 Sneed 836 

520 Snell 836 

521 Snetheu 836 

821 Snio 836 

'■S noddy 83(1 

821 Snotr 837 

821 Snow 837 

821 Snow, Jonathan M. 83.8 
821 Snow, William 838 

821 Snow, William T. . 8SS 
S21.Snmvden, Janies 

I Ross 838 

521 Snowden, L. I) S38 

822 Snowden, Samuel 

822 Finlev 838 

822 Snuff-dish 834 

822 Snuffer 83S 

822 S u y d e r, G e o r g c 

822 Niver S38 

822 Snyder, Henry (1). 839 

522 Snyder, Henry (2). 839 

822 S 11 viler, Peter 839 

822 So 839 

823 Soil lien S40 

823 Soap 840 

Sobriety 841 

823 Socho 841 

823 Sochoh 441 

4*23 Socialism 841 

823 Society 844 

S24 Society People.... 844 

824 Socinlimism 844 

824 Socimis, Faustns.. 845 
s*24 Socinii'*, Lie I ills . . . 847 

824 Socket 847 

8*25 Socoh, 1 847 

8*25 Socoh, 2 847 

s .5 Socordia 847 

825 Socrates (pliiloso- 

825 pher) 847 

825 Socrates, Scholas- 

825 liens 854 

8*25 Soc rati tie 854 

825 Sodalities 854 


10S2 


LIST OF ARTICLES IX VOL. IX. 


Sodi Page 

Sodom 

Sodoimi 

Sodomite 

Sodomitish Sea... 

Sodomy 

Sudor and Man, Di- 
ocese of 

Soffit 

Soguue, 1 

Sogaue, 2 

Solm 

SoDsons, Couucils 


^ojouruiug. . 


Sola 

Sola, David Aaron 

de 

Solar, Soller 

Solutes, or rhamsi 

Solari, Andrea 

Solai i.C'ristoforo. . 

Solder 

Soldier 

Soldier of Christ... 

Soldins 

Sole 

Solea 

Solemn Service . .. 
Solemnities, The. . 

Solicirnnt 

Solitidiunism 

Solitldians 

Solimeua 

Solis 

Solitaires 

Solitaries 

Solitarii 

Solomon 

Solomon’s Pools . . 
Solomon’s Porch.. 
Solomon’s Set* va n ts 

Solotaja Baba 

Solus 

Solutn. 

Somaschians, The 

Order of 

Somatist 

Somatology 

st»merville 

Sommer- or Siiin- 

mer-lteam 

Sommer, Peter 

Nicholas 

Sommier 

Sommoiiacodom .. 

Soin uin 

Somuists 

Sotnuiis.or llypnos 

Somoda 

Sornovaiisham 

s nil pii< m r 

Son (oflVpring) 

Soli (barrel) 

Soli of (toll, 1 

S .11 of (iofl, 2 

Son of Man 

Sohiirgaultr 

Spnciuo 

» s, 'Hg 

Song of the Three 
Holy Children.. . 

Sonna 

S .unites 

Sonntng 

Sonshlj* of < ’lirist.. 

Soothsayer 

Soothsaying In 
Christian Times. 

Sm I* 

S.ipnter 

Soj.hereih 

Sopllerim 

Sophia, 1 

Sophia, 2 

Sophia, .3 

Sophia, 4 

Sophia, r, 

Sophist- 

Soph.ihliM 

Sojdimniii-, 1 

Sojdiroiiin*., 2 

Soph ron In-, 3 

Sor 

Snril 

SornniiH 

Somcie 

Sorbin 


S54'Sorbon Page 

854 Sorbt.nne, The — 
857 Sorcerer, Sorcery.. 

557 Sorcery In Chris- 

558 tian Countries.. 

859 Sorek 

Sorores Kcclesne. . 

S.%9 Sororia 

>59 Sorrow 

'59 Sortes Sacnc 

SVJ Sortilegi 

>59 SosnuoVonoMiko- 
to 

859 S< .si aims 

80»> Sod pa ter, 1 

Scin s««»i pater, 2 

>60 Sosipolis 

So*, pita 

SOU So;. themes 

Stilt Sostrntus 

Min Sotai 

>60 Sotamtnmbu 

sou Soteira 

860 So ter (mvthologi- 

800 cal)....'. 

sou Soter (pope) 

SGI Soteriology 

SGI Sothis 

861 Soto, Francisco Do- 

SG1 mingo de 

SGI Soto, Pedro de.... 

SGI Sotwell 

SGI Sonchni (or Soil- 

Nil chav) 

Nil Soiichou, Adolf F. . 
SGI Son chon, Francois 

SGI Soufflot 

SGI Soul 

SGI Soul, Origiu of . . . 
SGI Sonl-bell 

872 Soul-cakes 

873 S<ml-chime 

S73 Soul-mass 

873 Sonl’s-cot, or Soul’s 

S73| Scot 

'73 Soul-seal 

573 Sonl-tervicc 

Soul-sleep 

874 Soule, George 

'74 Soule, Justus 

574 Soule, Joshua 

'74 Souls, Cure of 

Sound-holes 

S74 Sounding-board... 
Sounds, Fruiifois 

874 d'E-coubleau.... 
STS Sou rdis, Henri 

875 d’Escoubleau de. 

875 Souse 

875 South 

875 South Country 

'75 South End 

875 South, Hubert 

875 South Side 

'75 Southcott 

S7ti Scut hcottians, or 
S7G| Southcottcrs.... 

87' Southgate 

879 Southwell 

'7'.) Son th worth, Alau- 

'7l» HOI) 

ball South worth, Ter- 

tins Dunning.. .. 
R'h Sovereignty ol'God 

"1 So wau 

S' I Sower, Sowing 

8' I So /.omen 

| SpaudMr 

8>2 Space 

Spmla, Bernardino 
Spmla, Fabrizio. . . 
"2 Spada, Gimnbatlis- 

"2 ta 

R'2 Spada, Urnzio Fi- 

"2 lippo 

"3 Spa fiord 

"3 Spa hr 

K '3 Spain (penin-ula). 
"3 Spain (kingdom).. 
8'3 Spain, Hartwell. . . 

'".i Spalalin 

"3 Spalding, .Johann 

Ss3 .loarlmn 

R'3 Spalding, do- uih . . 

"3 Span 

"3 Spandrel 

Ks 4 Spangenherg, An- 
"t giistus Gottlieb. . 
"t Spangenherg, Cy- 
8>4 rlacun 


SS4 Spangler Page 

8 >5 Spanheim, E 

SSG Spanheim, Fried- 
rich (1) 

S'O Spanheim, Fried- 

S'G rich (2) 

"7 Spanifh Arcbitect- 

S'7 me 

"7 Spariantis 

8'7 Spark (tlame) 

"7 Spark, Thomas.. .. 
Sparke 

557 Sparks, Giles B. . . 
887 Sparks, d. 0. A. ... 

8 s 7 Sparrow (bird) 

''7 Sparrow, Anthony. 
S'7 Sparrow, Patrick j. 

8'7 Sparshaim 

8'7 Sparta (mythol.). .. 
887 Sparta (Apocry- 

8>7 phal) 

8'8 Sparti 

8" Spartou 

Sparver 

558 Spatularia 

'S' Spanldiug 

'8' Spear (weapon) . . . 
S" Spear, Holy 

Spear, Elijah 

SS' Spearman 

S'l* Special Confession 
889 Special Intention. . 
Special Psalms — 

559 Specierum Collatio 
S'l! Species, Origin of. 

"9 Species (theol.) 

S'9 Speckled 

S'9 Speck ler 

891 Spectre 

892 Spee 

892 Speece 

892 Speed 

892 Spegel 

Speke-house 

892 Spells 

592 Spence, dames .... 

892 Spence, Joseph 

'92 Spence, Robert \V. 

893 Spencer, Elihu 

893 'peucer, Francis,. 
893 Speucer,Ichabod S. 

593 Spencer, John 

893 Spencer, Robert 0. 

893 Spencer, Thomas.. 
Spencer, Willi am H. 

$93 Spelter 

bpengler 

894 'per (spur, Spar).. 

894 Speratus 

894 Sperchius 

'95 Spore 

895 sperl 

895 Sperver 

R9G Spes 

S9G Sphaltes 

isphingius 

S9G sphiux 

897 sphragis 

897 sph rngiiides 

Sphyrus 

897 'pice 

Spicer 

S9' Spider 

89' Spieker 

89' Spina 

89' Spiov* 

89' S|>ifame 

89' Spikenard 

89' spilman 

899 Spin 

899 Spina 

spinckes 

899 Spindle 

Spiniei)>is 

899 Spinks 

899 Spiimln 

899 Spinoza 

899 Spinster 

900 Spire. 

903 Spire, or Exnpcre, 

904 St 

Spire Cross 

90-1 Spiies, Diets of.. .. 

905 Spirit 

905 Spirit (or Ghost ), 
905 Holy 

Spirit (Holy), Bap- 

905 tism of 

Spirit, Grieving or 
90 Quenching the. . 


900 Spirit, Praying and 

9UG Preaching by 

Page 

907 Spirit (Holy), Sect 

of the 

907 Spirits in Prison.. 
Spirits, Unclean.. . 

907 Spiritual 

907 Spiritual Commnn- 
907 ion 

907 Spiritual Corpora- 

908 tiou 

908 Spiritual (or Eccle- 
908 siastical) Courts. 

90s Spiritual Gifts 

911 Spiritual Relatiou- 

911 ship 

911 Spiriuiales(or Spir- 
911 itnals) 

Spiritual ia 

911 Spiritualism 

912 Spiritualists 

912 Spiritualities, Guar- 

912 diauofthe 

912 Spirituality 

912 Spirituality of God 

912 Spiritualize — . . . 

913 Spiritual Minded- 

913 ness 

913 Spirituals 

915 spital 

915 Spital Sermons — 

915 Spitta 

915 Spitting 

9l5iSpiule 

917 Spittle in Baptism. 

917 Spittler 

917 Spitzner 

917 Spizelins 

91S Splay 

91 S Spodins 

91S Spoil n 

918, Spoil 

919 Spoke 

919 Spondanns (or De 

919 Spnrnle) 

919 Spoude 

919 Sponge 

919 Sponge, Holy 

919 Sponsa Christi 

919 Sponsage, Token of 

920 Sponsalia 

920^>ponsaliti£e Doua- 
920 ! tiones 

921 Sponsel 

921 Sponsors 

923 Spoon (censer) 

924 Spoon (eucharistic 

924 vessel) 

925 Spooner 

925 Sport 

925 Sportie, Sportellas, 

925 Sportulae 

925 Sports, Book of... 

925 Sportulantes 

925 Spot 

925 Spol.swooil ( or 
92G Spottiswood). . . . 

92G Spoudrei 

92G Spouse 

92G Spout 

92 S Sprague, Benjamin 

928 F.. 

930 Sprague, William 

930 Buel 

931 Sprat 

931 Spreng 

931 Sprenger 

933 Sprig 

933 Spriggs 

933 Spring, Gardner . . 
933 spring, Sam., Sen. 

933 Spring, Sam., Jun. 

934 Springer, Elihu . . . 
934 Springer, John M. 
934 Springer, Moses.. . 

931 Springers 

94ii Spri nging, or 
94(i Springer 

Sprinkling 

941 Sproat. 

94 1 Spry 

941 Spnnkie 

943 Spur-monev 

Spur' to we. 

945 Spy- Wednesday... 

Squarrione 

948 Square 

Square Cap 

951|Sqtli 


Squier Page 9G9 

Squillery 9G9 

Squinch,or Sconce 969 

Squint 970 

Squire 970 

Sraddha 970 

Sramanas 971 

Sravaka, or Srawa- 

kn 971 

Sreiansa 971 

Sri-pada 971 

Srndasanen, Srnd- 
daggini,aud Sru- 

davarmen 971 

Ssafarino Kagnmi. 971 

Ssangjai 971 

Ssodadaui 971 

Stabal Mater 971 

Stabat Mater Spe- 

ciosa 973 

Stabell 975 

958 Stable 975 

Stachys 975 

Stack 975 

Stackhouse 975 

Stacte 975 

Stacy, Aaron G.... 97G 

StacV, James 97G 

Stade, 1 97G 

958 Xtade, 2 976 

95S Stadler 976 

958 Staff (stick) 976 

958, Staff, Pastoral 977 

959 Staff, Precentor’s. . 977 

959!Staffelsteiner 97S 

959 Staffort Book, Tlie 97S 

* Stage 978 

Stage-playiug 978 


958 


9(13 


9G0 Stahelin 97S 

960 Stahlschmidt 97S 

10 Stained (or Paint- 

960 ed) Glass 979 

Stair 979 

Stairs 979 

Stake 980 

Staleus 9S0 

Stalin 9S0 

Stalk 980 

Stall 9S0 

Stalls 9S0 

Stammer 9S1 

Stamper 981 

Slnnbnry 9S1 

Stancari 981 

Staucarists 9$1 

Stanchiou 982 

Standard (banner). 982 
Standard (church 

furniture) 985 

standard-bearer... 985 

Standers 980 

Standing 986 

Standing-cup 980 

Stamlish 986 

Stanford, David. . . 986 

904 (Stanford, John U'6 

Stange 986 

9G5 Stanhope, George. 9'G 
965 Stanhope, Lady 

965 Hester *. 987 

965 Stanislas, St. (prel- 
ate) 987 

9G5 Stanislas, Kostka, 

St. (monk) 987 

9G5 Stanley, Charles T. 987 
96G Stanley, Edward. . 9S7 
960 Stanley, Julius A.. OSS 
9GG Stanley, Thomas.. 9b$ 
9GG Stanley, William.. 9S8 
906 Stanly 9S8 

906 Stanshury OSS 

907 Stantes Laid 98S 

907 Stanton 9SS 

967 Stanyhurst OSS 

967 Stanzioui OSS 

907 Slapf. 1 9 '8 

90S Stapf, 2 OSS 

Stapfer, Johann... 989 
OGSStapfer, Johaun 
90S Friedrich 989 

968 Stapfer, Philipp Al- 

90' belt 989 

90S Stap1iylns(i»ythol.) US9 
9G8 StaphVlns, Fried- 

908 rich*. 9S9 

90S Stapledon 9S9 

90S Staples, Allen 9S9 

9(59 Staples, John 990 

9G9 Stapleton 990 

9G9 Star 990 


LIST OF ARTICLES IX VOL. IX. 


J 083 


Star in the East.. 

Page 

Star, Golden 

Starch, Johaun 

August 

Starck, Johann 

Friedrich 

Star-gazer 

Stark, Andrew. . . 
Stark, Heinrich 

Benedict 

Stark, Jedcdiah 

Lathrop 

Stark, Mark Y.... 

Starke 

Starkodder 

Starobradrzi 

Starr, < ’buries. . . . 
Starr, Frederick.. 
Starr, John Wal- 
cott 

Starr, John Wes- 
ley (1) 

Starr, John Wes- 
ley (2) 

Starr, William II.. 

Stars, Seven 

Stata Mater 

Stater 

Slates of the 

Church 

Statinus, or Stati* 

li mis 

Statio 

Stationalis, Crux. 
Stationarire, In- 

dnlgentiie 

Stationarii 

Stationarins Ca- 

lix 

Stations of the 
Iloly Cross .... 

Stator 

Stattler 

Statues 

Status Duplex.. . . 
Statute, Bloody . . 
Staudenraaier.’. . . 

Standlin 

Ntanghton 

Stau pit z 

Stau roauastasi ma 
Stanrogathaua . . . 

Stan ronein 

Stati ropegion .... 

Stanrophoroi 

Stau rophy lax .... 
Staurotheotokiou. 

Slaves 

Stay 

Stay net! Cloths .. 
St. Clair, Alanson 
St. Clair, John II. 
Stead, Benj. F. ... 

Stead, Henry 

Stead, William D. 

Steagall 

Steal. 

Stearns, Charles.. 
Stearns, Josiah . . 
Stearns, Samuel.. 
Stearns, Samuel 

Horatio 

Stearns, Silas 
Stearns, Timothy. 
Stearns, William 

Augustus 

Stebbiug, Henry 

0 ) 

Stebbing, Henry 

(2) 

Stebbins, Dixon.. 
Stebbins, Lorenzo 

D 

Stebbins, Stephen 

J 

Steck, John Mich- 
ael 

Steck, Michael 

John 

Stedingers 

Stedman 

Steel (metal) 

Steel, Robert 

Steele, Allen 

Steele, Anne 

Steele, David 

Steele, Joel 

Steele, John (1).. 
Steele, John (2).. 


[Steele, Richard. . . 
991 1 Rage 

993 Steele, Robert A. 

Isteeu 

993 Steeple 

Stefani 

993 Steflani 

993 Stegall 

993 Sieger 

Stegmau 

994 Steiger, Carl 

I Friedrich 

994 Steiger, Wilhelm . 

994 Stein holer 

994 Sieinkopf 

994 Stein metz 

995 Sieins 

995 Steilz 

995 Stele 

Stella 

995 Stellio 

Stellionatus 

995 Stem 

Stenuett, Joseph, 

995 Sen 

995 Sten nett, Joseph, 

9951 Jun 

995 Stcnnetl, Samuel. 

995 Sten tor 

Step or Stair 

99G Step of Pardon, 
i Penance, or Sat- 

997! isfaction. K 

997 Steplmn 

997 Stephanas 

Stephatii 

997 Stephauos 

997 Stephen 

Stephen 1 

997 Stephen 11 

Stephen III (II). . 
997 Stephen IV (III) . 
997 Stephen V (IV). . . 
997 Stephen VI (V). . . 
997 Stephen VII (VI). 
997 Stephen VII I (VI 1 ) 
997 Stephen IX (VI 11) 
997 Stephen X (IX).. . 
99H Stephen de Bella- 

99S ville 

99S Stephen of Tour- 

999 nay 

999 Stepbeus (priut- 

999 ers) 

999 Stephens, Abed- 

999 uego 

999 Stephens, Daniel. 
999 Stephens, Jeremy 
999 Stephens, William 
999 Stephens, W. II. . . 

999 Stephen’s(St.)Day 

999 Stepheuson 

999 Stercoranists 

999 Stercu litis, Srercn- 

lOuo tius, or Sierqni- 

1000 linns 

looo Sterling 

1000 Stern (hinder part 
1000 of a ship) 

1000 Stern, Hermann.. 

1000 Stern, Maximilian 
Stern, .Mendel 

1000 Emanuel 

1001 Stern, Sicgmnud. 
lOul Stern, Wilhelm. . . 

Sterne(orStearuc), 

1001 John (1) 

Sterne, John (2).. 

1001 Sterne, ljinrence. 
Sterne, Richard.. 

1002 Steruhold 

1002 Stercipe 

iSterry 

1002 Slenco 

Steudcl 

1002 Stevens, Benja- 

| min 

1002 Stevens, Dillon. . . 

Stevens, Isaac Col- 
1002 litis 

1002 Stevens, Jacob. . . 

1003 Stevens, Jedcdiah 

1003 Dwight 

I003 Stevens, Joseph B. 
1003 Steveum, Solomon. 
Iii03 Stevens, Thomas. 

1003 Stevens, William 

1004 (1) 

I004 Steveus, William 
1004 (2) 


Stevenson, Ed- 

1004 ward Rage 

1004 Stevenson, Ju- 

1004 seph 

1004 Sieveuson, Thom- 

11104 as 

1004 Stevenson, Will- 
10114 iam 

1004 Steward (Biblical) 

1 005 Steward (domes- 

tic) 

1005 Steward (Church 

11105 olllcer) 

1005 Stewart, Alexan- 

1000 der 

1000 Stewart, Archl- 
loOO bald Sinclair. . . 
lot t0 Stewart, Dugald. . 
It MiG Stewart, Ephraim 

1000 C 

IOuG Stewart, Franklin 
1000 Stewart, George.. 
1000 Stewart, Henry 

Greene 

1000, Stewart, Isaac I11- 

1 gersoll 

1000 Stewart, John (11. 
1007 Stewart, John (2). 
1007 Stewart, Kenian 

1007 Spencer 

Stewart, Thomas 

I G 

1007 Sthcnelans 

1007 Sthcnele 

loos Sthenelus 

loos Sthenias 

1009 Stheiiius 

1009 St he no 

1012 Stheuoboea 

1012 Sticharion 

1012 Stichius 

1012 Stichologein 

1013 Stichometry 

HU3 Stichthrou 

1013 Stick 

HH3 Stiefel, Ksains.... 
1013 Stiefel, Micha .. 
1013 Stier 

Stigaud 

1013 Stigel 

Stigmatization. . . 

1013 Stikemau 

Stilbe 

1013 Stiles, Abel 

Stiles, Ezra 

1014 Still, Abraham. . . 

1014 Still, Elijah 

1014 Still, John 

1014 Still, John Kline. 

1014 Stilling 

1014 Stillingfleet 

1014 Stillman, Samuel. 

1014 Stillman, Stephen 

sun Week ::::::: 

1015 Stilted-arch ...... 

1015 Stihvellitcs 

Stimson 

1015 Stiimila 

1015 Stinelcy 

1015 Stinson 

jStipend 

1010 Stipendiary 

1010 Stipendiary Driest 
1010 Stiphelus 

Stiritis. 

1010 Stirm 

1010 Stjernhjclin 

loiO.Stoa 

loiO.Stoc 

B*17;Stock (trunk of a 

1017 tree, etc.) 

1017 Stock (vessel) 

ini 7 Stock, ( liristian.. 
1017 Stock, Richard... 

Stock. Simon 

101S Stockdale 

101S Stock fold 

Storkllelt 

101s Storking (cover- 

lois ing for feet) 

Stocking, Davis. . 

10is Storks 

lois Stockton, Benja- 
1019 min Brearley. .. 
1019 Stockton, Joseph. 
Stockton, Thomas 

1019 llewliugs 

Stoddard, David 
101 9 j Tappan 


Stoddard, Ira 
1019 Childs .... Rage 
Stoddard, John E. 
1019 Stoddard, Solo- 
mon 

1019 Stoic Philosophy. 

Stoicism and 
1019 Christianity.... 

1019 Stoics 

Stokes 

1020 St ol berg 

Stole 

1020 Stolizein 

Stomacher 

102oSlomion polou 
| miaou 

1020 Stone (rock) 

1021 Stone of Bedicu- 

I lion 

1021 Stone, Cornelius.. 

ln‘21 Stone, Frank 

1021 Stone, Isaac 

(Stone, John S 

1021 (Stone, Joseph. . . . 

Stone, R.W 

1021 Stone, Samuel . . . 
1021 Stone, Timothy . . 
1021 St one, Will in 111 
Murray 

1021 Stone, William 

Rodman 

1022 Stonehenge 

1022 Stmieliouse 

1 1 >22 , Stone**, Precious. . 

1 t >22 1 S tone- worsti ip 

1022 Stoning 

1022 Stool 

1022 Stool of Repent- 

1022' mice 

1022 Stoole 

1022, Stools 

l022,Stopford 

1022 Storax 

1022 Storch 

1022 Storchemtu 

1023 Store-city 

1023 Store-house 

1024 Stork (bird) 

1025 Stork, Charles Au- 

1025 gustus G 

1025 Storks 

1020 Storr 

1020 Storr Junkare 

1020 S 1 o r rs, <J h a t ies 

1020 Backus 

1020 Storrs, John 

1020 Storr s, Richard 

1027 Salter 

1027 Story (tale) 

1027 Story (or Storev) 

102S (floor) '.. 

102S Story, Cyrus 

Stiisset 

102S Stout 

102s Stover 

102s Stow 

102S Stowe 

1U29 Strabo ( or Stra- 

1029 bus) 

1029 Strnda 

1029 Strafmichgolt-Bi- 

1029 bel 

1029 Strahl 

1029 Straight Street... 

1029 Strain at 

1029 Strain, John 

1029 Strange, John 

1029 Strange, John R. 
1(>29 Strange, Robert. . 

1029 Stranger 

Strangers, Coin- 

1029 tnnnlon of 

1029 Strangers, Orditia- 

1029 tion of 

1029 Strangle 

1029 St milord, John . . 

1030 Stratford, Nicho- 
las las 

1030 Stmlin* 

Sira tuba tea 

I030 Stratoiilcc 

1030 Stratton 

1030 Stratton, Daniel.. 
Stratton, Isaiah . . 

1031 Strmtch 

Iu31 Straughun 

Stratimi 

1031 Strauss, David 

Friedrich 

1031 Strauss, Gerhard 


Friedrich Abra- 

1031 ham Rage 

1032 Straw 

Straw I lav 

1032 Strawbridge . ... 

1032 Si 1 earn 

Stream of Egypt. 

1030 St renter 

1037 Street (avenue)... 
1041 Street, Thomas. . . 

1041 Si roil, Christian. . 

1042 Stieii, Ijiw retire.. 


1000 

1000 

moo 

moo 

1001 

1001 

moi 

1001 

1002 
1002 
1002 


1042 Strickland, Isaac 

1042 L. G 1002 

Strickland, John, loci 

1043 Strife 1002 

1043 Strigel 1002 

Strigonia, The 

1044 Council of. B >03 

1044 String (or String- 
1044 course) 1003 

1044 Slringed Instru- 

1045 nieni 1004 

1045 St riugtleUI, James 

1045 King 1004 

1045 StriiigdeUl,Thoin 


1045 

Stripe 

1045 Stromata 

Strong, Cyprian. . 
1045 Strong, John 1). . . 
1045 Strong, Jonathan. 
1040 Strong, Nathan . 


1004 

1004 

mm 

1004 

1004 

1005 

1005 


1040 Strong, Paschal 

1047 Nelson 1005 

1047 Strong, Thomas 

104 s M 1005 

Strong, Titus 1005 

104S Strong, William 

104* L 1005 

104s Strongdsan 1005 

104S Strophteus 1( 00 

104 s * Strophius 1000 

104 s Slrotli It 00 

1049 Stroud, Asa B loGG 

1049 Stroud, Thomas I). 1000 
1049 Stront, George 1>. H'OO 
1049 Stront, Joseph C. 1000 

Stront, Oran Io00 

1052 Strozzi, Bernardo 1000 
1052 Strozzi, Loren za. 1000 

1052 Si rue 1 1 see 1000 

1052 Strut ( or Strnt- 

ting-piccc) 1000 

1052 Strut lie rs looo 

1052 Stryker, Isaac I*., looo 

Stryker, Peter B‘67 

1053 Strymo ]t>07 

1053,Stryinon Io07 

Strype 1007 

1053 Stuart, Cohen M. 1007 
1053 Stuart, Henry B. 

1053] M. C 1007 

1053 Smart, Moses lnt»7 

lt>53 Stubble BMW 

1053 Stuhb- • 100S 

1054 Studdiford, Peter 106s 
Stnddiford, Peter 


1054 

<> 

mos 

1055 

Sttidenz 

It MIS 


Studies of the 


1055 

Clergy 

loos 

1055 

Studita* 

BIOS 

In55 

Stmliles, Simeon. 

mos 

11155 

Sind ites, Theo- 


l oral 

dore 

mos 

1050 

Stnflo 

1009 

1050 

(Stuffs used in the 


1056 

1 Middle Ages. . . 

1009 

1050 

Sinhr 

1009 


Stukeley 

1009 

1057 

Stumbling-block. 

1009 


Stun*/ 

1009 

1057 

Si urge 

1009 

1057 


1070 

1057 

Sturm, Christoph 



Christian 

1070 

105S 

Sturm of Fulda. . 

1070 

105s 

Sturm, Jacob 

1071 

105s 

Sturm, Johann. . . 

1071 

105s 

Sturt 

1071 

105s 

Sturz 

1072 

105s 

Stutson 

1072 

105s 

Stuttgart, Synod 


105s 

<’f 

1072 

1 lifts' 

Slvgins 

1072 

1059 

Sty tiles 

1072 


Stvmphalla 

1073 

1059 

Styniphalns 

1073 


iStyx 

1073 


















M 

ir v.# ui vuj 

ill 



